Or and Lodge of California
I, JoHN W1i1cH:t:a, Grand Secr~tary of the M.. W:. Grand I. d
of 1 ree and Accepted Masons of the jurisdiction of Californi<\., do
hereby cc:rtify that the following pa~es contain a true and
ithful
, ' ·r11• of the proceedings of that Grand Body at its Sixtieth
o\nnual Com~un1catwn-c:ommenced at the City -of San Francisca on
'l'uesday, the twelfth day of Oetobcl', A. L. 5909, and terminated m
Friday, the fifteetrtli dar of said month.

in wrstimonu 'll~rrrnf
I have hereunto app~ded my
official slgnawre and have
affixed the Seal of the ~ra,nd
Lodge of the State of Califomla, at the oflke of the
;rand Secretil,ry in the City of
3an Franci!co, this thirtieth
day of Octobe.-, in the year of
Light, Five Thousand Nine
Hundred and Nine .

•

OSCAR LA vVLER
~ranh .titastrr
· 1909

Grand Lodge of California
I, JOHN WHICHl\R, Grand Secretary of the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge
of Free and Accepted Masons of the jurisdiction of California, do
hereby certify t1!_at the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcript of the proceedings of that Grand Body at its Sixtieth
Annual Cdmmunication· -commenced at the City of San Francisco on
Tuesday; the twelfth day of October, A. L. 5909, and terminated on
Friday, the fifteenth day of said month.

3Ju me.atimouu JD~trtnf
I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have
affixed the Seal of the Grand
Lodge of the State of California, at the office of the
}rand Secretary in the City of
3an Francisco, this thirtieth
day of October, in the year of
Light, Five Thousand Nine
Hundred and Nine.

<)SCAR

LAWLER

"raub fllantrr
.1

PROCEEDINGS

.

'

OF THE

M.". W."

GRAND LODGE
OF

111rrr unh .Arrrptrh flus nus
OF THE

Jurisdiction of- California,
AT ITS

•

SIXTIETH

ANNUAL

COMMUNICATION,

HELD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO :
COMMENCING ON

Tuesday, October 12th, A. D. 1909, A. L. 5909,
AND TERMINATING ON

Friday, October 15th, A. D. 1909, A. L. 5909.

SAN FRANCISCO:
SHANNON·CoNMY PRINTING Co,, 509 8ANSOME STREET,

1909.

GRAND OFFICERS
OF THE

Grand Lodge of California
FOR

The Year Commencing October, A. L. 5909.

:.vi::. w:. W. FRANK Pi:ERCE .. ... Grand Master .. .. . San Francisco;
Postoffice Address, 7th and Market Sts., San Francisco.

R.". W." . DANA R. WF.LLER ...... Dep. Gr. Master .... Lcs Angeles;
R.". W:. AtoNzo ]. MoNROJL . . Sen. Gr. Warden . . Eureka ;

w:. WILLIAM P. FILMER .. .Jun. Gr. Warden .. San Francisco;
V.". w:. EDWARD COLEMAN ... .. Grand Treamrer .. San Francisco;
R :.

v:. w:. ]oHN WHicHER .... .... Grand Secretary.. . San Luis Obispo;
Postoffice Address, 901 Call Bldg., San Francisco.
V. ·. W. ·. THOMAS J . BAKER .. . .. Grand Lecturer.. . . Sacramento ;
V. ·. R . ·. ERN£ST E. BAKER . ... .Crand Chaplain ... . Oakland;
W. ·. CHARLES A. ADAMS .... Grand Orator ..... San Francisco;

w:. HARRY S . JoHNSON ... . Asst. Grand Sec .. . San Francisco;
W.". WILLIAM KETTNER .'". .. Grand Marshal. .. . San Diego;

w : . LEo V . YouNGWORTH . . Gr. Stan'd Bearer.. Lcs Angeles;
w:. ]AMES B. McGREW . . .. . Gr. Sword Bearer . Berkeley;

GRAND LODGE
OF

1J1rrr auh .Arrrptrh ilasnus
OF 'fHB

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA.

W. •. WILLIAM S . MosEs ... . Gr. Bible Bearer. . San Francisco;
W. ·. WILSON C. PONDER . . . . Sen. Gr. Deaco.n ... Redding;

w:. ]OHN H . . BEAN ....... .Jun'. Gr. Deacon .. . L e s Angeles;

w:. ]OHN F. MORGAN .... . . Sen. Gr. Steward . . S acramento;
w.·. FRED w. VAN SICKLEN./un. Gr. Steward .. Alameda;
w:. ]OHN E. GRIES . . .. .... . Grand Pursuivant.Ferndale;
w:. SAMUEL D . MAYER . .. . . Grand O,rganist.... San Francisco ;
w:. GEo. P . ADAMS .... ... . Grand Tyler..... . . San Franci;;co.

SIXTIETH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Most Worshipful ·Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons ot the Jurisdiction of California commenced
its Sixtieth Annual Communication at Golden Gate Hall,
in the city of San Francisco, on Tuesday, the 12th day of
October, A. L. 5909, at 10 o'clock a. m.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Upon calling the roll of members there were found
present .the following:

The Grand Master filled the other vacant places by
the appointment pro tempore of W. ·. Douglas B. Crane as
Grand Sword Bearer, and W. ·. Ed ward B. Spencer as Junior
Grand Steward. He also filled vacancies in Standing Committees by the appointment of M.". W.". Thomas Flint on
Jurisprudence, W. ·. Edward B. Spencer on Finance, and
W.". George E. Church on Grievances.

6

GRAND OFFIC~RS.

w:. OsCAR LAWLER ................. Grand Master;
w:. W. FRANK PIF:RCE .........•.... Deputy Grand Master;
w:. DANA R. WELLER ............... Senior Grand Warden;
w:. ALONZO J. MoNROJl. ............ Junior Grand Warden;
v:. w:. EDWARD COLEMAN .............. Grand Treasurer;
v:. w:. ]OHN WmcHER ................ Grand Secretary;
v:. w:. THOMAS]. BAXER .............. Grand Lec;turer;
V.. ·. R ••. ERNEST E. BAKER ............... Grand Chaplain;
w:. BENJAMIN F. BLEDSOE .......... Grand Orator;
M.".
R :.
R.".
R.".

W. ·, HARRY S .• JOHNSON ............. Assistant Grand Secretary;
w.·. LEO v. YouNGWORTH ...........Grand Marshal;
W. •. WILLIAM KETTNER ......•...... Grand Standard Bearer;
W. ·. MICHAEL D. LININGER ........... Grand Bible Bearer;
MERWYN J. NEUBERG ............ Senior Grand Deacon;
WILSON C. PONDER .......•...... Junior Grand Deacon;
MARK E. LEVY ................. Senior Grand Steward;
W. ·. CARL H. HEILBRON .............. Grand Pursuivant;
SAMUEL D. MAYER ..........•... Grand Organist;
GEORGE P. ADAMS ..........•.... Grand Tyler.

w:.
w:.
w.·.

w:.
w:.
w:.
w:.
w:.

PAST GRAND MASTERS.
M.".
THOMAS FLINT,
M.".
CHARLES L. PATTON,
M.".
WILLIAM s. WELLS,
M.".
ORRIN
HENDERSON,
M.".
CHARLES w. NUTTING,
M ... w ... EDWARD H. HART,
M.".
GEORGE M. PERINE.

M.".
WM. A. DAVIES,
M.".
GEORGE
PERKINS,
M.".
WILEY J. TINNIN, .
M ... W·... EDMUND c. ATKINSON,
M.". w:. HENRY
ORME,
M.".
}AMES B. STEVENS,
M.".
WILLIAM T. LUCAS,

w:.
w:.

c.

s.

w:.
w:.
w:.
w:.
w:.

s.

w:.

R :. w:. CHAR~Es E. MITCHELL ........... Past Junior Grand Warden.
v:. w:. WILLIAM H. EDWARDS ........... Past Grand Lecturer.

And the Officers and Repre cntative.:i of more than
seventy-five Chartered Lodges of this Jurisdiction.
R.". W.". W. Frank Pierce being called away by reason
of the serious illness of his brother, the "M.". W.". Grand
Master filled the vacant station by the appointment of
M.". W.". George M. Perine, Past Grand Master, as acting
Deputy Grand Master.

' 7

There being a constitutional representation, the Grand
Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with music by the
Grand Organist, assisted by a quartette and prayer by the
Grand Chaplain.
The Grand Master then delivered his Annual Address
to the Grand Lodge "as follows :
Brethren of the Grand Lodge:
As is not unusual in human affairs, events wholly unanticipated
have, during the year now drawing to a close, in large measure
rendered impracticable the pursuit of plans for the administration of
the stewardship entrusted to my keeping, the fruition of which, it was
thought, would bring results of bcmefit to the Craft; and, this account
is submitted with a keen appreciation of your charitable indulgence and
sincerest thanks to my associate officers and the members of the several
committees, to whose conscientious and unselfish labors we are indebted
for the avoidance of those sins of omission or commission, which, but
for their efforts would have been the natural and inevitable result of
my own shortco:nings and necessarily extensive absence from the State.
The Fraternity has progressed in a manner which affords the
utmost satisfaction: 3,971 Masons have been added to the rolls by
initiation, restoration and affiliation, while 1,633 have been lost by death
and otherwise, leaving a net gain of 2,338, and a total membership at
the present time of 41,007.
Dispensations for the formation of Lodges have been granted as
follows:
October 22, 1908, Bay View Lodge, Oakland, Cal.
February 8, 1909, Brawley Lodge, Brawley, Cal.
February 11, 1909, Yerba Buena Lodge, Oakland, Cal.
March 26, 1909, Glendora Lodge, Glendora, Cal.
May 25, J9(9, Meneta Ledge, Meneta, Cal.
June 28, 19C9, Burbank Ledge, Burbank, Cal.
All of the eleven Lodges chartered at our last Communication were,
in due time, regularly constituted and started on their respective careers

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

•

under auspices auguring well for their continued usefulness in the
great cause of human advancemen't.
The substantial progress in our development, source of pride and
gratification though it is, must also serve as an admonition of increased
responsibility. The world at large demands, and rightly so, a course
of personal conduct upon the part of members of our venerable organization in ke.eping with its high ideals and exalted station as a moral
institution. Each individual is responsible for the maintenance of the
honor and reputation of the Craft, and he who falters or fails in the
iiue performance of this duty, brings discredit, not only upon himself,
but upon each of the more than 40,000 Masons in the State, and
humiliation into the body of each of our Lodges.
• By the ·process of elimination, the careful performance of duty
on the part of investigating committees, and the judicious use of the
black ball the increase in our ranks has been in keeping with its
traditions.' It is not improper, however; to call attention to the regrettable fact that there has been brought to our knowledge instances
of retrogression on the part of Lodges, occasioned by internecine difficulties and factional qivision, reaching such a degree of bitterness as
that any proposal for membership advanced by one side is invariably
forestalled by senseless and apparently vicious opposition upon the other.
The black ball is purely a defensive weapon, to be used only in
the fulfillment of a solemn duty to prevent invasion by those unworthy
of Masonic association; and th~ Mason who, through motives of selfishness or cowardice, or for any other reason, fails to perform that duty
upon proper occasion, is guilty of the grossest violation of his obligation. Equally reprehensible, however, is the conduct of any brother
who, for the purpose of venting personal spleen or rendering effective
a factional difference, will, protected by the secrecy which Masonic
association affords, strWce from the dark an unsuspecting and innocent
v1ct1m. There is as little room in our Fraternal household for the
coward as there is for the knave; each is equally an object for the
contempt of "right-thinking men, and it is to be hoped that the conduct
complained of will be so frowned upon by the fraternity at large as to
render its continued existence impossible.
NECROLOGY.
Enjoying, as we have, with due appreciation, the bounteous blessings
of an All Wise and beneficent Providence, we have also been made ·to
realize that "in the midst of life we are in death." The Grim Destroyer
has stricken some of the noblest and most illustrious of those great
and stu·r dy characters, whose accomplishments form the corner stone
of Masonic history in California, and whose lives have been a guide
and inspiration to us all.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

9

At the last Communication we received from our distinguished
brother and beloved friend, Reuben Hedley Lloyd, the sad intelligence
that his affliction prevented advancement from Deputy Grand Master
to the highest office within our gift; on March 10, 1909, Death beckoned,
and a great soul was called unto its own.
On March 26, 1909, the Silent Messenger laid his chilling hand
upon that sublime exemplar of Masonic virtue, Past Junior Grand
Warden Jacob Hart Neff. It will indeed be difficult for us to realize
that that devoted worker will no more be found in his accustomed
place, giving to the Fraternity the benefit of his advice and counsel.
Great Mason, sincere and true friend, patriotic, upright and honored .
citizen; constant exemplar of those homely and simple virtues which
demonstrate that the creature is indeed made in the image of his Great
Creator, the world is better for his having lived; with the pangs of
parting there comes to us a feeling of gratitude for the value and
inspiration of his noble example...
He was:
"One who never turned his back, but marched breast forward,
Never doubted clouds would break,
Never dreamed, though right were worsted, wrong would
triumph,
Held we fall to rise, are baffled to fight better, sleep to wake."
Brother Gilbert B. Claiborne, Grand Master in the years 1865 and
For a considerable period his advanced age prevented active participation in our
affairs, but the impress of his influence during the time of his service
remained for a long period after his retirement from active Masonic life.
Throughout the State various of the Lodges have suffered losses
which in many instances have been felt far beyond the boundaries of
the respective communities in which they were situate.
1866, died at Stockton, California, on December 21, 1908.

Atnong the distinguished Masons of neighboring jurisdictions who
have been called to their reward are:
Jacob Mayer, Past Grand Master of Oregon, who was raised in
La Parfaite Unibn Lodge No. 17, San Francisco, in 1853; died in
Portland, whel'.e he had resided since 1857; and
Francis Marion Zuck, Past Grartd Master, Arizona, who died June
1-6, 1909.

MASONIC HOME.
Oi)t: ·Of the first and most irnpQrtant matters requiring att~rition was
the Masonic Home at Decato. The board of trustees app_ointe.d. pur,
suant to your authorization, . consl'stliig ~f Past Grand Master' Wells,
P~st Master Wm. H. Waste, Past Grand Master Thomas Flint and
Past Masters Elmer E. Stone and Ralph :Low, promptly convened and

10

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

formally organized. The special and extensive judicial and public
experience of the two first named peculiarly qualified them to examine
into and aid in the determination of the many and important questions
presented for consideration. The technical knowledge of Brother Stone,
known as he is throughout the entire country as one of the most
capable institutional men within its borders, has been of ·the greatest
assistance, and the wide and extensive business experience and sound
judgment of Brothers Flint and Low rounded out a committee which
for ability and fitness, could not well have been excelled. Its labcirs, a~
may be readily imagined, have been most arduous and engrossing, and
attended with peculiar difficulty. Petty complaints from residents have
been investigated with patient consideration, and the great and farreaching questions of general administration and management have
been given the most careful, deliberate and painstaking attention. In
their deliberations they have naturally not always been of one mind and
upon important questions their opinions have widely differed. Good
and able men and Masons that they are, however, these differences
have never in the slightest particular been attended by feeling or friction,
and when a majority once voiced its judgment the entire board, with
one accord and a 111ost hearty unity of effort, has proceeded to carry
that judgment into effect.
· We shall never realize the extent of their individual and collective
sacrifice in behalf of the Fraternity in a most perplexing and difficult
situation, and it is appropriate at this time and by this means, to convey
to them expressions of personal obligation as well as to testify to the
inestimable .value of their services. They will make a detailed presentation of the situa tion, and their recommendations will I am sure be
given respectful attention and weighty consideration, as' the deliber;tely
formed conclusions of brethren of t'Pie highest character and attainments, who have given to the matters involved the.i r best efforts.
The . water supply of the Home had become practically depleted,
there bemg absolutely none for fire protection, and an entire insufficiency for even bathing purposes ; the septic tank was found to be
seriously defective and a menace to the health of the residents; all of
the buil~ings were in need of repairs, especially plumbing and painting ;
the heatmg apparatus was deficient and wasteful in fuel consumption ;
hospital facilities were entirely inadequat~ and without opportunity for
isolation. Notwithstanding heavy expenditures necessitated by these
conditions, the Home has been administered upon considerably less
!han the amount appropriated for its uses and its efficiency greatly
improved.
Brother Edwards· relinquished his post as superintendent and the
Board was required to employ a new matron and superintendent.
The Special Committee, consisting of Brothers Valentine Plum
Owen, MacLafferty, and Billings, duly organized and proceeded vigor~

11

ously with the problem of determining, in co-operation with the board
of trustees, a plan for future administration. It has been most painstaking and conscientious in its labors, the i:esult of which will be presented in due course. To that committee, individually and collectively,
it is also proper to express sincerest appreciation and gratitude. The
difficulties were great and problems delicate, and its efforts will, I have
no doubt, throw valuable light upon the matters requiring your consideration.
Extensive inquiry and investigation satisfied the committee, the
board, and such of the Gran·d Officers as could be consulted in reference
thereto, that it was essential to the well being of all of the residents
of the Home that some system of segregating the aged and infirm from
the children, and ultimately the boys from the girls, be devised. Various
methods of accomplishing that result were considered, including the
construction of a new and independent building on the Decoto property.
Inadequate water supply, however, independent of the expense involved,
seemed to render such course impossible.
Additional hospital facilities were also deemed essential, including
a provision for necessary medical and surgical conveniences and appropriate means for the isolation of those whose illness might render such
course appropriate.
In this state of affairs, in February last, matters were brought to
my attention which convinced me that separation of the children from
the male adults was not only desirable, but imperatively necessary, whatever the difficulties or expen.se involved in accomplishing that end.
The Board was advised of my views in the premises and directed
to proceed with such segregation, which, of course, could only be
accomplished by the construction of a new building upon some part of
the premises at Decoto remote from the present quarters, or by securing
quarters elsewhere.
Additional buildings could not be considered without augmentation
of the water supply. Experts reported that the Home property was
without the area of water bearing gravel, and that the expense of boring
for water would be from ten thousand to thirty thousand dollars, with
no .assurance of success. The only alternative was to build a pipe line,
·about five miles long, from the main of the Spring Valley Water
Company, at an expense of approximately twenty-five thousand dollars.
Assuming adequate water supply, buildings and equipment sufficient for
the purpose of segregation would have involved an outlay of from
twenty to thirty' thousand dollars, making necessary a total expenditure
of anywhere from thirty to sixty thousand dollars.
While these matters were being canvassed Brother John F . Hughes,
president of the· Southern California Masonic Home, inquired of me
as to the extent to which the Grand Lodge would go in extending
financial aid to that institution. While not presuming to speak for the

l

12

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Fraternity at larg~, he was advised that it was contrary to my conception of Masonic policy for the Grand Lodge to make further contribu!ion to the maintenance of an institution in whose management it was
not the controlling, if not the only factor. Shortly thereafter the board
of trustees of that institution, because of their inability to accomplish
the establishment of an endowment adequate to maintain their Home
proposed turning th~ property owned by it over to this body. Certai;
restrictions and conditions having been attached to the offer, it wa,,
declined; but, later, an unconditional proposition was made with the
suggestion that the contractual obligations of that institution, consisting
of its agreement, for a consideration, to maintain and provide for
certain of the persons (two in number) resident in its Home at San
Gabriel, be assumed.
In view of the imperative necessity of segregation, as hereinabove
indicated, and in consideration of the insurmountable difficulties ln tne
way of accomplishing that result, through any utilin.tion of the property at Decato, the proposition was, on March 19, 1909, accepted and
segregation ordered by me, with the full belief that within a comparatively short space of time arrangeµ:ients would be made for transporting either the children or the old people from Decato to San
Gabriel. A transfer of title could not be accomplished without judicial
p"roceedings. After some c-0nsiderable delay, and during my absence
from the S.tate, the Southern California Masonic Home Association
commenced such proceedings. On my return it developed that by
order of court it was directed that the property be transferred to me,
.and, being advised that the acceptance of a· conveyance in the manner
directed would complicate the title, the deed was not delivered.
The Southern California Home Association, with the c~nsent of
practically its entire membership, and without opposition, authorized
the transfer, and it was suggested that the proceedings which had been
taken in the Superior Court of Los Angejes County should be vacated
and set aside, possession of the property assumed by our Board of
Trustees, deferring the formal steps necessary to transfer title until
this Crand Lodge should specify the mam!er in which it desires the title
transferred. All of thes.e matters .will be submitted in detail b; the
Board, together with a recommendation as to the proper method of procedure. They will require careful and studious consideration by men
learned in the law, and upon their satisfactory solution depend matters
of the utmost moment to the Fraternity. I have requested Past Grand·
Master Charles L. Patton, Brother Charles Albert Adams and Grand
Orator Benj. F. Bledsoe to investigate and recommend the proper course
to be pursue.d.
When instructions were given that segregation should be promptly
brought about, the Board wa~ requested to make careful investigation
as to which class o_f re~idents should be removed from Decoto. After

full inquiry, a determination was reached that the Home in Southern
California was better adapted to the care and maintenance of the
children.
In the latter part of August I was advised that the Southern Home
Association, relying upon the assumption that my direction would be
carried into effect by the first of May, had become seriously embarrassed
ip its efforts to carry on its home after that date, and the Deputy Grand
Master was advised of my views in the premises, and I requested prompt
adjur.tment of the difficulties, w~th the result that the children were
removed' to the Home at San Gabriel.
The Board of Trustees has been criticised for the action taken. I
desire to state in the most emphatic manner that such criticism is misplaced, in that everything done has been pursuant to my direction, after
conference and the most serious and deliberate consideration, ·aod if
anyone is to be criticised therefor it is myself and not the Board. For
myself, I,. must state with equal emphasis that no considerations of
policy, convenience, fear, favor, finance or apprehension of criticism
were permitted to interfere with the performance of what was deemed
to be a solemn. duty; I acted in accordance with a conscientious conviction, which would prompt similar action under the same circumstances
were the matter before me at this moment. I was profoundly con. vinced that the morals of those whose characters we have undertakerl
to mould were involved; and my conception of my obligations as a man
and Mason, not only to those children, but to you, required that the
segregation be accomplished at the earliest possible moment.
In order to assure myself that my own determination was correct
and in accordance with our duty to the children involved, all the Past
Grand .Masters available and numerous brethren throughout the State
were conferred with, and the consensus of opinion was in favor of
prompt segregation. Viewing the matter in retrospect, I repeat with
emphasis my conviction as to the propriety of the action taken, and
assume entire responsibility therefor.
As heretofore indicated, the Board has labored hard and consistently, under adverse conditions and most trying circumstances, having in view but one purpose, and that the performance of fraternal
duty and the fulfillment of Masonic obligations. Personal considerations have been absolutely ignored and disregarded, and any suggestion
that any member. thereof was prompted by selfish interest or individual
preferment is most cruel and unwarranted. Masons like those who
comprise the Boar<i d-0 not .pursue personal ends over the heads of
innocent and helpless. charges o( the Fraternity.
With refer-ence to the so-called farm and the operation thereof at
the Decoto Home, a misconception has existed which, in justice to those
brethren who have heretofore labored so assiduously on the Board of
·T rustees, should be· corrected. It has been generally understood that

15

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the farm has been a source of constant and consistent loss, but it
develops that no credit has ever been given in the reports for the large
amount of supplies consumed which have been produced upon the Home
premises, such as poultry, eggs, vegetables, and the like, a consideration
of which demonstrates that little, if any, actual loss has been sustained
in the conduct of the farm. However, the present Board of Trustees, I
think most .wise.ly, has adopted the system of leasing out all of the
property susceptible of being farmed upon shares, retaining only that
portion devoted to the Home itself and to the stables, vegetable gardens,
etc., and the more or less dry hills, too high for cultivation. This has
not interfered with producing the articles above mentioned, but has
avoided the hazards arid disadvantages of long distance farming.

for your consideration as to whether it would not be the course of
wisdom to retain the same as a fund to be expended by the Grand
Lodge or Grand Master upon any occasion· calling for like relief in
the 'future.

14

&PECIAL COMMUNICATIONS, CORNER STONES, ETC.
The Grand Lodge has been specially convened on numerous occa·
sions during the year to officiate at the laying of corner stones and
dedication of Masonic and public buildings, a list of which has been
prepared and will appear in the published proceedings. These frequent
invitations from municipal, school and other public authorities to
officiate at ceremonies of this character, are most assuredly a source of
pride and gratification to us all, for they demonstrate that our insti- ·
tution is regarded as an important factor in the community at large,
whose influence is recognized as a force in the great moral uplift of the
human family.
In accordance with what was considered the appropriate course to
be pursued under such circumstances, there has been deposited with the
local lodge most directly concerned in the several corner stone ceremonies the instrument presented as a souvenir of the occasion, there
to remain as a memento of an ausI>icious event, emblematic of the
spread of that cement which unites us into one sacred band or society.
ITALIAN RELIEF.
On the 30th day of December, 1908, the Island of Sicily was visited
by a terrible earthquake. Realizing the debt of gratitude due by our
own State to all of the jurisdictions of the world f~r the prompt response to the cry which went up when California was stricken, the
Grand Master of Italy was instructed to draw to the extent of $1,500
for relief, and the lodges throughout the State were authorized to
raise an additional relief fund. The total contributions aggregated the
sum of $4,868.50; $2,500 has been remitted and a balance of $2,368.50
remains in the hands of the Grand Secretary. Some direction should
be given by this body as to the disposition to be made· thereof. To
return the same to the several lodges from which the contributions were
rrceived would be difficult and probably not desired, and it is suggested

· OLD REPORTS.
Attention has, on previous 'occasions, been directed to the fact that
our entire library, including a large supply of reports of proceedings
from the .foundation of this Grand Lodge, was destroyed in the conflagration of 1906, with the result that few, if any, complete sets of
such reports are available for the use of the Grand Master. In order,
in a measure at least, to supply the deficiency, and to avoid the almost
prohibitive expense of reprinting, a circular letter was sent to the various
lodges of the jurisdiction, requesting that any ~xtra volumes of the
reports in their possession be sent to the Grand Secretary. This has
resulted, as will be reported to you in detail by the latter, in the reception of"a considerable number of odd volumes and a few full sets of reports; some means should be evolved whereby these may be rebound
and made available for future use. In such rebinding much matter
may be eliminated and the volumes consolidated.
MANUAL.
It is proper to draw attention to the state of Masonic Law in this
jurisdiction. 'i'here are numerous conflicting decisioos upon various subjects, and the form of the Manual is such that Masters may be pardoned
for failing to discover the conflicts. In my opinion the decisions should
be topically digested so that all of the law upon a given subject may
. be found at one place and under one head.
This suggestion is made with the fullest appreciation of the extremely able and careful manner in which Brother Anderson has performed the labor involved in preparing the volume bearing his name.
As the edition of that work has become practically exhausted, however,
further publication in the form above recommended would, I think, add
to the value of his work.
DECISIONS.
Numerous requests have been made for opinions upon mooted
questions of Masonic law. Many of these have been answered by a
simple reference to the provision of the Constitution or to decisions
digested in the Manual, which could have been located by the inquirer
with less effort than was involved in correspondence. To decisions of
that character no special reference has been made; all of those involving
matters of interest and consequence have been digested and submitted
for the scrutiny and consideration of the Committee on Jurisprudence,

16

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

and time, space and possible confusion will be saved by leaving those
matters until the report of that committee is presented.
Some of the questions propounded have suggested the necessity for
legislation, which are here referred to.
1.

CONCURRENT JURISDICTION OF LODGES.

As the State becomes more thickly populated, and particularly in
and about what are popularly known as the Bay Counties, and the
centers of population in southern California, numerous small communities are springfog up and growing with great rapidity, in most of
which one of the first steps in town development has been the· formation
of a Masonic lodge. In some ihstances the boundaries of these separate
incorporated municipalities are contiguous; in others the space between
them ver:ir limited and settled to a degree almost equal to that of the
incorporated tei:ritory itself. Under the latter circumstances much confusion and no little friction could be avoided if a discretion were vested
in the Grand Master to declare concurrent jurisdiction similar to that
which exists in cities having more than one Mas;nic lodge.

2.

RESTORATION OF NON-RESIDENT SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES.

Suggestion has also been made for an amendment to our laws in
reference to the matter of restoration of one who has been suspended
for oon-payment o• dues, the !farticular question having arisen with
reference to a brother who for seventeen years had been under suspension, and during most of that time a non-resident of the State. The
proposition ;was advanced that the lodge from which he had been
suspended could not entertain an application for restoration without
infringing upon the jurisdictiQn of the Grand Lodge of the State in
which he now resides. With this suggestion I found myself unable to
agree, holding that the petition should be presented to the lodge from
which suspension took place, accompanied by payment of dues·, as
required by the Constitution. Should this decision be sustained, no
legislation, it seems to me, will be necessary, unless it be your desire to
specifically authorize the lodge in which. the restoration is sought in its
discretion to remit all or p~rt of the dues accruing between the time of
suspension and the ·application for Testoration, regardless of the financial
ability of the brother to pay the same. Should, however, this decision
be not concurred in, it will Jie necessary to adopt some legislation in
otder that a brother suspended (probably under adverse circumstances),
because of inability to pay his dues, wlio removes from the State, may
"llDi; be forever debarred from again entering the Fraternity ; because,
manifestly, a petition to a foreign lodge by a brother under suspension
would receive scant consideration.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

3.

17

CONFERRING DEGREES UPON CANDIDATES FOR LODGES IN OTHER
JURISDICTIONS.

It is imperatively necessary that some regulation be adopted governing the matter of conferring degrees by lodges within this jurisdiction
on behalf of lodges of other jurisdictions in which a candidate has been
elected to receive them, and vice versu.. Under the present practice,
such degrees are usually conferred pursuant to a formal request direct
to or from the lodge in this jurisdiction to or from a lodge in another
jurisdiction. This affords no insurance whatever against correspondence
with clandestine bodies. It is suggested th~t all such requests should be
made through the Grand Masters and Grand Secretaries of the respective jurisdictions. · This would insure the sanctity of our correspondence
and protection against imposition and invasion.

4.

PROCEEDINGS AGAINST MASONS CONVICTED OF CRIME.

Upon examination of the rolls appended to the. report of the last
annual proceedings I was most chagrined to observe the name of a man
convicted of a felony under the laws o f the United States and who has
but recently completed service of sentence in the penitentiary. Were it
not for the fact that as attorn~y for the Government I prosecuted the
case, I would have directed proceedings loo1dng to the preferring of
charges and a Masonie trial.
The attitude of Free Masonry as an institution, irrevocably committed to enforcement of and obedience to the law, is so well known,
and has been so frequently and emphatically declared by this Grand
Lodge that there is no possible excuse for any. lodge or o~er thereof
in failing to give proper attention to one who has so far debased himself
as to steal moneys entrusted to his care, or do any other a11t violative of
a solemn trust which, in all probability was the more readily imposed
because of membership in a Masonic Lodge.
To guard against such lapses, however, the law. should be so
amended as to make it the imperative duty of the appropriate officer
of a lodge whenever a member has been convicted of a crime involving
moral turpitude to prefer charges against the person so convicted and
press to conclusion a tr'.al thereof, and prescribe sev~re penalty for
failure so to do. If the conviction has been erroneous the error will be
readily. discovered-if correct, the criminal should find no abiding place
in Free Masonry.

5.

AMENDJ\U: NT ARTICLE Xlll, UNU'ORM CODE.

So many abortive attempts at amendments to the uniform code of
by-laws have. been presented for consideration that there has been
impressed the extreme necessity of a modification of Article XIII

•

18

PROCEEDn..-Gs OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

thereof, in suc.h manner as to set forth specifically the procedure to be
followed for the purpose of accomplishing amendment. Notice of the
proposed amendment shou_ld be required to be sent to every member of
the lodge, setting forth the existing by-law, and the by-law as proposed
to be amended and the Secretary required to make notation upon the
records that the law had been complied with and forward certificate of
those facts to the Grand Secretary when the amendment is adopted and
approval thereof sought.

concurred in this action, has given the matter further consideration and
will report at this communication.
Dispensations have been granted for various and sundry purposes
other than the formation of lodges, a record of which has been kept by
the Grand Secretary.

PHILIPPINE LODGES.
At our last Communication the special committee on the status of
F:ee Masonry in the Philippines made an ·exhaustive report, concluding
with the following resolution, which was adopted: ·
Resolved, That it is the sense of this Grand Lodge that
the several lodges now working under charters from this Grand
Lodge should take immediate steps to organize a Grand Lodge
of Masons for the Territory of the Philippine Islands;
That the matter of the regularity of Spanish Masonry or
Masonry in the Philippine Islands be and the same is hereby
referred to such Grand Lodge when so organized for its
action; and, be it further
Resolved, That a copy of this report, together with the data
herewith attached, be. furnished the several lodges now charterecl
by this Grand Lodge and working in the Philippine Islands.
Immediately after adjournment, feeling that a serious responsibility
to the. whole Fraternity had been assumed in recommending the formation of a Grand Lodge with only ,three lodges, a limited investigation
was made M to the status of so-called Spanish Masonry (in other
words, the "Grand Orient" of Spain), which developed that that institution maintains several lodges within the jurisdiction of the Grand
Lodge of Pennsylvania. This violation of one of the fundamental
features of Masonic Jurisdiction prevents any intercourse between this
Grand Lodge and said Grand Orient, and rendered inquiry into the
closed question as to the regularity of Spanish Masonry highly improper
and prejudici?l .to the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania.
It further comes to our notice that there are in those Islands
various organizations pretending to be Masonic, but which, as a matter
of fact, are nothing more than cloaks for attacks upon the existing
government which is, of course, that of our own country.
These and other considerations rendered even seriously suggesting .
the formation of a Grand Lodge in the Philippine Islands of such doubtful propriety that the resolution was recalled and suspended, and the
· Philippine lodges notified accordingly. The special com~ittee, which

19

CLANDESTINE "MASONRY."
Some attention has been attracted by the so-called clandestine
lodges, a few of which have sprung into existence in or ahout the city
of San Francisco, and abortive attempts at the organization of which
occurred in Los Angeles and in the city of Oakland. Like most things
of base conception; they have, upon being brought to the light, languished, and languishing will soon die. The promoters are frauds and
adventurers, compared to whom Benedict Arnold might be reckoned a
patriot and Judas Iscariot a Christian martyr. They and their efforts
have been treated with that silent contempt which was their due, and,
while we have been advised that, in a few instances innocent and unsuspecting men have been imposed upon, paying money for so-called
initiation under what must have been false pretenses, in the main it is
not believed that their efforts have entitled them to serious consideration.
In this connection it is highly appropriate that specific mention be
made of the service rendered the community at large by Officers Brown,
Greene and Peterson of the Oakland police, who, hearing of a meeting
to be held for the purpose of drumming up material for one of those
bogus organizations, appeared thereat, advised those assembled of the
character of the institution and gave to the promoters a limited time
within which to seek a different climate. The invitation was promptly
accepted and several unsuspecting victims probably saved from imposition.
After conference with the Deputy Grand Master, the Grand Secretary, and others in authority, it was deemed proper to send to the
lodges of the State, with instructions that the same should be carefully
read at three successive meetings, a notice, warning against imposters,
and setting forth in detail the plain and specific mandates of our law
in the matter of Masonic recognition. If Masters and Master Masons
would exercise even ordinary precaution they could never be imposed
upon; but, unfortunately, because of our security~ we are all at times
inclined to be more or less careless. This became painfully evident
through the conduct of certain members of one of the lodges who had
been advised that a resident of their town had received the degrees of
Masonry at San Francisco. Notwithstanding this should have apprised
them that a violation of one of the fundamental Masonic laws had taken
place, the brothers mentioned, out of the goodness of their hearts, discovering that the imposter was not proficient in the arts of the Craft, proceeded to enlighten him therein, discovering to their own and our chagrin,

20

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

that he was not a Mason at all, but had been the victim of some sort of
spurious ceremony at the city of San Francisco. It was seriously suggested that for this infraction punishment should be meted out to those
responsible therefor. But it occurred and still occurs to me that the
humiliation suffered by the brethren participating therein was greater
punishment than anything which could be imposed by law.

It could also arrange some uniform style of receipt and diploma with
such possible legal establishment as to make forgery or false .use thereof
a crime.

GENERAL CONFERENCE.
Clandestine Masonry has from time to time received the attention
of Grand Masters in almost every jurisdiction of the United States·
this has suggested the great desirability of formulating some plan of
general and c_oncerted action by all of the Grand Bodies of the country,
whereby a umform system of receipts and identification could be adopted
which would insure against the carelessnes's or neglect of Masters and
members. While this matter was under discussion, there was received
from Past Grand Master Mikels of Indiana and Grand Secretary Williams of Rhode Island, suggestions that this Grand Lodge delegate
some one or more of its members to attend a general American conference, looking to that end, and withirt the past few days invitation has
been received from Grand Master Shryock, of Maryland, to attend the
dedication of the new Masonic Temple in Baltimore on November 17th
next, on which occasion it is anticipated that Grand Masters from
numerous jurisdictions will be present and this and other subjeets
considered. (The correspondence is ·submitted herewith.)
Sue!) a conference would be a most decided step, and it is hoped
this Grand Lodge may see its way clear to authorize participation
therein.
There are numerous matters to which serious and careful consideration by such a gathering would be of great benefit to the Craft.
In the first place, there is, a wide divergence of view upon the
matter of jurisdiction; some Grand Lodges claiming a perpetual and
exclusive juri~iction over a rejected applicant for the degrees·1 others
limit 'the period to five or ten years, while in our own State it is limited
to one year.
It would also be a source of decided advantage if some system for
the. collaboration of the law as announced from time to time by the
various Grand Lodges and the bringing of the same into some concise
form for ready use and reference, could 'be adopted. This would have
. a strong tendency to bring about a greater uniformity.
. Such an organization could; by its sanction, provide for the publication of an authentic and reliable directory of regular Masonic organizations, not only thr~ughout the United States, but throughout the world:
For this purpose we are now obliged to rely upon a private publication
as to the authenticity of which we have no means of satisfying ourselves.

21

VISITATIONS.
On the 26th day of May the Grand Lecturer and mys.elf started on
an extensive tour of visitation, commencing at San Frandsco, extending
along the coast northward to Crescent City in the extreme northwest
corner of the State, thence across the mountains by way of Grant's
Pass, Oregon, down through the Shasta and Sacramento valleys, and
back to the metropolis. Arduous as the journey was in many respects,
involving travel by almost every means of conveyance, and in one
instance twenty-four hours of continuous staging, the pleasure and profit
derived from our experiences more than compensated our efforts. For
.the uniform courtesy, kindness and consideration of our brethren we•
desiTe to express our sincere and deep appreciation, our one r~gret
being that the limited time at our disposal required us to hurry on
without opportunity to do more than participate in formal Masonic
gatherings.
To travel continuously for thirty days, covering a total distance of
over two thousand miles, and be able to visit only a third of the lodges
in the jurisdiction, gives some impression not only of the extent of our
.State, but of the magnitude of the fabors devolving upon the Grand
Master, and particularly upon the Grand Lecturer, if any serious attempt
is made at general visitation.
Strong as is the temptation to do so, to detail our experience would
und 11ly prolong this document. To enjoy, however, for four weeks continuously, the beauties of our Great State and at the same time the open
hearted hospitality of the· Masons within her borders is an experience
which will always be recalled with pleasure and gratification. To a
Californian, no ocean is so beautiful as the great Pacific, whether it be
rclling with regular and rhythmic precision its lines of foam upon the
sands of San Diego, or dashing with resistless force against the cliffs of
Mendccino; no flowers so beautiful as those which carpet our valleys
and crown our hilltops; no mountains so magnificent as our rugged
Coast Range and towering Sierra Nevadas, upon whose heads there
;ests the crown of ever present snow and down whose sides there dance
the myriad streams of crystal fluid which is the life blood of our State.
These are the gifts of Nature and or' Nature's God, and as one who
has broken bread with those who live along and sail that ocean; who
ccntqnplate and enjoy association with those flowers or delve into
and take the precious metals from those mountains and harness and
distribute the energy producing and life giving products of those
streams; and with others yet who throng the busy thoroughfares of our
great municipal centers, where throb and pulsate the arteries of com- ·

23

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

mercial enterprises, can testify that they are Nature's Noblemen and
the noblest of God's creatures,
Instances were frequent where brothers walked from ten to twentyfive miles over difficult mountain trails to a meeting in honor of the
Grand Master, and the gratifying intelligence was realized that they
would go an equal or greater distance on foot and out of their way to
serve a worthy brother.
Crescent Lodge, of Crescent City, in the extreme northwestern
corner of the State, although in continuous existence since the year
1854, had never been visited by a Grand Officer. We found it, however,
in most healthy condition, with a membership the peer of any throughout
the jurisdiction. Although no degrees had been conferred for some
time, we were agreeably impressed with the proficiency displayed and
were gratified to learn that that proficiency was due in large measure
to the earnest and unselfish efforts of the late Brother William A.
Ke!ler, Past Master of Starr King Lodge of San Francisco. In the
pursuit of his employment Brother Keller had been called to Crescent
City, and, althollgh his duties were arduous and occupied his undivided
attention from sunrise until dark, he gave his evenings, at the sacrifice
of devoted and delightful family associations, to the improvement of the
Masonic education of the brethren of Crescent Lodge.
To those privileged to know him, no encomiums are necessary.
He was one of those plain and simple, yet sturdy and stalwart characters, wholly devoid of that outward show and ostentation which is so
frequently the cloak of shallowness and insincerity. His constant care
was to guard those over whom he had supervision against accident and
injury in the hazardous occupation of the logging camp. That he himself should have fa!len a victim to those very hazards, was indeed a sad
and afflicting dispensation. In his taking off: the Fraternity and the
community of which he was part, have suffered a great and irreparable
loss. To Starr King Lodge, of which he was so justly proud, and to
Crescent Lodge, the last beneficiary of his Masonic labor, we extend our
heartfelt sympathy, and to his bereaved family, esp.ecially, we i;nay be
permitted to offer that solace which comes from a realization that the
helpmate so lately taken from them possessed qualities of heart and
mind which were a source of pride, profit and inspiration to all with
whom he came in contact.

to like purposes to secure plans which will prove most satisfactory both
in utility and architectural beauty.

22

MASONIC TEMPLE.
The committee having charge of the erection of the Masonic Temple
in San Francisco will report to you in detail the progress of this great
and important enterptise. Of necessity they have proceeded 'l'iith a
deliberation appropriate to the magnitude of the task in hand. A site
has been procured in a most advantageous locality, and earnest efforts
are being made through extensive investigation of buildings devoted

MASONIC FEMALE ORPHAN SCHOOL, FALLS BRIDGE,
DUBLIN.
On March 13, 1908, J. Holdbrook, Assistant Secretary of the
Masonic Schools and Masonic Victoria Jubilee Annuity Fund, wrote
the Grand Master of this jurisdiction that the unexpended balance of
the contribution of the Grand Lodge of Ireland to the Grand Lodge
of California for the relief of sufferers from the castrophe of 1906,
which had been refunded to the Grand Lodge of Ireland, had been
handed to the three Masonic Irish charities, and that the Grand Master
of California had been elected a Vice-President of the Masonic Female
Orphan School of Ireland, the Masonic Orphan Boys' School of Ireland,
and the Victoria Jubilee Masonic Annuity Fund of Ireland. Since that
time I have been in ceceipt of notices authorizing our participation in
the balloting for candidates for admission to the two orphan schools
named. In view of the fact that under ordinary circumstances the
Grand Master of California is totally without information ·upon which
to intelligently exercise the right of ballot thus accorded, it-is suggested
that this Grand Body by general resolutions authorize Brother Holdbrook to act as proxy in the elections held for the purposes indicated.
I have no doubt such proxy would be recognized.
The correspondence in reference to the matter is submitted therewith.
RELATIVE TO RESUSPENSION OF BROTHER J. N. PASCOE.
There was turned over to me by my predecessor, certain correspondence concerning the suspension of Brother J. N. Pascoe by Rising
Star Lodge, No. 83, ·of Forest Hill, Placer County, California, Brother
Pascoe claiming that his suspension, which was for non-payment of
dues, was improper and under circumstances entitling him to reinstatement. He is, as I am advised, in enfeebled health, but the
information which I have been able to obtain and which is set
forth in the correspondence hereto attached, is meager and uncertain;
that he is blind and was practically so at the time of his suspension,
and thus incapaciated from earning a livelihood, seems to be admitted
a·nd was, it is claimed, at the time of his suspension, known by Rising
Star Lodge.
I respectfully recommend that Rising Star Lodge be directed
to report the facts fully to the incoming Grand Master, or to the
Inspector of the proper District, not only as to the standing of
Brother Pascoe on the books, but also as to his physical condition
and the knowledge of the Lodge . in reference thereto at the time
of his suspension.
Correspondence in reference to the matter is herewith submitted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

24

25

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MRS. N. S. TINGLEY.
My predecessor- also handed me correspondence concerning, application by Mrs. N. S. Tingley of San Diego for relief and assistance.
It appears that the applicant is the widow of J. M. Tingley, who
died at the ·city of Fresno a good many years since, having demitted
some time previous to his death from Clifton Hill Lodge, No. 161, of
Missouri.· Brother· Tingley was, during the year 1858, Grand Standard
Bearer of the Grand Lodge of Californfa, and on that account I authorized the Board of Relief of San Diego to extend such ir:nmedfate assistance as might be necessary, and submit the matter to the Grand Lodge
for its judgment as to the propriety of authorizing ~he Board of
Relief to extend further relief should necessity require the same in
the future.
My predecessors have taken occasion to call attention to political
methods in connection with Grand Lodge electtons and th~ general
' concurrence in their opinions that the p'ractices referred to were
reprehensible should have prevented their recurrence. It has, however, been brought to my attention that this result has not been entirely
accomplished. Not long since I was advised of a communication sent
· to a number of brethren concerning an alleged combination to accom~
plish the election of one candidate, and urging the formation of a similar combination to accomplish. the defeat of the former and the election
of another candidate. I immediately wrote the brother responsible for
the letter, sayiilg, among other things, that:
"Such methops of campargning have been frequently condemned
in the Grand Lodge. and can not but harm all of the brethren directly
or indirectly conrtected therewith. They tend, to arouse feeling and
animosities, which have no place in the deliberations of ·the Grand
Body. If there is any combination in the South, it deserves the same
consideration which should be give~ to a proposed combination. in
the North; and while I should regret ·the necessity, should it arise,
I will treat both without gloves and in the most vigorous language
at my command as totally reprehensible and inexcusable."
.
Of necessity, in civil affairs, geography forms an important element in political considerations, but in Free Masonry no such neces~ity
exists or should be considered. Manhood and merit of a Mason
can not ile subordinated to the place from whence he comes. Cha~acter
and ability alone are the open sesame to Masonic preferment, and
there is no b ody of men better able to judge of those qualifications
than the membership of the Grand Lodge of California. To that
Body, inust be left the selection of its officers uninfluenced by combinations of any character or description. I hope that the incident referred
to died at its birth. I know from ·personal acquaintance with the

brethren prirtcipally sought to be involved therein, that the movement
was without their knowledge or consent, and that they are absolutely
free from any connection, remote or approximate, therewith.
CONCLUSION.
The time is rapidly approaching when the emblem of authority
will pass to my successor. Upon your account and his, it is to be
hoped that my own conduct has not occasioned any unnecessary
augmentation of his official cares or your responsibilities. The task
has been a great one ;---at times assuming proportions which we~e
more than a match for my limited attainments. Such, however, is
the character of our institti'tiori; that upon those occasions I have
had the advantage of the aid and counsel of men whose greatness
of mind and character supplied my own deficiencies. Two of the
greatest of these, Brothers Neff and Lloyd, have been called to their
reward. To them, and particularly the former, I am indebted for
advice and counsel as profound and valuable in character as it was
free and unstinted in extent. An expression of sincerest gratitude
is also appropriate for the valuable aid and advice, in all of the
vicissitudes which have confronted me during the year, of Brothers
Atkinson, Wells and Angellotti, Thomas Flint and Motley Flint.
Upon the-. Deputy Grand Master unusual burdens hav.e fallen b.ecause
of my absence for a considerable period from the State; for his :;ible
co-operation I desire to extend :by heartiest and sincerest tha~ks.
The usefulnes·s ·of men and institutions is to bt: determmep by
what they give r~ther than Jiy what:they ~etye-p_y .ti~eir co,n~ributions
to society and not by the benefits derived from it,-and to Masons
and Masonry· this proposition is especially applicable. 'Its magnificent
traditions and great accomplishments of the past can only be justified
by more potential labors in the present, and by passing on to posterity
an organization improved and broadened in its scope and usefulness.
In the accomplishment of this duty, the Masters of the respective
Lodges are most essential and potential factors, and close association
with the Masters of California demonstrates their adequacy to the
undertaking. Several of the monthly lodge bulletins have been
ex~mples worthy of general emulation, and from a bulletin of Worshipful Master Vincent, of Highland Park Lodge, I quote in conclusion:
"This qu~stion then is ours-are we doing our part in the growth
of our race? In the current of life are we moving forward? Do
our years mark milestones in humanity's struggle toward perfection'?
Is the God within us so much more unrolled when our development
has reached its highest point? Can we transmit fo our children a
better heritage of brain and soul than our fathers left to us? Ha-s

27

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the race through us gained some little in the direction of the law
of love?"

Southern Home, provided the transfer of property could be made without any restrictions on the same.
The result of this meeting was reported to you, Most Worshipful,
and upon your suggestion and that of Bro. W. F. Pierce, the members
of the Masonic Board of California decided to visit the! Southern Home,
and we left on March 17th, arriving in Los Angeles March 18th.. We
remained in Los Angeles several days, during which time you gave us
an opportunity to visit and inspect the Home at San Gabriel and to
meet with many promiment members .of the Craft, who were disinterested parties, being in no way connected with the management of said
Home.
Meetings were held daily during our stay in the South, with the
Southern Home Board and yourself, until an agreement was reached
which was satisfactory to all parties to the transaction, and this Board
then recommended that you accept the property, and that upon the
necessary legal steps being completed, we at once segregated the residents at the Decoto Home.
When we left Los Angeles, it was understood that everything would
be completed so that the final transfer could be made on May 1st, and
that we would then take charge and make the segregation, but more or
less delay was encountered through the court proceedings, and it was
not until the latter part of July that we received your instructions to
take over the management of the Southern Home, in a telegram, which
read as follows :
"Washington, D. C., July 22, 1909.
"Hon. W. S. Wells,
Judge of the Superior Court,
Oakland, Cal.
"Authorize assumption and control Southern California
Home.
"LAWLl!R."

26

With an abiding trust in the All Wise and Omnipotent, all the
strength with which he has blessed us is being devoted to the effort.
For judgment we must appeal to God, our conscience and succeeding
generations.

Which on ·motion was referred to a Special Committee
of Five, and the Acting Deputy Grand Master appointed
the following Brethren to constitute such Committee:
On Address o~ Grand Master .......... Charles W. Nutting,
Edward B. Spencer,
Theo. J. Milliken,
James H. MacLafferty,
Charles A. Adams.

On motion of Past Grand Master Chas. L. Patton, it
was ordered by the Grand Lodge that 1,000 copies of the
Grand Master's address be printed for distribution to the
representatives present.
As supplemental to the Grand Master's Address, the
following report was presented:
To the M.'. w:. Oscar Lawler, Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of
F. & A. M., of California:
Most Worshipful Sir: Your Board of Trustees of the Masonic ·
Home of California beg to submit to you a report of their transactions
with the Southern California Masonic Home.
At the March meeting of our Board you presented for our consideration a communication which you had received from the Board of
Trustees of the Southern California Masonic Home of San Gabriel,
which document was an offer on the part of the Southern Home Board
to deed to you, in trust for the Grand Lodge, the San Gabriel Home.
Our Board, having discussed with you and the V. ·. W. ·. Deputy Grand
Master W. F. Pierce the necessity of the segregation of the old people
from the children, were favorably inclined to the transfer, provided the
title was...a clear conveyance to the Grand Lodge.
On March 14th, your Board met with the special committee on
Masonic Homes, consisting of Bros. Valentine, Plum, Billings, MacLafferty and Owens, which committee had visited the Southern Home and
also discussed the transfer of the property with the Trustees o/ said
Home. The special committee were unanimous in the plan to segregate
the children from the old people, and advised the taking over of the

••

At a meeting of the Board, held August 13th, the following resolutions were offered by Bro. Elmer E. Stone and seconded by Bro. W. H.
Waste, and unanimously adopted:
.
WHl!Rl!AS The Southern California Home, on the 20th day of
March, 1909, ~ade an offer in writing to the Most Worshipful Grand
Master Officers and Members of the ·Grand Lodge of the State of
Califor~ia, F. & A. M., to deed to the Trustees of the Masonic Home
of California or to such Board or body of persons as the Grand Lodge
might direct, that certain property known as "The Southern California
Masonic Home," near the Town of San Gabriel, County of Los Angeles,
State of California, said deed to be an unconditional deed of conveyance; and
WHl!R:EAS, On said date M.'. w:. Oscar Lawler, Grand Master of
California, accepted said proposition in writing endorsed thereon ; and

28

29

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

WHEREAS, After proceedings duly had by the stockholders and
members of said Southern <:;alifornia Masonic Home, and after proceedings duly had therefor, the Superior Court of said County of L9S
'Angeles duly gave and made its order and decree, authorizing said
Southern California Masonic Home to deed, transfer and convey to said
Oscar Lawler said property, and authorized the President and Secretary
of said corporation to make, execute and deliver to Oscar Lawler such
deed, conveyance or other instruments of transfer as might be proper
etc., in order to convey to said Oscar Lawler the said property, togethe;
with the furniture, carpets, furnishings, fixtures, appurtenances and
other appliances used in connection with said Southern California
Masonic Home; and
WHEREAS, Such ~eed has been made, executed and delivered to said
Oscar Lawler, which deed is now in the hands of the President of this
Board of Trustees of the Masonic Home of California; and
WHEREAS, Said Grand Master has authorized this Board to assume
control of said Southern California Masonic Home; now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That under and by virtue of said authority so confirmed, and pursuant to said offer of March 20, 1909, and its acceptance
by said M.". w:. Grand Master, and on no other terms, this Board of
Trustees does hereby assume control of said Southern California
Masonic Home, and subject to said offer, acceptance and· authority,
does hereby accept control and management of the same;
Resolved, That this Board, through its President, .request of the
Grand Master the use of ,the funds of the Grand Lodge for the purpose
of maintaining the Southam California Home at San Gabriel.
A telegram was sent you requesting you to instruct the Grand
Secretary to allow the use of the Grand Lodge funds to pay expenses
of conducting the Southern Home, to which you replied by authorizing
the Grand Secretary .to furnisl;t us the necessary funds.
Brother Wells, the President, and Bro. Elmer E. Stone, the Secretary, were authorized to proceed to San Gabriel and to assume full
charge of the Southern California Home and to arrange for its future
management. On August 14th, Brother Wells and Brother Stone left for
the Soqth, and on· the evening of the 15th of August, Brothers Wells
and Stone met with the Trustees of the Sou.them Home, and the final
transfer of the management of the San Gabriel Home was completed.
On August 24th, the Board met in special session for the purpose of
hearing the report of the committee sent South, and after hearing· said
report, the 1ollowing resckticn w2s offered and tmanimously adoptoo:
Resolved, That the children now housed at the Decoto Home be
transferred to the Southern California Home a.t San Gabriel, and. that
the old people now residing at the Southern California Home at San
Gabriel be transferred to the Decato Home.

The report of Brothers Wells and Stone recommended necessary
improvements and repairs, which the Board approved and authorized
made.
The following improvements and repairs were made: Cutting pai:titions between rooms to make dormitories ; partitions to divide one floor
or building so as to accommodate the girls on one side and the boys
on the other. Some new plumbing and the overhauling of the old
plumbing; painting, cleaning carpets and furniture, making over mattresses and pillows; the purchase of iron beds.
·
The work of preparing te> receive the children was no easy task
and took some little time. In the early part . of September, five old
people were sent to Decoto from San Gabriel, leaving two female resi<lents at the Southern Home and two male residents. The female
residents being entitled to remain under a contract existing and which
you are familiar with. The two male residents were kept at the
Southern Home as they were willing to do the garden work, thereby ·
relieving us of the necessity of employing a gardener.
On September 17th, Brother Wells and Brother Stone left with
·twenty-six children for the Southern California Home at San Gabriel,
where these children are now comfortably domiciled.
W,e attach to this report a 'statement of the money furnished by
the Grand Secretary and the manner i~ which it has been disbursed.
Fraternally submitted,
w. s. WELLS,
THOMAS FLINT,
RALPH Lewi!,
w. H. WAS1'E,
ELMER E. SroNE,
Board of Trustees.
Received .from John Whicher, Grand Secretary, the following
amounts:
RECEIPTS.
To John F. Hughes ............................. .. . ...... .
To Mrs. 0. E. Aiken .. . ........... . : . . . .. ... ..... ... .. .. . .
To Elmer E. Stone ... .............. .... . ..... .... ..... .. .
To Elmer E. Stone ............ , , . , , , , , ........... ..... · · ·
From Headley Cottage, rent. .. ... ...................... .. .
Total receipts

$1,SCO.CO
250.00
l,cco:oo
2,000.00
17.50
$4,767.50

30

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

31

DISBURSEMENTS.
To insurance premiums .................................. . $1,500.00
To Mrs. Aiken, salaries August, petty cash ................ .
250.00
To Peas Bros., beds, mattresses, etc ...................... .
664.85
To G. H. Vaile, plumbing ............................... ..
497.50
To Los Angeles Horticultural Commission, inspecting trees ..
7.00
To Troy Laundry, washing .......................... ·..... .
40.05
To Albert Cohn, groceries ... . ........ : .... .... ... . ...... .
164.75
To Pasadena Ice Co., ice .... . ....... .. ................... .
3.25
To Powell & Stone, supplies .. ... . ..... ................... .
94.77
To Diamond Coal Co., coal. .............................. .
257.08
To Germain Seed & Plant Co., seeds ...................... .
3.00
To Capital Milling Co., flour, meals ...................... .
32.04
To Sanitary Dust Co., cleaning ........................... .
230.75
To Harper & Reynolds, hardware ... ......... ...... ....... .
25.17
To Matt McMullen, meats ................................ .
28.75
To Mrs. Aiken for petty cash- accounf. .................... .
100.00
To John F. Hughes for carbide .......................... .
96.40
To Elmer E. Stone for expense of transferring children and
old people .. .. ...................... . ·.·~ .............. .
533.50
To John F. Hughes for expressage and expense, Mrs. Dunlap
to Decoto ........................................... .
22.35
To Mrs. 0. E. Aiken, September salaries ... . ............. .
156.00
On deposit, California Savings Bank, Los Angeles ......... .
60.29
$4,767.50

Consideration of which was made special order, to be
taken up with all matters relating to Masonic Home.
The Grand Master then announced the appointment of
the following :
Committee on Credentials ................. Wm. Kettner,
•
G. F. Becket,
J. F. Lyon,
Roy Block,
Robert Jones.

The Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 o'clock
this afternoon.

3Jn ~runh 1Jjuhgr.
Afternoon Session.
Tuesday, October 12, A. L. 5909.
The Grand Lodge was called on at two o'clock, the
Grand Master presiding.
The Grand Secretary presented the Annual Report of
his office, as follows :

•

To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Immepiately following the last Annual Communication, and pursuant to the resolution of this Grand Lodge, I prepared a form of
uniform receipt for dues for use in the jurisdiction, and Lodges now
very generally use that form. It has worked well, and has preved
a source of protection to the members and to Lodges. A similar form
is now in general use throughout the jurisdictions of the United States.
On December 22d last fifteen hundred copies of the Journal of
the Proceedings were distributed, or · reserved for future binding in
the customary manner, and on March 23d a copy of the Roster of
Lodges was forwarded to each Lodge, Grand Officer and Inspector in
the jurisdiction.
I also forwarded to each Lodge and to each Inspector a <;opy of
Anderson's Manual, revised to include the decisions of 1908.
The proceedings of the various Grand Lodges with whom we
are in correspondence have been received and delivered to the chairman
of the Committee on Correspondence.
On the first of July, 1909, by direction of the Grand Master, a
commission was issued to M: · W . .' · Royal J. Allen of Duncan, Oklahoma, ·as Representative of the Grand Ledge of California near the
Grand Lodge of Oklahoma.
The eleven Lodges to which charters were granted at the last
Annual C,:ommunication were in due seascn properly constituted, as
follows: Imperial, No. 390, constituted by R.'. w:. Dana R. Weller,
Senior Grand Warden; East Belt, No. 391, constituted by M.'. w:.
George M. Perine, Past Grand Master; Turlock, No. 395, constituted
by w:. James C. Pottle, Inspector for the Forty-fourth district; and
the following were constituted by the Grand Master: West Lake, No.
392; Balder, No. 393; University, No. 394; Apollo, No. 396; Rising

32

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Light, No. 397; Fowler, No. 398 ~ Fraternity, No. 399; Burlingame, No.
400.
Since the last Annual Communication six new Lodges have been
formed, and by direction of the Grand Master dispensations have been
issued as follows :
Oct. 22, 1908-To Bay Vie"'1 Lodge, at Oakland, Alameda county;
Feb. 8, 1909-To Brawley Lodge, at Brawley, Imperial county;
Feb. 11, 1909-To Yerba Buena Lodge, at Oakland, Alameda county;
Mar. 26, 19C9-To Glendora Lodge, at Glendora, Los Angeles county;
May 25, 1909-To Moneta Lodge, ~t Los Angeles, Los Angeles county;
June 28, 19G9-To Burbank Lodge, at Burbank, Los Angeles county.
1'he petitions for the foregoing dispensations, with the certificates
of withdrawal of the several petitioners from the Lodges of which
they had last been members, and the required certificates . as to the
qualifications. of the Masters and Wardens named, were all correctly
prepared and presented; and they are herewith submitted, together
with the returned dispensations and books of record and the petitions
of the new Lodges to be perpetuated by charter.
A new charter (duplicate) was issued on the 18th of December,
1908, by order of the Grand Master, to George Washington Lodge,
No. 62, the hall of that Lodge, together with its contents, having
been destroyed by fire on the 31st day of July, 1908.
At the close of the last Annual Communication there were three
·hundred and twenty-four Lodges borne on the roll of the Grand Lodge,
with a membership of thirty-eight thousand, six hundred and sixtynine. Since that time six new Lodges have been farmed, making
the total number of Lodges in this jurisdiction at this time three
• hundred and thirty, with a membership of 41,007, a gain of 2338.
The transcripts of trial records, unaccompanied by notices of
appeal, which have been received at this office since the last Annual
Communication-all of which have been placed in the hands of the
Chairman of the Committee on Grieyances-·are as follows : From
Buckeye Lodge, No. 195, Ebenezer 0 . Morris, expelled June 13,
1908.
California Lodge, No. 1, Hans T. Henning, expelled October 1,
1908.
Santa Cruz Lodge, No. 38, Edwin C. Heard, expelled October 28,
1908.
Occidentll Lodge, No. 22, James Dalzell Brown, tried by Missioo
Lodge, No. 169, and expelled November 4, 1908.
Live Oak Lodge, No. 61, Arthur Vernett Moore, expelled Octobe·r
10, 1908.
Oriental Lodge, No: 144, Marion Price Danly, expelled December
r, t908.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

33

McKinley Lodge, No. 347, Benjamin Oscar Bayliss suspended
'
December 3, 1908.
Phoenix Lodge, No. 178, Walter Hubbard tried by San Bernardino Lo~ge, No. 348, and suspended November' 4, 1908.
~urtis Lodge, No. 140, H. Fred Domine, expelled February 1,

1909

Forest Hill Lodge, No. 66, James D. Reilly, suspended March 6,
1909.
Welcome Lodge, No. 255, James W. Denton, expelled May 1,
1909.
•
Francis Drake Lodge, No. 376, John Nealis expelled May 7,
19@
'
Presidio Lodge, No. 354, Frederick Tetsall, ex1.>elled May 6, 1909.
El Centro Lodge, No. 384, Charles Wolf, expelled June 4, 1909.
Guadalupe Lodge, No. 237, John Robert Dacoto suspended June
9, 1909.
'

1909~enry Clay Lodge, No. 95, Jackson Dennis, expelled May 29,
Marin Lodge, N.o. 191, William L. Deysher, suspended J 1 14
1909.
uy
'
Madera Ledge, No. 280, George Washington Jones, acquitted
July 2, 19C9.
Palos Verdes Lodge, No. 389,. Roy Nathan Carr, expelled August 6, 19C9.
California Lodge No. 1, Joseph C. McKee, expelled September 2,
19G0.

Transcript~ of similar record, accompanied by notices of appeal,
have been received and transmitted to that committee from
Henry Ascroft, appealing from decision in case of Thomas Alexis
Nerney of San Diego Lodge, No. 35, tried by Occidental Lodge No
22, and acquitted.
'
·
Tuolumne Ledge, N .i. 8, Richard Wallope Kent, expelled March
6, 1909.
Vis-alia Lodge, No. 128, Daniel Os horn, reprimanded June 25,
1909.
Emmanuel Lodge, No. 318, John L. Hicks, suspended June 28
1909.
'
Also the petition for rest.oration of Benjamin James Waugh
expelled by Suisun Lodge, No. 55, August 6, 1897.
'
Of the proposed amendments to the By-Laws of Lodges which
have been received, the approval of the Grand Master in 32 cases
has been filed in this office. Of these, 17 being from Lodges Nos.
206, 220, 235, 2n, 286,' ~4, ~5. 310, 332, 338, 346, 352, 365, 372, 374, 399
and 400, proposed changes in date of stated meetings; nine being from
2

34

PROCEEDINGS 01<' THE

:C-O<lges Nos. 41, 103, 129, 187, 226, 281, 354, 365 and 393, proposed to
• increase the fee for degrees; two being from Lodges Nos. 226 and 246,
proposed creating life membership; one being from Lodge No. 169, pro~
posed reducing life membership fee; four being from Lodges Nos. 12, 70,
111, 226, proposed increasing dues; three being from Lodges Nos.
139, 335 and 363, proposed increasing affiliation fee; one being from
Lodge No. 400, proposed requcing affiliation fee; one being from
Lodge No. 369, proposed abolishing affiliation fee; four from Lodges
287, 292, 327 and 332, proposed decreasing dues; one from Lodge
No. 349, proposed reducing fees for degrees; one from Lodge No. 207,
adopting by-laws.
The approval or disapproval of the Grand Master being but
temporary, the foregoing amendments, as required by our laws1 have
been placed in the hands of the Chairman of the Committee 0 n ByLaws of Lodges, and will be submitted to the Grand Lodge for final
action. The books of By-Laws of the Lodges now working under
dispensation have also been placed in the hands of the same Committee.
Since the last Annual Communication, twenty-four special dispensations for sundry purposes have, by order of the Grand Master
been issued from this office, as follows,:
'
January 4, 1909, to Silver Gate Lodge, No. 296, to receive petitions from two members of the U. S. Navy; January 14, 19C9 to
Sierra Valley Lodge, No. 184; February 12, to Volcano Lodge, No .• 56;
March 15, to Meridian Lodge, No. 182; March 15, to North Star
Lodge, No. 91; April 8, to Parnassus Lodge, No. 388; May 25, to
Gravel Range Lodge, No. 59, to elect officers at a time subsequent
to the stated time for annual election.
'
And to the following Lodges to reballot upon petitions of candidates rejected for the degrees : November 27, 1908, to Balder Lodge,
No. 393; December 24, 1908, to Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329; February 8, 1909, to Mountain View Lodge, No. 194; February 15, to
Santa Rosa Lodge, No. 57; February 22, to Anchor Lodge, No. 273;
March 3, to Liberty Lodge, No. 299; March 3, to Doric Lodge, No.
216; March 27, to Balder Lodge, No. 393; May 14, to Yolo Lodge No.
81; May 29, to Antioch Lodge, No. 175; June 29, to South San Francisco Lodge, No. 212; June 29, to Richmond Lodge, No. 375; June
29, to Hesperian Lodge, No. 264; June 29, to Balder Lodge, No. 393 ;
July 29, to San Francisco Lodge, No. 360; August 27, to Parfaite Union
Lodge, No. 17; September 25, to Fruitvale Lodge, No. 336.
All which papers have been placed in the hands of the Chairman
of the Committee ~n Jurisprudence.
On the first day of January, 1909, I received a telegram from the
Grand Master, then at Baltimore, Maryland, directing me to cable
the sum of one thousand dollars to the relief of the sufferers by the
earthquake in Italy. Before I could certainly ascertain who actually

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

35

represented the Masonic Bodies in Italy, members of the Italian Lodge
in San ·Francisco, Speranza Italiana, No. 219, generously came forward
with offers of money for the same cause, and immediately following
came other offers from Masons of California; and at the suggestion
of the Deputy Grand Master I issued a general circular letter asking
for contributions from the Lodges ()f this jurisdiction. On the 4th
of January, by direction of the Acting Grand Master, I cabled to
Ettore Ferrari, Grand Master of the Grand Orient of Italy, to draw
on our Grand Lodge for money needed, not to exceed fifteen hundred
dollars. A cablegram expressing thanks was received in reply, and
on the 21st of January, by courtesy of the Bahk of Italy, I wired to
Grand Master Ferrari the sum of twenty-five hundred dollars for the
benefit of our brethren in the stricken sections of Italy. The total
sums received by me from the several Lodges and members aggrt:
gated $4,868.50, and I have now in my charge the sum of $2,368.50,
not needed in Italy, so far as I am advised, and I desire instructions
as to the disposition of this money.
The various registers and account books of this office, the vouchers for the orders drawn upon the Grand Treasurer, the letter books
for the year, the files of letters received, and all other papers pertaining to the business of the Grand Lodge, not heretofore mentioned, are
herewith presented for inspection, as well as an account of the revenues
for the year ending on the 31st day of July, 1909, with the receipts
of the Grand Treasurer for the moneys collected by the undersigned,
and an itemized statement of all disbursements, pursuant to subdivision 5 of Section· 1, of Article IV, of Part II of the Constitution,
as follows:
The Grand Secretary in Account with the Grand Lodge of California
for the Fiscal Year Ending July 31, 1909:
Home Fund. Gen. Fund.
1908.
Oct. 10 From sundry sources from Aug. 1 (reported in detail 1908 Proceedings) . . $38,639.00 $43,779.SO
75.00
Oct. 15 Bay View, U .. D., <lisp. to form Lodge ..
50.00
Nov. 2 Imperial, 390, fee for charter . .. . . .... .
50.00
Nov. 2 East Belt, 391, fee for charter .......... .
50.00
Nov. 2 West Lake, 392, fee for charter ....... .
50.00
Nov. 2 Balder, 393, fee for charter . . .. ....... .
50.00
Nov. 2 University, 394, fee for charter ........ .
50.00
Nov. 2 Turlock, 395, fee for charter ......... .
50.00
Nov. 2 Apollo, 396, fee for charter ........... .
50.00
Nov. 2 Rising Light, 397, fee for charter ...... .
50.00
Nov. 2 Fowler, 398, fee for charter ......... .. .
50.00
Nov. 2 Fraternity, 399, fee for charter . ........ .
50.00
Nov. 2 Burlingame, 400, fee for charter .... ... .

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

36
Nov. 27
Dec. 24
Dec. 28
1909.
Jan. 4

Balder, 393, dispensation to reballot .....
Vallee de France, 329, disp. to reballot ..
Rio Vista, 208, disp. to elect officers ....

Silver Gate, 296, disp. to receive petitions
from members U. S. Navy (2) .. . .
Feb. 8 Yerba Buena, U. D., disp. to form Lodge
Feb. 11 Brawley, U. D., disp. to form Lodge ...
Feb. 15 Mountain View, 194, disp. to reballot. ..
Feb. 15 Sierra Valley, 184, disp. to elect officers ..
Feb. 15 Volcano, 56, disp. to elect Master ....... .
Feb. 15 Santa Rosa, 57, disp. to reballot ....... .
Feb. 25 Masonic Hall Association, final dividend
Mar. 6 Anchor, 273, disp. to re ballot .... ..... .
Mar. 12 Liberty, 299, disp. to reballot .......... .
Mar. 12 Doric, 216, disp. to reballot ....... . .... .
Mar. 15 Meridian, 182, disp. to elect officers ... .
Mar. 15 North Star, 91, disp. to elect officers ... .
Mar. 26 Glendora, U. D., disp. to form Lodge .. .
Mar. 27 Balder, 393, disp. to reballot ........... .
Apr. 9 Parnassus, 388, disp. to elect officers ... .
May 14 Yolo, 81, disp. to reballot ............. .
May 25 Moneta, U. D., disp. to form Lodge ... .
May 29 Antioch, 175, disp. to reballot. ....... .
June 28 Burbank, U . D., disp. to form Lodge .. .
June 29 Balder, 393, disp. to reballot .......... .
June 30 Hesperian, 264, disp. to reballot ........ .
June 30 Richmond, 375, disp. to 'reballot ........ .
June 30 So. San Francisco, 212, disp. to reballot
July 29 San Francisco, 360, disp., to reballot ... .
July 31 Monitors, sales for year ........ .. .... .
July 31 Manuals, sales for year ... . . . ....... . . .
July 31 Proceedings, sales for year ............ .
July 31 Diplomas, sales for year . .............. .
July 31 Receipts, sales for year .. .. ........ . .. .
July 31 Receipt Holders, sales for year ...... . . .
July 31 Constitutiops, sales for year ............ .
July 31 Bound volumes of Proceedings, sales for
year ........... , ................. .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

10.00

woo

10.00

20.00
75.00
75.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
1,176.20
30.00
10.00
10.00
lC.00
10.00
75.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
75.00
10.00
75.00
20.00
10.00
2C'.OO
10.00
10.00
407.75
639.00
22.00
300.00
702.40
636.60
.25
2.50

$38,639.00 $48,936.20
Amounting in the aggregate to....................... $87,575.20
All of which has been paid to the Grand Treasurer, as will be
shown by his report.

37

During the year I have drawn warrants against the Grand Treasurer as follows :
Warrant No.
1. H. S. Johnson, salary for August, 1908 ............... $
150.00
2. Geo. Johnson, salary for August, 1908 . . ....... . .... .
250.00
3. T. J. Baker,.salary for August, 1908 ...... ·... . ....... .
150.00
4. T. J. Baker, expenses from July 23 to Aug. 28 ..... .
130.90
5. Wm. R. Phillips Co., 1 Roll Book, $2.75; 1 Pay Roll, $4;
75 Vols. (1906 and 1907), $120 .................. .
126.75
6. Pacific Tel. & Tel: Co., rent, etc., for July and August
17.55
7. Masonic Home, 500 2c envelopes; $10.65; printing same,
$1.25 ................ .... ......... . .... . . ... ... .
11.90
8. McNutt, Kahn & Co., 1 gal. paste, 75c; 1 gro. Gillott's
pens, 90c ....... . ............................... .
1.65
9. Shannon-Conmy Printing. Co., 2 qrs. wrapping paper,
$1.75 ; 500 Monitors, $85 . ... ................... .
86.75
10. C. Spreckels, rent for September, 1908 ............... .
127.50
11. Guyett & Hauer, premium insurance on furniture, etc.,
in Grand Secretary's office . . ................... .
20.25
12a. Masonic Temple Assn. of California, stock ......... . 155,000.00
12b. Ma~onic Temple Assn. of California, stock ......... . . . 40,000.00
13. John Whicher, salary for September, 1908 ........... .
250.00
14. H. S. Johnson, salary for September, 1908 ... ; ..... . .. .
150.00
15. T. J. Baker, salary for September, 1908 ............ . .
150.00
16. C. Spreckels, rent for October, 1908 ............... ... .
127.50
17. D. R. Blakiston, portrait of P. G. M. Hart ........... .
125.00
18. Shannon-Conmy Printing Co., 500 circulars, resignation
of Grand Secretary Johnson, $4; engraving signature of Grand Secretary, two zincos and 1 rubbe.r
stamp, $3; 400 circulars, transportation, $4 ..... .
11.00
19. N eustadter Bros., 4 doz. gloves for Grand Officers . .... .
8.50
20. Masonic Home, 250 2c envelopes and printing, $6.60; 350
circulars, $14; 75 letter circulars (Grand Lecturer),
$2.00 ..................... . .................... .
22.60
21. The Call, July 2 to October 2 ...................... ..
2.25
22. The Star Towel Supply Co., July 1 to October 1 ...... •
3.00
23. Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co., rent, etc., for September ..... .
8.25
24. Wes tern Addition Masonic Hall Assn., rent for storeroom one year to Oct. 1, 1908 . . .... .. ..... ... ... .
90.00
25. T. J. Bakff, expenses from Aug. 28 to Sept. 20 ....... .
61.80
26. John Whicher, expressage en bound vols. to Past Grand
Masters, $4.83; postage stamps., $10 .... . ...•......
14.83
27. Mrs. K: A: Graves, material for 132 aprons, $10; tapes
for same, $6.60; thread, 40c; stamp, 85c; labor, $7 ..
24.85

38

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

28. T . T. Atkinson, experting books of Grand Secretary and
Grand Treasurer .............................. .
29. San Francisco Board of Relief, appropriation by Grand
Lodge ........ ... .. ... ............. ... : . ...... .
30. Los Angeles Board of Relief, appropriation by Grand
Lodge ........ . ........... .... .. . ......... .... .
31. Oakland Board of Relief, appropriation by Grand
Lodge ..... . . ...... ....... . ... . . . .............. .
32. Stockton Board of Relief, appropriation by Grand
Lodge ... ...... , ........ .... . . ........... . .... .
33. Samuel D. Mayer, salary as Grand Organist, 1908 ... .
34. Geo. P. Adams, salary as Grand Tyler, 1908 ..... . .... .
35. A. J. Monroe, salary as Chairman of Committee on
Correspondence ............................... .
36. Masonic Relief Assn. of U. S. and Canada, one year's
subscription to Dec. 1, 1909 .... ............... .. .
37. Gravel Range Lodge, No. 59, remission of Grand Lodge
dues for 1908 . . . . . ...... . ... .. .. . ............. .
38. Yolo Lodge, No. 81, remission of Grand Lodge dues
fo r 1908 . ......... . .......... . ............. .. .. .
39. Keystone Lodge, No. 161, remission of Grand Lodge
dues for 1908 ....... . ......................... .
40. Clear Lake Lodge, No. 183, remission of Grand Lodge
dues (General Fund) for 1908 . .. ... ...... ... ... . .
41. 0 . Lawler, expenses as Grand Master . ..... . ..... .... .
42. Ethel Lacey, stenographic services to Committees of
Grand Lodge ..... . ........ . ...... ... . . ... . .... .
43. Rose A. Hudson, stenographic services to Committees
of Grand Lodge ..... ........... .. . ... ......... .
44. Remington Typewriter Co., rent of two machines, Oct.
14th to Oct. 21, 1908 ........................... .
45. S. & G. Gump Co., 1 gold frame for portrait of E. H .
Hart, $63; lettering same, $1 . . ................. .
46. F . 0. Young, engrossing resolutions (R. H. Loyd) ..
47. Golden Gate Commandery Co., rent of Hall for Annual
Session of 1908 ... . .... : . ... . . . .. . . . . ... ....... .
48. J. W. Anderson, revising Manual .. . . ........... .... .
49. C. Spreckels, rent for November, 1908 ... ·.......... . .
SO. Geo. Johnson, appropriation by Grand Lodge ........ .
51. James Whitten, Assistant Grand Tyler for Annual
Session 1908 .... .. ... .. .... . . . ................ .
52. T. J. Baker, salary for October, 1908 ............... .
53. John Whicher, salary for October, 1908 ............. .
54. H. S. Johnson, salary for October, 1908 ............. .

JOO.CO

2,500.00
4,000.CO
1,000.00
200.00
60.00
125.00
200.00
193.50
61.40
67.50
69.50
27.00
1,200.00
25.00
9.00
3.00
64.00
10.00
150.00
150.00
127.50
100.00
12.00
150.00
250.00
150.00

55. Masonic Home, 1.000 Annual Reports, $100; 500 2c
envelopes and printing, $11.90; 250 letter-heads,
$1.75 .. . .................... . ... . ...... . .... . .. .
56. John Whicher, 1 qt. bottle writing fluid, 7Sc; 85 lbs. ice,
annual session, 8Sc; flowers and ribbon to R. H.
Lloyd, $3.50; tel. to Goodwin, Santa Maria, corner
stone, 4Sc; tel. to Doyle, returns Inyo Lodge, 4Sc;
express on articles from office to hall, $2.50; express on articles from hall to office, $2.50; tel. to
Grand Master, 40c; tel. to Grand Master, 40c; expressage on bound volume to Grand Master, 60c;
expressage on charters of five new Lodges, 7Sc;
expressage) on regalia from San Mateo, 40c; cartage on regalia to ferry, SOc; tel. to Hartl~y regarding charter, 40c ; expressage on stock in store-,
room, $3 ... . . .. .............. ... ....... . ...... .
57. McN utt, Kahn & Co., 1 doz. letter tablets, $2; 2 doz.
H. B. pencils, $1.50 .. . ...... . ............. .' .... .
58. Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co., rent, etc., for October . . ... ... .
59. E. H . Adams, silver service for retiring Grand Master
Perine ........................................ .
60. Smith-Premier, new parts and overhauling machine,
$8.50; 1 ribbon, 7Sc ......... . ...... . ........... .
61. H. J. Maxwell, premium on bond of Grand Treasurer
($15,000), $75; premium on bond of Grand Secretary ($10,000), $50 . .... .. . ....... .............. .
62. H. S. Crocker Co., City Directory (1908) ........... .
63. T. J. Baker, sundries for schools of instruction, Oct.
11th and 12th, 1908 ..................... : . .... .. .
64. T. J. Baker, expenses from Sept. 25th to Oct. 24th ... .
65. John Whicher, salary for November, 1908 ... . ...... .
66. T. J. Baker, salary for November, 1908 ..... . ........ .
67. H. S. Johnson, salary for November, 1908 ........... .
68. C. Spreckels, rent for December, 1908 ..... . ....... .
69. Geo. 'Johnson, appropriation by Grand Lodge ........ .
70. P~cific Tel. & Tel. Co., rent, etc., for Nov., 1908., ... .
71. T . J. Baker, expenses for Nov. 9th to Nov. 28th ....... .
72. Shannon-Conmy Printing Co., binding 1 vol. Proceedings, $1.50; 400 circulars (receipt books), $4; 500
2c envelopes (Grand Lecturer), $12.50; 500 2c en·
velopes (Grand Master), $2.50; 500 2c envelopes
(Grand Secretary) , $12.50; 100 2c envelopes, large
(Grand Master), $3.25 ... ... .. ..... ....... . ... ..
73. E. C. Hughes Co., 5,000 letter-heads for Grand Master,
Grand Secretary and Grand Lecturer .......... . .

39

113.65

17.45
3.50

8.20
300.00
9.25

125.00
6.00
SS.SO
12.00
250.00
150.00
150.00
127.50
100.(Y)
9.85
44.60

46.25
17.50

40

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

74. Masonic Home, 500 clasp envelopes, . $1.25; 4CO 4-pp.
circulars, $9; 350 circulars (installation of officers),
$3.50; 350 circulars (certificate of election), $3.50;
300 circulars, list of Grand Officers, $2.50 . . ..... . .
19.75
75. Mrs. K. A. Graves, washing 481 aprons, $28.05, and
66 pr. gloves, $3.30 ..... . . .. .... . ................ .
3U5
76. E. S. Valentine, expenses Special Committee on Home
3CO.C.U'
77. Geo. R. Armstrong, 100,000 uniform receipts for dues
370.00
73. Shannon-Conmy Printing Co., 500 2c envelopes, $12.75;
500 Grand Master's address, $17; 50 copies Grand
Secretary's rep orts, $3.50; 500 Monitors, $85; 500
2c envelopes, $12.75 ........ .. ......... . . ... . . .. . .
131.00
79. J ohn Whicher, salary fo r December, 1903 . .... . .... . .
250.00
80. J ohn Whicher, expressage en Proceedings, "1908 .. ... . .
68.69
81. T. ]. Baker, salary for December, 1908 .. . ......... .. . .
150.00
82. T. ]. Baker, expenses from N av. 28th to Dec.· 26th ... .
43.65
83. H . S. Johnson, salary for 'December, 1908 . . . . ... .. . . .
150.00
1H. C. Spreckels, rent for January, 1909 . ... . .... .. . .... .
127.50
85. Geo. J ohnw n; appropriation by Grand Ledge ... .. ... .
100.00
R6. The Star Towel Supply Co.,· Oct. 1st to J an. 1st. . ..... .
3.00
87. Shannon-Conmy Printing Co., prin ting and binding
1,700 copies Proceedings, $1,026.60; engraving plate
and printing 1,700 copies portrait of Grand Master
Perine, $14 ........ . ..... .. . .. ... . ... ..... ... .. .
1,04-0'.60
88. Masonic Home, 3 lots blanks (Inspector's certificate) . .
5.60
89. Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co., rent, etc., for Dec., 1908 .. .. . .
9.22
90. J ohn Whicher, stamps account mailing uniform receipts
20.00
91. The Call, Oct. 2d to Jan. 2d, 1909 .. . .. . .. ..... : ...... .
2.25
92. H. S. J ohnson, expressage on package to Grand Master,
80c; exps. on package to Manila, $1.75; exps. on
regalia from Turlock, 60c; tel. to Grand Master,
55c; exps: on package to Grand Master, 65c; exps.
on regalia from Glendale, $1.50; drayage on regalia
t '.3 depot, 50c; exps. on package fr om Oakland,
25c ; exps. on regalia from San Bernardino, $2.50 ;
tel. t o Grand Master, 40c; exps. on duplicate Proceedings from Oxnard. $1 ; exps. on duplicate Proceedings from Yuba, 65c; exps. on duplicate Proceedings, $1.40; exps. on duplicate Proceedings
fr om Oakland, 25c .... . .... . .. . .......... . ....... .
12.80
93. J. F. Hughes, appropriation: to Southern Cal. Home . .
1,500.00
94. Geo. Johnson, appropriation by Grand Lodge . . . .. . ... .
100.00
95. C. Spreckels, rent for February .. . .. . .. . . ....... .. . . . .
127.50

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

96. John Whicher, salary for January ................. . . .
97. T. J. Baker, salary for January ..................... ..
98. H. S. Johnson, salary for January ............. . .... . .
99. Masonic Home, 400 4-pp. circulars, $15; 500 Columbia
clasp envelopes, $3 .•........ . ...................
100. H . S. Johnson, exps. on duplicate Proceedings from Hornitos, $1.40; exps. on duplicate proceedings from
Buena Park, $1.15 ; one receipt book, account Relief
Fund, !Oc; exps. on duplicate Proceedings from
Chico, 30c; exps. on duplicate Proceedings from
Orange, 90c; exps. on duplicate Proceedings from
Castroville, J5c; exps. on duplicate Proceedings
from Sacramento, 35c; one receipt book, account
Relief Fund, 25c; exps. on duplicate Proceedings
from Reddir_g, $1.55; exps. on duplicate Proceedings from Vacaville, 75c; freight and drayage on
duplicate Proceedings from Sutter Creek, $1.20;
ribbon for typewriter, 75c; one receipt book, account Relief Fund, 25c; exps. on duplicate Proceedings from Truckee, $1.60 . ............... , ..... . .
101. T. ]. Baker, expenses from Dec. 27 t o Jan. 28 .... .. . .
102. Schmidt Lithograph Co., 253 Master Masons' Dips.... .
103. Shannon-Conmy, 1,000 bill-heads, $4; ·binding one vol.
Proceedings, $1.50; 500 2c envelopes, $12.50; 1,000
address labels, $3; 2 qrs. wrapping paper, $1.75;
binding one vol. Proceedings, $1.50; paper, twine
and wrapping Proceedings and Home report,
$10.50 ; bindiiJg 75 Proceedings in cloth, $33.75 ;
400 circulars, $4; 500 large 2c envelopes, $12.75;
500 large 2c envelopes, $12.75 ; binding 2 vols. Proceedings, $3 ... . .. .. .. . . . ..................... .
104. John Whicher, cablegram to Rome, $10.75; stamps, account mailirig Proceedings, $15.60; stamps for
office, $20 ; exps. on Proceedings to other jurisdictions, $19.80 .. . .. . ...... ..•.. .. .. . .. . . . .. . .. . . .
105. Geo. R. Armstrong, 30,000 uniform receipts, $111; postage, $4.50; printing seal on receipts of six Lodge~,
$19 . . . ...... . ..... . ... ... ... . . .. .............. .
106. John Whicher, salary for February, 1909 ........... . . .
107. T. J. Baker, salary for February, 1909 . ....... : .... . . . .
108. H. S. Johnson, salary for February, 1909 ........... .. .
109. C. Spre~kels, rent for March, 1909 . . . .. ...... . . .. .. . .
110. Geo. J ohnson, appropriation by Grand Lodge ....... . .

41
250.00
150.00
150.00
18.00

10.90
109.70
215.05

101.00

66.15

134.50
250.00
150.00
150.00
127.50
100.00

42

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

I

111. H. S. Johnson, exps. on duplicate Proceedings from Rio
Vista, 30c; exps. on duplicate Proceedings from
Ferndale, 95c; exps. on regalia from Pomona,
$1.50 ; freight and drayage on duplicate Proceedings from Folsom, 75c; exps. on duplicate Proceedings from Bishop, $2.25; exps. on duplicate Proceedings from Orland, $1.50; exps. on duplicate
Proceedings from San Luis Obispo, 65c ; exps. on
duplicate Proceedings from Dunsmuir, $1.10; exps.
on duplicate Proceedings from San Jose, 55c; exps.
on regalia from San Jose, 60c ........ .......... ..
112. Neal Publishing Co., 1,000 copies Amendments to
Manual ........................ .. .............. .
113. C. M. Plum & Co., repairing regalia box and plush pad
for same . ..................... . ............... .
114. John Whicher, stamps (account mailing Manuals) ... .
115. Geo. R. Armstrong, 1,000 receipt holders ... ......... .
116. T. 0. Young, engrossing 70 Inspector's certificates .... .
117. The Examiner, advertising . .......... . ............. .
118. Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co., rent for January and February,
1909 ..... ..... ... .. .............. . ... . ........ .
119. Masonic Home, 500 lists-Inspectors' districts ........ .
120. The Chronicle, advertising ........................... .
121. The Call, advertising .. .. . .... .. ..... .... .. . ... ... . . .
122. T. J. Baker, expenses from Jan. 29th to Feb. 23d ... .. .
123. C. S. Valentine, expenses of Committee on Masonic
Home (cancelled) . .. ... ... . . ..... .... .. .. $300.00
124. T . J. Baker, salary for March ........ .... ...... . ..... .
125. John Which er, salary for March ....... ............. .
126. H. S. Johnson, salary for March . . .. . ... . ........... .
127. Geo. Johnson, appropriation by Grand Lodge .. . ...... .
128. C. Spreckels, rent for April ....... . ......... .... .. .
129. Wells, Fargo & Co., shipping Rosters . . ... .......... .
130. Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co., rent, etc., for March . . . .. .. ... .
131. The Call, sub. from Jan. 2d to April 2d . ..... ..... . . .
132. Ti1e Star Towel Supply Co., towels from Jan. 1st to
April 1st . . .......... .. .. . . .... ................ .
133. Shannon-Conmy Printing Co., 1,000 Monitors, $100;
printing and binding 900 copies Roster, 1909, $1,803.80; 1,000 2c envelopes, $25; 350 circulars, $3.50;
1,000 address labels, $2.50; 500 large 2c envelopes,
$12.75 . . . . . .. .. . . . .. . ............. . ..... . ...... .

10.15
18.5()
3.50
27.30
190.00
20.00
1.65
15.95
32.50
.75
.50
82.85

150.00
250.00
150.00
100.00
127.50
62.ZZ
7.65
2.25

.

3.00

1.947.55

134. E. C. Hughes Co., 250 2c envelopes, $6.75; 500 2c envelopes, $12; 1,000 letter-heads (Lawler), $3.75;
express on envelopes and letter-heads to Los Angeles, $1.20 .. ...... . ......... . ........ . ...... .. .
135. John Whicher, duplicate Proceedings from Washington, D. C., $7.43; stamps, account mailing Rosters,
$12.75 ; stamps, account mailing Inspectors' certificates, $4.20 ..................... . ...... . .... .
136. San Joaquin Floral Co., floral piece for Past Grand
Master Claiborne ................... . .......... .
137. Charles Stappenbeck, floral piece for R. H. Loyd ..... .
138. T. J. Baker, expenses from March 1st to March 26th ..
139. Geo. R. Armstrong, 700 receipt holders .............. .
140. Geo. R. Armstrong, 1998 receipt holders ............. .
141. John Whicher, salary for April. .................... ..
142. T. J. Baker, salary for April. ..... ... . .............. .
143. H. S. Johnson, salary for April. ... ................ ..
144. C. Spreckels, rent for May .. . ......... ....... ...... .
145. Geo. Johnson, appropriation by Grand Lodge ... .. . .. . .
146. D. G. Blakiston, portrait of Past Grand Master Perine ..
147. Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co., rent, etc., for April. .......... .
148. T. J. Baker, expenses from March 27th to April 23d ..
149. H. S. Johnson, 1 bottle India ink, 25c; tel. to Grand
Master, 40c ; exps. on duplicate Proceedings from
Elsinore, $1 ; freight and drayage on duplicate Proceedings from Redding, 95c; exps. on duplicate
Proceedings from Ukiah, 70c; tel. to Grand Master,
45c; tel. to Secretary of No. 343, 40c ; 5 gallons
Purity Spring Water, 50c; exps. on duplicate Proceedings from Washington, D. C., $2 .. . .... ..... .
150. John Whicher, taxes on property in Grand Secretary's
office, $3.80; stamps for office, $20 .... .. . .. .... . . .
1..51. John Whicher, salary for May ..................... .
152. T. J. Baker, salary for May .. ...................... ..
153. Geo. Johnson, appropriation by Grand Lodge ......... .
154. C. Spreckels, rent for June . ......... ........... .... ..
155. H. S. J ohnson, salary for May ......... .. .......... ..
156. Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co., rent, etc., for May .... . ..... .. .
157. Printing receipts and seals ... ... . ........ .. ......... .
158. McNutt, Kahn & Co., 3 qrs. wrapping paper, $2.25; 1¥.i
lbs. B. C. twine, 45c ; 1¥.i lbs. Spring twine, 30c ... .
.159. William R. Phillips Co., roll call . ........ ......... .. .
160. Crocker Safe Deposit, rent box No. 3877 to May 24, '10
161. T. J . Baker, expenses from April 23d to May 29th ....

43

23.70

24.38
10.00
15.00
56.85
133.00
300.69
250.00
150.00
150.00
127.50
100.00
125.00
8.45
79.85

6.65
23.80
250.00
150.00
100.00
127.50
150.0C'
8.15
63.65
3.00
2.75
45.00
.'104.25

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

162.
163.
164.
165.
166.
167.
168.

C. Spreckels, rent for July ...... : .................... .
John Whicher, salary for June ...................... .
T. J. Baker, salary for June ................. .. ..... .
Ceo. Johnson, appropriation by Grand Lodge .... .. ... .
H. S. Johnson, salary for June ..................... . .
T. J. Baker, expenses from May 29th to June 19th ..... .
William R. Phillips Co., binding 50 vols. Proceedings,
1908, $75; pay roll, $2.75. . . . . .. .. . . ........... .
169. Exps. on duplicate Proceedings from Calaveras, $1.4-0;
stenogr.apher for Grand Master, 50c; tel. to Weller,
50c; five gallons Purity Spring Water, 50c; exps.
on duplicate Proceedings from Angels, 40c; exps.
on regalia from Redlands, $1.50; exps. on regalia
from Redlands, $1.80; repairing j ewe! (Grand
Lodge regalia), $1 .. . .... . . .. . . . . ...... .° .• • • .•• .
170. Star Towel Supply Co., rent from April 1 to July 1 . . .
171. The Call, sub. from April 2 to July 2 ............. . . .
172. Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co., rent, etc., for June .. . ..... . . .
173. Shannon-Conmy Co., 400 copies List of Rejections, $12;
500 large 2c envelopes, $12.75; 500 small 2c envelopes, $12.50; 400 copies List of Rejections, $12 ..
174. Geo. R. Armstrong, 700 receipt holders ......,. ... . .. .
175. T. J. Baker, salary for July ......................... .
176. John Whicher, salary for July ...................... .
177. H. S. Johnson, salary for July ... . .... . .... .. ... . .. . .
178. C. Spreckels, rent for August .. . ....... .. •.. .. . .. . ...
179. Geo. Johnson, app.r opriation by Grand Lodge ..... . . . .
180. Rabjohn & Morco!Jl, frame for portrait f ~ r George M.
Perine .. .. ... . .. . .. . ....•. . .. .. . . ........... . ..
181. Shannon-Conmy Co., 4CO No. 12 envelopes for Annual
Returns, $4; 400 No. 14 envelope~ fo r Annual Returns, $5; 500 large 2c envelope.s, $12.50 ; 500 circulars, Visitors, $5; printing and binding 690 copies
Annual Returns, $118 ..... , .. . . . ......... .... . .. .
182. Pac. Tel. & Tel. Co., rent, etc., for July ... .. . ... . .... .
183. McNutt, Kahn & Co., special ledger .. . .... . .... . ... .
184. John Whicher, postage stamps (account mailing Annu.al Returns), $32.80; Wells, Fargo & Co., bound
vols. to Past Grand Masters, $4.50; exps. on package to Manila, $4.75; exps. on regalia from Burlingame, 55c . ... . ·.......... . .. . .... . . .... . ....... .
185. T. J. Baker, expenses from July 1 to July 30 ...... . . . .
186. Edward Coleman, salary for year .... . . . . . .... . . . . . . .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

127.50
250.00
150.00
100.00
1.50.00
143.90

77.75

7.60
3.00
2.25
8.35
49.25
133.00
150.00
250.00
150.00
127.50
100.00
52.00

144.50
8.20
4.50·

45

Many brethren who secure Grand Lodge diplomas object to the
large size of the parchment, and I suggest that in addition to the usual
form in vogue for so many years; a small one be prepared and offered
to the craft at a small advance over cost. They can be lithographed
on parchment, in size of receipts for dues, in lots of 500, for ten cents
each.
I suggest, also, that Lodges should, in their annual reports, include
all sums paid for account of charity.
I recommend, too, that by proper resolution, you provide for admission to Grand Lodge without the tedious and to my notion fruitless
purging of the Grand Body an.d useless calling of the roll.
At the last communication of the Grand Lodge the matter of reprinting the Proceedings was considered, for reasons sta~ed in the
address of Grand l\faster Perine, and because of the practically pro-.
hibitive cost of reprinting, it was decided to abandon the plan. Later
a circular letter was sent to the several lodges of the jurisdiction,
requesting donations of extra copies, with encouraging response. Pursuant t'o the request, I have rereived the following copies:
No.
Year
Copies
1850.................. 1
1851.................. 1
1852.................. 1
1853.................. 1
1854.................. 2
1855.................. 2
1856.................. 2
1862.,................ 1
1864.................. 1
1865.................. 3
1867.................. 1
1868.................. 2

No.
Year
Copies
1869.................. 4
1870.................. 5
1871.................. 4
1872.................. 3
1874.................. 2
1876............... _.ll
1877..................14
1878.. _.............. 7
1879.................. 8
1880.................. 13
1881.................. 6
1882.................. 7

No.
Year
Copies
1883.................. 7
1884.................. 8
1885.................. 10

1886.................. 5
1887..................15
1888..................16
1889.................. 13
1890..................17
1891 ..................21
1892..................24
1893.... -............. 15
1894..................24

No.
Year . Copies
1895..................17
1896..;............... l~
1897.................. 16
1898..................19
1899..................24
1900..................25
1901 ..................14
1902.................•16
1903..................24
1904..................10
1905........,......... 8

1906......•........... 7

Lodges or brethren having copies of any year showing less than
ten will confer a favor on Grand Lodge by sending them to this office.
For the current fiscal year (August 1st to October 8th, inclusive),
I have collected and paid to the Grand Treasurer the sum of $86,290.15,

segregated as follows :

42.60
74.05
200.00

Total ... .. . ..... . . .. .. . . . .. . ... ... . .. .... . . $224,532.13:

Home Fund ......................................................................................$40,959.00
General Fund .................................................................................... 39,311.65
Representative Fund ...................................................................... 6,019.50

46

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

To which should be added Corregidor Lodge, No. 386, the returns
from which were received too late to appear in the Grand Treasurer's
report, the following:

~en~:ar;:~<l··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=::::::::::::~:~
0

Respectfolly submitted,
JOHN WHICHER,

Grand Secretary.

Which was referred to the same Special Committee
as that upon the address of the Grand Master.
The Grand Treasurer presented his Annual Report to
the Grand Lodge as follows :
To the Most Worshipful Gra11d L odge of California:

Th~ undersigned herewith submits his account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of the Grand Lodge during the past year.
The Grand Treasurer, m account with the Crand Lodge, fo r the fiscal
jiear endittg July 31, 1909:

RECEIPTS.
Cash balance on hand, as per last annual report. .
1908
Aug. 5 Received from Grand Secretary . ... .. $
8 Received from Grand Secretary ..... .
l 0 Received from Grand Secretary .. ... .
12 Received from. Grand Secretary .. ... .
14 Received from Grand Secretary .. . . . .
18 . Received from Grand Secretary ..... .
22 Received from Grand Secretary ..... .
Sept. 15 -Received from Grand Secretary . .... .
30 Received from Grand Secretary ..... .
Oct. 13 Received from Grand Secretary ..... .
1909
Feb. 26 Received from Grand Secretary ..... .
April 15 Received from Grand Secretary .. . .. .
Aug. 7 Received from Grand Secretary ..... .
Received interest on seven Blue Lake 6% Bonds.$
Received interest on six Southern Pacific 4% Refunding Bonds . ...... ... .. ...... . ........ .

Received interest on deposit with Union Trust
Company of San Francisco... . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Received interest on deposit with A. Borel &
Company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1,472.57
1,032.79
3,165.36

Total receipts for year ending July 31,
1909, including balance from last
report

Paid, Checks Nos. 1 to 186, inclusive ......... .
$224,937.13
F or account of payment of Representati·ves:
Paid Representatives of Lodges . . .... .......... $ 4,917.85
Paid Grand Lodge Officers .. .... . ............. .
163.00
Paid Chairman of Committee ..... . ........... .
61.70
Paid Inspectors .............................. .
632.45
Total paid from Representatives' Fund ..

5,775.00

Total payments during fiscal year ending
July 31, 1909 ..'. .................. .
Cash on hand July 31, 1909 .................... .

$230,607.13
54,330.29
$284,937.42

The assets of the Grand Lodge consist of:
Cash in Union Trust Company of San Francisco.$ 32,366.47
Cash in A. Borel & Company Bank. . . . . . . . . . . . . 21,963.82

4,376.20
5,994.80
6,535.15
6,884.40
6,074.30
5,343.00
4,871.75
1,678.90
430.60
1,590.40

$ 54,330.29
Seven $1,000 Blue Lake Water Bonds @ 110 ....
Six $1,000 Southern Pacific Refunding Bonds
@ 95 .... .. ........ .... ..... . .. . . .. . . .... .
19,500 shares of stock in Masonic Temple Association of California @ 10 ................. .

1,176.20
1,020.00
2,960.50
48,936.20
240.00

$284,937.42

DISBURSEMENTS.

$232,835.86

420.00

47

7,700.00
5,700.00
195,000.00

$262,730.29
The Grand Treasurer reports that since closing his books for the
past fiscal year, he has received from the Grand Secretary for:
General Fund . . . . .. .... .. ..... . ........ .. ..... $ 45,331.15
Interest on deposits..... .. .. .. ..... ... .... .... .
402.76
Interest on seven $1,000 Blue Lake Water Bonds.
210.00
$ 45,943.91

48

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Grand Treasurer also reports that since the commencement of
the present fiscal year he has received from the Grand Secretary the
Per Capita Tax of the Grand Lodge for the Masonic Home, for the year 1909, amounting to.$ 40,959.00
Received interest from Bank of San Francisco...
123.21
$ 41,082.21

Bro. Wm. B. Kettner from the Committee on Credentials reported the following Officers and Representatives
oi Chartered Lodges, delegates from Lodges under dispensation, and Past Masters by service within this jurisdiction,
as being present and entitled to seats, viz.: FromCalifornia ........ No.

MASONIC HOME.
STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS

AND DISBURSEMENTS

ACCOUNT OF MASONIC

HoME oF CALIFORNIA, FoR YEAR ENDING SEPTEMBER 30, 1909.
RECEIPTS.

Received from Edward Peabody, President of old
· Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
$ 11,170.96
Received Per Capita Tax, from ·Grand Lodge,
1908 ...... .. -· . ... .. .... ........... . ... ... $ 38,639.00
Received interest on deposit with Bank of San
Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
87.91
38,726.91
Received from Secretary Stone of the Home ....
11,742.77
Received interest on deposit with A. Borel &
Company .............. . ... .... ........... $
782.50
Received interest on deposit with the Bank of
San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
261.20
1,043.70

$ 62,684.34
DISBURSEMENTS.

Checks Nos. 1 to 327 and 1 to 304 ... ......... . .

$ 40,985.37

Cash on hand October. 1, 1909 . .. ...... .

$ 21,698.97

Deposited with A. Borel & Company .... ....... $ 14,509.41
Deposited with Bank of San Francisco........ . 7,189.56

$ 21,698.97
All of which is respectfully submitted,
EDWARD CoLl!MAN,

Grand Treasurer.

Which, with the accompanying books and vouchers,
had audited
the books ·of the Grand Secretary and Treasurer, was
.-nferred to the Committee on Finance.

~r-2. j~h~ report of the expert accountant who

49

1 .. Daniel E. F. Easton, Master;
William C. Hassler, Senior Warden;
Paul M. Downing, Junior Warden;
H. Ascroft, Past Master;
G. Childs, Past .Master;
H. A. Cline, Past Master;
E. H . Hills, Past Master ;
F. V. Keesling, Past Master;
H. M. Owens, Past Master;
C. L. Patton, Past Master;
E. Peabody, Past Master;
W. A. Scott, Past Master;
R. H. Willcox, Past Master.
\ Vestern Star . ... No. 2 . . E. Sweeny, Past Master and Representative.
Tehama ... : . ... . . No. 3 .. Louis Geiger, Master ;
John Mclndeor, Senior Warden;
W. B. Davis, Past Master;
T. J. Milliken, Past Master;
J . W. Warren, Past Master;
Benicia . ........ . No. 5 .. Joseph C. Claywith, Junior Warden;
E. M. Billings, Past Master;
D. M. Watson, Past Master.
Tuolumne ........ No. 8 .. Otto J. Mouron, Senior Warden.
Corinthian ... .... No. 9 .. Edwin J. Goodpastor, Master;
C. F. Metteer, Past Master.
San Jose ......... No. 10 .. Thomas G. Watson, Senior Warden;
J. P . Jarman, Pa.st .Master;
R. Lowe, Past Master;
L. V. Saph, Past ~faster.
Yount ........... No. 12 .. James :Mason, Master;
J. B. Stevens, Past Master ;
C. E. Trower, Past Master;
F. W. Williams, Past Master.
Nevada ..... . .. . . No. 13 .. Thomas H. W aters, Master;
W. E. Meservey, Paost Master.
Temple '· ....... .. No. 14 .. William F. Clewe, Ma.ster.

50

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Eureka .•........ No. 16.. Christian F. Richter, Master & Past Master;
Charles 0 . Hamilton, Senior Warden;
William J . Prewett, Junior Warden;
H. Disque, Past Master;
M. D. Lininger, Past Master.
La Parfaite Union No. 17 .. Henry Mottet, Master and Past Master;
Antonie Leon Auradou, Senior Warden;
Simon Levy, Junior Warden;
0. M. Goldaracena, Past Master;
A. Huguenin, Past Master.
Mountain Shade .. No. 18 • . E. L. Case, Past Master and Representative.
San Joaquin ...... No. 19 .• W. A. Davies, Past Master;
A. W. Davidson, Past Master.
Washington ...... No. 20 .. H. T. Silvius, Past Master & Representative;.
J. J. McKinnon, Past Master.
Hawaiian .•.•...• No. 21 •. J. D. Tucker, Representative.
Occidental ....... No. 22 . •Walter K. Fletcher, Master;
Fred'k A. Houseworth, Senior Warden;
.,Robert R. Vail, Junior Warden;
S. H. Clawson, Past Master;
F . W. G. Moebus, Past Master;
J. A. Snook, Past Master.
Madison .. ..... .. No. 23 .. Matthew W. Argall, Master;
F. Aver, Past Master;
E. Coleman, Past Master;
J. C. Coleman, Past Master;
T . ·H. Wilhelm, Past Master.
Mariposa ........ No. 24 .. E. P. Wason, Past Master.
Georgetown ...... No. 25 .. G. W. Simpers, Past Master.
Palmyra ..... . ... No'. 26 .• T . C. Atwood, Past Master;
L. A. Reeg, Past Master.
Trinity ....... . ... No. 27 .• Morris A. Brady, Senior Warden.
Golden Gate . . .... No. 30 .. Abraham S. Sullivan, Master;
Franklin R. Haley, Senior Warden ;
William H. Hindle, Junior Warden;
S. H. Kent, Past Master;
T. H. Macdonald, Past Master;
E. L. Meyer, Past Master;
W. S. Moses, Past Master;
J. Patterson, Past Master;
W. W. Thompson, Past Master;
.
'" ·:.. .!. •. .••.
~::
:;
W. G. Wright, Past Master.

.

51

Gold Hill ...... .. No. 32 .. Hans P. Jansen, Master and Past Master;
J. Gerber, Past Master.
Ophir ..... .. .... . No. 33 .. D. B. Driver, Past Master.
San Diego .... .. . No. 35 .. John G. Shaw, Master;
G. M. Dannals, Past Master;
C. H. Hielbron, Past Master;
W. Kettner, Past Master.
St. John's \ ..... ... No. 37 .. Charles J. Luttrell, Master and Past Master;
J. J. Wilson, Past Master.
Santa Cruz ... ... No. 38 .. E. S. West, Past Master and Representative.
Yuba ............ No. 39 .• Abram W. Lewis, Master and Past Master;
J. B. Fuller, Past Master;
E . E. Stone, Past Master.
Sacramento ...... No. 40 . . W. M. Petrie, Past Master & Representative;
E. C. Atkinson, Past Master.
Martinez .. ...... . No. 41 .. Charles E. Mowdy, Master;
L. N. Buttner, Past Master;
W. A. H ale, Past Master.
Los Angeles . . ... No. 42 . . Joseph 0. Downing, Master.
Mount Moriah ... No. 44 .. George W. Haberly, Master;
George McLean, Senior Warden;
Charles McK. Lindsay, Junior Warden;
T. C. Conmy, Past Master;
W. H . Dolling, Past Master;
C. Erickson, Past Master;
T . Frolich, Past Master;
J . C. Jens, Past Master;
J . F . Schroth, Past Master;
H. F. Ward, Past Master.
Crescent ... . .... . No. 45 .. Orrin Dudley, Master ;
Daniel Rae, Junior Warden.
Texas . ... .. .... . No. 46 .. Thos. Flint, Past Master and Representative.
Forbestown ...... No. 50 .. William J. Schultz, Master and Past Master.
Illinoistown ...... No. 51. .George E. West, Master and Past Master;
A. Stevens, Past Master.
Suisun .... ....... No. 55 .. John H . Murray, Senior Warden;
J. B. Richardson, Past Master;
J. U. Spence, Past Master.
Volcano .. .. ..... No. 56 .• 0. L. Webster, Representative.
Santa Rosa ...... No. 57 .. Jam es T. Mailer, Senior Warden;
Edwin P. Lewis, Junior Warden.

52

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Union ............ No. 58 .. John F. Morgan, Master;
T. J. Baker, Past Master;
A. A. Redington, Past Master;
C. A. Root, Past Master.
Gravel Range .... No. 59 .. Franklin M. Groves, Master.
Plumas .... . ..... No. 60 .. George Wilson, Master.
Live Oak ........ No. 61 .. Martin M. Hoffman, Master;
Charles H. 'Wood, Senior Warden;
Albert F. Shulte, Junior Warden;
H. V. Blasdel, Past Master;
F. H. Brooks, Past Master;
E. H. Hart, Past Master;
A. B. Webster, Past Master.
Natoma .......... No. 64 .. William A. Simmons, Master.
Amador ......... No. 65 .. Jay F. Wilson, Master and Past Master.
Morning Star ... . No. 68 .. Samuel T. Ruff, Representative;
0 . S. Henderscn, Past Master.
Enterprise ..... , . No. 70 . . Will F. Bird, Master;
Fred B. Nayes, Seftior Warden;
J. W. Ashley, Past Master.
Bear Mountain ... No. 76 . . George Rose, Master;
F. W. Clough, Past Master.
Calaveras ... .. . .. No. 78 .. Charles Presto11, Master.
Humboldt ...... . . No. 79 .. George A. Cochrane, Master ;
A. J. Monroe, Past Master.
Ione . ... ......... No. 80 . . J ohn W. Jones, Master and Past Master.
Yolo ... . ......... No. 81 .. George H. Hoppin, Master and Past Master.
Rising Star ...... No. 83 .. 1\I. 0. Holt, Representative;
A. Dolt, Past Master.
Vesper . . ......... No. 84. ;Perry 0. Thomas, Master;
H . F. Stivers, Past Master.
Naval . . ....• .. .. . No. 87 .. Glen D. Dickey, Master;
J . J. Luchsinger, Past Master.
Quitman ......... No. 88 .. J. Glasson, Representative.
North Star .. . ... No. 91 .. George W. Addison, Junior Warden.
Acacia ....•..... . No. 92 .. Albert W . Norris, M;ister and Past Master.
St. Helena ..... .. No. 93 .. B. S. Ward, Past Master.
Henry Clay ...... No. 95 .. Wm. H. Gunsolus, Jun. Warden and P . M. ;
M. Brinn, ~ast Master;
L. Katz, Past Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

53

Howard .......... No. 96 .. Claude E. Gillis, Junior Warden.
Jefferson ......... No. 97 .. G. May, Pas~ Master.
La Grange ... . ... No. 99 .. Hubert Heitman, Master;
G. 0. Kinney, Past Master;
A. F. Pedriera, Past Master.
Clay ............. No. 101 .. George R. Faller, Master;
S. McK. Curtis, Past Master.
Oroville ......... No. 103 .. H. J. Graham, Past Master & Representative;
R. S. Kitrick, Past Master.
Lexington . . . .. .. No. 104 .. William R. Hudson, Senior Warden.
Arcata ...... . .... No. 106 .. Julius J. Krohn; Master;
0. H. G. Marken, Past Master.
Chico . . .......... No.111 .. Samuel K. Troxel, Master;
E. Meyben, Past Master.
Eden ............ No. 113 .. George J. Helms, Master.
Concord ......... No.117 .. J. F. Lyon, Past Master and Representative;
L. Nuttall, Past Master.
Clinton ..... . .. .. No. 119 .. Robert Jones, Master and Past Master.
Fidelity . ......... No. 120 .. Roy Block, Master;
Walter A1 Radius, Senior Warden;
Edwin A. Wasserman, Junior Warden;
J. D. 'Abrams, Past Master;
T. Cohn, Past Master;
P . Davis, Past Master;
C. Schlessinger, Past Master.
Alamo . .......... No. 122 . . William H. Hough, Master and Past Master.
Sotoyome .. . . . ... No. 123 .. Eli Bush, Master and Past Master.
Hermann ........ No. 127 .. William Eicher, Master;
George A. Creon, Senior Warden;
F. Gercke, Past Master;
0 . Lemcke, Past Master;
L. l\!uller, Past Master;
.L. Schumacbe!", Past Master:
S. J. Theisen, Past Master.
VisaEa ... . ....... No.128 .. Henry Newman, Master.
Sincerity .. . . . . ... No. 132 . . T. H . Trezise, Past Master & Representative.
Vacaville ....... .. No.134 .. 0restus H . A!Hson, Master;
G. A. Arnold, Past Master;
S. P. Dobbins, Past Master;
J . T. Montgomery, Past Master.

54

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Pacific •.••.•..... No.136 .• Eugene S. Elkus, Master;
Edward S. Isaacs, Senior Warden;
G. L. Darling, Past Master;
F. L. Hansen, Past Master;
C. E. Jackson, Past Master;
C. Jellinek, Past Master;
G. Penlington, Past Master;
T. Penlington, Past Master;
G. M. Perine, Past Master;
A. W. Turpin, Past Master.
Crockett ......... No. 139 •• James 0. L. Brunswig, Master;
Henry W. Maass, Senior Warden;
Conrad Teigeler, Junior Warden;
J. P. Court, Past Master;
G. W. Geauque, Past Master;
A. P. Heise, Past Master;
C. Hilderbrand, Past Master;
W. Kahn, Past Master;
H. Newhoff, Past Master;
T . Rowlands, Past Master.
Curtis ............ No. 140 . . E. B. Thompson, Past Master and Rep'tive.
Franklin ....... . . No.143 . . Petet J. Huth, Master and Past Master;
Howard D. Kercheval, Sen. War. and P. M.
Oriental .....•... No. 144 .• Armand E. Briggs, Master;
Frank C. Martin, Senior Warden ;
Herbert M. Jeffreys, Junior Warden;
T. J. Crowley, Past Master;
J. L. Hawks, Past Master;
0. P. Hicks, Past Master;
R. C. Jewell, Past Master;
F. B. Ladd, Past Master;
' H. E. Pennell, Past Master;
G. H . Thompson, Past Master;
J. Tonningsen, Past Master;
F. W estdahl, Past Master.
Abell . ........... No.146 .. Louis P. Anker, Master;
Florine E. Anker, Junior Warden;
F. C. Handy, Past Master;
A. J.. Thatcher, Past Master.
Eel River ........ No. 147 .. F. W. Oliver, Past Master & Representative.
I.assen . ....... .. . No. 149.. James A. Pardee, Senior Warden.·
r.folino .......... No.150 .. William J. Sellik, Master;
Otto E Asman, Senior Warden.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

55

Woodland ......•. No. 156 .• William F. Mixon, Master;
B. . Ball, Past Master;
H. H. Gable, Past Master.
Keystone ......... No. 161. .H. B. Allen, Junior Warden.
Harmony ..•..... No.164 •• Thomas C. Botting, Senior Warden.
Excelsior .•.•.•.. No. 166 .• Charles A. Adams, Master;
William H. Dick, Senior Warden;
Henry C. Collins, Junior Warden;
G. R. Armstrong, Past Master;
T. T. Atkinson, Past Master;
C.. H . Bryan, Past Master;
W. N. Brunt, Past Master;
J. W. Cameron, Past Master;
S. H . Daniels, Past Master;
E . L. Foster, Past Master;
H. C. Gingg, Past Master;
R. G. Guyett, Past Master;
D. A. Hare, Past Master;
F. C. Hensley, Past Master;
L. C. Hunter, Past Master;
H. J. Owen, Past Master;
S. H. Perkins, Past Master.
Alameda ........ . No. 167 .. F. B. Granger, Past Master & Representative.
Redwood City .... No.168 .. Roy W. Cloud, Master;
Ernest H. W erder, Senior Warden ;
T. 0. Heydenfeldt, Past Master.
Mission .......... No. 169 .. Frank H. Thrall, Master;
Harry E. Leland, Senior Warden;
Robert E. Allan, Junior Warden;
R. S. Allen, Past Master;
E. F. Crosett, Past Master ;
R. Herring, Past Master;
G. W . Lunt, Past Master;
W. W. Moore, Past Master;
W. C. Ordway, Past Master;
M. H. Renwick, Past Master;
E. Rodecker, Past Master;
M. Van B. Taylor, Past Master;
E. W. Tucker, Past Master;
J. A. Wilson, Past Master.
Elk Grove . . .. ... No.173 .. Albert H. Watson, Senior Warden;
George M. Tavener, Junior Warden.
Drytown ....... .. No. 174 .. Charles Shields, Representative.

57

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Antioch ........... No. 175 .. Otto E. Klengel, Master and Past Master.
Phoenix ......... No.178 .. Jesse W . .Curtis, Master;
M. J . Newberg, Past Master.
Mendocino ....... No.179 . . ]. A. Nelson, Past Master & Representative.
Petaluma ........ No.180 .. George W. Gill, Master;.
James McFadden, Senior Warden.
Russian River .... No.181. .Grant A. Laughlin, Master.
Meridian ......... No.182 .. J. H. Sherer, Past Master & Representative.
Clear Lake ...... No. 183 .. Morris Levy, Representative.
Sierra Valley .... No.184 .. S. H . Crow, Past Master.
Claiborne ...... ·.. No.185 .. E. P. Gillmore, Past Master and Rep'tive.
Evening Star ..... No.186 .. Charles W. Kist, Master and Past Master.
Keith ............ No.187 .. James R. Zuck, Master.
Oakland ......... No. 188 .. William I. Macdonald, Master;
William S. MacM urtry, Senior Warden;
Thomas I. Miller, Junior Warden;
F. L. Button, Past Master;
W. J. Gurnett, Past Master;
C. E. Keyes, Pa~t Master;
]. H. MacLafferty, Past Master;
J. B. Merritt, Past Master;
E. H. Morghan, Past Master;
W. F. Pierce, Past Master;
G. C. Perkins, Past Master;
G. H. Smith, Past Master;
C. N. Walter, Past Master;
]. Walton, Past Master.
Northern Light .. No. 190 .. George F. Taylor, Master.
Marin ............ No. 191 .. William E. Robertson, Master ;
Henry M. Hansen, Senior Warden;
William P. Murray, Junior Warden;
C. C. Hansen, Past Master ;
G. Murray, Past Master;
G. F. Rodden, Past Master.
Santa Barbara ... No. 192 . . ]. N. Hiller, Past Master and Representative.
Ferndale ......... No. 193 .. John E. Gries, Master.
l\Ioun tain View ... No. 194 .. Walter A. Crossman, Master;
Fred K. Saunders, Senior Warden;
Charles H. Mockbee, Junior Warden.
San Simeon ...... No. 196 .. James F. Stewart, Master;
A. Frankl, Past Master.

Wilmington ..... ,No. 198 .• S. E. Kennedy, Past Master & Representative.
Hartley .......... No. 199 .. C. J. Monroe, Past Master.
Truckee .......... No. 200 .. Samuel R. Cupples, Master.
Silveyville ....... No. 201.. Robert E. L. Stephens, Senior Warden.
Pentalpha ........ No.202 .. Harry H. Mayberry, Master;
C. H. Brown, Past Master;
]. F. Hughes, Past Master.
Salinas .......... . No. 204 .. J. K. Alexander, Past Master and Rep'tive.
Newville ......... No. 205 .. 0. W. Houghton, Past Master and Rep'tive.
Rio Vis ta ........ No. 208 .. A. Gloff, Past Master and Representative.
King David's ..... No. 209 .. George Merritt, Master and Past Master;
J. Whicher, Past Master;
Friendship ....... No.210 .. Theo. M. Wright, Master;
George T. Lemon, Junior Warden;
F. T. E. Edmans, Past Master;
R. A. Lee, Past Master;
H. D. Mathews, Past Master.
San Benito ....... No. 211 .. A. D. McKinnon, Past Master and Rep'tive.
South San Fran'co No. 212 .. Mads J. Iverson, Master;
James E. Elkington, Senior Warden;
Richard Neilan, Junior Warden;
J. A. J. ~cDonald, Past Master;
C. A. Muller, Past Master;
W. ]. B. Warner, Past Master;
H . F. Williams, Past Master.
San Buenaventura.No. 214 .. Christopher W. Cannon, Master;
J. M. Argabrite, Past Master;
D. J. Reese, Past Master.
Oak Grove ....... No. 215 .. J::unes H. McN utt, Master;
.
Charles E. Stokes, Senior Warden;
Frank V. Bordwell, Junior Warden;
W. H. M. Baurhyte, Past Master;
E. D. Rue, Past Master.
Doric ............ No. 216 .. Jesse D. Hannah, Master;
Ben Levi, Senior Warden;
James E. Wilson, Junior Warden;
A. C. Bauer, Past Master;
0. W. Chonette, Past Master;
M. M. Getz, Past Master;
L. Goodday, Past Master;
W. L. Scott, Past Master;
F. L. Wight, Past Master.

56

'

58

PROCEELINGS QF THE

Monterey . ....... No. 217 .. Howard D. Severance Master
Mosaic ... . . . ..... No. 218 . . Charles F . Mess, Mas:er a~d ;ast Master;
T. F. Brady, Representative.
Downey ........ . . No. 220 .. Dumont Dwire, Master ;
A. P. Henry, Past Master.
Inyo ............ . No. 221 .. Max McC. Skinner, Master;
George D. Calvert, Senior Warden·
Ben H . Yandell, Junior Warden. '
Granite Lodge ... . No. 222 .. L. H. Barber, Representative.
Bakersfield ....... No. 224 .. Jabez R. Gist, Senior Warden;
A. S. Crites, Past Master.
Brooklyn ....... .. No. 225 .. Edwin L. Sargeant, Master;
Walter F . Vane, Senior Warden·
George H. True, Junior Warden;
H . P. Briggs, Past Master;
J. C. Foster, Past Master;
H. F. Goff, Past Master;
J. A. Petty, Past Master ;
G. D. Warren, Past Master.
San Mateo ....... No. 226 . . Charles A. Wainwright, Junior Warden;
W. L. Johnstone, Past Master;
H. Luff, Past Master.
Solano . ... . ..... . No. 229 .. George G. Halliday, Senior Warden·
A. S. Halliday, Past Master ;
'
J. F. Waters, Past Master.
North Butte ... . . No. 230 .. David H . Evans, Master;
James P. Fagan, Senior Warden·
C. A. Moore, Past Master.
'
Covelo .. .. ....... No. 231. ·/\· Dennis, Representative.
Janesville . . : ... .. No. 232,. James I. Christie, Master and Past Master.
ca rtstoga .... · .... No. 233 .. Charles W. Crouch, Senior Warden.
Hope · · ·. · . . . .. .. No. 234 .. Llewellyn H. Hughes, Master.
Surprise Valley ... No. 235 .. Norman Winder, Master and Past Master.
Hill's Ferry ·· ····No. 236 .. Leland H. Parker, Master and Past Master
Guadalupe · · · · · · · · No. 237 .. H. Campodonico, Past Master and Rep'tive ;
W. T. Lucas, Past Master.
Colusa ....... .. .. No. 240 .. Adolphus Ahlf, Master;
0. Robinson, Past Master.
Santa Ana ..... . . No. 241 . . Earl ·G. Glenn, Master;
E. B. Trago, Past Master.
Magnorta · · · · · ···No. 242 .. J. W. Smith, Past Master & Representative.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

59

Eucalyptus ....... No. 243 .. J. McConaghy, Representative.
E. F . Musson, Past Master.
Alcatraz .......... No. 244 .• Lewis T. Corwin, Master;
Henry A. Meese, Senior Warden;
Charles H. Sommer, Junior Warden;
J. Crossman, Past Master ;
H. T. Huggins, Past Master.
Laurel . •• ••••.... No. 245 .• Samuel M. Chaney, Master;
J . D. Danner, Past Master.
Pomona .....•.•.• No. 246 .. Willi~m A. Vandergrift, Master;
James H . Wilkinson, Junior Warden;
J. R. Garthside, Past Master.
Fresno .. ., ....... No. 24{ .. Clarence W. Edwards, Master;
Emil F. Bernhard, Senior Warden;
George Marks, Junior Warden;
G._ E. Church, Past Master.
Alturas .......... No. Z48 .. Charles S. Baldwin, Master and Past Master;
E . C. Bonner, Past Master.
Bodie . . .......... No. 252 .. Alfred G. Reading, Junior Warden.
Reading .......... No.254 .. Henry G. Hill, Master;
C. C. Corbiere, Past Master;
W. C. Ponder, Past Master.
Welcome ......... No. 255 .. John H . McGlashan, Master;
M. C. Carter, Past Master.
Lodi . ...... .. ... . No. 256 .. G. W. LeMoin, Past Master and Rep'tive.
Evergreen .. .. .. . . No. 259 .. Charles B. Bayley, Master;
James E. Drayton, Senior Warden;
John H . Ellis, Junior Warden;
H. D . French, Past Master;
H. W. Hammond, Past Master;
J. T. Jarvis, Past Master;
G. H. Kelsey, Past Master.
.
.No.
260
..
Randolph V. Whiting, Master;
King Solomon's
Edward C. Conn, Senior Warden;
Frank P. Simmen, Junior Warden;
G. M. Davis, Past Master;
W. P. Filmer, Pa~ Master;
S. B. Stevenson, Past Master;
F . B. Wood, Past Master.
Tuscan ... . ... .. .. No. 261 .. H. H . Rathbun, Representative.
Lompoc .. .. .. . ... No. 262 .. A. Rudolph, Past Master and Representative.

60

Hesperian
. .. .. .... No.264 .. Wade H. Sawyers, Master;
Arthur A. Dudley, Senior Warden·
H. F. Robertson, Past Master.
'
Orland········.· .No.265 . . Eugene M. Ehorn Senior Wa.rd ·
N
•
en.
orth· East · ······No. 266. · R. F. McConnaughy, Representative.
Durant .. ......... No. 268 .. William S. Coleman, Master;
Dozier Finley, Senior Warden;
E1,;rton J. Rose, Junior Warden·
A. Fot•ch, Past Master;
'
E. D. Thomas, ;E'ast Mastt;i:.
Olive Branch ..... No. 269 .. Harris O. Chute, Master.
Pasadena .. . ... .. No. 272 .. Elmer I. Moody, Master.
Alll:hor · · · · .·· ... No. 273 . . John B. Norton, Master.
.Arroyo········· .. No. 274 .. Johannes R. Heinrich, Master.
<:;eJma . · .. · . . . .... No. 277 . . Chester Dusy Master·
P. Allen, Pas~ M~ster.'
Southern Calif .... No. 278 .. Edward B. Spencer, Master;
F. J. Cooper, Past Master·
H . S. Orme, Past Master· '
D. R. WeJJer, Past Maste~.
Hanford · · · · · · · ··No. 279 · · J. C. Ensign, Past Master & Representative.
Mt. Shasta ....... No. 281 .. George F. Shepherd, Master.
CalJaycmi ·· ·· .... No.282 .. Henry C. Vandewater, Master arid Past M. ;
Charles J. Koopman, Senior Warden.
South V:est . . .... No. 283 .. Baxter K. Adkisson, Ma.ster.
San Miguel ...... No. 285 .. Charles Forbes, Master.
Paso Robles ... . . No. 286 .. Cliff O. BickelJ, Master;
Joseph W. Eddy, Junior Warden·
M. H. Brooks, Past Master
'
Winnedumah · · ··. ·No. 287 ·.A. 0. Collins, Past Master ~ Representative.
Ma~welJ · ·······.No. 288 . . J. D. S. Taylor, Past Master and Rep'tive.
Elsmore ·.· · · ·· · · .. No. 289 .. James Stewart, Master and Past Master.
East G~te · ·. · .... No. 290 .. Asa Keyes, Master;
M. H . Flint, Past Master·
0 . Lawler, Past Master· '
F. C. Mulkey, Past Mas;er.
Santa Paula ··· ... No. 291 .. WilJie McC. Stein, Master.
Los Gatos··· ..... No.292 .. Anton Anderson Master
0
'
'
.
range Grove .... No. 293 .. Arthur C. NewelJ, Master.
Traver · · · · · · · . . .. No. 294 .. Asa B. Loomis, Junior Warden.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

61

Mt. Jackson ...... No. 295 .. Robert N. TunstalJ, Senior Warden.
Silver Gate ....... No. 296 .. Charles L. Marks, Master.
Dunsmuir ........ No. 297 • •Jeffry W. Hawkins, Master and Past Master;
G. A. Hutaff, Past Master.
Mokelumne Hill .. No. 298 .. T. W. Taylor, Representative.
Liberty .......... No. 299 .. Horace A. Myers, Senior Warden.
C. W . Haman, Past Master.
Redlands .. ... . . .. No. 300 .. J. A. Stone, Past Master and Representative.
Porterville ..... . . No. 303 .. R. G. Williams; Past Master and Rep'tive.
Reedley ..... . . . .. No. 304 .. A. T. Bollinger, Representative.
Azusa .. ..... ... .. No. 305 .. Charles 0 . Ream, Master.
Ashlar ........... No. 306 .. F~ank R. Warnick, Master.
Santa Monica .... No. 307 .. Oliver G. Tullis, Master and Past Master.
Monrovia ........ No.308 .. James W. Harvey, Master and Past Master.
Delano . .......... No. 309 .. C. W. Cline, Past Master & Representative.
Sisson ............ No.310 .. J. B. Sollner, Past Master & Representative.
Tehachapi .... .... No. 313 .. Peter J. Mcfarlane, Master & Past Master;
Phil Marx, Senior Warden.
Temescal ......... No. 314 .. Albert C. Wood, Master.
Norwalk .. . ...... No.315 .. John J. Orr, Master and Past Master.
Sanger ....... . ... No.316 .. John N. Lisle, Senior Warden;
Jam es E. Burnett, Junior Warden;
0. Hayward, Past Master.
Fallbrook ........ No.317 .. Percy A. Johnson, Master and Past Master.
Emmanuel ....... No. 318 .. Henry W. Hasselbusch, Master.
H ollenbeck .. . .... No. 319 .. Winfred ]. Sanborn, Master;
Frank H. Brooks, Senior Warden;
]. M. Dunsmoor, Past Master.
L. V. Youngworth, Past Master.
S outh Gate .. . .... No. 320 .. William W . Tritt, Master;
Charles A. Swee.t, Senior Warden;
F. vV. Dunn, Past Master.
Alhambra ....... . No. 322 .. Mclv;n U. Butterbaugh, Master;
Kenneth F. Postle, Senior Warden.
Whittier .......... No. 323 . . Drnald L. Crane, Master.
Corona ........... No. 324 . . '?crcival J . Priaulx, Master;
L. L. Test, Past Master.
Consuelo ....... . . No. 325 .. Jacob L. Van Derveer, Master.
Long Beach ...... No. 327 . . Clark H. Shaw, Master;
C. E . Mitchell, Past Master.

62

PROCEED11'"GS OF THE

Redondo ...... ,. . . No.328 .. James G. Stark, Master;
C. W. Grasse!, Past Master.
Vallee de France .. No. 329 .. Charles Deutsch, Master and Past Master.
Kila~ea ... . ...... No. 330 .. Charles H. Fairer, Past Master and Rep'tive.
Pacific Grove . . . . No. 331 .. William C. Cook, Master and Past Master;
John Proctor, Senior Warden;
D. J . Leary, Past Master;
C. K. Tuttle, Past Master.
San Pedro ....... No. 332 .. Willia~ B. Duncan, Master.
Alta . . ........... No. 333 .. John D. Murphey, Master and Past Master.
Covina .. ......... No. 334 .. Jacob Brunjes, Master and Past Master.
West Gate . . . . .... No. 33~ .• Jay B. Jacobs, Master;
D. Cave, Past Master;
E. F. Richards, Past Master.
Fruitvale ......... No. 336 .. Harry E. Truitt, Master;
Fred'k S. Ellard, Senior Warden;
Arthur A. Barber, Junior Warden.
C. Carew, Past Master;
J. C. McEwen, Past Master.
Car~uinez ........ No. 337 .• John H. Dorman, Master;
Jacob E. Hughes, Senior Warden;
A. A. Paul, Past Master;
H . G. Powers, Past Master.
San Jacinto ...... No. 338 .. George Grover, Master and Past Master;
Robert J. Roulston, Senior Warden.
Fullerton .... . ...• No. 339 .. Charles E. Ruddock, Senior Warden.
Santa Maria ..... No.340 .. R. W . Earl, Past Master & Representative;
S. Fleisher, Past Master.
Oxnard . . . . . . .. . . No. 341. .Rudolph Beck, Junior Warden.
Manila . ......... . No. 342 .. Wil~on A. Blossom, Senior Warden.
San Fernando . . .. No. 343 .. William H. Matthews, Master.
Starr King . . . .. . . No. 344 . . Solomon Deutsch, Master;
Harry L. Simon, Senior Warden;
D. S. Hirshberg, Past Master;
G. C. Wolfenden, Past Master.
Brentwood ... . ... No. 345 .. Orlando C. Prewett, Master.
McKinley ........ No. 347 .. Archibald H. Campbell, Master;
Frank McV. Palmer, Senior Warden.
San Bernardino .. No. 348 .. William L. -Brown Master·
B. °F . Bledsoe, Pas~ Master.'

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Sequoia . . ........ No. 349 .. Gil~ W. Bacon, Master;
Francis D. Dolbier, Junior Warden;
J. C. Cole, Past Master;
J . W . Gwilt, Past Master;
C. Husband, Past Master.
Palestine . .... . . .. No. 351. .Samuel H. Gowen, Master.
Sunset .......... . No. 352 . . Ralph A. Chase, Master;
S. E. Burke, Past Master.
Pinole ... .. ... . . . . No. 353 .. Joseph V. Enloe, Master.
Presidio ........ .. No. 354 . . William A. Sherman, Master;
J ohn B. Glennie, Senior Warden;
Anton E. Schuh~ann, Junior Warden.
L. E. Boivin, Past Master;
H. Locks, Past Master ;
F. G. Watson, Past Master.
Hollywood ....... No. 355 .. Charles E. Boag, Master;
G. F. Stevenson, Past Master.
Mill Valley ...... No. 356 .• Fred'k W. G. Selwood, Master;
Alonzo Coffin, Senior Warden;
Kent J.C. Seymour, Junior Warden;
T. T . Greaves, Past Master;
J. Newlands, Jr., Past Master.
Buena Park ...... No. 357 .. S. D. Jaynes, Representative.
Golden State ... . . No. 358 .. Albert E. Wright, Master ;
J . H. Bean, Past Master.
Loyalton . ... . .. . . No. 359 .. George H. Hampson, Senior Warden.
San Francisc«f: . ... No. 360 .. Stephen I. Simmons, Master;
Charles S. Sherman, Senior Warden;
H. S. Johnson, Past Master;
H. D. Loveland, Past Master;
J . C. Perry, Past Master.
Fort Bragg ....... No. 361 .. Berny A. Lendrum, Master.
Charity . . ......... No. 362 . . George S. Robson, Senior Warden;
George Whitney, Junior Warden.
Berkeley ....•..•. No. 363 .. Charles A. McKelvey, Master;
Harry D. Kelsey, Senior Warden;
J. T. Morrison, Past Master.
Willits ........... No. 365 .. Allen Davidson, Master.
Las Palmas ..... . No. 366 . . William A. Sutherland, Master;
J . P. Bernard, Past Master;
J. C. Pottle, Past Master.

63

64

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

South Pasadena ... No. 367 .. John W. Shenk, Jr., Master.
B. V. Garwood, Past Master.
Unity , . ......... .. No. 368 .. Daniel Campbell, Master.
Ocean Park ...... No. 369 .. Charles H. Ritchie, Master.
Amity ............ No. 370 .. Paul F. Schaffner, Junior Warden;
R. J. Laughrey, Past Master;
W. J. Loveland, Past Master.
Oceanic . . .. ...... No. 371. .J. D. Tucker, Representative.
Gardena .......... No. 372 .. Dannel N. Towne, Master and Past Master.
Veteran .. . ..... .. No. 373 .. William Haas, Junior Warden.
Jewel ............ No. 374 .. Samuel 0 . Blodgett, Master;
·Leo Bruck, Junior Warden;
B. Cromwell, Past Master;
M. E. Levy, Past Master.
Richmond ........ No.375 . . Chalmer Munday, Ma~ter;
Ernest L. Fischer, Senior Warden;
Walter E. Bidwell, Junior Warden;
D. B. Crane, Past Master;
C. L. Goetting, Past Master;
L. A. Larsen, Past Master.
Francis Drake .... No. 376 .. J ohn J. McDonald, Master;
Frank P. Edwards, Senior Warden;
C. F. McDonald; Past Master.
Artesia ........ . . . No. 377 . . Fred H. Purdy, Master.
Mizpah . ... .. , ... No. 378 .. Michael R. Raftery1 Master;
C. E. Sebastian, Pa st Master.
Fillmore •........ No. 379 .. G. E. Webb, Past Master and Representative.
Oceanside ........ No. 381 .. John Manning, Senior War. & Past Master.
Highland Park . .. No. 382 .. Fred E. Vincent, Master.
Orosi ............ No..:383 .. Charles Campbell, Master and Past Master.
El Centro ....... . No. 384 .. Walter 0. Hamilton, Master;
C. B. Brown, Past Master.
• Dinuba ........... No. 385 . . J ohn L. Rhodes, Master.
Corregidor ....... No. 386 .. Homer W. Newman, Junior Warden;
N. C. Comfort, Past Master.
Coalinga ......... No. 387 .. Arthur H. Davis, Master.
Parnassus . . . .... . No. 388 .. Harry D. Saville, Master;
James M. Hoyt, Senior Warden;
William A. Cree, Junior Warden;
W . vV. Allen, Jr., Past Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

65

Palos Verdes ..... No.389 .. William F. Stevens, Master.
Imperial .......... No. 390 .• Byron H. Cook, Master;
A. G. Toprahanian, Junior Warden.
East Belt .•.•.... No. 391 .• William S. Beeman, Master and Past Master;
Eugene H. Reid, Senior Warden.
West Lake . ...... No.392 .. Henry M. Hurd, Master.
Balder ........... No. 393 .. George M. Rudebeck, Master & Past Master;
Frank 0. Renstrom, Senior Warden;
Charles G. Johnson, Junior Warden.
University ........ No.394 .. Irving J . Mitchell, Master.
Turlock .......... No.395 .. H. P . Edely, Representative.
Apollo . . . .. ...... No. 396 .. George S. Williams, Master & Past Master;
Mark E. Gaines, Senior.Warden;
William G. Chaplain, Junior Warden.
Rising Light ..... No. 397 .. Joseph A. Bailey, Junior Warden;
C. C. Hartley, Past Master.
Fowler ........... No. 398 .. Alfred J. Smith, Master.
Fraternity . .. ..... No. 399 . . Samuel G. T ompkins, Master & Past Master.
Burlingame ....... No. 400 .. Louis A. Murch, Master and Past Master;
Fred'k D. Lorton, Senior Warden;
William J. Kidd, Junior Warden.
Bay View .......... U. D .• Leroy W. Potter, Master ;
Robert S. Wixson, Junior Warden.

..

Brawley .. . . ..... ... U. D .. Clarence J. Park, Master.
Yerba Buena ....... U. D .. Henry F. Starbuck, Master;
Fred'k W. LeBallister, Senior Warden;
Frank W. Bilger, Junior Warden.
Glendora .. ........ . U. D .. R. B. Bidwell, Senior Ward en.
Moneta ............. U. D .. Fred T. Purdy, Master.
Burbank ..... .. .... . U. D .. Coon W. Alden, Master.

Which report was concurred in, and the brethren
therein named were admitted to seats .
Bro. Henry M. Owens, from the Special Committee,
appointed in 1906 to investigl[te and report on the status
of Masonry in the Philippine Islands, reported as follows:
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Special Committee, appointed in 1906, to whom was referred
the matter of the status of Masonry in the Philippine Islands, and
3

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

whose preliminary report was printed in the Proceedings of the Fiftyninth Annual Communication,. held in October, 1908, have continued
their investigations at the request of the M." . w:. Grand Master and
have sought to obtain accurate and reliable information on the s~bject
from various sources, and beg leave to report as follows:
The request, inviting correspondence from all Masons throughout
the world, printed in the Proceedings of the last Grand Lodge, has
been entirely barren of results.
Your Committee have received the following communications, and
have sent the following letters in reply thereto on this subject, all of
which are attached hereto and made a part hereof.
In response to a letter from Grand Master Oscar Lawler requesting
information as to whether or not the Grand Orient of Spain had been
infringing on the juriSdiction of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania,
Bro. George B. Orlady, Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania, ·replied as follows:
January 5, 19G9.
Oscar Lawler,
Room 901, Call Building,
Los Angeles, Calif.
Most Worshipful Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of F. &
A. M. of California.
My Dear Sir and Brother:
Answering yours of the 14th ultimo, I have to say it has
been the policy -of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania since 1831
to decline all applications for the establishment of subordinate
Lodges beyond our territorial lines; and when the question of
granting a warrant to a subordinate Lodge in the Philippine
Islands, subordinate to the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania, was
first broached, it was then decided, and which has been consistently adhered to, to decline such application, though a
number of them have been presented by our affiliated members
resident there. The reason for this decision was two-fold:
First-The one above suggested.
· Second-That as these American possessions were more
directly in touch with California, it was right and proper for
the purpose of investigaticn and ordinary proceedings that the
Grand Lodge of California should have control of the Masonic
life in those islands.
The Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania is not in affiliation with
the Grand Orient of Spain in any manner, for the reason that
we have in Pennsylvania a number of clandestine bodies working
under warrants issued by the Grand Orient of Spain.

While we have made no records in relation to the Philippine
Islands, it has been the policy of my predecessors in office since
1899 to ignore and condemn the Grand Orient of Spain, and to
regard the Philippine Islands as the Masonic property of the
Grand Lodge of California.
With Fraternal Greetings for the New Year, I am,
Yours very cordially,

66

67

GEORGE B. 0RLADY,

Grand Master.
Upon receipt of the reply of the Grand Master of Pennsylvania,
Grand Master Oscar Lawler sent the following communications to this
Committee, and to the Worshipful Master, Wardens and Brethren of
Lodges Manila No. 342, Cavite No. 350 and Corregidor No. 386,
F. & A. M., Philippine Islands, with the full approval of this Committee:
Los Angeles, March 8, 1909.
Henry M. Owens, Esq.,
No. 410 Mechanics Savings Bank Bldg.,
San Francisco, California.
My Dear Brother Owens:
I thank you sincerely for your kind letter of the 23d ultimo.
Since writing you on January 23d I have · received an inquiry
from Pennsylvania as to whether or not we are in Masonic
intercourse with the Grand Orient of Spain, which indicates the
~egree of interest being taken in our possible relations with
the latter institution. I enclose you copy of communication
this day forwarded to the Grand Secretary, which has also
been submitted to the Deputy Grand Master. I think that most
serious complications would most likely ensue were a Grand
Lodge to be organized in the Islands, which can in a measure
be avoided by retaining our present relations with the Craft
in that dependency.
·
With kindest regards and my very best wishes, I remain
Very sincerely,
OSCAR LAWLER,

Grand Master.

To the Worshipful Master, Wa~dens and Brethren of Lodges
Manila, No. 342; Cavfte, No. 350 and Corregidor, No. 386,
F. & A. M.
Brethren:
At the Fifty-ninth Annual Communication of our Grand
Lodge, held in San Francisco, October 13th to 17th inclusive,
A. L. 5908, the Special Committee appointed in 1906, to

68

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

whom had been referred the matter of the status of Masonry
in the Philippines, reported at length (see Proceedings 1903,
pages 93 to 104), and inter alia introduced the following resolution :
"Resolved, That it is the sense of this Grand Lodge that
the several Lodges now working under charters from this
Grand Lodge (presumably meaning only Lodges Nos. 342,
350 and 386) should take immediate steps to organize a Grand
Lodge of Masons for the territory of the Philippine Islands."
Which report, including the above resolution, was adopted
by the Grand Lodge on the 14th day of October, A. L. 5908.
Further investigation has developed matters which had not
come to the knowledge of the Committee, and which have
impelled me to the conclusion that, had the same been known
to the Committee and the Grand Lodge, said resolution would
not have been presented or adopted.
Therefore, after conferring with many of the brethren,
including several members of the Committee, and with a full
sense of my responsibility in the premises, it is hereby ordered
that the resolution referred to be suspended and the recommendation theteby made be withheld until the next Annual
Communication of our Grand Lodge.
Yours truly and fraternally,
OscAR LAWU:R,
Grand Master.
Attest:
(Seal) JoHN Wmc1f:ER,
Grand Secretary.

really thought that the Committee would come to some
conclusion, especially after having had the matter in hand for
two years.
I had hoped that some action would be taken by the Grand
Lodge of California last year, either recognizing or not recogni~ing the native Lodges, as such action, either way, would
have helped the somewhat strained Masonic relationship at
present existing between the Lodges and members of the different jurisdictions.
I am greatly interested in Masonic affairs in these Islands,
and I cannot but help thinking that the Grand Lodge shows
a disposition to cut us off as we are giving her too much
trouble. I would be pleased to hear from you further in regard to this question.
Sincerely and fraternally yours,

Thereafter this Committee received the following letter from
Bro. Amos G. Bellis, Past Master, Manila Lodge, No. 342, and upon
receipt of said letter the following reply and request by this Committee was sent :
Manila, P. I., February 18,1909.
Mr. H. M. Owens,
710 Fillmore Street,
San Francisco, Calif.
Worshipful Sir and Brother:
It was with great surprise that l read the final report of
the Committee appointed by the Grand Lodge in 1906, to look
into the status of Philippine Masonry, and the action that w ~ s
taken on its report and n:colnmendations.

AMOS

69

G. B:ELLIS,

Past Master, Manila Lodge, 342, F. & A. M.

..

San Francisco, Cal., March 4!6th, 1909.
Amos G. Bellis, Esq.,
P. 0. Box 199,
Manila, P. I.
Dear Sir and Brother:
Your favor of February 18th, 1909, reached me yesterday and I
am eJreeedingly glad to hear from you. The tone of your letter certainly
shows that the report has awakened new interest in regard to Masonry
in the Philippine Islands. If you will read the report carefully you
will see that the committee did come to the conclusion that it was
impossible for it to arrive at any conclusion, therefore the Grand
Orient of Spain nor any other Masonic body in Spain was recognized
as the proper Masonic power in Spain, and it was the intention to
leave this matter entirely in the hands of the Grand Lodge of the
Philippine Islands, (when formed) to deal with the situation as they
found it, because they would be on the ground and could better
determine the matter than we, who are thousands of miles away.
The Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of California has set aside
the resolution, as will more fully appear by his letter to the Masters
of the three Lodges in Manila and adjacent thereto.
Personally, I would like to have the "Report, Synopsis, and this
letter" taken up by the Lodges (i. e. our own Lodges 342, 350 and 386),
thresh out the entire matter at a Special Meeting called for this purpose, keep a record of the Meeting and forward same to me as soon
as done. I would suggest that the questions to be settled are :

,70

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1. From what source were the Charters. issued to these Lodges?
2. Have the Charters been revoked or s.uspended, and are the
Charters in actual existence at the present time, and in whose possession?
3. What is the membership of each Lodge, as actually shown by
existing records?
4. What is the character, i. e., nativity of the members, and what
is the moral standing of the members as a whole?
5. Where is each Lodge located, and what is the population of
the place where located?
6. Would you consider the members of sufficient moral worth as
to be willing to have them members of your own Lodge?
7. How many meetings have they held since 1900, and to whom
do they report, and have these Lodges a continuous chain of title to
the present date from the first Grand Lodge in Spain?
The above seven questions can be determined by the Masters and
Wardens and Past li.fas~ers of the three Lodges, as a Committee,
appointed for that purpose.
They, (the Spanish and Native Lodges) are the ones seeking
recognition and would have no hesitancy in supplying you with this
information; and when all of this is done, we can decide whether
it would be proper for us to recognize the Spanish and Native Lodges.
It ,is not up to your Lodges or individually for you to say which
are regular p.nd which are not; the Grand Lodge of California alone
can determine this · question.
In re~ard to the two Lodges under the Supreme Council of France,
we have no control over them and could not legislate for them one way
<;ir other, but in ' the event of a Grand Lodge being formed in the
~slands, if they desired, they could surrender their Charters, and ask
for a Charter from the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands, but
these are all matters which are not necessary for the determination
of the regularity of Spanish Masonry, and need not be taken into
consideration until the question arises.
The Grand Lodge of California is not trying to cut the Lodges
in the Islands off, but while we admit that we have had a hard time
in trying to arrive at sqme definite conclusion in the matter, I am
now thoroughly satisfied and for one of the Committee can render
my opinion now, if it is admitted that the Grand Orient "of Spain
is the supreme authority over the Spanish and Native Lodges in the
Islands ; this Grand Orient has chartered Lodges in Pennsylvania
and Iowa thereby placing herself outside of the pale of recognition
by the Grand Lodge of California.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

71

That if any of the so-called Spanish Masons in the Islands desire to visit our Lodges, they must first present their petition for
Degrees, and pay the Initiation Fee required by our Lodges, and
come in as a profane would have to do; this will settle the matter
entirely and will allow the Lodges there to ·be able to select the
wheat from the chaff, and in my opinion this is the stand we should
take from this time forward, unless there are good reasons to the
contrary.
There should be no Grand Lodge formed in the Islands for
at least five years or until the ban is removed from Spanish Masonry,
and it is up to that body to remove the same, not us.
I wish that you would at once take this matter up with the Masters
of all of our Lodges there, subject to the suggestions herein contained,
follow them out, and have a full report for next Session of our Grand
Lodge.
You say, that there are many reasons for not forming a Grand
Lodge in the Islands, I would be glad to know them in full and would
thank you for your views, as well as the Masters of the other Lodges.
I would be also obliged to you if you would send me copies
of the "Boletin Official" and any other publications which will throw
any light 011 the subject.
Trusting that we may be able to clear up these uncerta.inties
by the next Session of the Grand Lodge, I am,
Yours fraternally,
H. M. Owl!Ns.

I

In response thereto and in compliance with the request made
in the above and 'foregoing letter, the following action was taken by
the Worshipful Masters, Past Masters _and Wardens of Manila Lodge,
No. 342; Cavite Lodge, No. 350 and Corregidor Lodge, No. 386:
Manila, P. I., September 4th, 1909.
Mr. Henry M. Owens,
Chairman of Com. on Philippine Masonic Conditions,
San Francisco, Calif.
Dear Sir and Brother:
Your letter of March 20th, addressed to W · ·. Bro. Amos
G. Bellis, was duly received and brought to the attention of
Manila 342. Cavite 350, and Corregidor 386, all of which are
Ledges in the Philippines, holding under the Grand Lodge of
California, F. & A. M. In accordance with your suggestions,
each of said Lodges appointed its Masters, Wardens, and

72

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Past Masters to act as a joint committee in making the ·investigation requested, and as a result of their investigations, the
following report is submitted.:
At the outset, it should be understood that the members
of the native Lodges under the Spanish Grand Orient have
not, for a long time, made any attempt or request to visit
the American Lodges, nor has there been any request by
them for membership in the American Lodges. You state in
your letter that "the Spanish and native Lodges are the ones
seeking recognition and would have no hesitancy in supplying
(us) with this information." In this, you are mistaken, as
on the other hand, they are not seeking recognition and are
somewhat grieved at the action taken by the Grand Lodge
of California in 1906, in suspending Masonic intercourse with
them, and they are not inclined to impart much information
as to their interior workings. Some of the information requested by you could only be obtained by having members
of the Committee visit their Lodges, but, as we understand
it, this visitation is prohibited.
Dr. Barcelona, Grand Master of the Regional Grand Lodge,
stated to members of the committee who had approached him
on the subject, that it was the earnest desire of the members
of the Filipino Lodges that they might be able to exchange
fraternal courtesies with the members of the American bodies.
We find that the following Lodges, regularly chartered
by the "Grande Oriente Espanol" (Spanish Grand Orient),
a re now working in the Philippine Islands :

These Lodges are all under the immediate jurisdiction
of the "Gran Logia Regional de Filipines" (Regional Grand
Lodge of the Philippines), which is itself subject to the
"Grande Oriente Espanol." The headquarters of the "Grande
Oriente Espanol" is in Madrid, Spain.
The active membership of the Spanish-Filipino Lodges,
as a whole, is about 500. The individual Lodges, as a rule,
are weak in membership, and are not composed of the best
element of the Philippine population, although a number of
prominent Filippinos of good reputation, are members. The
great majority of the members of the Lodges under the
"Grande Oriente Espanol" are natives of the Islands. It has
been charged that the Lodges had been used for political
· purposes, but Dr. Barcelona informed the committee that it
was the earnest desire of the Regional Grand Lodge to stamp
out such practices if they existed.
To sum it all up, you may rest assured that all of the
Spanish-Filipino Lodges in the Philippines, under the "Grande
Oriente Espanol," are working under regular and legitimate
charters as far as that Grand Body is concerned. To our
minds, the only question for the Grand Lodge to consider is
"Is the 'Grande Oriente Espanol' a regular Masonic Grand
Body entitled to and worthy of recognition and fraternal
relations, as such, by the Grand Lodge of California, and
consequently, by her three Lodges located in the other Masonic
Bodies in the Philippines, outside of those holding American
charters."
Rizal Lodge, No. 377, in Manila, and Isarog Lodge, No.
378, in Nueva Caceres, Province of Camarines, both of which
work under charters from the Grand Lodge of France (not
the Grand Orient of France) . Both of these Lodges are very
weak in membership. The members of Rizal Lodge are all
natives, and it is understood that there are some Americans
in Isarog Lodge. Membership of both Lodges about 70.
La Perla del Oriente Lodge, No. 1034, in Manila, wor\<ing
under a charter from the Grand Lodge of Scotland. Membership about SO, composed of Americans and natives. This Lodge
was chartered in 1908, and is in fairly good condition. It might
be stated, by the way, that this Lodge recognizes the SpanishFilipino Lodges under the Spanish Grand Orient, and their
members frequently exchange visitations. ·Members of the
American Lodges also visit Li!. Perla c;lel Oriente Lodge.

In Manila, P. I.
Lusong, No. 185
Arau, No.............
Taliba, No. 165
Nilad, No. 144

Balagtas, No. 149
Walana, No. 158
Sinukuan, No. 272

In San Roque, Cavite Province
Bagum Bahay, No. 291.
In Imus, Cavite Province.
Pilar, No..............
In Pasig, Rizal Province.
Silanganon, No..............
In Aparri, Cagayan Province.
Mabini, No. 290.

..
.,

73

,

74

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Noli me Tangere Chapter of Rose Croix 18 ° of the
Scottish Rite, working in Manila, and holding ch;rter from the
"Grande Oriente Espanol" aforesaid.
Fraternally submitted,
For the Joint Committee:

James H. Cunningham, Gr. Sec., Adelaide, South Australia.
Neil MacKelvie, Gr. Sec., Summerside, Prince Edward Island.
J. M. Shaw, Gr. Sec., Regina, Saskatch~wan, Canada.
ALSO, SUBSEQUENTLY, TO

AMOS G. BELLIS,

Past Master, Manila Lodge, 342, Chairman~

Alberto Pro, Gr. Sec., Valle de Mexico, Mexico.
Eugenio Laban, W. ·. M. ·. G. L., "Catalana, Balear," Barcelona,
Spain.

GEo. N. HURD,
Worshipful Master, Manila Lodge, 342;

H. J. BRAMAN,
Worshipful Mas.ter, Cavite Lodge, 350;

San Francisco, Cal., March 29, 1909.
Worshipful Sir:
The Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M., at its Annual
Communication of 1906, appointed a Committee on the Status of
Masonry in the Philippine Islands. We find that the Lodges
there (other than those chartered by our Grand Lodge and the
Grand Lodge of France) are working under Charters from the
Grand Orient of Spain, or some other Grand Body in Spain.
We want to know which is the legitimate Masonic Grand Lodge
of Spain.
The Grand Orient of Spain has and is now invading the
jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania.
Kindly tell us all you know about Spanish Masonry and
help us out.
Yours fraternally,
H. M. OwtNs,
Member of Committee.

GEo. R. HARVEY,
Worshipful Master, Corregidor Lodge, 386.
CHARLES

c. CoHN,

Senior Warden, Corregidor Lodge, 386, Recorder.
That on the 29th day of March, 1909, this Committee sent to the

~ollowing Bret?ren the communication, following this list of names, and' .
m reply to which the several communications were received, as hereinafter set forth.
LIST 01' THE BRETHREN TO WHOM THE CIRCULAR LETTER WA S SENT..

Dr. George McDonald, Gr. Sec., Calgary, Alberta, N. W. T.
R. E. Brett, Gr. Sec., Victoria, B. C.
Hugh Murray, Gr. Sec., Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
Diego Povedano, Gr. Sec., San Jose, Costa Rica.
A. Miranda, Gr. Sec., Havana, Cuba.
E. Letchworth, F. S. A., Gr. Sec., London. England.
Rt. Hon. Lord Castletown, Gr. Sec., Dublin, Ireland.
J. Twining Hartt, Gr. Sec., St. John, New Brunswick.
Arthur H. Bray, Gr. Sec., Sydney, New South Wales.
Malcolm Niccol, Gr. Sec., Auckland, New Zealand.
Thomas Mowbray, Gr. Sec., Halifax, Nova Scotia.
Will. H . Whyte, Gr. Sec., Montreal, Canada.
David Reid, Gr. Sec., Edinburgh, Scotland.
Dr. Ad. Streuli, Gr. Sec., Zurich, Switzerland.
Felix Eglesias, Gr. Sec., City of Mexico, Mexico.
John Braim, Gr. Sec., Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
J. A. Stephenson, Gr. Sec., Perth, Western Australia.
N. P . Martinez, Gr. Sec., Ciudad Porforio Diaz, Benito Jaurez.
Coahuila, Mexico. (NOTE-This letter was unclaimed and
returned by the Postal Authorities.)
Jas. A. Ovas, Gr. Sec., Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.

To which .we received the following replies:
Victoria, B. C., April 2, 1909.
Henry M. Owens, Esq.,
412-414 Mechanics Savings Bank Bldg.,
San Francisco, Cal.
Dear Sir and Brother :
I have your letter of the 29th March ult. I must admit that
I know very little about Masonry in Spain. If I did, I would be
only too happy to give you what information I had.
Yours· fraternally,
R. E. BRETT,
Grand Secretary.

'

75

76

PROCEED1:r..-Gs OF THE
GRAND LODGI( OF ALB£RTA.

H. M. Owens, Esq.,
San Francisco.
Dear Sir and Brother:

Calgary, Canada, April 4, 1909.

I am sorry to .say that we have no matter which will enlighten you on Spanish Masonry.
Fraternally yours,
G£o. MACDONALD,

Grand Secretary.
GRAND LODG£, A. F. AND A. M ., OF CANADA, I N TH£ PROVING£ OF
ONTARIO.

Hamilton, Ont., April 5, 1909.
Henry M. Owens, Esq.,
412 Mechanics Savings Bank Bldg.,
San Francisco, Cal.
Dear Sir and Brother:

~The Grand .Orient of Spain is not on the list of Lodges with
which we are m fraternal communication, but I am not sufficiently conversant with the reason therefor to give you a satisfactory answer. I am referring your letter to the Chairman
of our Committee on Foreign Cbrrespondence and will communicate with you la~er on. I am,
Yours fraternally,

R. L. GUNN,
Grand Secretary.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
GRAND LODGI( OF NOVA SCOTIA.

Freemasons' Hall, Halifax, April 7, 1909.
Henry M. Owens, Esq.,
Mechanics Savings Bank Bldg.,
San Francisco.
Dear Sir and Brother :
Your esteemed favor of 29th ulto. came to hand this morning, and in reply I beg to say that the Grand Lodge of Nova
Scotia is not in Fraternal correspondence with the Grand Orient
of Spain or other bodies claiming Jurisdiction in that country,
consequently I am not in a position to give you any information
whatever regarding the state of Freemasonry there. I a.m, dear
sir and brother,
Fraternally yours,
THOS. MOWBRAY,

Grand Secretary.

OFFIC£ OF TH£ GRAND SECUTARY.

Winnipeg, Man., April 12, 1909.

B. M. Owens, Esq.,
San Francisco.
Dear Sir and Brother:
Replying to your favor of the 29th ult., I must confess that
I know very little of Spanish Masonry. It is not recognized
by this Grand Lodge.
Yours fraternally,
]AMES A. OVAS,
Grand Secretary.

GRAND S!CR!TARY'S OFFICI(, SAINT JOHN, NEW BRUNSWICK.

Henry M. Owens, Esq.,
San Francisco, Cal.
Dear Sir and Brother:

April 7, 1909.

I have but little to say in reply to your letter of inquiry as
to the Grand Orient ·of Spain, for it is unknown in this our
small jurisdiction. There is no recognition of it by this Grand
Lodge.
Yours fraternally,

J. TWINING HARTT,
Grand ·secretary.

.77

THE GRAND LODGE OF QUEBEC, A. F. AND A. M.

Montreal, April 17, 1909.
H. M. Owens, Esq.,
San Francisco, Cal.
Dear Sir and Brother:
The Grand Lodge of Quebec came to the conclusion some
years since that the Masonry of the Latin countries was so
different from Allglo-Sal(CC"fl Mtionry that it was advisable to
have very little to do with them. They are all tainted with
political and ~ligious ideas, which are, as you know, both out
· of the pale -of legitimate Masonry.

..
·~

78

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

_We cut off all communication with the Grand Orient of
Spam some years ago, on their attempt to form a Lodge h
We are not anxious,
·
· it
· Iikely that we will enter again into
ere.
nor is
fraternal communication.

the Grand Lodge of the Valley of Mexico holds no intercourse
with that Grand Orient, and the Lodges under it.
The only regular Grand Lodge of Spain, in my judgment,
is the Grand Lodge "Catalana Balear," established in Barcelona, with which we are in friendly intercourse, and of which
Eugenio Laban, Paseo de Gracia, No. 101, is the M.". w:.
Grand Master. You may address yourself to this M.". W:.
Grand Master for more ample information. I am sorry at not
being able to give you more data concerning Spanish Masonry.
With affection, I subscribe myself,
Yours fraternally,

. There are t~o Grand Bodies in Spain, and it would be advisable for Sp~msh Masonry to have only one governing head
and then outsiders would know who is who.
'
Yours fraternally,

Wn:.:r. H. WHYTE,
Grand Secretary.

J

GRAND l.OGIA DE I.A ISi.A DE CUBA.

Habana, Cuba, May 1, 1909.
Henry M. Owens,
Committee on Correspondence,
San Francisco, Cal.
Dear Sir and Brother:
.
'.f?e M. ·. w:. Grand Master to whom was sent your letter
m?umng about Spanish Masonry, addressed to Past Gr S
Miranda, has referred it to me as Chairman of the Com~itt:~:
I have been abs~nt nearly the whole month of April and on my
:eturn _I found 1t among my papers. I shall take the matter up
1mmed1ately: ~nd after. the Grand Master's approval, I shall
send y~u, wtthm a fortnight, a detailed report of what you wish.
With best wishes for your Grand Lodge, I remain,
Fraternally,

ALBERTO PRO,

Grand Secretary.
A letter was sent on the 24th of May by your Committee to
Eugenio Laban, as suggested by Brother Pro, but no reply has yet
been received.·
The Bulletins (Official Bulletin and Masonic Review of the Grand
Orient of Spain) spoken of by Bro. Alberto Pro, Grand Secretary of
the Grand Lodge, Valle de Mexico, were printed in the Spanish
langu°age, and were turned over to Bro. C. L. P. Marais, P . M. King
Solomon's Lodge, No. 260, who very kindly translated into English
that portion ·of' the Bulletins which interests this Grand Lodge, the
following being the translation: (These Bulletins have been turned
over to the Grand Secretary for future reference.)
(TRANSLATION.)

Chairman Committee on Correspond~nce.
20 Estrella St.

Excerpts from the "Index" of the Official Bulletin and Masonic
Review of the Grand Orient of Spain (published monthly in Madrid).
containing the . List of Decrees, Resolutions, Minutes, etc., appertaining
to its proceedings' for the years 1905, 1906, 1907, 1908.
Excerpts from the "Index," Official Section :

Mexico, May 19, 1909.
To H. M. ?wens, Ven Bro. and Member of the Correspondence
Committee of the Grand Lodge of California s
Francisco.
' · an

Record of Official Acts respecting Lodges in the Philippine
Islands:

F. DE P. RODRIGUEZ

.Appreciated Sir and Brother:
In reply to your kind letter ,of the 13th instant I have the
pleasure of saying ~hat the information you have {0 the effect
"tha.t . th~ Grand Orient of Spain maintains jurisdiction in the
Ph1ltppme Islands, Marruecos, _c;uba, Porto Rico, Pennsylv~nia
and man~ other places,_ where 1t has constituted regular Grand
Lodges, 1.s correct, a~ rou may have verified in the Bulletins
of the said Grand Orient, which I forwarded. For this r~ason

Year 1906, Final Decree, admitting into the Federation Mabini
Lodge, No. 57, of the Valley of AparriCagayan, P. I.
Decrees relating to
Nilad Lodve, No. 144, Valley of Manila;
Walana Lodge, No. 158, Valley of Ma11ila;
Lusong Lodge, No. 185, Valley of Manila.

80

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Year 1907, Decrees relating to
Balagtas Lodge, No. 149, Valley of Sampoloc;
Taliba Lodge, No. 165, Valley of Manila;
Bagong-Buhay Lodge, No. 291, Valley of Cavite;
Pilar Lodge, No. 103, Valley of Imus-Cavite.
Decree of the Grand Council of the Order, declaring
to be finally admitted, regularly and legally constituted, the Regional Grand Lodge of the
Philippine Islands.
Year 1908, Decrees relating to
Demas-Alang Lodge, No. 62, Valley of Malabon;
Arow Lodge, No. 304, Valley of Manila ;
Selanganan Lodge, No. 305, Valley of Pasig;
Hercules Triang Lodge, No. 63, Valley of
Trueguega rao,

The Supreme Council of 33° conserves his last words as the last
Will and Testament of a perfect Mason. The Grand Lodge
decreed that the name of the illustrious Harry Goode be recorded in the Golden Book to perpetuate his name.

Excerpts from the "Index," Official Section :
Record of Official Acts respecting Lodges in Pennsylvania,

u. s. A.:

Year 1907, Decree granting Auspices to Eureka Lodge, No. 293,
and Delta Lodge, No. 294, both constituted in
the State of Pennsylvania.
Year 1908, Decree of the Grand Council of the Order, finally
admitting into the Federation the following
Lodges, regularly constituted in the State of
Pennsylvania: Fort Bird Lodge, No. 196; Keystone Lodge, No. 297; Cedar Lodge, No. 298;
Mount Ophir Lodge, No. 299; Valley Lodge,
No. 300; Equality Lodge, No. 301.
Decree (similar to the above) finally admitting
Harry Goode Lodge, No. 307; Giordano Bruno
Lodge, No. 308, regularly constituted in the
State of Pennsylvania.
Excerpt from the Grand Secretary's Report.
30, 1908, No. 193, page 71):

(Bulletin dated May

IN M:EMORIAM,

Illustrious Grand Commander, Delegate to the Regional Grand
Lodge of the United States, Harry Gooc!le.
This beloved Brother was the founder and indefatigable
supporter of this important group of Federated Lodges. In
his last moments he expressed his fervent hope that the high
importance of the Federation would net be permitted to decline.

81

Full Text of the Decree of the Grand Orient of Spain, as published
in the Official Bulletin and Masonic Review, issue dated Madrid, July 28,
1908, No. 195, page 106, to wit:
Grand Council of the Order : To All the Bodies, Lodges, and
Master Masons of the Federation:
Be it known that this Grand Body, on the proposition of
the Regional Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands, and in full
accord with the information transmitted by the Grand Commission ·of General Reporters, and by virtue of the powers vested
by Article 36 of the Constitution, hereby decrees :
Article 1. Final admission into the Federation of the Grand
Orient of :Spain is granted to Arow Lodge, No. 304, constituted
in the Valley of Guiapo (Manila), and Silanganan Lodge,
No. 305, constituted in the Valley of Pasig, Province of Rizal,
both in the Territory of the Philippine Islands.
Article 2. The Grand Secretary of the Grand Orient of
Spain shall transmit to the aforesaid Lodges their respective
Charters, and shall enter the names of said Lodges in the
General Register of the Active Sym.bolic Bodies.
Order of Madrid, July 20, 1908.
MANU:EL SALCEDO,

Grand Master, p. m. 1, Vice-President of
the Council of the Order, 33°.
ANTONIO LoP:t:z DEL V1tI.All,

Assistant Grand Secretary, 33°.
Excerpt from the Official Bulletin and Masonic Review, issue dated
Madrid, July 28, 1908, No. 195, page 106:
Office of the Secretary General.
. ' To all the Bodies, Lodges, a11d Master Masons of the
Federation, be it known that the Most Illustrious and Venerable
Grand Master and President of the Order has issued and addressed to me the following mandate:

82

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Office of the Gr!lnd Master of the Grand Orient of Spain.
To the Venerable Brother Grand Secretary of the Council of
the Order :
Venerable J:lrother :
By virtue of the prerogative of my office and of the law as
prescribed in the Constitution, I have determined that the
Semestral Pass Word shall be the herejoined,
* * *
and you are hereby instructed to cause the said Pass Word to
be circulated in due form among all the Lodges of the
Federation.
Yours, &c.,
DR. MIGUEL MORAYTA,

Grand Master, 33°.
June 30, 1908.

FREEMASONS HALL, 25 COLLINS STREt'l'.

Melbourne, May 27th, 1909.
H. M. Owens, Esq.,
San Francisco, U. S. A.
Dear Sir:
I beg to -acknowledge receipt of your letter of the 29th
March last, re Spanish Masonry, and in reply I regret to inform you that we have not received any communication on the
matter, and we cannot find out any information for your
benefit.
Yours fraternally,
JoHN BRAUN, P. D. G. M.
Grand Secretary.
UNITED GRAND LODGJ;; OF t;NGLAND.

In consequence of the foregoing, I herewith communicate
in the accustomed manner the Semestral Pass Word to the
Presidents of all the Bodies and Lodges of the Federation, as
well as to the Regional Grand Lodges of Pennsylvania and
Philipp~ne Islands, who will use the same according to the Rite;
requestmg those who, by cause of accident or otherwise do not
receive it to immediately inform the office of Grand s:cretary.
Yours, &c.,
VICTOR $}ALUG-O,

Grand Secretary.
June 30, 1908.

' GRAND LODGE OF NEW ZEALAND
OF

ANCIJ;;NT

FRE£ AND

ACC£PTED

MASONS

Auckland, May 18th, 1909.
Henry M. Owens, Esq.;
San Francisco.
Dear Brother:
I ~m sorry I cannot enlighten ·you regarding Spanish Freemasonry. We receive the Official Bulletin of the Grand Orient
of Spain, but have no knowledge concerning any other so called
Sovereign Body in that Kingdom.
Yours fraternally,
MALCOLM NICCOL,

Grand Secretary.

FR££MASONS HALL, GRJ;;AT QU££N ST., LONDON, W. C.

!st June, 1909.
Dear Sir and Brother:
Adverting to your letter of the 29th March which I regret
has been inadvertently laid aside, I am afraid I cannot help you
in your desire to obtain information about Spanish Masonry.
The Grand Lodge of England has no relations with the Grand
Orient or any other Masonic Body in Spain. Spanish Masonry,
as well as that under some other jurisdictions, appears to have
fallen mainly into the hands of persons who use the organization as a means of atheistic and revolutionary propaganda
with which we can have no association or sympathy. I am
Yours fraternally,
E. Lt:TCHWORTH,
Grand Secretary.
Bro. Henry M. Owens.
(TRANSLATION.)

Zurich, 9th July, 1909.
Bro. Henry M. Owens,
San Francisco.
Answering your inquiry of the 29th of March, 1909, regarding the Grand Orient of Spain, I beg to inform you that
this Grand Orient is Regular, and acknowledged by most of th6
Grand Lodges of Europe, also by the Swiss Grand Lodge
"Alpina," and that the name of the Grand Master is Miguel
Morayta.·
DR. An. STR£ULI,
Grand Secretary.

83

84

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Augtlst 20th, 1909.
Dr. Ad. Streuli,
Grand Secretary,
Grand Lodge, "Alpina," F. & A. M.,
Zurich, Switzerland.
Dear Sir and Brother:

85

Bro. C. L. P . Marais has also kindly furnished this committee with
the following extract, translated from the Report of the Grand Lodge
of France, A. & A. Scottish Rite, for the year 1905:
'
In its list of the Masonic Powers (Puissances Maconniques) of
the World is mentioned, at page 203:

~ thank you for your kind reply of the 9th of July to my
enquiry of March 29th last, and for the information contained
therein. I should be still further obliged to you if you can
furnish me with a list of the European Grand Lodges by whom
the Gr~nd Orient of Spain is recognized and acknowledged, as
sta~ed in your letter, as this information would be of great
assistance to me.
Yours fraternally,
H. M. Ow:t:Ns,
Member of Committee on
Status of Masonry in the Philippine Islands,
Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.
No reply yet received.
Freemasons' Hall, Adelaide, July 27, 19()C),
Henry M. Owens, Esq.,
San Francisco, California.
Dear Sir and Brother:
In respect to your enquiry as to Spanish Masonry I have
only to say that I know very little upon the subject. We do not
recognize the Grand Orient of Spain or any other Grand
· Orients. Their form of government is so different to ours and
0
they are entirely subservient to the council of the
of
Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite.

3J

The Blue Lodges have little or no voice in the control of
affairs. Moreover, it is doubtful whether they acknowledge the
Supreme Diety, which is so essential a part of our Creed. I
cannot venture to offer an opinion as to whether the invasion
of your territory has taken place. That is a matter for your
Committe~ to enquire into.
The Grand Lodge of England does not acknowledge the
Grand Orient of Spain.
Yours fraternally,
]AS. H. CUNNINGHAM,
Grand Secretary

"GRAND ORIJiN'l' OF SPAIN,

Supreme Council for Spain and Its Possessions.
"This Federation is united by Treaty with the Grand Orient of
Morocco, founded May 24, 1889.
"Ninety-five Lodges ; 25 Chapters of Rouge Croix; 4 Councils
Knights Kadosh.
"Grand Commander, Dr. Miguel Morayta.
"Grand Master, Jose Marenco Gault er.
"Grand Secretary, Jorge G. Girod.
"Address, No. 5 Prete! de los Consejos, Madrid."
It is shown by the Report of the Worshipful Masters, Past
Masters and Wardens of the Philippine Lodges working under the
jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California that the numher of
Masons belonging to the Lodges in the Philippines subject to the
jurisdiction of the Grand Orient of Spain does not exceed 500, and
that the number belonging to the two Lodges under the 'jurisdiction
of the Grand Lodge of France does not exceed 70, arid this is quite a
contrast with the report heretofore received, to wit: 2,000. (See page
104, Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of California, 19Cl!.)
Your Committee desires to thank the Worshipful Masters, Past
Masters and Wardens of Manila Lodge, No. 342; Cavite Lodge, No.
350, and Corregidor Lodge, No. 386, Philippine Islands, for their
interest and action taken in this matter, and also for the interest taken
and assistance rendered by Bro. 0 . M. Goldaracena, Past Master of
La Parfaite Union Lodge, No. 17, and Bro. C. L. P. Marais, Past
Master King Solomon's Lodge, No. 260, in translating Spanish documents into English.
The Grand Orient of Spain cannot justify itself in chartering new
Lodges in a jurisdiction where another Grand Lodge has been in
existence for many years prior thereto, any more than the United
States or any other country would be justified in colonizing any particular county or province in the Kingdom of Spain, and having such
colony to render allegiance to such countries instead of to the la'Yful
authority existing in the Kingdom of Spain. That SQch colonization
cannot be done without the consent of the Kingdom of Spain has
been ~n elementary principle in international law for centuries ; therefore, the Grand Orient of Spain, whether a regularly constituted body

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

86

PROCEEDI1'i"GS OF THE

or a clandestine body, has no right to charter Lodges in another ·
state or country where another Grand Jurisdiction· exists, without
the consent of such jurisdiction; and when the Grand Orient of Spain
charters such Lodges in another jurisdiction, which jurisdiction is
recognized by the Grand Lodge of California, it becomes the duty of
the Grand Lodge of California to uphold and protect the jurisdiction
which has been infringed upon.
The next question arises as to whether or not the Lodges in the
Philippine Islands, working under the jurisdiction of the Grand Orient
of Spain, can in any manner have Masonic intercourse with the members of the Lodges in the Philippine Islands working under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California. ,
In the opinion of your Committee, the only manner in which the
Lodges in the Philippine Islands working under the jurisdiction of
the Grand Lodge of California and the members of the Lodges working
under Charters issued by the Grand Orient of Spain or under the
Regional Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands, which is subject and
reports to the Grand Orient of Spain, can hold Masonic communication or have Masonic intercourse is, that the Grand Orient of Spain
must first withdraw all Charters of all Lodges which have been issued
by it or by any Regional Grand Lodge subject to the control of the
Grand Orient of Spain, in all of the jurisdictions of the world where
such jurisdiction existed and was in communication with the ~rand
Lodge of California prior to the date of the issuing of such Charters ·
by the Grand Orient of Spain.
The Grand Orient failing to withdraw such Charters, the only
alternative left for the members of the Lodges working under the
Grand Orient of Spain in the Philippines is to <limit from such Lodge,
and to make application to the Lodges working under the jurisdiction
of the Grand Lodge of California in the same manner as if they had
never received any degrees in Masonry, and if elected they must
conform to all the forms and ceremonies that a profane is now com·
pelled to conform to, and pay the regular fees demanded by such
Lodges from such profane.
And after mature deliberation and the evidence placed before this
Committee, this Committee is satisfied beyond any reasonable doubt
that the Grand Orient of Spain has not only chartered Lodges in the
State of Pennsylvania, but also in the State of Iowa, which is shown
in the Bulletins of the Grand Orient of Spain above referred to.
Having thus unlawfully infringed upon the jurisdiction of the Grand
Lodges of Pennsylvania and Iowa, which Grand Lodges are and ·have
been for many years in fraternal c;:ommunication with . the Gr~nd
Lodge of California, the Grand Orient of Spain has placed itself
ou~side _of the · pale of a regular Masonic
power ' reeog~ized
by. the
·'
.•.
. ·,·.
'

Grand Ledge of California, and is therefore not entitled to any recognition by the Grand Lodge of California.
Therefore, your Committee offers the following resolutions and
recommends their adoption :
R esolved, That the action he~etofore taken by Grand Master Oscar
Lawler in ordering that the resolution passed at the last session of
the Gr~nd Lodge of California be suspended and the recommendation
thereby made be withheld until the next . Annual Communication of
the Grand Lodge of California, be and the same is hereby ratified,
confirmed and approved; and, be it further
Resol; ed, That the Grand Orient of Spain, . or any Lodge owing
its allegiance thereto, is not entitled to recognition by th.e Grand Lodge
of California ; and, be it further
Resolv ed Tha~ all Ma~ons. owing allegiance to the Grand Lodge
of Californi; or to the sub~rdinate Lodges thereof be . and they are
hereby forbidd~n from holding any Masonic intercourse or communication with any member or Lodge, or Regional Grand Lodge, owing
allegiance to the Grand Orient .of. Spain.
H. M. OWENS,

w. FRANK PIERCE,

R. W. ME£I_C,
Committee.

Which report was concurred in, and the resolutions accompanying _same were unanimously · ado~ted.
.
The Grand Lecturer presented his annual report as.
follows:
To the M: . w:. Grand Lodge of California:
I herewith submit to you my report as Grand Lecturer :
In the ·year just past I have visited every district in the State and'.
have held schools of instruction, both day and night sessions. In
quite a number of the districts I have held schools of instruction in
each Lodge. Most all of these schools have been well attended by
the officers and brethren striving to perfect themselves in the rituaf
and fioor work.
Great interest has been taken by the Lodges and brethren in.
learning the revised candidate's lecture, and most of the Lodges have·
now learned the lectures and are instructing their candidates therein.
The Lodges throughout the State are generally in good financial
condition, and· most of them are doing much work. Quite a number of
them have during the past year completed new temples or have them
now under process of construction. Six new Lodge!\ have been formed

88

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

since our last Comm,unication, and the net gain in membership, while
not so numerous as last year, has shown great prosperity. The Inspectors of the several districts are all qoing excellent work, and they
are entitled to much credit for the splendid condition of the Lodges
under their care. I wish to express to the Inspectors and brethren
throughout the jurisdiction my sincere thanks for the uniform courtesy
and kindness they have extended to me, and for the keen interest the
brethren have shown in attending the schools of instruction.
I have had the great privilege and pleasure of visiting a number
of districts with our M.". w:. Grand Master, and have listened with
admiration to the beautiful lessons of morality and Masonry inculcated
by him at these meetings.
I have received reports from every Inspector in this Grand Jurisdiction, and all report' the Lodges in their district, with few exceptions,
to be doing well. A large majority oi the Inspectors have recommended in their reports that a candidate's lecture be formulated for
the Third Degree, which lecture the Lodges may use if the brethren
desire to learn it. And that such brethren as pass a satisfactory examination therein shall, if the Lodge desires, be presented with a Grand
Lodge diploma.
I am under obligations to the V.". w:. John Whicher, Grand
Secretary, and his assistant, Bro. Harry S. Johnson, for courtesies
extended to me in their office the past year.
I have given private instruction in my office to many of the Inspectors, officers and brethren, and am always ready and willing to
instruct them when in the city.
Fresno Lodge, No. 247, of ,Fresno, exemplified the Second Degree
on Monday evening, October 11th; on this evening, Tuesday, October
12th, the First Degree will be exemplified by Berkeley Lodge, No. 363,
of Berkeley. On Wednesday evening, October 13th, the Third Degree
will be exemplified by Evergreen Lodge, No. 259, of River~ipe. These
Lodges have all been working hard on the several degrees, and will
exemplify the work as near letter perfect as it is possible to be done.
I regret to report that since our last Communication the Great
Architect of the Universe has seen fit to call to the Celestial Lodge
above two whose faces have been familiar in Grand Lodge for many
years: Bro. Max Goldman died November 21, 1908; he was Inspector
in this city for several years and was ever ready and willing to assist
the officers and brethren in the work. Bro. Thomas J. Richards,
Inspector of the Second Masonic District, died September 2, 1909.
Brother Richards devoted much time to perfecting the brethren of his
district in the work. The Grand Lodge and the Fraternity in general
have sustained a severe loss in the death of. these brethren.

I desire to thank the Grand Lodge and brethren for the honor
they have conferred upon me as their Grand Lecturer, which position I
have endeavored to fill to the best of my ability.
Respectfully submitted,
THOS. J. BAKER,
Grand Lecturer.

Which was referred to the follow ing:
Special Committee . ... . ................... SAMUEL E. Bmu:,
GusTAV A. HuTAFF,
CHARLES C. CoRBIER:£.

A communication was presented from Lodge· Maui,
No. 984, holding a Charter under the Constitution o~ the
Grand Lodg-e of Scotland, de.siring a .change of ~11eg1ance
to the jurisdiction of California; provided that said chang~
could be effected by a Charter issued to saJd Lodge Maui
retaining- its present name and number; which was referred
to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
The Grand Secretary presented and read the reports of
the Boards of Relief of San Francisco, Los Angeles, Oakland and Sacramento, as follows:

'

'

MASONIC BOARD OF RELIEF OF THE CITY OF SAN
FRANClSCO, 1909.

w:.

To the M.".
Grand Lodge of California, and the Officers and
Members of the Twenty-Five Lodges of San Francisco and
Burlingame, Parties to the Compact:
The undersigned beg leave to present their annual report of ~he
Masonic Board of Relief of San Francisco, for the year commencmg
on the 1st day of October, 1908, and ending on the 27th day of
September, 1909.
Since the day of our last report, the Lodges of the city of San
Francisco have been represented in the Board of Relief by their
Masters or delegates.

I

GRAND LODG:E: OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDU..-OS OF THE

Disbursements for the year were as follows:
For the relief of sick and needy brethren, their wives, widows
and orphans within the jurisdiction of California .... . ... $ 3,751.85
}tor the relief of other jurisdictions in the United States...
5,693.10
For the relief of foreign jurisdictions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2,683.96
1:,,r the relief of dimitted Masons . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1,013.00
1:.ir the relief of doubtful record . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
90.00
h lr the relief of sundry unclassed . .. .. .. .. . . . .. .. . . . .. .. .
503.55

The receipts for the year were as follows, viz. :
From assessments upon the City LodgesCalifornia, No. 1. . .. ... ....... .. ... . . ..... ..... ... . $349.60
La .Parfaite "Union, No. 17. . .. .. ... .. ..... . ........ 80.50
Occ1dental, No. 22 . ... . ...... ..... .... . .. . . ......... 336.11
Gclden Gate, No. 30 . .. .. ............ ..... ........ .. 266.29
Mount Moriah, No. 44 ............ .... ............. 15840
Fidelity, No. 120 ................................... 279:05
Her.mann, No. 127 .. . . .. ... . ........... .... ....... .. 113.05
Pacific, No. 136 ......... ....... . .................... 320.80
Cr?ckett, No. 139 .... .. . ........ . .... . .... . ........ 201.10
Onent~I, No. 144 .... . .. . .. .. . . ......... ... .. .... ... 215.55
Excelsior. No. 166 ........... .. .... . .... .... .... .. .. 250 75
Mission, No. 169 .... . .............................. 517:09
Sou~h San Francisco, No. 212 .............. . ........ 105.95
Done, No. 216 .. ... . ..... ......... .. . . . ... . . ...... 242.80 •
S~eranza Italiana, No. 219 ............. . . ..... ...... 101.63
Kmg Solomon's, No. 260 . . . .. . .............. . . .... .. 30221
Starr King, o. 344 ....... .... . .. ..... . .... . .. . .... 114.20
Presidio, No. 354 .......... . .. ...... .. .. . .. ..... .. .. 107.72
San. Francisco, No. 360...... .. .. . . ... .... ... . .... .. 98:70
Amity, No. 370.. ....... . . .... ... .. .. ........... .... 88.54
J~wel, No. 374. ...... .. .. .. .... ... ... ........ . .... .. 41.35
Richmond, No. 375.... ........... ..... ... . ....... .. 89.75
Parnassus, No. 388 . .. ........ .... ........ ......... .. 66.91
Bald~r, No. 393 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33.83
Burlingame, No. 400.... . . . . . ...... .. .. . . . . ........ 29.30

T otal disbursements for charities ... ...... . .. ..... . $13,735.46
II iard of Relief, rent, salaries, incidental expenses..........
3,122.76
Telegrams and telephones... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
197.31
T ctal expenditt: res for the year ........... . ........ $17,055.53
J.,eaving a Sl'. rplus September 27, 1909, of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,524.78
$20,580.31

Of the surplus, $2,5GO, covering almost the entire interest on the
Johnson Bequest Fund, have been invested in 6% bonds of the
Burlingame 1ifasonjc Hall Association, leaving but $1,024.78 available
for immediate disbursement.
DET11JIED STATE MENT OF RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS.
CLASSll'IF.ll

Total amount of receipts from City Lodges~~ $ 4,511.18
From amount refi,mded by sundry Lodges and brethren of
California ........ .. . . . .. .. ... .
From amount refunded by other jurls«ii~~j;~~ ·i~ the ·U~.i~~d
States .. . .... .. . ... ............ .. .
From amount refunded by foreign jurisdic.tl~~~ ::: ::: ::::: : :
From amount. receive~ by dividends of German Savings and
Loan Society ... ............ . ...... .. .
From amount received by Humboldt Saving~. B·;~k::
From amount received by Johnson's Bequest Fund ... . ... .. .
From amount received by individual donation
From amount received by Grand Lodge appro~;i~~l~~:: : : : : :
From amount received by surplus last report. .. .... ....... .
0

0

:::::::

91

2,387.85
2,868.15
277.85
23.21
151.96
509.45
5.00
2,500.00
7,345.66

Total of receipts from all sources . .. .. . .. ... . .... . $20.580.31

rv JURI SDICTIONS.

United States.
Paid.
.\bbama ..... . ........ ............ . ... . ..... . $
1.00
California . ........ . . .. ... . .................. . 3,751.85
Colorado . .. .......... . ..... .. ............. . . .
236.00
133.05
Connecticut .... . . : ... .. ... ... .... . . . ....... . ".
Delaware ... ....... . .. . . .. . . ..... .. . . ..... . . . .
120.00
40.00
Florida . . ............. . ............ . . . • . . .....
Idaho .... .... ..... ......... .... ...... .. ... . . .
10.00
67.00
Illinois .............. . ............ ... .. . . . . ~ ..
282.50
Indiana . .. . ......... . .. ..... . ............... .
356.50
Iowa ............ ........... . . .. .. .. . ........ .
117.50
Kansas ...... ... ... . ... . ..... ...... . ......... .
Louisiana .. ......... . . . ... .... . ........... .. . .
15.00
4.00
Maine . ... . ..... ."..... . . .. . . . ... ... ...... . ... .
506.65
Massachusetts . .. .. ................. . ... . ... . .
:Michigan .. . . . ... .. .. .. . . .... .. ....... . ... . . . .
51.00
106.00
Minnesota .... ... ..... ... ....... ..... . ....... .
15.00
:Mississippi .. .. . ... . .. . .. . . ........ . .. .. . . ... .. .

Received.
$2,387.85
236.00
20.00
20.00
58.00
129.00
154.50
62.50

35.00
5.00

PROCEEJDU-.-Gl:l OF THE

Missouri ... ······· ·· ............ ··· ········· ·
Nebraska .... ... ............................. .
Nevada
New Me~.i~~. : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :
New Jersey .................. .. ............. . .
New York ........... ... ...... . .............. .
North Carolina . ... . ..... .... . ..... .... ... .. . .
Ohio ........ .. ............................. . .
Oklahoma ····· ······· ········ ···· ........... .
Oregon ...... . ...... .... . . ... . . .. .... .. ... .. . .
p ennsy1van1a
. .. . ..................... . .... ~ ... .
Rhode Island ....... .... ..................... .
South Dakota ... ··· ··· ··· ··· ······ ···········
Utah
Virgini~ . : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :
Washington . . ... .. ... ... .... . ... ... .. .. .. ... .
Washington, D. C ........... . . .. ..... .. ...... .
Wisconsin ... .... ............................ .
Wyoming .................................... .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

228.50
6.50
348.50
9.00
110.00
1,111.90
30.00
55.00
16.00
77.10
252.50
100.50
31.00
624.50
85.00
397.40
10.00
113.50
25.00

282.75

Dimitted Ma sons.

93

Paid .
10.00
82.50
400.00
178.50
240.00
102.00

Auatralia .............. .. ...... .. ...... .. .... . $
179.50
105.00
554.00
20.00
10.00

British Columbia ............................ .
California ............ ... .. ...... .' ..... .... .. .
Michigan .................................... .
Nova Scotia .... ... .......................... .
Scotland ... ..... .. ........................... .

$1,013.00
33.00
95.00
100.50
339.50
75.00
253.90
75.00
25.00

$9.444.95

$5,256.00

Foreign.
Paid.
Africa ....................................... . $ 22.50
Australia .................................... .
1,226.C6
Canada ..................................... .
174.00
England ..... ..... .......... .. ............... .
384.40
France ......... ...... .... .... .... ..... .... .. .
92.50
Germany .................................... .
Havana ..... , ........ : ...................... .
20.00
Honduras . ... .... ... . . . . .... ... .. ..... . ..... .
230.CO
Hungary ...... . ..................... .. ...... .
15.0(J
Ireland ... ............. . ..... ... ......... . . .. .
92.00
Italy ........ ,.. ... .. .. ...... .... .. ..... . ..... .
35.00
Mexico ................ . .............. .. ..... .
327.50
New Brunswick ........ . ..... . .............. .
5.00
Nova Scotia ................................. .
40.00
Scotland . ............ ..... ............ .. ..... .
20.00

Received.

$2,683.96

$ 277.85

$

24.35
54.00

75.00
10.00

114.50

Doubtful Record.
Paid.
New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 40.00
Scotland . ......... ·. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50.00

$ 90.00
The following brethren have been buried with Masonic Honors,
under the direction of the Board, since the date of the last report:
1908
J . Huron Smith ..... Trinity, No. 7 .......... California
Oct.
Oct. 15 ]. F. Ferchcn ..•.... Temple, No. 7 .. . ....... Oregon
Oct. 26 Wm. J . Moore ...... Suisun, No. 55 ......... California
N ov. 16 Alex D. Hall ........ St. Albans, No. 68 ...... New Jersey
Dec. 8 Henry E. Lea ....... San Mateo, No. 226 .... California
Dec. 20 Fred Olyett ......... Hiram, No. 21 ....•..... Washington
Dec. 24 Daniel McCool ..... Solano, No. 229 .. . •.... California
19C9
Feb. 6 J ames N. Pike ....... Trinity, No. 208 ........ Iowa
Mch. 12 A. S. Raleigh ........ Social Harmony .•..... Massachusetts
Mch. 14 G. A. McCall ........ Ri o Vista, No. 208 ..... California
Mch. 17 Solomon S. Behm ... Valley Lodge, No. 109 .. New York
Mch. 18 Geo. W . Thomas . ... Bear Mountain, No. 76 . . California
Mch. 24 Joel Deshan ... ... .. Virginia, No. 3 ......... Nevada
Apr. 11 Louis Stern .. ... ... Bakersfield, No. 224 ..... California
Apr. 13 Jacob Spieg'el ....... Williamette, No. 2 ...... Oregon
Apr. 13 N. M. Rafalovic'. 1. . .. Hanford, No. 279 ... ... . California
Apr. 16 Josiah P. Brown ... .. Icnic, No. 90 ........... Washington
Apr. 21 Samuel McCleave ... Plumas, No. 60 ... . ..... California
May 2 · ]. K. Dal mas ........ Geo. Washington, ·No. 9.. Missouri
May 6 Victor Martin ...... .V O'ceaini Francais . .... France
May 9 Chas. Zinke ... ... .. Bathoven, No. 661 ...... New York
May 19 Wm. Redstone ..... . Dimitted Mason . ....... California
'May 25 Arthur Follis ...... . Nestell, No. 37. ·........ Rhode Island

9-1

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALU'ORNIA

May 25 Samuel Gordon ..... Pyramid, No. 490 ...... New York
May 26 Chas. H. Davids ..... San Mateo, No. 226 . . . . . California
June 1 Chas. McKilvey ..... Sacramento, No. 4-0 ..... California
June 7 Henry Amarck ...... Chicindaro, No. 23 .. . ... Mexico
June 29 John T. Shepherd .... St. Johns, No. 36 . .. ... . Australia
July 4 H. H. Dithmer ...... Utica, No. 337 ......... . Indiana
July 23 Louis Cohn . .. . .. .. . Eureka, No. 16 .. ... ... . Nevada
Aug. 2 Alex L. Jordan ...... Eucalyptus, No. 243 ..... California
Aug. 3 Joseph F. Nounan ... Mt. Moriah, No. 2 ... .. . Utah
Aug. 6 Robert P. O'Neill .... Valley City, No. 86 ... .. Michigan
Aug. 29 Henry K. Hall ...... Eureka N 20
S
• o.
· · · · • ... . Washington
ept. 5 R. T. Hopkins ....... Lander No 8
N
d (d'
Also on:
'
· .. · ....... eva a 1mit.)
June 4 M~s. Thomas ~illiams, whose late husband was a member
in good standing of Wasatch Lodge No 1 Salt L k C't
Utah.
'
· '
a e 1 y,

J. B. RUEBEN,
Secretary.

Resvectfully submitted,
EUGENE A. ELKUS,
Chairman.

LOS ANGELES BOARD OF RELIEF.
To the M.'. w:. ~ran.d Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the
State of California, and Subordinate Lodges of the City 0 f L
Angeles, California:
os

Dear Sirs and Brothers:
The Masonic Board of Relief, of the City of Los Angeles herewith
presents the following report of .its labors from September
1908 t
'
' 0
August 31, 1909, inclusive.

i

hither. Not a few have packed their belongings ·and shipped them by
frel1ht, to be paid for at the end of the journey, only to find that they
have not the cash to pay the freight and are obliged to call upon the
Maaonic Board of Relief for assistance even before employment has
been secured.
Far too many are too far advanced with disease and come here
only to pass to the Great Beyond, among those who, were it not for
those working by the Square, would be among strangers. These we
have buried with full Masonic honors and their graves will be forever
kept green.
Brethren of the Eastern States, keep your invalid members at home
and allo~ them to pass to · the Supreme Grand Lodge among their
friends and relatives.
THE MASONIC EMPLOYMENT BUREAU.
The Masonic Employment Bureau, established under the auspices
of the Masonic Board of Relief, Scottish Rite bodies and Commandery
and Shrine, as an experiment, and which has proven a great success,
opened for business Ncvember 15, 1905, and up to date has been the
means of filling over seventeen hundred positions, either temporarily or
permanently, thus affording many brethren the means of providing for
themselves and their families.
DEATHS.
During the year ending August 31, 1909, the following fifty Masons
or members of their families have been buried under the auspices of
this Board of Relief, viz.:
Rl\CORD OF DEATHS.
NAME.

OFFICERS.
President
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ···· · · .. Brother ]OHN HILL BEAN
Vice-President
B
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · rather DANA REID WELLER
Treasurer.
B h
' ' . ' ... . ' '· · ' · · · · · · • · · · · · · · rot er MOTLEY HEWES FLINT
Secretary.·· · ············ .. ... . Brother D&. JoHN MARCUS DUNSMOOR

~he y~ar 1908-9 has shown that distress in the Fraternity still
remains _with us, We might say that hordes of brethren with failing
health, either of themselves or members of their families, and whose
finances are at low ebb, have been attracted by the lo ·
of th
·
r.
g wing accounts
e curative qua 1ties of the glorious climate of Southern California,
and of the wondrous growth and prosperity of Los Angeles City, have
taken every advantage of special rates to the West and have come

95

I.ODCE AND NO.

LOCATION

DATE OF DEATH.

Wm. A. Miller ........ . Madisonville .......... Madisonville, 0. . . . .. Sept. 8, '08
Samuel H. Wright. .... . Evanston ·4 . ........... Evanston, Wyo . . . .... Sept. 13, '08
Peter Vusich .......... Mokelumne Hill 298 .... Mokelumne Hill, Cal.. Sept. 30, '08
Chauncey G. Hassett. ... Meridian 56 ..... . ..... Chattfield, Minn. . .... Oct. 6, '08
Bert N els on .... . . ..... Diamond 422 ..... .... .. Vail, Iowa . . . .. ... .. . Oct. 6, '08
Margaret Wetmore .. . . Carlton Union 8 ....... . St. Johns, N. Bruns ... Oct. 15, '08
George A. Misch ...... . Mithr:t .. ... ... . ....... Chicago, Ill. . ........ Nov. 6, '08
Wm. M. Michaels ...... Hillsboro . ... ... . ...... Hillsboro, Ill. .. .... .. Nov. 16, '08
Joseph T. Titus .. ...... Howell 38 ... ........... Howell, Mich. . ...... Nov. 17, '08
James Ferguson .... . ... Sioux City .. . ... ... . . .. Sioux City, Ia . . . . .. . . Nov. 19, '08
Benj. 0. Rhoades ...... Marchall 108 .....•..... Marshalltown, Ia. . ... Nov. 22, '08
Mrs. Francis H .Thibodo . Washington 21. . .. .... . Green Bay, Wis .. . .... Nov.25,'08
Samuel W. Gregory ..... Wood County 112 ...... Bowling Green, 0 .... Dec. 18, '08
S . Tenny French . ..... . Harrison 219 ........... Cadiz, 0 ............. Dec. 27, '08

96
NAlIE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
LODGE AND NO.

LOCATION.

DATE OF DEATH.

Charles E. Hommer .... Coalport 574 ........... Coalport, Pa. . ....... Jan. 20, '09
John Moore ............ Escurial"7 ..............Virginia City, Nev .. .. Feb. 4,'09
Harry R. Hathaway .... Pacific 136 .............. San Francisco, Cal.. .. Feb. 16, '09
Charles H. Browne ..••.. St. John 1........... . . Stillwater, Minn. . .... Feb. 26, '09
Abram H. Wallace, M. D.Cashocton 90 .......... . Cashocton, 0 ......... Mar. 8, '09
Isaac D. Pergrin ........ Travis 117 .............. Sherman, Tex........ Mar.10,'09
John A. McLeod ........ Clyde 108 ............ . . Glasgow, Scotland .... Mar. 13, '09
Mrs. George Stimpson ... Illinois Central 178 ... .. Amboy, Ill.... ....... Mar. 16, '09
Chas. P. Higgins, M. D .. Abell 146 .......•....... Ukiah, Cal. .......... Mar.19, '09
Mrs. Joseph T. Titus .... Howell 38 .......••..... Howell, Mich........ Mar. 22, '09
Philip Giroux ..........• Durango 46 .......... . . Durango, Colo. . .... . Apr. 2, '09 •
Randall W. Hanson . .... Cascade 34..... ........ Great Falls, Mont. .... Apr. 11, '09
Fernando C. da Silva ... Monumental 374........ Tivoli, N. Y .......... Apr.14,'09
Clement S. Glasgow ..... South Umpqua 73 ..... . Commonwealth, Ore... Apr. 29, '08
Wm. A. Stanton ........ Wasatch 1. ....... .. .... Salt Lake City, Utah .. Apr. -, '08
Robt. G. Davidson ...... Newton 59 .......... ... . Newton, Ia.... . . . . ... May 6, '08
Wm. L. Harr .......... Prospect .578 ..... ..... . Moore, Pa. . .......... May 8,'09
Omie Isaac Mairs ...... Inyo 221. . .............. Independence, Cal. .... May 13, '09
James W. Bradley ..... Eden 113 ... . .. . ........ San Leandro, Cal. .... May 21, '09
Vinton L. Mitchell ..... Redlands 300 . .......... Redlands, Cal. ....... May 29, '09
Francis A. Morley . .... Covenant 526 ........... Chicago, Ill......... , .June 1, '09
Lyman C. Bailey ....... Berkeley 363 ......... , .. Berkeley, Cal. ........ June 9, '09
M. Dee Byson ......... Fenton 251. ............ St. Louis, Mo ... ...... June 17, '09
Chas. H. Lindholm ..... Enterprise 48 ........... Jersey City, N. J .... . June25,'09
Wm. K. Hilbish ... .... Bellevue 113 ............ Bellevue, 0 . . ........ . June 29, '09
Howard L. Greimshaw.Montezuma 30 .. ....... . Goldfield, Nev. ....... July 2, '09
Harry C. Ackerly . ..... Palestine 357 ........... Detroit, Mich . ....... July 3,'09
Nat B. Lockwood ...... Bayonne 99 ............. Bayonne, N. J . ... .... July 4, '09
Alfred Brunot Schanz .. Attica ........... ...... Attica, Ind........... July 8, '09
Henry Carlton Lane .... Mt. Vernon 8 ........... Morrisville, Vt. . ..... July 10, '09
John W. Brown ........ Mounment 657 . ......... Indianapolis, Ind.... .. July 13, '09
Alphonse W. Steinhart.King David 209 ........ . San Luis Obispo, Cal. .July 24, '09
John B. Hughes . ..... .. York 211. .............. Jasper, Ala........... July 26, '09
Alvin I. Higgins ....... St. Joseph 437 .......... St. Joseph, Mich ... . .. Aug. 6,'09
Frank Whaley Lothrop.San Buena Ventura 214 .Ventura, Cal. ... . .... Aug. 14, '09
Wm. Duncan Mc Laurin. San J oaqujn 19 ......... Stockton, Cal. ........ Aug. 29, '09

!l7

DETAILED STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS FROM SEPTEMBER
1, 1908, TO AUGUST 31, 1909.
S:EPT!lMB!lR, 1908.
Balance on hand September 1st.... . . . .. .... .........
$ 513.50
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. ............... : .... $ 24.96
J>entalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal... . . . ............... 41.12
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal............. 50.80
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal......... ..... ....... 36.40
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal..... . . ..... ........ . 39.84
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal.... .. .. . ....... 4.00
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal...... . ............... 26.48
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal....................... 14.52
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal.......................... 12.80
Golden Gate Lodge, No. 358, Cal.................... 14.88
Mizpah Lodge, No. 378, Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16.00
Highland Park Lodge, No. 382, Cal.... . . . . ... .. .. . . 8.00
West Lake Lodge, No. 392, Cal............ ... ...... 10.72
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . 20.00
Palestine Lodge, No. 357, Mich. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13.25
Logan Lodge, No. 525, Ind...................... . .... 97.00
Maple 0. E. S. Lodge, No. 90, Ill.................... 50.00
Bethel Lodge, No. 733, N. Y. . . . . . . . . . .. .. . .. .. .. .. . 55.20
Etolian Lodge, No. 479, N. Y......... ...... .. . .. .. . 17.25
Erwin Lodge, No. 121, Mo.......................... 41.50
Rabboni, Mass. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16.00
S. J. Wadsworth, N. Y. ...... ... .. .. ... .. ... . .. . . .. . 15.00
Palace Lodge, No. 765, Ill ............ . ......... ._.... 24.50
Bethel Lodge, No. 733, N. Y. . . . . . . . . .. . .. .. . . . .. .. . 55.20
Marian Dmm Lodge, No. 19, Fla.................... 15.00
Tucson Lodge, No. 4, Ariz. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86.50
Washburn Lodge, No. 244, Wis............. . .. ...... 25.00
Newport Lodge, No. 27, Ark ......•................ . 200.00
Washington Lodge, No. 1, D. C ................ .... . 200.00
St. Johns Lodge, No. 483, Eng ...................... 150.00
Ardmore Lodge, No. 26, Ind. Ter. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50.00
Tampa Lodge, No. 148, Fla......................... 75.00
Haven Lodge, No. 82, Conn. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200.00
Hawaiian Lodge, No. 21, Hon................... ... . 75.00
Ludlow Lodge, No. 308, Ky ...... . ...... . . . . -.. .. .... 50.00
Pythagoras Lodge, No. 156, Neb . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5p.OO
East Palestine Lodge, No. 417, Ohio... . .. ........ ... 64.40
Veritas Lodge, No. 734, N. Y.. ...... ............... . 5.UO
'

4

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Pleiades Lodge, No. 478, Ill ................. . ...... . 35.00
Phoenix Lodge, No. 178, Cal. .................. . .... . 5.00
Palace Lodge, No. 765, Ill .......................... . 35.50
Diamond Lodge, No. 422, Iowa ..................... . 19.00
University Lodge, No. 394, Cal. ................ . ... . 10.00
Washburn Lodge, No. 145, Wis ............. .... ... . 89.50
M. H . Flint, Cal. ............ . ................... . . . 200.00
Westfield, Pa. . ..... ....................... .. .. . ... . 10.00
Alhambra Lodge, No. 322, Cal. .............. . ...... . 10.00
Sonora Lodge, No. 12, Mex .................. . ... . . . 25.00
Baltimore, Md . .. .............................. .. .. . 100.00
Hiram, Ho!. .. . . .. ............................ . ... . 25.50
Elreno, Ok. .. . .. .. .................... · .... · · · · · · · · 25.00
Columbia, S. C: . . . . ...............·... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 25.00
Rabboni, Mas s..... ......... . ........ .. · .... · · · · · · · · 25.00
Western Star Lodge, No. 174, Kan .. . ...... . .. ... ... . 25 .00
Crowley, La .. .. ... ... .... . . . .. .... . ...... ... · . · · · · • 25 .CO
Delta Lodge, No. 175, Mich . .. ....... . ...... . . ... . . . 50.00
Renovation Lodge, No. 97, N. Y ............ .... . . . . 108.50
Kosmos Lodge, No. 896, Ill ....................... . 21.00
Chaunte, Kan. . .. .. ....................... . ..... . .. . 5.00
Chihuahua Lodge, No. 12, Mex ............. .... ... . 25.00
Millville, N. J. .. .... ......................... · . · · · · 25.00
Ashlar, Wales ........ . ......... • .......... . .. . · · · · · 25.00
Havana, Cuba ... .......................... .. . · · · · · · 25.00 $2,925.32

I,amar Lodge, No. 90, Colo . . .... ...... .. ............ 15.00
Fruithurst Lodge, No. 551, Ala . .....................
5.00
I... A. Bldg. M. Pro. Ass'n........................... 5.00
Benj . B. French Lodge, No. 15, D. C..... . .......... 20.00
Mission Lodge, No. 169, Cal. .... .. .. . .. ... .. . . . . .... 30.00
St. John Lodge, No. 25, Neb . ..... . . . ... . .. ..... . ... . 5.00
Pleiades Lodge, No. 478, Ill .... .. .. . . .. . ............ . 15.00
Orient Lodge, No. 500, Pa. . ..... . . . .... . .......... . . 75.00
West Gate Lodge, No. 445, Mo.. ... ................. 71.50
1Iollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. . ... . ........ :...... 40.00 $4,707.00

98

OCTOBER, 1908.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. .. ....... . .. ..... . .. $ 25.20
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal............ . ..... . .. 41.28
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. . ....... ... . . 50.80
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal.................. . ... 67.36
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal................ .. . . . 36.50
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal............... . .. . .. 39.84
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal................
4.00
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal. ... ! • . . . • ••. •• •. •. . . . 26.64
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal. ............. ;... . .... 14.68
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.00
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal.......... . .. . ..... . 14.80
Mizpah Lodge, No. 378, Cal. . . . ...... ... .... . . . .. .. . · 17.60
Highland Park Lodge, No. 382, Cal............ . .... 8.08
West Lake Lodge, No. 392, Cal. .... . ...... . .. ... . . . .
University Lodge, No. 394, Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .. 16.72
Grand Lodge of California ................... ..... .4,0C0.00
Hollenbeck, No. 319, Cal.. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . 30.CO
Geo. Washington Lodge, No. 9, Mo............ .. . . .. 2C·.OO

99

NOVEMBER, 1908.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal ... .. . .. . ............ $ 25.52
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal.......... . ............ 41.28
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50.80
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal.. .. ... . .......... . ... . 33.84
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319. .. .. ..... ........ .. .. . ... 36.80
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39.84
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal...............
4.00
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26.96
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal.. .. .................... 14.76
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.24
Golden Gate Lodge, No. 358, Cal.... . ............... 14.88
Mizpah Lodge, No. 378, Cal.. . . ... . ... ................ 20.08
llighland Park, No. 382, Cal.. . ... . . . . . .............
8.32
West Lake Lodge, No. 392....... . . . ................. 25.12
Bisbee 0 . E. S., Ariz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25.00
Washington Lodge, No. 9, Mo... . . ... . . . . .. . ... . .. . 20.00
Needles Lodge, No. 326, Cal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200.00
Baker Lodge, No. 47, Ore. . . ... .. . ................. 15.00
Berkeley Lodge, No. 363, Cal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79.00
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal.. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.00
Pilgrim Commandery, N. M.. . .... . ................ 15.00
Hiram, :fylass. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25.00
Republican, Mass. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25.00
Evening Star Lodge, No. 64, Wis . .................. 15.00
Carlton Union Lodge, No. 8, N . B .. ............... 77.00
J . M. Dunsmoor. . ....... . . . . ... ........... . ........
7.60
St. James Lodge, No. 73; Canada. . . ......... . .. . . .. . 75.00
Centre Lodge, No. 23, Ind. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.00
Pleiades Lodge, No. 478, Ill. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20.00
West Gate Lodge, N~. 445, Mo... .... .. . . .. ......... II.SO
Mt. Moriah Lodge, No. 51, Ill ...... . . .. .... . . .. ... 100.00
Interest 17ports by bank.............. . . ... . . .......
3.70 $1,078.24

.

,
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Dl!CJ!MlltR, 1908.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. ....... . ....... . ... $ 25.60
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal.. .. ... . .. . ... .. ... . . . 41.12
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. . ..... ... .. 51.12
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal...................... 34.56
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. .. ...... . .. . .. . ..... 37.50
South Gate Lodge, No. 320,' Cal............... . ... 40.00
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329................ . ...
4.00
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal............. . ... . ... 29.96
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal............. . ........ 14.88
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal......................... 13.12
Golden Gate Lodge, No. 358 . .......... . ... . .... ·. ... 15.04
Mizpah Lodge, No. 378.......... . .................. 16.24
Highland Park Lodge, No. 382, Cal............. . .. 8.72
West Lake Lodge, No. 392, Cal......... ... ........ 13.44
University Lodge, No. 394, Cal.. . ..................
6.40
Mokelumne Hill Lodge, No. 298, Cal............ . ... 81.90
Geo. Washington Lodge, No. 9, Mo..... ... . . ... . ... 83.00
Diamond Lodge, No. 422, Iowa. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . SO.CO
Washington Lodge, No. 9, Mo..................... 20.00
State Lodge, No. 68, Wash . ................... .;. .. . 49.10
Sanford L. Collins Lodge, No. 396, Ohio. . . . . . . . . . . . 50.00
Orion Lodge, No. 358, Ill. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.00
King Solomon Lodge, No. 260, Cal. ........ . ........ 100.CO
Chicago Lodge, No. 437, Ill. . . . .. . . . . .. .. . .. . . . . . . . 21.00
Pleiades Lodge, No. 478, Ill........................ 15.00
Interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105.68 $ 929.38

Cascade Lodge, No. 34, Mont ..................... . 66.50
Bisbee Commandery, K. T., No. 4, Ariz, ............ . 30.00
Pleiades Lodge, No. 478, Ill ....................... . 15.00
L. A. Bldg. M. Ass'n .............................. . 5.00
Acacia Lodge, No. 22, B. C ................. . ..... . 40.00
Harrison Lodge, No. 219, Ohio ... . ................ . 25.00
St. Joseph Lodge, No. 437, Mich ................... . 30.00
Howell Lodge, No. 38, Mich ...................... . 50.00
St. John Lodge, No. 11, D. C . . ....... . ...... . ..... . 100.00
Washington Centennial Lodge, No. 14, D. C ... . .... . 50.00
Keith Lodge, No. 187, Cal. ........................ .. 30.00
Pere. Marquette Lodge, No. 299, Mich . ...... . ..... . 10.00
Findlay Lodge, No. 227, Ohio ..................... .. 20.00
Detroit Lodge, No. 2, Mich ........................ . 50.70
Washington Lodge, No. 21, Wis ................... . 56.00
Capital Lodge, No. 110, lowa ...................... . 70.00
Grand Crossing Lodge, No. 776, Ill ....... , ..•...... 20.00
Landmark R. A. M. Lodge, Nt>. 6, Ariz ........... . 30.00
Cleveland Lodge, No. 211, Ill ...................... .. 25.00
Sonora Lodg~, No. 12, Mex ........................ . 5.00
Harrison Lodge, No. 219, Ohio .................. . . . 17.65 $1,109.37

100

JANUARY, 1909.

Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. ................ . ... $ 25.60
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal.. . ..... . ............ 40.40
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal...... . .. . .. 50.80
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal............... . .. . ... 34.48
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal................ . .... 37.20
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal................. . ... 40.00
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal..... . .... ... ..
4.00
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal..................... 26.88
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal. ......... . .. :........ 14.96
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13.28
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal....... . ...... .. ... 15.04
Mizpah Lodge, No. 378, Cal. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18.48
Highland Park Lodge, No. 382, Cal. . .. .. .. . ... . . .. .. 8.88
West Lake Lodge, No. 392, Cal........ . ........ . ... 13 .52
Washington Lodge, No. 9, Mo. . ...... .. ...... .. ... 20.CO

101

Fl!BRUARY, 1909.
Lo's Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal.. ............ . ...... $ 25.28
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. . . . .. .. . .. . . .. . . . .. . 40.24
Southern California, Lodge, No. · 278, Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . 50.88
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal.. . .... . .. . ........... 34.24
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal.................... 37.50
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal...... . ..... . ....... 40.00
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal. ... . ...... , .. 4.00
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal.. . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26.88
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal........................ 15.04
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal......................... 14.08
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. .......... ,...... 15.12
Mizpah Lodge, No. 378, Cal.................. . ...... 18.48
Highland Park Lodge, No. 382, Cal. . . ........... . , . 9.44
West Lake Lodge, No. 392, Cal..................... 14.08
Olive Lodge, No. 156, Mich........................
5.25
Worth Lodge, No. 210, N. Y,... . ... . .. . ...........
5.00
Marion"Dunn Lodge, No. 19, Fla..... . ............. 30.00
De Kalb Lodge, No. 144, Ill . . ..... ,................ 30.00
Sonora Lodge, No. 12, Mex : . . . ... . ..... . . . , . .. . ·.. .. 25.00
Pleiades Lodge, No. 478. Ill .. . ............. , . . . . . . . 20.00
Pacific Lodge, No. 136, Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . 25.00 $ 485.51

102

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
MARCH, 1909.

Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. . .. .. ·. ....... . ... .. $ 25.36
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal......... . . . ..... .. . . . 40.16
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. ... . . . . . ... 50.88
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal... . . . .. . .. ... .... . .. . 34.32
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal ......... . ...... ·. . . . 37.50
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal..... .. . ... ......... 40.16
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.00
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal. .. . ..... . . . .... . . . .. . 26.96
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal. . ... . .... . .... .. .. . . . 15.04
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal...... . . .. . .. . . . . ... . . .. . 14.16
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. .. .. .. .... . . ... . .. 15.84
Mizpah Lodge, No. 378, Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18.64
Highland Park Lodge, No. 382, Cal... . . .. .. . ........
9.92
West Lake Lodge, No. 392, Cal........ .... ......... 14.80
University Lodge, No. 394, Cal....... . . . . .. .. . ..... 11.58
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. ......... .. .. . .. .. 115.95
Peoria Lodge, No. 15, Cal. . .... .. ·. . ...... .. ........ 10.00
Washington Lodge, No. 9, Mo.... . .. . .. .. . . ... ... .. 20.00
Hiram Lodge, No. 105, N. Y . . . .... ... ; . . . . . . . . . . . . 164.10
Walton Lodge, No. 559, N. Y. . ......... ... .. . ... . . 8.85
Valley Falls, Kans. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25.00
Morning Star, N. H . . .. ... ........... . . .. .. : . . . . . . . 5.00
Lambskin Lodge, No. 460, Mo. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25.00
M. R. Raftery, Ala.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.75
Coalport Lodg~, No. 574, Pa....... . ...... . . ......... 80.10
P acific Lodge, No. 136, Cal.. .. . .... . ..... . ..... . . . . 99.10
Quincy, Ill. . .... . .. . . . ... ......... · . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.00
Niagara Lodge, No. 375, N. Y . ...... .. . ... ......... 45.20
Wyandotte Lodge, No. 172, Mich....... .... .. .. ......
5.95
Southern California Masonic Home, Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . 8.50
Cleveland Lodge, No. 211, Ill........ . .. .. . . .... ... . 20.00
Orion Lodge, No. 358, Ill .. .. .. ... . ....... . . .. . . . .. . 5.00
Greenwood Lodge, No. 249, Wis . . ... ... . . .. ..... . .. 66.65
Wroining Lodge, No. 186, Ohio . . . .... .. .. . . .. . .... 99.00
Robinson Lodge, N o. 266, Ky. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20.00
Cheye!}ne Lodge, No. 1, Wyo.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25.00
J. M .. Dunsmoor ....... . ............. . . .. ........... 11.40 $1,233.87
APRIL, 1909.

Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. .. .... . ... . . ... . .... $ 25.68
P entalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal.. . ..... . ... . .. .. ..... 40.16
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. . ... .. ... . . . 50.88
E ast Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal......... . . ... .... . ... 34.64

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

.103

Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. ................... . 38.25
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal ................ . . . .. 40.24
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal ............. ..
4.00
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal. ........... . ... .. .. .. 27.04
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal.. ... .. .... .. .... . . . .. . 15.20
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. .... .. . .. .... .. ........ . 14.56
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. ..........•....... 15.68
Mizpah Lodge, No. 378, Cal. .. .................... . 18.96
Highland Park Lodge, No. 382, Cal. .........•....... 10.24
West Lake Lodge, No. 392, Cal. ................... . 15.36
University Lodge, No. 394, Cal. •................... : 4.00
Brookston Lodge, No. 66, Ind ....... .. ........... .. 15.85
Mokelumne Hill Lodge, No. 298, Cal . . . ... . . •• •.... . 26.00
Washington Lodge, No. 9, Mo .. . ... ... . .. ........ . . . 20.00
Grand Crossing Lodge, No. 776, Ill .. .. .. ...•........ 88.65
Eureka Lodge, No. 20, Wash ..... . ................ .. 42.50
Birmingham Lodge, No. 56, Iowa .......•......... .. 5.00
Greenwood Lodge, No. 249, Wis .........•.......... 10.25
J. D. Tidmarch Lodge, No. 736, Ill .. ... ........... .. 135.00
Walter M. McStay, Ill ... .. .. . . ...• . •... . . ..•. .. . .. . 15.00
Howell Lodge, No. 38, Mich .. . .. .. ....... . .. .. .. .. . 50.00
Sol D. Bayliss Lodge, No. 359, Ind ....... . ......... . 25.00
Cleveland Lodge, No. 211, Ill ...................... . 30.00
Washington Lodge, No. 9, Mo .. . .. . ............... . 20.00
Illinois Central Lodge, No. 178, Ill ................. . 5.00
Lebanon Lodge, No. 7, D. C . ....................... . 5.00 $ 848.14

MAY, 1909.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. ...... . ............ $ 25.68
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40.40
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal............ . 50.88
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal. ... :. ........ . ...... . 34.56
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal....... . ............. 38.40
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal. . .. . ..... . ... . ..... . 40.96
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal............. . .. 4.00
.W est Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal. .... . . . . .......... .. 27.36
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal.. . ................... 15.44
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal...... . . . ................ 14.72
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal.. . .. . . . ........... 16.48
Mizpah Lodge, No. 378, Cal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19.60
H ighland Park Lodge, No. 382, Cal.. .. .... ... .. . ... 10.64
W est Lake Lodge, No. 392, Cal... . . .. . . .... . .... ... 15.76
Cosmopolitan Lodge, No. 428, China . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.00
W asatch Lodge, No. 1, Utah ........... .... ....... .. 325.75

104

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Rock Lodge, No. 294, Iowa ................. : .. .... . 38.85
Washington Lodge, No. 9, Mo .... . ..... .. ..... ..... . 20.00
Cascade Lodge, No. 34, Mont ........ .. ........... . 173.60
Berkeley Lodge, No. 363, Cal. ..... .... ..... .. .. .. . . 105.00
Khurum Lodge, No. 112, Minn ............ .... .. ... . 50.00
Cleveland Lodge, No. 211, Ill ...................... . 30.00
St. Joseph Lodge, No. 437, Mich ................... . 25 .00
Charlotte, Mich .... .. .................. . .. ........ . . 38.40
King SolomoIJ Lodge, No. 260, Cal . ...... ... .. ..... . 40.00
Constellation Lodge, No. 892, Ill ..................... . 27.50
Whittier Lodge, No. 323, Cal. ....... .......... .... . . 7.50
Schiller Lodge, No. 263, Mich ... ... ...... ....... . . .. . 10.00
Lambskin Lodge, No. 460, Mo ....... .. . ...... ... .. . 47.00
Pleiades Lodge, No. 478, Ill .... ..... .......... .... . . 45.00
Eureka Lodge, 243, N. Y ... ........ . .. . . .... .. . .... . . 25.00
· Mount Vernon Lodge, No. 8, Vt. . . ... ......... . .... . 25 .00
Enterprise Lodge, No. 48, N. J ................ . . .. .. . 15.00 $1,408.48

}UN£, 1909.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. ...... ........ .... $ 25.92
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal...... . ..... . ..... .... 40.24
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal.. . ........... 51.12
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34.82
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal.................... 38.40
.South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal.. .. .... . . ..... .... . 41.20
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal . .. . ...... .....
4.00
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal. ... ........ .. ..... ... 27.44
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal..... .. . .... .. ...... .. 15.52
Sunset Lopge, No. 352, Cal...... ...... . ... . ....... 14.96
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal................. . .. 16.88
Mizpah Lodge, No . 378, Cal............... ........ 20.16
Highland Park Lodge, No. 382, Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.96
West Lake Lodge, No. 392, Cal.... . . . ..... ....... . 16.24
University Lodge, No. 394, Cal.... ...... ... ..... .. . 13.20
Prairie Lodge, No. 465, Ark. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11.35
Sonora Lodge, No. 12, Mex. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25.00
Cleveland Lodge, No. 211, Ill................ . . . ... . 20.00
Beatrice Lodge, No. 26, Neb . ....... . .. .. . .. ..... . .. 30.00
Pleiades Lodge, No. 478, Ill......... ... .... . .... .. .. 15.00
Social Lodge, No. 86, Ind.. ......................... 50.00
Wakeman Lodge, No. 522, Ohio.. . .................
5.00
De Kalb Lodge, No. 144, Ill..... ..... .............. 30.00
Bayonne Lodge, No. 99, N. J....................... 10.10
Pleiades Lodge, No. 478, Ill .... .................... 10.00

~den Lodge, No. 113, Cal...........................
Excelsior Lodge, No. 97, Ill. . . .. . .. . . .. . . . ... . .. ...
Lewistown Lodge, No. 203, Pa. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enterprise Lodge, No. 48, N. J... . ..................
Wyandotte Lodge, No. 170, Mich.. .... ...... . .......
Quaker City, Pa. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Howell Lodge, No. 38, .Mich .................... ; ...
Newton Lodge, No. 59, Iowa. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

'

105
74.75
30.00
30.00
69.90
54.50
56.70
9.00
15.00 $ 917.36

}UL'i, 1900.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. ................... J 25.76
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. . . . . . . . . . . • .. . . . . . . . . 40.08
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal............ 51.76
East Gate Lod~e, No. 290, Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . .. . . 35.20
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal.................... 39.20
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal.................... 42.00 ·
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal...............
4.00
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal..................... 27.60
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal.. . ................... 15.52
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15.37
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal................... 16.88
Mizpah Lodge, No. 378, Cal.. . ..................... 20.16
Highland Park Lodge, No. 382, Cal.............. .. . 11.20
West Lake Lodge, No. 392, Cal.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16.64
.72
University Lodge, No. 394, Cal...... . . . .. . . . . . . . . .
Moneta, Cal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.06
Lessing Lodge, No. 464, Ind...................... . 5.00
Kansas Lodge, No. 272, Kan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22.00
Oliver Lodge, No. 84, La. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25.00
Montezuma Lodge, No. 30, Nev. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.00
St. James Lodge, No. 78, Can... . . .... .......... . ..
3.20
Madison Lodge, No. 5, Wis. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.00
Windsor Lodge, No. 836, Ill..... ..... ............ . 75.00
Bayonne Lodge, No. 99, N. J... ................. .. 35.10
Live Oak Lodge, No. 61, Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.00
Holland Lodge, No. 1, Tex . ...... . ............... .. 25.00
Dallas Lodge, No. 760, Tex. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.50
Rising Sun, 0. E. S., No. 51, Ill......... .... ....... 50.00
Covenant Lodge, No. 526, Ill ..... ... .......... . . . .. 116.05 $ 749.00

106

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1909.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. ........ .... ....... $ 25.84
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal.. .. .......... .. .... .. 40.16
Southern California Lodg~, No. 278, Cal.. . .. ....... 52.40
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35.92
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal........... .. ... . .... 39.~5
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal............ .... .... 43.12
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal.. . .. . .... .. ...
4.16
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal... . . ......... ..... .. 27.60
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal ... ........ . ... . ...... 15.52
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. ..... . . ... .... . . ..... .. !5.92
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. .. ... .... . ........ 17.60
Mizpah Lodge, No. 378, Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20.80
Highland Park Lodge, No. 382, Cal. ............. .... 11.84
West Lake Lodge, No. 392, Cal............... .. ..... 16.96
University Lodge, No. 394, Cal.. .............. .. .... 4.72
Moneta, U. D., Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.05
Pictou Lodge, Canada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.00
Livonia Lodge, La. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.00
Corinthian Lodge, Ill .... . ..... . ..... . ....... , . . . . . 25.00
Blair Lodge, Ill. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25.00
King Solomon Lodge, Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27.50
Attica Lodge, Ind... ... . .... . .... . .... . . ...... . ..... 23.50
Davenport Lodge, Iowa. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Berkeley Lodge, Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 139.40
Social Lodge, Ind. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74.30
Live Oak Lodge, Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.00
Inyo Lodge, Cal. ... ... .... ... . . : . . . . ..... . .. ... , . . . 13.55
Enterprise Lodge, N. J ...... .. . ..... .. ...... . ....... · 78.20
Ashlar Lodge, Mich. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Clyde Lodge, Scotland ... . . . . . .. ... ..... :. . . .. . ...... 74.50
Monument Lodge, Ind .. .... . ......... . . . . . .. . .... .. 13.10
Montezuma Lodge, Nev. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Fruitvale Lodge, Cal .... .. ..... .. . ..... . ..... , . . . . . . 7.00
Jefferson L<?dge, Pa .... : . ... .. . . . ... . . ........ . . . . .. 20.00 $ 943.11

DETAILED STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS . AND
DISBURSEMENTS.

AUGUST,

$17,848.28

107

CLASSIFIED BY JURISDICTIONS.

I

Paid. Received.
25.00
Africa .... . ..... . .. . ....... .. ....... ..... ........ $
293.50 $ 14.75
Alabama .... . .................................. .
45.00
Alaska ...... . ...... . ................... . ....... .
171.50
262.50
Arizona .. . ..................................... .
211.35
276.35
Arkansas ... .. . . . .. ................ . .. ... .... · ·. ·
50.00
Australia . .. . . .. . . ................. ...... · · · · · · · ·
25.00
Austria ..................... .. .................. .
45.00
Bermuda Island .................... .. . . ........ .
20.00
Brazil .. . ....... .. .. . ... .. ..... . ... .. . . . . ....... .
40.00
80.00
British Columbia .... . .......... . ............... .
California ...................................... . 2,087.40 1,542.15
85.20
288.50
Canada .. . ............................... · · · · · · · ·
5.00
35.00
China .... ..... . .. .. . ... .. ...... . ...... .. ....... .
15.00
175.10
Colorado
200.00
161.50
Connecticut . .. ....... .. . .............. ... . ... ... .
25.00
42.00
Cuba . .. . ... . . .... . ..... ....... ... .. . . ........ .. .
37.50
Delaware .. . . . ... .. .............. .. . . .. . .. ..... . .
35.00
Denmark ... ... . ...... . ......... .. . ; .. . . . .. ... .. .
150.00
191.00
England ......................... ·· · · · · · · · ·· · · · · ·
25.00
Finland .. ........... . ... .... .. . ......... .. ...... .
150.00
120.00
Florida ...... ... : . ....... ... . .. .. . . .. .... · · · · · · ·
42.50
Georgia .. . .. ...... . ........... . ....... . . .. ...... .
22.50
Germany .. . . . . ..... ............................ .
25.00
Hawaii .. . ... .. ..... . .. . ... .. .. / . ............... .
25.50
50.00
H olland . . ...... . .. . ...... ·; ..... . . ............. .
75.00
95.00
Honolulu ... . .. ..... .. ........ . . .... .... . .. · ... . .
25.00
Idaho .............. . ................... . ....... .
Illinois .......... .. .................. .. ........ . . 1,601.75 1,264.20
306.75
369.75
Indiana . . .. ....... . ............ . ......... . ..... .
. 62.50
50.00
Indian Territory .............. ... . ... . ..... ..... .
207.85
288.90
Iowa ... . .. .. ...... ..... . · · · ···· ·· · · · · ·· · ·· ··· · · ·
23.50
Ireland ............................. .. .. . . · · · · · · ·
25.00
Italy .... . . . . ... ... . . ......... ..... . .. . .. ..... .. .
15.00
Jerusalem ...................................... .
77.00
144.50
Kansas ... . ...... . .. ... ....... .. ................ .
70.00
Kentucky ..... ... .. . .. ........ . . .... ... .. ... .... ,. 104.50
55.00
91.ClO
Louisiana .......................... ... ......... .
40~00
Maine . .. . ..... ... . ......... . . .. ....... .. . ... .. . .
35.00
Manila . . . .. ... ... . . ................... . ....... . .
100.00
Maryland .. . ... .... ................... ... · · · · · · · · 157.00
132.50
91.00
Massachusetts ...... . ....... . .... .... .. . . · · · · ·. · · ·

108

Mexico ......................................... .
145.00
Michigan ....................................... .
804.80
Minnesota ............................ ... ....... .
195.40
Mississippi ................... . .... ....... ..· .... .
55.00
Missouri ... .... ........... .. ..... .. ...... ... . ... .
657.45
Montana .......... ... ...... ... .' ... ... ... ... .... .
3C9.10
Nebraska .......... .. ..... .. .. .. ... ... . .. . .. .... .
112.50
Nevada ········· .......................... ..... .
42.50
New Brunswick ...... . .... .. .................. .. .
91.50
New Hampshire ............................. . .. .
47.50
New Jersey .......... . ... ... ...... .. . . . .... .. .' .. .
343.80
New Mexico . . ......... . .. .. ..... . .. . .......... . .
55.00
New York ............... .. .................... . .
651.05
New Zealand
10.00
North Carolina ... .. .... ... . . . .. ................ .
25.CO
North Dakota .................................. .
31.50
Norway .. ............... .. .... . ........ .. . ..... .
25.00
Nova Scotia .. .... .... . ............... .. .. .. . . .. .
42.00
Ohio . . ... .. . .... . ... .... ....... .. .. .. ..... . . . .. .
754.68
Oklahoma ... .. ... . .... . ....... ...... . . ... .... .. .
130.00
166.90
Oregon ......................... .... .. .......... .
Pennsylvania ............................. . ..... .
390.30
Peru ...... ....... ...... ..... ... ...... .. .... .... .
10.00
Philippine Islands ........ .. . ·............ . ..... . . .
10.00
Prince Edward Island . .......................... . 35.00
25.00
Prussia .....•...................................
42.00
Rhode Island .. .. . ... . ...... . ... . .. . . . ... . .... . . .
30.00
Russia ................. ....... ..... . .. .. ....... .
132.50
Scotland .......... .. . ......... . ..... ...... . .. .. .
South Carolina ... . . . ...... . ........ .. . .' ........ .
55.00
39.00
South Dakota ...... .. ...... . . ........ . .. ....... . .
54.00
Sweden ... . .............. . ... .. .......... .. . .... .
25.00
Switzerland ....... ... ..... . ......... . .. ... ...... .
71.00
Tennessee ............... . .... .. .. ... ... . ....... .
134.20
Texas .........•.. • ... .. ....... . . .... .. .. ........
397.25
Utah .............. .. . . . .. . .... . . ... . .. .. .... . . . .
280.90
Vermont ........... . . . . ........ .. .. ............ .
127.00
Virginia ...........•.............................
45.00
Wales .. ..... .... . .' . . . ............. . ... . . . .. .. .. .
423.00
Washington, D. C ........ ... ................. . .. .
117.00
Washington State . ._ . . .... .. ... .. ....... .. . , . .. .. .
28.00
W ~st Vi.rginia ............ .. . . . .. ... . '. .... .. ... . . .
338.40
W1sconsm •......•.•............... .. ............
88.50
Wyoming .. . .. .. .• : .......... . .. . ..... . .... .... .

109

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDIKGS OF THE

105.00
412.05
50.00
439.50
240.10
85.00
15.QO.
77.00
5.00
233.30
15.00
504.30

RECAPITULATION.
RF:CllIP'l'S.

Balance September 1, 1908 ........................ $ 513.50
Received from Grand Lodge of California... .... . .. 4,000.00
From Los Angeles City Lodges .... ...•. ... . .. .... · 4,080.16
From Sister Jurisdictions.... ... ... ....... .... ... . 8,943.10
From interest and miscellaneous sources... . . . . . . . .
311.52
$17,848.28.

Total Receipts ... . ... . ............. . . . .. .
DISBURSF:MF:N'l'S.

Paid Expense Fund .. .... ...... .. ........ ..... ... $ 1,714.17
Employment Bureau . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
300.00
Classified by Jurisdictions . . .. . ............ .. .. .. .. 15,300.48
Unclassified . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
68.00
$17,382.65

Total Paid Out ..... .. ..... ... . .. ... ... .. .
281.05
25.00
15.00
271.8()

$

Balance September 1, 1909 ............. . .. .
All of which is respectfully submitted,

465.63

J. H. BEAN,
President.

J. M. DUNSMOOR,
Secretary.

74.5()
25.00

35.50.
325.75
25.00

OAKLAND BOARD OF RELIEF.
To the M.' . w:. Grand Lodge of California:
The Masonic Board of Relief of Oakland herewith respectfully presents its annual report, from September 3, 1908, to September 1, 1909,
inclusive.
Until January, 1909, the Board's membership is shown in our report
for 1908.
Thl present officers ·have been elected to serve until the first
Wednesday in January, 1910, and 1!hey are: H . E. Truitt, Chairman;
C. H . Wood, Treasurer; J. J . Wamer, :Secretary.
The receipts and disbursements of the Board from September 3,
1908, to September 1, 1909, inclusive, are as follows:
RF:CF:IP'l'S.

25.00
375.00
88.W
267.40
25.00

Totals ...................... . ... . ... . . . .. $15,300.48 $8,943.J()

Live Oak Lodge, No. 61 .. ...... .... . .......... .... $423.45
Oakland Lodge, No. 188.... .. ....... .. .. ..... ..... 352.30
Brooklyn Lodg~, No. 225. .... .. .. ..... .. .. .. ..... 164.45
Alcatraz Lodge, No. 244............ ... ............. 284.65
Sequoia Lodge, No. 349.......... ....... .... . .... . 173.45
Fruitvale Lodge, No. 336..... .. ................... 103.35
$1,501.65

110

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1nterest on money deposited in bank ................ .
Refunded by Lodges in California ................. .
Refunded by Lodges in other jurisdictions .......... .
Refunded by individuals . ....... . .................. .
Contribution from Grand Lodge ................... .
Receiver of California Bank ....................... .

103.18
7ll!.80
753.85
1,020.77
1,000.00
14.61

Add balance in Treasury September 3, 1908 ......... .

$5,102.86
2,544.66

Total available funds during year ......... .

$7,647.52

DISBURS:EM:ENTS.

For the relief of needy and sick brethren and burial ........ .
For the relief of needy and sick widows and orphans ...... . .
Expense account ......................................... .

$2,119.11
1,561.68
627.86

Balance in Treasury September 2, 1909 .................... .

$4,308.65
3,338.87
$7,647.52

The sum of $708.80, reported as refunded by Lodges in California,
was received as follows :
Fresno Lodge, No. 247, Fresno .............................. . $ 10.80
-Grafton Lodge, No. 141, Knight's Landing ................... .
100.00
Forest Lodge, No. 66, Alleghany ...... . .. . ................. .
10.00
Alamo Lodge, No. 122, Walnut Creek .................... .
35.IO
San Joaquin Lodge, No. 19, Stockton ........................ .
125.50
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Los Angeles . .................... .
2.50
San Diego Lodge, No. 35, San Diego .................. . ... .
107.40
Friendship Lodge, No." 210, San Jose ....................... .
80.00
Sotoyome Lodge, No. 123, Healdsburg ...................... .
10.00
:Eureka Lodge, No. 14, Auburn .............................. .
150.00
Martinez Lodge, No. 41, Martinez ........................... .
40.00
:Sincerity Lodge, No. 132, Greenville ....................... .
37.50

$708.80

rn I

The sum of $753.85, reported as refunded by Lodges in other jurisdictions, was received as follows :
Dayton Lodge, No. 147, Dayton, Ohio ....................... . $ 12.55
8.25
Cheyenne Lodge, No. 1, Cheyenne, Wyo .. . . ........... ...... .
25.00
Garden City Lodge, No. 141, Chicago, Ill .................... .
25.00
Casper Lodge, No. 15, Casper, Wyo .. .. ................ ... .. .
40.00
St. John's Lodge, No. 9, Seattle, Wash ...................... .
2.35
Carnegie Lodge, No. 544, Carnegie, Pa . .. .... . ......... . . . . .
Tekoa Lodge, No. 78, Tekoa, Wash ...... ......... .... . . . .. . .
3.00
7.50
Lafayette Lodge, No. 111, Baltimore, Md ................... .
Star in the East Lodge, No. 33, Owatonna, Minn ..... . ..... .
20.00
25.00
Springfield Commandery, No. 6, K. T ., Springfield, Mass ..... .
Western Star Lodge, No. 2, Little Rock, Ark . ........... ... . .
10.00
Erie Lodge, No. 161, Buffalo, N. Y ..... ... ................. .
10.00
10.00
Escurial Lodge, No. 7, Virginia City, Nev ................... .
6.75
Illmo Lodge, No. 581, Illmo, Mo ........................ . ... .
157.05
Superior Lodge, No. 236, Superior, Wis .................. .. .
10.0()
Mountain City Lodge, No. 67, Lexington, Va ............... . .
Capital City, No. 312, Indianapolis, Ind . ..................... .
48~00
Geo. Washington Lodge, No. 9, St.' Louis, Mo .......... .. .. .
30.00
South Denver Lodge, No. 93, Denver, Colo .................. .
28.42
86.30
Nez Perces Lodge, No. 10, Lewiston, Idaho ...•.......... . ...
Piasa Lodge, No. 27, Alton, Ill ............................. .
20.00
Butte Lodge, No. 22, Butte, Mont .... ..... ............ . . . •..
95.68
Grove City Lodge, No. 33, Blackfoot, Idaho .. ...... . ...... .. .
28.00
Central City Lodge, No. 305, Syracuse, N. Y ................. .
35.00
Transportation Lodge, No. 842, Buffalo, N. Y ................ .
10.00
~

$753.85
The sum of $3,689.79, reported as disbursed for charity to brethren,
··
their widows and orphans, was distributed as follows:
18 cases from California . . . .......... . .. . ... . ............... . $1,0iS.16
1 case from Arkansas ................. . . . ................. · . Hi.OO
1 case from Australia .............. .. ................ . .. . . . ·
30.00
l case from Canada . .... ...... . ....................... . , . .
63.00
1 case from Colorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
37.42
1 case from Cuba . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
115,00
1 case from Holland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
20,:00
1 case from Honolulu . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
· 28125
2 cases from Idaho . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
144.00
6 cases from Jllinois . ...... .. .. .. . "· . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
120.00
4 cases from Indiana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
206.42
1 case from Kansas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
20.00
1 case from Kentucky . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
189.80
1 case from Louisiana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
35.00

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

112

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1 case from Maryland ............ , ................•......
3 cases from Massachusetts ............................•..
2 cases from Minnesota ... ... ..•......••.......•.•....•...
S cases from Missouri .................. , •...........•.....
l case from Montana ........ ....... ..... ................ .
2 cases from Nevada ......... . .......................... .
8 cases from New York .................................. .
l case from North Carolina ................ , .........•.•..
2 cases from Nebraska .................... , . , . , ....•......
1 case from New Hampshire ..........•.•.....• , ...••.....
1 case from Ohio ............•................ , ... , ...... .
1 case from Virginia ... .... .. .. ......•.. : .... , .... , ..... . .
2 cases from W ashjngton ...........•.....•.• .....•. ..•....
2 cases from Wyo111ing ...................•........... .. ..
l case from Wisconsin ................................. . . .

7.50
168.00
25.00
158.75
95.68
286.00
417.64
157.25
10.00
90.20
18.37
10.00
26.00
19.60
156.75
$3,680.79

During the period covered by this report the following named
brethren have been buried with Masonic Honors under the auspices of
this Board:
1908
Lodge
Sept.23 Frank O'N eat ....•...•• Dayton, No. 147 ....... Dayton, Ohio
Oct. 2 Nathan Stowell Bristol.. Casper, No. 15 ......... Casper, Wyo.
Dec. 16 W. C. Whitman ....•... Pentalpha, No. 202, Los Angeles, Cal.
1909
Lodge
Jan. 7 Ferdinand Fournier .... San Diego, No. 35 ... San Diego, Cal.
Jan. 16 Otto G. Zemple ....•..• Superior, No. 236 .. ... Superior, Wis.
Jan. 22 William Yeors Cirodi ... So. Memphis, No. 118, Memphis, Tenn.
Feb. 8 Joseph Henry Openshaw.Elko, No. 15 .............. Elko,Nev.
Mar.12 Chas. Louis Scrimger ..• Hawaiian, No. 21. ... Honolulu, H. T.
Mar. 22 Wm. Robert Fitzmaurice, Eureka, No. 16 ......... AubuPn, Cal.
Apr. 8 Geo. M. Rohrbacher ..... Kensington, No. 211, Philadelphia, Pa.
Apr. 19 Lafayette Wm. Doane . .. Sotoyome, No. 123 .. Healdsburg, Cal.
May 1 Sydney B. Laurence .. ... Harmony, No. 61 . ..... Denver, Colo.
May 10 R. F. Cook .............. Alma, No. 131. ...... .. .. Lyle, Minn.
JllaY 20 Frank W. Young ........ Santa Ro~a, No. 57 .. Santa Rosa, Cal.
June21 Cyrus Laufman .......• Sincerity, No. 132 .... Greenville, Cal.
Al.lg. 7 Geo. T. Budworth ...•.. Sanger, No. 316 ... .... .. Sanger, Cal.
Aug. 28 Hiram Cornell .......•. Minnecadusa, No. 192, Valentine, Neb.
Sept. 1 William W . Butler .• ~ ••• Temple, No. 6 .... Albuquerque, N. M.
All of which is respectfully submitted,

J. J. WARN£R,
Secretary.

H. E. TRUIT'l',
Chairman.

113

SACRAMENTO BOARD OF RELIEF.
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:

The Sacramento Masonic Board of Relief begs to submit the
following as its report for the year from October 1, 1908, to October 1,
1909:
.
RECEIPTS.

Refunded by Lodges in California. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 91.50
Refunded by Lodges in other jurisdfotions......... 252.25
Refunded by individuals. . . . .. . .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .
73.65
Add balance in treasury October 1, 1908 . ......... .

$ 417.40
1,514.28

Total available funds during year ........ .

$1,931.68

DISBURSEMENTS.

For relief of needy and sick brethr.e n and burial. .. . $471.55
For relief of needy and sick widows and orphans .. . 177.32
Expense for Secretary, stationery, postage, telegraphing, etc. . . . . ........ . ...... ..... , ..... .
95.25
Total disbursements .................... .
Balance in treasury October 1, 1909 .............. .

$ 744.12
1,187.56

Total . ......................... ... ...... .

$1,931.68

The sum of $648.87, r~ported as disbursed for charity to brethren,
their widows and orphans, was distributed as follows:
Members and wards of California Lodges .. ....... . ... .... .. $198.32
Members and wards of Lodges in other jurisdictions... .... .. 450.55
During the year covered by this report the following named
brethren were buried with Masonic Honors, under the auspices of this
Board :
Edward Seward McMahon, Tuscarora Lodge, No. 21, Tuscarora, Nev.
M. A. Ketcham, Granite Lodge, No. 222, Rocklin, Cal.
Evald Nelson, Crockett Lodge, No. 139, San Francisco, Cal.
Robert T. Mills, Natoma Lodge, No. 64, Folsom, Cal.
H. C. Howard, Reno Lodge, No. 13, Reno, Nevada.
0. W. Griffith, Illinoistown Lodge, No. 51, Colfax, Cal.
The Board is composed cf the Masters and Wardens of the Lodges
holding concurrent jurisdiction in Sacramento. which contribute but
draw nothing from the Board; sojourning Master Masons, their

I

11-1

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

widows and orphans alcne being recipients. Money refunded is again
given to the needy of the Order. ·
Respectfully submitted,
J. F. MORGAN,
JAs. F. LvoN,
President.
Secretary.

Which were referred to the Committee on Finance.
The Grand · Master appointed the following Com111htees:
On Charters .. . .......................... Joshua D. Tucker,
Henry S. Orme,
J . Claude Perry,
J. C. Pottle,
Chas. E . Mitchell.
On By-Laws ...... . ........... . ...... ... John F. Hughes,
Martin M. Hoffman,
Fred E. Vincent,
L. N. Buttner,
W. A. Blossom.

At 3 :30 o "clock P. M. the Grand Lodge was called off
-for: the purpose of laying the corner stone of the San
Francisco Bodies Scottish Rite Cathedral, to be called on
again at 10 o'clock Wednesday morning.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

115

The Grand Secretary read a letter from Bro. vVm. H.
Taft, of Kilwinning Lodge, No. 356, Cincinnati, Ohio, as
follows:
HI WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON

Eeverly, Massachusetts,
September 13, 1909.·

Brethren:
I am advised that through the good offices of the
Navy Department your Grand Master has been provided with
two pieces of oak from the U. S.S.Constitution, which
are to be formed into a gavel for use by your grand body.
There is no more inspiring example of the great service
rendered succeeding generations by the founders and defenders of the Republic than that of those who officered
and manned the 1 0ld Ironsides,• and that service can not

3Ju ~rauh iGnhyr.

be better justified than by a steady and energetic insist- ·

Morning Session.

ence upon the strict observance by each citizen of that rec-;

Wednesday, October 13, A. L. 5909.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock A. M.;
the Grand Master presiding.
The Minutes of yesterday's session were read and approved.
M.'. W .'. James A. Foshay, M.'. W.'. Motley H . Flint
and R:. W.'. John Q. Adams appeared and took their seats.
M:. W:. Edmund C. Atkinson presented a resolution
amending Section ' 11, Article III, Part III, of the Constitution, which was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

titude of conduct which is essential alike to personal
self-respect and publ~c confidence.
With best wishes for your continued success and prosperity, I remain,
Sincerely and fraternally yours,

To the M. W. Grand Lodge,
F. & A. M. of California,
San Francisco.

] 16

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Thereupon M.". W.". Oscar Lawler, in a most inspiring
address, which had for its main thought the valor and
steadiness of American manhood as exemplified in the devotion to duty of the officers and men of the grand old battleship "Con::titution," presented to Grand Lodge a gavel
made from part of the deck of that vessel, the "deck once
red with heroes' blood." He had caused it to be bound
with a silver band, suitably inscribed, and it will be kept
as a priceless souvenir of the thoughtfulness of Brother
Taft, by whose order the wood was procured, and of Brother
Lawler, who caused it to be fashioned into a gavel.

And the Grand Master appointed a Special Committee,
consisting of M.". 'Vil.". W. S. Wells, M. H. Flint and Geo.
~I. Perine, to prepare and present suitable resolutions in
recognition of mid presentation.

On motion of R.". W.". Alonzo J. Monroe, the Grand
Master was requested to tender to Brother Taft, personally,
the thanks of this Grand Body for his letter.
I

The Grand Secretary read the following letter:
San Francisco, August 10, 1909.
John Whicher, Grand Secretary,
Of the Grand Lodge of Free and
Accepted Masons of the State of California.
Dear Sir and Brother:
Inasmuch as the portraits of all of the Grand Masters of
our Grand Lodge were destroyed in the conflagration of 1906,
and as I possess the only oil portrait extant of my late brother,
Wm. C. Belcher, who was Grand Master in 1862, 1863 and 1864,
and who, at the time of his death, in 1895, had been Chairman
of the Committee on Jurisprudence of the Grand· Lodge for
nearly Jhirty years, I have thought it my duty-in view of all
the circumstances-as indeed it is my pleasure, to present this
portrait to the Grand Body in which he labored with such
untiring zeal f~r so many years. Masonry, to him, was, as it
were, his wedded love; to it he gave a life-long devotion. His
brethren of the mystic tie are, therefore, in a certain sense,
more entitled to this fine portrait than I am, or at least they
are equally entitled. Accordingly, I hereby present the accompanying portrait of Wm. C. Belaher, Grand Master, as aforesaid, to the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the
State of California.
Fraternally and sincerely yours,
EDwARD A. BtLCHtR.

117

Bro. J. D. Murphey introduced the following resolution:
WHtRtAS, It appears that the present method of extending relief
le• brethren of other jurisdictions by the Subordinate Lodges, Boards
·>f Relief and Charity. Committees of this jurisdiction is neither the
most efficacious nor the most satisfactory that can be devised; and
WHtatAs, Many jurisdictions refuse to make reimbursement for
money expended for the relief of their brethren sojourning among us
unless spedfically authorized; and
WHtRtAS, It appears that considerable uncertainty exists as to the
nature and extent of the relief which should be properly given without
specific authority; and
WHtRtAS, An entirely fair and equitable appropriation of funds by
this Grand Lodge to the various Subordinate Lodges and Boards of
Relief for the purposes of charity requires a consideration of each particular case, which is impracticable; now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That a Committee of five be appointed by the M.'. W.'.
Grand Master to make a thorough investigation of existing conditions, and the methods now in operation, and to report at the
next communication of this Grand Lodge; recommending, if the Committee deem it advisable, a consistent and harmonious plan for extending relief in this jurisdiction to those of other jurisdictions entitled
thereto.

Which was referred to the Committee on Finance.
An Edict of the Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of
Texas, severing Masonic communication between the Masonic Fraternity of Texas and all those holding allegiance
to the Grand Lodge Benito Juarez, was presented, and inas111 uch as the Grand Lodge of California had by formal resolution, passed in 1902, recognized said Grand Lodge Benito
Juarez, it was considered advisable that this Grand Lodge
should seriously consider the reasons for such severance;
and the said Edict and the evidence prompting it were referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

118

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

M:. W:. William S. Wells, President of the Board of
Trustees of the Masonic Home, presented the report of that
Board, and printed copies having been supplied to Grand
Lodge, the same was not read at this time.
Bro. E. S. Valentine, Chairman of the Special Committee on Masonic Home, presented the report of that Committee, which was ordered printed and placed in the hands
of the members of the Grand Lodge this day.
Bro. Henry E. Pennell introduced a resolution, relative
to the affairs of the Masonic Home.
The Grand Secretary read the Special Report of the
Trustees of the Masonic Home, as rendered to the Grand
Master.
All which reports and resolutions, relative to Masonic
Home, were made special order for consideration at 10
o'clock to-morrow morning.
M.". W:. Geo. M. Perine, President of the Masonic
Temple Association, rendered the following report :
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:

As President of the Masonic Temple Association I herewith submit the Annual R eport of that body :
At the last Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge the Directors reported that early steps would be taken toward the erection of a
Masonic Temple on the lot owned by the Association, but owing to the
continued illness and death of our beloved Brother Reuben H. Lloyd,
who was President of the Association, and also owing to conditions
arising whereby the Supervisors of the City of San Francisco decided
to submit to the choice of the people the proposition of issuing bonds
and purchasing a site for a civic center, which proposed site would include our Masonic property., our plans were somewhat frustrated and
no action was taken by the Board of Directors until after the proposition was defeated; though while the civic center proposition was in
abeyance I, with the able assistance of Past Master James H. Humphreys of Golden Gate Lodge, No. 30, drafted floor plans which very
materially assisted the architects in designing the plans which we will
submit.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

On May 13th, 1909, I was elected to succeed Brother Lloyd, both
as a Director and President of the Association, and after the civic ·
center proposition was defeated, appointed the necessary working committees, and the Directors selected the firm of Bliss & Faville as architects (Brother Walter D . Bliss, the senior member of the firm, being
a member of California Lodge, No. 1), feeling that under their guidance
our fondest expectations would be realized in the erection of a Temple
which would stand as a monument to the Masons of this Grand Jurisdiction ; and the Directors now take pleasure in submitting to this
Grand Body the plans and elevation designed by the aforesaid architects, and which they considered most fitted for such a Temple.
The cost of the building and furnishing, as estimated by the architects, will not exceed eight hundred thousand ·dollars, the architects
being instructed to figure liberally so that we can surely erect and furnish the building inside of their figures.
It is proposed by the Directors to raise funds for the purpose of
building in the following manner : To issue bonds in the sum of eight
hundred thousand dollars, one-half of which-four hundred thousand dollars-to be designated as "Class A," to run for the term of
twenty-five years, and four hundred thousand dollars to be designated as "Class B," to run for the term of forty years, both issues t.o
bear five per cent interest. There could be no better or safer investment than these bonds, and as we would wish to place the forty-year
bonds first, we feel satisfied we would have no trouble in placing the
"Class B" issue with the various Masonic Bodies having funds to invest
for the purpose.
The Trust Compa~y who will act as trustee for the bonds will
underwriter all of the remaining bonds which we would be required
to sell.
The Directors are of the opinion that it would be for the best
interest of Masonry and this Grand Body to have the whole of the·
capital stock owned by the Grand Lodge, and to have a Temple which
is purely Masonic in all its appointments. The subscription at the
present time is as follows:
Grand Lodge of California ..... , ........ . .. $225,000.00
Grand Chapter. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60,000.00
Grand Commandery. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40,000.00
Making a total of. ..................... $325,QOO.OO
of which amount the Grand Lodge has paid in to the Association the
sum of one hundred ninety-five thousand dollars, the Grand Chapter
twenty-five thousand dolla rs and the Gran? Commandery fifteen thou-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

sand dollars, and the Directors are of the opinion that the Grand Chapter and Grand Com~ndery would accept bonds for their total subscription in lieu of 5tock.
Respectfully submitted,
GEo. M. PERmE,
President Mµsonic Temple Association.

Which was referred to the Committee on Ritual.

120

Which report was adopted as read.
The Gr?-nd Loqge was then ~ailed off until 2 o'clock
this afternoon.

Jn "ranh ljnhgr.
Afternoon Session.
W cd~sd4y, October 13, A. L. 59()<).
The Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiqing.
Bro. Joseph 0. Downing introduced the following
resolution:
WHEREAS, The work of the Lodge has been greatly benefited by
· the requirement that the Wardens learn the work and lectures of the
first and second degrees before they can be installed, the pleasure of
~dge members and of visitors in attendance having been thus greatly
increased ; and
WHEll.EAS, The Senio,r Deacons at present seldom become proficient in their work till well along in the year, thus detracting from
the beauty of the work aµd the pleasure obtained therefrom; and
WHEREAS, No other offl.c.er of the Lodge is of greater assistance
to the Master in making the work of the Lodge Room perfect and beautiful than the Seni,or Deacon; and
WHEREAS, The Senior Deacon's lecture is, when well given, one
of the most beautiful and impressive of all the lectures given the candidate, and the ability to give that lecture well is a good test of ability
to give the Master's lectures:
Now THEREFORE, Be it Resolved by the Gmnd Lodge of Free and
Accepted M(1Sons of the State of Califoniiq,, that the Senior Deacon
before being installed, shall and must pass an examination and obtain ~
certificate of proficiency in the work of his office.
Respectfully submitted,
JosEPH OSCAR DOWNING,
W.". M.". of Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42,

121

The Grand Secretary presented the following petition
from Keystone Lodge, No. 161:
To the M.".

w:. Gra~d Lodge of the State of California:

Brethren: At a stated meeting of Keystone Lodge, No. 161, F. &
A. M., the following resolution was passed:
Resolv ed, That Keystone Lodge apply to the Grand Lodge for the
remission of its dues for the present year and for the sum of Five
Hundred Dollars, fo r t!ie following reasons:
There being a debt of $466.66, with interest to January 1, 1910 of
$23.33. This debt was incurred owing to the damage done to our hall
by the heavy storms of 1907, since which time we have had to bear
the burdens of two funerals, incurring a further debt of $120.00, mak·
ing a total of $609.66.
W e also have the partial care of a widow and four small children,
which, owin~ to the ill health of the widow and the age of the children,
are likely to remain a charge on the Lodge for sometime.
Two years ago we increased our dues to $12.00, but still find it
insufficient to meet the demands upon a small membership.
We r~spectfully ask that the above request be granted to n:lieve
our present fi nancial embarrassment.
Respectfully and fraternally submitted,
C. HUNTINGTON,
C. W. RHODES,
Master.
Secretary.

Which was referred to the Committee on Finance.
On motion of Bro. H. J . Owen, the thanks of the Grand
Lodge was extended to the Committee on the Status of
Masonry in the Philippine Islands, in recognition of the
arduous and exhaustive services of the members of said
Committee, and they were requested to continue their investigations and report at the next Annual Communication.

M:. w:. 'W illiam S. Wells, from the Committee on
Jurisprudence; reported as to all the decisions of the Grand
Master, rendered cl ~tring the year, a:; follows:

123

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGB OF CALIFORNIA

To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration the
following decisions of the Grand Master, reported and referred to this
'
Committee, to wit :

8. Jurisdiction to Enterta4n Charges.
A Lodge may entertain charges of un-Masonic conduct against
one residing within its jurisdiction, but who belongs to a Lodge without
the State,

122

DECISIONS.

1. Re•ligious Services-Wearing Lodge Clothing Thereat.
While ther~ is no reason why Masons should not, if they so desire,
attend church m a body, there is no authority for the wearing of
Masonic clothing on such occasion.

2. Jurisdiction.
The Grand Master has no authority to grant concurrent jurisdiction
to two Lodges situate in different incorporated communities over unincorporated territory lying between them.
3. Advancement Denied.
An Entered Apprentice .denied advancement should have refunded
to him the fee in excess of that properly chargeable for the Entered
Apprentice degree, and he must be carried on the Lodge rolls. (Proceedings, 1906, page 204.)
4. Ballot-Black Ball Overlooked.
Where, immediately at the close of a Lodge meeting at which a
ballot had been taken, found clear and the candidate declared elected
the Master observed that, through some defect in the ballot box ~
cube and two white balls remained lodged in the aperture between ~he
two compartments of the box, and a brother advised him that such
~ondition had been observed by him at the time of balloting and before
it closed, the Master should, at the ensuing meeting, order a reballot.

5. Funeral Benefits N ot Allowed.
A by-law providing for the payment of a fixed sum in the matter
of funeral expenses is unauthorized.

6. N on-affiliate-Right to Visit.

A_ Mason holding a <limit twelve years old from a Kansas Lodge
occupies the status of a suspended Mason, is "unworthy of Masonic

*

* *

co~s.ideration," an·d· "is not entitled to
any of the· rights,
pnv~leges or charities of the Order." (Constitution, part V, article II,
s~c:1on 1; part VI, article V, section 8.)
VlSlt a Lodge in this jurisdiction.

Hence he is not entitled to

7. Degree.
Degree m~y be co~fcr:ed at a meeting called for the purpose on
the same evenmg at which mstallation of officers is to take place.

Same-Effect of Suspension for Non-P<;Jyment of Dues.
The fact that a Mason is under suspension for non-payment of dues
does not relieve him from liability or trial on such charges.
9. ltistallation of Officers-Failure to Qualify.
No officer can be installed without certificate of qualification;
failure of the Master elect to qualify and secure certificate within sixty
days after election ( or such further time as may be allowed), will
render a special election of another Master necessary. (General
Regulation, 28.) While no such mandatory rule is prescribed as to
W a rdens, the Grand Lodge has declared itself upon the subject in no
uncertain terms. ( General Regulation, 82; Manual, section 661.)
A failure of such officer willfully or through incapacity to qualify would
justify declaring the office vacant and appli1::ation for dispensation for
a new election.
Where a Warden gives notice that he will not serve, declaration of
vacancy and dispensation for election to fill same is proper.
10. Lodge R oom.
A Lodge may forego holding a meeting at a time when the room
is at its disposal and permit another organization to meet therein without
collecting compensation therefor, and not be chargeable with paying
out its funds for or on account of another organization. Such practice,
however, is not to be encouraged.

11. Dues-W hen P eriod of Neglect to Pay Commences.
For the purpose of calculating the twelve months' period of neglect
to pay dues, which imJ>oses upon the Secretary the duty to notify the
delinquent, a.s provided in Constitution, part 11, article III, section 11 ;
the date when such dues become due shall be taken as a commencement
thereof. See Uniform Code, article IX, secticn 1.
12. Dues-Delinquency.
Constitution, part IV, article I, section 3, declares that none but
members whose dues are paid may vote at an election, and article IX,
section 2, of the Uniform Code, provides that no member in arrears for
dues shall be permitted to vote or be eligible to any office. Article IX,
section 1, of the Code, requires dues to be paid quarterly in advance.
In order to entitle a brother to vote at an election, his dues must
be paid in conformity with these requirements.

.l?ROCEEDINGS OF THE

Same-A,.reo«aig,..,.,..D•t'Y of S.uref.o.lfy at Election.
'l'bere is no rule requiriug the Se<::r11fary to present a written
i;eport of the status of members with reference to the payment of dues,
nor as to how the Master shall secure the ballot against votes of delinquents, these things being left to the good judgment of the latter.

13. Charity Committee-Expenditure of Funds By.
Technically, drafts of the Charity Committee (article X, section 1,
Uniform Code) should be signed by the members jointly. Only in
extreme cases, however, would the Master be subject to legitimate
criticism for granting relief upon his own initiative.
14. Degree of Master Ma.son Conferr.ed Upon a Fellow Craft of
Anothe11 Jurisdiction.
A member who has received the Entered Apprentice and Fellow
Craft degrees in another State may, after removal to and residence in
California for the requisite pericd, petition for the remaining degree,
upon showing permission of the Lodge in which he received the former
degrees and from which he holds a so-called certificate of dismissal;
such petition must take the course prescribed for petitions for degrees.
(Constitution, part HI, artide Ill, secticn 7; Manual, sections 97, 162
and 414.)

15. Trial-Right to be Represented by Counsel.
An accused who. is so situated by reasons of conditions beyond his
control (impri~onment by public authorities) as to render it impossible
for him to be presef\t at a trial, is entitled to be represented by counsel.
Under ~u1:h circi\rnstances, the Masonic trial should be deferred until
the criminal proceedings are concluded.
16. Evidence.
Admissions and confessions made by defendant in the course of a
tri~I may be used as evidence against him at a retrial ordered 'by the
Grand Lodge. (Manual. section 277.)
17. Liquors.
The policy of the Grand Lodge in the matter of the use of liquors
is unequivocal and no narrow interpretation should be given to its
regulation relating thereto. A banquet, which is part of the celebration
of a Lodge anniversary, is a Masonic gathering, and the facts that
ladies are present and the Lodge does not contribute thereto do not
deprive it of its Masonic character. (Proceedings, 1908, page 190.)
18. Chaplain.
A member who is not a member of a Lodge in California is not
qualified for appointment as Chaplain.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

125

Installation and Ceremony-Who May Conduct.
A Past Master of a Lodge in this jurisdictio.n who has removed and
transferred his membership to a Lodge .in Nevada is qualified to conduct the ceremony of installation, the Lodge being in the immediate
charge of its proper cfficers. (Proceedings, 1894, pages 540-707.)

19. Restoration.
Proceedings by motion and resolutiqn reciting restoration of a
member under suspension for twelve years for non-payment of dues
nre void. (Constitution, part III, article III, section 11; Uniform Code,
nrticle IX, section 3.)
20. Dues-When Liability for Ceases.
From the moment of the issuance of certificate of withdrawal or
<limit liability for dues to the Lodge issuing the same ceases.
'

21. Metttbership-Tran.rfer of-Certificale of Standi11g.
The certificate of standing provided for by the Constitution, part V,
article II, section S, need not be directed to any particular Lodge; the
form set forth in Anderson's Manual has never been adopted as a part
of our Constitution or laws. (Proceedings, 1906, page 462.)

22. 'Burial.
A Lodge may accord Masonic burial to one under suspension for
non-payment of dues against whom no other offense has been established. (Constitution, part V, article II, section 5; Manual, section~.)
23. Hall.
Renting of hall to other than Masonic organizations is not restricted.
24. Advarncemtnl--Objection to.
Any Master Maston, whether a member of the Lodge, or not, may
make objection to advancement, the procedure upon which is pre·
scribed in the Constitution, part III, article III, section 6, and Manual,
sections 84, 85, 86, 152 and 533.
The candidate is entitled to be heard before jcdgment.
Evidence received by the committee should. on demand, be read
to the Lodge in order that it may act intelligently.
When it acts it is the duty of all Masons to submit thereto ul1less
unconscionable.
25. Jurisdiction.
\Vhen a Ledge has ccnferred the Entered Apprentice degree under
the mistaken understanding that the candidate resides within its jurisdiction, it should, immediately upon discovery of its mistake, suspend
prcceeding, and both the candidate and the Lodge request the waiver
from the Lodge having jurisdiction, the infringing Lodge tendering

126

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

t~ the latter the full amount of fees. Such request should then follow
the regular course. (Constitution, part III, article III, section 2;
Manual, sections 81, 130, 398, 792, 923 and 984.)
26. Charges.
Where charges of a criminal nature have been preferred and a
commission appointed, trial should be proceeded with, notwithstanding
~eques.t of complainant that they be withdrawn. When proceedings
mvolvmg the same facts are pending in the courts, trial should be
deferred until the conclusion thereof.

2.7. Co11solidatio11 of Lodges.
A Master can not refuse to entertain a motion regularly presented to consolidate his own with another Lodge. He may, however,
and should e:icercise a restraining influence on acrimonious debate.
Written notice of proceedings to consolidate must be sent to all
members three months in advance of the stated meeting at which
they are to be acted upon.
Consolidation can only take place upon the assent of three-fourths
of . the memb~rs of each Lodge involved. (Constitution, part III,
article II, sect10n 11 ; Proceedings of 1883, page 277.)
28. Fees-Forfeiture of.
One who was elected in March, 1898, to receive the degrees failed
to present himself within three months for initiation and the fee was
declared forfeited. In 1908 he wrote from Alaska, asking that a
Lodge in that jurisdiction be delegated to confer the degrees. H eld,
that he had lost his status as a petitioner in California, and that the
Lodge had no jurisdiction over him.

29. Liquors.
Meetings of an organization, eligibility to which requires Danish
birth and good standing as a Master Mason in some Lodge in San
Francisco, an: Masonic gatherings, at which the use of liquors is
forbidden.
'30. Age Qualifimtion.
Petition for degrees can not be received from one under twenty-one
years of age. (Proceedings of 1902, page 704.)
31. Dimit.
A brother holding a dimit issued in Ohio in 1902 may, provided he
has not resided in the State six months, deposit the same with his
application with a Lodge in this State in the same manner as if the
dimit were less than six months old; if he has resided in California
more than six months, he must pay the affiliation fee and a sum equa!
to six months' dues, which must be returned if the petition is rejected.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORl:'."IA

127

32. Petitio11-0bjection to.
Objection to a petition may be made by a member of the Lodge
by written communication. If not withdrawn within sixty days it will
operate as a rejection, which should be reported to the Grand Secretary. (Proceedings of 1905, page 117.)

33. Jurisdiction.
It is not an invasion or a violation of jurisdiction for a Lodge in
('nlifornia to receive and act upon petition for restoration by a
member thereof suspended twelve years before for non-payment of
dues, although he is no longer a resident of the State.
34. Life Membership-Power to Rescind.
Life membership can not be rescinded without the consent of the
Grand Lodge, and a life member desiring to discontinue his status as
such is not entitled to withdraw a proportion of the net life membership fund based upc n the number of members contributing thereto.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE.

The Grand Master has made a most valuable innovation in regard to his decisions, one that, looking to the best interests of the
Grand Ledge, we hope will serve as a precedent for all coming Grand
Masters. Copies of his decisions were submitted to the Chairman of
this Committee several weeks ago. This has enabled us to give them
much more careful consideration than has heretofore been possible.
It is obvious that if this method be followed in the future this Committee will be in much better position to assist the Grand Lodge than
it has occupied heretofore, where it has been compelled, within a few
hours, to review, consider and report on a great number of rulings,
many of which involved doubtfol questions of great importance. The
thanks of the Grand Lodge should be extended to Grand Master
Lawler for inaugurating what we are sure will be an established
custom.
The Grand Master submitted with his 'decisions the original
papers in each case, thus contributing to a better understanding of
the facts. The decisions show much investigation e n his part and an
earnest desire to arrive at conclusions that are in full accord with the
principles of our Order, and the letter of our written law. They a re,
in the main, clear and correct expressions of the law as it exists in
this jurisdiction.
We will take up each decision separately and report thereon.
· 1.-Decision 1 correctly states the law as declared in numerous
d ecisirns. We recommend its approval.

129

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

2.-Decision 2 is obviously correct, the matter of jurisdiction of
Lodges being regulated by provisions of our Constitution, and the
Grand Master being without power to allow action contrary t9' the
terms of such provisions. We recommend its approval.
3.-Decision 3 is correct (Proceedings, 1906, page 204). We
recommend its approval.

16.-Decision 16 is correct and requires no notice. We recommend its approval.
17.-The same is true as to Decision 17. We recommend its
approval.
18.-Decision 18 consists of two parts. The part holding that a
Past Master of another jurisdiction may conduct the ceremony of
Installation, the Lodge being in the immediate charge of its proper
•>fficers, is in accord with a previous decision (Proceedings, 1894, pages
240, 707). The part holding that one who is not a member of the
Lodge is not qualified for appointment as Chaplain thereof is correct.
No one can be an officer of a Lodge unless he be a member thereof,
except the Tyler. (See amendment to By-Laws, Proceedings, 1908,
page 189.) We recommend that the decision be approved.
19.-Decision 19, as applied to the facts of the particular case were
correct. It was attempted to restore a brother who had been under
suspension for non-payment of dues for over twelve years, by a resolution at a stated meeting, without any petition for such restoration
having been presented at the preceding stated meeting (Constitution,
part III, article III, sectkn 11; Uniform Code of By-Laws, article IX,
section 3). We recommend that the decision be approved.
20.- Decision 20 is correct and requires no notice. We recommend its approval.
21.-The same is true of Decision 21. We recommend its approval.
22.-The same is true of Decision 22. We recommend its approval.
23.-The same is true of Decision 23. We recommend its approval.
25.-The same is true of Decision 25. We recommend its approv.al.
27.-The same is true of Decision 27. We recommend its approval.
28.- The papers accompanying Decision 28 showed that the applicant had resided in Alaska for over ten years, and so far as appears
had not, prior to his application in 1908, made any attempt to obtain
his first degree. Under the provisions of our Uniform Code of
By-Laws, the fee paid by an applicant for the degrees is forfeited if
he does not "come forward" to be initiated within three months after
his election, "unless the Lodge shall otherwise direct." (Section 2,
article IV.)
This would seem to contemplate that all the rights of one elected
to receive the degrees shall expire at such a time, and that he is
henceforth as one who has not been elected at all, or even petitioned
for the degrees, unless the Lodge shall otherwise direct. Of course,
the Lodge should "otherwise direct" where the delay is not unreasonable and was unavoidable so far as the petitioner was concerned, as,
for instance, where sickness or ~ necessary temporary absence pre-

128

4.-We think that under the peculiar circumstances of this case,
the ruling of the Grand Master was correct. Ordinarily, the announcement of the result of the ballot without objection made by any
member should settle the matter so far as the election is concerned.
But here it was satisfactorily made to appear immediately upon the
closing of the Lodge, that, owing to a defect in the ballot box, the
members present had not been allowed to deposit their votes in such a
way that they could be considered. The ballot attempted was incomplete, and it was entirely proper that a reballot be had. We recommend that the decision be approved.
5.-Decision 5, holding a by-law relating to funeral benefits unauthorized, is correct. We recommend its approval.
7.-Decision 7 is correct. We recommend its approval.
8.-Decision 8 consists of two parts. The first part simply sustains the jurisdiction conferred by our Constitution on a Lodge over
all Masons residing within its territorial jurisdiction, to whatever
Lodge they may belong. The second part is in accord with many
previous decisions. We recommend the approval of this decisi~n.
9.-Decision 9 is a correct statement of our law on the subjects
with .which it deals. We recommend its approval.
10.-Decision 10 is correct and requires no notice. We recommend its approval.
11.-Decision 11 is correct. It simply holds that the comme1icemwt of the period of neglect to pay dues, at the end of which the
Secretary must notify the delinquent to pay or show reason for his
neglect, is the time when under the By-Laws the dues become payable.
It is not to be understood that this decision holds or intimates that
such period ends prior" to the elapsing of the full time specified in the
Constitution. We recommend that the decision be approved.
12.-Decision 12 is correct and requires no notice. We recommend its approval.
13.-The same is true as to Decision 13. We recommend its
approval.
14.-Decision 14 is correct. This decision is not to be understood
as intimating that the so-called certificate of dismissal is not in itself
sufficient .evidence of permission from the Lodge in which the applicant
received the former degree or degrees. We recommend its approval.

5

130

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

131

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
\

vented. The failure t o "come forward" should be a voluntary one on
the part of the petitioner in order to cause a forfeiture. But we think
this direction to be effective for any purpose should be invoked by
the petitioner if not prior to the expiration of the three months, at
least within a reasonable time thereafter, and that it should then
appear that the failure of the petitioner to proceed earlier was without
fault on his part, and this a matter to be left to the discretion of the
Lodge. Otherwise it should be held that he had lost all rights at the
expiration of the three months, and that from that time the Lodge
had no jurisdiction over him. Upon the facts stated in this case, the
Lodge would not have been warranted in attempting to assume jurisdiction over the petitioner. We recommend that the decision be
approved.
30.-Decision 30 is correct and requires no notice. We recommend its approval.
32.-The same is true of Decision 32. We recommend its approval.
33.-Decision 33 is correct. (Se'e section 11, Article III. part 3,
Constitution.) • By virtue of the provision cited, our Grand Master
holds that the Lodge retains jurisdiction to restore such a brother
We recommend its approval. (But see section 11, a~ticle III, part III:
Constitution, amended subsequent to report of Committee.)
34.-Decision 34 is correct and requires no notice. We recommend
its approval.
6-31.-Decision 6, made during the necessary absence of the Grand
Master from the State of California, relating to the status of a Mason
holding a dimit twelve years old, from a Kansas Lodge, to the effect
that such Mason occupies the status of a Mason suspended for nonpayment of dues, and is not entitled to visit a Lodge in this jurisdiction, was erroneous, unless such Mason had resided in California for
six months and had failed to make application for membership to some
Lodge in California. The papers submitted with the decision indicate
that he had just arrived from Nevada, and had not lived in California
six months. If so, the decision was wrong. The law applicable in this
regard is correctly stated in the decision of the Grand Master numbered 31, where it was held that the brother holding a <limit issued
by a Lodge in the State of Iowa in the year 1902 may deposit the same
with a Lodge in this State in the same manner and upon the same
conditions as if the same were less than six months old, if he has not
resided in this State for six months. The latter ruling is apparently
in conflict with Decision 6. It is thoroughly settled that under our
constitutional provisions, a non-affiliate does not lose any of his
Masonic rights and privileges unles·s he has resided in this State for
six months without having made application for membership to some
lodge therein. This matter was fully discussed in the address of the

Grand Master in 1889 (Proceedings, 1899, page 32), and the decision
of the Grand• Master in regard thereto was approved by the Grand
1,odge. We recommend the adoption of this report, the effect of
which will be the overruling of Decision No. 6, and the affirmance of
Decision No. 31.
15-26.-Both Decision 15 and 26 relate to charges of a Masonic
offense constituting also a crime under the law of the State, and as to
which a criminal proceeding is pending in the courts. The Grand
Master ruled that where such charges have been presented and a
commission appointed, the mere ·request of the accuser that the
charges be withdrawn is not a sufficient reason for their withdrawal.
As to the correctness of this ruling there can be no doubt. The good
name and best interests of Masonry are involved in such a matter, and
the desire of the accuser or his willingness to waive the alleged
offense is absolutely immaterial. The Grand Master also held that
if by reason of imprisonment, the accused was unable to _be present, he
is entitled to be represented by counsel. This, of course, is also correct.
The Constitution in terms authorizes the presence of counsel in any
case on the part of both accuser and accused, the only limitation being
that such counsel must be a Master Mason in good standing ( section 6,
article IV, part VI, Constitution) . The Grand Master further held that
under such circumstances the Masonic trial should be deferred until
the criminal proceedings are concluded. Our decisions do not go to
that extent. It has been held that where one has been charged with a
crime in the courts we may ordinarily defer a Masonic trial for the
same offense until the result of a trial therein has been announced.
In this we entirely concur. But we can conceive of cases where no
such delay would be necessary or proper, and where the best interests
of Masonry demand a speedy investigation of the charges and a
prompt disposition of the matter. Each case must depend upon its
own circumstances. It may be well to note that it is settled in this
jurisdiction tha·t an acquittal in the courts is not a bar to a prosecution
of the same charge as a Masonic offense. With this modification we
recommend the approval of both Decision 15 and 26.
24.-We are of the opinion that Decision 24, as to the legal right
of one not a member of a Lodge to make the objection to the advancement of an E . A. or F . C. therein, provided by section 6, article III,
part III, of the Constitution, is not in accord with our law. The constitutional provision in that regard is very explicit, the same section
providing both for objection to initiation and objection to advancement and as to each case it is provided that the objection may be
mad: by "a member." It is very clear that it was not meant that one
not a member of the particular Lodge could interpose art objection to
an initiation that would have the effect of a rejection if not withdrawn
in sixty days. Must not the same meaning be given to the word

133

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

"member" in relation to an objection to the advancement that compels
reference to a committee and operates as a basis for a ·vote by which
advancement may be denied.
Grand Master Taylor, in 1882, ruled explicitly that objection to
advancement could be made only by a member of the Lodge for whom
the degree was to be conferred (Proceedings, 1881-2, page 445), and
this ruling was affirmed by the Grand Lodge. (Proceedings, 1881-2,
page 687.) Section 533 of the Manual is apparently not a correct
statement of Grand Master Taylor's decision. In 1899 it was expressly
held that where a Lodge had been requested by another Lodge to confer
the remaining degrees on an E. A. Mason, no one but a member of the
requesting Lodge could make legal objeCtion to his advancement.
This ruling was also affirmed by the Grand Lodge (Proceedings,
1899-1900. pages 22, 274). There is no explicit ruling to the contrary,
and we are satisfied that the constitutional provision will admit of no
other construction. Of course, it is entirely proper and commendable
for a Mason not a member of the Lodge to inform the Lodge as to
any objection. that he considers sufficient to the advancement of a
brother of which he has knowledge. If the information thus given is
deemed of sufficient importance and weight to warrant investigatil'n at
all, doubtless advancement would be deferred, and if a formal inquiry
under the Constitution is then found advisable, some member of the
Lodge should interpose the objection which is the essential basis to
a proceeding having for its purpose the deprival of the right of
advancement. The remainder of the decision is correct and requires
no notice, and that portion should be approved; the first disapproved,
as herein set forth. We recommend the approval hereof.
29.-This ruling was made in view of the regulation adopted at our
last Communication, as follows :

but Blue Lodge Masonry and include nothing else. The word "Masonic" was used in this regulation with the same restricted meaning
that it has in all the other written laws of this Grand Lodge. In one
acnse of the word we might properly term a meeting of a Temple of the
Shriners a Masonic gathering, for all members are Masons as well as
Shriners, but we could not properly do so in the sense in which we
use the word in our laws. And if we did not intend to include such a,
body as this, by what logic can it be held that we intended to include
what the papers in the case before us show to have been simply a
social club, solely because it has seen fit to confine its membership to
Masons? It has not the remotest connection with Masonry, and the
members thereof cannot meet in the character of Masons. Whatever
the test of eligibility to membership may be, the members meet therein
solely as members of their club, just as two or more Masons might
meet socially in the privacy of the home of one of them. Such meetings
are not "Masonic gatherings" within the meaning of our regulation.
A letter accompanying the decision shows that it was proposed to
name the social club the "Danish Freemason Club" or "Danish Masonic
Club." We do not believe that Masons can with propriety use the
name of Freemasonry for such a purpose and so report.
We recommend that Decision 29 be disapproved, and that this
report be adopted as the sense of the Grand Lodge on the questions
discussed therein.

132
I

"Resolved, That no spirituous, malt or fermented liquors
shall be served at any Masonic banquet or gathering." (Proceedings, 1908, page 190.)
·
We quite agree with the Grand Master in his remarks regarding
this regulation, contained in his decision in the Pacific Lodge case,
heretofore set forth, that the same should be liberally construed, with
a view to effectuate the real intent of the Grand Lodge, but we are of
the opinion that this ruling goes beyond anything that was intended.
The words "Masonic banquet" and "Masonic gathering" in the regulation must be held to have reference' only to banquets and gatherings
appert<Vning to Masonic Lodges. We were not attempting to legislate
as to bodies over which we have no jurisdiction er power, although hy
virtue of their own laws their TT'embership may be restricted t o Masons,
such as the Order of the Mystic Shrine. As used in ot•r C o nstit~ti c n
and laws, the words "Mason" and "Masonic" have tG dv with nothing

..

FRANK MARION ANGELLO'l'Tl,
WILLIAM S1'WALL W1'LLS,
CHAS. L. PA'l''J'ON,
THOS. FLINT,
MOTLEY H. FLIN'!',

Committee.

The report, in its entirety, was adopted as read.
M .'. W .'. Charles L. Patton, from the Special Committee appointed by the Grand Master for the purpose of
examining into matters concerning the title of the Home at
San Gabriel, reported as follows :
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Special Committee, appointed for the purpose of examining
into matters concerning the transfer of the Home at San Gabriel,
reports :
That an examination of the proceedings taken for the purpose of
vesting in the Grand Master the title to tre San Gabriel property shows
that owing to informalities the title is not such as should be accepted
by the Grand Master or this Grand Lodge.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We believe, however, that the matter of transferring this title is
one which will require grave thought and consideration, and we recommend that the matter be referred to the Trustees of the Masonic
Widows' and Orphans' Home and the incoming Grand Master, with
full power to take all necessary steps to effect a transfer of the property
free and clear from everything which would militate against its use
• and disposal by this Grand Lodge in such manner as might to it seem
fit.
And we further recommend that the Board of Trustees of the
Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home be empowered, with the consent
of the Grand Master, to form such a corporation as may be necessary
or advisable for the purpose of dealing with its property already
acquired and for the purpose of acquiring or disposing of property of
every nature and description.
Respectfully submitted,
CHAS. L. PATTON,
B. F . BLEDSOE,
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS,
Committee.

WHEREAS, Kilauea Lodge, No. 330, at Hilo, in the Island of Hawaii,
has, during the past year, suffered severe financial reverses in unexpected losses through unavoidable circumstances incident to the construction of its Temple, thereby producing not only a depleted condition
of its treasury and rendering most difficult the discharge of its charity
and other obligations, but imposing, also, a heavy debt upon the Lodge;
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Grand Lodge dues for the current year of
Kilauea Lodge, No. 330, be and the same are hereby remitted.

13-l

The report was adopted.
Bro. J. J. McKinnon introduced two resolutions, one
referring to the purchase of jewels for Past Masters, by
contributions from members; and one relative to smoking
in Lodge rooms. Both which were referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
Bro. Glen D. Dic~ie presented the following:
WHEREAS, It appears from the reports of both Grand Secretary and
Grand Lecturer that the present diploma should be superseded by a
diploma of more suitable size; be it

Resolved, That a diploma be prepared in .accordance with the
recommendations appearing in the report of the Grand Secretary, the
same to be issued as the Grand Lodg.e shall hereafter provide. The
cost of same to be referred to the Committee on Accounts.

Which was referred to the same Committee as that to
whkh had been referred the Grand Master's address.
Bro. Joshua D. Tucker, in behalf of Kilauea Lodge,
No. 330, presented the following resolution:

Which was referred to the Committee on Finance.
The following resolution was offered by Bro. J. W.
Eddy:
No Lodge shall receive a petition for degrees or affiliation from
any person who is engaged in the manufacture or sale of intoxicating
liquors as a bev~rage, either distiller, brewer, brewery agent, wholesale
liquor dealer or salesman for such dealer, saloon keeper or bar tender.
Any member who may hereafter begin such business shall be expelled.

Which was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
This being the hour fixed for the Special Memorial
Service in honor of the memory of Past Grand Master Gilbert B. Claiborne, Past Deputy Grand Master Reuben H.
Lloyd and Past Junior Grand Warden Jacob Hart Neff, the
service was commenced by an invocation by the . V:. R.'.
Ernest E. Baker, Grand Chaplain, and music, "Lead Kindly
Light," by the following quartet: Brothers Samuel D.
Mayer, Douglass B. Crane, John C. Hughes, W . Egerton
Smith.
Then followed an instructive address by the Grand
Chaplain on the lessons of the lives and characters of
Brothers Claiborne and Lloyd, the central thought being
that those men stood for the best aristocracy-the aristocracy of character.
The W.'. Samuel D. Mayer, Grand Organist for the
past forty-one years, assisted by the choir, then sang
"They're Gathering Homeward."
The M.'. W:. Edmund C. Atkinson spoke as follows:

PROCEEDIKGS OF THE

Most Worshipful Grand Master, and B rethren of the Grand Lodge:

I have come forward at this time to speak a few plain, simple
words and not to deliver an elaborate address. The words that I shall
speak' must come from the impulse of the moment, yet I realize that
there are moments in life when the heart swells with emoticn that the
tongue cannot express. With me, I fear that moment is now.
As the years go by, we assemble here in Annual ·communication to
perpetuate the sublime principles of Freema.sonry, and to legislate for
the good of the Grand Lodge and the guidance of the subordinate
Lodges throughout the jurisdiction. These annual meetings we regard
u.s Masonic home-comings. Here assembled, we exchange fraternal
gre-etings-take our brethren by the hand, solicitous for their welfare,
and bid them God-speed over the rough and uneven journey of life. It
seems to me that at the recurrence of these Annual Communications
God sends out a summons to call us to Special Convocation to take
into consideration the brevity of life, to commemorate our honored'
dead and to make due preparation for that great Ch,mge which must
com: to all the living. As I speak these words there comes to my mind
a Grecian legend :
Alexander, after a hard fought battle, summoned his war~i o rs to
meet him in the banquet hall, and ere the feast began, he rcse and
asked: "Are all who fought at Issus here ?" And Clitus, the Macedcnian l!encral, ma<le answer and said : "All, Alexander, all save those
who fell." "Then," said Alexander, "all who fought at Issns are here,
for the dead are here in memory."
Mv brothers, for long', long years, we have fought life's battles together~battles for the weak against the strong, for the rig·ht against
the wrong.
Many of our valiant comrades have fallen from c;ur ranks, and
have been borne to the great Valhalla cloisters of the ever-living years.
Vt/e shall never again meet them in Grand Lodge, around the festal
hcar<l, or nn the broad highway of life. But they shall not be fo rgotten.
In the soil of our bosoms we have prepared their graves, and there
they shall rest beneath the immortelles of brotherly love, an<l me~ory's
perennial acacia shall bloom above their sacred dust. Gone, bu: ":1th us
still; dead, yet still they .live; their silent influences are brmgmg us
r:earer and nearer to the light of our eternal home.
"O, the stars never tread the blue heavens at night,
But we feel where the ransomed have trod,
And the day never smiles from its palace of light,
But we feel the bright smile of our God."
Veterans in the cause of Truth and Justice! I seem to see them
r:ow; and a halo of glory will hang over the Grand Lodge of C~lifornia
so long as their names shall remain emblazoned upon memory s walls.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

I desire at this time to acknowledge the honor conferred upon me
by our Most Worshipful Grand Master, in inviting me to say a few
words commemorative of our lamented brother, Past Junior Grand
\Varden, Jacob Hart Neff. At the mention of that name I know that
many a brother will recall sad, sweet memories of one of the noblest
Masons ever borne upon the roll of this Grand Lodge. Brother Neff
was one of God's noblemen. He was faithful in the performance of
every duty, and loyal to every trust. In his daily walk he exemplified
those characteristics which go to make up the noble man, and the sincere and devoted Mason.
Brother Neff was born in Strausberg, Pennsylvania, in 1830. When
but a young man he came across the plains to California, the El Dorado
of the West, and after casting about for a few diiys, he drove his
stakes in Placer Cqunty, and gave his attention to mining. He was
made a Mason in Wisconsin Hill Lodge, No. 74, in 1856. When that
Lodge surrendered its charter, he was instrumental in fanning Ionic
Lodge, No. 121, and was for several terms its Master. On account of
change of residence, he dimitted, and united with Eureka Lodge, No. 16,
at Auburn, and was a member thereof when he passed away. He came
into Grand Lodge in 1859, and commenced his valued work on important committees, and for long years was thus engaged. At the time of
his death, he was Chairman of the Committee on Finance. In 1875 he
was elected Junior Grand Warden, and at the close of his term made
a most unusual request; he asked his brethren not to advance him, for
he felt that he could be of greater service to the Grand Lodge in other
capacities.
By his intrinsic worth he rose from the miner's humble cabin to
honorable stations in the capital of the State. As State Senator, he was
cautious and far-seeing, devoted not only to the interests of his constituents, but to the welfare, the honor and prosperity, the development
and the upbuilding of this great Commonwealth. As Lieutenant Governor, he earned the respect and lasting esteem of every citizen, irrespettive of party affiliations.
I have known little of Brother N eff's l"arly life. It is enough for
me to know that such a man has lived, that the world has been made
better by his life of truth and probity, that the Grand Lodge has so long
had the benefit of his valued services, and that it has been my privilege
to hold pleasant relations with him for a period of mo;e than thirty
years.
Brothei: Neff was a great lover of nature, and looked through
nature up to nature's God.
In the early days of our acquaintance, it was my pll"a~ure often to
visit him in his mountain home. On one occasiOn we were riding in
the high Sierras, and at a certain point the team was halted ; I was

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

· GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

requested to alight and pass up a short path leading to the edge of a
prec1p1ce. On doing so, there burst upon my vision one of the grandest
and most soul-inspiring views that I ever beheld, and the words of the
psalmist immediately came to my lips: "I will lift up mine eyes to
the hills, whence cometh my help." I involuntarily raised my hat, and
I heard Brother Neff's voice: "That's right, that's right; no man who
has a soul can ever stand upon that point without uncovering."
We returned to his home, and in the evening, seated by his cheerful
fireside, we talked long into the night. We talked nf life and its
duties, its opportunities, its dangers, and its uncertainties. I quoted
to him a stanza from the writings of Letitia Barbauld:
"Life, I know not what thou art,
But know that thou and I must part;
Or when, or where, or how we met,
I own to me's a secret yet.
Life, we've been long together,
Through pleasant and through cloudy weather.
'Tis hard to part when friends are dear,
Perhaps 'twill cost a sigh, a tear.
Then steal away; give little warning;
Take thine own time;
Say not 'good night,'
But in some brighter clime
Bid me 'good morning.' "

"The just shall live by faith.'' If we have faith in God and immortality, if we have so ordered our lives that we may apply our hearts
unto wisdom, if, in our daily walk, we have exemplified the virtues
taught us in Freemasonry, we may reasonably hope that the separation
from our friends, our brothers, and our loved ones, will not be final.
Beyond the smiling and the weeping, beyond the mistakes and discords
of time, there will be an unbroken reunion in that Better Land beyond
the star-gemmed sky.
Full of years and honors, our brother has gone before us. His
noble virtues shall be recorded on enduring tablets, and his words
of love and kindness spoken here will be re-echoed in the Bright Beyond. With tottering steps he has passed adown that path where
life's evening shadows fall. Once again, and for the last time, he has
been brought from darkness to light. The glad "Good Morning" for
which he prayed has been given, and his great soul is now at rest
within the portals of the Supreme Grand Lodge above. Life's race
well run; life's work well done. How appropriate now the words of
Tennyson:
"And now he rests; his greatness and his sweetness
No more shall be at strife;
And Death has moulded into calm completeness
The statue of his life;
And round his grave are quietude and beauty
And the sweet heaven above,
The fitting symbols of a life of duty
Transfigured into love."

138

After a moment's silence, Brother Neff exclaimed: "Beautiful t
Beautiful!!" And then, with tremulous voice, added: "Yes, in some
brighter clime, bid me 'gaod morning.' "
Nature's lessons are given to us in varied language. Life is
typified in the swelling bud, the opening blossom, the ripe fruit, and
the falling leaf. The footsteps of decay are everywhere. The sad word
"change" is written upon rock and tree and flower. We hear it in the
whispering breeze, in ocean's roar. We read it in the broad expanse
above us, where God has written in azure with letters of diamonds.
The music of the spheres as they wheel majestically into the grand
march of the ages is set to the words, "Passing away! Passing away!,.
All must fade and pass away. But a short time, and he who now
addresses you, and all present, especially those whose locks are touched
with the frost that never melts, must, one by one, pass down into the
dark Valley of Sjlence. But, my brethren, Masons are not materialists.
Something within our breasts implanted is ever whispering in unmis"
takable accents that beyond the visible veil of nature there is a hidden
Power that guides and governs all ; that
"* * Beyond the deep unknown,
Standeth God within the shadows,
Keeping watch above His own.''

139

The services closed with that beautiful song, "Good
Night, I Am Going Home," followed by a benediction by
the Grand Chaplain.
The M.'. W.'. Edmund C. Atkinson presented to 'Grand
Lodge, with the compliments of Bro. Henry Disque, a
splendid oil portrait of our late Bro. Jacob Hart Neff. And
it was ordered that suitable response in recognition of said
presentation be made by the same Committee as that to
whom had been referred the matter of the portrait of Past
Grand Master Belcher.
Bro. Joshua D. Tucker introduced the following resolution:
WHEREAS, At Honolulu, in the Island of Oahu, there has been and
still is in existence, a Lodge under the Grand Jurisdiction of Scotland,
known as Pacific Lodge, No. 822; and

PROCEEDIKGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

WHJ!.REAS, Said Lodge has by unanimous vote expressed its desire
to surrender its Scottish Charter and come under the Grand Jurisdiction of California; therefore, be it
R esolved, That upon said Pacific Lodge, No. 822, securing release
from the Grand Lodge of Scotland, a Charter be granted it, under
suitable name and number, by the Grand Lodge of California.

Several decisions were rendered by the M.' . W.'. Grand Master,
resulting from questions propounded by Lodges or members of the
Craft. We recommend that each of these be referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
We note with a feeling of satisfaction and security the energy displayed by the Craft in the suppression of Clandestine Masonry, and
most heartily approve the suggestion of a general conference as proposed in the correspondence with Past Grand Master Shryock, of
Maryland, and others. It occurs to your Committee, however, that as
such a conference would necessarily deal with Masonic law and us ages,
that th e matter should b~ referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence,
and we so recommend.
The matter relatin11: to a certain power of attorney or proxy for the
Grand Master as a vice-president of the Masonic Female Orphans'
School, at Falls Bridge, Dublin, and that of the suspension of Bro.
J . N. Pascoe, be referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
The visitations of the Grand Master. covering particularly many
of the isolated districts, carefully noting their needs and commending
their faithfulness and si~cerity in their work where they are not privileged to enjoy the many advantages familiar to most of us, can not do
otherwise than promote lasting benefits to the Craft in these sections.
In regard tq the report of the V.'. W.'. Grand Secretary, referred
to us, we are pleased to note the system, the conciseness and the
business-like methods employed in the clerical department of the wo~k
of the Grand Lodge.
In regard to procuring new Grand Lodge diplomas, to be made th.e
size of receipts for dues, your committee believes this would res4lt to
the convenience and advantage of those desiring them, with but little
additional expense, and we recommend the same be referred to the
'
Committee on Finance.
We recommend that the suggestion that all Lodges be required to
report to the Grand Lodge all sums ex,pended for charity, and also
that of dispensing with the roll call at the opening of the Grand Lodge,
be referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
All which is fraternally submitted,
C. W . NUTTING,
E. B. SPENCER,
CHAS. A. ADAMS,
J. H . MACLAFFERTY,
THEO. J. Mn.LIKEN,
Committee.

140

Which was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence ..
M.'. W.'. Charles W. Nuttipg, from the Committee on.
Grand Master's Address, reported as foll ows:
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:

Your Cornmittee, to whom was assigned the consideration and
distribution of the reports of the M.'. W .' . Grand Master and V.'. W.'.
Grand Secretary, beg leave to submit the following :
The Grand Lodge of California is to be congratulated upon experiencing a most successful and prosperous year under the splendid leadership of the M.'. W.'. Grand Master. His untiring energy, his diligence ·
and his exceptional judgment in emergency, is to be strongly commended. Though called to responsible duties outside the jurisdiction
a portion of his time, no detail of the cares of this M.' · W.'. Grand·
Lodge escaped his careful observation. Thoroughness and completeness characterize every action, and every paragraph of the report:
breathes the wisdom, the strength and the beauty of the. most excellent
tenets of our institution.
We recommend that that portion of the report referring to the dispensations granted to new Lodges be referred t ::i the Committee on ·
Charters.
The Grand Master most beautifully records the visitations of the
Silent ¥essenger, removing from our midst some of the most honored'
members of the Craft. We recommend that a Special Committee of
three o.n Necrology be appointed, that the memory of their many
virtues may be suitably recorded.
The strong and forceful report of the many details of th e Masonic
Home matters excites the most favorahle commendation. \Vhile all
these matters are ably cared for by the Special Committees referred to
in the n:port, the timely judgment and splendid executive ability displayed by the Grand Master should not pass without special recognition.
The sections of the report referrin.11: to Tta lhn relief : the rebinding
of old reports, amendments to the Manual. and that of g rantin.~ relief
to Mrs. N. S. Tingley, of S:oin Dieiro, all of which invoke the fonds of
the Grand Lodge to a more er less extent, we recommend should be
referred to the Committee en Finance.

Which report was adopted.

141

142

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Bro. Wm. P. Jeffries, Chairman of the Committee on
Returns, presented the following report:
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee, to whom was referred the examination of the
returns of the Lodges for the current year, with the assistance of the
Grand Secretary, have performed that duty, and take pleasure in reporting that the returns of all the Lodges have been received by that officer;
that a very large majority of them were prepared correctly; that those
that were erroneous have been since corrected by the Secretaries, upon
notice thereof (in some cases more than once repeated); that the dues
have in nearly every instance accompanied the reports, and that all
the dues have now been paid.
The classification which follows shows the respective credits due
the Secretaries of the several Lodges.
The reports of the following two hundred and seventy Lodges
were transmitted within the period of time prescribed by the Constitution; were accompanied by dues; were in all respects correct, and were
handsomely prepared :
California .... . .......... No. 1
Western Star ............ "
2
3
Tehama .................. "
5
Benicia .................. "
San Jose ......... ....... " 10
Nevada .................. " 13
Eureka .................. " 16
Parfaite Union .......... " 17
Mountain Shade ......... " 18
San Joaquin ............. " 19
Washington ············· " 20
Hawaiian ············ ... " 21
Qccidental ............ ... " 22
Madison ... .............. " 23
24
Mariposa ········· ··· ··· ·
Palmyra ................. " 26
Trinity ......... ......... " 27
Golden Gate ......... .... " 30
Gold Hill ................ " 32
Santa Cruz ......... .... " 38
Yuba .................... " 39
Sacramento ·············· " 40
Martinez ................ " 41
Los Angeles ............. " 42

.

.

Hiram ................... "
Mount Moriah
"
Crescent ............... .. "
Texas .................. "
Forbestown ............. "
Suisun .................. "
Volcano ................. "
Santa Rosa . ............ "
Union ................... "
Gravel Range . .......... "
Live Oak .............. ."
Geo. Washington ....... "
Natoma . ................ "
Amador ................. "
Morning Star .. ..... .... "
Enterprise ············· "
Bear Mountain .......... "
Humboldt .............. "
Ione . ···················
Yolo .................... "
Rising Star
············· "
Vesper .................. "
Naval ················ ... "
Quitman
"

······ ·····

.

.

..

················

43
44
4S

46
50
SS
S6
57
58
59
61
62
64
6S
68
70
76
79
80
81
83
84
87
88

North Star . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ··
Acacia ............... .. . "
St. Helena . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Howard ............ .. ... "
Jefferson .............. . . "
Hornitos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
La Grange . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
Clay .................... "
Manzanita . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
Lexington ........ •. . . . . . . "
Arcata ... ..... .. ... ..... "
Pajaro .................. ~
Chico ................... "
Summit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
Eden .................... "
Concord . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
Clinton . .. . .. . . .. . . .. .. . "
Fidelity ................ . "
Alamo ................. . "
Sotoyome . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
Table Mountain . , ........ "
La Fayette . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
Hermann ... .... ..... . ... "
Nicolaus ....... . . ... .. .. "
Woodbridge .... . .. . ..... "
Yosemite . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
Vacaville .............. .. "
Pacific . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
Crockett ............... .. "
Curtis ................... "
Grafton ............ .. ... "
Franklin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
Oriental ................. "
Vitruvius ................ "
Abell ... .. . .. ........ ... "
Eel River ..... .... ..... . . "
Lassen .......... . .. . .. .. "
Molino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
Woodland ............... "
Keystone ............... . "
Excelsior ................ "
Alameda ................ "
Redwood City . . . . . . . . . . . "
Mission . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "

YI

92
93
96
97
98
99
101
102
104
106
110
111
112
113
117
119
120
122
123
124
126
127
129
131
133
134
136
139
140
141
143
144
14S
146
147
149
lSO
156
161
166
167
168
169

Elk Grove . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
Drytown ................ "
Phoenix ........... ...... "
Mendocino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
Petaluma ................ "
Russian River ....... .... . "
Meridian . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
Sierra Valley ............ "
Claiborne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
Evening Star . . . . . . . . . . . . "
Keith ... .. .. ..... ... ..... "
Oakland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
Northern Light ... .. .. .. . "
Marin ...... . ..... ... .... "
Santa Barbara ........... "
Ferndale ......... ..... .. "
Mountain View .... . ..... "
San Simeon . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
Wilmington ....... .. .... "
Truckee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
Silveyville . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
Pentalpha . . ............. "
Confidence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
Salinas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
Newville ................ "
Anaheim . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
Rio Vista . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
King David's .... . ....... "
Friendship ............•.. "
So. San Francisco ....... "
San Buenaventura ....... "
Oak Grove ............. . "
Doric ................. . . "
Monterey .. .............. "
Mosaic .... .. ...... ...... "
Speranza Italiana ... .... . "
Downey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
Bakersfield .............. "
Brooklyn ... .. .. .... .. .. . "
San Mateo .. ........... . "
Solano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
North Butte ............. "
Covelo ....... ........ ... "
Janesville ....... .... ..... "

143

173
174
178
179
180
181
182
184
185
186
187
188
190
191
192
193
194
196
198
20()
201
202
203
204
205
207
20&
209
210
212
214
215
216
217
218
219
220
224
225
226
229
230
231
232

144

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Surprise Valley ······· ··· " 235
Colusa
··········· ····· ·· " 240
Santa Ana ... ..... ....... " 241
Magnolia
················ " 242
Eucalyptus ··· ····· ....... " 243
Alcatraz
······ ·· ······· ·· " 244
Pomona ············· .... " 246
Fresno .................. " 247
Alturas ········· ·· ··· ..... " 248
Bodie
··················· " 252
Landmark ......... ,. ..... " 253
Reading ...... ··········· " 254
Lodi
··· ··············· ·· · " 256
Evergreen .... ...... ..... " 259
King Solomon's ······ .. .. " 260
Tuscan
·················· " 261
Hesperian ·········· ·· ... " 264
Orland .................. " 265
North East
·············· " 266
Galt ... ... ···· ··· .... .... " 267
Durant ... ············ ... " 268
Olive Branch ............ " 269
Snow Mountain . ····· · ... " 271
Pasadena ... ............. " 272
Anchor ········· ······ ... " 273
Arroyo ········· ..... .... " 274
Oakdale ...... ...... ... . . " 275
Selma .. ........ .. ...... . " 277
Southern California .. .. .. " 278
Hanford ... ... ....... .... " 279
Madera ············ .. .... " 280
Callayomi ....... .. .. .. ... " 282
South West ...... ... .... " 283
Paso Robles ......... .... " .286
Winnedumah ... ...... ... " 287
Elsinore .......... ......
" 289
East Gate .... ........... " 290
Santa Paula ············· " 291
Los Gatos ...... .... ...... " 292
Orange Grove ..... ..... . " 293
Traver ...... ............ " 294
Mt. Jackson .......... .... " 295
Silver Gate ...... ······· " 296
Mokelumne Hill ........ " 298
Liberty .. .. ............. " 299

..

Redlands ......... ······· " 300
Ontario ...... ········· .. " 301
Santa Lucia
············· " 302
Porterville ··············· " 303
Azusa ··· ·············· .. " 305
Ashlar ... ... ..... ... ..... " 306
Santa Monica ········ ··· " 307
Monrovia .. .... ........ .. " 308
Delano ················ .. " 309
Sisson ················· .. " 310
Los Banos ... ·· ······· ... " 312
Tehachapi ...... ...... ... " 313
Norwalk ················ " 315
Sanger . .................. " 316
Hollenbeck . ...... ······· " 319
South Gate
····· ·· ··· ···· " 320
Alisa! ... ......... ....... " 321
Alhambra
····· ·· ········ " 322
Whittier
·············· ··· " 323
Corona ········· ····· · ... " 324
Needles ........ ...... ..... . " 326
Long Beach
············ ·· " 327
Redondo ... ··········· ·· " 328
Vallee de France ........ ·. " 329
Kilauea ··············· .. " 330
Pacific Grove ...... ..... " 331
San Pedro ···· ········ .. " 332
Alta .... ... .. ··· ···· ·· ·· " 333
Covina .................. " 334
West Gate ········· ..... " 335
Fruitvale ................ " 336
Carquinez .... .... ....... " 337
San Jacinto ..... ......... " 338
Fullerton ................ " 339
Santa Maria ········· ... . " 340
Oxnard ...... ········ · .. " 341
Manila ... ··············· ,, 342
San Fernando
··········· " 343
Starr King
····
···· · ···· · " 344
Palo Alto ................ " 346
McKinley ·············· · " 347
San Bernardino . .. ···· ··· " 348
Sequoia . ·· ············· ·· " 349
Cavite
·················· " 350
Sunset ······· ·· ········· " 352

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Pinole ...... ·· ·· ········ "
Presidio ... .............. "
Hollywood
"
Mill Valley . ········· .... "
Du en a Park ······· ·· .. .. "
Ccl<len State ... .. ....... "
San Francisco ... ... ... .. "
Fort Bragg ... ...... .. . . . "
Charity ....... ...... ..... "
Berkeley . ..... ..... .... . "
Olivet . ................. "
Willits .................. "
South Pasadena .......... "
Unity .. . ......... ... ... .. "
Ocean Park ............. "
Amity ..... ............. "
Oceanic ...... ... .. . ... .. "
Jewel ... .... ... ..... .... "
Richmond ....... ........ "
Francis Drake . ... .... ... "
Artesia . ............ ..... "
Fillmore ...... ........... "

··············

353
354
355
356
357
358
360
361
362
363
364
365
367
368
369
370
371
374
375

376
377
379

145

Huntington Beach
"
Highland Park
"
Orosi .
"
Dinuba .. .... ............ "
Corregidcr . ... ........... "
Parnassus . .... ... ····· .. "
Palos Verdes . .... ....... "
East Belt . ............. .. "
West Lake . ..... ....... "
Balder ....... .. ... ..... .. "
University ..... .......... "
.
Turlock ······· ..........
Apollo .................. "
Fowler .. .... ·· ···· ... ... "
Fraternity ..... .. ........ "
Burlingame ...... ··· ····· "
Bay View ............ ....
Brawley ..... ... .. ·······
Yerba Buena
Glendora ...... ..... .. .. .
Mon eta ..................
Burbank ...... ···········

..........
..................

..

380
382
383
385
386
388
389
391
392

393
394
395

396
398

399
400

u. D.
u. D.
D.
············· 'u.
u. D.
u. D.
u. D.

The reports of the following twenty-four Lodges were correct, and
were accompanied by their dues, but were not transmitted within the
proper time :
Yount ...... . .. .... . .. . .. No. 12
Ophir ... ... . .. .......... " 33
St. John's ............... " 37
Forest ................... " 66
Rose's Bar . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 89
Oroville . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 103
Harmony . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 164
Antioch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " . 175
Clear Lake . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 183
Hartley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 199
Calistoga . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 233
Hope .... . . . . . .. . . ... : . .. " 234

Penrhyn ... .... ... . ..... . No. 258
Mount Shasta . . . . . . . . . . . . " 281
Maxwell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 288
Reedley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 304
Fallbrook . .... ... . ...... . " 317
Emmanuel ............... " 318
Brentwood . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 345
Loyalton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 359
Gardena ....... . ......... " 372
Veteran .... .... ...... . .. " 373
Oceanside ............... " 381
Coalinga . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 387

H6

PnO CEEDn-.-as OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The reports of the foll owing twenty-nine Lodges were transmitted
within the proper time, and were accompanied by their dues but each
required corrections, which ~ere duly made by the Secret;ries upon
being notified (sometimes more than once) by the Grand Secretary:
Corinthian ..... . ......... No. 9 Hill's Ferry ......... . ... No. 236
San Diego . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 35 Laurel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 245
Illinoistown .. ... ... . ..... " 51
Adin ... . ..... ... ... , .... " 250
Plumas ... ............... " 60 Welcome . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 255
Calaveras . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 78 Lompoc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 262
Henry Clay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 95
San Miguel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 285
Mount Zion ... .. . . . .. . .. " 114 Dunsmuir . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 297
Visalia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 128 Temescal . ............ . .. " 314
Sincerity . . . ... . . .. . ..... " 132 Consuelo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 325
Buckeye . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 195 Palestine .. . .. . . .. .. .... . " 351
Stanislaus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 206 . Las Palmas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 366
San Benito . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 211
Mizpah . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 378
Inyo ..... . ..... .. ... . .... " 221
EI Centro ............... " 384
Granite . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 222 Rising Light . ... ....... . . " 397
Athens .. ..... .. ......... " 228
. The reports of the following seven Lodges were accompanied by
their dues, but were not transmitted within the proper time and
required corrections, which have since been made:
'
Tuolumne . .... . ..... . ... No. 8
Temple .. . . . .... ......... " 14
Georgetown . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 25
Valley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 135

Guadalupe . . ... . . . ..... .. No. 237
Tyrian . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 284
Imperial . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 390

The amounts for dues for which the several Lodges of this jurisdiction were indebted, and which have all been paid, are as follows :
No.
California
1
Wes tern Star. . . . . .. . . 2
Tehama ....... ... .. . 3
Benicia .. ...... . . . .. . 5
Tuolumne . . .... .. .. . 8
Corinthian .. . . . .... . 9
San Jose ... . . ....... . 10
Yount ... .. ..... .. . . 12
Nevada ... .. . ... . ... . 13
Temple ........ . ... . 14
Eureka ........... . . . 16

General
Home
Allowed
Fund.
Fund.
T otal.
Rep'tives.
$ 561.80 ' $ 582.00 $ 1,143.80
95.80
102.00
197.80 $
20.00
207.90
191.00
398.90
6.60
126.60
114.00
240.60
2.00
130.60
134.00
264.60
13.20
142.10
129.00
271.10
7.50
383.10
339.00
722.10
2.50
134.20
138.00
272.20
2.50
132.30
147.00
279.30
13.20
57.00
60.00
117.00
2.00
91.30
77.00
168.30
8.20

•

No.
La Parfaite Union .... 17
Mountain Shade ... . . 18
San Joaquin... .. ... .. 19
Washington ... . ... . . 20
Hawaiian .. ........ .. 21
Occidental . . . . . . . . . . 22
Madison ..... . . ..... 23
Mariposa . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Georgetown . . . . . . . . . 25
Palmyra ............ . 26
Trinity ........ . .... . 27
Golden Gate . . .. . . .... 30
Gold Hill . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Ophir . . . .. . ......... 33
San Diego . . . . . . .. . . . 35
St. John's ........... 37
Santa Cruz. . . . . . . . . . . 38
Yuba .......... .. ... . 39
Sacramento . . . . . . . . . . 40
Martinez . ........... 41
Los Angeles. . . . . . . . . . 42
Hiram . . ...... . . . .. . . 43
Mount Moriah. . . . . . . . 44
Crescent . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
Texas .. ... .... . .... . 46
Forbestown . ........ . 50
Illinoistown .... . ..... 51
Suisun ......... . ... . 55
Volcano .... ... ... . . . 56
Santa Rosa. . . . . . . . . . .
Union .... . . . . . . .... . 58
Gravel Range ..... ..... 59
Plumas ... . ..... . .... 60
Live Oak . . . .. ... . . . . . 61
George Washington. . . 62
Natoma . .. ... . . . .... 64
Amador . . .... ... ... . 65
Forest ... ...... .. .... 66
Morning Star . . . . . . . . 68
Enterprise . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Bear Mountain . . . . 1 • . 76
Calaveras . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Humboldt .. . ... . . . . . 79

57

General
Fund.
' 154.10
33.50
240.10
134.10
240.50
569.50
124.80
52.60
57.00
186.30
50.50
476.00
46.80
55.10
310.80
104.90
203.90
93.20
168.30
120.00
354.70
25.00
300.60
82.80
37.30
32.40
50.00
81.10
38.80
242.40
245.50
40.00
95.40
633.40
4260
68.10
83.90
36.60
201.40
173.40
92.40
71.40
327.50

Home
Fund.
139.00
35.00
229.00
119.00
270.00
565.00
132.00
54.00
50.00
177.00
55.00
450.00
52.00
59.00
312.00
101.00
201.00
88.00
187.00
ll0.00
323.00
20.00
314.00
72.00
37.00
36.00
50.00
89.00
32.00
256.00
215.00
30.00
56.00
646.00
44.00
69.00
81.00
34.00
186.00
156.00
96.00
76.00
315.00

147

Allowed
Rep'tives.
Total.
293.10
68.50
30.00
469.10
253.10
6.60
510.50
1,134.50
256.80
11.30
106.60
107.00
363.30
12.40
105.50
28.00
926.00
98.80
6.80
114.10
622.80
45.00
205.90
25.40
5.60
404.90
7.50
181.20
355.30
6.60
230.00
1.80
677.70
35.00
45.00
614.60
154.80
60.80
74.30
5.70
68.40
17.20
100.00
10.10
170.10
3.00
70.80
16.00
498.40
3.00
460.50
6.60
70.00
16.70
151.40
37.00
1,279.40
.20
86.60
137.10
8.00
164.90
10.15
70.60
387.40
5.00
329.40
7.40
188.40
15.20
147.40
12.10
642.50
20.00

HS

PROCEEDINGS OF

N o.
Ione, ................ 80
Yolo ... ···· ·· ······· 81
Rising Star . ........ . . 83
Vesper ...... ........ 84
Naval ... ........... . 87
Quitman . ... .. ... . . . . 88
Rose's Bar ... .... .... 89
No rth Sta r . .. . . ...... 91
Acacia ...... ..... ... 92
St. Helena ..... .. ..... 93
Henry Clay . .. ....... 95
Howard .. ... ..... ... 96
Jefferson .... ........ 97
Hornitos .. .... .... .. 98
La Grange ... ..... ... 99
Clay .......... . ..... 101
Manzanita . ... . . .. ... 102
Oroville .. . ... ... .... 103
Lexington ........... 104
Arcata . ... . ......... 106
Pajaro ... ....... . ... 110
Chico . .. ....... . ..... 111
Summit . .. . ....... .. 112
Eden .... . . .... ... ... 113
Mount Zion ... ... .... 114
Concord . . ... .. . .... . 117
Clinton ..... .... . . . . 119
Fidelity . ....... . ..... 120
Alamo . .... .' . .. .. . . . 122
Sotoyome ... .. .... . . 123
Table Mountain ... ... 124
La Fayette ..... ... ... 126
Hermann . .. .. . .. . . .. 127
Visalia ... ..... .. .... 128
Nicolaus .. ........ . . 129
Wo~dbridge .. ... .... 131
Sincerity ............ 132
Y osemite ... . . ... . . . ' 133
Vacaville . .. . .... .. .. 134
Valley ......... .. .... 135
Pacific . .. ..... .. ... . . 136
Crockett . . . . . . . .. . . .. 139
Curtis ... . ..... ... ... 140

General
Fund.
50.00
43.40
50.40
154.90
326.20
22.80
59.30
67.80
23:40

95.70
51.30
88.60
54.60
34.60
95.70
61.10
20.70
196.10
68.70
120.70
114.00
245.00
30.60
101.00
21.20
95.70
38.00
487.00
75.80
149.50
83.70
105.60
196.20
150.40
82.10
83.50
42.20
14.40
129.40
43.60
591.10
369.90
49.70

THE

Home
Fund.
50.00
36.00
56.00
141.00
298.00
22.00
47.00
52.00
26.00
93.00
57.00
84.00
54.00
34.00
103.00
59.00
23.00
159.00
73.00
113.00
120.00
200.00
34.00
100.00
18.00
103.00
40.00
470.00
62.00
145.00
63.00
104.00
188.00
136.00
69.00
84.00
38.00
16.00
126.00
44.00
549.00
341.00
53.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Allowed
Total.
Rep'tives.
100.00
8.20
79.40
5.50
106.40
13.10
295.90
15.00
624.20
2.00
44.80
18.60
106.30
119.80
32.10
49.40
13.00
188.70
108.30
11.70
172.60
25.40
108.60
68.60
198.70
8.10
120.10
11.30
43.70
355.10
12.00
141.70
35.80
233.70
20.90
234.00
445.00
10.20
64.60
201.00
.70
39.20
19.40
198.70
6.60
78.00
20.30
957.00
137.80
3.00
294.50
4.50
146.70
209.60
384.20
286.40
17.00
151.10
167.50
80.20
38.00
30.40
255.40
4.10
87.60
1,140.10
710.90
102.70
6.00

•

No.
Grafton . . . .. . . ... .. . 141
Franklin . ........... 143
Oriental ...... .. ..... 144
Vitruvius .... ....... . 145
Abell . .......... . ... . 146
Eel River .... . . . ..... 147
Lassen . . ..... . .. . ... 149
Molino .... . .. . . . .. .. 150
Woodland .... . ...... 156
Keystone ...... . . . ... 161
Harmony ... . . .... . .. 164
Excelsior ....... . .... 166
Alameda .. .... . ..... 167
Redwood City .. .. .... 168
Mission .. ... .. ...... 169
Elk Grove . ...... .. ... 173
Drytown . . . .. . . . •... 174
Antioch .. ........... 175
Phoenix .. ........... 178
Mendccino . .. . .. . ... 179
Petaluma . .... .... ... 180
Russian River . .. ..... 181
Meridian .. ........ . . 182
Clear Lake .... ... ... . 183
Sierra Valley . ... . . ... 184
Claiborne . . . . . .. .. . . 185
Evening Star .. ... . .. 186
Keith ... . ............ 187
Oakland .. . .. ... . . . .. 188
Northern Light. ..... 190
Marin .. ............. 191
Santa Barbara . . . . . .. . 192
Ferndale . . . .. . . . .... 193
Mountain View .... ... 194
Buckeye ... . ... . ... . . 195
San Simeon ...... . ... 196
Wilmington ......... 198
Hartley .... .. . . . .... 199
Truckee . .... .. ...... 200
Sil veyville ...... . .... 201
Pentalpha . . .. . .. . . .. 202
Confide.nee ..... .... .. 203
Salinas ... ...... . .... 2(}4

General
Fund.
26.40
53.20
371.90
49.20
124.90
102.00
96.20
56.50
149.40
34.70
19.30
408.90
95.80
111.10
860.60
58.70
23.70
108.50
243.(i()
128.30
183.00
0

79.50
37.90
27.00
42.10
49.20
31.50
110.60
529.80
88.20
229.30
137.70
105.30
67.60
76.30
41.30
48.10
95.00
109.60
70.40
503.80
30.40
152.00

Home
Fund.
26.00
58.00
36l.00
48.00
121.00
110.00
98.00
55.00
146.00
33.00
17.00
421.00
102.00
99.00
864.00
63.00
23.00
95.00
224.00
127.00
190.00
75.00
41.00
30.00
39.00
48.00
35.00
94.00
472.00
68.00
107.00
122.00
97.00
64.00
77.00
37.00
39.00
100.00
114.00
66.00
502.00
26.00
140.00

149

Allowed
Total.
Rep'tives.
52.40
4.00
111.20

732.90 .
97.20
245.90
212.00
194.20
111.50
295.40
67.70
36.30
829.90
197.80
210.10
1,724.60
121.70
46.70
203.50
467.60
255.30
373.00
154.50
78.90
57.00
81.10
97.20
66.50
204.60
1,001.80
156.20
426.30
259.70
202.30
131.60
153.30
78.30
87.10
195.00
223.60
136.40
1,005.80
56.40
292.00

7.00
22.10
37.00
11.30
5.20
13.00
32.00
1.70 .
1.60
6.60
12.70
3.00
38.50
15.00
2.00
8.30
10.00
12.00
33.40
4.40
.20
16.90
.70
26.80
23.50
2.30'
23.30
35.70
16.90
4.20
35.00
6.50

150

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

N o.
Newville .. . . . .. . . . .. 205
Stanislaus .. . .. ..... . 206
Anaheim . . . . .. ....... 207
Rio Vista . . . .. . ... ... 208
King David's . . ... .. .. 209
Friendship ... . . . .. . . . 210
San Benito . . . . .. . : .. . 211
South San Francisco . . 212
San Buena Ventura . . . 214
Oak Grove .. . . .... ... 215
Doric . .. ... .. . ...... 216
Monterey ... .... . . .. 217
Mosaic . ... . .. . ...... 218
Speranza I taliana .... . 219
Downey . .... . . . ..... 220
Inyo . ... . .. . . . . .... . 221
Granite ... .. ....... .. 222
Bakersfield .. .. . . .... 224
Brooklyn . .. . .. ... . . . 225
San Mateo .... . .. .. .. 226
Athens . ... .... . .... . 228
Solano . ......... . . . . 229
North Butte .. . . . . .... 230
Covelo .. . .. . . . . . . . . . 231
Janesville ..... ... ... 232
Calistoga . . . . . .. . . ... 233
Hope ....... . .. .. . .. . 234
Surprise Valley . . : .. .. 235
Hill' s Ferry . ..... . .. . 236
Guadalupe .. . ..... . .. 237
Colusa . .......... . .. 240
Santa Ana ... . .. .. ... 241
Magnolia .. . . ... . .. .. 242
Eucalyptus .. .. ...... 243
Alcatraz ... ... ..... . . 244
Laurel . .. . .. . .. ... .. 245
Pomona ... . . . . ...... 246
Fresno . ........ . . ... 247
Alturas .. . .... . ..... 248
Adin . . ... . ... .... . .. 250
Bodie ........ . ...... 252
Landmark .. ... ... . .. 253
Reading ........ . .... 254

. General
Fund.
45.60
69.90
79.90
53.10
134.20
257.50
110.50
178.50
112.90
445.40
451.90
83.40
84.10
186.90
108.60
60.60
59.00
265.30
244.40
171.00
77.50
197.80
66.90
49.30
44.40
66.30
60.00
25.20
49.90
83.30
71.20
230.60

98.00
83.40
407.10
78.60
278.20
286.50
69.40
51.10
47.70
34.70
161.70

Home
Fund.
44.00
71.00
71.00
59.00
118.00
245.00
105.00
175.00
111.00
426.00
411.00
76.00
89.00
171.00
74.00
54.00
60.00
217.00
236.00
120.00
65.00
162.00
61.00
47.00
46.00
67.00
50.00
28.00
51.00
57.00
78.00
234.00
90.00
86.00
359.00
84.00
228.00
295.00
56.00
39.00
43.00
33.00
143.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Total.
89.60
140.90
150.90
112.10
252.20
502.50
215.50
353.50
223.90
871.40
862.90
159.40
173.10
357.90
182.60
114.60
119.00
482.30
480.40
291.00
142.50
359.80
127.90
96.30
90.40
133.30
110.00
53.20
100.90
140.30
149.20
464.60
188.00
169.40
766.10
162.60
506.20
581.50
125.40
90.10
90.70
67.70
304.70

Allowed
Rep'tives.
13.90
5.90
4.00
14.60
2.50
5.30
28.4C
.20
6.00
2.50
35.70
49.60
6.40
22.80
.20
1.20
2.00
8.60
21.00
35.40
4.10
22.40
51.70
6.30
20.10
9.50
37.00
26.80
1.00
.20
9.10
37.00
14.50
46.70
43.00
5.90
17.10

No.
Welcome ... .. . ... . . . 255
Lodi .. .... . .. . . .. . .. 256
P enrhyn . . .. . . .. ... . . 258
Evergreen ... ... ..... 259
King S olomon's . .. . . . 260
Tuscan . ..... . ... ... . 261
Lompoc . ... . ..... . . . 262
Hesperian . . ......... 264
O rland .. . . . . . . . . . .. . 265
North East .. .. ....... 266
Galt .. .. . .. . .. ..... . 267
Durant . . . ... .. .. . . . . 268
Olive Branch ... ... . .. 269
Snow M ountain . .. ... 271
P asadena . . .. . ... .. . . 272
Anchor . ..... . ... . ... 273
A rroyo .. ....... . . . .. 274
Oakdale . ..... .... . . . . 275
Selma . . .. . . . . .... . .. 277
Southern California ... 278
Hanford . .. .. . . .. ... . 279
Madera .. .. . .. .... .. . 280
Mt. S hasta . . .. . . . . .. . 281
Callayomi . ... . . . . . . . 282
South West. ... . . ... . 283
T yrian . . . . . .. . .. . . . . 284
San Miguel .. . .. . ... . . 285
Paso Robles . . . . . . . . . . 286
Winnedumah . .. . . ... 287
Maxwell . ...... .. . . . 288
Elsino re . . ..... . . . ... 289
Eas t Gate .. .. . . . . .. . . 290
Santa Paula ... .... . .. 291
Los Gatos . . .. . . . .. . .. 292
Orange Grove .. .. . ... 293
Traver . .... . . . ... . .. 294
Mt. Jackson .. . . ... . . . 295
Silver Gate .. . .. ... . .. 296
Dunsmuir . . . . . . . .. .. 297
Mokelumne Hill . .... . 298
Liberty . . .......... . 299
Redlands ..... . . ..... 300
Ontario . . ..... . . . . . . 301

General
Fund.
96.30
142.70
67.70
262.60
522.40
53.20
103.40
142.60
58.10
33.40
37.20
401.40
116.60
26.70
405.20
85.00
49.30
48.70
91.00
671.50
142.40
97.60
51.30
42.50
77.80
27.00
75.50
69.20
79.40
20.70
51.40
506.10
104.80
105.20
121.90
63.80
50.60
215.20
82.40
61.20
170.80
244.70
145.30

Home
Fund.
77.00
123.00
63.00
264.00
506.00
58.00
76.00
124.00
59.00
36.00
38.00
406.00
114.00
23.00
378.00
70.00
47.00
53.00
90.00
655.00
136.00
84.00
47.00
35.00
62.00
30.00
55.00
68.00
76.00
23.00
46.00
449.00
102.00
88.00
101.00
52.00
54.00
198.00
46.00
58.00
162.00
203.00
117.00

151

Allowed
Rep'tives.
Total.
173.30
18.10
5.50
265.70
130.70
526.60
38.50
1,028.40
111.20
7.60
22.70
179.40
266.60
21.10
10.00
117.10
69.40
55.70
75.20
.20
807.40
17.00
2~.60
49.70
783.20
35.50
35.50
155.00
96.30
18.20
101.70
15.50
181.00
1,326.50
35.00
16.80'
278.40
181.60
98.30
16.40
77.50
8.00
139.80
45.00
57.00
130.50
11.90
12.40
137.20
155.40
53.00
43.70
8.10
42.40
97.40
35.00
955.10
206.80
35.00
193.20
3.00
222.90
36.90
115.80
15.80'
104.60
3.00
413.20
45.00
168.40
21.00
12.1()'
119.20
332.80
2.50
447.70
37.10
262.30

152

I

GRAND LODGE OF C..\LIFOHJ'\IA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.
Santa Lucia .......... 302
Porterville .......... 303
Reedley .............. 304
A:msa . ... ... .. . ...... 305
Ashlar ....... . ..... . 306
Santa Monica .. . ... .. 307
Monrovia . . .. ... .... 308
Delano .. . ..... . . ... . 309
Sisson ............... 310
Los Banos .. . .. .. . .. . . 312
Tehachapi ........... 313
Temescal . . . .... .. . .. 314
Norwalk ............ 315
Sanger ... .. ....•. . .. 316
Fallbrook . ... .'... .... 317
Emmanuel .... , ... ... 318
Hollenbeck .......... 319
South Gate ....... .. .. 320
Alisa! .. . ..... . ...... 321
Alhambra ........... 322
Whittier ....• ... ..... 323
Corona ..... .. .... . .. 324
Consuelo ............ 325
Needles .......... ... 326
Long Beach ... ..... .. 327
Redondo .. ... .... ... 328
Vallee de France . ..... 329
ICilauea .... ..... .... 330
Pacific Grove . ........ 331
San Pedro . ...... . .... 332
Alta .. . .......... . . .. 333
Covina .. .. . . .. . .... . 334
West Gate . .. . . .. . . ... 335
Fruitvale .. .. . ... ... . 336
Carquinez .... ..... .. 337
San Jacinto ... . ...... 338
Fullerton .... ........ 339
Santa Maria . ... . ... . . 340
Oxnard . . . .. .. ...... 341
Manila ... ... . . .... .. 342
San Fernando .... . .. . 343
Starr ICing ........ .. . 344
Brentwood . .... ... .. 345

General
Fund.
66.60
143.50
53.40
90.50
103.40
119.10
122.00
61.50
90.00
32.50
123.50
81.90
50.20 '
100.00
37.30
48.10
590.70
643.20
53.00
152.40
175.80
296.60
61.60
112.40
243.20
89.80
70.80
113.00
57.90
125.30
43.80
89.30
360.50
150.20
104.60
96.20
126.70
81.60
159.90
266.50
55.60
220.60
53.80

Home
Fund.
54.00
135.00
46.00
75.00
96.00
109.00
100.CO
45.00
80.00
35.00
95.00
81 .00
48.00
80.00
27.00
49.00
493.00
538.00
50.00
136.00
152.00
284.00
64.00
86.00
238.00
92.00
52.00
124.00
51.00
117.00
42.00
77.00
345.00
128.00
• 84.00
78.00
113.00
74.00
171.00
238.00
54.00
194.00
52.00

Total.
120.60
278.50
99.40
165.50
199.40
228.10
222.00
106.50
170.00
67.50
218.50
162.90
98.20
180.00
64.30
97.10
1,083.70
1,181.20
103.00
288.40
327.80
580.60
125.60
198.40
481.20
181.80
122.80
237.00
108.90
242.30
85.80
166.30
705.50
278.20
188.60
174.20
239.70
155.60
330.90
504.50
109.60
414.60
105.80

Allowed
Rep'tives.

18.70
15:90
37.00
38.50
35.70
35.70
18.80
21.00
23.70
38.30°
35.90
15.30
43.80
8.80
35.00
35.00
35.50
35.80
35.50
41.90
35.70
36.00
35.00
6.30
36.00
41.70
36.40
35.00
.20
1.80
43.00
36.40
18.00
29.00
35.00
3.40

,

15:l

Allowed
Home
General
Rep'tives.
Total.
Fund.
Fund.
No.
l.90
320.70
143.00
177.70
Palo Alto . . ..... . .. .. 346
.50
272.40
116.00
156.40
lVlclCinley . . . . .... .. . . 347
38.50
426.10
209.00
217.10
San Bernardino ...... 348
.20
520.50
255.00
265.50
Sequoia ....... .. . ... 349
169.25
75.00
94.25
Cavite .... . ...... .. .. 350
35.00
4C6.60
194.00
212.60
Palestine . .. . . .... ... 351
35.00
469.10
199.00
270.10
Sunset ... .. . ..... .. . 352
1.10
170.50
75.00
95.50
Pinole .. . ....... .. .. 353
428.20
188.00
240.20
Presidio . ... ......... 354
35.50
317.00
140.00
177.00
Hollywood .......... 355
.50
248.20
118.00
130.20
Mill Valley ........... 356
36.20
106.10
49.00
57.10
Buena Park . ......... 357
35.00
514.00
220.00
294.00
Golden State . . .. •.... 358
19.40
105.10
49.00
56.10
Loyalton . .. .. ..... .. 359
340.00
160.00
180.00
San Francisco .. .. . . .. 360
17.00
139.90
71.00
68.90
Fort Bragg ...... . .... 361 ·
3.00
118.80
52.00
66.80
....
..
.
.
.....
362
Charity
.20
589.80
252.00
337.80
Berkeley . . ... .. . ... .. 363
74.10
39.00
35.10
......
.....
....
364
Olivet
11.00
95.10
49.00
46.10
Willits .......... . ... 365
15.50
315.00
150.00
165.00
Palmas
..
...
....
.
366
Las
35.50
168.50
75.00
93.50
South Pasadena ..... . 367
35.00
194.70
93CO
101.70
Unity ... . . .. ..... ... 368
35.70
230.90
101.GO
129
90
Ocean Park ..... .. ... 369
432.<iO
164.00
268.60
Amity ...... .. ....... 370
229.50
122.00
107.50
Oceanic .... . ...... . . 371
35.50
114.10
49.00
65.10
....
...
......
372
Gardena
35.50
264.90
101.CO
163 90
Veteran ... ... ....... 373
165.80
72.C:O
93.80
.....
.
........
.
374
Jewel
363.50
155.CO
2G8.50
Richmond ... . .. .... . 375
.70
103.60
4t00
5960
Francis Drake .. . ... . . 376
36.10
4Q
00
113.20
65 20
Artesia ...... .. ... .. 377
35.00
667.90
21:~ . 00
399.90
J'l'fizpah ...... .. .... . 378
35.00
88.00
41'.00
48.CO
Fillmore .. .. .. . .. ... . 379
76.50
35.00
41.50
Huntington Beach .... 3SO
41.30
73.90
31.00
42.90
Oceanside ........... 381
35.00
347.20
148.00
19920
Highland Park . . ... . . 382
19.80
97.70
43.00
54.70
Orosi . ... ..... ..... . 383
51.90
170.20
67.00
103.20
El Centro . . .. .. . ... .. 384
16.10
111.10
49.00
62.10
Dinuba .... .. .... .... 385
130.00
48.00
82.00
Corregidor .... .. .... 386
,20.80
152.10
5Q.00
93.10
Coalinga ... . . ... . . .. . 387
304.90
121.00
183.90
Parnassus .. .. ...... . 388

······

,
15-l

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.
Palos Verdes . ... ..... 389
Imperial . .. .. ... . .... 390
East Belt ............ 391
West Lake ..... . ..... 392
Balder . .. ..... . ..... 393
University .. ... ..... 394
Turlock ...... .. ..... 395
Apollo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 396
Rising Light .. ... . . .. . 397
Fowler .. ..... .. ..... 398
Fraternity ......... .. 399
Burlingame .... . .... .400
Bay View ...... . ... U. D
Brawley ... .... .. :u. D .
Yerba Buena .... .. . U. D.
Glendora .......... U. D.
Moneta ..... . ..... U. D.
Burbank ..... . .... U. D.

General
Fund.
52.20
44.40
37.20
341.60
225.60
96.10
49.20
79.60
35.30
26.90
111.80
101.00
234.10
54.10
124.20
48.00
105.10
58.20

Home
Fund.
38.00
36.00
28.00
214.00
84.00
59.00
28.00
54.00
27.00
21.00
52.00
60.00
79.00
29.00
58.00
30.00
49.00
38.00

GRAND LODG}j] OF CALIFORNIA

Total.
90.20
80.40
65.20
555.60
309.60
155.10
77.20
133.60
62.30
47.90
163.80
161.00
313.10
83.10
182.20
78.00
154.10
96.20

Making total dues . .. . $45,393.15 $41,007.00 $86,400.15

Allowed
Rep'tives.
35.70
51.60
14.70
35.00
35.00
6.70
.20
35.30
15.10
2.50
1.00
.20
50.70
.20
36.50
35.00
34.50
$4,983.25

The net gain in membership for the year just closed was 2,338,
making the membership on July 31, 1909, 41,007.
There were initiated into the Lodges of this Grand Jurisdiction
during the last Masonic year 2,918 Entered Apprentices, which shows
the high regard in which Masonry is held throughout the State of
California.
The following table shows the numerical standing of the largest
ten Lodges:
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10

•

Members.
Mission Lodge, No. 169........ . ...... .. ..... .. .... 864
Southern California Lodge, No. 278. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 655
Live Oak Lodge, No. 61......... . ...... . ...... .. .... 646
California Lodge, No. 1. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 582
Occidental Lodge, No. 22 .. . . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. .. .. .. .. 565
Pacific Lodge, No. 136 .... .... .. ...... .. .... .... ... 549
South Gate Lodge, No. 320... .. ..... .. ...... .. .... 538
King Solomon's Lodge, No. 260. .. .. .. ..... .. . .. . . 506
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202 ... .. .... .... .. .... ... .... 502
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319.. .... ..... .. ..... .. .... 493

Bay View Lodge, U . D .. conferred 163 degrees. which is the largest
nu~ber of dev.rees cc nft~rred by any Lodge in the Jurisdiction.

155

Your Committee finds that the returns and reports are properly
preserved and their contents are conveniently tabulated and recorded
in the books of the Grand Secretary.
We thank the Grand Secretary and his assistant for the very
efficient assistance they have rendered this Committee.
Respectfully submitted,
JJ<:RtMIAH J . WILSON,
PtRCY A. JOHNSON,
WM. P. JtFFRil':S,
Committee.

The report was adopted.
M. ·. W. ·. Edward H. Hart, Chairman of the Committee
on Correspondence, presented his report, and printed copies
having been supplied to the members present, the report
was accepted without reading. (See Appendix.)
The Gra~1d Master announced the following:
Committee on Necrology . ....... . ... M.'. w:. EDMUND C. ATKINSON,
WILLIAM H. EDWARDS,
w:. GEORGI!; E. CHURCH.

v:. w:.

Bro. Henry A>croft, Chairman of the Committee on
Accounts, reported as follows:
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge, F. & A . M., of California:
Our W orthy Grand Secretary absolutely refuses payment on any
bills until the same have been approved by your Committee on Accounts. The monthly claims up on this Grand Lodge have all been
redeemed which I trust is evidence sufficient of your Committee having perf;rmed the duty assigned to them; t:ie transaction of which
has afforded a two-fold pleasure, combining with duty the enjoyment
of a genial intercourse peri odically with our '..irand Secretary.
Respectfully submitted,
HtNRY ASCROFT,
EDWARD PJ<:ABODY,
PJCRCY HtIS!,
HUGH J. OwP:N,
Committee.

The report was adopted.
The Grand Lodge was called off until 10 o'clock Thursday morning.

156

PROCEEDIN'G8 OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

157

Bro. L. II. Hughes presented the following petition:
To tire M.".

3111 ~rauh ijuh.gt.
Morning Session.
Thursday, October 14, A. L. 5909.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the Grand
l\T aster presiding.
The Minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and
approved.

vVhich was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

W.". Fred W. Van Sicklen, Junior Grand Steward,
appeared and took his place.
The report of the Board of Directors of the Masonic
Temple Association, adopted at yesterday's session, was, by
order of the Grand Master, now referred to the Committee
on Finance.
Bro. 0. M. Goldaracena introduced the fotlowing resolution:
Resolved, That aspirants for Masonic degrees by persons who
do not speak the English language sufficiently well to receive instructions in said language, may apply for degrees to the nearest Lodge to
their place of residence, working in the language with which tl~ey
are familiar, and such Lodge to which application is made, may consider and act upon said application without the necessity of any waiver
of jurisdiction from the Lodge or Lodges of the jurisdiction where
the said applicants reside.

Which resolution was referred to the Committee on
Jurisprudence.
Brothers T. J. Milliken and D. B. Crane offered the
following resolution :

w:.

Resolved, That the salary of the V.".
Grand Lecturer be
increased from eighteen hundred dollars to twenty-four hundred dollars per annum, the latter figure being the amount formerly allowed for
that officer.

Which was referred ·to the Committee on Finance.

w:. Grand Lodge of Calt'fornia:

On the 9th day of October, 1909, the hall of Hope Lodge, No. 234,
was destrc yed by fire, together with its furniture. The Charter of
the Lodge was burned, and we ask that a new Charter be issued to
H ope Lodge, No. 234, F. & A. M., by this Grand Lodge, without charge.
At this time we have no convenient place to meet, there being no
building e r hall in town suitable for the purpose, and we request a
dispensati cn to hold our stated meeting for October, 1909, at the
brow of a hill about a half mile distance from the site of our old Lodge
room . The spct under consideration is secluded and isolated, and
can be safely guarded against the approach of eavesdroppers.

'

Bro. Geo. E. Church announced that he would be unable to be in attendance at Grand Lodge after today, and
asked that he be excueed from service as a member of the
Committee on Necrology. Which request was granted.
The special order of business at this hour being con.sideration of all reports and resolutions relative to the
Masonic Home, the Grand Secretary read the special report
of the Committee on Masonic Home, and the resolutions
introduced hy Brother Pennell; and after full debate the
n :commendations of the Special Committee relating to per
capita tax and the employment of a heating expert, were
referred to the Committee on Finance.
Following is the resolution introduced by Brother
Pennell:
1'o th e M.".

w:. Grand Lodge, P. & A. M., of California:

During the discussions held concerning the management of the
Masonic Home at Decoto, it has been stated that, for several reasons,
it is not practicable to continue the institution as a combined Home
for our widows, orphans and brothers; one of the reasons given is an
insufficiency of the water supply, "and another, the bad influence that
results from the old people being brought in too close contact with
the children; in fact, it is imperative that the two should be separated
at once.

I

.

PROCEEDI?l."GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Notwithstanding these statements, we believe that there is a
good and abundant supply of water on the property of the Home; and
that it only needs an additional reservoir, which can easily be constructed, and some enlarging and repairing of pipes, to make the water
system perfect. We further believe that as the property is over two
hundred and sixty acres in extent, buildings could and should be
built for the accommodation of our aged brothers; 't hus avoiding the
necessity of bringing them in contact with the children, and yet
keeping the whole institution under the control of one general management. Other matters could be regulated by a practical board of
trustees.
For the purpose of expressing our interest in this matter, also our
desire to pave the way for the maintenance of the Home on the most
practical and economical lines, to the end that it will best serve its
purpose to the fullest extent, we beg to offer the following resolutions,
to wit:

We recommend that there be one Board of Trustees, consisting of
1even in number, to be appointed by the M.". w:. Grand Master,
their terms of office to be as follows: One, 1 year; one, 2 years; two,
,1 years; two. 4 years, and one, 5 years. The respective terms of
office to be determined by lot; each succeeding Grand Master to appoint
n successor or successors, as the case may be; each appointee to hold
' ffice for the period of 5 years thereafter.

158

Resolved, That this Grand Lodge approves the perpetuation and
improvement of the Decoto Home, so that it may become adequate
for the care of all Masons of California, their widows and orphans,
who may be entitled to its shelter.

\Vhich amendment did not prevail.
The report of the Special Committee on Masonic Home
in its entirety, with the exceptions above noted (the two
items referred to the Finance Committee), was then adopted
as follows:

'

Resolved, That the San Gabriel Home, which has lately come into
our possession through gift, be sold; also that the proceeds of such
sale be used for the necessary improvements at Decato.
Resolved, That nine members of this Grand Lodge be elected at
this time, by ballot, to act as the Board of Trustees of the Decoto
Home. That three of the members so elected serve on the Board for
one year, beginning with the date of their election; three to serve for
two years from the date of their election, and three to serve for three
years from the date of their election. Those who are to serve for one
and two year terms are to be selected by the trustees themselves in
any way they may deem proper; and the trustees who are to succeed
the three, who will retire when their term of office expires, shall be
elected by ballot at each regular Comm).lnication of.the Grand Lodge.
Proposed by : H. E. PENNELL,
w. s. COLEMAN.
Seconded by: A. E. BRIGGS,
WM. I. MACOONALD.

The resolution was not adopted.
During the discussion, Brother Bledsoe introduced the
following as an amendment to the recommendations of the
Committee:

159

•

'fa the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee, to whom was referred all matters pertaining to
the Masonic Home at the last session of the Grand Lodge, beg to submit this, our report, and recommend its adoption.
We believe that our duties cannot be better defined than to quote
the words of the "Committee on Distribution" at the last session of the
Grand Led,; e. see pages 90-91, Proceedings 1908:
"In cur judgment the matter fraught with the greatest importance
to this Grand Lodge and discussed by the M. W. Grand Master in his
address, was that relating to the Masonic Home at Decoto," and "The
reports of the Trustees relating to the future conduct of the Home."
"We think that a proper solution of the matters relating to the
Home as they are presented by the Address of the Grand Master and
as they are exhibited by the report of the Trustees, demands that the
whole subject in all its ramifications, shall be submitted to a special
committee of the Grand Lodge," etc.
In addition to the above recommendation, which was adopted,
several matters were referred to this committee, chief among which
was the appropriation of the sum of fifteen hundred dollars ($1500)
to the Southern California Masonic Home at San Gabriel, California.
In all our actions we have been guided by the sentiment which seemed
to prevail, that this committee would give to the various matters referred to it, the most extended and careful study and invistigation. This
we have endeavored to do to the best of our ability and have devoted
considerable time thereto.
In passing, brethren, permit us to say that each and all of the committee from the first, felt, and do now feel, our great lack of ability,
and we beg for this report of our year's work your kind and charitable
consideraticn, believing that whatever may be decided upon by the
majority of this Grand Lodge as the best, will be improved by time

100

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

and experience, ultimately developing a system of caring for our wards, .
the children and the aged who have fallen behind in the race of life,
that shall redound to the honor and glory of Masonry in California
for all time.
Immediately after the adjournment of the Grand Lodge last year,
we began our labors and up to the present time have continued our
investigations, in order that an intelligible report might be made of
all the affairs pertaining to this important branch of Masonic Charity.
We have visited the Horne at different times in order to study the •
situation thoroughly and determine, if possible, the best method of
conducting that institution; let us here premise by saying that the
present Board of Trustees have anticipated evefy important change
which we would feel it our duty to recommend, and by their earnest
and intelligent efforts have already brought about many reforms which
we think will make for the good of the residents of that institution,
as well as for the general welfare of those committed to our care.
We deem it proper at . this time to report the results of our investigations, which are hereby submitted for your information, and are not
intended as a criticism of the administrations, present or past, but sim- ,
pie statements of the condition of the Home as we saw them, and
existent at the times our visits were made.
At the time of our first visitation as a committee, during the latter
part of October, we found the place crowded with visitors, some of
them Masons, all expecting to be entertained and accommodated in·
the dining room; this entailed double work on the help, who already
had all they could attend to ; the day being Sunday, the usual Sabbath
day exercises were held in the Chapel, and was well attended by the
older people, as well as all of the children. Your committee spent
the day in the examination of the premises, talking with the residents,
looking over the farm and making such examination of the Home as
the limited time at our disposal would allow; we found the approach .•
to the Home, as well as the driveway and grounds, well kept and in
fine condition; the main building in fair condition, but still showing
the ugly scars of the earthquake of 1906. The cottages in which reside
the older brethren were very much in need of repair and paint, the
plumbing in the entire plant was in poor condition; the septic tank
was a source of much complaint from the residents, owing to the foul
odors arising from it. We were glad to find upon the occasion of
later visits that all of these matters had been considered and remedied by the Trustees, as their report will show. We were impressed
with the necessity of adequate fire protection at the Horne and upon
investigation found that little or no precautions against fires were taken.
One of the brothers resident there was acting as night watchman, but
beyond the simple act of inspection there had been no steps taken to
prevent a calamity which would inevitably ensue were a fire to break

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

161

out in the night time; it seems that two chemical engines had been
purchased and one of them only had been put in commission by being
charged and placed under the stairway leading from the main part
of the building to the dining room. Nobody had been instructed how
to handle the apparatus and no fire drills ever had; this was called to
the attention of the Trustees with a recommendation that some of the
older boys, as well as the men, be properly instructed in the matter of
fire drills, and that the matter of fire escapes be looked into at the
earliest possible moment; no fire escapes have ever been placed on the
buildings, and in view of the absence of an adequate water supply
with which to fight fires, we believe this matter ought to have the first
consideration of the new Board of Trustees.
The water question at the Home at Decoto is the greatest problem
with which the present and other Boards of Trustees have had to deal
and calls for prompt action in the matter of developing a sufficient supply for the needs of that institution; we earnestly request careful consideration of that portion of the Trustees' report wherein certain recommendations are made looking to a solution of the water problem,
all of which recommendations are concurred in by your committee.
The question of the "fa~n " was also investigated by your committee, especially the complaint u1at the farm was being conducted at.
a net loss to the fraternity approximating $2500 per annum, which state
of affairs had continued for the past ten years; we found this to be
an error caused by the failure to take proper credit for the produce
consumed on the place. For example, the poultry, eggs, milk, pork, veal,
etc., if charged at market prices, would have shown the farm to have
made a profit instead of a deficit; we were informed that only such
farm products as were actually marketed were ever credited up to
the farm, hence the im.pression that the farm was a source of loss.
We were forcibly impressed with the lack of room at Decoto, and
while the children's dormitories were sufficient for all demands made,
and were in admirable condition, clean and well kept in every respect,
the men's quarters in the cottages seemed to be crowded, and many
of them by the acts of the men themselves; were unclean and uncomfortable; the cottages were sadly in need of repairs and pai,nt, and
more room needed generally.
The dining room and kitchen were in admirable condition, the
service good and the food of superior quality; this we were informed
was the rule and not the exception.
The children we found happy, well contented and well cared for;
the Boys' Band and Girls' Orchestra were a great source of comfort
to the older people resident there, and a prolific source of entertainment to the visitors; this is a course of education which we will do
well to continue. We found some dissatisfaction existing among the
6

162

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

older' .people, but nothing which in our opinion was of a serious nature; in fact, we were thoroughly satisfied that the dissatisfaction was
solely the. result ~f idleness on the. part of these old folks. Many of
them havmg nothmg to occupy their time naturally fell into the habit
oi grumbling and fault finding. We sincerely trust that some system will
eventually be adopted and whereby all persons resident at the Home
~ill have some lit.tie duty to perform, however trifling it may be,
m order that their minds may be occupied with the idea that the
Home. is.· indeed their home and needs attention at their hands, if only
to a hm1ted degree. This should be a rule and extended to the children in order that they may grow' up to be self respecting men and
women, having the self satisfaction of contributing to their own support and education.
Many of the complaints were to the effect that the rules of the
Home were harsh and unnecessary, restricting the liberties of the older
people to an unwarranted degree; this we investigated and from our
conclusions find that the rules are the result of years of observation
and experience, of careful thought by able and unselfish Masor,s, made
for the good of all, and we believe that extreme care should be exercised in making any changes in these rules.
In the matter of visitation to the Home we were impressed with
the necessity of restricting the privileges enjoyed by the public. It was
the ~~stom for large numbers of pleasure seeking people on Sunday
to VISlt the ~~me. Many of these were automobilists enjoying rides,
who would VISlt the Home about the noon hour, expecting to be entertained at the small expense of twenty-five cents for dinner. These
were in many cases persons having no interests in the residents, the
Home, or even the fraternity, wholly dominated by selfishness. We
were pleased to learn that the Trustees soon afterward found it necessary to prohibit the serving of meals to visitors at any hour; we trust
this rule will be continued in future, except in the case of official visits
by Lodges or Officials of this Grand Lodge. There is every reason
why the help should be considered. It should be particularly observed
on the Sabbath day, whicH ought to be a day of quiet and rest for
all. W e do not mean that the custom of receiving visitors should be
stopped, rather that it should be regulated, but no dinners served on
Sundays.
We desire to r efer to the Christmas exercises which were attend~d
bY your committee on December 27th, at which time many visitors
were present and participated in the happy spirit of the day. The exercises were conducted by the children, the Girls' Orchestra rendering
the Christmas Cantata in a splendid manner. It was very gratifying to
all of us to note the spirit manifested, and a most enjoyable day was
spent. The Christmas tree was loaded with presents for all of the
residents ; none were overlooked or forgotten, and to your committee

the liberal manner in which the fraternity contributes to the Christmas

163

Fund for the residents of the Home is ample evidence of the interest
you have in this important branch of your charities. We were impressed with the careful training of the girls composing the orchestra.
They showed thorough preparation in their musical studies, and this is
but an indication of the general education which they are receiving at
the hands of those to whom they are entrusted, and if all else were
termed failure, we should still feel amply rewarded with the results
obtained with these young children, who are being educated and fitted
for a future career by the Masonic fraternity.
The Boys' Band contributed to the enjoyment of the day, and assisted materially in the entertainment of the visitors.
One of the resolutions referred to our committee for investigation and action was the matter of appropriation of $1500 to the Southern California Masonic Home at San Gabrie_I, California, (see page 169
Proceedings 19IB) : Early in December your committee was advised
by the M. W. Grand Master that a request had been made to him by
the Trustees of the Southern California Masonic Home, that this committee visit the Home at San Gabriel, and make an investigation of the
affairs of that institution in accordance with the resolution referring
the matter or advisability of the appropriation referred to, by the Grand
Lodge to this committee. In accordance with the request of the M. W.
Grand Master that we comply ·with the request made at as early a date
as possible, your committee made a trip to San Gabriel in the early
part of December, ancl spent the better part of a week making investigations of the affairs of the Southern California Masonic Home, meeting many of the prominent Masons of the southern portion of the State,
with whom was discussed matters pertaining to the 'Home, and it appearing that the appropriation was a just one, we so advised the M. W .
Grand Master, and upon, our return to San Francisco authorized the
payment by the V:. W:. Grand Secretary of the amount of the appropriation, viz: $1500. Owing to the crowded condition of the Home at
Decoto and the inability to accommodate an additional number desiring
to enter the Home there, the advisability of utilizing the Southern California Masonic Home was discussed with the M. W. Grand Master and
the Trustees of that institution, and after a thorough investigation and
discussion of the matter, and conference with leading Masons of the
State, all of whom were of the opinion that the situation at Decoto
demanded immediate attention in the way of affording more room, a
plan was formulated looking towards the tender of the properties of
the Southern California Masonic Home to the Grand Lodge of California; such tender was made and your committee recommended the acceptance of the same provided the transfer was made unconditionally
and free from debt. We understand that the transfer has been so made

164

PROCEEDI~GS

OF THE

and the properties placed in the hands of the Board of Trustees of the
Masonic Home of this Grand Lodge.
Your committee was influenced mainly in their recommendation to
the M. W. Grand Master by the following facts, viz:
The Home at San Gabriel is admirably located, it consists of ten
acres of valuable ground, upon which are two large buildings, the
largest of which was erected for a hotel and contained upward of fifty
bedrooms, besides offices, etc. ; the other building, which is one large
room, presumably erected for an auditorium, is in good condition, and
with some slight repairs can be made to serve the purposes of the fraternity in many ways for a number of years. The Home is lo~ated
near the town of San Gabriel, about twelve miles east of the city of
Los Angeles, on the electric car line, in the San Gabriel Valley; the
main building is three stories high and is handsomely furnished; the
dining room will accommodate nearly two hundred, and the kitchen
has ample capacity for all likely to reside there for years to come. The
grounds are in fine condition and afford room for expansion in the
way of cottages or additional buildings if required; your committee
place a conservative valuation on this property of $60,000.
The time has arrived when this Grand Lodge should undertake the
distribution of all Masonic charity pertaining to the maintenance of
Homes for the aged, the widowed, and the orphan wards of the fraternity. Owing to the crowded condition of the Home at Decoto as
well as the peculiar conditions existing geographically, the item of
traveling expense needs consideration in determining the question of
maintenance of one or more Homes, and the further advisability and
-desirability of encouraging visitation to the Homes by the fraternity
must enter largely into consideration; we are of the opinion that with
a Home at Decoto and a Home at San Gabriel, the interest of the craft
in the Homes will be largely increased and more attention will be
given to the matter of visits by Lodges and by individual Masons. At
the Home at San Gabriel the water supply is ample and adequate to
all demands and its coat reduced to a minimum. The facilities for the
care of the children in the matter of education a~e all that could be
reasonably required. The Home is within a half mile of the public
school, and we are of the opinion that it will be the pride and care
of the brethren of the south to see that everything is done for the comfort and health of the residents, and for the proper education of the
.children if entrusted to their care, which can safely be done. These,
brethren, are mainly the reascns for our recommendations to the M.
W. Grand Master regarding the Home at San Gabriel. We were also
governed by the fact that the Home at Decoto was too small to accommodate all who were entitled to entrance to the Home, for we
recognize the importance of caring for all, the aged members of the
craft, as well as the children, and believe that the time has arrived

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

165

w~en

all should have an opportunity of entering who are worthy;
this could not be done with the limited space available at Decoto, but we
are of the opinion that with the San Gabriel Home it will afford all
the room necessary for years to come.
Your committee has made a careful and exhaustive investigation
and study of the entire situation, and the recommendations submitted
herewith are the result of such study, and after consultation with
leading Masons of this jurisdiction, to whom we are indebted for
valuable suggestions and advice.
RECOMMENDATIONS.
We recommend that the two Homes now in the possession of this
Grand Lodge at Decoto and San Gabriel be µiaintained under the
following plan:
We recommend that there be one Board of Trustees consisting of
l!'IVE in number, to be appointed by the Most Worshipful Grand
Master, their term of office to be respecvvely ONE, TWO, THREE,
FOUR and FIVE years. Their tenure of office shall be determined by
lot; each succeeding Grand Master to appoint a successor, who shall
hold office for FIVE years.
We recommend that· at least two members of the Board of Trustees be appointed from Lodges in the vicinity of San Gabriel and two
from Lodges from the vicinity of Decoto, the Grand Master having
power to remove any or all of the Trustees at any time he may
deem it for the best interest of the fraternity to do so.
We recommend that the Board of Trustees when appointed shall
meet immediately thereafter and assume full charge of all matter•
pertaining to the conduct and maintenance of the Homes at Decoto
and San Gabriel; they shall organize and adopt such by·laws as they
may deem necessary, and said by-laws when adopted shall be in full
force and effect as if adopted by this Grand Lodge.
We recommend that the Grand Treasurer of the Grand Lodge be
the Treasurer of the Masonic Homes of California.
We recommend that there be created the office of Supervising
Secretary of the Masonic Homes, who shall be selected by the Board
of 'frustees, and whose duties shall be to supervise the affairs of
Masonic Homes under the direction at all times of the Board of Trustees, and to whom there shall be submitted daily reports from the
Homes upon such forms as may be required by the Board of Trustees:
He shall keep all records of said Board and make requisitions for all
supplies required :for the Homes, submitting same to the Board for
their ac.tion. He shall issue all warrants upon the Grand Treasurer for
the account of the Homes when so required by the Board of Trustees
and shall perform any and all things necessary to be done for the
conduct of the Homes under the direction of the Board of Trustees.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

He shall reside at either the Home at Decoto or the Home at San
Gabriel as shall be directed by the Board of Trustees. He shall have
general supervision of the Homes under th~ directio.n of t~e Board of
Trustees and shall receive such compensation for his services as may
be fixed by the Board of Trustees. He shall hold office at the pleasui:e
of the Board 'of Trustees.
We recommend that the Board of Trustees, if in their judgment
it be deemed necessary or advisable, employ a competent person at
each of the Homes at San Gabriel and at Decoto who shall act as
Assistant to the Secretary, and who shall in addition-to their duties
as Assistant to the Secretary, perform such other duties a~ may be
required of them to assist in the conduct of the Homes; they shall
receive such compensation as may be fixed by the Board of Trus~ees.
We recommend that the Board of Trustees adopt such regulations
for admission to the Homes as will embrace the following:
The present plan of representation in the Homes be continued, but
in the event any Lodge desires to enter more than the present allotment the said Lodge be re'l_uired to pay to the Board of Trustells the
actual cost of maintenance of such excess representation; such actual
cost of maintenance to be determined and fixed by the Board of
Trustees and be collected from the Lodge by the Grand Secretary of
the Grand Lodge in the same manner in which the Grand Lodge dues
of said Lodge is collected, such cost of maintenance not to exce~d
tho sum of $15 per month for each person; provided, however, ~hat rn
the event a Lodge is financially unable to assume and. pa~ said cost
of maintenance of said member, it may make apphcation to the
Grand Master in the interim, or the Grand Lodge at the session following who may in their judgment remit the charge from year to year.
'
We recommend that the Board of Trustees revise the application blank for admission to the Homes, so that the applic.ation will
contain full and complete information concerning the applicant, and
that it contain among the usual questions the following:
''Has the applicant ever been suspended or demitted from any
Lodge-if so, when and for what reason.t Give full in~or~ation."
'•Has the applicant been reinstated rn any Lodge within the past

manner. If upon investigation it be found that an applicant has been
reinstated in any Lodge within the period of twelve months prior to
the date of application · the application shall be denied.
·
We recommend that an Inspector making inspections at the request of the Board of Trustees be reimbursed for any expense incurred
by him in making said inspection from the funds of the Masonic
Homes by the Board of Trustees.
We recommend that the privilege of admission to the Homes be
extended to include the mothers of Masons when they are a charge
upon the fraternity.
We recommend the Board of Trustees be empowered to employ
and discharge any and all labor required for the proper conduct of the
Homes, and that all employees of the Homes be retained during the
pleasure of the Board. We recommend that hereafter no person be
employed in any capacity for a period extending beyond the last day
of the next session of the Grand Lodge following their employment,
although during the past year it has seemed to the Board of Trustees
an emergency justified contrary action in one instance; nevertheless
we declare the above as a question of policy and with which they have
announced their entire approval.
We recommend the continuance of the per capita tax of one dollar
for the ensuing Masonic year.
We recommend the employment of a competent Heating Expert by
the Board of Trustees for the purpose of adjusting the heating difficulties now existing at the Home at Decoto, and the appropriation by
this Grand Lodge of a sum of money sufficient to c.arry out the recommendations of such expert when rendered.
We recommend that the Homes at Decoto and at San Gabriel be
equipped with fire esoopes and that the Board of Trustees be instructed
to attend to this matter at the very earliest possible moment.
And now, brethren, we approach a subject which we lay before
you in the most earnest hope that our recommendations concerning it
may not only meet with your approval, but will arouse your enthusiastic and continued Bllpport: We feel that by far the most important
subject which we as a committee have had to consider, is the matter
of the permanent and ample financial support during the future of
the Masonic Homes. Under the present plan it is necessary for this
Grand Lodge to levy a per capita tax for this purpose, and while the
amount of one dollar per capita now asked is not in any sense a burden, yet, on the part of some, there seems to be a continue« desire
to have this amount reduced. It is therefore, with the hope to
forever remove the danger of the support of the Homes being in any
manner or in part withdrawn that we earnestly recommend to your
Most Worshipful body, that steps be at once taken to raise a permanent Endowment Fund of ONE MILLION DOLLARS, this to be known

166

.

twelve months f"
"Was the applicant reinstated with a view of applying for admission to the Home t "
When an application for admission is received by the Trustees they
shall forward to the Inspector of the Masonic District in which th.e
Lodge is located, a request for inspection and report upon the appl~.
and i"t shall be the duty of the Inspector when such request is
ca t ion,
.
fid
· 1
b
the Trustees for such report, to treat strictly con entia
ma d e y
.
d t
"t
any information he may gain by virtue of said inspection an ransn;-i
the same to the Board of Trustees, who shall treat it in a confidential

167

169

PROCEEDIJ-.-GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

as the ''Permanent Endowment Fund of the Masonic Homes of California,'' and to be invel!lted in such manner as may seem wise to this
Grand Lodge. No part of the principal to be used at any time, tile
interest or earnings only; to this end we recommend:
The present Most Worshipful Grand Master appoint a permanent .
committee consisting of nine members of this Grand Lodge and composed of the most able men suited to this endeavor, and to be
known as "The Endowment Fund Committee of the Masonic Homes of
Cnlifornia," who shall meet immediately upon their appointment for
organization, after which they shall devise ways and means for the
acquirement · and accum:ilation of the fund. We believe that the
greater part or all of this fund can be raised by the forty thousand
Masons of California within the next five years, th.us insuring the
continued and ample support of this flower of our Masonic endeavors.
We are of the firm opinion that this step once taken will ar~use and
enthuse every Mason in this Grand Jurisdiction to a determination to
place the Homes upon such a basis that will forever relieve them from
the precarious dependence upon a per capita tax which may be discontinued at any session of this Grand Lodge.
Many of our wealthier brethren would be moved to endow the
Homes w ere it once demonstrated that their endowment would be perpetuated to the uses designed by them. We have but briefly touched
upon this subject, hoping to see it taken up by abler hands than
our own, to be worked out in all its details, yet we respectfully
submit that its accomplishment would be a great and lasting evidence
of the love we have for the principles we profess.
If the path ahead does not look so easy as we could wish, let us
remember, brethren, that Masonry never failed to persist through vicissitudes and has always presented such a solidarity of purpose that
upon its altars the sun never sets. Let us not grow weary. of the
work we have undertaken; let no man compare California Masonry
with that of jurisdictions elsewhere, where they only pay one dollar
per annum lodge dues, whereas our Masonic charities amount to more
than double that sum. Because some of these ~·dollar' ' States have
failed in their efforts shall we failf Never. We have embarked in a
great work, let us keep it up; but remember, "it is one thing to soar
on the wings of genera!itie!J and quite another to work out the mechanism of flight.'' Be charitable with our humble efforts. Help us to so
· improve and perfect the syetem that it shall round out a beautiful
whole to the honor of Masonry in this Grand Jurisdiction for all
time. Let us bend all of our efforts toward making the two Homes
we now possess, both perfect and complete within themselves, segregating the young from the old, male and female, but allowing them
to meet on common playgrounds at proper times as do other communities, at public functions, lectures, games, etc., "never permitting the

obllirations of individual effort to throw upon the Homes what the
Ma.on himself was taught to do.'' Not all will want to go to
the Home who are in need, making nothing hard and fut; help all
lo all ways; let the Homes be but one of these, and never forget ''the
poor are with us always, and that life's highway i1 strewn with
lo11es,'' and the kinder Masonry is and becomes, the more it ftghh
the eternal law of nature, the survival of the fittest, by extending
aid to the weaker. Should misfortune overtake one of our number,
do not fold your cloak around you and point to the Home; in1tead,
let him feel the strong grip; it may help him to his feet. Never allow
charity to take semblance of an abstract machine instead of a concrete
precept, because when we do, the lessons of charity which are the soul
of Masonry will become "a phosphorescent gleam upon the te88elated
floor." Keep dear, therefore, to your hearts all we have learned in
this regard, sacred as life's blood itself, and let us add to 'l'l'hat we
have already learned, this the grandest of all our works, our Masonic
Jlomes. Appoint your Board of Trustees, trust them. They may make
mistakes but if their souls are clean they are working for what
appears best; say kind things about them and hold up their hands.
Remember, we have had during the present year, and for all of the
years past, the unstinted help of great men, men who had no time to
1pare, men whom if you could hire at all, could only be hired at great
cost. Why did they work for usf Why did they work for these chari·
tlesf Because they so loved Masonry that night after night they have
worked till midnight and toiled over the complex problems, earnestly,
honestly and with great ability, all this "without the hope of fee or
reward.''
Respectfully submitted,

168

E. s. v AUNTIN:t:,
H.J. Owl!N,
CHARLl!S M. PLVM:,
H. MACLAFUTY, .
E. M. BILLINGS,

J.

Committee.

On motion of Brother Bledsoe, the Grand Lodge extended to the Special Committee on Home, by a rising vote,
its hearty thanks; and the Committee was discharged from
further service.
The report of the Trustees of the Masonic Home was
then adopted as presented; but in order to harmonize said
report with that of the Special Committee on Home,
M:. w:. Wm. S. Wells, for the Board of Trustees, introduced the two resolutions following:

171

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
WHl!Rl!AS, It appears from the reports of the Board of Trustees
of the Masonic Home of California, and the Special Committee upon
Masonic Homes, that there should be installed at the Decoto Home
a central heating plant, and that there is a necessity for a hospital
building at Decoto; now, be it
Resolved, That the sum of six thousand dollars, or so much as
may be necessary, be and is hereby ·appropriated from the funds of
this Grand Lodge to install a central heating plant at Decoto; and
be it further .
Resolved, That the sum of thirty thousand dollars, or so much as
may be necessary, be and is hereby appropriated from the funds of
this Grand Lodge to erect and equip a hospital building at the Decoto
Home.
WHJ!Rl!AS, The Board of Trustees of the Masonic Home of C~li­
fornia and the Special Committee on Masonic Homes have recommended that fire escapes be placed in the buildings at Decoto and at
San Gabriel, and that an elevator be placed in the building at Decoto;
now, be it
Resolved, That the Grand Master be and is hereby authorized to
expend such moneys from the Grand Lodge funds as may be necessary
to erect fire escapes at Decoto and San Gabriel and for an elevator
in the building at Decoto.

Bro. J. D. Murphey, from the Committee on Grievances,
presented the following reports:
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:

170

Both which were referred to the Committee on Finance.

M:. w:. Motley H. Flint, from the Committee on
Jurisprudence, presented the following report:
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California :
Your Committee have had under consideration the action of the
Grand Master in granting dispensations during the year and report as
follows:
We find that one dispensation was for permission to act upon the
petition for the degrees of two persons belonging to the navy of the
United States; seventeen to re ballot upon rejected petitions for degrees; seven to elect officers to fill vacancies. In all cases we find that
the Grand Master has acted within the law, and as provided by our
Copstitution; that the dispensations have been properly granted; and
we recommend that his action be approved.
Respectfully submitted,
F. M .. ANGJ!LLOTTI,
WM. S." WELLS,
CHAS. L. PATTON,
Tnos. FLINT,
M. H. FLINT,
Which report was adopted.
Committee.

Your Committee, to whom was referred the transcripts of the
records in the following cases, in which no appeal had been ta~en,
have had the same under consideration, and find that th~ proceedm~s
have generally been conducted in strict and in all cases m substantial
conformity to our laws, and that the respective findings and judgments
are supported by sufficient evidence :
W~lter Hubbard, of Phoenix Lodge, No. 178, suspended by San
Bernardino Lodge, No. 348;
Joseph Claybaugh McKee, expelled by California Lodge, No. 1;
Edwin Clyde Heard, expelled by Santa Cruz Lodge, No. 38;
James Dalzell Brown, expelled by Occidental Lodge, No. 22;
Hans T. Henning, suspended by California Lodge, No. 1;
Benjamin Oscar Bayliss, suspended by McKinley Lodge, No. 347:
George Washington Jones, acquitted by Madera Lodge, No. 280:
Marion Price Darily, expelled by Oriental Lodge, No. 144;
James W. Denton, ·expelled by Welcome Lodge, No. 255;
James D. Reilly,. suspended by Forest Lodge, No. 66;
Frederick Tetsall, expelled by Presidio Lodge, No. 354;
Arthur Vernett Moore, expelled by Live Oak Lodge, No. 61:
H. Fred Domine, expelled by Curtis Lodge, No. 140:
William L. Deysher, suspended. by Marin Lodge, No. 191;
Ebenezer 0 . Morris, expelle~ by Buckeye Lodge, No. 195;
John R. Dacota, suspend~ tiy Guadalupe Lodge, No. 237.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the action of the several Lodges upon the cases
hereinbefore specified be and the same is hereby affirmed.
Respectfully submitted,
J. D. MuaPHltY,
H. M. OwtNS,
Gl!o. E. CHURCH,
Committee.
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee, to whom was referred the application of Benjamin
James Waugh, expelled by Suisun Lodge, No. 55, to be restored to all
the rights and privileges of .Masonry, have had the same under consideration ·a nd report as follows:

172

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

That said Benjamin James Waugh is now a· resident of the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Oklahoma, and has been for many years
past; that his petition to Suisun Lodge, No. 55, for recommendation
to the Grand Lodge for restoration 'was, at a stated meeting of said
Lodge, held on the_ 31st day of July, 1909, denied by the unanimous
vote of the membership of said Lodge present and voting.
It is the well settled law of this jurisdiction that no restoration
can be had of a suspended or expelled Mason who has moved beyond
our jurisdiction unless satisfactory evidence be furnished by the action
of the Lodge within whose jurisdiction he at the time resides, duly
certified, that the applicant is worthy and that his standing and character are such as would entitle him to affiliation in such Lodge. In
this case no such certificate accompanies the petition for restoration.
We therefore offer the following resolution. and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the petition of Benjamin James Waugh to be restored to all the rights and privileges of Masonry be and the same is.
hereby denied.
Respectfully submitted,
J. D. MURPHJ;;Y,
H. M. OwE:Ns,
G!lo. E. CHURCH,
Committee.

alleged rascality as shall be· sufficient to make a legal showing. The
procedure is plainly laid down in section 5, article IV, part VI, of the
Constitution.

To the M:. w:. Grand Lod~e of California:
Your Committee, to whom was .tderred the trial record in the
case of Charles Wolf, expelled by El ~entro Lodge, No. 384, have
had the same under consideration and re•ctfully report as follows:
There was absolutely no legal eviderte heard by the trial commissioners. The accused was charged with defrauding brother Masons
in Colorado, Illinois and Virginia by drawing worthless checks and
securing money on the same upon his representation that he was a
Master Mason. The evidence introduced before the trial commissioners
consisted solely of letters written to the officers of El Centro Lodge
by the brothers whom he had defrauded. These letters were offered in
evidence without any showing whatever as to the genuineness of the
signatures, and were, of course, hearsay, pure and simple. In addition
to the brothers whose names are set out in the charges, Brother Wolf
appears to have obtained money in the same manner from a large
number of other brothers residing in various parts of the United
States whose complaints by letter were also introduced in evidence
before the trial commissioners. We have repeatedly decided that a
Mason, can only be expelled upon a fair trial and in a legal manner ;
it will be the duty of the Lodge to proceed to a second trial in this
matter and take the depositions of such of the victims of this brother's

173

We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the action of El Centro Lodge in expelling Bro.
Charles Wolf be and the same is hereby reversed, and a new trial
ordered therein.
Respectfully submitted,
J. D. MURPHJ;;Y,
Gi;:o. E. CHURCH,
Committee.

The three reports above set out were adopted.
Bro. H. M. Owens, from the same Committee, reported
as follows:
· To the M.". W.". Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee, to whom was referred the trial record of Bro..
John L. Hicks, a member and Past Master of Emmanuel Lodge, No.
318, beg leave to report as follows:
The charges were preferred by the Junior Warden of Emmanuer
Lodge, by direction of the Master of said Lodge. This action of the
Master clearly disqualified both himself and the Lodge from acting ..
(See sections 352, 597, 909, Anderson's Manual.)
Many objections have been made both to the form of the pleadings, and the sufficiency of the evidence and the rulings of the Master,.
but as the above is a fatal error and the case must be reversed, it is.
not necessary to consider the other points made on appeal. We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That the action of Emmanuel Lodge, No. 318, in suspending Bro. John L. Hicks be and the same is hereby reversed.
Respectfully submitted,
J. D. MURPHP:Y,
H. M. Owi;:Ns,
Gi;:o. E. CHURCH,
.
Committee.

Report adopted.
Bro. S. E. Burke, from the Committee to whom had
been referred the report of the Grand Lecturer, reported as
follows:

174

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee, to whom was referred the annual report of the

v:. w:. Thomas J. Baker, Grand Lecturer, have had the same under

consideration and beg leave to report as follows:
That the Jurisdiction of California is fortunate in having the
services of such an able, energetic and thoroughly qualified man as
Brother Baker to fill this important position, for it is due to his untiring
efforts that the ritualistic work of our Fraternity has reached such a
high degree of perfection. We are pleased to note from his report
the interest taken by the brethren in this jurisdiction in attending the
schools of instruction and the courtesies shown our Grand Officers.
Concerning that portion of the Grand Lecturer's report in reference
to the candidate's lecture for the third dgree and the presentation of a
Grand Lodge diploma, we believe it would further the interests of
Masonry. We therefore recommend that this Grand Lodge authorize
the custodian of our ritualistic work to formulate a suitable lecture
for candidates as may desire to take it.
In conclusion, we wish to express our heartfelt appreciation for
the high attainments of our Grand Lecturer, Brother Baker, during
the past year, and believe that the sentiments of this Committee in
the above is representative of the sentiment throughout the State.
Respectfully submitted,

s. E. BURKE,
G. A. HUTAFF,

C. C. CoRBIERE,
Committee.

175

The report of the Committee was adopted, and the
resolution lost.
The Grand . Lodge was then called off until 2 o'clock
this afternoon.

3Jn Oiranh 1£nh!1t.
Afternoon Session.
Thursday, October 14, A. L. 5909.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
This beipg the hour specially fixed for the Annual
Oration, W. ·. Benjamin F. Bledsoe delivered an able and
instructive address, which so delighted the representatives
present that, on motion of M:. W .'. Edmund C. Atkinson,
a rising vote of thanks was tendered the Grand Orator for
his effort ; and on motion of R. ·. W. ·. Alonzo J. Monro'!,
two thousand copies of the address were ordered to be
printed and sent to the several Lodges of the jurisdiction.
Brother Bledsoe's remarks were as follows :

Which report was adopted.
V.'. W.'. Wm. H. Edwards, from the Committee on
Ritual, reported as follows :
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of Californiai:
The Committee on Ritual, to whom was referred the preamble and
resolution offered by Bro. Joseph Oscar Downing, requiring the Senior
Deacon appointed by the Worshipful Master to perfect himself in the
Senior Deacon's Work, beg to report that we deem it inexpedient to
make such requirements, and therefore recommend that the resolution
be not adopted.
Respectfully submitted,
G~.

M. PJ!RINE,

w. H. EDWARDS,

Committee.

OPERATIVE OR SPECULATIVE?
Emerson has said that "the kind of men the nation produces is the
true test of a nation's greatness." Whether it be an oligarchy or a democracy, whether it be based on constitutional liberty or be the product
of an absolute despotism, a nation's place in history is determined by
the men it gives to the world.
The same observation is peculiarly true of each and every of our
great fraternal organizations. All, so far as I am advised, are founded
upon enduring principles of equality, fraternity and morality. No one,
however, achieves distinction save from the character and class of men
who bear its banner forward. The particular lessons taught by its
ritual, if known, would be bi.:t a secondary consideration with an applicant for admission. There is no occasion for the individual who
desires mer ely to become acquainted with high ideals or great moral

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

truths, to pass the closely guarded portals of any secret society. The
best teachings of the best fraternity ever instituted among men cannot
compare with the simple lessons which fel! from the lips of the Man
of Nazareth and which today are the comfort, the solace and the
inspiration of enlightened manhood and womanhood everywhere. He,
however, who desires not only to be and do good, but also to be and
remain in constant touch and close communion with men who are
similarly inclined and who by the force of initiative, superior will
or friendly example may lead him on to higher and better things in
life, if he have any inclinations toward membership in a fraternal
society such as ours, will instinctively turn to that one whose roll of
membership comes nearest, in his opinion, to a roll of honor. He
will sedulously seek the fraternal companionship of those men who,
in their daily existence, in their social and business relations, in the
multitude of trivialities that go to make up this complex thing called
"life," give an outward proof of an inward determination to be of
benefit to their fellow man. He will knock at those doors that offer
the greatest assurance of opening upon men· whose ~haracter and
standing and deeds of high resolve have made for substantial progress
toward the betterment of humankind.
Fraternities, like unto nations, then, are gauged by their men. The
only fraternity that can be great is that fraternity which has or has
had great men to mould and shape its course-men great not because
they have acquired unusual wealth or attained unusual preferment,
but because of their extraordinary capacity to foresee man's opportunities to do good and because of their innate ability to "do noble
things, not dream them all day long." And as that nation that gives
to its citizens the best environment, the best government and the
least restraint compatible with the general tranquility, thereby serves
10 develop the best and the greatest of men, so that fraternity whose
·basic principles, teachings of morality and accepted standards of good
•conduct most nearly approach the divine attributes of God's Appointed,
furnishes the most sublime examples of fraternal loyalty and human
.endeavor.
Lord Brougham, one of the greatest of British statesmen, once
said: "All that we see about us, Kings, Lords and Commons, the
whole machinery of the State, all the apparatus of the system and
its varied workings, end in simply bringing twelve good men into a
box." By this he meant that governments are instituted among men, ·
constitutions are ordained, executives are clothed with power, congresses and parliaments are assembled, laws are enacted and tribunals
are set up simply and solely in order that society and every individual
member thereof shall be the recipient of that which is justly duenothing more, nothing less.

In the same way, fraternal societies have been organized, rituals
have been compiled, obligations have been administered, lectures have
been delivered, Grand and Subordinate Lodges have been constituted
and convened, in order that there might be caused to be written, in
1£tters of living light, along the horizon of the activities of every
human being, that phrase so pregnant with hope for humanity :-"I am
my brother's keeper."
Freemasonry has ever been noted for its men-men who have
been the leaders in the world's activities; men who have shed a bright
and enduring lustre on the kaleidoscopic page of history; men who
have brought solace and sunshine into the homes and hearts of the
widowed and orphaned and fanned anew the fires of fraternal love
in the breasts of the aged and incapacitated; yea, men who have seen
and felt in Liberty, Equality, Fraternity and Morality the touchstones
of human progress, the capstones of human achievement.
But again, just as it is true that no nation can live and thrive on
th<' record of its glorious past, so it is also true that no great frah:rnity can so live and thrive. The place that Freemasonry will
occupy in the world's estimation tomorrow is not the place that it
occupied yesterday, but the place that it is making for itself today.

176

177

"Over my head the stars, distant and pale and cold ;
Under my feet the world, wrinkled and scarred and old;
Back of me all that was, all the limitless Past,
The Futur~ waiting beyond, silent, untenanted, vast;
"Babylon lies in the dust; never a sentinel calls
With fear on his parted lips from any of Ninevah's walls;
Troy is only a name; Ca:sar is deaf to praise,
Back of me spreads the Past in numberless yesterdays;
"I stand at the end of the Past- where the Future begins I stand;
Emperors lij! in the dust; men may live to command ;
But greater than rulers unborn, greater than kings who have reigned
Am I that have hope in my heart, and victories still to be gained!
Under my feet the world; over my head the sky;H ere at the center of things, in the Living Present am I!"
Let it not, for any cause, be said of our organization that it
exhibits much in the way of promise but little in the way of endeavor,
"The waves of shame and sorrow roll over the ruins of many lives
that have found shipwreck in a sea of promises." Promises without
performance do not constitute fraternity, any more than great faith
and no works constitutes religion. In Masonry we want to think

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

well of a man not for having taken an obligation to do many things.
nor even for having taken many obligations t-Q do one thing, but for
having done a few things.
.
Our Ancient Brethren were workers. They wrought m woo.ct.
and stone and marble and brass, and they knew how to use to advantage the square, the level and the plumb. To. the~ alone,. partly .by
reason of a monopoly, principally by reason of their supenor att~m­
ments as practical builders, was entrusted the buildin&:, the squar.mg,.
the leveling and the truing of all great works of architecture. . Smee
the· reorganization of the craft in England, however, we'. their successors, have been content to describe ourselves as Speculative Masons,
and to refer to our Ancient Brethren whose garb we have put on a_nd
whos'e tools we employ, as Operative Masons. They were operative
Masons ; they worked; they builded-builded even better tha~ they
knew. The results of their endeavors were and are yet seen m the·
many imposing edifices of the Old World . We engage in no such
works ; our hands are strangers to the chisel and the mallet, and
it would be a most arduous undertaking, I dare say, for even our·
Most Worshipful Grand Master, primus inter pares, the first am?ng
us, to endeavor to apply the tools of architecture of o.ur Anc1~nt:
Brethren, now symbolically employed by us, to the uses for which<
they were originally intended.
We would do well, though, I apprehend, my brothers, were we to
take to ourselves· more of the operative characteristics that seemed'
to ennoble, and perpetuate the virtues of, our Masonic ancesto~s. T:'
be speculative is to be philosophical, meditative, contemplative; it
implies a condition of mere thinking-;thinking perhaps of ~h~t has
been done or thinking even of what ought to be done-but it is not
doing. O~r Ancient Brethren, the operative Masons, did not retire·
to the recesses of their closets, there to contemplate and reflect upon
the needs of . their time. Masonry, intended and regarded as the most
practical exemplification of the living, breathing principles of Fraternity that the world may ever know, is not, and never should. be·
permitted to become, the field for me~e Casuists. Works, pract1ca~
results, genuine successes along any Imes of endeavor, are secu~ed
only, if at all, by workers. We must become, once more, Operative·
Masons.
.
Masonry, in its every conception, ought to be esse~tiall~ act1v~,.
transitive, dynamic, energetic, operative, rather than passive, mt~ans1tive, static, inert, speculative. We must remember _that the.re is n:i
nobler sentiment than that of him who said: "There 1s a loftier ambition than merely to stand high in the world ; it is to stoop down and'
lift mankind a little higher. There is a nobler character than that
which is merely incorruptible; it is that character which acts as anc
antidote and preventive of corruption."

The genius of our Ancient Brethren lay in rearing Heavenward
those mightly piles, of Antiquity, dedicated and devoted to religious
uses. With them, as workers in wood and stone, Man's duty to God
and Man was best subserved by erecting those temporal buildings
wherein all might unite in rendering praise and thanksgiving unto
the ever living God. To us, since we no longer work in wood and
stone, is now entrusted the more ennobling duty of fitting our minds
as living stones for that spiritual building, that house not made with
hands, eternal in the Heavens. Ours is the duty of fashioning temples, as was theirs; not temples, however, of blocks and timbers,
adorned with gold and silver and precious stones, but temples of
flesh and blood, enriched and imbued with an immortal spirit-a
spirit which, reflecting the paternity of God, proclaims the fraternity
of man; not temples fashioned from human designs and plans, but
fashioned in the image of our Common Creator.
Each being with whom we come in contact is such a . temple.
Wherever that te~ple stands, so long as it is not wholly lost to the
intense divinity of man and the intense humanity of God, there is a
field for activity in Operative Masonry. And whoever labors on that
edifice with usefulness or distinction ; whoever plants its feet upon
the firm foundation of truth and virtue; whoever warms its heart
t:i a realization of the nearness of the ever-outstretched hand of
Charity and Brotherly Love, ready, willing and anxious to render
assistance; whoever guides its hands to deeds af charity and acts of
love; whoever contributes to instill into its mind pure thoughts and
honorable ambitions, has inseparably linked himself by a chain of
sincere affection to the immortal brotherhood of truly operative Masons. He, however, who fails, in Lodge or out, by day or by
night, through inadvertence or neglect, when travelling the path
either of prosperity or adversity, so to live up to the spirit of his
obligations, irrespective of the vows he may have taken, the lectures
he may have conned, or the promises he may have given, is not and
never can be an Operative Mason. He is in truth and in fact, at
best, only a mere Speculative Mason.
Our Ancient Brethren, as I had occasion to observe, and as the
early ~hroniclers testify, enjoyed a monopoly in the matter of building.
This monopoly-both benevolent and beneficent in its nature-resulted
naturally from their innate ability to carry to a successful conclusion
the work which they entered upon. We, their successors, however,
can expect, and should, in fact, desire, to participate in no such monopoly in the work in which we are engaged. Just as it is true that
there is no caste in morality, so is it also true that there can be no
monopoly of that the seeds of which God himself has planted in every
human heart. Masonry today welcomes, and has naught but words
of praise for, the efforts of all similar organizations. The State, the

178

li9

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

·Home and the Individual, the beneficiaries of that which we, as
Masons, hope and strive to accomplish, will be enabled the sooner to
profit, if to our efforts there be added the efforts .of others similarly
inclined and similarly engaged. It may be true, as existing contro·
versies would seem to indicate, that the North Pole is insufficient in
extent to accommodate more than one man ; but there can be no
doubt that in the broad domain devoted to Fraternity, Equality and
Morality, there are to be found fields of activity as boundless as the
shores of Time and as measureless as the sands of the sea, wherein
all who wish may till.
Temples such as those our Ancient Brethren contrived to erect,
beautiful and artistic though they were, were but cold and inanimate
objects whose existence was but ephemeral. The living temples which
it is our province to adorn are warmed by the breath of the Eternal
Spirit, which will never perish. On yesterday we wended our way to
the site of the new Scottish Rite Temple in this city and witnessed
the solemn and inspiring ceremonies whereby its cornerstone was lowered into place; in a short while the Craft of our entire great State
will unite in the erecting of a new home for this Grand Lodge and
it;, kindred bodies. The architectural splendor of these well proportioned edifices soon-to-be will no doubt bespeak the praise of men
throughout all time to come. The grandeur of the Temple of Solomon
on Mount Moriah, never excelled by human effort, a thing of the
past though it is, has been the theme and admiration of all successive I
ages. But the most enduring grandeur, next to that which flows
from the Almighty Throne itself, is the grandeur of a noble' and
well-spent life, wrapping itself in benediction round the destinies of
its fellowmen and finally reaching its eternal home in the blessed
bosom of the everlasting God.
Tradition tells us that when Cornelia, the noble Roman matron,
was called upon to exhibit her most precious possessions, she pointed
to her two sturdy sons, known in history as the Gracchi, the Tribunes
of the people, who gave their lives that Rome might not perish, and
proudly said, "These are my jewels.",
Let it be our ·constant endeavor, my brothers, so to live and act
as operative Masons that when we are called upcin to render an account
of our stewardship to our Supreme Grand Master above, we may point
with pride not only to the halls and temples and similar edifices •erected
under our direction and supervision, but also to a galaxy of mennoble men-whose hearts have been caused to resporft:l to the eternal
truths, whose tongues have been taught to proclaim the living principles, and whose hands have been guided to perform the glorious
deeds that go to make up practical, operative Fraternity.
Masonry, true operative ~asonry, is as enduring as it is universal.
Appealing to the better nature of man, divorcing him from his baser

instincts, it will last as long as Time itself. Though existing under
the ban of the Church, persecuted as an enemy by intolerant governments and denounced by untiring fanatics, "it still stands, like some
patriarchical monarch of the forest, with its vigorous roots riveted
to the soil, and its broad limbs spread in bold outline against the
sky," the first and foremost of its kind.
May its ideal exponent be described and depicted as one whose
good deeds outshine his aspirations, whose aspirations o'erleap his
obligations, and whose obligations mount up as high as the bounds
of human endeavor and reach down as low as the depths of human
necessity.
Nor think such an ideal too high. No ideal is too high merely
because it may appear to be beyond our reach, "else," as Browning
said, "why a Heaven?" Throughout all ages God has implanted in
the heart of man a yearning for the ideal, and man has ever best
reflected God's ultimate purpose by worshiping at its shrine. Ours may
be the materialistic age, but, as of yore, the idealistic will ever be
its goal.
-

181)

"Mother Earth ! are the heroes dead?
Do they thrill the soul of the years no more?
Are the gleaming snows and the poppies red
All that is left of the brave of yore?
Are there none 'to fight as Theseus fought,
Far in the young world's misty dawn?
Or to teach as the gray-haired Nestor taught?
Mother Earth ! are the heroes gone?
"Gone? In a grander form they rise;
Dead? We may clasp their hands in ours;
And catch the light of their clearer eyes
And wreath their brows with immortal flowers.
Wherever a noble deed is done
'Tis the pulse of a hero's heart is stirred;
Wherever right has a triumph won
There arc the heroes' voices heard.
"Their armor rings on a fairer field
Than the Greek and the Trojan fiercely trod,
For Freedom's sword is the blade they wield,
And the light above is the smile of God.
So, in his isle of calm delight,
Jason may sleep the years away;
For the heroes live, ~nd the sky is bright,
And the world is a braver world today."

181

182

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Bro. John K. Alexander introduced the following:
WHEREAS, By the terrible catastrophe which visited our State and
particularly the City of San Francisco, in April, 1906, all of the portraits of our Past Grand Masters were consumed and utterly destroyed;
therefore, be it
Resolved, That it is the sense of the Grand Lodge of Free and
Accepted Masons of the State of California, in Convocation assembled,
that in justice to ourselves and to our deceased and living Past Grand
Masters, some steps should be taken, and efforts made, to restore each
and all of the portraits aforesaid, to the end that the memory of these
truly distinguished Masons should be kept green and made permanent,
by hanging said portraits in a prominent place in our proposed new
Temple, soon to be erected.

Referred to Committee on Finance.
Bro. Geo. E . Church, from the Committee on Grievances, presented the following reports:
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee, to whom was referred the proceedings of Francis
Drake Lodge, No. 376, F . & A. M., which resulted in the expulsion of
John Nealis from all the rights and privileges of Masonry, have to
report that they have carefully examined the record of said proceedings
and find them in every particular in accordance ·with our Masonic laws.
No appeal has been taken. Your Committee therefore recommends
that the action of said Lodge be approved and confirmed.
Respectfully submitted,
GEO. E. CHURCH,
H . M. Ow:ENs,
Committee.
To the M." . w:. Grand Lodge of Californi(JJ:

Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred the action
of Palos Verdes Lodge, No. 389, F. & A. M., which resulted in the
expulsion of Roy Nathan Carr, a member of said Lodge, from all the ·
rights and privileges of Masonry, report as follows:
The record contains no evidence that can be considered by your
Committee. It is all hearsay, for the admission of which there would
appear to be no excuse or justification. Proper and legal evidence, if
it exists, as alleged, could have been easily secured and submitted.
We therefore advise that the action of the Lodge be reversed and
the case remanded for new trial.
Respectfully submitted,
GEO. E. CHURCH,
. H . M. 0W:ENS,
Committee.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

183

To the M .". w:. Grand L odge of Californi(JJ:

Your Committee, to whom was referred the proceedings of Visalia
Lodge, No. 128, F . & A. M., in the matter of the trial for unmasonic
conduct of Bro. Daniel Osborn, of said Lodge, beg leave to report as
follows :
Brother Osborn was accused by the Junior Warden of said Lodge
with i.mmasonic conduct in that, as specified, he appropriated at different times to his own use moneys collected by him as conductor of
the Visalia Electric Railway. At the hearing, which was duly and
• regularly ordered, he admitted his guilt, professed penitence, showed
that he had been restored to his position by the superintendent of the
said railway company, himself a Mason, after full knowledge of his
offense ; but was thereafter discharged by said superintendent because,
as alleged, he had made statements derogatory of the character of
the said superintendent's wife. So far as these statements are concerned it is sufficient to say that Brother Osborn flatly and positively
denied having made them, and there is in the record, of course, no
proof that he ever did make them.
At the meeting on June 26, 1909, the commissioners by a unanimous
vote found the accused brother guilty both upon the charge and all the
s?ecifications save one. They refused, however, by the same vote,
either to expel or suspend him, determining only that he be reprimanded.
The Master announced to the Lodge the result of the trial
July 17, 1909. The Junior W arden, by the notice given August 17,
1909, appeals from the decision, on the ground that the penalty is contrary to Masonic law and inadequate.
An appeal must be taken in thirty days from the date of the announcement by the Master of the result of the action of the commissioners. This appeal was not taken within the time. However in
consideration of this matter, your Committee is disposed to disre~ard
this fact, particularly as it is not disposed to recommend that the
action of the Lodge be disturbed. It is true that the crime of embezzlement has uniformly been held justly and properly to be one of the
grossest. of Masonic offenses. It is true in this case the amounts
shown to have been embezzled were but small, almost trifling, but
this is little or no mitigation. Since, however, the accused brother
seems to have sincerely regretted and repented his misdeed, and since
his offense has been condoned both by the company for whom he
worked and by his Lodge, we do not think it advisable, notwithstanding
the inadequate penalty, to recommend a reversal of the action.
Respectfully submitted,
GEo. E. CHURCH,
H . M. Ow:tNs,
Committee.

184

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodg' of Califon1ia:
Your Committee, to whom was referred the proceedings of the
Henry Clay Lodge, No. 95, F. & A. M., in the matter of the trial and
conviction of Bro. Jackson Dennis, for conduct unbecoming a Mason,
beg leave to report as follows:
They have examined the record of this proceeding and find it so
incomplete and insufficient that they are compelled to recommend that
it be referred back to said Lodge with direction to complete and certify
the entire records in the case, together with all the exhibits introduced
and ~sed at the hearing.
Respectfully submitted,
Giio. E. CHURCH,
H. M. 0wENS,
Committee.

All four which reports were approved and adopte~.
Bro. Henry M. Owens, from the same Committee, presented the following report:
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee, to whom was referred the trial record of Bro.
Thomas Alexis Nerney, a member of San Diego Lodge, No. 35, who
was acquitted by Occidental Lodge, No. 22, have had the same under .
consideration and beg leave to report as follows:
Brother Nerney was charged with unmasonic conduct, as set forth
in the following specifications:
First: That on or about the 13th day of October, 1906, in the
City and County of San Francisco, the said Thomas Alexis Nerney,
as agent for the Pettibone Manufacturing Company, of Cincinnati,
·Ohio, rendered a bill to California Chapter No. 5, Royal Arch Masons,
for paraphernalia furnished said Chapter, in the sum of $987.95, the
receipt of which amount was acknowledged by him; whereas, the
amount actually received by him was only $750.75, thereby falsely
representing that the whole amount of $987.95 was the price of the
paraphernalia so purchased and paid for by said California Chapter,
No. 5, Royal Arch Masons.
Second: That on or about the 1st day of December, 1906, in the
City and County of San Francisco, the said Thomas Alexis Nerney, as
agent for the Pettibone Brothers Manufacturing Company, of Cincinnati, Ohio, rendered a bill to California Chapter, No. 5, Royal Arch
Masons, for paraphernalia furnished said Chapter, in the sum of
$1,862.25, the receipt of which was acknowledged by him; whereas, the
amount actually received by him was only $1,401.00, falsely represent·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

185

ing that the whole amount of $1,862.25 was the price of the paraphernalia so purchased and paid for by said California Chapter, No. 5,
Royal Arch Masons.
The accus~d presented and filed the following answer :
In the Matter of Thomas Alexis Nerney.
Comes now the accused; Thomas Alexis Nerney, and for answer
to the charges filed with the M.". w:. Grand Master of Masons of
California by Henry Ascroft, admits that he, as the agent for the
Pettibone Brothers Manufacturing Company of Cincinnati, Ohio,
rendered a bill to California Chapter, No. 5, Royal Arch Masons, for
paraphernalia furnished said Chapter, in the sum of $987.95; admits
that the receipt of said amount was acknowledged by him; admits
that the amount actually received by him was $750.75. Denies that he
falsely represented to California Chapter, No. 5, Royal Arch Masons,
that the whole amount of $987.95 was the price of paraphernalia purchased and paid for by said California Chapter.
And answering the second specification of said charges: Admits
that he, as the agent for the Pettibone Brothers Manufacturing Company, of Cincinnati, Ohio, rendered a bill to California Chapter, No. 5,
R£lyal Arch Masons, for paraphernalia furnished said Chapter in the
sum of $1,862.25; admits that the receipt of said amount was acknowledged by him; admits that the amount actually received by him was
only $1,401.00. Denies that he falsely represented that the whole amount
of $1,862.25 was the price for the paraphernalia purchased by said California Chapter, No. 5, Royal Arch Masons.
In addition to that above the accused testified that Brother Henning represented to the accused that he (Henning) wanted th~ bills
made out in full for the reason that Brother Henning wanted the
difference between the long bills and the short bills to be placed in an
entertainment fund, but because it was so seen after the fire they did ·
not want such items to appear.
Brother Nerney testified that he had nc knowledge whatever that
Brother Henning was going to retain or ap'lropriate to his own use
any of the mcney the Chapter was supposetl to pay for the goods.
The accused also testified that he received no part of it, and there is no
evidence in the records that he did receive a part of it, or knew that
Brother Henning was going to retain any portion of it and not report
the exact transaction to the Chapter. The accused also testified that
it was his custom to receipt both the long and short bills in the case of
allowing a commission. Taking the evidence as it appears, we are
satisfied that there was no criminal intent on the part of Brother
Nerney in doing this. Nevertheless, his action in tl:iis matter has been
grossly indiscreet.

186

GRAND LODGM OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend _its
adoption:
Resolved, That the action of Occidental Lodge, No. 22, in finding
Bro. Thomas Alexis Nerney not guilty be and the same is hereby
approved.
Respectfully submitted,
J. D. MURPHEY,
H. M. OWENS,
GEo. E. CHURCH ,

Committee.

Which was adopted.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until 10 o'clock
Friday morning.

3Ju "rattil iljnilgr.
Morning Session.
Friday, October ·15, A. L. 5909.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
The Minutes of yesterday's sess10n were read and
approved.
On motion of Brother Bledsoe, General Regulation
No. 20 was suspended and the election of officers was set
for 11 o'clock this morning.
Bro. Roy Block, from the Committee on Credentials,
reported the following additional officers of chartered
Lodges and Past Masters by service within this jurisdiction, as being present and entitled to seats, viz. : From

187

Tehama ... ... ..... . No. 3 .. J. E . Thompson, Past Master.
San Jose ........... No. 10 .. John H . McGehee, Master;
Paul S. Williams, Junior Warden.
Nevada City ....... . No. 13 .. F. L. Arbogast, Past Master.
Santa Rosa ..... .. .. No. 57 .. Marvin T . Vaughan, Master;
Edwin P. Lewis, Junior Warden;
C. D. ·Barnett, Past Master.
St. Helena ....... . .. No. 93 .. B. S. Ward, Past Master.
Arcata ... . .. : . ...... No.106 .. W. W . Stone, Past Master.
Paj aro ... ... ........ No. 110 .. Samuel S. Jarrett, Master.
Mt. Zion .......... . No. 114 .• F. S. Beckett, Past Master.
Woodbridge . . .. . ... . No. 131 .• G. F. McNoble, Past Master.
Pacific ..... . . ..... .. No. 136 .• I. J. Aschheim, Past Master.
Stanislaus ....... . ... No. 206 .• W . H. Hatton, Past Master and Rep'tive.
Friendship ....... . .. No. 210 .. John J. Kocher, Senior Warden.
Speranza Italiana . .. No. 219 .. Perseo Righetti, Master.
Landmark .......... No. 253 •• J. G. Fredericks, Past Master and Rep'tive ·
Arroyo ........ . .... No. 274 .• Allan L. Bickell, Senior Warden.
Southern California .. No. 278 .. W. P. Jeffries, Past Master.
Palo Alto .... .. ..... No. 346 .• Emil E. Weisshaar, Master.
Sequoia . . ....... .. .. No. 349 .• Frank F. Porter, Senior Warden.
Las Palmas ......... No. 366 .. B. A. Fassett, Past Master.
Fillmore .. . ..... . ... No. 379 . . John P. Hinckley, Senior Warden.
West Lake .......... No. 392 .. William M. Humphreys, Senior Warden.

Which _w as approved.
Bro. 0: M. Goldaracena, from the Committee on Finance, presented the following report :
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Finance beg leave to report as follows:
BOARDS OF RELIEF.

We have received and carefully considered the reports of the Boards
of Relief of San Francisco, Los Angeles, Oakland, Sacramento and
San Diego, and offer the following resolution and recommend its
·
adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $8,000.00 be and the same is hereby
appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge, to be divided as
follows, viz. :
To the Board of Relief of San Francisco ........ . ....... . $3,500.00
To the Board of Relief of Los Angeles .. . .........•...... 4,000.00
To the Board of Relief of San Diego ... ................. .
500.00

188

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
SALARIJ!S OF THI! GRAND OFFICJ!RS.

We have had under consideration the salaries of the Grand Lodge
officers and an expert accountant of the Finance Committee, and beg
leave to report thereon as follows, and recommend its adoption :
For sala ry of the Grand Treasurer . .............. ... ........ $ 200.00
For salary of the Grand Secretary. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,000.00
For salary of the Assistant Grand Secretary, , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1,800.00
For salary of the Grand Organist. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
60.00
For services of the Grand Tyler............... : . . , . . . . . . . . . .
125.00
For services of the Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence ... . .. .. ......... . ......................... .
200.00
For contingent expenses of the Grand Master, to be used in
defraying actual expenses incurred by him in the performance of his duties, to be paid in equal quarterly
installments, if required ............... ... ... .. ....... .
1,200.00
For the salary of the Grand Lecturer ....... . .............. . 2,400.00
For services of an expert accountant on the Finance Committee
100.00
No amount has been designated for the contingent expenses of the
Grand Lecturer. As your Committee is unable to determine the amount
required, we recommend that the Grand Lecturer file with the Grand
Secretary an itemized account of his actual expenses incurred in the
discharge of his duties, said account, when presented, to be audited by
the Committee on Accounts and paid as other accounts are paid.
CLAIMS OF VARIOUS LODGJ!S.

Your Committee, to whom was referred the petition of Keystone
'Lodge, No. 161, asking for a donation in the sum of $500.00, and for
the remission of their Grand Lodge dues for the year, have considered
the same, and we find as follows :
That said Lodge has a depleted treasury, and is heavily indebted.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:

Resolved, That all the Grand Lodge dues of Keystone Lodge, No.
161, for this year, be and the same are hereby remitted, and that the
sum of $120.00 be and the same is hereby appropriated from the funds
of this Grand Lodge for the said Keystone Lodge, No. 161.
Your Committee, to whom was referred the petition af Kilauea
Lodge, No. 330, asking for the remission of their Grand Lodge dues for
the year, have considered the same, and we find that the treasury of
said Lodge is entirely depleted, and that it is having a difficult time in
order to discharge its charities and other obligations, for which reason
we offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That the Grand Lodge dues of Kilauea Lodge, No. 330,
for this year, be and the same are hereby remitted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

189

DIPLOMAS.

Your Committee, to whom was referred th~ resolution to present
a more suitable and smaller Grand Lodge Diploma, have had the
matter under consideration, and beg leave to report the following resolution and recommend its adoption :

Resolved, That the Grand Secretary be instructed to have printed
a suitable number of small-sized diplomas, which are to be sold to the
brethren for the sum of twenty-five cents each.
Your Committee have had under consideration the resolution referred to it, regarding the· appointment of a committee to make investigation of the present system of dispensing Masonic charity in this
Grand Jurisdiction, and beg leave to offer the following in lieu and
stead of said resolution with the recommendation that it be adopted:

w: ·

Resol·ved, That a committee of five be appointed by the M: ·
Grand Master to make a thorough investigation of the present system
of dispensing Masonic charity in this Grand Jurisdiction, and that it
make such recommendations to this Grand Lodge at its next Communication as it may deem advisable to bring about a more perfect and
uniform method of disbursing Masonic charify to brethren of other
jurisdictions.
MASONIC HOMJ!S.

Regarding that portion of the report of the Special Committee on
Masonic Homes, recommending the continuance of the per capita tax
of $1.00 for their support, we offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:

R esolved, That a tax of $1.00 per capita be levied upon the membership of this Jurisdiction for the support and maintenance of the Decoto
and San Gabriel Homes, said tax to be due and payable in the same
manner and at the same time as the annual Grand Lodge dues.
SPJ!CIAL FUNn

Your Committee have had under consideration that portion of the
Grand Master's address referring to a balance of $2,368.50, remaining
in the hands of the Grand Secretary, of contributions made in this
Grand Jurisdiction for the relief of the Italian earthquake sufferers.
We are of the opinion that this sum should be retained as a fund to be
expended by the Grand Master upon any occasion for like relief in the
future, and for this reason we offe.r the following resolution, and recommend its adoption :

Resolved, That the balance of $2,368.50 remaining in the hands of
the Grand Secretary of the contributions made for the Italian earthquake sufferers, be retained as a special fund to be expended by the
Grand Master upon any occasion calling for like relief in the future.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODG:E: R:E:PORTS.
Your Committee 'have carefully considered that portion of the
Grand Master's address referring to the rebinding of the Grand Lodge
Reports. We find that there is one complete set of said Reports in the
office of the Grand Secretary, and that an effort is about to be made to
obtain additional sets, which undoubtedly will require some time, and as
in all probability the incoming Grand Master will be a resident of San
Francisco, and will thus have easy access to the set in the Grand Secretary's office, we hereby recommend that the question of binding said
books be laid over till the next Communication of this Grand Lodge.

<>f the Grand Treasurer and Grand Secretary, and that he
had found their accounts correct.

190

PORTRAITS OF TH:E: PAST GRAND MAST:E:RS.
Your Committee have likewise had under consideration the resolution referred to it regarding the painting of portraits of Past Grand
Masters, and are of the opinion that the proper time to do this would be
after the completion of the new Temple, so that said paintings may
have a place in which to be hung. For which reason we recommend that
no action be taken upon this matter at this time.
D:E:COTO HOM:£.
Your Committee have had under consideration the various resolutions referred to it relating to the equipment of a hospital, the installation of a heating plant, and of an electric elevator at the Home at
Decoto, and are of the opinion that these things should be done, for
~hich reason we offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption.
Resolved, That a sum not to exceed $13,500.00 be placed at the disposal of the Board of Directors of the Masonic Home at Decoto, for
the ere<;tion of a temporary hospital, the installation of a heating plant,
and of an electric elevator at said Home.
Respectfully submitted,
0. M. GoLDARACENA,
RALPH Low:i;:,
CHAS. ALB:E:RT ADAMS,
E. B. SP:E:NC:E:R,
Committe~

Which report was adopted and the recommendations
concurred ih.
Accompanying the report of the Finance Committee
was a detailed statement by Bro. Thos. T. Atkinson, certified public accountant, certifying that. he had examined the
books, vouchers, receipts, warrants, bank pass books, etc.,

191

Brothers J. H. MacLafferty and M. H. Flint intro<luced tfie following:
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
WHEREAS . Within the very recent past a terrible hurricane has
visited the S~uthern Coast of the United States, particularly centering
at Key West, Florida, spreading devastation and death, rendering thousands homeless, and causing the loss of hun&eds of lives; and
WHEREAS, The Mayor of Key West has announced that the municipal authorities of the city have been compelled to suspend work
because of lack of funds, and also that hundreds are in 'great danger of
starvation unless assistance comes from the outside world; therefore,
be it

Resol1.Jed, That the M.'. W.'. Grand Master be requested by this
Grand Lodge to at once telegraph to the proper authorities at Key
West the sum of $500.00, the same to be taken from the fund originally
set apart for the relief of the sufferers at Messina, part of which was
referred to in the Grand Master's report as being yet on hand and not
necessary for the relief ow the Messina disaster.

The resolution was referred to the Committee on
Finance, which Committee reported as follows :
Your Committee, to whom was referred the resolution asking that
the Grand Master telegraph the sum of $500.00 for the sufferers at Key
West, have considered the same and beg leave to offer the following
resolution, recommending its adoption:

Resolved That the M.'. W.'. Grand Master immediately telegraph
to the prope; authorities at Key West the sum of $500.00, the same to
be paid from the Special Fund created from the balance remaining from
the amount contributed for the earthquake sufferers of Italy.
Respectfully submitted,
0. M. GoLDARAC:E:NA,
RALPH LOWE,
A. ADAMS,
E. B. SPENC:E:R,
Committee.

c.

Adopted.

192

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The same Committee also reported as follows:
In the matter of that portion of the application of Hope L~dge,
No. 234, requesting the issuance, without charge, of a new Charter, in
lieu of that destroyed by fire, your Committee recommends that the
request be granted and that a new Charter be issued without oharge.
Respectfully submitted,
0. M. GoLDARACJ!;NA,
RALPH Low£,
A. ADAMS,
E. B. SPJ;;NC(R,
Committee.

c.

Which report was adopted.
Bro. 0. M. Goldaracena, from the same Committee, ·
also reported as follows :
Your Finance Committee, to whom was referred the report of the
President of the Masonic Temple Association, have had the same under
consideration and beg leave to report as follows :
That, from said report, it is impossible for your Committee to
ascertain how much it is estimated the income of said Masonic Temple,
when completed, will probably be.
We find, however, that a yearly income of $40,000.00 will be needed
to pay the interest on the bonded indebtedness proposed, and considering the value of the Temple to be $1,000,000.00, and that it will probably
not be assessed for less than one-half of its value, which will bring the
annual taxes to about $10,000.00, your Committee finds it impossible to
arrive at an intelligent conclusion, for which reason we refer said report
back to this Grand Lodge without 'any recommendation.
Respectfully submitted,
0. M. GOLDARAC(NA,
RALPH Lowi;:,
c. A. ADAMS,
E. B. SPl!:NO:R,
Committee.

A general discussion concerning the report of the President of the Masonic Temple Association followed, during
which Bro. Eugene S. Elkus introduced the following
resolution:
Resolved, That it is the sense of this Grand Lodge that stock in the
Masonic Temple Association of California be sold to any organized
body composed entirely of Masons.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

193

Which resolution was adopted and the report of the
Masonic Temple Association, recommending a bond issue,
,. ·'
was not concurred in.
The hour of 11 :30 having arrived, the matter of
election of Grand Officers was, by unanimous consent,
postponed until 2 :30 o'clock this day.
Bro. Ralph Lowe, from the Committee on Finance, introduced the following:
We respectfully recommend that our retiring Grand Master, the
M.". w:. Oscar Lawler, be and · he is hereby requested to sit for his
portrait, and that the Grand Secretary be and he is hereby instructed
to have said portrait, when finished, suitably framed and placed in the
office of the Grand Secretary:
Respectfully submitted,
0. M. GOLDARACltNA,.
RALPH Lowit,
c. A. ADAMS,
E. B. SP!Ncint,
Committee.

Which was adopted.
M.". W.". Geo. M. Perine, from the Special Committee
to whom had been delegated the matter of the reply of the
Grand Lodge to Brothers Edward A. Belcher and Henry
Disque, in acknowledgment of the presentation of oil paintings, presented the following:
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee, to whom was referred the communication of
Bro. Edward A. Belcher, presenting to this Grand Lodge the portrait
of our deceased Past Grand Master, William C. Belcher, who was a
true, loyal Mason, and lived our Masonic teachings, report that it is a
pleasure for us to know that his name was enrolled in our Jurisdiction.
Although Brother Belcher's remains have long rested in the bosom of
Mother Earth, his memory still lives. We will treasure both· memory
and portrait-his memory in our hearts, and his portrait in our Masonic
Temple.
In accepting this gift we pause for a moment in silent tribute to
his memory and pay to that memory our fraternal affection; therefore,
be it

GRAND LODGE OF CALill'ORNlA

194

19.'j

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Resolved, That this Grand Lodge extend to Brother ·Edward A.
Belcher a vote of thanks for the gift of the portrait of hi·s and our
deceased Brother, William C. Belcher.
Respectfully submitted,
W. S. W!!LLs;
MoTLl!Y H. FLINT,
G!!o. M. PERINE,
Committee.
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee, to whom was referred the communication of
Bro. Henry Disque, presenting to this Grand Lodge the portrait of our
deceased Past Junior Grand Warden, Jacob Hart Neff, report that such
a gift gives great pleasure to this Grand Lodge. When the heart of our
beloved Bro. Jacob Hart Neff was stilled, his voice hushed, the
Masonic body of this Jurisdiction felt that a fond tie had been broken
and severed forever.
To our deceased one we owe a debt of gratitude for the example
of his noble, helpful life. The memory he left with us proves that
not all that is good and true is buried in the grave.
The portrait of Brother Neff, when hung upon the walls of our
Masonic Temple, will always give pleasure to our Masonic brethren ;
therefore, be it
Resolved, That a vote of thanks of this Grand Lodge be extended
to Bro. Henry Disque in acknowledgment of his gift of the portrait of
his late uncle and our beloved Brother, Jacob Hart Neff.
Respectfully submitted,
W. S. WELLS,
MoTLI1Y H. FLINT,
G!!o. M. P!1RINI1,
Committee.

Both which reports were unanimously adopted.
M. ·. W. ·. Charles L. Patton, from the Committee on
Jurisprudence, reported as follows :
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee, to whom was referred the proposed amendment
to th~ Constitution, introduced by M.". W.". Edmund C. Atkinson, and
reading as follows :
"Section 11. No Lodge shall expel a member for the non-payment
of dues; but, in case any member shall have refused or neglected to pay
his regular du.es during a peric d of twelve months, he shall be notified

by the Secretary, either by registered letter deposited in the U. S.
Poat Office addressed to him at his last known address, or by actual
1ervice of notice, duly certified by the Tyler, that unless at the next
1tated meeting either his dues be paid, or sickness or inability to pay be
ahown ~s the cause of such refusal or neglect, he will be suspended from
all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
"If neither of these things be done, he shall, at such stated meeting,
be declared by the Master to be suspended; but any Mason thus suspended, who shall at any time prior · to the expiration of two years
thereafter, pay the arrearages due at the time of his suspension, toiether with such further dues as would, had he retained his membership,
have accrued against him to the date of such payment, shall be restored.
"Any Mason who remains suspended for more than two years, and
thereafter shall pay the amount due at the time of suspension, together
with such. further dues as would have accrued during the said two years,
and such further dues as would, had he retained his membership, have
accrued against him to the date of such payment, or such less sum as
the Lodge shall, by vote, decide to accept, which shall not be less th;m
the amount due at the time of suspension, together with the dues
accrued during said two years, shall, by such act, be restored to the
rights and privileges of a non-affiliate; and a certificate under seal of the
Lodge, signed by the Secretary, setting forth the facts, shall have the
force and virtue of a proper <limit accompanying an application for
membership.
"Any Secretary failing or neglecting to comply with the requirements of this section relative to notifying delinquents, shall be subject
to disi:ipline by his Lodge for neglect of duty."
Have had the same under consideration and recommend its adoption.
Respectfully submitted,
W. S. WELLS,
M. H. FLINT,

c. L. PATToN,

TBOS. FLINT,

Committee.

Which report was concurred in, and the amendment
adopted.
Bro. Wm. P. Filmer, Chairman of the Committee on
Pay of Members, presented the following report:
Your Committee, charged with the duty of ascertaining the cost
of transportation for one person from the location of each Lodge in the
State to the place of meeting of the Grand Lodge and return, and of
reporting such cost of transportation as the sum due to the Officers or

196

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

'

Representatives in attendance from each Lodge, as well as the Gran.d
Officers, Chairmen of Standing Committees, and Inspectors, for their
necessary expenditure for transportation to and from the Grand Lodge,
report that they have carefully discharged that duty, and submit the
following statement:
GRAND OJ!FIO:RS,

Oscar Lawler, Grand Master, Los Angeles . • . . . . . . .... . .. ... . $ 35.00
Dana R. Weller, Senior Grand Warden, Los Angeles .... . .. .
35.00
Alonzo ]. Monroe, Junior Grand Warden, Eureka ........ . . .
20.00
Ernest E. Baker, Grand Chaplain, Oakland .... . .. . ........ .
.20
Benjamin F. Bledsoe, Grand Orator, San Bernardino ..... . .. .
38.50
Leo V. Youngworth, Grand Marshal, Los Angeles .......... .
35.00
45.00
William Kettner, Grand Standard Bearer, San Diego .. . ... . . .
8.20
Michael D. Lininger, Grand Bible Bearer, Auburn ........ .. .
38.50
Merwyn J. Neuberg, Senior Grand Deacon, San Bernardino ..
Wils~n C. Ponder, Junior Grand Deacon, Redding . . . ... .. . . .
17.10
Carl H . Heilbron, Grand Pursuivant, San Diego . ... . .... . .. .
45.00
Total.... . .......... . . . ................ .. .... . .... ..

197

'

$317.50

CHAillMtN OF STANDING COMMITTEES.

William P . Jeffries, Returns, Los Angeles... . ... . ....... ... . . $ 35.00
Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . $ 35.00
INSP!;CTORS.

Arthur V. McNab, 3rd District, Ukiah . . ..... •. ... . . . . .. . .. $ 7.00
Charles W. Nutting, 4th District, Etna Mills ...... ... ..... . . .
35.40
Gustav A. Hutaff, 5th District, Dunsmuir .. .. .. . .. ... . .. . .. .
21.00
17.10
Charles C. Corbie re, 6th District, Redding .. .. .. . . .... . .. . .. .
Ernest C. Bonner, 7th District, Alturas . . . . . .... . ....... .... .
46.70
35.40
Samuel H . Crow, 9th District, Sierraville .. .. . . .... . . . . . . .. .
24.20
Gilbert May, 11th District, La Porte .. . .......... .. .. . ... . . ..
Frederick L. Arobogast, 14th District, Nevada City .. . ....... .
13.20
Roger S. Kitrick, 16th District, Oroville ... . . ... ... . . .... . .. .
12.00
7.40
Jay W. Ashley, 17th District, Yuba City . .. ...... .. . . .. . .. .. . .
J. D. Danner, 18th District, Willows . .. ..... . ..... .. ...... . . .
9.10
Curtis ]. Moore, 19th District, Lakeport ......... . ..... . . .. .
17.60
Levi Nuttall, 22nd District, Sacramento ... .. ...... ... .... ... .
6.60
Hayes H. Gable, 23rd District, Woodland .. . .... .. ........ . .
5.20
Louis A. Reeg, 24th District, Placerville .. . .. . . ... .... . .. ... .
9.40
Frederick W. Clough, 26th District, Angel's Camp .. . . . .. ... .
15.20
Louis N. Buttner, 28th District, Martinez . .... . . . . .. .. . .. . . .
1.80
S. P. Dobbins, 29th District, Vacaville .. . .. ... . .. . ... . .. . . .. .
4.10
Roderick G. Guyett, 38th District, P alo Alto . . . . .. .. .. . ... .. . .
1.90

Antonio F. Pedreira, 42nd District, Merced . ... . ...... .. •...
James C. Pottle, 44th District, Fresno ....... . ....... . ..... . .
Arthur S. Crites, 47th District, Bakersfield .....•......••...
Myron H. Brooks, 48th District, Paso Robles .......•..•..•
David ]. Reese, 50th Distrkt, Ventura . .....•....•.. . ....•...
Charl~s H . Brown, 51st District, Los Angeles .. . . . .. .. ...•. . •
John H . Bean, 53rd District, Los Angeles ...............••.•.
Samuel E. Burke, 54th District, Los Angeles ............... .
Lemuel L. Test, 55th District, Pasadena . •••......•.. . ..••..
Joseph R. Garthside, 56th District, Pomona . . •... . ....•.•....
Albert P . Henry, 57th District, Downey ..• . .•.... . ......•...
Eli B. Trago, 58th District, Santa Ana ..•.......... •...•. . ..
George H . Kelsey, 60th District, Riverside ... . ... . .. • . . ••. ...
Daniel Cave, Special, Los Angeles . . ..... . ............. . .. .. .

8.10

14.50
22.80
12.40
28.40
35.00
35.00
35.00

35.70
·37.00
35.70
37.00
38.50
35.00

Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $700.40
RtCAPITULATION.

•For Representatives of Lodges .. •. .......•..... . ............ $4,983.25
For Grand Officers.. .. . .. ... .. ... . .................... . .. . .. 317.50
For Chairman of Standing Committees .. , •. ,.... . .. . . . .. . . . ..
35.00
For Inspectors. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . 700.40
Grand Total. . •. ... .. ..•... • ............. .•. , . . . . . . . $6,036.15
*For items see pages 146--154.

Resolved, That there be levied upon the subordinate Lodges of
this jurisdiction for the current fiscal year, in addition to the dues
prescribed by the Constitution, the sum of fifteen cents for each member borne upon the respective rolls at the date of the annual reports.
Said levy shall be for the payment of Representatives, and shall be paid
at the same time and in the manner prescribed for the payment of
the annual dues.
Your Committee desire to express its appreciation of valuable

ass~stance rendered by Representatives and Inspectors, in enabling it to
arrive at the actual facts regarding the cost of transportation of the
Representatives to and from the Grand Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,

WM. P. FII,MER,
AMOS STtVJINS,

G. E. WJIBB,
H. D. KERCBEVAL,

E. W. Witsr,
Committee.

198

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

M.". W.". Wm. S. Wells, from the Committee on Jurisprudence, reported as follows :
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee, to whom was referred the resolution offered by
Brother J. D. Tucker relative to Pacific Lodge, No. 822, under the
jurisdiction of Scotland and located at Honolulu, in the Island of
Oahu, Territory of Hawaii, have had the same under consideration and
report as follows :
The question involved herein was considered by the Grand Lodge
first in 1894 in the La Valle de France Lodge matter, where Past
Grand Mast~r Belcher, reporting for the Committee on Jurisprudence
said : "The question then recurs, can we receive this Lodge and its
members into our family, and if so, under what condition ? We
answer that with our present knowledge only we could not recognize
or receive the Lodge as a Lodge."
Stating various reasons why they could not, which reasons do
not apply to the case under discussion, that Committee then continue :
"Only one other way suggests itself to us for the accomplis~ment
of the purpose desired by the members of that Lodge, and t?at .1s for
them to surrender their charter to the Grand Lodge from which tt was
received. That being done, so many of its members as were made in
regular Lodges would be free to seek affiliation and membership ~n
other Lodges, and when a sufficient number had so placed thems~ves .m
good standing, to make application to the Grand Master for his dispensation for a new Lodge."
.
This was next considered in the matter of Le Progress L'Oceanic
Lodge, No. 124, A. and A. S. R. of Honolulu, Territory of Hawaii_,
and reported in Volume 26 of Proceedings at Pages 1080-1081.
This was a case where the Lodge had petitioned the Supreme
Council ·of France for permission to terminate its relation with that
body and requested this Grand Lodge to issue a charter or dispensation at once, with the proviso that it be delivered immediately upon
receipt of permission from the Supreme Council. This Committee at
that time reported :
"The proposition to accept as one of our family of Jf>dges a
Lodge chartered and constituted under another Grand Body is a new
one, as far at least as this Grand Lodge is concerned, and we doubt
whether under our Constitution any such procedure would be warranted Our Constitution provides in great detail the method by which
a Lod~e may be organized and the circumstances under which a dispensation or charter may be granted, and it may well be doubted
whether any other method can legally be followed. If twelve or more
Master Masons in Honolulu were to organize a new Lodge therein

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

199

under our jurisdiction, they may proceed under Section 2 of Article
I, of Part III, of our Constitution, and apply at any time to the Grand
Master for a dispensation."
With these decisions we are in entire accord, and considet it
Inadvisable to make any change in our Constitution relative thereto;
and are of the opinion that our Constitution now prohibits such
action. The same ruling applies to the communication in relative
to Mauia Lodge, No. 984, Grand Lodge of Scotland. The matter
1·1111 only be reached by an amendment to the Constitution and not
by resolution.
We therefore recommend that the resolution be not adopted.
Respectfully submitted,
WM.
WJU.LS,
M. H. Fr.INT,
c. L. PATTON,
Taos. FLINT,
Committee.

s.

To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee to whom was referred the resolution offered
by Brother 0. M. Goldaracena, relative to waiver of jurisdiction over
aapirants for degrees who do not speak the English language, have
had the same under consideration and report as follows :
This is a matter which would require an amedment to the Constitution, the effect of which would be to permit a person, residing for .
ln1tance in Shasta County and speaking only the French language, to
make application to the French Lodge in San Francisco for the
degree without the necessity of any Lodge in Shasta County passing
upon his qualifications to become a Mason. This we do not consider
advisable. The Lodge within whose jurisdiction an applicant resides,
whether he speaks the language or not, is best qualified to pass upon
his petition. Of course in such a case it would be highly proper for
the Lodge within whose jurisdiction the applicant resided, to waive
Jurisdiction and to consent that the French Lodge con'f er the degree
without requiring any fee to be paid to them; provided they considered
him in all other respects qualified and good material, and it seems
Impossible that any Lodge in this jurisdiction would refuse such request under such circumstance.
.
We therefore recommend that the resolution be not adopted.
Respectfully submitted,
WM.
WELLS,
M. H. FLINT,
c. L. PATTON,
Taos. FLIN'l',
Committee.

s.

201

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

200

w:.

To the M.".
Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee, to whom was referred the two resolutions by
l3rother J. J. McKinnon, Past Master of Washington Lodge, No. 20,
relative to moneys to be contributed from a brother raised within a
year, and smoking in Lodge-rooms, have had the samt under consideration and report as follows:
These matters are ones that can best be handled by the respective
Lodges in the manner deemed best by them, and we believe that they
should be left to the individual Lodges. Of course there should be
no compulsion or rule requiring anyone to contribute money for any
purpose, but we know of no reason why he should not make a voluntary
contribution if he so desires.
We therefore recommend that the resolutions be not adopted.
Respectfully submitted,
WM. S. Wn.Ls,
M . H. FLINT,

c. L. PATTON,
THOS. FLINT,

Committee.

w:.

To the M.".
Gra11d Lodg1 of California:
Your Committee, to whom was referred the circular letter and
communication from M.'.
J. J . Davis, Grand Master of Masons of
Texas, relative to Grand Lodge Benito Juarez, in the State of Coahuila,
Mexico, have had the same under consideration and report as follows :
That this matter involves the severing of the connections of
this Grand Lodge with that of the Grand Lodge Benito Juarez, and
that the same demands further investigation before acting thereon.
We therefore, recommend that the matter be referred to the incoming Grand Master with full power to act. If he finds the facts
to be as stated in said communication, he should issue his order th~t
all Masonic communication between the Lodges and Masons of this
jurisdiction and those acknowledging allegiance to the Grand Lodge
Benito Juarez be forbidden.
Respectfully submitted,
WM.
WF;LLS,

w:.

s.

M. H . FLINT,
c. L. PATTON,
THOS. FLINT,

Committee.

w:. Grand Lodg1 of California:
Your Committee, to whom was referred the resolution offered
by Brother J. W . Eddy, Junior Warden of Paso Robles Lodge, No.
l86, relative to receiving a petition for degrees from one engaged in
the manufacture or sale of intoxicating liquors, have had the· same
under consideration and report as follows :
This is a matter which cannot be reached by resolution, but must
be by an amedment· to the Constitution. Such an amendment was
offered in 1899, by which it was proposed to amend the Constitution
by adding as a final paragraph to Section 2 of Article III, Part III,
the following :
"Nor shall any Lodge receive such application from any person
who shall be engaged in the sale of intoxicating liquors."
f ,, the M.".

The Committee on Jurisprudence, consisting of Past Grand Masters
l'reston, Rucker, Johnston, Stevens and Angellotti, reported as follows:
"The proposed amendment, if adopted, would introduce class legislation into our Constitution-a thing that is repugnant to the principles
of Freemasonry. By one of the unchangeable tenets of our Order,
each Lodge is constituted the sole judge of the moral and social fitness
of any applicant who knocks at its outer door for admittance. Temperance is one of the cardinal principles of Freemasonry. Its precepts
are inherent in our ceremonies. They are unchangeable, and, therefore,
more permanent and just as obligatory as the mandates of our Constitution. The Lodge, or the individual Mason, who disregards the requirements of temperance to such an extent as to injure the good name
of Masonry, becomes, by the very force of our traditions, subject to
Masonic discipline. We, therefore, recommend that the proposed
amendment be not adopted."
This report was concurred in by the Grand Lodge. The resolution
under consideration is more drastic than anything yet offered. We are
in thorough accord with the decision of the Committee, and the Grand
Lodge, which has been the law of this jurisdiction since 1900, and we
think that the individual Lodges are in a better position to cope with
and handle this question as it may arise.
We, therefore, recommend that the resolution be not adopted.
Respectfully sub.mitted,
WM.

s. WU.LS,

M. H. FLINT,

c. r.. PATTON,
Tuos. FUNT,
·

Committee.

202 ..

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California :
Your Committee, to whom was referred certain suggestions of the
Grand Master relative to legislation, have had the same under consideration and report as follows :
There is no legal objection to the appointment of a committee to
represent our Grand Lodge at a conference to be held in Maryland, as
set forth in the Grand Master's address, and we approve the same ; and
we further recommend that this Grand Lodge appoint as such committee the present Grand Master, Oscar Lawler, and the incoming
Grand Master, to represent our Grand Lodge and report back at the
next Annual Communication.
We have had no time or opportunity to fully and carefully consider
the suggestions of the Grand Master relative to ( 1) Concurrent jurisdiction of Lodges ; (3) Conferring degrees upon candidates fo r Lodges
in other jurisdictions; · ( 4) Proceedings against Masons convicted of
crime, and (5) Amendment to article VIII, Uniform Code. They
involve certain amendments to the Constitution and are too important
to be considered in the limited time at hand. \Ve, therefore, recommend that each of said suggestions be referred to the incoming Committee on Jurisprudence, to report at the next .Annual Communication.
Number 2 is covered by an amendment heretofore offered, and
requires no further action.
That portion relative to power of attorney as proxy for the. Grand
Master as a vice-president of a school at Dublin is approved, and we
propose the following resolution and move its adoption :
R esolved, That J. Holdbrook, Assistant Secretary of the Masonic
Orphan Schools and Masonic Victoria Jubilee Annuity Fund, be and h.e
is hereby appointed the proxy of the Grand Master of Masons oJ Cal~­
fornia to represent him and vote for him in all meetings of the Masonic
Femaie Orphan School of Ireland, the Masonic Orphan Boys' School
of Ireland and the Victoria Jubilee Masonic Annuity Fund of Ireland.
Respectfully submitted,
WM .

203

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

s. WJo:LLS,

M . H. FLIN'!',

c. L. PA'l"l'ON,
THOS. FLIN'!',

Committee.

To th e M." . w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee, to whom was referred the request for. a dispensation to hold a meeting of Hope Lodge on the brow of a hill near
the Lodge room, presented by Bro. L. H. Hughes, Master of Hope
Lodge, have had the same under consideration and report as follows :

· This matter was considered by Grand Master Perine in the case
of Mizpah Lodge, No. 378, and he held that the Constitution of the
Grand Lodge does not provide for a Lodge session at any other place
except in their Lodge room, and that it was improper to hold it in the
open.
This Committee and the Grand Lodge approved that decision.
In this case the Lodge room was destroyed by fire and they request
that they be granted a dispensation to hold the October 'stated meeting
in the open. We think this would be a dangerous precedent and one
not contemplated or permitted by the Constitution.
The Lodge should as soon as practicable arrange for a suitable
Lodge room, and until that is done no meeting should be held.
We, therefore, recommend that the request for a dispensation be
denied.
Respectfully submitted,
WM.

s. WJo:LLS,

M. H. FLIN'!',
c. L. PA'l"l'ON,
THOS. FLIN'!',

Committee.

, All which reports were adopted.
Bro. Joshua D. Tucker, from the Committee on Charters, reported as follows :
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
We, your Committee on Charters, beg leave to report as follows :
Dispensations have been regularly issued to the following named
Lodges, viz. :
Bay View ......... . ..... . • . •.•....•....•.... October 26, 1908
· Brawley ......... . ... ....... ..... . ......... February 10, 1909
Yerba Buena . .. .. . . . . . ..... . ... .. . ... . ..... February 11, 1909
Glendora ...... .. . . .. ...... . . .. ..... .... , ... . .. . May 19, 1909
Moneta . . ........... . . . . .... ............... . ... May 25, 1909
Burbank . . . .. . .. . ... .... . . . .. . .. . .......... .... June 26, 1909'
All the above named Lodges having applied for Charters, your
Committee have examined the proceedings, papers and record books
and find that with but a few minor corrections they comply with the
requirements of this Grand Lodge.
Your Committee recommend that the minute book of lJay View
Lodge be bound, and that the practice of keeping the minutes loosely
bound be discontinued. .
We find that all the Lodges, with the exception of Glendora, have
failed to specify the hour of stated meetings, and we recommend that

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CA:r.IFORNIA

the matter be called to the attention of- the Lodges. We recommend
that Glendora and Moneta Lodges be instructed to insert in the minutes the receipts for the evenings.
.
Your Committee recommend that Charters be granted to the above
named Lodges, and that the · above corrections be complied with at the
next stated meetings.
Respectfully submitted,

Lodacs: Mt. Shasta, 281; Oroville, 103; Berkeley, 363; Nicolaus, 129;
Baldg, 393; Willits, 365; San Mateo, 226; Crockett, 139; West Gate,
335, and Keith, 187.
Fourth. The action of the M. '. W.'. Grand Master in appr.Qving
amendments to By-Laws increasing the dues of the following Lodges:
San Mateo, 226; Enterprise, 70; Chico, 111 ; Yount, 12, and San M.a~eo
(second time); 226.
· '
· ·
Fifth. · The action of the M. '. W .'. Grand Master in approving
amendments to By-Laws reducing the fees for degrees in Seq1i10.i;i
Lodge, No. 349.
Sixth. The action of the M.'. W .'. Grand Master in approving
amendments to By-Laws reducing the affiliation fee in Burlingame
Lodge, No. 400, and Sequoia Lodge, No. 349.
Seventh. The action of the M .'. W .'. Grand Master in approving
amendments to By-Laws reducing the dues in the following Lodges :
San Pedro, 332; Winnedumah, 287 ; Los Gatos, 292, and Long Beach,
327.
Eighth. The action of the M.'. W.'. Grand Master in approving
amendments to By-Laws changing the time of meeting of the following
Lodges : Jewel, 374; Sunset, 352; Palo Alto, 346; Surprise Valley, 235;
Selma, 277; Azusa, 305; Fraternity, 399; San Pedro, 332; Paso Ro.bles,
286 ; Willits, 365; Burlingame, 400; Gardena, 372; Reedley, 304 ; Sisson,
310; San Jacinto, 338; Downey, 220, and Stanislaus, 206.
Ninth. The action of the M.'. W .'. Grand Master in approving
amendments to By-Laws abolishing affiliation fee of Ocean Park Lodge,
No. 369.
Tenth. The action of the M. ·. W. ·. Grand Master in approving
amendment ,to By-Laws creating life membership of San Mateo Lodge,
No. 226, anil Pomona Lodge, No. 246.
Eleventh. The action of the M.'. W .'. Grand Master in appl'ovirtg
amendment to By-Laws reducing life membership fee of Mission Lodge,
No. 169.
Twelfth. The action of the M.'. w:. Grand Master in approving
Uniform Code of By-Laws adopted by Anaheim Lodge, No. 207.
In conclusion, we desire to commend each of the six Lodges ·under
dispensation for their accuracy and painstaking in preparing theit
By-Laws.
Respectfully submitted,

204

· CHAS. E. MrrcHllLL,
CLAUDI; PllRRY,
J. D. Tucx!lR,
H.
0RM!l,
]AM!ls C. PoTTu:,

J.

s.

Committee.

Which report was adopted..
The Committee on By-Laws, by Bro. Fred E. Vincent,
presented the follow~ng report :

w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Special Committee, to whom was referred that portion of the
reports of the M.'. W .'. Grand Master and the V .'. W: . Grand
Secretary relating to By-Laws of subordinate Lodges, beg leave to
report:
To the M.-'.

That we have examined the books of the following Lodges under
dispensation :
Brawley Lodge at Brawley, Glendora Lodge at Glendora, Burbank
Lodge at Burbank, Moneta Lodge at Los Angeles, Bay View Lodge at
Oakland, Yerba Buena Lodge at Oakland, and find that the By-Laws
adopted by each of them· are in conformity with the Uriiform Code
prescribed by the Grand Lodge, and we herewith recommend their
approval.
·
We further ncommend your approval of the following :
First. The action of the M.'. W:. Grand Master in granting a
dispensation to Selma Lodge, No. 277, to change the time and place of
mee!ing until such time as their laws could be amende.d.
Second. The action of the M.'. W.'. Grand Master in approving
amendments to By-Laws increasing fees for degrees in the following
Lodges : Mt. Shasta, 281; Oroville, 103; Berkeley, 363; Nicolaus, 129;
Ba1der, 393; Presidio, 354; Keith, 187; Martinez, 41; Willits, 365, and
San' Mateo, 226.
Third. The action of the M.'. W.'. Grand Master in approving
an1endmerits to By-Laws increasing affiliation fees in the following

205

J. F. HUGHllS~
FRllD E. VINCllNT,
L. N. B UTTNER,
W. A. BLOSSOM,
M. N. HOFFMAN,

Which report was adopted.

Committee.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

206

207

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

\

Bro. J. D. Murphey, from the Committee on Grievances, reported as follows :
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee, to whom was referred the transcript of the record
of the trial of Richard Walpole Kent, expelled by Tuolumne Lodge,
No. 8, and from which judgment of expulsion the accused has appealed,
have had the same under consideration and respectfully report as
follows:
The trial procedure was in accordance with the requirements of our
laws. The accused was charged with habitual intoxication. At the
outset of the trial, the accused filed the following written request for a
continuance:
"Sonora, California, Feb. 6, 1909.
"Brother Wm. L. Hood,
"Dear Sir and Brother: As Bro. F. W. Street is not in
town, and we have not had time to go into the case ( as the
papers were delivered to me eight days ago), will you kindly
postpone my trial set for February 6, 1909, for one week? By
so doing you will greatly oblige,
"Yours truly,
"RICHARD W. KltNT. "

Which request the master decided was not a sufficient ground for
continuance. This was a matter for the commissioners to decide, and
-0ne concerning which the Master should take no active part. The
Master in a Masonic trial acts in a judicial capacity and should act
upon the questions of law presented and remained absolutely neutral in
the matters properly directed to the commissioners for decision.
The grounds set forth in the request, the absence of the attorney
and the inability to prepare his case, when made in good faith, are
legitimate reasons for a continuance, and as this request was made at
the first meeting of the commissioners and only ten days after service
of summons, and as the time asked was reasonable, we think that the
trial commissioners erred in not allowing it.
Whatever may be the opinion of the commissioners and of the
Master as to the culpability of the accused and the necessity for weeding
him out of the Fraternity, they must not lose sight of the fact that
the Masonic trial must be beyond the suspicion of unfairness, and no
vrinciple of our laws is more firmly established than that the accused
shall not be forced to trial until he shall have had a reasonable opportunity to prepare his defense.

We recognize the right of the accused to appear by attorney, and
when a proper showing is made of the absence of the attorney he has
1r1lected to represent him or his inability to be present at the trial, no
11111umption of bad faith should be indulged in; on the contrary, when
the request is reasonable on its face, as it appears to be in this case,
It ahould be granted.
As a new trial of this case must be had, we shall call attention to
the fact that the record bristles with improper testimonr. Nearly ~very
witness is asked whether in his opinion the accused is a "disgrace to the
Fraternity ;" each is asked as to the general reputation of the accused
In the community in which he resides for drunkenness. Generally the
witnesses frankly admit that their information is purely hearsay, but
nevertheless they were permitted to state that in their opinion the conduct of the accused was a reproach to the Fraternity.
'
In view of the numerous decisions of the Grand Lodge as to the
lnndmissibility of this character of testimony, it is earnestly to be hop~d
thnt trial commissioners will sometime find it convenient to adhere to
Its plain admonitions. Witnesses ought not to be called upon for their
conclusions. They should detail the facts and not usurp the functions
of the judges, whose duty it is to draw the conclusions.
It may "not be amiss to notice one other matter in the record:
The attorney for the accused questions the propriety of calling as a
witness a physicia~ who attended the accused when suffering from the
effects of one of his alleged indiscretions. We think there is no merit
In this contention. We have held that the statutes governing State
courts in relation to confidential communications should govern in
Masonic trials, and that, therefore, the attorney cannot be compelled
to disclose facts communicated to him as such, but the same rule does
not apply as between physician and patient. The State statutes make
such communications confidential in civil actions only. As the trial of a
Masonic offense is in the nature of a criminal proceeding, we see no
good reason for extending the rule to cover such cases in Masonic
tribunals.
'

We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
R esolv ed, That the action of Tuolumne Lodge, No. 8, in expelling
Richard W. Kent be and the same hereby is reversed and a new trial
ordered.
Respectfully submitted,
J. D. MURPH!lY,
H. M. 0w:£Ns,
Gto. E. CHURCH,
Committee.

Which was adopted as read.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

M.'. W.'. Edward H. Hart, Chairman of the Committee
on Correspondence, presented the following report:

The V.'. W.'. Edward Coleman, of San Francisco, was
elected Grand Treasurer.

To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California :
The Committee on Foreign Correspondence, to whom the M.' . W.'.
Grand Master referred the request of the Grand Orient of Italy for
.fraternal recognition and the exchange of representatives, beg leave to
report that we regret that absence of proof that that country is organized
under the jurisdiction of Symbolic Lodges prevents recognition at this
time.

The V.'. W.'. John Whicher, of San Luis Obispo, was
elected Grand Secretary.

Which was concurred in.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 :30 o'clock.

Afternoon Session.
Friday, October 15, ·A. L. 5909.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 2 :30 o'clock, the.
Grand Master presiding.
The hour having arrived for the election of officers for
the ensuing year, . the Grand Master appointed as tellers
Brothers Win. P. Jeffries, Theo. J. Milliken and Chas. A.
Adams, and the election proceeded with the following
result: .
The R. ·. w.·. W . Frank Pierce, of San Francisco,· was
elected Grand Master.
The R.'. W.'. Dana R. Weller, of Los Angeles, was
elected . Deputy Grand Master.
The R. ·. W. ·. Alonzo J. Monroe, of Eureka, was elected
Senior Grand Warden.
The R.'. W.'. William P . Filmer, of San Francisco, was
elected Junior Grand Warden.

209

The V.'. V./.'. Thomas J. Baker, of Sacramento, was
elected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand Lodge then proceeded to the installation
and investment of the Grand Officers elected and to be
appointed.
The Grand Secretary read the list of appointments for
the ensuing year, as follows:
Grand Chaplain . .. ... . ERNEST E. BAKER ....... of Oakland;
Grand Orator ...•. • •••• CHARLES A. ADAMS . .•.. " San Francisco ;
Asst. Grand Secretary • .. HARRY S. JOHNSON ..... " San Francisco;
Grand Marshal . ... ..... WILLIAM KJ!TTNER . .. •. " San Diego ;
Grand Standard Bearer•. LEO. V . YouNGWORTH .. . " Los Angeles ;
Grand Sword Bearer ... • JAMES B. McGREW . . .... " Berkeley;
Grand Bible Bearer •..•• WILLIAM S. Mos:tts .... . " San Francisco;
Senior Grand Deacon ... WILSON C. PoNDM. ...... " Redding;
Junior Grand Deacon ... ]OHN H. BE:AN . ......... " Los Angeles ;
Senior Grand Steward .. JOHN F . MoRGAN .. . . ... " Sacramento;
J unior Grand Steward .• FRED. W . VAN SICKU:N.. " Alameda;
Grand Pursuivant : • • ••• JOHN E. GRIES .. . . . . •... " Ferndale ;
Grand Organist ... • •••• SAMUEL D . MAYE:R ...• . , " San Francisco;
Grand Tyler ........... G110. P. ADAMS .......... " San Francisco.

The Grand Officers, excepting Bro. Ernest E . Baker,
Grand Chaplain; James B. McGrew, Grand Sword Bearer ;
Wm. S. Moses, Grand Bible Bearer, and Fred W. Van
Sicklen, Junior Grand Steward, were then duly installed in
their several stations and places by Grand Master Oscar
Lawler, assisted by Past Grand Master Geo. M. Perine.
On motion of M.'. W.' . Charles L. Patton, any Past
Grand Master was authorized to install the Grand Master
elect, in any ~Lodge, and the other officers who were unavoidably absent at this time.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

210

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

In behalf of the Grand Lodge, the

w:. Benjamin F.

Bledsoe presented our retiring Grand Master with a beautiful hammered silver service.
The Grand Secretary~ for the Grand Master elect, announced the names of the Standing Committees and Trustees of the Masonic Home, as follows:
COMMIT'l'EES.
Jurisprudence:
Frank M. Angellotti,
William S. Wells,
Motley H. Flint,
Chas. L. Patton,
Oscar Lawler.

Pay of Members:
Benjamin F. Bledsoe,
Edward S. West,
Howard D. Kercheval,
Amos Stevens,
Gilbert E. Webb.

Returns:
Fred L. Arbogast,
Jeremiah J. Wilson,
Chas. E. Sebastian,
Louis N. Buttner,
David J. Reese.

Correspondence:
Edward H. Hart,
Osmond M. Roberts,
William E. Meservey,
James A. Stone,
James C. Ensign.

Grievances:
John D. Murphey,
Edward Sweeny,
Charles J. Willet,
Henry M. Owens,
Geo. E. Church.

Accounts:
Henry Ascroft,
Edward Peabody,
Albert Percy Heise,
Hugh J. Owen,
J. Claude Perry.

Finance:
Oral M. Goldaracena,
Ralph Lowe,
Douglas B. Crane,
Edward B. Spencer,
John Tonningsen.

Trustees of Masonic Home:
William S. Wells,
Thomas Flint,
Elmer E. Stone,
Motley H. Flint,
Edward B. Spencer.

Special Committee to Investigate Relief Matters:
Junia J. Warner,
George R. Roddin,
Roderic G. Guyett,
David S. Hirshberg,
John. H. Bean.
Endowment Fund:
W. Frank Pierce, Chairman.

On motion of M.". W.". Wm. S. Wells, the thanks of
'the Grand Lodge were extended, by a rising vote, to Past
Grand Master Oscar Lawler, for his services during the
past year.
The Grand Secretary announced that the Lodges to
which Charters had been granted at this Communication
had been numbered as follows:
Bay View ••.••••••••••• No. 401 at Oakland, Alameda County.
Brawley ••• , • • • • • • • • • • • " 402 " Brawley, Imperial County.
Yerba Buena ........... " 403 " Oakland, Alameda County.
Glendora •• •.,. • • • • • • • • " 404 " Glendora, Los Angeles, County.
Moneta . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • " 405 " Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Burbank .••••••••••••• , " 406 " Burbank, Los Angeles County.

. All busi.ness being now completed, the Grand Lodge,
F. & A. M., of California, was closed in Ample Form.
W. FRANK PIERCE,
Grand Master.
JOHN WHICHER,
Grand Secretary.
[NOTE: The Grand Master, Grand Sword Bearer, Grand Bible
Bearer and Junior Grand Steward were duly installed in Oakland
Lodge, No. 188, by Past Grand Master . George C. Perkins.]

;

212

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

STATEMENT
Of n;ceipts by the . Grand Secretary, for account of the Grand
.Lodge, from August 1st up to and including the ninth day of October,
1909:
FUND.
Home.
General.
1909.
{
dues
in
full
to}
$ 50.00 $ 50.00
51 31 July, 1909.
Aug. 2, Illinoistown,
53.00
48.70
275
do
do
2, Oakdale,
59.00
96.10
do
do
394
" 2, University,
22.00 '
· ·22.80
do· ··
do
2, Quitman,
88
411.00
·451.90
do
do
216
" 2, Doric,
. 40890
421.00
do
do
266
" 2, Excelsior,
470.00
487.00
do
do
120
" 2, Fidelity,
118.00
130.20
do
do
2, Mill Valley, ·
356
·860.60
864.00
do
do
2, Mission,
169
54.00
50.60
do
do
295
" 2, Mt. Jackson,
135.00
143.50
do
do
303
" 3, Porter,ville,
122.00
137.70
do
do
192
" 3, Santa Barbara,
88.00
105.20
do
do
292
3~ Los Gatos,
101.00
121.90
do
do
3, Orange Grove,
293
35.00
41.50
do
do
" 3, Huntington Beach, 380
49.00
46.10
do
3, Willits,
do
365
150.00
165.00
do
do
3, Las Palmas,
366
71.00
68.90
do
do
3, Fort Bragg,
361
114.00
126.60
do
3,
Benicia,
do
5
"
203.00
244.70
do
do
300
" 3, Redlands,
147.00
132.30
do
do
3, Nevada,
13
102.00
95.80
do
4, Alameda,
167
do
67.80 .
52.00
do
do
91
" 4, North Star,
315.00
327.50
do
do
79
" 4, Humboldt,
198.00
215.20
do
4, Silver Gate,
296
do
76.00
83.40
do
4, Monterey,
217
do
90.00
91.00
do
do
5, Selma,
277
28.00
25.20
do
235
do
" 5, Surprise Valley,
46.00
44.40
do
232
do
" 5, Janesville,
140.00
177.00
do
355
do
" 5, Hollywood,
123.50
95.00
do
313
do
" 5, Tehachapi,
255.00
265.50
do
349
do
" 5, Sequoia,
162.00
170.80
do
299
do
" 5, Liberty,
111.10
99.00
do
168
do
" 5, Redwood City,
119.00
134.10
do
20
do
" 5, Washington,
88.00
93.20
do
39
do
" 5, Yuba,
57.00
51.30
do
95
do
" 5, Henry Clay,
25.00
20.00
do
43
do
" 5, Hiram,

FUND.
General.
Home.

19C9.

o\ug. 5, Colusa.
" !!, King David's,

".
"

".

"

"
".
"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

5, Parfaite Union,
5, Oakland
5, Pacific,
6, Forbestown,
6, Redondo,
6, Martinez,
6, Pentalpha,
6, Tehama,
10, California,
10, Acacia,
10, Anaheim,
10, Pinole,
10, San Pedro,
10, Mt. Shade,
10, Temescal,
10, Monrovia,
10, Rising Star,
10, Franklin,
10, Golden State,
10, Delano,
10, Oak Grove,
10, Los Angeles,
10, Suisun,
10, La Grange,
10, Union,
10, Mariposa,
10, Lodi,
10, Hesperian,
12, East Beit,
12, Artesia,
12, La Fayette,
12, Concord,
12, Hornitos,
12, Mt. Zion,
12, Summit,
12, Hollenbeck,
12, Fillmore,
12, Sisson,
12, Magnolia,
12, Highland Park,

213

240 { dues in full to 1
31 July, 1909. f
209
do
do
do
do
17
188
do
do
136
do
do ,
50
do
do
328
do
do
41
do
do
202
do
do
3
do
do
1
do
do
92
do
do
207
do
do
353
do
do
332
do
do
18
do
do
314
do
do
308
do
do
83
do
do
143
do
do
358
do
do
309
do
do
215
do
do
42
do
do
55
do
do
99
do
do
58
do
do
24
do
do
256
do
do
264
do
do
391
do
do
377
do
do
126
do
do
117
do
do
98
do
do
114
do
do
112
do
do.
319
do
do
379
do
do
310
do
do
242
do ' do
382
do
do

71.20
134.20
154.10
529.80
591.10
32.40
89.80
120.00
503.80
207.90
561.80
23.40
79.90
95.50
125.30
33.50
81.90
122.00
50.40
53.20
294.00
61.50
445.40
354.70
81.10
95.70
245.50
52.60
142.70
142.60
37.20
65.20
105.60
95.70
34.60
21.20
30.60
500.70
48.00
90.00
98.00
199.20

78.00
118.00
139.00
472.00
549.00
36.00
92.00
110.00
502.00
191.00
582.00
26.00
71.00
75.00
117.00
35.00
81.00
100.00
56.00'
58.00
220.00'
45.00
426.00
323.00
89.00
103.00
215.00
54.00123.00
124.00
28.00
48.00
104.00
103.00'
34.00
18.00
34.00
493.00
40.00
80.00
90.00
148.0()

215

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

214

PROCEEDir-"'GS OF THE

1909.
Aug. 12, Woodbridge,
" 12, Palmyra,
" 12, Southwest,
" 12, Vesper,
" 12, Mokelumne Hill,
" 12, Sunset,
" 12, Curtis,
" 12, Santa Rosa,
" 12, Mendocino,
" 12, Crescent,
" 12, Los Banos,
" 14, Drytown,
" 14, Turlock,
" 14, Yolo,
" 14, Santa Lucia.
" 14, Volcano,
" 14, Hermann,
" 14, Arroyo,
" .14, Galt,
" 14, Texas,
" 14, Alisa!,
" 14, Claiborne,
" 14, Live Oak,
" 14, Fowler,
" 14, Santa Cruz,
" 14, Chico,
" 14, West Gate,
" 14, San Jacinto,
" 14, Tuscan,
" 14, Salinas,
" 14, Olive Branch,
" 14, Bakersfield,
" 14, Whittier,
" 14, Covina,
" · 14, Alhambra,
" 14, Mariq,
" 14, San Bernardino,
" 14, Palo Alto,
H
14, San Miguel,
" 14, Western Star,
" 16, Vitruvius,
" 16, Eel River,

FUND.
Home.
General.
dues in full to }
83.SO
131 { 31
July, 1909.
26
do
do
186.30
77.80
do
do
283
1S4.90
do
do
84
61.20
do
do
298
270.10
3S2
do
do
do
do
49.70
140
242.40
do
do
57
128.30
179
do
do
82.80
45
do
do
32.SO
312
do
do
23.70
174
do
do
49.20
39S
do
do
43.40
81
do
do
302
do
do
66.60
38.80
56
do
do
196.20
127
do
do
. 49.30
274
do
do
267
do
do
37.20
46
37.30
do
do
321
do
S3.00
do
185
49.20
do
do
61
do
633.40
do
do
do
26.90
398
38
do
203.90
do
do
24S.OO
111
do
335
do
do
360.50
338
do
do
96.20
261
do
do
S3.20
204
do
do
1S2.00
269
do
do
116.60
224
do
do
26S.30
323
do
do
17S.80
334
89.30
do
do
322
do
do
1S2.40
191 '
do
do
229.30
348
do
do
217.10
' 177.70
346
do
do
285
do
do
7S.SO
2
do
9S.80
do
145
do
do
49.20
147
do
do
102.00

84.00
177.00
62.00
141.00
58.00
199.00
S3.00
2S6.00
127.00

72.00
3S.OO
23.00
28.00
36.00
54.00
32.00
188.00
47.00
38.00
37.00
S0.00
48.00
646.00
21.00
201.00
200.00
34S.OO
78.00
S8.00
140.00
114.00
217.00
1S2.00
'77.00
136.00
197.00
209.00
143.00

.ss.oo

rn2.oo
'48.00
110.00

1909.
{ dues in full to }
Aug. 16, Sierra Valley,
. 181 31 July, 1909.
do
do
248
" 16, Alturas,
" 16, San Buenaventura, 214 do do
do
27
do
" 16, Trinity,
do
do
344
" 16, Starr King,
do
374
do
" 16, Jewel,
do
do
331
" 16, P acific Grove,
do
do
180
" 16, Petaluma,
do . do
123
" 16, Sotoyome,
do
do
316
" 16, Sanger,
do
do
40
" 16, Sacramento,
do
do
333
" 16, Alta,
do
do
22
" 16, Occidental,
do
181 . do
" 16, Russian River,
do
do
221
" 17, Inyo,
do
do
383
" 17, Orosi,
do
do
38S
" 17, Dinuba,
do
397
do
" 17, Rising Light,
do
134
do
" 17, Vacaville,
do
241
do
" 17, Santa Ana,
do
194
do
" 17, Mt. View,
do
208
do
" 17, Rio Vista,
do
173
do
" 17, Elk Grove,
133
do
do
" 17, Yosemite,
do
364
do
" 17, Olivet,
do
141
do
" 17, Grafton,
80
do
do
" 17, lone,
do
76
do
" 17, Bear Mountain,
do
272
do
" 17, Pasadena,
do
370
do
" 17, Amity,
268
do
do
" 17, Durant,
do
347
do
" 17, McKinley,
178
do
do
" 17, Phoenix,
222
do
do
" 17, Granite,
3S4
do
do
" 17, Presidio,
" · 17, San Simeon,
do
196
do
389
do
do
" 17, Palos Verdes,
do
200
do
" 17, Truckee,
17, Clinton,
119
do
do
32
do
do
" 17, Gold Hill,
376
do
do
" 17, F rancis Drake,
396
do
do
" 17, Apollo,

FUND:
Home.
General.
42.10
69.40
112.90

so.so

220.(i()
93.80
S7.90
183.00
149.SO
100.00
168.30
43.80
S69.SO
79.50
60.60
S4.70
62.10
3S.30
129.40
230.60
67.60
S3.10
58.70
14.40
35.10
26.40
S0.00
92.40
40S.20
268.60
401.4-0
1S6.40
243.60
59.00
240.20
41.30
S2.20
109.60
38.00
46.80
S9.60
79.60

39.00
S6.00
111.00
SS.00
194.00
72.00
Sl.00
190.00
14S.OO
80.00
187.00
42.00
S6S.OO .
7S.OO
S4.00
43.00
49.00
27.00
126:00
234.00
64.00
S9.00
63.00
16.00
39.00
26.00
S0.00
96.00
378.00
164.00
406.00
116.00
224.00
60.00
188.00
37.00
38.00
114.00
40.00
S2.00

44.oa
S4.00

FUND.
General.
Home.

1909.
Aug. 17, So. Pasadena,
" 17, Downey,
" 17, Buena Park,
" 17, Elsinore,
" 18, Bodie,
" 18, Gravel Range,
" 18, Yreka,
" 18, Speranza Italiana,
" 18, Solano,
" 18, Jefferson,
" 18, Santa Monica,
" 18, Woodland,
" 18, Alcatraz,
"' 18, San Fernando,
" 18, Madison,
" 18, Molino,
" 18, Callayomi,
" 18, Geo. Washington,
" 18, Reading,
" 18, Burlingame,
" 18, Newville,
" 18, Corona,
" 18, Ontario,
" 18, Arcata,
" 18, Winnedumah,
" ·18, Morning Star,
" 18, Keystone,
" 18, Landmark,
" 18, Nicolaus,
19, Table Mountain,
" 19, Fullerton,
" 19, Amador,
" 1~, Calaveras,
" 19, Fraternity,
" 19, Santa Paula,
" 19, Brooklyn,
" 19, Azusa,
" 19, Norwalk,
" 19, Alamo,
" 19, Naval,
" 19, Visalia,
" 19, East Gate,

..

dues in full to }
367 { 31
July, 1909.
220
357

289
252
59
96
219
229

97
307
156
244
343 .
23
150
282
62
254

400
205
324
301
106
287
68
161
253
129
124
339
65
78
399
291
225
305
315
122
87
128
290

do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
clo
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do

do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do

217

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

216

93.50
108.60
57.10
51.40
47.70
40.00
88.60
186.90
197.80
54.60
119.10
149.40
407.10
55.60
124.80
56.50
42.50
42.60
161.70
101.00
45.60
296.60
145.30
120.70
79.40
201.40
34.70
34.70
82.10
83.70
126.70
83.90
. 71.40
111.80
104.80
244.40
90.50
50.20
75.80
326.20
150.40
506.10

75.00
74.00
49.00
46.00
43.00
. 30.00
84.00
171.00
162.00
54.00
109.00
146.00
359.00
54.00
132.00
55.00
35.00
44.00
143.00
60.00
44.00
284.00
117.00
113.00
76.00
186.00
33.00
33.00
69.00
63.00
113.00
81.00
76.00
52.00
102.00
236.00
75.00
48.00
62.00
298.00
136.00
449.00

FUND.
Home.
General.

1909.
Aug. 1.9, Wilmington,
" 20, Traver,
" 20, King Solomon's,
" 20, Parnassus,
" 20, Oriental,
" 20, Evening Star,
" 20, Vallee de France,
" 20, Buckeye,
" 20, Pajaro,
" 20, Manzanita,
" 20, Orland,
" 20, Eucalyptus,
" 20, Mosaic,
" 20, Hanford,
" 20, Enterprise,
20, Eden,
" 20, San Joaquin,
" 20, Lexington,
" 20, Hawaiian,
" 20, Fruitvale,
" 20, Fresno,
" 20, Snow Mountain,
" 20, Northern Light,
" 20, Long Beach,
" 20, Ashlar,
" 20, Ferndale,
" 20, Unity,
" 20, San Mateo,
" 20, St. Helena,
" 20, Charity,
" 20, Eureka,
" 23, Stanislaus,
" 23, Southern California,
" 23, West Lake,
" 23, Carquinez,
" 23, North East,
" 23, Corinthian,
" 23, Lassen,
" 23, Crockett,
" 23, Golden Gate,
" 23, Mount Moriah,
" 23, Oxnard,
" 23, Evergreen,

..

dues in full to }
198 { 31
July, 1909.
294
do
do
do
260
do
do
388
do
do
144
do
do
186
do
do
do
329
do
195
do
do
do
110
do
do
102
do
265
do
do
do
243
do
do
218
do
do
279
do
do
70
do
do
113
do
do
19
do
do
104
do
21
do
do
do
336
do
do
247
do
do
271
do
do
190
do
do
327
do
do
306
do
do
193
do
do
368
do
do
226
do
do
93
do
do
362
do
do
16
do
do
206
do
do
278
do
do
392
do
do
337
do
do
266
do
do
9
do
do
149
do
do
139
do
do
30
do
do
44
do
do
341
do
do
2.'i9

48.10
fi3.80
522.40
183.90
371.90 •
31.50
70.80
76.30
114.00
20.70
58.10
83.40
84.10
142.40
173.40
101.00
240.10
68.70
240.50
150.20
286.50
26.70
88.20
243.20
103.40
105.30
101.70
171.00
95.70
66.80
91.30
69.90
671.50
341.60
104.60
33.40
142.10
96.20
369.90
476.00
300.60
159.90
262.60

39.00
52.00
506.00
121.00
361.00
35.00
52.00
77.00
120.00
23.00
59.00
86.00
89.00
136.00
156.00
100.00
229.00
73.00
270.00
128.00
295.00
23.00
68.00
238.00
96.00
97.00
93.00
120.00
93.00
52.00
• 77.00
71.00
655.00
214.00
84.00
36.00
129.00
98.00
341.00
450.00
314.00
171.00
264.00

2l!J

GRAND LODGE OF CA¥FORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

218

1909.
Aug. 23, Anchor,
23, Madera,
" 23, Plumas,
" 23, Natoma,
" Z., Ocean Park,
" 23, Oceanic,
" 23, Friendship,
" 23, Covelo,
" 24, North Butte,
" 24, Balder,
" 24, Silveyville,
" 24, Berkeley,
" 24, Richmond,
" 24, Meridian,
" 24, Kilauea,
" 26, Brentwood,
" 26, Clear Lake,
" 26, Hartley,
" 26, Abell,
" 26, San Jose,
" 26, Needles,
" 26, Santa Maria,
26, Calistoga,
4'
26, Oroville,
" 27, Parfaite Union,

..

..

"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

..
"

"
"
"

"
"

"

27, Keith,
27, So. S.an Francisco,
27, Clay,
27, El Centro,
27, Veteran,
•27, Hope,
27, Harmony,
27, Paso Robles,
27, Reedley,
27, Guadalupe,
27, Mt. Shasta,
27, Valley,
27, Cavite,
27, Ophir,
27, San Francisco,
27, Confi<J,ence,
30, Welcome,
30, Pomona,

FUND.
General.
Home.

273 [ dues in full to }
85.00
31 July, 1909.
280
do
do
97.60
60
do
do
95.40
64
do
68.10
do
369
do
do
129.90
371
do
107.50
do
210
do
do
257.50
231
do
do
49.30
230
do
do
66.90
393
do
225.60
do
201
do
do
70.40
363
do
337.80
do
375
do
do
208.50
182
do
do
37.90
330
do
do
113.00
345
do
53.80
do
183
do
do
27.00
199
do
do
95.00
146
do
do
124.90
. 10
do
do
383.10
326
do
do
112.40
340
do
81.60
do
233
do
do
66.30
103
do
do
196.10
17 Disp. to re-ballot 10.00
187 f dues in full to } 110.60
l 31 July, 1909.
212
do
do
178.50
101
do
do
61.10
384
do
103.20
do
373
do
do
163.90
234
do
do
60.00
164
do
do
19.30
286
do
69.20
do
304
do
do
53.40
237
do
do
83.30
281
do
do
51.30
135
do
do
43.60
350
do
do
94.25
33
do
do
55.10
360
do
do .
180.00
203
do
do
30.40
255
do
do
96.30
246
do
do
278.20

70.00
84.00
56.00
69.00
101.00
122.00
245.00
47.00
61.00
84.00
66.00
252.00
155.00
41.00
124.00
52.00
30.00
100.00
121.00
339.00
86.00
74.00
67.00
159.00

--94.00
175.00
59.00
67.00
101.00
50.00
17.0C
68.()(,

46.00
57.00
47.00
44.00
75.00
59.00
160.00
26.00
77.00
228.00

1909.·
Aug. 30, Sincerity,
" 30, Adin,
" 31, Temple,
" 31, Antioch,
Sept. 1, Hill's Ferry,
" 3, Dunsmuir,
3, San Benito,
3, Gardena,
3, Yount,
3, Loyalton,
3, Penrhyn,
7, Lompoc,
7, Emmanuel,
7, Maxwell,
" 13, Oceanside,
" 13, Rose's Bar,
" 13, Mizpah,
" 13, Palestine,
" 13, Athens,
" 13, Georgetown,
" 13, San Diego,
13, Coalinga,
" 14, Imperial,
" 14, Tyrian,
14, South Glte,
" 21, Forest,
" 21, Laurel,
" 21, St. John's,
25, Fruitvale,

.

.

" 27, Ccnsuelo,
" 27, Fallbrook,
Oct. 4, Manila,
7, Tuolumne,
8, Brawley,
8, Y erba Buena,
8, Burbank,
8, Bay View,
8, Moneta,
8, Glendora,
9, Corregidor,

~,,

FUND.
Home.
General.
dues in full to }
132 { 31
July, 1909. . 42.20
51.10
250
qo
do
,do ·
'do
57.00
14
108.50
do
175
do
49.90
do
236
do
82.40 .
do
'297
do
110.50
211
do
do
65.10
do
372
do
134.20
do
12
do
56.10
do
359
do
67.70
do
258
do
103.40
do
262
do
48.10
do
318
do
20.70
do
do
288
42.90
do
381
do
59.30
do
do
89
do.
399.90
378
do
212.60
do
do
351
77.50
do
do
228
'do
57.00
do
25
310.80
do
do
35
93.10
do
do
387
44.40
do
do
390
27.00
do
do
284
643.20
do
do
320
36.60
do
do
66
78.60
do
do
245
104.90
do
do
37
336 Disp. to re-ballot 10.00
dues in full to}
61.60
3-? 5 { 31
July, 1909.
37.30
317
do
do
266.50
342
do
do.
130.60
do
do
8
54.10
do
do
U.D.
124.20
do
U.D.
do
58.20
do
do
U.D.
234.10
do
do
U.D.
105.10
do
do
U.D.
48.00
do
U.D.
do
82.00
do
do
386

38.00
39.00
60.00
95.00
51.00
86.00
105.00
49.00
138.00
49.QO
63.00
76.00
49.00

23.00
31.00
47.00
268.00
194.00
65.00
50.00
312.00
59.00
36.00
30.00
538.00
34.QO
84.00
10U)9

64.00
27.00
238.00
134.00
29.00
58.00
38.00
79.00
49.00
30.00
48.00

Total amount received to Oct: bcr 9, 19(9 . .. •• $45,413.15 $41,007.00
Making an aggregate sum of ... .. ' . . . . ...•............. $86,420 lS

1:!0

MOU R N ING

PAGES

OF

THE

lln itrmoriam.
GEORGE TISDALE BROMLEY, P . M.
California Lodg e, No. 1. .. . . . Died J une 30, 1909, aged 92
WILLIAM HENRY LYON, P . M .
Califor nia Lodg e, No. 1 .. . ... Died June 30, 1909, aged 91.
CURTIS MASON BARKER, P . M.
San Jose Lodge, No. 10 . .. . Died August 7, 1908, aged 47
JACOB HART NEFF, P . J . G.W.
Eureka Lodge, No, 16 ..• •.. Died March 26, 1909, aged 78
JAMES BROWN CROOKS, P . M .
Mountain Shade Lodge, No. 18 . .. ... Died March 22, 1909
Aged 84.
Gll..BERT BURNETT CLAIBORNE, P . G. M.
San Joaquin Lodge, No. 19 ... Died :r;>ec. 21, HI08, aged 80
CHARLES MORRILL KENISTON, P . M .
Flan Joaquin Lodge, No. 19 ... Died March 3, 1909, aged 58

GRAND LOD GE OF CALIFORNIA

3Jn itrmoriam.
JAHIEL STACKHOUSE RILEY, P. M.
Martinez Lodge, No. 41. ... Died October 11, 1908, aged 56
MELEN ANSEL BRAGG, P. M.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42 .... Died J u ne 24, 1909, aged 79
FREDERICK JOSEPH MAIER, P . M.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42 . . .".Died April 11, 1909, aged 32
GEORGE ANTHONY Gll..LESPIE, P. M.
Suisun Lodge, No. 55 ..... Died October 13, 1908, aged 77
RICHARD CHURCH RUST, P. M .
Amador Lodge, No. 65 . . Died November 25, 1908, aged 53
FREDE;ItIC MACONDRAY WEST, P . M .
Morning Star Lodge, No. 68 .. Died July 29, 1909, aged 70
JAMES FITZGERALD ANDERSON, P . M.
Bear Mountain Lodge, No. 76 . .... . Died August 12, 1908
Aged 72.

SARGENT SMITH LITTLEHALE, P . M.
San Joaquin Lodge, No. 19 . ... Died Dec. 8, 1908, aged 79

ANDREW HITCHINGS, P. M.
Humboldt Lodge, No. 79 .. .. . . Died July 1, 1909, aged 77

JOHN OSBORNE DOANE, P . M .
Golden Gate Lodge, No. 30 .. Died October 5, 1908, aged 71

MICHAEL SLATER, P . M .
North Star Lodge, No. 91 .. Died January 6, 1909, aged 70

CHARLES OTTO JOHNSON, P . M.
Golden Gate Lodge, No. 30 . . Died August 6, 1908, aged 55

Wll..LIAM HECTOR BURNS, P. M.
Henry Clay Lodge, No. 95 .. . . Died Sept. 30, 1908, aged 54

THOMAS HUGH STEEL, P . M.
Yuba Lodge, No. 39 . . . . : .Died February 8, 1909, aged 79

JOHN McDUGALL POST, P. M .
Henry Clay Lodge, No. 95 ..• Died Aug. 17, 1908, aged 73

221

222

MOURNING PAGES

OF

THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Ju iltmnriam.
JOHN MORRIS WALBRIDGE, P. M.
Howard Lodge, No. 96 .... Died February 8, ,1909, aged 67,
EBENEZER STODDARD, P. M.
La Grange Lodge, No. 99 ...•.. Died Feb. 20; 1909, ~ged 78
ISAAC UPHAM, P. M.
Oroville Lodge No. 103 ............ Died August 18, 1908
DAVID IRWIN RITTER, P. M.
Lexington Lodge, No. 104 .... Died Feb. 28, 1909, aged 56
MAX GOLDMAN, P. M.
Fidelity Lodge, No. 120 ...•••... Die,d November 20, 1908
LAFAYETTE WILLIAM DOANE, P. M.
Sotoyome Lodge, No. 123 .•.. Died April 16, 1909, aged 38
EDWARD REES THOMPSON, P. M.
Woodbridge Lodge, No. 131. .Died March 7, 1909, aged 42
CYRUS LAUFMAN, P. M.
Sincerity Lodge, No. 132 .••.. Died June 18, 1909, aged 79
JOHN CALHOUN REID, P. M.
Valley Lodge, No. 135 ........ Died May 15, 1909, aged 83
DAVID WILLIAM KEIVER, P. M.
Valley Lodge, No. 135 ....... Died July 11, 1909, aged 76
REUBEN HEDLEY LLOYD, P. D. G. M.
Oriental Lodge, No. 144 .... Died March 10, 1909, aged 74

Ju iltmnriam.
ALBERT CLARK ,WINN, P. M.
Vitruvius Lodge, No. 145 ........... Died March 14, 1909
WILLIAM HENRY BRYAN, P. M.
Eel River Lodge, No. 147 •........... Died August 2, 1908
CYRUS CLINTON DOW, P. M.
Mission Lodge, No. 169 ...... Died April 2,9, 1909, aged 65
JAMES PEVERLY HODGDON, P. M.
Mission Lodge, No. 169 ...... Died Sept. 25, 1908, aged 72
DOLPH BRICE FAIRBANKS, P. M.
Petaluma Lodge, No. 180 ..... Died Dec. 19, 1908, aged 55
WILLIAM AUSTIN WHITMIRE, P. M.
Mountain View Lodge, No. 194 ...... Died May 13, 1909
Aged 74.
OSCAR CARL SCHULZ, P. M.
Silveyville Lodge, No. 201. ...... Died February 20, 1909
JACOB BARUCH, P. M.
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202 .. Died January 7, 1909, aged 61
LEVI NEWTON BREED, P. M.
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202 .... Died Dec. 17, 1908, aged 76
KAUFMAN GREEN, P. M.
King David's Lodge, No. 209.Died Nov. 17,' 1908, aged 67
ALPHONSE WASHINGTON STEINHART, P. M.
King David's Lodge, No. 209 .. Died July 24, 1909, aged 64

223

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

224

MOURNING PAGES

OF THE

3Jn !lrmnrinm.
HIRAM JEROME BALL, P, M.
Friendship Lodge, No. 210 .... Died Dec. 16; 1908, aged 76
ELIPHALET MINOR SMITH, P. M.
Oak Grove Lodge, No. 215 .... Died Feb'. 9, 1909, aged 78

JOHN SAMUEL TUTT, P . M.
Landmark Lodge, No. 253 .... Died Dec. 1, 1908, aged 82

CHARLES GOODRICH ATWOOD, P. M.
Evergreen Lodge, No. 259 ... Died Nov. 20, 1908, aged 79

JOHN RANDOLPH PATRICK, P . M.
Monterey Lodge, No. 217 .... Died March ·9, 1909, aged 72

CHARLES WESLEY FILKINS, P. M.
Evergreen Lodge, No. 259 ... Died July 22, 1909, aged 64

FRANK EMERSON MARTIN, P. M.
Downey Lodge, No. 220 ...... Died Nov. 10, 1908, aged 41

ADDISON HARVEY ORR, P. M.
Hesperian Lodge, No. 264 ..pied Sept. 18, 1908, aged 72

WILLIAM THOMAS GIBBS, P. M.
Brooklyn Lodge, No. 225 .... Died March 22, 1909, aged BO
HENRY ELFORD LEA, P. M . .
San Mateo Lodge, No. 226_; ... Died Dec. 5, 1908, aged 84
GEORGE DUNCAN, P. M.
San Mateo Lodge, No. 226 ... ..... ... . Died April 5, 1909
JOSEPH BULLOCH COGHLAN, P. M,
Solano Lodge, No. 229 ... ... .. Died Dec. 5, 1908, aged 64
CALVIN LAMPHERE HYDE, P. M.
Solano Lodge, No. 229 .. ... . . . Died April B, 1909, aged 77
LESLIE ALEXANDER JORDAN, P. M.
Eucalyptus Lodge, No. 243 .. Died July 30, 1909, aged 61
EUGENE AUGUSTUS TREFETHEN, P. M.
Alcatraz Lodge, No. 244 .... Died March 14, 1909, aged 61

WILLIAM WILSON STILWELL, P. M.
Hesperian Lodge, No. 264 .......... Died March 12, 1909
ROAMYNE WILLIAMS, P. M.
Pasadena Lodge, No. 272 .... Di~·d June 15, 1909, aged 60
GEORGE STANLEY RAYCRAFT, P. M,
Anchor Lodge, No. 273 .... .... .... Died January 5, 1909
JACOB HASLACHER, P. M.
Oakdale Lodge, No. 275 ...... Died Jan. 18, 1909, aged 67
CHARLES OTIS SCOTT, P. M.
Southern California Lodge, No. 278 .... Died May 5, 1909
Aged 49.
A. GUSTAV DOLLENMAYER, P. M.
Hanford Lodge, No. 279 ... .. Died Nov. 18, 1908, aged 77

s

225

'296

MOURNING P.A.G&S OF

THE

. GRAND LODGE OF CAUFORNIA

227

Jn ftrmnriattt .
AMENDMENT TO CONSTITUTION.
EMIL GEORGE HIRSCH, P . . M.
Lib~,\~ Lo~ge, No. 299 .... Died March 28, 1909, aged 41

In effect October 15, A. L. 5909.
JAMES ALLEN SHOEMAKER, P. M.
Liberty Lodge, No. 299 ..... . Died Aug. 12, 1908, aged 79

JAMES JASPER RICH, P. M.
Alhambra Lodge, No. 322 . ......... Died August 28, 1908

JAMES CAMPBELL KELLY, P. M.
Whittier Louge, No. 323 ... Died March 27, 1909, aged 83

CHARLES ADAMS wESTGATE, P. M.
Long Beach Lodge, No. 327 ...•.... Died January 22, 1909

JAMES HENBY POWERS, P. M.
San Pedro Lodge, No. 332 .... Died May 15, 1909, aged 63

ISAAC BIEHN SCHANTZ, P. M.
Starr King Lodge, N~. 344 .. Died March 5, 1909, aged 59

WILLIAM ARTHUR KELLER, P. M.
Starr King Lodge, No. 344 ... Died June 28, 1908, aged 42

EDGAR EUGENE SELPH, P. M.
Palestine Lodge, No. 351. ... Died Feb. 10, 1909, aged 48

That Section 11, Article III, Part III, .be amended to read as
follows:
Section 11. No Lodge shall expel a member for the non-payment
of dues ; but, in case any member shall have refused or neglected to
pay his regular dues during a period of twelve months, he shall be
notified by the Secretary, either by registered letter deposited in the
United States post office addressed to him at his last known address,
or by actual service of notice, duly certified by the Tyler, that unless
at the next stated meeting either his dues be p~id, or sickness or inability to pay be shown as the cause of such refusal or neglect, he will
be suspended from all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
If neither of these things be done, he shi;ill, ;i.t such stated meet·
ing, be declared by the Master to be suspended; but any Mason thus
suspended who shall, at any time prior to the expiration of two years
thereafter, pay the arrearages due at the time of his suspension, together with such further dues as would, had he retained his membership, have ac~rued against him to the date of such payment, shall be
restored.
Any Mason who remains suspended for more than two years, and
thereafter shall pay the amount due at the time of suspension, together
with such further dues as would have accrued during the said two
years and such further dues as would, had he retained his membership,
have accrued against him to the date of such payment, or such less
sum as the Lodge shall, by vote, decide to accept, which shall not be
less than the amount due at the time of suspension, together with the
dues accrued during said two years, shall, by such act, be restored to
the rights and privileges of a non-affiliate; and a certificate under seal
of the Lodge, signed by the Secretary, setting forth the facts, shall
have the force and virtue of a proper dimit accompanying an applicati on for membership.
Any Secretary failing or neglecting to comply with the requirements of this section relative to notifying delinquents shall be subject
to discipline by his Lodge for neglect of duty.
.

228

MOURNING

PAGES

OF

THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

229

EXPULSIONS AFFIRMED.

.FORM OF CERTIFICATE:
To all Anc-ient, Free and Accepted Masons wheresoe.v er dispersed
_around the globe, Greeting:
'(

This is to certify, that Brother .......................... ( wh?se signature

f appears in the margin hereof), heretofore a member of our..................

. j Lodge _No ............., F. & A. M., under the jurisdiction of the Grand

.L Lodge of the State of California, and on the ............ day of ................,

j A. L. 59........, suspended for non-payment of dues:having paid up

-~

all arrearages as provided in the Constitution, is now restored to all

i his rights and privileges as a non-affiliate Master Mason, and as
i· such may apply to' any regular Lodge for membership.

ii
Given at. the. Hall of our Lodge aforesaid, at .................... in the
.! county of.:.................., State of California, this............day of....................,

I

A. L. 59........, as witness my hand, the seal of our Lodge, and the
: attestation of our Secretary.

i

i

SUSPENSIONS AFFIRMED .
llans T, Henning ....... by California Lodge,
Benjamin Oscar Bayliss. by McKinley Lodge,
Walter Hubbard ....... . by Phoenix Lodge,_
James D. Reilly ......... by Forest Hill Lot!ge,
John Robert Dacoto .. . . ·by Guadalupe Lodge,
William L. Deysher ••• •.by Marin Lodge,

No. 1. .. Oct.
1, 1908
No. 347 ... Dec. 31 1908
No. 178 ... Nov. 4, 1908
No. 66 ... March 6, 1909
No. 237 ... Juµe 9; 1909
No. 191. . . July 14, 1909

RESTORATION DENIED.
Benjamin James Waugh, late of Suisun, No. 55.

................................................ Master.
NEW TRIALS ORDERED.

,Oil

!

ltbenezer 0. Morris .... by Buckeye Lodge,
No. 195 ... June 13, 1908
ltdwin C. Heard ....... . by Santa Cruz Lodge, No. 38 .. . Oct. 28, 1908
James Dalzell Brown .•• by Occidental Lodge, No. 22 ... Nov. 4, 1908
Arthur Vemett Moore .. by Live Oak Lodge,
No. 61 ... Oct. 10, 1908
Marion Price Danly ..... by Oriental Lodge,
No. 144 . .. Dec. 1, 1908
11, Fred Domine .•.....• by Curtis Lodge,
No. 140 ... Feb. 1, 1909
No. 255 ... May 1, 1909
James W. Denton ....... by Welcome Lodge,
] ohn Nealis ... _._........ by Francis Drake Ldg, No. 376 ... May 7, 1909
Itrederick Tetsall ....... by Presidio Lodge,
No. 354 ... May 6, 1909
No. 1. .. Sept. 2, 1909
Joseph C. McKee .•••••• by California Lodge,

Attest :.................................-...............Secretary.
This Certificate, under the provisions of our Constitution (sec tion 11, Part III, Article III, as amended 1909) , has the force and
virtue of a Dimit.

Roy Nathan Carr, Palos Verdes, No. 389.
John L. Hicks, Emmanuel, No. 318.
Chas. W~lf, El Centro, No. 384.
Richard W allope Kent, Tuolumne, No. 8. ·

REFERRED BACK.
Jackson Dennis, expelled by Henry Clay, No. 95.

!I

0> I

Town.

I

Places of Location.
County.

,

.......

"
"

"

"

Date when Charter
was Ordered.
I

! ~ ..~

,

<

$!;;, <>$
;;.,~ i<.!!!l

<"

"

.;

"" ..""'
.,_ j

.a:E .s.j

... .;
..,.;

~~

"'£

.B"

.

.
..............

............

.
......... ..

.......

....... .

........

........

........
.........

.........

10
t

9

·········
········

··········

········

···········

········

..........

·········· · ..
········· ·· ··

Nevada ......... 13'.r.ievada City ...... . 'Nevada ............
Temple .......... 14 Sonoma .......•.•.• Sonoma ............
La Fayette . . • • . . 15 La Fayette .•.•.. .• Oregon Ter ....... . •
Placer
11 Eureka . .. .•.. ••• 16 Auburn
12 Parfaite Union •. 17 San Francisco ••••.• San Francisco ••... •
Sierra
13 Mountain Shade .. 18 Downieville
14 San Joaquin. . . • • • 19 Stockton ..••••••..• San Joaquin .• • ....•
15 Washington ...... 20 Sacramento •..•.••• Sacramento ••.....•
16 Hawaiian ....•.. 21 Honolulu, H. T •.• • , • Hawaiian Ter ......•
17 Occidental ...••.. 22 San Francisco .•...•• San Francisco ••••.•
18 Madison ........• 2 Grass Valley ...•.• • Nevada .......••. . •
19 Mariposa . . • . . . . . 24 Mariposa .......•• • . Mariposa ...........
20 Georgetown ..... 25 Ueorgetown ....•... El Dorado .....••.••
21 Palmyra ......•.. 26 Placerville ......... El Dorado .... .'. . ...
22 'J rinity .. . .. .. . .. 27 V\Teaverville •......• Trinity •...... . ...•
Tuolumne .•.......•
'If Columbia .....• •. 28 Columbia
• Diamond ........ 29 Diamond Springs •.. El Dorado ..........
23 Golden Gate .. . •. 30 San Francisco ...... San Francisco . .....
'If Mokelumne ... ... 31 Mokelumne Hill •.•. Calaveras
24 Gold Hill • . .. .. .. 32 Lincoln ..•.•• .•.•• • Placer ...... . .....•
25 Ophir ........... 33 Murphy's ......• ••. Calaveras ..........
t Santa Clara ...... 34 Santa Clara ........ Santa Clara •.....••
26 San Diego •...... 35 San Diego ••• . ..... San Diego .........
• Bntte ••.•....... 36 Bidwell •• .•..•....• Butte .•....... . •.••
27 St. John's ....... 37 Yreka ... .. ......... Siskiyou •. ....•..••
28 Santa Cruz •....• 38 Santa Cruz ..•••••.. Santa Cruz ...•..••.
Yuba •.....•. . .. . .•
29 Yuba •.........• 39 Marysville
Sacramento
30 Sacramento .... .. 40 Sacramento
31 · Martinez ......•• 41 Martinez .•........• Contra Costa .. . . .••
32 Loe Angeles . . . . . 42 Los Angeles ......• . Los Angeles . .....••
33 Hiram ........•• 43 El Dorado ...... .... El Dorado ••••..•.••
34 Mount Moriah ... 44 San Francisco ....•. San Francisco ••. •••
35 Crescent ........ 45 Crescent City , ....•. Del Norte ..........
36 Teitas , , , ...•• •• , 46 S!ln J~~ll , • , •..•••. San Beiiito ••••••••

.

1
2
3

"
"
"
1852.
"
"
"
"
"
1853.

•!

"

i

•.•:2

50 .. .. ..
5
75
30 ... ...
50 ......
75 10
5
50
100 · #··· ·
53 .. ... .
5
50
33 .. ... .
5
30
30 .. ....

50 •.....
30

G

6

12

"5,

·~

c::
bj

~
t'
0
..,~

....

N

c.a

~

~

~

a

"'.1

O·

11:1

g

ti

50
177
55

0

~

ti:

...,

"'.1

o·

00

~

g

t'

z
·>
~

~

0

00

~

t:

...,

1Jl

270
565
132
54

119

77
139
35
229

J.17

l . "'
6

"
....... .......
"
······ ...... ......
"
·········
'
450
75 10
"
"
" "
52
1
50
" "
5~
4
50
" "
...... ... ... . ....... ·········
"7, "
312
75
3
"
a, 1854.
101
1
30
" "
201
1
50
"
"
88
I 50 ......
" "
187
"
"
·~
110
"5, "
323
50
"
20
30
3,
"
314
75
"
"
. 35 ... ~~
72
" "
37
30

"

" "
"6, "

5,

"
"
"
"
20,

.. ., "

"
"

May

"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"

" .
"
"
"

May

5,

1851.
6,

May

"9,
"
"
Nov.
7,

"
"

[···30

California
I San Francisco •..••• San Francisco· •.•... April 19, 1850.
12
582
Western Star ••.•• · 2 Shasta • . ...•••••••• Shasta •.••••.••.•••
102
6
"
Tehama
3 Sacramento
Sacramento
191
75 10
6
"
"
Jennings
4 Sacramento
Sacramento .
"
"
"
4 Benicia
5 Benicia
Solano ••.. . ...•• •.•
114
t2 12
"7, "
"
• Sutter •.••••...•• 6 Sacramento ......... Sacramento ......... May
......... ...... .........
"
·····
·
......
t San Francisco .... 7 San Francisco •••.•• S&n Francisco ...... Nov. 27,
"
·· ··· ·
5 Tuolumne .. ...... 8 Sonora ....•..•...•• Tuolumne ..........
134
6
00
2
"
"
6 Corinthian
9 Marysville ......... Yuba .
129
50 ····6
"
"
7 San Jose •... •... 10 San Jose .........•. Sa.nta Clara •••.•...
339
9
50 ........
"
" "
Oregon Ter .........
...... .. ........
t Willamette ...... 11 Portlan <l
"
"
··
·
····
6, 1851,
ms
8 Yount ........... 12 Napa
.y
9
p .... .. ........ Napa
pa ....... ... .. ... . May
40
Note-Those Lodges In the present list marked thus • have surrendered their charters-those marked thus t have
had their charters revoked-those ma:ked thus t are now under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of O!:egon-those
marked thus § are now under the Jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge or Nevada-those marked thus II are now under the
jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of· Arizona-and those marked thus ii have consolidated as follows: Marysville, No. 9,
and Corinthian, No. 69, under the designation of Corinthian, No. 9; Saint John's, No. 37, and Siskiyou, No. 105, under
the designation of Saint John's, No. 37; Tuolumne, No. 8, Mount Jefferson, No. 107, and Columbia, No. 28, under the
designation of Tuolumne, No. 8; Colusa, No. 142, and Equality, No. 240. under t he designation of Colttt1a, No. 240;
Saint Louis, No. 86, and Gibsonville, No. 158, under the designation of Gibsonville, No. 158 ; Mokelumne, No. 31. and
Calaveras, No. 78, under the designation of Calaveras, No. 78; Natoma, No. 64, and Latrobe, No. 189, under the designation of Natoma, No. 64; Nebraska, No. 71, and Ione, No. 80, under the designation of Ione, No. 80; Sincerity, No. 132,
and Greenville, No. 249, under the designation of Sincerity, No. 132; Calaveras, No. 78, and Campo Seco, No. 100, under
the designation of Calaveras, No. 78; Georgetown, No. 25, and Pilot Hill, No. 160, under the designation of Georgetown ,
No. 25; and Petaluma, No. 77, and Arcturus, No. 180, under the designation of Petaluma, No. 180; Hueneme, No. 311,
and Oxnard, No. 341, under the designation of Oxnard, No. 341, Palmyra, No. 151, and Eldorado, No. 26, under the designation of Palmyra, No. 26, Owen, No. 108, and North Star, No. 91, under the designation of North Star, No. 91, and Jeffer~on, No. 97, amf Gibsopvllle, No. 158{ !Jnder the d~slpiation <;>f ;retrerson1 No, 97,
,lolln Whlr,:her, Gran<! Secretary.

l\a mes of Lodges.

~1

Ni

CH

0

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES,
With date of Charters, Fees, Dues and Membership for the Masonic Year ending July 3 f, A. L. 5909.

~

65
66
67
68
69
'(
70
71
72
73

•

62
63
64

*

59
60
61

'(

t

57
58

.

53
54
55
56

1

52

*
*

*

•

'V

51

1

39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
•
47
48
49
*
50

*

*
t
37
38
*

~

Plbces of Location.

z

~

s

Town .

I
County.

.8 ! ~~~~~~~~~--,--~~~~~~~~

E. K . Kane ..... . 72 Nevada ............ Nevada-...........•
Tyro . . . . . . . . . . . . 73 Drytown ....... .... Amador ........... .
Wisconsin Hill ... 74 Wisconsin Hill . .. : . Placer ..... .. .... •.
Mountain Forest .• 75 Eureka North .. ... . Sierra ...... .. ... . .
Bear Mountain ..• 76 Angel's Camp . .. .. . Calaveras ......... .
Petaluma . . . . . . . . 77 Petaluma ..... . . . .. Sonoma .......... . .
Calaveras .......• 78 San Andreas ....... Calaveras ......... .
Humboldt ......• 79 Eureka .. .... ...... Humboldt ........••
Ione . . . . . . . . . . . . 80 lone ........... . ... Amador ........ . .•
Yolo ..........•. 81 Yolo .......... .. ... Yolo .............. .
Mountain ......• 82 Don Pedro's Bar .... Tuolumne •........•
Rising Star. . . . . . . 83 Forest Hill ... ... .. . Placer . ... . . . . ... .•
Vesper . . . . . . . . . . 84 Red Bluff .......... Tehama ........... .
Saint !.lark's ... • . 85 nymouth .......... Amador ........... .
Saint Louis ....•• 86 Howland Flat .. . ... Sierra ............ .
Naval ..........• 87 Vallejo ....... ... .. Solano ........... . .
Quitman ......... 88 North Bloomfield .... Nevada ...........•
Rose's Bar. . . . . . . 89 Smarts ville .... ... .. Yuba ...... . .. .... •
Polar Star. . . . . . . 90 Poorman 'e Creek .. ; . Plumas .... ... .... .
North Star .. •. .. 91 Fort Jones .. .... ... Siskiyou ..........•
Acacia . . . • . . . . . • 92 Coloma .. . .. .... ... El Dorado .........•
St. Helena ....... 93 St. Helena . . ....... Napa ............. .
Mount Hermon . .-. 94 Elizabethtown ...... Plumas ........... .
Henry Clay •....• 95 Sutter Creek ........ Amador ......... .. .
Howard ......... .96 Yreka ............. Siskiyou ....... ; .. .
Jefferson .....•.•• 97 La Porte ........... Plumas ...... ... ..•
Hornitos ......... 98 Hornitos ..... .. .... Mariposa .. .. ..... •.
La Grange . . . . . . 99 Merced •... . ....... Merced ..... .. .... .
Campo Seco ...... 100 Campo Seco .... .. .. Calaveras ......... .
Clay ............ 101 Dutch Flat . .... . .. . Placer ............•
Manzanita ....... 102 North San Juan .. .. . Nevada ........... .
Oroville ••. ....... 103 Oroville .. . .... ..... Butte ............••
Lexington .• ...• . 104 El Monte . ..• ... ... ,Los Angeles . • ..... '.
Siskiyou ......... 105 }Ienley ......•...... Siskiyou ...•.....••

Michigan City .... 47 Michigan Bluff . : ... Placer •...••.......
Grass Valley...... 48 Grass Valley ....... Nevada ••..........
Lebanon . . . . • . . . . 49 :'!an Francisco ..... San Francisco ..... .
Forbestown .....• 50 Forbestown ........ Butte .•••..........
Illinoistown . . . . • 51 Colfax ..... ... ..... Placer •...........•
Rough and Ready. 52 Rough and Ready .... Nevada •..........•
Franklin ...•..•• 53 Sacramento ........ . . Sacramento .......•
Saint James ..••• 54 Jamestown ....... : . Tuolumne •.......••
Suisun • . . . • . • • • • 55 Suisun •..........•• Solano ...••....•..•
Volcano . . . • . . • • • 56 Volcano ...........• Amador •...........
Santa Rosa •..••• 57 Santa Rosa ......... Sonoma .•.••.•..•.•
Union •..••••...• 58 Sacramento .....•.. Sacramento ....... .
Gravel Range •.. 59 Camptonville ....... Yuba .•............
Plumas . . . . • . . . • • 60 Quincy .........•.. Plumas •....•......
Live Oak . . .... : • 61 Oakland ............ Alameda . . ........•
Geo. Washington •• 62 Chinese Camp ...•..• Tuolumne .••..••.••
Iowa Hill . . • . . • . 63 Iowa Hill .......... Placer ....••.•.....
Natoma ....... :. 64Folsom .. . . .. ....... Sacramento •.......
Amador . . . . . • • . • 65 Jackson ... ... ... .'.. Amador •..........•
Forest . . . . . . . . . • 66 Alleghany .......... Sierra ............ .
Minnesota • . . . • • • 67 Minnesota . . ....... Sierra .......•.....
Morning Star. . . . • 68 Stockton ........... Stockton .......... .
Corinthian ...... 69 Marysville ......... Yuba ......•...... •
Enterprise ••••..• 70 Yuba City ......... Sutter ••••.........
Nebraska ........ 71 Michigan Bar ...... Sacramento •...•.•.

Names of Lodges

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"

"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"

May

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
15,

8,

9,

"
"
"

1,
8,

"4,

"

2,

2,

"3,

"
"
"
"
"
"
July

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"2,

3,

"

"
"
"
"
"

"2,
"

"
"
"
"
"

3,

May

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

May

"

"
"

"
"
"

May

"

"
"
"
"

..."

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
1856.
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

1855.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

""e
-<

,..;

.£ i::

-<

::i~
§ :a:a

~

Ol

6

50 .......

3

30 ..... .

5
5

6
6
6

6
6

1

.

~I ·~
40

3
6
6
6

30
6
50
5
50 ......

3
6
6
6
6

40
6
30 ..... .

N

73

59
23
159

34
103

54

57
84

t:

w

(,;

...,

>

z

::;i

"l
0

~

0
"l

47

22

[':j

0

t"
0
lj

lj

~
z>

[':j

~

..,

0
"'.l

t"
0
tl
0
[':j
rn

t>J

..,;...

z

lj

~

0

tD

c

Ul

"l

c

t:

Ul

..,

N

w

298

141

56

50
36

315

76

96

156

186

···~1·····~1····t1······!~

~I . . ~

30

30

30 ..... .

8
6
6
6

6

51 12

50, .... ..
50 .... ..

50

50

50 ..... .

69
81
34

44

6

6
9
6

256
215
30
56
646

6
6
8
6
6

501 .... ..1
50

50
1
75 10
30 ..... .
50 ..... .
100 25
50 ......

"
"
· 36
6
301 .... ..
"
30 ..... .
6
50
"
"
"
1855. ...........................
30
5 12
89
"
50
5 16
32

1854.

""A

was Ordered .

r:i

.. 0

.g~

~: :E;:::

~i

Dat.e when Charter

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Contlnued.

County.

"

May

"
"
"

"
May
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

1857.

.

..
..

l

51 - 1'

"'0

113

::s~

""'
11
-<"

,..;

S <=

5056
5021-2

34
]()()
18

···30
::::::l····1··
....200
iiO .
50
J

75

~

CD _.

l><f!l

~4>

l><A

~.; I --.;;
~g
-f
Q)faO 4>:!

Q)

.;

,,

1
I

6
6

91

98

50

Ut)

12'1

48

361

~

·'>3
26

341

f*

~i

125

84

38
16

I

6

146

~a1···--·as

.................

· · -• •• l "·r.. .-.1 ....... 1 .... , _ , , , ,

·--····r::::1::::::1:::::::::

301

• • • •••l ""•••••I•••••••• ••• •• •• •

· ·· · ········· • · ···· · ' ~· · ·· ·· ·

30

30

5[

61
6

"
30 ......
"
"
"
i: ::~i :::i:6 ::::~:: :::::i~~
"
13, 1858. ............ ...... ...........
30......
40
"
"
100 10 1
470
"
"
" "
...3.ol:::::: ······ ......62
" "
5
145
"
"
..
63
"
"
......I.................... .
" "
...
104
"
"
10 1
188
"
"14, 1859.
8
6
136
13,
1
4
69
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
15,

"
"
"

14,

May

was Ordered ..

Date when Charter

90 Woodbridge ...... 131 Woodbridge ........ San Joaquin ...... .. May
13, 1859.
91 Sincerity . ....... 132 Taylorsville •....... Plumas ........... .
"
"
"
92 Yosemite ........ 133 Coulterville •....... Mariposa ......... ..
"
" "
93 Vacaville ........ 134 Vacaville ......... . 1Solano ............. ,
"
"
"
91 Valley ........... 135Linden ............. San Joaquin ..... .. May
11, 1860.
95 Pacific .......... 136 San Francisco ...... San Fra:acisco .....•
10,
"
"
Oro Fino ........ 137 Oro Fino ..... .. .... Siskiyou .........•.
"
"
"
* Violet ........... 138 Spanish Flat ....... El Dorado ........ . .
96 Crockett ......... 139 San Francisco ...... ;san Ftancisco •.....
"
"
"
If
97 Curtis ........... 140 Cloverdale •...... , . Sonoma .......• ....
"
"
98 Grafton ......... 141 Gtafton ............ Yolo ............. ..
"
" "
" "
1r Colusa ........... 142 Colusa .. ... .••. , ... Colusa .... ......•..
"
99 F1·anklin ........ 143 Courtland ....•....• Sacramento ....... .
"
" "
ll.10 Oriental ......... 144 San FTancisco •..... San Francisco ..... ·. May 16, 1861.
''
IOI Vitruvius ........ 145 loomfield , ........ . Sonoma .......... ..
"
l llll Abell ............ 146 Ukiah .............. Mendocino ........ .
"
"
"
1113 Eel River .... ... 147
"
" 17,
"
hnerville ......... Humboldt ........ ..
" 16, "
Satt Luis Obispo .. 148 San Luis Obispo . .... San Lum Obispo ... .
104 Las!!en ........•. 149 Susanville .......... Lassen . , .......... .
"
"
May
15, 1862.
105 Molino .......... 150 Teha1n:i. ............ Tehama .•.... , .... ,
" 16,
'll Palmyra ......... 151 Placerville ..•...•.. EI Dorado ........••
" "
" 15, "
Josephus ......... 152 Brnsb Creek ....... . Butte ............. .
"
"
Rising Sun .. ...... 153 Brandy City ... ..... Sierra ............ .
§
"
"
"
Carson ... . ..... . 154 Car!'on City ........ Nevada Ter....... .
"
" "
Mount Carmel. ... 155 Red Dog ..... . ..... Nevada .......... ..
106 Woodland .. ...... 156Woodland .......... Yolo .............. . May 14, 1863.
§ Washoe ........ .. 157 Washoe City -· ..... Nevada Ter....... . .
"
"
"
"
ir Gibsonville . ...... 158 Gibsonville ......... Sierra ............ .
" "
"
" "
Gilroy . .... . .... . 159 Gilroy •... . ........ Santa Clara ....... .
"
" "
ir Pilot Hill ... ...... 160 Pilot Hill ........... ,EI Dorado ........ ..
107 Keystone ........ 161 Milton •............ Calaveras .. .•.....•
"q
"
"
§ Virginia City ..... 162 Virginia City .. ..... IN evada Ter....•.. .•
"
"
§ Silver City ........ 163 Silver City .. ....... 'Nevada Ter........•
"
" "
J08 Harmon1 ....... , 164 Sierra Citr ..... , . , . $ierra • , ,. ....... ..
" 15,
"
Oct.
13, 1864.

83
84
85
t
86
87
88
89
"

*

8.1
82

*

80

*

if Mt. Jefferson .... 107 Garrote ............ Tuolumne ......... .
Owen ............ 108 Scott's Bar ........ Siskiyou ......... ..
Dibble .......... 109 Omega ............. Nevada .......... ..
Pajaro .......... llO Watsonville ........ Santa Cruz ........ .
Chico ............ 111 Chico .............. Butte ............. .
Summit .......... 112 Knight '11 Ferry ....• Stanislaus ........ ..
Eden .........•.. 113 San Leandro ....... Alameda .......... .
Mount Zion ....... ll4 Grizzly Flat ........ El Dorado ........ ..
Saint Marks ...... ll5 Fiddletown ... ...... Amador .......... ..
Windsor ......... l16 1 Windsor ........... !Sierra ............ .
Concord .......... 111 lsacramento ........ Sacramento ...... ..
Vallecito ........ 118 Vallecito ........... Calaveras ......... .
Clinton .......... 119 Igo ..... , ... ........ Shasta ...........•.
Fidelity ......... 120 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ...•..
Ionic ... .. ... .... 121 Iowa Hill .......... Placer ............ .
Alamo ......... , .122 Walnut Creek ...... Contra Costa ......•
Sotoyome ........ 123 Healdsburg ......... Sonoma ........... .
Table Mountain ... 124 Cherokee ........... Butte .............•
ProgreBB . . ....... 125 San Francisco ...... San Francisco .....•
La Fayette ... . ... 126 Sebastopol ......... Sonoma .......... ..
Hermann ........ 127 San Francisco ...... San Francisco .•....
.Visalia .......... 128 Visalia ............. Tulare ......•.... •.
Nicolaus ....... .. 129 Wheatland ......... Yuba ...•... : .....•
Unity ..... , , .... 130 San BernaTdino ..... San Bernardino

I

if
•
75
76
77
78
79
if

Town.

I

Arcata ...•.....• 106 Arcata ............. Humboldt ......... .

~I
z::s

Places of Location.

74

Names of Lodges.

,;

List of the Subordinate Lodges, et.c.-Continued.

N>

Ul

t:J

N
c.i

c..n

~

0
:i:i

5

(J

t:l
0
...,

8

r'
0

§

>

:i:i

Q

t:l

::i:

1-:l

0
"1

Ul

t:l

Q

t"'
0

1-:l
t:l

~

t:J

0
:i:i

tlj

c:::

Ul

0...,

1-:l

t"'
.....

~

CH

s
z"

J:J

I

Town.

I

Places of Location.

County.

...........

Northern Light . .. 1901\fillville •.......... Shasta . .. . . . ... .. . .
Marin .. ...... ... 191 San Rafael ... ...... Marin .... . . ... . .. .
Santa Barbara .... 192 Santa Barbara ..... Santa B arbara .... .
Ferndale ....... . 193 F erndale ......•.... Humboldt ... ... ... .
Mountam View ... 194 Mountain View . . •.. Santa Clara .... .. . .
Buckeye . ........ 195 Winters . ... ..... . . Yolo . . . .. .. .. .. . . . .
133 San S imeon . . .. . . . 196 Cambria ........ . .. San Luis Obispo ... .
Paradise ........ . 197 Haywards .... ... .. Alameda .. ...... .. .
134 Wilmington ..... . 198 Wilmington ........ Los Angeles ....... .
135 Hartley .......... 199 Lakeport ....... .. . Lake •.. ... . .. ... ..
136 Truckee .. . . .. ... 200 Truckee . ... . . . ..... Nev ada ........... .
137 Silvey ville . ..... . 201 Dixon ............. Solano .... ... . . . . . .
138 .Pentalpha ........ 202 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
139 Confidence . ... . .. 203 Castroville ...... .. . Monterey .........•
140 Salinas . .. ..... . . 204 Salinas ............ Monterey ....... . . •
141 Newville ..... . . .. 205 Newville . . . . . . . . . . . Glenn .... . ....... ..
142 Stanislaus . ...... 206 Modesto .... ... . . .. Stanislaus ..... ... ..
143 Anaheim ......... 207 ·Anaheim ...... . .... Orange •..•.....•..•
lU Rio Vista ......... 2081Rio Vista .. ... ...... Solano .... . •.. • ...•
145 King David's .. ... 209 San Luis Obispo . . .. . San Luis Obispo ... ..
146 Friendship . ..... . 210 San Jose ....... . . .. 1Santa Clara ...... ..
147 San Benito ...... . 211 Hollister ........ . . . San BenitQ ... : .... .
148 So. San Francisco.212 San Francisco ...... San Francisco .....•
t Bodega ..•....... 213 Bodega •••.....•. •. Sonoma ........ . ..•
149 San Buenaventura.214 Ventura •.......... Ventura .......... ..
150 Oak Grove ........ 215 Alameda . . . • . . . . . . . Alameda ........ . .. .
151 Doric ............ 216 San Francisco ... ... San Francisco : . : ..•
152 Monterey ........ 217 Monterey .. . : . . .... Monterey ...... . . ..
153 Mosaic ... ...... . 218 Livermore .......... Alameda .... .. •...•
154 Speranza Italiana. 219 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ...•..
155 Downey •........ 220 Downey . . • • . . . . • . . . Los Angeles •..•...•
156 Inyo .... . . ...... 221 Independence .. .. ... Inyo ............. ..
157 Granite .......... 222 Rocklin ............ Placer ..........•••
• Maui ............ 223 Wailuku ......... •. .Hawaiian Ter .... : ..

127
128
129
130
131
132

v

§ Silver Star ....... 165 Gold Hill ••••.•••••• Nevada Ter....•....
109 Excelsior ........ 166 San Francisco •••••• San Francisco ......
110 Alameda ......... 167 Centreville .••.•.••• Alameda •.....• .• .•
111 Redwood City ... . 168 Redwood City ••• , • , ::Ian Mateo ...•..••.
112 Mission ...... . ... 169 San Francisco •••••• San Francisco ••••..
§ Esmeralda ... ... . 170 Aurora •.....•.••••• Nevada Ter•.•.•.•••
§ Escurila .. ... .... 171 Virginia City ••••••• Nevada Ter.•.••••••
§ Lander . . .... .. .. 1721Austin .•.•••••••••• Nevada Ter.••••••••
113 Elk Grove ...... , .173 Elk Grove .......... dacramento ...•.•••
114 Drytown ....... , .174!Drytown ........... Amador ••.•..••••••
115 Antioch ...... .... l 751Antioch ............ Contra Costa ••••••.
• Merced . ......... 176 Snelling •••••••••••• Merced •..•.•••••••
II Aztlan .. . ..... . .. 1771Prescott •..•••••••• Arizona Ter ......•.•
116 Phoenix .. .. .. .... 1781San Bernardino ••••• ::Ian Bernardino •..••
117 Mendocino ..... , .179 1Mendocino .......... Mendocino .•.....••
118 Petaluma ........ 180,Petaluma ••••••••• , Sonoma ......•..•••
119 Russian River ..... 181 Windsor •.• , •• , , ••• Sonoma .•.•..••••.•
120 Meridian ......... 182,Arbuckle .........• Colusa .............
121 Clear Lake ........ 183iLower Lake •••••••• Lake •.............
122 Sierra Valley ..... 184 Sierraville •.• • • • • •• Sierra .....•• .. •.. •
123 Claiborne •....... 185 Point Arena ........ Mendocino •.•••.•••
124 Evening Star ..... 186 Etna Mills ..••••••• Siskiyou ...........
125 Keith ........... 187iGilroy ......•.• • .•• Santa Clara ...•...•
126 Oakland ..... . .. . 1881Oakland •.••••••••• Alameda •••.... : ...
El Dorado ..........
Latrobe ......... 189 Latrobe

Names of Lodires.

.,.....

"

"
"
"
"
Oct.
"

"
"
Oct.

II

II

"
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"

"'

GI"'

100 10
2
50
50 ......
100
5

12

421
102
99
864

...... ...... ...... I·········

-<

"'
-<

II

1870.

"

II

1868.

9
12

6

12

6
6
6
6
6
6
6

224
127
190
75
41
30
39
48
35
94
472

6
6
6

12
6
.9

77
37

64

08
187
122
97

6

40... ...
35
1
30
5
50 ···· ··
30
1
35
I
50 ..... .
30
1
50 ... ...

6

6
6

6
36

3

30 .... ..
60
5
60 .:....
75 20

6
6

HO
44
71
71
59
118
245

26

502

66

100
114

...3o :::::: ···:s ······39

35 .... ..
50 ......
50 .... ..
40 .... ..
30
5
30 • 1
30 ·· ····

...... ····· · ...... .........

50
30 ......
40
1
30
1
30 ····· ·
30 ..... .
30
2
50 ......
45 ......
50
1
50
1

.. .... ...... ......

II

Cl

Cl

"
"
"
" "
18, 1873.

II

"
"
"
"
"
11, 1872.

"

II

50 ..... .
75
2
75 25
50
5
50 ... ...
75 10
30 .. ....
50
1
50 2X

426

9

12
411
6 . 76
12
89
12
171
6
74
6
54
6
60

111

6

6
"
"
12
"
"
6
"
"
14, 1871.
6
12
105
"
"
12
175
"
"
"
...... ······ ...... ·········
"

II

"

14,

Oct.

"

"
"
"

"

"

"
"

Oct.

"
"
"
"

"

"

"
"
"
14, 1869.
" "
"
"
"
"
t'
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
" "

15,

Oct.

"
15, 1868.
" "
" "
II

II
II

II

"
"
"
"
10, 1867.
"
"
"
"

II

1866.

"

II

11,

II

II

"
"
Oct.
"
"

.,~

r«~ r«e

.,"'

A

,...;
~ i -'l'l " .s"'
.,o
.,_
~to
~ )i~

oO

,..i:i

6
"
6
"
12
"
...... ...... ...... ·········
"
······ ···· ·· .. .... ·········
"
...... ......
"
13, 1865.
6
30
5
63
9
23
40
5
"12, "
30 .. .... 12
95
"
...... ...... ...... ·········

II

"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
Oct.

II

"

"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
14,

1864.

13,

Oct.

was Ordered.

Date when Charter

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.--Oontinued.

N

rn

-..J

w

;..

....

:ll

~z

()

l'J
0
".I

g

~
>
z
tl
t"
0

N

l.'l

:11

8

0
".I

Cf

t"
0
tl
0
t'J

8
t'J

zii>

tl
....

:c

OJ
0

c:::

rn

0
".I

>-l

t"
....

°'

c.>

•

202
203
204
205
206
207

*

197
198
199
200
201

t

191
192
193
194
195
196

II

186
187
188
189
190

IJ

181
182
183
184
185

*

180

158
159
16-0
*
161
162
163
164
165
166
167
168
169
170
*
*
171
172
173
17 4
175
176
177
178
179

...

z

E
::s

..,..,
Town .

County .

"
1•

1•

"
"
"
"
Oct.
"

Oct.
"
"
Oct.
"
"
Oct.
"
"
Oct.
"

Adin .. . ..... .... 250 Adin .............• Modoc . . . • . . • . . • • • •
Brotherhood ...... 251 Duncan's Mills ..... Sonoma . . . . . . . . • . . •
Bodie ........... 252 Bodie .............. Mono . . .. . . . . . . . . . .
Landmark ....... 253 Madison .. ..... .... Yolo . . . . . . . . . . . . ...
Reading . ........ 254 Redding •.......... Shasta . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Welcome .. . ..... 255 Lemoore •..... .. .... Tulare .......... .... ,
Lodi ............_.256 Lodi ..... ..• ...... San Joaquin • . . . . . ••
Arizona .. ...... . 257 Phoenix •........... Arizona Ter. . . . . . . ..
Penrhyn . .... . . .. 258 Penryn . .••... ..... Placer • . . . . . . . . . . . .
Evergreen . . .. ... 259 Riverside .......... Riverside .. . . ...• · ~
King Solomon's ... 260 San Francisco . . . • . San Fr&J1ciaco . . . • . •
Tuscan ........ .. 261 Williams . • . .. .... . . Colusa . . . . . . . . . . • • •
Lompoc ......... 262 Lompoc • . .. ...... .. Santa Barbara . . • • •
Tucson . . ........ 263 Tucson . ........... Arizona Ter. . . . . . . ••
Besperian ....... 264 Santa Maria . : . . ..•. Santa Bubara • . • • •
Orland .......... 265 Orland .. ••.. ....... Glenn . . . . . . . . . • • • ..
North East ....... 266 Fort Bidwell .•....• Modoc . . . . . . . . . . . ••
Galt ............. 267 Galt •.... . ......... Sacramento . . . . • • • •
Durant . ......... 268 Berkeley • . ......... Alameda . . . . . . . • . • •
Olive Branch ..... 269 I'ulare ..•.........• Tulare .. . ....•. , . ..
Fall River ........ 270 Glenbum .. .. ....•. Shasta. . • • • . • • . . • . ••
Snow Mountain ... 271 Stony For4 ... ..... Colusa ...... : . . . • • .
Pasadena ........ 271: Pasadena •......... Los Angeles . • . . . • • •
Anchor ...... ·... . 273 Compton ........... Los Angeles . . • . . • • •
Arroyo .......... 274 \rroyo Grande ••... San Luis Obispo. . ...
Oakdale . . .... ... 275 Oakdale .•.......•.. Stanislaus • . • • • • • • ••
Westport ... ... .. 276 Westport •.. • ...•••. Mendocino . . . . . . . ••
Selma ........... 277 Selma ...• . .... • .•. Fresno ........... ,.
Southern Calif .... 278 Los Angeles •.....•• Los Auiele11 . . . . • . • •
Hanford ......... 279 Hanford • •. ..•..••• Kings . . . . . . . . • • • • ••
Madera .......... 280 Madera . •• ...•.•... Madera . . . . . . . • • . • •
Mount Shasta .... 281 Anderaon .......... Shasta • . •• • • . . •• •••
Callayomi ........ 282 Middletown ........ Lake . . • • • • • • • • . • • •

"

Oct.

"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
''
"
Oct.
"
Oct.
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
"
Oct.
''
"
"

"

"
"
"
16,
''
"
"
14,
"

'1

"
"
16,
"

H

..,.;
-2l"
.,o

-<

30 ......
6
65
51)
5
6
162
35 ... .. .
Ii
6~
30 . .. ...
!l
41
30
1
6
4!!
.30
1
6
67
50 .. .... 12
50
30
1
tl
28
50 .. ....
6
51
35 ..... .
6
57
···· ·· · ·· ··· ·· ·· ··1·· · ·· ··· ·
........ .. ... ..........•...
50 .. . .. .
6
78
50
1
6
234
50 .... ..
6
90
35
5
611
86
50 ...... 12! 359
50 .... ..
6
84
30 . . . . . .
61 228
5o ··· ··· 6i 29Ii
30
11 6:
i6

• • . •• • • • •. •• .••••••••

217
236
120

~~

~I" ....

50 .... .. 1 61
50 ... . .. , 6
75
5i 12

-<

a: ~
~~ 1".tj

..00=
~~ -::::

.,

.;

30
l
6
39
.. ... . .... .. .............. .
60 . . . .. . 12
43
30
1
6
33
50 ... ...
6
143
30 .. .. ..
6
77
30 ......
6
12..~
.. .. .. .. .. ..
30
6
63
50 ......
6
264
100 15 12
506
30 . .... .
6
58
35
1
6
76
. . . . . . .. . . ..
. . . .. .. . .
35 .. ....
6
124
40
1
6
59
30 10
6
36
30 ......
6
38
"
100
5
6
406
"
30 ......
6
114
"
.... ..
1884. ·
30
1
6
23
"
50 . . .. ..
6
378
"
3() . . . .. .
6
70
"
30 .. ....
6
47
"
30
l
6
53
"
.... .. ... .. . ... ... ....... .
1885.
30 . . . . . .
6
90
''
75 15
6
655
"
35 .. . .. .
6
136
"
55 .. . . . .
6
84
1886.
50 ......
6
47
"
30 . . . ..
6
35

1875.
"
"
1876.
"
"
1877.
"
"
1878.

"

"
"
"

"

"
"
"
1874.
"

"

1'

''

1873.

10, 1818.
"
"
"
"
16, 1879.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
15, 1880.
"
"
''
''
"
"
15, 1881.
"
"
12, 1882.
"
"
"
"
ll, 1883.

41

14,
"
"
12,
"
"
11,
"
"
10,

"

"
"
"

"
"
"

·1 "

"

u

"
"
"
16,
"

"

18,

1'

Oet.

was Onlered.

Date when Charter

Greenville ......• 249 Greenville .......... Pio- ...... _. _.• _ Oet.

I

I

Places of Location.

Bakersfield . . . ...• 224 !Bakersfield ......... Kem . . . . . . . . . . . . .•
Brooklyn ........ 225 East Oakland ....... Alameda • . . • . . . . . . •
San Mateo .. . ..... 226 1San Mateo .. ... .... San Mateo . . . . . . . ..
Contra Costa .. .. .. 227 Somersville .. ...... Contra Co!ta . . . . . . •
Athens .. .... .... 228 Davisville . . ..... . .. Yolo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . •
Solano .... ... .... 229 ~ allejo ............. Solano . . . . . . . . . . . . •
North Butte . . . ... 230 Gridley ... . ........ Butte ·.·············
Covelo . ... . .. .... 231 1Covelo .... . . .. .. . . . Mendocmo . . . . . . . . •
Janesville ... ..... 232 Janesville . .... .•.•• Lassen . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Calistoga .. ...... 233 Calistoga .......... Napa . . . . . . . . . . . . . •
Hope ....... . . .. . 234 1Beckwith ......•. • . Plumas ........ . .. ,
Surprise Valley ... 235 Cedarville .. . ....... Modoc . . . . . . . .. . • ..
Hill 's Ferry ...... 236 11Newman ... .. ...... Stanislaus . . . . . . . • ..
Guadalupe ....... 237\Guadalupe ....... ··1Santa Barbara •...
Tyre . ... ........ 238 Gold Run .... . .... , Placer . . . . . . . . . . . . .
PescaElero .. ...... 239 Pescadero . .. ....... San Mateo . . . . . . . • .
Colusa ... ..... ... 240 1Colusa ............. Colusa . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Santa Ana ....... 241 Santa Ana ......... IOrange . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Magnolia .... .. .. 242 Santa Barbara ...... !Santa Barbara . . . . .•
Eucalyptus ..... . 243 Haywards .......... Alameda . . . . . . . . . . .
Alcatraz ..... .. . . 244 West Oakland . .... . Alameda . . . . . . . . . . •
Laurel .. ........ 245 Willows •. ... ......• Glenn . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Pomona . ........ 246 Pomona ...•.......• 1Los Angeles . . . . . .. •
FresBo .......... 247Fresno ••. ••..•....• ,.Fresno ..... ... ....•
Alturas .......... 248,Altmaa ............ .Modoc . . . • . . . . . . . . •

Names of Lodlres.

ai

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.--COntinued.

""

c::

>

N

z
>

g

"l

t;

>

r.

~

~

ti

0

t<

§

0
~

~

l':J

~

>-3

0
"l

(/1

0
ti:!

t)

s

+-3
l':J

z>

t)

0
!:ti

tc

(/1

"l

0

>-3

t<
....
(/1

00

(,>

265

264

259
260
261
262
263

25~

236
237
238
239
240
241
242
243
244
245
246
247
248
249
250
251
252
253
254
255
256
257

f

233
234
235

.,fj
Town.

I
County .

·I

.............

"

Oct.
Oct.

"

"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
Oct.
"
Oct.
"
."
"
"

"
"
"
Oct.

"
Oct.
"

CJ

"

"
·· ···· ···· Oct.
"
"
Oct.

···········

............

"

Oe~.

"

"
"
Oct.
"

"
"

"
"
Oct.
"

"

14

"

"

..

"
"
"
1893.

l~l..

"

"

"
15,

"

1900.

"
" "
10, 1901.

"

11,

"

1898.
1899.

.. .."

"

14,
14,

"

"
..
" "

1897.

"
"
"
"
"

1896.

"
13,

"

"

; ..=\

t::1

!>'.

z

'>1
0
:ti

t"
....

>

(")

tz:J
0
'>1

t::1
0

t"
0

6'.

171

.....

A

:ti

~

0

N

84

49
493
538
50
136
152
284
. 64
86
238
92
52
124
iH
117
42
77
345
138

27

81
48
80

95

35

..........

i.>

45

117
54
135
46
75
96
109

203

62
30
55
68
76
23
46
449
102
88
101
52
54
198
86
58
162

30' ..... .

<>I

i

(jl

6
6
9
6
6
6
12
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
12
12
6
6
9
6
6

"'
6

·a

6
6
6
6
6
6
6

~

61
61
12,
6
6

61
6i

6
12!
12

61

6'
121

-<

78
.501......
35' ....;.:, ~- i. _;.~:

50, ... .. .
50 •.•. ..
-ill' ......

751 20

50: .... ..
40 ..... .
501......
53 1• • ••• •
301......

50 ......

:ro1···· ..

50
.. 1
50 ...
40
30 ..... .
30 ......
30 ......
35 10
50 ......
50 15
35 .. ....
35 ......
30
3
50 ... ...
30 '3
1
60
50 ..... .

......

50 .... ..

30 ... .. .
30 .... . .
30 · ···· ·
50 ..... .

"

"
"

·"11,
" "
" "
" "
" "
11, 1894.
" "
" "
" "
11, 1895.

"
"
"

I
1891.

"

"

"
"
"

1890.

30 . .. . . .
50 ...... 1
50 ····· ·
50 ··· ···
30 .... . .
50 .. .. . .
30 .... . .
50 .... . .
35 ... .. . .

30 ..... .

30 . 1
30 ·1
30
5
30 . ... . .
30 ... .. .
30 ..... .
30 ···· ··
50 .... . .
30 ... .. .
30 ..... .
30
1

-4

'.,51
"" "'
.s"
)I~

il ~~ "§" ....

...... ,..~ ~
.s ....~ .g~ A"

14,

"

"

"
"

16,

"
"

" "
" "
"
"
"
"
11, 1888.
"
"
"
"
" "
" "
10, 1889.
" "
" "
" "

"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"

14,

Oct.

1886.

Date when Charter
was Ordered .

.... .......... Oct. u. 1892..

South West .......283 National City ...... San Diego •.. . ......
Tyrian .......... 284 Dunnigan .......... Yolo .............. .
San Miguel. .. . . .. 285 San Miguel . ....... San Luis Obispo .... .
Paso Ro bl es . ..... 286 Past Robles .. . ..... San Luis Obispo .... .
Winnedumah ..... 287 Bishop ............. Inyo ..... . ........ .
Maxwell ...... . .. 288 Maxwell ......... .. Colusa ............ .
Elsinore .. . .. .... 289 Elsinore ......... ... Riverside ... . .. : .. .
East Gu.te ........ 290 East Los Angeles .... Los Angeles ....... .
Santa Paula .. ... . 291 Santa Paula ... . .... Ventura ... . . .. . .. .
Los Gatos ... .. ....292 Los Gatos ..... .. ... Santa Clare. ... .... . .
Orange Grove ..... 293 Orange ....... : .... Orange ........... .
Traver .. .. '. ..... 294 Kingsburg .. . .. .. . . Fresno .......... . . .
Mt. Jackson ...... 2951Guerneville . ... . . ... !Sonoma •...........
Silver Gate ..... .. 296 San Diego .......... San Diego ..•... . ...
Dunsmuir ........ 297 Dunsmuir .......... Siskiyou · .. · . · · · · ·
Mokelumne Hill . . . 298 Mokelumne Hill .... Calaveras .. .. . . ... .
Liberty . . ........ 299 Santa Clara ........ Santo. Clare. ...... ..
Redlands ........ "300 Redlands ........... San Bernardino .... .
Ontario . . .. ..... . 301 Ontario . . .......... San Bernardino .... .
Santa Lucia ... .. . 302 Kings' City ........ Monterey ......... .
Porterville ....... 303 Porterville ......... Tulare ........... . .
Reedley . .. . . ... . 304 Reedley ... . ... . ... Fresno ............ .
Azusa ........... 305 Azusa ..... .... . . .. Los Angeles ....... .
Asnlar ... ........ 306 Colton .... . .. .... .. San Bernardino ... ..
Santa Monica ..... 307 Santa Monica .... . . Los Angeles .... . . . .

~

.0

Monrovia .. ...... 308 Monrona •.••.••••• Loll Allg'elee ••••••••
Delano . ....... . . .309 Delano · · ···········Kern
SiBBOn ...... ... .. 310 Sisson
Siskiyou ...........
Hueneme . .. . .... 311 Hueneme ........... Ventura ..........••
Los Banos : ...... 312 Los Banos ....... _. . Merced
Tehachapi ....... 313 Tehachapi .......... Kern ........••....•
Temescal ......... 314 Corona . ............ Riverside .........•
Norwalk .. : ...... 315 Norwalk ...... . .. .. Los Angeles · •.....·.•
Sanger . ; •.. : ... :316 Sanger •........... Fresno ..•... ·...• ·. .".
Fallbrook .... .... 317 Fallbrook .. ·........ San Diego · • ; , .. . , ...
Emmanuel ....... 318 Biggs . , ... ; : : ...... Butte •....•••....••
Hollenbeck .. ..... 319 Los Angeles ........ Loe Angeles ·: ..•. • : .
Sou th Gate ....... 320 Loe Angeles ........ Los Angeles •......•
Alisa! ........... 321 Pleu.santon ......... Alameda .. .. .• ....•
Alhambra . . ...... 322 Alhambra .... . .. .. . Los Angeles .....•••
Whittier ... •.. .. . . 323 Whittier ..•. .. .. .. Los Angeles •.....••
Corona ... . ...... 324 Pasadena : . ........ Loe Angeles ...•....
Consuelo ... . ... . . 325 Escondido . . .. . .. ."..
Needles ......... 326 Needles ............ San Diego ........••
Bernardino ...••
Long Beach ....... 327 Long Beach ........ San
Los Angeles ••......•
Redondo ...... . .. 328 Redondo ..... . .. ... Los Angeles ......••
Vallee de France.329 Los Angeles ...... .. Los Angeles ....•...
Kilauea ......... 330 Hilo ....... . . . ..... Hawaiian Ter.•....•
Pacific Grove ..... 331 Paci.fie Grove ....... Monterey ........••
San Pedro ........ 332 San Pedro . ......... Los Angeles ....•.••
Alta ...... .... ... 333 Bridgeport . ........ Mono ........•..••.•
Covina ... .. .. . .. 334 Covina ........ ... .. os Angeies . : .•.•••
West Gate ........ 335 Los Angeles ..... . .. Los Angeles . . • ..•••
Fruitvale ........ 336 Fruitvale .... . .. . . . Alameda ..........•
Carqu1nez ..... . .. 337 Crockett .. . ...... . . Contra Costa .. . .. • •
San Jacinto . .. . ... 338 San J u.cin to ........ Riverside
Fullerton ........ 339 Fullerton . . . ..... . . Orange ... .. ...• . •• ·
Santa Maria ..... . 340 Santa Maria ........ Santa Barbara •••.••
Oxnard .... .•. .. • 341 Oxnard . • . . . . . . . . . . Ventura

229
230
231
232

228

227

226

215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
223
224
225

214

208
209
210
211
212
213

Names of Lodges.

Place of Location.

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.--'-Continued.

>-3

~

~

00

0
tz:J

g

t"

"l
tz:J

~

0
:ti

~

rn

0
'>1

t"
....
00

0
"""

N

.,...ai

z

='

E

.0

Town.

I
County .

291
292
293
294
295
296
297
298
299
300
301
'.102
303
304
305
306
307
308
309
310
311
312
313
314
315
316
317
318
319
320
321
322
323
324

........... ..

···········

...........

South Pasadena ... 367 5outh Pasadena .... Los Angeles •...••••
Unity .. . ........ 368 :llendale . ...... .... Los Angeles ... •. ..•
Ocean Park . .....• 369 3anta Monica .... .. Los Angeles ..• ••• ..
Amity . ........ . . 370 ~an Francisco ...... San Francisco •..•.•
Oceanic .......... 371 Honolulu •••• • •••••• Hawaiian Ter.......
Gardena ......... 372 Gardena
Los Angeles .......•
Veteran ......... 373 Sawtelle
Los Angeles .. •. .. .•
.Jewel .. .. ..... . . 374 San Francisco ...•.. San Francisco •....•
Richmond ....... 375 San Francisco ..... . San Francisco . •. ...
Francis Drake ...• 376 3outh San Francisco. San Mateo . . .. .....
Artesia .......... 377 Artesia
Los Angeles ..... .. .
Mizpah . . . .. .. ... 378 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles .......•
Fillmore ... . ..... 379 Fillmore .....•..... V entura ............
Huntington Beach.380 Huntington Beach .. Orange .......... ..
Oceanside ........381 Oceanside .......... San Diego .. ........
Highland Park .. .. 382 Los Angeles . .• ....•. Los Angeles . .. ... ...
Orosi ....••.• . ... 383 Orosi ... .• .....••.. Tulare ..... ..... .. .
El Centro ...... ... 384 El Centro . . ......... San Diego .. ... .....
Corregidor ... .... 386 Manila . • .. . .•...... Philippine Islands ...
Dinuba .. .. . .... . 385 Dinuba ... . . .. ... ... Tulare ... ......... :
Coalinga . .... .... 387 Coalinga ........... Tulare .... ..... ....
Parnassus . .... ... 388 San Francisco ....... San Francisco . . . ....
Palos • erdes ..... 389 Long B each ......... Lo:;! Angeles .........
Imperial ......... 390 Imperial ...•....... Imperial . ... .......
East Belt .. .. ..... 391 Tuolumne .. ........ Tuolumne ... . .. ....
West Lake ....... 392 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles .. .. .. ...
Balder ..... ......393 San Francisco ..•.... San Francisco .......
University . ...... 394 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles .. . ... . ..
Turlock ......... 395 Turlock . . ......• . .• Stanislaus ..........
Apollo .. ......... 396 <\.lameda . . . . ....... Alameda . . ... . .....
Rising Light .... .. 397 Huntington Park .... Los Angeles . .... . . ..
Fowler ... . ...... 398 Fowler . . • . .. .••.•.• Fresno . .. .... ... .. ,
Fraternity .... ... 399 San .Jose .•...•.••.. Santa Clara .......•
Burlingame ..... .400 Burlingame •..•.••. San Mateo . . ...... :

266 Manila ....... ... 342 Manila ........ . ... Philippine Islands .. •
267 SaT, Forn:indo ......343 Fernando ...•...... Los Angeles •••... . .
268 Starr King ....... 344 San Francisco ...... San Francisco •.....
269 Brentwood .. ... . .345 Brentwood ....... .. Contra Costa ......•
270 Palo Alto.... .... . 346 Palo Alto .... . ..... Santa Clara •...... .
271 McKinley ........ 347 Richmond .......... Contra Costa ...... .
272 San Bernardino ... 348 San Bernardino .... San Bernardino . • .••
273 Sequoia .......... 349 Oakland ....... •.. . Alameda ..•.•..•.••
274 Cavite ... .... . •. . 350 Cavite .... . .... ... . Philippine Islands • .•
275 Palestine ..•.. . . . 351 Los Angeles ... ... .. Los Angeles ....• • ..
276 Sunset ....... .. .. 352 Los Angeles ...... .. Los Angeles ....... .
277 Pinole ........... 353 Pinole ............. Contra Costa ...... .
278 Presidio ... . ..... 354 San Francisco • . .... San Francisco .•....
279 Hollywood ....... 355 Hollywood •.. . . ... . Los Angeles '; .. .••.•
280 Mill Valley ....... 356 Mill Valley ...... . .. Marin ........... . .
281 Buena Park ....... 357 Buena· Park .. . . . ... Orange ...........•
282 Golden State ..... 358 Los Angeles ....... . Los Angeles ....... .
283 Loyalton ........ 359 Loyalton ...•...•... Sierra •••••••..... ••
284 San Francisco ...• 360 San Francisco .... .. San Francisco ....•.
285 Fort Bragg .... •. . 361 Fort Bragg ......... Mendocino ...... .. .
286 Charity .......... 362 Campbell ........... Santa Clara . .... .. .
287 Berkeley •... .. ... 363 Berkeley •... . ...... Alameda •.•....•.. •
288 Olivet ........... 364 Coming ............ Tehama ........... .
28!/ Willits ...... .. .. 365 Willits ............ Mendocino ...... . . .
290 Las Palmas ... . ... 366 Fresno ............. Fresno ......... • .••

Names of Lodges.

Places of Location.

"
"
"
"
,",

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"

"
"
Oct.

"

1908

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
15,

"
"
"
"

"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
1907.

11106.

"

"

"
"

1905.

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
1903.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
1904.
"
"
"
"
"
"
1905.

1901.
1902.

"

"

10,

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"IO,

"
"

12,

"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

12,

"
"

"
"
"
"

"

13,

(

"
"'
"
"
15,
"
"
"
"
"
"
16,

"

10,
15,

Oct.

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
Oct.

"
"
"
"
"
"
Oct.

"

"
"
"
"
Oct.

"

H

Oct.
Oct.

Date when Charter
was Ordered.

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

-<

5

50
50

10
5

50

5

. .

......

1i
12

6
6

:9

Ii

6
6
6
6
12
6

50 ......
50
3
50
5

......

12

10

75

6
6

60

214
84
59
28
54
27
21
52 ·

28

48
49
59
121
38
36

67
6

10

6
6
6
9
6
6
6

6
6

12
12

6

12
12

150

140
118
49
220
49
160
71
52
252
39
49

188

143
116
20'J
255
75
194
199
75

51

238
54
194

65
93
101
164
122
46
101
72
155
44
48
268
40
35
31
148
43

6

6
6
6
6
6
6

12

6
6

12
6

6

1210
12

:: ::: :
501.... ..

...ao

50 ......

30 ......

50
50 ......

30 ......

50
30 . .....
50
3
30
I

75

50 ......

30
30

5
5
3
3

......
3
50 ......

1

30 ....; .

~~::::~

liO ..... .
75 ..... .

50 ... .. .
50 ..... .
30 ..... .
50 ..... .

75

l

6
6

12

50
5
50 ..... .
50 ······
50 ..... .

12
6

9
6
6
6
6
6

30 .... ..
50 .... . .
50 ..... .
50 ..... .

*~

'""
" ::i:l;:i::
-<"

~

~ .....

10

75

50
5
50 ..... .

l'i«A

u r!~

... d

.E ~ .s~oil

,..;

t"

:i::

"""
VJ

N

.<:
;;::

::c

I-<

t"
".l
0

~

0
tel
0
".l

!:;)

0

r

!:;)

>
z

~

0

tel

>-3

0
".l

00

0
tel

t"
0

!:;)

>-3
tel

z>

!:;)

~

td
0

00

c

0
".l

>-3

00

I-<

N

"""

N

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

244

\~

O>~OC;OO>OO

1- C'-1 u:> C'I? "'d" C'I?

·suos'llJ'l
.IQ'lS11N

·sana !'lllluuy
·uo)l'llJ!lllY
lOJ ae.11

<Cr.J:>C-1
,..... r.J:><Cr.J:>

o
,..... - .....

;M

g~~§?lgg

•ieQllleU

....
~

"' - --..... :: :: - - .... - o- - - -· '<t'~

""'

~o

..

!!="'

.s !!=
~

-8

1n Correspondence with the Grand Lodge of California

::

,.....

~i

::l

I

a;

o_

.

0.,

]

I

lRAND LODGES OF THE UNITED STATES
AND BRITISH AMERICA

C) -

=
0

0

I

~

"'

t
8""

!

~

=

0ci

...£
...

.
• <E a;i
•

Q)

G>

rn

C1;I

"G)~~
<IS.-< <IS bllbllbll
"=' C\l"=' i:I i:I"
.,·~

"'<<<

a

a~
~~c!jOlOJOJ

:;3

j !Cl
::l
00

<~<~..S~

gj

"

~

ci

. "'

!!=

0

~

:.:1"'

·~

.,,; 1-.,-d ~ bll.!ll
i:I"' i:I

0""

..!Si..!S"O<~

~e~~~~

·a.req1.11nN

"'~

]

Cl

.,"'
..s

"'

<

I

WJ ea.~

]

245

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES OF THE

OCQOo...:ia:i
""'"'<:\)Cl') ""*4 tr.I co

000000
'<tl'<t'

..;:..;:..i:..i:

: C\l

·=
"'"<IS
jl::

.~ t-CQ !:; ell~

;> i

<IS"='-.; <IS

l>..o:s ~ i:I i:I

t:

CQCQ

CQ

<IS .... ~~~=

0

lOCO t-OOChO
C:JC'JC"JC-.1(:.1~
C'Q C'Q CQ et:! cr:i (I?

Grand Lodges.

Grand Secretarle11.

Residences.

Organized

.C. 14lbama •••••••••• George A. Beauchamp.Montgomery •..•.. June 15, 18~1
llherta ••....•.••. Geo. Macdonald ..•..•. Calgarv ......•.... Oct. 12, 1906
Ii 1l11ina • • •• •• ••••• George J . Roskruge . •. Tucson ....•..•.... Mar. 26, 1882
~ 1k1111•ae .•••..••••Fay Hempstead •••.•. Little Rock ........ Mar. 26, 1882
lhlll•h Columbla ... R. E. Brett ........... Victoria .•........ . Feb. 22, 1832
' '"nada ............R. L. Gunn .... .. ...••. Hamllton ••.•..•... Oct. 10, 1856
• 'uluro.do ...........Charles H. Jacobson ... Denver . .. ...•..... Aug. 2, 1861
8, 1789
• '111111ectlcut .. . .... Frank W. Havens ..•. Hartford ......... . July
l1t•l1nvare .......... If. V. Ha.rrlson ...... .. Wllmlngton ....•...June 8, 1808
I llNt. of Columbia .• Arvlne W. Johnston ...Washington •.••.•. Feb. 19, 1811
l~lorlda ............ Wllber P. Webster . .•. Jacksonv ille .•...•. July
6, 1830
•h..,rirla ••••••••••• W . A . Wollhln ..•.....Macon •••.......... Dec. 18, 1788
llll~ho •••• •.••••••••.Theophllus W. Randall Boise ..• . ...•..•••. Dec. 17. 1887
llllnl'll• • ••.••• ••••••Isaac Cutter •. . ..•..•. Camp Point .• .•... April 6, 1840
lt11tlnna ........... ...Calvin W. Prather .... Indianapolis ••••.. Jan.
1818
uwa .............. Newton R . Parvin .....Cedar Rapids ..... . Jan.
8, 1844
\otnRae ..•••• •• , ••• Albert K. Wllson . .... .T opeka .•••••..• • •. Mar. 17, 1868
l<nntucky ..........Henry Ban. Grant. ... Louisville ..........Oct.
8, 1800
J.nulsln.na ••••••••• Richard Lambert. . . • .. New Orleans ..••.. June 20, 1812
Ml\lne .•••.•••••••• Stephen Berry •••..... Portland •.••••.... June 1, 1820
Mnnltoba . ..........James A. Ovas •....••. Wlnnepeg •••.• •. .. May U, 1876
Mnryland •..•••••• William M. Isaac .. ... Baltimore •...• , .•. ,A.Prll 17, 1887
MnABachusetts. • .. Thos. W. Davis .... •. Boston .. •.. .•.•... Mar. 8, 1777
Mlt-hlgan .......... Lou B . Winsor ........ Reed City ......... Sept. 17, 184'4
Minnesota .. . .....,John Fishel ........... Saint Paul ...•....Feb. 28, 1863
MIABlsslfpl ........Frederick Speed ......Vicksburg .. ....... J'\llY 27, 1818
4, 1821
Mluour ••••• ·•·· ••John R. Parso n ....... St. Louis .....••... May
Montana •.• . ••• . , .. Cornelius Hedges, Jr • . Helena •.. ........ . Jan. 2'4, 1888
Nnbraska ..........Francis E . White .... .Omaha ............ !iept. 23, 1867
Novada ............Chauncey N . Notewart!Carson ...•...••... Jan. 18, 1885
Now Brunswick ••• J. Twining__Hartt. .... Saint John . ........Oct. 10, 1867
New Hampshire .... Frank D. Woodbury ... Concord • . . •.••..• ,July
8, 1789
Nuw Jersey ....... Benj. F. Wakefield . ... Trenton ........... Dea. 18, 1788
Now Mexico ....... Alpheus A. Keen .... .. Albuquerque •.•.. .Aus.
7, 1877
New York ...• . •••• Edward M. L. Ehlers.New York ...••••• •Sept. 6, 1781
North Carolina •• •. John C. Drewry •.•••.. Raleigh ............Dec. 12, 1 T77
North Dakota .... . Frank J. Thompson .. .Fargo ....... .. .... ..June 13, 1889
Nova Scotia . ...... Thomas Mowbray ... • . Halifax . .•.••••....lan. 21, 1888
Ohio .............. Jacob H . Bromwell .. . Cincinnati .••..... . Jan.
7, 1808
Oklahoma ••••••••• Wm. M. Anderson .... Waurika .. . . . .... .Nov. 10, 18!12
Oregon ............ James F. Robinson .... Portland .. ........ Sept. llil 1861
l'ennsylvanla . ..... William A. Sinn ..... •. Phlladelphla ...••• Sept. ~11. 17118
l'rlnce Ed. Island •• Nell MacKelvle . • ..... Summerslde •..... June 24, 187.6
(.Juebec ..••..••.•••Will H . Whyte .... . .. Montreal ..•..•. .•. Oct. 20, 1889
llhode Island • •••• s. Penrose Wllllams .. Providence . ..... .. June 27, 1791
Haskatchewe.n ..... J . M. Shaw . • ... •. .•. . . Regina .•. .... ..... Aug. 9, 1906
Houth Carolina .... Jacob T . Barron ...... Columbia ..........Mar. 24, 1787
Routh Dakota .... Geo. A. Pettigrew:.... Sioux Falls ........ July zt, 1776
27, 1813
Tenne~see .••• ~, ••• John B. Garrett. ...... Nashville ..........Dec.
Texas ....... ., .... John Watson .... ..... Waco .. ... ...•.... Dec. 20; 1837
17,
1872
Utah •..•.••• , . •••• Christopher Diehl .... Salt Lake City •... Jan.
Vermont ..... , ..... Henry H. Ross . ...... Burlington .. .. .. Oct. 14, 1794
Virginia .••••• , .••• Goo. W . Carrington .. . Richmond •..... .. Oct. 11, 1778
Washington •• , • •• •Horace W. Tyler .. . ... Tacoma ............ Dec.
8, 1866
West Virginia ..... Hiram R. Howard ..... Point Pleasant. .... M:a.v 11, 1866
Wisconsin •.•• •••• • Wiiliam W. Perry . . . • . Milwaukee .• • . • .. . Dec. 18, 184S
Wyoming .. . . ... ...Wm. L. Kuykendall ... Saratoga • • .•...•.. Dec. 16, 1874

l

u.

LIST OF ELECTIVE GRAND OFFICERS

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE

M. ·. W. '. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION 08 THE

18TH DAY OF APRIL. A. L. 5851.

246

Grand Master.

Vear

1850
1851
1852
1853
1854
1855
1856
1857
1858
1859
1860
1861
1862
1863
1864
1865
1866
1867
1868
1869
1870
1871
1S7i
1873
1874
1875
1876
1877
1878
1879
1880
1881
1882
1883
1884
1885
1886
1887
1888
1889
1890
i.891
1892
1893
1894
\895

Deputy
Grand Master.

•Jonathan D . Stevenson . . . •John A. Tutt . ...... .
•John A. Tutt. ............ •Benjamin D. Hyam . .
•Benjamin D . Hyam. : .... •Charles M . Radcliff ..
•Charles M. Radcliff. . . . . . •Townsend A . Thomas
•Wiiiiam H. Howard ..... •Nathaniel G. Curtis ..
•w1111am H. Howard .... , •Townsend A . Thomas
•wnuam H. Howard ..... •John A Raymond .... .
•Na~hanlel G. Curtis .. .. . . •Charles Marsh .... .. .
•Nathaniel G. Curtis... ... •Ph111p W. Shepheard.
•Nathaniel G. Curtis .... . . •Philip W. Shepheard.
•Nathaniel G .. Curtis...... •P h111p W ..Shepheard.
•James L. Eng11sh ........ •wnuam C. Belcher ..
•wm1am C. Belcher ...... •Gilbert B. Claiborne ..
•Wiiiiam. C. Belcher ...... . •Gilbert B. Claiborne..
•Wiiiiam C. Belcher. . . . . . •Gilbert B. Claiborne. .
•Gilbert B. Claiborne ..... · Wllllam A. Davies .. .
•Q1lbert B. Claiborne. . . . . •Henry H. Hartley ... .
Wiiliam A. Davies. . . . . . . •Henry H. Hartley ... .
•Charles Marsh.... .... ... •Leonidas E. Pratt ...•
•Leonidas E. Pratt . ..... .. •Isa ac S. Titus .... ... .
•Leonidas E. Pratt. ....... •Isaac S. Titus ..... . . .
•Leonidas E. Pratt. ......• •Charles L. Wiggin .. ,
•Leonidas E . Pratt........ •Benj. H. Freeman .. .
•Isaac S. Titus......... .. George C. Perkins .. .
George C. Perkins .. ...... •John M. Browne .... .
•John M. Browne . .... .... •Charle s L. Wiggin .. .
•John M. Browne... . .. .. . •Charles L. Wiggin .. .
•John M. Browne ....... . . •Charles L. Wiggin .. .
•John M. Browne ........• •Wiiliam W. Traylor . .
•Wllllam W. Traylor...... Samuel C. Denson ... .
Samuel C. Denson ........ •Clay W . Taylor ..... .
•cray W. Taylor.......... John Q. A.dams ..... .
•Clay W. Taylor ..., ...... •Jonathan D. Hines .. .
•Jonathan D. Hines...... Wiley J . Tinnin ..... .
•Jonathan D . Hines . .. .. . Wiley J . Tinnin ..... .
Wfley J. Tinnin..... .. .. . Edmund C. Atkinson.
Edmund C. Atkinson .. .. . •H!rnm N. Rucker.. .. .
•Hiram N. Rucker ........ •Morris M. Estee . ... .
•Morris M. Estee.. ... .... "Alvah R . Conklin .. ,.
•Morris M. Estee .. . ...... •William .Johnston ... .
"Alvah R. Conk11n.:....... •Wllllam Johnston ... .
•William Johnston........ •Charles Ray Gritman.
•Charles R. Gritman . . . . . Henry S. Orme . . ... .
Henry S. Orme.... .. .. .. . James B. Stevens .. ..
James B. Stevens ........ •Edward M. Preston ..
"l1lf~IU'd M. Preston......
William T. Lucas ....
n

Junior
Grand Warden.

Senior
Grand Warden.
•Caleb Fenner.
•E. F. W. E111s.
•Adolphus : Hollub.
•John R. Crandall.
•Rector E . Cole.
•John A . Raymond.
•Lemuel Lyon.
•Aaron D . Park.
•Wllllam McCormick.
•Ebenezer Lane.
•William C. Belcher.
•John W . Harvllle.
•John W; Harvllle.
•Louis Cohn.
Wiiliam A. Davies.
•Isaac S. Titus.
•Wm. H. Peterson.
Thomas Beck.
•Theodore G. Cockrlll.
•John S. Ward.
•Charles L . .Wiggin.
•Benj. H. Freeman.
George C. Perkins.
•John M. Browne.
•Wiiliam B . Parker.
Wiley J, .Th:mln.
William s .. Wells.
•W111lam W. Tray1v ..
Wllllnm H . Crane.
•clay w. Taylor.
John Q. Adame.
•Jonathan D. Hines..
Edmund C. ' Atkinson.
Edmund C. Atkinson.
Edmund C. Atkinson.
•Hiram N. Rucker.
•Morris M. Estee.
•A!vah R. c ·o nk!ln ...•
•William Johnston ...
•Charles R. ' Gritman.
•Charles R . Gritman.
Henry s .. Orme.
James B. Ste"'.enii.,
•Edward ?\tl•.. 'rreston.,
Wllllam T. Lucas:
Thomas Flint.

Lecturer.
Grand Trea•urer.

Grand
Secretary.

1 the! Woods ........ •Levi Stowell....... .
•Jc.hn H . Glhon . ... .••
• 11n11j. 8. Olds ... . ..... •Townsend A. Thomas. •Levi Stowell ......... .
' fnhn R. McConnell. . . •Addison Martin ...... •Levi Stowell ...... , .. .
1
tll11hard F . Knott. ... •Addison Martin . . .. . . •Levi Stowell .••...•...
'll·•luorl N . Wood ..... •Addison Martin ...... •Levi Stowell . ...... . ..
' 1&muel A. Merritt ... •Addison Martin . •. . . . •Levi Stowell ..... : ... .
' l '•lltr W. Randle ..... •Addison Martin ...... •Alex G. Abell ....... .
• luhn B. Bope .. ~ ..... •Addison Martin ...... •Alex. G. Abell ...... ..
1
llllllH W. Bicknell . .. •Addison Martin . •• ... •Alex G. Abell .. , •.. ..
' r1111mas P. Hawley.· "Addison Martin ...... "Alex G. Abell ......•.
• l lvln1a Hayward .. •. •Addison Martin .•.•.. •Alex G. Abell . ...... .
•1·1lob El. Wiicoxon ... •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ......••
• lohn D. Hewson . : ... •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ....... '.
William A. Davies ... •James Laldley ...... .. •Alex G. Abell ..... . ..
•11111110 S. Titus ...... •. •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ...... ..
•111nry H. Hartley .. .. •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ....... .
Thomas Beck ......• •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ......•.
•t.eonldas E. Pratt .... •James Laldley ....... . •Alex G. Abell ...... . .
l~r1derlck F. Barss .•. •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell .... ... .
•ntrhard Dale .. . ... .. •James Laldley ...... . . •Alex G. Abell .......•
' Jitnj. H . Freeman ... •James Laldley . ....... •Alex G. Abell . .. • .. ..
' ' " C. Perkins ...... •James Laldley ... , .... •Ale,.- G. Abell ......•.
• lohn M. Browne. . . . . •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell .. , , , , . .
' 'h11s. E . Mitchell .... •James Laldley .... .... •Alex G. Abell ...... ..
Wiiey J .. Tinnin ...... •.Tames Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell .. , ...•.
• lac•ob H. Neff ...... .. •James La.ldley .. .... .. •Alex. G. Abell ... ... . .
•1lolon W. Craigue .... •James Laldley ........ •Alex. G. Abell ...... ,.
Wm. H. Crane .. . .... •Moses Heller .. .. . , ... •Alex. G. Abell .. , .... .
•Robort C. Broder .... •Moses Heller ........ , •Alex. G. Abell . . . . .. . .
John Q. Adams ...... •Moses Heller ......... •Alex. G. Abell .. , .. . . .
•Orrin W . Hollenbeck. •Moses Heller ... .. .. .. •Alex. G. Abell .. . .. ,,.
•Thomas .T. Bowers ... •Moses Heller ... ... ... •Alex. G. Abell ....... .
•<Jeorge Hinds ..... .. . •Moses Heller ..... . ... •Alex. G. Abell ....... .
•111ram N . Rucker ... . •Moses Heller . ....... , •Alex. G. Abell .... , , , .
•lltram N . Rucker .... •Moses Heller . . ....... •Alex. G. Abell ••••.•••
•Henry H. Knapp ..... •Nathan W. Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell ....... . .
•Alvah R. Conklin .... •Nathan W. Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell ...•....
•Wm. Johnston ....... •Nathan W. Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell ........
•Marcus D . Boruck ..• •Na than W. Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell . .... •••
llenry S. Orme ....... •Nathan W. Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell .... , ..•
Henry S. Orme ......• •Nathan W. Spaulding. George Johnson . . .••.
James B. Stevens .... •Nathan W. Spo.uldlng. George Johnson ...•••
•!Cdward M. Preston .. •Nathan W. Spaulding. George Johnson., .•..
Wm. T. Lucas....... Edward Coleman . . . .. Oeorge Johm1on .•.•••
Thomas Flint . . . . . . . . Edward Coleman..... George Johnson .••••.
Frank M. Angello):tl.. Edward Coleman..... George Johnson ......

Grand
Lecturer.

•

1

*Deceased

247·

*Deceased.

.

.

248

Vear.
1896
1897
1898
1899
1900
1901
1902
1903
1904
1905
1906
1907
1908
1909

LIST OF ELECTIVE GRAND OFFICERS

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE

M. ·. W. ·. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE

18TH DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 5851.

Grand Master.

Deputy
Grand Master.

Senior
Grand Wardert.

William T . Lucas . . ..... . Thomas Flint. .•..... Frank M. Angellotti.
Thomas Flint... .... .. ... . . Frank M. Angellotti . . Charles L . Patton.
Frank M. Angellotti ..... . Charles L. Patton ... . James A. Foshay.
Charles L. Patton ....... . James A. Foshay .... . 'Vllliam S . WAils.
James A. Foshay . . • ....•. William S. Wells ....• Orrin S. Henderson.
William 8.' Wells .. • •....• Orrin S. Henderson .. Charles W. Nutting.
Orrin S. Henderson ... .. . Charles W. Nutting .. George W. Hunter.
Charles W . Nutting... . . . George W. Hunter ... Motley H . Flint.
George W. Hunter ......,. J!dotley H. Flint. ....• Edward H . Hart.
Motley H. '.Flint. . .. ..... . Edward H . Hart .... . George M. Perine.
Edward H. Hart ... . .... . Geo. M. Perine ...... . •Reuben H. Loyd.
George M. Perine ....... . •Reuben H. Loyd . .... . Oscar Lawler.
Oscar Lawler ..•. .• .....• W . Frank Pierce ..... . Dana R. Weller.
W . Frank Pierce . . ...... . Dana R. Weller..... . Alonzo J. Monroe.
•Deceased.

Junior

Grand Warden.

Grand Treasurer.

IJharlH L. Patton ... .
JamH A. Foshay .... .
William S . Wells .....
Orrin B. Henderson ...
Oharlea W. Nutting .•
Cleorl'e w. Hunter . ..
Motley H. Flint. .....
llldwl\rd H. Hart .... •
Cltorse M. Perine ....
t\euben H . Lloyd . ....
O•car Lawler .........
w, l"rank Pierce .....
Alonso J. Monroe .. . •
Wiiiiam P . Filmer .. .

Edward Coleman .••..
Edward Coleman .•. ..
Edward Coleman .....
Edward Coleman . . ...
Edward Coleman . . . .•
Edward Coleman .....
Edward Coleman ..•..
Edward Coleman .....
Edward Coleman . •.. •
Edward Coleman .....
Edward Coleman ... ..
Edward Coleman .....
EdwarJ. Coleman
Edward Coleman .....

....

•Deceased.

Grand
Secretary
George Johnson ... •..
George Johnson ...•..
George Johnson .•.•.•
George Johnson ....•.
George Johnson . •.. . •
George Johnson ...•.•
George Johnson ....•.
George Johnson . .•••.
George Johnson .•.•..
George Johnson ..... .
George Johnson . . •.• •
George Johnson ..... .
John Whlc her . .... ...
John Whlcher .. .. ....

249

Grand
Lecturer.

Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edward11.
Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J . Baker.

REPORT
OF

COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT
OF THE

Committee on Correspondence
OCTOBER. 1909

Bv EDWARD H . HART

r.. tlie M.". w:. Gra11d Lodge, F. & A . M., of California:
Your Committee on Foreign Correspondence has received and
• xamined the following Grand L odge Proceedings:

.

~.

...

~)'

.

,...,
....

~....: .

ALABAMA, 1908.

". ·~·

' . ~
'~

·
. ~o ..._,,

:

F.ighty-eighth Annual Communication, Montgomery, December 1, 1908.
The Eighty-eighth Annual Communication of the M.". w:. Grand
l,odge, Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons, of the State of Alabama,
was held in the city of Montgomery, December 1 and 2, 1908, the
Grand Master, M.". w:. Brother Hugh S. D. Mallory, in the Grand
F.ast.
The following are some statistical facts gleaned from the report:
T otal number of Lodges.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 484
Total number of members ........ . ..................... . ..... . . 21,222
Lodges represented at this Communication..................... 391
Charters for new Lodges granted at this Co.mmunication....... ..
18
Gain in membership since last Annual Communication . . . . .. .... 1,256
Jncome of Grand Lodge :
General Fund ....... . ......... . .. ... ... . ..... . .. .. .. . . $ 9,000.00
Permanent Treasury Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,855.75
Widows and Orphans' Fund ............ ". ............. 8,898.84
Total ..... . ... .. ...... .. ..... . ... . ...... . .... . .... $19,754.59
Assets of Grand Lodge :
Balance General Fund .. ............... ... .... ........ . $ 7,793.75'
.Balance Widows and Orphans' Fund............ .... . . . 9,900.37
Balance Permanent Trust Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,012.21
·Total .. . .. . ........... . .. ..... . ........... . .. . .... $18,706.34
la

2

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
MASONIC HOME. .

Probably the foremost question now under consideration by the
various Grand Jurisdictions of the United States is that which has
relation in some of its aspects to the general proposition of Masonic
Homes, either acquiring plans for adjuncts of this character by .jurisdictions that have them not, or problems of administration by those
that have; and we believe it is the deliberate judgment of those who
have had comprehensive experience in both departments of this great
question, that the initial achievement of getting the Home is but a
triflins- circumstance in comparison with the difficulties of succes.s ful
and satisfactory administration; and yet it is undoubtedly true that
even in those cases where Homes have been prolific of vexatious and
well nigh unbearable conditions, and where the expenses of administration have largely exceeded estimates, and have, in consequence,
imposed unlooked-for burdens upon the membership, there has been
no regret at the steps taken, and no thought of turning backward in
the work of making our institutions of this character real' homes,
where the atmosphere shall be sweet, and pure, and wholesome, and
where all suggestions of "Man's imperfect state by nature" shall be
removed.
The Grand Lodge of California imposes a per capita tax of .$1 upon
its. membership for the support of its Masonic Home, and this is in
addition to other Grand Lodge dues, amounting to a dollar more; and
never in the fifteen or more years since the project of the Home was
first entered upon has there been an adverse vote cast in the Grand
Lodge upon any question involving the imposition of a tax, the assuming of a burden, or the expenditure of money for the benefit of our
institution at Decoto; and the spirit of California Masons is such that
if a contribution of one dollar each for the support of our Home
should not prove adequate, two dollars would be voted.
California is upon the outer rim of our continent; the flag of
empire halts here in its westward course. California manhood is
formed from a blending of the brave and venturesome, the strong and
virile of all the other States of our Union.
California Masonry is as big as California manhood; it recognizes
that good is measured not by what one gets but by what one gives;
that one is raised by rais.i ng others. This is the spirit that supports
the great monument of Masonic Love in California, the spirit that
animates American Masonry, wherever it is found, for, whether on
the hills or in the valleys of our own broad land, or on the shores
of the frozen ocean, or in the islands of the tropical seas, wherever
there floats the Stars and Stripes, the truest type of Masonry is foundthe type that asks not "what can we get," but "what can we give."
Alabama, overflowing with soul and sentiment, distinguished always by pride and patriotism, with a people generous and genial, and

3

actuated by the moving spirit of fraternal kindn.ess, has ~etermined
tt · found a Masonic Home, and the consummat10n of this purpose
I he foremost work of Alabama Masonry today.
I t A committee was appointed in 1907 to raise fm~ds and formulate
Inns for the building and maintenance of a Masomc Ho~e for Ala~ama. The committee at this session rep~rted substantial progress,
ihowing cash on hand and pledges amountmg to mor~ th~~ $~,~·
A per capita tax limited to fifty cents upon the mem ers 1p o
e
State appears to have been sanctioned for the benefit of the. p~opos~d
J{ome, and it is expected that actual construct.ion of the ~mldmg w1.ll
commence, and possibly be well advanced, durmg the commg Masomc
year.

GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS. ·

The address of the Grand Master, Hugh S. D. Mallo~y, a man
actuated by a high conception of duty, with .a n ear attentive to the
"'Uidance of the Eternal Voice within, is of a high order.
" Concerning the Widows and Orphans' H ome h e expresses himself
as follows:
d 0 h •
"The establishment and maintenance· of a Widobs an hrP. ~~d
Home by the Grand Jurisdict!on hdso~~fe~~1~~e~ei~~t ~:e~ ~o~nfaith
?bject of the jreth~enh anf ~}s t~e vCraft but continually pressed the
111 the gre~t
asom~ ear .
'ght made possible by the amendment
matter until success 1s now 111 s1 • ,,
to the Constitution adopted June, 1907.
This year was one of activity; dispensations appear t~ have been
ranted to form seventeen new Lodges, and thirteen Special Comn:ug . t'
f the . Grand Lodge were held for the purpose of laymg
mca 10ns o
.
.
s and conducting other Masomc ceremomes.
corner st one ,
d h f p t Grand Master
He mentions in fitting manner the eat o
as.
..
John Gideon Harris, and recounts some of the sterling qullhties of
that honored and beloved Mason.
.
.
fi.f
Sixty-six decisions were rendered by him dunng the year, . tythree of which were concurred in by the Jurisprudence ~omm1tt~c
and approved by the Grand Lodge. Among those approve we no e
the following:

W . M · from this Grand Jurisdiction a
"On . removal of. a
· ·
· · ed In such case no dispensation
vacancy · m the office is t1'erebb ~r~~! Senior Warden 'must occupy the
can issue to till the vacancy, u · W d
fills the station."
East, and in his absence the J umor
ar en
Also to the same effect :
f
Lodge declined to qualify or act.
"The newly elected M aster 0 a duly installed. Thereafter the
The newly elected Wardens were
·
·
to elect a WorLodge· applied to the Grand Master for dispensation
shipful ·Master.
.
h 't to grant the
"H Id. The Grand Master was without. aut on y proper applie. ·
T
d'
t 1'
might have issued, on
dispensation. · he i~pensa t?n · f . h w dens but the Wardens
catio11, prior· to the mstallation o t e
ar
'

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
4

5

. REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

hav~ng bee n instal~ed, the Senior Warden would fill the E st

t"I
1

nex regu 1ar elect10n of officers and at L d
·
.a un
call on some brother to occupy the W es t foro t hge
at meet:ngs
meeting." he would
The following is undoubtedly gvod Masonic law in juri d' t:
where the ballot is required for each degree and wh s It ido.ns
missal
t ·
ff
ere a 1s. ce rt'fi
I ca e, m e ect a di~it,. is issued to an Entered Apprentice
or ~ Fellow Craft, but not m Jtrrisdictions like California
h
elect10n to all the degrees is by one ballot, and where
:;:
granted to none other than Master Masons .
"An Entered Apprentice in good t d' 1 . 0 f
L
.
having removed to another Grand J s. ad'1 ~'.10g
a o~ge m Alabama
and did receive from hi L d
uns ~ .n was entitled to receive
tifi~ate is construed heres as 0hf:in~e\~ : f~~:u~~~d ~rtifi.cate, such _ce_rTh1s Grand Jurisdiction no longer h
. . d' 10
. eamng of a d1m1t.
Apprentice, and a Lodge in another
iuris IC~ !! C?ver the Entered
disco.urtesy, receive his application for r~~~ J un;dict~n may, without

di~it:

1

G

~¥ ;~~ st~~~ut u~~a:~i~ge f'f~~~:r ttonsen~ f<lC?~nt~i s~boroJ~e;tedL~<l;!
~onf!r s~h~r

f~~e

t;dgo:h~r

X1rabnd J urfisdictions. d<?es not
di-::rt:es
th:
ama,
the here.''
d1sm1ssed Ent e r ed A pprentlce
·
· no longer a memmbera of
the or
Lodge
ts
The Grand Master decided that the effect of the reversal of a
ca.se by the Grand Lodge and the remanding of the accused for a new
tn_al. had the effect of restoring the brother to all the rights and
p~1v1l_eges of Masonry, but not to Lodge membership
The C
sh tu hon
·
on. . says n oth mg
a bout restoring the accused to ·all the rights
a;1dllpnvtleges of Masonry, but contains a provision that such a re~ersal
s ia not restore the accused to Lodge membership without the unanimous consent of the members etc
T
'
.
~e Grand Lodge, upon recommendation of the Jurisprudence
Committee, refused to sustain the decision of the Grand M t
I
equity. a re no t b oth t h e d ec1s1on
. .
as er.
and the Constitution wrong?
If then
case I~ reversed and the accused remanded for a new trial why should
not !us .status, as it existed before the trial, be restored ~s completely
~s possible?
The Jurisprudence Committee refused to endorse the
rand Ma.ster's a.tt.empted explanation of Mason·ry, as set forth in
the f?llowmg dec1.s1~n, yrop~rly holding that Masonry is too broad
a su~iect for the hm1tat1011s implied in the proposed definition~
'A Masonic Lodge is not a
ldl · · ·
·
be,in,g for trade or for financial ga~orbut. mr1tu~on, m the sense .of
tammg and disseminatin
'
is or t e purposes of mamfor the practice of charit g a~~ei1k mo;al precepts and principle~ and
teachings and instruction; of the eOgdea~,
purposes, ns disclosed m the
r er.
While Califor~ia has suffered occasion"ally froi;n seismic disturbances, we are renunded from time to time that cyclones and tornadoes
are reserved for other portions of our fair land During 1908
t'
of Alaba
· · d b
·
a sec ion
Y a terrific hurricane, which scattered deso.
ma was v1s1te
1atlon and devastation, and which necessitated on the part of . the

Grand Lodge aid and succor to the destitute. About $2,500 was contributed by the Masons of the State; the direction of the relief measures was intrusted to Past Grand Master Ben M. Jacobs, who discharged the responsibility in his usual masterful and capable manner,
and, at the conclusion, rendered a comprehensive report, which was
approved by the Grand Lodge.
The Grand Master agrees that Masonry is proud of its past, but
voices the belief that its tn1e greatness is yet to come, that a mighty
destiny a waits it.
The following is chosen from the dosing paragraph of his excellent
address:
"And, brethren, not content with the achievements of the past,
j(lorious though they are, let us turn our faces to the future, not look
mg backward, except to gather inspiration from the light shining so
brightly on our pathway leading back to the dawn of recorded history,
and pursue yet more diligently the work committed to us by the Great
Master."
The Grand Treasurer, Wm. H. Dingley, and the Grand Secretary,
George A. Beauchamp, rendered concise reports of the affairs of their
respective offices, which were duly approved by the Grand Lodge.
l'OREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

The Foreign Correspondence report was rendered by the capable
and learned Chairman of the committee, W.'. Brother William Y.
Titcomb. Preliminary to the review of the various jurisdictions there
are special reports from the committee, which reports were duly
adopted, the substance of which was as follows:
First. Declining to grant request of the Grand Orient of Brazil
for r\!cognition, on the ground that it is not a Sovereign Grand Body;
and, secondly, postponing the decision of similar requests from the
Grand Lodge of Paraguay, and Guatemala, and the Grand Lodge "Cosmos" of Chihuahua, Mexico, until replies could be received to sev,ral
questions which had been propounded to the official heads of the several
jurisdictions covering certain fundamental qualities which must needs
exist as conditions precedent to recognition. The essential and necessary qualities are, without doubt, correctly enumerated by the committee as follows: First, that the Body seeking recognition confine
itself to the practice of the Three Degrees of Symbolic· Masonry; that
it hold itself bound to 'keep inviolate the Ancient Landmarks, and that
it is a Sovereign, Independent Grand Lodge, acknowledging no superior,
such as Supreme Council, thereby entitling it to be regarded as the
peer of all other Grand Lodges.
The general report of the committee reviewed sixty jurisdictions
in a comprehensive manner, affording a fund of information, critical
and otherwise, of exceeding value.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
6

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Under the head of California, he mildly questioned a decision
of the Grand Master that the dispensation date is the true anniversary
of the Lodge, and prefers the date of constitution. If the birth of the
Lodge does not take place at its. dispensation date, the anomalous and
startling condition is presented of certain Masons being older than
their mother, and if no charter is ever issued, of never having had
any mother at all.
Hugh S. D. Mallory (Selma), re-elected Grand Master.
George A. Beauchamp (Monterey), re-elected Grand Secretary.

ALBERTA, 1908.
Third Annual Communication.
Edmonton, Province of Alberta.
May 27, 1908.
Three Special Communications of the Grand Lodge were held
during the year-the first for the purpose of adopting the new Constitution, and the others for the purpose of laying the corner stones
of public buildings; one, the Alexander Taylor Public School, at
Edmonton, and the other the new Masonic Building at Pincher Creek.
The Third Annual Communication of the M.'.
Grand Lodge
of Alberta, Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons, was opened in the
Masonic Hall, at the city of Edmonton, Province of Alberta, on Wednesday, May 27, A. D. 1908, A. L. 5908, at the hour of 10 o'clock a. m.,
M.'. W ;'. Headley C. Taylor, Grand Master, presiding.
The Grand Lodge of Alberta has only in very recent years taken
its place among the Sovereign Grand Lodges of Free ·and Acc<;1>ted
Masons of the world. Its growth during the past few years has been
marked, and especially during the year closed with the present Annual
Communication has the percentage of growth made phenomenal, the
actual net increase in membership during the year being 555, giving
the jurisdiction a total membership at this time of 2,225, the membership at the last Communication having been 1,670.
The jurisdiction at this time has twenty-five chartered Lodges and
fourteen under dispensation. The total income of the Grand Lodge
during the preceding year was $3,436.55, and the cash on hand in the
hands of the Grand Treasurer $1,847.08.

Dispensations during the preceding year were grante.d to for'?
thirteen new Lodges, charters for all of which were authorized at this
Communication.
.
the year
Th e on Iy "decisions" rendered by the Grand. Masterl'fidurmg
·
·
were three, all of which had reference .to physical qua 1 cations. . . .
He decided that an applicant mmus a left hand w.as eltg1~le,
also an applicant with a stiff knee, and decided . an applt~ant mmus
the right hand was not eligible. The only surprise occ~s10ned, concerning these three decisions, is that he . d~'d not decide that the
.
.
applicant minus the right hand was also eltgtble.
That even so young a Grand Jurisdiction as Alb.erta. 1s ~hve to .
its responsibilities and obligations in the way of charity 1s ev.1denced
from the adoption of a resolution to the effect that the ~omm1ttee on
Benevolence be requested to pay to the Alb~rta Ma~omc !lome and
School Fund $500 for the current year, it bemg the mtent1on. of this
Grand Jurisdiction to take immediate steps towards the creation and
establishment.of a Masonic Home.
At the annual election there was elected
Rev. G. H. Hogbin (Calgary), Grand Master.
Dr. George. Macdonnell (Calgary), Grand Secretary.

w:.

GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.

The Grand Master in his address extends congratulations to the
Grand Lodge upon the great prosperity existing throughout the jurisdiction and voices a caution that in the rapid growth which the jurisdiction is now enjoying, great care should be exercised in the selection
of material for membership, this care being especially needful in a
new and growing community such as Alberta.

ARIZONA, 1908.
Twenty-seventh Annual Communication. Prescott. Nov. 17, 19, 1908.
The Most worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepte? ~a sons
of Arizona commenced its Twenty-seventh Annual Commumcat1on at
the Masonic Temple, in the city of Prescott, on Tues?ay, :he 17th
<lay of November, A. D. 1908, at 10 o'clock a. m., the M. · w. • Cyrus
Grant Jones, Grand Master, presiding.
STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

5

Total ii.umber of Lodges.·························· .. ; ......... ' ~~
Total membership, 1907 . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ''. l,
125
Net gain in membership during the year. · .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Total membership, 1908 ......... · · ·. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·. l,661
Income of Grand Lodge :
2
General Fund ... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · '· · ·' .$ ·~~i:~
Widows and Orphans' Fund ...... ···.··················
Assets of Grand Lodge :
$ 3 048 30
Cash, General Fund · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·' · · · · '·' ·' · ·
'009°40
B d
............ 13, .
c~~h.s Wi·d~;·s· ~~ci .·a·r~.h~~~·· F~~d·.
7,112.95

·. '. ·. '. ·. '. '. ·. ·.............

Total ............................•........••...... $23,160.65

8

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

In Arizona there is, naturally, no Masonic Home, although a Masonic Widows and Orphans' Fund is in process of accumulation and
is recruited each year by dues of 50 cents per member. It already has
reached the substantial figure of $10,161.25, and in a comparatively
brief period of years will be of sufficient proportions to permit the
establishment of a Home, if this should be in accordance with the
pleasure of the brethren, which, judging from the broad spirit of
benevolence characteristic of Pacific Coast Masonry, may be safely
predicted.
~RAND MASTER' S ADDRESS.

The Grand Master sets forth certain correspondence between him·
· self and the Grand Lodge of Texas, concerning the failure to reimburse
one of his Lodges by a Texas Lodge for expenses ii:icurred in caring
for and bringing back to health of a member of the Texas Lodge, who
was desperately injured. Perhaps the decision of the Grand Lodge
of Texas that it could neither undertake to compel one af its subordinates to make good expenditures of. this kind, if it professed inability
to do so, nor assume the task itself, may be good Masonic law, and
in accordance with the Golden Rule, but on the Pacific Coast the
weight · of opinion is otherwise, and concurrence would be .voiced in
the following expressions from the report of the committee to whom
the Grand Master's Address upon the subject was referred:
"Whatever the Grand Lodge of Texas may think of the 'Wisconsin' plan does not alter the fact that the Lodge at Yuma cared for a
Mason from a Texas Lodge, who was desperately hurt. After much
help from individual Masons, there still remained a balance of cash
paid by the Lodge of $155. There seems to be no doubt but that,
through the efforts of the brethren of Yuma Lodge, the life of the
brother from Texas was saved.
"With the facts in view, it seems to this commi~tee, and reme1.nbering that Yuma Lodge is a young Lodge and not m good fin~nc1a l
circumstances, that the letters from the Texas Grand Officer.s s1mp~y
offer an ex cuse fo r the subordinate Lodges of Texas not paymg their
just debts.
"Notwithstanding the resolution of the Grand Lodge of. Texas,
we are of the opinion that every· Lodge should take care of its owp
members and that each Grand Lodge should see that they fulfill their
obligatio~s."
·
California expends yearly through its Boards of Relief in 'its
principal cities, for the relief of distressed soj ourning brethren from
other jurisdictions drawn hither because of the healing qualities of its
air and sky, and its never-failing sunshine, more than thirty thousand
dollars only a fraction of which is ever returned, and the relief is
disbur;ed regardless 'of probability, or improbabilitr, of reimbursement; the only questions considered being the Masonic standing of
the applica nt, the worthiness, and the distress ; but after distress has
been relieved and the home Lodge of the sojourning brother has been

. REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

9

1·eminded of th e fact, for that Lodge, or the Grand Master of that
Jurisdiction to assume the air of superior virtue, and in a high and
holy manner talk about Masonic charity being above a "contractural
baRis," that it attaches to individuals, not to Lodges or the Grand
1,odge, that it ought to be a pleasure to relieve distress, that charity,
like virtue, is its own reward, etc., is tiresome in the extreme.
An Ohio Lodge, not many years ago, as a manifestation of its
11ltruism and broad spirit of Masonic love, remitted the dues of an
ill and indigent member who was living in California, and who had
been suspended for ten years, and restored him to full standing,
without asking so much as a farthing for their beneficent act, seemingly actuated only by a lofty purpose to do good: the derelict that
had been drifting aimlessly for so many years on the sea of Masonry,
1lftcr being recovered, immediately applied to the San Francisco Ma1onic Board of Relief for assistance, and the Ohio Lodge, located in
the classic town of Oberlin, the town that was the northern terminus
of the Underground Railroad before the war, where obedience to the
"higher law" was taught, said, "Go ahead, sure; do your duty!" And
after the San Francisco Board had expended several hundred dollars
in repadding the Mason's honey frame and getting his blood once
!)lore into circulation, they advanced the suggestion to Oberlin Lodge
that co-operation in caring for the frayed piece of humanity to which
they had given Masonic life and standing, would be appreciated;
whereupon the hands of Oberlin Lodge were, figuratively speaking,
lifted aloft and the ghostly exclamation escaped her, "Co-operation !
reimbursement! Perish the suggestion! Our dues are only three
<lollars a year, what can we do?" Our ~ction in restoring this decayed
remnant to our Masonic fabric was only to afford you the opportunity
of applying the well-known Masonic maxim that "Masonic charity
attaches, as an individual responsibility," and the Grand Master of
Ohio, t o whom the matter was referred, wrapped the drapery of his
long-tailed co~t about him, and, with a pitying inflection in his icy
tone, replied that Ohio Masonry could not recognize anything that
looked like the contractural relationship in the application of Masonic
charity.
This utterance put forth by the Grand Lodge of England or of
Scotland, from whom nothing is expected, would not be surprising,
but in America one naturally looks for something else. Wisconsin also
is quoted, and one is constrained to say that what Wisconsin does not
know about Masonic charity, considered from the financial aspect, is
not wo rth mentioning. The annual per capita contribution fixed by
the Grand Lodge of Wisconsin for charity is ten cents, and if any
advice is needed as to how to spread the syrup so that its flavor may
be detected and at the same time have it cover the whole loaf, Wisconsin ~ill fur~ish it : in fact, does f~rnish it, and that gratis, for in a

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

11

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE. .

10

STATISTICAL SUMMARY

recent warning to one of the jurisdictions (Indiana, perhaps), which
is contemplating the establishment of ·a Masonic Home, an eminent
Past Grand Master of the Badger State said: "Halt! stop! think!
consider! It means expense. Why, we have- no Masonic Home in our
State, and the entire charity paraphernalia of . our Grand Lodge is conducted on a yearly per capita of ten cents." In California the Lodges
of the principal cities-San Francisco, Los Angeles, Oakland, etc.,
whose representatives form the Boards of Relief in those citiesare required by the Grand Lodge, as a condition precedent to the
receipt by them of the princely donations from the Grand Lodge for
carrying forward the relief work, to "lssess themselves eight cents per
member monthly, to be paid into the Boards of Relief, a total of 96
cents yearly for each member, and this is in addition to providing for
their own charity requirements and the two dollars per member yearly
paid to the Grand Lodge, most of which is devoted to charitable purposes. Arizona, in proportion to her strength, is as liberal as California, and the spectacle of any jurisdiction on earth presuming to
advise the Pacific Coast Masons as to the true principles underlying
the application of Masonic relief is, because of its childlike innocence~
amusing, rather than offensive.
The card system of identification was recommended by the Grand
Master, and approved by the Grand Lodge. The time of holding the
Annual Communications of the Grand Lodge was changed, by constitutional amendment, from November to February.
The use of cipher ritual was condemned, and the return to Ancient
Landmarks, which in this respect had been departed from, determined
upon.
Recognition of the Grand Lodge "Cosmos" of Chihuahua was not
accorded, although solicited.
Brother Louis J. Owen, Grand Orator, spoke briefly of his

w:.

conception of Freemasonry.
No report on Foreign Correspondence.
Fletcher Morris Doan (Tombstone), Grand Master.
George J. Roskruge, P. G. M. (Tucson), Grand Secretary.

ARKAN SAS-1908.

Total number of chartered L d
d
·
1,odaes under dispensation o ges at ate of this Cot;Ilmunication 519
!,edges represented
· ·· · ·· · ·· · ·· · ··· ··· · ·· · · · · ·· · ·· · ·· ···
13
Total number of Ma~~~; ·
451
(' . . .
.
a sons. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
18 187
.:un m membership since last commumcatton
· .
· .. · · · · · .. · .. •5
'h
· · · · · · · · · · •· · · · · · ·
04
( • arters for new Lodges... . . . . . .
Income of Grand Lodge
. .. . . . ... ... ... . .. .. . . . . . .. . ..
8
....................................... 19 372

M·········:··························

Assets of Grand Lodge :
'
In hands of Treasurer
Board of Control Mas~~l~ ·
$ 2,481.16
Orphans' Home, probably. . . emp e · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .. 54,721.54
............................ 50,000.00

T.. ·i" .. ··.... ·...... ···..

MASONIC ORPHANS' HOM£.

The Matter of a Masonic Orphans' H
for con.sideration by the fraternit in A ome has. been a foremost one
the proiect having been approved { th ~kansas m recent years, and
of this Communication so f
d y e rand Lodge, was, at the date
report that plans for-' the ::il~i;an~:~ that the Trustees were able to
dose of the previous Annual C g . ~~en adopted soon after the
struction of the building
ommudmcatlon and that bids for the conwere opene and contr t 1 t . M
and that the building would
b bl b
ac s e m arch last,
early part of 1909 The build' pro a.dY le ready for occupancy in the
·
mg ev1 ent y will be on
f
.
port10?s, for the contracts call for the e
.
.e o no ~ean prostruct10n _of upwards of $50,000.
xpend1ture m the primal conBy virtue of a resolution introduced
h'
.
be gathered as to the numb
f
at. t is session, data will now
for residence at the home e~ o ~r~7ans m the Jurisdiction, ·eligible
munication the home wi'na~a::rotaake~ ~efo~e. t?e next ~nnual Comwork it is designed to accomplish It . . its dm1ttal step m the great
only, and the present plans do . t
is mten ed as a home for orphans
the scope of its beneficence th np codntem?late that it shall embrace in
It · h
.
e age or mfirm
is t e evident intention that the h
.
o~e ~hall be supported by a
per capita tax upon the membershi
been introduced at this session
p, ·~·con;tltutlonal amendment having
of 25 cents. Experience will'd prov1 mg or such a tax to the amount
'II
emonstrate that this s
f
w1 need to be materially . 1
ource o revenue
d .
secured.
.
supp emente if adequate income is to be
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.

Sixty-sixth Annual Communication, Little Rock,' November 17, 1908.
The M:. w:. Grand Lodge of Free and Acceptc;d Masons of the
State of Arkansas met at its Sixty-sixth Annual Communication, in
Grand Lodge Hall, Masonic Temple, Little Rock, on Tuesday N ovember 17, 1908, and was opened in Ample Form by M:.
M. W ..
Greeson, Grand Master, assisted by all the officers of the Grand Lodge.

w:.

From the Grand Master's address it
were granted to form eight ne L d '
tppears that dispensations
lw o ges, a though these dispensations
were granted with see .
nung re uctance, for he says .
"I am here led to suggest that in m
. .
.
the membership and the efficiency 'of th YLP:r1on, we need to increase
make more. It would be better for Masonry,
e o ges
we have,
rather
as well
as better
for than
any

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
12

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Brother to be forced to ride miles f~r his Lodge, and ~ven miss some
meetings, . if by so doi~g the Lod_ge 1s made i;iore effic1~nt and strong
numerically and financially. I thmk that .Section 4, Article IV, of our
Constitution should be changed so that at least double the number no~
necessary to petition, shall be required. I have granted the above p~tl­
tions for new Lodges for the reason tha~ 01;1~ la~ had .b~en co!11phed
with and I did not feel that I would be 1ust1hed 1_n ~eclmmg, ~1th the
recommendation of the nearest Lodge and the District Deputy Grand
Master."
There are two hundred more chartered Lodges in Arkansas than
in California, although the membership of California is more than
double that of Arkansas, which might indicate that the Grand 1;1aster
is correct in his view that there are too many small Lodges m his.
Jurisdiction.
The "decisions" of the Grand Master, twenty-seven in number, are
mostly of an elementary, or local character, and were all e~dcrsed,
some with slight modifications, by the Law Committee, with the exception of the following, which was properly disapproved:
"Question. Can an old and respected cit~zen, who cla.ims to be a
Mason and to have been Senior Warden of his ~odge durm!!' the war,.
but who is unable to present his <limit, be ~erm1tted to affihate? He·
claims that all records of the Lodge to which he belonged were destroyed during the war. Vje .ha_ve. written t.o the Grand Secretary of
the Grand Lodge in whose 1unsd1ction he resided and got the repl_y that
the time is ·so far back no record can be found. We would hke to
receive him if we could legally do so?
"Answer. Yes, your Lodge in its discret.ion may receive the .B~o!~er
on his unsupported statement. The vote which would. preyent his m1t1ation would bar his affiliation and after all, the quest10n is on~ of .f~es.
Your Lodge knows the man and whether his word may be 1mphc1tly
relied upon."
A special report by the Law Committee is made concerning ~he
alleged purpose of the so-called governing council of C_erneau Scottish
Rite to charter a symbolic Lodge in Arkansas. This purpose was
denied but the claim advanced by the representative of the what is considered the clandestine Scottish Rite, who was present at the meeting
of the committee, called to consider the matter, that his Rite was _as
legitimate as the regular Scottish Rite Order of the S_outhern J.u:1sdiction; and the committee, instead of taking an unequivocal pos1t1?n,
clearly placing the clandestine body under the ban ~f ~utlawry, warmng
Masons under the Jurisdiction of Arkansas to avoid 1t, adopted as the
final result of their labor, a mild resolution, stating that in view of t~e
fact that inasmuch as the regular Scottish Rite of the Southern Jurisdiction had been in active operation in Arkansas for fifty years it would
be conducive to harmony if those Masons under the Jurisdiction of
Arkansas, desiring the Scottish Rite degrees, would affiliate with the·
Southern Jurisdiction.

The Cerneau Rite, as is well known, has caused a vast amount of
!rouble in some of our Eastern .Jurisdictions, and if an attitude toward
It of toleration is adopted in the first instance, it will almost certainly
l<'ud to serious consequences later on.
. Recognition was ext.ended to the "Grand Orient of Greece," pre11dcd over by Brother Nicholas Burbogly. The full quotation is necesaary as there is another Grand Orient or Grand Lodge of Greece pre1ided ~ver by someone else. Arkansas appears to be pretty nea;ly, if
not qmte, alone of our American Grand Lodges in recognizing either
of these Greek Grand Lodges. The matter of recognition of the Grand
Orient of Central America in Guatemala, and the Grand Orient of the
Republic of Paraguay, and the Grand Lodge Cosmos Orient of Chihuahua, Republic of Mexico, was referred to the incoming Committee on
Correspondence.
The event of the year, so far as Arkansas Masonry is concerned,
was the so-called coronation of R. '. w:. Brother Fay Hempstead
(~rand Secretary, as Poet Laureate of Freemasonry. The Grand Mas~
tcr in his address refers to the matter in the following language:
"FELICITATION.

"For. more than a quarter of a century our Grand Lodges have
known the pleas~re that comes from an efficient and methodical Secretary, t~e most. 1mpGrtant officer for any deliberative body. Further,
from time. to time, the members have been delighted and enchanted by
th~ charmmg poems that have come from the pen of our Right Worshipful Brother Hempstea.d. These have been of such merit and purity
as to attract the attent10n of others. Different Masonic Journals
th_roughout our broad land have frequently published his productions
:-v1th the. most fav?rable comment, and finally, on the 5th day ·of October,
m the city of Chicago, under the auspices of Ravenswood Lodge No
777, Brother Hempstead was crowned Poet Laureate of Freemasonry:
"This. is a. distinction and an honor worthily bestowed upon our
Brother, m which all. Ar~ansas Masons find a peculiar pleasure. It is
all the !11ore sweet, smce 1t comes not from personal seeking, nor from
sug!!'estion .from ou~ Br~ther'_s frater~al family, but as a recognition of
m~rrt . It is the third time m the history of Masonry that so distingmshed ~n honor has bee!1 confe~re?. The ceremony was elaborate
and befi~tmg such an occasion and m 1t the production~ of our Brother
had an important place."
·
The other members of this triumvirate of poets referred to by the
Grand Master, are "Bobby" Burns, and Rob Morris. There is no
mention in the records of apologies to the shade of Robert Burns, and
no statement as to how the handicapper has apportioned the weights in
this classy field.
Masonry in Arkansas is in a sound and prosperous condition and
is one of the potent influences for good throughout that commonw~alth.
There is no report on Foreign Correspondence.
Edgar A. McCulloch (Little Rock), Grand Master.
Fay Hempstead (Little Rock), Grand Secretary.

14

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
BRITISH COLU~BIA, 1909.

Thirty-eighth Annual Communication.
Vancouver.
June 17, 1909.
During the year an Emergent Communication of the Grand Lodge
was held for the purpose of attending the funeral of the late R. '. Worshipful Brother Rev:. B. Kelley, Past Senior Grand W~rden; and two
Special Communications-one for the purpose of laymg the corner
stone of the new public school building at Nelson, B. C., and the other
for dedicating the new Ma.sonic Hall at Fernie, B. C.
The Thirty-eighth Annual Communication of the M.".., w: . Grand
Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of the P~ovmce of
British Columbia was opened in "Ample Form" in the Masonic Temple,
Vancouver, on Thursday, the 17th day of June, A. D. 1909, A. L. 5909,
at the hour of 10 :30 a. m., M.". W:. W. K. Houston, Grand Master,
presiding.
GRAND MAST1'R'S ADDR1'SS.

The Grand Master's address is a straightforward, business-like
statement of his official acts during the year. He refers in feeling
terms to the loss during the year of two prominent members of. the
Grand Lodge, the Right Worshipful Brother R. B. Kelley, and Right
Worshipful Brother C. C. Fisher.
Dispensations were granted to form seven new Lodges.
.
Four of the five so-called "decisions" were upon questions of
physical qualifications, and are of no importance' beyond the ~~mediate
jurisdiction in which they were rendered. The fifth dec1s10n was
elementary in character and all of the decisions were approved by the
Law Committee.
.
The Grand Master during the year paid to Subordinate Lodges a
large number of official visits, three of thes~ official visits being for
the purpose of constituting new Lodges to which charters w~re granted
at the previous Annual Communication. He makes ment10n. o.f ~he
pleasure which he received in paying a visit .to the Grand Juns?1ct10n
of the State of Washington upon the occasion of the celebration by
it ~f its Fiftieth Anniversary.
.
In his address, also, he calls attention to the fact that durmg
the coming year, it will be in order in his jurisdiction to celebrate
the Fiftieth Anniversary of the establishment of the oldest .Lod~e, for,
while the Grand Lodge of British Columbia has only been m existence
thirty-eight years, its oldest so-called subordinate was chartered fifty
years ago.
.
He expresses appreciation for the honor ~onfe~red up~n him and
submits his administration to the fraternal cons1derat10n of his bret?ren.
Reports are rendered by the various District Deputy Grand M~ste~s,
from all of which is gathered the conclusion that the " fraternity m
British Columbia is in a prosperous and healthy condition.

15

'Fhe income of the Grand Lodge during the year was $6,627 and
thl.? accumulated assets about $25,000.00, $22,216.80 of which belongs
lo the Charity Fund.
The disbursements for retief from the Charity Fund aside from

$500 voted to. the anti-tuberculosis society and $500 to help ~ subordinate

l,o?ge refit 1~s ?all, after a disastrous fire, aggregated about $400,
which would md1cate that the Grand Jurisdiction of British Columbia
11 rem.arkably free ~rom needy and indigent Masons, and of orphans
n.nd widows, that might be proper subjects of Grand Lodge considera111>11. .From the standpoint of economy. it appears to be much less
expe!1s1ve _to provide for the worthy subjects df Grand Lodge charitable
cons1derab~n by means of a so-called "Charity Fund" than through
"nch establishments as Masonic Widows' and Orphans' homes.
'l'he total number of chartered Lodges in the jurisdiction are...... 47
l,odges under dispensation... . ............... . ...................
8
Total. membe:ship at date of last report was ................... .4,158
Showing an mcrease over the preceding year of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 402
FORJlIGN CORRJlSPONDJlNCJl.

re~ort on Foreign Correspondence is by Brother W. A.
!>cW~lf-Sm1t~. Brother DeWolf-Smith's reports are always exceedlng'ly m.teres~mg and contain an immense amount of valuable comment.
,
Cahf~rma, 1908, receives courteous attention. His report in this
The

instance is marred by the introduction, at the beginning, of an article
by one A: G. Pitts, printed originally in a Masonic Journal in this
coun~ry, 111 which the writer fails altogether in his attempt at
{ac~t10us~ess, . at which he seemingly makes an effort, and also in the
~er1ous d1scuss10n o~ the general proposition of the inconsistency existing b~tween Masomc precept and practice. No particular credit can
be cla1m~d by anyone in pointing out the marked discrepancy between
!he t~achmgs of Masonry and the actual exemplification of those teach111gs 111 the conduct of Masons, because nothing in the ~orld is easier
nnd the. article in question, as stated above, possesses no merit eithe;
fro~ a facetious or serious standpoint, and the high character of
B;ot,h~r
DeWolf-Smith's review is marred by the introduction of
Pitts screed.
.H. M. Rich (Landers), Grand Master,
R. E . Brett (Victoria), Grand Secretary,
CANADA, IN THE PROVINCE OF ONTARIO, 1908.
Fifty-third ~nnual Communication. City of Niagara Falls.
July 15, 16, 1908.
The Fifty-thir~ Communication of the Grand Lodge of A. F. &
A. M. of Canada, m the Province of Ontario, was held in the city of

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Niagara Falls, commencing Wednesday, the fifteenth day of July, A. D.
1908, A. L. 5908, the Most Worshipful Brother Augustus T. Freed on
the Throne.

"Qucstio~: Is a Lodge (under Section 219 of the Constitution),
after suspendmg a member for non-payment of dues bound to reinstate him in the event of him tendering his arrea~s and all other
amounts owing the Lodge, irrespective of his conduct in the meantime Has the Lodge no voice in the matter whatever?
"Answer: If a member suspended for non-payment of dues tenders
the amount of arrears and all other amounts owing the Lodge, he
must be restored. B~t charges may be preferre~ agai!lst him for any
other offense of wl11ch he may have been guilty either before his
suspension or during his suspension, when he ma/ be tried just as if
he had never been suspended."
'. ' Has a Lodge the power. ~o pass a .motion disqualifying from
holdmg office those who solicit votes or resort to electioneering
methods? No. No Mason can be deprived of any of his Masonic
rights or privileges except after charges have been regularly made and
the brother has been duly convicted of a Masonic offense.
"Is is proper to give a Masqnic funeral to a deceased brother
who at the time of his death was under suspension? No. Suspended
members are deprived of all their Masonic rights anaprivileges."
The ruling of the Grand Master upon the question of physical
defects of proposed candidates was as tallows:
"A number of requests have reached me for rulings as to physical
defects of proposed candidates. These I have declined to give. The
Grand Master cannot properly judge of the nature or extent of a
defect from a written description; and in some cases it would not be
expedient to give written reasons for a ruling. Section 181 of the
Constitution is very plain; and every Master of a Lodge is able to
determine from a careful reading of that section the extent of a defect
which ought to disqualify a man from becoming a Mason. If a
candidate can comply literally with all the ceremonies of the work of
Grand Lodge, a minor physical defect does not cause his rejection.
If he cannot comply with all those ceremonies he must be rejected."
This is in harmony with the general policy of the Grand Lodges
of both England and Scotland, to refer the question of physical disabilities largely to the decision of subordinate Lodges, the only general
requirement being, that the candidates are able to conform literally to
the requirements of the several degrees.
Extreme activity marked the administration of Grand Master A. T.
Freed. Dispensations were issued by him to form eight new Lodges;
a number of Lodges were consecrated in due form; and a large number
of Lodge rooms dedicated, and corner stones were laid by the Grand
Lodge, with Masonic Ceremonies to at least six public buildings.
The Grand Master offers a mild criticism to the effect- that the
contributions to the so-called Semi-Centennial Fund, being in effect the
Charity Fund of the Grand Lodge, are not as liberal as he had expected.
The additions during the year having amounted to something in excess
of $10,000, making the principal of the fund now about $45,000.
The reports of the various Grand Officers, including the Grand
Secretary, and Grand Treasurer, the District Deputy Grand Masters,

STATISTICAL SUM;MARY.

Total number of Lodges in the jurisdiction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406
Total membership · in the jurisdiction ....... . ........ .. ........ .42,422
Net gain during the year .................... .. ................. 2,627
Income of Grand Lodge .... ........... .. ....... ..... .. $ 54,297.65
Assets of Grand Lodge :
General Fund .................... ... . : . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . 116,527.38
Semi-centennial, or Charity· Fund....................... 44,529:49
Previous to the formal opening of the Grand Lodge, the Mayor
of the city of Niagara Falls was introduced by the Grand Director of
Ceremonies and delivered an address of welcome to which the Grand
Master suitably replied.
The gavel used at this Annual Communication possessed an interesting history in having been used much more than a hundred years
ago at the initiation of General John Graves Sincoe, who inaugurated ·
the first government of the Province of Upper Canada, at the old
town of Niagara, fourteen miles distant from the city in which the
Grand Lodge assembled for this Annual Communication.
GRAND MASTER,' S ADDRESS.

The Grand Master's address was devoted to an exhaustive a~d
comprehensive review of his official actions during the year. He
referred at the outset to the death of Most Worshipful Brother Hugh
Murray, who served the Grand Lodge as Grand Master in 1884, and
at the time of his death was Grand Secretary.
· Reference is also made to the death of Most Worshipful Brother
William A. Sutherland, Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of
New Yark, and Honorary Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of
Canada. It is stated by the Grand Master in his address that Brother
Sutherland had been an active figure in the Grand Lodge for the past
eight years, and was greatly beloved by all, his brilliant eloquence having inspired general admiration and his earnest and kindly nature
having won the hearts of all.
The rulings, or decisions, of the Grand Master appear to have been
sustained by the Grand Lodge, and the following are quoted:
"Question: Can a Lodge, after suspending a member for non-payment '1f dues, lay a charge against him for a more serious offense; and
if found guilty on the vote of the Lodge, expel him?
"Answer: The Lodge may, after suspending him for noncpayment
of dues. try him on another charge. The Lodge cannot expel him; but,
if he be found guilty, it may suspend him indefinitely, report the facts
to the Grand Lodge, and recommend his expulsion.

17

18

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

were duly rendered and from them is gathered the conclusion that the
Craft in the Province of Ontario is ·in a highly prosperous and satisfactory condition.

of the power of eloquence. His address, however, is excellent and sets
forth in a straightforward and businesslike manner his official acts and
activities in various directions during the year.
It is a matter of gratitude, he remarks, that none of the Grand
Officers of the Jurisdiction have during the year been summoned to
respond to the "last call," and he, therefore, only finds it necessary to
record the losses in other Grand Jurisdictions of Grand Officers.
The Grand Master issued a large number of dispensations for
various purposes, including three for the formation of new Lodges.
Corner stones were also laid by him to a number of public buildings,
and other Special Communications of the Grand Lodge were held for
the purpose of constituting Lodges that received charters at the previous
Annual Communication.
Seven decisions were made by the Grand Master during the year,
and all but one were sustained by the Jurisprudence Committee and the
Grand Lodge. From the decisions that were upheld, the following may
be mentioned :
"A member of a Lodge who has been granted a <limit, but did not
receive a certificate of his dimission, is nevertheless a dimitted Mason,
and must petition in regular form for affiliation. A Lodge cannot pass
a ;esolution restoring the Brother to membership the same as if no
<limit had been asked for or granted."
"A Worshipful Master of a I,odge has not the right to call a Past
Master to preside over a Lodge during a Masonic trial wherein .the
Worshipful Master is a witness. The Senior Warden must preside.
In case of his absence, the Junior Warden must preside."
One decision was reported upon adversely by the Committee on
Jurisprudence, and the action of the Jurisprudence Committee was
affirmed by the Grand Lodge and the decision, therefore, was reversed.
The decision of the Grand Master, and the report of the Committee ·
thereon, is as follows :
"The M. ·. w. ·. Grand Master decided: 'A Brother applying for a
<limit cannot withdr<1,w his application after the same is before .the
Lodge for action.' In the opinion of your committee, such an application may be withdrawn at any time before the same has become final.
We, therefore, recommend that this decision be not approved."
The Grand Orator, Brother Melvin Edwards, delivered a beautiful
and eloquent address, the main theme of which was the portrayal of
how the world through the centuries of the past, has been rolling out
of the shadows of darkness and ignorance, into the breaking light of
truth, and that the light of the world, which is also the essence and
spirit of Masonry, is love. "Love," as he remarks, "is the alkaloid of
our great Order."
The following closing paragraphs of his oration are well worthy a
thoughtful perusal:
"In the careful survey of the laws of nature, we are met at every
turn with indubitable evidence of what may be termed the law of

F.OREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

The report on Foreign Correspondence is by Brother Henry
Robertson. He gives a concise and entertaining summary of the proceedings of the usual American and Foreign Jurisdictions. California,
1907 is reviewed. At the ele.c tion of officers
Bro. Augustus T. Freed (Hamilton), was re-elected Grand Master.
Bro. R. L. Gunn (Hamilton), was re-elected Grand Secretary.

COLORAD0-1908.
Forty-eighth Annual Communication, Denver, Sept. 21, 22, 1908.
The M.".
Grand Lodge, A. F. and A. Masons of Colorado,
met in its Forty-eighth Annual Communication in Masonic Temple, .in
Denver, Colorado, Monday, September 31, 1908, at 10 o'clock a. m.
The Grand Lodge was opeued in Ample Form by M.". w: . .Gr'and
Master Joseph A. Davis.

w:.

STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

Total number of Lodges in Jurisdiction.... .. .................. 114
Charters for new Lodges granted at this 'c ommunication. ... ..
3
Total membership last. Communication .. . ... ·. ........... ... .... 12,226
Net gain in membership during the year... . .. . . . . .. . .. .. . . .. . .. 724
Total membership this Communication .. . ...... ...... .. ...... . 12,950
Income of Grand Lodge ..... . .. . ........ ........ ..... .. . . .. $14,592.71
Assets of Gr'.lnd L odge :
Cash in hands of Grand Treasurer . . ... . ..... .......•.. . $34,218.07
Permanent Benevolent Fund ........ . .. .. . . .. . ...... ... 23,437.67
MASONIC HOME.

There is no Masonic Home in this Jurisdiction but Grand Lodge
charity is provided for by means of the so-called Benevolent Fund and
the report of the trustees of the Benevolent Fund sets forth a Ion~ list
of beneficiaries, who had received, during the year,. donations from this
fund. The fund at this time amounts to something in excess of $23,000,
and is replenished each year by appropriations from the Grand Lodge
and also from other Masonic Grand Bodies within the State.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.

The Grand Master disclaims any ability as an orator, and states
that the Grand Lodge has an officer, known as Grand Orator, whose
special duty it is to entertain and enlighten the Grand Lodge, by exercise

19

20

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

hindr·ance. As the brake is applied to the wheels of a car to lessen its
speed, or to bring it to a full stop, so is the principle of friction in one
form or another applied to every moving object. Even the tornado
that sweeps on its devastating course is in a short time worn out by
opposing currents, and its force scattered and dissipated. The rushing
waters of our mountain streams find their course impeded in rocky
barriers that throw their impact back in angry swirl and foam. The
utmost ingenuity of the skilled engineer is- exerted continually to overcome the retarding force of friction . So amidst the surging conflict
that has ever beat with mighty force along the lines of man's intellectual
development, there has entered as hindering forces the strongest powers
of human nature. Envy, hate, and avarice combine to dwarf and
belittle our better natures, paralyze our higher faculties, invite sickness
and shorten our lives. Not one of all the children of men are immune
from their blighting effects. Man imbued with their most pronounced
form, becomes the center of his own blindness. In the darkness of his
life, crime has its opportunity, villainy its chance, and infamy its fullest
scope. Were it not for counter forces, man would be driven off the
field of every conflict in defeat, and ruin.
"These forces are Faith and Hope, with Love as the mighty alkaloid that kindles and keeps the fire of both burning in the human heart.
How slowly mankind comes to the knowledge that love is the one allpowerful focce in the economy of creation. How loath men are to
make use of the most potential factor in our existence for the upbuilding of every interest we have, mental, physical and financial. Befoce
its magic influence the passions subside; imbruted man and savage
animal yield to its gentle sway. It permeates all nature in a mulfitude
of forms, and its voice is heard whenever and wherever our ears are
turned to listen. The greatest exemplar in all history of this mighty
force in whose life the flood-tide of love reached its highest point, was
He who trod the hills and valleys of Palestine; everywhere in the
name of this mighty alkaloid, bidding the blind to see, the deaf to hear
and the lame to walk; at the mention . of whose name, after nineteen
hundred years has passed, millions of the sons and daughters of men
bow in adoration. Would yon know something of this power to
soothe the passions of men ? I stood a few years since in a crowd of
the lower element gathered in a large hall in one of our Eastern cities.
Between the numbers on the program, pictures were thrown on the
screen. The whole performance was so worthless, that the disapproval
of the rabble was soon evidenced by a pandemonium, during which
chairs were thrown at the stage and the vilest oaths and epithets hurled
at the performers. Suddenly the lights were lowered and the features
of the "Man of Sorrow" was seen on the curtain. Then occurred a
scene seldom witnesed. Instantly the clamor ceased and an indescribable
feeling 's pread through the hall, and a perfPct quiet settled over the
audience.
"No. great movement to uplift the race has ever failed with love
as its incentive. No nation is great and strong and endurable without
a love of its citizens that will give their life for its honor. There has
never been a great man without he has loved much. Read the history
of a Lincoln, then look on his face and see the shadow of a great love
that found in youth a longing in his heart that finally ripened into traits
of character that makes him the greatest type of American citizenship.
The strong, masterful love of President .McKinley always succeeded
when arguments failed, and a~ depicted in the tender care of an invalid

wife blessed and strengthened every home in. the land, and will be
handed down by our Order as an heritage from a Brother Mason, to
our children and to our children's children forever.
"There is no religion but the religion of love; all sacred hist~ry
proclaims it, and it is written that through the power of l?ve to him
that overcometh the forces of error, 'all things that are hidden shall
be made plain.'
.
.
"So Jove is the alkaloid of our great Order. By its dictates our
ancient Brethren were enabled to lead the r:ice by the han~ of gentleness down through the ages of savagery and 1r?n to t~e one . m~ugurated
by the 'Prince of Peace,' and by inculcating 1.ts ben_1gn prmc1ple there
has been handed on down through_ t~e centunes _unimpaired, the ~rea~
tenets of our profession. To us, 1t 1s the one hght that never dims'·
the one sun that never sets and the countless sons of our Order now and
forever will follow where' its holy light leads."
Brother Edwards received the thanks of the Grand Lodge and the
oration was ordered printed in the proceedings.

2I

FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

The report on Foreign Correspondence is by Past Grand Master
Lawrence N. Greenleaf, being his 24th report.
He reviews in a most entertaining and instructive manner the proceedings of fifty-nine Grand Jurisdictions. California, 1907, receives
generous and courteous attention.
The following excerpts from the "Concl1,1sion" of his report are
given as expressing the views of a sound Masonic thinker upon certain.
subjects of present day discussion by the Craft.
"In the matter of conducting the correspondence of Looges in _different jurisdictions through their respectiv~ Grand Masters, there 1~ a
wide· diversity of opinion. We have not hesitated to oppose the practice
as an invasion of the inherent rights of the Lod~es, and to dec}are that
there it has been engrafted upon Craft Masonry, 1t has been copied from
a similar enactment in a semi-military concordant Grand Body. 'fhe.
practice has crept int? t~is Jurisdiction of l~te year~. but we have failed
to find any law justifying the same, and m the abs~nce of any. such
enactment our Lodges are at liberty to conduct their own aff a1rs as.
they see proper, within Constitutional limits. Our. Yiews on this question have been endorsed by some of the ablest wnters, ~nd . should the
matter come before our Grand Lodge for formal determ111at10n, we are·
certain there will be no unanimity of opinion."
"'Documentary evidence' is growing in favor owing to the spread'
of clandestinism, and accelerated in ca~es whe:e Grand Masters ~he~­
selves have been denied admission. to L~dges m ?ther G~and Junsd1ctions not having 'documentary evidence, and while labonng un~er t~e·
impr~ssion which prevailed in the old regime, that 'a Mason carnes his
Masonry in his head.' "
.
"Legislation against the admission of liquor sellers to t~e Fraternity
is general through the South and West. In t~e l~tter sect10n ~ Grand
Master started the ball a rolling in another d1rect10n by declarmg th~t
dealing on the stock board 'YaS gambling and a Masonic offense. This.

22

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCF.

was ~odified to apply to proprietors of what are known as 'bucket
shops, and such were declared to be subject to Masonic discipline."
John B. Haffy (Del Norte), Grand Master.
Charles H. Jacobson (Denver), Grand Secretary.

CONNECTICUT-1909.
One Hundred and T wen t Y-fi rst A nnual Communication New Haven,
Jan. 20, 21, 1909.
'
M The One .Hundred and Twenty-first Annual Communication of the
ost W orsh1pful Grand Lodge of <;onnecticut, Ancient, Free and
Accepted_ Masons, was held at Masonic Temple, City of New Haven
c-0mmencmg .Janu~ry 20th, A. D. 1909, A. L. 5909, at 11 :30 o'clock
a. m. the M. · W. · Edward E. Fuller presiding.
STATISTICAI, SUMMARY.

Total number of Lodges in State
Total number of Lodges represent~d ·;t· ~hl~ 'c~~~~~i~~;i~~· · · · · ~~~
Total number of Masons
·····
Gain in membership durin~. ~~~~:: : ::: .... " ....... ... ... . .... " 22• 1 ~
I
f G
.................... . .... .
ncome o
rand Lodge . ................... . ........... . ... $17,202.50
Assets of Grand Lodge:

698

Cash in hands of Grand Treasurer ................ . ...... $10,014.75
In hands of Trustees.. . .. .. .. . .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. . 1,683.12
p

.
f .
$11,697.87
ort~on o .mcome devoted to Grand Lodge charity. . . . . . . . . . . 12 79j 06
PortJo~ of mco11_1e d:vote_d to Grand Lodge expenses.... ....... 4'.411:44
(This proportion is umque .among the Lodges of this country) .
MASONIC HOME.

The Masonic Home of Connecticut is located at Wallingford · it is
conducted ~nder the .corp~rat~ name of the Masonic Charity Foundation
of Connecticut, and 1s mamtamed chiefly by contributions of the Grand
~odge, th: Grand Lodge dues of $1 from each member being divided
m the ratio of three to one, 75 cents to the Charity Foundation and 25
cents for Grand Lodge expenses: The ratio is usually the other way
and the ~onnect'.cut bre~hren are to be commended for the broad spiri;
of 1:fasomc cha.nty mamfested by them. The beneficiaries of the Connecticut Masomc Home are Masons, and the widows and orphans of
Masons. !he amount paid over by the Grand Lodge Treasurer during
the precedmg year to the Masonic Home was $12,791.06.
~he .great day during the year was what was known as "Bridge
Day, bemg an Emergent Communication of the Grand Lodge held on

23

October 8th, 1908, for the purpose of placing the finai stone of the
Hartford Bridge, by invitation of the Honorable Board of Highway
and Bridge Commissioners. It was not only a great day, so far as the
Grand Lodge was concerned, but it was a memorable day in the annals
of the ·state, and will be held in long remembrance by all who were
privileged to participate as actors or witnesses in the ceremony.
The following brief excerpts from the Grand Master's address,
referring to the subject, will convey some idea of the importance elf the
occasion from a local Masonic standpoint:
"The escort consisted of a thousand Sir Knights led by Rt. ·Em.
Gr . . Commander George M. Long, and his associate Grand Officers,
while of the one hundred and ten Lodges in this Grand Jurisdiction,
about ninety participated as Lodges, while rew~sentatives from every
other Lodge in the jurisdiction, save two, Mornmg Star, No. 47, Seymour, and Hamilton, No. 54, Sharon, participated in the parade, marching. with other Lodges, their Commandery, or as Grand Lodge Officers."
"The number of Masons parading as brethren was a little more than
five thousand, making with those parading as Sir Knights, a .total of
more than six thousand Masons taking part in the parade. * *' ·* *"
. "The parade was more than two miles in length, and was the largest
and most imposing Masonic procession ever seen in this Jurisdiction,
being exceeded by few, if any, Masonic Lodge parades in the world's
history."
"Many of the most distinguished citizens of Connecticut marched'
as Brothers in the ranks or reviewed the procession from the reviewing stand, thus contributing to the great spirit of brotherhood everywhere manifest."
"It was a delightful day in every particular, one which those who
participated in will never forget, but will always remember as one of
the cherished memories in their life's record, and which will always and·
forever stand as a 'Red Letter' day for Masonry in this jurisdiction."
Four other Emergent Communications of the Grand Lodge were
held during the year, two for the purpose of attending the funerals of
Past Grand Master Waugh, and the Most Worshipful Gra:nd Secretary,
John H . Barlow, who fell at the post of duty; and two of the Emergent
Communications for the purpose of layin~ corner stones. The Grandi
Master in his address speaks in feeling terms of the sterling qualities
and exemplary lives of these honored and beloved brothers.
He uses the following language concerning Brother Barlow:
"How strange and sudden it all seemed. Only the preceding week
he had been with the Grand Master and other Grand Lodge officers at
a friendly visitation to a neighboring Lodge, speaking afterward at a
banquet table in a more than usual jovial way. Out the evening before
his death to a happy church gathering in his usual health and spirits,_
and the next morning-dead."
·
"Life is indeed a strange thing, and death is but the absence of
life."
·."Past Grand Master Barlow had been a Mason for a half century,
lacking four months. He was Grand Master of this Grand Jurisdic-.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

24

REPORT O.N CORRESPONDENCE.

tion nearly thirty years ago. He had been our Grand Secretary for
almost fourteen years. He was one of the officers, and deeply interested, in our Masonic Home. He was, without doubt, the most widely
known and best beloved brother in our Jurisdiction."
Under the head of visitation, the Grand Master in the following
language describes a notable gathering which he attended at Boston
upon the occasion of the celebration of the 175th anniversary of St.
John's Lodge of Massachusetts:
"On October 4th, 5th and· 6th, by il')vitation, and in company with
the G!'and Masters of the thirteen original States, save the Grand Master
of Georgia, who was unable to be present, and also with the Grand
Masters of Maine, Vermont and Nova Scotia, I attended the celebration
of the one hundred and seventy-fifth anniversary of St. John's Lodge
of Boston.
•
'
"This Lodge, chartered by the Grand Lodge of England in 1733,
being the first Lodge chartered on this Continent, and having its first
Lodge room in the old Bunch of Grapes tavern, has a long and eventful
bistory.
"St. John's Lodge with this long and honorable record, whose
muster rolls contain the names of so many eminent i:nen, including
James.Otis and Josiah Quincy, and which has upon its roll of visitors
such distinguished names as Washington and Franklin, and among its
honorary members the name of Lafayette, is surely justified in celebrating with stately, formal and befitting ceremonies the one hundred
and seventy-fifth anniversary of its existence."
The following decisions of the Grand Master are quoted :
"Question : 'When a candidate having been regularly voted for,
has been declared duly elected, can a demand for a new ballot be made
within a few minutes thereafter, by a Brother who was present at the
ballot, and voted favorably?'
"Answer: 'Yes.' A Brother can call for a new ballot at any time
previous to the administering of the obligation in the Master Mason's
degree. The matter of its being only a few minutes after the ballot is
<leclared, makes no difference."
"Question: 'What standing in a Lodge has a Brother who having
presented his· <limit, has been duly elected, but has allowed several
months to elapse, without attending the Lodge or signing the By-Laws?
We have now found that we do not want this Brother in our Lodge.'
"Answer : 'Although the Brother has been duly elected to membership in your Lodge, he is not a member until he has signed your·
By-Laws, and at any time previous to his signing them, you can at the
request of any Brother of your Lodge, or of your own volition as
Master of your Lodge, call for a new ballot.' "
And the action of the committee and Grand Lodge thereon as
shown by the proceedings to have been as follows:
"Your committee endorses all of the Grand Master's decisions with
one exception. We hold that the signing of the By-Laws of a Lodge
is a mere matter of technicality and custom; that the act of acquiring
membership by a non-affiliate is complete by the consent of the Lodge
expressed by a unanimous ballot which cannot otherwise be revoked,
and by the deposit of a regular <limit by the bro'ther."

2&

"The ~econd section after animated discussion was adopted with
the exception of that part of the same referring to requirements for
membership. It was voted in relation, thereto, that the signing of the
roll of membership, should be, is, shall be and shall continue to be a
requisite to membership in the Lodge either by affiliation or by rec~iv­
ing the degrees within that Lodge." '
An instance of the Grand Lodge overruling the Jurisprudence Committee is something of rare occurrence. There is a marked distinction
between a Mason made in a Lodge and one who seeks to affiliate therewith; the former is a member unquestionably, even though he fails to
sign the By-Laws, and notwithstanding the fact that at the conclusion
of the ceremony of the M. M. degree~ he is told that to sign the ByLaws is the last act needful to constitute him a member; but the act
of affiliation, it would seem, is scarcely consummated until the roll is
actually signed. The first decision, quoted above, may be good law
where a ballot is taken for each degree separately, but it does not represent the practice in California where but one ballot is taken for all the
degrees, and, where after a candidate is elected, but before initiation
a simple verbal objection spoken to the Master without disclosing to
the brethren the identity of the objector, and without requiring of him
the assignment of any reason whatever, for this action will stop a candidate; whereas after initiation, while it is not necessary to prefer
charges to prevent a candidate's advancement, it is necessary in order
to accomplish that purpose, to file written objections with the Master,
which after due investigation and report by a committee appointed by
him must be supported by two-thirds of the members present at a
stated meeting._
FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

The Report on Correspondence is by Past Grand Master Frank
W. Havens, who has been assigned to the place made vacant by the
death of M.". w:. John H. Barlow, who for fourteen years was Grand
Secretary .of the jurisdiction of Connecticut, and who for the same period
of time prepared the annual reports of the Committee on Fraternal
Correspondence. Brother Haven's report is extremely interesting; it
was evidently prepared with painstaking care, and its perusal is a
source of great delight. Brother Howard defends the doctrine of
perpetual penal jurisdiction claimed by his State with much acumen,
even though he may• fail to convince those who regard the doctrine as
impolitic and unsound.
Weston G. Grannis (Litchford), Grand Master.
Frank W. Havens (Hartford), Grand Secretary.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

R£PORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

26

One Hundred and

DELAWARE, 1908.
Thi.rd Annual Communication, Wilmii1gton.

Oct. 7, 1908.
d d nd Third Annual Communication of the Most
Th_e ne un re a
Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of
Worshipful Grand Lodge,
. T
Wilmington on WednesDelaware, was held in the Masomc emp1e,
'
day October 7, A. D. 1908, A. L. 5908 ·
d
12 o'clock
'The M.". w:. Grand Lodge was called to or er at
· W · Grand Master, Thomas J. Day.
{noon ) by t he M · ·
··
0

H

STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

. .. 22
'fotal . number of Lodges.································:::: ... 2981
'fotal membership · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·: · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
100
Gain in membership during preceding year ...................... .
Assets of Grand Lodge:
.............. $1,880.33
Income of Grand Lodge· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
$1 990.02
Cash in hands of Grand Treasurer. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2' 064.24
Amount of Charity Fund· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . · . . . 1' 358.50
Amount of Reserve Fund.·································._,_ _

$5,412.76

27

pliance therewith is not difficult. The Grand Master refers to visits
made by him to sister jurisdictions, mentioning particularly visits to
the Grand Lodges of Pennsylvania and New Jersey upon the occaaicns of their installations of officers. He also mentions, as is menticned by so many Grand Masters upon the Atlantic seaboard, his visit
to St. John's Lodge at Boston at the time of the celebration by it of
its One Hundred and Seventy-fifth Anniversary.
Under the heacling "Decisions," the · Grand Master states that the
brethren of the Lodges composing his juri$diction are so well informed concerning the laws and regulations laid down by the Grand
Lodge that peace and harmony have universally prevailed and that he
has not been called upon during the year to render a single decision.
In closing his address the Grand Master states that
"It is with a feeling of regret that I hand the insignia and jewel
of my office to my successor, yet a feeling of pleasure mingles with it
when I think of the golden opportunities and happy days he will spend
us your Grand Master."
·
FOREJGN CORRESPONDENCE.

The report on Foreign Correspondence is by L. H. Jackson, Past
Deputy Grand Master. He reviews briefly fifty-nine American and
foreign jurisdictions. California ( 1907) is courteously mentioned.
Henry I. Beers (Dover), Grand Master.
Virginus G. Harriso~ (Wilmington), Grand Secretary.

Total assets · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ...
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.

.
f h" dd ss the Grand Master refers
After the formal opemng o is a re '
11 has
to the Fraternal Dead, remarking that:
.
h .
· tible force that pursues us a
"Since our last meetmg t e irresif
oldest and most influential
been acting, and as a result somet~ G~:at Unknown and have solved
t know that as true Masons
Brothers have made the voyage th e
its mysteries. We mo~rn. for t em, ,re
they have passed to their JUSt reward.
.
G d
h f El'h J Morris Past Semor ran
He speaks of the deat o
i u f ;he Grand Lodge of Delaware,
Warden who was the oldest member ~
M
. 1855 and was
aster m
'
'
. L0 d
as W orsh1pful
ge
.
having ser~ed his
1856 He was a most regula~ attendelected Semor Gr~nd Warden ~ nd Lodge for !llore than fifty years,
ant upon the sessions of the ra h
two or three of the Annual
.
having missed probably not ~ore t an
Communications. during that. tlt::s
the Grand Lodge were held
Three Special Commumca
of placing corner stones, and
during the year; two for the purposMe
. Hall
.
.
of dedicating a
asomc
.
. . d
one for the purpose
h. t
of office personally v1S1te
The Grand Master during T1hs' ~r~ cordance with the instruc. th · risdiction
is is m ac
every Lodge m e JU
·
d . · w of the limited area com.tions issued by the Grand Lodge, an m vie

oi

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, 1908.
Ninety-eighth An,,nual Communication. Washington, D. C.
December 16, 1908.
The Ninety-eighth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge,
F. & A. M., of the District of Columbia was held in the new Masonic
Temple, corner of New York avenue and Thirteenth and H streets,
on December 16, 1908, the Grand Master
northwest, at 7 o'clock p.
M." . . w:. Augustus B. Coolidge presiding.

m:

STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

Number of Lodges. ·... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Number of members ............................................ 8,740
Net gain in membership during the year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 377
Income of Grand Lodge :
Received General Fund .................................. $8,629.50
Received Masonic Home Fund. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,065.00
Received other sources ................................ '... 858.10
Total ........... •.................................. $11,552.60

:28

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
"Fro~

Assets :
$ 9 818 71
Balance in hands of Treasurer ...... . .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
• '
Securities in hands of Trustees ........... · · . · · . · · · · · · · ··· .16 300.00
Total ................... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .$26,118.71
MASONIC HOME.

There is a Home in the District of Columbia under the official
<lesignation of the "Ma.sonic and Eastern Star Home,'' and conducted
under the joint auspices of the Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. and the
Eastern Star Grand Chapter. The Board of Tr~stees reports that the
.
f Home that is completed is fully occupied, and that the ques.
.
1
.d f
Con
por t wn o
tion of enlargement is one that will require ear y cons1 era ion.
-cerning the atmosphere of contentment and harmony that pervades the
Home the Trustees use the following language :
"The Home is in splendid working order. The little family gatherhd
there from the various Lodges and the Chapters of the Order o:h~ e
Eastern Star is a happy and contented one. Every ~ece~sary
mg
is being done for their comfort, health and peace of mmd.
.
The Home is maintained by a per capita tax of 25 cents, levied by
the Grand Lodge F. & A. M. and the Grand Chapter O:der E~stern
Star and certain voluntary donations from other Masomc Bodies of
the District and individuals.
There is also a Board of Relief maintained by the. ~odges of
the District of Columbia, which is doing excellent though hm1ted work
in relieving the distress of sojourning brethren.
STATED AND SPECIAL COMMUNICATION.

Three Stated, and. two Special Communications of the Grand
Lodge were held during the year previous to the regular .An?ual .com. t•
D cember 16th The first Stated Commumcabon is the
·
.
.
d
mumca 10n, e
"b d by the constitution for the exemplification of the egrees,
one prescn e
rfi d
and the esoteric portion of the E . A., F. C. and M. M. was exei:iip 1 e
under the direction of Brother Jacpb H. Lichtiter, of the Committee on
Work and Lectures.
. .
At the Second Stated Communication, reports were received from
several committees, and adopted. The following report fro1;1 th~ Committee on Correspondence, may be of some interest to Cahforn1a:
"Washington, D. C., May 13, 1908.
"To the Grand Lodge :
.
"Your Committee on Foreign 9orrespondence, to whom wa~ . referred the petition of El Gran Logia Cosmos for formal recogmtion,
begs leave to report:
.
.
"In its petition El Gran Logia Cosmos gives a hst of . fif:een ~ranj
Lodges and Grand Orients who have already accorded 1t oAma .an
fraternal recognition. Only ~hree o~ th~se, however, are merican
(';rand Lodges, viz: New Mexico, California, and Oklahoma.

29

the Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of California we
received a letter, dated April 20, 1908, which says: 'El Gran
l,og1a Cosmos, of Chihuahua, has not been recognized by the Grand
l,odge of California. We know nothing about it.'
"From the chairman of the Committee on Correspondence in New
Mex!co, Dr. James H. Wr?~h, we learn that the Gra.nd Lodge of New
Mexico once gave recogmbon to El Gran Logia Cosmos but later
'
.
withdrew it 'on account of their behavior.'
"Dr. Wroth has shown us a letter from Past Grand Master W. H.
Seamon, of New Mexico! who is. now living in Chihuahua, and who
aays that after the Enghsh-speakmg Lodges withdrew from Cosmos
!t had but one working Lodge. left; tha.t. this one Lodge split up
mto three Lodges and began seeking recogmbon as Gran Logia Cosmos.
"Your Committee begs leave to recommend that recognition be
denied El Gran Logia Cosmos, of Chihuahua.
·
"Fraternally submitted."
The third Stated Communication was the last meeting of the
Grand Lodge assembled at the old . Temple which had been the scene
of so many notahle Masonic gathe'i-ings in the bygone years. It was
largely a leave-taking of the old halls that held so dear a place in the
hearts and memories of so many, and their sentiments were fittingly
.and eloquently expressed by the Grand Chaplain Brother Joseph Dawson, who was called upon to say the farewell words.
There were two words that came to the mind of the speaker, about
which there clustered the thoughts induced by the leave-taking, the
words, "sentiment and sacrifice." Sentiment is the main spring of
man's loftiest and most heroic actions. "Sentiment," said the speaker,
"is the basis of patriotism." "The materialist will tell you," said he,
"that a country's flag is composed of so many colors and so much material, but this fluttering emblem means more: it means inspiration, consecration and is followed with cheers through the din and tragedy of
battle, and to die enwrapped in its tattered folds becomes an elysium
·Of joy." To win the Victorian Cross, of iron, men willingly, nay,
joyfully, face almost certain death. It is sentiment that rules the
world, sentiment rooted in a soil of sacrifice.
At this session also there was passed a resolution requesting the
-Commission appointed by Congress to erect in the District' of Columbia
a statue of Admiral John Paul Jones. who was a brother Mason, to
-place the statue in the triangular space in front of the New Masonic
1'emple.
A Special Communication was held September 19, 1908, for the
-purpose of dedicating the new Masonic Temple. The occasion was an
auspicious one, and the addresses very lofty in tone and inspiring.
E specially eloquent was the effort of Brother J. Henning Nelius, rector
·of the P. E. Church of the Ascension. After describing the vicissitudes
of the Temple of Solomon, he likens to it the history of human life
in the following exalted diction:
hav~

·REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

30

31

REPORT ON CORRESPONDEKCE.
M

and Brethren of the Masonic
"Most Worshipful Grand
a.ster, hen another temple was dediFraternity: Tonight tells dof th~htln;'.~p wof Mt. Moriah, in the city. of
cated. That temple .stoo on
e
was the wonder of the ancient
Jerusalem. Its arc~1tectural beaftyhuman life; its influence has been
rld Its history 1s the story o ff .
wo .
. th tide of human a aus.
.
a gulf stream m e .
Kin of Israel, built by Solomon, ~n
"Planned by David, seCOf!i
g it became the center of worship
an age of splendor and hmagm l~en~:~ ever known; great in th~ past
for the gre.atest race t e :-vor h
resent in endurance, !!'reat m the
by accomplishment, great mo~i:e Pof God. In the centuries th~t folfuture to make good the pk d and pillaged, and plu~dered; it was
lowed that temple .was s~c e 1d a ain and again. In it some of the
destr.oyed and rebugt £gf'n j1 stoogd proud and triumphant, andd somd
Kings of Judah an o Wi~~in its sacred walls men worshipe an
were murdered. there. bl hemed the holy place by unholy usage.
. of Jehovah by the Jews, under
prayed, and agam they asp
"Originally dedicated to ~he ~ors.~1p as profaned by the idolatry of
an Emperor of t~e ~oman ~p~ri~i~u:f home of the gentle Jesus of
the pagan. Agam, it was t
~
da on the site where it stood,
Nazareth and His followers
to a~d from its loftiest peak the
there stands the Mosque o
h~aro, f the Mohammedan's God.
crescent gm· d es m en to the wors
l'f 1p1. like the checkered story o f t ha·t
"The history of humai: 1 e
of races and of individuals too.•
temple. In the life of nations, a~ixture of' the good and the e.vil.
there has ever been that same of human existence, since the bmldBut through the great maelstrflm d from it a· current of tremendous.
ing of that temple, there has owe
influence on the lives of men.
t e has crumbled the marble
"The material temple is gone, thi s on of Jachin and Boaz have
is crushed and the great bronze ~o ut'i1i1~sbat and the owl made their
tottered a~d fallen, and for c~ntuBe~ from the building of that temple
home in the wreck and the rh1~h y~ars through the ·decades. through
e d t 'mankind-a great gulf stream,
there has come d<?wn throug
the centuries, an influence for gothe tides of human woe, and human
.
and on ever across
fl owmg on
' k
s and human hopes.
want, and human wea nes , h A . ent Order of Freemasonry-we·
"Upon that gulf. stream-t drift~d1 drifted together, from distant
who meet here tonight ~ave.
ho;e. with difference of creed and
city and stat.e and ~rom. ~~~~~e sof e~vironment, of aspirations, of
religious behefs, w.1th d1ff.
ll every man of us, wheth~r from
hopes, and of destmy, too' buh a ' or from under the seethmg sun
the biting blast of a northfern o.~; a common purpose-the Brotherof the south, every man o us, w1
hood of Man."
* * * "a splendid plan
To work out God's redemp~ion scheme,
A d build a fire whose radiant gleam
S~all light the world-that i;nen may learn
To know the truth, and q?1ckly turn,
To walk the path the Savior trod, ,,
That leads through glory up to God.
. b herhood of man. Out of the ages.
"Our Craft stands fo~ th~igi:-e~t ideal. No tiine, no country, no
there has been evolved
't
higher purpose or a nobler plan.
religion has offered humam Y a

i0 .

d

0

"The religion of Moses prophesied a Messiah who woufd be a
l1111ther to men. The founder .of the Christian faith, by e:very act
.. f 11 gentle human life, confirmed that purpose to be the noblest ideal,
.111<1 the only way to uplift humanity; and the followers of the crescent
111 Id it to be the basis of their faith. ·I say, then, man knows no higher
ldcul, he can have no holier religion, than the brotherhood of man.
"Throughout the past other methods have been tried to lift men
ll ' higher life, but all such efforts have failed.
"Egypt sought to build a strong civilization, that would last always.
>\1~ ignorant populace and an educated priesthood was her plan. She
thl)ught mystery would frighten ignorance. Her policy was to govern
11wn by fear.
"Greece built her hopes for a higher civilization and a lasting
arnvcrnment upon the development of the mental faculty alone. Her
pln11 was to educate the human mind. She thought both sin and frailty,
too, were the result of ignorance. She dedicated her temples to the
Onddess of Wisdom.
"Rome scoffed at Egypt and Greece, and said, I will build a
civilization that will last. I will govern men by force, by the clash
•>f ringing steel, by fortress, castle and tower.
"For awhile Egypt flourished with her ideas of control by mystery,
but her power vanished and her dynasties died.
"For a time Greece grew becau:;e edt!cation advanced the moral
life, but life as cheerless and cold as the marble statues which their
l'hisels cut.
"Rome attained a grandeur in her imperialism that startled the
world. But it all was soon 'as a tale when it is told.' Her rulers perl~hed and the ruins of their country crumbled over their dust. Failure
has marked every effort of nations and of men who have adopted any
other basis for higher life than the basis of a universal Brotherhood,
having its origin in the universal Fatherhood of God.
"This is true because you can only govern the hearts and wills
of men by love. You can lead, but you can never drive either the
heart or the intellect. They tried that when Antiarchus leveled the
walls of Jerusalem, sacrificed swine on the altars of 'Jehovah, the
God of the Jews, and undertook to enforce with the sword the wor'Ship of Jupiter Olympus upon God's chosen people, in the temple built
by their hands.
"They tried that when Titus took by storm the Holy City that
would not yield ~o siege, and sent her sons and her da··,ghters to the
-stone quarries of Egypt and the slave markets of Rome.
"They tried that on that early morning in May; when Tancred
and Raymond and Godfrey and the Saxon Knights, with the army of
the first crusade, mounted the walls of the sacred city and the army
of the Christ butchered the army of the Prophet.
"In our own land. they tried that when British oppression undertook to force the colonists to believe in the justice of taxation witl1out representation; and they tried that in the valleys and on the hills
of Blue Ridge, where Stuart'.s sabres flashed against the steel of
Sheridan's cavalry, and gallant men who wore the blue fottght under
the Stars and Stripes for universal freedom of person, against noble
men who wore the gray and followed the Stars and Bars for universal
freedom of thought.

32

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

"No! You can never drive men to change of thought. This is
true because the human will, the real personality of man is as divine
and as free as the God who made him.
"But why the need of such an organization as this of ours?
"If God indeed the universal Father, why not men so strongly
knit togethe; that u~iversal Brotherhood exists as a matter of course?
"It is because man though with a will like that of the Divine,
is still imbued with e~ery instinct of animal life, its appetites, its
desires, and its passions.
"In his blood is the flood of the tiger
And the claws of its hate and desire.
"We know what would happen if only natural law was sought for
human guidance. What a terrible time would come! You would
see the rich with grasping greed enter the homes of the poor and
take the bread from the hungry children and the couch from under
the cripple. You wou!d see the discontented .and desperate poor lurk
with dagger drawn, thirsty for the blood of his ?ppressor. You. would
see the libertine with lascivious lip lure the mnocent to rum, and .
the despoiler take the pure in his lechero?s clutch and drag them to
his lair. You know this would be the qmck result of a surrender to
the law of man's nature.
"To help in counteracting this result, is the task to which our
Craft has set itself, and there is sore need that the task be done.
"Obedience to moral law can never do it. If man were required
to live only a life of rigid righteousness, of even-handed justice only,
what would become of the weak and the frail and the outcast?
"Something greater, higher, nobler, better. than justice is demanded
of you just because some men are weak, while some are strong, some
are po~r and some are rich, some are fortunate and some .fail, so~e
seem always to stand firm in the blast of every temptation, while
others falter and fall.
"If the world is to grow better, the rich must not stand on his
rights; he must yield to the touch of pity; th~ strong must give a. hel~­
ing hand to .the weak; the man who stands 111 the storm must hft his
fallen brother and give him a new chance.
"It is for such teaching that our Craft stands; it is such work that
it has set itself to do.
"By what method has she sought to te.ach it? By symbols and
signs, the square, the level, and the plumb lme.
.
"Do you imagine that because they are simply symbolic that they
have no power to teach and to lead men t-0 higher thought and nobler
deeds? Go ask the scarred veteran to tell you the story of hi~ count'ry's.
flag. A ·s ymbol? Yes, but with power to bind men together and to
lead them on to danger and death.
·
"And now, how has Masonry done its task-,the t~sk to ~hich it
set itself so many centuries ago? The ~orld a.sks this question. It
has a right to demand an answer. We still see 111 the world about us
so much of greed that grasps only for self, so much of wor~hip that
bows only to the god of gold, so much of human want un.sat1sfie~, s_o
many pitiful appeals unheeded and m;1he~rd.. But I submit that 1t ts
incontestibly true that because of the mstttu~ton of M~sonry the world
is less selfish and cruel and hard and unkmd, than 1t would be had
the work of Masonry been left u~done. I maintain that by its power

88

rur good to men, the fallen have been lifted, the weak strengthened,
I contend that hearts are warmer
,rnd homes are purer because of its vital force among the children of
,411tl the strong made stronger yet.

mrn.

"I have likened Masonry to that current in the world of waters
as the gulf stream, having its source in the Gulf of Mexico,
rounding the coasts of Florida, and flowing on its northern way through
the deep and the wild and the storm of the ocean. That current is
1111t always distinctly defined. It does not save every ship from storm
1111d tempest ; it does not take the chill from every blast of the northern
: one; but it does help to stay and still 'the blasts; it does speak a
1 on1mand of partial peace to every storm that blows in its wake;
It does temper and soften the clime of every coast by which it flows;
it does cause the flower to bloom and the fruit to come on many a
lonrrcn coast where thorn and thistle would be except for its temper1111( power.
"And so with our noble order. It has not completed its task,
hut it has done it in part. Wherever its influence has been felt, in
every land where it has flourished, it has made lighter the burden of
the widow and the orphan; it has responded to the appeal of pity
for the poor and the unfortunate; it has quelled the anger, and driven
the hate out of many a human heart; it has helped the tired toiler
nnd the traveler on his way; it has sheltered the homeless; it has
~hielded the innocent; it has given strength to the frail; it has lifted
the fallen; it has helped to cleanse the atmosphere of social life; it
has protected, it has fostered, it has sanctified, it has hallowed the
purity of the home; the home, the very warp and woof of domestic
JOY, the corner stone of our liberties, the bulwark of our civil 11:overn111cnt, and the type of all the joys which humanity hopes will come
when this life is done.
"You have done well, then, my brother Masons, to build this
beautiful Temple, here in the heart of your nation's Capital, and you
do well to meet together tonight, in solemn, but joyous, assembly to
dedicate this house-not to the Goddess of Beauty, though in very
truth you have a right to boast of its beautiful architecture; not to
the Goddess of Wisdom, though true wisdom will be learned in the
~ecret conclaves that will he held within its silent chambers; not to
the glory of your ancient order, of whi,eh you are justly proud; but
you and I now dedicate this Temple to that which your order has
stood in the annals of the past, that to which it pledges itself as its
future task. We dedicate this house to a broader, cleaner view of
God, the universal Father, and to a holier love among men!"
At the Annual Communication, the first one held in the new
Temple, the Lodges were very fully represented, and the business
transacted was of a routine and mostly local character, only one decision was rendered, and that a question touching physical disability.
A decision rendered by the Jurisprudence Committee on a case
previously referred to it, holds that the right of appeal from the verdict of acquittal by a Lodge lies in the accusing brother, the same
as in the brother accused, in case of conviction, which is confirmation
of the oft repeated statement that "Masonry is a law unto itself."
~- nnwn

2a

34

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The following resolution in reference to a proposed monument to
Valentine Reintzel, the first Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of the
District of Columbia, was adopted:
"Bro. Lem. Towers, Jr., chairman of the Special Committee· appointed to procure a stone to mark the grave of Past Grand Master
Vale~tine Reintzel, made a report which, on motion of Bro. Henry
K. Simpson, was referred back to the committee with instructions to
perform the duty assigned to it in accordance with the terms .of the
resolution under which the committee was appointed."
The election and install~tion of officers does not take place as
in most other jurisdictions, at the Annual Communication, bu; at
a Special Communication held on St. John, the Evangelist's Day, and
accordingly at this Special Communication, held on that day, December
28, 1908, the annual election and also the ceremony of installation. took
place.

..

CORRESPONDENCE REPORT.

The Correspondence Report is by Past Grand Master Geo. w ..
Baird; and he reviews everything that comes to hi~ hand, whether the
body under consideration is regarded as wholly regular or not, being
governed by the idea that information is what is desired, and so long
.as a body is not absolutely on the prohibited list, no harm can come
from a survey of what it is doing. His report is full of information
and many excellent observations, and is worthy careful perusal.
Henry K. Simpson (Washington, D. C. ), Grand Master.
Arvine W. Johi:ston (Washington, D. C.), Grand Secretary.

35

•lf thirty years has been assigned for the time needful to reach the
fund desired under a plan, the particulars of which are as follows:
"That it is advisable to accumulate a building fund.
"That for this purpose a payment of sixpence per annum be made
by, or on behalf of every member subscr>ibing to Grand Lodge funds
thr.ough his Lodge, until further notice.
"That the Board of General Purposes be requested to keep a
1eparate account of this Fund, and to invest the principal, together.
with the income, at compound interest, free of all deductions of ·any
kind, either for commission or Income Tax, from time to time as the
<lues come in.
"That at the expiration of the lease of Mark Masons' Hall, the
sum of. £25,000 be transferred from the Building Fund to the General
Funds of Grand Lodge.
"That the Board of General Purposes be requested to prepare and
~ubmit to Grand Lodge the alterations in the Book of Constitutions
necessary to carry these resolutions into effect."
At the September Quarterly meeting, nothing of importance transpired and at the December Quarterly Meeting, H. R. H. the Duke of
Connaught, was again nominated for election as Grand Master and at
the March meeting, 1909, he was again elected.
From reports submitted at the various meetings, it would appear
that something in excess of £12,000 was spent during the year for
the relief of petitioners, numbering about four hundred, and this
sum does not include contributions from the Grand Lodge to different
:\fasonic charities.

ENGLAND, 1908-9.

FLORIDA, 1909.

Meetings of Grand Lodges of England were held on April 29,
June 2, September 2, December 2, 1908 and March 3, 1909. The meet. ing of April, 1908 was for· the purpose of proclaiming H. R. H. Duke
of Connaught, Grand Master, and for installation of other officers.
The question of Masonic Tavern property in London formed the
principal subject of discussion at the June meeting, and it is the hope
.of the Board of General Purposes that this popular place for Lodge
meetings and the holding of festivals, may soon be again placed upon
a paying basis.
During the year, also, was discussed the general purppse of
securing a building in London which shall be in keeping with the
character- and dignity of the Grand Lodge, and a scheme was adopted
with practically no opposition, looking to the accum~lation of a fund
which shall finally amount to £300,000, which is considered .the proper
amount to invest in a building of this character. The process of
accumulation, it is anticipated, will be somewhat gradual and a period

Eightieth Annual ·Communication, Jacksonville. Jan. 19, 20, 21, 1909.
The M.". w:. Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the
Jurisdiction of Florida ~sembled in its Eightieth Annual Comrnunicaticn in the city of Jacksonville, at 11 o'clock a. rn., Tuesday, January
19, A. L. 5909, A. D. 1909, M.". w:. Elmer E. Haskell, Grand Master
in the Grand East, and the representatives present of 180 out of the
185 chartered Lodges.
·
During the year four Special Communications of the Grand Lodge
were held for the purpose of laying the corner stones of public buildings.
STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

Active Lodges on the roll....................................... 185
New Lodges chartered this Communication... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Present total membership ..................................... 8,595
Net increase. during the year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 640
Income pf the Grand Lodge ................................. $9,542.07

37

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Assets of Grand Lodge:
Cash on hand . .. •............... .. .................. .. $12,884.10
Equity in Masonic Temple at Jacksonville.

I trust that memory may vouchsafe to me in the years to come the
happy, loving recollections of my official intercourse with you."
The Grand Orator, Dr. H. S. Yerger, delivered an extemporaneous
address, for .which he received the thai:iks of the Grand Lodge. He
afterwards finished a brief outline of his remarks, which were addressed to the subject of "A Kid Glove Lodge,'' the purport of which
was that ostentation of any kind is not in any true sense· Masonic, and
condemning this style of Maso~ry wherever it occurs, and further
that the idle rich were a menace to the social fabric, and to the stability of government, and .that Masonry with its broad principles of
equality and conservatism had been the bulwark of liberty in times
past, and would so remain for all future time, and that all artificial
and false conceptions of the work and functions of Freemasonry should
be discouraged and frowned upon.

36

MASONIC HOME AND ORPHANAGE FUND.

The purpose of Florida Masonry t o establish a Masonic Home has
not yet been consummated, although the fund to that end is in pro. cess of accumulation, and now amo~nts to $14,955.91.
The Order of Eastern Star has pledged its active and zealous
co-operation in raising funds, etc., which would indicate the probable
ultimate participation of that institution in the management of the home.
One of the notable achievements of the fraternity during the year
was the completion of the Masonic Temple, costing upwards of $150,000,
at Jacksonville, and its dedication at this Communication. Funds
for the purpose were obtained principally by the issuance oi bonds,
secured by a lien upon the property, although the Grand Lodge's
available cash was employed, and the credit of the Grand Lodge
pledged to provide for the deficiency.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.

The Grand Master's address is a full and comprehensive statement of his activities during the year. A large number of dispensations were issued for various purposes; five new Lodges were constituted, and dispensations issued to form thirteen more.
Due reference is made to the death during the year of M.". W.".
Williarr. E. Anderson, Grand Master of the jurisdiction of Florida
in 1881-2.
A large number of so-called "decisions" were rendered, but, as
stated, by the Jurisprudence Committee "comparatively few of the
quEstions raised are new, and the Grand Master has generally replied
to them by reference to decisions already made and on record," etc.
"The following ruling is disapproved: 'A visiting Brother who
passes a creditable examination not vouched for and without documentary evidence of any kind should not be admitted.'
"The subject of vouchers for visitors is fully treated in the report
of the committee on Masonic Jurisprudence in the report of 1906, which
was then approved, see pages 101 and 102. This report states 'The
tegulations of the Grand Lodge have recognized the right of the Lodges
under the direction of the Masters to govern the admission of visitors,
and we think this principle correct and should be upheld."
The following is the concluding paragraph of the Grand Master's .
address:
"Climbing upward, the rough; steep path which leads to the highest
point of our world-famed 'Pike's Peak,' as one stops and rests from
the laborious though pleasant task, you may look back over the journey
accomplished ; and looking, ever and anon some beautiful vista enchants the gaze; and in memory as I look back ttpon these experiences,

FOREIGN CORRESPDNDENCE.

The report on Foreign Correspondence is by Past Grand Master
Silas B. Wright. It is full of interest and informatio~, and well
repays a careful reading. California, 1907, is briefly though courteously
considered.
Louis C. Massey (Orlando) , Grand Master.
Wilbur F. Webster (Jacksonville), Grand Secretary.

GEORGIA, 1908.
One Hundred and Twenty-second Annual Communication, Macon,
Oct. 27, 28, '29, 1908.
The One Hundred and Twenty-second Annual Communication of
the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons for the State of
Georgia was held in the City Auditorium, in the city of Macon, commencing at 10 o'clock a. m., Tuesday, October 27, A. L. 5908.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, M.". W.". Thomas
H. J effries, Grand Master, presiding :
STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

Number of Lodges at opening of session...................... 530
Number of Lodges at closing of session........................ 546
Charters granted at this session. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
16
Lodges represented . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 518
Membership in 1907 .. . ......... .. . . .......................... 28,420
Membership in 1908 ........................................... 30,056
Net gain in membership .......... ... ...... . .. .. . ..... .. . ...... 1,636.
Net gain in Lodges . . .............. ... . . ....... . ... . ....... , 1. •
16
focome of Grand Lodge .......... ..... .................... $38,009.30

38

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Assets of Grand Lodge :
·Cash in hands of Grand Treasurer .... ............... .. $37,004.92
Grand Lodge property, Masonic Building. ·
MASONIC HOME.

Georgia has a Masonic Home, the reward of years of sacrifice and
effort. Concerning the Home, the Grand Master speaks as follows:
"Yonder upon that hill, above the winding river, stands .the Mecca
of Masonry. The place toward which every eye is turned, the place
where every Mason feels he has an abiding interest, a sacred trust.
It is our Home. The home whose foundations were laid in love of
humanity, whose walls were erected by the sacrifices of the hands of
pity, whose capstone· was placed with songs of rejoicing, and whose
dedication was baptized by the sympathetic tears of the great family of
Masonry of Georgia.
"No Mason looks toward it without an emotion of joy at its completion; no Mason thinks upon it without a swelling p·ride that he,
'in part, is responsible for its existence; none meditate upon it without
a sense of gratitude to the thoughtful minds, the loving hearts, the
willing harids and ready purses that gave it to the Craft-a home of
refuge, a shelter of peace for the wayworn and weary, the destitute
and helpless, the fatherless and the widow."
The beneficiaries of the .Home now number thirty-four, divided
as follows: 9 women, 5 men, 11 boys, 9 girls. The Home is maintained by appropriations from the Grand Lodge and donations from
Lodges, Chapters, etc. The per capita cost for each beneficiary last
year of the Home was $211.90. The Home is in sound financial condition; it is the purpose to enlarge its accommodations, so that a greater
number may be provided for and the scope of its usefulness thereby
enlarged.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.

The Grand Master's Address is luminous and comprehensive, and
it sets forth an immense amount of work performed, as may be understood from the consideration of some of his official acts. His official
visitations numbered over forty, the record for his jurisdiction ; he
traversed the length and breadth of the State, traveling more than
5,000 miles; he constituted personally and by proxy twenty-four new
. Lodges; he laid the corner stones personaHy and by proxy of sixteen
public buidings, half of them himself; hi issued dispensations for ten
new · Lodges; he rendered decisions, conducted an extensive correspondence, appointed representatives and displayed wonderful activity
in every direction, and with his address reporting his official acts to
the Grand Lodge he eloquently portrays the character and aspiration
of Free'm asonry :
"'Excelsior' is the battle cry of Masonry. With her mighty hosts
marshalled urider the banner of Truth, she is an intrepid army which
neither the evils within nor the foes without can deter.

39-

"If there is one sentiment that I cherish above all others it is confidence in the uprightness of purpose and integrity of chara~ter of my
brethren. Had I not an abiding faith in their strong desire and un1werviilg purp?se to do the right at all times an~ under every circumatan~e, my estimate of the Craft would be materially lessened. In this
ilonous brotherhood of ours, there is no room for unholy ambition
nor t.hat. spirit which .is satisfied only when it may rule, •or, balked
in t~t~, 1t seeks .to rum. In . the sacred atmosphere of Masonry, vile
1usp1c1?1:1 and spiteful envy hav.e. no place. The spirit of Masopry is
I he spmt of confidence, the. spmt of trust and, above all, the spirit
of love.
"None of us are wiser than all the rest. None more faithful, none
more earnest, none more true; but the consensus of our wisdom our
faith, our ardor and our fidelity, proclaims the character of Mas~nry
and illustrates it in the world.
'

*

•

•

•

•

•

•

"Masonry is a progressive science. A builder, not a destroyer.
I ts mission is to disseminate the light, to dispel darkness. It detracts
from the sincerity of no man's faith; seeks to interfere with no man's
-creed. It holds in reverence every man's temple; desecrates no man's
altar. It accords to every man the privilege to worship God after
the dictates of his own conscience. Its ·march is ever upward to the
full fruition of knowledge. Its hope is to free men from the servile
bonds of passion and prejudice, to enthrone reason and secure to man
the mastery of himself.
·
.

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

"Masonry has made a working man the hero of its chief legend
.and the leading patron of its tenets and its principles. He who was
thought worthy to consort with kings and enjoy their most sacred
secrets, was an humble toiler in the ranks of labor. Truth honor
fidelity and integrity marked !um as a real man, and kings delighted
to pay homage to his virtues and proclaim his fame."
The "decisions" were all approved by the Jurisprudence Committee. Among them the following may be mentioned :
"A candidate must stand an examination in open Lodge upon
his proficiency in the pr~ceding, degree, before he can apply for advancement to the succeeding degree.
"The Lodge cannot waive the examination even if his proficiency
is vouched for by the brother who posted the candidate.

"'

. . . . .

"A man who can read, but cannot write, except to sign his name,
is not eligibl~ for admission .

•

•

•

•

•

•

"I have been asked if a Mason can engage in the sale of 'nearbeer.'
"'Near beer' being a relative term, and not being familiar with
the constituency of 'near-beer,' I decided:
· "No Mason may ·lawfully engage in the sale or barter for valuable
consideration, either directly or indirectly, or give aw~y to induce
trade at any place of business, or keep or furnish at any othe'r public
places, or manufacture, or keep on hand at his place of business, any
alcoholic, spirituous, malt or intoxicating liquors or intoxicating bitters
or other drinks, which, if drunk to excess. or if drunk at all, will

4.0

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

produce intoxication. Provided this shall not apply to licensed druggists selling for medical or scientific purposes only, as provided by
the laws of the State of Georgia."
The Grand Master in closing his address expresses some beautiful
and ennobling sentiments :
"We are a noble and glorious brotherhood marshalled under the
banner of Truth. To defend the right, relieve the suffering, overcome
the evil with the good, guard the sacred honor of woman, and to
glorify God our Father, is the sublime mission of Masonry in the
world."
In accordance with the recommendation of the Committee on
Foreign Correspondence, recognition was denied to the Swiss Grand
Lodge Alpina, and to the Grand Orient of Greece, and decision of the
request for recognition from the Grand Lodge of San Salvador postponed until the next Annual Communication.
FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

The report on Foreign Correspondence is by Brother A. Q. Moody.
His .reviews of the various jurisdictions are full of interest and information. His notice of California (1907) is most courteous, with
· liberal quotations from the Grand Master's Address.
·
Thomas H. Jeffries (Atlanta), Grand Master.
W. A. Wolihin (Macon), Grand Secretary.

IDAHO, 1908.
Forty-first Annual Communication, Boise, Sept. 8, 9, 10, 1908.
The Forty-first Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful
Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of Idaho convened in the Masonic Hall in Boise, the 8th day of September, A. D.
1908, A. L. 5908, and was called to order by the Most Worshipful
William C. Whitwell, Grand Master, at 10 o'clock a. m.
STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

Number of chartered Lodges in the jurisdiction . ................ 41
Number of Lodges under dispensation... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . .
2
.. Total present membership .................... . ............. .. . . 2,595
Net gain in membership during year ........ . .. . ... . ............ . 200
Income of Grand Lodge ..... . ...... . ....................... $10,079.42
Assets of Grand Lodge :
Cash in hands of Grand Treasurer ...................... $ 5,419.55
. Orphan Fund ......................................... 50,964.84
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.

Reference. is made in fitting manner to the death during the year
of Past Grand Master Fr:,mcis Edward Ensign. Brother Ensign was

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

41

a pioneer of California, having arrived in the State in 1854, locating
at Fort Jones, Siskiyou county, and affiliating with the North Star
Lodge, No. 91. He left California in 1866.
The work of the year was represented by several Special Communications for the purpose of laying corner stones, etc., and by dispensations to form two new Lodges, and by a general activity shown in a
net increase of about 10 per cent. in the membership.
Idaho has, notwithstanding the obligation taken by every E. A.,
expressly authorized the use of a key, or cipher, to the unwritten work.
This is certainly contrary to the spirit and teachirigs of our institution,
and should everywhere meet with the strongest reprobation. Kansas,
Idaho, Montana and Rhode Island are all offenders. It is true in
Idaho and in every jurisdiction where ciphers are permitted that they
are frequently lost and fall into unauthorized hands, and it is not a
difficult matter for the uninitiated to decipher any cipher that was
ever invented. That these telltale booklets are going astray may be
judged from the following taken from t,he Grand Secretary's report:
"There are eight of the Worshipful Masters who have not sent in
the receipts. Who has the Cipher or what has become of it is a
matter of conjecture, and not what is intended by the law. I will only
add, if the information received by this office is correct, the restrictions
imposed by the certificates are not adhered to by at least one Lodge.
The particulars will be given if desired."
Among the "decisions" of the Grand Master, which were approved by the Jurisprudence Committee, were the following:
"September 12, received a communication from Brother C. F.
Pike, of Boise Lodge No. 2, stating, 'At the annual election of Masonic
officers a brother moves that Brother 'A' be instructed to cast the
unanimous vote of the Lodge for Brother 'B' for Treasurer for the
coming Masonic year. T_he motion is seconded, put and carried, and
Brother 'B' is elected and installed in accordance with the above motion.
Is such a procedure proper in a Masonic Lodge? Is it in harmony with
the teachings of Masonry respecting the sacredness and secrecy of the
ballot?'
"Answer: No. Such procedure in my opinion would be a violation
of the letter and spirit of the constitution and contrary to the teachings
of Masonry respecting the sacredness and secrecy of the ballot."
"July 19, received a communication from Brother A.' L. Fowler,
Worshipful Master of Gr0ve City Lodge, No. 33, requesting a dispensation to perform the ceremony of unveiling the Jason Lee Memorial
Window, which was recently installed in the Methodist · Episcopal
Church at Blackfoot.
"Request denied, for the reason that the Grand Master has no
power to grant a dispensation to any Past Master or Master of a
Ledge to convene a Grand Lodge except for the following purposes
alone: To lay the corner stone of some public edifice, to dedicate and
consecrate Masonic Halls and to constitute new Masonic Lodges. Our
official Monitor contains no ceremony• for unveiling memorial windows, etc., and to do so would, in my opinion, be contrary to the
customs, rules and regulations of Masonry in this jurisdiction."

42

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Brother Bryan F. Defenbach, Grand Orator, delivered an extern"
pore oration, which the record says was "instructive, interesting amt
greatly appreciated." Daniel Webster, the greatest orator this country
has ever produced, stated his disbelief in what is generally called
extempore speech. To the great "expounder of the constitution," preparation preceded performance. The reply of a famous pulpit orator
to a young preacher who sought to know the secret of his power was,
"Fill up the cask." Yes, the emptier the cask the greater the noise.
The Correspondence Report is by Brother George £; Knipper..
California ( 1907) is. reviewed and giveq full justice.
·
William R. Hamilton (Silver City), Grand Master.
Theophilus W. Randall (Boise), Grand Secretary.

ILLINOIS, 1908.
Sixty-ninth Annual Communication. Chicago. October 6, 1908.
The Sixty-riinth Annual Communication of the Most Worshipfut
Grand Lodge of A. F. & A. M. of the State of Illinois was held in
the city of Chicago, convening on Tuesday the 6th day of October,
1908, and was opened in Ample Form by M.'. 'vV.'. Grand Master
Alexander H. Bell.
STATI STICAL SUMMARY.

Number of chartered Lodges June 30, 1908..... .. . .... . . .... .. 761
Total number of Master .Masons ....... . .. . .. . . . ........... . .... 90,576
Net gain in membership during preceding year ... . ... . ......... . 4,977
Dispensations to form new Lodges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .
11
Lodges under dispensation beginning of sess:on. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
13Charters granted at this Communication.. . .............. . . ... ..
9
Lodges continued under dispensation.. . ... . .......... .. ...... ..
4
Income of Grand Lodge :
General Fund ..... . ........ . ......... ... ... . .. .. ... ·...•,$86,680.30
Charity Fund . ....... ... ... ... ... .. .... . ........ . ...... 41,042.44
Orphan Home Fund . . ........ . . .... .. ... . . . ..... .. ...... 29,868.23Home for Aged Fund. .. . . ...................... . ...... 2,201.62
Masonic H ome Fund. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
45.00
Total . ... . . .. ........ ........ . .. . . .. . . ........... $159,837.59
Assets Grand Lodge :
Cash on hand, all funds ... . .. .. ..... .. .. . ... . .. .. . ... . $ 88,658.7&·
Bonds and Securities on h'and, all funds .. •........... ... 113,800.00
Total . .. . . . ....... . ..... . ... ... .. . ....... .. . ... .. $202,458.78,

REPORT ON CORRESPOND ENCE.

43

This is exclusive of real properties, such as that belonging to the
Orphan Home and the Illinois Masonic Home at Sullivan, Illinois.
MASONIC HOMES.

Illinois has two Masonic Homes, the Orphan Home at Chicago and
.the Illinois Masonic Home at Sullivan, Illinois, for aged and indigent
Masons, the wives and widows of Masons. One of the distinctive
features of the Orphans' Home is the policy of placing children so
far as possible, in desirable families, where they may be reared i~' the
pure and wholesome athmosphere of the real home, and this policy has
met with a considerable measure of success. At the Orphans' Home
there has been an average of fifty residents during the year, the average
.cost per capita for maintenance was $192.36.
There has just been completed at the Sullivan Home a new main
building, which it is believed 'will be adequate for the accommodation
for a long time to come of all that will need its sheltering protection.
E ighty-three residents are enrolled at the Sullivan Home and the yearly
.cost per capita for maintenance appears to have been $260, considerably
above. the average cost of other Masonic Homes, and more than twice
the per capita cost of the Kentucky Home, which affords one of the
best examples in our country of economical management. The Homes
are supported by direct appropriations from the Charity Fund of the
Grand Lodge Treasury, and not by a fixed per capita, although the
-cost of maintenance of the Homes amounts to a per capita of about
thirty cents. The Homes are in excellent condition, and some of the
features of management, especially of the Orphans' Home at Chicago
are worthy of the thoughtful attention of other jurisdictions.
GRAND MASTER' S ADDRESS.

The Grand Master refers to the death of R. '. w. ·. Brother Gilbert
W . Barnard, who was, perhaps, as widely known and as greatly be·
loved, as any Mason in the jurisdiction, he had never held any elective
office but had served for many years on the Board of Examiners and
as a member of the Committee on Finance.
Twenty Occasioned Grand Lodges were convened during the year for
the purpose of constituting Lodges, placing corner stones and dedicating
Masonic Halls. At five of these Occasioned Grand Lodges, the Grand
Master presided in person, and at the remaining fifteen he was re-presented by proxy.
A rather unusual example of summary discipline was afforded
by the Grand Master during the year in the removal by him of the
W orshipful Master of one of the Chicago Lodges because of the abuse
by the Master of the standing afforded by his official position, to obtain
money, and, also, because of conduct, generally which brought dis-credit on the Fraternity. -

44

45

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Amorlll the dispensations asked for and refused by the Grand
Master was one requested by a Lodge to attend services on Easter
Sunday at a church. The Grand Master's reasons, which are very
convincing, for refusing the qispensation, are set forth in the following
language:
"For a Mason or any member of Masons separately or collectively,
in procession or otherwise, to attend religious services at any church,
is highly commendable in them and they ought to be encouraged to
do ·so. But religious services on Easter Sunday are commemorative
of events wh~ch do not appeal to many thousands of Masons in this
Grand Jurisdiction. For a Masonic Lodge to attend religious services.
on Sunday at a church, wearing the clothing and bearing the jewels
and pharaphernalia of a Lodge, is largely a matter of mere parade.
The church service is not in any sense a M<tsonic ceremony or ser1Vice,
·and is in no wise necessary that organized Lodges should participate
therein. The Lodge does nothing. Its members merely sit still arid
"listen. If Lodges may determine to attend religious services at some
denominational church, it inevitably leads to a discussion and choice
'between churches, in which those favoring · one church would urge
that the Lodge attend services at that church, and those favoring
other churches would insist that the Lodge attend services at such
other churches, and that if the Lodge had attended services at one
church last year, it ought in fairness to attend services at another
church this -year, and thus Lodges might easily become distracted
by a discussion of purely denominational matters in no wis·e pertaining to Masonry."
It is remarkable in a jurisdiction of the character and standing
of Illinois that the Grand Master should be called upon, as appeared
to have been the case, to answer such questions as to whether a Lodge·
could appropriate funds from its treasury for the purpose of aiding
in proposed repairs upon a certain church, or to aid in the establishment
of a shoe factory in the city where the Lodge is located.
Practically the only question of Masonic law decided by the Grand
Master was one in reference to the restoration of a member suspended
for non-payment of dues, the Grand Master holding (in which he was.
sustained by a majority of the Jurisprudence Committee), that under
the Grand Lodge By-Laws, which provide that a member suspended.
for non-payment of dues may, upon payment or remission of same,
and upon a favorable ballot of two-thirds of the members present at a
Stated Communication, be restored to membership, that is, to good
standing in the fraternity, leaving him non-affiliated, it was not competent for a Lodge to provide, through By-Laws of its own, for payment of an affiliation fee as a consideration precedent to restoration
to membership. .
A dissenting opinion was filed by one of the Jurisprudence Committee that a Lodge by-law prescribing the payment of a fee in addition to a unanimous ballot, as condition precedent to restoration te>
membership, was not in contravention of th~ law of the Grand Lodge.

The Grand Master is commended by the committee to which his
address was referred "for the kindly and masterly manner" in which
he has governed the Craft during his year in office, and for the credit
reflected by him upon the fraternity.
The oration by R.'. W.'. Brother Elmore E. Beach, Grand Orator,
upon the subject of "International Brotherhood" claimed the attention
of the Grand Lodge during the second day of the Communication, and
at its conclusion, upon motion duly made and seconded, the thanks
of the Grand Lodge were extended to the Grand Orator, and he was
requested to furnish a copy of his address for publication in the Pro·
ceedings.
He forcefully maintained that notwithstanding thirty
thousand years of evolution of the human race along material and
intellectual lines, there still remains unsolved the stern problems of
man's avarice and ambition that there yet remains to be overcome
that cruel spirit inherent in· mankind that, for the aggrandizement of
self, will trample underfoot and crush beneath the heel of tyranny
the rights and liberties of others. Figuratively, .the speaker hears
man's cry for light; man knows that beyond the clouds of oppression
that gather and have gathered in darkness, above and around him,
there shines the effulgent light of altruism and love. The speaker
reads in history mart's efforts, often blind efforts, to push back these
clouds and get at the sunlight of truth shining behind them, and while
the speaker confesses that the coming of the day of universal peace
is long deferred, he yet discerns the faint breaking of the tlawn. He
points out the fact that in Ancient Rome, the Temple of Janus,
always open in time of war, was closed but twice, and then only for a
brief period of six years, from the reign of Romulus to Augustus
Caesar, a period of seven hundred years, and then for hope looks to
America, our own beloved land, where in a century and a third the
years of war to those of peace bear the relation of one to thirteen,
whereas, <for a period of three thousand years prior to the Civil War
in America the world knew only two hundred and twenty-seven years
of peace, thirteen years of war to one of peace. All signs point, he
·aftirrns, to an ultimate era of ·universal peace, and Masonry, with its
foundation principles of benevolence, and Brotherhood of Man, is
destined to be a potent and most powerful influence in lifting humanity
to thfs hjgh level. Ame~ica, with its host of more than one million
Masons, is the :vanguard in the Army of Progress. The keynote of
the Orator's splendid effort is struck in the following quotation, which
is introdu.:ed midway between the beginning and the end of the oration:
"As one stands on the mountain top and sees the valleys running
down to the plain below, and through the trees the silver streams
trickling, and knows they lead on to some mighty river, so we look
through the history of the past two or three hundred years and see
how material civilization, political progress, national history, indus-

4G

47

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

trial development and religious thought flow together to make· one
great majestic stream which we call International Brotherhood."

or Supreme Council of Luxemburg, Luxemburg; Grand Orient of
Greece and Grand Lodge of Greece, Athens; Symbolic Grand Lodge
of Hungary, Budapest; Supreme Council of Mexit:o, and all Grand
Lodges in Mexico; Grand Orient of Guatemala and Grand Lodge of
Guatemala; Grand Lodge of Costa Rica, San Jose; Grand Orient of
Italy, . Rome; Grand Lodge of Norway, Christiana; Grand Orient of
Lusitaina (Portugal), Lisbon; Grand Lodge of Peru, Lima; Grand
Lodge of the Dominican Republic, San Domingo ; Grand Orient of
Hayti, P ort au Prince; Grand Orient of Columbia, Bogota; Grand
Orient of Spain, Madrid; Grand Lodge of Spain, Cadiz; Grand Orient
of Uruguay, Montevideo; Grand Orient of Paraguay, Asuncion; Sovereign Grand Lodge of Porto Rico, San Juan; Grand Lodge of Sweden,
Stockholm; any Grand l;odge (however named) at Leipzig, Germany;
Grahd Orient of Venezuela, Caracas; and all Supreme Councils, Sovereign Sanctuaries, or other powers however named, wherever .situated,
of whatever rite-excepting regular Grand Lodges of Free and Accepted Masons-assuming to erect Lodges with authority to confer
the three degrees of Symbolic or Craft Masonry."
Brother Robbins' review. of California is courteous and free of
criticism.
Alexander H. Bell (Carlinville), re-elected Grand Master.
Isaac Cutter (Camp Point), re-elected Grand Secretary.

CORR!lSPOND!lNC!l. R!lPORT.

The Correspondence Report covering 350 pages, a volume in itself,
is probably as exhaustive as any issued by any jurisdiction, and is
admittedly as learned. The reviewer, Dr. Joseph Robbins, Past Grand
Master, is the pride of the jurisdictiOn of Illinois and is deferred to
by Masonic writers all over the world as one of the most learned and
profound of living authorities on Masonic law and jurisprudence. His
list, prepared by request of the Grand Lodge of Illinois, of Masonic
Grand Bodies throughout the world, segregating them into three classes
-those that are unqualifiedly regular and entitled to recognition; those
that are qualifiedly regular and hence eRtitled to limited recognition,
and lastly, those that are unqualifiedly irregular and entitled to no
recognition whatever, has been, by common consent, adopted in this
country as the standard of authority and guidance. And inasmuch as
the list has not yet appeared in our published Proceedings, it is given
herewith because of the great reference value it possesses:
"Alabama, Alberta, Arizona, Arkansas, British Columbia, California, Canada in the Province of Ontario, Colorado, Connecticut, Cuba,
Delaware, District of Columbia, England, Florida, Georgia, Idaho,
Indiana, Indian Territory, Iowa, Ireland, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana,
Maine, Manitoba, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Brunswick, New
Hampshire, New Jersey. New Mexico, New South Wales, New York,
New Zealand, North Carolina, North Dakota, Nova Scotia; Ohio,
Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Prince Edward Island, Quebec,
Queensland, Rhode Island, Saskatchewan, Scotland, South · Australia,
.South Carolina, South Dakota, Tasmania, Tennessee, Texas, Utah,
Vermont, Victoria, Virginia, Washington, Western Australia, West
Virginia, Wisconsin and Wyoming (all accorded full recognition) ;
and the three Prussian Grand Lodges-The Three Globes, the Grand
National Lodge of Germany, and the Royal-York of Friendship, at
Berlin; the Grand Lodge of Concord (Zur Eintracht), at Darmstadt;
Eclectic Union, Frankfurt; Saxony, Dresden ; The Sun ( Zur Sonne),
Bayreuth; Hamburg, Hamburg; Holland (Groot Oosten der Neder1anden) , The Hague; National of Egypt, Cairo. Also the Lodges
composing the Free Association of Five Independent Lodges in Germany, viz. : Minerva, of the Three Palms, and Baldwin of the Linden,
both at Leipzig; Archimides of the Three Tracing Boards, Altenburg;
Carl of the Wreath of Rue, Hildburghausen; Archimides of the Eternal Union, Gera (all accorded qualified recognition).
"The following bodies are deemed to be without authority in
Symbolic or Craft Masonry, and the members of their obedience ineligible to visit or affiliate with Lodges in Illinois:
"Grand Lodge Alpina, Zurich, Switzerland; Grand Orient of
Argentine Republic, Buenos Ayres; Grand Orient of Belgiu!l1, Brussels; Grand Orient of Brazil, Rio Janeiro, Grand Orient of. Chili,
Valparaiso; :\ational Grand Lodge of Denmark, Copenhagen; Grand
Orient of France and Grand Lodge of France, Paris; Grand Lodge

IOWA, 1908.
Sixty-fifth Annual Communication. Cedar Rapids. June 2, 5, 1908.
The Sixty-fifth Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful
Grand Lodge, A., F. & A. M., of the State of Iowa. was held in the
·
city of Cedar Rapids, june 2-5, 1908.
This Grand Lodge has no permanent place of meeting, but holds
its Annual Communications at such cities as are designated from
year to year.
The regular session of the Grand Lodge was preceded, as appears
to be the custom in this jurisdiction, ·by public exercises, consisting
in this instance of an address of welcome by the Mayor of the city of
Cedar Rapids, also a similar address by a Past Master in behalf of
the local Lodges ; by music, responses, etc.
· Owing t o the absence of the M.'. w. '. R. M. H unter, Grand
l\faster, because of serious illness in his family, the Grand Lc;dge was
opened by R.'. W .'. Deputy Grand Master Louis Block, an appointive
office in ·this jurisdiction, who presided throughout the session.
The following statistical information is gathered from the report:
STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

Total number of working Lodges in jurisdiction........ . ........ 510
Total .number of members . .............. . . , ......•............. 39,504
Gain in ' membership since last Annual Communication .. . ... . ... 1,666

49

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCS

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Lodges represented at the Communication...................... 431
Charters for new ,Lodges granted at this Communication........
5
Lodges continued and independen.t under dispensation. . . . . . . . . . .
1
Income of Grand Lodge .................................... $35,564.07
Assets of Grand Lodge, cash, etc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58,979.59
Besides certain Grand Lodge property, library, etc.

presided) appear to have been held during the year for the purpose
of dedicating Masonic Halls and for the placing of a corner stone.
The Lodges chartered at the preceding session were duly and regularly
constituted by commissioned Deputies. Dispensations were granted
for the formation of six new Lodges. Nine dispensations to reballot
on petitfons were granted and nineteen refused. Of the nine granted,
the Grand Master states that he required a showing on the part of
the petitioner that there was reasonable ground to think that a mistake
had been made. While there is a well-grounded feeling that dispensations for reballot shall be granted only in extreme cases, limited practically to such as will correct, what amounts to an admitted error, yet
it is probably true that in many cases when a petitioner has been
carefully investigated by a competent committee, and unanimously
recommended and is afterwards rejected in the ballot, that this result
is either because a committeeman has been loath fo disclose his adverse
report to the friends of the candidate (which is a cogent argument
for the secret report, such as is the law in California, Illinois and
some other jurisdictions) and casts the black ball himself, or because
some brother is influenced by motives other than Masonic; for it is
a fact that cannot be gainsaid, our lectures to the contrary notwithstanding, that the obligation does not make a man a Mason, and if he
is devoid of genuine principle before he takes his obligation (and
there are plenty such), he is not materially changed after, and it is
the: admitted experience of more than one . Masonic Lodge in every
jurisdiction on this continent that sometime in its career it has been
put to shame by some one within its fold abusing his high Masonic
prerogative and casting, with his secret ballot, humiliation upon some
of the truest and best of men.

48

MASONIC HOME.

There is no Masonic Home in Iowa, although the Grand Master
in · his address refers to a visit made by him during his incumbency
in oif•ce to the Eastern Star Home at Boone, Iowa. As a business
propc~ . tion Masonic Homes undoubtedly present an expensive method
of dispensing Masonic charity, but they are, nevertheless, very properly
approved by the Fraternity, and are maintained in most jurisdictions.
The care and maintenance of these Homes tend to the development
among the ,:raft generally of the virtues· of patience and toleration, of
consideratk\ and kindness, which virtues are above a money value.
In lieu uf a Masonic Home 'the Grand Lodge of Iowa has a Charity
Fund, which receives an annual appropriation from the Grand Lodge,
and from which certain needy and indigent Masons, their widows and
'orphans, are assis· ed. The principal of this fund is now about $20,000,
and the amount u •nsferred at this session of the Grand Lodge to its
credit was about ~,000, which represents practically the amount disbursed from the fund during the preceding year.
Iowa and California are almost identical as to membership. California appropriates not less than $10,000 each year toward the support
of its Boards of Relief at San Francisco, Los Angeles and Oakland,
etc., every dollar of which, and as much more in addition thereto,
contributed by the local Lodges, members of the several Boards, is
expended for the relief of r ~edy sojourning brethren and widows and
orphans from other juri~di., ;ions; and in addition to this, California
expends each year upon its I 'ome, for the benefit of its own needy,
approximately $40,000. These 'igures are mentioned not for invidious
comparison, because it has b~en affirmed, with unquestioned truth,
that the Iowa Masons are among the best in the world, but simply to
show that, notwithstanding the liberality of California in its appropriation · for charity and the care of its Home it has still maintained
itself upon a sound financial basis.
GRAND MAS'fER'S ADDRESS.

In the absence of the Grand Master his address was read by Past
Grand Master W. H. Morris.
The report discloses, as stated by the committee to whom it was
referred, a "busy and business-like administration." Three Emergent
Sessions of the Grand Lodge (at all of which the Grand Master

DECISIONS.

Of his five reported decisions the following may be of interest:
1. Is it a violation of Masonic law for a Mason to engage in the
saloon business, provided he operates strictly and in absolute compliance with the so-called mulct law? Yes.
2. Can a young man whose duty is that of a bookkeeper only for
a brewery petition a Masonic Lodge, and may the Lodge legally receive the petition? Yes.
3. A brother Mason who is a druggist is indicted for keeping a
¥iquor nuisance, pleads guilty, and is fined. Is it the duty of the
Worshipful Master of the Lodge to order an information filed against
the brother charging him with a Masonic offense?
A. No more so than in any other Masonic offense.
4. A brother residing in lowa moves to another State, taking a
<limit from the Iowa Lodge. He neglects, or for some reason fails, to

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

affiliate with a Lodge in the jurisdiction of his resic,lence. May he~
while still a non-resident of this State, return his dimit to the Lodge
isrning it and be reinstated? No.
The Committee on ] urisprudence, sustained by the Grand Lodge,
approved the Grand Master's decisions Nos. 1 and 4, disapproved
No. 2, and modified No. 3, by adding to the Grand Master's answer
the words · "of like magnitude and importance." It will throw some
light on these decisions to know that, under the Iowa Masonic Code,
it is unlawful for a Lodge to knowingly receive or act upon a petition
of a profane who may at the date of petition be engaged in the liquor
traffic. This being true, the decision of the Law Committee in sustaining the Grand Master on No. 1 was correct, but it seems like a
forced construction to overrule him on the second. The bookkeeper
of a powder company would not appear to be any more engaged in
the manufacture of explosives, and thereby, for instance, a prohibited
risk for life insurance, than the bookkeeper of a brewery, engaged
in the liquor traffic, and ther.eby a prohibited aspirant for the degree
of Masonry.
·
Under the heading of "Visitations," the Grand Master recounts
several notable Masonic gatherings, and one in particular, where the
Grand Master and Grand Secretary, and several other Grand Officers,
of the two Grand Jurisdictions of Iowa and Nebraska were present.
The Masonic Library, one of the distinctive features of the Iowa jurisdiction, and in support of which liberal appropriations have always
been granted, is referred to with a glow of pleasureable pride by the
Grand Master, and the continued fostering care · of it by the Grand
Lodge warmly bespoken by him.
The Grand 'freasurer and Grand Secretary, who is also Librarian,
present comprehensive reports, which were duly approved.

51

His kindly references under the caption "California" are deeply
al>preciated.
Phil J. Martin of Waterloo was elected Grand Master, apparently
from the floor, and Newton R. Parvin of Cedar Rapids re-elected
Grand Secretary.

I NDIANA, 1909.
Eighty-eighth Annual Communication, Indianapolis, May 25, 1909.
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of the Ancient and Honorable
Fraternity of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Indiana convened in Eighty-eighth annual meeting in the auditorium of the new
Masonic Temple, in the city of Indianapolis, at 10 o'clock a. m., Tuesday, the 25th day of May, A.D. 1909, A. L. 5909, being the fourth
Tuesday in ,May, ninety-second year of the Grand Lodge.
M.". w:. Charles N. Mikels presiding.
On the day preceding the opening of the Annual Communication
there occurred the most important Masonic event of the year in the
dedication and formal opening of the Masonic Temple and Grand
Lodge Hall, one of the most beautiful and complete Masonic edifices
in the world, costing upwards of $500,000. The occasion was one of
• great local interest, and eloquent addresses were made by the Grand
Master and others, and the ceremony of dedication was most. impressively performed.
In conclusion a reception was tendered to
the Grand Lodge and Masons generally, their families and friends,
by the Temple Association, attended by not less than six thousand
pleased and delighted guests.
From the various reports the following statistical information is
obtained:

FOREIGN CORRllSPONDllNCll.

w:.

The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by M.".
L. E.
Fellows, Grand Master (189J), who assumed the task, with no little
reluctance, at the urgent request of Grand Master Hunter. He ex·
pressed doubt as to his ability to meet the requirements of the situaion. An · examination of his work shows care and discrimination
exercised in the selection of material, and courteous consideration
for views at possible variance with his own. He truthfully observes:
"One cannot take an inventory of the rich treasures to be found
displayea annually in the annals of the various Masonic Grand Lodges,
without acquiring broader and more exalted ideas of the excellent
tenets of our institution; the power and influence for good of Freemasciriry in society and upon the \\'.Orld; the magnificence of its
·boundless charity and the elevating and ennobling character of its
moral teachings."

Number of chartered Lodges in the State............. . .. . ... .. 534
Number represented at this Communication.................... 531
Dispensations granted for new Lodges. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1
Charter granted at the Communication... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1
Membership January 1, 1908 .. .. ......... ............. . ......... 50,11 1
Gain in membership during year . . .......... . . . . . ... ... ....... . 2,404
Total membership January 1, 1909 ...... ..... ................ ... 52,515
Income of. Grand Lodge ..... . ..... . .. .. ...... . .............
$16' 745.50
.
Assets of Grand Lodge :
Balance in Treasury .. . ......... .... ....... ... . ... . ... . $ 16,439.00
Invested in Masonic Temple (about) .... .... . ... . ...... 265,000.00

.

.

MASONIC HOMI>.

There is not at the present time any Masonic Home in Indiana,
although the project has been under serious consideration for several

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

years, and at this Communication it received the stamp of approval
of the Grand Lodge, and the following resolutions were adopted :
"First-That this Grand Lodge declare in favor oi providing a
home for dependent Master Masons, widows and orphans.
"Second-That the incoming Grand ~~ster appoint a CO?Jmittee ·
of three Masons of recognized worth, ab1hty ancl who are m sympathy with the movement, whose duties it shall be to to.rmulate and
recommend to the next Grand Lodge plans for the prov1dmg of funds
and the execution of the wish of this Grand Lodge."
Steps of this kind .taken by a jurisdiction of the character of Indiana mean only one thing, and that is that a home that will take
rank with the foremost on the continent for dependent Masons, widows
and orphans will ere long be among the realized ideals of Indiana

"At the time this Lodge was organized, the Masonic institution
was the only secret fraternal organization in existence, so far as.
known.
"Vincennes was the only town of importance in the great territory now comprising the States of Indiana, Illinois Wisconsin Michigan and Minnesota."
'
'
The Grand Master feelingly refers to the death of the Past Grand
Master, Simeon S. Johnson, and Past Grand Master and at the time
of his decease Grand Treasurer Martin H. Rice, and' reports, recounting their high and noble qualities' and their lives of activity and usefulness, were ably prepared by Past Grand Master Lincoln V. Cravens and Daniel McDonald, and adopted by the Grand Lodge. To
the memory of the humbler ones of his jurisdiction that had during
the year passed onward he renders the homage of this unpolished gem:
"Seven hundred and forty-seven of our own brethren have for the
last time appeared before our altars. I express your regret and my
own as follows:
" 'At the dawn of a spring morn a sleeping rose waked up peeped
blinkingly up through a coverlet of grasses, timidly grew sky~ard to
g reet the clouds, drank deep of the wine of the sunbeams, tipped over
a bud-cup full of fragrance on the wing of a zephyr, drooped over on
its very birthplace, and died. 'But its perfume lingered. The world
was sweeter for its having tried.'"
The Grand Master personally officiated seven times at the laying
of corner stones of public buildings, and thrice at the dedication of halls,.
a nd delegated his authority upon four occasions for the performance
of public ceremonies.

52

Masonry.
GRAND MASTl:'.R'S. ADDRl:'.SS.

He expresses !;is appreciation in no uncertain terms of ~ndiana
Masons in general and of the members of the Grand Lodge 111 particular, for he says at the outset of his report:
"It matters not to me whether I .have a stop-over tic;ket ~f long
duration here on earth or not, but this I do know, that the. highway
of immortality is not long enou_gh fo; . the plea'Sure of havmg b~en
associated with you, and of havmg tried to help you and of havmg
been helped by you, to wear out. It makes a man b~!ter to be compelled to attempt to live upward toward your standard.
He refers to the two most important events of the year, as follows:
"Two great Masonic events have distinguished this year-the co.mpletion and dedication of this splendid 1:'emple, and . the celebration
of the centennial anniversary of the orgamzatton of Vmcennes Lodge,
No. 1, at Vincennes, Indiana."
.
At the celebration which took place at Vincennes, Indiana, on
March 13, 1909, representatives of the Grand Lodges of Indiana, Kentucky, Wisconsin and Illinois were present. Kentucky was represented
by M. '. W:. Grand Master Virgil P. Smith, and her Grand Se~retary,
H. B. Grant. Wisconsin sent her Grand Master J. E. Durgm, and
Charles Martin Grand Lecturer, stood sponsor for Illinois. The occasion was a ~emorable one, and the addresses . of the various Grand
Officers of a high order.
. The following are a few items that may be considered of genera!
interest:
.
"On March 13, 1809, Brother Jonathan Taylor, Past M~ster of
Abraham's Lodge, No. 8, Kentucky, installed t~e officers of Vincennes
Lodge, with Brother William Jones as Worshipful Master.
"The Lodge was chartered by the Grand Lodge of Kentucky on
August 21, 1809, as Vincennes Lodge, No. 15.
"At Madison, Indiana, ori January 13, 1818, the ~harter of Vincennes Lodge No. 15 was surrendered. and one for ymcennes Lodge,
No. 1, under the Grand Lodge of Indiana, was received.

5'3

DECIS IONS.

The decisions of the Grand Master, eighteen in number, were alt
approved by the Committee, and the following are a few that may
possibly be of general interest:
"The jurisdictional line between Lodges is at a point half way
between the two Lodge rooms as 'the crow flies.' "
The "air line" is also the law in California. It might, however, be
modified to advantage in certain mountainous districts of this State.
"Until a <limit is granted, a brother belonging to another Indiana
Lodge, petitioning for membership on a receipt for dues, is not a
member of the second l:.,odge, subject to payment of dues, until the'
former Lodge is duly notified of his election. Until such notification,.
the petitioner owes dues to the former Lodge.
"It is legal to waive jurisdiction over a can'd idate conditioned on
a division of the initiation fee.
"A Master Mason, who has never been elected or installed as a
Warden, may confer degrees when requested to do so by the Worshipful Master, who is present.
, "To operate as a black ball, objections to the. conferring of degrees
must be made after a ballot."
.

54

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The larger portion of the Grand Master's report is devoted to an
elaborate expression of his views on the subject of what he calls "The
Nationalization of Free and Accepted Masonry." The occasion of 'his
frrvent and ambitious outburst being the receipt by him of a communication from the M.'. W.'. Grand Master of Pennsylvania, inviting
him and other Grand Masters east of the Mississippi River to attend
a meeting of Grand Masters to be held in the city of Philadelphia at
the time of the Quarterly Communication of the Grand Lodge of · ·
Pennsylvania, on June 1st of this year, "to consult with regard to the
general interests of Free and Accepted Masonry." A careful reading •
of the letter of invitation from the Grand Master of Pennsylvania fails
to make clear that "Nationalization" of Masonry in the United States
is intended, but possibly the Grand Master of Indiana has some sidelights that ·do not appear in the text of the letter. In any event, he
attains an exhilaration of spirit in espousal of what he calls "Nationalization" that suggests the. necessity of oil on some of his mental ·
bearings. "All other orders," observes the orator, "of which I have
any knowledge are nationalized." Unfortunately, unlike Deity, his knowledge is limited, but even if it is imperfect, as it is in this
case, one may grant him that Freemasonry is different from "other
15rders." To nationalize Freemasonry would be to belittle it. The
world is its r ealm and the landmarks of Masonry, notwithstanding
-disagreements and differences of opinion on the subject, are n_evertheless, in essentials, everywhere the same and serve to identify the
institution and by means of a genuine knowledge of these landmarks
a Mason, no matter where made, can prove himself such to any Lodge
of Ancient Craft Masons on earth. A "General Grand Lodge" for
the UniteC! States? Never in a thousand years. There would probably be no objection from any source of a convention of representative
Masons from different Grand Lodges for an interchange of views on
questions of policy, such as duration of penal jurisdiction over rejected candidates for degrees, reciprocal arrangements for adjustment
of jurisdiction over applicants residing near State lines, the character
of committees of investigation, the nature of their reports, the status
of un-affiliates, Masons suspended for non-payment of dues, and numerous other like questions; and the conclusions of such convention, or
conventions, if held at stated intervals, could ·be communicated to the
various Grand Lodges with such recommendations touching legislation
as seemed advisable, without presuming to touch the sovereign right
of each Grand Lodge to legislate for itself. To such a plan as this
there could be no reasonable objection, but the idea of a "Supreme
Council" or a "General Grand Lodge" in Ancient Craft Masonry, to
be invested with the prerogative of sovereignty, even if limited to the
minutest detail, is repugnant to the very nature of Freemasonry, and
if adopted would, under the iaws governing recognition, place every

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCR
Grand Lodge in the compact under the ban of non-intercourse of every
other Grand Lodge of Ancient Craft Masons in the world. Yes, it is
true the scheme was discussed very fully forty or fifty years ago by the
Grand Lodges of the United States, as recorded in the early history
of the Grand Lodge of California, but it !Ilade no headway, and it is
safe to predict that it never will.
The Jurisprudence Committee to whom was referred that portion
of t~e Grand Master's address concerning "The Nationalization of
Freemasonry," evidently entertain an exalted opinion of the prowess
of the Grand Master, and their admiration finds expression in a quality
of metaphor peculiar, one must believe, to Indiana. Here is an excerpt from its report:
"The honor of laun.c hing this great ship of accomplishment on the
vast ocean of opportumty must perforce belong to him. Would that
we were pptimistic enough to believe that he 'a lso could stand on the
bridge as she safely sails into port. The rocks, the shoals and the
storms that may sweep across the path of this course never safely
travel~d before, bring misgivings to the minds and h~arts of your
committee."
FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

The report on Foreign Correspondence is by M.'. W.'. Daniel
McDonald, his eleventh. California receives kindly consideration notwithstanding the fact that the Chairman of the California Com~ittee
referred to him as "'W. E. McDonald," and he vouchsafes the assurance. that he was christened by his parents after good old "Daniel"
who escaped from the "lions' den." Brother McDonald is not a friend
of the Masonic Home proposition (Indiana's hope in this direction
is yet to be.. realized), because his knowledge of Masonic homes, like
that of the ancient maiden lady concerning the marriage relation
which she decla red to be a failure, is based upon "information and
belief." With a deeper insight, born of actual experience, he will see
the grandeur and tl!e beauty and glory of the greatest of all our
Grand Lodge charities.
William H. Marker (Tipton), Grand Master.
Calvin W. Prather (Indianapolis), Grand Secretary.

INDIAN TERRITORY, 1908.
Thirty-fifth Annual Communication, McAlester, Okla., Aug. 11, 1908.
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Indian Territory, A. F.
& A. M:.,. held its Thirty-fifth Annual Communication at McAlester
Chocta~ :ration, Oklahoma, comm'encing on Tuesday morning, Augus~
11, lpo8, A. L. 5908, at 10 o'clock, M.'. W.'. James B. Morrow, Grand
::\faster, in the Grand East.

.56

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

Chartered Lodges in the jurisdiction............................ 193
Lodges under dispensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1
'Total number of Lodges represented in this Annual Communication 185
'fatal membership last Annual Communication ....... . .. . ....... . 8,476
Net gain during 1908 ..................... .. .................... 673
'Total membership this Communication ..................... , .. . 9, 149.
Income of Grand Lodge ........... ". ........................ $12,342:45
Assets of Grand Lodge .................................... 18,710.45 ,
Assets of Masonic Orphans' Home :
Cash in hands of Grand Treasurer .. . .................... $,3,374.73
Securities in hands of Grand Treasurer ................. 56,783.76
Total assets of Orphans' Home ..................... $60,158.49.
MASONIC HOME.

There is in what was Indian Territory, under the jurisdiction of
the Grand Lodge of Indian Territory an Orphans' Home. It was
formally opened on the first of January, 1908, at Atoka, Oklahoma.
There are at present 36 children in the Home, and the cost of
maintenance is estimated at $180 per year per capita. The Home is
maintained by the interest received upon the Endowment Fund, yielding about $3,500 annually, and in addition to this 25 per cent. of the
Grand Lodge receipts are devoted to Home purposes, providing a
maintenance fund of about $7,500 per year.
The following concerning the children of the Home is copied from
the printed proceedings of this Annual Communication:
"The first public appearance of the children of the Home was a
memorable event of this Communication. At 1 :JO o'clor,k of the second day about thirty boys and girls, clean, bright-eyed, happy and
enthusiastic, were introduced from the stage, where they rendered some
excellent musical numbers. In the evening they appeard in uniform
and gave an elaborate and beautiful drill. The children were the
pride and delight of this Annual Communication."
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.

The Grand Master in the opening of his address apostrophizes
Truth and holds it up as the supreme ideal of Masonry. He sets
forth, elaborately and in detail, the ancient legend of Hafaz, the
Egyptian, seeking the grand object of existence, and finally finding it
upon the brink of the grave, as Truth.
The Grand Master, in his reference to the fraternal dead, mentions John Dillon Seaman, for many years identified with the Grand
Lodge and Chairman for a number. of sessions of the Committee on
Education.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

57

The work during the year is repr_e sented by two Emergent Communications for the purpose of placing corner stones, and one for the
purpose of conducting the funeral of Brother John D. Seaman; in
dispensations granted to form ten new Lodges, and in constituting
eight Lodges to which charters were granted at the last Annual Communication.
The "decisions" were only six in number; they were of an elementary character and were approved by the Jurisprudence Committee.
The principal business transacted at this Communication was the
reception of a Committee fro~ the Grand Lodge of Oklahoma Territory, having in charge a commission from their Grand Lodge to confer
with the Grand Lodge of Indian Territory, with the view of arranging •
a basis of amalgamation of the two Grand Lodges, so that in future
for the new State of Oklahoma there shall be but one Grand Lodge.
The Committee from the Oklahoma Grand Lodge was received in a
broad and fraternal spirit, the animating purpose of both jurisdictions
being to arrive at a satisfactory and honorable basis, whereby the
identity -of the two old Grand Lodges might be merged into one grand
organization which should embrace all of the Masons of the new State
of Oklahoma. under one jurisdiction. A satisfactory basis of agreement was reached, and it may be stated that the new Grand Lodge of
the State of Oklahoma has since been formed, and the present Annual
Communication of the Grand Lodge of Indian Territory is the last
and final one of that particular jurisdiction; and that the next Annual
Communicatlbn of the membership comprising the former two Grand
Jurisdictions will be the first Annual Communication of the new Grand
Lodge.
CORRESPONDENCE REPORT.

The report on Foreign Correspondence is by Judge Thomas Chauncey Humphrey, Chairman of the Committee.
It is his sixth annual report and is a review of forty-five Grand
Jurisdictions. Judge Humphrey states that he has given an epitome
of what appeared to be of general interest to the Craft. California is
briefly mentioned.
Brother Humphrey, in his conclusion, states that this report may
possibly be his last, inasmuch as the Grand Lodge of Indian Territory,
with this Communication, comes to an end. The following is quoted
from Brother Humphrey's concluding remarks, as the question to
which he . refers is one that has been quite fully discussed during the
past two or three years in our own jurisdiction of California, where
it has been decided that secrecy, so far as possible, should prevail in
reports of Investigating Committees:
"The question of investigation into the character of the petitioner
for degrees, and the mode of appointment of the committee has been
discussed, and in Masonry, as in all things else, it is said great men
will differ. In this review the writer has given his opinion as to the

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPO~T ON CORRESPONDENCE

BEST WAY. We repeat, when the petition has been read, the.w:. M.".
should appoint a Committee of Investigation, and the Secretarf write
in his J Olirnal the names of the committee; and at next stated Il1eeting
when the w:. M.". reached in the order of business 'Reports' of Committees,' the ,.ommittee should make its report verbally · to the Lodge, ·
and not in writing, and the Secretary should state in his record that
the committee, upon the petition of. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . ....... . .... . .. .,
reported and was discharged. Then when order of balloting for candidates was reached, and thew:. M.". made the usual announcement, the
brethren would know what the report was, but no record anywhe'r e
would be made as to how the committee reported."
At the election Brother Henry L. Muldrew, Tishomingo, was
elected Grand Master, and Brother Joe S. Murrow (Atoka), Grand
· Secretary.

Assets of Grand Lodge :
Cash irf hands of Grand Treasurer ...................... $40,883.39

KANSAS, 1:9<J9.
Fifty-third Annual Communication, Wichita, Feb. 17, 1909.
The M.". W:. Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons
of Kansas convened in Annual Communication in the Scottish Rite
Temple in the city of Wichita, Wednesday, the 17th day of February,
A. D. 1909, A. L. 5909, at 9 o'clock a. m., M." . W.'. Henry F. Mason,
Grand Master, presiding.
·
STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

Number of Lodges working under charters, 1908 . ........... . . 379
Number of Lodges chartered this Communication. . ....... ..... .
10
Total number of Lodges......... ... .. . ... .. .................. 389
Number of members January 1, 1908 ............. ... ....... .. . 30,468
Net gain in memhership during year ..... ............ ....... ... ,. . ,1,604
Number of members January 1, 1909 ........ . .................. 32,072
MASONIC HOM'E.

The Grand Master in his address has this to say of the Masonic
Home:
"The cap sheaf of Masonic achievement in this State, its crowning
glory, is the frater11ity's Home here in Wichita. There may be those
to whom for one cause. or another Masonry does not appeal, or who
find in some of its features an obstacle to fellowship or even to sympathy, who perhaps do not appreciate it because they do not underst'and it, and do not understand it because they do not appreciate it.
But every friend of humanity understands and appreciates the work
that is being done at the beautiful Home in the western part of this
city."
Income of Grand Lodge .......... ..... .. . . ... . .... .. ..... ·. $32,795.88
For General Fund .... .... .. . . . . ... . ........ .. .. $17,071.98
'
l<'or Masonic Home . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . 15,723.90

The Home is maintained by a per capita tax of 50 cents upon the
membership. It sheltered on December 31st of last year 75 beneficiaries.
During the past year a new building at the Home has been completed
at a cost of $22,132.77, and the year has been considered · in many respects a memorable one in the history of the institution.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.

The work of the year is found in the granting of dispensations to
form ten new Lodges; in the constitution ~f three new Lodges to
whom charters were granted at the last Annual Communication, and
in a number of Special Communications of the Grand Lodge for the
purpose of laying corner stones, etc. The Grand Master refers to
efforts that are being put forth to secure by means of additional State
legislation, if necessary, the exemption from taxation of Masonic property the income of which is devoted to charitable purposes. If any
property is to be exempt from taxation, such property should be thus
favored, but it is the opinion of many thoughtful economists that
property of every description should be taxed, and taxed for its full
value, and that there should be no exemptions whatever.
'fhe Grand Master refers to the loss of official ciphers t:hrough
carelessness of Lodges. It is incomprehensible how any Grand Jurisdiction in this country, noted for its enlightenment and intelligence, can
not only countenance but deliberately authorize a cipher; nor is it
plain to the ordinary understanding how the use of a cipher can be
reconcil!!d with the obligation taken by every initiate before he is
permitted t o see even the form of the Lodge into which his desire
for light has led him.
Only three decisions were rendered during the year by the Grand
Master, and were all promptly approved by the Jurisprudence Committee. One of therp may be of general interest :
"The fact that a member has been convicted of a public offense
.
m the State courts does not in and of itself constitute a ground for
charges against him, but is such strong evidence of his guilt of the
wrongful act forming the basis of his conviction as ordinarily to be
practically conclusive against him."
·
Worshipful Elrick C. Cole, Grand Orator, delivered an oration
on the subject, "Let There Be Light."
Development of the soul within, the expansion of the divine touch
received at birth from the finger tips of the Almighty, is evidently the
essence of the command, "Let there be light!" The orator truly
observes:
"No society, however strong in numbers, however. moral in its
precepts, can live upon the record of its past alone. Progress is as
necessary in societies as in a nation or an individual, and the future

61

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCR

strength of Freemasonry must depend . upon the acceptance by its
devotees of this essential law of being. It is to this progress that
every true Mason should address his efforts. Not in a spirit of change
in basic principles, but the better and clearer inculcation of the lessons
of the Order.
"In this search after light, be an optimist, not a pessimist. The
world is daily growing better, not worse. Mankind is moved by
grander ideals than ever before. The civilization of this new twentieth cen;ury is the best that this old earth has ever held."
By virtue of the recommendation of the Committee on Correspondence, recognition is extended to the Grand Lodge of Saskatchewan
and to the Grand Lodge of Western Australia; and the "nerve" of
the Grand Lodge of Scotland in presuming to try to limit the Grand
Lodge of Western Australia in its sovereign character, commented
upon. Recognition was refused, for the time being, ai: least, to fifteen
alleged Grand Bodies, including the so-called Grand Orients of Brazil,
Paraguay, Italy, Greece, Belgium and Grand Lodge of Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Swiss Alpina, etc. Louisiana is not so particular.

Gain in membership since the last Communication ............. 2,140
Charters for new Lodges granted at this Communication........
19
Lodges continued under dispensation...........................
1
Ir.come of Grand Lodge ... .. .. . ........................... $79,668.70

FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

The Report on Correspondence is by Past Grand Master Matthew
M . Miller, Chairman of the Committee. It is a virile and original
production, being filled with breezy comment and effective and st~iking
metaphor. He does not hesitate to quote liberally, but he uses splendid
<liscerna tion in his selections, and his entire report is worthy thorough and careful perusal.
·
·
Fred Washbon (Anthony), Grand Master.
Albert K. Wilson (Topeka), Grand Secre~ary.
The Grand Lodge is peripatetic, and meets next year at Hutchinson.

KENTUCKY, 1908.
One Hundred and Eighth Annual Communication, Louisville, Ky.,
Oct. 20, 21, 22, 1908.
The One Hundred and Eighth Annual Commu·nication of M.'. W.'.
Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons was opened in Ample
Form in Scottish Rite Cathedral, Louisville, Ky., on October 20, 1908.
STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

Total number of working Lodges in the State................... 533
Number of chartered Lodges.................................. 513
Number of Lodges under dispensation ...................... : . . .
20
Total number of members .... : . ............................... 32,770

Assets of Grand Lodge:
Cash on hand ......................................... $ 52,687.0~
Masonic Temple property
Masonic Widows' & Orphans' Home Endowment Fund .. 314,259.13
MASONIC HOME.

As its Masonic Library is the distinctive feature of Iowa Masonry,
so are its Masonic Homes the pride and glory of Kentucky Masonry;
and as Iowa is able to point the way to success in the assembling and
management of a Masonic Library, so is Kentucky able to show to
the Craft the development of the best along the lines of homes for
our orphans and widows, and for the dependent aged among our
brethren. Kentucky has two homes; the Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home, and the· old Masons' Home. The Craft throughout the
jurisdiction takes an especial interest in these institutions, and in
addition to the regular assessments for their support, much in the
way of voluntary action, such as the equipment of dormitories on
the part of Lodges and individuals, is done to promote the welfare of
the institution. An Endowment Fund for the Widows' and Orphans'
Home, amounting now to $314,259.13, has been accumulated, and it
is the hope of the fraternity that this may soon be augmented to half
a million dollars, through an appeal, which has been formulated and
presented to the fraternity, asking members to make the Home the
beneficiary under their wills to the amount of $1 and upwards, and
to be known as the "H. P. Barret Fund."
The income from the Endowment Fund amounted last year to
·$14,640.51, which income was supplemented by assessments upon the
membership (about one dollar per capita), yielding $29,645.65, making
a total of $441286.16, which also was increased by receipts from printfog office, shoe shops, etc., at the Home to the extent of several
thousand dollars additional, ma.king a grand total income for the
Home of $47,444.92.
The Home is administered with marked economy and skill; the
annual per capita expenses being $127.55, about one-half the cost of
our California Home. Departments of Manual Training for the boys
and Domestic Science for the girls are about to be introduced to the
end that the graduates from the Home may be adequately equipped
to assume the battle of life.
·
When results such as are being accomplished by our Kentucky
brethren thr°ough the Widows' and Orphans' Home are considered,
all criticism as to the expense of an institution of this character should

63

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

be silenced. The question is not how many dollars may be sav.ed,
but how many characters may be saved, how much of an uplift may
we impart to the communities in which our fraternity exists; the cost
is wholly secondary, to be measured only by an ability to pay.
The Old Masons' Home appears to be managed with the same
ability as characterized the administration of the Home for the children, and both reflect the utmost credit upon Masonry in Kentucky.

"I laying ~een su~pen~ed for ~10n-payment of. ?ues over two years.
havmg smce paid 41s dues m full and petlt10ned in the regular
\\ ." , he was by ballot rejected. What is his Masonic standing?"
fleld: "You remain suspended, and until you are reinstated by
t he l..odge through the ballot box you .will remain suspended for nonl>H • ment of dues, _notwithstanding the fact that the dues lor which
• •ll\ had been prev10usly suspended have since been paid in full."
It would seem that this was scarcely a square deal to the sus111 nded member, and that if the Lodge refused to reinstate him or
give him the status of a non-affiliate it should have returned him his

62

GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.

The Grand Master's address discloses a year of marked prosperity
and usefulness. Dispensations to form twelve new Lodges, certainly
an enviable record, were granted. On account of the losses of theii;
charters by fire, dispensations were granted to two Lodges to continue·
work, etc. This would hardly seem neces·sary, even though the parchment were actually destroyed. Constructively the charter still exists,
and the chartered character of the Lodge was not interrupted any
more than the marital relation of husband and wife are disturbed by
the loss of the marriage certificate.
A large number of corner stones were placed during· the year,
mostly by p·r oxies, for the Grand Master, and permission issued to
various legitimate purpose. Visitation, owing to untoward cireumstances; was somewhat limited, only three Lodges being thus favored ..
In California this . would be considered rather unusual.
Most of the "decisions" of the Grand Master, and also of the
Deputy Grand Master, who officiated while the Grand Master was
absent from the State, pertain to reinstatement, and questions relative·
thereto, of members suspended for non-payment of dues, and the
Grand Master was not in any instance overruled by the Committee.
Some of his decisions were as follows :
"Can a brother who has been suspended for non-payment of dues
for a number of years, presumably over two, and who is now engaged
in running a whisky house, be reinstated in his Lodge?" Answer
"No."
"Can a Lodge remit the dues of a brother who has been suspended for non-payment of dues for over tw·o years and receive his
petition as if his dues had been paid?"
Held, "Yes." In the exercise of a sound discretion this is within
the right of the Lodge.
"A member has been suspended for non-payment of dues for over
two years. He petitions in the regular manner, and the amount of
his dues for which he was suspended accompanied the pefition. .Petition being rejected upon ballot, should the money be refunded to him?'"
Held: "It is ntcessary for the suspended brother to first pay aU
dues before it would be proper for the Lodge to even receive his
petition. The dues for which he was suspended stand as a just debt
from him to the Lodge which he owes, and should pay whether he be
reinstated or not."

111d

•

IUl)OCy.

Among matters of importance considered at this Communication
wn the prop~s"ed new Constitution, which was finally adopted as
I l ported by the Committee.
'
The able Report on Correspondence was prepared by Past Grand
Master William W. Clarke. Under the caption California, he charucterizes as elaborate and new the resolution as to secrecy of reports
•>f investigation committees; slightly different but not exactly new.
I11 Illinois there is a constitutional provision requiring these reports to
be rendered verbally and secretly to the Master, and this is the substance of the California resolution, and is consistent with the Masonic
landmark that insures to each member secrecy as to his ballot, for an
ndverse report from a committeeman is in effect a blackball.
Virgil P. Smith (Somerset), Grand Master.
H. B. Grant (Louisville), Grand Secretary.

LOUISIANA, 1909.
Ninety-seventh Annual Communication.
Feb. 1, 1909.
The Ninety-seventh Annual Grand Communication of the Most
Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State
of Louisiana convened in the city of New Orleans at the Masonic
Temple, corner of St. Charles and Perdido streets, on Monday, February 1, 1909, at 7 :30 o'clock p. m.
Owing to the removal from' the State during the · year of the
M:·. w:. J. C. Drew, Grand Master, and of the death during the
:same period of R. ·. W. ·. Deputy Grand Master Fred C. Marsh, the
Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge was opened and pre·sided over by R.". w:. N. B. Null, Senior Grand Warden, acting as
Grand Master.
STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

'Total number of chartered Lodges. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 193
Lodges under dispensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7
Charters granted at this Communication........................
S
Total membership preceding year ... . . . ............ . ............ 11,851

65

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Net gain in membership during year......... .. ............. . .. 557
Total present membership . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12,414 ·
Income of Grand Lodge ............. . .... . ............... $ 35,419.50
Assets of Grand Lodge .. ... ..... ....... ....... .... . . ... .. 181,366.90

Under the heading of "'Necrology" the Grand Master expresses
the profound regret experienced by the whole jurisdiction in the
"passing onward" during the year of Past Grand Master L. C. Allen
nnd Deputy Grand Master Fred C. Marsh, and he briefly outlines their
careers, rich in devotion to duty and manifestations of genuine unselfishness and worth.
During the year a district of considerable extent in Louisiana
was visited by a cyclone, devastating the country, killing and wounding many and leaving hundreds without shelter. The Grand Master
took prompt action and forwarded without delay to the stricken section money needed to provide the necessary relief. California, fortunately, is not afflicted with hurricanes, cyclones or tornadoes, and
except for the unpreparedness of the water company in San Francisco
three years ago the temblor which tarried here for about forty-five
seconds at that time would have left fewer traces behind than any
one of a dozen cyclones or hurricanes or tornadoes that have caressed
other portions of our fair land during the last two decades.

the larger portion of which (about $160,000) consists of investment in
the Masonic Temple at New Orleans.
MASONIC HOME.

There is no Masonic Home in Louisiana, although a small fund is
listed in the Grand Lodge balance sheet as "Widows' and Orphans'
Home Fund," from which it would appear that the ultimate establishment of a Home is contemplated, and that the creation of a fund
for that purpose has commenced.
GRAND MAST"ER'S ADDR"ESS.

The acting Grand Master refers to the circumstances which occurred during the year, whereby he was unexpectedly advanced from
Senior Grand Warden to acting Grand Master, and says:
"Wh9 knows the possibilities of a day? The present only is in
our keepmg. Let us avail ourselves of the opportunities it offers and
remember that the reward of one duty is the power to perform
another."
In Louisiana, in the formation of new Lodges, it is not necessary
that charter members shall sever their connectiori with their old
Lodges until after the new Lodge has actually been constituted, a
certificate of good standing having the same effect as a <limit; confusion has arisen from this practice owing to the frequent failure of
Secretaries of new L odges to notify Lodges to which charter members
formerly belonged of the severance of their membership therein, which
has resulted, in certain cases, of Masons appearing as members of
both the old and the new Lodges, and to avoid the recurrence of this.
apparent dual membership, the Grand Master recommends that dimits.
only be accepted in connection with petitions for dispensations for
new Lodges.
The work of the Order in the city of New Orleans was, during
the early part of the year, disturbed by the attempted introduction ·of
Cerneauism into the State; the Grand Master took prompt action in
exposing the spurious character of the alleged Masonry. In doing
this the name of the promoter of the clandestine brand was mentioned
by the Grand Master, so it was affirmed by this individual, in an
indelicate manner, and to show that he was a man of no mean parts,
he forthwith commenced action against the Grand Lodge, alleging
damages in the sum of $50,000. It is surprising to learn that neither
the apprehensions nor the dues of the Grand Lodge have been raised
in consequence of the threatened seizure of the Grand Lodge treasury.

D"ECISJONS.

The Grand Master decided that an E. A. who has lost a foot and
been supplied with an artificial pedal extremity could not be passed
to F. C. In Utah the Grand Master permitted the passing and raising
of one who, in an accident, had lost both legs, one below and one
above the knee. In Texas the loss, after initiation, of the nail from
the little toe of the left foot would, it may, with great confidence be
affirmed, act as a bar to advancement.
The Grand Master properly decided that a Lodge U. D. could
not issue a dimit, ruling that such Lodges are strictly limited to the
performance of such acts as are delegated to them in the instrument
which gives them life-that is, to initiate, pass and raise candidates
for admission into Masonry.
'
A decision of the Grand Master that in spite of an objection to
the installation of an officer-elect, the installation should, notwithstanding, be proceeded with, the right being preserved to the objecting
brother to make known his reasons to the Master at the conclusion
of the ceremony, is thus commented upon by the Jurisprudence Committee:
"We regret to be compelled to express the opinion that there is
error in the ruling of the M.'. W.". Grand Master. permitting an
officer-elect to be installed over an objection to the installation, but
reserving the objector's right to make the reasons known after the
installation to the Master.
"We are of the opinion that the objection should be heeded, the
ground stated, unless the accused brother withdraws, and the question
settled before the installation can proceed."
3a

66

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

In his concluding remarks the Gr8.nd Master pays this tribute
to the memory of the earlier workers of the fraternity in Louisiana: .
"The years of the Grand Lodge of Louisiana are rapidly approaching the century mark. Its struggles for existence in the early years
of its life are now matters of history. Planted in a community almost
wholly antagonistic to its teachings, at a time when Masons cotild
hardly publicly acknowledge their allegiance to the institution, then
through the dark days of the Civil War and the depression which followed, it had to be carefully nurtured and tended while awaiting more
favorable conditions. We revere the memory of the faithful workers to
whose energy, and fortitude we are so deeply indebted. Their persistence and faith are well worthy of our sincerest emulation."
The following resolutions from the Committee on Foreign Correspondence were adopted :
Resolved, That Edict No. 5, whereby Masonic intercourse
forbidden with the Grand Lodge of Hamburg be and is hereby repealed, and the Grand Master is requested to arrange for an exchange
of representatives;
Resolved, That the Grand Master be requested to arrange for the
exchange of representatives with the Eclectic Grand Lodge of Frankfort-on-the-Main, the Grand National Mother Lodge of the Three
Globes at Berlin, Grand Lodge "Royal York" of Prussia, the Grand
Lodge of Saxony and the Grand Lodge of Chile;
Resolved, That fraternal recognition be and is hereby tendered
to the Grand Countries Lodges at Berlin, the Grand Lodge "Of the
Sun" at Beyruth, the Grand Lodge "Zar Eintracht" of Hesse, at Darmstadt, the Grand Lodge of Sweden, the Grand Lodge of Norway, the
Grand Lodge of Denmark, the Grand Lodge Symbolic of Hungary,
the Grand Lodge of the Netherlands, at The Hague. the Grand Lodge
of Porto Rico, the Grand Lodge Valle de Mexico, the Grand Lodge
of Oaxaca, the Grand Lodge of N ueva Leon, the Grand Lodge Cosmos
of Chihuahua, and the Grand Lodge of San Salvador;
Resolved,. That in consequence of the invasion of the jurisdiction
of the Grand Lodge of Texas, by the Grand Lodge of the Federal
District of Mexico, through the granting of warrants to several
Lodges therein, recognition be a11d is hereby withdrawn from said
Grand Lodge and all intercourse therewith is hereby prohibited;
Resolved, That the question of recognition of the Grand Orient
of the Republic of Argentina, the Grand Orient of Uruguay, and
other Masonic Powers not now recognized by us, be deferred and
referred to the Committee on Foreign Correspondence for further·
investigation by them."
No one can accuse Louisiana of leaning backward as a strict
constructionist.
R.'. W.'. Brother C. C. Kramer delivered an oration-the position
of Grand Orator being one of recent creation-on the subject of
"Genesis and Development of Masonic Truth," which at its conclusion
was characteriz~d by the Grand Master as "masterful and eloquent,"
and as portraying in a "forcible and convincing manner" the relationship of Masonry and religion.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

67

FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by Brother Herman C.
Duncan, a conscientious and careful review of about eighty Grand
Jurisdictions. California (1907) receives courteous mention.
L. E. Thomas (Shreveport), Grand Master.
Richard · Lambert (New Orleans), Grand Secretary.

MAINE, 19D8.
Eighty-ninth Annual Communication, Portland, May 5, 6, 7, 1908.
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Maine met in Annual Communication
at Portland, May 5, 1908, the M.'. W.'. Charles F. Johnson presiding.
Two hundred and fifty-four delegates, representing 185 of the 201
Lodges, were present, also all the living Past Grand Masters, eleven
in number.
STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

N umber of Lodges in the jurisdiction . ...... ............ . . ..... 201.
Total membership March 1, 1907 ......................... .. ..... 26,530
Net increase during year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
Total membership March 1, 1908 ...... ... ........ . ......... ... .. 27,356
Income of Grand Lodge ............... . .... . ......... . .... . $11,762.25
Assets of Grand Lodge :
Cash in hands of Grand Treasurer .................... . . $20,480.06
Invested Charity Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52,304.60
There is no Masonic Home, but the Charity Fund, the income
from which is used to relieve distress, is of substantial proportions
and is in process of constant augmentation.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.

. The Grand Master's Address is a businesslike statement of the
work of his administration. He states that he has answered a great
many questions during the year, but does not wish to designate any
of them as "decisions,'' as nothing new was involved in his rulings.
In conclusion the Grand Master says :
"Now as I am about to lay down these duties, I can say to you
with all sincerity that my appreciation then of the honor has nQw been
increased a hundred fold, and my knowledge of the magnitude and
extent of the work in a much larger proportion. I did not then know
Masonry as I know it now. I had iust completed a short excursion
along the shores of that great ocean whose tides rise and fall upon
every land. I have since sailed a little further out on that ocean,
though not beyond familiar capes, yet far enough to catch a glimpse
of the commerce conveyed upon its surgin~ breast, not a commerce
whose object is wealth, but brotherly love.'

69

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The record for brevity of an annual report from a Grand Secretary is unquestionably held by Grand Secretary Stephen Berry, the
report occupying thirteen lines of the printed proceedings'.
Fraternal recognition was extended to the Grand Lodge of Saskatchewan.
"Bro. William Pitt Preble, Senior Past Grand Master, who had
come on from New Brighton, Staten Island, N. Y., to attend the
Grand Lodge, although .in his ninetieth year, was introduced to the
members by Past Grand Master Chase, and was welcomed by the
Grand Master, .the members standing."
The report on Foreign Correspondence is by Past Grand Master
Albro E. Chase. California (1907) receives favorable and courteous
attention.
Edmund B. Mallet (Freeport), Grand Master.
Stephen Berry (Portland), Grand Secretary.

<11 and Master, and that, acting upon his conviction, he had paid as
many visits as possible to different Lodges during the year.
No requests for "decisions" were received by him during the year,
nnd it was not necessary to exercise his prerogative of discipline,
11cnce and harmony having been reported from all sides.
During the year dispensations were granted to form five new
L•>dges. One of these received a charter at this Communication, the
other four being continued another year under dispensation.
He expresses his deep appreciation of the benefits which had
• >me to him from his contact with the brethren of his jurisdiction
during the years which had been devoted by him to Masonry, and
•i1pecially during the year that he occupied the Oriental Chair in the
(~rand Lodge, and closes his excellent address in the following lanlfttage:
"I have received much personal benefit from my close association
with the Order and its teachings in the past year and have learned
that Freemasonry is designed to excite noble aspirations to develop
practical charity, and to point out to those professing its tenets the
necessity for high ideals in the home, in the business world, and in
the State.
"I carry with me into my retirement the memory of happy days,
which I shall ever recall with pleasure, of new friendships formed which
l shall ever cherish, and of touching kindnesses received from my
brethren, which have warmed my heart and made glad my soul.

68

MANITOBA, 1909.
Thirty-fourth Annual Communication.
Winnipeg.
June 9, 1909.
The Thirty-fourth Annual Communication of the M.'.
Grand
Lodge of Manitoba, Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons, was opened
in the Masonic Temple, at the city of Winnipeg, Province of Manitoba,
on Wednesday, June 9, A. D. 1909, A. L. 5909, M.'. W.'. Henry J.
Pugh, Grand Master.

w:.

STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

Total number of Lodges................. .. .................... . 62
Total membership .. . . . ... .. . . ... . ...... . . .......... ....... ... .4,554
Net gain during the year ...... ................. ... ............. 306
Income of Grand Lodge :
Cash in hands of Treasurer ....... .. ................... $ 1,482.08
Investments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17,850.CO
GRAND MASTl(R'S ADDRl(SS.

The Grand Master feelingly refers to the death of that distinguished brother, M.'. w:. Thomas Robinson, Past Grand Master,
whose unexpected demise while journeying to Montreal en route to
Englanli. where he hoped to spend a well-earned holiday, cast a gloom
over the entire jurisdiction. He was greatly beloved by his brethren
and his sterling integrity, his great ability, and his devotion to the
Masonic work of the jurisdiction had greatly endeared him to the
Grand Lodge of Manitoba.
The Grand Master expresses his conviction that great benefit is
derived by the subordinate Lodges through official visits from the

"'Let fate do her worst; there are relics of joy,
Bright dreams of the past which she cannot destroy;
Which come in the night time of sorrow and care,
And bring back the features that joy used to wear.
Long, long be my heart with such memories filled!
Like the vase in which roses have once been distilled,
You may break, you may shatter the vase, if you will,
But the scent of the roses will hang round it still.'"
The reports of the various District Deputy Grand Masters show
a condition of prosperity throughout the jurisdiction that should be
exceedingly gratifying to· the Grand Officers. Financially, the jurisdiction is in a sound and . wholesome condition, the investments to
the credit of the Charity Fund amounting to more than $17,000. It is
a surprise that in a jurisdiction of nearly 5,000 members, with a
Charity Fund of more than $17,000, there should only be one draft
of $50 made during the year for benevolent purposes, and would indicate that there must be in the jurisdiction some who are entitled to
.
Masonic charity that are overlooked. .
At the annual election there were elected
James D . Bane (Boissenein), Grand Master.
James A. Ovas (Winnipeg), Grand Secretary.

iO

_REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

MARYLAND, 1908.
One Hundred and Twenty-second Annual Communication. Baltimore.
Nov. 3, 1908.
The M.". w:. Grand Lodge of A. F. & A. Masons of Maryland
commenced ·it~ One Hundred and Twenty-second Annual Communication on the third Tuesday of November, 1908, at 8 o'clock p. m.
The Grand Lodge was opened in due form by the R. W . Deputy
Grand Master, Brother James R. Brewer, with prayer by the Grand
Chaplain, the other Grand Officers occupying their respective ?laces.
By order of the R.". w:. Deputy Grand Master, the Grand Director
oi Ceremonies, the Grand Sword Bearer, and other members of his
staff, proceeded to the apartments of the Most . Worshipful Grand
Master and escorted him to the Grand Lodge room.
His entrance was proclaimed by the Grand Marshal, the Grand
Honors were given and the M.". w:. Grand Master took the gavel
tendered him by the R.". w:. Deputy Grand Master and assumed the
duties of the Grand East, which illustrates a custom prevailing in th.e
Grand Lodge of Maryland which does not obtain in other Grand
Jurisdictions in this country, and because of the dignity and impressiveness of the ceremony having much to recommend it. Another custom of the Grand Lodge of Maryland distinctive in that jurisdiction
is that of holding two semi-annual Communications, the one of equal
importance with the other, and that instead of annual reports fror;i
officers and committees there are semi-annual reports. At the Semiannual Communication held May 12, 1908, the Grand Master delivered
a brief address, dealing almost exclusively with matters growing out
of the destruction of the Masonic Temple by fire, and at the so-called
Annual Communication held in November no address whatever appears in the proceedings as having been delivered by the Grand Master,
although it is briefly stated that the Grand \.faster made an address
touching work done toward reconstruction of the Temple.
The
address, however, must have been extremely ·informal in character.
At the semi-annual Communication in May, 107 out of the 114
chartered Lodges appeared to be represented, and at the Annual Communication 113 Lodges. The total membership of the jurisdiction at
the Annual Communication was 12,828, a gain over the previous year
of 528. No recommendations whatever touching the aff~irs of the
Craft are made by .the Grand Master at either of the Semi-annual or
Annual Communications.
No decisions are reported by him, and not only is there no report
of Jurisprudence Committee, but in fact not even does there appear
to be any such committee of the Grand Lodge.
.
The Grand Lodge dues collected from members durmg the year
appear to have been $35,415.95, all of which was turned over to the

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

il

Grand Treasurer, and all but $852.42 expended. The Grand Lodge
dues are abnormally high, apparently about $3 per capita. There is
110 Masonic Home, but there is apparently a large charity disbursement by the Grand Lodge. There is also a Masonic Board of Relief
for extending aid to distressed sojourning brethren, although its
activities are limited, the total disbursements during the year aggregate the small sum of $547.40. The Grand Master of the jurisdiction,
the Most Worshipful Thomas S. Shryock, holds the record for continuous service, having filled the Oriental chair in the Grand Lodge
of Maryland for twenty-three consecutive years, and having been at
this Communication elected for the twenty-fourth time. It might be
beneficial to try a change. There must be others in so important a
jurisdiction as Maryland competent to fill the chair of Grand Master,
and judging from the character of the addresses of the Grand Master,
as published in the proceedings of recent years, he must be suffering
marked fatigue ; and the burden put upon the loose constructionists
of his jurisdiction, to prove that the constitutional requirement of an
annual report from the Grand Master is complied with, very great.
The truly beloved Mason of the jurisdiction of Maryland is the
Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence, Edwacd T .
Schultz, Past Senior Grand Warden. He has filled this important
position for twenty-two years, and his reports are admittedly among
the most interesting and instructive issued by any jurisdiction in this
country, and his opinions on mooted questions of Masonic law are
considered among the soundest. As an evidence of the regard in
which Brother Schultz is held by his brethren in Maryland, the following is taken from the journal of the Grand Lodge proceedings of
the closing day of the Semi-annual Communication in Maryland :
"The Grand Master stated that he is one of that number -of persons who believe that it is more commendable to show proper respect
to a worthy person while living than to wait until after death" to show
tardy recognition for invaluable services.
"He then recalled some of the many services of R.". W:. Past
Senior Grand Warden Edward T. Schultz, now totally blind, but still
performing wonderfully ·fine work as Chairman of the Committee of
Correspondence. He asked an appropriation to have painted for: the
embellishment . of the walls of the reconstructed Temple a portrait of
our much-loved brother.
"Eulogistic remarks were made by Bros. Daniel Ammer and Rev.
Henry Branch, and a motion to have the portrait painted and hung
tmder the authority of the M.". w:. Grand Master was unanim0usly
adopted."
Fraternal recognition was extended to the Grand Lodge of Saskatchewan.
Thomas J. Shryock (Baltimore), Grand Master.
William M. Isaac ( Baltimore) , Grand Secr~ta ry.

72

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Assets of Grand Lodge:
Masonic Education Charity Fund ... .. .............. . $ 409,567.19
Value of Masonic Temple equity .................... 1,000,000.00
Masonic Home Fund, etc.

MASSACHUSETTS, 1908.
One Hundred and Seventy-fifth Anniversary. Stated Communication.
'Boston, Dec. 29, 1908.
Four Quarterly Communicatioll'S are held by the Grand Lodge
each year, one each in March, June, September and December; and
the so-called Stated Communication on St. John the Evangelist's Day,
at which the installation of officers takes place, and at which time the
Festival of St. John the Evangelist is held.
At the Quarterly Communication, held in March, 1908, the Grand
Master, M.". w:. John A. Blake reported the deaths of Past Grand
Masters Charles A. Welch and Percival L. Everett, and others.
Recognition was refused to the so-called Grand Lodge of Greece
and so-called Grand Orient of Argentine. The application for recognition on behalf of Greece was presented by a person calling himself
Ange Romeos, and becoming impatient at the delay in receiving the
recognition craved, it appears that he, in connection with sundry
others "notorious, spurious and pretended Masons," started a concern ~hich they called Haramon Lodge, No. 143, under the jurisdiction
of the Grand Orient of the Argentine Republic. Romeos appears to
have been very active in . soliciting recognition from various Grand
Lodges, but with little or no success, and the warning to the Craft
put forth by the Massachusetts Grand Lodge against this personage,
and what he represents, is hardly needed.
It was determined at this Communication to cause to be prepared
and published a history of Freemasonry in Massachusetts from Colonial
days to the present time, and the brother chosen by universal cons~nt
as the best qualified for the position of Historian was the Recordmg
Grand Secretary, Sereno D. Nickerson.
The June and September Quarterly Communications were ~evoted
chiefly to the consideration of reports from the Committee on Masonic
Home, showing the accumulation of funds and the gradual progress
toward the acquiring of the Home, which remained to be consummated
later in the year.
At the December Quarterly Communication there were presented
the -usual annual reports of officers, from which the following statistical
information is obtained:
STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

Total number of Lodges under the jurisdiction of the Grand
Lodge of Massachusetts ................................ · . . 239
Total membership, 1907 ... . ... . . ... : .... .... ........ . . . ...... · . 52,260
Net gain in membership during the year ....... . .. . ........ · · · · 2,171
Total m'embership, 1908 ........... ...... . .... . . .... ......... · · 54,431
Income of Grand Lodge . ... . . ... . . ... ... . . ........... . ···· .$87,518.53

73

MASONIC HOME.

.·

The Masonic Home idea in Massachusetts has become an accomplished fact, and this large and important jurisdiction has been added
to the number of American Grand Lodges that consider the Masonic
Home as an absolutely necessary adjunct to the proper administra·
tion of Masonic charity.
At the Feast Of St. John's Day the retiring Grand Master, M.". W.".
John Albert Blake, in his banquet address, made these felicitious
remarks:
" I am glad to inform you that today we have comi;>leted an
agreement which makes us the actual owners of :i M~somc Home.
'I'his agreement has been signed today, and I consider 1t one of the
happiest moments in my life; when I affixed m)'. name to the document
as the M.". W.". Grand Master of Masons m Massachusetts. (Applau!>e.) Tms was my last official signature.out of some three thousand
or four thousand."
A special fund, actually in hand, and pledged, al'l)ounting to
probably a hundred thousand dollars, fifty thousand of which has
been used to purchase the Home property, has been raised, and with
Past Grand Master Blake as Chairman of the Home Board, no one
can doubt the beneficent succes, of the institution from the very start.
An exhaustive report was made by Past Grand Master Charles
'I'. Gallagher upon the application of the so-called Grand Lodge of
France for recognition. He had visited Europe during the previous
year and had examined, on the ground, the conditions surrounding
French Masonry, and from personal knowledge was able to give the
Grand Lodge a comprehensive statement of all the facts needed to
form a most intelligent judgment. Recognition by English-speaking
Grand Lodges of the Grand Orient of France was withdrawn it1 1877,
because of a full realization at that time of the atheistic character of
French Masonry, and of an absolute disregard of the fundamentals
of Ancient Craft Masonry. The Grand Orient of France was then,
and still is, atheistic, and is not even tolerant in its attitude toward .a
belief in God; belief in God is denied; .and it is, therefore, mamfestly true that the Grand Orient of France is not in any possible
sense Masonic.
In 1894 there was organized the so-called Grand Lodge of France,
which claims to recognize Deity and to conform to the Ancient Landmarks,. and it is the Grand Lodge of France that is seeking recognition of English and American Grand Lodges. Brother Gallagher,
however, was forced to report adversely to the pretensions of this

75

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

body. To say nothing of the irregularity of its organization, it leaves
optional with the candidate the matter of belief or disbelief in the
Supreme Being; the Book of the Law, which is displayed on the altar
. as the Great Light, is not the Holy Bible, but is the Book of Constitutions; and in addition to these facts, the so-called Grand Lodge, as
well as the Grand Orient, is political in character, and in no sense
benevolent or humanitarian.
In a letter from the Grand Registrar of the Grand Lodge of
England to Brother Gallagher the following significant statement
occurs:
"Indeed, Freemasonry is in such bad odor on the Continent of
Et1rope, by reason of its being exploited by Socialists and Anarchists,
that we (the Grand Lodge of England) may have to break off relations with more of the Grand Bodies which have forsaken our landmarks."

from the operations of these grafters and parasites that infest the
body politic.

74

Recognition was, of course, denied.
The Grand Master during the year made a large number of officiar
visits; he presided at ten Special Communications of the Grand Lodge,
three for the purpose of lasing corner stones, five to assist in fiftieth
anniversary celebrations of various Lodges, and one to participate in
the celebration of the one hundred and seventy-fifth anniversary of
St. John's Lodge.
The Grand Master is opposed to all sorts of innovations in the
conferring of degrees, such as the use of robes, the stereopticon, etc ..
He refers to the action of the Grand Lodge in 1896, which voted 1'that
the Grand Lodge order the discontinuance in this jurisdiction of the
costuming of the Fellow Crafts," and the Grand Master further expresses himself upon the subject as follows:
"The strength of Masonic work and its peculiar characteristic is
found in its impressive simplicity, and that our attempt should be to
endeavor to inculcate the moral precepts rather than to exhibit our
dramatic abilities; to cultivate the substantial rather than the superficial elements and possibilities of our work."
There was, up to two years ago, one Lodge in California that had'
for a number of years assumed the right, without asking, to costume,
and felt sorely aggrieved because the Grand Lodge refused to admit
that the Lodge had acquired, by sufferance, the privilege of continuing this innovation, and becau.se the Grand Lodge ordered its subordinate to come down off its perch and conform its work to the
standard adopted for all.
Through the efforts of the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts a law
was passed by the Legislature of the State against the use of the name
"Masonry,'' or in fact that of any other legitimate fraternity, by bogus
peddlers of degrees, and a conviction following a test case was obtained, so that Massachusetts is likely to be quite free in the future

A similar law was passed by the Legislature of California last
winter, but it failed to receive the Executive's approval, because it
was not, in his judgment, drawn upon constitutional lines.
The Grand Master reports no "decisions,'' and there appears to
be no Jurisprudence Committee and no Foreign Correspondence
report.
At the Quarterly Communication in December the Grand Officers
for the next ensuing year were elected, and at the Stated Communication on St. John the Evangelist's Day, following, were duly installed
Dana J. Flanders (Malden), Grand Master.
Thomas W. Davis (Boston), Grand Secretary.

MICHIGAN, 1909.
Sixty-fifth Annual Communication.
Detroit.
May 25, 27, 1909.
The Grand Officers, Past Grand Officers and Representatives of
the constituent Lodges of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of
Michigan assembled in the Masonic Temple in the city of Detroit, at
high twelve, on Tuesday, the 25th day of May, A. D. 1909, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and By-Laws, for the
purpose of holding the Sixty-fifth Annual Communication of the
Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Michigan.
M.'.W.'. Herbert Montague, G. M,, presiding. A distinctive
feature in the practice of the Grand Lodge of Michigan is the calling
by the Grand Secretary immediately after the formal opening of each
Annual Communication crf the "Roll of Honor,'' bei.ng the list of the
Past Grand Masters of the jurisdiction who have passed beyond the
shadows of earth and have entered into the radiance of the eternal
dawn. This list contains many honored and historic names, including
those of Cass, and Fenton, and Coffinbury, and McCurdy, and many
others, only one name, that of McCurdy-"the grand old man of
Masonry"-having been added to the roll since the last assemblage
of the brethren. Fourteen, all but three, of the living Past Grand
Masters were present at this Communication, and out of a total of
412 Lodges (chartered and under dispensation) in the jurisdiction, 403
were represented, a circumstance that denotes a wonderful degree
of enthusiasm in Michigan Masonry and augurs well for the future
of the Craft in that State.
From tlfe reports of the various Grand Officers, the following
statistical information is obtained :
'l'otal number of chartered Lodges. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 405
7
Lodges under dispensation

77

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Total membership January I, 1908 ............ .. ............. .. 58,542
Net gain in membership during the year ........................ 2,157
Total membership January 1, 1909 ....... .. ............ ... . . ... 60,699

either to exploit some pet opinion of the Grand Master, or to effectually embalm the author in the digest.
Numerous Special Communications of the Grand Lodge were held
for various purposes during the year, but the one that is featured
by the Grand Master was the Communication held for the purpose
of laying the corner stone of the new Federal Building at Grand Rapids.
Mrs. Nicholas Longworth, the breezy daughter of our strenuous, lionslaying ex-President, graced the occasion with her presence, and was
permitted by the Grand Master to bedaub his trowel with mortar.
He speaks of her as "delightful and engaging." One notic~s, with
some surprise, the absence of the word "beauty." His gallantry should
have arisen to the occasion.
The Grand Master mentions his trip to Cincinnati, and the great
· pleasure derived therefrom, to be present upon the occasion of the
making "Mason at sight" of William Howard Taft.
The reports of the Grand Secretary and the Grand Treasurer afford
evidence that warrants congratulation to the Grand Lodge upon
possessing such efficient and capable officials for these important
places.

76

The three largest Lodges in the jurisdiction are:
Palestine, No. 357, Detroit ....... .... ...... ...... .. .. . 1,356 members
Ashlar, No. 91, Detroit ............................... 1,033 members
Zion, No. 1, Detroit ........................... .... .... l,009 members
Income of Grand Lodge ....... ... ........................ . $32,328.43
Assets of Grand Lodge:
Cash in hands of Grand Treasurer .... . . ..... ........... $ 9,835.33
Bonds ·in hands of Grand Treasurer ........... , . . . . . . . . 35,000.00 ·
Palestine Lodge, No. 357, at Detroit, with a membership of 1,356,
is now the largest Lodge of Masons in the world. Genesee Falls •
Lodge, No. 507, at Rochester, N. Y., had until very recently long held
this distinction, but its membership by the last report was 1,342, fourteen less than the membership of Palestine Lodge.

..

MASONJC HOME.

There is a Masonic Home in Michigan, under the direction ·of a
Board of Control, composed of representatives of the Grand Lodge,
Grand Chapter, Grand Council, Grand ' Commandry, and Grand Chapter 0. E. S., and maintained jointly by them all, although the great
preponderance of revenue is derived from the Grand Lodge, which
contributes an annual tax of 20 cents for each Master Ma§on. The
beneficiaries of the Home number about 60---44 men and 16 womenand the annual cost of maintenance of each beneficiary last year was.
$195.52.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.

While the modest are not always great, it may tn,1thfully be·
affirmed that the truly great are always modest, and the following
from the Grand Master's address gives the touch of the real man that
one finds in the row of stuffed potentates encountered in traversing·
the corridors of Grand Lodge reports. He says:
"I have attempted no great reforms, nor have I indulged in any
pyrotechnical display of authority. I have taken the position of
servant of the fraternity of Michigan, rather than that of august
ruler of the Craft,"
And. to further emphasize the fact that he is just a plain man, with·
no desire to pose as the expounder of Masonic law, he unwittingly betrays the secrets of the sanctum sanctorum by saying th~ in answering questions presented for his official ruling during the year no new
"decisions" were necessary; for he might have added that the long
list of "decisions," often numbering fifty or sixty, found in Grand
Master's reports, are, for the most part, pnre fabrications, invented

FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

The report on Foreign Correspondence is by the Grand Secretary, Lou B. Winsor, He states that it is his sixty-sixth; one would
scarcely take him to be that old, judging from the handsome features
in the picture of the Grand Rapids corner stone group printed in the
proceedings.
California ( 1908) is exhaustively reviewed, with excerpts from
addresses and reports.
The next Annual Communication will be held May 24, 1910, at
the city of Saginaw.
Arthur M. Hume (Owosso), Grand Master.
Lou B. Winsor, P . G. M. (Reed City), Grand Secretary.

MINNESOTA, 1909.
Fifty-sixth Annual Communication.
St. Paul.
June 20, 1909.
The Fifty-sixth 'Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful
Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of Minnesota
was held in the Masonic Hall on Fifth street, in the city of St. Paul,
commencing at high twelve on Wednesday'. January 20, A. D. 1909,

A. L. 5909.
All the Grand Officers were present except the Junior Grand
Steward. During the session 230 Lodges were represented out of
248 on the roll.

78

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form by Grand Master
William P. Roberts.
STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

Total number of Lodges in the jurisdiction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 248
Total number of members .................... ... ...... .... ..... 23,860
Net gain during the year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 856
Income of Grand Lodge ............................. : ..... $14,280.03
Assets of Grand Lodge :
Cash in General Fund ..... ...... ... . ... . ....... . ..... $13,416.19
Cash in Widows and Orphans' Fund . ...... ..... ........ 2,529.63 .
· Bonds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58,000.00
MASONIC HOME.

The Masonic Home proposition has been approved by the Grand
Jurisdiction of Minnesota and funds for the purpose of founding a
Hoine have been in process of accumulation in Minnesota for a number of years past, and under the provisions of the Constitution of the
Minnesota Masonic Home Association, the sum of $100,000 must be
raised before any measures are inaugurated for the location or con·struction of a Home. The funds thus far accumulated, while of a
substantial amount, are very much short of the stipulated sum, and
consequently the adoption of definite plans for the construction of a
Home are deferred to a somewhat indefinite date in the future.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.

The Grand Master presents a voluminous report of his official
actions and rulings during the year; two Lodges, to which charters
were voted a year ago, were duly constituted; dispensations were
granted to form three new Lodges; corner stones were laid to five
-public buildings; dedications of three Masonic Halls .w ere made, and
a number of official visitations are recorded.
Under the heading of "decisions" the Grand Master states that
while he has been able to answer a great many of the questions propounded to him by simple reference to the Masonic Constitution and
Code, he yet has found it necessary to promulgate a few "decisions,"
and he then proceeds to take a birdseye view of Masonic Law and
Jurisprudence in eighty-three so-called decisions. His "decisions,"
however, were over well explored ground, and without changing a
letter or a punctuation . mark were unanimously approved by the Jurisprudence Committee.
Fraternal recognition was extended to the Grand Lodge Valle de
Mexico.
Eugene E. Swan (Stewart), Grand Master.
John Fishel (St. Paul), Grand Secretary.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

79

MISSISSIPPI, 1909.
Ninety-first Annual Communication.
Meridian.
Feb. 15, 1909.
The Ninety-first Annual Grand Communication of the Grand
Lodge of Mississippi, Free and Accepted Masons, was held in the city
of Meridian on Tuesday, February 15, 1909, M.'. W.'. Edwin J. Martin,
Grand Master, presiding. A public reception preceded the formal
opening of the Grand l,odge, at which a program of addresses of
welcome and music was carried out with great eclat.
STATISTICAL SUM MARY.

Number of chartered Lodges, 1908... . .... ...... ............... 322
10
Lodges chartered, 1909 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lodges under dispensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Charters forfeited and surrendered... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2
Total number of Lodges at close of this Communication.... . . . . 338
Total membership previous year ................................ 15,738
Net gain in membership during the year.. ....... ............... 711
Total present" membership ................. . ...... .. . . . . ....... 16,449
Income of Grand Lodge ....... . . , ............. . ..... ... .. .. $22,443.98
Assets of Grand -Lodge:
Cash in hands of Grand Treasurer ..........•......... $25,680.47
Valuation of Masonic Home property ......... . ... ..... 50,468.67
Securities belonging to Endowment F~nd of Masonic
·
Home . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68,029.80
MASONIC HOME.

For more than thirty years in Mississippi there has 'been a movement looking toward the acquirement of a Masonic Home, the first
suggestion along these lines having been made in Grand Lodge as far
back as 1874, revived again in 1877, and sefious work toward the
acquisition of an Endowment Fund commenced in 1890, when Past
Grand Master Rev. E. H. Bartley, who is considered the father of the
Masonic Home, offered a strong and carefully prepared paper urging
the Grand Lodge to action.
·
Brother Bartley was elected as Chairman of the Board of Incorporators, and at the C.ommunication in 1890 there was raised the first
$1,000 toward the Endowment Fund and the consummation of the
purpose to establish a home was realized during the past year; and the
one event which stands out above all others at this Communication
was th~ dedication of the new Masonic Home and the incidents connected therewith.

80

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

In this connection the Grand Master states in his address:
"The Masonic Home was opened October 15, 1908. This will long
be remembered by the Masonic fraternity in this Grand Jurisdiction.
Many of our old brethren who have gone to their reward worked and
prayed to see the opening of this institution, an institution so near the
·
hearts of the Masons of this State."
Speaking of the children which have already been gathered within
the Home, the Grand Master states:
"Here we have a happy band of children, well fed, comfortably
clothed and under the influence of a splendid, courteous management.
The children who are large enough attend our public schools, which
are regarded as equal to the best in the State."
The Grand Master refers also to the encouragement and assistance rendered to the Haine project by the members of the Order of
the Eastern Star, and ascribes much of the success which has been
achieved to their helpful influence.
·
The Board of Trustees in rendering their report of the Home
use the following language :
"Every Mason has a direct and personal interest in the Home,
and every Mason's orphan can there find a home when bereft of a
father's love and a mother's care. When the rich Princess of Rome
showed with pride her glittering jewels to Cornelia, who had no glittering gems to show in return, but drawing to her bosom her two
noble boys, the proud, noble Roman mother replied, "These are my
jewels." So may the Masons of Mississippi draw together within
this Home the orphans of their departed brethren, and let it be the
casket in which will ever be found jewels more rare than ever graced
the Monarch's crown, wh'ere they will be kept, polished, and formed,
and sent forth, perfect gems to adorn Masonry's· crown of rejoicing."
In addition to tlie value of the Home property, conservatively
placed at something like $50,000, there is the Endowment Fund invested in gilt• edge securities, which reaches the comfortable total at
this time of about $70,000; and it is the purpose of the brethren to
increase this endowment fund to at least $100,000, and as an evidence
of the willingness of the Mississippi brethren to submit to taxation
for the benefit of the Home the following resolutions were unanimously adopted by the Grand Lodge :
"Resolved, That an assessment of 25 cents per capita be made
upon the Lodges for the ensuing year for the Maintenance Fund of
the Masonic Home ;
"Resoh•ed, That an assessment of 50 cents per capita be made
upon the lodges for the ensuing year for the Maintenance fund of
the Masonic Home."

Since the opening of the Home sixteen children have been received within its sheltering arms, and it is the intention of the Craft
in Mississippi to provide, as rapidly as it can be done, accommodations
for decrepit Masons and the aged and infirm widows of Masons.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

81

GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.

At the opening of his address the Grand Master, speaking of
Masonry, refers to it as
"Founded upon the purest principles of morality and virtue, its
strong and beneficent influence in joining in the good work of helping
to make our common country better and greater, and the conditions
of mankind happier and more useful. The work of our institution is
to relieve the distress of a worthy brother, to provide for the destitute
widow and care for the helpless orphan; to disseminate light and
truth. As early as 1840 this Grand Lodge went on record in favor of
free education, and since its' early history has fostered and encouraged
enlightenmel'lt. In fact, every public movement for the betterment of
our people, morally, socially and intellectually, when not of its direct
instigation, has had the hearty support of this institution. The spirit
of Masonry, its religion, has always been that wherever one hand meets
another helpfully there is the true spirit, there is the true. religion.
And, after all, the spirit of confidence, of trust and, above "all, the'
spirit of love and helpfulness, is the only true religion which eve!' was
or ever will be.'.'
He also adds that
"The large annual gatherings of Masons that come together from
all parts of our country are doing much towards making our people
understand and know that we are one people and are spreading the
cement of brotherly love and affection that has and will continue to
reunite our country into one band of friends and brothers."
The Grand Master refers in eloquent language to the noble and
exalted qualties of a number of the fraternal dead in other jurisdictions, mentioning especially Hugh McCurdy of Michigin, the "Grand
Old Man of Masonry ;" to Martin H. Rice of Indiana, Past Grand
Master of that jurisdiction and editor for thirty years of the Masonic
Advocate; to John H. Barlow, Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary, at the time <>f his death, of the Grand Lodge of Connecticut; and
to others.
The activities of the Grand Master during the year were represented by numerous dispensations granted, among them ten to form
new Lodges, to eight Lodges constituted, charters for which were
issued at the last Communication; to the laying of corner stones of five
public buildings; to the dedicating of three Masonic Halls, and to the
direction of emergent relief occasioned by a cyclone which on April
24, 1908, visited a portion of Mississippi and devastated a section of
the country, killing 83 persons and wounding 340. A special fund of
about $3,000 was promptly contributed by the Masons of Mississippi
and distributed by the order of the Grand Master for relief of distressed members of the Craft.
The Grand Master reports having attended 120 Lodge meetings
during the year, certainly a wonderful .record. He also states that
he personally officiated upon all Special Communications of the Grand

·REPORT ON CORRESPONpENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Lodge called for the purpose of laying corner stones, dedicating halls,
etc., adding that he performed these duties in person and not by
proxy, because he believed in doing his duty and not delegating it to
someone else.
As an evidence that the bitterness engendered in the dark days of
the war between the States is rapidly passing away, the Grand Master
offered the following .recommendation, which met the prompt approval of the Committee to which it was referred, and was unani'mously adopted by the Grand Lodge. This recommendation is couched
in · tbe following language :
"The veterans of the Civil War are growing old and feeble, and
most of them now, worn by many years, are poor and needy. They
served their country in the days of their youth, and made our country's hi~tory glorious. We have many of these old veterans, citizens
of our State, who fought on the other side. They, too, are old and
·unable to make a living by manual labor.
"I recommend that the old veterans, whether of the Southern or
Northern armies, who were soldiers and did service in the Civil War,
be exempt from the further payment of dues in this Grand Jurisdiction."
That the Grand Lodge of Mississippi has no use for negro Masons, whether they belong to the Prince Hall Grand Lodge variety or
are of the regular kind, such as are initiated in Scottish Lodges and
Alpha Lodge, No. 116, in New Jersey, is revealed in the following
excerpt from the Grand Master's address, and it may be added that
the action of the Grand Master was very promptly and emphatically
endorsed by the Grand Lodge :
"I received a letter from R.". w:. J. M. Whitehead, stating that
a member of Olive Branch Lodge, No. 34, had visited a negro Lodge,
and asked me what should be done. I replied instructing him to have
charges preferred against the offending member and put him on trial.
After some correspondence Olive Branch Lodge did prefer charges
against him. April 11th he was put on trial. When he came before
the Lodge he said that he visited the negro Lodge, sat with them
until the Lodge was closed, and that he did not know it was a Masonic offence to visit a negro Lodge. After this confession the defendant retired, and Olive Branch Lodge, No. 34, by ballot acquitted
the defendant. The action of the Lodge was reported to me by the
Worshipful Master, who was also a District Deputy.
"I removed the District Deputy, arrested the jewel of the Worshipful Master, and arrested the charter of Olive Branch Lodge, No.
34. I now submit the case to you for your consideration.
"Certainly it is time this Grand Lodge should take a de~ided
stand against the visiting and conversing with clandestine Masons,
whether they happen to be negroes or whites."
It is the 'opinion of the fraternity of Mississippi, and this opinion
is stated to be an open secret, "that virtue and .morality, which are
indispensable essentials to· the membership of Masonry, are foreign
to the negro race." This is rather strong language, but perhaps no
one in the world is better qualified to speak of the true character of

the negro than the Masons of Mississippi, for more than one-half of
the population of that State belong to the colored race, and opportunities
for observing them and acquiring a true knowledge of their real characteristics are unsurpassed.
The Grand Master was not called upon to render any decisions
touching Masonic Law and Jurisprudence, but all of hjs rulings concerning dispensations, jurisdictions, etc., were approved by the' Law
Committee, and it appears to be the ·practice in Mississippi to refer
to the Committee on Masonic Law and Jurisp~udence all questions of
law, instead of presenting these questions in the first instance to the
Grand Master, as is the usual practice.
.
The Masonic Law and Jurisprudence Committee rendered quite
an extensive report, but the legal questions discussed were, almost
without exception, of a local character.
One of the most competent Grand Secretaries in the United
States is. M.". w:. Frederic Speed, Past Grand Master of Mississippi.
The statistical tables prepared by him and the arrangement of the
subject matter of his report may well be considered as an example of
intelligence, neatness and comprehension.

82

83

CORRESPONDENCE REPORT.

The report on Foreign Correspondence is by Past Grand Master
Henry T. Howard, it being the third report of this character which
he has rendered. In this report he has gleaned the items of general
interest from the usual American and foreign jurisdictions, and the
perusal of his report affords pleasure and satisfaction. California for
1907 i~ mentioned in a complimentary manner, with generous quotations from the Grand Master'i; Address.
The election of Grand Officers resulted in the choice of
Frederic Speed (Vicksburg), Re-elected Grand Secretary.
Wiley H. Clifton (Aberdeen), Grand Master.

MISSOURI, 1908.
Eighty-eighth Annual Communication.

St. Louis.

Sept. 29, 30; Oct. 1, 1908.
The Eighty-eighth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of
Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Missouri convened
at Scottish Rite Cathedral, St. Louis, September 29, 1908, the Grand
Master, M.". W.-". John T. Short in the Grand East.

84

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

"We want all the space we now have for the children. Figt1ratively
speaking, there is not room enough on ~elmar boulevard for the old
and young to live together."

Number of chartered Lodges.................................. 593
Number of Lodges under dispensation at opening of Communication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
8
Total number of members ..................................... 47,430
Net gain in membership since last Communication. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,937
Charters for new Lodges granted at this Communication. . . . . . . . .
8
Income of Grand Lodge .................................... $49,936.00
Assets of Grand Lodge (aside from Masonic Home) :
Cash on hand ........................................ $46,788.87
ll!ASONIC HOll!Ji.

Missouri has one of the best equipped and managed Masonic
Homes of any of our American jurisdictions. It is a home for aged
Masons, Masonic widows and orphans. The number of residents
at the Home is now 156: 39 men, 40 women, 38 girls, and 4-0 boys.
The Home derives its support from various sources, the principal
source at present being a per capita tax of 50 cents upon the membership of the jurisdiction; this is supplemented by a per capita tax from
the Eastern Star, about one-tenth as much in the aggregate as is·
contributed by the Lodges; also certain appropriations from time to
time from other Masonic Grand Bodies-the Grand Chapter, R. A. M.,
of Missouri, for instance, having during the past year given $5,000,
and in addition to these various sources of revenue there is the income from the Endowment Fund, which amounts now to $115,261.83.
The total income of the Home last year was $39,265.93, and the
expenses of management $29,938.36, making the yearly cost of maintaining each resident about $190. The Masonic Henne assets are as
follows:
MASONIC HOMJi ASSETS.

Endowment Fund ........................................ $115,261.83
Masonic Home Grounds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90,000.00
Improvements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60,000.00
240 acres of land in Vernon county. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,000.00
Lots in Rich Hill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
300.00

$270,561.83
The following excerpt from the report of the President of the
Home will be of interest to our Californian brethren, where the same
question is under serious consideration:
"Another problem which will in the future confront the Masons
of Missouri will be the expediency of separating the old people from
the children, and providing a home in an entirely separate and distinct
locality for the aged and infirm.

81>

The Grand Master's Address, as stated by the Committee to which
it was referred, is not long, being, as it were, a very brief summary
of his acts, although his administration was a successful one, and his
official acts such as to redound to the honqr of the Fraternity. He
feelingly refers to the work of the "Grim Reaper" in removing, during
the year, three of the honored Past Grand Masters of the jurisdiction,Brothers Noah M. Givan, Joshua B. Thomas and William R. Stubblefield. Brother Givan was President of the Masonic Home Board, was
greatly beloved, and was characterized by the Grand Master as a
"grand, good man and Mason." Brother Thomas, evidently, was.
likewise a man of generous and noble instincts, and his passing was.
an occasion of much grief and sorrow. Brother Stubblefield is spoken
of by the Committee on Necrology as unostentjltious, of sterling worth,.
and deserving of all the honors that were placed upon him.
It is also mentioned as an incident in Brother Stubblefield's career
that Capt. U. S. Grant petitioned the Lodge in which Brother Stubblefield was raised (Occidental, No. 163, St. Louis), and was elected at
the same time with Brother Stubblefield, but did not present himself
for initiation. General Grant would have been an honor to Masonry,
and it is pleasing to know that he thought so well of our institution
as to subscribe to the necessary declaration of approval and belief,
and no doubt circumstaF1ces over which he had no control prevented
the consummation of his desire. His life is an illustration bf the·
truth that in the body of a free people, like our own, there always
reside men of great character who, under ordinary circumstances, are.
known only in the small circle, usually the very small circle, in which
they move; but through the great crises in the world's history are·
brought forth and are made to assume a high place among the honored names of the earth, and except for these crises they would have
been unknown beyond those with whom they immediately came in
contact. Among such names is that of Oliver Cromwell, who, until'
after middle life, was a man of comparative obscurity, and who had
actually embarked on board a ship in the Thames for the purpose of
sailing for America, where there came "Order In Council" •forbidding
the ship to sail; and it was after this event that the great career qf
Cromwell opened, which led him, step by step, until he became the
Great Protector of the British Commoi;iwealth and the foremost man
of his time, who lifted his country to a positio11 of power and prestige
among the nations of the earth; and through him and by him the
idea of the ''divine right of kings" was forever banished from the·
Anglo-Saxon race.
0

86

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCF.

'

Likewise, Ulysses S. Grant, trained in his earlier life as a soldier,
but who had given ·u p that ~ailing, and as an humble citizen, just
prior to the opening the Civil War, moved in and out among his
neighbors and was unknown, it is said, even to the Congressmen of
the district in which he resided, yet he became, through his geniu·s
and his grim determination the foremost General of the greatest war
in history, and was regarded as almost the savior of his country.
Yet it is a fact in all these cases that circumstances which appeared to make the man served only to disclose the man, whom preparation had made ready-as the sun dispels the mist that hangs upon
the boulder. It is to the honor of Masonry that General Grant, before whom and iri whose presence kings and the descendants of
kings stood uncovered, should have entertained so high an opinion of
Masonry as to have voluntarily sought to have enrolled himself beneath its banners; and who was only prevented from doing so by
untoward circumstances.
The Grand Master reports no decision, but states that he ha!
answered every communication sent to him, and on all matters pertaining to questions of law has been able to dispose of them by refer·ence to the By-Laws or decisions of the Grand Lodge. Here is an
instance of a Grand Master who is ~bsolutely honest, and it is the
0pinion of many who have served as Grand Masters, and are therefore competent to give expert testimony, that many of the so-called
decisions of the Grand Masters are not in any true sense decisions
at all, but are inventions: they do not represent genuine cases, but are
put forth simply for the purpose of exploitin'g opinions. It is inconceivable, for instance, that in a jurisdiction in one of our Southern
States there could have been propounded, as was reported in a recent
year, nineteen actual cases involving questions of physical defects
alone, and such questions !-"the loss of a big toe," "one who is hair1ipped," "the fleshy part of the end of a finger mashed off,'' "one joint
of the little finger of left hand gone," and fifteen more of similar
import, all of which were held to disqualify, and all of which were
probably "men of straw."
The Grand Orator, Brother I. N. Evard, delivered a most instructive oration on the subject of "Freemasonry of the Present,''principle, patriotism, belief in and reverence for God; study of His
word, character. These, according to the speaker, are the true qualities underlying Freemasonry of today. The Grand Lodge of Missouri is certainly not lacking in fluent and impromptu talkers, for if
the records are not in error, the learned effort of the Grand Orator
was" followed by equally erudite and eloquent addresses, rendered
Brother R. F. Stevenson, Past
seemingly extempore, by M.'.
Grand Master, and M:. W:. Brother C. H . Briggs. Brother Briggs'
plea for the fundamentals of our republic, for the public school, for

w:.

87

the Bible in the public school; and his reprobation of that style of
politics and those· influences that strive to weaken those forces, among
. them Freemasonry, which make for liberty and truth, was very
effective.
The Correspondence Report is by Past Grand Master Rufus E.
Anderson. It is able and exhaustive, and reviewing, as it does, the
proceedings of a large number of bodies usually omitted from correspondence reports, affords a most valuable fount of information. His
references ~ California are wholly complimentary.
R. R. Kruger (Kansas City), Grand Master.
John R. Parson (St. Louis), Grand Secretary.

MONTANA, 1908.
Forty-fourth Annual Communication.
Helena.
Sept. 16, 17, 1908_
The Forty-fourth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of
Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of Montana was held in the city
of Helena, Wednesday and Thursday, September 16 and 17, A. D. 1908,
and was opened in the Masonic Temple at 9 :20 a. m., Wednesday.
September l.6, 1908, in Ample Form by the M:. w:. Grand Master,.
S. C. Kenyon.
STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

Number of active chartered Lodges . .. . .. . .. . . .. .. . . . . .. . . . .. . . 5Et
Lodges under dispensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4Charters granted to new Lodges this Communication............. 4
Total membership, 1907 ..... ...... .. .... . . . ......... ..... .. ... .4,690
N et gain during the year ... . ....... ....... ... ...... .. • . . . . . . . . 401
Total membership, 1908 ........ . ..................... ...... ... . 5,091
Income of Grand Lodge ................................... $10,159.00
The Grand Lodge dues are $2 per capita, $1 of which is for ~he·
General Fund ai1d $1 to the Masonic Fund.
Assets of Grand Lodge:
. Balance cash General Fund in hands of Grand Treasurer.$ 5,031.0I
Balance cash Charity Fund in hands of Grand Treasurer
454.35
Masonic Home property divided into General Fund and Endowment Fund, aggregating about ...................... 17,000.00
MASONIC HOM'E.

For many years the project of a Masonic Home in Montana was:
the special concern of the Most Worshipful Cornelius Hedges, Past
Grand Master, and for thirty-five consecutive years' Grand Secretary
of the Grand Lodge of Montana, and whose decease a couple of years.
since produced universal sorrow throughout our American jurisdic-

88

89

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

tions. The actual acquirement of the Masonic Home in Montana has
just been consummated.
Referring to the Masonic Home, the Grand Master in his address
has this to say :
"I have visited the Masonic Home, and 'can assure those who
have not seen it that it is a thing of beauty, a building worthy of the
Fraternity, and every brother should see it before he leaves the· city;
and on behalf of the Grand Lodge, I wish to extend to the Ladies of
the Eastern Star throughout the State our appreciation of the interest
t!rey have manifested and the aid they have contributed in the furnishing of it."
.
The Home at the date of the Annual Communication in 1908,,
had not actually been opened for the reception of beneficiaries, but
it was the expectation that the Home would be opened for this purpose within a few months and no doubt at this date (1909) the
Home has entered upon its actual career of providing refuge and
shelter for the aged and the infirm and other beneficiaries for whom
it is intended.

ago by electing me Grand Master of Masons in Montana. I consider
it one of the greatest honors that could have been bestowed up?n me
by King, Prince, Potentate, or any other man, and I have tned at
all times to prove myself worthy of the honor entrusted.

GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.

The Grand Master refers in fitting terms to the death of Past
-Grand Master, Henry L. Frank, of the jurisdiction of Montana, who
was in his day a prominent figure in a business, political and Masonic
sense in Montana, and his 1.-ss is deeply mourned.
The activities of the Grand Master were represented by dispensations granted to form four new lodges; by the constituting of the
several Lodges, charters for which were granted at the last Annual
Communication; by various special dispensations granted; and
especially by the official visits of the Grand Master, he having, during
his official term as Grand Master, visited all the Subordinate Lodges
-of his jurisdiction.
When it is considered that Montana geographically is one of
the greatest states in the Union; that to accomplish the visitation of
all of the Lodges in that jurisdiction must of necessity involve an
immense amount of traveling and inconvenience, it will be understood how great must have been the efforts of the Grand Master to
have honored with his personal presence all of the Lodges of his
State.
In addition to the official visits to the Lodges of his own jurisdiction, he made a trip throughout a number of the Grand Jurisdictions
in the eastern portion of our own country, he having been received
by the Grand Lodges of New York, Pennsylvania, District of Columbia and Virginia.
In conclusion, the Grand Master expresses his deep appreciation
of the honor con~rred upon him in the following terms:
"The year past has been one of the pleasantest of my life, and
I wish to thank you for the great honor conferred upon me one year

The brethren of Montana do not hesitate to assess themselves
for what they consider worthy objects of their benevolent consideration, and their willingness to pay $1.00 each in support of Masonic
charity as exemplified in a Masonic Home, is well worthy of emulation.
The Order of the Eastern Star is co-operating most loyally in the
Masonic Home project and the Official Head of that order was
welcomed to the floor of the Grand Lodge during this Annual Communication and uttered high and exalted sentiments in some wellchosen words.
The tendency of the great majority of the Grand Masonic Jurisdictions throughout the country to taboo liquor selling and liquor
sellers was reflected in the attitude of the Grand Lodge of Montana
at this Communication in the adoption of the 'following resolutions:
"Resolved, That any memb~r of a Lodge in this juri~diction who
shall engage in the saloon busmess or act as barkeeper m a saloon,
shall be considered guilty of un-Masonic conduct, and it shall be _the
duty of the Junior Warden of such Lodge to prefer ch~rges agamst
any such member; but it is understood that this resolution shall not
be retroactive."
The "Signet Ring," intended as a special mark of distinction, and
a special honor to the Grand Master during his incumbency in office,
and inaugurated by Most 'Worshipful Grand Master, Samuel Wood, in
1887, and since that date passed on from one Grand Master to another,
was at the conclusion of this Annual Communication presented by the
retiring Grand Master, Most Worshipful Brother S. C. Kenyon, to
the incoming Grand Master, Most Worshipful C. B. Nolan, who made
a brief and fitting response.
There is no report on Foreign Correspondence.
C. B. Nolan (Helena), Grand Master.
Cornelius Hedges, Jr. (Helena), Grand Secretary.

NEBRASKA, 1908.
Fifty-first Annual Communication. Omaha. June 9, 1908.
The Grand Lodge of the Most Ancient and Honorable Fraternity
of Free and Accepted Masons of Nebraska met in Fifty-first Annual
Communication in Freemason's Hall, Omaha, on Tuesday, June 9th,
A. L. 5908, A. D. 1908, at ten o'clock in the morning, M.' · W.' •
Oman J . King, Grand Master, presiding.

90

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.

"Total number of chartered Lodges.............................. 237 ·
Lodges under dispensation.....................................
6
"Total membership last Communication ......................... 15,714
Net gain in membership during the year... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 679
"Total number of Master Masons this Communication ...... : ..... 16,393
Income of Grand Lodge .................................... $26,953.62
Net assets of Grand Lodge. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48,953.53
Cash and securities Orphans' Educational Fund .............. 53,475.50
MASONIC HOME.

One of the distinctive features of Nebraska Masonry is the 'large
expenditures made by the Grand Jurisdiction on account of charity.
There are three distinct funds from which disbursements are made on
account of charity, viz: Nebraska Masonic Home; the Orphans' Educational Fund; and the Grand Lodge Charity Fund.· The Masonic
Home Fund and the Orphans' Educational Fund have in a sense bec9me merged and the Orphans' Educational Fund, amounting to
$50,000 has become a permanent endowment for the Home. Seventy- .
five per cent of the income from the Orphans' Educational Fund, or
Home Endowment Fund, is used for the benefit of the Home and
in aid of the education of Masonic Orphans. The Grand Lodge dues
.in Nebraska are $1.25 per member, borne upon .the rolls of the
Subordinate Lodges and 50 cents of each $1.25 of the· Grand Lodge
dues is appropriated for the benefit of the Home, and the Home also
receives other appropriations from the Grand Lodge, and from other
sources.
The Masonic Home in Nebraska is the especial pride of that
jurisdiction and was founded by Past Grand Master George W.
Lininger, considered, probably, up to the time of his death, as the
foremost Mason in Nebraska.
There are now at the Home about forty beneficiaries. Half of
them are aged Masons and the other half made up of the widows
of Masons and several children. The cost per capita of maintaining
the Home last yea~ was $230.30. The Grand Master in speaking of
the Home reports the same as in most excellent financial condition.
He refers to the fact that most of the beneficiaries are old people
upon whom infirmities of age sit- none too ·lightly, and that the
management of these people requires on the part of the Superintendent
an infinite amount of patience and tact. He further states that thanks
to the generosity of the Craft, there is no lack of funds to meet
every legitimate want.

!H

At the opening of his address, the Grand Master remarks that
"Masonry is an institution peculiar unto itself. It follows none,
patterns after none, and competes with none. It is an institution
founded for the purpose of impressing upon the minds of its members
lessons of morality, obedience to law, and the leading of just and
upright lives. Every lesson in Freemasonry is intended to impress
upon the minds of its votaries the duties they owe to themselves and
to others ; and the work of th~ several degrees should be done so
as to make the impressions of the sublime lessons and principles as
deep and lasting as possible."
The first official act which Grand Master Kink was called upon
to perform after he had assumed the Grand Master's Chair, was to
call an Emergency Communication of the Grand Lodge for ·the purpose of conducting the funeral of Past Grand Master, George W.
Lininger. His death came suddenly and unexpectedly and was a
shock not only to the jurisdiction of Nebraska but throughout the
Masonic world, Brother Lininger being regarded as one of the foremost Masons in our country. He made a deep impression upon the
Craft in his own jurisdiction and his loss is sincerely and profoundly
mourned. The memory as stated by the Grand Master, of his "generous philanthropy, his wise counsels, his inspiring enthusiasm, his
beautiful and blameless life will remain as an inspiration to Nebras~il
Masons for all time to come."
The activities of the Grand Master during the year are shown in
dispensations granted for six new Lodges; in the laying of a number
of corner stones; in the dedication of several Masonic temples; in the
constitution of Lodges to whom charters had been previously granted;
and in a large number of official visits during the year by the Grand
Master.
The "decisions" of the Grand Master were ten in number, all of
which with one or two slight modifications, were approved by the
Jurisprudence Committee, and of the ten the following are quoted :
"A brother applying for a <limit for the purpose of enabling him
to join another Lodge, who is found free from all charges and cleaF
of the books, is entitled to receive a <limit, without any vote by
his Lodge.
"A Lodge of Master Masons opened for the sole purpose of conducting a Masonic funeral should not be called from labor to refreshment before leaving the lodge room. A Lodge is at labor while
conducting the burial service.
"A member of a Subordinate Lodge in anot}ler jurisdiction, before
being examined for the purpose of visiting a Lodge in this state,
must present documentary evidence, not over one year •old, attested
by the seal of the Grand Lodge of the jurisdiction whence the visitor
comes."
The reports of the Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer disclose a sound and wholesome condition of Nebraska Masonry from a

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
business and financial standpoint; and, as previously stated, from the
st<tndpoint of Masonic Charity, Nebraska is preeminent.
The report of the Grand Custodian shows a most careful attention to the ritualistic standard and from it is gathered the impression
that the charter of the work in Nebraska is of a high order.
By virtue of the recommendations of the Committee on Foreign
Correspondence, fraternal recognition was extended to the new Grand
Lodge of Saskatchewan and was denied to the United States Lodge
-0f Mexico, -Grand Oriente d'Italia, to the Grand Lodge of Chili, and
to the Grand Orient of Greece.
On the evening of the first day of the Annual Communication
W. Brother Roscoe Pound, Grand Orator, delivered an oration upon
the general theme of the tendency of the world toward Universal·
Peace and International Justice, and of the important part which
has been played and will continue to be played by Freemasonry in
the attainment of these ideals.
The thanks of the Grand ·Lodge were returned to him for his
masterful effort and a request was made to him to prepare a copy
of his address for insertion in the proceedings of the Grand Lodge.
Several important amendments to the laws of Nebraska were
prepared by the Committee on Codification of the Law, and were by
the Grand Lodge unanimously adopted. One of the amendments,
which may be considered of general interest, is as follows:
"No Lodge in this jurisdiction shall receive a visitor from any
Lodge outside of this State, unless a Master Mason, known as such
in the Lodge, shall vouch for the visitor as a Master Mason in good
standing, or until the visitor, after strict examination, shall prove
himself to be a Mason in good standing; and no such visitor shall
be examined until he produces to the Worshipful Master of the Lodge,
or to the committee of examination appointed by him, a certificate
under the seal of his Lodge, authenticated by the seal of the Grand
Lodge of the jurisdiction whence the visitor comes, which certificate
must show that he is a member of said Lodge in good standing.
And the Master and committee must be satisfied that the Lodge giving
the certificate is a regular Lodge, working under the jurisdiction of
a regular Grand Lodge recognized by the Grand Lodge, A. F. &
A. M. of Nebraska. And unless such certificate is dated within one
year prior to the date of such examination, the visiting brother must
also present some receipt or other documentary evidence from his
Lodge, bearing a date not to exceed twelve months prior to the date
of such examination, showing that he remains a member of said
Lodge in good standing."
FOREIGN CORR!lSPONDENCE.

The report on Foreign Correspondence is by Past Grand Mastet
Chas. J. Pheilps. Th~ work is done in an interesting and creditable
manner. California (1907) receives courteous mention.
William A. DeBord {Omaha), Grand Master.
Francis E. White (Omaha), Grand Secretary.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

93

NEV ADA, 1909.
Forty-fifth Annual Communication. Carson City. June 8, 9, 10, 1909.
A Special Grand Communication of the Grand Lodge was held
September 20, 1908, for the purpose of attending the funeral of Past
Grand Master Philip A. Doyle.
In accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, the Fortyfifth Annual Grand Communication of the M.". w:. Grand Lodge
of Nevada was commenced in the Hall of Carson Lodge, No. 1, F &
A. M., in the city of Carson, on the second Tuesday of June (being
the 8th day of the month) A. L. 5909, at 12 o'clo<.:k M. Most Worshipful Charles L. Fulstone, Grand Master, in the Grand East.
S'l'A'l'IS'l'ICAL SUMMARY.

'l'otal number of chartered Lodges............................... 24
I.odges under dispensation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1
Total Master Masons last Communication ....................... 1,445
Net gain during the year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 128
'l'otal Master Masons this Communication ...................... 1,573
Income of Grand Lodge ...................................... $2,259.23
Assets of Grand Lodge:
Cash in hands of Grand Treasurer, General Fund ........ $5,210.89
Cash on hand, Charity Fund ....................... ·:.... 255.92
In view of the limited membership of this Grand Jurisdiction, there
'is naturally no Masonic Home and the charity obligations of the Grand
Lodge are discharged by means of drafts upon the Charity Fund and
<luring the preceding year but one case of appeal to the Charity Fund
was mentioned.
GRAND MAS'l'llR'S ADDRESS.

The Grand Master's address is a business-like statement of
his official actions during the year, referring especially to the convening of the Grand Lodge in Special Communication at Carson City
for the purpose of paying the last tribute of respect to the memory
<Jf Past Grand Master Philip A. Doyle.
He mentions the receipt by him of an invitation from the Most
Worshipful Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Ohio to be present
upon the occasion of conferring "at sight" of the degrees of Masonry
upon William Howard Taft, which invitation he was· not able to accept.
He expresses his belief that official visits by the Grand Master
are conducive to increased interest and enthusiasm in Masonic circles'
and he has, therefore, endeavored to devote as much of his time as
possible to visitations throµghout the State, and he gives a record of
such visits that is extremely creditabie to his zeal and industry.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT OK CORRESPO~DENCE.

He reports that the year has been a fairly prosperous one; that
there has been very little friction on account of disagreements of any
sort, and that a reasonable net gain in membership has been recorded.
No "decisions" were rendered by him during the year upon Masonic
Law, all questions that arose of this character were settled by reference
to the Constitution and Masonic Code.
He expresses genuine appreciation of the distingui~hed honor which
his brethren have conferred upon him and returns his thanks to the
Grand Secretary and others, for the loyal support accorded him during the year.

The Grand Master . states that at the time of his election it was
hi~ intention to show hi~ appreciation of the high honor conferred · upon .

94

him by paying an official visit to all of the Lodges in the Grand Ji.;ris<llction. Circumstances, however, prevented the full realization of this
desire, but he was able, notwithstanding, to honor a large number of
the subordinate Lodges with his. personal presence.
A dispensation was granted during the year to form one new
Lodge, and the circumstances surrounding its creation would seem
to indicate that a career of activity and usefulness is in store for it.
The reports of the various District Deputy Grand Masters indicate a condition of prosperity that is highly gratifying. The Grand
Jurisdiction is in a sound and wholesome financial condition, and it
has not been necessary during the year for the Grand Master to exercise his prerogative of discipline, nor were there presenteJ to him any
questions calling for decisions; it being needful only in the answering
of such inquiries propounded to him to refer to the Constitution and
Masonic ·Code.
The annual election resulted in the re-election of the Grand
Master and the Grand Secretary:
M.'. w:. Lieut. Col. John S. D. Chipman (St. Stephens), Grand
Master.
.
V. W. J. Twining Hartt (St. John), Grand Secretary.

FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

The report on Foreign Correspondence is by Brother Edward D.
Vanderlieth, who signs himself Grand Commissioner of Review, and he
states at the outset that his effort is submitted as a· review of the
published proceedings of the English speaking Masonic Grand Lodges
that have reached the Grand Secretary's table during the preceding
twelve months. For some reason California, Nevada's nearest neighbor
appears to have been overlooked.
Frank H. Norcross (Carson City), Grand Master.
C. N. Noteware (Carson City), Grand Se~retary.

NEW BRUNSWICK, 1908.
Forty-first Annual Communication.
St. John.
Aug. 25, 26, 1908.
The Forty-first Annual Communication of "The Grand Lodge of
the Ancient and Honorable Fraternity of Free and Accepted Masons
of New Brunswick" was held at Freemasons' Hall, in the city of Saint
John, on Tuesday, the 25th day of August, A. D. 1908, A. L. 5908,
M.'. w:. Lieut. Col. John S. D. Chipman, Grand Master, in the East ..
The Grand Jurisdiction of New Brunswick comprises thirty-seven
chartered Lodges and one under dispensation, a total of thirty-eight
active Lodges. It has a total membership of 2,685, a gain over the
preceding year of 138. The income of the Grand Jurisdiction during
the preceding year was · $2,861.30, and its total invested funds amount
to $5,543.62, $4,722.84 of which is apportioned to the Fund of Benevolence.
The Grand Master feelingly refers to the death during the year
of a number of the members of the Grand Lodge, particularly to
R.'. w:. Brother Arthur L. Truman, who was Grand Master in the
years 1901-2-3. He was an ornament to the Grand Jurisdiction and
presided with marked ability and skill over the deliberations of the
Grand Body. By his removal, the Grand Master states, the Grand
Jurisdiction, as well as the community in which he lived, has suffered
a severe loss.

95

•

NEW HAMPSHIRE, 1908.
{)ne Hundred and Nineteenth Annual Communication.
Concord.
May 20, 1908.
One Hundred and Nineteenth Annual Communication of the M. ·.
W.'. Grand Lodge of the Ancicmt, and Honorable Fraternity of Free and
Accepted Masons of the State of New Hampshire was held at Freemasons' Hall, in the city of Concord, on Wednesday, May 20, A. L.
:5908, A. D. 1908. Present, M.'. w:. William A. Plummer, Grand
Master, and a full corps of Grand Lodge officers.
During the year preceding three Special Communications of the
Grand Lodge were held; one to participate in the celebration of the
semi-centennial of Washington Lodge, No. 61, at the city of Manchester; one for the purpose of dedicating a Masonic hall at Dover, and
one for the purpose of attending the funeral of Past Grand Master
Brother John Hiram Rowell, In addition to these there was held
the usual semi-annual Communication in the city of Manchester, December 27th, at which, according to custom, the ceremonies were
1imited to an exemplificaticn of the three degrees of Masonry by three
different Lodges, using actual candidates for the purpose; and afterwards attending the traditional banquet in the evening.

96

97

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

This is what Past Grand Master Cheney has to say of their semiannual Communication:
"It is emphatically the Masonic event of the year in our little
jurisdiction. Its holding is provided by our Constitution. Three
Lodges, months ahead, are invited by the Grand Master to work the
degrees. They perfect themselves, bring along their own candidates,
hold a special Communication of their own, a matter of their own
Lodge record, work their degree, and are then criticised by our State
Lecturer, who has had the assistance of his Deputies. It is New Hampshire's School of I1;1struction, though we name it something else. To
this we add a yearly visitation to every Lodge by the District Deputy
Grand Master and by the District Grand Lecturer, the degree work
being criticised or commended by the latter officer. The tw o together
have brought about a perfection in work throughout the State that
cannot be surpassed-astonishingly so."

\• 1itcr found a "kicker" over the fifty cents required of him. We are
11ctu11lly doing good-not holding ourselves in readiness to do so.
Indeed, there is so much enthusiasm with us in the undertaking that
It •:annot fail, it cannot be a great burden."
A year of reasonable progress is disclosed by the reports of the
I irimd Master and other officers.
Dispensations for various purposes were granted by the Grand
~laster and certain applications for dispensation denied. The Grand
Ma~ter refers to the pleasure and satisfaction it gave him. to attend
the commemoration service held at Durham, incident to the restoration
of the burial place of General J ohn Sullivan of Revolutionary fame,
1111<1 the first Grand Master of Masons of New Hampshire.
Only three "decisions," and those of· an elementary character, were
rendered during the year by the Grand Master.
A comprehensive report on Necrology is rendered by the Special
l'•llnmittee appointed for that purpose.
The Jurisprudence Committee reported adversely upon the propo1ltions of dual membership and life membership. Opinion differs in
this country upon the subject of life membership, but not to any extent
upon the question of dual membership, which, with marked unanimity,
Is disapproved.
Fraternal recogn'ition was extended by the Grand Lodge to the
nrand Lodge Valle de Mexico, and to the Grand Lodge of Saskatchewan.

STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

Total number of chartered Lodges.............................. 79
Number represented at this Communication .. .. ........ . ... :.... 56
Total membership of jurisdiction ....................... ..... .... 9,877
Gain in membership during present year.............. . .......... 150
Income o.f Grand Lodge .... . .......... ... ................... $8,756.12
Assets of Grand Lodge :
Cash in hands of Treasurer . ......... . ..... . . .. ..... .... $3,808.71
MASONIC HOM!;.

While no report concerning Masonic Home is to be found in the
copy of the printed proceedings, yet there is a Masonic Home in New
Hampshire doing splendid work and receiving loyal support, the amount
turned over to it by the Grand Treasurer during the preceding year
(balance of 1907, and allotment of 1908) being $6,311.50. This is what
Past Grand Master Cheney, Chairman of Committee on Foreign Correspondence, has to say of their home. Under the caption of Iowa, one
of the few States in the United States that has no Home, he says in
reply to criticism of the Chairman of Committee on Correspondence
of that State:
"No, that $6,684.50 paid to our Home, as quoted in the rep ort
of our Finance Committee, was not the expense of running the Home
and because of this your figures that it cost $742 to care for an. indi:
vidual inmate is incorrect. The larger sum you mention was the
amount obtained by our per capita tax of fifty cents a member, turned ·
over to the Treasurer of the Home. Part of it went to apply on the
debt created by the erection of the Home, after paying the year's
expense of maintenance. This year of 1908 will see the debt wiped out.
Then, unless we mistake the temper of our breth'ren, we shall erect
a hospital building, for such cases as our Home cannot now suitably
provide. Don't think, Brother Clark, for a moment, that we are sick
of our task. We had our legislative charter twenty years before we
had our Home building. We went into the project with our eyes
wide open. We knew what we were undertaking. Never yet has the

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The Correspondence Report is by Past Gran<l Master Harry M.
Cheney. His work is conscientious and contains evidence of much
careful thought and attention. His reference to California is courteous.
Frederick W. Sawyer (Milford), Grand Master.
Frank D. Woodbury (Concord), Grand Secretary.

NEW JERSEY, 1909.
One Hundred Twenty-second Annual Communication. Trenton.
April 21-22, 1909.
The Grand Lodge of the Most Ancient and Honorable Society of
Free and Accepted Masons of the State of New Jersey met in Annual
Ccmmunication at Masonic Hall, in the city of Trenton, on Wednesday and Thur~day, April 21st and 22nd, A. D. 1909, A. L. 5909.
The M.'. W.'. William D. Wolfskiel, Grand Master in the Grand
East, and 176 out of the 184 Lodges represented. Eight Emergent
Communications of the Grand Lodge were held during the year for
the purpose of constituting newly chartered Lo<:lges, conducting funeral
4 0.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

ceremonies of deceased past grand officers, and laying corner stones .
of public buildings, at six of which Communications the Grand Master
officiated in person.

where the superior claims of religion have failed to secure a permanent
lodgment. It has withstood the upheaval of revolutions, the devastation of war, the frenzied attacks of fanaticism and the intensity of
persecutions, and it 'still .stands proudly erect in the sunshine and
clear light of heaven with not a marble fractured, not a pillar broken.'
It stands today jeweled with the dews of morning and graced with
nit the charm of youthful vigor and beauty. Its towers are gilded
with the perpetual sunlight af success and the body of its temple
redolent with the atmosphere of precious memories.

98

STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

Total number of Lodges, beginning of this Communication.... 184
Charters for new Lodges · granted at this Communication. . . . . . . .
2
Totai membership, January 1, 1908 .. . .... . .................... 28,475
Net gain in membership during year ................ . ........ .. . 1,452
Total membership, January 1, 1909 .......... . ... ... ........... 29,927
INCOM!I OF GRAND LODGE.

General Fund .............. : ......... . .. . ....... .. ........ $30,626.94
Home Maintenapce Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11,324.50
Total ................................................. $41,951.44
ASSETS OF GRAND LODGE.

Cas.h in hands of Grand Treasurer, General Fund ........... $22,733.82
Cash in hands of Grand Treasurer, Special Benevolent Fund .. $3,463.83
Cash in hands of Grand Treasurer, Special Charity Fund .. .. 2,744.49
Funds belonging to Masonic Home .............. .... ....... 96,046.04
MASONIC HOME.

The Committee on Masonic Home reports the affairs of the Home
in an entirely satisfactory condition, the number of beneficiaries at
date of report being 81 ; divided as follows: 40 men, 19 women, 10
boys, 12 girls. The financial condition of the Home is sound and
solvent, the Home having twice during the year been remembered in
the wills of departed brethren, one bequest being for $15,000 and the
other for a smaller amount. The Home is supported· by a per capita
tax on the membership of 30 cents, fees for initiates, interest on investments, etc., these various sources of revenue during the year producing $19,735.50. The total expenses were $18,910.96, making the
annual expense for each beneficiary $230.44.
GRAND MAST:f:R's ADDRESS.

The Grand Master's Address is a scholarly production, and proclaims its author as a man of mental attainments, and high moral
qualities. At the opening of his addfess, in speaking of Masonry, he
says:
" It has been well said that history scarce furnish.es its parallel. ~ts
traces are to be found in the remotest ages and m the most vaned
conditions of the human family. It exists where other worthy orders
have not successfully penetrated, and its claims are respected even

•

*

* * * * * * * * * * * * *

!l9

*

*

*

Masonry justifies its existence not by antiquity, but, by principle,
which, doubtless, accounts for its antiquity. Its supreme object is to
develop character."
The work during the year is represented by the constitution of
three new Lodges, charters for which were authorized a,t the last Annual
Communication, dispensations to form two new Lodges, and a net
gain in membership of nearly 1,500.
New Jersey must be a paradise for the maimed, the halt, the lame,
and the blind, for the Grand Master reports that 102 cases of visible
physical defects were submitted to him for decision during the year.
I Ie passed eighty and turned down twenty-two.
Of "Decisions" the Grand Master makes the following report :
"Frequent applications have been made to me for the interpretation
·if our laws in particular cases, but as each question was, in my
opinion, covered by the existing law, I did not find it necessary or
advisable to formulate any new decisions."
New Jersey in the more than 120 years of the existence of its
Grand Lodge had up· to the present Annual Communication claimed
perpetual penal jurisdiction over rejected candidates for degrees, being
one of the fourteen Grand Lodges in this country still adhering to
that discredited doctrine, and during the year this question was pressed
upon the attention of the Grand Master in the consideration of cases
that had arisen, and in his report he makes a strong and logical argument for the abandonment of this pretension, and offers a recommendation that action to this end be taken by the Grand Lodge of his State.
The Jurisprudence Committee reported ·against his recommendation
and advocated the wisdom of holding to the position so long regarded
as sound law by the Jurisdiction. The arguments of the Grand Master,
however, prevailed and the fellowing resolutions were adopted:
Resolved, That penal jurisdiction shall be retained over rejected
petitioners by the rejecting Lodge so long as the rejected petitioner
continues to reside within the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge, and
penal jurisdiction shall be terminated only by a bona fide removal
·
from the State or the consent of the rejecting Lodge.
"Resolved. further, That all sections in the present digest referring
to penal jurisdiction are hereby annulled or susperseded."
A rupture occurred during the year in the fraternal relations
existing between the Grand Lodge of Mississippi and the Grand Lodge

101

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

of New Jersey, in consequence of the fact that there is a regular .
Lodge in New Jersey (Alpha, No. 116) that is composed of negroes,
and the reasons advanced by the Grand Master of Mississippi for refusing to continue fraternal correspondence with a Jurisdiction that
initiates . and affiliates negroes are set forth in the foll owing communication:
"Meridian, Miss., January 14, 1909.
"Mr. William D. Wolfskeil, Grand Master of Masons of New Jersey,
"Elizabeth, New Jersey:
. .
"M.'. W.'. Sir and Dear Brother-Yours of August 25th, adv1smg
me that negroes are initiated and affiliated in your Grand Jurisdiction,
is received.
"Our Grand Lodge holds differently. Masonry never contemplated
that · her privileges should be extended to a race totally morally and
intellectually incapacitated to discharge the obligation which they assume or have conferred upon them in a Masonic Lodge. It is no
answer that there are exceptions to this general character of the race.
We legislate for the race and not for. the exceptions.
"We hold that affiliations with negroes is contrary to the teachings
of Masonry, and is dangerous to the interest of the Fraternity of Free
and Accepted Masons.
"Therefore, I, E. J. Martin, Grand Master of Masons in the State .
of Mississippi do order that fraternal correspondence between the
Grand Lodge of Mississippi and the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge
. of New Jersey be and is hereby discontinued until such time as t~e
Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of New Jersey shall see fit to des1st
from her present practice of initiating or affiliating negroes as Masons.
"With by best personal regards, I am
"Sincerely yours,
"(Signed) EnwIN J. MARTIN,
"Grand Master."

ii only one legitimate Grand Jurisdiction on earth' that would deliberately charter a negro Lodge and that is Scotland. Scotland would
issue a charter to a band of Hottentots if enough of them could be
found to qualify -for the initial step, and pay the requisite charter
fee and Grand Lodge dues. There are colored men, regular Masons,
traveling over the face of ~he land, presenting themselevs from time
to time for admission as visitors into our regular Lodges and investigation invariably discloses the fact that they ca rry a diploma issued
by the Grand Lodge of Scotland. In the case of New Jersey, one
can scarcely see how sensure can justly be visited upon the Grand
Lodge for the existence of Alpha Lodge, No, 116 and the· character
of its membership, and, therefore, no reason why any Grand Lodge
should feel constrained to sever fraternal intercourse, yet it is not
difficult to appreciate the repugnance felt by Southern brethren, or
Northern brethren, so far as that i? concerned, toward negro Masons.

100

It is well known that there are so called negro Masons in possibly
every state of the union, but with the exception of this Lodge, they are
all of the Prince Hall Grand Lodge variety, and, of course, are not
legitimate. Grand Master Wolfskeil in his address gives the circumstances surrounding the formation of this negro Lodge in New
Jersey, from which it would appear that certain white men, nine in
number, dimitted Masons, must have loaned themselves for the purpose of tricking the .Grand Lodge in granting a charter for a Lodge
into which it was the premeditated purpose of initiating negroes, for
immediately after the charter was granted this was what took place,
and although the charter was impounded for a year or more because
of alleged deceit in obtaining it, the charter was finally restored by the
Grand Lodge because of lack of evidence to sustain the allegation
of fraud. In the eyes of the Almighty a man is not judged by the
color of his skin, and theoretically Masonry determines eligibility for
membership only by the test of character, yet it is a fact that there

The conclusion of the Grand Master's address is of a high orde.r,
and there is abundant justification for this liberal quotation therefrom:
"Brethren, I want the end of this address to be logically consistent with its beginning. In opening I justly extolled Masonry,
its history and principles. In conclusion, I would emphasize our
personal responsibility as members of so privileged an institution and
as custodians of so priceless a charge.
"Unless I misread the signs of the times, there is writ large upon
the face of this century that impelling word SERVICE. It would
seem that institutions are to be judged in this twentieth century, as
never before, upon their ability and willingness to be of use to mankind. This is to be the humane age, as distinguished from the theologic, scientific, analytic, all of which terms have characterized certain
past ages. If this contention is right, now is Masonry's great opportunity, her accepted time, her day of salvation.
"Mark well, Masonry has not come to the age, but the age has
come to Masonry. She anticipates just such an era. It is what
Masonry has stood for, theoretically at least, all through the past.
First and last, Masonry is committed to the cause of humanity. Herein
lies our solemn and great responsibility. To ·excite in man noble
aspirations; to develop in him practical charity ; to make him keep in
·s ubjection rude and impure passions; to make lying, cheating and
grafting more difficult ; truth, candor and fair-dealing more easy and
popular; to maintain high ideals in the home, in the State and in the
nation; to deal bread to the hungry, comfort to the afflicted; 'to
break every yoke and let the oppressed go free,' all this to fulfill
the missiort of Masonry.
"The old historian Livy, could find no.thing better to express his
admiration for the people of ancient Greece than the phrase sal
gentium, the salt of the nations.
"May we, as Masons, in our individual practice and influence, rise
to the call of the age and justify for our beloved Craft the encomium
of Livy."

102

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

103

FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

MASONIC HOM!l.

The report on Foreign Correspondence is by Brother Robert A.
Shirrifs, and is a lively and interesting review of seventy-five Grand
Lodges.
]. Clarence Conover ( Freeh9ld), G~and Master.
Benjamin F. Wakefield (Trenton), Grand Secretary.

There is not, at present, in New Mexico a Masonic Home but
the sentiment of the Grand Lodge is strongly in favor of such an :stablishment and the following recommendation of the Committee on Grand
Master's address was unanimously adopted:

NEW MEXICO, 1908.
Thirty-first Annual Communication. Albuquerque. October 19, 20, 1908.
During the year seven Special Communications of the Grand Lodge
were held for the purpose of installing officers elected at the previous
Annual Communication but not present at that time for installation;
and two Emergent Communications were held during the year for
the purpose of conducting the funerals of Past Grand Masters William
B. Childers and Chas. H . Sporleder.
The Thirty-first Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of
Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of New Mexico was held in the
hall of Tempe Lodge, No. 6, in the city of Albuquerque, on Monday,
October 19, 1908, at 10 o'clock A. M. Most Worshipful J. W. Willson,
Grand Master presiding.
Preceding the report of the Grand Master, there was a report
of the Committee on Kit Carson Memorial to the effect that during
the year a suitable ornamental iron fence had been placed about the
grave of Kit Carson at Taos. Kit Carson was formerly a member of
Montezuma Lodge at Santa Fe, whose Lodge register bears his signature April 21, 1861. He was a distinguished pioneer and did much for .
Masonry, and for New Mexico. Montezuma Lodge, it is stated, is the
p~oud possessor of his rifle, and the Grand Lodge of New Mexico is
the owner of his Masonic Apron through the gift of Past Grand Master
Slack.
STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

Total number of chartered Lodges at the beginning of this Communication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . '29
Lodges under dispensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7
Lodges chartered at this Communication. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7
Total membership at date of this Communication ............... 2,128
Net gain during preceding year .................................. 306
Income of Grand Lodge . ....... ... .. . . ... .... . .............. $3,405.00
Assets of Grand Lodge :
Cash in hands of Grand Treasurer, General Fund ........ 2,240.55
Cash in hands of Grand Treasurer, Charity Fund .... . ... 5,796.04
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8,036.59

"We a:re heartily in .accord with his recommendations for the
early erection of a Masonic Home, and would suggest to this Grand
Lodge that steps be taken toward the acquiring by donation of sufficient
land looking to the future establishment of such a Home."
GRAND MAST!lR'S ADDR!lSS.

The Grand Master's address is a business-like and comprehensive
statement of his official acts as Grand Master. He feelingly refers to
the death of the oldest Past Grand Master in the Jurisdiction, Most
Worshipful Brother William Burr Childers, and also to the affliction
suffered by the Grana Lodge in the "passing onward" of Past Grand
Master Elias E. Day.
The work of the Grand Master during the year consisted in the
constitution into regular Lodges of three of the four Lodges which
received charters at the previous Annual Communication; to dispensations to form six new Lodges and in official visits to a number ·of
Subordinate Lodges of his Jurisdiction, although owing to the vast
extent of territory, he was not able to personally honor all of the
subordinates with his presence.
The "decisions" of the Grand Master were not numerous and were
all approved by the Jurisprudence Committee. The Jurisprudence Committee, however, very properly disapproved the action of the Grand
Master in granting a dispensation to open a Lodge without the presence
of the Master, or of either of the Wardens.
That the same high conception of Masonic teaching is held in this
American territory where there is a touch of the rough element
of the borderland between our republic and Mexico, and where the arts
of civilization are not supposed to be upon quite so high a standard as
?bt~ins in s~me of the older and more polished sections of our country,
is disclosed m the following quotation taken from the conclusion of the
Grand Master's address:
"It devolves upon every Mason to be a good citizen as well
as a loyal and deyoted J;>rot?er. He should remember that there is
upon h!~ a peculiar obligation to prove himself in every respect a
good c1tizi:n, for~ after all, the way in which he can best do his
duty by this. Anc1~nt and Honorabl~ Order is by reflecting credit by
the manner m which he performs his duty as a citizen of the Union
of the, Territory, of the l?cality. and especially as a neighbor. A
Mason s first dut)'. 1s to his family, for above all things he should
be a loyal and lovmg son, a devoted and faithful husband and a wise
and generous father. The home is the place where the Mason is
really needed. This is the place where he proves himself to be a
worthy Mason and where he gains the admiration, love and respect,

104

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

not only of his brethren, but of all people. T.hi~ is the place 'Yh~re .
he has an opportunity to do much towards bu1ld1.ng up and .ass1st111g
in maintaining the enviable reputation so long enjoyed by this Noble
Order."
FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

The report on Foreign Correspondence is a careful and conscientious review of forty-eight jurisdictions, principa\ly American, by Past
Grand Master James H. Roth. California, 1907, is reviewed.
Chester D. Ste:vens, (Raton) Grand Master.
Alpheus A. Keen, (Albuquerque) Grand .Secretary.

NEW SOUTH WALES, 1908.
The Quarterly Co.mmunication of June 10. 1908, is the one at
which the principal business of the year is transacted, although at
each Quarterly Communication reports from various officers are received, and there is no Communication designated as annual by this ·
jurisdiction.
. From various reports rendered ·during the year, the following
statistical information is obtained:
Number of active Lodges in the jurisdiction.................... 214
New Lodges created during the year .............. ·.. .. . •·.. . ...
5
Total number of members ...... . ... . ... . ............. ........ 12,570
Increase during the year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 784.
Total assets of the Grand Lodge ............................. £157,884 .
.
(Equivalent to nearly $300,000.)
The relief granted during the year amounted to £1,678, and it is.
distributed in the form of .so-called annuities to certain selected
beneficiaries.
The Grand Master, His Excellency M.". W.". Brother Admiral
Sir Harry Holdsworth Rawson, G. C. B., was installed as Grand
Master for the fourth time at a Special Communication of the Grand
I;odge held July 30, 1907.
At this Communication felicitations were extended to the Grand
Master by Representatives from other Australian Grand Lodges and
the Representative, Past Grand Master Byrme, from Queensland, gave
some interesting statistical information concerning his Grand Lodge,
which has been for three years vainly seeking recognition from England and Scotland. He stated in his remarks that when the Grand
Lodge of Queensland was established, three years ago, there were
thirty-nine Lodges, which have been increased now to fifty-two.
Queensland has abundance of faith in finally winning recognition from
England and Scotland although, as he states, so far as Scotland is
concerned, "it is a surprise to me that she recognizes anybody."

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

105

At the date of these remarks-July, 1907-Queensland had been
recognized by twenty-seven Grand Lodges, sixteen of the number
being American, and since that date this number has been largely
Increased, and probably at the present time not less than forty Grand
Jurisdictions have recognized the Sovereign Grand Lodge of Queensland. An exceedingly prosperous condition, so far as Masonry is
concerned, prevails in New South Wales. The membership is steadily
advancing and the jurisdiction is upon a most stable a1i.d secure finandal foundation.
FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

There is a report upon Foreign Correspondence prepared by a
committee of five, the chairman of which is· Worshipful Brother
Thomas L. Rowbothan.
California (1907) receives generous and courteous attention.
llis Excellency M.". W.". Brother Admiral Sir Harry Holdsworth
Rawson, G. C. B. (Sidney), Grand Master.
Arthur H . Bray (Sidney) , Grand Secretary.

NEW YORK.
One Hundred Twenty-eighth Annual Communication. New York City.
May 4, 1909.
The One Hundred and Twenty-eighth Annual Communication of the
Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of New York
was opened in the Grand Lodge Room, Masonic Hall, City of New
York, on the afternoon of May 4, A. D. 1909, A. L. 5909, at two
o'clock, the M.". W.". S. Nelson Sawyer in the Grand East.
STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

Total number of chartered Lodges.... . .......................
784
Charters granted to new Lodges at this Communication...... . .
7
Number Master Masons iast report . ......... . .... . ........ : ... 152,928
Net gain in membership during year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,173
Total rlumber Master Masons this Communication ...... . ...... 158,101
Income of Grand Lodge, aside from investments .... . ..... . . $198,661.28
ASSETS OF GRAND LODGE.

Funds in hands of Grand Treasurer
Masonic Home property at Utica, and other property and
equiti-es under control of Trustees of the Masonic Hall
and Asylum Fund, probably ............................. $3,500,000.00
MASONIC HOME•.

The Masonic Home . at Utica, New York, is one of the most important institutions of this character in the world. It sheltered on

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

March 31, 1909, 390 beneficiaries divided as follows: men 196 · wo~en
107; boys, 37; girls, 50. The. current administration e~pens;s of th; .
Home during the preceding year were $75,705.29, showing a per capita
cost for the year of $207.74. The Home is maintained by a per capita
tax of SO cents upon the membership, but it is hoped that when the
valuable realty holdings belonging to the fraternity in New York
City are adequately developed at 23rd and 24th Streets and 6th Avenue
by the comple.tion of modern commercial buildings, that the incom;
therefrom will be sufficient in a few years, after. the debt incurred in
their construction is liquidated, to maintain, without any direct tax
upon the membership,, the great charity of the fraternity at Utica.

character, largely through the efforts of members of the fraternity in
different sections of the state, having had the effect of greatly dimishlng its operation.
·

106

GRAND MASTER'S ADDRl(SS.

A chaste and lofty diction is manifested in the introductory clauses
of the Grand Master's address. He amplifies the idea of change, "the
evolution upward, the transition from bad to good, from good to
better." Of this universal truth, as applied to Freemasonry, he says :
"In form . and ceremony Freemasonry has changed, as changes ·
all earthly thmgs. In the underlying tenets which have given it
ccntinued life and virility it changeth not.
"The great verities of "human life never change; the great. principles of Freemasonry are, likewise, immutable.
"Belief in God, love for our fellow beings, loyalty to all that
becometh a man, the practice of manly virtues, and the giving in
full measure, not of alms, but of human charity, from the beginning
until now have been its foundation stones.
"Upon these has been built the superstructure, every change in
the form of which has but given opportunity for greater usefulness.
"As the world has grown better, Freemasonry has kept step with its.
march of progress; and fully abreast with the day, it is now as ever
a mighty power for good.
'
. "As. changes in. life and nature are bµt a preparation for something higher and ncher, so the changes in our Fraternity have but
opened the way to us for higher endeavor and richer fruition."
· He refers with feeling, and in fitting terms to the "Fr~ternal
Dead," and recounts the virtues and sterling qualities of many of those
of his own Jurisdiction, who, during the year, had answered the last
summons, among them being Bishop Henry C. Potter, Grand Chaplain
Emeritus; Past Grand Master Frederick A. Burnham, Past Grand Master Joseph J. Couch. His activities during the year were great, and par-.
ticularly noteworthy is the fact that at the Special Communications of
the Grand Lodge for the purpose of placing corner stones, the dedication of Masonic Halls, etc., the Grand Master officiated in person
and not by proxy, as is so often the case.
·
Clandestine Masonry, which has been a cause of no little irritation to the fraternity in New York, is referred to by the Grand Master
as gradually becoming less troublesome, the exposure of its spurious·

107

Dl(CISIONS.

The report of the Committee on Jurisprudence, which was adopted,
on the Grand Master's Address covering dicisions were as follows :
The Committee on Jurisprudence, to whom was referred so much
of the Grand Master's Address covering decisions, find but one decision,
which is as follows:
"A brother, who has been unaffiliated for non-payment of dues,
tendered to his Lodge the amount owing, which, after some hesitation,
was accepted and receipt given. He then applied for reinstatement,
but was rejected.
"Question. Could he apply to any other Lodge for membership ?
"I held that, having paid in full his indebtedness to his Lodge,
his status thereupon became the same as that of one who had paid
his dues and been, at his own request, dropped from the roll. That
having discharged his obligation to his Lodge, his punishment could
not be longer continued; and that if the Lodge did not care to
restore him to membership he was free to apply to any other Lodge
for affiliation and could be lawfully received.
"This is so manifestly in accordance with former decisions and the
Constitution that the Committee heartily approve, and ask the Grand
Le dge to confirm this report."
This is not in accordance with the law in California, where the
vote that restores to good standing in the fraternity, restores also
to membership in the lodge; but it is the opinion of many in this Jurisdiction that a modification of our law ought to be made, whereby in
restoring a member suspended for non-payment of dues, a distinction
should be drawn between restoration to good standing in the fraternity,
giving to the member the standing of a non-affiliate, which might be
<lene upon payment of arrearages, and by a majority or two-thirds
vote; and restoration to membership in the Lodge, which should be
accomplished only by unanimous ballot.
The beneficient operations of the Grand Lodge of New York
a re multifarious. The reports of the various committees, especially
that of the Grand Historian with historical sketches of various Lodges,
full of interest and most valuable information.
The principal burden of the Grand Master's address was an
elaborate exploitation, from his point of view, of differences which
had arisen during the year between himself, and the Trustees of the
Hall and Asylum Fund, as to the proper policy to pursue in relation
to the improvement of the Masonic Hall 'property at 6th Avenue, and
23rd Street in connection with the so-called annex, just completed,
(or practically so) on 24th Street.
The Trustees are in a sense independent of the Grand Lodge, or
of the Grand Master; are created by act of the legislature for certain

108

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

purposes .in connection with the management of the properties of the
Craft, and are vested with certain powers, of which they may not be
divested except by additional act of the legislature. This board is
composed of the selected men of the fr<1ternity, six in number, chosen
because of their knowledge, business sagacity, and training. It was
the belief of this Board that, acting in the line of what they considered the clearly indicated wishes of the Craft, as shown in the
proceedings of the Grand Lodge, during the three previous Annual
Communications, steps should be taken at once to replace the old
poorly designed building (at least, for income purposes), on 23rd Street
with a modern eighteen story commercial building; and, to this end,
it appeared to the Board that they were justified in taking such preliminary action as might be needed to accomplish this purpose, especial!y
the embracing of an opportunity to purchase, at what they considered
a 'favorable figure, a long lease held by the Garfield National Bank,
upon a large portion of the ground floor. And in opposition to ·the
wishes of the Grand Master, the purchase of the lease was consummated. Notwithstanding the unquestioned power of the Trustees of
the Hall and Asylum Fund to proceed with the project of the proposed new building, they preferred to refer the entire matter to the
Grand Lodge for action, and the majority of the Hall and Asylum
Fund Committee, and the Grand Lodge, by vote of Lodges, sustained
the Grand Master and the project has been, seemingly, for the time
being . arrested, and the Trustees discredited; which illustrates how
difficult it is to overcome the prestige which a Grand Master holds
with the Craft, sin:iply by virtue of his office. For, in this case the
weight of the argument was clearly on the side of the Trustees. The
Frafernity is in possession of one of the most valuable corners in the
city of New York, upon which is an antiquated building, almost tenantltss, but with suitable improvement, the property could, in the judgment of disinterested experts, be made to pay a large return, especially
in view of the great advantage it enjoys in the fact that the entire
property is, by virtue of a law of the state, exempt from taxes, so
long as the net revenue is devoted to charitable purposes, which of
course it is, and the purposed million dol!ar improvement would not,
therefore, have added one dollar to the outgo for taxes. It is astonishing that the combined judgment of .the six Trustees, undoubtedly
among the foremost men of the Fraternity, thoroughly trained in the
matter of finance, acting wholly from unselfish motives, and influenced
only by a desire to promote the good of the Craft, should be overthrown, simply because it r.an counter to the opinion of a man, who
for the time being, wore the regalia of the Grand Master. The sentiments appealed to by the partisans of the Grand Master were, judging from the arguments, that the Trustees were presuming to arrogate
to themselves an importance above that of the Grand Master, or even

the Grand Lodge, that they were attempting to belittle that august
personage, that they were endeavoring .to plunge the Craft hopelessly
into debt, and that the Grand Master was the only bulwark that stood
between tlie Fraternity and financial chaos. The circumstance that
the Grand Master when he becomes such, wears an elaborately embroidered collar, and an' apron bordered with gold, and sits among
his brethren with his hat on, does not invest him with any mental
qualities that he did not previously possess, and the quality of his
gray matter is not at all enhanced thereby. In the consideration of
a business and financial question, such as was this building proposition, the Grand Master should have counted simply as one man among
others, and just such weight should have been given to his judgment
as his training, and business experience entitled it to receive, and no
more. The eminent Towersend Scudden, Past Grand Master, Judge
of the Supreme Court, and President of the Board, in his report tersely
expressed this idea when he said:
"The Trustees have the greatest respect for the Grand Master,
and reverence for the office. · Judgment. however, emanates from men
as individuals and not from officials. The matter under discussion is
a business and not a Masonic proposition."
The soundnes!f of the judgment of the Trustees will without doubt
be proven within a very brief period of time.
A certain city was once threatened with a visitation of bubonic
plague, incipient manifestations having already developed. The Board
of Health, made up of medical experts, as a means of conserving the
welfare of the city, recommended the adoption of certain adequate
steps of regeneration and purification, together with the destruction
of the rodents that carried the disease, which measures necessitated
the expenditure of a large sum of money, but which would put the
city on a plane of safety. The Mayor of the city, having been chosen,
not because he possessed medical skil!, but from other considerations,
insisted that the measures proposed by the board of medical experts
were wasteful and il!-advised and altogether useless, and that no real
necessity existed for any such extravagance, impeded by virtue of his
official position and the authority incident thereto, the action of the
Board, and finally by reference of the question to the Electorate, who
were even Jess qualified than himself to judge of the impending danger
that threatened, overthrew entirely the measures recommended by the
Board, and for a season there was great rejoicing because the threatened
avalanche of expenditure had been stayed. In the meantime, however, the rodent carriers of the disease had been multiplying, the conditions for the outbreak of the dread malady had been ripeping, and
finally the plague burst forth with appalling virulency, and before its
ravages ceased, one fourth of the entire population had been tol!ed off
as victim of the destroyer.

109

110

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

.

This was not the fateful outcome of the visitation of bubonic plague
with which San Francisco was threatened three years ago. It might:
however, easily have been the outcome, if the Chief Executive of the
city had not co-operated, as he did, with the medical experts, who
insisted, in face of the strong opposition of the uninformed public,
that the expenditure of a large sum of money was needed to safeguard the health and welfare of the city.
It may be possible to discover an analogy between the conditions surrounding the health situation in San Francisco three years
ago, and conditions involved in the financial situation of the Fraternity
in New York today, although the analogy ceases at the boundary line
where recommendation merges into action.
FOREIGN CORRl\SPONDl\NCI\.

The report on Foreign Correspondence is by M.'. w:. William
Sherer, P ast Grand Master. His survey of the Masonic world is exceedingly comprehensive-49 American, 8 Canadian, 59 foreign jurisdictions are considered-although his views as a rule are quite brief.
Many Masonic bodies that are not recognized as peers by our Grand
Lodge are noticed by him, no doubt upon the theoty that information
concerning many of these is frequently desired, and may very properly
be given without thereby according any implied recognition. Concerning Italy, he expresses regret that absence of proof that that country
is organized under the jurisdiction of symbolic Lodges prevents recognition at this time.
Requests also for recognition from Chili, San Domingo, Greece,
and San Salvador were refused because these so-called Grand Lodges
were not legitimately organized and are not the sole rulers of Masonry
in their respective countries, and hence, in accordance with the American idea, not entitled to recognition.
A. Nelson Sawyer, Grand Master.
Edward M. L. Ehler, Grand Secretary.

NEW ZEALAND, 1908.
Nineteenth Annual Communication.
Auckland.
May 6, 1908.
The Nineteenth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of
Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of New Zealand was held at
Auckland on Wednesday and' Thursday, May 6 and 7, 1908, the
M.'. W.'. Brother, His Excellency, The Right Honorable Lord Plunket,
Grand Master, presiding

STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

Total number of Lodges in the jurisdiction...................... 152
Total number of . members . ...... . ... . .. .. .. . ....... . ... ... .... . 9,238
Net gain over the preceding year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 739
Total income of Grand Lodge from various funds ....... . £ 7,155.9 .1
Total assets of Grand Lodge, all funds . ..... .. .. ... .. .. . .. 16,158.14.10
The first business of the Grand Lodge, after the presentation of the
balance sheet for the preceding year by the Grand Treasurer, was the
election of officers, and Lord Plunket, who for several years has been
the official head of the Craft in New Zealand, was unanimously
re-elected.
The business of the Annual Communication was limited to the
reception of reports of committees and the transaction of the usual
routine business of the Annual Convention. From the various reports
that were rendered it is apparent that the Craft in New Zealand is in
a healthy and prosperous condition, both from a financial standpoint
and the standpoint of usefulness and good which it is exercising in
the community.
The dependent widows and orphans and indigent Masons are
providec:I for by what are call annuities (although in the strict sense
of _the term they are not annuities, but simply yearly allowances,
which may be withdrawn at any time), from the so-called Widows and
Orphans' Fund. The beneficiaries from this fund last year numbered
about fifteen, and the total amount distributed to them· was £233.5.0.
The capital value of the fund on March 31st was, in round figures,
£9,000, and it is expected during the coming year to increase this to
£10,000, which will yield an income of about £400 (something like
$2,000) . Perhaps a Charity Fund of this kind, administered in this
manner, may take the place of a Masonic Home, but one may be
pardoned for expressing serious doubts upon tHe subject.
It was voted at the Annual Communication, one year ago, to
establish the system of Fraternal Correspondence, such as is in vogue
throughout our American jurisdictions, and the report on Foreign
Correspondence this year is the first in the Grand Jurisdiction of
New Zealand. The report embodied in the current volume of Proceedings is by Malcolm Niccol, Past Grand Master. He states, in his
conclusion, that his initial attempt results necessarily in something of
an unfinished l>roduct, his work having necessarily been largely limited
to an assembling of extracts taken from the reports of the various
Proceedings, but he expresses the hope that in future he may be able
to devote more space to the expression of his own views upon t!1e
various 'subjects.
California ( 1907) is generously considered.
The former officers were re-elected:
His Excellency, Lord Plunket (Auckland), Grand Master.
Malcolm Niccol (Auckland), Grand Secreta ry.

112

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENC&

NORTH CAROLINA, 1909.
One Hundred and Twenty-second Annual Communication. Raleigh.
Jan. 12, 13, 14, 1909.
The Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of North
Carolina convened in its One Hundred and Twenty-second Annual
Communication in the Hall of the Masonic Temple, in the city of
Raleigh, on Tuesday evening, January 12, 1909, at 7 :30 o'clock, and
was opened in Ample Form by M.". W.". Samuel M. Gattis, Grand
Master, and a full corps of Grand Lodge officers.
STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

Number of chartered Lodges in jurisdiction . . ... ........... . ... 369
Number of Lodges in jurisdiction under dispensation..........
9
Number of Master Masons, last report'. ......................... 18,008
Net gain in membership during year.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
Number of Master ~asons this report ...... . ..... . ........... . . 18,940
Income of Grand Lodge during the year .... . . . ............. $14,674.60
Assets of Grand Lodge:
.
Cash in hands of Grand Treasurer ...................... $· 3,089.88
Invested in Masonic Temple (about) ................... 75,000.00
MASONIC ORPHANS' HOME.

North Carolina was early among the fraternal or religious institutions of this country in the establishment of Orphans' Homes, or
Asylums, as they are called. To Kentucky probably belongs the honor
of being first, but North Carolina, also a pioneer, has made its Orphans' Home pre-eminent above all others, unquestionably the foremost
institution of its character in the United States. Its success and usefulness have been so marked, and its work of such general and widespread beneficent a ·n ature that the Home long since assumed the
character of a quasi public institution, and · has received annual appropriations from the State for many years towards its support. This
Nor th Carolina Orphans' Home was established nearly forty years
ago, at a time when only one State in the Union-Michigan-had a
State Orphan Asylum; it has given shelter and a start in life in the
right direction to more than three thousand orphans, and now holds
within its protecting arms 325 little ones, bereft by fate of a parent's
love and care. Not only does the North Carolina Home give to the
orphan moral teaching and mental discipline, but, what may be of
almost equal importance in the strife for existence, manual training,
so that when the child leaves the Home he is, in a measure, prepared
to withstand the rude jostling which awaits him amid life's surging
crowds.

REPORT ON .CORRESPONDENCE.

113

More than one industrial department of the Home is made to
show an exc.ess of income over disbutsements, and the singing class
returned a net profit last year through concert tours, etc., of over
six thousand dollars. The per capita cost, above the earnings of the
institution, of maintaining each child for the twelve months, was approximately $66, and the combined cost of education and maintenance
about $79, a most unusual and praiseworthy record.
North Carolina Masonry is proud of its Orphans' home, nor,
one is constrained to believe, will it take kindly to the suggestion contained in the address delivered at the Annual Communication by the
Grand Orator, Past Grand Master Robert Bingham, that in the onward
march of humanity the Orphan Asylum will likely become as an abandoned derelict, something in comparison with which the progress of the
race may in future be measured, and while it is undoubtedly true that
the ideal atmosphere in which to rear the orphan is found in the
family relationship, and that the trend of modern effort is to find
families in which to place the waifs of society, yet the high function
of the Orphans' Home will never cease and the time will never come
in North Carolina when the music of children's voices at the Oxford
institution will be supplanted by the toothless whisper.ings of age.
A home for the aged and infirm is beyond question among the expectations yet to· be realized by the Masons of North Carolina, but one
may be sure that this will not be done, as intimated by the Orator,
through the conversion to such a purpose of the present orphanage
at Oxford, the very apple-of-the-eye of North Carolina Masonry. ·
GRAND MA:STER'S ADDRESS.

The Grand Master's address discloses an active and progressive
administration. The new Masonic Temple at Raleigh, costing upwards
of $170,000, was finished. Its completion involved no little effort on
the part of the membership, and the assumption of a large personal
responsibility on the part of the Temple Trustees, but the realization
of the hopes of the fraternity in securing a most beautiful and magnificent home for the Grand Lodge more than repaid the sacrifices
involved in its acquirement.
Sixteen Special Communications of the Grand Lodge were held
during the year, thirteen of which were for the purpose of laying
corner stones of public buildings, one to mark the grave of Past Grand
Master Richard Caswell, one to attend St. John the Baptist's Day celebration at the Oxford Home, and the other to attend the funeral
of Past Grand Master Fabius H. Busbee, whose sudden and unexpected
death during the year at Seattle, w'1ile attending the annual meeting of
the American Bar Association, as representative from North Carolina,
cast a pall over the entire fraternity of his State. Past Grand Master

REPORT ON CORR~SPONDENC&

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Busbee was greatly beloved and was regarded, in many respects, as the
foremost Ma son of his jurisdiction.

this function elsewhere, and, theretore, in principle is as· much of an
offender as Cerneauism, and if strict principle were to govern in all
cases, recognition would be denied to Grand Lodges such as Valle de
Mexico, formed by Lodges which owe their origin to charters received
from a so-called Supreme Council of the Scottish Rite.

114

DECISIONS.

In speaking .of his decisions, the Grand Master states that he has
refrained from reporting the long list rendered by him, and gives only
those that are in his judgment of general interest to the Craft. Foremost among these must be regarded the following:
"Question 19.-Does a Master Mason's obligation extend to a
brother Master Mason's sister-in-law?
"Answer.-N o."
· This certainly will cause a stampede in the direction of the sisterin-law and if the Grand Master had only extended his assurance so
as to 'have included the mother-in-law, he would have been hailed
as the true emancipator of the Craft.

115

FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

The report on Foreign Correspondence is by the Chairmaq, Dr.
John A. Collins. California (1907) receives courteous attention, with
generous quotation from the Grand Master.
Samuel M. Gattis (Hillsboro), re-elected.
G. M. John C. Drewry (Raleigh), re-elected Grand Secretary.

NORTH DAKOTA, 1908.
CERNEAUISM.

Cerneauism has at different times for more than fifty years been
a source of· perplexity and trouble to the Grand Lodge of North
Carolina, and during the past year renewed efforts were made by that
alleged form of Scottish Rite Masonry to establish itself within this
jurisdiction. The Grand Master refused to render an opinion favorable
to claims of this organization to legitimacy, but also reserved condemnation, preferring, as he stated, to refer the entire subject to the
consideration of the Grand Lodge. The committee of the Grand Lodge
to whom the matter was referred reported adversely to the pretensions
of the so-called Cerneau Rite, and reaffirmed the previous rulings of
the Grand Lodge, declaring that rite clandestine. This report was
adopted by the Grand Lodge, and it is unlawful for Master Masons
in North Carolina, as is true in most of our American jurisdictions,
to receive the Cerneau brand of the so-called higher degrees. It
might be a serious question as to the province of a Grand Lodge of
Ancient Craft Masons to undertake to decide between the conflicting
claims of rival Supreme Councils · of the Scottish Rite, both of which
are of decidedly modern origin, if it were not for the fact that the
so-called Cerneau Rite Supreme Council has not hesitated in this
<;ountry to presume to charter symbolic Lodges, where, in being denied
access to regular Blue Lodge members, a body of Masons was needed
from which to draw recruits to fatten the treasury {Jf the body conferring the alleged higher degrees.
The Supreme Councils of the '.fhirty-Third Degree, A. and A.,
Scottish Rite, of the Northern and Southern Jurisdictions of the
United States-the brand that is esteemed regular-has not undertaken
to, charter Symbolic Lodges in this country, and has preserved its
good standing in consequence, but it is not denied that it has assumed

.

Nineteenth Annual Communication.
Fargo.
June 30, 1908.
The Nineteenth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge, A. F.
& A. M., of the State of North Dakota was opened at 10 o'clock a. m.
in the Auditorium of the Masonic Temple, in the city of Fargo, on
Tuesday, continuing in said city during Wednesday, being the 30th
day of June and the 1st day of July, A. D. 1908, A. L. 5908, M.'. W.'.
John Riess beck, Grand Master, presiding.
•
STA'I'IS'I'ICAL SUMMARY.

Total number of chartered Lodges beginning of this Communication 82
Lodges under dispensation beginning this Communication.. . . . . . .
7
Charters to new Lodges granted this Communication. . . . . . . . . . . . .
7
Total membership this Communication ............. .. ....... , ..... 6.578
Gain during the year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 506
Income of Grand Lodge .................................... $7,738.34
Assets of Grand Lodge :
Cash in hands of Grand Treasurer ..... . .... . ........ , .$14,285.50
Balance Library Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
460.19
Balance Masonic Home Fund . ......................... 1,189.35
MASONIC HOME.

Masons of North Dakota made a brave start in the matter of a
Masonic Home, some two years since, but after a fuller realization of
the stupendous task which they had undertaken, they inaugurated,
through the Grand Secretary, inquiries throughout the Grand Jurisdictions of the United States as to the cost, etc., of Masonic Homes, with
a view of securing dafa for their guidance, and in the light of the
information thus obtained the North · Dakota Masons concluded that a

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Masonic Home was not for them, and they have therefore formally and
decisively abandoned the project, the Committee on Masonic Home reporting that, in their opinion, the establishment of a !IIasonic Home,
if attempted at all, should only be by Grand Lodges larger than .their
Grand Lodge is now or will be for many years to come; but to show
that .t hey are. alive to the real functions of their beloved Order, they
have set aside a fund to provide prizes to be awarded to the winners
of oratorical contests between representatives of schools and colleges
throughout North Dakota, proceeding, no doubt, upon the assumption
that it is better to have a lively, well-supported oratorical contest with
suitable prizes attached, than to have a poorly supported, or halfstarved Masonic Home.
.
.
Prizes for oratorical contests between selected individuals from
various schools throughout the State, and the appropriation of Masonic
funds for the purchase of such prizes, is ce;tainly something new and
novel in the way of Grand Lodge charity.

jority vote upon a petition for restoration from suspension for nonpayment of dues, when all dues and charges have ben paid is purely
a formal requirement, and that no Lodge should reject su~h petition
unless other charges are preferred."
"Statement of Facts.-Regular meeting January 28, 1908. Petition
of Mr. A. was received and referred. Regular meeting February 25
1908. . C?mmittee reported favorably, ballot was spread and, upo~
exammat1on, the Wardens and Master found the ballot to be clear
and :1'4r. A. was declared elected. At the regular meeting, March 10,
1?08, 1t was understood that Mr. A. would present himself for initiat10n. Lodge was opened and the order of business proceeded with.
When the order of business 'Work Conferring Degrees' was announced
by the Master, Brother F. moved as follows :
"'Worshipful Master, I have been informed that at our last regular·
meeting an illegal ballot was taken. I now move that the Master
appoint a committee of three (Past Masters, if possible) , to whom I
may report in private what has been told to me, the committee to
report to the Lodge.' The motion was seconded by Brother G. and
was carded by the Lodge. - The Master appointed as such committee
Brothers B, C, and D, to whom Brother F. reported as follows : 'I
have been told by Brother B, who acted as Senior Deacon at our
meeting of February 25th, that he saw, when removing the balls from
the box, that an unfavorable ballot had been cast.' Upon consulting
the code, the committee ruled that the candidate stood elected. Brother
B. then sta.ted to the committee that he had himself cast a black ball,
was sure that he had done so, and sure that he had seen it in the box
when removing the evidence of the ballot. The Master and Wardens
were then called, who stated that they are well satisfied that the
ballot was clear. The Master then postponed the conferring of the
deg ree until the ruling of the Grand Master should be obtained.
"Question.-Is the candidate elected and entitled to the degrees ~
if not, how shall we proceed?
''Answer.-No. We must take into consideration the intent of
the brother who stated that he cast the black ball. The very fact that
he stated he did so showed his intention, even if he might have made
the mistake and picked up a white ballot when he inrended to use a
black one, which, no doubt was the case, else the officers who examined
lhe ballot could not !;ave found it clear. The brother, however, having
declared that he cast a black ball, his intentions must govern my
decision, a nd I must declare the candidate rejected and he must wait
for the expiration ·of the statutory time befo re he can renew his.
application for the degr,ees.
·
"This decision is disapproved. The ballot once spread, inspected
and declared is final. It cannot be attacked at a subsequent meeting
by collateral evidence. It is the duty of the Maste r, upon declaring
the ballot, to destroy it; and upon the declaration of the Master, after
the inspection of the ballot, the candidate is elected and entitled to
the degrees, if the ballot is clear."
One of the prominent figures in the Jurisdiction of North Dakota
is Right Worshipful Frank']. Thompson, Grand Secretary, who renders an exceedingly interesting report, and the following closing paragraph fr om his report shows a touch of genuine eloquence:

116

CRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.

The Grand Master feelingly refers to the death during the year
of two eminent Past Grand Masters of his jurisdiction-M. '. W .'.
John F . Selby, who was for many years Chairman of the Jurisprudence Committee of the Grand Lodge, and M.'. W.'. Rev. M. Carothers, also very active in Masonic work of various kinds in his·
juris~iction.
.
The activities of the Grand Master during the year were repre.sented in three Emergent Communications of the Grand Lodge called
for the purpose of placing corner stones of two public buildings, and
one for the purpose of dedicating a Masonic Temple; and in dispensations granted to form four new Lodges.
Of the "decisions"' rendered by the Grand Master the following
are mentioned, with reports thereon by the Law Committee:
" Question.-A. B. was suspended for non-payment of dues. A
request for reinstatement, accompanied with payment of amount of
dues at time of suspension, was received by the Lodge. ·W hen time·
came to vote on the question of reinstatement, apparent reason existed to reject the request, and it was rej ected. Since that time, the
brother suspended has fix ed up the cause of complaint, and we believe
the brethren of the Lodge are willing to reinstate the brother. Can
the Lodge consider a renewal of his request for reinstatement at any
subsequent meeting of the Lodge?
"Answe r.-Not being able to find anything in the statute covering
that part of the question, I would hold that the brother has the right
to petition the Lodge at any time after he has been rejected; provided,
that the requirements of Chapter VI, on page 127, Procedure, are
complied with by him, and .the Lodge has full authority to receive said
petition and to act upon it at any subsequent stated meeting.
" The effect of this decision is approved, with th'e statement that
the Jurisprudence Committee believes that the requirement for a ma-

117

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

"We are assembled here not so much for rounding up the things
which the Grand Master has done, or to check up to see whether the
Grand Treasurer and the Grand Secretary have account~d f?r all
the moneys they have received, as it is to forge .another lmk m the
chain of fraternity, to learn to know each other, to feel the fl.ow of
·common interest, to hear the words of go?d cheer, and to forget the
burdens we carry along the highway of life. That the hurr,ian heart
may satisfy its longings, it reaches out to pluck .the rose of higher a~d
better things, and it feels the scent of fn.endsh1p and good-fello~sh1p
as the hunted deer sniffs the water.s, which means s'.lfety; and m it
all we get better courage to battle with the dust that rises as our foot·steps fall."
The Masons of North Dakota take a lively interest in their Masonic Grand Lodge Library, and its growth and expansion is a matter
with them of pride and pleasure.
There is no report on Foreign Correspondence.
.
Sylvester J. Hill (Fargo), Grand Master.
Frank J. Thompson (Fargo), Grand Secretary.

impropriety always in any ceremony used in connection with Ancient
Craft Masonry that is of a distinctly sectarian character, and it would
be no more out of place to hold services in a Jewish Synagogue than
in an edifice belonging to the Holy Trinity Church of the Episcopalian
denomination; and in the line of this thought one discovers, in an
examination of the official acts of the Grand Master of Nova Scotia,
during the preceding year, that dispensations were granted in no less
than six cases to attend divine service in Masonic regalia. Dispensations for this purpose have, in a number of American jurisdictions
during the past year, been refused, and should in all cases be refused.
If individual Masons, or even Lodges of Masons, desire to attend
divine service in a body, there certainly is no objection to their doing
so, but there is a manifest impropriety in their wearing Masonic
regalia, which can have no purpose except that of display. Ancient
Craft Masonry is not a Christian Order, and for a Lodge of Masons
in full regalia to attend divine service at an Episcopal Church is an
affront to the many thousands of Blue Lodge Masons who are of the
Hebrew faith, and it is worthy of note in this connection that in
several of our American jurisdictions there have been within the last
few years, and are now, Grand Masters that are of the faith of King
Solomon, and for a number of years in the Grand Jurisdiction of
~alifornia the Grand Chaplain was an eminent Jewish Rabbi.

. 118

NOV A SCOTIA, 1908.
'Forty-third Annual Communication.
Yarmouth.
June 10, 1908.
A Special Communication of the Grand Lodge was held ~ur~ng the
prl!ceding year· at the city of Sidney for the purpose of ded1catmg the
new Freemasons' Hall in that city.
The Forty-third Annu.al Communication of the Most Worshipf~l
Grand Lodge of Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of ~o~a Scotia
was held in Killam's Hall, in the town of Yarmouth, begmning at 10
o'clock in the forenoon of Wednesday, the 10th day of June, A. D.
1908, A. L. 5908, the M.". W:. Brother Chas. R. Stnith, K. C., Grand
Master.
. .
Immediately after the opening of the Annual Communication the
Grand Lodge was formed in procession and under the di~e~tion of the
Grand Director of Ceremonies marched to the Holy Trm1ty Church,
where divine services were held, conducted by Rev. Brother R. D.
.
Bambrick (Rector).
When one considers that Freemasonry is supposed to have taken
its origin at the building of King Solomon's Temple, and that the first
Most Excellent Grand Master was King Solomon, a Jew, and that,
according to the teachings of our Order, the platform upon which
'Freemasonry rests is broad enough to include every one .who professes
belief in the Supreme Being, it does not appear ~o~s1stent to op.en
the ceremony of the Grand Lodge in the Holy Tnmty. Chu.rch w1.th
a sermon by an Episcopalian clergyman. The sermo?, m this particular case was in itself unobjedionable, the speaker usmg as the theme
of his discource the Symbolisms of Masonry ; yet there is a manifest

119

STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

Number of chartered Lodges in the jurisdiction ....... . ... . ...... 68
Total membership in the jurisdiction. . .. .. ................... .. 5,363
Net gain in membership ........... .. ................ . ...... . ... ·. 343
Total income of the Grand Lodge .................. .. .... .. . $8,744.70
Assets of Grand Lodge:
Fund "Home for Aged Masons" ........................ $23,579.98
Cash in hands of Grand Treasurer.......................
914.6S
MASONIC HOME.

Nova Scotia follows closely the trend of American jurisdictions.
toward the acquirement of a Masonic Home, and at this Annual Communication the purchase of a site for a Masonic Home was authorized
and full arrangements completed to proceed immediately to the acquisition of a fully equipped Home for aged Masons.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.

The Grand Master's address is devoted to a comprehensive statement of his official actions during the year. He congratulates the fraternity upon the final. payment of the indebtedness against the Freemasons' Hall at Halifax.
The Grand Lodge of Saskatchew·an was duly recognized ; a large
number of official visits were made by the Grand Master; a dispensa-

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

120

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
tion was granted to form one new Lodge, and a number of so-called
official decisions were rendered.
Concerning physical qualifications, the Canadian Grand Lodges,
as a rule, follow the lead of the Grand Lodge of England in construing
liberally the question of physical qualification, the Grand Master of
Nova Scotia ruling this year that the loss of an eye did not disqualify
nor the fact that an applicant was "club-footed" did not disqualify.
Upon the question of dual membership the Grand Master held that
while dual membership in Lodges in the same jurisdiction was not
permissible, there was no objection to an applicant acquiring membership in a Lodge in Nova Scotia while retaining his memJ>ership in a
Lodge in another jurisdiction, and this decision was held to be good
law in Nova Scotia.
The Grand Master returns his thanks for the cordial support given
him during the year and for the honor bestowed upon him in his
re-election to the exalted station of Grand Master.
The reports of the Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer show a
sound and wholesome financial condition of the jurisdiction, and the
reports of the various District Deputy Grand Masters disclose a con<l.ition of general prosperity.
That liquor dealers are falling under the ban of the Masonic Fraternity in the American jurisdictions beyond the borders of the United
States, the following resolution adopted at this session of the Grancf
Lodge of Nova Scotia is evidence :
"That this Grand Lodge recommends that no Subordinate Lodge
'in this jurisdiction shall, in future, knowingly, entertain the application
for the degrees or for affiliation of any person engaged in manufacture
or sale of intoxicating liquors."
FOR!::XGN CORR1'SPOND1'NC1'.

There is a report on Foreign Correspo11dence by Grand Secretary
R.".
Thomas Mowbray, P. D. G. M. California (1907) is reviewed.
M.". w:. Chas. R. Smith (Amherst), re-elected Grand Master.
R.". w:. Thomas Mowbray (Halifax), Grand Secretary.

w:.

OHIO, 1908.
Ninety-ninth Annual Communication.
Cincinnati.
Oct. 21, 1908.
The Ninety-ninth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of
the Most Ancient and Honorable Fraternity of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of Ohio assembled at the Suiton Hotel· in the
-city of Cincinnati and were escorted by the Cincinnati Centennial Entertainment Committee, with military bands, to Music Hall, where
the session of the Grand Lodge was to be held. The formal opening

121

of the. Grand Lodge was preceded by public exercises, consisting
of music, addresses of welcome by the Chairman of the Entertainment
Committee and the Mayor of the city, with responses by officers of
the Grand Lodge, etc. After the public had withdrawn the Grand
Lodge was opened in Ample Form by the M:. W:. Geor~e D. Copeland, Grand Master, assisted by all the officers of the Grand Lodge
Eighteen Past Grand Masters and two Past Deputy Grand Master~
were present.
STAT! STICAt SUMMARY.

Number of active Lodges at date of last Communication.... . ... 510
Charters issued, last Communication
4
Lodges represented at this Communica~i~~:::: : ::: : :::::::: : : : :: SOS
Lodges not represented at this Communication only. . . . . . . . . . . . .
6
Total number of Master Masons ..... ·. ... . ... . .... . ...... . . . ... 72 339
Gain in membership since last Communication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3:660
Income of Grand Lodge .............. . .... . .. .. ............ $55,466.04
Assets of Grand Lodge :
In hands of Grand Treasurer .......... .. ............. $ 62,592.36
Masonic Home Funds... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102,273.64
MASONIC HOME;.

. ?hio has ~ hl'.asonic Home of which it is justly proud. It gathers
w1thm the enc1rchng arms of its beneficence aged and infirm Masons
the widows of Masons, and orphans of Masons. The total numbe;
of residents at the Home is now 160, divided as follows: 66 men, 43
women, 28 boys and 2J girls. It is supported by a per capita tax
(about JO cents) , on the membership of the Lodges, also a per capita
tax on members of the Royal Arch Chapter, together with donations
from the Grand Lodge, Grand Chapter, R. A. M., Grand Commandery
supplemented by income from the Endowment Fund, ·which fund
amounts now to about $100,000, and which is being constantly augmented by donations from the different Masonic bodies and from
various other sources, the gain last year having been over $18 000
The income of the Home last year for general purposes was $39,zs.4.JJ:
and the expenses of administration, aside from betterments was $34 389.37, making the yearly cost for maintaining each resident abo~t
$215. This approximates the cost in California and is considerably
more than the cost in the Kentucky Masonic Home on the other side
of the river. It is the evident purpose of the Ohio Masons as is the
intention in Kentucky and elsewhere, to render the Maso~ic Home
thr~~gh the Endowment Fund, in time. self-supporting, and with a;
add1t10n. each year of $15,000 or $20,000 to the principal, not many
years will be needed to accomplish this purpose.

122

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND MAST!lR' S ADDRJlSS.

activity in Ohio, and the gray dawn of the morning of the second
century is breaking in the east.
"The first volume of our history is completed, and the first new,
bright page of the second volume lies. open before us.
"T o the brethren of the grand Lodge from 1808 to 1908 we bid a
loving farew ell.
"To the brethren who shall constitute the Grand Lodge from now
until the year of Light-6008-we give most cordial greeting."
Grand Master Copeland's administration was in every sense of
the word commendable and will take its place in the annuals of this
jurisdiction as one of the best in its magnificent history. The Grand
Secretary, Brother J. H. Bromwell, is admittedly one of the most
competent in all the .w orld; his report is clear, concise and comprehensive and leaves nothing to be desired. The Grand Master, speaking of him, says :
"The untiring industry, the ability and fidelity, the kindness and
gentleness of this strong, capable and courteous gentleman can never
be surpassed;" and his own personality is evidently reflected in the
work of the Secretaries of Lodges under him, returns from every one
of the 514 Lodges having been received and checked up and corrected
within the regular time.
Ohio, 'which has been the storm-center in times past of clandestinism, is gradually emerging from that malignant visitation. The
i~fection has been substantially eliminated from the legitimate Lodges,
and the bogus Lodges are now practically extinct. To guard regular
Lodges in other jurisdictions against the danger of receiving <limits
issued by any of these extinct fraudulent Lodges, Grand Secretary
Bromwell in his report gives a complete list of these spurious organizations, to which list reference may easily be obtained.

The address of the Grand Master opens with felicitations upon the
completion of one hundred years of the existence of the Grand Lodge
of Ohio, and recounts the wonderful growth of the fraternity within
the State ; its influence for good, its magnificent achievements and
present proud position amid the jurisdictions of the earth. He recalls
the names of Putnam, Corwin, Cass and Garfield; of Pattison, Hoadly, Hanna and McKinley, historic characters, each one of whom, clad
in the rough raiment of humility, had stood in darkness at the outer
door and craved permission .of a Lodge within that jurisdiction to be
brought to see the light.
A large number of dispensations for various legitimate purposes
were granted, and a large number refused for improper purposes.
New Lodges in Ohio are not formed with the speed and celerity that
is characteristic of many of our Western and Southern jurisdictions;
in twenty years, from 1889 to 1908 inclusive, but twenty-six new
Lodges were added to the list, although the membership of the jurisdiction more than doubled during the same period, advancing from
34,184 in 1889 to 72,339 in 1908, and as an example of the strength
of proposed new Lodges, the Grand Master states that the petition for
dispensation for Brenton D. Babcock Lodge at Cleveland. came to him
bearing an even hundred names, and Euclid Lodge, chartered in 1908,
has now 162 members.
Ohio enjoys a thorough system of Lodge supervision, the Grand
Master stating, as a result of a careful examination of the reports of
District Lecturers, that every Lodge in the State had been officially
visited and inspected during the year. Numerous proxies were issued
by the Grand Master for the purpose of placing . corner stones, and
m any special Emergent Communications of the Grand Lodge were held
for purposes of dedications of Masonic Temples, etc.
The decisions of the Grand Master, which were not numerous,
were all approved; and the following may be of general interest:
"One brother may not vouch for another over the telephone, but
both the brother vouched for and the brother . vouching must be present
while the vouching is being done."
"A brother who neglects and refu ses to commit and recite the
lecture pertaining to the .Master M,!'lson's ~egree a fter having receive.d
that degree, and after having received notl~e from. the l'yfaster. of his
Lodge that the reciting of such l.ecture 1s. r~q"!1re~, 1s subJ ect t.o
charges of unmasonic conduct and !table to d1sc1phne.
"A brother who has been expelled from all the rights of Masonry
by a Lodge, and has ta.ken up his residen.ce in. an?ther State, may be
r estored to membership m the Lodge expelling him, m the usual manner,
notwithstanding he has resided out of the State for more than three
years."
The Grand Master in closing his excellent adtlress says:
"We have now come to the close of the fi rst century of Masonic

123.

CORRSSPOND!lNC!l RllPORT.

w:.

The report on Foreign Correspondence is by M.".
Brother
W . M. Cunningham, P ast Grand Master, who has been a Master Mason,
we are informed, for fifty-eight years, and who has personally attended
every Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Ohio for the
past fifty-four yea rs. In addition to his position as Committee on
Foreign Correspondence, he was at this Communication of the Grand
Lodge appointed Grand Historian to collate and prepare for the Grand
Lodge the history of the first hundred years of Freemasonry in Ohio.
Brother Cunningham's broad experience and extensive learning equip
him most thoroughly and completely for the capable performance of
all the duties placed upon him.
Under the caption California, he announces that the matter of
secrecy pertaining to investigating committees upon petition for degrees has neither his sympathy nor concurrence. It is perhaps unfortunate for California to be deprived of the sympathy of so astute a
4

124

..

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Masonic thinker as the distinguished brother from Ohio, but California will worry along without it, and California takes encouragement from the fact that she is not alone in extending to committeemen
the same panoply of protection as is extended to the ~rather who
stands at the altar and casts his ballot for or against a candidate, and
in one State at least, and that a jurisdiction greater than Ohio-Illinoisthere is a constitutional provision requiring reports of investigating
committees to be rendered verbally and secretly to the Master, and
while the identity of the committeemen may be known, the nature of
their individual reports, except by inference, in case of a unanimously
favorable report, are not; and in the Scottish Rite, if one may be permitted to mention such a' thing, neither the names of the committees
nor the nature of their individual reports are known to any one save
the Master. The author of the decision that Brother Cunningham
criticises is something of an Ohio man himself, having been born In
the so-called Western Reserve of that mighty commonwealth, but he
has been known to affirm that the standard of virtue in Ohio is no
higher than in the matchless Empire of the Golden West, and that,
in his opinion, the committeeman does not need protection here any
more than on the shores of Lake Erie, or in the valley of the Musk~~~

I

Brother Cunningham's report, however, every line of which is well
worth complete reading, is extremely interesting and instructive.
C. S. Hoskinson (Zanesville), Grand Master.
J. H. Brownwell (Cincinnati), Grand Secretary.

OKLAHOMA, 1908.
Sixteenth Annual Communication.
Guthrie.
Feb. 11, 1908.
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted
Masons of Oklahoma commenced its Sixteenth Annual Communication
in the hall of the Masonic Temple of the Oklahoma Consistory, in the
city ctf Guthrie, on Tuesday, February 11, A. D. 1908, A. L. 5908, at
10 o'clock a. m., M." . W:. Earle Beebe, Grand Master, presiding.
STATISTICAL SUMMARY•.

Total number of Lodges . ... ......................... . . .... . ..... 170
Charters to new Lodges granted at this Communication... . . . . . . . . 13
Dispensations to form new Lodges granted ·during the year... . . . . . 12
Income of Grand Lodge ....... ...... ............... .. ... ... $ 8,636.05
Balance in hands of Treasurer. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13,816.06
Balance to the credit of Masonic Home Fund ... ..... ...... . 34,771.53

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

125

MASONIC HOME.

There has been a movement looking to the acquisition of a Masonic
Home in Oklahoma, which was inaugurated several years since, and
while the establishment of the Home has not been actually consummated, the fund represented by cash in hand and securities and pledges
amounts now to about $45,000. In view, however, of the amalgamation of the two Grand Jurisdictions of Indian Territory and the Territory of Oklahoma into one Grand Jurisdiction, to be known as the
Grand Lodge of the State of Oklahoma, . it is reasonable to presume
that the Masonic Home funds heretofore belonging separately to the
two jurisdictions will be consolidated, with the result that there will be a
strong Endowment Fund for the support of one Home for the combined jurisdictions.
0

GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.

The Grand Master's address is a straightforward, business-like
statement o·f the official acts of hi~ administration.
He merttions in fitting terms the death during the year of Past
Grand Master Chas. Day, referring to him as an exemplary citizen
and as a just and upright Mason. Past Grand Master Day was a
prominent figure in the Grand Lodge of Oklahoma, and rendered to
that jurisdiction long and faithful service.
The Grand Master refers to the fact that the eighteen Lodges to
which charters were granted at the previous Annual Communication
were all duly constituted. He refers to the large number of dispensations granted for new Lodges, in which matter Oklahoma can almost
be said to hold the record. Five Special Communications of the Grand
Lodge were held for the purpose of laying corner stones of public
buildings.
Numerous special dispensations were granted for the conferring
of degrees without regard to the statutory time.
The Committee of Jurisprudence, in referring to this portion of
the Grand Master's address, states that the Grand Master should be
very careful in granting these special dispensations, and expresses
its opinion that the Grand Master should state in his address the
reasons for granting these dispensations. If there is any prerogative
that belongs clearly to the Grand Master, it is that of granting special
dispensations for conferring degrees out of 'time, and it is presumptuous of any committee of the Grand Lodge to question this prerogative
of the Grand Master, or to suggest to him the wisdom of his stating
to the Grand Lodge his reasons for the ex.ercise of this prerogative.
The "decisions" of the Grand Master were of a local character,
.and, with one or two exceptions, were promptly approved by the
Grand Lodge. The following are quoted:
"It is unmasonic for a member to disclose how he expects l o vote
()r how he has voted on any petition for degrees or affiliation.

126

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

"Where a ballot was spread on a petition . for the degrees, and
there appeared one black ball, and the Master failed to order a second
ballot but declared the candidate rejected, I held that the ballot wa.~
void and directed him to proceed as though none had ever been taken.
The principal matter considered at this Communicatio~ of t_he
Grand Lodge was the proposed consolidation, or amalgamation'. with
the Grand Lodge of Indian Territory, consequent upon tht creat10n of
the new State of Oklahoma through the consolidation of the previously existing territories of Oklahoma and Indian Territory._ A
delegation from the Grand Lodge of Indian Territory was receive?,
and resolutions were passed looking to the arrangement of a. basis
whereby the two Grand Lodges could be amalgamat~d, prese:vmg to
each so much of its individuality and identity as possible. This ama~­
gamation was subsequently arranged, and the next Annual Commun~­
cation of the Grand Body of Masons of what were formerly the terr~
tories of Oklahoma and Indian Territory will be the first Annual
Communication of the Grand Lodge of the State of Oklahoma.
By virtue of report from the Committee_ on Foreign Correspondence, fraternal recognition was accorded to the Grand Lod~es of Saskatchewan, Western Australia and Alberta, and was demed to the
Grand Orient of Greece.
REPORT ON FORl(IGN CORRJ!SPONDJ!NCJ!.

There is a brief report from the Committee on F oreign Corre-:
spondence by Past Grand Master William M. Anderson. California.
( 1906) is reviewed.
The annual election resulted in the choice of
D. D. Hoag (Anadarko), Grand Master.
W. M. Anderson (Waurika) , Grand Secretary.
OREGON, 1909.
Fifty-ninth Annual Communication.
Portland.
June 16, 1909..
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Ac_cep~ed.
Masons of Oregon commenced its Fifty-ninth Annual Commumcabon
in Masonic Temple, in the city of Portland, on W edn~sday: the 16th.
d ay o f J une, 1909, A . L . 5909, at 10 ··30 o'clock a · m ., M .. W. · Edward
E . Kiddle, Grand Master, in the Grand East.
STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

Total number of Lodges in the jurisdiction . .. . . .. .. ... . ···· ·· · · · 118.
Total number of members in good standing ....... .·... · · · · · · · · · · · 9,232
Net gain during the year .......... .. ...... · ... · .... · · .. · · · · · · .. · 548
Income of Grand Lodge ............ . ... . . · .. ·.·· .. ·· .. · ·.$ 12,026.24
Assets .of Grand Lodge .. .. . . .. . .... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 30000.00•
•
Total amount now to the credit of "Educational Fund" ..... 135,987.10·

REPORT QN CORRESPONDENCE.

127

MA?ONIC HOMJ!.

The project of a Masonic Home has not yet been realized by
lhr· Grand Jurisdiction of Oregon.
At the last session of the Grand Lodge a committee of five was
11111ointed to investigate the advisability of building a Masonic Home,
1rncl at this Annual Communication the committee thus appoined, at
lhc conclusion of the report, offered the following recommendations,
I\ hlch were adopted by the Grand Lodge :
"We recommend that a special committee, consisting of five memhc r1, be appointed by the Grand Master to take up in detail the matter
111 c1tablishing a Home with the following power and instructions:
"First-To receive offers of donations or subscriptions from Lodges
rnd individuals for the purpose of instituting a Masonic Home.
"Second-To address all Lodges in this Grand Jurisdiction, re'\11e~ting information concerning land suitable for a Home in the juris' lction of each Lodge, and to report such suitable location to the
tpecial committee, giving full information.
"Third-To report to the next Annual Communication of the
llrnnd Lodge the conclusions of the committee, and to make such
iccommendations as in their judgment shall seem best."
From the above it is reasonable to presume that a Masonic Home
will, within a short time, be established in the jurisdiction of Oregon.
GRAND MASTl(R/S ADDRJ!SS.

The Grand Master fittingly refers to the death, during the year,
of Past Grand Master Jacob Mayer, and Past Grand Secretary Irving
W. Pratt. Brother Mayer was made a Mason in 1853, in LaParfaite
Union Loqge, No. 17, San Francisco, which Lodge he in due time
aerved as Master. Subsequently he removed to Portland and affiliated
with Wilamette Lodge, which Lodge received its charter originally
from California. Brother Mayer was elected Grand Master of the
jurisdiction of Oregon in 1888, and during his incumbency as Grand
Master gave great satisfaction to his brethren.
Brother Pratt was highly regarded by his brethren and served
the Grand Jurisdiction for one term as Grand Secretary.
The Grand Master's address sets forth in detail his official acts
during the year, which consisted in the constitution of the six new
Lodges, charters for which were granted at the previous Annual Communication; in dispensations to form four new Lodges ; in the rendition
of a number of decisions; in the convening of a Special Communication
for the purpose of laying a corner stone of a certain public building;
and in a limited number of visitations to subordinate Lodges:
Among the "decisions" rendered by him the following are quoted:
"Question No. E: Can a Master give, say, three brethren the
M. M. degree, obligate all three of them, let two of them sit to one
·side in the Lodge and be witnesses only to the one who will ·take
.the remainder of the degree ?

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

"Answer E: Referring to this, I do not think there is. any law
on this in our State, but understand that some of the Eastern States
do the work in the manner in which you describe, but it is not sanctioned in our jurisdiction.!'
,
It would have been interesting if the Grand Master had indkated
the particular jurisdiction of Ancient Craft Masons, where more than
one candidate is obligated at a time. In the Bodies conferring the
so-called higher degrees it is, as is well known, the custom to administer
the vows, or obligations, to any number of candidates at one and the
same time, but if this custom obtains in any Symbolic Lodge, it would
be a matter of surprise to the General Body of Ancient Craft Masons,
"On May 21, 1909, I received a communication from Secretary o'f
Maple Grove Lodge, No. 127, at Myrtle Creek, Oregon, asking if it
was necessary to have a special dispensation to permit their Lodge to
go in Lodge regalia to the cemetery to decorate the graves of our
deceased brethren. I wrote them that it was not necessary for a
special dispensation, for although Section 10, Article III, Part 2, of the
Grand Lodge By-Laws says, 'No Lodge shall appear in procession in ·
other than purely Masonic occasion,'
"I take the ground that decorating the graves of our deceased ·
brethren is a Masonic occasion, and while I have since found this
decision is not in line with that made by some of my predecessors, I
believe it is right."
·
Notwithstanding the fact that the Grand Master was sustained
by the Jurisprudence Committee in the above decision, one may be
pardoned in believing that the former decisions which this one overruled were correct, and this decision, therefore, wrong.
The total 2mount now to the credit of the Educational Fund,
which is the title under which the Grand Lodge Charity Fund is held,
now amounts to $135,981.10, and from the report of the trustees of
this Fund one discovers that the total disbursements for charity
from this Fund, during the past year, reached the munificent total of $150
which is very convincing evidence of the need in Oregon of some
such institution as a Masonic Home that in its beneficence reaches
cases worthy of Masonic charity, that are entirely overlooked, and
not discovered, if charitable relief is only to be extended to beneficiaries who make application for donations from the Charity Fund;
for the total disbursements for charity from the nearly $136,000 of
Charity Fund accumulated in the State of Oregon last year, only
two beneficiaries are mentioned, one ·receiving $100 and the. other
$50.
During the afternoon of the first day of the Session, the Grand
Lodge was greatly entertained and edified by ~n address by the Grand
Orator, Worshipful Brother ]. H . Ackerman, upon the theme "The
Pcwer of Masonry." The power of Masonry, according to the idea
of the Grand Orator, arose from the fact that it is an organized
effort for good and that, as power in any direction, whether it be

I " anod or bad, arises from organization, so the great jnfluence
, I M11Annry in the world arises from the fact of its presenting a
1111th'1l and forcible organization devoted to high ideals.
"The end of all Masonic teachings," remarked the Orator, "must
'" 1haracter," and the high ideal of Masonry, for which it strives
• 11111t1mtly, is Truth.
The thanks of the Grand Lodge were extended to Brother Acker1111111 for his scholarly address and it was ordered printed in the pro'· 1dl11gs.

128

12!)

FOREJGN CORRESPONDENCE.

'fhc report on Foreign Correspondence is by Past Grand Master
M. I lodson, who reviews in a careful and painstaking manner the
1m '• cdings of sixty Jurisdictions, American and Foreign. California,
t•JOH, receives courteous attention.
.
Norris R. Cox, (Portland), Grand Master.
James F. Robinson (Portland), Grand Secretary.

PENNSYLVANIA, 1908.
<\nnual Communication.
Dec. 28, 1908.
The business of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania is transacted
11 four Quarterly Communications, the principal one of which is held
1 1rly in December, this year December 2d, at which the annual election
, ( officers takes place, although the officers are not installed until the
\nnual Communication on St. John the Evangelist's Day,, following.
<\1 this Communication, also, various financial and other reports are
rtnclc:red, and many of the important business matters pertaining to
the administration of the Grand Lodge transacted. From the ·reports
tt'ndcred at the Quarterly and Annual Communications, the following
tntistical information is obtained:
\ umber of Lodges, close of preceding year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 470
I. Hlges constituted during the year 1908... . ................. . .
5
\ umber of Lodges Dec. 27, 1908 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 475
:\lcmbership of Lodges end of preceding year ................... 84,333
\ c:t gain during the year 1908 ............................... .. 3,793
:\lcmbership Dec. 27, 1908 ... .' .. .. ... ..... ................ ... .. . 88,126
Income of Grand Lodge ...... .. . .. ....... . . ............ $ 179,905.53
.\~~ets of .Grand Lodge ....... ... .. . .......... . .......... $2,615,790.47
Value of the Thomas R. Patton bequest to the Grand Lodge
for Home for Orphan Boys .......... . ...... .. ·: . .. . 1,046,735.87
~- a

130

KEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPQRT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

And in additio'n to the abov·e there are the properties of the ·Masonic H~me of Pennsylvania, located at 3333 North Broad street, in
the city of Philadelphia, and the William L. mkins Orphanage for
Girls, also in the city of Philadelphia, making the total assets o{ the
Grand Lodge and appendant institutions more than $5,000,000, probably
the richest· MasO'!lic jurisdiction in the world.

tht most important historical events in . the Masonic annals of this
1untry. The incident referred to was the presentation by R: . w:.
1>i puty Grand Master Geo. W. Guthrie of the following preambles and
1• <>lution:
·

MASONIC HOME.

There is, as stated, a Masonic Home in Pennsylvania, incorporated
by Act of Assembly in 1871, and it has been in successful operation
as a Home for twenty-four years, and the Elkins Orphanage for Girls
has been in operatfon since 1906. The Masonic Home owns real estate
and funds of an aggregate value of more than a million dollars, and
it provides now for 92 men, 24 widows and 14 girls. It is supported
by do;,ations from individuals, from subordinate L edges and from the
Grand Lodge, the contributions from the subordinate Lodges and the
Grand Lodge since 1900 aggregating $68,630.35; and in addition to
this, it is worthy of mention that the charity dispensed by the Grand
L odge during the last eight years aggregated $76,204.75, and the
cha rity disbursements during the same period by the subordinate
Lodges, o f which records have been kept, amount to $215.339.10,
certainly a noteworthy achievement. But the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania is not satisfied with what has been accomplished, and now
that the indebtedness against its great Temple property at Filbert and
Broad streets, in Philadelphia, has been paid, and the income therefrom, which has for many years been devoted to the liquidation of
that obligation, released, it is .the purpose and intention to establish
a Central Home for the care, maintenance and education, and this
without fee o·r charge of any kind whatever, of a ll who are entitled to
the charitable regard of the fraternity in Pennsylvania, which Home
shall be under the direct supervision and exclusive control of the
Grand Lodge ; and about this Centfal Home, in which shall be merged
th(' present Masonic Home, to be located at some beautiful spot, some
rolling landscape, of which Pennsylvania can boast so many, it is the
intention ultimately to group the great charities of the Craft in the
Keystone State, including finally the Thomas Ranken Patton Masonic
Institution for Boys, when the fund for that purpose shall become
available in twelve yea rs from the decease of the founder-about ten
years from now-and when it will then amount to probably a million
and a half or two millions of dollars. ·T he project ha!! already been
approved by the Grand L odge, and the initial steps have already been
taken in what will probably become the greatest and most comprehensive Masonic charity in the world.
At 't he Quarterly Communication, held December 2d, there transpired an incident' whereby an authentic record is established of one of

131

"~HEREAS, Brother Persifor Frazer Smith, of Lodge No. 287,
h11 · ~his day presented to this Grand Lodge the MS. charges of St.
I hn s Lodge, signed by Thomas Carmick, and dated 1727 the oldest
uthcntic Masonic MS. known to exist in the United 'states the
1111<' having come into the possession of Brother Smith as one c{f the
l1•"cendants of his great-great-grandfather, Brother Persifor Frazer
II hnving been in the custody of the said Brother Persifor Frazer o;
'
1hut of one cf his descendants, until the present time; and
"WHEREAS, This MS. is of great historical value to all Masons and
11articularly so to those under the jurisdiction of this Grand L~dge ·
lhrrefore, be it
'
"Rcsot.:cd, That the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
I r Pennsylvania extends to Brother Persifor Frazer Smith i~ earnest
llHI sincere thanks for this splendid gift, with the assurance of its
1ppreciation of the loyalty which prompted him to set aside his per111al pleasure in the possession of so fine a family heirloom in order
I 1 promote the interests of this Grand Lodge and of Freemasonry in
l(t'neral."

The importance of this discovery is fully discussed by the Grand
Master in his a ddress delivered at the Annual Communication, Decemht'r 28th, and it forms the main theme of his extremely interesting
1cport. The important facts recounted by him, all of which appear
I J he buttressed by indubitable proofs, are, first, the existence in
Philadelphia of the "Holy Lodge of St. John" as early as 1727, as
··v idenced by the recovery during the present year of the Constitutions
• f that ancient L odge, set forth above. This antedates the Constilution of the celebrated St. John's Lodge in Boston by at least six
Years; second, the establishment of a Grand Lodge in Pennsylvania in
1731, being the third oldest in the fraternity, the Grand Lodge of
England being first, constituted in 1717, the Grand Lodge of Ireland
1econd, constituted in 1729, and the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania, as
nhove stated, in 1731; third, Benj. · Franklin initiated in St. John's
1,odge of Philadelphia on February 1, 1730.
"The original Grand Lodge in Pennsylvania," as stated by an eminent )Jistorian, " was formed by immemorial right, just as the Grand
l,odge of England was formed, by the cohesion of subordinate Lodges
-imilarly formed of immemorial right, not otherwise."
Fourth, on June 24, 1734, Benj. Franklin was elected Grand Master
r f the. Province of Pennsylvania, and du.ring this year he reprinted
Anderson's Constitutions of 1723, which was the first Masonic book
printed in America. The history of Masonry, including the contending branches of the English Grand Lodges in Pennsylvania, is traced
by the Grand Master in a most interesting manner down to the final
declaration of 'Masonic independence of the English Grand Lodges in

132

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

1786. The Grand Lodge of England was loath then, even after the ~stal>­
lishment of American political independence, to let go of its American
Lodges, as it was thirty-eight years ago to let go of Quebec, whose
Masonic independence it has only recognized within the last two years,
being forced thereto by the whole Masonic world, and as loath as it
is now to give up Queensland, although the regularity of the Grand
Lodge of Queensland is undisputed, and its ultimate recognition by
every Masonic powP.r on earth inevitable. The manifestations of altruism by the Grand Lodge of England and the Grand Lodge of
Scotland are spectacles for gods.
Passing fro~ a survey · of historical matter, the Grand Master.
felicitates the brethren upon the general prosperity of the Craft, and
sets forth in detail his activity in the way of appointments, dispensaions, ·decisions, etc., etc.
Among his decisions the following may be of interest:
"Our Lodges are not permitted to confer: d~gr:ee? up,on Entered
Apprentice or Fellow Craft Masons o~ othe~ 1uns,?1cttons, unless and
until they withdraw therefrom and affiliate with us.
This is Masonic courtesy with a vengeance. If England or Scotland had rendered such a decision, it would not be surprising.
"If a rejected petitioner for initiation and mem~ershi~ desires to
petition again, he must do so to the same Lodge m which he was
rejected."
That is not the law in California, and it is surprising that it is
the law anywhere.
"A dispensation will not be issued to lay a corner stone on Sunday
with Masonic ceremonies. A Lodge can not be opened on Sunday for
any purpose, unless in case o~ gre~t emergency after permission of the
Grand Master has been obtained._
How about funerals?
"I received an invitation to attend the fiftieth anniversary exercises and banquet of a Lodge to be held in another hall than the
customary place of meeting; and I notified the Master of .the Lod~e
to have the invitations recalled. To ce\ebrate such an anmvers~ry..1t
m1i1st be done within tyled doors and at its regt1lar place of meetmg, m
which none could participate but Masonic brethren."
A trifle arbitrary, but possibly in keeping with the idea of the
divine right of Grand Masters which obtains in jurisdictions like
Pennsylvania and -Ohio, where Masons are made by the Grand Master
"at sight." In California, many years ago, there was an occupant of
the Grand East who was determined to uphold in no uncertain manner
the ancient prerogatives of the Grand Master, who if Masonic tradition may be believed, was a hoary personage before Grand Lodges were
thought of, and possessed of certain inalienable rights which might
not be divested, and he went about the State making Masons "at
sight" for so much per Mason. There was a mtttiny aboard the Cali-

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

133

fnrnia Masonic craft, and the Grand Lodge decreed ~n effect that the
1111wcrs of the Grand Master were not altogether unlike those of the
Uritish sovereign, extremely large in theory but highly ornamental in
1>111.ctice, and that the landmark of making Masons at sight, rather
I11111 al best, was altogether too consumpfr\;e for the virile West and
that, so far as ,California was concerned; it was down and out. '
One of the distinctive features of the volume containing this report is a series of .twenty-three beautiful colored illustrations showing
the places of meetmg, etc., in the city of Philadelphia of the Grand
I >dge of Pennsylvania for the past century and a half. The evolution
It om the small red brick building resembling a country school house
111 Lodge Alley to the present stately Temple in Broad street the
llncst Masonic building in the world, awakens admiration and the
hricf descriptions of the various meeting places are extre~ely intert "ting. For a period of two years, from 1800 to 1802 the Grand
l,odge occupied a portion of the second floor of the ~orld-famous
Independence Hall, and we are reminded that this historic building,
whence was promulgated the immortal Declaration of Independence,
was built during Franklin's term as Grand Master, in 1735, by memhcrs of St. John's Lodge of Philadelphia, and well founded traditions
c~cdit Franklin with having laid the corner stone with Masonic honors.
FOREIGN CORRESPON_DENCE.

The report on Foreign Correspondence is by the veteran James
M. Lamberton, and his review of the proceedings of Masonic jurisdictions are of the most instructive and interesting character.
George B. Orlady (Philadelphia), Worshipful Master.
William A. Sinn (Philadelphia), Grand Secretary.

PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND, 1908.
Thirty-third Annual Communication. Sum~rside. June 24, 1908.
The Thirty-third .Annual Communication of the Most Worshipfu.l Grand Lodge of the Ancient and Honorable Fraternity of Free and
Accepted Masons of the Province of Prince Edward Island, was held
111 Freemason's Hall, in the town of Summerside, on Wednesday, the
24th d~y of Jttne, A. D. 1908, at the hour of 11 o'clock a. m., Most
Worshipful W. K. Rogers, Grand Master presiding.
The membership of the Grand Jurisdiction of Prince Edward
Island, is as large as a good sized Lodge in one of our American
cities. The total member~hip at the date of this Communication was
678, and at the Communication one year ago the membership was
668, showing a net gain during the year of 10. There are fourteen
Lodges in the Grand Jivisdictiort, and while the number of Lodges

•

134

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

is small, and the total membership less than 700, still the ·Lodges
individually are in a healthy and prosperous condition and are doing
excellent Masonic work in the Province of Prince Edward Island.
The Grand Master is able, happily, to report that the Grim Reaper
has not summoned, durins the year preceding, any of the office;s of the
Grand Lodge, and that out· of the entire Jurisdictiou, only six have
been called to their last reward.
The Grand Master, during the year, personally visited everyone
of the Subordinate Lodges with a single exception, and his failure to
visit this Lodge, was the result of circumstances for which he was
in no way responsible.
Only three dispensations were issued during the year and no
decisions upon the Masonic law were asked for.
A substantial Benevolent Fund has been · accumulated, sufficient
to provide for the needs of the Jurisdiction. The income of the Grand
Lodge during the preceding year, amounted to about $1,200 and the
total assets to about $2,500. Reports are rendered by the various
District Deputy Grand Masters; by the Grand Lecturer; and by other
officers .from which it is gathered that the jurisdiction generally is in
prosperous condition.
D. F . MacDonald (Montague), Grand Master.
Neil MacKelvie (Summerside), Grand Secretary.

QUEBEC, 1909.
Thirty-ninth Annual Communication. Montreal. February 10, 19<l9.' '
During the preceding year, there was, on September 12, 190!1,
a Special Communication of the Grand Lodge of Quebec held in
the town of Danville, P. Q. for the purpose· of laying the corner
stone of the Presbyterian Church at that place.
The Most Worshipful the Grand Lodge of Quebec, Ancient, Free
and Accepted Masons, held its thirty-ninth Annual Communication
in the city of Montreal, in the Province of Quebec, on the 10th day
of February, A. D. 1909 A. L. 5909, at the Masopic Temple, Dorchester
street, Most Worshipful Grand Master, George 0. Stanton, presiding
in the Grand East.
Sixty-one of the sixty-two Lodges in the jurisdiction were represented at the Annual Communication.
STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

T otal number ·o f chartered Lodges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
T otal number of Masonic Masons in the jurisdiction . . . .. . . . ... 6,045
Net gain during the preceding year. ........... ...... ........... 260
Income of the Grand Lodge............................ $ 7,410.00
Assets of the Grand Lodge. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43,420.20

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

135

GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.

The Grand Master felicitates the brethren of the Grand Lodge
11111111 the ~arked prosperity a~d harmony which have prevailed. during
lht preceding year. He mentions with sympathetic words, the losses
11th red by the Grand Jurisdiction in the death of certain members
1 ( the Grand Lodge and recommends that Memorial Pages be set
II 11rt in the report of this year's proceedings in memory of the de' • ,, 1ed brethren.
A dispensation was issued by him. for the creation of a new Lodge
Ill the town of St. Louis, adjqining the city of Montreal, by the name
Waverly Lodge.
I le also mentions a request from a Lodge in Scotland to one of
hl1 Subordinate Lodges, to advance a brother who had received the
J(ntered Apprentice Degree; but the Grand Lodge of Scotland, to
'' hom ~he matter was referred informed the Grand Master. of Quebec
thnl this advancement could not be made by any Lodge outside the
Juri~diction of Scotland, and further advised the Grand Master of
Ouchcc that it was not permissible under the law of Scotland that
one of its Subordinates should communicate directly with a Lodge
In nny other jurisdiction. In other words, it is the evident purpose
of the Grand Lodge of Scotland to see that none of the fees for de1· 1c.es of t?o ~e that make their start in Scottish Lodges shall find
their way mto the coffers of any other Grand Jurisdiction.
Only one or two questions were submitted calling for "decisions."
The following only is quoted :
· ·
"question : Wh,en is . the proper time to administer the Tyler's
0 . . B. . Robertson s Jurisprudence says : 'At the examination of a
vi~1tor, th~ te~t, or Tyler's 0. _B. should be administered at the close of
I h~ exammat.10n,. and not at. its c.oi:nmcncement.' I know ot no good
1c.1son for d1ffenng from this opu11on, and rule accordingly."
A large number of offici~I visits were paid by the Grand Master

tt Subordinate Lodges and one Special Communication of the Grand
1,odge was held for the purpose of laying the corner stone of a
certain church building. The reports of ·the Grand Secretary and the
<irand Treasurer are concise, business-like statements of the affairs
of their respective offices, and the reports of the District Deputy
Grand Masters afford evidence of careful attention to their duties,
nncl of the prosperous condition of the Craft.
The Grand Chaplain during the Annual Communication delivered
nn inspiring and elevating address using for his theme "The Credentials of Masonry." The thanks of the Grand Lodge were tendered
to him for his instructive and scholarly address which was ordered
printed with the proceedings .of the present Sessi~n.

136

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPO:NDENCE.

FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

11C\'Cr put the broad mantle of Masonic. charity to the ignoble use of
rovering crime or immorality, but if any are guilty of such offenses
ll(ninst cur rules, let them feel the heavy hand of Masonic discipline."
Trouble has arisen in Rhode Island from the use and incidental
los~ of ciphers, the bad example apparently having been set by the
( \rnnd Lodge itself, authorizing one written copy, and the Grand
Mnster expresses the opinion that all concerned in ti]e preparation
or publication of these aids to the memory violate their obligations
nnd merit discipline, and quotes with approval the following declarat lt1n of the Grand Lodge of New York upon this subject :
"No printed or written work of any kind, pretending to conta~n
nny of the secrets of the Masonic Work and Lectures, has ever been
l'ndorsed or recommended by this Grand Lodge or any officer thereof,
nnd the standard work of this Grand Lodge taught orally, and not
otherwise, by the R.'. W.'. Grand Lecturer and his assistants, is the
1111ly Work, Ritual or Lectures adopted by this Grand Lodge, and
1he composers, publishers or users of any other are liable to discipline."
The Commissioners of Trials take great pleasure in reporting a
( mplete absence of any matters for their consideration, and are in
,. msequence forced to presume that no acts of misconduct on the
part of Lodges or members have taken place, and are, therefore,
('1tabled to arrive at the very gratifying conclusion that soundness and
harmony everywhere prevail.
It was voted that the conferring of the Past Master's Degree be
omitted from the ceremony of installation.· The Grand Lodge election
resulted in the choice of William Lincoln Chatterton, Pawtucket, as
<irand Master, and S. Penrose Williams, re-c:lected, Grand ,Secretary.
By the appointment as Right Worshipful Grand Chaplain, of Rev.
Brother Henry Warren Rugg, D. D., he enters :upon his fortieth year
of service in that office. His first appointment was in 1868. In addition to this, Brother Rugg is at the present time Most Eminent Grand
Master of the Grand Encampment of Knights Templar of the Unitad
States of America, having been elected to that position at the Triennial
•:enclave' of 1907.

The report on Foreign Correspondence is by Past Grand Master
E. D. T. Chambers. It is his twenty-second report, and is a review
of the proceedings of the various American and English Grand Lodges.
California, 1908, · receives courteous attention.
·
J. Alex Cameron (Montreal), Grand Master.
Will H. Whyte (Montreal), Grand Secretary.

RHODE ISLAND, 1908.
Providence.
One Hundred and Nineteenth Annual Communication.
May 18, 1908.
The Grand Lodge of the Most Ancient and Honorable Society of
Free and Accepted Masons for the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations was convened in Annual Communication in Freemasons' Hall, in the city of Providence, the 18th day of May, A. L.
5908 and was opened in Ample Form at 10 o'clock .a. m. by the M.' •
W .': Grand Master of Masons Brother Arthur H. Armington. There
were present other officers and members of the Grand Lodge, and
Representatives from thirty-two Lodges.
STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

Total membership April 30, 1907 ............................. · .6,718
Net gain during the year ........................... · .. ·. · ·. · · · · · 2G2
Total membership April 30, 1908 ................................ 6,920
Total number o( Lodges in the jurisdiction .............. · .... ·· 37
Income of Grand Lodge .............................. · · · · · .$4,708.26
Total assets of Grand Lodge ...................... · · .. · · · · · · · 7,041.50
The oldest Lodge in the jurisdiction, St. John's Lodge, No. 1, at
Newport, was e5tablished in 1749, and is, therefore, 160 years old.

137

GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.

The Grand Master has this to say, and his sentiments will be
applauded, concerning the care that should be exe:cise'd in c.hoosing
for membership in the fraternity from the multitude seekmg admission:
"Membership in the Masonic Fraternity is, perhaps, more sou~ht
today than ever before; hundreds are knocking at o~r doors, and it
behooves us to choose carefully from among the multitude those who
come with a proper recognition of the merits and purposes of the
Institution, with a desire for greater improvement and u.sefulness,
while we reject those who, from selfish a,nd. unworthy motives, s~ek
to ally themselves with us. More than this, 1f w.e find that, notwithstanding all our care, unworthy persons have gamed entrance, let us

SASKATCHEWAN, 1909.
Third Annual Communication. Moose Jaw. June 16, 1909.
'fhe Third Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Saskatchewan, A. F. & A. M. held in the Masonic Temple, Moose Jaw, commencing on Wednesday, the sixte<;nth day of June, A. D. 1909, A. L.
S9C9, Mo~t Worshipful C. 0. Davidson, Grand Master, on the Throne.
The Grand Lodge Saskatchewan was formed three years agb. At
the time of its formation, twenty-four Lodges were on the register.
At the second Annual Communication, there were total Lodges
chartered and under dispensation, forty-seven; and at this Con1munica·

138

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

tion there are forty chartered Lodges and eighteen working under dispensation, making a total of fifty-eight Lodges, with a membership of
more than 2,500; the jurisdiction having more than doubled in membership during the past three years.
The Grand Master, in his address, gives expression to c;aution
that should be exercised in the admission to membership of app1icants.
and also a ca~tion in the matter of formation of new Lodges and
expresses the opinion that such Lodges should only be formed where
there is a reasonable probability of the Lodges becoming permanent and
not only self-sustaining, but able to bear their due proportion of
tlie general burdens and responsibilities of the Grand Lodge.
The Jurisdiction has not cinly been active in the way of growtq,
but substantial beginnings have been made in the matter of the accumulation of a Benevolent Fund and assets for the use of the Grand
Jurisdiction. The income, during the year, was $3,696.38. The balance
of cash in the hands of the Grand T.reasurer was $1,475.07 and the
Benevolent Fund has already attained the substantial figure of $1,155.
The Grand Master, in his address·, referring to the changing
character of the·population of the :Province, and frequency o{ applications of visitors to the various Lodges, states that, in his judgment,
something more should be required of a person who applies for
admission as a visitor than simply an examination, touching his proficiency in the work, and that documentary evidence under official seal
should be demanded of every person who seeks admission into a Lodge
as a visitor.
In hi!!> reference to the "Fraternal Dead," the Grand Master reports only six deaths in the entire jurisdiction; one of them, h owever,.
R. W. Brother Joseph M. Coombs, Past District Deputy Grand Master,
was very active in the formati on of the new Grand Lodge at Saska,tchcwan.
The Grand Master was nQt able to visit more tha n eight or ten
of the Subordinate Lodges of this jurisdiction, but such visitations as
he was enabled to make were productive of much benefit to th~ Lodges. ·
that were favored. Four new Lodges were constituted during the
~ear, and dispensations were issued to form si~ others.
Among the " decisions" rendered by the Grand Master was one to
the effect that a <limit could be issued to an E. A. or an F. C. aml'
nG1t necessarily exclusively to Master Masons. This decision was overruled by the Grarid Lodge, which held that a <limit could only issue·
to a Master Mason. This is in accordance with the law· of the jurisdiction of California, but there are· many American jurisdictions, as.
well as forejgn, that issue a dismissal certificate to an Entered Apprentice,._or a Fellow · Craft, which has the same effect as a dimit
so far as fixing the status of the individual in applying for membership in some other Lodge.

The following paragraph from the report of the Committee on the
111dition of Masonry, is evidence of the sound conditions existing
111 the new jurisdiction and presages a career of usefulness for the
I 11 und L odge of Saskatchewan:

139

"We are pleased to find that · every report is satisfactory and
huoyunt; 'no clo.ud . appe.ars on the canopy, even the size of a man's
h411cl.' Every district shows ~ub;;tantial gains in membership, while
thr Meveral reports of the District Deputy Grand Masters indicate
th11t the 'work' is well put en, and the conducting of the Lodges in
11 rnrdance with 'established usage.' "
Harold Jagger (Moose Jaw), Grand Master.
Dr. Shaw (Regina), Grand Secretary.

SCOTLAND, 1908-9.
Quarterly Communications of the Grand Lodge of Scotland were
lll'ld on May 7, August 6, November 5, 19C8 and February 4, 1909.
At the May Quarterly Communicatjcn, the Grand ·Master Depute,
the Marquess of Tuillidardine, congratulated Sir Thomas D. Gibson
( •rmichael, upon his appointment as Governor of Victoria, their
1Cratification at his preferment being tinged, however, with regret at the
thought of losing Mm. The Grand Master expressed his deep appredution of their great kindness and good will.
During the year £20,000 were placed to the credit of the Annuity
11und, this am ount being transferred from the General Fund.
During the year warrants were granted to six new Lodges and
11t the November Quarterly Cbmmunkation, the former Grand Master
Sir Thomas D. Gibson Carmichael, having left to assume the Govl'rllorship of Victoria, the Grand Master Depute, Brother Most Honorable, the Ma rquess of Tuillidardine, was unanimously chosen Grand
Mu~~

·

·

The system of annuities established by the Grand Lodge of Scotland shows that there are now about 250 beneficiaries of this syst-em
whose annuities amount to something like £3,000. For a jurisdictio~
of the magnitude of the Grand Lodge of Scotland, it would seem that
fhe disbursement in the way of charity of such a trifling sum as this
would not be a source of any particular pride or gratification.

140

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA, 1909.

Twenty-fifth Annual Communication. Adelaide. April 20, 19C9.
During the year, the Grand Lodge of South_ Australia held it!>
Half-yearly Communication Octob.er 21, 1908, which was held apparently for the sole purpose of electing a member to fill the vacancy
on the Board of General Purposes; and a Special Communication wa!>
held on December 21, 1908, in order to give the members of the Grand
Lodge an opportunity of saying farewell to Worshipful Brother, Hi!>
Excellency Sir G. R. LeHunte, Past Master, who was about to leave
the State. The Grand Master, upon this occasion, conferred the rank of
Past Grand Master, something unknown in American Jurisdictions.
upon the brother.
Resolutions laudatory of Brother LeHunte were unanimously
adopted, coupled with expressions of regret at his departure from the
State where his beneficial influence had been so widely felt.
The Annual Communication held April 20, 1909 was presided
over by M. W. Brother the Rt. -Hon. Sir · S. J; Way, Bart., P. C.•
D. C. L., L. L. D., etc., Grand Master, who has been the official
head of the Craft in Sou'th Australi; for several years.
At the date of the establishment of the Grand Lodge of South.
Australia in 1884, there were thirty Lodges in the jurisdiction with
1,897 members. There are now fifty active Lodges with 3,364 members. · '
The General Grand Lodge Fund and the two Benevolent Fu,pdsr
amount now to £3,814 and the Masonic Hall property to £21,563 making the . total assets of the jurisdiction £25,376, equivalent to more than
$125,000 which is an exceedingly strong financial showing for a jurisdiction of less than 3,500 members.
The charity obligations of the Grand Lodge are discharged through.
the application to benevolent purposes of the income from the Benevolent Fund. The total number of beneficiaries of the Fund during the
preceding year, having been 26, who received relief to the extent of
about £500.
The Grand Master,' Right Honorable Samuel J. Way,. is one of
the foremost men of South Australia, being a man· of extensive
education and learning, and occupying the responsible positions of
Lieutenant Governor, Chief Justice of South Australia, Chancellor of
the Adelaide University, etc., etc. The Grand Master at the Annual'
Communication favored the brethren with an address, giving a general'
survey of the Masonic situation in South Australia, with a brief
summary of the results which had been accomplished during the
twenty-five years of the existence of the Grand Lodge, with · a hopefuf
forecast for the future. The address, it is stated, was listened to with
the utmost attention, and at its conclusion, the Most Worshi;:ul Grand:
Master was greeted with "loud and generous applause."

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

141

The reports of the various officers afforded evidence of a sound
nnd prosperous condition of the Craft; and Masonry in South Australia
IN destined undoubtedly to a career of great prospetity. and usefulness.
M. W. Bro. His Excellency the Right Hon. Sir Samuel J. Way,
llart., P. C., D. C. L., L. L. D., Lieutenant-Governor, Chief Justice
11f South Australia, Chancellor of the University of Adelaide, etc.
<lrand Master.
V. W. Bro. J. H. Cunningham, Grand Sei:retary.

SOUTH CAROLINA, 1908.
One Hundred and Thirty-second Annual Communication. Charleston.
December 8, 1908.
The One Hundred and Thirty-second Annual Communication of
the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Ancient Freemasons of South
Carolina convened in· the Masonic Temple in the city of Charleston,
at 12 o'clock Meridian, on Tuesday, December 8th, in the Year of
!,ight, 5908, M.', W.'. James L. Michie, Grand Master, presiding, and
R~prescntatives present from 207 out of the 224 chartered Lodges.
STATISTJCAL SUMMARY.

Total number of Lodges in the j~risdiction................. ... 224
Charters granted at this Communication.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7
Total membership this Communication ............ . ............ 11,806
c;;tin in membership..... . ..... .. .............................. 817
Income of Grand Lodge . ......... . .................. . ..... . $17,224.37
\ssets of Grand Lodge:
Cash in hands of Grand Treasurer ...... . .... .. . .. ..... $11,779.85
Masonic Home Fund (about) ........................... 25,000.00
MASONIC HOMF:.

For several years past the brethren of South Carolina have been
actively engaged in procuring funds with which to establish a Masonic
Home, and the report of the Trustees of the Masonic Home rendered
at 'this Communication shows that the fund now in the hands of the
Treasurer of the Board amounts to $23,035.08, a gain during the year
of $10,314.19. Zealous efforts are being put forth by the membership
throughout the State to increase the fund, and it is expected within
the next two or three years, at the latest, to secure the Home and
n~en it for the reception of beneficiaries.
GRAND MASTF:R'S ADDRF:SS.

Under the heading of Fraternal Dead, the Grand Master feelingly mentions the "passing onward" of John Rice Bellinger, Past

142

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Grand Master, which occurred on August 27, 1908. Brother Bellinger
was one · of the best and most favorably known Masons within the
jurisdiction of· South Carolina. He was a man of strong and decided
personality, fearlessly honest and uncompromising in all matters of
principle. The Grand Master also refers to the death during the year
of Rev. James Henry Thornwell, Past Grand Chaplain, and a man
greatly beloved throughout the jurisdiction.
The distinctive featt:re of Grand Master Michie's address is the
statement by him cf the position taken by all of the Grand Jurisdictions in the United States upon the question of "physical qualifications." South Carolina, as is well known, demands of her applicant
for initiation absolutely perfect physical qualifications, standing in a
class in this respect almost alone, although Texas may be placed
practically in the same category with South Carolina. Brother Michie's
purpose in assembling and placing before the Grand Lodge the law
and practices in all of the American jurisdictions is evidently to obtain a substantial modification of South Carolina's unreasonable insistence upon absolutely perfect physical qualifications. In other Words,
to conform in practice to the rule followed in most American jurisdictions of demanding only such a degree of physical perfection as will
permit the candidate to conform literally to all of the requirements of
the several degrees and to· be free of such maim or defect in his body
that may render him incapable of learning the art.
The laws of a few of our American jurisdictions upon this subject may with profit be quoted:
CALIFORNIA

"The person who desires to be made a Mason must be a man
having no maim or defect in his body that may render him incapable
of learning the art; and physically able to conform literally to what
the several degrees respectively require of him."
NEW YORK

"To earn his liviqg at manual labor, if necessary, without the
assistance of artificial limbs; and to perform all things necessary to
the receiving or giving cf work of Freemasonry," is all that is
required.
OHIO.

"A candidate for the degree of E. A. should be able physically,
as well as intellectually, of himself, and without external aid or assistance from another, to receive and impart all of the essentials of
Masonic. recognition.
"No one in this world is perfect in physical, or intellectual, or
moral qualifications. What degree of excellence in either or all of
these will fit ·a candidate for the degree of Masonry must be determined by the subordinate Lodge."

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

143

'PENNS YI, VANIA.

In a conversation which Grand Master Michie had with the Grand
Master of Pennsylvania, the latter personage informed Grand Master
Michie that he did not consider Pennsylvania quite so strict as South
Carolina. For instance, he stated that "the loss of a small piece of a
joint of the finger or toe" would not disqualify nor "a small sli~e off
the lobe of an ear."
UTAH.

Utah goes somewhat to the other extreme and may be considered
a "loose constructionist" of the Landmark concerning physical qualifications. This is what the Grand Secretary of Utah reports as the
law of his State upon the question of physical qualifications:
"We are broad-minded as to physic~! qualifications. Our Grand
Lodge, ever since its organization, did not take any stock in the old,
long. woriicut Landmark, which even the Premier Grand Lodge of
England has long since thrown in the rubbish of the Temple. With
t:s the heart counts, not the limb."
ENGL .~ND.

"The general rule in this country is to consider a candidate eligible
for elettion who, although n ot perfect in his limbs, is sufficiently so
to comply with and go through \he various ceremonies required in
the different degrees."
SCOTLAND.

Resolution of Grand Lodge, "physical disqualifications: the utterly
blind, and the deaf and dumb. Lodges are allowed to exercise their
own discretion as to the initiation of candidates who are mutilated in
or minus a limb."
Almost 'any old thing' looks good to Scotland.
Jn America the majority of the Grand Jurisdictions occupy a middle
ground of reasonable requirements, insisting that the candidate shall
he, to all intents and purposes, a physically sound man, but waiving
such technicalities as the loss of parts of certain joints and other
trifling defects that do not in any way interfere with the ability of the
candidate to gain a livelihood, if necessary, by physical toil, nor with
his ability t~ conform literally to the requirements of the several
degrees; . and the law of California expresses this middle ground as
succinctly and judicially as the law of any jurisdiction in America.
At the extreme position of st rict constructionalists are found the
States of South Carolina and Texas, and somewhat less so, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, and at the other extreme among the loose constructionalists is Utah, which has permitted the advancement of an Entered
Apprentice who, after initiation, met with the loss of both legs, one
·
above the knee and the other below the knee.

144

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

The information furnished by Grand Master Michie concerning
the laws of the various Jurisdictions upon the sµbject of physical
qualifications was referred to a special committee of five P.a st Grand
Masters for report at the · next Annual Communication.
Numerous dispensations were granted by the Grand Master for
.various purposes and numerous other requests for dispensations were
refused. Among the dispensations granted were four to form new
Lodges.
The work of the Grand Lodge during the year was represented
by the constituting of three Lodges charters for which were granted
at the last Annual Communication and the layi'ng of corner stones of
s;x public buildings.
The Grand Master speaks in terms of highest praise of the order .
of the Easti:rn Star and especially commends the valuable assistance
rendered by that organization in the matter of Masonic Home, and it
is the evident purpose of the Grand Lodge of South Carolina to divide ·
the responsibility of the care and maintenance of the Home after it is
once farrly established with the Order o.f the Eastern. Star.
The "decisions" of the Grand Master were comparatively few,
am ong them was the following:
"It is not competent for a brother who has never been elected
and installed as Worshipful Master or Warden to sit in the Master's
Chair or open the Lodge or confer degrees, even though the. Master
or one of the Wardens sits in the East with him."
·
Commenting upon this decision the Jurisprudence Committee confirmed so much of the decision as related to the incompetency of the
brother in questi on to open the Lodge, but the Jurisprudence Committee was of the opinion that any Master Mason who was qualified
to do the work might officiate in the Master's Chair if the Master, or
the Wardens were present and the work was done at their request.
In concluding his excellent address the Grand Master remarks that:
"In looking back over the road on which I have been Masonically traveling for the past twelve months, I find it illuminated by
the kindness, the courtesy and the unfailing affability of my brethren
in all parts of the jurisdicticn."
And that he extends to all of them his "sincerest thanks for
assistance, guidance, and enc curagement."
Fraternal reco~nition was extended to the Grand Lodge of
Saskatchewan and Queensland.
The Committee on Appeals and Grievances reported that no
appeals had been presented for t'he consideration of the Committee, and
the Committee congratulated the Grand Lodge on that evidence of the
peace and harmony prevailing throughout the Jurisdiction.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

145

FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

The report on Foreign Correspondence is by the Right Worshipful
Jncob T . Baron, Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary. His reviews of the various Grand Jurisdictions are full of interest and in~tructi o n and may be read with the greatest of profit by every Master
M11son. He reviews in a complimentary and courteous manner California for 1907.
J ames L. Michie (Darington), Re-elected Grand Master.
J acob T. Baron (Columbus), Re-elected Grand Secretary.

SOUTH DAKOTA, 1909.
'l'hirty-fifth Annual Communication.
Watertown.
June 8, 9, 1909.
An Emergent Communication of the Grand Lodge was held June
25, 19C9, at Pierre, for the purpose of laying the corner stone of the
new State House. The occasion was an important one and elaborate
exercises were held and an extremely interesting oration, dealing with
historical subjects, delivered by Hon. W . H . H. Beadle.
Two other Emergent Communications were held during the year;
one for the purpose of laying the corner stone of the new Masonic
Temple at Redfield; and the other for the purpose of d~dicating the
new Masonic Temple at Arlington.
The Thirty-fifth Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful
Grand Lodge of Ancient ~ree and Accepted Masons of the State of
South . Dakota, was held in Masonic Hall, in the City of Watertown,
commencing Tuesday, June 8, A. D. 19C9, A. L. 5909, at 10 o'clock,
Most Worshipful Jos. J. Davenport, Grand Master in the Grand East.
STA'tJST!CAL SUMMARY.

Lodges in this Grand Jurisdiction . .. . . .. ... . .... . ............... 119
T otal membership at this Communication . . . .. .. ................. 7,635
Net gain in membership during the preceding year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444
Income of the Grand Lodge ........ . ... . .. .. ............ , ... $ 7,638.79
Assets of the Grand Lodge ............ . .. . . . . . . . ........... 12,767.17
There is no Masonic Home. in this jurisdiction, the Grand Lodge
charity being provided far by a Grand Charity Fund, amounting at
this time to $3,374.97.
The Charity Fund appears to be in its nature entirely receptive
as a close examination of the balance sheet, fails to disclose the disbursements of so much as one dollar, which would seem to indicate
that the Jurisdidion of South Dakota is remarkal;>ly free from those
beneficiaries which usually have a claim to Masonic" charity.

H6

REPORT ON

CORRESPONDE~CE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

147

GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.

South Dakota was remarkably favored last year in freedom from
visitations of the Grim Reape'r, no deaths of Grand Officers having
occurred during the year. The work during the year was represented by
dispensations granted to form four new Lodges; by the laying of
corner stones, and dedication of a Masonic Temple and by constituting
the several new Lodges to which charters were granted at the preceding Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge.
The visitations of the Grand Master, judging from his report,
were accorded to other Grand Jurisdictions rather than to the Subor0
dinates of his own jurisdiction. He refers to a visit to the Grand
Lodge of the State of W ashington upon the occasion of the celebration by that Grand Jurisdiction of its Semi-Centennial; and the other
vis.i tation mentioned by the Grand Master was to the Grand Jurisdiction of Ohio, upon the conferring of the three degrees of Masonry
by the Grand Master of Ohio upon William Howard Taft, "at sight."
The Grand Master rendered the following decisions during the
year. The first and third met the approval of the Jurisprudence Committee and the Grand Lodge ; the second was disapproved.
"Question : Do we have j qrisdiction over rejected material?
"Answer: Yes, so long as they reside in this State.
·"Question: Where is a brother's membership, he having received
!he Entered Apprentice and the Fellow Craft in one Lodge and theo
,Master's Degree and signed the By-Laws. in a second Lodge?
"Answer: The brother belongs to the Lodge where he took the
Master's Degree and signed the By-Laws.
"Question : Will you kindly advise if we can consider an .. appli~ant for Masonry who has only one eye but otherwise can conform
to all requirements?
''Answer : You can consider an applicant for the degrees in Masonry who has .only one eye but otherwise can conform to all the
requirements."
'
FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

The repo rt on Foreign Correspondence was principally by M.'. W.'.
Samuel A. Brown, last year Deputy Grand Master but at this Communication elevated to the position of Most Worshipful Grand Master.
He was assist~d in the report by Worshipful Brother A. H. Tufts.
A reyiew is made of sixty-seven Grand Jurisdictions. California, 1908,
receives full and complimentary attention.
Samuel A. Brown (Sioux Falls), Grand Master.
George A. Pettigrew (Sioux Falls), Grand Secretary.

TENNESSEE, 19Cfl.
Ninety~fifth Annual Communication.
Nashville.
January 27, 1909.
In compliance with the provisions of the Constitution, the Ninetyfifth Annual Communication of the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of the Ancient and Honorable Fraternity of Free and Accepted Masons of the State
of Tennessee was held at the Auditorium, in the city of Nashville, commencing on Wednesday, January 27, A. D. 19G9, at 10 :20 o'clock A. M.
M.'. W.'. Milton H. Price, Grand Master presiding.
STAT!S'f!CAL SUMMARY.

T otal number of Lodges in State............................... 435
Number qf Lodges represented at this Annual Communication.... 425
Membership Janu;;ry 1, 1908 . ................................... 2t,8i9
Net gain during the year....................................... 949
Membership January 1, 1909 ................................... 22,828
Income of Grand Lodge .................................... $35,283.38
Assets of Grand Lodge :
Cash in hands of Grand Treasurer .......................... $47,213.21
Value Masonic Home property. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50,000.00
Endowment Fund, Widows' and Orphans' Home ............. 34,215.00
MASONIC HOME.

There is a Masonic Home in Tennessee for Widows and Orphans,
one of the most capably managed in the country. On January 1, 1909,
the beneficiaries numbered 131, divided as follows: 30 widows; 47
boys; 54 girls. The total expense of conducting the Home in 1908
was $12,558.01 and the average annual cost for each beneficiary was
$96.71, the lowest of any Home in the l.Jnited States. A school is
maintained at the Home, three teachers being employed therein, and
the instruction is as· advanced as the grammar grades of the ordinary
city schools. The Home has been able to accommodate all applicants
worthy of admission, a most happy condition, the Board reporting upon
this subject as foll ows :
"We are pleased to again report that there are no applications on
file. At no time during the year were any of the applicants kept
waiting, and it is gratifying to this Board t o have been so situated that
we could promptly meet every appeal for those deserving adt?ission."
The Home is supported by donations from Lodges and individuals
but principally by appropriations by the Grand Lodge, although an
Endowment Fund is in process of creation, and it is the hope that this
fund shall become ultimately so large that the income therefrom will
be sufficient to maintain the Home. The Endowment Fund is a matter
in which the Grand Lodge assumes an active and intimate contern
and at this Communication the following resolution was adopted:

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRBSPONDENCE.

"That the · Grand Secretary be and is hereby directed to select a
Brother in each of the Subordinate Lodges in this Grand Jurisdiction
and, by personal letter, urge· upon him to place before the brethren
of his Lodge the importance of increasing the Endowment Fund, and
to use his utmost endeavors in securing donations thereto."
Zeal and co-operation of this kind will certainly in due time place
the Home on a self-supporting basis.

The man who made the bottle that held the whiskey; the farmer .
who sold the sand that made the bottle that held the whiskey; the
man who made the spade that dug the sand that made the bottle that
held the whiskey, etc., etc. are all ineligible by the same ruling.
Action of a preliminary nature was taken at this Communication
of the Grand Lodge looking to the acquirement of a permanent home for
the_ Grand Lodge and within the space of a year or two a Temple befittmg the character and dignity of the Grand Lodge of Tennessee
will undoubtedly adorn the city of Nashville.
Electioneering, or "boosting a candidate for office" is again condemned, and if possible renders the "boostee" ineligible,
In the list of P ast Grand Officers of t he Grand Lodge of Tennessee, published with the proceedings are the names of many men renowned in the history of our common country and of whom not only
~ ennessee but the whole body of Masonry, is proud. ~m o ng them one
hnds the name of Andrew Jackson, Grand Master in 1822 and 1823.

148

GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.

The bereavement suffered by the Grand Master during the year
in the death of the cherished companion of his years, weighed heavily
upon his heart and cast on him a shadow of depressing gloom du.ring
a period of his life that would otherwise have been one of unusual
pleasure and satisfaction.
The Grand Master feelingly refers to the death of P . G. M.
J ohn T. Irion' and briefly sketches his active and honorable life.
Dispensations were issued to form six new lodges and charter!>
as per recommendations at last session were issued to form Lodges.
The Grand Master reports concerning a certain Worshipful Master
that, having been advised that he "had forgotten and violated his.
obligation by shooting a brother of another Lodge, and had also
been charged with drunkenness while in attendance upon the last
session of the Grand Lodge, he had suspended the brother from all the
rights and privileges of Masonry for one year." The Jurisprudence
Committee, presumably to protect the fair reputation of Tennessee
from the aspersion that might be cast upon it for appearing wholly to
condone drunkenness, even though mitigated by shooting, modified the
Grand Master's sentence to the extent of making the suspension indefinite, instead of for one year, and then to further effectually put
the stamp of their disapproval on just plain drunkenness unaccompanied
by shooting, they expelled another brother and printed his name in
large type in the proceedings for having partaken of liquor too freely
at this Communication.
o n'I CIAL RU LI N GS.

The Grand Master's decisions a re given in the form of question
and answer, and are alrnbst unifo rmly of a local cha racter. Here·
is one that would bring a smile to the face of a graven image:
"Edgefield Lodge, No. 254.-A bill clerk in a wholesale grocery
store in which whisky is sold, but who is not called upon to handle
the article, has petitioned this Lodge. Will it conflict with Edicts 59
and 61?
"Answer: In accordance with ruling of Past Grand Master McQueen (see Proceedings 1904. page 36) , and approved by Grand Lodge,
it wfiluld conflict with the Edicts mentioned above. If the bookkeeper
is applicable, then why not the bill clerk?"

149

FOREIGN C?RRESPONDENCE.

The report on Foreign Correspondence is by M.'. w:. Henry
A. Chambers, Past Grand Master. He features clandestine Masonry
and _affords rather complete current information upon that subject,
quotmg freely from N ew York, Ohio and other Jurisdictions. Califo rhia receives brief but courteous consideration.
Ed. J. Backman (Bristol), Grand Master.
J ohn B. Garrett (Nash ville), Grand Secretary.

TEXAS, 1908.
Seventy-third Annual Communication. Waco. December 1, 2, 3, 1908.
In compliance with the provisions of the Constitut,ion of the Most
Worshipful Grand Lodge of Texas, Ancient Free and Accepted Masons
the Seventy-third Grand Annual Communication was held at the Masoni~
Temple, in the city of Waco, commencing on Tuesday, the 1st day of
December, A. D. 1908, A. L. 5908, at 10 o'clock A. M.
The M. · · W · · · Lee Monroe in the Gran9- East, assisted by a full'
corps of Grand Officers, seventeen Past Grand Master s, were present,
and a large representation from m ore than five hundred chartered
Lodges.
STATISTICAL S UMMARY.

T otal number of chartered Lodges, beginning of this Communication .
Charters to Lod~~~: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :
Net loss (Lodges demised, etc.) ............................ .' .. .

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCF.

Lodges on roll, close of Communication........................ 780
Total number Master Masons ................................. .49,046
Net gain during year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,369

to the public schools. The prescribed course of study carries the pupil
to a point equivalent ·to the ninth grade of the ordinary eity schools;
and concerning the school the superintendent •speaks as follows:

Income of Grand Lodge :
General Fund .................................... $35,841.00
Widows' and Orphans' Fund ...................... 22,628.00

"Results from school work for the past year seem to indicate not
only a prosperous but a progressive condition. Our teachers, both at
the main building and boys' annex, are patient, painstaking and tho.roughly competent and heartily co-operate with the management in the
three-fold development or education of our boys and girls-a physical,
moral and mental growth. Our aim and desire is to see our boys and
girls develop into strong, useful men and women, possessed df strength
physical and strength of character, as well as strong, active, welltrained minds-useful men and women who can do things, and are
proud of the fact that their hands are trained to do useful work."
·

150

$58,469.00
Also, collected on Temple Fund ...........................•. 2,289.50
Assets of Grand Lodge :
Balance on hand General Fund ............... . .. . ........... $32,981.55'
Balance on hand Temple Fund. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,942.50
Balance on hand Widows' and Orphans' Fund:
Cash ...................... . .............................. $ 18,390.22
Permanent Fund ................................. · · .... · · 124,727.53
MASONIC WIDOWS' AND ORPHANS' HOM'E.

In Texas there is at Fort Worth a Masonic Home for orphans and

the widows of Masons, one of the best in this country, and of which
the Grand Master in his address uses the following language :
"It gives me much pleasure to report ~hat the Home is in a prosperous condition. Texas Masons have a right to be proud of the (a~t
th1t in less than sixty years after the first Lodge had beep opened m
Texas they had established and were successfully conductt~g a Home
for the destitute widows and dependent orphans of their deceased
brethren.
"While the Grand Lodge of Texas is not a pioneer in this l~udable
work of benevolence, nor the first to undertake such ~n enterpnse1 ~he
stands in the front rank of her sister Grand Lodges m thus prov1dmg
for those dependent up.on the Fraternity.
.
"The Home has been in successful operation now for nine years,
and during that time several hundred boys ~nd izirls ha~e ~een. cared
for and provided not only with a home w.1th all. that 1.s .1mphed ~Y
the term but have had such literary and mdustr1al trammg as will
be most ~seful to them in after life."
The beneficiaries of the Home are now 15 widows, 106 girls, and
77 boys, a total of 198. No Masonic Home in this country manifests
a greater degree of s·uccess in gathering in the children tha~ ?oes ~he ,
Home in Texas, and no Home is doing better work, the admm1stratton
is exceedingly capable and the farm and dairy connected with the
Home is made to show a profit during the year of $2,352.61; something
almost unique among Masonic Homes. The cost of maintenance of
Home per capita is remarkably low-$149.34, and to this is added the
cost of maintaining the Home school for the ·children, $21.21, making
the total per capita cost $170.55, much less than the average of the
Masonic Homes in this Jurisdiction, even where children are sent

151

It is the policy of the Fraternity in Texas, as also in some other
States, J:o accumulate an endowment fund that shall render the Haine
in time self-supporting, and considering the fact that the Home has
only been in operation for nine years, a remarkably good St<;lrt in the
way of an endowment has already been made, the permanent fund now
amounting to $125,000.
The per capita tax for the benefit of the Home is apparently 50
cents. In California this tax is $1.CO and the result in many respects
are certainly less satisfactory.
GRAND ¥AST'ER'S ADDRESS.

The Grand Master's report is an able and comprehensive review
of his acl,ministration, and its consideration i11duces a concepti o1~ of the
magnitude of his Jur.isdiction, embracing the area of an empire and
containing more than 800 Subordinate Lodges :ind nearly 50.000 Master
Masons. The Committee to whom the address was referred notes
with approval the Grand Master's tribute to the dead of their own and
other Grand Lodges and his especial notices of the death of Past
Grand . Master R:. W.'. Norton Moses and William Brawnlette, and
also the distinguished Brothers Cleveland .and Murchison.
The Grand Master very properly denounces as clandestine two socalled Masonic Lodges, one at Corpus Christi and the other at
Brownsville, the first claiming to work under a charter granted by
the Grand Lodge Valle de Mexico, the latter under grant from some
other foreign Grand Lodge. These claims are unquestionably spurious.
A representative of the Grand Lodge Valle de Mexico in the person
of Worshipful Brother Manhead, was present, before the Jurisprudence
Committee, and verified the fixed supposition that the claim of t!te
spurious body as to the posses11ion of a warrant from his Grand Lodge
was false. The twenty-two Lodges, charters for which were authorized,
at the last Communication, were regularly constituted, and dispensations were issued during th.e year to form nine new Lodges, and requests for· dispensations from nine others were refused.

152

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The following from the Grand Master's address on the subject of
profanity will win universal applause:
"The grand and noble men who, after they had won the independence of Texas, established Freemasonry in this State, were so
convinced of the degrading effect and influence of these vices that they
wrote it in the Constitution· of this Grand Lodge that 'The intemperate use of intoxicating driQks, gambling and profane swearing are
contrary to the principles of Masonry, and .it is the duty of each Lodge
to. punish any brother guilty thereof.' Yet it is not unusual to hear
a man wearing the emblems of Masonry utter the vilest oaths, even
in the presence of- young men. It is true that no Lodge in this jurisdiction would long tolerate a member who was known to be an
habitual drunkard or a gambler, but it is greatly to be regretted that
many Lodges are too tolerant of the more prevalent vice of profanity.
It is also true that the teachings and precepts of Masonry have done
mqch to purify society of the baneful effects of drunkenness and
g<tmbling, yet there is much to be done to rid the Lodges of th~se outwardly respectable men who habitually emit vile oaths. A Mason owes
it to himself and to the Fraternity to be clean in his language, as he
should be upright in his conduct and dealings with his fellow men, if
he would keep his white apron free from untempered mortar. For
the slave to the habit of drink we can have some compassion, and for
cne who, from want and poverty, is tempted to steal to satisfy his
hunger there is some excuse; but for the man claiming to be respectable, who is habitually guilty of using profane language, there is
neither paJliation nor excuse. Nothing can be more unbecoming a
Mason. It is a useless habit. It is coarse and vulgar, suited only
to the gambling house and the brothel. It is offensive to any person
of refined sensibilities. What man coufd tolerate or excuse profanity
in his wife or his mother? And yet, his wife or his mother have as
much right to swear' as he has; and, besides, she can sweat without
violating any obligation of Masonry. while he can not. What Lodge
would tolerate a member who would habitually use profane language
in the Lodge room? And yet the offense would be no greater for
him to violate his obligation in the Lodge room than in any other
respectable society, on the streets or in public places. Indeed, he has
the same right to emphasize his statements with profanity while the
Lodge is at labor as he has to interlard his conversation with vulgar
·Caths after the Lodge has been closed. That man who habitually
violates his obligation and ·the writteh Jaw of Masonry by the use
of profane language is out or place in a Masonic Lodge, and if he
will not separate himself from the vices, the Lodge ought, after fraternal warning, to separate him from Masonry by expelling him. Such
a man bririgs the Fraternity into bad repute with the better class of
citizenship. Let us cut loose from the profane swearer if he will not .
leave off his vicious habits. Let us purify our Lodges of all who thus
.daily and habitually violate their obligation."
The decisions of the Grand Master, aside from some local questions of disputed jurisdiction between Lodges were seven in number,
and with two exceptions were promptly approved by the Jurisprudence
Committee. Of the two disapproved, the Jurisprudence Committee has
this to say·:
"In Decision No. 2, the Grand Master holds, in effect, that the
law requiring an application for affiliation to lie over till • the next

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

153

stated meeting requires such application to lie over a full month
notwith.• tanding the Lodge may, under its By-Laws, hold more that~
one st:it~d meeting per month. We believe that applications for affiliation may be balloted upon at the next stated meeting of the Lodge,
though the time intervening be less than one month, this being, in
our opinion, a proper construction of Article 406, Digest of Masonic
Laws. But this applies to affiliations only, not to applications for degrees in Masonry.
"In Decision No. 5, the Grand Master rules that the casting uf two
black balls against a petition for initiation from one who was Jes!>
than twenty-one years old when the petition was received, operates
as a rejection of the candidate for two years. We hold the action of
the Lodge in receiving the petition of a person less than twenty-one
years old was void; that the Lodge acquired no jurisdiction of the
petitioner, and that the ballot thereon was an absolute nullity. The
candidate stands in the same attitude as if he had never petitioned the
Lodge at all."
Concerning the Grand Master and his report, the Jurisprudence
Committee utters the following· glowing encomium:
." We are profoundly impressed with the splendid dignity of this
able paper. We believe the administration of our Grand Master rices
not suffer by comparison with .those of his predecessors, and his benevolence and true Masonic spirit, manifest on every page of his address, ·
command our .most hearty sympathy and approval. He has upheld
and enforced the law in every instance, but with such kindness
of spirit that all must at once bow to the rod so firmly held in his
unerring hand. We extend to him our heartiest felicitations and
congratulations upon his successful work of leadership, and. indulge
the hope that he may be spared for many years of usefulness to the
Craft."
Worshipful Brother Jewel P. Lightfoot, Grand Orator, delivered
on the final day of the session, the usual address which contained
evidence of erudition and research and which was by order of the
Grand Lodge prinJ:ed in the proceedings.
CORRESPONDENc:i.: REPORT.

The Correspondence Report is, as has been the case for twenty-five
years, by Past Grand Master Thos. M. Matthews. It is, as usual, a
valuable contribution to current Masonic literature, and the following
concerning Brother Matthew's reports from the Grand Master's address
will awaken a responsive echo throughout the Maso1,ic world.
REPORTS

o~·

COMMITTE:i.: ON FOREIGN CORR:i.:SPONDENc:i.:•

"I hope I may be pardoned for a word in commendation of the
faithful services of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence. They
give their time and earnest thought to the preparation of these reports,
and it seems to me that we do not appreciate their labors as we
should.
"Besides the valuable information found in their reports, they
contain the flower of Masonic literature, culled with discrimination
and much care from the proceedinirs of all the Masonic r.ran<l

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

·REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Bodies with which we are in fraternal correspondence. From· them
we may learn what progress Freemasonry is making, not only in
our sister Grand Lodges of the United States, bt•t in for"''"ll" c t1ntries
. .and the far-off isles of the sea. They show in a striking manner
the universality of Masonry, and that in all essentials Masonry in
"Texas is the same as in Canada, Scotland, or New Zealand.
"If I could induce a more general reading and study of these
reports by the officers and members of Lodges, I . would feel that I
had accomplished some good for our Fraternity."
J. J. Davis (Galveston), Grand Master.
John Watson (Waco), Grand Secretary.

which was granted at the preceding Annual Communication· to the
granting of a dispensation to form one new Lodge; and to a' number
of official visits to Subordinate Lodges.
The "decisions" of the Grand Master were of a local and elementary
character, and with one or two slight modifications, were duly approved.
The Grand Master refers to the efforts made in one portion of
the State, by clandestine Masonry, to gain a foothold, but reports that
the effort was not successful and that the vendors of the false and
spurious degrees were driven from the jurisdiction.
The Grand Master shows his deep appreciation of the Right Worshipful Grand Secretary, Brother Christopher Diehl, the Dean of
American Grand Secretaries, in the following language :
"I wish I had words at my command to speak of our Grand Secretary, as I should like to do, R. '. W:. Bro. Diehl, the Dean of Grand
Secretaries of all the world. Always faithfully and conscientiously
p~rforming his duties, a man of justice, with a heart full of love for
his fellowmen, eyer maintaining his idea of right, should we not
honor and love h11n as we do? He has been a strong factor in Utah
Masonry from almost the beginning. He has been the strength and
support of many a Grand Master, for his is the mind that is stored
with Masonic knowledge of all description. To him I also owe a.
deep debt of gratitude. Very few, if any, realiz~ the time he
devotes and the work he does for the institution. Especially is this
true as to the Committee on Correspondence. In that field his compeers know of his. work better than we do. Among them his ability
1s known, and he 1s held in high esteem, as the flattering notices one
can find by reading, testify. May God illuminate his pathway and
long preserve him to us."

154

UTAH, 19G9.
Thirty-eighth Annual Communication. Salt Lake City.
January 19, 20, 1909.
The M.". W:. Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of Utah,
convened in its Thirty-eighth Annual Communication in the Masonic .
Temple, Salt Lake City, Tuesday, the 19th day of January, A. D. 1909,
<it Hl :00 o'clock A. M. Most Worshipful James Henry Brown, Grand
Master.
STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

'l'otal number of chartered I.iodges. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13.
Lodges under dispensation......................................
1
1
Charters granted at this Communication................ . . .. ......
'l'otal Master Masons, 1908 . .. .... . ............... . . . . . .... . .... 1,525
Net gain during the year . ............. . ............. .. . .. .·.... 82
Jncome of Grand Lodge .......... .. . . .... . ............... . . . $2,613.62
Assets of Grand Lodge, General Fund .... . .................. . 2,211.45
Charity Fund .................................... : ... . ...... 1,820.01
There is no Masonic Home in this jurisdiction, the natural bene- •
fidaries of the Grand Lodge being provided for by appropriations from
the Charity Fund.
1

GRAND MAST:ER S ADDR:ESS.

The Grand Master's Address is a plain, unvarnished statement of
his administration, calling attention to the matters which usually come
within the province of the Grand Master. In referring to departed
brethren, he states that the Grand Lodge had been spared the taking
off of any of its officers, but that the Jurisdiction, in other respects,
had been . visited by the "grim reaper," and that one or two of the
prominent Past Masters of Subordinate Lodges had been summoned
to their reward.
The work o( the year, so far as the Grand Master was con~~rned,
was represented by the constitution of Albert Pike Lodge, charter for

155

In accordance with the recommendation of the Committee on
Foreign Correspondence, fraternal recognition was refused to the folof Switzerlowing so-called Grand Lodges: The Grand Lodge Alpine
1
land; The Grand Lodge of Greece; The Grand Lo dge of Chili; The
Grand Lodge of San Salvador.
The report on Foreign Correspondence is by the Grand Secretary,
Christopher Diehl, who has for many years performed this service fel't
the Grand Lodge of Utah, and Brother Diehl is recognized as one of
the most capable and conscientious of our American Reviewers. California 1907 receives courteous attention.
Fred Clement Schramm (Salt Lake City), Grand Master.
Christopher Diehl (Salt Lake City), Grand Secretary.

156

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

VALLE

DE

MEXICO,

1908.

The annual meeting of the Grand Lodge Valle de Mexico, A. F. &
A. M., was opened in due and ancient form by the M:. W:. Grand
Master at 8 :45 P. M., in the special hall of the Masonic Temple, No. 9~
Puerta Falsa de San Andres, City of Mexico. The M:. w:. Grand
Master was supported in the East by the M:. w:. Deputy Grand MasJ
ter, Bro. A. Pro; the Hon. Grand Master, Bro. Manuel Levi, and Past
Gtand Master, J. C. Mordough.
From the report the following statistical information is obtained:
'l'otal number of Lodges ·in the jurisdiction .. . . .... . ... . ... .. .... 33
'Total number of members . . . ....... ... . .. ....... . .. . .... . ... ... 1,371
Gain over preceding year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 175
The Grand Lodge Valle de Mexico· claims exclusive jurisdiction
-0ver the Federal District, City of Mexico, with the right to' charter
Lodges anywhere in Mexico in territory not occupied by another Gran<!
Lodge recognized as such by Valle de Mexico. There is no gain in
numb.er of Lodges during the past year ; in fact there has been a loss
.cf possibly four Lodges through consolidation, etc., but there has been
:a substantial gain in membership.
Valle de Mexico is doing good Masonic work in its district, and
has been recognized as a regular Grand Lodge, entitled to Fellowship with other Grand Lodges of the world, by a large number of
Grand Jurisdictions, including California.
The income of the Grand Lodge during the previous year was
$4,191 and the balance of cash on hand at date of this report $1,432.87.
Inasmuch as Valle de Mexico has been beset with questions touching
1ts legitimacy and its right to be recognized as a Grand Lodge, the
following official circular issued by the Grand M"aster to the Subordinate
L edges and defining what are considered as "irregular" Masons and
" clandestine" Masons will be of general interest:

" To the Worshipful Master of Lodge:·
"Several Lodges having asked for an interpretation of the words
' Irregular' and 'Clandestine' as applied to individuals belonging to
other bodies bearing the title 'Masonic.' the M. W . Grand Master
l1as ordered that the following explanation be circulated :
".By irregular Lodges is understood those which have their origin
from a Grand Lodge formed by authority of a Supreme Council of the
Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite and which do not invade the
territory of the Grand Lod.e;e Valle de Mex ico or that of any Grand
Lodge with which Valle de Mexico holds fraternal relations, and
irregular Masons are those who form part of such Lodges and present
<limits or other documents issued by them.
"By Clandestine Ledges is understood those whid1 have their
-Origin from a Grand . Lodge which has not been formed under the

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENC&

157

authority of a Supreme Council of the Ancient_and Accepted Scott ish Rite nor that of a Masonic Body recognized by the Grand· Lodge
Valle de Mexico. In this classification is also understood Lodges
belc nging to Grand Lodges which invade the territory of Grand
Lodge Valle de Mexico or that of a Grand Lodge with which Valle
<le Mexico holds fraternal relation. Clandestine Masons are those
who form part of such Lodges and who present docu!11ents issued
·by them.
·
"An Irregular Mason may be received as an affiliate in a Lodge
of our jurisdiction complying with the conditions of sections five and
seven of· Article III of By-Laws of Grand Lodge.
"A Clandestine Mason may only be received into our Lodges by
means of _a regular initiation fulfilling all the conditions imposed upon
.a pro{ane.
~
"The W orshipful Masters will . keep these instructions at hand
and be governed by them in all cases upon which they have a bearing."
There is a brief report on Foreign Correspondence, in which pro·ceedings of an extremely limited number of jurisdictions are noticed.
·California is not on the list.
Alberto Pro (Mexico), Grand Master.
F. Iglesias (Mexico), Grand Secretary.

VERMONT, 19G9.
{)ne Hundred and Sixteenth Annual Communication, Burlington, June
9, 1909.
The Most W orshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
-0f the State of Vermont, convened in the Masonic T emple in the City
of Burlington, on W ednesday, June 9, 1~9, the Most W orshipful Lee
S. Tillitson, Grand Master, presiding.
STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

Number of chartered Lodges. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103
Ledges under dispensation.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1
Total membership, June, 1908 . . ... .. . . . .. ... . . ... . . ... ...... . .. 12,394
Net gain during the year.. . . . . . . . . .. ... . . . . . . .. ... . . . .. .. ... ... 258
T otal membership, June, 1909 .... . . . ... .. . .. . .. . .. . .. ...... . .. . 12,652
I ncome of Grand Lodge ...... . . . .... .. . ...... .. .. . ......... . $9,267.67
Assets of Grand Lodge :
Cash in hands of Grand Treasurer . .. ............. . .•..... $4,349.60
Equity in Masonic Temple at Burlington, Ver.
MASONIC H OMJ<;.

There is no Masonic H ome in Vermont and apparently no purpose
o establish an institution of this character. T here is a debt outstand-

1

158

REPORT ON

REPORT OX

CORRESPONDE~CE.

ing upon the Masonic Temple of $37,500, and until this debt is liquidated, it is the evident purpose of the Grand Lodge to avoid further
financial obligations.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.

The Grand Master's address is a comprehensive stateme.n t of his
activities during the year. He mentions in a fitting manner the fraternal
dead of his own and other jurisdictions, a full report upon this subject
being rendered later during the Communication by the Committee on
Necrology.
~
The Grand Master refers to the temple debt and to the special per
capita assessment of 30 cents upon the membership, intended to provide
for the liquidation of the debt, but calls attention, however, to the very
slow process of payment through this small per capita assessment, so
large a portion of the assessment being needed to provide for the interest
upon the debt, and he recommends that this per capita be increased for
a period of three years to $1. This recommendation was referred to
the Committee on Finance, who recommended in lieu of the $1 p.er
capita assessment, an assessment of . 50 cents per member for three
years, and this recommendation upon being submitted to the Grand
Lodge was not adopted but further consideration in the matter was
postponed for one year, so that, notwithstanding the recommendations
of the Grand Master and the Finance Committee, no change whatever
was made concerning the per capita assessment for the liquidation of
the temple indebtedness.
The Grand Master is of the opinion that the Lodges do not exercise
su.fficient vigilance in purging themselves of members who become undesirable from a moral standpoint, and submitted for the consideration
of the Grand Lodge the following resolution, which met the approval of
the Jurisprudence Committee and was unanimously adopted:
··' Resolved, That whenever a member of a Subordinate Lodge or
a brother residing within this jurisdiction, by his miscond'uct, bri'ngs
himself into disrepute before the world and consequent shame upon
the Craft in general, it shall be the duty of the Junior Warden of the
Lodge to which he may belong or of the Lodge in whose jurisdictict?
he resides, to immediately cause charges to be preferred against him..
Nothing in this resolution shall be construed as r emoving the right
or duty of any Mason to prefer charges against a brother or as changing the existing rules of procedure in regard to charges and trials."
.The Grand Master refers to visits to other jurisdictions, particulady
to his visit to St. John's Lodge of Boston, upon the Occasion of the
celebration by it of its 175th annl'versary. St. John's Lodge of Boston
claims a longer unbroken existence than any other Subordinate Lodge·
in America. It is a fact, however, that there is documentary evidence
of the existence of the Holy St. John's Lodge in Philadelphia as early
as 1727, and in Benjamin Franklin's diary is recorded the entry of his
initiation in St. John's Lodge in Philadelphia on February l, 1730,

CORRESFONDENC~

159

u ly four years prior to the establishment of St. John's Lodge at
1.. t lll.
The Grand Master mentions the meeting in the early part of June,
I'· '1 nt Philadelphia, by virtue of an invitation from the Grand Master
, f Pennsylvania, of the Grand Masters of all of the jurisdictions east
, f the Mississippi River, the meeting having been called for the purpose
1 ( , msidering interjurisdictional questions with a view of securing
1 ' 1ommendations from those in attendance to their various Grand
l.11clges, looking to the harmonizing of the law and practices of various
)111 iadictions upon questions of common interest.
Orand Master Tillitson states that the meeting was in no sense
111 nttempt to form a General or Sovereign Grand Lodge, and adds
tlmt such action would have been deemed unwise by those present at
1h1 Conference. This is not exactly in harmony with the views exlll'l:MSed by the Grand Master of Indiana upon the same subject, spoken
111 1011nection with his invitation from the Grand Master of Pennsyl' mia to this Conference. A conference, such as explained by Grand
~1 nHter Tillitson, would certainly be unobjectionable, and might result in
1 1cat good.
The Grand Master refers to the friction between the Grand Jurisclictic n of New Jersey and that of Mississippi concerning the regular
l.·idge of colored Masons in the jurisdiction of the former State.
While there seems to be insufficient reason to justify an interruption of
th1• cordial fraternal relations heretofore existing between the two jurislli1 lions, it is not difficult to understand the prejudices entertained by
the brethren of Mississippi to colored Mason!r. The charter issued to
\ (pha Lodge No. 116, by the Grand Lodge of New Jersey, was the
1 t'~ult either of an accident or of a premeditated purpose to deceive that
1 lrand Lodge, which is of itself a sufficient reason to excuse the action
cf New Jersey; but this view cannot hold in reference to the Grand
I. 1<\ge of Scotland, which in Panama has issued two charters, one
t a Lodge of white men and another to a Lodge of colored men, and
while they are located in the same district, they do not affiliate nor have
nnything in common; and it is not difficult to understand the attitude
cf more than one American Grand Jurisdiction that has threatened to
1cvcr fraternal relations with the Grand Lodge of Scotland, because of
It complete disrega rd of the courtesies to which certain American
<lrand Lodges are entitled; and manifestations of which disregard are
ahown in th~ instance in Panama, above mentioned, as well as in the
chartering of Lodges in Hawaii and Manila, and the admission into
Scottish Lodges of travelers from America who had been rejected by
'\merican Lodges.
There is, · of course, a technical right upon the part of Scotland to
charter Lodges in American territory, such as the Hawaiian Islands,
where there is n o American Grand Lodge, hut there is lack of courtesy
11

160

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

in such action, especially when it is known that the only purpcse m
applying for a Scottish charter is because of a desire on the part of
certain Masons to assist individuals, who had been rejected by our
American Lodges at Honolulu, for ins(ance, to gain admission into the
fraternity, which was impossible under the American system of demanding an absolutely clear ballot, but which was possible under the Scottish system, where two adverse ballots are necessary to reject.
The Grand Master discusses the Landmark of making Masons at
sight occasioned by the conferring of this honor by the Grand Master
of Ohio upon William Howard Taft. He approves; and used under
proper restrictions, there is no insuperable objection to the exercise of
this power by the Grand Master; but as it is sometimes understood.
and as it was exercised at one time in California by a Grand Master, the
power is dangerous, and the action of the California Grand Lodge in
denying this power to the Grand Master, fully justified.
The Grand Master expresses his approval of the. card system of
identification employed by certain Eastern jurisdictions; and in view
of the numerous forms of clandestine Masonry, it would seem that
something like the card system of identification, approved in certain
jurisdictions, should be generally adopted.
The decisions of the Grand Master were not numerous and were of
a lccal character. The following two may be mentioned :
"A Lodge working under a dispensation has no pepal jurisdiction."
"If a petitioner makes a willful misstatement in his petition and
such ever comes to the knowledge of the Master bc;fore initiation, the
degree should not be conferred. If a candidate has received a degrel:,
charges should be preferred."
The reports of the Grand Lecturer and District Deputy Grand Master disclose the fact that the "work" of the jurisdiction is maintained
upon a high plane of efficiency and shows a thorough system of Lodge
inspection.
CORRESPONDENO: REPORT.

The report on Foreign Correspondence is by Past Grand Master
Marsh. 0. Perkins. He reviews in a painstaking and interesting manner the proceedings of sixty-three American and Foreign Judsdictions.
California, 1908, received due attention with quotations from the Gra"nd
Master's address, etc.
Lee S. Tillitson, (St. Albans) Grand Master.
Henry H. Ross, (Burlington) Grand Secretary.

161

VIRGINIA, 1909.
One Hundred and Thirty-first Annual Communication, Richmond, February 9, 10, 11, 1909.
The One Hundred and Thirty-first Grand Annual Communication
•>f the Most Worshipful Grana Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of Virginia, was held in the Masonic Temple, in
the City of Richmond, beginning on Tuesday, the 9th day of February,
A. L. 5909, A. D. 1909, at 7:30 o'clock, P. M., the M.'. W.'. Joseph W.
Eigleston in the Grand East.
STATISTICAL · SUMMARY.

Total number of Lodges. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 295
Charters granted to Lodges, 1909............................ . ..
6
l,odges continued under dispensation .......................... .
Net gain during 1908 (about).... . .. . ........ . ............ . ... 1,000
Total inembership1 1909 ............ ... ...... . ................. 19,749
Income of Grand Lodge ................................... $27,945.63
Net assets of Grand Lodge,.. .. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. .. .. .. .. . . . . 65,213.37
MA$0NIC HOME.

There is in Virginia a Masonic Home which has hitherto been
under the management of a corporation, in a sense independent o{ the
Grand Lodge, hut by virtue of action taken at the last two Annual
Communications .of the Grand Lodge, the management of the Home
has been restored to the direct control of the Grand Lodge, and enhanced usefulness of the institution is expected to result therefrom.
The Home appears to be simply an· orphanage, and derives its revenue
from various sources; from appropriations by the Grand Lodge; contributions from Lodges, from individuals, etc. A movement which has
received official sanction has been inaugurated, looking to the creation
of an Endowment Fund for the benefit of the Home, but from such
information as can be gathered from. a perusal of the printed proceed~
ings of the Grand Lodge, it would appear that the Endowment Fund
project is in the nature of a private promotion scheme for the purpose
of yielding commissions to the promoter, rather than the concrete
expression on the part of the me111bership of a P.re-existing high ideal;
and if the mainspring of the proposed Endowment Fund is a mercenary
purpose to earn a profit for some one, it requires no gift of prophecy
to foretell its failure.
Virginia, known as the "Old Dominion," called also the "Mother
of Presidents'" home while they lived-of Washington, of Monroe
and Madison, of Thomas Jefferson and Patrick Henry, of John Marshall and Edmund Randolph-a State rich in romance, replete in heroic
6a

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
162

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

history garlanded with gallantry and grace, is famed also in the annals
of Am~rican Masonry; here George Washington was made a Mason
in Fredericksburg Lodge, No. 4, in 1753; here stands today the oldest
Masonic building in America, "Masons' Hall," in Richmond, the first
on the continent still standing, erected for purely Masonic purpos.es,
which building was saved from the great fire which destroyed one-third
of the city of Richmond on April 3, 1865, at the time of i.ts evacuation
at the close of the Civil War, by a Federal Colonel halting a _column
of United States troops and putting on guard a company of Masons
over the building, and thus securing its preservation wit~ the p;icele~s
records it contained ; here amid the scenes of sanguinary strife did
William McKinley, in 1863, in Winchester ~-Iiram Lodg.e, assun:ie the
vows of brotherhood; here, for maI}y years, in Alexandria-Washington
Lodge, did the "Father of his Country" preside as W.orshipfu~ Mas:er;
and here are preserved today many relics associated with that illustrious
personage.
.
In Virginia, too, it was that the great John Mar.shall, thirty-four
years Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of t~e United ~ta~es, ~ho,
by his vast wisdom, his masterful understanding, an~ h.1s inflexible
moral courage wrought into form and power the Constitutional system
of the riew n~tion, and gave to the supreme judicial tribunal of his
country a dignity, a character and standing unmatched by any Court
of Justice in the world, presided as Grand Master of the Craft, and
esteemed it no less an honor to bear the priceless jewel of that exalted
station than to wear the spotless ermine of the judge.
GRAND MAST!!R'S ADDRESS.

The "Honored Dead," among them Brother.· William Kraus~,
Grand Steward are remembered by the Grand Master and their
ennobling quali;les of heart and mind, those qualities. that counterbalance all frailties ~nd weaknesses of the . flesh, and lift the sou~ to
immortality, are fittingly and feelingly set fo~t~. Brother Krause, in a
moment while clouds obscured his mental v1S1on and leaden 1.larkne~s
gathered thick about him, usurped the prerogativ~ of God and left. his
post of duty here ere permission to this end had issued from On High.
That Brother Krause was greatly beloved was evidenced from :he
fact that his obsequies were attended by a great many brethren, including several Past Grand Masters and officers ?f the Gr~nd !-odge.
The closing sentiment of the Grand Master in this connection is thus
beautifully expressed: "Let us remember of all our dead only the good
deeds, and forget the faults, as buried in mother earth."
The "official visitations" of the Grand Master were numerous
and must have been a source of great inspiration ~nd benefit to t~e
Craft. He refers particularly to the opening by him of a Masonic
Fair, given by Fredericksburg Lodge, No. 4, "to raise funds to erect

163

a suitable Memorial Temple to show the thousands of tourists who
visit that historic region that George Washington was there made a
Mason and there received those lessons of civic and religious liberty
which so moulded his character and benefited the American people."
The Grand Master also refers to a drive from this town of Fredericksburg over the battlefields of Spottsylvania, "a single county," he
states, "in which two American armies did more fighting than warlike
England has done in the whole world in two hundred years."
To him the two most important events of the year were his visit
to St. John's Lodge at Boston upon the occasion of the celebration
of its one hundred and seventy-fifth anniversary, at which the Grand
Masters of the thirteen original States were present, and which was
almost international in character; and the other was the return courtesy extended to the Master of St. John's Lodge of Boston, on the
evening preceding the opening of the Annual Communication of the
Grand Lodge, under the auspices of Richmond Randolph Lodge, No.
19. This reception was held in "Masons' Hall," Richmond, Va., and
among other things it is stated that,
"There were more than two hundred· present in this old hall,
for many years the meeting place of the Grand Lodge of Virginia.
The old records were on exhibition, beginning in 1787 and including the
reception given Lafayette there in 1824, with his and his escorts'
signatures. There were also many records of bygone days displayed,
among them a sabre left in the anteroom by one of the many United
States soldiers, who met there, voluntarily, to devise means of relief
of the sufferings of the families of Confederate soldiers still fighting
their way to Appomatox."
While no complaint has been heard of financial stringency in the
State of Virginia, yet one is scarcely prepared for tj:te astonishing
"boom" evidence disclosed in the fact that, during the year, the Grand
Master either personally, or by proxy, laid the corner stones of thirtythree public builclings. This certainly is the record.
The "decisions," numbering fifty-five, were mostly of an elementary
or local character, and were all approved by the Jurisprudence Committee and Grand Lodge. A few that may be of interest' are as follows:
"That a Lodge cannot be 'called off' to meet at some future date.
Our ritual and ancient customs only provide for calling from fabor
to refreshment. To extend such a recess to some future date would
be violating Masonic custom and perverting the meaning of the words
used in our ritual."
·
Elementary it is true, but Lodges in California have been known
to do the same thing.
"That it was not proper that I endorse a plan of Lodges insuring
each a member's life in a so-called Masonic Mutual Insurance Company
for the benefit of the Masonic Home. I think the plan itself outside oµr system, and do not like the name Masonic attached to any
business venture, even when confined to and insuring only Masons.

164

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

It has been tried before, and has failed and resulted in scandal, as
it might again."
Sound advice. Insurance schemes, masquerading under the name
"Masonic," or "fraternal," are always delusive, usually fraudulent, and
whether simply delusive or both fraudulent and delusive, they inevitably
end in failure.
"That a profane who has lost two joints of the fore-finger .of
the right hand is eligible."
This decision was made after submitting the question to the Grand
Lecturer, who held that he can comply, as he has since done, with
all the requirements of the ritual "without artificial aid or friendly
assistance." It would seem that no reasonable objection would be
urged against this decision, but opinions will differ as to its soundness,
which illustrates the fact that each jurisdiction in the matter of physical
qualification, or disqualification, is "a law unto itself."
"That a Lodge in Virginia, which was requested to confer degrees
for a Lodge in another jurisdiction, was eminently in the right in
balloting on and rejecting the petitioner, in view of his serious misconduct in their jurisdiction. Our law says that it may be done
'with or without balloting.' I am glad to say that the action was
approved and commended by the Grand Master of the Foreign Jurisdiction.''
Unquestionably right, but unusual.
In conclusion the Grand Master refers to the love and affection
which have been shown him everywhere and at all times, and which
have contributed to make the year "the happiest of his life." He affirms
that the "ambitions of a lifetime have been satisfied," and expresses
the hope that he may live out his remaining days meriting the continued
esteem of his brethren, and that, when he has taken his place with
other Grand Masters in the golden corridors of memory, his faults
may fade from recollection and "kindly love" alone remain.
Fraternal recognition was extended to the Grand Lodge of Porto
Rico.
FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

The report on Foreign Correspondence is by M." . w:. Jos. Wm.
Eggleston, Grand Master. It is comprehensive and instructive. California appears to have been overlooked.
Jos. W. Eggleston (Richmond) , Re-elected Grand Master.
Geo. W. Carrington (Richmond), Re-elected Grand Secretary.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

165

WASHINGTON, 1908.
Fifty-first Annual Communication. Tacoma. June 16, 1908.
The Fifty-first Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful
Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of Washington convened
in the city of Tacoma, on Tuesday, the 16th day of June, A. D. 1908,
A. L. 5908, and was called to order by the M.". w:. Grand Master,
K. McAllester.
STATISTICAL SUMMARY,

Number of active chartered Lodges in the jurisdiction . . . . . . .. .. 157
Lodges under dispensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . •
10
Total number of Master Masons in the jurisdiction ..... . , ...... . 12,237
Net gain during the year ........... . .. . .................... . . . , 1,334
Income of Grand Lodge:
General Fund ... . ........... . ... . . ............. , . ...... $13,295.05
Home Fund ... ............ . . . .. . .. . ....... . .. . . ,. . ..... 6,469.50
Assets of Grand Lodge:
General Fund . . .... ........ . ... . . . ............... .... . .$21,714.09
Home Fund . . .... ... ........... . ... . ... . ........ . . ... . 35,638.98
Charity Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,997.41
MASONIC HOME.

A fund for the establishment of a Masonic Home has been in
process of accumulation in Washington for a number of years past and
the actual realization of the Home is almost at hand. In referring
to this subject, the Grand Master, in his address, uses the following
language:
"I trust material progress will be made at this Session in the
matter ,of the establishment of a Masonic Home. I have found an
interest in the project wherever I have visited the Lodges and believe
the necessity for it is growing more imperative each year."
At this Communication a site for a Masonic H ome was offered,
but, not appearing suitable, was not accepted, and the choice of a site
was deferred for the present. The sum total of the fund now accumulated for the purpose of a Home is about $36,000.
GRAND MASTER' S ADDRESS.

The Grand Master's address is a comprehensive statement of his
activities during the year. He observes at the outset, with an expres~
sion of gratitude, the fact that the official ranks of the Grand Lodge
had not been broken during the preceding year by death.
He refers to the Lodges constituted by him during' the year,
eight in person, and one by deputy. H e mentions dispensations to
form ten new Lodges; eight within the State of Washington, and two
in Alaska, in which territory Washington already has several Subord-

166

RE~ORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

inates. Three Special Communications of the Grand Lodge were held
during the year for the purpose of placing corner stones.
Only two decisions were rendered during the year, one of them
to the effect that a petitioner that had "Lost the first joint of the
index finger of the righ hand" was eligible because of his abilit! ~o
comply with all of the requirements of the several degrees. This is
mentioned simply that it illustrates the observation that has frequently
been mad~ that in the matter of physical qualifications, or disqualifications ea~h Masonic Grand Jurisdiction is a "law unto itself," and
the foliowing report from the Jurisprudence Committee expres~s the
views of the Grand Jurisdiction of Washington upon the question of
physical qualifications:
"In the matter of physical qualifications, we believe the Lodges
should judge of the petitioner's fitness br t~e sole test of whet~er
the maim or defect in his body renders him incapable of conforming
literally to what the several degrees require of him."
The State of Washington, notwithstanding . the well-known attitude upon this question by its eminent Past Grand Master, Chairman
of the Correspondence Committee, Stephen James Chadwick, has bee11
dallying with the "Cipher" proposition.
Upon this subject, the Grand Master, in his address, makes the
following comment :
"In discussing the question. of instructi<;in in the ~ecret work
this question of the use of a k~y ~s ever recurring.. '.fhere .1s a demand
sufficient to warrant the pubhcat10n of a new ed1t10n sa!d to be for
Washington and the efforts to have the copy for same edited by so~e
qualified pe;son in this jurisdiction have been reported to me. In their
letter to Brother C. F. Knight they state that many Gr~nd Lodge
· dfficers help them in this work, although they have to do
secretly.
In response to this I informed them that I trusted they found no
sneaks among our membership.'
"The continued publication of these books, however, shows the
inadequacy of our method of instruction. Our brethren feel that they
cannot, in large numbers, get the work. any other way so n~arly
correct. This Grand Lodge should, I believe, do one of two things :
Either provide for adequate instru.:tion in the standard work and
make the possession of one of these books a penal offense, the penalty
for which will be enforced; or p,rovide, under proper safeguards, for
the publication of an official key.'
· Certainly no juri~diction of the character and standing of Washington will ever authorize anything like a cipher.
.
The Grand Master, in his address, strongly condemns the hquor
business it now being against the law of Washington to receive into
the me~bership of the Craft anyone engaged in the sale of liquor, but
when this law was passed an exception was made in favor of such
liquor dealers as were already members, but the Grand Master now
recommends that even those in favor of whom the exception was
made, should now be dropped from the rolls until they abandon what

1:

167

he affirms to be "that nefarious business," and to emphasize the position of the Grand Lodge upon this subject, the following additional
resolution was adopted :
"Hereafter it shall be a Masonic offense, with the penalty of
expulsion, for a Mason in this Jurisdiction to enter into the business
of selling intoxicating. liquors as a beverage. Provided, this shall not
apply to Masons engaged in the business, June 1st, 1897."
The Grand Master expresses in the following language his genuine
appreciation of the honor bestowed upon him by his brethren and
voices his willingness to, at all times, give the best that is in him
to the cause of Masonry:
."I am proud of the position which I have occupied, by your kindness, for the past year. Not with a foolish pride of personal advancement, not with an exaggerated idea of personal importance, but with
an insight into the ·dignity of the posit10n which comes from an attempt to measure up to its requirements, I am proud of the fact that
you had faith enough in me to give me that opportunity. I shall
step back into the ranks, ready to lay upon the altar of Masonry
all of strength and ability that I possess."
During the Annual Communication, the Grand Lodge was enter~
tained and instructed by Worshipful Brother William H. Acuff, Grand
Orator, who delivered an eloquent and scholarly address, which upon
motion, duly seconded, was ordered printed in the proceedings.
The general theme of his address was the gradual improvement
in the world through the influence of all of those forces that work
together for good, among them the Masonic precepts of benevolence
and love, crystallized in the ideals of the Brotherhood of Man and
the Fatherhood of God.
The following quotation from his address will convey an idea of
its central thought:
"The world today has more of Love than ever before. Truth
stands forth brighter and clearer. Our hearts rejoice and are not
cast down. He who is tempted and falls finds sympathy and help all
about him, when he comes to himself and tries again; yet wrong
and cruelty still exist; the kindly ministration is often denied; the
cheering word remains unspoken. Many there are today in prison
and bearing the burden and shame of a wrong-doing, who would
not be there had the light of Love come to them.
"Love, sympathy-what power for Truth I How they bring sunshine into darkness, and joy and hope where only sorrow and despair
dwelt I The only creed that Masons are taught is Love, and it includes
all that is true and noble. Beneath its canopy all may find safety
from the blight or hatred and malice. Masonry has no controversy with
him of any faith, but she has supremest charity and an open heart
which yearns to embrace the weary wanderer from the ways of Truth
and Love. She has no weapon of war ; her mission is 'peace on earth,
good will toward men.' Love, Relief and Truth-by these subtle influences all her victories are won."

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

168

In accordance with the recommendation of the Committee on
Foreign Correspondence, recognition was extended to the Grand Lodges
of Saskatchewan and Queensland.
It was denied to the Grand Lodge of Greece, and the Grand
Orient of Italy, and action upon the requests for recognition of the
Gran Logia "Cosmos," and Gran Logia de Chili, was postponed for
further consideration.
FOR!lIGN CORR!lSPOND!lNC!l.

The report on Foreign Correspondence is by the eminent Stephen
J. Chadwick, Past Grand Master.
. His reviews of the various Jurisdictions are exceedingly interesting and instructive, and he is recognized as one of the best authorities on Masonic law and jurisprudence in our country.
California, 1907 receives due and courteous attention; and his
remarks concerning the trend of the Grand Orator's address will
·awaken a responsive echo in the minds of a great many who disagreed
with the Orator's apparent conclusions that the world today is affecteci
with. a malady that he calls "money fever," a disease, which he asserts
,has afflicted mankind, not only here but everywhere, where nothing
seems to have· any value except it has a price in money.
l
Brother Chadwick does not agree with this view, and in his dis.agreement, he voices the sentiments of many who listened to the eloquent and polished address of the Grand Orator at the Annual Communication of the Gran4 Lodge in ~a,lifornia in 1907. Brother Chad.wick sums' up his conclusion in the following language:
"The pendulum swings backward and forward. There is darkness
and daylight. Good and bad. The goo\! predominates and can always
1assert itself if it will. The light is gaining over the darkness, but
in all the ages of the world the bad has been at times uppermost.
We should not lose hope or brand the human family as men with
a price but resolve that we will keep within our own hands the means
.of our deliverance, and that is the intelligent and independent exercise
of the simplest duties of the citizen.
' "There is no excuse for this discussion. It is not within the
intendment of our authority, but we cannot restrain the impulse to
combat the idea so often put forth that the world is all wrong; that
the sky is yellow and the earth no longer capable of germinating the
·
seeds of Truth and Justice."
Royal Amenzo Gove (Tacoma), Grand Master.
Horace Walter Tyler (Tacoma), Grand Secretary.

..

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

169

WESTERN AUSTRALIA, 1908.
Quarter!?' Communications were held July 26, 1907, October 25,
1907, January 24, 1908, April 23, 1908.
The busin~ss of the Grand Lodge of Western Australia is transacted at four Quarterly Communications held during the year, each
~ommunication being apparently 6t equal importance with the other
reports of Grand Officers being rendered at all of the various quarter!;
meetings.
. At the Quarterly Communication held in July, 1907, the principal
busmess transacted was the official endorsement of the Grand Lodge
given. to a circular letter issued by the Board of General Purposes,
warnmg the officers of Lodges against admitting as visitors to their
Lodges any person belonging to Lodges erected in the territory of
Western Australia since the date of the formation of the Grand Lodge
of Western Australia in February, 1900, by the Grand Lodge of Scotland, the differences with the Grand Lodge of Scotland not having
been settled at the date of the Quarterly Communication in July, 1907;
Scotland up to that time having refused to recognize the Grand Lodge
of Wes tern Australia, and, in consequence, had persisted in erecting
Lodges of her own in that territory .
At the Quarterly Communication held in October, one of the
principal matters considered, was the death of Most Worshipful Brother
Michael Samson, Past Provincial Grand Mas~er, and one of .the foremost Masons in the jurisdiction, who had by his life of kindness and
benevolence endeared himself to the entire jurisdiction, and his death
was a matter of deep and sincere regret.
.
At this Communication, also, was discussed the matter of disagreement between the Grand Lodge of Queensland and the so-called
mother Grand Lodges of England and Scotland, the refusal of the
last named Grand Lodges .to recognize Queensland, being in line with
the well established policy of those Grand Jurisdictions not to let go
of Subordinate Lodges, and their incidental revenue, so long as there.
remains a possibility of hanging on to them.
,
,
At the Quarterly Communication in January, 1908, the, Gr.and ·
Master rendered a brief .report g·iving an. account of official vJsit~io~
a list of dispensati'ons granted,. and furthe.r. reference to the new o~~nd
Lodge of Queensland,· and its troubles in obtaini-ng .recognition fromr
England and Scotland.
. .
,.
,
, ,
1
The Grand Lodge in all of its regular Quarterly Comnumitati<Dn!I
w.as pr,esided over .. by .the. Mos.t Wors!)ipful -Grand Ma.ster ·Br.other
T.he Right Rev, Col. Riley, B. D,, Lo;d ,Bishop of Perth, and at the ·r
Q_uarterly Co111munication in Jamiary, thi~ illustrious broth~r.~as 1 ~a~i-i1 1
mously, and, as stated "with acclamation" re-elected.

170

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The Quarterly Communication held April 23, 1908, was devoted
to a general summary of the work during the year, and especially t<>
the consideration and approval of the Articles of Recognition of the
·Grand Lodge of Western Australia by the Grand Lodge of Scotland.
The Grand Lodge of Western Australia had been ten years in forcing
this recognition which was only accorded by Scotland after the recognition of Western Australia as a Sovereign Masonic power, had
been accorded by nearly all of tRe Grand Lodges throughout the
world, and even in this final recognition, Scotland sought in a measure
to limit the sovereignty of the Grand Lodge of Western Australia
by the insertion of the following clause in the Articles of Recogni-.
tion, towit:
"Second : The Grand Lodge of Scotland shall not in future grant
charters for any new Lodge within the colony of Western Australia;
and the Grand Lodge of Western Australia shall not, nor shall its.
Grand Master, grant any warrant for any Lodge without the said
colony.''
The nerve of the Grand Lodge of Scotland in presuming to die-·
tate to any other sovereign Grand Lodge, where it shall, or shall
not, erect Lodges, is astonishing; and except for the fact that the
recognition of sovereignty is inconsistent with any limitation whatever, and therefore, this clause is of no effect, it would entail a con·
dition upon Western Australia that would render the Grand Lodge
less than sovereign, and, therefore, not entitled to a place among the..
independent Grand Jurisdictions of the world; but the effort of canny'
Scotland to cut off any possibility of the Grand Lodge of W estem
Australia chartering Lodges in outside territory, that' might conflict
with the desires of Scotland in that direction, must be considered a
nullity, and while it is altogether unlikely that Western Australia
will ever have any wish or desire to charter Lodges outside of its.
own territory, yet, if it should desire to do so, this attempted limitation
upon such right by Scotland, would properly be treated as of absolutely
no effect whatever.
From the reports of the various Grand Officers, the following
statistical information is obtained. The Grand Lodge was established
in 1900 with 33 Subordinate Lodges and a total membership of 2,000.
There are now 85 Subordinate Lodges with a total membership of
3,878, the Grand Lodge having more than doubled in number of subordinates during the past nine years, and nearly doubled in membership. The income of the Grand Lodge from dues, etc. amounts to·
about £2,000 annually and its total assets in excess of liabilities amounts
to about £13,000.
The jurisdiction is in a prosperous and healthy condition, anc?
now that its differences with Scotland have finally been settled, it~
no doubt, has entered upon a career of increased usefulness and power.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

171

FORl\IGN CORRJ\SPONDl\NCJ\.

There is a report on' Foreign Correspondence, prepared by a
committee of seven. The usual reviews of Foreign Jurisdictions are
given. California, however, appears to have been overlooked.
Right Rev. C. D. Riley (Bishop of Perth), Grand Master.
J. D. Stevenson (Perth), Grand Secretary.

WEST VIRGINIA, 1908.
Forty-fourth Annual Communication. Fairmont. Nov. 11, 12, 1908.
The Forty-fourth Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful
Gi'and Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of the State of
West Virginia was held in the Masonic Temple, at the city of Fairmont, commencing on Wednesday, the 11th day of November, A. D.
1908, A. L. 5908, at 7:30 o'clock p. m., the M.'. w:. James A. Bryan,
Grand Master, presiding. Thirteen Past Grand Masters of the jurisdiction were present, and the full complement of elected and appointed
Grand Officers.
STATISTICAI. SUMMARY.

Total number of chartered Lodges opening this Communication........ 138
Lodges represented ...•.............•...............•. ·•.. . • • . • 131
Number of charters granted at this Communication.............
3
Total number of members this Communication .......•.•........ 12,814
Gain in membership during year. . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 736
Income of Grand Lodge ...... .... .... . ...... . ... .... ...... . $ 9,420.01
Assets of Grand Lodge ............... . . . .......... .. .. . .... 18,287.13
MASONIC CHARITY.

There is no Masonic Home in this jurisdiction, but in lieu thereof
the Grand Lodge has a standing committee known as "Committee on
Grand Lodge Education<!-! Fund," an appropriately high sounding
title for an altogether somnolent committee, whose functions appear
to be wholly defensive ; and inasmuch as no evidence of atmospheric
disturbance had penetrated their cyclone cellar, they were enabled
to emerge therefrom a sufficient length of time to report to the Grand
Lodge that not one farthing of the fund for the education of orphans
and children of Master Masons within this jurisdiction, entrusted to
their vigilance, had been expended; and that the Charity Tank, with
all that it contained, was absolutely intact. This is a slight advance
in the way of economy over the per capita charity tax of 10 cents in
vogue in another jurisdiction, and is respectfully recommended for
the ccnsideration of income savers. A careful scanning of the Grand
Treasurer's repcrt fails to discover the payment of so much as one

173

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

dollar for charity, but an item of $200 for Grand Lodge banquet is
clearly in evidence, as is also another item of $445.61, as commission
to the Grand Treasurer. On total disbursements during the year of
$6,427.42, the "commissions" to the Grand Treasurer, amount to about
seven per cent., and if the Grand Lodge inay not be viewed in the light
of an eleemosynary institution by the world at large, it may with
marked propriety be considered .from that standpoint by Grand Treasurer Myers.
If there was little or no opportunity for the Grand Lodge to manifest during the year its functions of benevolence, there was no ground
for complaint that it was not able in its department of operative
Masonry to display before the world its skill as a band of true mechanics, for, of the sixteen Special Communications of the Grand
Lodge held during the year, eleven were for the purpose of placing
corner stones (mostly of M. E. churches). It is to be hoped that a
silver trowel went with each ceremony.
The Grand Master fittingly refers to the death of Past Grand
Master Turner, and in accordance with the impressive custom of this
jurisdiction the Grand Lodge arose ~nd stood in silence during the
reading of the roll of the honored dead of other jurisdictions.
Dispensations to form three new Lodges were granted by the
Grand Master during the year, and charters were at this Communica.tion granted to the several Lodges so formed .
The Grand Master reports the failure of the masters of two of
the subordinate Lodges of his jurisdiction b pay attention to certain
repeated written communications from him asking for original papers,
until too late to be of service, to decide a question of disputed jurisdiction between two Lodges; and instead of disciplining the recalcitrant Masters, as he should have done, he reports the matter to the
Grand Lodge, where the Jurisprudence Committee, which had it under
consideration, gracefully sidestepped responsibility, sagely announcing
at the conclusion of its report, which carried no recommendation, "that
subordinate Lodges must be taught to respect the requests of the
Grand Master." This, under the circumstances, must have been very
terrifying.
Concerning perpetual penal jurisdiction over reje~ted candidates,
the Grand Master, whose sentiments on the subject will be very generally approved, has this to say:
"This Grand Jurisdiction adheres to the law of perpetual jurisdiction over rejected candidates. I do not believe the law is a good
one and certainly not in keeping with the progressive march of other
jurisdictions. It is not a landmark, but a custom which bas been
adhered to in a few Grand Jurisdictions only, and I believe it works
injury to the cause of Masonry."
There are only fourteen jurisdictions in the country that still
maintain the doctrine of perpetual penal jurisdiction.

The decisions of the Grand Master, ten in number-three of
them on questions of physical disability-:-are for the most part unimportant, and were all approved by the committee. Of the ten the
following is quoted :
"Concurrent Jurisdiction ~oes not give a b~other. of another Lodge
the right of franchise, but 1t ?oes clot?e h.1m . with the power . of
objection, and even if the ballot 1s clear his obJ ect1on shall be effective,
and has the same force as a cube and stands for one yea:r unless the
objection is removed. His right to object under the c1rc~mstances
should not be questioned, and ought to b~ held. as sacred ~s if he had
voted a ball or a cube. This is in keepmg with our obligation to a
brother.''
That may express the law as it exists in West Virginia. It is
not the law in California, where each Lodge is the sole judge of the
qualifications of its own members: and, while the objection of a member of another. Lodge which held concurrent jurisdiction before the
profane became a petitioner, would be entitled to and w~uld rec~ive
most careful and respectful attention, it would not, even 1f not withdrawn, have the effect of a cube, or black ball.
Fraternal recognition was extended to the Grand Lodge Valle de
Mexico, and denied to the so-called "Grand Logia Cosmos" of Chihuahua and the Grand Orient of Spain.
On~ of the chief attractions of the Annual Communication is a
banquet served on the evening of the first day of the session, at which
all members of the Grand Lodge are supposed to be present. The
customary annual appropriation of $200 heretofore made to ~over the
expenses of the function was found, on account of the growing mem- .
bership of the Grand Lodge, to be inadequate for the purpose, and,
that there might be no abridgment of the menu, the largess of the
Grand. Lodge was increased to $250. At this banquet the principal
orator appears to have been R.'. w:. Brother John D. Barnes, and
his address "My Impressions of Freemasonry," was thought so excel·
lent by th~ Grand Lodge that its introduction into the printed pro·
ceedings was ordered. The most profound impression, · s~ he states,
is the idea conveyed to him that the legend of the Third Degree
is a symbol of the resurrection of the physical body, "these v~ry
bodies " as he explains it. He will find few who have any such 1mpressi~n; the symbol most certainly has a spiritual significance only.

172

•

CORRESI'ONDl<:NCI( Rl(PORT.

The report on Foreign Correspondence is by M.' · W: · Hiram R.
I loward Grand Secretary and Past Grand Master. While disclaiming perfection for his report, he truthfully says concerning it:
"That he who peruses its pages w!I! be amply rewarded by t~e
lnforniaticn he will derive of the cond1t10n of Masonry generally m

175

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

174

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
WISCONSIN, 1908.

other parts of the world, and the insight it gives of the transactions
of Grand Lodges with which our own is in friendly and fraternal
correspondence."
He recounts the wonderful growth of Masonry throughout the
world, and sounds the one note of warning in times of great prosperity
especially to be heeded, "Guard well the Outer Door." Commenting
on the statement of one of the reviewers that, in his judgment, the
Roman Catholic Church will soon remove the ban from Masonry,
Brother Howard sententiously remarks :
"You may rest assured, my brother, that when the Roman Church
abolishes the confessional, then, and not until then, will it remove
the ban on Masonry. And as to its 'misconception of the facts,' why,
bless you, the Romanist is as well posted in regard to the aims and
practices of Freemasonry in America as any of us are."
Under the caption "Canada," he quotes a decision of the Grand
Master concerning restoration of members suspended for. non-payment
of dues:
"If a member suspended for non-payment of dues tenders the
amount of arrears, and all other amounts owing to the Lodge, he mustbe restored. But charges may be preferred against him for any other
offense of which he may have been guilty, either before his suspension
or during his suspension, when he may be tried just as if he had·
never been suspended.
"I approve" of this ruling. It seems to me much more equitable
brotherlv and charitable than our West Virginia law requiring ~
two-thirds vote to reinstate."
He quotes, with apparent approval, the following decision of the
Grand Master of Arizona :
"Each Grand Lodge, as well as its Subordinate Lodges,· are resl?o'?sible for t~e indigent of its ow~ Jurisdiction and that this Jurisd1ct1on holds 1t to be good Masomc law that when a Subordinate
Lodge is unable to care for its needy, that the Grand Lodge should
supply the required relief."
.
And while the Pacific Coast, which is the Mecca of the physically
decrepit from all over the world, and, in consequence thereof, tens
of thousands of dollars are appropriated every year by Pacific Coast
Grand Lodges for the relief of sojourning brothers, will concur in
the decision, yet the weight of Masonic opinion generally will doubtless
disapprove the proposition, as Squinting toward the so-called "contractural relation."
Emmet M. Showalter (Fairmont), Grand Master.
H. R. Howard (Point Pleasant), Grand Secretary.

Sixty-fourth Annual Communication. Milwaukee. June 9, 1908.
The Sixty-Fourth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge
of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Wisconsin was opened
in ample form in the Masonic Building, corner of J eflerson and Oneida
streets, in the city of Milwaukee, at the hour of two o'clock p. m. on
Tuesday, June 9th, 1908, A. L. 5908. . M.'.
Spencer M. Marsh
in the Grand East.

w:.

STATISTICAi, SUMMARY.

Total number of active chartered Lodges................... . .. 259
Lodges represented at this Communication . • • . . . . . •. . . . . • . . . . . • 241
Dispensations issued during year to form new Lodges . .........
2
Charters granted to new Lodges this Communication. .......... .
2
Total membership June 1, 1907 .......•.•..•......•.•..•.•••.... 22,974
Net gain in membership .•.........•.....•..•.••.•....•...•...• 1,000
Total membership January 1, 1908 ......•.•. ·••...•...•.....•.••. 23,974'
Income of the Grand Lodge:
Dues proper ..• . .... • .•.....•••••.•. . ••.... $12,890.00
Charity Dues. . . . . • • . • • . . . . . . • . . . • . • . • . • . . • 2,397'.40

$15,287.40
Assets of Grand Lodge :
Cash from Treasurer turned over to Trustees .•.•••••.• .. $11,735.79
Securities in hands of Trustees .••.•••.•..•.••••.•.•••.• 27,100.00
Balance Charity Fund ... ~.... ..... ................... . . 6,051.38
There is no Masonic Home of any kind in Wisconsin, and the
total expense by the Grand Lodge for charity and charged against
the Charity Fund, which is maintained in lieu of a Masonic Home,
was, during the preceding year, $2,225, rather economical, it is true,
and certainly less expensive, as is affirmed by some Wisconsin authorities, than Masonic Homes. The Charity Fund reservoir which now
contains $6,051.38, is replenished by a yearly per capita tax of ten cents
upon the membership, and it is believed, even with no material increase
in the dimensions of the spillway, that the raging torrent of beneficence that surges in from the Grand Lodge will not endanger the
structure.
ADDRESS OF GRAND MASTER•

•

In the portion of his address devoted to Necrology the Grand
Master expresses the true, although at times difficult to understand,
conception of death. He quotes the poet:
"Thank God for death; bright thing with dreary name.
We wrong with mournful flowers the pure still brow."
•and further says :

177

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

"Nothing strange or unusual has happened when a man has died.
Death is one of the processes of nature, as natural as birth, and
.perhaps no more painful an experience."

,foot disqualified, to f- case that o.ccurred not long since in one of
the Rocky Mountain States, where the Master held that the severance
of both legs did not prevent advancement after a candidate had been
.
initiateci
Qu¢stions of 'physical disability afford an exhaustless quarry from
which a Grand Master can always chisel a few blocks, when otherwise short of material for a 'report. The only decision of the Grand
Master that was overruled by the Cbmmittee was the following:
"Fifth : A Lodge receives a petition for affiliation accompanied by
'<limit under seal of Lodge, together with photograph, etc. as a means
of identification. A committee is appointed on the petition and
reports favorably. The ballot is clear and he is declared elected,
· and signs the · Constitution and By"Laws. Thereafter he attends
Lodge of which he has become a member, and an examining committee is appointed. He fails to pass a satisfactory examination.
. "Question: ·Is he entitled to a seat in the Lodge?
. "Answer : Yes. He is a member of the Lodge in good standing
· and should not be deni.ed admission."

176_

Prominent among those who have passed on are named two Past
Grand Masters of Wisconsin, Brother G. W. Eashborn, and Brother
'MyTon Reed.
Eight Special Commnnications of the Grand Lodge were held;
at only one the Grand Master himself was present. Only two dis~
pensations were issued to form 11ew Lodges, and even these were
apparently .granted .with some reluctance, the Grand Master expressing
himself as .being .strongly. opposed to the establishment of small weak
Lodges, .which detract many times from the strength of other- nearby Lodges .which are none too vigorous, thereby undermining financial
independence, .and. inducing a. looseness in the inspection of applicants,
becam;e of the .desire. .to. .bolster depleted resources. Special dispensations .numbering .se.v.enty.- four. were issued, covering a great variety of
objects; fifty of them, it is stated by the Grand Ma$ter, bei!lg for th_e
purpose of waiving certain provisions cif the constitution, and that
for dispensations .of this· kind· ·a· fee ·is ·charged, -whereas for others, •
not impinging upon the provisions ·of -that· hoar.y instrument, no stipend
is· exacted. Probably certain sections of the Constitutional Flume
are coupled with universal joints which, under certain emergent
circumstances., , may. be twisted to permit the stream to · run at right
angles without .breaking . the . current or disturbing the flow, for it is
inconceivable . tba t . the . Gr.and. Mruster. can. actually set aside the provisions of the Constitution. Eight decisions were .promulgated by the
Grand Master. One was an inquiry as to the propriety of conferring ·
degrees on Sunday, to whkh the ~rand M~ster sagely replied in
'the negative, ;;tnd without questioning tlie correctness of the decision,
may one be permitted to ask, why in principle is not Sunday as proper
a day as any other upop which .t o confer a degree of symbolic Masonry?
King Solomon's Temple is the setting ' for the dram.a . in all of the
degrees, and the Book is of the Law of the Chas.en People, a chief
fount from which IT)uch of our tradition is drawn, and many also
of the foremost adherents of M;asonry today that of the Hebrew race.
Why, therefore, should it be improper ·to confer a degree on Sunday? The Grand Master says it is contrary to the teachings of- Masonry.
What teachings?
Two of the decisions pertain to matters of physical disability,
the Grand Master holding in one that the loss of . an eye disqualifies,
and in the other that the loss of an index finger of the right hand
disqualifies, and he .is supported by .the . Committee.
.
These are matters of opinion, and ·opinion ranges all ti}e way from
a recent . decision in Texas that th~ loss of the big toe J of the left
0

•

The man is a member of the Lodge, notwithstanding the Law
.Committee, and the Grand Master's decision, not presuming to excuse
the latches of the Lodge ·was right.
The Grand Master gives expression to some lofty sentiment in
the closi!l,g paragraphs of his most excellent address. He says in
effect, that one should be so occupied in doing good that he has
not the opportunity or inclination to-cavil above the evil. Like begets
like, .and if one is looking for evil he unq.uestionably will find it, for
it e~ists, but, on the other hand, in the world there is goodness and
truth and virtue, and if one is looking for them, they are everywhere,
he will find them-and association with men who believe in the honesty
and integrity of man, and in the purity and sweetness of woman is
more to be desired and sought after than association with men who,
though sincere tkemselves, see only the darker side of human nature.
The .affairs pertaining to the office of Grand ·Secretary and Grand
fl'reasurer, as disclosed in their reports, were conducted by Grand
Secretary Perry and Grand Treasurer Pereles in a most creditable
manner, and they received the well merited commendation of the Grand
Lodge.
·
FOR!lIGN CORRESPO NDENCE.

The.. report. .of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence is by
·Past . Grand Master..Aldro Jenks, considered one of the most capable
·r eviewers in. the. Uni.on, and a careful scrutiny of the entire production
of more. than. JOO .pages, will .prove to any one exceedingly interesting
·and instructive. .

178

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE..

Under the caption of "California" Brother Jenks refers "to the
decision of our Jurisdiction that "the Anniversary Day of a L?d~e
is unquestionably the date of its dispens~tion,'' and sa!~ th~~ it is
perhaps impertinent to question an unquestl?nabl~ propos.1tion, nevertheless," he says, "the Grand Lodge of W1sconsm has issued a p~o­
nunciamento that the natal day of a Lodge is the date upon which
it is constituted, and receives its charter," and that, of course, settles
the matter. This, if it were true, would leave all the. Masons m~d.e
while the Lodge was working under dispensation, without a legitimate parent, or what would be still worse,. if they were not real
bastards, then older than their mother, and m cases where charters
were finally refused, without any mother at all.
Brother Jenks · is convinced that Masonic Homes are no part of
Grand Lodge paraphernalia and involve an extravagance and needless
expenditure of money. It must be admitted that if judgm~mt as. to
the usefulness of Masonic Homes is to be based upon their commg
under the wire as income savers, they will not finish "inside the
money,'' but this is not claimed for them; it is claimed, ho~ever,
that they do a great and needful work that should not be shirked,
and that can be accomplished in no other way. A Grand Lodge whose
annual Charity Fund tax is ten cents per member, and ~hos~ total
Grand Lodge dues for all purposes sixty cents per cap1t~, is not
qualified to pass even empirical judgment upon the Masonic Home
question.
James E. Durgin (Racine), Grand Master.
\Vm. W. Perry (Milwaukee), Grand Secretary.

WYOMING, 1908.
Thirty-fourth Annual Communication.
Sheridan.
Sept. 2, 1908.
The Grand Lodge of Wyoming, A., F. & A. M., met in Annual
Communication in Sheridan, Wyoming, Wednesday, September 2, 1908,
M.". w:. Francis S. King, Grand Master, presiding.
STATISTICAL SUMMARY.

Number of chartered Lodges in jurisdiction . . ............ ··· · ··· 25
Number of Lodges under dispensation ............. ··· .• ··•···•· •
3
Total membership, 1907 ............... · . . · .. · · · .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · 2,102
Net gain in membership during the year ............ · · . • · · · · · · • • 166
Total member.ship this Communication .. . ...•....... ···.········ .2,268
Income of Grand Lodge ................. . .... · .. ··········· .$4,480.10

kEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

17!}

Assets of Grand Lodge : .
Cash in hands of the Treasurer:
General Fund ..'. ....................................... $ 9,034.06
Cash balance Masonic Home Fund...... . ......... . ..... 1,634.00
MASONIC HOME.

The first preliminary step toward the ultimate acquisition of a
Masonic Home in Wyoming was taken at the last Annual Communication, when a per capita assessment of 50 cents was voted for the
purpose of creating a fund which shall ultimately be used for the
purpose of establishing a Home, and in the appointment of a committee
for the purpose of assuming full direction of the movement.
The following is the first report of the Masonic Home Committee:
"To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Wyoming:
"Your Committee on Masonic Home beg leave to report that the
fund accumulated so far amounts to $1,634, which we think is a
splendid showing for the first year's work, and we wish to thank
the Subordinate Lodges for their generous response to this worthy
cause, and heartily recommend that we continue to collect fifty cents
per capita and placed to the credit of the Home fund in the hands
of the Grand Treasurer.
"Fraternally submitted,
"M. R. JOHNSON,

"C. H. 'towNsl!ND,

"Committee."

GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.

The address of the Grand Master is a comprehensive statement
of his official actions during his occupancy of the Oriental Chair of
the Grand Lodge. His activities consisted in constituting the L6dge
to which a charter was granted at the last Annual Communicatio"n; in
issuing dispensations to form three new Lodges; in presiding at several
Special Communications of the Grand Lodge for the purpose of laying
corner stones of public buildings; in granting special dispensations for
various proper purposes ; and especially in a large number of official
visits by him to subordinate Lodges throughout his jurisdiction. He recounts the fact that in making his visits he traveled thirtyfive hundred miles, four hundred and sixty-eight of which were by
stage; and to convey an idea of the immense area of his jurisdiction,
and of the extremely large territory embraced within the particular
jurisdiction of individual Lodges, he dtes the fact that the territory
belonging to· one Lodge is greater, by three thousand square miles,
than the entire State of New Hampshire; or, by more than four
thousand square miles than the State of Massachusetts; and that
another subordinate Lodge has a territory as large as Delaware,
Rhode Island and Connecticut combined; and that, territorially speak-

REPORT ON CORRESPON1,?ENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

ing, the smallest Lodge in the State has ari area greater than the
State of R~ode Island.
The "decisions" of the Grand Master were all approved by the
Jurisprudence Committee and by the Grand Lodge. The following
are quoted :
"Question.-A Brother having been found guilty of u.n-Masooic
conduct and the Lodge inflicting a punishment of short definite suspension, are there grounds for an appeal from the pena.lty infiic!ed,_ and
would same be entertained because of the small punishment mfl1cted,
that of one year?
"Answer.-It appears to me that an appeal does not lie; . it .is only
in cases of gross miscarriage of justice, or the refusal to inflict a•y
penalty, that the Grand Master is warranted in intervening."

those. from whom ~e h3;ve recei_ved 0e t;ue light. I may ~uly iay,
that m every town in this state m which 1s located a Masome Lodge
it is invariably found that those who represent the highest type of
citizenship, those who are laboring for the greatest good of the community and the uplifting of the moral tone of society, are found to be
members of that Lodge."

180

The usual rule in most jurisdictions is to permit an appeal to . the
Grand Lodge from a decision of a subordinate Lodge by either the
accused or the accuser, and the degree of the penalty would not, one
would conclude, interfere with the abstract right, the difference being
one of degree and not of principle:
"Statement.-A Brother petitioned a Lodge for affiliation. After
the ballot had been taken the Master asked the J. W. how the ballot
stood in the South, but before receiving an answer he was informed
by the S. W. that it was fair in the West. H aving examined the ballot
himself, he stated that it was light in the East and declared the brot.her
elected to membership in the Lodge. At the next Regular Communication the minutes were approved without protest, but before the close
of the Lodge the J. W. rose and stated that the ballot at the previous
meeting was dark in the South. A brother also arose and stated that
he cast a black ballot.
"Question.- Is the brother duly elected to membership?
"Answer.- 'Phe Master having declared the brother elected to
membership and there having been no objections to the ballot when
the officers of the Lodge declared it white, no question can arise at
any subsequent meeting, nor can the ballot be set aside by the Master,
Grand Master or Grand Lodge. (See Section 84, G. L. By-Laws.)"
The following quotation from the closing paragraphs of the Grand
Master's Address will meet with hearty approval and endorsement :
"As temperance is one of the cardinal vir.tues which Masons are
charged to practice and inculcate, and as this q rand Order sta_nds
for the elevation and not the debasement of mankind, I firmly believe
that the time has arrived for this Jurisdiction to put into practice
that which Masonry teaches. With the whol_e of this country aroused,
awakening to the disastrous .resu.lts of the _hquo~ tra~c, 3:nd the pr,0fane generally demanding legislation regarding this evil, this, the oldest
and purest of fraternities, should follow the lead of. 3;lmost all others
and adopt some rule prohibiting the receipt of ·a pet1~10_n f~om anyone
engaged in the sale of intoxicating liquors,_ or the reta.muig m membership of a member who hereafter engages m such business.
"In bringing this account of my stewardship to a close, I must
express my appreciation of the efforts put fo rth, by the members of
the Order to make Masonry in this jurisdiction a worthy successor of

181

FORJiIGN CORRJiSPONDJiNCJi.

The report on Foreign Correspondence is by the Right Worshipful
William I. Kuykendall, Grand Secretary. Brother Kuykendall's reports
are universally conceded to be excellent and his discrimination in the
selection of material for quotation and observation of a high order.
The following quotation from his "Conclusion" will be most heartily
seconded by many :
"With the Country filling up with clandestine individuals and
bodies of that character and suspended and expelled Masons, and
frauds and dead-beats parading around as members in good standing, many Grand Lodges now require that all visitors not personally
vouched for must present documentary evidence or not be allowed to
visit. To this a reviewer here and there says: 'It is an infringement
on the rights of every brother who presents himself and is willing
t o prove himself in the good old way which should not be departed
from.' One answer to this is, that a clandestine or a suspended or
expelled Mason and others who travel about fleecing Masons and
Lodges, care nothing fo r the test oath and the .good old examination
in which they are exceptionally proficient. Another is that our brothers
holding that view seem oblivious of the fact that railroads and close
proximity of Lodges have changed the question of visiting as in many
other things from the time when Lodges were far removed from each
other and Walker's line was often about the only means of travel.
Then it did not pay frauds and dead-beats to carry on their nefarious
work and said oath and examination was all sufficient as it was
nearly certain that a visitor was what he represented himself to be,
but now Lodges and Masons have to be constantly on their guard
against the army of frauds who have determined to beat their way
through the world without work and at the expense of those who
do, and recently many of our Jurisdictions have been invaded by degree
peddlers establishing Lodges for the money there is in such fraudulent
work; all this combined has .m11de the use of documentary evidence an
absolute necessity. Two or three other reviewers have objected to
its use on the ground that 'it is simply an agency for collecting dues
and should not be adopted for that reason.'
"Now the fact is, we do not believe one of its advocates ever
thought of its being used for that purpose. That, however, is one
of the very best reasons why it should be adopted everywhere, for
it would save many from being suspended for non-payment of due~,
probably most of whom have bec0me residents of other Jurisdictions
when so suspended. Others object on the ground that 'other societies
use documentary evidence, therefore, Masonry should have nothing to
do with it.' If they keep their members and Lodges from being the
prey of the multitude of frauds and dead-beats, except in cases where
they fail to insist upon such evidence, then there can be no better
reason fo r its adoption. Other equally weak objections have been urged,
when if every Jurisdiction would adopt, adhere to and get its members

182

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

to understand that without" such evidence they cannot be examined,
much less be admitted within the Tyled Lodge as now required in
many Jurisdictions, there would soon be no trouble about beneficial
results, and many frauds would have to find another occupation."
M. P. Wheeler (Caspar), Grand Master.
W. L. Kuykendall (Saratoga), Grand Secretary.

CONCLUSION.
In the foregoing reports, · some attention has been given to the
matter of Masonic Homes, and a certain amount of information pre·
sented upon -what is probably the most important practical question
with which American Grand Jurisdictions have to deal. The idea of
Masonic Homes is very generally approved, and such jurisdictions as
have them not, are, as a rule, acquiring them. Massachusetts, Mississippi and Montana have, during the past year, opened their Homes,
and Alabama and Arkansas have their Homes under way, and advanced to a degree that indicates completion for the reception of beneficiaries within a year. North Dakota appears to be the only State
that, after having entered upon the idea of acquiring a Home, abandoned the project. The Jurisdictions that have achieved a marked
degree of success in the management of their Homes, and whose
methods may be worthy of consideration by other Jurisdictions, whose
experiences have been less favorable are Kentucky, Tennessee, Texas,
Missouri, and for an example of a Home simply for orphans, North
Carolina is pre-eminent. Kentucky and Illinois have seperate Homes
for the aged and the children; and Pennsylvania, when its plans are
fully consummated, will have the most comprehensive system of Homes
and schools of any Jurisdiction in the world.
The average yearly per capita cost of maintenance for H omes of
a general character is about $200, although the cost in Kentucky is only
$127, and in Tennessee about $96 and the average cost in the North
Carolina Home, where more than 300 orphans are sheltered, is less
than $80 yearly for each beneficiary.
The following lists of Jurisdictions that have Homes (either for
one or all of the several classes 0 1£ beneficiaries) ; of those that have
none; of those that have Homes in process of establishment; and of
those that have approved the idea, but have not as yet adopted definite
plans, may be of general interest.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

183

The following Jurisdictions have Homes:
Membership of the
Name
Jurisdiction
California • • . • . . . . • . . . . . . . • • • . . . . • • . • 38,669
Connecticut . . .. ....... . ....... . ...... 22,108
District of Columbia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8,740
Georgia . . • • . . . . • . . . . . . . • . • • . . . • . . • • . . 28,420
Illinois (two Homes) •. .. ..... . ...... 90,576
Kansas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . • • . • . . . 30,468
Kentucky (two Homes) . ••.•......•... 32,770
Massachusetts . . . . . . • . • . . . . . . • • • . • . . . • 52,260
Michigan . . . . . • . . . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 60,699
Mississippi . . • . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . . . . . • . • • • 16,449
M?ssouri . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . 47,430
Montana ... . •...•..•.•. . ..... • •.• , . . • 5,091
Nebraska . • • . . . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 16,393
New Hampshire .. . ....•....•. •. ..• , . • 9,877
New Jersey . • . .. . .. . . . . . . . .. . .. .. .. .. 29,927
New York ..... ·...................... 158,101
North Carolina . . .. . .. . . . • .. . .. . .. . . .. 18,940
Ohio .... . ................ . .. •. ....•• 72,339
Oklahoma •. ••...•.•••....•.. • ••••.. • 17,149
Pennsylvania . . .. . ... .... . ... . ....... 88,126
Tennessee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . 21,879
Texas ........•.. • ...•.••...........• 49,046
Virginia ... . ........ .. .. . .•. •.• .. •.. . 19,749
I

Total ............• . ..•.•......•.. 935,206
The following Jurisdictions have adopted definite plans, a~d expect
to have Homes opened for beneficiaries within a year:
Alabama . . . . • • • . . . . . . • . . • . . • . • . . . . . . 21,222
Arkansas . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18,187
Total . . • . . . . . . . • . . . . . • . . . . . • • • • • • 39,409

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

184

185

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The following Jurisdictions have officially approved the Masonic
Home pr_qp9sition, and have in most cases deferred the adoption of
definite pla_11s, pending the securing of adequate funds now in process
of accumulation :
Membership of the
Name ·
· Jurisdiction
Florida . " " ....... ._ ._ ... ..... . . ._. . . . . . . . 8,595
Indiana ._: .._.._.. ...... ._ ............... 52,515
Minnesota .................... . ...... 23,860
New Mex~co . ._ ... ._ .... . ..... . . . ....... 2,128
Oregon . ._ . ._ ... ._ ._ ._.: .. ... ._ . .. ._ .. . . ... , 9,232
South Carolina . . . ... . ... ............ . 11,806
Washin~to_n .. ._ ........ .... . " ... ._ .... . 12,237
Wyomin_g . ._. : : ·: ._ .... ... ._ ..... .... . .. . 2,268
Total · ::.: ....... : ..... :. : : : .. :: . . 122,641
The following Jurisdictions have no
purposes in that directfo'r i: ·
Name ·

~?!Iles,

and apparently no

.· Membership of the
Jurisdiction

Arizona . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,661
Colorado · ·:: .. : : .. .... : .. : : . : .. : .' . .. .. 12,226
Delaware.. . .. . : ... .. . . : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,981
Idaho : . : .. . ......... ..... . .'. . . . . . . . . 2,595
Iowa . : ... : ............... . . .' .' ..... .'. 39,504
Louisiana ........... .. : ... .. : : .... : .. 11,851
Maine . . , , , , , , .. , . , , . , . . . . .. , , , . , . . . . 26,530
Maryland . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12,828
Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,573
North Dakota .. .. . .. . . . . . . .. .. .. .. .. . . 6,578
Rhode Island . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6,920
South Dakota . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7,635
Utah . : . ... : . : : ..... . .... . ... : ... . ~.. 1,525
V ermon~ . : : : .. : : .. : ... : . : : . : : : . : . : . . . . 12,394
W est Virginia ........ .. .. ..... . ... .. . 12,814
Wisconsin ....... . . . . . .. .. ....... . . .. 22,974
Total . . ..................... . .. .. 182.589

From the inspection of the above lists, the following facts are
gleaned:
Total membership in jurisdictions that have Homes ............ 935,206
Total membership in jurisdictions that have Homes under way .. 39,409
Total membership in jurisdictions that have approved but have
not adopted definite plans .....-. .. ..-. . .- .- . ..... . ...... . . .... 122,641
Total membership in jurisdictions that have no. Homes, and no
plans ...... ....... .. .. .......... .. ... . .. . .......... . . . ... 182,589
The only Jurisdictions having a membership of over 10,000 that
neither have Homes, nor, apparently, any purpose of acquiring Homes,
arc as follows:
Colorado
Iowa
Louisiana
Maine

Maryland
Vermont
West Virginia
Wisconsin

The yearly cost in 1908 of maintaining each beneficiary in the
several leading Masonic_Hornes '\Vas as follows :
North Carolina .... . .... . . ...... ..... $ 79.00
Tennessee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96.71
Kentucky . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127.55
Texas .. . . ............. : . .... . . ...... 149.34
Missouri . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 190.00
Michigan ... : : .. : : ..... : ..... : . . . . . . . 195.52
New York ... : . .... : ... : . : .... . .. .... 207.74
Georgia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 211.90
Ohio ...... ....... . . . .... . ......... .. 215.00
Nebraska ........ . . ... . .. .. . .. . ... ... 230.30
New J er$ey .. .. . .. .. . . . .. .. .. .. . . .. . . 230.44
California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240.00
Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 260.00
In membership ( 1908) the leading Jurisdictions rank as follows:
New York ... ................. ....... 158,101
Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90,576
Pennsylvania ... . .. ......... .... ... .. 88,126
Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72,339
Michigan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60,699
Indiana .................... . . . ... . ... 52,515
Massachusetts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52,260
Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49,046
Missouri ... .......... ..... .... . . . .... 47,430
Iowa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39,504
California . ... .. ....... .. .. .... ..... . 38,669

<JRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR.oJ!A
186

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

In the matter of income, 1908, the largest Jurisdiction in the
United States were as follows:

New York (aside from investments) ... ... $198,661.28
Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 179,905.53
Illinois ...............•................... 159,837.59
California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94,859.27
Massachusetts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87,515.33
Kentucky ........................... ,. . . . . 79,668.70
Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58,469.00
Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55,460.00
Missouri . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49,936.00
The jurisdictions in the United States, having the largest amo~nt
of assets are as follows :
New York, about ........................ $3,500.000.00
Pennsylvania, about . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,500,000.00
Massachusetts, about . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,500,000.00
Kentucky (including Endowment Fund,
Masonic Home) . . . . . .. .. . .. . . .. . . . . . 366,500.00
Missouri (including Masonic Home Fund),
about ......................•. ."... . . . 320,000.00
Indiana, about . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 280,000.00
California (exclusive of Masonic' Home
properties) . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . .. . 246,800.00
Ohio (including Masonic Home Endowment Fund) about . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . . . . . .. 170,000.00
Texas (including Masonic Home Endowment Fund) about ................. ~ .. . 170,000.00
September 30, 1909.
Fraternally submitted,
EDWARD H. HART,
Chairman of the Committee.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES.
Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Abell ........ , . , ... 146 Ukiah •••..••••...••. Mendocino.
Acacia •... , ••...... 92 Coloma ..•..• , .... , .. El Dorado.
Adin ......•.• , •••. 250 Adin ...•......•••... Modoc.
Alamo . .... ... , , , , .122 Walnut Creek •.•...• Contra Costa.
Alameda •...•.•. , .. 167 Centerville ..•...•... Alameda.
Alcatraz , ....••.... 244 Oakland •..••.•••••.• Alameda.
Alhambra •..•.•...• 322 Alhambra · •.••.••.••. Los Angeles.
Alisa! .. .• ...•...... 321 Pleasanton ........... Alameda.
Alta ............... 333 Bridgeport ...•.•..•. Mono.
Apollo ...........•. 396 Alameda ............. Alameda.
Alturas , ..•.•..• , .. 248 Alturas ..•.. , •....•.• Modoc.
Amity ........ , , , •. 370 San Francisco •....•.. San Francisco.
Amador •.......•.•. 65 Jackson •..........•. Amador.
Anaheim •.• , ••.•... 207 Anaheim •.•••••...•. Orange.
Anchor •....•••.•.. 273 Compton ..... , , . , ...•Los Angeles.
Antioch , ....• , , ..•. 175 Antioch , .• , , •....... Contra Costa.
Arcata ....•.•....•. 106 Arcata .....•...•.•.• Humboldt.
Arroyo .......•.••. 27 4 Arroyo Grande •.•.•.•San Luis Obispo.
Artesia •....•...... 377 Artesia •. , . , •••• , •••• Los Angeles.
Ashlar ...•..••...•. 306 Colton ..... , .........Ban Bernardino.
Athene ..•.......•. 228 Davisville •....•••... Yolo.
Azusa ......•....•. 305 Azusa .............•. Los Angeles.
Bakersfield ...•.. , .• 224 Bakersfield •...•......Kern.
Balder ...... , , ..... 393 San Francisco .•••.... San Francisco.
Bay View ......••• 401 Oakland ..••••••••..• Alamed~
Bear Mountain •..•. 76 Angels Camp •..•.... Calaveras.
Benicia • • • . • • . . . • • • 5 Benicia ..... . ........Solano.
Berkeley •...•....•. 363 Berkeley ••...•••.... Alameda.
Bodie .•...••.••••. 252 Bodie . , ••••••••••••• Mono.
Brawley •.•.••••••. 402 Brawley .•••••••••••• Imperial.
Brentwood , .••••.•. 345 Brentwood .. , .••..••.Contra Costa.
Brooklyn •.....•... 225 East Oakland •.. , .. , . Alameda.
Buckeye •...•••.••• 195 Winters ............. Yolo.
Buena Park •....•.. 357 Buena Park ..••.•.••. Orange.
Burbank •. , •.•••••. 406 Burbank •••••••••••• Loe Angeles,
Burlingame •. , ..•.. 400 Burlingame ..•..•.... San Mateo.
California ...... , . , 1 San Francisco ••. , . , .. San Francisco.

187

188

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

County.
Lodge.
No. Post Otnce.
Calaveras ... ... ... 78 San Andreas •........ Calaveras.
Callayo mi ......... 282 Middl~town .....•..... Lake.
Calistoga; .......... 233 Calistoga. ..... .. ..... Napa.
Carquinez .......... 337 Crockett ............ Contra Costa.
Cavite ............. 350 Cavite .............. Philippine Islands.
Charity ........... 362 Campbell ... . ........ Santa Clara.
Chico .............. 111 Chico .... . .......... Butte.
Claiborne .......... 185 Point Arena ......... Mendocino.
Clay .............. 101 Dutch Flat .......... .Placer.
Clear Lake . ...... . 183 Lower Lake ......... Lake.
Clinton . ... .. . ..... 119 Igo .... . ............ .Shasta.
Coalinga ........... 387 CoaHnga ............. Tulare.
Concord ........... 117 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Confidence .... ; . ... 203 Castroville .......... Monterey.
Consuelo .. ...... .. 325 Escondido ........... San Diego.
Colusa ... ........ . 240 Colusa ............... Colusa.
Corinthian . . . . . . . . . 9 Marysville ........... Yuba.
Corona ............ 324 Pasadena ............ Los Angeles.
Corregidor •........ 386 Manila .............. Philippine Islands.
Covelo ............ 231 Covelo ..............•Mendocino.
Covina ............ 334 Covina .............. Los Angeles.
Crescent ........... 45 Crescent City •....... Del Norte.
Crockett ........... 139 San Francisco ....... 'San Francisco.
Curtis .... ." ........ 140 Cloverdale .......... . Sonoma.
Delano . ... . ....... 309 Delano .............. Kern.
Dinuba ............ 385 Dinuba ............. . Tulare.
Doric .. . . ..... .... 216 San Francisco ....... . San Francisco.
Downey .... .. ..... 220 Downey ............. Los Angeles.
Drytown .......... 174 Drytown ............ Amador.
Dunsmuir .....•... 297 Dunsmuir ............ Siskiyou.
Durant • ........... 268 Berkeley ............ Alameda.
East Belt . .. .... . .. 391 Tuolumne ........... Tuolumne.
East Gate ......... 290 Los Angeles ...•..... Los Angeles.
Eden .............. 113 San Leandro ....... . . Alameda.
Eel River .......... 147 Rohnerville .......... Humboldt.
El Centro ........... 384 El Centro .. . .. . ...... San ·Diego.
El Dorado . . . . . . . . . 26 Placerville .......... El Dorado.
Elk Grove ......... 173 Elk Grove ........... Sacramento.
Elsinore •.......... 289 Elsinore ............. Riverside.
Emmanuel ......... 318 Biggs .. ....... . ...... Butte.
Enterprise .....••.. 70 Yi.Ilia City .... . ...... Sutter. · "
Eucalyptus ........ 243 Haywards .. ....... .. Alameda.
Eureka • • . . . . . . . . . . 16 Auburn .......• . •••. Placer.
Evening Star ...... 186 Etna Mills ........... Siskiyou.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

189

County.
Lodge.
No. Post Otnce.
Evergreen ......... 259 Riverside ... , •....... Riverside.
Excelsior .... . ....• 166 San Francisco ... , ... . San Francisco.
Fallbrook ......... 317 Fillmore • ... .... ..... San Diego.
Ferndale ... .... ... 193 Ferndale ............ Humboldt.
Fidelity ........... 120 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Fillmore . , ......... 379 Fallbrook ........... Ventura.
Forbestown ........ 50 Forbestown .......... Butte.
Forest . . . . . . . . . . • . . 66 Allegheny ........... Sierra.
Fort Bragg ........ 361 Fo~t Bragg ...........Mendocino.
Fowler ............ 398 Fowler ........ , ...•. Fresno.
Franklin .. ..... ... 143 Courtland .........•.•Sacramento.
Francis Drake ..... 376 South San Francisco ...San Mat~o.
Fraternity ......... 399 San Jose .....•...... Santa Clara.
Fresno ............ 247 Fresno ...............Fresno.
Friendship .....•... 210 San Jose .......••.•. Santa Clara.
Fruitvale ......•... 336 Fruitvale ...•.......• Alameda.
Fullerton ..........• 339 Fullerton ..........•. Orange.
Galt .. .... ......... 267 Galt •............... Sacramento.
Gardena ........ . . 372 Gardena ............. Loe Angeles.
Georgetown ........ 25 Georgetown .. .. ...... El Dorado.
George Washington . 62 Chin.e se Camp .•...... Tuolumne:
Glendora .......... 404 Glendora ............ Los Angeles.
Golden Gate ......• 30 San Francisco ........ Sl).n Francisco.
Golden State ...... 336 Los Angeles ..........Los Angeles.
Gold Hill ........•• 32 Lincoln • ............. Placer.
Grafton ........... 141 Grafton ...•.......... Yolo.
Granite ........... 222 Rocklin ..........•.. Placer.
Gravel Range • : ..•• 59 Camptonville •.•.•... Yuba.
Guadalupe ......••• 237 Guadalupe ...•....... Santa Barbara.
Hanford .....••••• 279 Hanford ...•....•. , , .Kings.
Harmony ...••.••• • 164 Sierra City •••••. , •.• Sierra.
Hartley ......• .. .. 199 Lakeport ............ Lake.
Hawaiian . . . . . . • . • . 21 Honolulu ........•..•Hawaiian Island1.
Henry Clay . . . . . . . . 95 Sutter Creek ......... Amador.
Hermann .......... 127 San Francisco •.....•. San Francisco.
Hesperian ...•..... 264 Santa. Maria ...•....•Santa Barbara.
Highland Park ...... '.!82 Los Angeles ..•..... , .Los Angeles.
Hill's Ferry ....... 236 Newman .......•....• Stanislaus.
Hiram ............. 43 El Dorado ........... El Dorado.
Hollenbeck •....... 319 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Hollywood ........ 355 Hollywood •.....•.... Los ,Angeles.
Hope ..........•.•. 234 Bec.k with ............ Plumas.
Hornitos ........... 98 Hornitos ............. Mariposa.
Howard .. ... ...... 96 Yreka ............... Siskiyou.

190

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

Lodge.
No. Post Oftlce.
County.
Humboldt • . • • • • • • • 79 Eureka ..•••••..•••. Humboldt.
. Huntington Beach •. . 380 Huntington Beaeh ....Orange.
Illinoistown • . . . . . . . 51 Colfax . .•...•.•..•.• Placer.
Imperial ....•..•.• . 390 Imperial ..••.•....•..Imperial.
Inyo •....... . .•... 221 Independence ..•..... Inyo.
Ione . . . • . . . . . . . . . . 80 Ione ......•....... .. Amador.
Jefferson • . . . . . . • . • 97 Laporte ••... •..• •... Plumas.
Janesville .......... 232 Janesville •.......... Lassen.
Jewel ............. 374 San Francisco •. .. .... San Francisco.
Keith ............. 187 Gilroy ..••......•.•.. Santa Clara.
Keystone ... . ... " .. 161 Milton .........•.... Calaveras.
Kilauea ........... 330 Hilo ..............•. Hawaiian Islan'111.
King David's ...... 209 San Luis Obispo ..... San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon '11 •••• 260 San Francisco ....... .San Francisco.
La Fayette ........ 126 Sebastopol ........... Sonoma.'
La Grange . . . . . . . . • 99 Merced •.....•....... Merced.
Landmark .•.....•. 253 Madison ............. Yolo.
Las Palmas ......•. 366 Fresno ...............Fresno.
Lassen ............ 149 Susanville ........... Lassen.
Laurel ............ 245 Willows ....... .• ... •.Glenn.
Lexington , • •.•... • 104 El Monte ..... ... ... . Los Angeles.
Liberty ............ 299 Santa Clara ......•... Santa Clara.
Live Oak ......... 61 Oakland ............. Alameda.
Lodi .............. 256 Lodj ................ San Joaquin.
Lompoc ........... 262 Lompoc ........ . .....Santa Barbara.
Long Beach •..•.... 327 Long Beaeh ....••....Los Angeles.
Los Angeles . . . • . . . • 42 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Los Banos •........ 312 Los Banos • .......••. Merced.
Los Gatos ......... 292 Los Gatos ........... Santa Clara.
Loyalton ......•... 359 Loyalton .......••... Sierra.
.Madera •........... 280 Madera ..............Madera.
Madison ......•... . 23 Grass Valley • ........ Nevada.
Magnolia ........ . . 242 Santa Barbara ....... Santa Barbara.
Manila •......•.... 342 Manila •............. Philippine Islands.
Manzanita ........• 102 North San Juan ...... Nevada.
Marin ............. 191 San Rafael .......... Marin.
Mariposa •..•....•• 24 Mariposa ......••.... Mariposa.
Martinez ...••..... 41 Martinez •.......•... Contra Costa.
Maxwell .....•..... 288 Maxwell .. •• .... • .•.. Colusa.
McKinley . '. .....••• 347 Point Richmond •.••• Contra Costa.
Mendocino ••••.•..• 179 Mendocino .•.•.•...• Mendocino.
Meridian ..•.•...•• 182 Arbuckle .•...... . ... Colusa.
Mill Valley ....•... 356 Mill Valley •...•..... Marin.
Mission .....••..... 169 San Francisco •..••... San Francisco.

GRA!" D LODGE OF CALlFOilNIA

..

...

t.odae.
No. Post Office.
County.
Mizpah ........••.• 378 Los Angeles •.•••.... Los Angeies.
Mokelumne Hill ...• 298 Mokelumne Hill •.••.. Calaveras.
Molino ... •. ......• 150 Tehama ............. Tehama.
Moneta ............ 405 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Monrovia • ..•.•... 308 Monrovia ......•..... Los Angeles.
Monterey ....... ,. .• 217 Monterey .. . ........ . Monterey.
Morning Star ...... 68 Stockton ...•........ San Joaquin.
Mosaic . . .... .. .. . . 218 Livermore .......••.. Alameda.
Mount Jackson .. ... 295 Guerneville .......... Sonoma.
Mount Moriah • . . . • 44 San Francisco ..... . .. San Francisco.
Mount's.in Shade ... 18 Downieville ••.....•.. Sierra.
Mount Shasta .. . ... 281 Anderson .. ........... Shasta.
Mountain View ...• 194 Mountain View ...... Santa Clara.
Mount Zion ... . ... 114 Grizzly Flat ......... El Dorado.
Natoma · .........•. 64 Folsom •............. Sacramento.
Naval ............. 87 Vallejo •............. Solano.
Needles .....•....•. 326 Needles • ..•..•. .. ••• San Bernardino.
Nevada ......•...• 13 Nevada City •..••..•• Nevada.
Newville ........ • . 205 Newville ............. Glenn.
Nicolaus ........•• 129 Wheatland •.....•..•. Yuba.
North Butte •..•.•. 230 Gridley ••.......••.• Butte.
North East ...•. •• . 266 Fort Bidwell ...•.•.. ,Modoc.
Northern Light ••.• 190 Millville •....•.••.••. Shasta.
North Star ....•..• 91 Fort Jones •.•.•.•••.. Siskiyou.
Norwalk .......... 315 Norwalk ............. Los Angeles.
Oakdale .........•. 275 Oakdale ....•...•••.. Stanislaus.
Oak Grove .......•. 215 Alameda .. .... .......Alameda.
Oakland ...••••.••. 188 Oakland •.....••.••.• Alameda.
Occidental ...• • •... 22 San Francisco •....... San Francisco.
Ocean Park •....•. 369 Santa Monica ....••.. Los Angelee•
Oceanic ........... 371 Honolulu ........... . Oahu.
Oceanside ....... ... 381 Oceanside •.....•.. .. San Diego.
Olive Branch ....•. 269 Tulare .... •. .•...... Tulare.
Olivet ......•.•.•.. 364 Corning ........ .•. .. Tehama.
Ontario ..... ...... 301 Ontario . .. ......•... .San Bernardino.
Ophir ............. 33 Murphy's ............ Calaveras.
Orange Grove ...... 293 Orange ...•.••....... Orange.
Oriental . ...... . ... 144 San Francisco •. .•. . .. San Francisco.
Orland ............ 265 Orland ..•....••.•••. Glenn.
Orosi ..........•... 383 Orosi ..••• •.••••..••• Tulare.
Oroville ............ 103 Oroville ••..••••..••• Butte.
Oxnard . . '. .•....... 341 Oxnard .. .••••.••.••. Ventura.
Pacific ......•...•. 136 San Francisco ..••.••. San Francisco.
Pncific Grove ....... 331 Pacific Grove .........Monterey.

191

llJ2

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Pajaro ........ . ... 110 Watsonville ..........Santa Cruz.
Palestine . , ........ 351 Los Angeles ..........Los Angeles.
Palmyra .......•... 151 Placerville ........... El Dorado.
Palo Al to ..•....... 346 Palo Al to ............ San ta Clara.
Palos Verdes ...... . 389 'i.ong Beach .......... Los" Angeles.
Parfaite Unign .•.. 17 San Francisco ........ San Franeisco.
Parnassus .......... 388 San Francisco ........ Sau Francisco.
Pasadena .......... 272 Pasadena ............ Los Angeles.
Paso Robles ........ 286 Paso Robles ..........San Luis Obispo.
Penrhyn ....... .... 258 Penryn ..............1Placer.
Pentalpha ......... 202 Los Angeles ......... Los" Angeles.
Petaluma .......... 180Petaluma ...... . . . .... Sonoma.
Phoenix ...... ... . '. 178 San Bernardino • . . . . San Bernardino.
Pinole ....... .. , ... 353 Pinole .... ...... ..... Contra Costa.
Plumas . . . . . . . . . . . . 60 Quincy ...... .. ......Plumas.
Pomona .... , ...... 246 Pomona ............. Los Angeles.
Porterville .. ... , ... 303 Porterville . . . . . . . . . . Tulare.
Presidio , ........ , .354 San Francisco . .. ..... San Francisco.
Quitman ....... . . . • SS North Bloomfield ..... Nevada.
Reading ...... , .. , . 254 Redding .... . ........ Shasta.
Redlands ......... , 300 Rediands ....... .. ....San 'Bernardino.
Redondo ..... , .. . •. 328 Redondo ..... , ....... Los Angeles.
Redwood City ...... 168. Redwood City .. ...... i:3an ':Mateo.
Reedley ........... 304 ·Reediey · ...... . ...... Fre'sno.
Richmond : . . . ... .. 375
Francisco .. ... ..
·F rancisco.
Rio Vista .. ..... . .. 208. Rio Vista ............ s 'o lano. .
Rising Light .... .. .. 397 Hu.ntington Park ..... Los Angeles.
Rising Star ... ..... S:i. Forest Hill .......... Placer.
Rose's Bar ......... 89 Smartsville ..• . .......Yuba.
Russian River ...... 181 Windsor . • ... . ....... Sonoma.
. Sacramento ........ 40 Sacramento .. . . ... ... Sacramento.
Saint Helena . .... .. 93 St. Helena , . . . . ..... . Napa.
Saint John 's ..... . , 37 Yreka .. .............,Siskiyou.
Salinas ............ 2o4 Salinas . ..... ........ Monterey.
San Benito ......... 211 Hollister ............. San Benito.
San Buenaventura ... 214 Ventura . , ... , .... , .. Ventura.
Santa Ana ......... 241 Santa Anl\ ........... Orange.
Santa Barbara •.... 192 Santa Ba.rbara ....... Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz .. .. .... 38 Santa Cruz . ........ Santa Cruz.
San Diego . . . . . . . . . 35 San Diego .... ..... .. San Diego.
Sanger ... . . ....... 316 Sa:iiger ......... ... . :Fresno.
San Bernardino ..... 348 San Bernardino .....•San Bernardino.
San Fernando ...•. • 343 Fernando ....••. , • ... Los Angeles.
San Francisco ..... 360 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.

San·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

San

..

Lodre.
No. Post Office.
· County.
t!an Jacinto .•.•• , •. 338 San Jacinto ••.••••••.:Riverside.
Bau Joaquin .•.•••• 19 Stockton ..... ; ..•.•••.San Joaquin.
Ban Jose ........... 10 San.Jose ............ Santa Clara.
Ban Mateo ......... 226 San Mateo ........... San Mateo.
Ban Miguel •..••. , 285 San Miguel •.. , .•.. , .San Luis Obispo.
Ban Pedro , , ...••• • 332 San Pedro ••.•••..••. Los Angeles.
l:lanta Lucia ....... 302 Kings City •.••..... Monterey.
Banta Maria •.....• 340 Santa Maria .••....•.. Santa Barbara.
Banta Monica ...... 307 Santa Monica •.•..••. Los Angeles.
Banta P~ula .. , , , , .291 Santa Paula . .. ....••Ventura.
Salf Simeon •.•... • 196 Cambria .....••••.••. San Luis Obispo.
Banta Rosa ....•••• 57 Santa Rosa •..•....•. Sonoma.
Selma , .....•.... '. 277 Selma .... • . , , •' .. , •. Fresno.
Sequoia ..... , .. , . , .349 Oakland' , . .•. •• .•.... Alameda.
Blerra Valley .. .... 184 Sierra ville •..•.••..... Sierra.
Bllveyville ....•.... 201 Dixon .... .. ........ . Solano.
Sliver Gate . , ••. ... 296 San Diego ....•...•. , San Diego.
Blncerity .... , • . , .. 132 Greenville .. •. .••..• Plumas.
Slsson ............. 310 Sisson ............... Siskiyou,
Snow Mountain .... 271 Stony Ford ••.•...... Colusa.
Solano ........ , ... 229 Vallejo .............. Solano.
Sotoyome . , , ... , , .. 123 Healdsburg •• • ...•.. Sonoma.
Southern California.278 Los Angeles ....•...• .Los Angeles.
South Gate , , .•. ••. 320 Los Angeles ..• •. ... .Los Angeles.
South Pasadena , , .. 367 South Pasadena •..•.. Los Angeles.
South San Francisco 212 San Francisco •.•..... San Francisco.
South West ....• , . ,283 National City ••.•.... San Diego.
Speranza Italiana .. , 219 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Stanislaus , , , . , ...• 206 Modesto ••.••••••.••. Stanislaus.
Starr King , , ...• , , 344 San Francisco •..•. • .. San Francisco.
Suisun ... , . , ... , , , 55 Suisun .........•.... Solano.
Summit ... , , , , . , , .112 Knights Ferry , .... . . Stanislaus.
Sunset ... ... , . , • , . , 352 Los Angeles .....••.. Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley .... 235 Cedarville .... •. ... . . Modoc.
Table Mountain •..• 124 Cherokee . . ...... .. .. Butte.
Tehachapi . , ... , . , .313 Tehachapi ... •....... Kern.
'fehama , . , . • ... , , , , 3 Sacramento ... ..... .. Sacramento.
Te mescal . , ... , .•.. 314 Corona . , .••••....... Riverside.
Temple .... , .... • . . 14 Sonoma ........ . . , .. Sonoma.
Texas . ... • . •...•.• 46 San Juan •..•.••.•.. San Benito.
Traver , ........• , . 294 Kingsburg ....• . .•.•. Fresno.
Trinity .. . , ...... , . 27 Weaverville ... . .. .. ..Trinity .
Truckee , .......... 200 Truckee .....•...•... Nevada.
Tuolumne .. , . . . . . . • 8 Sonora . , , ........... Tuolumne.

193

194

ALPHABETICAL ' LIST OF LODGES

Lodge.
No. Post Otllce.
County.
Turlock ...... : ... .".395 Turlock .....•..•..... Stanislaus.
Tuscan ............ 261 . Williams ..... ..•..... CDlusa.
Tyrian . •. ......... 284 Dunnigan ............. Yolo. . ..
Union ............. 58 .Sactamento .......... Sacramento.
Unity: ............. 368 .G lendale ..............Las. Angeles.
University .......... 394 Loe .Angeles . .. ...... Los Angeles.
Vacaville .......... 134 Vacaville ............ Solano. .
Vallee de France .... 329 Los .Angeles ...... , ..•Los Angeles.
Valley ............. 135 Linden .....•........ San .Joaquin.
Vesper . . ... . ...... 84 Red Bluff ............ Tehama.
Veteran . . ......... 373 Sawtelle ............. Los Angeles.
Visalia ............ 12.8 .Visalia .............. Tulare.
Vitruvius .......... 145 Bloomfield ........... Sonoma. . .
Volcano ....... • ... 56 Volcano •............ Amador.
Washington ........ 20 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Welcome .......... 255 Lemoore . • ...••.. .. . Kings.
Western Star .. .. .. 2 Shasta .............. Shasta.
West Gate ......... 335 Los . Angeles . ........ Los Angeles.
West Lake ..... : .. ·, 392 Los Angeles .. .... ... Los Angeles.
Whittier .....•..... 323 Whittier ............. Los Angeles.
Willits ..........••. 365 Willits •.......•..... Mendocino.
Wilmington ; ....... 198 Wilmington .......... Los Angeles.
Winnedumah ....... 287 Bishop ...........•.. Inyo.
Woodbridge •....... 131 Woodbridge •........ San Joaquin.
Woodland .......... 156 Woodland ...... ..... Yolo.
Yerba Buena ...... .403 Oakland ..... ... : . ... Alameda.
Yolo .........•. .. .• 81 Yolo .. ..• ........... Yolo.
Yosemite . ... . : .•.. 133 Coulterville .......... Mariposa.
Yount .... ... ...... 12 Napa ................Napa.
Yuba . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39 Marysville ........... Yuba.

GRA:N'D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LOCATION OF ·LODGES.
Alphabetically Arranged.
Post Otllce.
Lodge.
No.
Adin ....... : . •..•.•....• Adin ..•........•........•.. 250
Alhambra ........•••.... Alhambra ...• ...•.......... 322
Alameda •....••..•••••.• Oak Grove .......•.......... 215
''
............. .. Apoll~ .... ..... .... . . . .... . . 396
All~ghany •..•....••..•.. Forest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 66
Alturas ................. Alturas .................... 248
Anaheim .•.••.•...•....• Anaheim ....•....•...•.••.. 207
Anderson •......••.••.... Mount Shasta •.............. 281
Angels Camp ••.•..•••... Bear Mountain ............. 76
Antioch ••..•.•..•.••.... Antioch ••...............•.. 175
Arroyo Grande ........... Arroyo ..................... 274
Auburn ......•..•.•...... Eureka .....•....•...•...... 16
Arbuckle .......•.......• Meridian .....•..••••....... 182
Arcata ......•..•..•...•. Arcata •.....•..........•... 106
Artesia .....•......•..... Artesia •.....••....•....•... 377
Azusa ........•••••••.... Azusa ...••.••.••........... 305
Bakersfield ......•.•..... .Bakersfield ..•..........•... 224
Beckwith ...•.....•• ....• Hope ... .. .••.............. .234
Benicia •. .... .. .••. ••••• .Benicia . . . . • . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Berkeley .......••••....• Durant •.................... 268
Berkeley ... •. •..•.•..... Berkeley ...............•... 363
Biggs ......•....•••....• Emmanuel ..............•... 318
Bishop ....•••••••••....• Winnedumah ....•......•.•. 287
Bloomfield ...•••..••...•• Vitruvius •............ ..... 145
Bodie ......••.•..••..••• .Bodie . ..... .... .... .... .. .. 252
Brawley ......•••••• •.. •. Brawley •................... 402
Brentwood ..•...•..•••... Brentwood ....•............ 345
Bridgeport .....••... !'. ...Alta . ....... ...•.......... . 333
Buena Park •......•...... Buena Park .... • ...•.. .•. .. 357
Burbank ................. Burbank .................... 406
Burlingame ..•..•.... , ... Burlingame .. . ........... . .. 400
Calistoga • •. .••.•• . ...... Calistoga •................ . . 233
Cambria .......•........• San Simeon ...•............. 196
Campbell ................ Charity .................... 362
Campton ville •..........• Gravel Range ..••.••..•.. ..• 59

195

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

196

LOCATION OF LODGES
Post Office.
Lodge.
No. 1
Castroville •.•••••.••.•••• Confidence •••...••..•....... 203
Cavite, P. I •••..••.•.••.•. Cavite •....•.•...•..•.......350
Cedarville ••••.••••••.••. Surprise Valley •...••..•.. .'. 235
Centerville •••..•••••.••.•Alameda ...•...•..•......•• 167
Cherokee .••..••..•....•. Table Mountain ......•..... 124
Chinese Camp ••...••••..• George Washington ..•...... 62
Chico ....•••..•••••••••••Chico ...•...............•.. 111
Cloverdale . ·•.....••••.••• Curtis ..•••.•..............• 140
Coalinga ...........•••••• Coalinga .................... 387
Coulterville •.•.•••••..••• Yosemite •.....•..•••.•...•• 133
Colfax .•.••....••••..•••.Illinoistown •...•...•....... 51
Corona .....••••.•••••••• Temescal ••..•.•......•..... 314
Courtland ...•...•••••••. .Franklin •..•..•..••..•..•.• 143
Covelo .......••.•...••..• Covelo ...................... 231
Colusa ........••.•••..••• Colusa ...................... 240
Colton .•....••..•••••••• .Ashlar ...................... 306
Covina ...••••.•••••••.• .,Covina .....•.....•......... 334
Compton •.••.••••••••••• .Anchor ..••......•......••.. 273
Coloma •.....•••.•••••••• <\cacia .................•.... 92
Corning ....••••••.••••.• Olivet .......•..•..•..•..... 364
Crescent City •••••••••••• Crescent ...........•... '. ... 45
Crockett •..•....••••.••.•Carquinez ................... 337
Davisville .••.•••.•••.•.. Athens ..•.. ; .........•..... 228
Delano ......•••.••..••.• Delano ..•.................. 309
Dinuba .........•••...••• Dinuba ........•..........•. 385
Dixon •.......••..•.•.... Silveyville .•................ 201
Downey .................. Downey ••.....•......•.. ,' .. 220
Downieville . , ...•...•... ,Mountain Shade •.......•... 18
Drytown ......•......• , ••Drytown ...•.....•......... 17 4
Dutch .Flat •...••.......• Clay ........................ 101
Dunsmuir •.•• .' ....••••••• lunsmuir ...•.....•.••....•. 297
Dunnigan ...•....••.•••.•Tyrian ..•..•.....•......... 284
East Oakland ..• , ..•.•••• Brooklyn .....•...........•• 225
Elk Grove ............... Elk Grove .................. 173
Elsinore .................. Elsinore ....•..........•.. '. .289
EI Centro •.....•.......•• El Centro .........•.....• .'.. 384
El Dorado ••...••.......• Hiram . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . 43
El Monte ..•..••..•...•.• Lexington ........•......... 104
Escondido .....•.......•.•Consuelo •.....•......••.... 325
Etna Mill .....••.......•. Evening Star ............... 186
Eureka ...•....•......... Humboldt . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . • . 79
Fall brook ......•.••.•••. .Fallbrook ...•............... 317
Fernando ................ San Fernando .............•. 343
Ferndale ....•...•....... .Ferndale : : .................. 193

No.
Lodge.
Post Office.
Fillmore •• , •. , , • ,, , • , . , .. Fillmore , . , , .. , , ••. , ........ 379
Forbestown •.•.••••.•.... Forbestown . • . . . . . . • • . • • . . • • 50
Folsom .................. Nato111a .................. .,. 64
Fort Bidwell •. , ..•..••.•. No1th East ............•.... 266
Fort Bragg ......••••. , •• Fort Bragg ....•..•.....••.. 361
Fort Jones ••.•.••..•..... North Star ....•...........• 91
J<,orest Hill , ..•. , ... , •.•• Rising Star •.....•.......•.• 83
Fowler .................. Fowler ..................... 398
Fresno ......••..••••...•.Fresno ........•...........• 24 7
.... , ............. Las Palmas ......•..•....... 366
''
Fru.itvale .....•••.•.•. , •• FFuitvale •........•• , , .....• 336
Fullerton ......•.••.••••• Fullerton ........•...•...... 339
Galt .. , .. , .. , ...• , ...... ,Galt ... , ... , .. , ....•..•..... 267
Gardena , , , .... , , .•.. , •• ,Gardena .......••.....•..... 372
Georgetown ....... , .• , ..• Georgetown ....•....•....•.. 25
Gilroy ................... Keith ...................... 187
Glendale ..........•..••.• Unity ....•........... · · .. · · 368
Glenclora ..... , ......... , Glendora .................. .404
Grafton ..... , .••.•••• , , .Grafton ..•....•............ 141
Grass .Valley •............ Madison .....•......•...•... 23
G:r.eenville ..........••..• Sincerity ...•..............• 132
Grizzly Flat ............. Mount Zion ................. 114
Gridley ..........••.....• North Butte ..•....•........ 230
Guadalupe , . , ... , , , •• , , . ,Guadalupe ......•.....•..... 237
Guerneville ......•• , .•.•. Mount Jackson ............. 295
Hanford ...... , .....• , .. ,}Ianford .................... 279
Haywards .......•..•..•• Eucalyptus ................. 243
Healdsburg .............• Sotoyome . , ................. 123
Hilo, H. I ................ Kilauea ........... , ......... 330
Hornitos ......•.....• , .. ,Hornitos ................... 98
Hollister ............ , ...• San Benito •...........•.•.. 211
Hollywood ..... , , , ....... Hollywood .............•.... 355
Honolulu, H. I. ........... Hawaiian .................. 21
Honolulu, H. I •...•.... , .• Oceanic •..•................ 371
Huntington Beach ........ Huntington Beach ........•.. 380
Huntington Park .......... Rising Light ................ 397
Igo ...................... Clinton ..................... ?19
Imperial .............•... Imperial ...................,.390
Independen~e •...••....•• Inyo •.••.•...•....•......... 221
Ione ......•.•........•... Ione ........•..•........•.. 80
Jackson .............• , •. Amador . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . 65
Janesville •.......•...••.. Janesville ...••............. 232
Kingsburg ............. , . Traver ..................... 294
Kings City ............... Santa Lucia ................ 302

..

197

1%

LOCATION OF LODGES

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Post Office.
Lodge.
No.
Knights Ferry .....•. , , , .Summit , ..•........ , ........112
Lakeport ...............• Hartley .. .. •............... 199
Laporte ..... . ....... . ... Jefferson ..... , ............. 97
Lemoore .........•......• Welcome ................... 255
Lincoln ................... Gold H"ill ". . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Livermore ...........•.•. Mo~aic .... .•............ .- .. ;218
Linden ............ , .•.•. Valley .. .. ..................135
Lodi ...............•..... Lodi ................ . ...... 256
Lompoc .................. Lompoc : .................... 262
Lower Lake ......... . ..• Clear Lake ......... , ........183
Long Beach .............••ong Beach .. ............... 327
''
............. . Palos Verdes ......... . ....... 389
Los Angeles ..........•..• Los Angeles ..... .. ......... 42
''
............. . Pentalpha ........ ... ....... 202
..... : ........ Southern California . .. . . .... 278
"
''
............. . East Gate ................. . 290
.........•••.. Hollenbeck .......... . ... . .. 319
"
.......•••.... South Gate .......... . ...... 320
"
.............. Vallee de France .... ... . ....329
"
.............. West Gate ...•.............. 335
"
.........•... ,Palestine ................. , . 351
"
.. . ........... Sunset ..•............. .. ... 352
"
......• .. •... ,Golden State . ............... 358
"
.............. Mizpah .....................378
"
........... . .. Highland Park .... . ......... 382
"
.............. West Lake . ..... ... . ...... .. 392
"
.............. University . .... .. ....... .... 394
"
.............. Moneta .... . ................ 405
"
Los Banos .......•....... Los Banos .......•.•........ 312
Los Gatos . .. .. . .......... Los Gatos .................. 292
Loyalton .....•.........•.Loyalton .. .. .... . .......... 359
Marysville ......... . ..... Corinthian . . . . . . . . ... . . .. . . . 9
''
............. . Yuba ....................... 39
Madison ....... . ......... Landmark .................. 253
Manila . .. .... . .... . ..... Manila, P. I ..•...... . ... .... 342
''
.................. Corregidor .. .. ... . .......... 386
Maxwell ...... , .•........Maxwell ... . ................ 288
Madera .......... .. ......Madera ... . ...............•. 280
Mariposa ................ Mariposa ... .. ............... 24
Martinez ..............•..Martinez .................... 41
Merced ........•.•...•... La Grange .... .......... 7. . . 99
Mendocino .............. Mendocino .................. 179
Middletown ....•.........Callayomi ... ..... . . ........ 282
Milton . . .• . . • ............Keystone • . . ...... . .. . ... • .. 161

Post Office.
Lodge.
No.
Mill Valley , , .•.. , , . ,., . , , .Mill Valley ...•.........•... 356
Millville ..... , ..... , , , . , •• Northern Light •............ 190
Mokelumne Hill ... , , .• , , , Mokelumne Hill . .. •........ 298
Monrovia . , ................... Monrovia ...•............... 308
Monterey ........ , •.. , ... Monterey .................... 217
Mountain View ...........Mountain View .. . ..........194
Modesto •........•....•.. Stanislaus .................. 206
Murphy's ......... , . , •••. Ophir ... . ... . ............... 33
National City ............ South West ................. 283
Napa ." ....••.. ,., ..• ,, ..•Yount ....................... 12
Newman ........... , .....Hill's Ferry . ........... .- ... 236
Needles ...• , ............• Needles ...••.....•....•.. • . 326 ·
Nevada City ............. Nevada .................... 13
Newville .........•.......Newville ... . ........ • ...... 205
North Bloomfield , . ....... Quitman .... . .............. 88
North San Juan .. , .... , .. Manzanita. ................. 102
Norwalk ................ ,Norwalk ................. . . 315
Oakland .•............•.. Live Oak .....•...•........ 61
''
· .. .. ............. Oakland .................. . 188
''
................ . Sequoia .. .................. 349
''
................ . Alea traz . . ................ .. 244
''
............ .. .. . Bay View ................. .4 01
''
.. .. .. .... ...... . Yerba Buena ............ ... . 403
Oakdale .... , , ... , . , , , : .. Oakdale ,., ........••......•• 275
Oceanside , . , .... , •....•.•Oceanside , .....•.. , •....... 381
Ontario .... ... , •.•. , . . .•. ,Ontario ......•.......... . .... 301
Orange ....... , .. , ..•..•.. Orange Grove .....••. : ....•. 293
Orland ......... , ...... • . Orland ..................... 265
Orosi , .., ... , ... • ......•.. ,Orosi •............ , .......... 383
Oroville ..............•.. Oroville ...................... 103
Oxnard . . .... , ... , ....... Oxnard ..... . ....• .......... 341
Pacific Grove ............ Pacific Grove ............... 331
Pa.lo Alto ................ Pa.lo Alto .................... 346
Paso Robles ...........•.. Paso Robles ......... . ...... 286
Pasadena. ...........•.. •• Pasadena. •...........•.•.... 272
Pasadena ... .. ............ Corona .......•.... , ....... .324
Penryn ... , ........• , , .. ,Penrhyn .....••........•....258
Petaluma . . .. , .•.. , . . .••• Petaluma. ................... .. 180
Pinole .............•..... Pinole ................•....... 353
Pleasanton ....... . ....... Alisa! .................•..... 321
Placerville ... ........ , .... El Dorado ... . . • . . . . . .. . .. . . 26
''
. ............... Palmyra ................... . 151
Point Arena ...... , .. , , •. Claiborne . .................... 185
Point Richmond •.... , •..• McKinley . •...••............ 347

199

..

LOCATION OF LODGES

200

P0st Offtce.
Lodge.
No.
Pomona ..................J>o-mqna . ., ....................... 246
Porterville •.....•.••.•••• Porterville .••.....••••..•..• 303
Quincy ...•..•.....••.••• Plumas •......... , . . . ... . • . . . . 60
Redondo .......••.•...•••. Bedo:ra.do ...................... 328
Redding ....••••••....•••Reading ,.... .................... 254
Redlands .....•.•.•.•.••. Redlands .• •..•. .•...•..• •. .. 300
Reedley ............ ...... Beediey ..... . • ••... • ......... 304
Redwood City ............ Redwood City .............. 168
Red Bluff .....•..•....... Y esper . . . . .. . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
Rio Vista ................. ll.io Yieta ............. .' .... 208
Riverside ..•............• Evergreen .•.•.............. 259
Rocklin .................. Granite .•...•.•.........•... 222
Rohnerville .. • .••...•••••• Eel River ... .. ... .......... . 147
Sacramento .... . .. ..•.•.•. Tehama . . . . • • . . . • . . • . . . . . . . 3
''

............. . Waahington

................. 20

''
....... .. .... . Sacrame:Q.to , . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . 40
''
............. . Union .........,........ . . . .. 58
''
............. . Concprd ................... . 117
Saint Helena ............ Saint Helena ... ... ......... 93
San Andreas •... • •••..••• Calaveras .•................ 78
San Bernardino ... •.. ..•• Phoenix .........•............ 178
''

............ San Bernai:"dino .............. 348

San Diego .... •• •..•••••. San Diego .,........., .. .... ..... 35
''

.............. . Silver Gate ................ . 296

San Franciaco ............ California . • . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . . 1
••.•••••••• ,Parfaite Union •........•..• 17
"
••.•.••••••• Occidental . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
"
•.••.••••••• Golden Gate ...••.... .... ..• 30
"
••••..•••••• Mount Moriah .............• 44
"
...•.•••••••Fidelity •..•................ 120
"
•... . ••••••• Hermann . . ....••. .. .• .. .... 127
"
. ••• ..• • •••• Pacific ..... .... ............ 136
"
.•••. ••• ••• ,Crockett . ~ · ............ . ... 139
"
..•••••••••• Oriental .........•..•... . ... 144
"
..••..•••••• Excel11ior ••.............. . .. 166
"
•.•••••••••• Mission . ......•........... . 169
"
•••• . •••••• ,South San Francisco ..•... .. 212
"
•••• • ••••••• Doric. ..•.. ...........•....... 216
"
•..•.••••.••• Speranza Italians ......•.•.. 219
"
•..•.••••••• King Solomon's ............ • 260
"
·, ..•.. • ••••• Starr King •..........••.... 344
"
•..••.•.•••• Presidio . .. ..... ._ .....• .... .. . 354
"
............. San Francisco ......•... . ... 360
"
•.••.••..••• Aillity •.•• . .•..••...••..... 370
"

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1

Post Office.
Lodge.
No.
San Francisco . ... ..... , •.. Jewel •••...••.•...••••.. • .. 374
4
• • • • • • • • • • • • Riphmond . ................ ~ .375
'
''

• • • • • • • • • • • • rarDaSBUl!f ... , , .•.•..• , .••... 388

"

• • • • • • • · · · • ·Balder ............... , ..... 393
San Jacinto ............... San Jacinto ...... ... ..... . . 338
San Jose .. • . . ...••.•.••• ,San Jose . . ................. 10
''
''

.. .. ............ . .i''riendship .... ......... . .. . 210
................ . Fraternity ................. . 399
San Juan ....... . ••.•.•.. Tex•s •....•.. , ............. 46
San Leandro ........... .. Eden .. .. ................... 113
San J...uie Obispo ....••...• King David 's ............. • . 209
San Mateo •. ., , ,, , ....... San Mateo ................. 226
San Miguel ... .... ....... .San Miguel ............. . ... 285

San Pedro •.••..•.. , • , ••.•San Pedro .•....... .. ....•• . 332
San Rafael ...........•.•. Marin .........•.....•..•.•. 191
Santa Ana .....••..•....• Santa Ana ...••. , ....•...•. .241
Santa Barbara ........... Santa Barbara ........... . . . 192
''

.......... . Ma1nolia . .. ............. .. . 242

Santa Cruz • • .....•••...•• Santa Cruz ... . ..••...•.. •• . 38
Santa Clara ..•.....•...• ,Liberty ............... •...• 299
Santa Maria .·............ Heeperian •.......... . ..•... 264
''

............ . Santa Maria .............. .. 340

Santa Monica .•.••• .'.••.• Banta Monica •...•.••..••.• .307
''

.. , , ........ Ocean Park , ........... , .. , 369

Santa Paula . ..... .. ...... Santa Paula ............... .291
Santa Rosa ......•.•••••• Santa Rosa ....•...•..•.•... 57
Salinas .. . . .•......•••.•. Salinas .... . ................ 204
Sanger ...•....•••• •• .•• .,Sanger ......•........•.••...316
Sawtelle ......•••••...••• Veteran .••.•..•...••.•..... 373
Sebastopol ............... La Fayette .. ., ..•........• •. 126
Selma •.•....••..••.••••• Selma .... ... .•.......... ... 277
Shasta ......•.•••...••••• Western Star . . . . • . • . • • . • . .. 2
Sierra City •..• •• ..•••.•.• Harmony ..•.•.•.•••........ 164
Sierraville .... ........... Sierra Valley ••.•..•........ 184
Sisson ..........•••••••• .,Sisson .........••....•...... 310
Smartsville •. .•••..••..•..Rose 's Bar ...•.•.. , • • • • . . . . . 89
South Pasadena •. .. .•••••.South Pasadena ..•.•..•..... 367
South San Francisco ...•••• Francie Drake .........•.• . . 376
Sonoma ... • ..•.....•••••• Temple . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . . 14
Sonora .... •. ......•.•• , •• Tuolumne • . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . . 8
Stockton ................. San Joaquin ................ 19
"
................. Morning Star .............. 68
Stony Ford ...•..•••••••• Snow Mountain • .• •.••...... 271
Susanville ... .... ........ Lassen .....................149

201

LOCATION OF LODGES

202
Post Office.

Lodge.

No.

Sutter Creek •..•.••..•••• Henry Clay ....•.•.. · ... • · · · 95'
Suisun .....•....••..••...Suisun ....•..........•.... · 55
Tehama ........•.••.•••..Molino .....•............ : .. 150
Tehachapi .......••.•.•.•Tehachapi .....•........•. · .313
Truckee .........•....•.. Truckee ...•.....•.......... 200
Tulare ...........•..•.•.• Olive Branch .•......•..... · 269
Tuolumne ................East Belt ......... · ... · · · · . 391
Turlock ..................Turlock ............... · · · · · 395
Ukiah .....•..•........•. Abell .................. ·· · .146
Vallejo ......•..•..•..... Naval •........... · ·. · · · · · · · 87
''
....•......••..... Solano ....•......•..•..•..• 229
Vacaville .....•.....•.•.. Vacaville .....•.. ·: • ... • · · ..134
Ventura .........•.......San Buenaventura .......• · · .214
Visalia ........••.•• • ....Visalia .•. . ..••••. • · .... · · · .128
Volcano .............•..•Volcano •••.....•.. · ... · · · · • 56
Walnut Creek .•....••..•. Alamo ........•• · · · · ··· · · · • .122
Watsonville •.....•....... Pajaro ................. · · · .110
Weaverville ......••..... Trinity ..•....... · · ·. · · · · · · · 27
Wheatland ..•...•.••..... Nicolaus .......... · .... · · · .129
Whittier •.•...•..•.•..•.. Whittier ................ · · • .323
Winters ............•••..Buckeye •.....•.. · ·. · . · · · · · .195
Willits ...........•..•.•. Willits ...•.•.......... · · · · .365
Willows ..... • ........•.. ,Laurel ..•.......• · · ... • · • · · 245
Windsor .................Russian River ........... · · · .181
Williams .•.•..•.....••.••Tuscan ..•....... · • · · • · · · · · · 261
Wilmington .....•...•.•••Wilmington •........... · · · · .198
Woodbridge •....•....... Woodbridge ....... · .•. · · · · .131
Woodland ..........•...•Woodland .....•. · · · · • · · · · · .156
Yolo ...................•.Yolo ..... · ..... · · · · · · • · · · · · 81
Yreka .. , ................ St. John's ........ · · · .. · · .. · 37
'' ................... Howard .......•........... · 96
Yuba City ..•..••.•.....• Enterprise •...... · · · · · · · · · · · 70

INDEX.
A
AccouNTs-Report of Committee on............................•·-···················•······--155
ADDRESS-Of Grand Master. (See also Grand Master) .............;..•......•- .•7
ADVANCEMENT-Denied ..................................................••.•...........•..........122, 128
Objection to............•........;.............,,.....·-····-····.--.···············-·······125, 12:9
AGE QUALIFICA'l'IONS....•;..................................................................~ ....'......126, 130
AMENDMENT To CONSTITUTION..................................,............•......114, 194, 227
Al-'PROPRIATIONS ................................................,.............•.................•. 187, 188, 190
ATKINSON, EDMUND c.-Memorial Address by..,......................,................135

B
BALLOT-Black ball overlooked..............................................................122, 128
BELCHER, WM. C.-Presentation of painting of........................ 116, 193, 194
BF.NITo ]UAREz-Grand Lodge of-Relative to........:.........................117, 200
BLEDSOE, BENJAMIN F.-Oration
, ....................................................................175
BOARDS oF RELIEF-( See Relief) ....................................................................
BURIAL ·····························-···:......•..........:.....................................................125, 129
BY-LAws-Amendments to...........................................-...................................••....33
Necessity for modification of.•............................................................17
Report of Committee on ................................................•...................204

c
CANDIDATES-Conferring Degrees upon for other J urisdictions............17
CARR, RoY NATHAN-Report of Committee on trial record of............182
CHAPLAIN-Who eligible to office of.................................................... 124, 129
CHARGEs-J urisdiction to entertain •.....................................................123, 128
CHARITY CoMMITTl!E-Expenditure of funds by. (See also Relief) .............................................- ......................................................... 124, 128
CHARITY-Lodges to report expenditures for ......................................45, 141
CHARTERS-Issued to new Lodges...:.........................................................•..•.211
R eport of Committee on....................................................................203
CLAIBORNE, GILBERT B.-Memorial service in honor of...........................•135
CLANDESTINE MASONRY.......................................................- ················-···········..l9

ii

INDEX.

INDEX.

CoMMITTEts APPOINTED-On By-Law•···-············-··-······················-·········-114
On Charters........·-···················-·-···································-······-··········llf
I
On Grand Lecturer's R.~rt. -·'··············:·······································$9
On Grand Master's A4da11s11. ....._: .. _.....;.....•...........•.........-.••.......30
On Grand Secretary's ;Report......................................................... --~

1

On Necr.ology.........................................................-····-·············-·······JS5
On portrait of Wm. C. Beloher........................................................117
CoMMITTl!ts-Standing, list of........:.............................:....................•...- .......

:no

CONCURRENT ]URISDIC'l'ION............-·····························································-······16
CONSOLIDATION OF Looo~--'-·······-·-·············-'·······························: .....,.....126; 129
CONSTITUTION-Amendment to Sec. 11, Art. III, Part 3........114, 194, 227
CoaRESPONDtNCE-Report on .. (Appendix following, page 249) ........
C11EDENTIALs-Rcport of Committee on................................................49, 187
CRlMt-Proceedings against Masons convicted of......................................17

D
D<:CREts-Applicants for who do not speak English........................156, 199
Conferring for other Juri5dictions........•.........................17, 124, 128
When may be conferFec;l.......................................-··········-····12Z 128
DENNIS, ]Ac~spN-Report of Committee on trial record of..................184
DJ MIT ..................,......,... _.............,,..,,.-.:····-·················'···········.-··-·-··-.,-····1~ 130
Form for on restoration,...............• .... ·-·········-'···-·-·········-······-···-·~
DlPLOMA-Presentation as a reward for learning lectures.......................88.
DIPLOMAS-Small siz;c.....................:....................................-•.....4$, 134, 141, 189
DJsPtNSATIONs-Amendments to By-~ws................- ...................•..........204
Issued ...........•.........,•..,,.......,,.........., .•,.•..........., ........•.;......,.....,......32, 170
DuEs-Delinquency-Voting at elections............................................123, 128
Vvhen period of neglect to pay commences ..........................123, 128
When liability for ceases..........................................................125, 129·

E
Euo:CTION oF GRAND. 0.FFictlls..................................................- ........................208.
EMPLOYM£NT BUREAU-Los Angeles......................·-···········-·······-···············95
EXPENSES OF GRAND Lol>Gt......................................................................-·-··-···37
ExPuLsioNs AFFIRMto.....................................................................- ..................229

F
Ftl!s-Forfeiture of..........,....,......................-·······································-····126, 129
F1Rt EscAPJ; AT MASONIC HoMJ!................................................- ..........170, 190
FuNtUL B£!:ill1J'fS....,..,.....,.,......•..,,.............................,.•......................._.•..•122, 128

u. s. s.

iii

0

GAVEL FROM
CONS'1'1'l'urto#...;_........................................................ttl
OJ!NERAL CONFERENCE-Report of Committee on Jurisprudence relative to ····························-··:..........................................................................n
GRAND LEcTURE·1 t-Report of......................................................,....................,...87
Report of Committee on Repoyt of....•.............,.............................174
Salary-Resolution incteasing................................................156, 188
GRAND LODGE-Assets 6f......•·····················-····················:...............;...................t;/
Expenses of..............................................................................;...............37
Officers since organization ···························-·································24(i
GRAND LoDCES OF UNITED STATES AND CANADA..........................................Z4S
GRAND lVIASTER's Aoouss ....................................- ................................................7
Amendments to By-taws...........................................................- .......17
. Clandestine Masonry............................................................................19
Concurrent jurisdiction...................:....................................................16
Conferring degrees for other jurisdictions..................................17
Decisions ..................................•...............................................................15
Dispensations granted-Report of Committee on....- ................170
Distribution of subject matter..........- .........- ..................................140
General Conference of Grand Bodies................- ............................20
Italian relief ····································································-··-···"···.........14
Manual-Relative to...............~··········-··············-··-······-•·•--·-.........15
Masonic Home..............................................................................- •.........9
Masonic Schools in lreland...............................................................23
Masonic Temple............................................,...................................•.....22
Necrology .............................·-·········-···········•..................................."···-·8
Old Reports.................................-···················-- ··"·········..···············...... 15
Philippine Lodges...·-···-····-·······-····-·····················-··- •·········--··········18
Proceedings against Masons convicted of crime.........,................17
Recommendations as to legisla.tion................-···-···········-··············16
Relief of Mrs. N. S. Tingley....•..............-..........-·-··········-·····--···.24
Report of Masonic Home Trustees..........•.......................................26
Restoration of non·resident.......................................................- .......16
Suspension of J . N . Pascoe....................................- ........................23
Visitations ............................................:........................................- .......21
GRAND OFFICERS-List of..........................................•............................-.............4
Election of............................................................................................208
GRAND 0RAtoR-Address of....................................................: ....:.........;..........1,.$

iv

INDEX.

GRAND ORIENT OF ITALY-Relative to recognition of................................2Qlll.
Gl!AND SECR!:TARY-Accotmts-Report of Committee: on ........................155
Annual Report of.. .. ....... ........ :............................................................. 31
Distribution of subj ect matter...........,................................u .....;.,...14\
Receipts and disbursements .......'.......;:................•.....i.. ••0.••••••••••••••- -••:\f
Statement of receipts ........,~1••- •••••••••••••••••, ................... - ..-·-•-.; •••••••.212'
GRAND TREASURER-Report of.......,...................................,................;- .............46
GRIEVANCE CoMMITTEE-(See Reports of Committees) ..........................

H
HALL-Use of by other organizatioits.......................~·························.125, 129
HEATING PLANT AT MASONIC HOME......................................................170, 190
HICKS, JOHN L.-Report of Committee as to trial oL.................,......... 172
HOME-( See Masonic Home) ........................................................................
HorE LODGE, No. 234-Duplicate charter for ......................................157, 192
HOSPITAL AT MASONIC HOME..................................................................170, 190

I
INSTALLATION OF OFFICERS-Failure to qualify.........:........................ 123, 128
Who may conduct service df...............:..................................125, 129
ITALY-.Grand Orient of-Relative to recognition ...........................~ ........2ffi
ITALIAN R!LiEF................................................................................................14, 34
Disposition of surplus fund ..............................................................189

J
JEWELS FOR PAST MASTERS-Contributions for .............................:....134, 200
JURISDICTION-Concurrent ...................................................................;..............16' .
General Conference as to ..................................................................:.20
Mistaken understanding......................................:......................125, 129
Over unincorporated territory...................................;............122, 128
To act upon petition for restoration......................................127, 133
JURISPRUDENCE-Report of Committee on..........................................122, 127
(See also Reports of Committees.)

K
KF.NT, RICHARD WALPOLE-Trial record ......................................................206
K EYSTONE LODGE, No. 161-Relief of....................................................121, 188
KEY WEST- Appropriations for sufferers at................................................. 191
KILAUEA LoDGE, No. 330-Remission of dues of................................135, 188

INDEX:

L
l,Aw-Collaboration of-Relative .to...:...........................................- ..............20
l,AWLER, OSCAR-Presentation to .................:.................................................210
Presentation of gavel by.................•····-··•-.····'···-···-·····-················.116
Request to sit for portrait..:.........•....,....................:....- ....~.............:193
(See also Grand Master's Address.)
J,ICTURES-Diplomas for committing................................................................88
Report of Committee relative to candidates ................................174
Senior Deacons-Report of Ritual Committee..........................174
J,J1'E MEMBERSHIP-Power to rescind ..................................................127, 130
J,1gu0Rs-Petitions for degrees from sellers of................................135, 201
Use of ....................•....................................~ ........•.......124, 126, 129, 132
U se of by bodies other than Lodges.................•....................12.6, 132
l,JST oF LoDGES............:.......................,...............................:......................•...:......230
l,1.0YD, REUBEN HEDLEY-Memorial service in honor of..........................135
l,ODCES CHARTERED.................................................•........•.....................................211
Constituted, 1908..........,..............................................•..........................31
Consolidation of...................................................................:......126, 129
Dues paid by...........................................................~ ............................146
List of........................................:.............................................................230
Meetings out of doors ................................................................157, 202
Numerical standing of ten largest..................................................154
Returns of..............................................................................................142
l.OJ>CE RooM-Use of by other organizations......................................123, 128

M
MANUAL-Relati'le to ..........................................:.................................................15
l\1ASONIC HOME-Elevator at.. ................................................................170, 190
Fire escapes at............................................................................170, 190
Grand Master's remarks on..................................................................9
Heating plant at. .........................................................................1701 190
Hospital at....................................................................................170, 190
Per capita tax for~·-·-······'-····-··· ..·-····-·············....:..............:...........189
Presentation of report of Special Committee on...........:..........118
Presentation of report of Trustees................................................118
Proposed amendment to report of Special Committee............159
Receipts and disbursements.....,.............:..............:.............................48
Report as to title of San Gabriel Home.................;......~.............133

vi

INDEX.

INDEX.

MASONIC HoM:E-Continued.
Report of Special Committee 9~·..................- .........._.....................l#

PoaTRArTs oF PAST GRAND MAsT:ERs...................................................... 182, 190
Paoc:E:EDINGs-Old-Relative to..................
~
i ..........15, 45, 190

Report of Trustees to Grand Master_ ....- ...·-····-·•···········..26,
118
I
Resolutions relative to.........·-·········-···"·"····"······"·······118, 157, 158
Thanks to Special Committee Oi\....~..............................................169
MASONIC ScHooLs IN lRl!LAN~Proxy for Grand Master.............23, 202
MASONIC T:EMPU AssocIATION-Finance Committee-Report of
relative to .............................,.." .................,...................................l9a
Grand Master's report on...:_..........•.............................................:.....
Reference of report of..............,..;................,...................................:..116
Report of Assooiation...................•.,......•....................................•......118
Stock-Sale of-To whom may be offered................................192
MASONRY IN TH:E PHILIPPIN:Es-Report of Committee on...................... 65
MAUI LoDCI!, No. 984-Relative to change of allegiance............................89
MEMB:E!!SHIP oF Loooii:s...........................,...........................................................230
M~:MBl!RSHIP--Transfer of .....................................................:................125, 129
M:EMORIAL p AGllS . ........................................ .................................~••.••••.••••••••••••••.220
M:EMORIAL S:ERVIC:ES ......................................,...........................•.......................,.. 135

22

N
NI!ALIS, JoHN-Report of Committee on trial record of........................182
NF.FF, JACOB HART-Memorial service in honor of....................................135
Presentation of portrait of.............................................- .........139, 194
N:ERNEY, THOMAS AL:Ex1s-Report of Committee on trial record of.... 184
NoN-AFFILIAT:E-Right to visit................................................................122, 130
NoN-PAYM:ENT oF Du:Es-Restoration for ........................................................16

0
Or-FIC:ERs-Grand-Election 0£.................-..........................-...........................ll
OFFIC:ERS oF GRAND LoDGt-List of............- .........................,............................--4.
OsBORN, DANI:EL-Report of Committee on trial record of....................1$3

p
PACIFIC LoDG:E, No. 822-Relative to charter for ..............................139, 198
PAY OF M:EMB:ERS-Report of Committee
195
Pl(TITION-Objection to ...............~................................:...:.......•..•............127, 130
PHILIPPIN:Es-Masonry in-Relative to ..................:.......................................:.18
Report of Special Committee otr................. _.....................;~..............65
Thanks to Con'lmittee..................................:.......................................121

on....................:.........................

vii

y . . .. . . . . . . . . . .-

••••••• ••

R
R:EC:EIPTS OP GRAND LoDGl!..............................................................:...................212
Rl!LI:EF-Appropriations for Boards of.......................................................... 187
Italian earthquake sufferers.................................................. 14, 34, 189
Investigation of methods ................................................................~ ...117
Of Keystone Lodge, No. 161............................................................121
Of Mrs. N. S. Tingley..........................................................................24
Report of Committee relative to method of dispensing..........189
Report of Los Angeles Board of.........................................,............94
Report of Oakland Board of............................................................ 109
Report of San Francisco Board of....................................................89
Sufferers at Key West........................................................................ 191
R:ELIGrous Sl!avrcts-Wearing Lodge clothing at..................,...........122, 127
R:EPORT o~· GRAND LJ!CTURl!R................................................................................87
Of Grand Secretary...........................................:..............................:...31
Of Grand Treasurer..............................................................................46
RF.PORTS o~· COMMITT:EI!s-Accounts................................................................155
By-Laws ................................................................................................204
Cha rte rs ..........................................................., ....................................203
Correspondence (see pages following 249) ................................
Credentials ......................................................................................49, 187
Distribution of reports ....;.......................................,....:......................140
Finance Committee-Appropriations........_. ...........187, 188, 190, 191
Claims of \Parious Lodges·........................................................188
Diplomas-Small size ..............................................................189
Italian Relief Fund...................................................................... 189
Keystone Lodge, No. 161-Remission of dues ..........121, 188
Kilauea Lodge, No. 330--Remission of dues........................188
Masonic Temple Association....................................................192
Per capita tax f9r Masonic Homes........................................189
Portrait of retiring Grand Master.............................:.......... 193
Proceedings-Binding of old............................: .......................190
Relief-Methods of dispensing................................................189

viii

INDEX.

REPdRTs OF COMMITTEES-Continued.
Grievances-Carr, Roy Nathan...:.......•.•...,-•-···-··;.....··- · - - Dennis, Jackson...........,......,....................- ...................................
Hicks, John L .......-....;;:...........................................,........•..~.•·-·~
Kent, Richard Walpoli:...................,.......:..............................o\>. . .
Nealis, John ................:.......<.....~............................-·-·•·····•·-·-•..· · •
N erny, Thomas A ......,.........................._ ......................,.................184'
Osborn, Daniel..............................:.... _.;..__._..__,,._.r. ••.•.~...........183
Waugh, Benjamin J ....··'"-·····-·····--··•·····---'·~-........................172
Wolf, Charles.........................................................,.......;............•.172
Trial recdrds ......................................:•...-~...................,-.................171
J urisprudence-Advaricement denied - ................................122, 128
Objection to ........,......:,..•...;.;,............... .,.,.........;.....,.••......•... 125, 129
Age qualifications ;..:.....:,..................;.............;.....:...u •••: •••.126, 130
Amendment to Sec. 11, Art. III, Part 111........:.................194
Ballot-Black ball overlooked........:..............,..................122, 128
Burial .............................................•.;...........................;.........12$, 129
Chaplain-Who eligible to office oL......,..............:.;....124, 129
Charity Committee-Expenditure of funds by..........124, i28
Consolidation of Lodge$•..;.........................:..- ..................126, 129
Degree-Conferring for other jurisdictions......:.........124, 128
When may be conferred....................................................122, 128
Dispensations-Report as to those granted by Grand
l\!Iaster .............................,...........,..........................................170
Degrees-Applicants for who do not speak English ........199
Dimit ···:-··;·--····-;"'...,."''"'"'"'··-··"··..·······"··-"···········"·"'·"·"·126, 130
Dues-Delinquency-Voting at elections....................123, 128
When liability for ceases.........................:...:..............125, 129
When period of neglect to · pay commences ........123, 128
Fers-'-Forfeiture of ..~ ......,........................- ................... 126, 129
Funeral Benefits........, .....,..:,....••..:...................- ...•.........:.....122, 128
General Conference-Relative to..........................- ...................202
Grand Lodge Benito Juatez...................-.•..... J .........................200
Hall-Use of by other organizations..............•.- ............ 125, 129
Hope Lodge, No. 378-Meetings out of doors ....................202
Installation of officers-Failure to qualify....,................123, 128
Installation-Who may conduct service oL.............. 125, 129
Jewels for Past Masters-Contributions for ......................200

INDEX.

ix-:

REPORTS OF COMMITTEES-.Continued.
Jurisdiction-Mistaken understanding................,...,,....,,125, 129
Jurisdiction over unincorporated territory........,... 122, 128
Jurisdiction to act upon petition for res_toration.•,.,..-127, 133
Jurisdiction to entertain charges..-........••~ ....................,123, 128
Life Membership-Power to rescind............................127, 130
Liquors-Petition for degrees from sellers ot,.."...,..,.........201
Liquors-Use of ....:....9•········-·'"¥······-··......... 124, 126, 129, 132
Lodges, Consolidation of........................,.............,,.....,...,126, 129
Lodge Room~Use of by other organiz;ttioris.,............ 123, 128
Membership-'l'ransfer of ...........:...•,.....:...,..........,.....,...... 125, 129
Non-Affiliate-Right to visit... ,...:............................,.......122, 130
Pacific Lodge, No. 822-Relative to ...........;.....,.,.. _..,_.......:198
Petition-Objection to ...................~.................................127, 130
Proxy for Grand Master for Masonic Schools in
Ireland ...................,..-........................_ ....-.......,_,,".,..........202
Religious Services-Wearing Lodge clothing at....•...122, 127
Restoration after suspension...........................,...............,125, 129
Secretary-,Duty of as to status of members..............124, 128
Smoking in Lodge rooms ...........................,......,....,.......,...........200
Trial-Evidence ...i ••• : ••, ..........- ....- •••••- ................ ...., .........124, 131
Right to counsel...................,_.....................,..............124, 131
Trials-Charges .......- ......:...,......................;............~ ..........126. 131
Masonic Home-Report of Special Committee.......................... 159
Pay of members...... ;................~ .......- ........................,..........................195
Returns ...................................................................................:.........-...142
Title to Masonic Home.........,............................................................133
Rl!PRESENTATIVE hR CAPITA TAX....................................................................197
REPRESENTATIVES TO GRAND Looct-Mileage al!owed................................146
RESOLUTIONS-Degrees-Applicants for who do not speak English ....................................................................................:.....156, 199
Diplomas-Small .size ..........................,...................45, 134, 141, 189
Elevator at Masonic Home:...........................................:......~..170, 190
Fire escape at Masonic Home.......................:.......:..~ .......:.......170, 190
Grand Orient of Spain-Relative to ...............................~ ............:.~.!17
Heating Plant-Masonic Home..........................:...................170, 190
Hope Lodge, No. 234-Duplicate charter for ......................157, 192
H ospital-Masonic Home.......................................................... 170, 190
H, . . .

x.

INDEX.

INDEX.

RitsoLUTIONs-Continued.
Italian Relief Fund-Disposition of siirplus...,............................189
Jewels for Past Masters..•.....~-············-······..~·-·-··--··············134, 200
Keystone Lodge, No. 161-Remission of dues .........,..................188
Kilauea Lodge, No. 330-Remission of dues of................135, 188
Liquors-Petition for degrees from sellers of....................135, 201
Masonic Home-Relative to ............................................118, 157, 158
Per capita tax for support of..............................- ..........................189
Masonic Temple Association Stock-To whom may be sold..192
Pacific Lodge, No. 822-Relative to charter for ................139, 198
Paintings of Past Grand Masters.......•.:................................182, 190
Relief-Methods of dispensing.................._...•.•.•...•................117, 189
Salary of Grand Lecturer.....·-···················-·········-··················156, 188
Senior Deacon-Lecture of.....................,.......
120
Smoking in Lodge rooms.: ........................................«·····.........134, 200
Thanks for presentation of portrait of Wm. C. Belcher........194
Thanks for presentation of portrait of J. H. Neff....................194
RESTORATION AFTER SusPltNsioN..........••.........•.......... _............................125, 129
m ................................

Denied ...... _................................. _.........·-·····--······-··..-····..············229
Of non-resident .....................................................................................:16
Petition of Benjamin J. Waugh for .................-........,..................:171
RETURNS-Report of Committee on............_................................................142
RISING STAR Loocit, No. 83-Suspension of a member of....:.....................23
RITUAL-Reference of resolution to Committee on..................................121
Report of Committe.e as to Senior Deacon.................................. 174

s
ScoTTISH Rrn: CATHltDRAL-Cornerstone-Laying of.............................. 114
SF.CR:ETARY-Duty of as to status of members....:.................:........... ~.124, 128
SENIOR D£ACON-Lecture ol.........:.................:...:............................................. l~
SMOKING IN Looc£ ·Roows ...........:.......................................:...... :.............134, 200
Sl'AIN-Grand Orient of-Resolutions relative· to.............:........................87
SusP£NsioNs A:Fl'IRMJtD.................................:...:.........:........................~..~..........229
Susr£NSION OF J. N. PAsco-Relative to .............................. ~......:..................23
Restoration after~.........................................:.............................:.125, 129

xi

T
TAFT, WILLIAM H.-Letter from .........................................................- ...--.115
TF.xAs-Edict of Grand Master of relative to Grand Lodge Benito
Juarez ····························································-·······-··--·-··············117
TINGL£Y, MRS. N. s.-Relief of................................:.....................................24
TRIALS-Charges .....................................................................................-126, 131
TRIAL-Evidence ........................................................................................124, 131
Right to counsel............................................................................124, 131
TRIALS-New-Ordered ........................................................- ..........................229
TRIAi. RECORDS-List of and reports on..32, 171, 172, 173, 182, 183, 184, 206

v
VISIT-Right of non·affiliate to..............................................................122, 130
VISITATIONS OF GRAND MASTJIR................................................................- ........21

w
WoLF, CHARLl!s-Report of Committee as to trial of..............................172

GRAND OFFICERS
OF THE

Grand Lodge of California
FOR

Year Commencing October, A. L. 5909.

M.". W.". W. FRANK Pn:RcE . .... Grand Master ..... San Francisco~
( Postoffice Address, 7th and Market Sts., San Francisco.)
R.". W.". DANA R. WELLER ..... . Dep. Gr. Master . .. I.os Angeles;
R.". W.". ALONZO ]. MoNROE ... . Sen. Cr. Warden . . Eureka;
R.". W.". WILLIAM P. FILMER .. .. Jun~ Gr. Warden .. San Francisco;
V.". W.". EDWARD COLEMAN ...... Grand Treasurer .. San Francisco;
V.". W.". JoHN WHJCHER ...... .. Grand Secretary .. San Luis Obispo;
(Postoffice Address, 901 Call Bldg., San Francisco.)
V.". W.". THOMAS J. BAKER .. . .. Grand Lecturer ... Sacramento;
v. ·. R. ·. ERNEST E. BAKER . . . .. . Grand Chaplain ... Oakland;
W. ·. CHARLES A. ADAM s . . . . Grand Orator . .... San Francisco;
. w. ·. HARRY S. JoHNsoN ... . Asst. Grand Sec ... San Francisco;
W.". WILLIAM KETTNER .... . Grand Marshal .. . San Diego;
W.". LEo V. YouNGWOR'fH .. Gr. Stan'd Bearer.. Los Angeles;
W.". JAMES B. McGREW ... . G1·. Sword Beat'cr.Berkeley;
W.". WILLIAM S. MosES ... . Cr. Bible Bearer . . San Francisco;
w:. WILSON C. PONDER ... . Sen. Gr. Deacon . . Redding;
W.". JoHN H. BEAN ....... .Jun. Gr. Deacon . . Los Angeles;
w:. JoHN F. MORGAN ..... .Sen. Gr. Steward .. Sacramento;
W .". FRED W. VAN SICKLEN .Jun. Gr. Steward .. Alameda ;
W.". JoHN E. GRIES . . . .... . Grand Pursuivant.Ferndale;
W. ·• SAMUEL D. MAYER .... Grand Organist . .. San Francisco;
w:. GEO. P. ADAMS .... . .. •Grand Tyler ..... . S::ln Francisco;
1

ROSTER
OF TIIB

SUBORDINATE LODGES
lJNDRR T HE JURISDICTION OF TllF:

Grand Lodge of California
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JULY 31, A. L. 5909,
.WITH OFFICERS FOR 5910.

CALIFORNIA LODGE, No. 1.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, First Thursday in each month.
Golden Gate Commandery Hall.
OFFICERS:

William Charles Hassler, Master,
Samuel David Mayer, Organist,
540 Page Street
Edwin Curtis Young, Senior Deacon,
Paul Milton Downing, Se11. Warden, William Hasting Harrelson, /. Dea.,
Harvey Arrington Marvin, Ju11. War., Harry Lincoln Dewey, Marshal,
!\.ugust Herrmann Muller, Treasurer, James Coker Sims, Steward,
Edward Peabody, Secretary,
Jesse Meigs Whited, Steward,
101 Post Street
George Perrin Adams, Tyler.
Abbott, William Martin
Adair, Charles James
Adams, Charles Hitchcock
Adams, George Perrin
Adams, Henry Willis
Ahman, Amandus
Alderson, Harry Everett
Alexander, Archibald Moore
Alexander, Loren
Alexander, William Stanley
Allison, Edward Ralston
Ames, George Elias

MEMBERS:
Archer, Albert Sayres
Archer, Jamee, Jr.
Ascroft, Henry, P. M.
Avery, William Henry
Babcock, John Pease
Backman, Gotthard Sigismund
Baker, Charles Henry
Baldwin, Frederick Albert
Bannister, Alfred
Barbier, Howard Frederic
Baum, David Andrew
Ba11meister, Bernhardt HP.rmann

ROSTER
Beanston, George Alexander
Beanston, Wallace Hall
Bengtson, John
Bennett, George Edward
Bennett, William Henry
Benson, John Adelbert
Binning, Charles
Birdsall, Ernest Stratton
Black, Howard
Black, Orlow
Blake, Alfred Edward
Blakiston, Duncan George
Bliss, Walter Danforth
Blossom, Henry Eckford
Bocarde, George Uriah
Bocarde, James Blain
Boggs, Angus Gordon
Bonner, Andl"0w
Boobar, James Guptill
Boole, Fred Warren
Bradbury, Alfred William
Bragg, Robert
Brice, William
Brink, Charles Henry
Brittan, Nathaniel Jones
Brittingham, Elisha Franklin
Brown, Albert Webster
Brown, Andrew Washington
Brown, Herbert Flint
Brown, Jo.B ph Anthony
Brown, Roland Gair
Brown, William Anderson
Brumagim, Mark
Buckbee, Samuel Griggs
Burden, Wilson
Burkhart, Henry Zadoc
Burnet, Henry Melnott
Burns, Robert, Jr.
Busse, Frank Adolf
Campbell, George French
Cannell, Samuel Bartley
Carles, Honvre Romolo
Carson, George Ryckman
Caswell, Marion F.
Caverly, LeRoy Eugene

Chadwick, George Charles
Chamberlin, William Daniel
Chandler, Charles Strother
Chapman, Albert Jules
Chaquette, Camille Adams
Childs, George, P. M.
Christenson, Edwin Axel
Clark, Edward Joseph
Clark, John Franklin
Cline, Cecil Cephas
Cline, Henry Augustus, P. M.
Clough, Theodore Neilson
Cobb, William Lewis
Cochell, John Thomas
Coffee, Ernest Haquette
Cogswell, James Lafayette, P . M .
Cole, Percy John
Coles, Charles Petley
Colter, Arthur Newton
Comstock, John. Felt Osgood
Conihgham, Grove
Conlisk, Charles William
Connick, Harris DeHaven
Coppage, John Clark
Corbus, Adam William
Corbus, John Parker
Cornwall, Bruce
Cowell, John Leslie
Cox, Frank Van Ness
Coxhead, Almeric W. Sylvester
Craig, Homer Theodore
Crim, William Henry
Crocker, Henry Joseph
Crocker, William, P. M.
Crocker, William Henry
Crothers, George Edward
Crothers, Thomas Graham
Culverwell, Richard Stephen, P. M.
Cummings, Walter Bailey
Cunningham, Arthur George
Cunningham, John Francis
C11shing, Fnnk Worthy, P M.
Daggett, John Randolph
Dallam, Fred Boothby
Dalton, Franklin

ROSTER
!Jalton, 'j:'homas Benton
Dam, Francis Herbert
Davis, Charles Frederick
Davis, Harold Edgeworth
Davis, Milo Smith
Day, Franklin Henry, P. M.
DeConinck, Frank Camille
Deering, Thomas Patrick
Degen, Walter
Detrick, Henry Lyster
Dewey, Daniel L.
Dewey, Harry Lincoln
Dewey, William Pierce
Dickinson, John Henry, P. M.
Dietterle, George, P. M.
Dingwall, George Isabel
Dixon, John
Doble, William Ashton
Dobler, Charles
Dohrmann, William Charles
Dorn, Diademus Socrates
Dougherty, Charles Medley, P. M.
Dow, Wallace Hanscom
Dowling, Thomas Henry
Downing, Paul Milton
Drake, Frank Babbitt
Drake, Robert Morris
Duffie, Christopher Wilson
Duncanson, Dugald Henry
Dunker, John Adolph
Dunn, James
Earl, Sumner Fremont
Easton, Daniel Elisha Foote, P. M.
Easton, Thomas Chalmers, Jr.
Eastwood, Joseph
Eckart, William Roberts
Eddy, Richard A.
Edwards, Frederick Jay
Edwards, Rodney Miller
Edwards, Thomas Miller
Effinge.r, John Henry
Eisenmann, Philip Joseph
Eitel, Edward Everett
Elliott, Albert Gladstone
Elliot, John P.

Elwert, Charles Philip
Erlin, George Edwin
Erlin, Frank William
Etting, Charles William
Etting, William August
Everett, Oliver
Everett, Wallace Washburn
Ewart, David Fraser
Farley, Walter Hawthorne
Farnsworth, Millard Allen
Farquharson, David
Faulkner, Charles Alfred
Ferguson, Tilghman HowarJ
Feusier, Clarence Louis
Fiege, Arthur Conrad
Finck, Julius
Firth, Joseph Kirk
Fish, Edward Nye
Fisher, W. Charles Henry
Flagg, William Henry
Fletcher, Thomas
Flood, Arthur Morris
Fonda, William Thomas, P. M.
Forbes, William Henry
Foy, Charles William
Frank, John
Franklin, Max John
Fraser, Hugh
Fredericks, George
Fulcher, Charles Nelson
Gale, Frank Walter
Gantner, John Oscar
Gardner, Samuel James
Garibaldi, Stephen Joseph
Gawne, Walter Whitfield
Gehret, Frederick
Geilfuss, Carl
Gere, George Grant, P. M.
Gibson, Jam es Spaulding
Gilbert, Louis Julius
Gillson, John
Givens, James David
Glass, Louis, P. M.
Gleason, George Ruggles
Golcher, Henry Coughlin

5

6
Gould, Lewis Allen
Golcher, William James, P. M.
Graff, Ukich
Graham, Gerald Oakeley
Granz, Charles Henry
Grau, Louis Henry
Green, Charles Ernest
Greenhood, Hugo Oscar
Grier, Arthur Jay
Griffith, John Beruth
Griffith, John Wesley
Grimes, George Lyman, P. M.
Hackett, Francis Marion, P. M.
Hafner, George William
Hagmaier, Charles
Haight, Robert Fletcher
Hall, Norman Freeman
Hall, Robert
Halliday, George Webster
Halsey, Theodore Vail
Hamilton, Hiram Milton
Hammer, William Hollingsworth
Hand, William Mulford
Hanssen, Olaf Jor!!'en
Harrelson, William Hasting
Harrison, Alvin Benjamin
Harrison, Samuel Ingleby
Hart,· Edward Henry Jr.
HaseltiDe, Charl~s Woodward
Hassler, William Charles
Haven, Charles Dwight
Hayward, Henry Martin
Heald, Edward Payson
Hedstrom, Bernard .
Helen, Richard
Helm, William James
Helman, Gilbert Wayne
Henderson, Thomas Louden
Henry, George Jackson, Jr.
Herrington, Charles Howell
Heuer, George Frederick
Heyer, William Christopher
Heywood, William Brewer
Hickei, Oscar Herbert
Hills, Ernest Herbert, P. M.

ROSTER

ROSTER
Hilton, Joseph Henry
Hinton, Arthur William
Hoffman, Henry Nathaniel
Hoffman, John
Hoitt, Ralph Howland
Holt, Cyril Edward
Holzheid, Armin Rudolph
Hood, George
Hopkins, Mathl'w Leander
Hosmer, Harrie Bordley
Houghton, Robert Otis
Howard, Horace Pember
Howard, Horace Zerah
Howard, Joseph Louis
Hubbard, Henry Calvin
Hubbard, Thomas Jay
Huested, Orson Justus
Hufschmidt, George Frederick
Hunt, John Hosford
Hunt, Richard Hosford
Hunt, William Black
Hunter, Robert Aitchison
Itsell, Andrew Jackson
Jacoby, Julius Herman
James, Frank
Jeffers, Milo Sidney
Jenner, Charles Kirkham
Jessup, John DeLamater
Johnson, Charles Orrick
Johnson, Ernest Lincoln L.
Johnson, George, P. M.
Johnson, Mathias
'Johnson, Roosevelt
Johnston, Charles Robert
.Tones, Edward Kirkland
Kahles, Frank
Keech, Theodore David
Keech, Willis Howard
Keesling, Francis Valentine, P. M.
Keil, George Frederic
Kelso, John
Kemp, J ·o hn Henry
Kerrell, Albert George Daw
Kimble, Liston
King, Joseph Libbey

Kingsbury, George William
Kinne, Charles Mason
Kinsey, Charles Caswell
Kirk, Robert
Kirkpatrick, Thomas
Kittredge, Ralph Bell
Klein, John Edward
Kline, James Joseph
Knight, Edward Dexter
Knight, George Alexander
Knighton, Robert
Koenig, Frank
Koenig, Gustav William
Kohler, Henry
Kreeger, Charles Strouse
Kuehn, George Washington
Kuehn, Victor August
Lacey, Edgar Robinson
r,aGrange, Millard Fillmore
Lake, Edward Hills
Landers, John
Landgrebe, Robert George
Larken1 James Frederic
Lathrop, Charles Leonard
Lauffer, Charles
Lee, John, Jr.
Leinhardt, John
Libby, Warren Thompson
Likens, James William
Long, Seely Frederick
Low, Joseph Coolidge
Low, Thomas Griffin
Lowe, Leon Percival
Lyons, James Henry
Mackay, Walter Shirlaw
Madden, Wi~es Cuyler
Malmgren, Niles Peter
Mann, Azro Levi
Marshutz, Leon Charles
Martell, Harry Gaylord
Martin, James Christopher
Martin, Minor Silas
Martin, Robert Samuel
Marvin, Frank William
Marvin, Harvey Arrington

Marvin, Harvey LeFevre
Marye, Geo.rge Thomas
Matheson, Duncan
Mathews, George Sumner
Matthews Arthur Wellington
Mau, William Frederick
Maxwell, Harry Jennings
Mayer, Samuel David
Maynard, James, Jr.
Mayo, Henry Browne
Mccollister, William Morse
Mcconkey, Thomas Graham
Mccurdy, Daniel
McFarlane, Peter Dunn
McKay, James Finlay
McKee, Joseph Claybaugh, P. M.
McLaren, Donald
McLean, Neil A.
McMillan, Robtrt, P. M.
McNaught, John
McNear, George Washington
McWilliams, John Adam
Meigs, Anson Woodman
Merrill, John Francis
Mersing, George Julius Martin
Merton, Lewis Burrell
Milling, William
Mills, Frederick Clinton
Mills, William Lucas Bisset
Mitchell, John Samuel
Moore, Andrew
Moore, Charles Cadwell
Moore, Charles Parker
Moore, Robert S.
Moore, William Lewis
Hoormann, Julius Chr;stl'Ae:r
Morehouse» George Wilbur
Morey, Ellwood Perry
Morrison, William Hamilton
Morrow, William Stuart
Morton, Julius W etzlar
Muller, Adolphe
Muller, August Herrmann
Munch, Robert
Murdock, George Leonard

7

8

ROS·fER

Murgatroyd, Ben
Murschel, Albert
Nagel, Louis Mortimer/
.Neal, Charles Sanders
Nelson, Benjamin Henry
Nelson, Elmer Ellsworth
Nelson, James Brown
Newell, William Harold, Jr.
Newlands, John Cassell
Newman, George Howard
Newton, George Francis
Nickerson, Frank William
Niggle, John George
Noteware, Edward Washington
Olsen, William
Ormond, John Allyn
Orne, William Henry
Otersen, Herman
Ouer, Frederick Frank
Owens, Henry Morgan, P. MPalmer, Brooks
Parker, Harvey Drury
Patton, Charles Lewis, P. G. M.
Payne, George Lingard
Peabody, Edward, P. M.
Peabody, Edward William, P M
Pendergast, James Albert
Perkins, Thomas Allen
Perrin, Howard Elmer
Peters, James Frank
Peterson, Howard Bertram
Pfaeffie, Robert William
Phelps, Charles David
Phillips, William Rippard
Pierce, William Byron
Platt, Horace Garvin
Plevin, James Ralph
Plincz, John Karol
Plum, Charles Mortimer, P. M.
Plummer, Alvin
Porter, Abel Willard
Powers, Frank H.
Putnam, Victor Eugene
Queisser, Alexander
Ralph, Burlington K.

Ramsdell, Harry Vinton
Ramsdell, Lelancl Stanfor I
Rasmussen, Peter
Rasor, David Walter
Redding, Frederick Grant
Reid, James William
Reid, Merritt Jonathan
Renner, George
Richardson, Ernest James
Richardson, George Horatio
Rickon, Frederic J. Henry, P M.
Ridley, Arthur Ernest Brooke
Riess, John William
Robb, Frank
Robertson, John Prince
Robison, Ansel Cobb
Robison, Merritt David
Roes, John Edward Albert
Roller, Charles August
Rolls, John Percy
Rolph, Clarence Athol
Rolph, James, Jr.
Rolph, Joseph William
Ross, Donald
Rulofson, Alfred Currie
Runyon, Albert James
Russell, Alexander
Ryan, Michael
Scheide, William Cornell
Schiegner, Frederick Nelson
Schlott, Ernest Frederick
Schmidt, Louis
Schreiber, Harry William
Scott, Harry Sweet
Scott, Walter Amos, P. M.
Scovel, George Scofield •
Searle, James John
Searles, Dennis
Shannon, Guy Stuart
Sharp, Arthur Maxwell
Sim, Walter Berry
Simmons, Haydn Mozart
Sims, James Coker
Sinll, John George
Slack, Charles William

ROSTER
Slater, John Charles
Slocum, Clinton Dodge
Smith, Francis
Smith, Frank
Smith, Harry Gardiner
Smith, Henry Alexander
Smith, James D.
Smith, Lester Baylies
Smith, Selden Cornelius
Smith, William Jacob
Soule, Arthur Calvin
Spear, Arthur Whipple
Spiller, George Weldon
Stadtfeld, William Benedict
Staley, Frank Newton
Stallman, Charles Christian
Stanford, William Estell
Stange, Walter John
Starbird, Albion Wilson
Steers, Edward Everett
Stevens, William EmerPon (L. A.)
Stevens, William Emerson (S. F.)
Stevenson, Edward Alexander
Stock, Edward Richard
Stoutenburgh, Edgar Charles
Swasey, Edgar Marshall
Sw6ars, William Bernard
Swinerton, William Arthur
Taylor, Albert Miles
Taylor, Henry Huntly
Taylor, Thomas Hardin
'fhomas, Edward William
Thomas, Ellis Shepherd
Thompson, Frederick William
l'in~al, James Watson
Tisdale, Robert Francis
Titchworth, Casper
Tolmie, Robert Currie
Tompkins, Minthorne Mortimer
Towne, Arthur Gowing
Townsend, George Elliot
Trephagen, William Arthur
Tucker, Albert Nion
Turner, Alfred Joseph
Umbsen, Henry Philip, P. M.

Unger, Adolph
Unger, Milton Edwin
Upham, Benjamin Prince
Upham, Isaac Oliver
Van Bergen, Henry
Vance, Ira Lincoln
Vanderlip, Harry Franklin
Van Houten, Harry Wilfred
Van Luven, Hermon
Varian, Henry
Vogel, Edward John
Von Staden, George
Von Tillow, Ward Wright
Wadsworth, Charles Curtiss
Walbey, Bertie Robert Cecil
Walker, Isaac Cushman
Walker, James Greig
Walker, Shirley Cyrus
Walsh, Vincent Sanders
Wapple, Albert Michael
Watters, James Arthur
Weber, Adolph Hans
Weeks, John Allard, Jr.
Weil, John Perez
Wells, George Prescott
Wentz, .John Joseph
West, Robert Bachman
West, Thomas Christopher
Westerfeld, Otto Ferdinand
Wheaton, Milton Alverd
Wheelan, Fairfax Henry
White, Ralston Lovell
Whited, Jesse Meigs
Whitely, Henry Mallard
Whitney, John Blackett
Whittle, Henry
Wiborn, J. Auburn
Wilkie, Andrew
Wilkie, Francis Alexander
Wilkins, James Malcolm
Will, Frederick Adolph
Willcox, Raymond Hawkins, P. M.
Williams, Harry Alston
Williams, William Robert
Williams, Winfield Scott

9

I

ROSTER

ROSTER

10
Willman, Alexander, P. M.
Wilson, William Archibald
Winants, Newell
Wirtner, John Jacob
Wisewell, Charles Arthur
Witham, Heber William
Wood, Louis Earl
Woodbury, Warren Dean
Woodsum, Oliver Perry

,Easton, Ansel Mills
Gray, George Freeman

Wray, Samuel
Wright, Alvin Henri
Wright, Charles William
Wright, Cyrus Smith
Yates, William Frederick
Young, Edwin Curtis
Young, George Herbert
Yo1rng, Shirley Trever
Youngberg, Charles John
WITHDRAWN:
Gray, Harry Nathaniel
Wilkie, Andrew, Jr.

SUSPENDI-:D FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Dodd, W!llis Gorman
Vaughn, Hiram G.
Hatch, Robert Denison
Watson, John Park
Wutzen, John Frederick
SUSPENDED !<'OR UNMASONIC CONDUCT:
Henning, Hans Theodore
EXPELLED :
Bouse, John

Bogp.rt, Sewall Butnam
Bridge, William Edward
Bromley, George Tisdale
Dall, Peter Peterson
Dow, George Edwin
Driscoll, Daniel Oliver

DIED:
Gray, Robert Brockhouse
Hutt, Abram
Jones, Henry Isaac
Litchfield, Joseph Miller
Lyon, William Henry
Merrill, John Sroufe
Sudden, Robert

II

WESTERN STAR LODGE, No. 2.
Shasta, Shasta County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon
OFFICERS:
Frank Peck Satterlee, Chaplain,
Shasta
Richard Bruce Ross, Senior Deacon,
Grant Alfred Schroter, S en. Warden, Michael Roush Newman, Jun. Dea. ,
Alexander Patterson, Jun. Wa1Yden, George William Sevenman, Marshal,
1.loyd Lee Carter, Treasurer,
Willis Burton Forbes, Steward,
August Tillman, Secretary,
Ralph Ingram, Steward,
Shasta
John Bossyns, Tyler.
l~riceland Cooper Blair, Master,

-582

Aft'eltranger, Ferdenant
Anger, Robert Nelson
Balch, John Adrian
Blair, Briceland Cooper, P. M.
Bossyns, John
Burns, Charles James
Buscombe, William Henry
Hystle, Adolph, P. M.
Carter, Lloyd Lee
Cole, Willard Leonard
Crocker, Everet French
Cnmmins, Harle Orin
Cushing, Horato Weska
Dameron, Paul Eugene
Davidson, Harry
·
Davis, James A.
Davis, George Miller
Davis, Thomas
Eaton, Elvis Newton
Failing, Otto Claud
Plynn, Francis
Forbes, William Berton
French, John Alexander
Gardner, John William
Gibson, Charles Francis
Gillispie, Adam
Graham, Albert
Grant, Edgar McLean
Harrington, John Cornelius
Hodgkin, William Moore
Hoyle, John Elkanah
Hoyle, Reuben

MEMBERS :
Hudson, Harry Charles
Hunt, Thatcher Rodney
Ingram, Ralph
Jahde, William
Johnson, Andrew
Joses, Charles Frederick
Kt>rr, Francis Emmett
Lamus, Nelson Edward, P. M .
Lanyon, Cyrus
Largan, William
Lcatch, Allen Mebius
Limbaugh, Nathanial
Martin, William Stanley
Marx, Frederick L.
Manning, Lemuel Sargent
Minderman, John Herman
Moulter, Frank Erastus
Moore, Forest
McDonald, Bernard
McDonald, Peter
McLennan, Donald Fraser
Mills, Edward James
Murrish, Harry T.
Newman, Michael Roush
Nichols, Thomas William
Norton, Charles
Neilson, Thomas
Nightwine, Martin Elmer
Northcutt, Finley
Obradovich, Samuel. Milo
Overmeyer, Charles Edward
Patterson, Alexander

I
ROSTER

12

Parsons, Abraham Lincoln
Reagan, James
Recardo, John D.
Richardson, James Lee, P. M.
Reel, Louis
Rosevear, Samuel John
Reinhaus, Gustave
Rosenberg, Samuel
Ross, Richard Bruce
Ross, Alfred Marshall
Rountree, Henry Searle
Satterlee, Frank Peck, P. M.
Schelke, James W.
Shuffelton, Hugh Hall
Strode, John Sale
Sweeny, Edward, P. M
Seineke, Frank George
Schroter, Grant Alfred, P. M.
Sevenman, George William

Strode, George Crone
Swanson, John August
Speak, William Abraham, P. M.
Shaw, Joseph James
Terry, John Jesse
Tease, Chester James
Thompson, James
'1.'ravers, James Arthur
Tillman, August
Tucker, James Edward
Weil, Joseph, P. M.
Weigel, Clifford R.
Willson, Frederick Eaton
Wood, Beverly Walter
White, John Wesley
Weinstrom, John Oscar
Yelland, Edward
Young, Edward L .
Young, William Bradley, P. M. -102

WITHDRAWN :
Mudd, Harry Peacock

Merrill, Ira

SUSPENDED FOR
Donaldson, Fay
Hampton, Wade
Macdonald, Andrew
Mcdonald, Luke
Bickford, William Henry

NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :
Roeder, George John
Smiley, James Andrew
Thomas, Davld
*Shuffleton, Hugh Hall

DIED:
Green, Horace Weir
Green, Thomas

•Restored durlng the year.

TEHAMA LODGE, No. 3.
Sacramento, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings first Monday in each month
OFFICERS:
John Mcindeor, Master,
Charles Ernest Farrar, Chaplain,
115 L Street
Louis R eignhardt Plate, Sen. Deacon,
Halleck Hart Look, Senior Warden, Henry Harrison McClain, Jun. Dea.,
Henry August Vim. Lindgren, J. W., Louis Geiger, Marshal,
Wi!liam Ohmer Girardey, Treasurer, Donald McClain, Steward,
Theodore Jones Milliken, Secretary, Edwin Delos Carpenter, Steward,
1108 H Street
Robert Oscar Cravens, Tyler.

ROSTER
MEMBERS:
Dresher, Valentine
Applegate, Thomas Jefferson
:Drew, Warren Francis
Arnold, John Henry
Driver, Grant Simpson
Banvard, Louis Howell
Driver, Philip Sample, P. 'M.
llarrett, Isaac Thomas
Ehret, Louis David, P. M.
Barton, Charles 'Ihomas, P. M.
Eilers, Theodore George
Barton, James Nichols
Ellick, Joseph Charles
Bass, Edward Franklin
Ernst, Cuno August
Bath, William
Baughman, Wm. Elias John, P. M. Farrar, Charles Ernest
Fetterly, George Isaiah
Bell, Robert Orren
Fisch, Willard Fred
Bergna, Peter
Birt, William Randolph
Fisher, Henry, Jr.
Foye, William Robinson Smith
Blttancourt, Thomas Maria, P. M.
Black, John Alexander
Frommelt, Hugo
Blue, Myron Hooker
Futhey, James Allen
Bradley, Allan Cormack
Geeslin, John William, P. M
Geiger, John Henry
Briggs, Wallace Alvin
Brown, Charles Manning
Geiger, Louis, P, M .
Gett, William Andrew
Brown, Egbert Alfred, P. M.
Brown, Simeon
Gilchrist, Lawrence R.
Girardey, William Ohmer, P. M.
Burgess, Alfred Llewellyn
<Ji vens, Charles Stuart
Burns, Charles Victor
Carlson, Charles Alfred
Goss, Charles Richard
Carmichael, Daniel Webster
Griggs, Georgl! Babel
, Halley, Walter
rarpenter, Edwin Delos
Harper, Horatio Thomas
Carpenter, Richard J ulius, P. M.
Caselli, Ansono
Harper, Thomas
Chapman, George Warren
Harvie, Harold Barr
Church, William Smithers
Harvie, Robert Alfred
Chrisman, Elmer Judson
Haub, John
Clarke, Joseph ::Marshall
Hawk, Elbridge LaFayette, P. M.
Clemons, William Strong
Hawk, Owen Dowd
Copelin, Thomas Edward
Hayden, John Burt
Cravens, Robert Oscar, P. M .
Hayden, John Henry
Cuthbert, William Williams
Haynes, Edward
Davis, William Buckley, P. M .
Heck, John
Davis, William Hewson, P. M.
Heilbron, Irving Louis
Davisson, Downing Baugh
Heintzelman, Taylor Washington
DeCoe, Culver Adam
Heisen, Harry
Derman, George Lewis
Herold, Rudolph Adam
Derman, William Frederick
Hill, William
Diggs, Marshall
Hintze, Emil Frederick
Dodge, John Harry
Hite, Clifton Stimmel
Donald, William A.
Hooper, Harry Greenough

13

I
ROSTER
Hopkins, Stephen Irving
Hotchkiss, Frederick Spencer
Hughes, Eugene J.
Hunt, Clarence Miller
Hyman, Daniel
!kin, Arthur John
Jackman, Samuel Hason
Jackson, William Franklin
James, George Somerset
James, Joseph William
Johnson, August Galmcr
Jones, William Asa
Kellum, Earl Junius
Kimbroug1!, Richard Oscar
Kincaid, Elbert Sevier
King, George Thomas
Knox, William Frederick
Lewis, Leonidas Lee
Lindgreen, Henry August W.
Littlefield, Lewis Bateman
Littlefield, Lewis Bunch
Look, Halleck Hart
Love, Andrew Campbell
. Lowry, Rolfe Leigh
Martin, James Thurston, P. M.
Mayhew, Leonard Thomas
McAnear, Samuel Francis
McClain, Donald
McClain, Henry Harrison
Mc!ndeor, John
McMaster, James Curtin
Merrell, Isaac Lambert
Miller, Frank Fargo
Milliken, Theodore Jones, P. M.
Morris, Isidor Frederick
Nathan, Myron Sol
Nathan, Solomon Gottlieb
Oakley, Paul
Olson, Peter Louis
Overmyer, Frank Elmer
Papa, John
Pearson, John Lewis
Philip, Robert
Phillips, Albert
Pike, John Elias 'l'ucker

Plate, Henry William
Plate, Louis Reignhardt
Pomeroy, Campbell
Pomeroy, Charles Harrington
Poorman, Samuel
Prentiss, Charles Frederick
Ralph, Charles Southard
Renwick, George Arthur
Richmond, Thomas Hugh
Riley, David Boland
Reuter, Carl Henry
Robinson, Thomas
Roblin, Frederick Albert, P. M.
Rohrer, Frederick William
Ross, Frank Andrew
Schadt, Frederick William
Scheunert, Carl Emil
Schwartz, Charles August
Schwartz, Clemens William
Schwartz, Edward Jacob
Scott, Thomas James .
Sheridan, Hiram Wilson
Sim, Edgar William
Sim, William Wellox, P. M .
Skelton, John
Sonne, Andrew Christian
Spurlock, Ernest
Steinman, Irving Leland
Stober, Frederick Conrad, P. M.
Stoll, Benjamin Franklin
Strader, Harvey Winton
Sturmer, Simon Charles
Sulsberg, William Frederick
'l'aylor, Arthur Bloom
Teeter, John Kenney
Thirkield, Frank Lytle, P. M.
'l'hompson, James Ellsworth, P. M.
Todd, John William
'l'roxel, Clarence Marion
Tubbs, Henry Osmond
Ulp, Alfred
Vermilya, Abram John, P. M,
Vermilya, Abram John, Jr.
Waller, William John
Walther, William Rudolph

ROSTER
Warren, John Wesley, P. M.
Washbrun, Waldo Abisha
Weinreich, Charles Edward
Wertheimer, Bert L.
White, Stephen Arthur Douglas
Whited, Jerry Hinchman
Wight, Albert Harrison

15

Wilson, 'l'hoz:1as
Wood, Thomas
Woodward, George Allen•
Wratten, James Et.lwart.I
Wright, Henry Eugene
Wright, John Melvin
..-101

SUSPENDED POR NON·PAYMENT OF DUE::!:
Woodburn, Charles Gabriel

Goulden, James

Dilm:
Potter, Lyne M.
Roberts, John Henry

BENICIA LODGE, No. 5.
Benicia, Solano County,
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Rasmus H ansen Kerr, M pster,
Otto Charles Petersen, Sm. Deacot1,
Benicia
Richard Albrecht Schnetker, J. Dea.,
J oseph Charles Clayworth, S en. War., Edwin Estey, Marsh.al,
J ohn Robert Fraser, Junior Warden, Paul Martin Smith, Steward,
J oseph Lewis Sanborn, Treasurer, J. H. Kropp, Steward,
J ohn Robt. Brown Chisholm, Sec'y, Phillip Jacob Troutwine, Tyler.
Benicia
MEMBERS :
Allen, John
Coleman, Warden Vietor
Anderson, Edmund Rudolph
Coleman, William Joel
Austin, Burr Dale
Cooper, Lawrence William
Bahler, August
Cooper, Luther Blake
Bahler, Godfrey A.
Crooks, William Lowell
Bailey, Joseph B.
Dalton, Alfred, Jr.
Billings, Elmore Myron, P. M.
Dawson, Isaac
Brower, W illiam Charles
De Forest, John, P. M.
Cambis, Emanuel
De La Rue, Robert Edwin
Cereda, Dominico
Dinsmore, Luther
Chambers, Edwin Thomas
Donegan, Constantine Paul
Chisholm, John R. Brown,· P. M.
Emmons, Frank Fletcher
Christiensen, Thomas
Esperance, Blaise
Clayworth, Joseph Charles
Estey, Edwin, P. M.

I
16

ROSTER

Estey, Harold
Olsen, Oscar H.
Evans, Mark
0 .' Neill, Martin William
Fanbank, ~illiam Smith
Parritt, Alvin Stone, P. M.
Filer, Samuel John
Raffetto, Luigi
Fitzgerald, Frederick Gerald, P. M. Regan, John
Fox, William
Roberts, William
Frame, Sidney
Robinson, Phillip Archibald
Fraser, John Robert
Rogers, Edward Francis
Frasier, John, P. M.
Rueger, Godfrey
Freeman, Jamee Albert
Rummelsburg, Adolph
Freeman, Otis Kimball, P. M.
Salz, Ansley Kullman, P. M.
Friedman, Abraham Lincoln
Salz, Moses Kullman
l<'riedman, Nathaniel William
Sanborn, Joseph Lewis
Furbush, George Ernest, P. M.
Schmidt, Max Emil Paul
Guibbini, Joseph Severino
Schmidt, William John
Gnauck, Gustav
Schneider, George
Gunnard, Frank
Schnetka, Richard Albrecht
Harrison, Percy
Seaman, Alexaniier Welby ·
Hart, David Marion
Shattuck, Frank Bachelder
Huhs, John Julius
Sherburne, John Shepard
Johnson, Barney
Singler, Otto Herman
Johnson, Joseph Green
Smith, James Ambrose
Johnston, Simon
Smith, Paul Martin
Jurgensen, Charles P.
South, George Whiteside
K err, Rasmus Hansen
Spence, Robert W.
King, William
Stevens, Eugene Carrol, P. M.
K ropp, Jacob Henry
Stewart, Charles
Kullman, Herbert
Trautz, Otto George, P. M.
Kullman, Jacob
Troutwine, Phillip Jacob
Latchem, Edward Caleb
'Wagner, John Ellis
Macdonald, James Edward
Walker, Revello Monroe
MacGregor, Robert Roy
Walker, Walter Frederick
Martensen, Neils
Watson, Daniel Mitchell, P. M.
Weymouth, Herbert Newton
McArthur, Murdock
McKay, Alexander
,W hite, Henry Kick
McKay, George Arthur
White, Herbert Cornelius
McKay, Thomas, P. M.
Wilkie, John Blues
McKay, Thomas Sumner
Will, Andrew Jackson
McKay, William Daniel
Wilson, Carrol Leslie
McKenna, John Paul
Wimble, Charles Wilson
McKenzie, James Buchanan
Witte, Henry
McLean, John A.
Wood, .Tesse
-114.
Noble, William E.

ROSTER

• 1ludgens, Archie

17

WITHDRAWN:
Rankin, Simon George

llrown, George Cecil

SUSPENDED FOR

NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Morton, El!jah

Muller, Konrad

DIED:
Weinmann, Frederick Phillip

• ll<'P."rees conferred during the year.

TUOLUMNE LODGE, No. 8.
Sonora, Tuolumne County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Charles Homer Segerstrom, S. Dea.,
Otto Julius l\fouron, Master,
Horace Marvin Street, Jun. Deacon,
Sonora
Charles Edward Shafer, Sen. War., Leo Francis Rosasco, Marshal,
Eric .T ohn Segerstrom, Steward,
William Inch, Junior Warden,
William Edwin Burden, Treasurer, June H . Knowles, Steward,
Joseph Milton Smullen, Secretary, Abraham Barlow, Tyler.
Sonora
MEMBERS:
Ball, Farlon Ford
Allgewahr, George
Baker, Harry Walcott
Allgewahr, Louis, Jr.
Brunson, Horace Wilber
Anthony, David Ritchard
Benas, Solomon, P. M.
Armstrong, Elmer Holland
Barlow, Abraham
Ball, Cary
Callinan, William
Barton, Eugene Hamilton
Callow, Charles Henry
Belli, Caesar Arthur
Carmichael, Niel
Billings, Samuel Moses
Chute, Richard
Bishop, Joseph Henry
Claytor, George Louis
Black, John, Sr.
Claytor, Charles Hiram
Black, William John
Coffill, Harry Jam es
Blocklinger, Emil Arthur
Collier, Mentor Carl
Boesch, Louis
Cramer, Herman, Jr.
Booker, William Elijah
Davenport, Frank Early.
Bogio, Frederick
Donald, Ralph Selick
Bouchard, E. J.
Dewitt, Wilmar
Bowers, Frederick Urban
Eastman, William White
Burden, Charles Henry
Eddy, George Lyman
Burden, William Edwin
2

I
18

ROSTER

Elliott, Joseph E.
Elliott, Lewis Horatio
J<.:slick, Charles
Ellis, Eugene
Fletcher, Ray E.
Francis, Robert
Fulcher, Raymond E.
Gallut, Victor
Guerena, Louis Alexander
Gould, Elisha Tolman, P. M.
Glasson, William, P. M.
Godfrey, Charles Homens
Goodwin, Frank Halsey
Hale, George Webb
Hampton, Crittenden, P. M
Hender, Samuel John
Hender, Thomas Arthur Stiles
H€ndriksen, James
Hicken, Ernest Edward
Hood, Wiliiam Lyman, P. M.
Hornung, John Henry
Hoskins, Joseph
Hubbard, Winslow, P. M.
Inch, Richard, P. M.
Inch, William
Jenkins, William Henry
.Jess, Willard Noble
Jones, Charles Vance
Jones, Ray Everett
Kahl, Leonard
King, William Tielilnn
Kirkwood, .Tames, Sr.
Krause, Wilhelm
Kiltldsen, Nils Ladefoged, P. M.
Lampson, Orlando
Lampson, Robert E. I,,
Langdon, George Henry
Lawson, Jesse Nils
Leon, Samuel
Lewellyn, William
Long, William Giles, P. M.
Macpherson, John
Martin, William Kenneth
McKenzie, Alex. Stuart
McLaren, Duncan Allen

Morgan, George Phillip
Morrice, George
Morrow, George Washington
Mouron, Otto Julius
Mitchell, Frederick William
Nash, John Frank
Newell, William Hamilton
Nickerson, Ralph Byron
Nicol, George Woodburn, P. M.
0 'Connell, John Henry
Ogden, Byron Augustus
Patterson, George John II ur l
Paulsen, Hans Christian
Pownall, Joseph Benjamin
Preston, Howard Alvin
Preston, Charl€s W.
Rainville, Alfred Hcrculi!s
Rosaco, L€o Francis
Rund€1l, Robert Edward, P. M.
Robison, William Lynn
Sartoris, Abraham
Sayre, DeZeng Laurence
Scanlan, James Louis
Scott, Archibald
Seclgerstrom, Charles Homer
Shafer, Charles Edward
Sharrock, Everett, P. M .'
Shine, John Henry
Smullen, Joseph Milton
Soulsby, Benjamin
Stanley, Horace Martin
Steimetz, Davill Henry
Sullivan, George Thomas
Street, Frank Wilson, P . M.
Thesse, Frank George
Thow, George
Tomkin, John Lee
Trittenbacb, Albert
Truckenmuller, Charles
•roms, Richard
Vial, John
Weimer, William
Wellington, Henry
Wells, Thomas Washington
West, John Henry

ROSTER
Wise, John Friedman
Wonderly, John Martin
Witney, John Lorin
Woodhams, Henry Crane
Witt, Thomas J elIP.rsnn
We3t, Thomas Otho
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Anthony, Edward R.
Richey, Almour
Deering, Cassius
Sharwood, William
[)elgrove, Charles Martin
Street, Charles E .
I.tttlefield, John F.
Sullinger, James R.
Oakes, William Con
Turner, William T.
0 'Brien, James Timothy
V\' are, Arthur F.
EXPELLED :
Kent, Richard Wallace

19

-134.

DIED:

!Inuman, Eugene A. H.

Slator, Thos. Henry

CORINTHIAN LODGE, No. g.
Marysville, Yuba County.
Stated Meetings, third Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Charles Arthur Trow, Master,
Edwin James Goodpastor, Chaplain,
Marysville
Harvey Everett MacLellan, Sen. Dea.,
Etlward J ohn McCready, Sen. Ward., Leslie Blaine Crook, Junior Deacon,
Chester Arthur Hedges, Jun. Ward., Lewis Boyd Wilcoxon, Marshal,
Oscar Leonidas Meek, Treasurer,
Frank Hosking, Steward,
Edward Babson Stanwood, Secretary, Henry Harrison Hoffert, Steward,
Marysville
Edgar Taber, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Aaron, Charles Francis, P. M.
Chase, Charles Frederic, P. M . .
Alderman, Alfred Herbert
Chase, Thomas
Andross, Albert Knight
Cohn, Isaac Geballe
Andross, Elbridge Porter
Collier, George
Baker, Robert James
Conley, Robert Milton
Barnes, Cyrus Arson
Cooley, Allen
Belcher, Edward Augustus
Cooley, Edward Sedgwi<'k
Berry, James McConnell
Coombs, Joseph Elden
Bingham, Atkins Clark, P. M.
Crane, Francis Benjamin
Bossen, Emile Fred
Crane, Lemuel 1'rescott P. M.
Bowen, Chester LeRoy
Crook, Leslie Blaine
Bruce, Eugene Harrison
Crook, Fred Austin
Brul, Bernard John
Day, Frederick Henry
Burroughs, William Curt
Day, Richard
Bury, John Charles Fremont
Davenport, Francis William
.Huttelman, Frederick William, P. M.Davenport, William Battles, P. M .
Chase, Arthur Willis
Deitz, George Washington

I

20

ROSTER

Dougall, Thomas
Dyer, Charles W.
Eckart, George Roberts
Eckart, Marcus Alger
Edeler, James Otto
Ellis, William Turner
Euler, Adam
Evans, Isaac Curtis
Fetrow, Dn.vid Ernest
Flentge, i'1:ax
Forbes, Edwin Alexander
Fordham, Free Delbert
Ganion, Joseph Ben
Gatgens, John Frederick F.
Goodpastor, Edwin James, P. M.
Greely, .T. Wellington
Hampton, Charles CPcil
Hedges, Chester } rthnr
Heilmann, Edward
Heilmann, Paul
Heilmann, Paul, Jr.
Higgins, John Henry
Himes, Charles Edward
Hodgkins, Will Mayo
Hoffert, Henry Harrison
Holland, George
Hosking, Frank
Howell, John Hamilton
Hunter, William
Irwin, Alexand!'r Cameron, F. M.
Jewett, Harold Woodward
Kelly, William Frederick
Keiser, Christian Christopher
Kosby, Augustus Emil
Krause, Frederick Francis
Learmont, William Clarence
Lewek, Albert Jacob
Lewek, Solomon, P. M.
Lott, Henry Charles, P. M.
MacLellan, Harvey Everett
MacLellan, John George, P . M.
Martin, Allen Birch
Maseman, Charles Louis
Mayer, ,,SJh.ristopher
Maynard, James Monroe

McCready, Edward John
Mcisaac, James Patterson
Meek, Oscar Leonidas
Meek, William Mayo
Metteer, Charles Franklin, P. M.
Mitchell, Henry Keller
Myer, Herbert John
Nelson, Niles Victor
Nyrop, David Frank
Parker, Theodore Roosevelt
Parka, Louis Herbert
Peacock, William Flint, P . M.
Phelan, James Henry
Pine, George Washington
Poolt!, Frank Wilford
Pozzi, Romeo
Price, Charles John
Roberts, Frederic
Roche, Geor[e Edward
Rous, Edwin Frederick
Russell, Wilmer ·w.
Schneider, Abraham Nathan
Schneider, David Nathan
Schneider, Seymour Nathan
Schroeder, Henry Christian
Scott, J csse Milton
Seaw.ell, Floyd Selden
Sharp, Daniel Lawrence
Sieber, Henry Frederick, P. M.
Simons, Robert Ray
Stall, Frank William
Stall, George Edward
Stanwood, Edward Babson
Stanwood, Richard Goss
Stephenson, Charles Edward
Strain, William J.
.Strock, Albert Benj.
Swift, Clarence Eugene
'l'apley, Joseph Franklin
Toland, John
Trow, Charles Arthur
Waste, Jesse Jackson
Weber, Henry Victor
Weinlander, Edward
Wells, Roff Hague

ROSTER
Wenzell, Harry William
White, Espie Alexander
White, John Comyn

21

Wilcoxon, Lewis Boyd, P. M.
Wuth, Charles Christian
-129.

WI'fHDRA WN:
Cornforth, Harold

SAN JOSE LODGE, No. 10.
San Jose, Santa Clara County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Thomas Grey Watson, Master,
Francis Edwin Smith, Chaplain,
Porter Building
Sanford Lord Bacon, Senior Deacon,
Paul Sibley Williams, Sen. Warden, Thomas Costain, Junior Deacon,
Frank George King, Junior Wairden, Louis Victor Saph, Marshal,
Edward Ham Guppy, Treasurer,
James Clark Blair, Steward,
Milton Amos Boulware, Secretary, Morgan Dillon Baker, Steward,
51 S. Second Street
Warren Milton Pearse, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Barber, Lawrence Evans
Ackley, Gilbert Thomas
Barker, Ambrose Branch
Addecott, James Edwin
Barker, George Leon
Adelson, Julius
Alexander, Howard Augustus, P . M.Barnes, James
Barnhisel, Le~is
Alexander, William Gay
Barnum, John Starr
Anderson, John Zuinguilus
Barthel, Franklin Keifer
Anderson, Martin Gustave
Bath, Edwnd Robert
Andi:rson, Philip
Bawden, John Henry
Appleton, Morris
Bay, Lewis Irwin
Asay, Jacob Lambert, P. M.
Bean, George Albert
Ayer, Frank Milton
Beasley, William Arthur
Ayer, Samuel Elden
Beattie, Andrew
Bacon, Albert Sylvester
Benson, Frank Henry
Bacon, Sanford Lord
Bergman, Oscar Forrest
Bailey, Charles Everett
Berrar, Henry
Bailey, Calvin Porter
Biggs, Marshall Alexander
Bailey, Elton Ream, P. M.
Bailey, Willard Chapin
Blair, James Clark
Boes, Frederick Franz
Baker, Lewis Elwin
Boring, Flavius .Josephus
Baker, Morgan Dillon
Borodori, Martin James
Ballow, John Quincy Adams
Bothwell, Charles Allen
Bane, John L.

I
22
Boulware, Milton Amos ·
Brabetz, William Frank
BrMkett, Jethro Nat. Bruce
Braden, William Durand
Bray, George
Bray, Lester Franklin
Britton, William
Bromley, Robert Van Vliet
Buffo, Anthony
Burnight, Thomas 8tarr
Cameron, William
Camm, Charles William
Carey, Eve1·ett Pascoe
Cash, Albert B.
Castle, Isaac Newton
Castle, Neville Hart
Chapman, Frank Raymond
Chappell, William
Charteer, Daniel Arthur
Chase, Elmer Ellsworth
Chase, James Albert
Cheveriel, Frederick
Chrisman, William Henry
Clayton, Willis Sherman
Clifton, Henry
Clover, .Tohn Henwood
Cohn, Solomon .Tacob
Cole, William Fawcett
Collins, Herman
Conant, Ernest Woodbury, P. M.
Conklin, Marvin H.
Cook, John Wesley
· Costa, Charles John
Costa, Charles Roy
Coutant, Charles Gale
Costain, Thomas
Crider, Jacob Wright, P. M.
Christ, Squire Belden
Crossman, Walter Everett
Crothers, Charles Fair
Crothers, William Henry
Crow, Richard
Cureton, Edward
Davis, Thomas Haines
Davy, John William

ROSTER
Day, James Collins
Dennis, John Soulsby
Devine, Everett Bee
Dewey, Frank William
Dill, Leslie Hudson
Dixon, ]'rank Alexander
Doerr, Frederick
Donahoo, Frank Leslie
Donlan, William
Down, ltobert Hodge
Dunham, George
Dynes, William Henry
Ebentrant, Irven Stephen
Eddy, Alonzo Hencilly
Essery, Maurice Robert William
Evans, Reece Thompson
Everett, Ernest Royal
Fairchild, John Alarie
Farrington, Melvin J.
Fassett, Thomas A. K.
Fee, George Washh1.gton
Field, Zibeon Orison
Field, Chapin Hall
Fikes, Henry J.
Fillmore, Frederick Burnett
Fisher, Henry Beach
Franzen, Andrew
Fraser, Paul
Frase!) William Flemming
Frasse, Irvin Negus
French, William Henry
Fry , Hawley Ray
Fuller, William Belden
Gardner, Robert Coleman
Garnot, Heilairc Louis
Gassett, John Eames
Gerichs, John Christean
Gladewitz, Christean David
Goldsmith, Berthold
Gondring, John Matthew
Gordon, Lee Burr
Graebe, Charles Edwaru
Granger, Frank Sylvester
Grant, Alex. Drummond
Graves, Joseph Hiram

ROSTER

<i?lly, Simon Johnstone
Oreer, John Lawrence
(lummer, Everett Edward
Ouppy, Edward Ham
ll!iblutzel, Charles Edw:ml P. M.
llafner, George Wellington
I lagerdon, Charles Luther
llale, John Edward
11 arbeck, Theo. Martin William
llardy, Thomas West
lf.arlan, Orren Arthur
llarms, Henry August
IIarms, Maynard H eim
Hawley, William George
Ifazard, Emil J.
IT dd, Louis Gotleib
IIenry, James Harrison
Hensill, John Samuel
lfenwood, Joseph Richard
Herrold, Ebenezer Wilson
llipburn, Charles Thomas
Heplc, 'fheo. F elix
Herman, Frank Adolph
Heminger, Franklin Peter
H estwood, James Osman
Hewett, James
Hill, Henrie Granville
Hixson, Morris Claton
Howell, Henry John
Hutback, Charles Edward
Huff, William Jackson
Hunt, John West
Hyland, Michael Henry
Ickes, Daniel W.
James, Charles Hodge
James, Willia.m Henry
January, William Alexander, P. M.
Jarman, Albert Hutchinson, P. M.
Jarman, John Plaskett, P. M.
J enkines, William Keaster
Johnston, Walter Samuel
Johnstone, Frederick Eugene
Jones, Albert Lincoln
.Tones, Cyrus
Kalfus, J OS(lph Leland

Kapp, Michael William
Kautlchner, Christian George P.
Kelley, Frank Bennett
Kelly, Henry Clay
Kennedy, George Augustus
Key, John Powel
King, Ernest Samuel
King, Frank Giorza
Kock, Adolph Jacob
Kooser, Roley Sherman
Krause, William Henry
Kurtz, Samuel Benje.min
Langka:mp, Charles Albert
Lanyon, Byron
Lathwesen, Louis John
LeBreck, Frank
Leach, William
Lean, William Carvasso
Ledyard, Benjamin Cory
Ledyard, Francis King
Ledyard, Henry Horatio
Leigh, Hugh Alexander
Lemmon, John Le Grand
Liebert, Julius Michael
Lion, Lazar
Lifsett, Archie
Levingston, William
Lowe, Ralph, P. M.
Lowe, Sam Butterworth
Lowe, Sherburne Whiteman
Mann, Charles William
Martinsen, Martinez Bert
Marvin, Frank Freeman
Masson, Paul
Mathew, Allan Oscar
May, George Baldazar
Maynard, Charles Cyrus
McCloskey, Thomas
McDonald, Archibald
McDonald, George Henry
McFaul, Charles Lincoln
McGehee, John Henry, P. M.
McGlanflin, George Vails
McKenzie, George Wilson
McKfeman, Frank Charles Henry

23

24

Metcalf, Charles Otis
Moltzen, Hermann
Montgomery, Edwin C.
Moore, Samuel Grant
Muirson, George Albert
Mulli, Cologero
Nickerson, Franklin Lewis
North, David Jordan
0 'Brien, Maurice
Olinder, Albert Manfred
Olinder, Carl Ferdenand
Orvis, William Shakespear
Ownley, Thomas Powell
Page, George William
Parli:s, Samuel Daniel
Parton, Floyd Arthur
Pascoe, John Charles
Patton, Joseph Richard
Pawley, Albert Leslie
Pearse, Warren Milton
Pellier, Entrope Joseph L.
Pender, David Rattray
Pcnnoyer, Chester Hicks
Percy, Calvin Wheeler
Pf an, Louis John
Plummer, Jabez Chester
Polk, Emery Smith
Poore, James Rob~rt
Pozzo, Francisco
Priest, Richard Turner
Proctor, Calderon Weld
Radford, Joseph D.
Rainey, Joseph Wesley
Ramage, Andrew
Reed, Elliott
Reed, Warren DeWitt
Reynolds, Clifton Greene
Rhoads, Lewis William
Rice, Charles Warren
Rich, Samuel Herman
Richards, Albert
Richards, Benjamin Franklin
Richmond, Edmund Nutting
Richmond, George
Richmond, George Andrew

ROSTER
Renaldo, David
Roberts, Albert Forrest
Rodgers, George
Rowley, Albanus Bellger
Ruble, Robert Simon
Rucker, Samuel Newton
Russ, Arthur Charles
Russell, William, P. M.
Sandbo, Albert Edan
Sanderson, Edwal'd Wavell
Saph, Louis Victor, P. M.
Schemmel, Frank Pfister
Schultz, Charles Hieronymus
Schuman, Henry
Sexton, William
Sheaff, Charles Raymond
f.lhearer, Paul Morphy
Shaup, Edward Glendening
Simpson, William
Skinner, Edwin Hume
Smith, Francis Edwin
Smith, Harrison Pryor
Spencer, Hume Alexander
Spencer, Hume Francis
Squire, Paul Edwin
Stelling, William Christian
Sterne, Harry Raymond
Stevens, George Barron
Stythe, Arthur John
Summers, Robert Onell
Sutton, Alfred Martin
Sweigert, George Adam
Taylor, William Stewart
Thompson, Samuel
Thompson, Samuel Halleck
Thompson, William Wallace
Topham, Edward
Topham, Frank Henry
Townsend, Arthur Chisholm
Tripp, Herbert Russell
Trone, Isaac
Tuthill, Joseph Brown T.
Tuttle, Hiram Daniel
Valpey, Calvin
Van Tyne, James Albert

25

ROSTER
Williams, Edwin Henry
Wagener, Samuel Hopkins
Williams, Paul Sebley
Waistell, Thomas James
Wilson, Harry Alfred
Wait, Orlin
Winans, Claude 0.
Wasson, William McLeod
Winmuger, Joseph Urban
Watson, Thomas Grey
Wise, Franklin Ball
Weber, Frank Ferguson
Woldenberg, Russell Lewis
Well es, George Ed. Ben ton
Woods, Robert Clay
Wheeler, Cornell Harry
Woster, Clarence Marshall
Whitton, Albert King, P. M.
Wretman, Niles Emil
Wight, Davitl
Wright, Eli
Wilcox, Wilbur Justus, P. M.
Wilder, Alphonse Eli
Wright, Frank Talbot
Wyatt, James Bellman
Willi, John
WITHDRAWN:
Britton, William
Krause, Frederick William
Meyer, Frederick Henry
Jackson, George Washington
DIED:
Schallenberger, Moses
Barker, Curtis Mason
Robins, Charles Edwin

YOUNT LODGE, No.

-339.

12.

Napa, Napa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moo11.
OFFICERS:
William Thompson Smith, Master, James Howard Morgan, Sen. Deacon,
Napa
. George Alfred Hearn, Junior Deacon,
Robert Smyth Holden, Sen. Warden, Charles Edward Trower, Marshal,
William Augustin Bailey, Jun. Ward., George William Stephens, Steward,
Edwa rd Derrel Beard, Treasurer,
Levi Moss, Steward, '
Earl Hilsinger Raymond, Secretary, John Howard Chalmers, Tyler.
Napa
MEMBERS:
Bradford, William, P. M.
Alumbaugh, William Ed.
Bush, Franklin William
Amstutz, Henry Louis
Butler, Ira Mortimer
Auerba.ch, Charles
Butler, Ralph Morris
Bachman, Llewellyn Thomas
Butters, Angus
Beiley, William Augustin
Cain, John Alexa.nder
Bauer, Christian Herman
Chalmers, John Howard
Beartl, Edward Derrel
Chapman, William Levi
Beard, James Edgar
Chisholm, Alfrell Arthur
Beard, Derrel Leonard
Clark, Ray Dennison
Bendel, William Carl
Cobbledick, Frank Marion
Bickford, Elmer Leonard, P. M.
Conklin, Charles Post
Blunk, Arthur Scott
Coombs, Nathan Foster
Bonsall, Edward, P. M.

26

Corlett, William Henry
Corlett, Robert
Davies, John Henry
Davis, Morrow Henry
Davis, William Edwar<l
DeBonis, Guiscppi
Derry, Thomas
Dunlap, David An1lerson, P. M.
Edlund, Gustaf Alfred
Evans, John Parry
Evans, Luther John
Finnell, Williamson
Flagler, Albert Daniel
Fossum, Otto Bergerson
Frisbie, Charles Albert
Furber, William Giddings
Gardner, Alden Monroe
Gardner, James Buchannon
Germain, William Eugene
Gilson, Gilson Albert
Goodman, Harvey Pulaski
Graham, William
Gregory, Charles McCloon
Grigsby Alphonse De Lafayette
!}rossman, Adolph Herman
Haas, David Leopold
Hardin, Joseph C.
Harker, Charles Sumner
Hatch, Frederick Winslow
Hawkes, John
Hearn, George Albert
Henry, William Putnam
Herron, George Merrick
Herron, Isaac George
Hoernle, Henry John
Hoffman, Oliver
Holden, Robert Smyth
Horstmeyer, H enry Conrad
Hottel, Eli Washington
Howell, Joseph
Hull, Andrew Jackson, P. M .
Hunter, William
Jaekle, Carl John
Johnson, Carl Boothe, P. M.
Johnston, Finis Ewing, P . M.

ROSTER
Johnston, Harry Lewis, P. M.
Jordan, Fred Murray
King, Percival Simpson, P. M.
Klose, Berthold Edwil
Klose, Walter William
Knie£, Henry George
Knudsen, Andrew
Kyser, Daniel Sterling, P. M.
Lindow, William James
Liver, Richard
I~orcl, George Washington
Maccuaig, Alex. Malcolm . l", M.
Mackley, Orville J. R.
Marois, Theodore Miximillian
Mason, Charles Edmund
Mason, J ·a mes, P. M.
Mathews, Edwin Davis
Maxwell, Charles Alexander
Merwin, Louis Tunis
Morgan, James Howard
Moss, John
Moss, Levi
Murray, Henry Wilson
McClelland, Joseph Alexander
McColluru, William James
McCue, James Edward
McManus, Samuel
McWade, David Dale
Newman, James Bartholomew
Oliver, Thomas
Parker, John Watson
Parker, Arthur Campbell
Pederson, John Adolph
Pinkham, George Grafton
Pond, Frank Alfred
P.:iwers, Philo Fitch
Ramsey, Robert Randolph
Raymond, Earl Hilsinger, P. M.
Rohrer, John Charles
·
Ross, Cecil l!'orbes
Shepard, Edward Ralph
Shepard, Sa muel Philo
Shurtleff, Benjamin
Shwarz, David
Shwarz, William

ROSTER
hnlth, Walthall Ridgway
rnlth, William Thompson
lltr1nnard1 John Carl
'ittphens, George William
lltevens, James Baunty, P. G. M.
lltewart, Robert
Htlce Tyre Harrison
tltice, William Wirt
l!trohl, George Washington
lhvift, John Jackson
Taylor, Robert Francis

27

Treadway, Chester Collipp
Trower, Charles Edward, P. M.
Trubody, William Alexander
Voigt, William
Webster, Thomas Eugene
Whitton, Herbert Blakeslee
Wichells, Johann Diedrich
Wilkins, Benjamin Sidney
Williams, Fred Waldo, P. M.
Young, Guy Wallace
Young, William Harvey
-138.

'i\'ITHDRA WN :
Robinson, Edward Oscar

Bliss, Charles H.
CJl!tford, George Boardman

DIED:
Rumsey, Wllllam Woodgate
Raven, Mort on Jessen

NEVADA LODGE, No. r3.
Nevada City, Nevada C01mty.
Stated Meetings, second Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

William Griffin, Master,
Daniel Albert Dailey, Sen. Deacon,
Nevada City
John Arthur Curnow,, Jun. Deacon,
J,loyd \Vorthington Jennings, S. W.,Frederick Luther Arbogast, Marshal,
James Francis Colley, Jun. W(Jrden, Charles Augustus Grissel; Steward,
John T . Morgan, Treasurer,
Joseph Newton White, Steward,
William Edmund Meservey, Sec'y, Antone Tam,•Tyler.
Nevada City
MEMBERS:
Carman, William Kelly
Allen, William Grant
Arbogast, Frederick Luther, P. M. Casper, Kaskil
Chapman, Chester Warren, P. M.
Armstrong, Leroy Ellwood
Coan, Thomas Nicholas
Ashton, David
Colley, James Francis
Ashburn, Hans Arent
Conley, Charles Henry
Barruzza, Emile
Cohn, Casper
Becker, John N.
Cohn, Ephraim
Bennetts, Richard John
Cook, George Harry
Bovey, Albert John
Cooper, Herbert Marcelus
Brackett, Arthur Grover
Craig, Michael Francis
Brand, Herman William

28
Croes, Charles Wesley
Uumow, John Arthur
Curnow, Robert
Dailey, Daniel Albert
Delbridge, Abel Nicholas
Douglas, Norvel
Eagye, Elezva
Eddie, Hamilton
Eddy, Charles Henry
falwards, Edward Samuel
Ennis, Franklin, P. M.
Englebright, William F.
Erskine, Fred Alexander
Evans, John
.l<'aull, George Henry
Fiss, Franklin Benjamin
Fleming, Joseph Davenport
Floyd, William
Fogg, William Willie
Folene, Antone
Ford, Thomas Savory
Gaylord, Ralph Wright
Giffin, William
Giles, Timothy
Goodwin, Jeremiah Samuel
Uray, George Alfred
Gray, Harry Brooks
Gray, Thomas Benton, P. M.
Grissel, Charles Augustus
Hall, Benjamin
Hill, Charles Wilson
Hitchings, John Mathew
Holland, Jacob Lafayette
Holmes, William
Hosken1 Henry Rablin
Hughes, Thomas T.
I vey, John Reid
J acqumar, Robert
Jennings, Lloyd W.
Kendrick, Levi, Jackson
Kent, Char!As Erastus
Kistle, William Henry
Kitts, Herbert Stewart
Lamb, Francis Arthur
Langman, John, P. M.

ROSTER
Lean, James Henry
Lear, 8amuel Best
Legg, George Arthur
Lord, Atherton Simeon, P. M.
Mallen, Christopher Henry
Marsh, Daniel
Marsh, Martin Luther
Marsh, Sherman Ward
Martin, Alfred
Martin, John James
Martin, William Henry
Medlin, Fred William
Meservey, Eugene Bond, P. M.
Meservey, William Edmund, P. M.
Moore, Edward Anslem
Morgan, Eddy John
Morgan, David Eddy, P. M.
Morgan, John Thomas., P. M.
Morrison, Angus Ray
Muir, David Dalrymple
Muller, Carl Louis, P. M.
McDonald, Alonzo Alvin
McDonald, IVallace
M')Kelvey, Charles
Nielson, Niels Johan
Nivens, Archibald
Odgen, Geoi:.ge William
Osborn, Thomas Israel
Pare, Carmille Alfred
Parini, Daniel
Parsons, Walter Emons
Pascoe, Emanuel
Pellamounter, Thomas
Piolitti, John Baptiste
Plumer, Richard
Power, Erastus Barnum
Randolph, William Cooper, P. M.
Reynolds, William John
Richards, David
Richards, Gluyas James
Richards, John Henry
Richards, William Gilbert, P. M.
Richardson, Robert
Roberts, Mark L.
Roberts, Stephen Henry

ROSTER
Robinson, George Edward
Rolfe, William Jasper
Rosewall, James Henry
Rowe, William
Sanders, Lawrence Charles
Scarfe, George
Schroe_der, Henry Christian
Senrls, Fred
Shaw, George Crawford
S!ddles, Milan Bucharcl
Snell, Albert Knapp
Snell, Nicholas
Smith, Hal. Othro
Stampher, Joseph P.
Stenger, Henry Augustus, P. M.
Stenger, Joseph Floyd, P. M.
Sukeforth, Elisha Gurney
Tam, Antone

2()

Tellam, Frederick
'l'owle, Carrol Walace
•rreadwell, James Buchanan
Tremaine, Richard John
Tremaine, Robert Bennett
Turner, Robert Haviland
Tyler, George Alton
Veal, William Henry
Vinton, Walter Douglas, P. M.
ViRcher, Herbert Peter
·waters, Thomas Henry, P. M.
Weisenburger, Christian C., P. M.
White, Francis
White, James C.
White, Joseph N!'Jwton
Wilborn, Miles Richard
Williams, Richard
-147.

SUSPENDim FOR NON-PAYMENT
McCall, John Thomas

OF DUES:

TEMPLE LODGE, No. 14.
Sonoma, Sonoma County,
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next prec_eding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

William Frederick Clewe, Masler1 'l'homas Jefferson McGimsey, Chap'n,
Sonoma
Hartley Williams Gottenberg, S. D.,
David Ralph Van Amringe, S. War., Henry Frederick Bates, Jun. Deacon,
Otto Rudolph Wagner, Jun. Ward., Montgomery Paxton Akers, Marshal,
Gustav Henry Hotz, Treasurer,
Frederick D. Bose, Steward,
Ralph Everett Perkins, Secretary, Claude Eugean Johnson, Steward,
Sonoma
Edward Henry Johannsen, Tyler.
Adler, Adam Winkle
Akers, Montgomery Paxton
Appleton, William Greenleaf
Arthur, Charles
Baer, Bernard
Bates, Henry Frederick
Bose, Frederick Deterick

MEMBERS:
Burris, Jesse, P. M.
Clements, William John
Clewe, William Frederick, P. M.
Duhring, Frederick Thomas
Fochctti, Julius William
Gaige, A!lirrt Ebenezer
Goethe, William Edward

ROSTER

30

Gottenberg. H. Williams, I'. M.
Harris, Granville Swift
Hart, Ezra Blair
Hartin, Henry
Hartman, Frank Benjamin
Hill, Robert Potter,· I'. M.
Hocker, William Ogden
Hotz, Gustave Henry
Johannsen, Edward Henry
Johnson, Claude Eugeane
Keechler, Joseph
Landgrebe, William Edward
Landis, William Alexander
Lewis, Samuel Birdslee
Lowell, Frederick A,rthur
McGimsey, Thomas Jefferson
Montgomery, DeWitt
Moore, Oliver Cromwell
Murphy, Ralph Everett
Nolan, Walter Charles ,
Pasch, Hyman Lippman
Perkins, Ralph Everett
Pinder, Benjamin Franklin

Poppe, Charles Julius
Poppe, Robert Albion, I'. M.
Potter, Charles Reid
Quien, Albert Brebner
Rich, George David
Ringstrom, Sigu1·d Adolf
Rohrer, John Celestine
Schocken, Solomon
Simmons, Lloyd Scott
Stofen, Peter Nicolas
Stonier, John Henry, Jr.
Suttenfield, William Thoma3
•rate, James Franklin
'rhompson, Peter Henry
'rhomson, Allen Milo
Van Amringe, David Ralph
Wagner, Otto Rudolph
Wagnon, John Davis
WE>aver, Albert William
Weaver, Frank, P. M.
Werner, William August
Whitlack, Charles Robert
Wilde, Reinhardt Frederick

ROSTER

-60.

WITHDRAWN:
Enke, Albert A.
DIED:
Johannsen, Ludwig M.

EUREKA LODGE, No. r6.
·Auburn, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Monday of or :-.ext pre<'e<iing Full M·Jon.
OFFICERS:

Charles Oscar Hamilton, Master,
Michael David Lininger, Chaplain,
Auburn
Louis Frederick Klumpp, Sen. Dea.,
William James Prewett, Sen. War., Albert Joseph Locher, Jun. Deacon,
Arthur Spencer Fleming, Jun. War., Joseph Marie Francis, Marshal,
David Waldemir Lubeck, Treasurer, Arthur Stanley Clegg, Steward,
Charles Nelson Shane, Secretary,
Albert Moresley Williams, Steward,
Auburn
Jonathan Fulton, Tyler.

31

MEMBERS:
,, !ken, William Nathaniel
Lubeck, David Waldemer
\ lien, George E.
Lardner, William Branson
Lininger, Michael David, P. M.
Anuerson, Albert Wallace
Andorson, William Craig
Locher, Albert Josepn
llarter, William
Locher, Joseph Francis
lluter, Joseph Quincey
Lukens, Sylvester Guy
IH!key, Charles Albert
McCann, William John
H11bee, John Gould, P. M.
Martin, Peter Daniel
llrown, Edward Doyle
May, William Isaac
ltryo, Frederick Emil
Parker, Ivan Henry
Uuoker, Ernest Oliver
Prewett, James E.
ltuckanan, Lincoln
Prewett, William James
Ohamberlain, David Jerome
Pullen, John Francis
Quire, Joseph Spencer
Clogg, Arthur Stanley
Rooney, Hobert Fleming, I'. M.
<Jollins, George Pendleton
Rodgers, Thomas Nolson
Ourtis, Henry Crittenden, P. M.
Robinson, Alexander Kelley
DIHque, Henry, P. M.
l)ootkin, Frederick Charles
Rice, James Edward
l~ckberg, Peter George
Richter, Christian Frederick, P, M.
Sa:\ford, John Coleman ·
1''ay, George Howard
Snowden, Edward Christopher
Fitch, Frederick Robert
Smith, John Lawrence
Fleming, Arthur Spencer
Smith, Preston Washington, P. M.
Francis, Everett Allen
Shane, Charles Nelson, P. M.
Francis, Joseph Marie
Shepard, Will Abel
.E'o~ter, Evans Robie
P'ulton, Jonathan, P. M.
Stevens, Frederick Solon
Tabor, Ashley Raymond
Fulweiler, John Mathias, P. M.
' Taylor, Junius Clifton
Futhey, Robert Scott
Thomas, George
Geralclson, Gerald
Glover, Alfred Kingsley
Tittle, Horatio Seymore
Ureen, Arthur Reginald
'J:reverton, Jame11
Ha!Jborn, Arthur Olaf
Tuttle, Charles Albion
White, John Miles
Hamilton, Charles Oscar
Heminger, Thomas Jefferson
Wi!liams, Albert Moresley
Hinton, William Edward
Williams, Carlos
Hobsen, John Beaugardi
Williams, .Tames Marshall
Hohfeld, Ed ward
Wiley, Morris Brickback
Houchin, Oscar George
Wisker, Aubrey Lee
Klumpp, Louis Frederick
-77.
WITHDRAWN:
McCracken, WiJJlam James
Boggs, John Craig

DIED:
Fitzmaurice, William Robert
Neff, Jacob Hart

32

ROSTER

ROSTER

LA PARFAITE UNION LODGE, No. 17.
San Francisco, San F rancisco Count y.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
1739 Fillmore Street.
OFFICE RS :
Antoine Leon Auradon, Master,
636 Second Avenue (Richmond)
Pierre Pommier, Senior Warden,
Simon Levy, Junior Warden,
Adolph Huguenin, Treasurer,
Paul <le St. Jullien, Secretary,
108 Sutter Street

Ames, Brewster Frost
Are6s, Jean
Artigues, Joseph Emile, P . M.
Artru, Henri
Astorg, Alphonse
Aubin, Auguste Henri
Auradou, Antoine Leon
Auradou, Jules
Babin, Demas Colin
Basenasch, Louis
Ba ttistessa, Guissep pe
Beleny, George
Bellegarde, Pascal
Bellocq, Pierre
Bergerat, Louis
Bergez, Jean
Bertin, Leonce Charles
Berton, George Abel
Blanquie, Edward
Blum, ,Jacques
Blum, Leon
Boisson, Francis
J3ollack, Alphonse
Bouteiller, Louis Auguste
Bozio, Orlando
Carnes, Louis
Candevan, Pierre
. Chaigneau, Alfred

Auguste Goustiaux, Ch(JJp/ain,
Brewster F. Ames, Senior Deacon,
Camille Lahanier, Junior Dea,con,
Orlando Bozio, Marshal,
Jean Roustan, Steward,
Joseph Henry Plante, Steward,
Anatole Lobe, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Champion, Joseph
Clavere, Jean Pierre
Clerfayt, Jules
Coney, Alexander Kaufman, P. M.
Coppa, Guisseppi
Dazet, Jean Baptiste
Decourtieux, Amand Xavier
Dehay, Emile
Delagnes, Benjamin
Diebold, Michel E., P . M.
Drayeur, Auguste Constant
Dupas, Jean Marie, P. M.
Eisenberg, Adolphe
Encoyancl, Francois
Escude, Gabriel
Eskinazi, Elie
Faure, Emile
Pigeac, Louis
Franck, Isidore
}'redrick, Marcus White
Gehret, Alfred
Glees, Aloia
Godchaux, Edmond
Godcau, Jules S.
Golrlaracena, Orel Martin, P M.
Gonstiaux, Augnste
Gra.n<ljean, Charles
Grothwell, Victor

11 affemayer, Joseph
Jlallgarten, Benoit
Jlart, Edward Gustavus
Hirsch, Ernest
!lour, Jean Baptistfl
Huguenin, Adolph, P. M.
Lacaze, Louis
f,ahanier, Camille
Lame, Louis
J,aroulandie, Emile
J,arque, Albert
J,enormand, Lr.on
r.etroadec, Julien
Levy, Nathan
f,evy, Simon
Levy, Daniel, P. M.
J,ille, Charles
Lipman, Isi <lore
Lobe, Anatole
Lobe, Louis
Long, Claude
Loupy, Noel Paul
J;oustaunou, Jean C.
Mailbebuau, Evariste C.
Marquis, Canac Ferdinaml
Masson, Francois Pierre, P. M.
Metter, Louis
Meuel, Panl E.
Monaco, Jean Baptiste
Mou~qnil, J ('an
JI.looser, Charles E.
Mottet, Henry, P. M.
Neuburger, Gustave
Nevraumont, Ernest
Nevraumont, Joseph
Newmark, Maurire
Ortion, Auguste Joseph Vil'tOT
Pngnuelo, Ernest
Palacio, Joseph
Pasquet, Auguste
Penez, Charles E.
SUSPENDED FOH
Dugue, Fernand
3

'Pest11lacci, •robias
Peters, Frank
Pfund, Gebhard
Pierron, Emile Joseph
Pinont, Francois
Plante, Joseph Henry
Pommier, Pierre
Pottet, Alphonse
Raas, Emmanuel, P. M.
Redinger, Mich<·!
Reiss, Bernaru
Reiss, Emile
Revert, Alpb.mse
Rimassa, Charles
Robert, Cyprien Pierre
Roncovieri, Alfred Louis
Roumiguiere, Alphonse
Rousseau, Charles M.
Roustan, Jean
Savilla, Albert
Sehabiague, Armand
Sehabiague, Thomas, P. M
Seibel, Frederique
Serveau, Emile
Sgier, Jean Joseph
Soulages, Jules
St. Julien, Paul de
Terramorse, Francois
'rhierron, Louis August
Thierry, Auguste
Treyer, Theophile
V:w Ander, Beck Charles
Vautier, Fernand
Vergnes, Frederic
Vermeil, J can Louis
Villegia, Leopold
Vinez, Georges
Wagner, Edward Lafayette
Weill, Raphael
Wdll, Sylvain
Willard, Jules
NON-PAYMENT OF
Huguenin, Henry

DUES:

-139.

!'!4

ROSTER

Goldsmith, Gaston
Loupy, Jean

'DCED:
Roos, Adolphe
St. Denis de .Jules

ROSTER

.
SAN JOAQUIN LODGE, No.

19.
Stockton, San Joaquin County.
Stateu Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Reuben Henry Sink, Cltaplai11,
Wheeler Allen, Master,
Benjamin Franklin Goode, Sm. Dea.,
Stockton, Cal.
Gilbert Garrie Davis, Sen. Warden,' Walter Alexander Smith, Jun. Dea.,
Joy Douglas Campbell, Jun. Warden, Henry Mathias Orschler, Marshal,
Frank Shackelford Boggs, .Treas.,
Freeman Fraser Black, Steward,
Isaac Henry Robinson, Secretary,
Leroy Albert Weaver, Steward,
Stockton, Cal.
John Rodney Gleeson, Tyler.

MOUNTAIN SHADE LODGE, No. 18.
Downieville, Sierra County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Pull Moon.
OFFICERS:
William Henry Shafer, Master,
Stanley Andrew Smith, Cllaplai11,
Downieville, Sierra County
Eliphalet Lewis Case, Sen. Deacon,
William Wickham Casserly, S . War., William Irvin Redding, Jim. Deacon,
Thomas Eli Winrod, Junior Warden, John \Voessner, Marshal,
Henry Herman Meyer, Treasurer,
Adam Kieffer, Steward,
H enry Edwin Quigley, Secretary,
Jason Samuel Frye, Steward,
Downieville, Sierra County
Valentine Hartling, Tyler.

Alexander, James Ramsey
Barrett, John Miles
Bettinger, Carl Francis
Case, Elipahlet Lewis, P. M .
Corbett, Daviol
Costa, J olrn
Casserly, William Wickham
Davy, Robert Ballard
Ford, Tirey Lafayette
Forbes, Robert, P. M.
Grant, Allan H.
Hartling, Valentine
Hartling, Valentine, Jr.
Hough, Joseph Zephaniah
Hunnicut, Ezra
Helmet, Victor Gustaf
Kieffer, Adam
Meyer, Henry Herman, P. M .

Crooks, James Brown

MEMBERS:
Morse, Horace Armsby
Morse, George Barrows
Pauley, Benjamin, P. M.
Quigley, Henry Edwin
Redding, William Irvin, P. M.
Shafer, John Booth
Shafer, Sheldon Woodruff
Shafer, William Henry, P. M.
Smith, Stanley Andrew, P. M.
Taylor, George Francis
'J'homas, Henry
Wagner, Lawrence Neilsen
WPil, John Joseph
W.::he, Francis Humrill, P. M
Wilson, Charles M.
Winrod, Thomas Eli
Woessner, John
-:Iii.

DCED:
Galligan, Barney

35

MEMBERS:
Allen, ·Wheeler
Chesnutwoou, William Hartzell
Ambrose, William Henry Clay, P. M. Chichester, James Harvey
Anton, John Charles
Christie, Frederic Charles
Arndt, Michael S.
Clark, Fred Pope
Arnold, Francis Clarence
Clark, Harry I11a1111
Backes, Henry
Coates, James York
Bargmann, Hermann Conrad, P. M. Cobb, Frank Dyckman
Barnett, Henry Addison
Coleman, Elmer Davidson
Beach, Myron Nelson
Craig, James Burr
Beringer, Benjamin Franklin
Cramer, Edward Ernest
Black, Freeman Fraser
c:ulver, Gilbert Caleb
Black, George Henry
Danner, Lewellyn Alexander
Bolta, George
Darby, ]'rank Erwin, P. M.
Boggs, Frank Shackelford.
Davidson, Adelbert Wi!Jiams P. M.
Bottomley, Charles Monroe
Davies, William Abraham, P. G. M.
Bradford, Clark Campbell
Davis, Gilbert Garrie
Brauford, George Hasock
Dearuorff, Edward Samuel
Briscoe, Henry Ferguson
DeGuire, George Washington
Broaddus, Wi!Jiam Samuel
DeVries, William Garland
Brogan, Thomas William
Dickinson, Clarence Leroy
Brown, George Albert, Jr.
Dickinson, Everett Clarence
Dickinson, George Henry
Burgess, Wilford Harmon
Burton, Austin Marshal
Doran, Richart! Emmett
Caine, John
Draper, Albert Nelson
Caldwell, Francis Marion
Dunbar, Sylvanus Gilman S., P. M.
Campbell, Joy Douglas
Earle, Richard Thomas, P. M.
Carnduff, Frank Ford
Eldridge, Edward Duane
Carrick, Wi!Jiam Edward
Eley, George Samuel Barnard
Cavis, Joseph William, P. M
Elgan, Oliver Dayton
Chalmers, Alexander, P . M.
Ewing, John Worthington Dorsey
Chalmers, Poter .Tohn
Farnsworth, Clovis Alonzo
Finnell, Michael, P. M.
Chapman, Fred Wi!Jis
Chase, Aquilla Daniel
Fithian, Robert Woods
Chase, George Walker
Frankenheimer, Louis Henry

36

Fraser, Philip Barry
Fredericks, Frank Henry
Frerichs, Simeon J.
Fuller, Harry Reuben
Fussell, George
Gaines, Francis Albert
Garrison, Noel Hunt, P. M.
Garwood, John ·
Gerdes, Herman Edward
Gerdes, Robert Anton
Gibbens, Edward Lewis
Glcespn, John Rodn ·~y
Goode, Benjamin Franklin
Goodell, George
Goodrum, Eugene F.
Goodrum, Frank Wilson, P . M.
Grider, John Carson
Gross, Edward Emil
Groves, Frederick William C.
Groves, Robert Henry
Hammond, Howar<l
Hammond, Robert Ray
Harter, Glen George
Hatch, Charles Edward
Haven, Henry
Henderson, Robert William
Henery, George Porter
Henery, Samuel
Highland, James Robert
jlogan, Walter Byron
Hubbard, Ferdinand Bradley
Hunt, William Charles
Huntington, Edward T.
Inglis, Robert
Jackson, Charles Moses, P. M.
Jenkins, John Harvey
Johnson, William Russell
Jones, Charles Jurlithan
Kennedy, Franklin Hayes
Kincaid, Freel Llewellyn
Kinnear, James Williard
Kirby, William Don
Klench, Daniel Lewis
Kroeckel, George
Kroyer, John Minor
Laggas, John
Langdon, Samuel Walter Ross

ROSTER
Leonard, Cornelius
Levinsky, Albe1·t Leonaru
Lewis, Edwin
Lewis, John Thomas
Lorenz, William Henry
Lund, Andrew John
LJ>nch, Willis
Lynn, James William
Mallett, Albert
Mann, Robert Ernest
Mantele, Con
Maschek, Charles Herman
Matteson, John Joshua
Maxey, John D.
McKain, Fred J., P. M.
McLaren, John Cameron
McLaren, William Duncan
McLeod, John H.
Meyer, Freel Olin
Miller, Charles vVarren, P. M.
Miller, Frank B., P. M.
Moore, George Franklin
Moore, John Williams
Moore, Royal T.
More, Albert Wallace
Morris, William Elda
Morrison, Edwin Crane
Munger, Lucius Aui;,'11stus
Newell, James Henry
Newell, Sidney, P. M.
Oldham, Walter Thomas
Or5<'.hler, Henry Mathias
Owen, Charles Edward
Owings, George Sprncer
Parkinson, Oscar Bronson
Payne, David Rowtnil
Pearson, Charles Bertram
.P erry, .John Marion
Petzinger, Casper Rudolf
Petzinger, William Christopher
Phelps, Joseph Larose
Philo, Arthur De Witt
Plummer, Brudnell Edward
Pollard, Fred Albert, P. M.
Pul!t>n, Edward John
Putnam, George Clinton
Quail, Frank Eugene

37

ROSTER
Quisenberry, Robert Lee
Rhoads, Samuel Finley
Richards, William Henry
Riddell, John Everett
Roberts, Val Arthur
Robinson, Isaac Henry, P. M.
Roche, Peter John
Root, Vernon 'l'homas
Ruggles, John Everett
Sander, Louis Frank
Sather, Andrew Theo.
Schlichtman, Claus, Jr.
Scofield, Francis Herbert
Scullen, John Fish
Shelford, Charles Vincent
Simpson, William McPayne
Sink, Reuben Henry, P. M.
Smallfield, Albert Augustus
Smith, Arthur David
Smith, Frank Hartford, P. M.
Smith, George Russell
Smith, Richard Russell
Smith, Walter Alex
Snell, George Hinman
Sperry, George Barker
Spurrier, Sherman Merriam
Stevens, George
Stewart, James Alpheus
Stites, Joseph Augustus
Stocker, Walter Wrightman
Stone, Edward Roger
Stone, Willia~ Henry
Strong, Percy Morton

WITHDRAWN:
Kitchener, Samuel Emery

Davis , Sylvester Byron
SUSPEND~~D

Stroup, Randolph Clinton
Sutherland, George Wesley
Swain, John Anderson
Tarr, Florence William
Tatterson, George Watson
'fatterson, Arthur Potter
Taylor, Charles Albert
'fhomas, William Bacon
'i'hompson, Thomas Richard
Thresher, Minord Sprague, P. M.
'l'i!linghast, Joseph Henry
Twitchings, James Edgar Jr.
Tyner, Charles Gordon
Vance, Charles Albert
Viebrock, Francis John
Wagner, James Roy
Wakefield, Clark Garclner
Wall, Wilber C.
Wallace, Benjamin Carpenter
Weaver, Leroy Albert
Westbay, William Wesley
Weston, Charles Royce
White, K ellogg Albert
Wilcox, Ralph Eugene, P. M.
Wood, William Walter
Woods, Alfred Blakeley
Woods, rnaude Emery
Woods, Ezekiel William S.
Woods, Samuel Moseley, P. M.
Wyman, Bernice 'A.
Yost, Frederick John
Young, Daniel McI,eod
Youngbloon, Homer Roy
-220.

Bnchauau, Louis Alex.

FOR

NOX-PAYMENT OF
Wood, Charles

DUES:

Claiborne, Gilbert Burnett
Hadcock, David

DIED:
Keniston, Charles Morrill
Littlehale, Sargent Smith

38

ROSTER

WASHINGTON LODGE, No.

ROSTER

20.

Sacramento, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Frederick Wilhelm Grider, Master, J ohn Gibson Labadie, Senior Deacon,
Box 363
Clyde Horace Brown, Junior Deacon,
James Scott, Senior Warden,
Chas. J oseph Chittenden, S. Steward,
Nathan Forrest Littlefield, Jun. WM., George Elwood Wenzell, !. Steward,
Benjamin Huntington Gallup, Treas., Thomas Henry Christiansen, Mar.,
John .Scott, Secretary,
James \Vaverley J ohnston, Tyler.
Masonic Hall
MEMBERS:
Adams. Charles Edward
Ebert, George Ernest, P. M .
Edinger, Frank Austin
Anderson, Alden
Arnold, Henry Waldeck
Ellis, David Gregory
Ashworth, Edward Fletcher
Estes, Robert Lee
Avery, Ira
Folger, Albert Gilbert
Bates, Albert
Gallup, Benjamin Huntington
Block, Maurice
Gay, Remus Upton, P. M.
Bockrath, Herman Henry
Gardner, Charles Francis
Booth, Albert Porch
Gillis, Dugald Hall
Boyd, Joseph Charles
Ginsberg, Jacob
Bock, George, P. M.
Gruhler, Jacob
Brown, Alfred James
Green. Erskine
Breuner, Louis Frederick
Gerber, William Emil, P. M.
Breuner, John
Gerber, Edwin Henry
Brown, Clyde Horace
Grider, Frederick Wilhelm
Burrows, Willia.m Grant
Grau, Herman William H.
Busch, John
Hall, Thomas Bertram
Butler, Henry Mills, P. M.
Hamilton, William Brown
Burgess, George Wa shington
Heilbron, Adolph
Campbell, Alden Wilson
Hendricks, William Chalmers
Campbell, Walter William
Hickman, Frank
Campbell, William Richard
Hurley, John
Chittenden, Charles Joseph
Reisen, Charles, Jr., p , M.
Christiansen, Thomas Henry, P . M. Herr, George Benjamin
Cochrane, William, P. M.
Jacobs, Julius Samuel
Johnston, James Waverly
Cohn, Aloysius Sylvester
Conran, Ira Milton
Johnson, Hiram Warren
Dolan, John Henry, P. M.
Johnson, Presley Beauregard, P. M.
Dunbar, Marcus William
Johnson, Phillip, P. M.
Duden, Ellsworth Frederick, P . M.
Kiesel, Frederick William, P. M.

Kestler, Frederick Henry
Kleinsorge, Charles Edward
Klune, John Bernard
Kolliker, Frederick
King, Charles Sumner
Kiesseg, Harry Richard
Keene, Albert Edward
Labadie, John Gilson
J,ancastor, Frank W.
Littlefield, Nathan Forrest
Luce, John Couchman
Lund, John P eter
Lykens, Preston Lodwick, P. M.
Madtlen, J erome
McKee, Edwin Henry
McKillip, Charles Will~am
Menken, Peter Heinrich
Merrell, George Walter
Miller, John H enry
McMullin, Irving H.
Maslin, Prentiss
McKinnon, John Jenkins, P. M.
McKissick, Harrison Topp
Morrow, Arthur Leland
Nash, Earl Lyons
Nathan, Henry Michael
Needham, Irving McAdam
Ochner, John
Peart, Edmund. Francheville
Peltier, George Wilfred

Hoag, W illiam Moffitt

39

Pfund, Edward Franklin
Philbrick, Harold
Phillips, Charles Avery
Potter, William Alfred, P. M.
Putnam, George Prescott
Pipher, Joseph Elmer
Prideau, Edwin
Robertson, Clarence C.
Royster, William Alexander
Sayre, William Abner, P . M.
Schoenbackler, Charles
Schwilk, Charles Frederic.k
Stillwell, Ar thur Marriott
Straub, John
Silvius, Herman Theodore, P . M .
Snook, John Peter
Scott, John
Scott, James
Steinman, Emil
'l'ibbetts, Thomas Rush
Trueblood, Albert Allen
Wheat, James Montford
\Vachhorst, Eugene Stewart
Willey, William Henry Harrison
Wood, Henry Clay
Wright, Charles E<lward
'\Vest, Predcrick Wil'liam
Yardley, Herbert Edward
Young, John Nelles, P. M.
-119.
DIED :
Watts, Pliny Rand

40

ROSTER

HAWAIIAN LODGE, No. 21.
Honolulu, Hawaiian Territory.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each momh.
OFFICERS:

Love Moller Vetlesen, Master,
Jas. Russell MacRae MacLain, S.1.J.,
Cate of Mutual Tel. Co.
Harry Christian Bruns, ]1111. Deacon,
Henry Albert Taylor, Sen. f1Varden , Da:vid Arthur McNamarra, !lfarsha/,
Harry Scott Gray, Junior Wardrn, Percy Thos. Powditch Cleghorn, Stw.,
Rohert Catton, Treasurer,
Henry Thomas Hughes, Steward,
Kenneth Rob't Gordon \Vallace, Sec., Joshua Daniel Tucker, Ty/e1-.
Box 408
MEMBERS:
Ahrens, August
Campbell, John Thomas
Alexander, William Douglas
Campbell, Marston
Allerton, Charles Henry
Campsie, William
Alvarez, Louis Fernandez
Catton, Robert ·
Anderson, David William
Ghild, John Francis
Arleigh, Augustus Bickel
Clair, Emilie
Ashley, William George
Ulark, William Augustus
Austin, Herbert Clark
Clarke, ,Tohn Kirkwood
Barnes, Albert
Cleghorn, Archibald Scott
Batchelor, ,Frank Augustns
Cleghorn, Percy T. P.
Batchelor, Job
Conant, Elmer Ellsworth
Cook, Frank Beach
Bartlett, Charles Garfield
Battelle, Harry Thomas
Cook, George Marshal
Beal, Charles Ladd
Cooley, Alfred Ernest
Beckley, George Charles
Cottrell, Charles Boutelle
Bindt, Frederick Martyn
Cooper, Charles Bryant
Doyel, James Harbottle
Counter, Moses Ruby
Boyd, William Wright
Coxhead, Albert Ernest
Braddick, Oscar Bampfieltl
Coyne, Arthur
Bretteville, Anton Christopher E.
Crabbe, Clarence Linden
Bromley, Walter Hall
Craelius, John Frederick
Brown, Edward Cook
Craig, John Henry
Brown, George Watson
Crozier, Charles
Bruhn, Bernhard
Cummings, James Henry, Jr.
Bruns, Harry Christian
Cunha, Emanuel Silveria
Buchly, Rudolf Johannrs
Curtis, George Beaston
Bml<le, Theodor August C.
Dart, Elbert Ripley
Burniston, Harry James
Davidson, Robert Morton
Campbell, Charles Jerome
Deering, Augustus
Campbell, IIerl;ert Moody
Derby, Albert Jones, P. M.

ROSTER
DickEy, Charles William
Douglas, David
Dow, HErbert Manchester
Dowling, James Joseph
Duncan, Robert Andrew
Dunshee, Herbert
Dyson, James
Ewart, George Robert
Bwart, George Robert, Jr.
J<'alk, Charles Jacob
Farnsworth, John
Faye, Hans Peter
Fernandez, Abraham
Foster, Henry Whitman
Foster, William Edward
Francis, John Wilson
Frazee, William Lincoln
Friel, James Louzada
Gedge, Norman Edward
Giffard, Walter Montais
Gjerdrum, Kristian Sommerfelt
Godwin, William Henry
Gostick George Abram
Gondie, l!'rederick
Graham, William Montrose, P. M.
Gray, Harry Scott
Gregory, James
Greig, George Bicknell
Greig, Norman
Grindell, Herbert .Joseph
Grossman, Mose Edmund, P. M.
Gurrey, Alfred Richard
Hair, Robert, l:". M.
Hall, Charles Sumner, P. M.
Halstead, E:dgar
Halstead, Frank
Hapai, Henry Chase
Harding, Lewis Lomax
Harrison, Arthur
Harrison, Vincent Marmaduke
Heilbron, William
Heinemann, George
Herrick, Charles Frederick
Hewitt, George Clinton
H<'ye; Karl Werner

Hjorth, Johan L. V.
Hocking, Alfred
Hofgaard, Christopher Blom
Hoffmann, Theodore
Holloway, Carl Sheldon
Holmes, Andrew
Holt, Bertram Griggs Jr.
Holt, John. Dominis
Horswill, Charles Arthur
Howatt, James College P., P. M .
Howe, George Everett, P. M
Hughes, Edwin
Hughe<, Henry Thomas
Hughes, Thomas Henry
Hyman, Joseph
Irwin, Chester
Isenberg, Daniel Paul Rice
Johnson, Christopher
Jones, John Griffiths
Jones, John Walter
.Tones, R.a ymond Willium
Jorgensen, Jorgen
.Tungelaus, Alfred Henry
Kaiser, Carl
King, Thomas James
Kruger, Frank Julius
Ifrurnmel, August
Krnss, Emil Louis
Lando, Jacob
Langeheim, Ernest
Lansing Theodore F.
Larnach, Alexander D.
Laws, Henry
Levingston; Isador
Lewers, Robert
Lewis, Abraham, Jr., P. M.
Lewis, Frederick Martin
Lewis, Edgar Louis
Lishman, Thomas Walker
Little, Joseph Musgrave, P. M.
Lloyd, Albert Edward
Logan, Arthur Conning
Lord, Edmund Joseph
Lowrie, William James
Lucas, John

4.1

42

ROSTER

ROS'fER

Lucas, William T.
Lydecker, Robert Colfax
Lyons, Moses Timothy
Macintyre, Donald
Mackall, Bruce McVcan
Mackinnon, John Marr
MacKintosh, Alexander, P. M.
MacKintosh, Cecil Arthur
Maclean, James RusEell Mac. R.
Mac Rae, David
Madeira, William Ives
Marcallino, John
Marquez, Charles Nicholas
Marques, Joseph Dores
Melanphy, John
Morton, Henry Chesney
Myhre, Halvor
Myers, Jackson Randolph
McClellan, James
Mcintyre, Hugh Edward
McKeague, Robert Alexander
McKee, William Barron
McKinnon, Joseph Malcolm
McNally, Charles Henry
McNamarra, David Arthur
McVeigh, John DeVive
Muller, John Julius
Nase, Barnabus Tilton
Naylor, James Alfred Anderson
Neill, John; P. M.
Newman, Bradford Norton
Noble, Arthur C.
Oat, Joseph Morton, P. M.
Olsson, Otto William
Orbell, Frank
Ouderkirk, John
Parker, Samuel
Paxson, Sumner Swisher
Pedgrift, James Henry
Petersen, William Niclai
Petric, Lester
Pfluger, Henry Christian
Phillips, Mannie
Podmore, Robert Wood
Polmere, Nicholas John

Pope, Willis Thomas
Porter, Kirk Bancroft
Purdy, Hiram
Pratt, Alexander
Pratt, James William
Pressey, Milton Chester
Ramsay, Samuel Robert
Rankin, Guy Fawkes
Rasmussen, Jens Peter
Rawlins, William Thomas, P. M.
Raymond, James Harvey
Read, Decker Jewett
Reedy, Ray B.
Renton, Henry Herbert
Rice, William Henry
Richardson, Frank Edward
Riley, William Russel
Robinson, Mark Prever
Rodiek, Georg Friedrich
Rolph, George Morrison
Rothwell, John George, P. M.
Rowat, Allan Ritchie
Sachs, Nathaniel Sanders
Sanders, Milton Nelson
Schaefer, Frederick August
Schieber, Anton
Scott, Oliver Chamberlain
Shaw, Walter E<lward
Schlemmer, Maximillian
Schoening, Julius William
Searle, John Bursnell
Searle, John Cooper
Siebecker, William Henry
Singlehurst, William Gibson
Smiddy, Jerome .Joseph
Smith, Cornelius Wells
Smith, Frederick Carlos·
Smith, Thomas
Soper, John Harris, P. M.
Spalding, Edward Irwin, P. M.
St. John-Gilbert, Oswald
Stokes, John Francis Gray
Stolz, Frederico Leupold
Sutherland, James
Swan, Edmund

Taylor, Henry Albert
Thayer, Wade Warren
Thompson, ]'rank Edward, P. M.
Tracy, Clifton Howard
Tripp, Alfred Newton
Tucker, Joshua Daniel
Venhuizen, John
Vetlesen, Love Moller
Waggoner, Bernard
Wagner, George Julius
Waldron, John William
Wall, Alford Clarence
Wall, Arthur .Frederick
Wall, Thomas Edward
Wallace, Kenneth Robert G.

Ward, George Edward
Waterman, Emil Joseph
Watkins, Norman
Wells, William Ira
"\Vhitehouse, Louis Mein
Whitney, Frederick, P. M.
Wilder, Gerrit Parmile
Wilder, Arthur Ashford
Willard, John David
Willgeroth, Heinrich
Williams, Charles
Wolf, Lee H.
Wood, Clifford Brown
Wootten, Henry George
Young, Norval Beam

43

-270.

WITHDRAWN:
Greenwood, Jofleph Theodore
Gilman, Charles Henry
Bond, Alfred Denmon
Thot, Juergen
·woodd, .Tohn Charles
SUSPENDED
Coffey, Asa Boyd

FOH

NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Monsnrrat, James Melville
Walker, John Smith

Lucas, Pierre Marie
Peacock, ·waiter Chamberlain

DIED:
Scrimger, Charles Louis
Smith, William Graham

OCCIDENTAL LODGE, No. 22.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each m•Jnth.
Golden Gate Commandery Hall.
OFFICERS:

Fred'k Arthur Houseworth, Master, Arthur Hobart Halloran, Se11. Dea.,
306 Bush Street
Hennon Fowler Wilson, Jun. Deacon,
Robert Raymond Vail, Sen. Warden, Charles Patterson Fonda, Marshal,
Orville Charles Baldwin, J. Warden, Walter Jacob Philbrick, Steward,
Charles Lyman Haskell, Treasurer, C. 'fheodore Hansen, Steward,
Walter Godfrey Anderson, Secretary, George Theodore Fischer, Tyler.
3665 Clay Street

44

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Ahlborn, Charles Joseph Henry
Bliss, Charles
Altlerson, Frederick Lee
Bligh, '£homas John, Jr.
Allen, John Stevenson
Boeckman, Frederick Charles
Anderson, Walter Godfrey
Bogen, Harry Walter
Anderson, "Winslow
Bouton, William Egbert
Anthony, LeRoy Warfield
Bradford, Wallace
Arnold, Henry Augustus
Brinkman, August Frederick
Ashworth, Frank Parker
Brittan, William Giles
/\st, Jacob Frerlerick
Bronson, Frithjoy
Atwood, William Amos
Brown, Alonzo Fitch
Avery, Francis
Brown, Andrew Alexander
Ayers, Willis Henry
Brown, Amazon Henry
Babb, Harry Ruben
rlrown, Harry Daniel
Backus, Samuel Woolsey, P. M.
Brown, Christopher Robert, P. M.
Bailey, Lewis Hamilton
Brownell, James Samuel
Baker, Frank Elmer
Brnnner, Henry
Baldwin, Edward Lewis
Bryan, William Vose, P. M.
Baldwin, Murray
Buckbee, Spencer Cone
Baldwin, Orville Charles
Buckmann, Henry Diedrick
Ball, Edgar Franklin
Bullock, John Henry
Barber, George Brinton
BulloClk, Russ· Ransom
Barlage, William Andrew
Bullock, '£homas Seamon
Barnes, ,James John
Bultman, John Henry
Barnett, John Felix
Burner, Henry, P. M.
Bauer, Christophu John
Bush, William .John
Beadle, Alfred William
Bush, Walter Nelson
Bean!, Joseph Charles
Buttle, William Prederick
Byrne, Charles Francis
Beeb, Joseph Crispa
Beckett, John
Cameron, John
Campbell, Robert Willis
Beesey, Edmond
Beede, Alexander Creighton
Campe, Henry Magnes
Belden, Dan Falls
Capp, Charles Singer
Cappelmann, John Christian
Bell, Henry James Clark
Carson, Robert Neddermark
Bender, Paul August
Benedict, Courtland Smith
Center, George Lillie
Benedict, ·Egbert Judson
Chapman, Edward Kirk
Bennett, John
Chapman, Frank
Berry, William Robert
Chapman, Fretlerick York
Beatty, Henry Nixon
Chesebrough, Andronicus
Chesebrough, Henry Clay
Bird, Harry
Cherry, Edward Martin
Black, Robert C.
Blair, Harry Napheys
Chipman, William Farragut
Blakeslee, Frederick Alphonso
Christensen, John Peter
Clark, Edwin Charles
Blanton, John S.

ROSTER
Clark, William Francis
Classen, John William
Clawson, Harry Russell
Clawson, Samuel Henry, P. M.
Olayes, Wellington Irwin
Clemens, Christian Jensen
Clift, Charles Warren
Clow, John Austin
Cochran, Hugh McCauley
Cole, John Richard
Collins, Frederick Richard
Collins, George Willi::im
Collins, Richard Merithew
Comely, Charles John
CoopP-r, Frederick Flanders
Cookson, William Bonsall
Countryman, Robert Harmer, P. M.
Crane, Henry Adolphus
Cressey, Frank Albert
Crookshank, Arthur Henry
Crossley, Leonard Valentine
Crow, Lloyd Benjamin
Curtis, Charles Mosses
Cutting, Henry Colman
Daggett, Almore Keith
Daggett, William 4-lbertis
Damon, Marshall Nye
Davidson, Joseph Robertson
Davis, Richard D.'
Davie, William Winters
Day, Charles Thurber
Deahl, John Linden
Dean, Walter Edwin
Decker, Peter
DeGear, Warren .Jackson
DeLano, Frank M.
Delger, Edward Frederick, P. Iv...
Denniston, Edward Gere
Derby, Albert Tirrell
Derby, John
DeSilva, Manuel Maria
Devlin, Thomas Daren
Dillman, George
Dillman, George Paul
Dittmann, Richard William

Dole, Walter Wooderson
Dow, George Alva
Downes, C. S.
Drendell, Albert Ernest
Drew, George Warren, P. M
Drown, William Benjamin
Dryselius, Erland
Duebel, Charles
Dugan, Herbert Frank
Dunn, Ritchie Livingston
Durbrow, Harry
Dusinbury, John Benjamin
Eadcrn, William Henry, Jr.
Eastman, 'I ho mas Freeman
Edson, Benjamin
Edwards, Dwight
Edwards, Eugene Hammond
Edwards, William
Elvin, Arthur
Eva, William John
Evans, Albert S.
Ewen, John Sangstei:
Ewing, Samuel McGregor
Fagan, Harold James
Farnsworth, Julian ·weaver
Parrel, Ed. Davies
Faymonville, Bernard
Ferguson, Oscar Henry
l!'ield, Alfred Bishop
Field, Frederick Howard
Fischer, George Theodore
Fitzsimmons, James C11-lvin
Fletcher, Walter Kimball, P. M.
Fonda, Charles Patterson
Foncla, Henry Stuart
1',onda, Walter Gibbs
Formhals, Ferdinand
Foulkes, Edward William
Fraser, William Edwar<l
Fre<lericks, Charles Edwin
French, Wheeler Nichols
Freyer, Edward
Frye, John w;nslow
Fulmer, Walter Wilton
Gabbs, Milton Francis

45

46
Gable, Herbert Aaron
Gage, William Stebbins
Gallagher, John Patrick
Gamble, Edward Lee
Geary, William
Gedge, Harry Edward
Gibbs, Nathan Henry
Gibson, George Robert
Ginaca, Henry Gabrill
Gleaves, James Malcolm, P . M.
Glidden, William Boardman
Gompertz, Charles William
Gonzalez, Felix Francisco
Gordon, Charles Ely
Gordon, Phil Kearney
Graham, Robert Jackson
Graha111, William Sutphen
Grannis, Frederick Roscoe
Graupner, Adolphus Ehrhardt
Gray, Ularence Harlow
Gray, William Brown
Green, Jonathan
Groat, Charles Frazier
Growall, Willard Lawrence
Gunn, Benjamin McKay
Hageman, Robert
Hall, Milton Rider
Hall, Otho Norris
Hallovan, Joseph Francis
Hallovan, Arthur Hobart
Halverson, Christian
Hambleton, William Lawrence
Hammersmith, John Anthony
Hannan, David
Hanning, George Samuel
Hansen, C. Theodore
Hanson, Peter Hjalmar
Hanson, William Henry
Harding, David Webster
Harding, Ralph Judd
Hardy Sumner
Harker, Oliver Albert
Harmes, Joseph Theodore
Harpham, Lee Wheeler
Harris, Jerome Omberson

ROSTER
Hart, Marcus
Harville, Benjamin Franklin
Haskell, Charles Lyman, P . M.
Haste, Julius Alexander
Hastings, Philip
Hatfield, Arthur George
Hatt, Albert Edward, Jr.
Haver, Philys John
Haviside, John Joseph
liavner, James Randall
Hawkins, Edward Kendrick
Henderson, John Wesley
Hendy, John Harris
Heidt, Wesley
Hewitt, Edward Thomas
Hewitt, William Alexander
Heyer, Charles William
Hickman, Newton Heylin
Higgins, James
Higgins, Rufus Milton
Hill, Charles Barton
Hillyer, Curtis
Hindes, Edward Brooks
Hink, Frederick Benjamin
Hobart, Ralph Willis
Hodghead, David .Alexander
Holbrook, Charles Henry
Holmes, Howard Carlton
Holton, Luther Janna
Holson, John Edward
Hopps, George Arthur
Hopps, Harry Ryle
liorne, Charles Henry
llornschuch, Lawrence Charles
Houseworth, Frederick Arthur
Houseworth, Harrison
Howard, Albert Louis
Howard, Douglas Carlton
Humphreys, William Penn
Hunter, Charles Harris
Huse, Charles Gammon
Hutchinson, Charles Francis
Hutton, Andrew Houston
Isham, John Henry
Iversen, Chester Arthur

ROSTER
I vcs, George Isaacs
Jackson, Stanley
Jacobson, John Falls
Jagger, Henry Corbett, Jr.
Jaynes, Frank
.re.n ks, George Henry, P. M.
.Jensen, Harry Christian
,Jensen, John William Dible£
Johnson, Petter Henry
,Joly, Oscar Joseph
.Tones, William Stuart
Kaehler, George Alfred Ernest
Kahl, Charles Wesley
Kains, Archibald
Kammerer, George Edwar1l
Kellogg, Frank Harvey
Kellogg, Paul Frank
Kelly, Richard Edwarll
Kerr, James Watt
Key, John Walter
K eyes, Frank Hancock
King, Charles Andrew
King, George Rufus
King, Louis Daniel
Kinney, Marshall Johnson
Kirk, Albert Wellington
Kirsch, George Hans
Kittredge, Spencer Bigelow
Klarmann, George
Klein, Louis J .
Klimm, Frank Joseph
Klitgaard, Chris Fred N.
Klumpp, Otto Henry
Knechl er, Henry Norbury
Kruppenberg, Frank Rudolph
Kruppenberg, George Ernest
Korts, Benjamin Frederick
Lackmann, Ernest August
Lackmann, John Chris D 'h
La<lewig, Arthur Edward
Lafitte, Jacques de L.
Lamp, Charles Joachin
Large, Charles Franklin
Landis, Edward Caspar, P . M.
Lanfare, Clair Ford

Larsen, Anton Lmlvig
Larsen, Bengt. John
Laurence, Arthur Cornwall
Lautitzen, Hans Peter
J,awson, John Christian
Leach, George Wonson
Leavitt, Albion Eastman
Leavitt, William Cowles
Lee, Albert Edward
Lee, Francis Valentine T.
Lee, John
Lee, Roy Abraham
Lee, William Grant
Leeman, Edgar Wilson
J,eggat, William Alexander
Lehners, Frederick Emil
Lewis, Frank Rodman
Lilienthal, Ernest Reuben
Little, Matthew Alex.
Locksteadt, Louis
Long, Herbert Clifton
Lovejoy, John Hinton
Low, George Beanston
Low, Josiah Orme
Lundy, Aaron Linton
MacArthur, Newbern Turner
Macbeth, Frank David
Macdonald, William, P. M.
Mace, Lewis Sayrie
Mackall, Benjamin Franklin
MacManus, Walter F.
Mallott, Watson Howard
Mathis, Theophilus Smith
Marshall, George Gordon Earl
Martin, Alexander
Matthey, Robert Henry
Manran, Joseph Russell
Merrill, Elijah Hedding
Merrill, Hor ace Eugene
Merrill, James William
McArthur, Alexander
McArthur, Willie D.
McCahon, George
McCurdy, Marcy
McCullough, John Summons

47

48

ROSTER

ROSTER

McDowell, Archibald Eugene
McEwen, John Jardine
McGinnis, Robert John
McGowan, Frank
McGowan, George Arden
McKinlay, James
McMahon, Cal. Clarke
McManus, John Joseph
McNutt, William Fletcher
McNutt, William Fletcher, Jr.
McRoskey, Edward Lawrence
McRoskey, Leonard Henry
Miehling, George Sebastian
Mierdierks, William Augustus
Miles, David Edwin, P. M.
Miller, Charles Nicholas
Miller, Joseph Alois
Millei::, Richard Elgin
Miller, Thurlow Spragge
Miller, William Henry
Miller, William Penn
Miller, William S.
Mills, John Swinburne
Mitchell, Edward Henry
Mitchell, William Edwin
Mobley, William Thomas
Moebus, Fred. William Gus, P. M.
Moffatt, Walter Lindsay
Moffitt, Albert Hubbard
Moore, Avard J oseph
Morrison, Charles John
Moroe, Albert Garrish
Mo~genstern, Alfred Louis
Murphy, Charles Henry, P. M.
MyC\rs, Robert Carling
Mylchreest, Howard Quayle
Nagle, Alfred John
Newell, Eben Pool
Newman, Robert Edwin
Newman, William
Norris, John :Roosevelt
Oakley, Edward Davic1
Olsen, Frederick Henry
Orcutt, William Henry
Osborn, Russell Wight

Osborne, James Stuart
Osmunn, William Finley H.
Olsen, Alfred
Packham, Thomas George
Page, Frank William
Pattison, Charles Frederick
Penn, Charles Samuel
Penniman, Charles Wood
P ernan, Henry Frank
Peters, John Frederick Frank
Peters, William
Peterson, Frank Baltzer
Petersen, Nes Peter
Pfeiffer, William Frederick
Phelps, Frederick Tracy
Philbrick, Everett David
Philbrick, Walter Jacob
Phillips, Robert Bonsall
Pratt, Othello Curtis
Pratt, Zenas Campbell
Prellberg, Charles William
Prior, Clark Churchill
Prior, John L ewis
Purdy, John Elbridge, P . lVI.
Purlenky, George Carl
Quimby, Leon Shirley
Quinn, William Henry
Radovich, Bozo
Raisch, Fred
Rce>s, William John
Reichert, 'rheodore
Richards, Stephen Henry
Richardson, George Worth
Richardson, Walter Scott
Rrnd, Emerson Worrell
Remmel, Bert Engles
Robutson, John Harvey
Robinson, Arthur
RobinAon, Samuel
Rogers, John Boxter
Rogers, William Augustus
Uohlffs, Walter Vogt
Rohrhand, Charles William
Romaine, William
Root, George Washington

Rosenan, Frank Leopold
Rosengran, John Herman
Rudolph, John Charles
Rumpf, Frank Joseph
Russ, Henry Stanford
Sage, Orlando Gustavus
Saleh, George Charles
Sanborn, William David
Savage, Michael Joseph, P. M.
Schieck, Charles Henry
Schiock, John Charles
Schmidt, Herman August Theodore
Schnoor, Charles Otto
Schouten, John Wesley
Schreiber, ·wmiam Au. Martin
Schultz, Charles
Schwerin, Henry William
Scott, Clarence Sydney
Scott, George Mearns
Scott, Nailer MacKintosh
Scott, Walter Day
Segelhorst, Louis
Seiferd, James Frederick
Severs, Ernest Davies
Schanabrook, William Stark
Sharp, James Cohen
Sharp, Edwin Clinton
Sharts, Alton J.
Sherman, Frank Potter
Shields, Frank Duncan
Simpson, Henry Robert
Skinner, John Charles
Sleeper, Charles
Smith, Grant Ward
Smith, James Jerome
Smith, William Alexander
Smith, William
Snedaker, William Harvey
Snook, James Athearn, P. M.
Sonne, George Peter
Sorenson, Charles Made
Southard, Carroll 0 'Brien
Spotswood, Robert Henry
Spotswood, William James
4

Spriggs, Leon Walter
Squires, George DeForrest
Squires, Robert DeForrest
Stauffacher, Charles William
Steele, Thomas John
Steiger, Louis A.
Stewart, Boandon
Stewart, Charles Alex.
Stone, Walter Somers
Suter, Daniel
Taylor, Howard Prentice, Jr.
'r 'Beck, William
Terwilliger, Newton Clark
'l'homas, Edward Jennings, P. M.
Thompson, Joseph
Thompson, Peter
Thompson, Walter Simeon
Thornton, Bruce Patrick
Tibbey, Frederick Milton
Tilton, Robert Fletcher
Tourney, George
'l'rampleasure, 'l'homas Edward
Teague, Ralph Allen
Travis, Edward Charles
Trevor, Henry
Tucker, Ed ;vin Stanley
'l'urner, Allison Howard
Turner, George Webster
Tyrrell, .Tohn Roland
Tyson, James
Tyson, Mitchell
Tyson, Robert James
Uglow, Arthur Whitburn
Upton, Thomas Bennett
Vail, Robert Raymond
Van Court, DeWitt Carroll
Van Trees, Frank Sawyer
Van Winkle, Pierre S., Jr.
Venable, Joseph Gibbon
Volkhardt, Frederick August
Vradenburg, Preston Hickok
Wtlker, Walter Gilbert
Walla,ce, John H.
Ward, John Emmett, Jr.

49

ROSTER

50

Warren, William True
Watkins, William Hartley
Webster, Henry John
Webster, John Henry
Weeden, Henry Frank
Wefring, John Gust
Wells, Robert Huntington
West, Frank A.
Wetjen, Cord
White, Lovell
White, Roy Samuel
Wilcox, William Darius
Willett, Walter Marinus
Williams, Charles Henry
Williams, Charles Frederick

Williams, Oscar
Williams, William Alfred
Wilson, Charles Woodworth
Wilson, Herman Fowler
Wilson, James Knox Polk, P. M.
Wimmer, George Washington
Winterburn, Joseph
Wise, Robert Alma
Wise, Thomas Clark
Wiswell, Edward Smith
Wright, George Judson
Wrinkle, Ellery
Wrinkle, George Scott
Wrinkle, Noah
Woodlock, John, P. M.
-565.
WITHDRAWN:
~'elnmann, Louis

Staude; Fred

EXPELLED:
Brown, James Dalzell

Ilryan, William John
Fletcher, George William
Korten, Edwin B. D.

DIED:
Low, George Purley
Nelson, Charles
81nclal;o, Joh~ William
Taylor, John B.

MADISON LODGE, No. 23.
Grass Valley, Nevada County.
Stated Meetings, :first Tuesday in each month;
OFFICERS:

Matthew Whilkin Ar!ra11, Master,
William Edwards, Chaplain,
Grass Valley
William John Peters, Sen. Deacon,
George Louis Jones, Senior Warde1i, Harry Libby Body, Junior Deacon,
John Davey, Junior Warden,
1
Theodore Henry Wilhelm, Marshal,
John Glasson, Treasurer,
Henry Rollo Walker, Steward,
William David Harris, Secretary,
William Winn, Ste·ward,
Grass Valley
Richard Caddy, Tyler.

ROSTER
MEMBERS:
Andrews, James
George, Richard Henry
Aver, Frank, P. M.
George, Albert Grant
Angove, J eremiah
Gill, Arthur Lyonel
Argall, Matthew Henry
Grenfell, Clarence Bertes
Argall, Matthew Whilkin, P . M.
Grenfell, William John
Argall, William John
Green, Henry
ArmRtrong, William Isiah
Griffin, George
Bennallack, Joseph
Haack, Ernest Herman
Body, William Christopher Dart
Haas, Isidor
Berriman, Thomas Henry
Hattam, Joseph
Berriman, William Samuel
Hicks, John
Bartell, Joseph
Harris, Elmer Mills
Body, Harry Libby
Harris, William David
Brockington, Charles Aaron
!iarris, 'l'homas Milton
Coombe, William, P. M.
Hooper, James
Coleman, John Crisp, P . M.
Hosken, William Henry
Coleman, Edw:ml, P. M.
Hosking, Albert James
Condy, Herbert Richard
Hutchins, Robert Jewett
Cooper, Arthur
Ingram, Thomas, P. M.
Caddy, Richard
Johns, George Wallis
Care, Thomas John
Johnston, Peter
Clinch, Charles Edward
Jenkins, Alfred
Campbell, George
Jenkins, Jabez Arthur
Cofiin, Oscar Lewis
Jones, George Louis
Cowling, William
Jones, John Taylor
Curnow, William
Jones, Robert
Dorsey, Samuel Packwoo1l
Kinsman, Alfred
Dunstan, William
Kohler, Theodore A.
Daniels, Henry
Leatham, John Tonkin
Davies, David
Lord, William Goyne
Davies, Richard
Larue, Lloyd Palmer
Deeble, Daniel
Macldrill, Charles Edward
Ducotey, Frank
Maddrill, James Henry
Davey, .Tohn
Martin, William Philip
Matteson, David Edwin
Drake, Raymonil L.
Evans, Thomas
Matteson, Edwin Stanley
Edwards, William, P. M.
McDougall, William
Michell, Paul Wesley, P. M.
Fuchs, Carl Henry
Michell, Thomas John, P. M.
Fuchs, George Henry
Miller, Fred Manning
Fuchs, Henry
Northway, John
Frank, Robert John
Nettle, Charles Henry
Granger, Samuel
Nicholas, Isaac
Glasson, John, P. M.
Oliver, William Phillips
Gates, James Henry

51

ROSTER

52
OpiP, Bennett, P. M.
Othet, Bert Wesley
Othet, Charles Franklin
Pascoe, John Henry
Peers, Joseph
Phillips, John
Peterson, Andrew Gustaf
Perkin, John
Pearce, Thomas Jenkyn
Prisk, William Frederick
Prisk, Charles Henry
Prisk, Henry
Peters, William John
Richards, Edward Ingram
Roberts, John Edward
Rogers, William James
Root, Orville Hurd,
Rowe, James Jenkin
Sanders, John
Sears, Paul Stickney
Sleep, William Albert
Smith, Charles B.

Stein, Isi<l.or
Stein, Wolf
Stoddard, George Hill
T·apley, Fred Boyd
'l'homas, Frederick James
'l'homas, John
Thomas, John Richards
'l'homas, William
Trewren, George Charles
Trotter, George Thomas
Tyrrell, James C.
Utley, Charles Alva
Vincent, George
Walker, Henry Rollo
Werry, John
Wilhelm, Theodore Henry, P . M.
Williams, Joseph Edward
Williams, William Charles
Williams, Willi11-m Henry
Winn, William
:taph, Carl H.
Zipf, John Philip
-139.

SUSPENDED FOH
Brown, James W.

NON-PAYMEN'r OF DUES:
:Podge, John Lewis

Barker, Charles

DIED :
Kinsman, John

ROSTER

53

MEMBERS:
A uetin, Henry Clay
Kylberg, Larentius Adam C.H., P. M.
llarnett, James
Langley, Arnold Seymour
llennett, Frederick Lee
Leitch, Bruce McAlpin
Bondshu, Frank Albert
Lind, Carl Gustaf, Jr.
lloothe, Charles Lemon
Larew, John Snidow, P . M.
Olark, Joseph
Larew, James Alexander
1)ronin, Timothy Joseph
Long, Charles William ~
Oraighan, James Duffy, P. M.
Ludwig, John Daniel
<lhampion, Stephen James
McElligott, James Patrick
<:avin, William Hayse
McLean, John Leonard
()low, Nelson Lawrence
McLeod, John
Dunn, James Neil
Minor, Harry Everett
l)ullenty, Edward
Nice, George Ernest
Jtlclwards, William Charles
Robinson, George Henley
.f:i'arnsworth, Thomas McCready
Smith, William
l'arnswocth, Walter Scott
·
Schlageter, Frederick Temple
Ferguson, Samuel Hiles
Schlageter, Frederick William, P. M.
Jl'olcy, Daniel Joseph
Schilling, Frerlerick
IJonzales, Manuel
Speraro, Angelo
llibbs, Carl Scott
Sharp, Lewis Walter
Hilbert, James Arthur
Trabucco, Frank Thomas
llulemann, Henry NicklnH
Tretheway, John Thomas
Johns, Samuel Joseph, P. M.
'l'rewin, Peter
,Tohns, Trevenen James
Wallingford, Frank L.
.renkins, Richard May
Wason, Edward Putnam. P. M.
l<enchin, Peter
Westfall, Charles K.
l<onney, George Martin Fran,·i~
Westfall, Joel Jackson
-54.

MARIPOSA LODGE, No. 24.

GEORGETOWN LODGE, No. 25.

Mariposa, Mariposa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next precerling Fi1!l Moon.

Atated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:

OFFICERS:

Lars H. C'. Kylberg, Master,
Walter S. Farnsworth, Sen. Deacon.
Mariposa
Thomas Ferguson, Junior Deacon,
Harry Everett Minor, S en. Warden, George E. Nice, Marshal,
Frederick Vol. Schlageter, Jun. W qr., Charles L. Boothe, Steward,
Jame.g Rarnett, Treasurer,
Carl G. Lind, Steward,
Frank A. Bondshu, Secretar)•,
'l'homas Farnsworth, Tyler.
Mariposa

Charles Edward Jerrett, Ma.ster,
H::irry Morris Grover, Sen. Deacon,
Georgetown
Walter Nevada Grover, Jun. Deacan,
1llrman Daniel Jerrett, Se11. Warden, Albert Clarence White, Marshal,
Sidney Grant Sturman, Jun. Warden, Samuel Wesley Collins, Steward,
William Simpson Hickman, Treas., Cha rles Joseph Rupely, Steward,
C, »rge Henry Heuser, Sccretai·y,
James Francis Walk, Tyler.
Georgetown

Georgetown, El Dorado County.

54

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Beattie, Christopher
Johnson, Christopher G.
Beattie, William G.
Kiser, Samuel
Benjamin, Clinton Elisha
Langley, Charles Hinton
Barbee, Charles Platt
Lawyer, Frank Wilber
Breck, Charles Remerick
Lovejoy, Loriston Hale
Buckman, William Alvin, P. M.
Lovejoy, Thatcher Townsend
Cozad, Oscar Al.
Martin, Herbert Sargent, P . M.
Davis, Benjamin J.
Myers, Lewis Lane
Diehl, Sandford David, P. M.
Noble, Robert
Dobbas, Herbert Bitalum
Peasley, Isaac
Dotta, Lodovico
Presby, Alvin Moore, P. M.
Fillippini, Rinaldo
Peters, Benjamin Leon
Fredericks, William
Rodetti, FranciscoGordon, John Cummings
Rupely, Charles J.
Grover, Harry Morris, P. M.
Shepherd, Benjamin Franklin
Grover, Orrin Scripture
Simpers, George Washington, P. M.
Grover, Walter Nevada
Sturman, Sidney Grant
Grant, .George Lincoln
Stevenson, Thomas
Glasson, Josiah
Swift, Isaac Grinnell, P. M
Hickman, William Simpson. P. M. Walk, James Francis
Hayden, Asia Thurston
Wade, John, P . M.
Heuser, George Henry
Ware, John Adrian
Jerrett, Charles Edward, P. M.
White, Albert Clarence
Jerrett, Herman D.
White, Louis, P. M.
Johns, John
Wood, William James
-50.
Readshaw, "William J .

DIED:
Simpson, George Custer

PALMYRA LODGE, No. 26.
Placerville, El Dorado County.
Stated Meetings, second Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Arthur fames Koletzke, Master,
Michael Mayer, Chaplnin;
Placerville, El Dorado County
Albert Simon, Senior Deacon.
Waltu Elme.r Miller, Sm. Warden, William Herbert Combellack, ! . Dea.,
Vincent James Campini, Jun. T¥ar., Thomas Fielding Lewis, Marshal,
Shelley Inch., Sr., Treasurer,
George Charles Rolleri, Steward,
Charles Henry Weatherwax, Sec'y, John McFarland Blair, Steward,
Placerville, F.I Dorado County
J aines Lambert Weymouth, Tyler.

aOSTER
MEMBERS:
Cook, Earl Lewis
Alderson, Richard
Alderson, Stephen Thomas
Cooper, William
Cote, Phileas
Allen, John Page
Creighton, James Samuel
Arnot, Nathaniel Dubois
Culbertson, Frank Andrew
Ashcroft, Henry
Atwood, Theodore Charles, P. M. Duff, Charles Joseph
Duncan, Albert Henry
Avansino, Nicolo
Dunton, Charles Henry
Ball, Albert
Dart, George Charles
Banning, Andrew Com·se
Davis, Edward Albert
Barkley, James
Barss, Frederick Ferdinand, P. M.
Day, John Martin
Day, Robert Newton
Baum, Rudolph Waldermar
Dennison, Harry Talbot
Beach, Seth Gibbs, P. M.
Duden, William Calvin
Bechtel, 'Varren A.
Blair, James Blackwood
Ewert, Emil
Fisher, Frederick William
Blair, John McFarland
Fitch, Oscar Plank
Blair, Robert
Fox, Albert Sherman
Blair, Robert William
Blakele.y, Auburn James
Franklin, John Henry
Blakeley, George Lincoln
Frick, Walter Paul
Bland, William
Gee, Frederick William, 'P. M.
Board, James
Geiger, William Louie
Bosquet, Dallas Archibald
Greeley, Albert Henry
Boulden, Thomas
Gruben, Bernar<l
Boyd, Thomas Parker
Goodrich, Don H.
Brooks, Adam
Hand, Charles Ed'IJ'ard
Brown, William Marcellus
Hardie, Thomas Oswald
Burger, Charles Murray
Harris, Richarn Corey
Burnham, George Huntington, P. M.He~er, Joseph
Henderson, Alexander Duncan
Butts, Lowery Taylor
Campini, James Girlocomo
Hofmeister, George
Campini, James William
Hogan, John Keeler
Hogan, Philip Barringer
Campini, Joseph Albert
Campini, Vincent James
Huft'man, George B.
Cain, Lemuel Barnett
Hughes, Marshall
Carr, Daniel George
Hungerford, Frank Mason
Celio, Carlo Gueseppe
Inch, Shelley, Sr., P. M.
Inch, Shelley O., Jr.
Clark, George Murray
Clark, Thomas
Jones, Aclial Sabin
' Jones, John Charles
Cleese, John Peter
Jones, William Albion
Coffin; Oliver
Kern, John Edward
Collins, Walter Eugene, P. M.
Kirk, William Sherman
Uombellack, William
Coml;ellack, William Herbert
Kohlert, John

55

56

ROSTER

Koletzke, Arthur James
Kohn, Nathan Leopold
Kyser, James Peter, P. M.
La Rue, John Samuel
Lewis, Thomas Feilding, P. M.
Limpinsel, John Frederick
Littlepage, J"ulius Brown
Mack, George Franklin, P. M.
MacKenzie, William Ernest
Macomber, David WheelPl', P. M.
Mann, Oscar Arthur
Martin, Frederick Courier
Mayer, Michael
McAfee, Alexan\}er Lewis
McCarty, Thomas Emmett
McCoy, William Augustus
McKay, James Alfred
McKee, George Washington, P. M.
McKee, Joseph Fulton
McLaughlin, Jamee Michael, P. M.
Meehan, Marcellus Quintin
Mierson, Max, P. M.
Miller, John Wesley
Miller, Walter Elmer
Morey, Frank Henry
Morey, Henry Sylvester
Morris, Oliv.er Vinton, P. M.
Morton, Oliver Leonard
Mund, Frank
Neighbor, Jacob Lyman
Olms1.ead, Sheldon Patterson
Owen, Joseph Frederick
Ortman, Fred
Pascoe, John
Patterson, Robert Pagan, P. M.
Pearson, John, P. M.
Perryman, Frederick William
Pierroze, Ferdinaml
Pinneo, Oscar Elgin
Plummer, Howard Clark
Price, \Villiam Eugene
Purcell, Benjamin Albert
Raffetto, Frank
Raffetto, John Augustus
Rantz, Stephen Hester, P. M.

ROSTER

Rantz, William Addison
Rayburn, Charl€s
Richards, Charles Thomas
Richards, James
Richards, William James
Reeg, Louis Adam, P. M.
Rolleri, George Charles
Robles, Oscar
Rupley, John Bernaru
Rupley, Theodore
Schroeder, Carl Herman
Sheldon, Henry Bradley
Simon, Albert
Simon, David Samuel
Smith, Edward Lamar
Smith, John Adam
Stinson, William Harrison
Streeter, George Washington
Sumner, William Henry
Swisler, Charles Albert
Tacchino, Vincenzo
'rheisen, John
'!'racy, Henry Hardie
Tracy, Perry Spencer ·
Ure, George Murray
Van Voorhies, Ralph Josiah
Varozza, Gia<1omo
Varozza, Marco
Varozza, Rico
Wailing, Horace Herbert
Waters, John Nicholls
Watt, Peter
Weatherwax, Charles Henry ·
Webb, Jean Francis, Jr.
Weymouth, James Lambert
Weymouth, Stephen James
Weyman, William
Whitney, James P alache
Whittier, William Jeremiah
Wiley, John James
Wilson, Stephen Britton
Wires, Albert Melville
Witmer, Elam Washington
Young, Perly Andrew

Green, Edwin

57

WITHDRAWN:
Madden, William Charles
Smith, William C.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT
Plagg!, Eugene

Culbertson, Andrew Thompson

OF

DUES:

DIED:
Mason, Benjamin Dorsey

TRINITY LODGE, No. 27.
Weaverville, Trinity County.
Stated Meetings, last Saturday of each month.
OFFICERS:

Robert I.ee Carter, Master,
,Albert J ohn Fetzer, S enior Deacon,
Weaverville
William Ware Young, Jun. Deacon,
Morris Augustus Brady, Srn. War., William Condon, Marshal,
Je5se Francis Tonrtellotte, h.11. U-'ar., George Frederick Gehm, Steward,
Peter Minert P aulsen, Treasurer,
\Villiam Adolph Goetze, Steward,
Detlef H ansen, S ecretary,
J o.hn Henry Bremer, Tyler.
Weaverville

-177.

MEMBERS:
Gehm, George Frederick
Ackerman, John Quincy, P. M.
Given, Horace Robert'
Barnickel, Bernard
Goetze, Henry William
Blake, Selden Lafayette
Goetze, William Adolph
Brady, Morris Augustus
Bremer, John Henry
Goodyear, Charles Eugene
Haifley, Frederick ,Huston
Bremer, August Frederick
Hall, Henry Maurice
Carr, George Lee
Hansen, Detlef, P. M.
Carter, Robert Lee
Hass, Frederick Gotlieb
Case, Charles Lucien
Hays, Hiram Bennett
Cummings, Robert Fulton
Hupp, Jamee Wiley
Condon, William
Hupp, William Irving, P. M.
Dannenbrink, William Frederick
Hollingsworth, Frank Orville
Davis, Griffith T.
Lowden, Henry Larkin, P. M.
Dimock, Frank Leslie
Lowden, William Spencer
Edwards, William Rose
Leonard, Henry William
Fetzer, Albert John
Mason, John Clifton, P. M.
Fields, David Blackstone
Flagg, Jacob Redding
McGilleoray, Joseph
Meckel, Frederick Christian, P. M.
Flourand, Mathien

ROSTER

ROSTER

58
Meckel, John Weinheimer
Mortimer, Washington
Paulsen, Albert Lincoln
Paulsen, Arthur Edwin
Paulsen, Charles
Paulsen, Henry William
Paulsen, Peter Minert
Reed, Benjamin HnyLlrn
Shuford, John Willi1111;

Harnett, John Abraham

Smith, Jeremiah
Tourtellotte, J ease Francis
Van Matre, George
Van Matre, John Chandler
Vollmers, William
Wilson, James
Young, William Ware
Zarli, Frederick
-55.

WI'l'HDRA WN:
LaBaree, William Hersey
Shand, J'ohn Edward

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT
Haskin, Albert P.

Cummings, James

OF

DUES:

DIED:
Smith, John Huron

GOLDEN GATE LODGE, No. 30.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month,
1739 Fillmore Street.
OFFICERS :

Franklin Raymond Haley, Master, William Schuyler Moses, Chaplain,
19.'i7 Page Street
Paul Robert Rjick, Senior Deacon,
\Villiam Henry Hindle, Sen. War., Richard Jas. Harvey Forbes, J. Dea.,
August Ferdinand Heuer, Ju11. War., George Robert Puckett, Marshal,
Ch~rles Augustus Wegener, Treas., Lester Adam Blair, Steward,
Edwin Lewis Meyer, Secretary,
Frederick Murray Gilberd, Steward,
135 Stockton Street, Room 526 Horace Frederick Tower, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Ackerman, Charles Herman
Alberts, Carl
ALtams, Fred Thomas
Allen, Joseph William Everett
Adcock, Charles Edmund
Allison, Thomas Sydney
Agard, William Antoine Todd, P. M.Andersen, Charles
Anderson, Andrew
Ahlquist, Frans Wiktar
Aigeltinger, Edward Hugo
Anderson, Carl
Airey, Robert Joseph, P. M.
Anderson, }'rederick
Aitken, James
Anderson, Harvey Derious

Anderson, Herman
Anderson, Kenneth Pendleton
Anderson, Roy Robert
Andrews, Lewis Titcomb
Ard, EU.ward James
Armes, George Arthur
Arnold, Fred Thomas
Aspe, John William
Atkinson, John Robert
Baar, James Lausen
Backus, Charles
Bain, Robert Thurston
Baird, Frederick Guernsey
Barnes, Charles Thomas
Barnes, Joshua Daniel
Battalora, Felix, Jr.
Beardsley, Edwin Willis
Beaulieu, Ezra
Beck, John Elof
Beckett, Hugh Reid
Bennett, James Henry
Berg, Gustave
Bergman, Adolph
Bernhard, John
Bjick, Paul Robert
Blair, Lester Adam
Blakeway, John Henry
Bleie, John Arneson
Bluhm, William George
Blyth, Henry, Jr.
Blyth, William John
Bolger, J·arnes
Bolio, A tilio Peter
Bollo, Mario George
Born, Ernest Otto
Born, Julius Adolph Theodore
Bowren, Charles
Brackett, George Francis
Brady, Edward Robert
Breckenridge, William J arnieson
B1·onaugh, Frank Marshall
Brumfield, William Cleney
Brunbrook, Amura Francois
Brunig, Robert
Brust, Joseph Peter

Bullock, Fred Duncan
Bundesen, Boy
Burnham, Francis Mortimer
Burson, David Hugh
Cairns, John Thorburn
Cameron, Wallace Davenport
Canney, Frederick Gilmore
Cantin, Alexander Aimwell
Cantley, James
Carlsen, Axel Theodore
Carlson, Otto Wilhelm
Carnegie, John°
Caubu, William Peter
Christian, Caesar
Christie, Robert
Clark, George Dickson
Clarke, Samuel Andrews, P . M.
Cobby, John Wilmott
Uollins, William Webb
Cook, Aaron
Cook, Benjamin Franklin
Cook, Philip Henry
Uooke, .Mac Duff
Copeland, William
Cosgrave, John Paul
Craig, David John
Craig, Robert James
Craig, Theodore Leonidas
Craig, William Henry
Crockard, Robert Francis
Cumming, Joseph Moore
Dabe!, Richard
Daggett, John
Dahl, Charles William
Dahl, John Martin
Dahlstedt, Adrian Frithiof
Damkrocger, Dnniel August
Danielson, Eric
Davidson, Henry Wood Johnston
Davis, John Fletcher
D'Arcy, John
Deacon, William
DeCew, Thomas Leslie
Deckert, Max Ernest
Deegan, John Joseph

59

60

ROSTER

DeLamare, August Jacques
DeLisle, Raymond Frank
Dickieson, James Edward
Dormer, John Monteith
Do~ard, David, Jr.
Drescher, Henry
Duebel, Charles August
Duncan, William Cluff
Dunne, Francis Henry
Earle, Slade Anthony, P. M.
Eastwick, Philip Garrett, Jr.
Eggerstedt, William
Ekstrom, F1·ank
Elliott, Hamilton Scholes
Everding, John
Fake, George John
Fisher, Owen Frank
Flagler, Amasa Plummer, P. M.
Fogalsang, Thomas Edwin
Foord, James
Forbes, Richard James Harvey
Foster, William Sinclair
Fredericksen, Hans Rasmus
Freese, Herman
Freese, Joseph Christian
Fl'itschi, Alfred Rudolph
Fullerton, Darwin Phelps
Furman, Lawrence Magnus
Furst, Walter Wilfred
Galvin, Thomas Martin
Gardiner, William George
Garratt, Benjamin Franklin
Garrick, Walter James
Geantit, Antonio
Genereaux, Victor Henri
Gilberd, Frederick Murray
Gilmour, John Alan
Glidden, Arthur L ee
Glunz, John Benjamin
Goddard, George Henry
Good, Richard
Goodall, Harry Walter
Graham, John Neil
Grannell, John
Green, John Frederick

Greene, Watson Hatch
Groth, Soren Gudme Birkholm
Grubb, Joseph Richards
Guthrie, James
Guttormsen, Barthold
Hague, Charles John
Haley, Franklin Raymon1l
Hamilton, Charles Jonn
Hammond, Hugh William
Hanell, William
Hansen, Ole Mehrten
hatfield, Lenox Chauncey
Haviside, John Joseph, Jr.
Hawes, Talton
Hayes, William Thornton
Hedley, John
Hein, Theodore Hansen
Helbig, John
Henderson, Harry Milne
Henrix, Edward
Hensley, Archie Howard
Herda!, George Joharinasen
Hermansson, Charles Adolf
Hernan, Michael Howard
HErrington, Howard
Hetty, Julius Finck
Heuer, August F erdinan<l
Hildebrand, Henry Bernhard
Hilsenberg, Kurt Hans
Hilton, James
Hindle, William Henry
Hodgkinson, Albert Thomas
Hoffman, Robert Ogden
Hofinghoff, Walter Alexander
Holm, Louis Robert
Holman, William Lewis
Holmes, Paul Henry
Horgan, Cornelius John
Howell, Edward Henry
Hubbard, Charies
Hudspeath, John
Rulings, Burtor. Fisher
Humphreys, James Holroyd, P. M.
Hunsicker, Jeremiah Emanuel
Hunter, Thomas

ROSTER
Hutchins, Day Selden
Hyvarinen, John Walfrid
Iversen, Niels, P . M.
Jackson, John Farren
Jackson, Oscar
Jansen, John
Jensen, Neils Peter
Jones, William Lloyd
Johnsen, J_,aurits
Johnson, Abraham Wallace
Johnson, Elmer Harold
Jones, Cliff Lowell
Jorgensen, Carl Joh an Emil
Jorgensen, Jorgen Michael
Jorgensen, Niels Frederick Daniel
Jorgensen, Waldemar Sophos Eniil
Karstensen, John
Kent, Samuel Henry, P. M.
Kidston, William
Kingston, James Jervis
Kitchen, John, Jr.
Kitchen, William Mortimer
Klein, Frederick
Knacke, Frederick Frank
Knief, George Ernest
Koffold, Peter Mathias
Korner, George Henry
Lagomarsino, Louis Andrew
Lange, William
Langstaff, William John
Latsen, John Ludwig
LeGal, Clarence Lindsay
Leonard, John Buck
L.~slie, Andrew Thomas
Levach, Alexander
Lindberg, Knut Willhelm
Linsley, William Edward
Little, George Edward
Little, William Tell
Littlefield, Frank Peters
Long, Joseph Rice
Louw, Henry Andrew
Luhrs, Carl August
Ludwig, Anton John
Lund, Soren Sorensen

Lutticken, Louis John
Lutz, Charles August
Macdonald, Theodore Hall, P. M.
Mackintosh, William Crawford
Macondray, Robert Arthur
MacFarlane, Neil
Marisch, Frank Paul
Martin, Robert Elmer Ellsworth
Mason, Will Dodge
Matthai, Frederick William
Mearns, Frank William
Mearns, James
Mengel, Albert Louis
Menke, Harry John Louis
Merrill, Albert Henry
Merx, Emil Otto Herman
Meyer, Edwin Lewis, P. M.
Mikkelsen, Christen Peter
Miller, John Henry
Miner, Clark Davis
Moller, Erdmann Leopold
Montecchini, Mario
Montell, Edgar Henderson
Montell, Henry Hamilton
Morgan, Elisha
Morgan, Hamilton
Moross, Thomas Victor
Morris, Edward Thomas
Moses, William Schuyler, P. M.
Muirhead, John Scott
Mccaw, Anthony
McCaw, Thomas Scandrett
McClelland, John
McClements, John
McConnell, Gibson
McCulloch, John Edward
McDonald, Patrick Alexander
McElroy, Joseph Francis
McGarrity, Donald Dennie
McGrath, Edward
Mcintosh, Lachlan
McKay, David McPherson
McKinnon, Norman
McKinnon, William Wilson
McLees, James Thomas

61

ROSTER

ROSTER

McLeod, Angus
Putnam, Kingman Buford
McMillan, California Charles
Putz, Armand
McNally, Frank Lawrence
Raabe, Leon Stangle
MeNally, James Joseph
Raphael, Robert
Mueh, Walter George
Raymond, Arthur James, P. M.
Naghel, Louis Henry
Reed, Henry
Neubarth, John Julius
Reese, Evan Leander
Newsom, James Byron
Reinhold, Bruno Richard
Nicol, Thomas Matthew
Renwick, Charles Almon
Rice, James Truelson
Nicoll, Alexander
:Nicolson, Alexander
Rice, Peter Christian
Nielsen, Christian Wilhelm
Ripperdan, Oswell Thomas
Nielsen, Peter
Roberts, Adelbert Even
Nightingale, John
Robertson, George
Robertson, Williatn Milne
Noonan, John Hayes
Nopander, Louis Nicolas
Robinson, Charles
Nygran, Anton William
Robinson, Richard Gregory
Olson, John Petter
Robinso.n, Victor Hugh
Otzen, George
Roeder, August Edwart
Owens, John
Rogers, Randall
Owens, Robert Clogher
Rose, Charles Hugh
Palmer, George Franklin
Ruling, Charles
Parks, Charles LaSalle, P. M.
Salvesen, Reier
Parks, John
Sanches, Gardner Gilman
Parks, Rollie River
Sanders, William Richard
Parks, Yuba River
Sarrins, John Rudolph
Patterson, James, P. M.
Saxe, Robert Edward
Patterson, John Fargo
Scheel, Conrad
Paulson, John Nicholas
Schlitter, George Alexander
Payne, Redmond Wellington
Achmidt, Edward
Pearson, Albert
Schmidt, Karl Christian
Pelton, Hazlitt Lee
Schumacher, August
Pennington, Thomas
Schuur, John Henry
Petersen, Gustav Hermann Christiaµ Schwab, Edwin
Petersen, Jacob
Seo.by, John Carl
Peterson, Carl Harvey
Seagrave, John Carpenter
Peterson, Fritz
Selby, Herbert Kirtland
Pfeiffer, Rudolph
Semple, Hewson Cox
Phelps, Asa Hosmer, P. M.
Shade, Widenham Daniel Cuthbert
Phelps, Frank Augustus
Shane, Adolphus D.
Phillips, Robert Ples,ce
Shaw, Stephen Browne
Pratt, Augustus David
Sherman, Frank Bentz
Puckett, George Robert
Siesbuttel, Alexander
Purcell, William Lee
Silvia, William Collons

Tway, Ephraim Foster
Hlmmie, Albert Tate
Vance, George Prescott, P. M.
t!immons, Benjamin Cromwell
VanCleve, John Thompson
Simmons, Samuel Darrow
Vega, Frank Abraham
t!kelly, James Henry, P. M.
Venker, Henry Hermann
Smith, Charles William
Vogel, Soloman John
Smith, Henry
Volkmann, Alfred Arthur
Smith, John Henry
Von Husen, John Henry
Smith, Robert Neil
Smith, Walter Henry
Von Husen, William
Smith, William Ferdinand
W_agner, Charles August William
Smith, William John
Wale, George
Smith, William Magnus
Wallace, Thomas
Walsh, George Chat'les
Smith, William Wands
Sorcnseu, Albert Henry
Washburn, George Benj. McC!ellan<l
Sorensen, James Andersen
Weaver, Dwight Smith
Southard, Frank David
Wegener, Charles Augustus, P. M.
Spear, William John
Weitkunat, E<lwar<l
Squires, William Dunning
Wenzell, William Theodore
Stark, David
West, James
Stokkebye, Peter Madsen
Whitchend, Albert Daniel
Strandberg, Charles
Whitelaw, Thomas Potaro Herrichas
Stroecker, George Leopold
Wickersham, John Worth
Struve, H enry Knighton ·
Wilkie, Malcolm Darroch
Stuart, Frank Hayden
Willis, William Bayard
Sullivan, Abraham Sinclair, P. M. Wilson, Arthur Latto
Sutherland, John William Mitchell Wilson, Harley Payton
'l'homas, William
Witmer, Gottlieb
'rhompson, Frank Webster
Wohler, John Frederick IIermnnn
Thompson, llVilliam Wallace, P. M. Woodruff, Howe! Randolph
Thomson, Arthur Gale
Woodworth, Marshall Borel
'I'homson, Harvey King
Word, William Wallace, Jr.
Thornberg, Antone Frederick
Worden, Walter Le Roy
Toft, N ea! Christensen
Wright, William George, P. M.
•romasini, Henry Richard
Wright, William Quinby
Torrey, Stanley
Young, Allen Edward
'l'ower, Horace Frederick
Young, Robert Nicholles
Trebell, Thomas
Young, Walter Henry
Trumbull, Lyman Frank
Zeh, George Henry
-450..

62

Bowes, John Edward

WITHDRAWN :
Stelss, Albert John

SliSPENDED FOR
Herbert, William

NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
McConnell, Alexander
Sinclair, John

63

ROSTER

64

Brown, John
Doane, John Osborne
Fullerton, John
Holm, Christian
Johnson, Charles Otto.

DIED:
Mannie, Emmett Marcell
Pugh, William Henry
Rogers, Edwin Newton
Stafford, William Gardner
Turner, Matthew
Thomson, Thomas

ROSTER
Rivas, Emanuel
Roberts, William Ewing
Sparks, Edmond Jones, P. M.
Sparks, William Marti!l
!:landers, Frank Long
Hill, John Albert

GOLD HILL LODGE, No. 32.
Lincoln, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Fuli Moon.

Fleming, Albert C.

OFFICERS:

\ii/alter Jans~n, Senior Deacon,
Hans Paulsen Jansen, Master,
Frank Long Sanders, Junior Deacon.,
Lincoln
Henry Whitley Ahart, Sm. Warden, George Francis Pemberton, Marshal,
James Edward Wyatt, Jun. Warden, Charles Fritz Beermann, Steward,
Albert James Gladding, Treasurer, Clarence Richard Fuller, Steward,
Marcus Thomsen, Tyler.
John Gay, Secretary,
Lincoln
MEMBERS:
Goy, John
Adams, Lorenzo Dow
Harper, Thomas Burrill, P. M.
Ahart, Henry Whitley
Haenny, John, P. M.
Beermann, Charles Fritz
Hartwick, Robert Charles
Bickford, John Herbert
Handling, Thomas
Blackie, Anthony McClellen
Hislop, William
Buck, John Hiram
Hislop, James White
Bulson, Charles Hermon, P. M.
Huffaker, James Robert
Crosby, Fred Chase
Hughes, William
Christien.s en, John Peter N.
Jansen, Walter, P. M.
Croly, Jam es
Jansen, Hans Paulsen, P. l\'I.
Davis, Frederick Calvin, P. M.
Jackson, Julian Allen
Fleming, Albert Charles
Jones, Byron W.
Frederick, Henry David
Landis, John Bartle
F.1<ederick, Morris Huse
Lehe, Eugene David Noal1
Finney, William Norman
Livingstone, John Alexander
Fuller, Clarence Richard
Michael, Martin
Fuller, Richard Nelson
Missner, Frank
Gray, Galusha
Olsen, Charles Sorensen
Gladding, Albert James, P. M.
Pemberton, George Francis, "?. M.
Gerber, John, P. M.
Pemberton, John Wilmer
Goy, Charles

Thomsen, Jens Peter
Thomsen, Marcus
Van Dyke, Francis Marrian
Wayatt, James
Wyatt, James Edward

ti5

-52.

WITHDRAWN:
Herold, Adam Rudolph
Williams, Carlos
DIED:
Hill, Edward Eugene

OPHIR LODGE, No. 33.
Murphy s, Calaveras County.
Stated Meetings, third Saturday in eacl: month.
OFFICERS:

John A. Manuel, Master,
Edward Lewis True, Senior Deacon,
Murphys, Calaveras County
David Barkie Driver, Junior Deacon,
James Edward Shannon, Sen. 1¥ar., Fred Schwoever, Marshal,
Frank Willis Fisk, Junior Warden, ,Orceneth Fisher Sloan, Steward,
Mathew Henry Manuel,. Treasurer, Antone Malaspina, Steward,
Oscar Daniel Harrington, Secretary, William Poole, T-yler.
Murphys, Calaveras County
MEM.BERS:
Avery, Morton Peter
Harrington, Oscar Daniel
Heard, John Henry, P. M.
Hatten, Frederick
Harris, Henry
Batten, George
Batten, Henry
Holland, John E.
Bunney, John
Howard, George A., P. M.
Jenkins, William Henry
Cline, Andrew
Copella, David
Lesiza, John
Castruccia, Augostine
Langford, James T.
Manuel, Mathew Henry
Davis, James Sydenham C.
Driver, David Barkie, P. M .
Moran, Thomas John, P. M
McKown, Charles L.
Darr, Ferdinan1
McQuig, Alexander May
Drake, Edward Thornton
Fisk, Frank Willis
Malaspina, Antone
Fischer, John
M11nuel, John, P. M.
Garland, Wa_rren Nathaniel, P. M. Manuel, Raymond T.
Gilmore, John Henry
Mitchler, Fra~k Alexander, P. M.
5

ROSTER

66
Nuner, Charles Glover
Poole, William
Poe, Adam W.
Prothero, Edward
Poe, Edgar Adam
Poe, James Thomas
Ross, Elias Elam
Raggio, Richard
Raggio, Ernest
Roberts, Owen
Stephens, Benjamin
Stephens, James Moses
Schachten, Joseph
'3loan, Orceneth Fisher

ROSTER

Solari, Bastiano
Steinberg, Edwartl A.
Shannon, James Edward
Schwoever, Emil
Schwoever, Fred
Smith, Wm. Wright
".1.'homas, William, Jr.
True, Edward Lewis
True, George Lewis, P. M.
W€lls, Leo Burk
Williams, Hugh Price
Wilson, George Bertram
Zugar, Archibald
-59.

DIED:
McQuig, John

SAN DIEGO LODGE, No. 35.
San Diego, San Diego County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS :
Peter J ohn P iepenbrink, Mast er,
J ohn Gifford Shaw, Chaplain,
San Diego
\".lilliam Hampton Nichols, S . Dea.,
Fred. Arnold Schneider, Sen. War., Edgar Bernard Levi, Junior D eQIC011,
Egbert Carro ll Bangs, Jun. Ward en, Ca rl H enry Heilbron, Marshal,
John Henfrey Simpson, Treasu rer, Cha rles Elmer Arnold, Steward,
Charles 'W illiam Partridge, Secretary, Rain sfo rd W etmore Belding, Steward,
P . 0 . Box 661 , San Diego
Frank Dodgson Jefferis, Tyler.

Allen, William Wallace
Anderson, Bernt Alfred
Arey, Lewis Melbourne
Armfield, Harrie C.
Armstrong, John Emanuel
Arnold, Charles Elmo
Arnold, Gilbert Conger, P. M.
Arnold, Leroy Henry
Arnohl, Raymond Lacey
AshAlr, Josephus Marion
Averbeck, George

MEMBERS:
Bailey, Theodore O.
Bailey, Walter Josiah
Baker, · Wilbur Sampson
Baldridge, Charles Wilson
Baldwin, Hugh John
Ballou, George Henry
Bangs, Edgar Carroll
Beard, Amos
Beall, Edward Morse
Beamer, P eter Walter, P. M.
Belding, Rainsford Wetmore

Belding, Sanford Whitefield
Beermaker, George Wilson
Bennett, Ira Edgar
Betz, Jacob
Biewener, August Henry
Blackmer, John Keep, P. M .
Blochman, Abraham
.Bloehman, Lucien A.
Bortzmeyer, John Frederick
Bose, Charles Micbaei
Boulden, Edwin We!sey
Howers, William Wallace, P. M.
Boyd, James Alexander
Bradley, Francis William
Bradt, Horace
Breese, Robert
Brown, William B.
Brust , Samuel
Bryan, Solon
Buchan, James Dexter
Budlong, William Edgar, P. M.
Burde n, Frederick Daniel
Burnell, Barker
Burnham, John
Burwell, William John
But cher, George Albert
Cabler, Albert Nelson
Campbell, Edward Lewis
Cupps, Eugene Ellsworth
Cavalier, John Charles
Chalmers, William Franklin
Christensen, Christian Andreas
Clark, Harry
· Clements, Gustavus C.
Colburn, Walter Maurice
Collier, David Charles, Jr.
Collins, Fred
Comly, Harry Seykora
Comly, Harvey Retzer
Comly, James Retzer
Colton, George Wood
Cornish, Thomas Charles
Croghan, Herbert Anson, P. M.
Dann1JJls, George Mifflin, P. M.
Dauer, Charles Rudolph

Davidson, Frank Pierce
Day, Joshua Davis
Day, Percey Litchfield
Dillon, Harry Edwin
Doig, Robert Leeper
Doolittle, Herbert Elliott
Elgaescr, Charles Frank
Ervay, Henry Schley
Evans, Louis J oeeph
Fay, William Antlrew
Feekings, Hubert Gordon
Fitch, Herbert R.
Fleming, Thomas Jetreris
Forward, John Tarn
Fos, Willard Newell
Foster, John
Fox, Samuel Isaac
Frank, Amos Reed
Frary, Frank Phineas
Frederick, John Claus
Frevert, William Lewis
Fry, George Ulysses
Furnald, Frederick Henry Clay
Fussell, Joseph Hall
Gilbert, Alfred Hyde, P. M.
Gillrup, Walter
Goldtree, Sydney A.
Good, Chas. Long
Graham, Melancthon Adam, P. M.
Grant, Donald F.
Gri:ll'es, James Hartness
Hackett, Samu~! Warren
Hadley, Ephraim Wilson
Halstead, William Alexander
Hansson, Jonas
Harland, Wi1frecl Charles
Harper, Jamee Stevenson
Harrell, Thomas A.
Hawley, Joseph Noah
Hearne, Joseph CartPr
Heath, James ·Henry
Heilbron, Carl Henry, P. M.
Herz, Albert
·
Hetzel, J'ohn Julius
Hickman, Ernest C.

67

68
Hinkle, Edward Cunningham
Hinton, Johll Brundridgo
Hizar, Julier Clyde
Holbrook, Elliott
Holbrook, Howard Edward
Holzner, Frank Xavier
Huitt, Charles E.
.Humphrey, Thomas .Henry
Hunt, Nathan
.Hylund, Charles John
Jackson, Frederick William
Jameson, William
Jarvis, William .Holli3
Jefferis, Frank Doclgson
J enkes, Ernest
.Jessop, Alonzo DC'
I
Johnson, Fenton Molyncut
Johnson, Perle Marion
.Josselyn, Charles Lewis
.Journeay, George
Julian, Archibald Huston
Kindler, Albert
Kent, Lewis Edgar
Kettner, William, P. M.
Kirby, Lewis Reginald William
Kl.a uber, Abraham
Kressmann, Charles Frederirk
Laing, Oscar
Lamb, Frank Karl
Lamb, Markolet Richards
Lambert, John Willis
Landis, Harry Melancthon
Leisenring, Peter S.
Levi, Edgar Bernard
Lezynsky, Isaac Lesser
Levi, A<lolph
Levi, Simon, P. M.
Lewis, Theron Leslie
Liston, James Riley
Little, William Everett
Little, Arthur Gillespie
Lobingier, Frank Wells
Loebenstein, David Albert
Loomis, Charles Clark
'Louis, Emanuel J .. P. M .

ROS1'.ER
Lowe, William Olin
Luce, Moses Augustine .
Ludington, William French
MacGillivray, George Barnett
Macnider, George Francie
MacNutt, Homer
Manice, John
Marquardt, Hans
Marsh, Otto George
Masten, Louis Cuthbert
McArthur, Duncan
McClure, Stewart
McDonald, J. Wade
M~Farlane, William Mitchell
McKee, William Naff
McKie, Hugh Nathaniel
McKinnon, Duncan.
McLure, Louis Steenrod, P. M.
McRae, John Ann
McWilliams, Joseph Green
Mead, Francis Henry
Mendenhall, Americus Luther
Merritt, Wilbur Cassius
Mertzman, Bernhard Frederick
Meyer, Albert Carl
Middleton, George
Millard, Fordyce Rust
Mills, Edgar Ryder
Mitchell, Samuel Wilson
Moore, Charles Gardiner
Morgan, Addison, P . M.
Morgan, William Griffith
Morris, Arthur Adolphus
Morton, Richard Charles
Mossholder, Marks Prentice
Mossholder, William John, P . M.
Muehleisen, Aclolph
Murphy, George Samuel
Naumann, Feador
Nerney, Thomas Alexis
Nichols, James Nelson
Nichols, Nathan Dean
Nichols, William Hampton
Nystrom, Isadore Axel
Oakley, Nelson Clewell

ROSTER
O 'Neall, Charles Ford
Osborn, John Burchard, P. M.
Pamperin, Henry
Partridge, Charles William
Patterson, Henry Tatterson
Pease, Alfred Rodney
Perrin, Minrod Jonathon, P. M.
Perrin, William Cooper
Pet erhau~, William Gregory
Peterson, Edward Whitefield
Piepenbrink; Peter John
Pierce, Francis Marshal
Polhamus, Albert Alexander, P. M.
Powell, J. Edward
Powers, Robert Morrie
Price, Jacob
Priest, Edwaru Norman
Prieto, Juakim Dia?.
Puyear, Silas Montague, P . M.
Raithei, John Anderson
Reed, David Curtis
R einhardt, Albert Mathew
Remondino, Peter Charles
Rhoades, Horace Emmerson
Rippey, Charles Hindee
Rivers, George Hartford
Roberts, Edward M.
Ross, Albert Lee
Ross, .Tohn
Ross, Morgan Rinehart
Schimpf, August Rudolph
Schneidt1r, Fred Arnold
Schneider, Louis
Schorr, William Adolphus
Scott, De Wilton
Scheutze, William l<'rederick P. M.
Schindler, Robert
Seifert, John Richard
Shaffer, Daniel Eugene
Shaw, Victor Emanuel
Shaw, John Gifford, P . M.
Shepherd, Richardson
Shera, James
Simpson, John Henfrey
Smith, Frederick J.

Sn•.ith, .Joseph Berton
Smith, Sam Ferry, P. M.
Spears, Henry Gordon
Sporleder, Robert
Stahel, Alfred
Stanton, Leon Irenee
Sterne, Charles Embrey
Stocking, Raymond Francie
Strickler, John Weaver
Stromberg, Jean Emmanuel
Sturgo, Salvador M.
Swallow, Charles Howell
Swift, John
Swivel, Andrew
Taylnr, Charles Chapman
Taylor, Jamee Woodbury
'l'aylor, Harry Scott
Thill, Adolph
Thomae, :ij.ichard Baker
Thomas, William Emerson
Thompson, Frederick M.
Thompson, John Waldo, P. M.
Thompson, Karl John
'l'hompeon, Edwin Ruthvin
Tibbals, William Luther
Titus, Aime Baxter
Titus, Nat Robert, P. M.
'£itue, Harry Lewie
Topping, William Crane
Touchette, Alfred Octave'
Treahey, Alfred Moran
Venters, William Alex.
'I ernon, Fabius M.
Voeltzel, Daniel
Wadham, James Edward
Wagele, William
Walker, Clark Ambrose
Wangenheim, Julius
Wankowski, Victor
Ward, Marks J.
Warren, James
Waters, Henry Robert
Watson, Charles Chauncey
Wells, George Washington
Wertheimer, Monroe Albert

69

ROSTER

70

Wescott, John Wesley
West, William Henry
Whitney, Edward Ellsworth
Whitson, William Wesley
Wilhelm, Frederic George
Wilson, James Aldcroft
Wines, Sydney Jeremiah
Wheeler, James Lee
Willard, Cyrus Field
Williams, Charles Lewis
Cliff, Charles Lee
"'Mills, Charles

Winn, Robert Hatch
Wolf1 Joseph Robert·
Wood, Lorin Francis
Woodard, Edwin Adelbert, P . . M.
Wootten, John Bennett, P. M.
Wright, Ralph Leone
Wright, Allen Henry
Wyatt, Frank K.
Yates, Enoch
Young, John Alford
-312.
WITHDRAWN:
Thoustrup, Julius A. E.
Utley, Gerard

SUSPENDED FOli NON-PAYMEN'l' OF DUES:
Baldwin, Frederick William
Pierce, Wi11iam L.
Thomas, Albert A.
Baker, George Lawrence
Harnes, Frank Wile
Fournier, Ferdinand

DIED:
Horton, Alonzo Erastus
"Kronowitter, John
Shera, Arthur James

•Affiliate d during the year.

ST. JOHN'S LODGE, No. 37.
Yreka, Siskiyou County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Bennett Lafayette Butler, Master,
\ Villiam Ernest Combrink, Sen. Dea.,
Yreka
Hugh McLeod, Junior Deacon,
William Buckner Shearer, Sc11. War., Charles James Luttrell, Marshal,
George Alford De\Vitt, Jim. Warden, Henry Nelson Mullin, Steward,
Frederick Elijah \Vadswcrth, Treas., Peter Many, Steward,
Clifford Ederick Butler, Secretary, James Marcellus P owers, Tyler.
Yreka
MEMBERS:
Abshire, Alfred C., P. M.
Butler, Clifford Ederick, P. M.
Ackerman, Frank Buffum
Butler, George Dexter, P. M.
Ackerman, Frank Smith
Cash, Harry
Beaudry, Fred B.
Chambers, George Henry
Bradley, John Taylor
Chandler, Elmer Rollo
Butler, Bennet Lafayette
Chapell, Peter Janette, P. M.

HOSTER
Churchill, Jerome Percy, P. M.
Churchill, Jesse Warren
Cole, Herbert Bailey
Cole, Hugh Franklin
Cooley, John Edward
Davis, Henry Levi
Davis, Jesse Francis
DoWitt, George Alford
Diggles, Henry Emit
Ekwall, Alexander
Foster, Ellis Jacob
Freshour, Joseph Frank
Freshour, Robert Delbert
Freshour, Walter
Griffin, Franklin Robert
Hansen, Christian
Hoar, William Pancoast
Hobson, Luther Morris
Holbrook, George Frederick
Horn, David Marshall
Iffland, Karl Stein
Jacobs, Gordon Morse
J·mson, !sane Oliver
Johnson, George H.
,Johnson, James Marion
Jones Thomas
Jones, Willard Frederick
Kegg. Fred Emery
Kendall, Edward John
Kennedy, Daniel
Lawson, Oscar Henry
Lee, George
Lund, Charley
Luttrell, Charles James, P. M.
Long, James Franklin
Many, Peter
Martin, Brice Mcclendon
Martin, James Buchanan
Mattern, Adelbert Franklin
Mattern, Herman
Mattern, John Hanlon
McLeod, Hugh
Millbourn, Ernest George
Mills, Robert McDonnell

71

Mitchell, Charles Augustus
Mullen, Henry Nelson
Nalley, James Sawyer
Newton, Allen, P. M.
Newton, Lester Smith
O'Neill, John McCormick, P. M.
0 'Shaughnessy, John FranciE
.Pashburg, John, P. M.
Pashburg, J·ohn Edward
Patterson, Harry Clement
Patterson, Harry Havelock
Pollock, Walter Benson
Powers, James Marcellus
·Powers, William Watson
Rankin, Robert Ream
Raynes, Alonzo Emery
Raynes,· Herbert Rosborough
Ream, Henry Belden
Richardson, James Buchanan
Richardson, Sidney
Rohrer, James Baptiste
Scheid, Louis Philip, P. M.
Schroeder, John Henry Christopher
Shattuck, Silas
Shearer, William Buckner, P M .
Sboan, Orian Chase
Silvers, Charles Tilmon
Soule, John
Southworth, Thomas Benton
Stevens, Charles Edwin
Stine, John William
Tebbe, George Albert, P. M.
Tebbe, Willinm Edward
'fruitt, George Irwin
Wadsworth; Frederick Elijah, P. M.
Walton, George James
Ward, Kenneth Lester
Wheeler, James Edward, P. M .
Whitten, Charles Wesley
Wilcox, William Edward Benton
Williams, Solon Heywood
Wilson, Jeremiah Judson, P . M.
Woodbury, Franklin Isaac
Wright, .Tohn Elbert
-101.

ROSTER

72

WITHDRAWN:
Timmons, Albert James
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF .DUES:
Davis, Alphonse George Wash.
Koontz, Henry Newman
Pyle, Curtis Hooper

Laird, William Thomas

DIED:
Jnlleu, Julien August (E. A.)

SANTA CRUZ LODGE, No. 38.
Sa~ta Cruz, Santa Cruz County.
Stated Meetings, fourth Saturday in each month.

. OFFICERS:

Philip Sheridan Curtis, Master,
George Whitfield Stone, ChaplaiH ,
Santa Cruz
Lloyd Bowman, Senior Deacon,
Charles Devault Hinkle, Seii. War., Gerald Francis Severio, Jun. Deaco11,
Henry Drescher Hall, ]mt. Warden, Harry Clay Cooper, Marshal,
William Clarence Tooze, Treasurer, Herbert Dunning Allen, Steward,
Edward Swift West, Secretary,
Emanuel Hendricksen, Steward,
Santa Cruz
Peter Sophus Olsen, Tyler.

Adams, Arthur George
Ahlers, Diedrich Charles
Allen, Herbert Dunning
Anderson, Charles Louis
Angell, Fenner Almerion
Aldrich, Edwin Caleb
Attaway, Taylor
Aydelotte, Charles Leon
Aydelotte, William Mack·
Baker, Charles George Al<lis
Barnet, Emanuel
Baldwin, Amos Merritt
Baxter, Robert James
Bell, William Lisle
Denner, Winfield Alex.
Bias, Harry James
Bias, William Heury
Bilodeau, John Henry
Blanchard, Thomas E.

MEMBERS:
Bowman, Edward
Bowman, Lloyd
Bremner, George St. John
Briggs, Herbert Fisk
Brown, James Henry
Brown, William
Burdick, Charles Huntington
Bush, Benjamin Howard
Byrne, Walter Charles
Carter, Harry Lewis
Chamberlin, Marcus Philander
Clements, Robert Richmond
Clouette, William Isaic
Coblentz, Felix
Cohen, Aron
Cooper, Harry Clay
Congdon, Willis Rollin
Covell, William Elwell
Curtis, Philip Sheridan, P. M.

ROSTER
Dake, Lawrence John
Daniels, Clarence W. F.
Daves, Arthur Lawrence
Demercst, David Parsons
Drennan, Ryland
Drullard, Thompson Wilson, P. M.
Ely, Frank William
}<;mminger, Daniel David
J<;nnor, John Martin
Esty, Jarvis Duncan
F airchilds, Fred McNabb
F erguson, Daniel
Fischer, Antone
Fitch, Edwin
Folsom, Cathers Drummond, P. :M.
Freshour, Joseph Terre
Gayton, John Avard
Gaukroger, Albert
Gebhart, Charles Albert
lfodfrey, Henry .Toesph, P. M.
Greene, Arthur Miles
Griswold, Seldon
Grover, Myron Hubert
Gulliver, George William
Hall, Everett Cameron
Hall, Henry Drescher
Hapgood, Alfred Adams
Harris, Waymouth
Hazelton, Harry Raleigh
Heathcote, G. Prince Monpessen
H endricksen, Emanuel
Hertz, Henry
Hinkle, Charles Devault
Hobart, Edgar
Hoffman, Frank Joseph
Horton, Roy Dolan
Hotchkiss, Marshall Edgar
Izant, Bertram Howard, P. M.
Izant, Caleb
I zant, Percy Arthur
I zant, William Caleb, P. M.
.Johnson, Robert Franklin
Johnson, Walter Lloyd, P. K.
.Jonas, Joseph Lewin
Jones, Charles Arthur

Jorgensen, Jorgen
Keck, William Hugus
Kelsey, Edward Albert
Kimball, Charles Augustus
Kirkpatrick, Charles Thoma••
Krebs, Julius Uaesar
Kron, Henry Frederick
Kroeger, Charles HElrman
La-Port, Delbert Arland
Lay, Phineas Smith
Lell'liux, Louis
Lester, John Park
Lincoln, Orlando Jay
Linscott, Harry Arlin
Linscott, John William, P. M.
Lloyd, Benjamin
Lorenzen, Caby
Lorenzen, George
Lorenzen, Hiram Abiff
Lorenzen, Lawrence
Lozier, Allen Sheldon
Lucas, Frederick William, P. M.
Lu~.as, Harry Clifford
Lucas, William Vincent
Luttrell, Alexander
MacKinnon, James
Makinney, Hampton Emmet
Martin, Charles Christopher
Markle, Robert Bruce
Mason, Louis Tracy
Mattison, Frank,' P. M.
Mattison, Ralph John, P. M.
McCreary, Edward Davis
McCreary, Josiah Winans
McCreary, Thomas Guy, P. M.
McNair, James
McPhetrcs, Daniel Morton
Meadows, Charles Richmoncl
Menefee, Frank George
Meserve, Alvin Rand
Middleton, Henry Louis
Middour, William Louis
Mikel, Joseph Andrew
Moore, David Charles
Moore, William St. Clair Demitte

73

74

ROSTER

:Montell, George Alfred
Moulton, John Bisbed
Mosher, Nelson
Napier, Robert Graham
Nicholson, William H.
Oliver, William
Olsen, Peter Sophus
Perry, Peter Pier<'e, P. M.
Peterson, Henry Caesar
P ettit, Jobe Edward
Philbrook, Edgar Brayton
Phillips, Percy Todd
Picknell, Stanley Gates
Pioda, Louis Emelio W.
Piper, Harry Elwin
Plancich, Nicholas Antonia
Plant, Benjamin Anthony, P. :M.
Powell, Rolla
Pratchner, George Charles
Pratcnner, William Wells
Prouty, Frederick Raymond
Putnam, Marvin Edgerton
Randall, Horace
Read, William Mile11
Reece, Frederick Hood
Rhein, Henry
Rhein, Sidney
Rostron, George Henry, P. M ,
Roy, James Mauris
Russell, William
Severio, Gerald Francis
Severio, John, P. M.
Smiley, John Albert
Shippy, William Delos
Smith, Lucas Flattery
Snyder, Augustus Charles
Snyder, Henry Francis
B1·ooks, Joseph T e rry
Croop, William Bigler

Basey, John Clifford

Soper, John
Springer, Paul Eugene
Springer, Ralph Chesebro
Springer, Wilson Riley
Staubes, Charles
Stearns, Frank Wilcox
Steen, Jacob
Still, Arthur
Still, Herbert Charles, P. M
Stone, George Whitefield
Sutton, John Burton
Swan, Guy Emery K.
Swanton, Albion Paris
Tabler, Charles Marvin
Taylor, J ohn Alexander, P. M.
Tainton, Edgar Milsted
Tenney, Henry Dergin
Thayer, Truman Ransom
'£ooze, William Clarence
Trampleasure, Burt Edward
Trezona, Charles Ernest
Twist, John Parker
Wanzer, Harry Snyder
W ebster, Mark
West, Edward Swift, P. M.
Wells, George Washington
Whittle, Louis Arthur
Wilder, Melvin Dwight
Willey, Henry
Willis, Ellery
Wilson, Burton J.
Wilson, E dgar Miles
Woodard, Lester
\Vood, Walace, Percival
York, James Maddison
Zealear, Samuel Francis
-201.

WITHDRAWN:
Ste vens, Frede rick Lawrence
Chase, John Rufus
DIED:
Ely, William
Jones, Albert

ROSTER

75

YUBA LODGE, No. 39.
Marysville, Yuba County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

F rederick William Loehne, Master, Charles Valentine Doll, Sen. Deacon,
Marysville
Richard Edwin Bevan, Jun. Deacon,
Alan S. Brotherhood, Sen. Warden, Abram Walter Lewis, Marshal,
\Villiam Cramer Swezy, Jun. Ward., Mathew Thomas Featherly, Steward,
P eter Engel, Treasurer,
Carl Frederick Palm, Steward,
James Fred Eastman, S ecretary,
Edgar Taber, Tyler.
Marysville
MEMBERS:
Arp, Henry
Gianella, Vicenzo
Aubrey, Arthur George
Uribner, George Thomas
Barnes, Jesse Walter
Grow, William Bert
Barr, James Holmes
Hall, George William, P. M.
Haney, Milton .Pavey
Belcher, Richard
Bevan, Hichard Edwin
Henn, William Theophilus, P. M.
Binney, Andrew Jackson, P M.
Hutchins, John Sullivan, P . M.
Bissell, Nelson Clift on
Hutchins, Gavin Walker
Boulton, Emison Allen
Jenken, William Emerson
Brittan, Mark Thomas
King, Henry Dietrich, P. M.
Brostrom, Frederick
Knaugh, Joshua
Lewis, Abram Walter, P. M.
Brotherhood, Alan S.
Brown, Howard Leroy
Lewis, Arthur Garfield
Carpenter, William· Edward
Lipp, Albert Powell
Loehne, Frederick William
Corey, William Franklin
Covilland, Charles Julien
Logan, Anderson Dabney
Cunningham, Edward Augustus
Malloch, Henry
Cunningham, Francis William
McClintock, William
Davis, Edwin Amenzo
McGill, James Helm
Meek, Emerson Emmet
Donnalley, Edward J .
Eastman, James Fred
Menz, Albert John Schrieber
Engel, Peter
Menz, Albert Julius
E well, Samuel
Millar, Robert
Fenwick, William Arthur
Moffitt, John Andrew
Monnet, Fred Lewis
Feat herly, Matthew Thomas
Fisher, Amos
Moon, Benjamin
Moors, Frank Bennett
Foster, John Rupert, P. M.
French, Wheeler Desting
Newbert, Lee Hamilton
Frey, Frank Edward
Norbon, Paul
Fuller, Jesse Beech, P. M.
Palm, Carl Frederick

ROS'l'ER

76
Peffer, John
Potter, Frank W., P. M.
Powell, David, P. M.
Raish, Charles, P. M.
Redmonil, William
ROberts, George William
Rogers, John Belcher
Rubel, Charles Christopher
Sheldon, Frederick William
Single, Joseph Henry
Skinner, Randolph Whitney
Souza, Emanuel Carl
Stokes, Guy Heancastle, P. M.
Stone, Charles Caldwell

Stone, Charles E., P. M.
Stone, Elmer Ellsworth, P. M.
St. John, Enos l<'rost
Suggett, Allen Holm11.n P. M.
Sutliff, Bruce Hare
Sutliff, George Warren
Swift, Sidney Bourne
Taber, Edgar
Tapley, Gordon Nelson'
Thom, David, Jr.
Turner, Charles Edward
Wallis, Ivory Edgar
Walters, Joseph
Wheelock, John Dexter
-88.

WITHDRAWN:
Mote, Jesse Frampton

Slingsby, William

DIED:
Steel, Thomas Hugh

SACRAMENTO LODGE, No. 40.
Sacramento, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Clarence Todd Clark, Chaplain,
Nicholas Joseph Hullin, Master,
Cornelius Philander Bandy, S . Dea.,
Box 3206 Cypress Avenue
Delos Smnner Watkins, Sen. Ward., Joseph Hardin Stephens, Jun. Dea.,
William Edward Appleton,]. Ward., George Nesbitt Cook, Marshal,
William Monroe Petrie, Treasurer, Jnlian Fdhtaine Johnson, Steward,
Harry Anthony Smith, Steward,
Richard Cutrer Irvine, Secretary,
Cephas Charles Olney, Tyler.
1900 H Street
MEMBERS:
Acock, Thomas LaFayette
Banily, Cornelius Philander
Andrew, Adam
Bassett, George Combs, P. M.
Anilerson, Joseph Maurice
Bassett, William Walter
Atkinson, Edmunu Clement, P. G. M.Barmby, John Trever
Atkinson, Edmund Mansfield
Basler, Charles M .. rtin
Atkinson, Foster Lincoln
Bates, Hugh Roland
Atkinson, Frank Freeman
Bidwell, Frank J"., P. M.
Appleton, William Edward
Beard, George Foster

ROSTER
Beard, Marshall Rowles
Blair, John Newell, P. M.
Blake, Charles Tyler
Bowden, Lewis W. R.
Boyd, John Walter, P. M.
Boyu, Thomas
Bragg, Charle·s Lourin
Bragg, Henry William
Brand, George Sumner
Briggs, William Ellery
Brown, John Pemper
Brusch, Charles Henry
Hugby, Benjamin Norton, r . M.
Burdick, Joseph
Burr, Allyn Lord
Burr, Richard Palmer, P. M.
Camp, James Glasby
Capen, George Ashley
Carroll, Harry Montfort
Charter, Earl Davis
Christie, Isaac
Clark, Clarence Todd
Clark George Harvey
Clay, Ammon
Colburn, James A.
Uoleman, James R.
Cook, George Nesbit, P. M.
Cook, Hiram
Cothrin, William Kip
Crabb, Homer Elmer
Craig, James
Curtis, Melancthon John, P. M.
Curtis, William Albert
Darling, Henry Job
Dolan, Patrick Charles
Dunn, George
Ellis, Charles Joshua
'E verett, Walter Wyncoop
Fairbanks, Herbert August
Farr, David
Finnie, Robert Dryden
Fish, Alfred Lafayette
Fowler, Ezra Schoales
Fraser, John David
Frazier, Charles Wesley, P. M.

Gerlach, Augustus
Giffen, James Buchanan, P. M.
Gillis, Dougald
Given, ,John Ely
Grant, Duncan
Green, John Albert
Green, John Harry
Guth, Joseph
Hageley, John
Hale, Evert Wilburn
Hale, Marshall
Hale, Prentiss Cobb
Hale, Reuben Brooks
Hammer, Mosheim Schmucker
Harkness, Frank
Harmon, Rufus Burnham, P M.
Hatch, Wilber Mark
Heath, Josiah Rich
Henderson, Harry Alex.
Henley, Michael James
Hills, Charles Thomas
Hoen, Ernest Martin
Holbrook, Charles
Holmes, George Albert
Hopkins, Edwin Carmi
Hornlein, Hugo August
Hornlein, Max Edwaril
Hughes, Joseph Wilcoxson, P. M.
Hullin, Nicholas Joseph
Humphrey, Anthony Boyd
, Ilgner, Charles Wllliam, P. M.
Ilgner, Eugene Lowell
Irvine, Richard Cutrer, P. M.
Johnson, Joseph William
Johnson, Julian Fontaine
.Johnson, Julian Workman
.Tohnston, John Wesley
Jones, Perry Evert
Jordan, Louie Ernest Clark
Judd, Joseph Walter
King, John, P. M.
Kleinsorge, Albert Frederick
Kleinsorge, Henry Emil
Kleinsorge, William Edward, P. M.
Knights, William Durrant, P. M.

77

78

ROSTER

Knights, William Rudu
Kyle, Alexander
Lane, George William
Larkin, William Henry
Locke, George Washington
Lucas, James Franklin
Madison, William John
Maehn, William Julius
Mathews, Charles James
Mayo, Joseph Ely
McDonald, William Lowell
McKim, Samuel Warder
McLean, Duncan
Miller, Arthur Eugene
Miller, Dwight Henry
Miller, Frederick Walton Winston
Miller, John G.
Molter, Jacob Philip
Morgan, Earl Ralph
Morris, Edward
Morris, James
Morton, Charles Wardle
Mott, William Wallace, Sr., P. M.
Mott, William Wallace, Jr.
Mull, Archibald Harrison
Nash, Hiram DeWitt
Newbert, William Edmond
Nicholas, James Stuart
Nichols, Arthur Lombard
Olney, Cephas Charles
Olsen, Oscar Francis
O'Neill, James, P, M.
Parker, Franklin Wilcox
Payen, Louis
Pepper, Charles Smith
Perkins, Charles Calley
Petrie, William Monroe, P. M.
Phillips, George
Phipps, Charles Edward
Porter, Clive William
Prideaux, Richard Blight, P. M.
Flemming, Frank
McKelvey, Charles

QuirAn, Frank Jacob
Raynsford, Cyrus H.
Raynsford, Mark H.
Read, Herbert Alfred James
Read, John Adderson
Reeves, John Wesley
Reith, John
Rhoden, William Augustus
Rideout, Benjamin Norman
Ross, Thomas
Ruedy, John
Russell, John Leslie
Saunders, Joseph William
Schaw, William
Schwoerer, Louis Martin
Shonefelt, William Domer
Seymour, Arthur McArthur, P. M.
Smith, Harry Anthony
Stephens, Joseph Hardin
Stephens, Harley Howard, P. M.
Stephenson, William Albert
Stevens, Eugene Noyes
Stevenson, Robert Bruce
Stubbs, Charles Russell
Summers, Harry Sinclair
Tade, Frank, P. M.
Thorp, Harry
Vaughan, Richard
Waggoner, Reel Holloway, P. M.
Watkins, Delos Sumner
Weil, Edward Adolph
Weinstock, Harris
Wendt, Gustav Adolph
Williams, Austin Daniel
Willis, William Ladd
Willis, Evander Berry, P. M.
Wilson, William
Winterburn, George Howard, P. M.
Wood, William
Woodruff, David N.
-187.

WITHDRAWN:
Ostrander, Charles Edward
DIED:
Turton, William

ROSTER

79

MARTINEZ LODGE, No. 41.
Martinez, Contra Costa County,
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon
OFFICERS:

Otto Kasper Smith, Master,
Eugene Warren Stoddard, Chaplain,
Martinez
Fred. John Stewart, Senior Deacon,
'ltrnest H arvey Shibley, Sen. Ward., Thomas Brewster Swift, Jun. Dea,
13rook Lindsay Moore, Jun. Ward., Charles Elmer Mowdy, Marshal,
William Alanson Hale, Treasurer, William Richard Sharkey, Steward,
Orville Eugene H ayward, S ecretary, Alfred Leon Baer, Steward,
Martinez, P. 0. Box 315
George Henry Lyford, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Alverado, Henry Victor, P. M.
Edwards, Hugh Pugh, P . M.
Baer, Alfred Leon
I~ngar, Thomas Chester
IJuttner, Louis Napoleon, P . M.
Fassett, William
Baumann, George Edward
Fernandes, Bernard
Baldwin, Barry
Field, William A.
lkaudett, Joseph
Fraser, Ruben Alexander
mum, Gabriel
Guy, John William
Blum, Albert Edward
Gordon, Ernest
Blµm, Max
Hale, William Alanson, P. M.
IJlum, Simon
Hale, Ruben Lyon
Borland, Robert Burns
Hewett, Amos Lorenzo
Boyd, John Wheaton
Hayward, Orville Eugene
Babel, William
Hickman, Charles Clark
Brooks, Frederick Sheridan
Hough, William Jerome
Bibber, Charles Edward
Hamrnott, William Cushing
Ganfield, Willis Lee
Haskell, August Story
Chatfield, Norman
Huff, Frank Louie
Coleman, Arthur Burr
Hulett, Stuart M.
Coleman, Harry Lander
Ipswith, George
Collins, John Samuel
Ingraham, Richard H.
Crilley, Sidney
Jones, Madison Ralph
Crew, .Joshua Stafford
.Jacobs, Samuel Beer
Cummer, George Washington
Jaquith, Corey C.
Davies, Albert
Jaquith, William Clark
Davies, William Thomas
,Jamieson, William
Davis, Ira
.Jenkins, Clarence W.
Dillon, Malachi F.
Jones, John Davie11
.Toost, Martin William
Douglas, William John, P. M.
Duffy, William Joseph
Kelly, Samuel Colter
Latimer, Randal Hubert
Dye, Thomas Henry

ROSTER

80
Lee, Richard Bee
Lucas, John Gencoloes
Lyford, George Henry
Lyon, M. E.
McClellan, James William
McLeod, Edward, P. M.
Mathewson, Alex., Jr.
Matheson, Robert Browning
Matheson, William
Matheson, Zachariah Benson
Moore, Brook L.
Mowdy, Charles Elmer, P. M.
Mudd, Harry Peacock
Muir, John Crunna
Neustaedter, Michaelis
Neff, Felix Francis
Nelson, Conrad Oscar
Overfield, George Smith
Overfield, Henry Dunicake
Owen, Edmund
Pasch, Elias
Pavolini, Anthony
Petersen, John Emil
. Powell, Thomas
Rankin, Samuel

Rhine, Charles
Rhine, Jacoh
Rodgers, Bloomfield Balton
Schall, Feredrick Charles
Stoddard, Eugene Warren, P. M.
Sharkey, William Richard
Shepman, William Joseph
Shibley, Erne~t H.
Sickal, Marcus Theodore
Simon, John G.
Springer, Thomas Grant
Stemkellner, Thomas Joseph
Stile, Will Rothwell
Smith, Otto Kasper
Stewart, Fred John
Swift, Thomas Brewster
Tinning, William S.
Thissen, Charles Willis
Ulsh, Ruben Leonard, P. M.
Wilson, Alvin Brice, P. M.
Weiss, Richard Andrew
Wells, William Sewell, P. G. M.
White, George C.
Williams, Anthony
Wittenmyer, John Lewis
-110.

WITHDRAWN:
Fish, Charles Stanley
SUSPENDED FOR
Copestake, Fred Alex.
Varney, Thomas Howard

NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Wittenmyer, Lucern Austin
Wolcott, vVi!l!am Milton

DIED:
Riley, Jahiel Stackhouse

ROSTER

81

LOS ANGELES LODGE, No. 42.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Elmer Hiner, Master,
Joseph Oscar Downing, Chaplain,
1422 Rich Street
Carl Parmenis Smith, Sen. Deaco1i,
Morris Harry Goldsten, Sen. Ward., Walter Milton McStay, Jun. Deacon,
George Walter Yarrow, Jun. Ward., VVilliam Mitchell Johnston, Marsha/
Wyndham Bennett Brain, Treasurer, Charles McCreary, Steward,
'
Carl Gregg Miller, Secretary,
Ceasar George Cahen, Steward,
324 No. Occidental Street
Edward Hall Miller, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Aaron, Daniel Witcher
. Boyle, Calvin A.
Adloff, Jacob
Boyle, William Matchneer
Amols, Charles
Braun, Henry
Annable, Fred Lester
Brauer, Frederick
Asher, Ralph
Brain, Wyndham Bennett
Baida, Nicolas Gabriel
Brown, Charles Samuel
·Baldy, Alexander Jordan
Brown, Walter William
Barnett, William Theodore
Buchanan, Edward Alna
Barnett, Leo Wise, P. M.
Burkhardt, Adolph
Bates, Astle
Burckell, Leon Albert
Bayha, George Gottlob
Burg, Oscar J eorgen William
Bayha, Maximillian
Buisseret, Alfred Paul
Behrendt, Caspar
Burns, James Franklin, P. M.
Bell, John
Bushnell, John Brown
Benedict, Stephen Gano
Cahen, Caesar George
Bergh, Hans .
Cahen, Simon, P. M.
Bernhard, Gustav Adolph George
Cahn, Henry Samuel
Berry, Andrew Jackson
Campbell, Robert
Biescar, Henry
Campbell, Robert Mackenzie
Biescar, Joseph
Carbone, Louis
Biescar, George
Carlson, Gustap Emil
Bille, Marcello
Chapman, Jameg Casky
Birnbaum, Joseph H.
Chiapella, Edward Emile
Blancheri, Leon
Choate, James Jefferson
Blind, Philip
Clark, Thomas Brainerd
Blumenberg, Samuel Purdy
Clark, Alfred, Jr.
Blum, Jules
Clayton, George Louie
Borba, Mamuel
Cline, John Casper
Bowlby, Hugh Handford
Cohn, Elias
6

82

ROSTER

Gillett, Edgar W.
Cohn, Kaspare
Gillespie, Frank
Cohn, Max
Glass, John Malcolm
Colburn, Edgar Leonard
Glascock, William Asa
Colling, Benjamin
Goldschmidt, Hugo
Cooksey, Job Emit
Goldschmidt, Marcus
Conzelman, Charles Emanuel
Goldsr.hmidt, Herman Hirsch
Cooper, Alfred
Goldsten, Joseph Cohen
Cooper, George John
Goldsten, Morris Harry
Curry, William Edward
Goldsworthy, Frank William
Daniels, Albert Julius
Goiter, Edward
Davies, Floyd Ernest
Gotthelf, Aaron Solem
De Mott, Frank Jeyhiall
Graf, Siegfried
Dick, Henry
Graham, Angus, Jr.
Dietze, Curt Paul
Graham, Angus
Dilly, Alfred Lackman
Greenough,
,James Frederic
Downing, Joseph Oscar, P. M.
Griffiths, Thomas
Dryden, Guy Frank
Griggs, William Francis
Dujmovicb, Matteo Cosmo
Uross, Frederick
Duncan, Louis Freeling
Gross, George Washington
Duncan, William Jones
Guenther, John Arlolph
Durphy, Alfred Hartwell
Haber, Peter R.
.Dyer, Charles Rosser
Ecclestone, Charles Vollum, P. M. Hamilton, EU.win Smyth
Hargrave, Pascal King
Eckhart, Joseph
Hartman, David
Edelman, Abram Moses, P. M.
Hartnack, John Charles
Edelman, David William
Hauch, Isaac
Edgar, Clarence William
Hein, Jacob
Eichholz, Philip
Heitchew, Abraham S.
Ernst, Henry Picket
Hellman, James Wolf
Evans, David P.
Hellman, Isaias William
Faerber, William
Higson, .Tames Henry
Finley, Charles Howard
Hiner, Elmer
Finnila, August
Hirsh, Dave
Fischer, Alois
Hoffman, William Michael
Fisher, John
Holbrook, Frederick William
Fluckinger, George Edward
Home, George Kimball
Fountain, J esse Cooley
Hopkins, Harry Lincoln
Fricke, William Charles
Horen, Edwin
Fricke, William Charles, Jr:
Iaeger, Louis John Frederick
Friegel, Fred G.
Illich, John
Fraser, Alexander
Jameson, Walter
Gaffey, John Tracy
,Jauch, Joseph Wilhelm
Germain, Edward
'Johnson, Frank A.
Gersen, Francis George
Johnson, Luther Herman
Getchell, John Townsend

ROSTER
Johnston, Albert Humboldt
John~ton, William Mitchell
Julian, Edward Gustave
Kalisher, Simmie
Kennerly, John Doby
King, John, P. M.
Kingsbaker, Benjamin
Kircher, Hermann Otto
Klein, Julius S.
Klein, Morris, P. M.
Klein, Adolph
Krempel, Christian
Krempel, John Paul
Krohn, Henry George .
La Lande, Roy Joseph
Lane, Frank Joesph
Last, John Ludwig Adolph
Last, Carl Frederick August, P. M.
Langbein, Ernest Leslie
Leo, John
Leonie, Jean Baptiste
L eithead, Hiram Hyde
Levy, Elie Julius
I.f,vy, Felix
Levy, Ralph Amite
Lipsky, Jacob
Llewellyn, William
Longuevan, Joseph Beauregard
Lutes, Harry George
Maerler, Alfred Gottlob, P. M.
Maeder, Henry Julius
Magnus, Belmar
Maier, Simon
Mapel, Charles Elliot
Martin, Carl William
Masac, Harry Will
Masac, Howard Anthony
Masac, Theophilus
Mayor, Frank William
McArthur, Clifford W.
McCreary, Charles
McDowell, James
Mcinnis, August G.
McLeod, John Edward
McLeod, Simon

83

McStay, Walter Milton
Melczer, Joseph
Merritt, Elmer Philip
Meuschke, Edward Herman
Meyer, .Tames Benjamin
Meyer, Solomon
Michelsen, George
Middleton, Frank Elmer
Miller, Edward Hall
Miller, Harry Crow
Miller, Carl Gregg, P. M.
Miller, Isaac Joseph
Miller, Joseph
Miller, Wilbor
Mittendorf, Louis Ernest
M0ir, b"rank
Moore, James Lloyd
Morris, Julius Louis
Morrow, Henry Harvil
Moulton, Harry Jackson
Muswick, Max Fred
Nance, Charles Holland
Nels?n, Alexander Philip
Nelson, John William
Newhard, William Penn
Newmark, Harris
Newmark, Max Nathan
Noel, James
Northmore, Emanuel Richard
Norton, Moses
Norton, Isaac
Norton, Isaac Henry
Odenthal, Hubert
Pamucina, Mitchel
Pattillo, James Nelson
Paulson, Paul
Peck, Thomas Charles
Pierce, Henry Alfonzo
Platt, Francis Edward
Prager, Charles, P. M.
Preston, William Herman Frank B.
Rademacher, Frank, P. M.
Rakoff, Joseph A.
Ramsay, Lewis Penoyer
Raphael, Robert Herman

84

ROSTER

ROSTER

Stewart, Archie Earnest
Redican, Bernard
Stewart, James Watson
Reed, Guy Burt
Stidham, Taylor
Reeder, Joseph Clark
Stoecklin, Arnold Joseph
Richards, Haymond George
Strohm, Thomas, P. M.
Rosin, Benjamin
Stuart, Arthur Thomos
Roth, Edmond
Sullans, Charles Clinton
Roth, Max
Summerland, Theodore
Rudolph, Ernest Louis William
Sunderland, Joseph
Ruoff, Albert
Switzer, Commodore Perry
Russell, 'fhomas Blaine
Talbot, Madison Worthington
Ryan, Michael Edwin
Taylor, Clarence John
Salinger, Victor Randolph
Thurner, Gottlob Adolf
Scheer'lr, Conrad
Theobald, Victor Hugo
Schlesinger, Jacob
'l'ileston, William Lount
Schone, John
Todd, Robert Asa
Schrein, Joseph Martin
Vansyckle, George Warne
Schroeder, Richard Albert
Vnnneman, Albert Walter
Schwartz, Leo
Vogel, Herman Oscar
Scott, Walter Hayes
Wagner, William James
Sedgwick, Thomas Duncan
Watts, William Lord
Seebold, Alexander Humboldt
Weidner, Peter
Shaw, Thomas William
. W einsveig, Mikel
Shoemaker, Frederick Willcox
Weisberger, Sam
Singer, Joseph
Wells, Ashton Albert, P. M.
Singh, Sardar Hira
Weyse, Rudolph Guenther
Skinner, James
Wharton, Mesech
Slavin, Alexander Gerson
Whiting, Perry
Sleddon, William Taylor
Williams, George A.
Sloan, Bennie Ernest
Wirtz, Rudolph
Slotterbeck, Harry Walter
Wise, Walter Dorsett, P. M .
Smith, Benjamin Franklin Porter
Witkind, Simon
Smith, Carl Parmenis
W olft', Bernhard
Smith, James
Wolff, Isaac
Smith, Arthur Garfield
Wolff, Louis Gottlieb
Spear, Joseph
Woodbury, Edward
Specht, Joseph Christian
Worden, Herbert Bairsto
Spengler, Philip
Woollacott, Henry Johu
Spindler, Moses
Wygal, Jacob Thomas
Spitzer, Harry
Yarrow, Ueorge Walter
Staben, Emil Ernst
Yarrow, Lloyd Ray
Stanton, Edwin
Young, Albert Brooks
-323.
Starr, Elmer Moses

85

WITHDRAWN:
Baio11er, Andrew :Menickle
Gehrkens, William Henry
Defty, William Emanuel
Goldsworthy, John James
Nance, Roswell Smith
SUSPENDED FOH NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Cauvin, Robert Steger
Joyce, Thomas Francis
Downing, William Collins
Meyer, William Aimee B.
Hughes, John Rowland
Mitton, Benjamin Russell
Hyatt, William David
Moore, Walter Scott
Rutz, George Adam

Bragg, Ansel Melen
Eyraud, Emanuel
Germain, Eugene

DIED:
Jeffries, William Thomas
Maier, Joseph Frederick
Oder, Heinrich J. E.

HIRAM LODGE, No. 43.
El Dorado, El Dorado County.
Stated Meeti•gs, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon
OFFICERS:

John Adolphus Fisher, Mastrr,
Charles Darwin McDonald, S. Dea.,
Placerville
William Burgess McKenzie, ! . Dea.,
v\'illiam Jefferson Moore, S. Ward., Caswell Clay Cantrell, Marshal,
Grant Hill, !tmior Ward rn,
Urvin Waldo Smith, Steward,
John Caswell Heald, Treasurer,
Reuben Kelly Berry, Steward,
William Yeadon, Secretary.
Gerhard Heinrich Diithmann, Tyler.
Et Dorado
MEMBERS:
Berry, Reuben Kelley
Hill, Grant
Cantrell, Coswell Clay
McDonald, Charles Darwin
Corsey, Malon Snyder
McKenzie, William Burgees
Diithmann, Gerhard Heinrich, P. M. Moore, William .Teft'erson
Fisher, John Adolphus, P. M.
Salmon, George Washington
Frazier, John Edwin
Skinner, William H enry
Griffin, Earl Van Dorn
Smith, Urvin Waldo
Harvey, George Washington
Staples, Alpheus Dow
Heald, John Cambell
Stone, Edward
Hubbard, Lucious Samuel
Yeadon, William
-20.
WITHDRAWN:
Brown, Edward Victor D.

86

ROSTER

MOUNT MORIAH LODGE, No. 44.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, fi;i-st Wednesday in each month.
Golden Gate Commandery Hall.
OFFICERS:
George McLean, Master,
George Washington Haberly, Chap.,
120 Market Street
Daniel Bradford Richards, S. Dea.,
Charles McKerral Lindsay, S. Ward., Sterling Kindall Campbell, J. Deaco11,
Edmund Tauszky, Junior Wardeu, Henry athaniel Clift, Marshal,
John Frederick Schroth, Treasurer, Ethel Alvin Robbins, Steward,
Theodore Frolich, Secretary,
John Jacob Stahl, Steward,
429 Monadnock Building
Hans Gustav Frederickson, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Bernstein, Philip
Adam, Herman
Bestandig, Max
Allen, Wi!liam George
Routeiller, Enget;1e Louis
Altenburg, August
Bowman, George Washington
Ames, Frank Holmes
Boyer, William Edward, P. M.
Ames, Frank Mortimer
Bredhoff, Charles Martin
Amey, George Henry
Anderson, Alfred Henry
Bryant, Frederick James
Anderson, Carl Alfred
Brown, Albert Armenia
Anderson, Charles James
Burke, Edmund William
Burke, William Gordon
Anderson, Marquitt
Anderson, Otto Evart
Bury, Valentine Ryder
Anderson, Sterling
Calden, Guy Chester
Andrews, Thomas Patrirk
Calvin, William Henry
Anthony, Herbert Mills
Campbell, Sterling Kindall
Applegate, George Brenton
Uaswell, George William
Baker, Charles Arnold
Cavnah, Howard Edward
Barbat, William Benjamin Franklin Cevasco, Giovanni Battista
Barnard, Frank
Chamberlain, Aaron Lewis, P M.
Barnett, Harry
Chase, Nathaniel Linton
Barry, Edgar Stephen
Chassagne, Leon
Basker, Solomon
Clift, Henry Natha'n iel
Cochran, James Henry
Batchelder, Nathan Prescott
Bell, Joseph Vincent
Cob!, Morris
Bemis, Charles Cook
Conmy, Thomas Cherry, P. M
Benson, Nils Peter
Cornwall, Frank
Bergen, Alexander
Craumer, Fred
Bergerot, Pierre Alexander
Crawley, John Edwin
Bernhart, Peter Daniel
Crittenden, .Joseph Lambert, P. M.
Bernstein, Max
Cunningham, Thomas Stanley

ROSTER
Davies, Ezekiel William
Harper, Fred Fogg Gale
Davis, David
Harris, Thomas Voe!
Davis, John Warner
Harshall, Gustav
Davis, Morris White
Hart, Oscar Herman
Demartini, Frank Jerome
Harvey, William Alonzo
Diers, Peter Matthias
Hatteroth, William Henry C1ul
Dixon, John Meneely
Haughy, James Clarkson
Dixon, Randall McDonald
Hauser, Albert Maria
Dolling, William Henry, P. M.
Haussler, Frederick Otto
Dondero, Charles
Haviside, Harry Thomas
Donovan, Allen Ward
Healey, William Wilford
Doolittle, William Gorham, P M.
Hennings, John Henry Marius
Eaton, Frederick Ward
Henrickson, Olaus
Eberhart, Adolph, P. M.
Henry, Carl Albert
Ellery, Epes
Herbst, HE'.rschel Herman
Ellison, Thomas
Herrguth, Frank Peter
Engdahl, Ernest Olof
Hertlein, Henry
Erikson, Clarence, P. M.
Heyneman, Herman
Erken, Charles Henry
Hiett, Julius Sy!vPster
Ertola, Joseph Frederick
Hill, Edwin Potter
Etienne, Emile
Hilmer, Frank Ernest
Etienne, Victor, Jr.
Hilmer, Fred Louis
Everett, Daniel Henry, P. M.
Hjul, Christian Hansen
Fischer, Oscar
Hoadley, Hermann Muller
Fish, George Lewis
Hodgen, Joseph Dupuy
Flynn, Thomas Emmett
Holladay, Samuel Wirt
Focha, William Francis
Holmes, James Gilmour
Ford, Campbell
Horstmann, William John
Fredrickson, Hans Gustav
Hyde, Alexander
Freiermuth, George Henry
Hyman, Presley Corbin
Frolich, Theodore, P. M.
Israel, Arthur Clarence
Geist, William
·
Jackson, Howard Randall
Gerrans, Henry William
Jacobs, Albert
Greub, Gustav Adolph
Jacobs, Albert Pocorny
Gilbert, George Shoebridge
Jacobs, Arthur Felton
Gill, E<lward Clifford
Jaeobs, Henry
Gilman, Samuel Walter
Jenke!, John Rudolph August
Goldberg, Jacob
Jens, John Charles, P. M.
Gordan, Jacob
Jens en, Hans Peter
Gruver, Charles Silvamoius
Johnson, Otto John Henry
Gunderson, Severin Tobias
Joly, John George
Gunn, William John
Jones, George Edward
Haberly, George Washington, P. M. Jorgensen, Lawrence
Hacke, William Conrad, P. M.
Kato, Frans Ludwig
Halsted, Eminel Potter
Kelly, John

87

88

ROSTER

Montealegre, Carlos Francisco
. Kerr, John
Morrison, James Renshaw
Kinsman, Chester Cushing
Mosk, Naftaly
Kinsman, Raymon Flanders
Nagel, Carl Siegfried Gunthc1
Kimball, John Albion
Nagle, Charles Grant
Kimball, John Carpenter, P . M.
Nash, Jay Thomas
King, William Russell
Nelson, Alexander
Klein, Frederick Wilhelm
Nelson, James Henry
Koepke, Hans Je>achim H .
.Newell, Joesph
Krone, Carl Antone
Newhouse, William Gerhart
Krone, frederick Wilhelm
Newman, Charles Bleistein
Krone, Frederick William, Jr.
Nicholson, William Drake
Lander, Charles John
Nicol, James
Lascy, Frank Howard
Nilsson, Nils Axel
Lebenbaum, Louis
Lemmermann, John Hermann Henry Nixon, Thomas
Normand, Emile Henri
Lenoir, Emile
Olsson, John Olof
Levy, Herman
O~born, Corra Mahlon
Lillie, Augustus Seabury
Ott, Michael George
Linclsay, Charles McKerral
Palmer, Henry
Lindsay, Thomas
Parker, David Stout
Linne, John Conrad
Pasquale, Henry Camille
Lippman, George W.
Pels, Louis Edward
Louderback, Davis, P. M.
Petersen, Andrew
Maass, Andrew Henry
Phillips, William Enward
MacFarland, John
Plato, George Morris
Maguire, Eugene Burns
Post, Ernest Mortimor
Mason, Edward William
Pratt, John James
Masters, Charles Benfield
Pratt, Roy Allen
Mathews, Harvey, P. M.
Price, Benjamin Tydfil
Mathewson, Clifford Earl
Price, Louis Hartwell
McCallan, John
Price, Thomas
McCaw, William Nassau
Raabe, Charles Edward
McDaniel, Willard
Raabe, Frederick Otto
McElroy, William Joseph
Radston, Julius
McGuire, James
Rankin, Augustus Hermance
McKay, William
Ratterree, Allen Hopper
McKellar, John
Rawe, John Henry
McLean, George
Read, John Herbert
McLean, John
Reeb, Ferdinand
McNab, James
Richards, Daniel Bradford
Menzel, William
Richards, Harry G_riffin
Merrill, Isaac McGaw
Richards, John David
Merry, 'fhomas
Roberts, Joseph Lazarus
Meyer, Marcus Cauffman
Robbins, Ethel Alvin
Mires, Edward

ROSTER
Rolls, John Sellers
Sangberg, Rudolf Ingomar
Scheer, Gustavus Adolphus
Schlesinger, Bert
Schloss, Benjamin
Schloss, Mendel Jacob
Schmalzlen, William
Schmidt, Valentine
Schmitt, Adam Alpert
Schoenfeld, David Charles
Schroth, Charles Albert
Schroth, John Frederick, P. M.
Schubert, Hugo George
Schulz, Ai\olf Henry
.Seibel, Frederick Lacey
Seibel, ' Philipp
Seike, Richarcl Brooker
Seiler, Adolph Paul
Seiler, Paul G. Adolphus, P M.
Sellman, Joh an Alfred
Septon, OliYer Plunket
Sheldner, Philip
Sinclair, Henderson
Smith, Herbert Le Baron
Smith, John Henry
Smith, Samuel Burriss
Smits, Hen.ry Aldegondus Joseph
Sorensen, Charles
Soulier, Joseph
Spencer, Frank Aaron
Springett', Arthur Alfred
Stahl, John Jacob
Stark, William Henderson
Steinman, Bernard
Stelling, Martin
Stewart, Thomas Henry, Jr.
Straus, Auguste Lazar
Sullivan, Michael John
Sweeney, John Joseph
Adler, Adolph
SUSPENDED

89·

Tauszky, Edmund
Thompson, Nathaniel
Thorpe, William James
Tillman, Leopold
Toohey, Cornelius
Travers, Charles Stevens
'frobock, Bartholomew Nicholas
'l'rudgett, Robert Davis
Turner, George Angell
Usher, William Henry
Vaenberg, Abraham
Van Sicklen, Frederick Wetherbee
VP.nsano, Harry Chittenden
Vogler, Albert John Henry
Wagstaff, Thomas Hamlet
Walker, David Edward
Walley, Emil Engelberth
Wallman, Bodo Andrew
Wa.Jlmann, Johann Gordon
Walters, John Franklin
Warcl, Herbert Foster, P. M.
Warriner, Frank Terry
Webster, Charles John
Weidman, George Elias
Wentworth, Benning'
Whearty, Peter Francis
Whitcomb, Frank Randolph, P. M.
Wikander, John
Williams, John Henry
Wilson, David
Wilaon, Robert John
Witt, Julius
Wolff, William
Woodside, Alexander, P. M
Woodward, George Homer
Woolley, Lell Hawley
Wulzen, Frederick George
Zion, Edwin Ray
-315.

WITHDRAWN:
Lutley, Edward
Moller, Heinrich
FOH NON-PAYMENT
Todd, Jamee Howard

OF DUES:

90

ROSTER

Boyd, Frank
Davis, Henry Laurens
Diez, Castor Cayetano

DIED:
Freeman, Elisha
Irving, Samuel
Shafer, Henry

CRESCENT LODGE, No. 45.
Crescent City, Del Norte County.
Statetl Meetings, second Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Aaron Abraham Barneburg, Master, Joseph Mitchell Hamilton, Sen. Dea.,
Crescent City
Albert Julius Berg, Junior Deacon .
Daniel Rea, Senior Warden,
Drury "White Rice, Marshal,
Charles Ernest Chapman, Jun. Ward., Lin Sheldon Pratt, Steward,
Thomas George Martin, Treasurer, William Lucius Nichols, Steward,
Greenleaf Curtis, Secretary,
Jam es Benson, Tyler.
Crescent City
MEMBERS:
Anderson, Frank Levi
Elwell, Phylander Leighton, P. M,'
Anderson, Harry
Fine, Ernest Maxwell
Adams, Michael
Frame, Franklin Perry
Barneburg, Atraham Aaron
Gibson, John Clayton
Beam, John Daniel
Gutch, Herman August
Beacom, Charles Wakfield
Hamilton, Joseph Mitchell
Benson, James
Hamilton, William Hart
Berg, Albert Julius
Hunt, John Winchester
Bowman, James Pierre
Jones, Walter James
Brooking, James
Klinke, William August
Chapman, Charles Ernest
Lake, Joseph Lincoln
Childs, John Leon
Lind, Fr:i.nk
Childs, Leon John
Marhoffer, Jacob
Crusins, Frank
Marhoffer, Frank Mason
Crook, Theron Webster
Martin, Joseph George
Crook, Asa Hamilton
Manley, George Winfield
Curtis, Greenleaf, P. M.
Miles, James Darrell
Cutler, Fletcher Arnold
Morris, Samuel
Cutting, Chester Edwin, P. M.
McLaren, Willio Washington
De Coss Henry Edward
McLaurin, Douglas Cameron
Dudley, Orrin, P. M.
McVey, Samuel Hutson
Nelson, Charles
Duly, West
Nichols, William Lucius
Edwards, David Powell
Payton, Earl James
Edwards, Hugh Jones

ROSTER
Peveler, John Randolph
Peveler, Daniel Cassidy
Rice, Drury White, P. M.
Rice, Charles Edgar
Richards, Fred William
Rea, Daniel
Sands, John Austia
Sartwell, Dugal Stewart
Shirley, Jedidiah William
Snavely, John Wesley
Stevens, Philip
Stone, Bertram, P. M.
SUSPENDED

Ill

Snyder, Augustus Charles
Suennen, John Charles
Tack, Nicholas
Tryon, George Edwin
'l'homas, Herbert Joseph
Whitlow, William Allen
Winton, Raleigh Scott
Wintlle, Joseph
Wall, Joseph Aaron
Walton, George Curtis
Wulf William Francis
Yarborough, Louis

FOR :NON-PAYMENT
Schwartz, John William

-i~ .

OF DUES :

DIED:
McVey, Joseph Hutson

TEXAS LODGE, No. 46.
San Juan, San Benito County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
(No Certificate. See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Lewis, Thomas G.
A8hley, James Henderson, P. M.
Meytir, Frederick Henry
Ashby, Joshuy Louis
Morton, Frank
Baldwin, Thomas Seary
Miles, James
Ball, Jau Don
Mitchell, George Francis
Bullier, Leon
Moore, Arthur Smith, P. M.
Bumpus, James Walter
Moore, George Holmes, P. M.
Burnett, William Fletcher
Moore, Irvin Webster, P. M.
Burnett, Clarence Elbert
Mylar, Isaac
Canfield, William Waiton, P. M.
Norton, Roscoe Greene, P. M .
Canfield, Samuel Russell
Ouderkirk, Isaac
Cardwell, Edward
R egan, Mark Joseph
Flint, Benjamin
Regan, Mark Joseph, Jr.
Flint, Thomas, P. G. M.'
Regan, William George
Flint, Richard Hall
Slaysman, Charles Reese
Flint, William Read, P. M.
Stewart, Archibald
Flint, Robert Winchester
Welch, Harry
Forrester, Arthur Bruce
Wilcox, Joseph Sylvester
Kemp, Frederick William
-37.
Laederich, Walter Oscar

ROSTER

ROSTER

FORBESTOWN LODGE, No. 50.

ILLINOISTOWN LODGE, No. 51.

Forbestown, Butte County.

Colfax, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next precedillg Full Moon.

92

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

93

OFFICERS:
OFFICERS:

William John Schultz, Master,
John David Herrin, Se11ior Deacon,
Clipper Mills
Garret Clarence Daley, Ju11. Deacon,
Fred Osker Alm, Senior Wardet1, Frank B. \Vagner, Marshal,
John Barrie Miller, Junior Warden, Henry Ashbury Conwell, Steward,
John Frederick Schultz, Treasurer, George Washington Hill, Steward,
Charles Francis Adams, Secretary, Albert C. Cannon, Tyler.
Clipper Mills
MEMBERS: .
Ada.ms, Charles Francis
Herrin, John David
Allen, John Emmet
Hill, Maxwell Gaddis, P. M .
Alm, Fred Osker
Hill, George Washington
Beeve, Louis Joseph
Hurles, Smith Hetherington
Beik, Henry Albert
Lilja, Andrew
Belfranci, Thomas Julius
Lisbon, Joseph Ribero
Bouvier, Charles Frederick
Lord, Frederick King
Burroughs, Frank Cecil
Miller, John Barrie
Burroughs, Julian
Nivens, William Lincoln
Cannon, Albert C.
Price, Gabriel William
Chappell, Wallace Homer, P. M.
Parker, Hiram Edward
C'onwell, Henry Asbury
Schultz, William John, P. M
Cox, William David
Schultz, John Frederick
Crandall, Abraham Lincoln
Smullin, Samuel Nesbit Dallas
Curtis, Benj11min FrankHn
Stocker, Edmund
Daley, Garret Clarence
Twogood, Gaylord Smith W .. P. M.
Finch, John Milton
Wagner, Frank B.
Gildmacher, Melchior
Wickman, }'reel William
-36.
WITHDRAWN:
Emerson, Ralph Waldo
SUSPENDED FOR
Jenks, William Napoleon B.

NON-PAYMENT· OF DUES:
Kratzer, Daniel Webster

George Edward West, Master,
Henry Daniel Theiss, Sen. Deacon,
Colfax
John Herman Williams, Jun. Deacoti,
Darius Valmore Norton, Srn. Wa.rd., John Blain McCleary, Marshal,
Robert Alway Peers, Jun. Wardr11, Byron James Ghent, Steward,
Daniel A. Russell, Treas11rcr,
Frank Earl Miner, Steward,
Morris Lobner, Secretary,
Edgar Delancy Miner, Tyler.
Colfax
i\U:~tlBERS:

Ackerman, Francis Marion
Bissett, William Nelson
Booth, Garrett
Booth, Newton Elmer
Cadjew, Leland
Edwards, Richard
Ewers, Andrew Jackso~, P. M.
},alconer, Duncan, P. M.
Gersendorfer, Charles Andrew
Gersendorfer, John
Gersendorfer, George
Gersendorfer, William Paul
Ghent, Byron James
Hallock, Robert F. Lattimer
Henry, Alexander Culberson
Hayford, William Barrows, P. M.
Hayford, James Barrows
Jones, Frank Ellis
Lobner, Morris, P. M.
Lobner, Henry
McCleary, John Blain
McGrow, Denis Joseph
Miner, Edgar Delancy
Miner, Frank Earl
Maginn, Patrick Henry

Morrison, Robert Gordon
Neideffer, John Fleming
Norton, Darius Valmore
Peers, Robert Alway, P. M.
Provan, William
Raymond, Percy Miles
Reeder, George A very
Rondoni, Aguilero
Rose, I. Elmer
Russell, Daniel A.
Russell, Melvin
Schultze, Frederick Henry
Scott, Enoch Everett
Sewell, Thomas John
Smith, Albert Halliday
Stevens, Amos, P. M,
'l'heiss, Henry Daniel
Vore, Edmund
West, George Edward, P. M.
Wt>st, Jamee Edward
Wiesler, William Henry
William~. John Herman
Williamson, James Raycroft
Whitcomb, Robert Everett
Yoder, ,John Franklin

WITHDRAWN:
Spece!, Charles Avery
Dysart, John

DIED:
Griffith, Owen William

-l!O.

114

ROSTER

[:UISUN LODGE, No. 55.
Suisun, Solano County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

John Houston Murray, Master,
Suisun
Edgar Ernest Long, Senior Warden,
Gil he rt Russel Jones, Junior Warden,
James Hiram Prather, Treasurer,
Daniel H. White, Secretary,
Suisun
MEMBERS:
Harbor, John Franklin
Alen, William Edward
Hart, Frank Russell
Bacon, William
Hatch, Augustus Timothy
Bailey, Thomas B.
Hilborn, Edward Payson
Barnett, Samuel Robert
Hildebrand, William Sherman
Bennett, Newton C.
Hoyt, William Kimball
Berner, August
Hunter, Ely James
Bransford, Samuel Grant
•Tones, Gilbert Russell
Brown, John Stewart.
Brown, William Bernard
Jones, Seneca
Keene, Kendall Clifton
Cerkel, Wolf
Kemp, Emile B. P.
Chadbourne, Grant
Chatfield, Walter
Loesser, Carl Frederick
Long, Edgar Ernest
Cornish, George Oney
Danielson, Joseph Barbour
Macvandv~as, Elias
Malchi, John
Danuser, Peter
Davisson, William Gustavus, P. M. Manwaring, Charles Augustus
Davisson, William Sherman
Martin, Lucius D.
Mayfield, Charles Edgar
Dinkelspiel, Meyer, P. M.
Downing, William Everts
McCormack, Duncan W.
Downing, William Green
Miller, Allen Charles, P. M.
Miller, George Carlyle
Elliot, Harvey R.
Montgomery, Thomas S.
Falhnan, Charles Emery
Morrill, Frederick Lewis
Finney, Henry Edward
Freeman, William Joseph
Murray, John Hewston
Gapen, John Magee
Oberti, Joseph
Pierce, William
Gregory, Thomas T. C.
Polland, James Samuel
Guill, Etna Ewing
Prather, James Hiram, P. M .
Haile, John William
Reed, Albert Levi, P. M.
Haines, Wesley Jedediah
Hale, William Crosby
Richardson, Jerome Bonaparte, P.M.

ROSTER
Rinker, Johri Charles
Robbins, John Lloyd McC.
Robbins, Ruel Drinkwater, P. M.
Rush, Benjamin Franklin
Rush, Frederick Winn
Salisbury, Reuben B.
Scarlett, Samuel
Sheldon, Frederick Corydon
Sheldon, Hiram F.
Sheldon, Ralph Merriman, P. M.
Shorey, Sumner A.
Spence, James Underhill, P. M.
Steller, Louis Palmer
Stephens, William Bell
Stewart, Brenton Rupel, P, M.

95

Stewart, Edgar L.
Stewart, Franjt Edgar
Stratton, Lee R.
Tomasini, Guiliano
Votypka, John
Watkins, Wilbur Kemble
Weinberger, Marcus
Wetmore, Chester
Wells, Roy Johnson
White, Daniel H.
Willson, Robert Martin
Wilson, John Andrew
Wood, Frederick Dimner
Woods, Warren Anthony
-89.

DIED:
Danielson, Johan
Gabriel, Ferdinand vVllllam

Glllesple, George Anthony
Moore, William James

VOLCANO LODGE, No. 56 •
Volcano, Amador County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon
OFFICERS :

Herman Michael Ubbens, Master, Tony Delucchi, Chaplain,
Volcano, Amador. County
Elmer D. Boydston, Senior Deacon,
Clarence Dradshaw, Senior ivarden, Charles \Vallenburg, Junior Deacon,
Edmund R. Santvifo, Jun. Warden, August Grillo, Marshal .
Ottis Lincoln Webster, Treasurer, Lee F. Payton, Steward,
John B. Grillo, Secretary,
William Fessel, Steward,
Volcano, Amador County
Dominico Gianini, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adams, Alexander
Barrett, Gilman Thomas
Boydston, Elmer David
Bradshaw, Clarence, P. M.
Cook, Lewis Horton
Delucchi, Tony
Denend, Griffith
Fessel, William Edward
Fisher, David, Jr.

]'isher, David, Sr.
FrE>iman, Harry Nichols, P. M.
Gianini, Domenico
Glenn, William Jay
Grillo, August
Grillo, John Batista
Hamilton, James
Hughes, Samuel
Mason, Warren Quincy, P. M

ROSTER

fl6

Rinehart, Ottis Wash
Ryan, William
Santirfo, Edward R., P. M.
Ubbens, Herman Michael, P. M.
Wallenberg, Charles
Whitehead, Hemy Geo.
Wf'\bster, Ottis Lincoln
-32.

McKinnon, Malcolm Campbell
McLane, Wm. Chester
McRae, Lawrence Angus
Miller, Louis F.
Nichols, Clarence G.
Payton, Lee F.
Real, Antone Lewis

Hipkins, William Asbury

WITHDRAWN:
McKenzie, Cory A.
DIED:
Dillian, William

SANTA ROSA LODGE, No. 57·
Santa Rosa, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

James Thomson Mailer, Master,
George Thomas Baker, Chaplain,
Santa Rosa
Walter Lee Whitaker, Sen. Deaco11,
Edwin Phelps Lewis, Senior Warden, Charles Eugene Lee, Junior Deacot1,
Benjamin Frankiin Ballard, J. Wa.rd., John Moses Boyes, Marsha.Z,
Charles Dwight Barnett, Treasurer, Frederick Oran Reeder, Steward,
William Henry Pool, Secretary,
Willard Bert Flint, Steward,
Santa Rosa
Charles Bernard Kobes, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Berka, Frank
Bernstein, Isaae William
Bertolani, Peter Ameriea
Body, Fred N.
.l3ocly, Mark, P. M.
Boehmer, John
Bogle, Samuel Saffell
Bonar, Robert M.
Bonney, Alfred Truscott
Bowers, Herbert Andrews
Bowers, Nathan Abbott
Bowman, Thomns
.l3raughler, Martin
Broadwell, Chas. Stanley
Bronson, Eugene Grant

Aeton,. William
Ahrens, William Martin
Andrews, George Ewing
Arnold, Amasa W.
Ayers, George Lemuel
Bailey, Jesse William
Baker, Walter Hussey
Ballard, Benjamin Franklin
Bane, Charles Hamilton
Bane, Frank Preston
Barnett, Charles Dwight, P M.
Belden, Benjamin Clinton
Belden, Charles Clinton
Belden, Ralph Austin
Benson, William

ROSTER
Brown, Arthur DeWitt
Brown, Charles Albert
Brown, William Elias
Bruning, Christopher Henry Wm.
Bryant, Allen
Bumbaugh, Charles Martin, P. M.
.Hurgess, James Floyd
Burleson, Allan Lueien
Burnett, Albert G., P. M.
Burris, Frank Marion
Burris, Luther William
Burris, Shirley Davicl
Campbell, John Tyler, P. M.
Carpenter, Ceeil Moore
Carter, Daniel Putnam
Cline, Henry Christian, P. M
Colgan, George Washington
Cooper, Eugene Mareus
Cox, Exum Morris, P. M.
Crane, Alexander Thomas
Crawforcl, Edwin Henry
Crawford, Rieharcl Fruit
Crowder, Henry Crawford, P M.
Cunningham, Charles S.
Davis, Walter Seott
Decker, Danville
DeLappe, Russell
Docla, Battista Giovanni
Dohn, George Arthur
Dohn, George Ernest
Donclero, John B.
Doran, William James
Dougherty, Samuel Kimmel
Dowell, John
Downes, Ernest
Downey, Abner David
Dunean, James Parker
Duprey, Augustus Franeis
Einhorn, Joseph Herman
Elliott, John
Erwin, Albert Orland
Fahrion, George Washington
Farmer, Christopher Columbus
Finley, Harrison

Pinley, William Asa
.Fitts, John Perry
Flint, Willarcl Bert
.Forsyth, Henry Mizer
Fountain, Orlanclo
Foye, George Frederick
.r'rank, Nels Christiansen
Franklin, Job Henry Riehar'~
l!'reneh, Charles Franklin
Fryer, Roy
Gilman, Lewell Jesso
Glynn, Franeis J. B.
Goodman, Leopold Solomon
Goodman, William Howard
Green, Lineoln D.
Uriffith, Areher C.
Urohe, Fred
Rahman, Henry Gustav
Hardie, Albert Milton
Hartlen, Ephraim
.H ateh, Irvin Clifton
Haven, Clarenee
Herriek, Albert Benjamin, P. M.
Hicks, James OliYer
Hildebrand, Newton Francia
Hill, Lyman C.
Hoekin, William
Hosmer, StanlE'y
Hosmer, Winslow Simon
Houts, Orrio L.
Hoyt, J esse Douglas
Hurlstone, Riehard Brain
Hutehison, Lawrenee
Jaeobs, Abraham
Jaeobs, Charles
.Taeobs, Himmie W.
Jesse, James William
Johnson, Andrew
Johnston, Fred L.
Jones, Florin Leslie
Jones, William
Juell, Nils Roth H.
Juilliard, Charles Frederiek
Kennedy, Charles Alexander

98

ROS'fER

Klein, Joseph
Moke, Henry Herbert
Kobes, Charles Bernard, P. M.
Moodey, John C.
Korbel, Anton Francis
Morgan, William Cochrane
Lafranchi, Massimino
Morrison, Oscar
Lane, Carlton Alpheus, P. M.
Mortenson, Hans
Lark, Newton Allen
Nagle, Frederick Gough
Laughlin, Alex. Douglas, P. M.
.Near, Christopher David
Laughlin, John McGill, P. M
Nimmo, John Hanson
Lawson, Lewis B.
Nye, Berthold Max
Lee, Charles Eugene
Oates, James Wyatt
Leete, Orton
Overton, John Patton
Lemmon, Allen Bosley, P. M
Paddock, Doctor John
Lemmon, Allen Bosley, Jr.
Page, Charles Albert
Lemmon, Fred Gage
Page, David Cooper, P. M.
Leslie, John, P. M.
Palmer, George ·washingtou
Lewis, Edmund Phelps
Patton, Dexter
Lewis, George Washington
Paxton, Blitz Wright
Loomis, Frank Clemens
Peterson, Raford Wesley
Loronzen,. Peter
Peterson, William Wilson
Loynachan, Thomas Earle
Phelps, Charles Lorranie
Luce, Arthur Sprague
Philips, Edward James
Mackenzie, Alexander Calder
Piggott, James Kenneth
Mackenzie, Allan Ramsey
Pool, William Henry
Mailer, James Clark, P. M.
Porep, Walter Putnam
Mailer, James Thomson
Potter, Eber Ward
Mailer, James Robb
Pryor, Fredcl Orlando
Mallory, George Washington, P. M. Rainey, Abraham Clay, P. M.
Malott, Howard Oliver
Randall, Chester Earl
Martin, David Elliott
Reeder, Frederick Oran
Mason, Joseph B.
Reeve, Orson Henry
McConnell, William Ellitt
Reindollar, 'fheodore Buffington
Reutershan, Max
MacGregor, Allan P.
McDannell, Benjamin Franklin
Rhoades, Samuel
McDonald, Mark Lindsey, Jr.
Roberts, Fletcher J.
McKinlay, Duncan E.
Robinson Ben,jamin Meritt
McLeod. James Harvey .
Ross, Henry J., P. M.
McMeans, Alexander Campbell, P.M.Ross, John
McMinn; John, Sr.
Ross, Thomas Daniel
McNab, Arthur Victor, P. M.
Rowan, James Hamilton
McNab, John Liddell
Savage, Charles Wilber
Meisner, Chas. Henry
Savage, George Walter
Meneray, Prince Albert
Sawyer, Elbert Ransom, P. M.
Merritt, Edson Charles
Schelling, Jacob
Miller, Thomas Boone
Scott, Alfred William
Mobley, John Elmer
Seawell, Emmet

ROSTER
Seegelken, Johan Wilhelm
Shaffer, Reuben H.
Shaffer, Wilber Emmet
Shaw, William
Shearer, William Piper, P. M
Shriver, Nathan
Simpson, Willie Burton, P. M.
Sinclair, Henry George
Slater, George Herbert Waite
Smith, John Calhoun
Smith, John Kinder
Smith, Wilson Clate
Smyth, Newton Van Vleit
Speegle, Madison Monroe
Spencer, Byron M.
Staley, Wayne Snoden
Stark, Leonard H.
Steele, John Ernest
Steiner, Frederick Charles
Stewart, Charles William
Stewart, John Hudson
Taylor, Charles DeWitt
Taylor, John Shackleford
Temple, Jackson

Thomas, George Perry
Thompson, James Monroe
Thorson, Jesse Fremont
Townson, James Thomas
Tripp, Hiram Lewis, P. M.
Tupper, George Anderson
Underwood, Charles Howard
Upp, Arthur Frank
Vanderhoof, Martin Van Buren
Van Wormer, Clement H.
Vaughan, Marvin Thomas, P. M.
Ware, Allison Burr, P. M.
'Warboys, John Walter
Ward, Charles S.
West, Wilbur Samuel
Wetche, Christian Fredrik
Whitaker, Walter Lee
Whitney, Walter James
Wiles, John Marshall
Williamson, :Tames· Ephriam
Wines, William Freeman, P. M.
Wolfe, George
·
Yarnell, William I.
Yoho, Samuel R.
-256.

WITHDRAWN:
Mills, Emory Temple
Page. Edward Joseph
Robertson, Frank Clifford
Sharp, Isaac

Cross, Frank G.
Goodwin, Vernon
Metcalf, Samuel W.

SUSPENDED

\19

FOR NON-PAYMEN'I'. OJ<'
Ricksecker, Lucius Edgar

Henry, James
Hodge, Alexander Ladd

DUl~S:

DIED:
Renshaw, Arthur Morrow
Young, Frank William

100

ROS'fER

UNION LODGE, No. 58.
Sacramento, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Charles Edward Hill, Master,
Michael Fried, Chaplain,
3211 York Avenue
Cordon Lewis Pardee, Sen. Deacon,
Oscar G. Jones, Senior Warden, . George Adam Uhl, Junior Deacon,
\Villiam Osborn Swan, Jun. Warden, John Franklin Morgan, Marshal,
Charles Albert Root, Treasurer,
Richard Hobart Lambert, Steward,
Edward Frederick Willi, Secretary, Frank Benjamin Kleinsorge, St'wd,
Box 25, Sacramento
Joel Osgood Wilder, Sr., Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Colclough, Dudley K.
Abrams, David
Colclough, Ralph Miller
Allen, John Francis
Cooledge, Isaac Baldwin, P. M.
Alexander, Robert, P. M.
Coyne, William
·
Arnold, Frederick William
Cunningham, Alexander
Arnold, Horace Douglas
Darrow, Albert Lincoln
Baker, Thomas John, P. M.
Denson, Samuel Crawford, P . G. M.
Baldwin, William Hedges, P. M.
Douglas, William Wallace, P. M.
Banard, Morse
Dreyer, Rasmus Peter Neilson
Baughman, Noble Henry
Eckhardt, William Henry
Bauer, John Jacob Roek
Egeberg, Julius Columbus
Baumann, Benjamin Stephen
Eichrodt, Max
Baxter, George Leslie
Ellsworth, William Munn
Beere, Gilbert Pennington
Ellsworth Charles Henry
Bennetts, Alfrecl Ernest
Enwright, Thomas Lincoln
Blauth, Theobalc1
Feldhusen, ,John Henry
Bliss, Sidney
Ferguson, James Henry, P. M.
Boltz, Peter Sauser
Ferre, Albert Eames
Brooke, Morris
Fical, Charles Augustus
Bruederly, William Sherman
Fifield, Lewis La Marsna
Brummer, John Henry
Fitch, William Cyrus
Buckmann, Frederick William
Forney, Henry Hinkle
Burnside, Thomas Seth
Ford, Quincy Albertis
Butler, Drury DeWolf
Fourness, Eli
Butler, John Winchel Spencer
Fox, David Franklin
Byers, Robert Hopkins
Fried, Michael
Carlaw, Andrew
Gardiner, Alexander John, P . M.
Case, John Nelson
Gerson, Samuel
Clark, William Edward
Gleie, Harry Ernest
Clauss, John
Gray, Frank Livingstone
Clement, Louis Metzler

ROSTER
Gray, George Addison
Grimes, Allen Lawrence
Grinton, John Kennedy
Haas, Nelson Willoughby
Hack, Julius Frederick
Handlin, William Joseph
Harbinson, .Tames, P. M.
Harbinson, James George
Hart, Aden Cavins _
Harvey, Edwin Henry, P. M.
Heitman, John Henry
Henr\ch, Karl
Hill, Charles Edward
Hicks, William Arthur
Hicks, John Benton
Hoffman, Daniel Webster, P. M.
Hopkins, Owen Griffith
Huntington, Thomas Waterman
Husted, William Joseph
Ingham, Harry
Jenkins, Morris Arthur
Johnson, Howard Kennedy, P. M.
Jones, Churles Edward
Jones, Osear G.
Joy, Robert
Judson, Frederick Walter
Kay, Edgar John
Kellam, William Henry Browning
Kendrick, Colin
Keyes, Homer Frost
Kleinsorge, Frank Benjamin
Kloppenburg, Daniel William
Koch, Carl
Krebs, Harry Garfield
Lambert, Richard Hobart
Lamphrey, Charles Westley
Lawson, Walter Brokaw
Lightner, Bonus
Lindsley, Albert
Little, Christopher
Longton, Thomas Henry
Loorya, David Solomon
Marshall, Joseph Owen
Meister, George Albert, P. M
Meister, Albert Reinhardt

101

Meyer, Johann Gerhard
Mitau, Henry
Moore, James Hoskins, P. M
Moore, Freclerick William
Morgan, John Franklin, P . M.
Morrison, James Matthew
Morehead, William
MorM>.ead, Philip
Moulton, Dwight Augustus
McCormack, Charles
McCormick, Frank
McCulloch, James
McCreary, Robert Clark
McGregor, John
McKay, Daniel
McKeever, Francis May
Nathan, Aaron
Nathan, Isador Carroll
Newman, Peter
Newman, George
Nicolaus, Henry Joseph, Jr.
Noack, Charles John
Noack, Carl William Gustave
Nourse, Sterling Boyden
Oltman, Charlel!
Oughton, William George
Pardee, Cordon Lewis
Peacocke, William
Peck, Nelson Stanley
Phipps, William Thomas, P. M.
1>ope, Edwin Alexander
Potter, Loyal Abner
Prince, Joseph William
Pugh, Charles Lorenza
Randle, George Nelson
Redington, Alfred Augustus, P. M.
Rego, Edward Sutherland
Reid, Thomas Benton, P. M.
Richards, William Freeman
Rickett, Walter L.
Robbins, James Aldrich
Root, Charles Albert, P. M.
Rothfield, Sigmund
Ruhstaller, Frank Joseph
Schmid, Emil

102

Schroeder,Richard Franklin
Schwab, William
Scott, William
Shaw, Ira Clark
Sheldon, William Chauncey
Shepstone, George Ebenezer
Shinkle, James William
Simmons, Samuel, P. M.
Simon, Max
Smith, John Edward
Smith, William Penn
Smith, Benjamin
Smith, Samuel Augustus
Stich, Harry Leo, P. M.
Steffens, Joseph
Stevens, Fred Andrew
Stevenson, Henry Llewellyn
Stoddard, George Allen
Swan, William Osborn
Swift, Charles Judson
•reichert, Adolph
Teichert, Adolph, Jr.
Theile, Ernest Arden
Thompson, Irvin
Thornton, Richard Parker
'l'oleman, Frank Augustus
'fozer, Charles Walter
Truman, George Clarence
Turner, Eldridge Curts
Twitchell, Edward Woodland
Uhl, George Adam
Uren, Stephen
Uren, John Martin

Berkey, Thomas Henry
Levy, David Lewis

ROSTER
Van Epen, Marius Cornelius
Van Fleet, William Carey
Vaughn, Edward
W:ahlander, Charles George
Walker, William Craig
Wallace, Edward Lee Roy
Wallace, Joseph Fillmore
Waite, George Smith
Welcli, Benjamin
Welch, George Deake
Welch, George Henry
Westlake, William Henry
Weston, Arthur Melville
White, Charles Corbett
White, George Amos, P. M.
White, John Lysander
White, George William
Willi, William George
Willi, Edward Frederick, P. M.
Williams, George Elford
Wilson, Benno, P. M.
Wilson, James John
Wilson, Jesse Warren
Wilder, Joel Osgood, Sr.
Wilder, Joel Osgood, Jr.
Wilder, Edwin Milton
Witham, Gilbert Tapley
Wolf, Edward
Wood, Richard R.
Wright, Ralph
Yoerk, Charles Augustus
Younger, Andrew -215.
DIED:
Levison, Jacob
Meister, August

ROSTER

103

GRAVEL RANGE LODGE, No. 59.
Camptonville, Yuba County.
Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Franklin Milard Groves, Master,
David Lewis, Chaplain,
Camptonville
Harold Nelson, Senior Deacon,
Benjamin Leroy Hames, Sen. Ward., Charles John Christensen, Jun. Dea.,
Antone Edward Dutra, Jun. Warden, Joseph Paul Pendola, Marshal,
Earl Leroy Cleveland, Treasurer,
Thomas Jefferson Byrd, Steward,
Rollin Carlisle Groves, Secretary,
Eathan Nathan Polley, Steward,
. Camptonville
Peter Mondada, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Anderson, Alfred
Lake, George Wesley
Blanchard, Milton A.
Lewis, Francis
Byrd, Thomas Jefferson
Lewis, David
Lawrence, Richard K.
Christensen, Charles John
Meek, Wm. Bull, P. M.
Cleveland, Earl Leroy, P. M.
Merriam, James Chester
Dutra, Antone Edward
Mondada, Peter
Fiess, John Wm.
Nolson, Harold
Groves, Franklin Milar<l
Pendola, Joseph Paul
Groves, Rollin Carlisle
Hames, Benjamin LeRoy
Phillips, John William
Polley, Eathan Nathan
Jackson, Francis Gorden, P. M.
Scott, James Warren
Johnson, Samuel Boardman
Stidger, John Perry
Kennady, Charles Hampton
Watts, Jeremiah, P. M.
Kennady, John Henry, P. M.
Williams, Thomas
Kendall, Edward C.

-30.

PLUMAS LODGE, No. 60.
Quincy, Plumas County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Leon Lowell Clough, Master,
Arthur Walter Keddie, Chaplain,
Quincy
Charles Snider Myers, Sen. Deacon,
Horace Park McBeth, Sen. Warden, Henry Jean Hoffman, Jun. Deacon,
John Franklin Spooner, Jun. Warden, Asa White Gray, Marshal,
Henry George Dorsch, Treasurer, vVilliam Malcolm, Steward,
Robert Fred Koonter, Secretary,
Beverly Fielden Barber, Steward,
Quincy
William Thomas Byers, Tyler.

ROSTER

104

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Arnold, Harry Wmiam
Koonter, Robert Fred
Barber, Beverly Fielden
Kyle, Kruser Kane
Barrett Louis Archa
Leek, Joseph Lewis
Beckley, Harry
Lasswell, Bert James
Bolton, Manzanita Benjamin
Leopold, Asa Freudenthal
Byers, Wm. Thomas
Little, Joseph Moss
Malcolm, William
Chambers, Robert
Clough, Leon Lowell
M~I11t.osh, l\'felville
Moncnr, James Ogilvie, P. M.
Dorsch, Henry George
Dunham, Allen Murry
Myers, Charles Snider
l!;isner, David
McBeth, Horace Park
Ford Walter Jackson
Mc.Comas, William Pratt
Felleman, John Irving
McLennan, Kenneth
Palmer, Gilbert
Garner, Edward
Gifford, John
Robertson, Arthur William
Goodwin, William Nettle1<, P. M.
Robei·tson, Frank Duncan
Gray, Asa White, P. M.
Spooner, John Franklin
Stephen, George Henry
Gruss, J OS!U>h
Hail, Felix Grundy
Stewart, Robert
Hail, Herbert Felix
Strite, George A.
Sylvester, Frank Edwin
Hanvey, Charles Brace Hewett
Thomas, Arthur Howe
Harling, Fred
Thompson, Charles Russell
Hoffman, Henry Jean
Wagner, Lewis Herman
Hollister, Albert Guy
Webb, Ulysses Siegel
Johnson, Frank Evan
Wilson, George
Keddie, Arthur Walter, P. M
Wolter, John William
Kerr, Michael Charles
Kling, Louis Albert Henry, P. M.
SUSPENDED

McCleave, Samuel

FOH NON-PAYMENT
Maurer, Henry Rudolph

OF

DUES:

DIED:
Mechling, Jacob Jefferson

105

LIVE OAK LODGE, No. 61.
Oakland, Alamed~ County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Charles Henry Wood, Master,
Charles Harris Victor, Chaplain,
1153 Washington Street
Lorenzo Dow Steward Inskeep, S. D.,
Albert Franklin Shulte, Sen. Warden, Frank Elijah Buckley, Jun. Deacon,
Guy Duncan Reynolds, Jun. Warden, William Joseph Garibaldi, Marshal,
Percy Brush Hardenbergh, Treas., Ezra William Decato, Steward,
Junia Josiah Warner, Si'cretary,
Lee Swaney Griswold, Steward,
1112 Broadway
Charles Marsh Kelly, T)•ler.

-56.

Abernethy, William John
Adams, Henry Hamilton
Aiken, Benjamin Rosell
Akerly, James Clark Smith
Akins, Edward Charles
Allen, Alex. McMillan
Allyn, Burton Charles
Amaden, Ralph J.
Andersen, Magnus Alfred
Anderson, Charles Alfred
Anderson, Charles John
A.nderson, Harry Severin
Andrews, Charles William
Angwin, James Alfred
Angwin, William Stanley
Arlett, Arthur
Arper, George Washington
Arrowsmith, William H.
Atkinson, Thomas Albion
Austin, Harry
Avery, Edward Emmett
Avery, Mark Herbert
Baab, Charles
Bachelder, Carl Ames
Badgley, William Oscar
Baggot, Ed Protzman
Bahls, Richard
Bailey, William "Hervey
Baker, Abel Warren Jr.
Baker, David Franklin

MEMBERS:
Baker, Eugene Hall
Baldwin, Robert Oliver
Ball, Clinton Cory
Ball, Charles Henry
Bandy, George Lewis
Barnes, William Chauncey
Barnes, William Holland
Barton, Earl Clifford
Bartram, Robert Washington
Bauer, Jacob
Baumgartner, August Christoph
Beach1 Ranson Elias
Beckwith, John Allison, P. M
Belden, William Allen
Bennett, Robert Howard
Beretta, Italo Andrew
Bergsten, Oscar Paulus
Betts, .fames Ernest
Bibber, Thomas Benjamin
Bice, John
Bird, Charles Gladstone
Bishop, Amasa Wright, P . M.
Bistorious, Albert
Bistorious, George Alb'ert
Blair, George Washington
Blanchard, Eugene
B!asdel, Enoch Wilder
Blasdel, Harry Vance, P. M.
Blood, William Frank
Boardman, Joseph

106
Boldt, William Lewis
Boland, Archie Frederick
Bolza, William
Borgeson, Charles John
Borland, William James
Borton, Chester Cooper
Bostwick, Henry
Botsford, Edwin Russell
Bowers, Charles Levi
Bowersmith, John Everett
Bradley, Arthur Jamee
Bradway, Frank Fernando
Brady, Edward James
Braun, Nathaniel Henry
Brazelton, Warren Buck
Broadwater, William Elgin
Brooks, Frank Howard, P. M.
Brown, Norris James
Brown, William Mainland, Jr.
Buckley, Frank Elijah
Bullock, Richard Steele
Burch, George Emerson
Burleigh, Elmer Searer
Burt, Frede?ick Leslie
Bush, Harry Charles, P. M.
Buteau, Samuel Hawkins
Byers, Louis Thomas
Campbell, James
Campbell, John
Capwell, Harris Cebert
Carlton, Harry Putnam
Carpenter, Thomas Edgar
Carroll, George Warren
Castell, Clarence Whitney
Chamberlin, William Richmond
Uhambers, Wilfred Ernest
Chandler, Frank Melvin
Chapman, George Hawke
Chappel, Robert Newell
Chesnut, John Augustus
Church, Lincoln Sheridan
Ulark, Marion
Clayton, William Burt
Clem, John Lawrence, Jr.
Cloud, Archibald Jeter

ROSTER
Uockerton, Daniel Henry
Cockerton, George Albert
Coffin, ·Herbert
Coffin, Oliver Cromwell
Uolegrove, John Albert
Colquhoun, Joseph Alexanuer
Cooley, Milton Van Horn
Conradi, Philip
Cook, John Peter
Cook, Peter
Cook, William Coleman
Corder, Walter Edgar
Cornell, Daniel Jefferson
Cotter, Fred Martin
Cotter, Ralph Evans
Cowan, Frank Ernest
Craft, Richard Corson
Craig, Homer Alexander
Cramer, Adolph Edward Henry
Cramer, Guido Detlef
Crane, George Richard
Crane, William Whitfield
Crellin, Thomas Arthur
Crocker, Horace Alvin
Cron, William Jr.
Cross, Ralph Herbert
Crowell, Clarence Elwin
Culver, William Lee
Curdts, Carl Edward
Curtis, Earl W.
Curtis, Frederick Charles
Dalton, Frank Norris, P. M.
Dalton, Henry N o~ris
Dalton, Henry Philip, P. M.
Dargie, William Edward
Davies, Charles Percival
Davis, James Edward
Davis, Joseph Lloyd
Davis, Judson Milton
Dean, Beach Humphrey
Dean, William Edward
Decoto, Ezra William
Deering, Chester
DeGolia, Edwin Baldwin
Depoy, James Alstott, Jr.

ROS'l.'ER
Derrick, George Henry
Dewar, John Robert, P. M.
Dieckmann, John Henry
Dietz, Henry Louis
Dilling, Walter
Dinesen, Jacob Nissen
Dixon, George
Dodge, Clarence Wythe
Dodge, Guy Edward
Dodge, Henry Arthur
Doell, Carl Theodore
Dorman, Charles Goodyear
Dornin, George William, P. M.
Drew, Edwin Pierce
DuBois, Percy Hamilton
Dunn, Leslie Budd
Eby, John Douglas
Edoff, James P.
Edson, Judson Henry
Edwards, Edward
Elfen, Harry Edward
Emerson, Mark Lewis
Enge, Otis Webb
Engvick, Clarence Edgar
Evans, Robert Griffith
Ewer, Edward Norton
Faller, Charles Henry
Falvey, John Richard
Farish, Robert Roy
Farrington, Elvin Dunn
Farwell, Oney Melvin
Fassett, James Sherman
Fernhof, Frederick James
Flagg, Clarence Jasper
Flather, Robert Bruce
Fletcher, Francis Alden
Flint, George Mooar
Flood, Alfred James
Flora, Charles Aaron
Ford, Charles Wallace
.1<1 orsyth, Geo:-ge Thomas
Fortin, Octavius Victor
Fortin, Victor Lazarus
Foseing, John Charles
Foster, Granville Franklin

Foster, Newel Kelley
Fox, Fred Kinsman
France, Henry Wallace
Francis, Leon Chapman
Fraser, Loud Scott
Frederick, Clarence John
Frederick, Walter Flemming
French, Robert Ellsworth
Fritsch, Emil
Frost, William Thomas
Furniss, Herbert Olmsted
Gardiner, ·wmiam
Garibaldi, William Joseph
Gattrell, Frank Jerome
Gauge, William Arthur
Gee, Edgar Frederick
Gelder, David
Gelder, John
George; Elias Overman
Gibbs, Alfred Kane
Gilbert, Ethan Allen
Glascock, John Ragland, P. M.
Glenn, Alexander Glenn
Glenn, John Quinn
Good, Carl Edward
Goodfellow, George Emery
Goodwin, Robert Henry
Gorri111 Che11ter Lawrence
Grant, George
Grauss, Benjamin Franklin
Gray, George Adam
Gray, Harry Paul
Gray, Martin Luther
Green, Harry Elmer Elswort h
Green, Jacob Samuel
Greene, Samuel Hartley
Greenebaum, William Bernard
Greenwell, William Matthew
Griffin, Edmund Wait
Griffith, William Edwin
Griswold, Lee Swaney
Gross, William G. C.
Gruen, John C.
Gulick, Charles Francis, P. M
Gustafsen, Crest

107

108
Hack, John Joseph
Haelke, Helwig Leopold
Hafner, Emile Charles
Haggard, Joseph Louis
Hahn, James Dyer
Haight, Horace Howard
Hall, Charles Frederick
Hall, Edward Masser, Jr.
Hall, Ellis Gray
Hall, Hiram Tubbs
Hall, Joseph Lee
Hall, Leon Eugene
Hall, Norman Walter
Hall, Percy Weller
Hall, Samuel Pike
Hammond, Bennett W.
Hammond, Frederick William
Hanmore, George Albright
Hansen, John
Hardenbergh, Percy Brush
Hardwick, Edward Newcomb
Harlow, William Sturtevant
Harris, Joseph Charles
Hart, Edward Henry, P. G. M.
Harvey, Harold Heathcote
Harvey, Norval Playfair
Haselbacher, Louis Charles
Hatfield, William Richy, P. M.
Haven, Charles Edward, P. M.
Hawbaker, Clayton Henry
Hawli;y, Stnart Samuel
Hayes, Daniel David
Hearn, Frank
Hedemark, Charles Louis
Heese man, Charles John
Helfer, Howard Tayler
Hemler, Charles Cadmus
Henderson, Walter
Henry, James Thomas
Herrick, LeRoy Francis
· Hersey, Elisha Atkins
Hersey, Frederick Howe
Hess, Philip Henry, Jr.
Hesse, Walter John
Heuer, Gustav Adolph R.

ROSTER
Hewitt, Robert Ethelbert
Hickmott, Robert
Hilbourn, Theodore Osgood
Hildebrand, George DeForP.st
Hill, Magnus Peter
Hodges, Alfred Coggin
Hoffman, Martin Meno, P. M.
Holladay, Sherman Edgar
Holland, Arthur Percy
Holmes, Thomas Blakeney
Hooe, Headley Smith
Hoppen, Alfred
Horner, Andrew Long
Horton, John Rouboe
Hosmer, Abel
Hubbard, William Grover
Hughes, Arthur Chester
Hume, William Robert
Hunt, Edwin Goddard
Hunt, Andrew Tanner
Hunt, Joseph Hancock
Hunt, Walter Winslow
Hurd, Frank Morgan
Hutchinson, Dwight
Hyde, Clarence
Hyde, Marcus Darius, P. M
Ingham, George Howard
Inskeep, Lorenzo Dow St'.lward
Irgens, Louis Steaven
Irwin, John Clarke
Jackson, Alton Cass
James, Charles Albert
James, David William
James, Edmond Harrison
Jameson, Charles Henry
Jellett, Magnus Woodward
Jenkins, John Arthur
John, Jenkin· Bevan
Johnson, Benjamin Oliver
Johnson, Charles Henry
Johnson, Edward Clarence
Johnson, James Arthur
Johnson, Murrey Levering
Johnson, William
Johnston, John Frederick, Jr.

lWSTJ<JR
Jordan, Frank Chester
Jordan, John Benjamin
Kelly, Charles Marsh
Kendall, Frank Irving
Kerr, Archie Fullerton
Kerr, Louis Cormick
Kirkpatrick, Clyde
Kjelsberg, Karl Magnus
Klumpp, Emil Carl
Knapp, Charles Richard
Knight, Frederick Wales
Knowles, Jesse Baker
Koford, Henning
Kohler, Henry Herman
Kurtz, William
Kuss, Peter Nicholas
Kyte, George Joseph Douglas
Lackie, George Steele
Laing, Orlando Judson
Lancaster, Joseph
Lane, Orlando Arthur
tang, William
Lanyon, James
LarRieu, Edmond Augustus
Laughland, John
Lawton, Howard Mills
Leach, Abraham Powell, P. M.
Leach, Francis Aleamon, Jr.
Leber, Albert Lewis
Leber, Henry
Lefevre, Louis Anton
Leonard, Harvey Hart
Lisle, John Quincey
Logan, Walter Edward
Lober, George Thomas
Lord, Leslie Howard
Lukens, George Russell
Lund, Hans Nicolai Petersen
Lund, John
Macintire, William Nelson
Maddox, Perry Ellsworth
Madsen, Albert
Madsen, Henry Larsen
Makins, James Nicholas, Jr
Makins, Joseph Henry

109

Manasse, August
Manuel, Walter Griswold, P. M.
Martin, Charles Marmaduke
Masters, Sawyer Hayward
Mathisen, Mathew Harold
Matthews, Francis Ima
Mauvais, Roy
Mccargar, Jesse B.
Mccarron, David
McClymonds, John William, P. M.
Mc.Cord, Thomas
McCready, Frederick Lee
McGowan, Warren Emerson
McKenzie, William
McKinnon, John Robert
McKissick, Harry Hanna
McMullen, John Cornelius
McPherson, Alexander Lewis
McPike, Henry Clay
Meek, Rodolph Wallace, P. M.
Meese, Constant
·
Merwin, Charles Wallace
Merwin, Edward Green
Metcalf, Victor Howar<l
Miller, Michael
Miller, Montgomery Kinzie
Miller, Washington J.
Mills, Joseph Bertrin
Milner, Charles Harold
Miner, James Ogden, P. M.
Mitchell, Claudius Hamilton
Mitchell, John
Montgomery, William Ernest
Moore, Arthur Wilder
Moore, Charles William
Morris, William
Morrison, John
Morton, Harry
Mott, Frank Kanning, P. M.
Murman, Peter
Naismith, George Semple
Neal, William Franklin
Neale, Charles Arthur
Nelson, Floyd Ormand
Nelson, James Wesley

110

ROSTER

Nettleton, Corliss Eugene
Newman, William Arthur
Newsom, Joseph Cather
Nicholson, Walter Ephraim
Nielsen, Knud
Nissen, August Fred
Noack, Harry Richard
Northey, Vernal Sidney
Nottage, Frank Melville
Ogden, Frank Burroughs, P. M.
Olds, Frank
0 'Leary, Timothy
Ormsby, Alfred Seymour
Osgood, Frederick Smith
Osgood, Wa'rreii Decoto
Overend, Edmund John
Owen, William Henry Searles
Page, Alva Francis
Paine, Herman
Palmer, James Irving
Palmer, Oscar Burnett
Park, John Allan, P. M.
Parker, Oscar Obediah Welsford
Parratt, Alfred Pennington
Parrish, Charles Champion
Parrish, Norman Adolph
Parrish, Wilfred Edwar<l
Parrish, William Henry
Patrick, Andrew Robertson
Patterson, Albert Lewis Crandall
Paulson, Walfred Louis
Pease, Joseph Loran
Pedrini, Joseph Massimino
Pendleton, Erastus Otis·
Perigo, Oliver Elbridge
Perkins, Clement George
P erkins, Frederick King
Peters, Martin Orrin
Peterson, John Laurence
Peterson, Rasmus
Phipps, William Henry, P. M.
Rierce, Charles Dexter
Pierce, George Sener.a
Pierce, John Hiram
Piercy, Arthur Thomas

Pierson, Thomas Washington
Pilling, James William
Pirie, Jesse Franklin
Pollitt, James
Pitman, Benjamin
Potts, James Alexander
Poulsen, Albert Martin
Povelsen, Niels
Pratt, William Herbert, P. M.
Price, Wallace 9overt
Prichard, 'l'homas
Proctor, David Archibal<l
Purves, John
Rabe, John
Railton, Edward Charles Jam!'~
Rainey, James Henry
Randolph, George Emerson
Rasmusen, William August
Rasmussen, Hans
Reed, Elisha James
Reed, Walter Dickson
Reinhardt, Joseph
Reinhart, Eugene John
Reinle, George Gottlieb
Revalk, Richmond Emil
Reynolds, Fred Eugene
ReynolUs, Guy Duncan
Reynolds, Walter Dilatush
Rhodes, Alexander Gordon
Roach, Henry Patrick
Robbins, Henry Russell
Robins, Frederick Charles Hamilton
Robinson, Edward Constant, P. M.
Robinson, Jones McGregor
Rodda, William James
Roeth, George
Roff, Harry Loren
Rogers, Josiah Barnes
Ross, Horace Potter
Rowell, Clarence Fellows
Rowland, Frank Henry
Rowlands, Clement Phillip
Rugg, Ormel
Rumfelt, Clarence P.
Russell, Edward Knight

HOS'r BR
Rust, Clement Parker
Rutherford, David
Rutley, Byron
Sagehorn, George Theodore
Samuels, Isaac Julius
Samuels, Julius, P. M.
Saulpaugh, William Eugene
Schafer, John Herman
Schaffer, Louis
Scharz, Richard Emil
Schulze, Max Charles
Seaton, Horace Scott
Seemann, Theo. Henry
Seese, John Siegfried
Seulberger, John Frederick
Shakespeare, James
Shannon, James Madison
Shaug, Marcus Luther
Shaw, Lucien Woolfolk
Shepherd, Robert Lee
Shindler, David Doddridge
Shingle, Louis Conger
Shulte, Albert Franklin
Sibbett, William Ryan
Sibley, Benjamin Clarance
Slemin, Charles
Smith, Benjamin John
Smith, Edward Charles
Smith, Hugh Lynn
Smith, Wager Swayne, P. M.
Sneathen, William Bond
Snyder, Andrew Jackson
Sohst, Carl .Tohn
Somps, Jules
Southard, William Freeman
Spence, Brainard Lee
Stancleford, William Bert
Stark, George John William
Starr, Robert Emmet
Stevens, John William
Stewart, John Leal and
Stolp, Fred Augustus
Stromgren, Charles Delbert
Stuart, Arthur Leslie
Stuart, Percy Rankin

Summers, Rollin Allen
Sutherland, Edwin
Swain, Clinton Terry
Swauger, Arthur Bruce
Swauger, Delmar Denio
Swauger, Harry Lese!
Symmons, Samuel James
Taft, Archibald George
Tallman, James Rosco
Tayler, James Howard
Taylor, Felton
Taylor, Fred Butterworth
Thompson, Frank Robert, P. M.
Thompson, Thomas
Thurston, Eugene True, Jr.
Tillson, Fred Minpt
Timerman, Edwili Campbell
Todd, Alonzo Lewis
Todd, Francis Joseph
Tower, Charles Knibloe
Townes, John Franklin
Tozer, Charles Francis
'l'rathen, Albert Harris
Trathen, Frederick William
Treadwell, Charles Graner
Trenschel, August ~'rederick
Trotter, John
Trow, Charles Lloyd
Troy, J obn Henry
Tucker, Francis Marion ·
Tuman, Charles Hubert
Turner, Egbert Judson
Turner, Walter
'l'urrell, Herbert Newton
Uhl, George, Jr.
Umphred, Frank Morris
Umphred, Joseph Wilson
Vance, James, P. M.
Van Vrankin, Bradford E.
Veaco, James Frederick
Veitch, William Thomas
Victor, Charles Harris
von Adelung, Edward
Walbold, John Henry
Walker, George Cook

J 11

Walker, Harry Lindley
Walker, Herman Goodrich
Walker, Percival John
Walker, William Abner
Wallace, Frederick James
Warner, Elon Lafayette
Warner, Junia Josiah, P. M.
Waycott, William Bowden
Webber, Joseph Francis Ruggles
Webster, Albert Bradford, P. M.
Webster, Leander Rankin
Weil, Leopold Reginald
Wentworth, Franklin Judson
West, William Denison
Westover, Clinton
Wheeler, Roscoe
White, Carlos Greenleaf
White, John Gurney
White, Robert Macmillan
White, Warren Sears
White, William Jasper
White, William Thornton
White, Willard Woodard
Whyte, :Malcolm Calvin

Wiedersheim, Chas. Fred Herman
Wight, Frederick Gordon, P. M.
Wiggin, Charles Maynard
Wilkins, Fred Ellis
Wilkinson, Edward Melville
:Willeford, David Samuel
Williams, Ernest Deane
Williams, Harry Greeley
Williams, Nicholas
Williams, Thomas Arthur
Willis, Arthur D.
Wishart, William Albert
Wollitz, Ernest Alfred
Wood, Charles Henry
Wood, Herbert Anthony
Woodward, Francis John
W oolner, Benjamin Franklin
Wulzen, Edgar Franklin
Wylie, ,John Wallace
Wythe, Stephen
Wythe, Willson Joseph
Yule, .John
Zabel, Carl Julius
-646

WITHDRAWN:
*Lloyd, Robert Henry
Arlett, Arthur
Bilger, Frank William
McDonald, Nathaniel
Campbell, Charles Hardie
Merrill, Arthur William
Davis, Abner Alfred
Moores, Eldridge Norton
Fry, Bert Elwood
Moyer, Frank Durning
Gray, Harry Edwin
Posey, Addison Cornelius
Keller, Abraham
Paulsen, Otto Alex.
Sweeney, George Wade
Lawson, Thomas Aylesbury
Lel:lallister, Frederick William
Wilson, Sidney Homer
Wixson, Robert Stanton
SUSPENDED
Crane, Carlton Cyrus

ROSTER

ROSTER

112

FOR ·NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Stimpson, George Washington
Tomson, Charles Benton
EXPELLED: ·
Moore, Arthur Vernett

*Restored during the year.

Baumgartner, Andrew Fred
Broad, Charles Augustus
Eaton, Henry Jones

113

DIED:
Joyce. Austin Ambrose
Otto, Frederick G.
Shinnick, Charles Carroll

GEORGE WASHINGTON LODGE, No. 62.
Chinese Camp, Tuolumne County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Isaac Henry Evans, Master,
Richard C. Penrose, Chaplain,
Chinese Camp
George Nelson Porter, Sen. Deacon,
Norton ·woodbridge Currie, S. War., William Terrill Lewis, Jun. Deacon,
Simon Uren Goudge, Junior vVarden, Roscoe Follansbee, Marshal,
Daniel Edgar Stratton, Treasurer,
Frederick William Greiner, Steward,
Saul Morris, Secretary,
Edward Kemp, Steward,
Chinese Camp
Thomas John Russell, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Kemp, Edwin
Anthony, Richard David
Bluett, Samuel Thomas
J,aramore, William Edgar
Leahy, Richard John
Bolton, Edwin Robert
Bryson, James Lafayette
Lewis, William Terrill
Campbell, Charles Rufus
Morris, Saul, P. M.
Nye, Benjamin Franklin
Cochrane, Neil
Orcutt, Alpheus Sherman
Covert, William Percy
Crandall, Elbert M.
Palmer, Edgar Thomas
Currie Norton Woodbridge
Penrose, Richard C.
Elliott, Charles Arthur Nelson
Porter, George Nelson, P. M.
Evans, Isaac Henry
Riley, James
Follansbee, Roscoe, P. M.
Russell, Thomas John
George, James
Settree, William James
Goudge, Henry, P. M.
Smith, Isaac War<l, P. M.
Smith, John Alexander, P. M.
Goudge, Simon Uren
Gregory, Henry
Smith, William Henry
Greiner, Frederick William
Snowden, Paul Ward
Stratton, Daniel Edgar
Hooper, James
Tyte, Charles Thomas
Joy, Walter Frank
Keith, Charles Peter, P. M.
Vail, Herbert Eugene, P. M.
Ware, Erner Ferris
Keith, Benjamin Franklin, P. M.
Kelly, Michael D.
White, Jeffries
SUSPENDED

FOR NON-PAYMEN'l'
Pascoe, Edwin John

OF

DUES:

-44.

114

ROSTER

ROSTER

NATOMA LODGE, No. 64.
Folsom, Sacramento County,
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Trautman, Henry John
Vance, Charles Cameron
Wahrhaftig, Peter Samuel
Wahrhaftig, Solomon
Waites, William John

OFFICERS:

Hans Christian J. R. Clemensen, M'r, Clinton Mandeville Baker, S . Deacon,
Folsom
Frederick Edward Warnholz, !. Dea.,
Samuel Dowdin, Senior Warden,
Philp Charles Cohn, Marshal,
Frederick William Staunton,!. War., Gustav Adolphi Bauer, Steward,
Edward Rogers Levy, Treasurer,
Edwin Stone Blair, Steward,
Ray Dudley McFarland, Secretary, George Imhoff, Tyler.
Folsom
MEMBERS:
Hall, Harry William, P. M.
Baker, Clinton Mandeville
Hesser, George Turner, P. M.
Barton, Hiram Emmett
Hollingsworth, Lewis Washington
Bauer, Gustav Adolph
Iberson, George Thadius
Beau, William Robert
Bell, Charels Andrew
Imhoff, George
Joerger, Joseph
Blair, Edwin Stone
Blanchard, John Ernest, P. M.
Keefe, Robert
Brobst, James Lorenzo
King, John Henry
Broder, Jacob
Levy, Edward Rogers
Broder, Walter
McFarland, Ray Dudley
Burnham, Frederick Parker, P. M. Mette, Henry
Burnham, James Henry, P. M.
Milier, Emil
Calder, William
Miller, Oscar Jacob
Cater, George Peter
Nourse, Beverly Stephen
Clemensen, Hans Christian J. R.
Palmer, Eugene Grant
Cohn, Philip Charles
Parker, Theodore Clifford
Daggett, Martin Van Buren
Parks, Leonard Nelson
Phoenix, Edward Chauncey
Darling, Charles
Dowdin, Samuel
Pierce, John Alvin
Drullinger, James William
Plumb, William Boardman
Powell, John Henry
Duchow, Marteen Casper
Dunkley, Louis Palmer
Prigmore, Joseph Riley
Ecklon, Charles Henry, P. M
Riddle, Jerry Boggs
Ecklon, Christian Ludwig, P. M.
Scott, John Brown
E cklon, Christian Frederick
Simmons, William Anthony, P. M.
Ecklon, Lorenz Gottfried
Smith, Nels Peter
Fie!, Isaac
Stamper, Simon, P. M.
Gabriel, John Henry
Staunton, Frederick William
Gerber, George Philip
Stinson, Leon Ferguson
Sylar, George William
Hagadorn, Samuel Asa

•Dolan, Martin John

115

Warnholz, Frederick Edward
Wiley, David Elbridge
Wubbena, Nicholas Gerrett
Yoerk, .Frederick Albert
-69.

DIED:
Mills, Robert Trimble

•Affiliated during the year.

AMADOR LODGE, No. 65.
Jackson, Amador County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
George Washington Lucot, Master, James Harris, Chaplain,
Jackson
Charles Guido Heiser, Sen. Deacott,
Carl William Schacht, Sen. Warden, William Thomas Brewer, Jun. Dea.,
John Sullivan B. Williams, !. W Md., John Ould, Marshal,
John Henry Langhorst, Treasurer, 'fhomas Kelly, Steward,
Robert Ira Kerr, Secretary,
Ernest Datson, Steward,
Jackson
John Giusto, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Bagneschi, Luigi
Gall, Alexander Marshall, P. M.
Barrett, Arthur Clifford, P. M.
Geirmann, Charles
Bianchetti, Bartolomeo
Glavinovich, Luke Joseph
Bole, Robert Chambers, P. M.
Giusto, John
Brewer, William Thomas
Goldsworthy, Richard Alfred
Brown, George Washington
Harrington, Emerson Hull
Caminetti, Anthony
Harris, James, P. M.
Condit, James Henry
Harvey, William
Datson, Ernest
Harvey, William James
Detert, William Ferdinand
Heiser, Charles Guido
Hicks, Thomas
DiVecchio, Liberatio
Dornan, George Franklin
Hipkins, William Asbury
Duden, Frank Harmon
Keagle, Lorentes Nevin
Dye, James Edward, P. M.
Kelly, Thomas
Dye, James Edward Jr.
Kent, Walter Edwin, P. M.
Eudy, Edward
Kerr, Robert Ira, P. M.
Eudey, Alexander
Kevern, Edward
Farnsworth, Eldridge Calvin
Langhorst, John Henry
Fry, Donald Hume
Laughton, James Augustine, P. M.

. ROSTER

116

ROSTER

Lindley, Curtis Holbrook
Lucot, George Washington
Mack, Daniel
Matson, Myron Shaw, P. M.
Marcucci, Paolo
Mattly, David
McFarland, William K.
McKenzie, Cory Amberson
Michelotti, Carlo
Myers, Eugene Clifton
Newman, Leopold
Ousby, Robert
Osborne, H enry
Ould, John, P. M.
Parker, Clarence Frederick
Parker, Frederick Wardner
Parks, James Franklin
Pascoe, Richard Henry
Penry, William Milton
P eter, William DeWitt
Radovich, Nicholas
Roberts, Phillip

Rugne, Raphael
Ruhser, Frederick William
Schacht, Carl William
Spagnoli, Diovol Benedetto, P. M.
Spagnoli, Sylvester G., P. M.
Spagnoli, Urbano G. D.
Samuels, Joseph
Stewart, Robert James
Taylor, Frank Augustus
Taylpr, James Ernest
Taylor, Walter Howard
Tibbits, James Hiller
Tretheway, John
Trevaskis, Edwin James
Williams, John S. B.
Williams, Matthew
Williams Nathan Pierson
Wilson, Jay Fremont, P. M,
Witte, Albert William
Woehrle, Gottlieb
Zumbiel, Edwin V.

K inkle, Henry William Lewis
Locey, Frederick Augustus
Martin, George C.
McCullough, .Joseph
McGregor, .Tames
McDougal, Hugh Roderick, P. M.
McKenzie, Daniel
Owens, .John Foulk
Patteson, Thomas Adkins
Raymond, Daniel Hobart
Rowlands, Trevor T.
Wheeler, William R. Morrison
Wyllie, Michael Galloway, P. M.
-34.

SliSPENDED POR UNMASONIC CONDUCT :
Reilly, James D.

Hockelberg, Bernard

DIED:
Voge, Henry

-81~

DIED:
Cooledge, Walter Scott
Mace, Fayette
Rust, Richard Church

FOREST LODGE, No. 66.
Alleghany, Sierra County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Edward S. Brindle, Master,
Henderson L. Johnson, Marshal,
Alleghany
H. R. McDougall, Chaplain.
George S. Fessler, S enior Warden, E. L. Crafts, Senior Deacon,
Thomas P. Fleming, Junior Warden, Henry Kinkel, Junior Deacon,
John F. Owens, Treasurer,
Charles Binning, Steward,
Frederick A. Locey, Secretary,
Dan McKenzie, Steward.,
Alleghany
J. J. McCullough, Tyler,
Appel, Harrison
Brown, Chester Warren
Brown, Horace H.
Brown, Walter Calvin

l.>avies, Frank
Deisem, Charles S.
Ellis, Thomas
Fessler, George Samuel
Fitzgerald, Andrew
Fitzgerald, Walter
Fitzgerald, .John .Tames
Fleming, 'l' homas Peter
Goodwin, .Tames Willis
Hnnt, .Tames F.
Irvine, L eonard, P. M.
,Jenkins, Thomas Henry
Johnson, Henderson L., P. M.

MEMBERS:
Binning, Charles
Brindle, Edward S.
Colman, John Henry
Crafts, Ezra Leroy

MORNING STAR LODGE, No. 68.
Stockton, San Joaquin County.
Stated Meetings, Second Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Edward Clement Stewart, Master,
P. 0 . Box 501
Henry W illiam Bessac, S en. W arden,
Charles Ball, Junior Warden,
Edward W arren Butters, T reasurer,
John Obediah D err, Secretary,
P. 0. Box 246
Atwood, John Perry
Atwood, Leroy Smith
Aubry, Alvin Emansua .
Bacheller, Ralph Milford
Bagley, Nicholas .
Ball, Charles
Barber, Frank Wilton
Bainbridge, .Tames Absalom
Baker, Clarence Clark

117

MEMBERS:
Barkie, Henry Bruce
Barnhart, Earl Winghart
Bauer, Herman
Bearce, Byron A.
Beasley, Charles
B ennett, Paul W etherly
Bessac, Henry William .Tr.
Bessac, Hamilton Bremner
Blake, George Shepherd

118
Blewett, William Catlett
Bonney, John Allen
Boyer, Thomas Alexander
Brandt, Charles Henry William
Briggs, Hubert Hamilton
Brooks, Alexander William
Brown, Philip Thomas
Buckley, William Duncan
Butters, Edgar Warren, P. M.
Buttrick, George Howe, P. M.
Campbell, Henry Riley
Campbell, Joseph Claybaugh
Carson, Edgar Consider
Castle, Durrett Oliver, P. M.
Catts, George Elbert
Cowie, George Henry
Cross, Samuel Nelson
Dameron, John Dysarte
Derr, John Obediah
Ditz, George
Dodge, Horace Francis, P. M .
Dunbar, Joshua Cottrell
Dunlap, Frank Everett, P. M.
Duncan, Carey Ross
Earson, Jqhn William
Eddy, John Henry
Early, Clarence Erwin
Fitzgerald, William Wesley
Fiola, Frank Joseph
Fletcher, WiJ!iard Franklin
Fothergill, Milner Reginald
Fowler, Weldon Mason
Freitas, Joseph B., P. M.
Fyfe, Joseph Sr.
Garden, William
Gardiner, Fred Orin
Gersbacher, Joshua Barre
Gibson, Edward
Gibson, Wallace John
Grant, Charles Binous
Grattan, John
Gross, William Walter
Grunsky, Eugene Moriz
Grupe, George Washington, P. M.
Hardenbrook, George Mitchell

ROSTER
Hardy, Fred
Harkness, George Sumner
Hart, Charles B.
Harry, Charles Reese
Hawthorne, John Bradford
Hedges, Edward Richard, P. M.
Henderson, Orrin Staples, P. G. M.
Hickman, Edward
Hodgkins, Sidney Newell
Holt, Pliny Eastman
Harnage, George
Hornung, Fred William
How.e, Charles Edward
Howland, Oliver Melville
Hudson, George Francis,P. M.
Hull, Octavius Haymond
Israel, Frank Sherman, P. M.
Jenkins, Edward Earl
Jory, John
Kay, Joseph
Keagle, Adelbert Grant
Kenyon, Percy
Keyes, Henry Calcutt, P. M.
Kidd, James Edward
Knight, Henry Leland
Knight, Robert Brittain, P. M.
Krog, Peter Christian
Lane, Fm n k Blli s
Lang, Lewi~ Hawkins
L11ngriclgc, George Washington
LnRnr , .Tnhn Milton
Latta, Wnl'am Harrold
Leffler, William Henry Ebenezer
Leistner, George Washington
Lu11go, Frank
Ludlow, William Berridge
Lyon, Lemuel Elisha
Lyon, William Herbert
Martin, Irving
Matthews, David Sterrett
Matteson, William Haskell
Mayes, Thomas Be'rry
McCan, Francis Asbury
McGaughey, James DeLaskey
McKenzie, George Alexaniler P. M

ROS'l'J<JR
McLeod, Donald
McShea, George Earl
Merrill, Hiram Francis F., P. M.
Merrill, Lewis Elmer
Meyer, Herman Carson
Michaels, Benjamin Keefe
Miller, John Henry, P. M.
Yittick, Walter Leslie
Moore, John William
Mueuter, August Edward
Muller, Frederick William
Myrick, John Edward
Nelson, Thomas Alvin
Nicol, Frank David
Nilson, Charles August
Noble, Arthur Morgan
Noble, Edward Banks
Neumiller, Charles Louis
Nye, William Douglas
Oranges, Geremia
Patchen, Warren
Peart, Luke William, P. M.
Peterson, Charles John Benholdt
Petzinger, Anthony William
Philo, William Elisha
Powell, Barton Jerome
Pritchard, Vernon Perry, P. M.
Raggio, Peter
Ray, Daniel Francil1
Reid, Robert Asa
Rhodes, Allen Lee
Richardson, William Ernest
Richey, Elmer Raines
Robinson, Isaac Newton
Roe, Joseph William
Roesch, George Frederick
Rogers, William Francis
Rolerson, Benjamin Franklin
Ross, Neil Irvon

Roberts, Edward

Ruff, Samuel Francis
Russell, Richard William
Ryland, Samuel Vinton
Salbach, Leopold Frederick
Seeley, John Whitney
Senter, Willis Riley
Shanks, James
Sibley, Walter Frank
Six, Clarence Logan
Smith, Walter
Smith, William James
Smythe, James Hudson
Southrey, John Nicholas
Southworth, Henry Edgar
Stamper, Louis Oscar
Starkweather, Ruben Edward
Stewart, Edward Clement
Spooner, John Pitcher Jr.
Swain, Joseph Henry
Taggart, Henry Wallace
Tripp, William Osial
Tschierschky, E. M. Louis
Turner, George Clinton
Turner, Franklin Chester
Vale, Baldwin
Visher, Putman
Waddle, George Albert
Wagner, Solomon
Walke~, Benjamin Franklin
Waters, William Hall
Weber, August Frederick William
Wilhoit, Roley Earley
Williams, Arthur Reese
Williams, Ansel Smith
Williams, John Robert
Wilson, Robert Finlay
Woolner, Frederick William
Woolsey, William
Yardley, John, Sr., P. M.
-186.

WITHDRAWN:
Schn€1der, George Louts

SUSPENDED FOR
Wright, James Rae

119

NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Young, John Franklin

120

ROSTER

DIED:
Berka, John
Reid, John Allan
Hull, Charles Edward
Sampson~ Charles Selestlne
Hickox, Flavll G.
Young, Albert Wllliam
West, Frederic Macondray

ENTERPRISE LODGE, No. 70.
Yuba City, Sutter County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Fred Buzzell Noyes, Master,
Will Francis Bird, Chaplain,
Yuba City
Hugh Dixon Moncur, Senior Deacon,
Albert Donald Gray, Senior Warden, Leslie \!Villard Walton, Jun. Deacon,
Charles Gillette Dick, Ju11. Warden, William Henry Chism, Marshal,
Eugene Marvin Boyd, Treasurer,
Edward Von Geldern Steward
Dallas Damon Green, Secretary,
Leon Mark Bunce, Steward, '
Yuba City
Ogilvie Moncur, Tyler-.

MEMBERS:
Albert, Daniel Wesley
Ashley, Lloyd C.
Ashley, Jay W., P. M.
Ashley, Luther
Bailey, Arthur
Bailey, George Washington
Barrett, Eugene T.
Barrett, Walter Lee
Bayne, Richard, P. M.
Benchley, William Wallace
Best, Henry
Bevens, Edgar Alfonso
Bird, Will Francis, P. M.
Boyd, Eugene Marvin
Brandstatt, John Nelson
Bremer, August Gustave
Bremer, Frank Gus
Britton, Richard
Brockman, John Henry
Bunce, Leon Mark
Burgess, Chester Crowell
Burgett, Oliver P erry, P. M.
CJampbell, Benjamin Getty

Carpenter, Robert Anderson
Carpenter, William Rennie, P. M.
Chadwick, Larkin Hopkins
Chism, William Henry
Clements, William Andrew
Clark, Howard Clifton, P. M.
Clyma, Thomas Sanford
Coats, Mack Colvin
Coats, William Alexander
Cooper, Frederick
Cope, Harry Laverne
Cope, Leroy Johnstone
Clark, Henry Wilmoth
Cuddeback, Edson N.
Davis, Robert
De Witt, Richard Clarence
DeWitt, William Golder
Dick, Charles Gillette
Duncan, John Atkinson
Duncan, John Lewis
Ensign, Frank Milo
Fields, Charles Beccom
Fraser, Samuel

ROSTER
Freeman, Laverne Lewis
Gilpatric, Frank Judah
Girdner, Mark Anderson
Gottwals, William
Gratlis, Alonzo, P. M.
Gray, Albert Donald
Gray, James Care
Gray, Samuel
Gray, Williaiii. Jackson
Green, Dallas Damon, P. M.
Gregg, Martin Yan Buren
Griffith, Irwin
Hauss, Ferdinand
Haynes, James
Heiken, John Bantas
Heiken, Robert William
H ewitt, Arthur Hathaway, P. M.
Hull, Royal Chandler
Humphrey, William Emory
Harter, Clyde Banta, P. M.
Hansen, John Henry
Haynes, James Lewis
Hamlin, Francis A.
Howlett, John Marion
Hendrick, Robert Calvin
Hetherington, Frank William
Hughes, John Tomilson
Humphreys, William Clayton
Jacks, John
Kells, Robert Cornelius
K ells, Robert Norman
Kersey, Thomas Saverree
Kimball, George Herbert
Kimball, John Franklin
Kline, Charles ·Greer
Kline, Claude Cecil
Kofod, Edward Alfred
Lamme, John Hamilton
Lathrop, George Washington
Littlejohn, Howard Grant
Littlejohn, James Abraham
Magruder, George Henry
Mahon, Kirby Smith
Manford, William Berkeley
Matteson, Charles

McLaughlin, Alexander Campbell
McLean, Duncan James
McQuaid, Cale Clark
McQuaid, Charles Edward, P. M.
McRae, Alexander Arthur
McRoberts, William George
McVey, Thomas Fletcher
Moncur, Hugh Dixon, P. M.
Moncur, Ogilvie
Montna, Peri Bird
Moon, Richard Albert
Noyes, Fred Buzzell
Onstott, Fred Arthur
Onstott, John Paxton Jr., P . M.
Onstott, John Paxton, Sr.
Onstott, Jacob Glen
Orr, James Emanuel
Pease, Charles Harris
Pease, G~orge Harris
Peace, Wyman Currier
Peck, William Francis
Pool, Anthony Wayne
Ripley, Charles Jackson
Robinson, John Franklin
Rowe, Pleasant William
Sanborn, Miles Edward, P. M.
Schellenger, Adelbert Edmond
Schellenger, Edmond Tift
Schillig, Bennett
Schillig, Lawrence, P. M.
Schmidt, Erich
Schuessler, Henry Herman
Schuler, Conrad
Sheldon, Charles Munson
Smith, William Parkhurst, P . M.
Soderlund, Noack
Starr, Edward Butler
Starr, Roy Deboise
Suggett, Luke Timothy
Summy, Leonidas
Yon Geldern, Edward
Walton, Benjamin Franklin
Walton, Frank Starr, P. M.
Walton, Fred Day
Walton, George

121

ROSTJ<JR

ROSTER

122
Walton, Hiram Aaron
Walton, Leonard Arthur, P. M.
Walton, Oscar Milton
Walton, Richard
Ward, Charles Webster
Weslar, Willard Howard
Wilcoxon, Baxter Allen
Wilkie, Ferdinand Starr
Wilkie, James B.
Wilkie, James Hunter

Wilkie, Karl Purvis
Wilbur, Lloyd Hamilton
Williams, Clayton Elsworth, P. M.
Williams, Robert Timothy
Williston, Elijah William
Wilson, Wesley Thomas
Wilson, William Clay
Wood, Job Kettles
Woodworth, Arthur Gustavus, P. M.
Woodworth, Louis Hedley, P. M.
-156.
WITHDRAWN:
Ferguson, Thomas Henry
Guddal, Louis James
Schuessler, Louis Edward

Cutts, Albert David
Galbraith, Thomas Augustus

DIED:
Littlejohn, James
Myers, John Henry

BEAR MOUNTAIN LODGE, No. 76.
Angel's Camp, Calaveras County.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Mi,on.
OFFICERS:

George Rose, Master,
Charles 0 . Engstrom, Chaplain,
Angels Camp
Lewis Alonzo Williams, Sen. Deacon,
Thomas Henry Davey, Sen. Ward., Hiram Henry Messenger, Jun. Dea.,
George Garland, Junior Warden,
J ames Lagomarsino, Marshal,
Warren Rose, Treasurer,
Bert Gazzola, Steward,
John Cooley, Secretary,
Christian Peter Christensen, Stew'd,
Angels Camp
Robert Hall Ross, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Brevin, William Henry
Adair, Charles Francis, P. M.
Allen, Theophilus
Brin, Richard Morris
Brower, William Henry
Arendt, Michael
Barden, Harry Roswell
Carley, John Hensley
Beedle, Frederick Charles
Carlson, Charles H enry
Belloni, Mark John Baptist
Christensen, Christen Peter
Blackhart, Fred Gray
Cicconello, Louis Angelo
Clough, Frederick Warren, P. M.
Blood, Harvey Spaulding, P. M.
Boarman, Charles
Cooley, John
Bothwell, David Milton
Davis, Jefferson J.

Davey, Thomas Henry
Debnam, Henry Hunt
Demarest, David Durie
Dolling, Otto ·
Darroh, John R.
Drew, Edwin
Engstrom, Charles Otto
Ji'entress, Leslee Hoke
Freeman, Charles Henry
Gardner, Robert
Garland, George Drew
Garrard, Woodson, P. M.
Gazzolo, Bertolomer
Gazzolo, Columbo James
Gonner, John Baptist
Goodloe, Peyton Verbannus
Graebe, Alfred Eugene
Hancock, John
Herzberg, August
Higgins, Charles William
Hogate, Samuel Carter
Howell, Morton Temple
Huberty, George
Jensen, Rasmus Christian
Johnson, Charles Albert
Jones, Thomas Henry Ryon
Kavanaugh, John
K11hnen, Andrew
Lagomarsino, James
Lagomarsino, .John Peter
Lane, Charles David
Lane, Thomas Travis
Lanthier, Charles Earl
Lillie, Charles Andrew
Lockman, Francis William
Loring, William Joseph
Martin, Fred Julius
McBride, Charles Jophes
Gibson, Wallace John

123

McCurdy, Elliott Steele
McLaughlin, James Henry
McTarnahan, Carroll
Messenger, Hiram Henry
Miller, Valentine William
Minard, William
Monte, Verda Lawrence
Morgans, Philip Morgan
Mosgrove, William A.
Orr, John A.
Parker, George 0.
Pattee, Frank Benjamin
Patterson, George Wesley
Perine, Joseph Fulgenzio
Porter, John Thomas, P. M.
Posey, George Addison
Prothers, Albert
Quinn, Thomas Francie
Reaves, John Edward
Ratcliffe, Henry
Richards, Cyrus Wesley
Riedel, Belthaser
Roberts, Samuel Augustus
Rose, George, .P. M.
Rose, Warren
Ross, George Ichabod
Ross, Robert Hall
Schmal, William Henry
Scofield, Regenald
Smith, Thomas N., P. M.
Spindel, Stephen
Surrwhittard, Ernest Alfred
Sweetland, Lawrence Gale, P. M.
Tucker, Richard
Wall, James Tillman
Waterman, William Louis
Weirich, Elmer Williams
Wilson, Albert Crair
-96.
WITHDRAWN:
Thomas, Ellls Irvine

DIED:
Anderson, James Fitzgerald
Ryall, Andrew
Thomas, George Watson

ROSTER

124

125

ROSTER

CALAVERAS LODGE, No. 78.
San Andreas, -Calaveras County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Louis Cademartcri, Master,
Mark A. Shepard, Chaplain,
San Andreas, Cal.
John William Dietz, Senior Deacon,
James Alexander Smith, Sen. War., George Allen Stewart, Jm1. Deacon,
Frank Clinton Wells, Junior War., Frank Elmer Tiscornia, Marshal,
Gilbert Pfortner, Trearnrer,
Eno·s Marion Higginbotham, Steward,
Enos Franklin Floyd, Secretary,
David Emile Cavagnaro, Steward,
San Andreas, Cal.
Charles Francis Walter, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Agostini, Jules Joseph
Keith, James, P. M.
Aµderson, Anthony
Krentz, Ernest
Bacigaluppi, John Augustine
LaRiviere, Wilbrun Eugene
Baird, Frauk
L ewis, Samuel Joseph
Baker, John Donald
Loeffler, Ernest Walter
Beal, Charles Robert, P. M.
March, Irwin Beede
Beal, Frederick Nathaniel
March, Roy Vernon
Cademartori, Louis
March, William Bright
Messenger, Hiram Ashley, P. M.
Casey, Edward
Messenger, Nelson Cyrus
Casey, William, P. M.
Mitchell, William Henry
Cassinelli, David
Nelson, Edmund
Cavagnaro, David Amile
Nuland, James Andrew
Cavagnaro, Nicola Joseph
Nuner, William Marbl e Jr.
Dasso, Dante Adolphus
Petray, Adolph Gottleib
Del Re, Henry
Pattee, John Kellog Jr.
Dietz, John William, P. M.
Pfortner, Gilbert
Edwards, David Bartlett
Emery, Earle Caldwell
Ponzetta, Nicola
Evans, Job Montgomery
Preston, Charles, P. M.
Raggio, John
Floyd, Enos Franklin
Foru, William Mitchell
Raggio, Joseph
Garga.dennec, Coronto Geo. Joseph Redmond, Samuel Edwin
Gourley, Asa Anthony
Roberts, David E., P. M.
Roberts, Orvis
Graves, George Christian, P. M.
Halley, John Joseph, P. M.
Salcido, Ernest
Salcido, Javier
Hendrick, George Hugh
Schrack, Henry Clay
Higginbotham, Enos Marion
Holland, Judson Arthur, P. M.
Shepard, Mark A., P. M.
Smith, James Alex.
Jack, James Sylvanus
Jenkins, Hezekiah
Snyder, Charles Peter

Snyder, Jacob Philip, P. M.
Bolinsky, Frank Joseph, P. M
Stewart, George Allen
Tiscornia, Chester Joseph
Tiscornia, Frank Elmer
Treat, William Thomas .
Vogelgesang, Gustave Daniel
Vogelgesang, Frederick Roancak

Wallace, William Addison, P. M.
Walter, Charles Francis
Waters, George Christopher
Waters, John, P. M.
Wells, Frank Clinton
Wesson, Henry
Welch, William W.
Wyllte, Alfred Loring
-76.

. SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Tilden, Joseph Chester
DIED:
Borger, Christian

HUMBOLDT LODGE, No. 79.
Eureka, Humboldt County,
Stated Meetings, !lrst Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Robert Dale Clark, Chaplain,
Hugh Byron Stewart, Master,
George Thomas Tooby, Sen. Deacon,
811 0 Street
Frank Whitney' Belcher, Jun. Deacon,
Edmund Bond, Senior Warden,
James Thomas Fraser, Jun. Warden, Frederick Benj. Barnum, Marshal,
Charles Frederick Roberts, Treas., Andrew Paterson McLean, Steward,
Alexander Rankin, Steward,
James Berry Brown, Secretary,
William D. McKay, Tyler.
625 K Street
MEMBE~l:3:

Abrahamsen, Abraham R.
Albee, George Brinton, P. M
Albee, Roswell Hitchcock
Andresen, Anders Olsen
Andersen, ~igwald
Anderson, Andrew William
Anderson, Charles John
Anderson, Oscar
Axe, Frederick
Backenstose, Edward
Barnard, James Edwin
Barnett, Fred Earnest
Barnum, Frank Gorham
Barnum, Frederick Benj.

Bartlett, Samuel Pyam
Becker, Charles
Belcher, Frank Whitney
Belcher, Geor11:e Amherst
Belcher, Peter
Bell, Aaron Hayden
Benson, Edwin G.
Benson, Theodore Martin
Berry, Frank Davis
Bitterlin, Walter
Bjornsen, Karl Selliken
Bland, Cyril Ernest
Bond, Edmund
Bonifield, Samuel

' 126

ROSTER

Bonstell, Edgar Boynton
Boyd, David Adair
Bridges, Henry James
Broadbent, Sherman
Brown, James Berry, P. M.
Brown, William
Bullock, Bertram Nathaniel
Bullock, Nathaniel
Burch, Elmer .Lee
Burnell, Lewis Melvin
Burns, Paul Milton
Cameron, James Bruce
Campbell, Elmore Pierce
Carlson, Charles Peter
Carson, Charles Sumner
Carson, George
Carson, John Milton
Carson, Thomas
Carson, William
Cave, Henry Alfred
Chain, John N.
Chapman, Emery Jonathan
Chapman, Stewart James
Christie, George Maxwell
Clark, Robert Dale
Clendenen, Francis Arthur
Clink, Morris
Clyborne, W. Frank, P. M.
Cochrane, George Alfred, P. M.
Cockburn, Ernest Augustus, P. M.
Coggeshall, Walter
Colwell, Maynard Rufus
Conant, Edward
Connick, Clifton Horace
Cooper, Edgar Clarence
Copland; Robert
Correll, Eugene Philipp
Cottrell, Emile Lester
Cottrell, John Austin, P. M.
Cousins, George Washington
Cousins, Ithiel Howard
Coyne, Franklin Boyer
Craig, John Alexander
Crockett, John William
Cummings, Frank J.

Cutler, Thomas Barnes, P. M
Cntten, Charles Pryde
Dinsmore, John Stinson
Dinsmore, Trustom Ring, P. M.
Doe, Herman S.
Dorais, Louis Pierre
Douglas, George Carlton
Douglass, Harmon Lory
Drew, Charles Augustus
Dungan, Garland Albert
Eddy, John Mathewson
Edwards, Sylvanus David
Ellis, Charles Starr
Elsner, Charles Henry
Elster, Peter
Engebretsen, Frederick
Falor, Charles Henry, P. M.
Fanning, John Angus
Fardelius, August William
Fay, :Nahum
Felt, Rae, P. M.
Ferguson, Chester Edward
Ferguson, Frank Ellsworth
J!'erguson, George M.
Ferguson, James
Fischer, William Howard
Fitzell, William Sloane
Forsey, Joseph Robert
Foster, Seth Burnham ·
Fowler, Alexander
Fraser, James Thomas
~'rost, Elmer James
Fulmore, Fenwick Williams
Gale, James Cloyd
Gallop, John Thomas
Gault, James Hunter
Geer, Knyphausen, P. M.
Gemmill, Walter Scott
Georgeson, Frederick William
Glatt, August Edward
Graham, Henry Albert
Graham, Wesley Charles
Gregerson, Gustav Martinius
Gregor, Otto Clayton
Griffiths, Griffith, P. M.

ROSTER
Kincade, Joseph Conrad
Gross, Reuben
Kingsbury, Lewis Buoncore
Gustin, George Adinoram
Lambert, WiJ.liam Lee
Hall, Charles Wellington
Lange, Ernest Adolph
Hamilton, Herbert Weed
Langford, George
Hamilton, 'John
Leach, Edward Alva
Hanna, William Patterson
Lee, Lewis Alfred
Hansel, Amos
LeVasseur, William
Hansen, Harald Waldemar
Lever, Thompson R.
Hanson, George Emil
Locke, George
Harmon, Charles Treadwell
Loewenthal, Jacob, P. M.
Harnett, John Abraham
Loofbourrow, Thadeus L.
Haughey, Robert Lincoln
.Madsen, Henry
Hauptman, Sidney Morse
Malcolm, Eldridge Bowdoin
Hellberg, Emil Louis
Manning, James Bennington
Henderson, George Youle
Marlin, Frank
Henderson, James William
Matheson, Daniel
Ilendriksen 1 Bendix
Henningsen, Carl Frederick 6. ugust. Maurer, John Lester, P. M.
Maxwell, Sidney Alister
Heney, William Lawrence
McCnnn, Charles Frederick
Henry, Robert
Mccann, Frederick Willis
Hetfield, Albert DeForrest
McCord, James Clifford
Hill, Edward John
McCormack, James Madison
Hill, Randle
McCullens, David
Hiller, Benjamin Franklin
McCutcheon, Robert
Hine, Thomas Walton
McDonald, John
Hitchings, Charles Williard
McGeorge, John Frederick, P. M.
Hollander, Siegfried
McGeorge, Peter
Holmes, Robert
McGeorge, Verne Adrian
Horner, Oscar Alonzo
Hunter, Geo. Washington, P. G. M. McGillivray, William
McKay, Richard
Hurlbutt, Frank L.
McKay, William
Hutchins, Robert Walker
McKay, William D.
Hutchinson, Charles
McKee, Ernest Maxwell
Imme, William Julius
McKeehan, Curtin Grant
Ingalls, George Lemuel
McKellar, Donald
Jensen, Christian Nicolaj
McKenzie, Peter Mcintyre
Jensen, George Charles
MeKeown, John
Johnson, Johan Adolph
McLean, Andrew Paterson
Jones, Prentiss Mellen
McMillan, William John
Jones, Robert Lewis
McNamara, Frederick William
Kane, Alex.
McNamara, William Alex.
Keever, Edward William
McNamara, William Jewett
Kehoe, William
McVicar, James
Keller, Charles Frederick
Medill, Walter Pennock
Keller, William

127

128

ROSTER

Melendy, John Marvin, P. M.
Metcalf, William Milton
Mite,hcll, Ernest Alex.
Mitchell, John
Mitchell, John Herbert
Monroe, Alonzo Judson, P. M.
Monroe, Joseph Warren
Morrison, Sanford Benton
Murray, Hugh
Murray, John Sutherland, P. M.
Nazro, Frllnk
Nelson, Lars August
N ellist, Frank Pletcher
Nessler, Alex. Magnus
Neasler, Carl Magnus
Nielsen, Niels Peter
Noble, Hugh James
Noe, Albert Conor
Noe, Ulysses Jesse
Ohman, Adolph
Ohman, Hubert Ferdinand
Ohman, Ignatius Joseph ·
Ohman, Rudolph
Olsen, Hakon Erick
Olsson, Anders
Orpin, Charles
Palmtag, Christie Henry
Parker, Silas Wiley
Parker, Thomas
Pease, Fred Washburn
Percy, Edwin Hudson, P. M.
Persons, Louis, P. M.
Petch, Thomas Daniel
Petereon, Edwin
Pettingill, Edward Foster, P. M.
Petty, Josiah
Picketts, Charles Wyley
Pine, John Nelson
Pine, Norton Hiram
Pine, Safford Fay
Pinkerton, Harry Owen
Pratt, Walter Henry
Press, Whiting George
Price, James Howard
Rankin, Alex.

Ray, Winslow
Redmond, James
Redmond, John
Reinhart, Robert
Rice, Louis
Richmond, Thomas William
Robbins, Joseph Marcus Wyght
Roberts, Albert D.
Roberts, Clement
Roberts, Charles Frederick, P. M.
Robinson, Fred, P. M.
Roeth e, George Frederick
Root, Peter
Schorr, John ·
Schwartz, Henry Augustus
Sedgley, Alfred Moffitt
Shurtleff, John Thomas
Sinclair, John ,Archibald
Sinclair, Oliver Willard
Smart, Frederick Milton
Smith, Arthur M., P. M.
Soule, Charles Parsons
Speegle, William Nelson
Steele, Samuel James
Stein, Augustus Frederik
Stern, Lewis Edgar
Stern, Walter ""ugene
Stewart, Hugh Byron
Stewart, Warren May
Strong, Wallace Bixby
Strong, Wallace Kaloea
Sundquist, Axel
Sundquist, Fred
Swanson, Albert
Tabor, William Henry
Taylor, Charles Gilford
Thompson, Albert Edward
Thompson, Hiram Freeman, P. M.
Thurston, Eugene Lyndon
Tibbetts, Joseph Kimball
Tooby, George Thomas
Torrey, Abner Wood, P. M.
Trott, George Washington
VanHovenberg, James Jacob
Ward, Walter Remus

ROSTER
Watenpaugh, John Wesley
Waters, Leo Clark
Way, Arthur William
Weatherby, Albert Skiffington
Weaver, John H. G.
Webster, William Henry
Weiss, Joseph Jacob, P. M.
Wilson, Emmet Wakeman
Wilson, John Elmer
I<,ulmor, Alex. Chope

12U

Wilson, Thomas W.
Wing, William
Wise, Solomon
Woodcock, Hubert Hiram
Woodcock, Samuel Alex.
Wrigley, George Edward
Zaddart, Frank Bernhard
Ziegler, Frank
-315.

WITHDRAWN:
*Fulton, James

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Smith, Robert Lee

Gunderson. Tonnes

DIED:
Young, Robert

Hitchings, Andrew

IONE LODGE, No . . Bo.
Ione, Amador County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICEltS:
J ames Henry Williams, Chaplain,
Andrew Jackson Wood, Master ,
Loren Amick Bagley, Senior Deacon,
Ione, California.
John Frank Martin, Senior Warden, Arthur S. Cunningham, Jun. Deacon,
George John Yager, Junior Wardeti, John Whitten Surface, Marshal,
Bernhard Hammer, Steward,
J ohn Marchant, Treasurer,
Eugene George Woolsey, Secretary, John Carlile Stewart, Steward,
James Phillip Surface, Tyler.
Ione, California.
MEMBERS:
Free, Franklin
Adams, Abner LaFayette, P. M.
Greenough, Ernest Freeman
Bennetts, William Arthur, P. M.
Hammer, Bernhard
Crabtree, Isaac Jackson
Hammer, Michaelis
Deibolt, Joseph Celestine
Heath, John Wesley, P. M.
Dilliim, Benjamin Franklin
Holman, Ira Newfield
Endicott, Edwin Eugene
Jones, Morris
Farnsworth, Junius, P. M.
,Jordan, James
Flegal, Frank Porter
•Restored during the year
9

130

ROSTER

Johnson, Carleton H.
Joses, John William, P. :M.
MacLean, John
Maestretti, Antonio
Marchant, John, P. :M.
Martin, John Frank
McCloskey, William Wilson
McMurry, James William
Miner, Armstard Early
Newman, Jacob
Nixon, Lyman
Okel, Edward Joseph
Perkins, John Dabney, P. :M.
Pease, Frank. Marion
Randall, William Trafton
Ranlett, Arthur Grover
Ranlett, Horace Dodge

Ross, Benjamin George
Ruman, Charles August
Sharpe, Otis Allen Ozro
Spencer, Sheldon
Stewart, John Carlile
Surface, Jacob, P. M.
Surface, James Phillip, P. M.
Surface, John Whitten, P. :M:
Swift, Charles Stedman
Tregaskis, Martin Bowden
Williams, James Henry, P. :M.
Waddell, George Edwin
Woolsey, Eugene George, P. M.
Woolsey, George
Woolsey, Herbert Alfred
Wood Andrew Jackson
Yager, George John
-50.

DIED:
Ford, Hiram Wilder

ROSTER
Hoppin, Charles Rossiter
Hoppin, George Henry, P. M.
Houx, Daniel Francis, P. M.
Houx, George R.
Kergel, Augilst Joseph
Levy, Armand Abraham
Lundy, John Alfred
Morrow, Arthur Gorman
Myers, Edward Augustus, P. :M.
Nutting, Samuel Lawrence

131

Pettit, Asa Floyd
Plantz, William Henry
Price, William Enos, P. :M.
Riley, Ely Davis
Root, John Marion
Scarlett, James Edward, P. :M.
Seltenheim, Herman
Tacker, Christen Martensen
Taylor, John Z.
Wall, William Samuel
-36.

WITHDRAWN:
Bork, Charles Henry
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Bork, David Byron

RISING STAR LODGE, No. 83.
Forest Hill, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

YOLO LODGE, No. 81.

OFFICERS:

Yolo, Yolo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Harold Thomas Power, Master,
Andrew Morehead, Chapla~n,
Bullion, Placer County
John Alexander Ferguson, Sen. Dea.,
Kenneth Chisholm, Senior Warden, George Howard Garrison, Jun. Dea.,
Frede;ick Chester Davidson, J. War., George Hemans Bisbee, Marshal,
Charles Robert Burry, Tr~asurer, Jacob Lock 'Velker, Steward,
Winfield Scott Davies, Secretary, Harold Morgan Power, Steward,
Forest Hill
William Smith, Tyler.

OFFICERS:

George H . Hoppin, Master,
Clyde Flournoy Hayden, Sen. Dea.,
Yolo
Obediah Lester Didion, Jun. Deacon,
Charles Rossiter Hoppin, Sen. Ward., Albert Michael Bemenerly, Marshal,
Asa FlC!yd Pettit, J1mior Warden, Joseph Giguiere, Steward,
John William Cannell, Treasurer,
John T. Cooper, Steward,
Bernard Borach, Secretary,
Samuel Lawrence Nutting, Tyler.
Yolo
MEMBERS:
Bemmerly, Albert Michael, P. M.
Cooper, Joseph T.
Borach, B ernard
Cramer, Lewis
Bower, John Guthler, P. :M.
Curtis, Harry E.
Brown, John Scott
Didion, Obe Lester
Bullock, Fred Willson
Giguiere, Joseph
Cannell, John William, P. M.
Hadley, William Charles
Cnssilis, William Watson
Hatcher, Columbus Washington
Claussen, Ernest Augustine
Hayden, Clyde Flournoy

MEMBERS:
Cowan, Gordon Robinson
Allen, Francis Erskine
Cowden, Ambrose Franklin
Akers, Charles Duvar• P . :M.
Davidson, Frederick Chester
Anderson, August
Davies, Winfield Scott, P. M.
Barton, Orrin Leroy
Dyson, George Nutall
Bisbee, George Hemans
Develey, Frederick Keyseur
· Britt, Edward
Dodds, Thomas Joseph
Burry, Charles Robert
Dolt, Alex., P. :M.
Calenberg, Francis Henry
Ferguson, John Alex., P . :M.
Chappellet, Felix, Jr.
Foster, Stewart Ormsby
Chisholm, Kenneth, P. :M.
Garrison, George Howard
Clements, Styles Kennedy
Holt, Michael Oscar
Colburn, Frank Ellsworth, P. :M.

132

ROSTER

Jones, Henry
Kelly, James Thomas
LaRue, William Addison
Limmell, Edward Michael
Lockwood, Lot Dean
Lowe, George Alex.
Manbert, Cal Rushton
Meikle, Peter R., P. M.
Morehead, Andrew
Morehead, David Orland
McAulay, George
McAulay, Gordon Malcolm
McAulay, Henry William
McAninch, John, P, M.
McKinley, Clarence Dennis
McDonald, Robert Emmet

Nesbit, Napoleon Bonapart
Power, Harold Morgan
Power, Harold Thomas
Purinton, Frank Robert
Ray, Gilbert Florence
Reese, John William
Rennet, Charles
Roumage, Frederick Schmidt
Runckel, George Henry, P. M.
Schwalenberg, Henry
Smith, Frank Leslie
Smith, George Henry
Smith, Leroy Ernest
Smith, William
Vucasovwich, Theodore
Welker, Jacob Lock

ROSTER

-56;

WITHDRAWN:
Groves, Frank Millard
DIED:
Scherer, Frederick Peter

VESPER LODGE, No. 84.
Red. Bluff, Tehama County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

James Lester Hamilton, Master,
James Henry Sharpe, Chaplain,
Red Bluff
Roy Smith Godbolt, Senior Deacon,
Erle Lawrence Gans, Sen. Warden, William Felis O'Connor, Jun. Deacon,
Maurice W . Duncan, Jun. Warden, George Ross McAmis, Marshal,
William Brower Cahoone, TrelllSurer, Granville Woolman, Steward,
William Preston Johnson, Secretary, Arthur Hill Fickert, Steward,
Red Bluff
Samuel Lewis, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Andrews, Henry Parker
Archer, Charles Monroe
Ballard, Curtis Durkee
Ballard, Merrill Ora
Barham, James Louis, P. M.
Bates, Edgar John

Beck, Joseph
Belcher, William Joseph
Berkly, Robert Ed. Lee
Bonnard, Paul Noel
Boole, Frank Arthur
Boone, Nathaniel Isaiah

Boyd, Judson William
Braciley, James Henry
Bransford, Walter Lee, P. M.
Brooks, Hyatt C.
Brown, Ancil Lycurgus
Brown, John Wesley, P. M.
Burtt, George Lucius
Butler, Benjamin Aaron
Cahoone, William Brower
Clover, Philip R.
Campbell, Charles Abijah
Campbell, Charles B.
Camp bell, Remembrance Hughes
Casale, Joe Isadore
Chase, Guy Horatio
Cheatham, Marion Judson
Coffman, Pelham Howard
Cohn, Alex.
Conner, Allen Howard
Conrad, Arthur Lee
Cornell, Joseph Russell
Cox, William Harvey, P. M.
Crumrine, Burritt
Crumrine, Romeyn Ezra
Curtis, Charles C.
Darrough, Charles Henry, P, M.
Davenport, John S.
Day, Jerome Wallace, P. M.
Day, Thomas George
DeHaven, David Hall
DePierris, Wesley Smith
Doane, Frank Lewis, P. M.
Doane, George Washington
Doane, Scott
Downer, George Curtis, P. M.
Dozier, John Newton
Duncan, :Maurice W.
Eichelberger, Robert Dudley
Ellison, John Francis, P. M.
Fickert, Arthur Hill
Fickert, William Charles
Fish, Charles Erskine
Fish, William Andrew, P. M.
Foster, John Henry
Fouke, Frank Joseph

Gans, Erle Lawrence
Gans, Herbert, South
Gernon, Nicholas Andrew
Godbolt, Roy Smith
Goehring, Adam
Gronenmeyer, Ferdinand H.
Hamilton, James Lester
'Healy, Lucius Bonaparte
Heaton, Nathaniel T.
Hendricks, ·Frank, P. M.
Hensel, Charles Frank
Hesse, Charles
Hillhouse, .Tohn Clayton
Howell, Thomas Franklin
Hultquist, Peter Ernest
Jelly, Frank Lee
Johnson, William Preston. P. M.
Jones, George Thomas
King, Ernest V.
Knauss, Edward, P. M.
Lages, William
Lewis, Samuel
Linebaugh, David Cameron
Ljungstrom, Bernard Otto
Lucas, James Paris
Manning, Thomas Bernard
Marquis, James Harvey
McAmis, George Ross
McCoy, Alex. McKean
McCoy, Galen Clark
McCoy, Leo Lewis
McCullugh, Davicl Herbert
McLaren, James
Miller, Frank Reid
Miller, William Barton
Moors, Oliver Edgerton
Murphy, Sylvanus Everett
Nice, Herbert Wesley
Nollman, George, P. M .
North, Edwin Byron
Norvell, Robert Marcus
O ' Connor, William Felix
Olson,.Adolph
Owen, Joseph Allen
Ransom, Frank Henry

133

134

Richart, Henry Charles, P. M.
Rossland, Ole Oscar
Schoeafeld, Solomon David
Schofield, George Lewis
Shade, Reuben Alor
Sharpe, James Henry
Shortridge, James Edward
Smith, Charles Wilson
Stanley, Norman Stephen
Stice, Garlen Gates
Stice, Henry Peter, P. M.
Stivers, George Lincoln
Stivers, Henry Fox, P. M.
Strain, William
Stoddard, William Seward
Sutherland, Henry IsaM
Swain, Cassius Perkins
Swain, Henry Clinton, P. M.
Taylor, Ulysses Grant
Thomas, Perry Odell, P. M.

HOSTER
Thompson, William Spinney
Ulrey, Silas E.
Vestal, Harold
Vestal, Francis ·Asberry
Vestal, George W ems
Vestal, Rolla
Walbridge, Edgerton Byron
Weeks, Charles Blanchard
West, John M.
White, George Allen
Wiedemann, Louis Carl F.
Wiendieck, Herman Henry
Wietfeldt, Henry Charles
Wilson, Arthur David
Winter, Louis
Woolman, Granville
Worley, Jesse Crim
Worley, William Henry
Zimmerman, Harrie Haekal

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Lightfoot, Daniel Prime
Noble, Frederick Scott
Rose, John Durand
DIED:
Harvey, Joseph Henry
Rogers, James Birney
Willard, George Kittridge

135

NAVAL LODGE, No. 87.
Vallejo, Solano County.
State :M<letings, third Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

John Grant Symington, Master,
George Rounds, Chaplain,
1314 Sacramento Street
Joseph Everett Wilson, Sen. Deacon,
Arthur Lindauer, Senior Warden,
Charles Walter Cansbrook, J. Dea.,
William McKenzie Hind, Jun. Ward., James Ramsey, Marshal,
Alexander McDaid, Treasurer,
Albert Duhring Tree, Steward,
Oliver Charles Newman, Secretary, Eugene Francis Kessler, Steward,
Vallejo
Alvin Newton Robinson, Tyler.
MEMBERS:

-141.

WITHDRAWN:
Allen, Glenn Loring
Fish, Lafayette; Jr.
Schabert. Eugene Washington .

Bush, John Stuart
Elmore, Robert Hoyle
Fahtion, Gustave W.

·R OSTER

Aden, Henry Joseph
Aden, Melchert Remmers
Aden, Remmer Johan Remmers
Aden, William Melchert
Aitken, Jamee Pemberton
Allen, Ernest Paul
Allingham, John Wilson
Andrews, William
Armstrong, John James, P. M.
Ashwell, Charles
Ayling, Walter
Bangle, George Edgar
Basney, Oscar
Baumgartner, John Edward
Begbie, Richard
Belling, Henry
Belling, Walter
Bennett, Thomae Henry
Bergwall, Gustaf Adolph, P. M.
Beverid~e. David Forney
Bissland, Duncan Colville
Bluett, Edward
Boll, Charles John
Bond, Frederick Taylor
Braunagel, Henry
Brown, Charles Eugene
Brown, Nelson Wallis
Brown, Walter Scott
Brownlie, .TameK
Brownlie, William, P. M.

Burns, Tarance Perdie
Bushnell, Charles Richar4
Canham, John Burnett
Carman, Ambrose Sherman
Carman, Clyde Davenport
Carter, George Valentine, P. M.
Cassady, Ralph Leslie
Causbrook, Charles Walter
Chandler, Henry Walker
Chappel, James Fenton .
Chase, John Hawley
Christiansen, Charles Jacob
Church, Robert B.
Cilley, Miner Henry
Clark, William Henry
Cleghorn, George Arthur
Cleghorn, Robert Bryclen
Clemes, Richard
Clifford, Samuel Thomas
Cochran, Albert Fremont
Cogswell, Frederick Ludovica
Conroy, David
Copper, Samuel Arthur
Crist, Manuel Paul
Cuthbertson, Walter Jones
Dale, Joshua l'!enton
Daley, Arthur
Dallyn, Charles Edward
Dannenbaurn, Eugene Q.
Dannenbaurn, Isaac

136

Dannenbaum, Sam
Dannenbaum, Solomon
Davis, Charles Henry
Davis, David Llewellyn
Debolt, Charles
Deininger, Jacob Frederick
Dickey, Glen Deane, P. M.
Droast, John Martin
Dumbrell, James William
Edgecumbe, Egbert Edwin
Edgecumbe, George Wentworth
El:._ers, Peier Ferdinand
Emerson, James William
Emms, Charles
En Young, Charles
Esborn, Homer
Fabiansen, Alex.
Farmer, Robert Wilson
Fischer, August Ernest
Gedge, William Kelly
Greenwood, Earl Norman
Greenwood, James Alfred
Greig, Alex., P. M.
Graff, Frederick
G.rove, .Jeane Angelo
Guffy, Newton Booth
Gustavson, Ernest Alexis
H all, George H enry
Hall, Frederick Winslow, P. M.
Halliday, Henry Lincoln
Hammar, Alrik
Hancock, John Henry
Hansen, Charles Fred
Hanson, Arthur Ferdinand
Ha11so'1, Eugene Waldron
Hanson, David Mark
Harding, John Henry
Harrier, Daniel Webster
Hartman, Alvin Andreas
Hartman, Linus Frithrop
Hathaway, Charles Odbert
Haupt, Oscar
Heath, Charles Richard
Heegler, Fred Henry
Herbert, George Arthur

ROSTER
Hilton, Osgood Harold
Hind, William McKenzie
Holly, Jackson Robert
Hood, John
Hood, Robert, P. M.
Hopp, Emil Gustav
Huckins, Albertine, P. M.
Hunt, George Jackson
Hurt, James Arthur
Huston, Elwood Branham
Irven, Walter L_vnch
Jacobs, Benjamin Richard
Janda, James
Johnson, Lester Archibald
J 'ohnson, OLto
Jol:.nson, Otto Julius
Jolley, Samuel Patterson
Jones, Ivor Edward
Jones, Morgan
Jon es, \V"illiam Aiex., P. M.
Joyce, Charles Sheridan
Kaarsberg, Lawrence C. Il., P. M.
Kahler, William Louis
Keller, Charles Philipi
Kenneson, Moody Dodge
Killam, Frank Nelson
King, William Roscoe
K insey, Frank Joseph, P. M.
Kirkpatrick, John Marcus
Knott, Albert Adams
Knott, Albert Thomas
Koltz, Bernard Johann
Koltz, Gustave Oscar
Kozlow, Stephen
Koppen, George John
Kropp, John Richard
Leach, Frank Aleman
Lf'l::witt, Lorenzo Bailey
Lee, Harry
Leonard, George Darwin
Levee, Sarjah M.
Lindauer, Arthur Sigmund
Lindstrom, William
Lord, Nelville Merchant
Luchsinger, John Jacob, P.H.

ROSTER
Nightingale, William Arthur
Luckett, Dinwiddie Johnston
Lutgens, Adolph Charles Frederick Norbey, Peter Oliver
Noyes, Elmer Ellsworth
Macdonald, Angus Edwin
Oakley, Gilbert Hewlett
Major, John James
O'Brien, Maurice John
M.rlcolm, John George
Mann, Orville Grant
0 'Hara, John Henry
Olander, Herman Knut
Marshall, David Filson
Marshall, Elmer Ellsworth
Oliver, Thomas
Martin, James Lewis
Oraker, Ole Peterson
Ovlcn, Uno Theodore
Martin, John Henry
Paterson, James
Mathesen, Manuel
Patterson, James Hunter
Matthies, Werner Hugo
Payson, Carter Noyes
McCarthy, Timothy Worthington
Pennycook, William Dick
McCray, Marvin
Peoples, Bert Raymond
McDaid, Alex., P. M.
MrJJonnell, Joh:r: Edmund
Persson, Ernest John
Peterson, James Carl
l\fclntosh, DaviJ
Piercy, James
MrXenney, Charles Daniel
Pippin, Arthur Michael
McKnight, Samuel James
Plummer, Henry Guion
McLaughlin, Roy Parmelee
Plymire, James Adams
Md~ees, Edmund, P. M.
Pohlmann, William Henry
McPherson, James Gunn
McPike, Andrew Jackson, P M.
Powell, James Henry
Pracht, Charles August
Merriman, Edward
Pratt, Daniel A:::astus
Merritt, Josiah
Radcliffe, Peter Edward
Miller, James William
Ramm, P eter
Miller, Theodore Leon
Milman, Arthur
Ramsey, J ames
Rechenmac!1er, Ferdinand
Mini, Damiani
Miui, John Baptist
Rice, Arthur Marshall
Mit chell, H enry John
Richardson, Henry Douglass
Mitchell, William Henry, P. M.
Richmond, William Elliott
Moran, Owen
Rippetoe, James Jacob
Moore, J ohn Lauson
Robinson, Alvin Newton
Roperto, Gaietano
Morton, George C.
Muirhead, Thomas
Rose, August Fred. Christopher
Muirhead, Thomas, Jr.
Rossow, l~rnest Jo'rederick
Rounds, George, P. M.
Mullan, Da.niel
Munro, Donald, P. M.
Rul e, Georgo All'x.
Murray, Patrick
Rule, Richard Young
Nelson, Martin
Rn~aell, Alex.
Rutherford, John Alex.
Nevenhuisen, William
Newman, Oliver Charles
Sanford, Farmer
Saunders, Walter Gillett!'
Neill, John W.
Sayage, Thoma8
Nelson, Charles Wesley

137

ROSTER

138
Saxton, William Eugene
Schild, George Ferdinand
Schmidt, John
Sherwood, John
Small, Frederick Augustus
Snyder, Joseph Barnaby
Sorensen, Samuel Peter
Sp•mcer, Alfred Oscar
Springborg, PetC'r Conrad
Squier, Jay James
Stephens, Daniel Edward
Stephens, Ernest Frank
SttlYens, Calvin Elkins
Stewart, Frank George
Stewart, Herbert Callaway
Stolzenberg, Charles Frederick
Stwmberg, Wilhfllm Nilcolom
Sullivan, Thomas Sylvester
Swanson, William Edward
Symington, John Grant
Thirion, Julius Joseph
Thornton, George
'fob1as, Dot Orville
Tolley, George Francis
Tomke, Edward
Toth, John
Tregidgo, Don Alfonso
Tringberg, Charles Edward
Tripp, Don Everett

Bostick, John Benton

Turner, Charles Edward
Vassie, David Barclay
Vice, Thomas, Jr.
Walker, James Marion Church
Walker, Robert Woodhull
Wr.11, Charles John
Warford, Charles Henry
Warford, George Hichborn
Warford, Lewis Sylvester
Warren, Charles, P. M.
Warren, E<lwarcl Barker
Welter, Dominique
Weniger, George
Westrem, John
Weir, John Campbell
Wheeler, Charles Garry
White, Burchard Cole
White, Henry Erlward
Widenmann, Charles
Wii!enmann, Henry Jacob
Widenruann, William Adolph
Willis, Jack Macy Wallis
Wi1son, George Wilkins
Wilson, Joseph Everett
Winchell, Frank Theodore
Wiseman, Herbert John
Wood, John Francis
Wood, Robert
Wright, Mart.iJ> Jeremiah, P. M.
-298.

WITHDRAWN:
Caldwell, Francis Marlon

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:
Chrlstolos, John
Weber, Henry Louis
DIED:
Bright, Edward M. (F. C.)
Drake, Frank
Sandow, George Albert (E. A.)

ROSTER

139

QUITMAN LODGE, No. 88.
North Bloomfield, Nevada County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

(No Certificate.
Brown, George W.
Catlett, George C.
Evens, John Owen
Gaus, Charles Cordelia
Glasson, Josiah
Helwig, Lester Henry
Jepson, Christian Hans
Jones, John Richard
Jones, Richard Robert
Jorgenson, Christian, P . M.
Lanllsburg, Jasper G.

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Mobely, Leon Walter
M~ore, David James
Quinn, Michael
Ranch, Alex., P . M.
Redington, James, P . M .
Rossen, Rasmus Peterson, P. M .
Skidmore, Rush Dix
Swank, William Jdl:e!son
Tregidgo, Alfonso Adolphus
Vezzard, Joseph H.
-22.
Wali!ron, Patrick S.

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES :
Meyers, James Perkins
Skidmore, Grant

Jepsen, Christian Otto
Matteoda, Louis

Helwig, John Henry

DIED:
Long, William David

ROSE'S BAR LODGE, No. 89
Smartsville, Yuba County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

(No Certificate.

Austin, John Hiram
Bach, John Ed., P. M.
Bartle, H. 0. A.
Bean, Fred Eastman
Beatty, John, Jr., P. M.
Beatty, Rob.e rt
Collins, Lawrence Leroy

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Dickerman, Samuel Nelson
Dobbin~, Julian Wilcoxon
Downing, Walter George
Duggins, Alexander
Durfee, Joseph, P. M.
Dutra, Frank Meranda
Flint, John North

ROSTER

ROSTER

140

Hansen, Chris
Rolle~, Owen
Hapgood, Eugene DeLorimer, P. M. Robson, William Garfield, P. M.
Jones, David Nevins
Prestegard, Ole M.
Jorgensen, George Christian
Smeeaer, Louis Morris
Hopfield, Lewis Desolis
Sperbeck, John Bertie
Stewart, Wa.Ilis Jones
Kumle, Hubert Garfield
Loi.man, William Henry
Taylor, Joseph W.
Lewis, Harry Byron
Thomas, Lawrence Elery
Magonigal, William Boyd
Toland, William Joseph
Manasco, Carlton Willburn, P. M.
Vestal, Hall
Matson, Forest Bruner
Vineyard, George Eugene
McDaniel, George Glenn
Walk, Harding Lincoln
Wheatpn, Allan Givens, P. M.
McLain, Oliver Henry
Nicholas, John Henry
White, Philo Slater
Palmstrom, Barne
Williams, Henry Gray
Peckham, Thomas Wi!liam
Woehler, Otto Arived
Perkins, Joseph Allen
-47.
· DIED:
Fitzpatrick, Peter

Hamilton, John
Harbaugh, Craig Thomas, P. M.
Harris, Charles Elias
Henderson, Fred Sylvester, P. M.
Holmes, Michael Henry
Horn, David
Jacobs, Elisha, P. M.
Kells, Chas. Edward
Kunz, Felix
Ley, Horace Vincent
Loots, Joseph Dephinet
Luttrell, Samuel Jackson
Malais, Joseph
Maplesden, Richard Daniel
Martin, Joseph Washington
Milliken, Alberta
Milne, George Anthony

McCaw, Alex.
McCarthy, Francis Patrick
Morgan, Wesley Eugene
Oberholtzer, George Washington
Parrott, Charles Booth
Roberts, Isaac
Sandiego, Shadra
Sell, Adam B.
Shearer, Hiram Dual
Simon, Arthur, P. M.
Simon, Charles Herman, P . M.
Steele, William John
Walker, James Alexander
Walker, Robert Mitchell, P. M.
Wilson, Hiram
Young, John Wesley
ZoeUin, Ernest August, P. M. -52.
DIED:
Slater, Michael

Hamilton, Isaac

NORTH STAR LODGE, No. gr.
Fort Jones, Siskiyou County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

ACACIA LODGE, No. 92.
Coloma, El Dorado County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:

Horace Vincent Ley, Master,
Fred Sylvester Henderson, S. Dea.,
Fort Jones, Siskiyou County
Leonidas Bailey, Junior Deacon,
Michael Henry Holmes, Sen. Ward., Craig Thomas Harbaugh, Marshal,
Charles Milton Ryan, Jun. Warden, Elton Thompson Bailey, Steward,
Felix Kunz, Treasurer,
John Emerson Crawford, Steward,
Martin Custer Beem, Secretary,
Samuel Jackson Luttrell, Tyler.
Fort Jones, Siskiyou County

Addison, George William
Arnold, J esse
Bailey, Elton Thompson, P. M.
Bailey, Leonidas
Baker, Rollin George
Beem, Andrew Addison
Beem, Martin Custer, P. M.
Bills, Albert Aaron
Brown, Charles Augustus

MEMBERS:
1Camp, James
Cowan, William Virgil
Crawford, John Emerson
Dale, Frank Emit
Dangel, Joseph
Eastlick, Ederick Preston
Garretson, Job
Gault, Albert Morton
Glendenning, Walter Elliott

OFFICERS:

Albert William Norris, M aster,
R. A. Colwell, Senior Deacon,
Coloma
F. L. Thomas, Junior Deacon,
John McKay, Senior Warden,
C. Leonardi, Marshal,
Charles A. Rasmusson, Jun. Ward., G. Bassi, Steward,
James S. Norris, Treasurer,
A. Leonardi, Steward,
W. N. Stearns, Secretary,
D. Teuscher, Tyler.
Coloma
Bassi, Giosue
Bell, Francis Marion
Blake, Christian George
Castle, Walter Augustus
Colwell, Ralph Lewis
Goldsmith, Walter Sidney
Harris, Jacob Alex.
Johnson, Alber~

141

MEMBERS:
Largerson, Frednick
Leach, George Clark
Leonardi, Alexander Basil
Leonardi, Cbarles Felix
Mahler, Arthur John
Mahler, Henry, P. M.
McKay, John
Merrill, Charles Edward

Norris, Albert William, P. M.
Norris, Joseph Spencer
0 'Connell, Charles Augustus
Orelli, William
Rasmusson, Charles Augustus

Shafsky, Albert
Stearns, William Nathan
Teuscher, Daniel
Thomas, Fred Leon
Thomas, Leonard, P. M.

-26

ST. HELENA LODGE, No. 93
St. Helena, Napa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

(No Certificate.

143

ROSTER

ROSTER

142

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Adamson, Christian Pugh
FJngelland, John Fred
Allison, James Andrew
Fried, David
Allison, John Hiram, P. M.
Foss, Raymond
Grant, George
Anderson, Henry Peter
Angwin, Edwin Lawrence
Grant, Philo Seelye
Arbogast, Jacob Lewis
Grauss, Felix Lauren
Barnes, Roland Curtis
Greenfield, Charles Hayden
Hansen, Hans
Beck, Franz Ludwig
Beck, Lawrence Lausen
/ Hansen, William
Hardin, James Robert.Lee
Bell, Alphonso Nelson
Harris, Henry Harrison
Bell, Theodore Arlington
Bell, William Bradford
Haskell, Greenleaf Adelbert
Bingham, William Alex.
Higgins, Andrew Jackson
Hussman, Frederick Ludwig
Bradbury, William Wert
Hussman, Georgii C.
Boalt, Thomas Warren, P. M.
Jehnsky, Henry Charles
Bockstatt, August
Johnson, Charles Henry
Booth, Jedidiah
Johnston, Leslie Ewing
Bonhote, Edward Louis
Kettlewell, Benj. Frankin, P. M.
Bruck, Bismarck, P. M.
Lyman, Wm. Whittingham,P. M.
Caughey, James
Mackinder, Frank Bennett
Clark, James Harrison
McAllister, William Francis
Clark, Louis Grant
McMahan, Joel
Clink, Samuel Gilman
Meacham, Henry Martin
Chinn, Harry Jessup
Merk, Jacob Frederick
Conner, George Samuel
Metzler, John Adam, P. M.
Coll.re.di, Carl Herbert
Metzner, Walter
Craig, James
Miller, Anker, P. M.
Davis, Cornelius Elting
Mitchell, Frank Walton, P. M.
Dawson, William James Greenlee

Mitchell, James
Moburg, Charles J.
Newcomer, Stewart
Noble, John Scott
Nowland, James A.
Outwater, Nelson T.
Overacker, Howard, Jr.
Parrish, Henry Lincoln
Pellet, Frank
Phillips, Joseph Wilson
Rammers, Henry George
Ramvendahl, August Charles
Rasmussen, Andrew
Reynolds, George Daniel
Riee, Charles Frederick
Richie, Geo. Tolman
Richie, David R., P. M.
Saunder, Louis

Sh&kespear, David
Skoog, August
Stern, Leslie Aylmor
Steves, John Henry, P. M.
Steves, Warren Carlton
Squires, Frederick Russell
Swortfinger, Geo. Blair
Spires, William
Thomas, Wade Hamilton
Treydte, Karl Otto Paul
Turner, William Abbott
Vann, Charles Ross
Varner, Frederick Garfield
Wagner, John A.
Wallace, Charles Holmes
Ward, Bruce Stanley, P. M.
Weston, Frank
-93.

WITHDRAWN:
Priest, Marlon Warren

HENRY CLAY LODGE, No. g5.
Sutter Creek, Amador County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

'Valter Ephraim Downs, Master,
Isaac Newton Groves, Sen. Deacon,
Sutter Creek
Nicholas H ornberger, Jun. Deacon,
William H enry Gunsolus, Sen. War., Charles Edwin Richards, Marshal,
Virgil Winfield Norton, Jun. Ward., Frederick Werner, Steward,
Charles Edwin Richards, Treasurer, Charles Howard Norton, Steward,
John Lithgow, Secretary,
Herman Lehmann, Tyler.
Sutter Creek
MEMBERS:
Conroy, Chester Ferrell
Allen, George Edward
Culbert, Charles L eonard
Austin, Bert Currington
Downs, Water Ephraim
Bastian, James Buzza
Fleming, Joseph
Bell, William
Frazer, Martin Luther
Beskeen, John Edward
Greenhalgh, William Henry
Bowman, Frank Austin
Gruves, Isaac Newton
Brinn, Morris, P. M.
Gunsolus, William Henry, P. JI/I,
Chandler, Joseph Fountain, P. M.

144

ROSTER

Hattersly, John
Healey, William Edward
Hornberger, Henry Nicholas
Hornberger, Nicholas
Huntington, Pliny Cortin
Jones, Edward
Jones, Edward Cornelius
J'ones, Thomas Washington
Katz, Louis, P. M.
Lehma"nn, Herman
Lewis, Arthur Parker
Lithgow, John, P. M.
Litbgow, Theodore
Montgomery, Frederick Alex.
Nixon, Malachi Doyle, P. M.
Norton, Charles Howard, P. M.
Norton, Virgil Winfield
Norton, Wmiam Henry
Noce, Andl't:w Lewis
Phipps, John Anthony
Phipps, John Anthony, Jr., P. M.

Thomas, John Richard

Post, Elbridge James, P. M.
Poundstone, Lawrenz Rider
Richards, Charles Edwin, P. M.
Sanders, William Atwood
Shnw, H erbert Jesse
Smith, Webster, P. M.
Styles, George Washington
Thomas, J'ohn
Tregloan, John Roger
Trudgen, Thomas William
Vicini, Charles Peter
Voorheis, Edward Converse, P. M.
Walsh, Albert Marion
Walter, Henry Franklin
Weil, Aaron
Werner, Frederick, P. M.
White, Lawrence Antone
Williams, Benj. Cleveland
Williamson, George Frederick
Wonclerley, William Henry
-57.

WITHDRAW N :
Wood, Homer ·winfrey

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Myers, John
Yelmini, Victor Pacific

Burns, William Hector
Patterson, David Anderson

DIE D:
P hipps, William Grant
Post, John McDugall
Vollmer, John
EXPELLED:
Dennis, Jackson

ROSTER

HOWARD LODGE, No. 96.
Yreka, Siskiyou County.
Stated Meetings, second Monday in eael1 month.
OFFICERS:

Charles Hector Morrison, Master, Ellsworth Tubbs, Senior Deacon,
Yreka
Irving Levi Eddy, hmior DeacoH,
Claude Earle Gillis, Senwr Warden, Frank Church Pollard, Marshal,
Kenneth Claire Gillls, Jun. Warden, Benjamin Franklin Smith, Steward,
William Lorenzo Hobbs, Treasurer, Ernest Vance Harmon, S teward,
Elisha DeWitt, Secretal'y,
James Marcellus Powers, Tyler.
Yreka
MEMBERS:
Gillis, Kenneth Claire
Ager, Judson Arthur
Autenrieth, Edward Herman
Gisbrecht, Adolph
Autenrieth, Frederick Alex., P. M. Gregory, Calvin Levi, P. M.
Guild, Len W.
Barton, John Henry
Gunten, Alfred
Beard, James Gehrig
Hadley, Charles Edwin
Beard, John Samuel
Harmon, Ernest Vance
Betts, John George '
Harmon, John Enoch, P. M.
Bird, John William, P. M.
Hart, Ei!win Charles
Brooks, George William, P. M.
Coggins, Clifford
·
Hassler, William Richard
Collar, Adoniram Judson, P. M.
Hobbs, William Lorenzo
Houghton, George Frederick
Collar, Floyd Judson
Hovey, Frank
Collar, Lloyd Dougal
Hudson, Hamilton Harris
Coburn, Lewis Farren, P. M .
Cooper, George Washington
.Jones, Albert
Cornelius, Rowland Pryor
.Tones, Lewelyn
Coyle, James Lawrence
Jones, Meilca!f Thomas
Davidson, James McDermit
Kuck, J er ome Deidrick
Davis, Fred J.
Larison, Charles Amos, P. M.
DeWitt, Elisha
Leland, William Lester
DeWitt, H enry Conroy, P. M.
L ennox, William
DeWitt, Robert H ewitt, P. M.
Madden, Mabra Helm
Duclley, Evan Charlock
Martin, Frederick
Martin, H enry Alvin
Earhart, Davis Carlysle
Eddy, Irving Levi
Martin, Milton Terney
Eddy, Newton Harvey
Mcllmoil, William Henry
Fabricius, Andrew Jackson
M1Jrrison, Charles Hector , P, M.
Fielder, John Larimer
Orr, Oliver
Owens, Richard
Foster, Joseph Wallace
Gillis, Claude Erle
P apst, John Leland
10

ROSTER

ROSTER

146

Pollard, Frank Church, P. M.
Reem, David, P. M.
Richardson, James Frederick
Rider, William Brown
Roberts, William Henry
Sarter, Harvey Johnson, P. M.
Sarter, Lee Andrew
SheQ.rer, Robert
Sheldon, Luther Augustus
Smith, Abner Clarence
Smith, Benjamin Franklin
Smith, Clarence Stewart, P. M.

Storey, James Hamlin
Straw, Isaac Jefferson
Tapscott, James Robert, P. M.
Truax, Andrew Yates
Tubbs, Ellsworth, P. M.
Turner, Walter
·
Turner, William Wallace
Wadsworth, Henry
Walbank, Edward Montague, P. M.
Walker, Benjamin Franklin
White, James Melville
-84.
White, Samuel

Kingdon, Richard Henry
Lassiat, John Batiste
Liberty, Onezime
May, Gilbert, P. M.
McFarland, Abel, P. M.
McKenzie, Daniel
McNaire, GPorge Morrison
Motte, Joseph
Mussey, John Milton, P. M.
Nelson, James Rob.e rt
O'Rourke, Cleveland Hendrick
Quigley, Willie Clarence, P. M.
Richier, Dominique

DIED:

Walbridge, John Morris

Mcintosh, Melvllle

Robertson, John Hutchinson
Sample, James
Sherman, William
Schofield, Miles .Edmond
Schofield, William Alfred
Squier, Elias Gibbs, P. M.
Squier, Eugene, P. M.
Thomas, David Philip
Trescott, Wm. Herbert
Waterworth, James, P . M.
Wendler, Frederick Herman
Wiega11d, John, P. M.
Wingate, Charles Birkmyer

147

-54.

WITHDRAWN:
•Reed, Henry Gibson
DIED:

JEFFERSON LODGE, No. 97.

•Owens, Owen Hugh

La Porte, Plumas County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturd11y in each month.

HORNITOS LODGE, No. 98.
OFFICERS:

Richard Henry Kingdon, Master,
James Waterworth, Senior Deacon,
La Porte
Aaron Harris, !union Deacon,
Arthur Truman Gould, Sen. Warden, Daniel McKenzie, Marshal,
Cleveland Hendrick O'Rourke, !. W., Charles \l\lil\iam Hendel, Steward,
Gilbert May, Treasurer,
James Robert Nelson, StewMd,
David "'vV." Corbett, Secretary,
Onezime Liberty, Tyler.
La Porte
MEMBERS:
Foster, Robert
Aaronson, George Dexter
Forbes, Hector
Bieler, Nicholas
Gould, Arthur Truman
Brassel, Jacob
Grandbois, Samuel Francis
Brunet, Leon
Grant, William Oscar
Brewster, Herbert
Greely, Archie Josiah
Caya, Oliver Francis
Harris, Aaron
Cayot, Francis
Hartley, Henry Thomas
Corbett, David W., P. M.
Hendel, Charles William
Craig, John
Humphreys, Thomas, P. M.
Day, George Holland
Johnson, Andrew
Ermatinger, Caspar
J o.nes, James
Fox, James
Jones, Thomas William
Francis, Richard .Alley
Kingdon, Henry
Fraser, Philip Hector

Homitos, Mariposa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

William Proctor Branson, Master, Daniel Guy Sullivan, Sen. Deacon,
Hornitos
Charles Edward Bauer, Jun. Deacon,
Huber Small Spahr, Senior Warden, William Newton McGregor, Marshal,
Frank Nicolas Solari, Jun. Warden, David Orr Paterson, Steward,
Julian Joseph Bauer, Treasurer,
John Samuel Guest, Steward,
William Adams, Secretary,
Jo~eph Spagnoli, Tyler.
Hornitos
MEMBERS:
Adams, William, P. M.
Bunker, Charles Edward
Cornett, John Robert
Avis, William Burkett
Gornert, John
Bauer, Charles Edward
Grade, WilHam Adolph
Bauer, Joseph Julian
Guest, John Samuel
Bradley, Oliver Uriel
Henricks, Albert, P. M.
Branson, Joseph
Henricks, Samuel
Branson, William Proctor, P. M.
King, William Booth
Brown, Samuel Lester
•Affiliated during the year.

ROSTER

ROSTER

148
Miller, Clarence Lamont
Mora, John Frank
McGregor, William Newton
Ong, Jackson Washington
Paterson, David Orr
Reeb, George
Prouse, Samuel James
Shackelford, Ralph Lewis
Spagnoli, Joseph

Spahr, Huber Small
Solari, Frank Nicholas
Souza, John Maria
Sullivan, Daniel Guy
Thorn, Joseph Franklin
Thorn, George McKendra
Trabucco, John Babtista
Washington. Patrick
Webber, George Edward

-36.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Peace, John
Stanley, Harwell B.
Tibbett, Samuel
DIED:
Gribble, James Thomas

LA GRANGE LODGE, No. 99
Merced, Merced County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

William Edward Landram, Ma.ster, V. H. Gerard, Senior Deacon,
Merced
G. H. Nickerson, Junior Deaco1i,
Oscar Marion Oliver, Sen. Warden, John Czerny, ]'vfar.shal,
Charles H. Wrigh~, Junior Warden, J. H. Ellis, Steward,
Carter Landram, Trea.surer,
]. R. Graham, Steward,
A. Badt, Tyler.
James Miles Webb, Secretary,
Merced
MEMBERS:
Carpenter, Ransome Ambers
Abbott, George William
Corwin, Andrew Corwin
Baker, John William
Crane, Bert
Baker, Oscar Alexanuer, P M.
Baxter, James Robert
Croop, William Bigler
Bearwald, Henry
Cunningham, Emmett Turner, P. M.
Badt, Aaron
Cunningham, James Charles
Barfield, George Hardwick
Czerny, Clyde Benton
Bird, Isaac
Cii:erny, John, P. M.
Bloss, George Stone
Darby, James Frank
Blumenthal, Bernard
Deaner, John Allen
Bradley, Fred
Ellis, Julius Hymen
Brantley, Samuel King
Farr, George Daniel
Burchell, Milton Cook
Fraser, Alexander Simon

Fruit, Jefferson
Oerard, Virgil Hamilton
Gervasio, Jacintho Rogrigues
Givens, Thomas Thaift
Goldman, Morris
Gracey, Robert, P. M.
Graham, John Richard
Gray, John Alexander
(iurr, Alfred Richard
Hall, Thomas Albert
Hammatt, Robert William
Hardwick, William Jefferson
Harrell, Charles Benton
Harris, Alfred
Harris, Charles
Harris, Morris Louis
Harris, Ruben
Hayward, Alvin Eugene
Heitman, Frederick William
Heitman, Hubert, P. M.
Higgins, Frank Lincoln
Horsley, William Henry
Howard, Amos Edwin
Hughes, James Boaz
Huls, Herbert Kimball
Hunt, William ·Hortor
Hurd, Jarvis
Jacobs, Isaac Henry
Jones, Edward Rowe
Jones, George 8hilton
Jones, Joseph Simpson
Kinney, George Oscar
Knox, James Walter
Landram, Carter, P. M.
Lander, James Thomas
Landram, William Edward
Law, Thomas Chalmers
Leonard, James, P. M.
Maddux, George

149

Massengale, Rfohard Eugene
Means, William Leland
Moutrey, Asa Edward
McKain, Edward James, P. M.
McPherson, Hiram Archibald
Nelson, Hugo F. L.
Nickerson, Grant Haines
O'Brien, Edward Stephen, P. M.
Oliver, Oscar Marion
Ordway, Francis Moody
Painter, Eugene Deshong
Parkinson, Robert John
Pedreira, Antonio Freitas, P. M.
Ralston, Clark
Robinson, Charles Augustas
Roes, Henry Christopher
Rogers, James Roe
Saunders, William Ivy
Scofield, A. Hamon
Shaffer, Charles R.
Shaffer, Harold Stanley
Silman, Archibald Lewis
Simon, Charles, P. M.
Simon, James
Smith, Arthur Montell
Terrill, Overton Harrison
Tetzlaff, Frank
Turner, William Henry
Vincent, Marion M.
Warfield, Chas. Alex. Hamilton
Webb, James Miles
Widenmann, Wm. K.
Wilbur, Albert Harper
Wilson, Nathaniel Hoag
Wright, Charles Herbert
Yoakum, George Washington
Yokum, Frederick William, P. M.
Zirker, Adolph Jacob
-103.

WITHDRAWN:
Seely, Ralph Morton

ROSTER

150

151

ROSTER
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUJ<JS:
Goldberg, W1lliam Louis
DIED:
Stoddard, Ebenezer M.

Dutch Flat, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moo11.
OFFICERS:

MEMBERS:
Barber, Chas. Edward
Josink, Bern:>.rd Henry
Barker, Charles Oscar
K etchum, Frank
Beamer, John
Knapp, James Beebe, P. M .
Berry, John Murray
LaKamp, Frank
Brice, Joseph Albert
LaKamp, John Henry, P. M.
Buckman, Benjamin Sims
Lamphre:v. Frank
Chase, Alonzo Bert
Lane, William Willis
L r ar, William Henry
Clendening, John
Cook, William
L irnlrr, Robr rt Edward
Curtis, Solon McKean, P. M.
Lohman, P r tcr
Diner, Henry
Mackay, John Gordan
Drynan, Alexander
Maker, George Samuel
Duncan, David
McCormack, Malcolm
Erskine, Alexand<\r Edwin
McKenzie, Benjamin Bliss, P. M.
Faller, George Rudolph, P. M.
Nelson, Charles Robert, P . M
Nicholls, John
·
Frank, David Adluff
Nicholls, Sydney Walton
Griffiths, Benja min Sims
Halsey, Henry H ey er
N ichols, 'l.'homas Jefferson
Noyes, Henry Leonard
Hepner, John Frederick
Noyes, Mark Fish
Hill, David
Peck1 William E.
Holmes, Willil'DI John
Huysink, Bern11.rd Henry
Powers, Edgar Bowe, P. M .
Jacobs, LorePzo
Price, William W.

-59.
WITHDRAWN:
Rathbun, Frank L.

CLAY LODGE, No. IOI.

George Rudolph Faller, Master,
Dutch Flat
Sydney Walton Nicholls, Sen. Ward.,
Alec Edward Erskine, Jun. Warden,
John Beamer, Treasurer,
John Nicholls, Secretary,
Dutch Flat

Shaffer, John Wesley
Stewart, James David
Sherrift', Henry
Thomas, John
Towle, Arthur Warren
Towle, George Gould

Rickenback, John Wilson
Robie, Ira Allen
Robinson, Walton
Ross, Howe
Rupert, Delos Moore
Schmidt, George Wilhelm
Schow, Hans Johnson

DIED:
Gifford, Robert

Frentel, Henry

MANZANITA LODGE, No. Io2.
North San Juan, Nevada County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
(No Certificate.

Bank, Frederick William
Bell, Francis Ray
Bigelow, Ashley Smith
Buhring, Harry Herman
Butler, Patrick Henry
Chisholm, J a.mes
Cull, Henry
Cunard, James Henry
Curnow, Phillip
Dunning, William
Gilbert, Josiah Stephen
Godfrey, Fred

Larie, John

Bristow, William
Harris, George Morgan

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Godfrey, James
Lancaster, Charles Edward, P. M.
McCullough, Robert James
Miller, Charles Howard
Morris, James Doherty
Philbrick, Fred Everett
Quick, John
Trood, John, P. M.
Trood, William
Westerfield, Wi!liam Jackson
Wood, Frank Merton

-23.
WITHDRAWN:
Paine, Charles Sanford
DIED:
Jones, Willla.m Arthur
Standinger, Raymond E.
Thomas, Richard

152

ROSTER

OROVILLE LODGE, No. ro3.
Oroville, Butte County.
Stated Meetings, last Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
James Milne Park, Master,
Cha rles Stephenson Cline, Chap.,
Oroville, Cal.
Floyd Humphrey, Senior Deacon,
Claude Grant Crowe, Sen. Warden, Herbert William Haddock, J. Dea.,
Homer Smith Toms, Jun. Warden, Roger Sylvester Kitrick, Marshal,
Herbert J ames Graham, Treasurer, W alter White Reece, Steward,
Harold J oe Marks, Secretary,
John Franklin Myers, Steward,
Oroville, Cal.
Daniel Hilton, T yler.
MEMBERS:
Aaronson, Geo .. Cahoon
Dole, Alfred Rowell
Dreher, Charles John
AtGhison, Thomas Andrew
Atkin, James Henry
Durbrow, William
Atkins, Frank
Dunn, Charles Dennis
Bennett, George Wilbur
Dyer, George Washington
Blockley, Edward
Dyer, George Sterling
Blood, Charles Ai
Fairchild, Ernest Day
Blood, Delos Moody
Fairchild, Howard
Blood, Richard Pierson
Felton, George
Boring, David McClure
Gardner, Charles Walter
Boynton, Albert Eugene, P. M.
George, Frank Elwin
Boalt, Eben
Gingles, William Wilson
Boalt, Gilbert Denison
Grace, James Wilmer, P. M.
Breslauer, Theo. Louis
Grace, Robert Patrick
Graham, George James
Brooks, Frank
Bullington, Perry Franklin
Graham, Harry Todd
Burnight, Geo. C.
Graham, Herbert James, P. M.
Butler, Robert
Gray, Carleton, P. M.
Christie, Robert Miner
Gray, John Carleton, P. M.
Green, Louis Lincoln
Clemence, Reginald
Green, Robert Moore
Cleveland, Judson A.
Cleveland, Newton
Haddock, William Herbert
Cline, Charles Stephenson
Halderman, William
Cline, Clarence Charles
Hamlyn, J'ohn Joseph, P. M.
Cobb, Sherman Tecumseh
Hecker, Frederick William
Crossley, William Lybrand
Helms, Houstan
Crowe, Claude Grant
Herrin, William James
Dalzell, Richard
Higgins, Martin Floyd
Dixon, Wflliam Hubert
Hill, William

ROSTER
Hills, Darwin Oscar
Hilton, Daniel, P. M.
Hilton, William Montague
Hogan, James Harvey, Jr.
Hover, Charles Giles
Horton, Theron Whit·a
Howard, Winfield Lee
Howell, John Russell
Huber, James
Hudson, William Bell
Huffart, Charles Alexander
Humphrey, Floyd
Huntington, Chas. Frederick
Jacoby, Harry, P. M.
James, Francis Evan
James, Thomas Ward, P. M.
Johnson, August
Johnson, Jol:.n Charles
J or•es, Albert Foster
Kalsch, Ji'rank
Keifer, William Hammon
Kelly, Thomas Joseph
Kimball, Edwin Boyce
Kitrick, Roger Sylvester, P. M.
Lantz, .John Delbert
Lawton, Scott
Lee, Thoma11 Corydon
Li~dsay, Edward Edison
Long, Jacob Michael
Maack, Frederick William
Macfarlnne, Donald, P. M.
MacKusick, Edward Mansfield
Madeley, George Woodland
Manslielil, George Campbell
~ansfield, Isaac LeRoy
Marks, Harold Joe
Marks, Leon Heilbron
Matthews, George Henry
McCall, William McLellan
McConnoughy, Charles William
McCoy, Benjamin Lincoln
McGuffin, James Abraham
McKenzie, Colin Randolph
Mengler, Henry Andreas
Merrell, Austin Page

Meyerhoffer, Owar Siguard T.
Meyers, John ]'ranklin
Meyers, Mark C.
Mitche:l,_ Edward James
Moncure, Ashby
Morse, Anthony Wayne
Moulin, Ji'erdinand Victor
Muilen, James j'oseph
Murphy, Albert Leslie
Nelson, J. Elmer
Newbold, Edwin Henry
Park, Jamea Milne, P. M.
Patterson, Willis Howard
Reardan, Thomas Birkhead
Rickettes, John William
Riehl, Albert Sigel
Rippey, George Washington
Rutherford, Wm, David
Sangster, Joseph Edwin
Sa ville, Rfohard
Schoof, August Claus
Sennett, Joseph Benton
Serviss, Thomas Wilson
Shirran, Ji'rancis Leslie
Short, Howard Porter
Simon, Samuel Samuel, P. M.
Smith, Herbert Warrell
. Smullen, Harry Leslie
Soares, John Str.nislaus
Sprague, Ji'rederick Adams
Stapleton, Robert George
Stedman, Ji'rancis Madon
Steele, Harry Oskar
Stickney, David
Swczy, William Cramer
Telford, George
Tople, Prince Louis
Toms, Homer Smith
Travers, Walter Oates
Tucker, Ira Lester
Turner, Fred Moreland
Turner, Wallace Ralph
Ulm, Daniel N,
Vail, Henry Eugene
Van Deinse, Ji'rancis Christian

153

ROSTER

154

Wakeham, Ed.
Wakeha.m, Luther
Waterhouse, John Francis
Wattis, Edmond Orson
Wedgewood, Edson Gordon
White, James Abanatha

Whiting, Eugene Carlisle
Whiting, Frank Moore
Williams, James Madi11on
Wilson, John West
Woodman, Charles David
-159.

WITHDRAWN:
Cook, William Henry
*Moll, Frederick Jacob, Sr.
Gmssel, Herman Christian
Weaver, Frank Walter
DIED:
Alexander, Lemuel Herbert
Gray, .Tames Chadwick
Burton, David Erastus
Grier, William John
Gale, John
Marks, Joseph
Upham, Isaac

LEXINGTON LODGE, No.

104.

El Monte, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFF.ICERS:

William Rolland Hudson, Master,
1. F. Baker, Chaplain,
•
Puente
Harry N. Stanton, Senior Deacon,
Joseph Coy Thurman, Sen. Warden, Ephraim J. Shirpser, Junior Deacon,
George Henry Coffin, Jun. Warden, R. D. Tailor, Marshal,
John W. Barton, Treasurer,
0 . A. Mannor, Ste·ward,
Ordie Delos Ashton, Secretary,
Geon;re D. Bradded, Steward,
El Monte
Robert J. Irwin, Tylei'.
Ashton, Ordie Delos
Baker, Isaac Funk, P. M.
Barton, John Waterman
Bell, Thomas
Boyer, Samuel
Boyer, Samuel Calvin
Cash, Edward
Cfominson, James
Cleminson, James D.
Coffin, George Henry
Cogswell, Prescott Franklin

MEMBERS:
Cross, George E.
Davis, William C.
DeGarmo, Rollie Frank
Dietzel, John William
Dietzel, Julius
Dodson, Elbert J.
Dodson, William Long
Drake, Alfred C., P. M.
Elliott, Alexander
Ellington, Harry A.
Farmer, Louis

•Degrees conferred during the year.

155

ROSTER
Gardiner, Robert
Gregg, Frank Albert
Gordon, Charles Eager
Hardin, Dearwood Belmont
Houston, John
Hudson, William Rowland
Hudson, Josiah Whitcomb
Irwin, Robert John
Irwin, William S.
Irwin, John
Irvine, James
Kallmeyer, Paul
Kauffman, Milton
Kauffman, Isaac
Killian, J'onas E.
Killian, Jonas S.
Killian, Joseph B.
Killian, Lawson B.
Killian, Waldo
Lambert, Thomas F.
Langstadter, Isaac
Mannon, Orus Adrian
McCaige, George Dyer
McCoy, John
McLeod, John David, P. M.
McMichael, Thomas Reese
Hayes, Thomas Francis

Parish, Elkanah C.
Pearson, William Robert, P. M.
Piuma, Guiatano
Potthoff, Robert
Prilman, Joseph
Raab, Carl Frederick
Reeu, Elgar
Renfro, George B.
Rowland, David P.
Sappington, Francis P.
Sawyer, William Shepherd, P. M.
Severe, Willis
ShirpHher, Erhraim J ,
Soward, Charles
Stang11, Fred
Stanton, Thomas Hardin
Stanton, Harry Noland
Taylor, Rolland D.
T'h urman, William Coy
Walker, William Thomas
Wernett, Joseph William
Wilbur, George Lincoln
Whitaker, Harry E .
Wiggins, Thomas J.
Woods, Harry J., P. M.
-73.

WITHDRAWN:
'Martin, Robert S.
DIED:
Ritter, David Irwin

ARCATA LODGE, No.

10~

Arcata, Humboldt County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Julius John Krohn, Master,
Allen Seaver, Chaplain,
Arcata
Arthur. Fenimore Cooper, Ju11. Dea.,
George William Averell, Sen. Ward., Melvin Parker Roberts, Marshal,
Moses Greenwald, Junior Warden, Daniel Walter McGowan, Stewa'1'd,
Noah H. Falk, Treasurer,
Philip Mathews, Steward,
Thomas Ruthven Emerson, Sec'y, William Nixon, Tyler.
Arcata

ROSTER

156

MEMBERS:
Anderson, James Peter
Aurand, Franklin Clation
Averell, George William
Baldwin, Hubert Alexander
Barber, Herbert Anson
Barnes, Alfred
Bell, Philetus
Blythe, Wilham Lucian
Bohmansson, Robert Hugo
Brown, Jeremiah Ralph
Bui!, John Clark
Bull, Ralph Waldo
Burchard, George Horatio, P. M.
Carter, :Matthew Collins
Chamberlain, Willis Elmer
Christie, Alexander
Cooper, Arthur Fenimore
Crawford, Luther James
Cull berg; Isaac
Culiberg, Isaac, Jr.
Davies, Jasper Newton
Deming, Byron Briggs
Drewry, Charles Henry
Duprey, Alfred Isadore
Emerson, Thomas Henry
Emerson, Thomas Ruthven
Ericson, August William
Everding, J,ouis Charles
Falk, Charles Eugene
Falk, Elijah
Falk, Noah H.
Falor, Frank Eugene
Fountain, Mathew Francis
Fry, Hume Lamond, P. M.
Garrett, William Xenophon
Gillis, Cecil Edgar
Gillis, Walter Henry
Graeter, Luther Doury
Greenwald, Moses
Gross, Martin
Hansen, Charles Emil
Hansen, Peter Andreas
Harpst, Charles Isaiah, P. M.
Harpst, Geo1·ge Wilson

Harpster, Irvine Levi, P, M.
Hawton, Robert
Heckman, William Henry Harrison
Henry, James Wellington
Hore!, Francis R.
Rauda, Antone Joseph
Houda, Bohemia! Antonin
Houda, John Paul
Hunter, Wm. Fletcher
Jackson, Harry Woodville
Johansen, Nf.!son Baker
Johnson, .Joseph
Kailstrom, Charles August
Kirby, William Henry
Korbel, Joseph Frank, Jr.
Krohn, Julius John, P. M.
Larsen, Abraham
Mandahl, Carl Gustav
Marken, Oetje Herman G., P. M.
Marvin, George D.
Mathews, Philip
McGowan, Daniel Walter
McMillan, Roland
Menefee, .Joseph Senevy
Menefee, Peter Mason
Monkman, John Francis
Moore, Frederick John
Moore, Henry
Moore, James McDonald
Moore, William Gregory
Morrell, Frank Edward
Myers, Sylvester
Nelson, Aaron Frederick
Nesman, Andrew
Nixon, Charies Henry
Nixon, William
Noe, Jesse Lafayette
Ogilvey, William Henry
Parr, Ralph Richardson
Patenaude, Amos Octave
Patenaude, Emanuel
Perigot, Gustave
Petch, Thomas Robert
Preuss, Theodore :aeinhold

ROSTER
Roborts, Melvin Parker, P. M.
Ross, James
Scott, George Murdock
Seaver, Allen
Simpson, Henry
Smith, Frank Adams
Smith, Thaddeus Albert
Spring, Obadiah Hill
Stearns, George Addison
Stein, Bernard Frank
Stern, Charles Frank
Stewart, Adam Hugh
Stone, We8ley Whipple, P. M.

157

Sudbrook, Albnt
Teal, George Franklin
Theerman, Henry Harm
Tooby, Frank Hart
Truesdall, Clifford Ambrose
Wallace, David Dougl&.s
Wiley, Rease Martin
Wilson, James
Wood, David
Wood, William Mead
Zaruba, Vaclar
Zehender, George

-113.

WITHDRAWN:
Seidell, Arthur

Calhoun, Soltan Frederick

DIED:
Donarin, Francis Joseph

PAJARO LODGE,' No. IIo.
Watsonville, Santa Cruz County.
Stated Meetings, second Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Jonathan Edward Gardner, Master, Henry Conrad Weisenburger, Chap.,
Watsonville
Edward Henry Nohrden, Sen. Dea.,
Arthur Thomas Dresser, Sen. Ward., Henry Benton Kitchen, Jun. Deacon,
Thomas Samuel McQuiddy, J. War., Stephen Samuel Jarrett, Marshal,
Charles A. Palmtag, Treasurer,
Thomas Marion Wright, Steward,
John Herbert McEwen, Secretary, Frank Rodgers, Steward,
Watsonville
John Allen Howard, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Aldrich, David Metcalf
Alexander, Jewel
Alexander, Louis Sol
Anderson, Carl
Andrews, Perry Morton
Austin, Frederick Sans
Baker, Cary Hanna
Beebe, Charles Emmell
Bellamy, Benson Clark, P, M.

Benteen, William Henry, P. M.
Bixby, William Aaron
Brassell, Hans Peter
Brewington, George Francis
Brewington, George Hamilton
Briggs, Charles Oscar
Briggs, Elmer Ellsworth
Brown, Walter Stephen
Burland, Edward Grant

158

ROSTER

Burland, Robert
Burland, William Henry
Campbell, Robert Edgar
Chapman, Frank Joel
Cheesebrough, Charles Edwin
Clark, Edgar Lewis
Cleveland, George Clifton
Coffman, Stephen William
Cooper, William Burton
Cox, Arnold William
Cox, Henry Ernest
Cox, John Francis, P. M.
Cutler, James Willoughby
Delmere, Alexander
Dengler, Philip
Dresser, Arthur Thomas, P. M.
Easterday, George Speltine
Faunt Le Roy, Joseph
Foltz, John B.
Foltz, Wm. Sheridan
Fulton, John Lewis
Gardner, Jonathan Edward, P. M.
Hammel, William Henry
Harford, Lyman
Harris, John Franklin
Harvey, Edward Everett
Hollingsberry, Frank George
Hopkins, James
Hudson, Mary Antony
Holsten, William A.
Hushbeck, Andrew
Howard, John Allen
Ish, Harry Edmund
Jarrett, Joseph Samuel
Jarrett, Stephen Samuel, P. M.
Judd, Hugh William
Keopke, Frederick Herman
Kilburn, Frederick Augustus
Kitchen, Henry Burton ·
King, James Isaac
Lennard, Frederick John
Liddle, Chas, Frederick
Maher, David Francis
Mauk, Edwin Henry
Mauk, Franklin Edwin, P . M.

Martin, George Pardee
Mayback, Samuel Philip
McEwen, John Herbert
McGowan, William John
Mcintosh, Geo. Dave
McLean, Donald Lewellen
McQuiddy, Thomas Smith
Mendelson, Isaac
Miller, Guy
Morey, John Jacob'
Morgan, George Duiguid
Nchrden, Frederic Herman
Nohrden, Edward Henry
Palmtag, Charles A.
Pearson, Thomas Cook
Peckham, Harry Augustus
Porter, Warren Reynolds
Rich, Ellsworth Lincoln
Rodgers, Charles H .
Rodgers, Frank
Rodgers, Hf!nry Browner
Rodgers, Spencer Clay
Schwab, Manfred
Seity, George
Shaver, Eugene C.
Shearin, Daniel Thomas
Sill, George Wellington, P. M
Silliman, Charltis Oscar
Silliman, George Francis
Silliman, Walter Trafton
Storm, Peter
Sterling, Alexander
Swearengen, Frank Corday
Townsend, Palmer G!trdner
Trafton, George Arthur
Trafton, John Edmund
Trafton, Thomas Eugene
Trafton, William Arthur
Trafton, Howard Valentine
Trueworthy, Edward
Tuttle, Iowa Harley, P. M.
Uren, Joseph R., P. M.
Vaughan, George
Waters, James, P. M.
Watkinson, Alfred

ROSTER

159

Willett, Frederick William·
Watters, Peter Kemp
Woods, Robert Edward
Weedon,' Robert Fletcher
Wright, Thomas Marion
Weeks, William Henry
Weisenberger, Henry Conrad, P. M. Wyckoff, Edward Francie, P. M.
Wyckoff, Herbert Cope
West, Henry E.
Zimmerman, Edward Henry -120.
White, Charles John

White, William Anson

WI1.'HDRAWN:
Kilburn, Carl Nearle

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Hedgepeth, Matto Marshall
Phillips, Frank William

Dixie, Richard

DIED:
West, Danforth

CHICO LODGE, No.

IIJ.
Ohico, Batte County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:

Charles Henry Camper, Master,
Henry Hallet, Chaplain,
Chico
Leon William Phillips, Sen. Deacon,
Joseph Rankin Young, Sen. Warden, Chester Happy Roake, Jun. Deacon,
Clifford Lee Crowder, Jun. Warden, Jefferson Davis March, Marshal,
Frederick Jacob Nottelmann, Treas., Samuel Kansas Troxel, Steward,
August Leonard Neubarth, Secretary, Edwy Knight Safford, Steward,
Box 157, Chico
Harmon McCargar, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Bennett, Wesley Valentine
Adams, Isaac Benjamin
Bernhard, Harry Herman
Alexander, George R.andall
Boblender, Thomas L .
Allen, George Claude
Boucher, Josiah, Jr.
Andrews, Charles Abram
Bradley, William Leroy
Applegate, William James
Brown, William Reed
Asher, Robert
Broyles, Adam Courtney
Axtell, Samuel Thomas
Bryan, Elden Ebert
Baker, Walter Jay
Burroughs, Harry DeForest
Barnard, Timothy Henry, P. M.
Campbell, Joseph Hanes
Batchelder, Hiram Treat
Camper, Charles Henry
Batham, Lloyd Arthur
Canfield, Eugene Erastus
Becker, Carl Herman

ROSTER
160

Carney, George Washington
Carpenter, Cnester Roy
Cecil, George Francis
Chalmers, Solomon Henry
Chandler, Walter Leroy
Chambers, .James
Clifford, Charles Alfred
Clough, Francis Albert
Collins, William Alexander
Costar, William James, P. M
Cooney, George Elma
Crabb, James Nelson
Crail, Luke Dillard
Crew, William Henry
Crowder, Clifford Lee
Cunningham, Charles Arnold
Cus~ick, Barney
Cussick, John
Cummings, Charles Edward
Daly, John Cardiff, P. M.
Dean, William Benjamin
Decious, Joseph Vernon
Decious, Joseph Warren
Degnan, George William
Dillon, Thomas Franklin
Dooley, Jay · Wilbur
Downing, Harry Rufus
Downing, Homer John
Dugger, James Madis:m, P. M.
Durham, Robert Willington
D 'Egilbert, William Alfred
Enloe, Newton Thomas
Entler, Joseph Franklin
Erickson, Philip Roswell
Evans, Joseph Mabery
Faulkner, I,ouis Glass, P. M.
Florence, Edwar-i Walter
Garner, Leon . Mason
Garnier, Thomas Ralph
Gluckman, Arthur Walter
Guill, Lee Bryan
Guynn, Creed Ashley
Guynn, Pleasant Marion
Guynn, William Rose
Hallet, Henry

ROSTER
Harden, Jesse H.
Harris, Charles
Haughton, Joseph Richardson
Harvey, John Wesley
Hegan, James
Hendrieks, Thomas Perry
Henshaw, Park
Hillard, Marion
Hughes, Charles S.
Isham, Edwin
Johnson, Theodure
Jones, Ralph Taylor
Jones, Samuel
Kellom, Arthur Sylvester
Keppel, Garret
Kern, Ralph
Kerr, Archibald Thompson, P M.
Kerr, William Thomas
Kennedy, John William Mackay
Kennedy, William Freeman
Lane,. Frederick Walter
Lausen, Henry Datlef
Lebourvran, Arthur James·
Leininger, Clarence Wilt
Lingo, Arthur
Linn, William Burney
Lothrop, Matthew Hale
Lovett, William Dottimore
Lowell, George A.
Macdonald, Angus Campbell
Maltby, William Frederick
March, Charles Alexander
March, Harry Davis
March, James Franklin
MaTch, Jefferson Davis, P. M
Martien, Joseph Gilbi>rt
Martin, James
Marvin, William Montgomery
McAnarlin, Wi1Ham
Mccargar, Harmon, P. M.
McGrath, Harry Hill
Mcintosh, George Lewis
Mc.Kenzie, Earl L.
Means, Samuel Boyd
Messinger, .John Gardner

161

Sawyers, Frank Edward
Messinger, Reuben Henry
Schmidt, George
Meybem, Emil, P. M.
Schooler, William Henry
Miller, George, P. M.
Schultz,
William Henry
Miller, George Ogden
Sears, Hal K.
Miller, William Henry, P. M.
Shaw, B~ker Ewing
Mitchell, James Ewing
Shilling, John Stephen
Moir, Hr.Try Saunders
Shirley, Lemuel Crittenden
Montgomery, James W. Bradford
Spangler, Levi Erad
Montgomery, Robert James
Spencer, Thomas Cass
Moody, Stephen Prescott
Stansbury,
Oscar
Morgue, August William
Stoker, Frank Lewis
Morton, Austin Earl
Stubbs, Richard Nelson
Morse, George l'ayson
Sutcliffe, Emmott Walton
Munn, Samuel Johnson
Taylor,
Gilbert Hart
Nelson, Henry
•rersteggl!, Frank Wm.
N eubarth, August Leonarr1
Thatcher, l'rank Marion
Newton, Oran
'rhomas, Jesse G.
Nichols, Harry Evans
Nottelmann, Frederick Jacob, P. M. Thomas, William, P. M.
Thrower, John Oscar
Nunn, William Harper, P. M
Thrower, Jor.eph Bennett
Nugent, Harry George
Tormey, Bernard Eugene
Peake, William Humphrey
Torcaso,, Frank
Perry, William Sabie
•rripp, Charles Ammi
Petersen, Geo, Fred. Christian
Troxel, Kansas Buchanan
Phillips, Leon William
Troxel, Samuel Kan~as, P. M.
Phillips, Richard, P. M.
Vadney, Edward Comill&
Picton, Thomas George
Vadney, George Edward
Polk, Thomas H. Benton
Van Horn, John Garrett
Polk, William Downs
Warren, Edward Archer
Pond, Edward B., P. M.
Washburn, Francis M.
Power1 Robert Wright
Waterland, John Sanford
Rawlins, William Franklin
Watts, Harry Adelbert
Reynolds, Ed. •rmotson, P. M.
Weaver, Herman Bowman
Reynolds, Sherman Allyn
Weston, Jubal
Richardson, Harry Eugene
Wetherbee, Ira Alston
Roake, Chester Happy
White, Harry Darius
Robbie, William, P. M.
Wilde, Will Charles
ltobinson, John Itose
Will, William Emerson
Rogers, Joseph Henry
Williams, James Herman
Roper, John Wesley
Wooley, Vernor Stearns
Roohr, Francis Louis
Young, James
Safford, Edwy Knight
-200.
Young, Joseph Rankin
Sauber, Edwin Stanton
11

ROSTER

162

DIED:

Mcintosh, Lewis Harrison
Ralston, Robert Bruce
Williams, Charles Grover

SUMMIT LODGE, No.

EDEN LODGE, No.

II3.

San Leandro, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

II2.

Knight's Ferry, Stanislaus County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Alfred Gatzman, Master,
Charles Thomas Kennedy, Sen. Dea.,
Cooperstown
Philip Gabel, Junior Dea~on,
William Godfrey Bach, Sen. Warden, Charles Thomas Tulloch, Marshal,
Eady Edward Cole, Junior Warden, William Gabel, Steward,
Osmon C. Drew, Treasurer,
Walter Bismark Willms, Steward,
Thomas Harvey Prowse, Secretary, William Francis Bach, Tyler.
Knights Ferry
MEMBERS:
Albertson, William Burt
Griffin, Francis Leonidas, P. M.
Hocker, ,JoPeph Lee, P . M.
Bach, William Francis
Bach, William Godfrey
Kennedy, Charles Thomas, P. M.
Lawrence, Edgar Bolton, P. M.
Beck, John
Bentley, Jefferson Daniel
Logan, Wilham David, P. M.
Lowe, Eugene Heber
Boone, 'fobias Belt
McCabe, George Thomas, P. M.
Campbell, William Edward, P M.
Morgan, F'r ank Albert
Carmichael, Daniel Whitfield
Nichols, Elmer Lincoln
Cole, Eady Edward
Ostrom, Gilbert Abram
Collins, He!.°bert
Prowse, '.l'homas Harvey, P. M.
Crabtree, Mark Trafton
Smith, Martin James Joseph
Drew, Osman C.
Edwards, David Franklin, P. M.
Strawbridge, Thomas Jefferson
Tulloch, Charles Thomas, P. M.
Gabel, Philip
Tulloch, David Whitelaw
Gable, William
Tulloch, J obn Franklin
Gatzman, Alfred, P. M.
Tulloch, Praben Neilson
-34.
Gookin, Albert Millard
DIED:

Valpey, Samuel George

163

ROSTER

Watson, George Washington

Albert Laurits Hansen, Master,
John E. Anderson, Chaplain,
Elmhurst
Horace Greeley Black, Sen. Deacon,
William Floyd Cunningham, S. War., Herbert Lee Landis, Junior Deacon,
Sydney Briggs Force, Jun. Warden, George Harvey Ohea, Marshal,
Oscar Jackson Lynch, Treasurer,
George Fairfax Cosby, Steward,
Charles Wildy McLaughlin, Sec'y,
William Jess, Steward,
San Leandro
Herman Fred'k Wm. Helms, Tyler.
Anderson, John Edmund
Ballard, Eugene Cogswell
Barbeiro, J'os Enos
Best, Clarence Leo
Black, Horace Greeley
Boberg, Joseph Andrew
Bradshaw, Ira Ham, P. M.
Cary, Amzi B., P. M.
Cary, Harry Ellis
Cary, Talcutt Petekin
Clark, William Amie, P. M.
Coleman, Charles La Grange
Coleman, George La Grange
Crabb, Allie Louis
Crabtree, Fred
Crosby, George Fairfax
Cunha, Joseph Oliver
Cunningham, William Floyd
Downie, George
Driver, John
Dyer, Edmund Marcellus
Fassett, Charles Edgar
Fisher, Ferdinand 0.
Fleming, George
Force, Sydney Briggs
Frank, John Nepsomick
Fulton, William, P. M.
Gall, William
Gates,· Dawson Dave
Gray, Newton

MEMBERS:
Grebe, Herman Frederick
Green, Daniel Edward
Hamilton, John
Hamlin, Benejah Ralph
Hansen, Albert Laurita
Hansen, Jens Christian
Hansen, Robert
Hansen, Sophus A. E.
Helms, George Joseph, P. M.
Helms, Herman Fred. W., P. M.
Henricksen, Henry
Henricksen, Neils
Hill, Otis
Hite, William Edward
Hoffman, Eugene
Holmgren, John Alexander
Hopper, John F. Ernest, P. M.
Hurlbut, Charles Benjamin
Jackson, David
Jeffers, Samuel
Johnson,.George
Jorgensen, John Christian
Kern, Jacob Fred
Kirman, Herman Warren
Knox, George Randall
Landis, Herbert Lee
Leland, Frank Milton
Lenox, David Hudson
Logan, George William
Lynch, Oscar Jackson

i64

ROSTER

ROSTER

Marlin, Brady Washington
Marlin, Henry Bowers
Martin, He'llry Whitney
Martin, Robert Anthony
Matson, Martin Bauder
Matson, William
McLaughlin, Charles Wildy
J.;lendell, Edmund Dall
Mendell, ,John Martin
Montgomery, William Stewart
Morin, Hercules Andre, P. M.
Odgers, Frederick Thomas
Offersen, Niels
Ohea, George Harvey, P. M.
Oliver, Durett
Olsen, Henry Christian
Page, Robert Stapleton
Pagel, Fren
Park, Vitalis Henry
Pelton, Allen Eli, P. M.

Pimentel, FranPisco
Reid, Alexander Baer
Reid, John
Rollins, Edwin Oregon
Rowles, William John
Sawyer, Thomas Edward
Schleuter, Edwin Charles
Singleton, John
Smith, James Dale
Smith, Kirby Barnitz, P. M.
Stenzil, Fritz
Stone, Egbert Barker
Sturtevant, Noah Thomas, P M.
Toffelmier, Douglas Ulyssis
Treadwell, James
Walkins, Edmund Anderson, P. M.
Wemmer, William Leonard
Wilkie, James B.
Young, James Harry
Young, William Henry, P. M. -100 ·

WITHDRAWN:
H elms, Walter Theo.

DIED :
Cole, Wiiiiam Henry

CONCORD LODGE, No. n7.
Sa.cramento, Sacramento County.
Stated MEetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

DIED:
Odgers, Thomas

MOUNT ZION LODGE, No.

-18.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Fuller, John Henry

Hoerst, Edward

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Bullen, Mark Bledsoe
Lynch, William Francis
Bradley, James Walter

MEMBERS:
Baele, Martin
McCommas, Francis Marion
Beckett, Franklin Samuel, P. M.
Murray, Thomas Aloyious
Claibourne, Robert King, P. M.
Pearson, William Rose
Cole, George Thomas
Peters, Clarencf' Edward
Cole, Henry Angus
Routledge, William Henry
Hoxsie, Ernest Jake
Rupley, William
Juckes, Thomas P.
Scheiber, Louis John
Kincaid, George Harvey
Scott, Elmer Livenstone
Mauk, George Washington
Werntz, Gabriel, P. M.

165

114.

Grizzly Flat, £1 Dorado County.
13tated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Edward L. Morey, Master,
John De Cowdy, S enior Deacon,
Grizzly Flat
Thomas P. Juckes, Junior Deacon,
George H. Kincaid, Senior Warden, T. A. Murray, Marshal,
Henry A. Cole, Junior Warden,
L. J. Schieber, Steward,
Martin Baele, Treasurer,
William Rupley, Steward,
George T . Cole, Secretary,
George W. Mauk, Tyler.
Grizzly Flat

W illiam Don Beech, Master,
George Frederick Shepherd, S. Dea.,
R. D. No. 1, Rose Ave.
John Henry Gilpin, Junior Deacon,
William Wesley Harris, Sen. Ward., George J . Harris, Ma'l'shal,
Alfred Mcintyre Braddock, J. Ward., Franklin Edwin Earl Stahl, Steward,
Geo. Wm. Henry Lichthardt, Treas., Otto Julius Perschke, Steward,
William Henry Hevener, Secretary, Albert Elgin Robinson, Tyler.
Masonic Temple
Angier, Dwight Marvin
Appleton, William Henry
Beaton, Carl William, P. M.
Beech, William Don
Bishop, Arthur Tucker
Book, Franklin Weaver
Bowes, William Edward
Bowsher, Amos Luther
Braddock, Alfred Mcintire
Br€-ndel, John Philip
Byrne, William James
Carroll, Edgar Barclay, P. M.

MEMBERS:
Carroll, John Francis
Caswell, William Averill
Chapman, John Maurice, p, M.
Chatfield, Thomas F.
Druge, Otto Daniel
Dunbar, Alexaniler
Duncan, Cornelius
Fairchild, Charles Herbert
Farris, Horace Orland
Fischer, Henry
Fox, Thomas, P. M.
Friescke, William Fredrick

166
Gerrish, Samuel Roward, P. M.
Gerrish, Edward Laidley
Gillinwaters, Grant Franklin
Gilmore, Robert McCallen
Gilpin, John Henry
Godwin, Th'.lmas
Green, Charles Fredrick
Gregory, Eugene Julius, P. M.
Guthrie, John William
Harrell, Albert Marchal
Harris, George J., P. M.
Harris, William Wesley
Harvey, Gregory Luca..
Heilbron, Henry August, P. M.
Hesson, Thomas Joseph, P. M.
Hevener, William Charles
Hevencr, William Henry, P. M.
Holzinger, Herman
Hunt, Fredrick Chesbrow
Irvine, William John
James, James Merrill
Jones, William
Jones, William Rowland, P. M.
Jordan, Luther Campbell
Korn, Seymour
Lang, Joseph
Lichthardt, George Henry P.
Lichthardt, George W. Henry
Lindsay, William Kinkade
Lyon, Clarence Frothingham
Lyon, James Francis, P. M.
Martin, George Washington
Matthias, Lcuis Wm., P. M.
McAlli~ter, Welford Clarence
McFarlane, Arthur Alpine
McKibbin, George
McLaughlin, William P . M.
Menke, Anton
Menke, Joh~
Moll, Philip Harry

ROSTER
Morten, John L.
Nuttall, Levi, P. M.
0 'Brien, Alfred Woodbury
Oldfield, Wm. Baggaley, P. M.
· Pearl, Frederick Albert, P. M.
Perschke, Otto Julius
Platt, Philemon Eli
Pope, Samuel, Jr.
Poska, Samuel
Props, Joel Lee
Reynolds, George Henry
Robinson, Albert Elgin, P. M.
Saemann, Carl
Sanborn, Alfred Willis
Sanderson, Marion
Shepherd, George Frederick
Schindler, Louis Cyrus, P. M .
Schocke, C!iarles August, P. M.
Schroth, John George
Schumacher, George Max
Schumacher, Oscar Henry
Senf, Henry
Senf, Henry Andrew
Shepard, Frederick Augustus
Simmonds, William Shapel
Simonsen, Carl
Smith, Alexander Miller
Smith, T·:li Mitchel
Stahl, Franklin Edwin Earl
Vieary, George Salser
WahrhnH;g. Moses Solomon
Walsh, w;iPam
Watkins, Hichard, P. M.
Watkins, Richard Malcolm
Whitelaw, John, P. M.
Williams, Richard G. C.
Wissemann, George
Wylie, John Wellington, P. M.
Young, William Henry
-103.

ROSTER

107

CLINTON LODGE, No. ug.
Igo, Shasta County.
Stated Meeting~, Saturday of or next preceding Full MoJ!l,

OFFICERS:

Robert Jones, Master,
Francis M.A. 'Wilder, Senior Deacon,
Ono, Shasta County
Carl G. Voss, Junior Deacon,
Edward Dennis Jones, Se11. Warden, Henry I. Smith, Marshal,
Louis Albert Davison, Jun. Warden, T . A. Jones, Jr., Steward,
Alexander Leiter, Treasurer,
E. L. Ballou, Steward,
Charles Nelson Kingsbury, Secretary, J. W. George, Tyler.
Igo, Shasta County
MEMBERS:
Kingsbury, Charles Barnes
Kingsbury, Charles Nelson, P. M.
Kingsbury, John Parker
Lagerson, Frederick William
Leiter, Alexander, Jr., P. M.
Leiter, Alexandn, Sr., P . M.
Lewis, James Knox Polk, P. M.
Libe, Bert Ray
McGinnis, Stanton
Montgomery, James Logan
Moon, James Luman
Nealy, Clarence
Polk, William Thomas Gillis
Reid, John Stephen
Richter, Charles Herman
Simmons, John Francis
Voss, Carl George
Wilder, Francis Marion A.
Williams, Harry Elliotte
W oodftl.11 Charles Dillo:r;i
--40.

Ballou, Edward Lull, P. M.
Barlow, Lewis Forest
Berg, Robert
Boyd, Charles
Davison, Lewis Albert
Drynan, Angus ,James
Eldridge, Millard Filmore
George, Charlea Grant
George, Charles Whittington
George, James Whittington, P. M.
Gilbert, Thomas Martin
Gill, James William
Hart, Thomas Henry
Higgins, Henry Everett
Higgins, Jerome Blanchard
.Tones, Edward Dennis
Jones, Robert, P. M •
Jones, Thadius Alonzo, Jr.
Jones, Thaiiius Alonzo, Sr., P. M.
Kingsbury, Albert Nelson, P. M .

168

ROSTER

ROS'rER

FIDELITY LODGE, No. 120.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
1739 Fillmore Street.
OFFICERS:
Walter Albrecht Radius, Master,
Henry Levy, Senior Deacon,
89 Battery Street
Abraham Jacobs, J11nior Deacon,
Edwin Adams Wasserman, S. Ward., Hugo David Newhouse, Marshal,
Harry Elias Heineman, !1111. Warden, Joshua Harry Bloom, Steward,
Joseph David Abrams, Treas11rer, Eugene Lincoln Kohlberg, Steward,
Frederick Barry, Secretary,
Mitchel Joseph Myers, Tyler.
112 Market Street
MEMBERS:
Aaron, Leopold
Baruch, Frederick
Aaron, Victor
Bauer, Moses
Abraham, Henry
Bauer, Samuel
Abraham, Max
Baumann, Sigmund
Abraham, Samuel
Beck, .John Alex.
Behm, Emanuel
Abrahm, Ben
Bender, Noah Wilhelm
Abrams, Augustus David
Berg, Sigmund Fred
Abrams, Henry Moses
Bernard, Samuel Taylor
Abrams, Joseph David, P. M.
Bernheim, Max
Adler, Albert Stanley
Bernstein, Samuel
Albro, John Philo, P. M.
Bernstein, Sylvan Louis
Alexander, Michael Sanford
Bienenfeld, Bernard
Allan, ClarAnce Elton
Bier, Charlea Sigmund
Allenberg, Charles
Anina, Juan
Bier, Hypolite
Bier, Joseph Edward
Armer, Andrew Milton, P. M.
Blaskower, Mark@
Armer, Benjamin, P. M.
Bloch, Abraham J.saac
Armer, Joseph Louis, P. M.
Bloch, Henry Maier
Armuth, Alfred Samuel
Bloch, Louh
Aronson, Sol
Block, Hal·ry
Arzner, Louis A.
Baehman, Arthur
Block, Roy, P. M.
Bachman, Lawrence
Bloom, Joshua Harry
Baer, Leopold, P . M.
Bluhm, George Irving
Blum.,nthal, Leo
Baker, Samuel
Ballin, Maurice
Bornstein, Morris Sella
Barnett, Abraham Thomas, P. M.
Bouquet, Joseph Anton
Barry, Frederick
Bowers, William Emette

· Brandt, Maurice
Brenner, Gustave, P. M.
Breyer, Jos<.>ph Leopold
Brod, Amiel Henry
Brooks, Max
Brown, Abraham Lincoln
Brown, Bernard Char~es
Brcwn, Isidor Irwlng
Brown, Morris
Brown, Nathan
Brownstein, Julius
Bugbee, Maxwell Greene
Burns, Thomas Pa trick
Cahen, Adolf
Cahn, Julius I.
Cecil, John
Claasen, Adolph F. A.
Clingman, George Evans, P. M.
Coblentz, Julius
Coburn, Martin Van Buren
Cohen, Joseph
Cohn, Adolph
Cohn, Gabriel
Cohn, Gerson
Cohn, Robert David
Cohn, Theodore, P. M.
Colson, Edward Augustus
Colton, Louis Arthur
Cooper, Leopold
Daglow, Leopold
Damm, Richard Oscar
Dannenbaum, Arthur Joseph
Dannenbaum, Samuel
Dannenbauin, Sidney Ray
Davidson, Isidor Peter
Davis, Alex. Harold
Davis, Moses
Davis, Phillip, P. M.
Davis, Sylvan Dubie
Day, Robert, P. M.
Dietrich, Benj. Johann
Dinkelspiel, Joseph Samuel
Dinkelspiel, Samuel, P. M.
Ehrman, Alexis Leon
Einstein, Daniel

Eisenba.ch, Julian
Eisenberg, Ignacz N.
Eisenstein, Charles
Eisner, Milton Sidney, P. M.
Elberg, Abraham
Elberg, Isadore
Elberg, Solomon
Elkus, Albert Israel
Ems, George Wentworth
Ellis, James Michael, P. M.
Ellls, Milton Hyman
Emanuel, Joseph Lewis
Emmerling, John
Englander, Henry Max
Eppinger, Josua
Erlanger, Simon
Fabian, Frank William
Falk, Cami! Sanson
Falkenstein, Monroe Henry
Feldenheimer, Alex.
Fenster, Isidore
Fetherstonl.augh, Frank C.
Fisher, Oscar
Flamm, Gustav
Flatow, Pqilip
Fleischman, Herman F.
Fleischman, Mathias Reuben
Fletcher, David Maas
Florintine, George Julius
Fogel, Emanuel
Fogel, George
Foley, Frederick William
Frank, Herbert Louis
Frank, Ludwig
Frank, Manuel S. Houston
Frank, Morris Emanuel
Frankel; Bernard EmU
Frankel, Herman
Frankenberg, Joseph
Freed, Aleas
Freidenrich, David
Frt>idlander, Louis
Friedman; Max
]'riedmann, Lazar
Friedmann, Samuel

169

170
Frohman, Henry
Fulda, Edward
Gabriel, Julius
Galland, Barney Bean
Galland, Edward Ralph
Gamblitz, Lee Robert
Gerson, lsaac
Getleson, Harry
Getz, Jules Jacob
Getz, Louis
Goldberg, Adolph
Goldberg, Harry Montefiore
Goldenberg, Joseph
Goldman, Isaac Wolf
Goldsmith, Edmund M.
Goodfriend, Isidore
Goodman, Edward Abraham
Goodman, Isadore
Goodman, Leo Lester
Gottlob, Joseph
Gradwohl, David
Greenebaum, Joseph Leon
Gruhn, Joseph Messing
Guggenhime, David Joseph
Hanauer, William Edward
Hardman, Norris
Harris, Adolph
Harris, Neal
Hart, Martin Edward
Haub, Charles Conrad
Hausman, Louis
Heineman, Harry Elias
Heineman, Irving Scott
Heller, Emanuel Siegfried
Herrschcr, Joseph
Hertzman, Leo
Hertzman, Sigmund
Heyman, Gnatave
Heyman, Julius
Heyman, Oscar
Hildebrandt, William Charles
Hirsch, Barnard Jonas
Hoffman, Lawrence Harold
Hoffman, Melville Gustave
Hoffman, William Joseph

ROSTER

ROSTER
1f?nigsberger, Leon
Hufschmidt, Louis
Hummel, Mathew George
Hyman, Abe
Hyman, Charles Shepard
Ickelheimer, Samuel
Isaacs, Joshua Davis
Jacobi, Joseph Maier
Jacobovics, Philipp, P. M.
Jacobs, Abraham
Jacobs, Alfred B.
Jacobs, Alfred Henry
Jacobs, Charles Sodark
Jacobs, Hyme
Jacobs, Isiclor
Jacobs, Lester Henry
,Jacobs, Louis Cline
Jacobs, Theodore Henry
Jaeger, Frederick Charles
Jellinek, Emil Otto
Joseph, Joseph
Juda, Leon
Juda, Morris
Juda, Simon Felix
Kahn, Aaron
Kahn, Frederick
Kahn, Samuel Sigmund
Kahn, Sol
Kammerer, George
Kanter, John
Katten, Simon
Katz, Bert
Kciner, Herman
Kierski, Samuel
Klinger, William Mark
Koehncke, Christian Henry
Koenig, F.~rdinand
Kohlberg, Albert Monroe
Kohlberg, _Alfred
Kohlbcrg, Eugene Lincoln
Kohlberg, Manfred Selig
Kohn, Charles
Korn, Albert
Korn, EugPne
Krans, Benjamin

Krobitzsch, Rudolph William
Lachman, Adolph Joseph
Lachman, Albert
Lachman, Henry
Lafee, Marcus
Lar.sburgh, Simon Lazarus
Lapidaire, Harry
Latz, Benjamin
Lederer, Gustave
Lederer, HPrman
Lehouse, Louis Gustave
Leibold, J·acnb ·George, P. M.
Lcszynsky, Leon
Levin, Isidor
Levison, Charles Gabriel
Levy, Charles
Le.vy, Eug'l'le Walter
Levy, Henry
LeYy, Henry
Levy, Herbert
Levy, Isaac
Levy, Isaac Kaufman
Levy, Isidol"e Nathan, P. M.
Levy, Jack Morris
Levy, Jesse Herman
Levy, Lambert
Levy, Louis
Levy, Meyer Solomon
Levy, Michael
L~vy, Moses J,ouis
Le"\ y, Morris Harris
Levy, Philip
Lewald, Eugen Charles
Lewis, Emanuel
Lewis, William
Lezi'nsky, Ferdinand
Lichtenstein, .Toy
Lichtig, Jacob Samuel
Liederman, Benjamin
Lipman, Louis
Loeb, Charles Gerson
Loewe, Joseph Maurice
Loewenstein, Maurice Frank
1,oewy, Edmund
Louisson, Edward Baum

Lowenstein, Bernaru
Lowenstein, Samuel
Mack, Simon
Macy, William Harden
Manheim, Gutsave Arlolph
Manheim, Henry Simon, P. l\IJ
Manheim, Pauld Bernanl
Marcus, Louis Ferdinand
Mi·rks, Mannheim
Marks, Samuel Morris
Marks, William
Marx, Melville
Mauser, Henry
Mayer, Henry
Mayer, Max
Mayer, Morris
Mayer, Nate
Mayer, Oscar Joseph
Mayer, Solomon Jul'ius
McCray, Charles Carroll
McDevitt, Daniel
Mendelso1m, Morris P .
Merzbach, Felix Herman
Metzger, Charles
Metzner, John
Meyer, Harry
Meyer, Percy Jasper
Mierson, James
Miller, Isaac
Moise, Philip Henry
Morgenstern, Louis Adolph
Morris, Theodore
Munter, Leo
Musso, John
Myers, George Henry
Myers, Isador Barnard
Myers, Leland Sanford
Myers, Louis
Myers, Mitchell Joseph
Myers, Robert
Naphtalv, Joseph
Nathan, llerman
Nathan, Milton Aronson
Neustadter, Louis William
Neustadter, Newton Henry

171

174

ROSTER

ALAMO LODGE, No.

ROSTER
122.

Walnut Creek, Contra Costa County.
.,tatecl Meetings, Saturday of or next suc~eeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Harry Tremont Spencer, Master,
Joseph Edward Lawrence, S. Deacon,
Pacheco
Jore! A. Harlan, Junior Deacon,
Cecil James Booth, Senior Warden, Corodon Sharp, Marshal,
Theodore Harrold Hook, Jun. Ward., Winfield Scott Burpee, Steward,
Claude Reynor Leech, Treasurer,
Arthur Williams, Steward,
Lazard Louis Lehmann, Secretary, Elephalet Charles Palmer, Tyler.
Walnut Creek
Abrott, John
Anderson, Eugene Blythe
Anderson, Robert Lawrence
Andreason, Rasmussen
Baldwin, Nathan Ira
Bartola, D. John
Biggs, Walter Hicks, P. M.
Booth, Cecil James, P. M.
Booth, Robert Frederick
Burpee, Windfield Scott
Chaboya, Benjamin
Clark, Albert Eldon
Close, Clarence William
Compton, Peter Wood
Daley, Charles E.
Daley, .Tames E.
Daley, James Marion, P. M.
Edwards, John
Ga'mble, Samuel
Goold, Charles Gardner
Hall, Myron Ward, P. M.
Hall, Ward
Harison, Ralph
Harlan, Joel A.
Hipple, George Washington
Hook, James S.
Hook, Theo. Harrold
Hook, Vincent
Hot1gh, William Henry, P. M.
Lawrence, Frederick
Lawrence, Joseph Edward

MEMBERS:
Leech, Claud Reznor
Lehmann, Louis Lazard
Lynch, William
McCullough, Daniel
McPherson, Robert E.
Meese, George Oliver
Meese, William Gladstone
Oswell, George McCamby
Palmer, Eliphalet Charles
Palmer, Louis R.
Read, Egbert B.
Reis, William Betts
Scholtz, Ernest
Semas, John
Sharp, Cordon, P. M.
Sherburne, John O.
Sherburne, Louis Flanders, P. M.
Shrieve, l!,rederick
Silveira, Joseph L.
Simpson, Michael Lewis
Smith, Duncan Lewellen
Smith, Georges Jay
Sptmcer, Harry Fremont
Spencer, Raymond
Stow, James Monroe
Wi.tt, Frederick William
Westcott, George M.
Williams, Arthur
Williams, John
Witten, Charles Lincoln
Wood, Fred V.
-62.

I

SOTOYOME LODGE, No.

176
123.

Healdsburg, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, first Thu~sday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Eli Bush, Master,
;Moses Starr Eby, Chaplain,
Healdsburg
Edward Joseph Hyman, Sen. Deacon,
William Henry Skinner, Sen. Ward., John Hodgson Wilson, Jun. Deacon,
Harvey Chester Frost, Jun. Warden,George William Miller, Marshal,
Matthias Raabe, Treasurer,
Harold Bush Rosenberg, Steward,
William Washington Ferguson, Sec'y, George Henry Brigham, Jr., Steward,
Healdsburg
Zemira Doane Nickerson, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adams, Asa C.
Eby, Moses Starr
Al€xander, George Cyrus
Edge, Elton R.
Allenden, Arthur
Etter, Wade Hampton
Evans, Clarence Dewane
Allenden, John
Ferguso.n , Paris Jasper
A.Henden, William Henry
Fe1guson, William Wash., P. M.
Andrews, George Benjamin
Fitzgerald, Matthias
Baer, Reuben Edward
Foote, Charles Hardy
Barnes, Benj. Harrison
Barnes, William Henry, P . M.
Foreman, Lorin
Bidwell, John
Frellson, Oscar August
Black, Harvy Edward
Frost, Harvey Chester
Frost, Martin Van B.
Blackburn, George
Bourne, Charles Wilfred
Gobbi, Barney .
Goddard, Daniel Nevada
Brewster, George Washington
Goldstein, Joseph A.
Briggs, Hiram
Grabwer, Ferdinand
Brigham, George Henry, Jr.
Gray, Edward Swinton, P. M
Brown, James Alonzo
Gunn, Geo. Lucius
Burr, Frank
Gunn, John Henry, P. M.
Burroughs, Robert Edward
Hall, Clarence Conway
Bush, Eli, P. M.
Hall, Lieuallen J., Jr.
Butter1leld, George Henry, P. M.
Hall, Maitland Grant
Cake, Everette Pierce
Hardy, Jonathan
Coffman, James Trisler
Hazen, Frank
Coffman, Nelson Bradley
Renning, ,John Abrahaiq
Cooke, Frank Willis
Hewett, Clyde Amos
Cox, Clifford Laurens
Hicks, Walter Eugene
Cox, Joseph David
Holmes, William Frank
Cox, Nathan Henry, P. M.
Hooten, Martin Van B., P. M .
Crocker, Harry Bosworth
Horton, Samuel
Eby, Edwin Dayton, P. M.

li6
Huffman, Joseph Elmore
Hyman, Edward Joseph
Jacks, Albert Rosco
Joy, William Henry
Kennedy, George Henry
Kimball, Charles Lloyd
Koberg, Louis Carl
Lampson, Augustus
Lorenzini, Dominico
Learn, Abraham Lincoln
Legh, Robert Percy
f.ewis, Calvin McMillin
Litchfield, Oscar J., P. M.
Long, George Washington
Luther, Arthur W.
Mack, Frank Fremont
Matthews, Charles Wesley, Jr.
Matthews, Charles Wesley, Sr.
Matthews, John Wesley
Mayo, Joseph, P. M.
Mccutchan, George Francis
Mccutchan, James B.
Mccutchan, William Hugh
McDonnell, Henry
McMinn, Joseph Andrews
McNamara, James Thomas
Meyer, Harry Herbert
Meyer, Louis
Meyer, Samuel
Mickelson, Otto Emil
Miller, George William, P . M.
Minetti, Antonio Perelli
Moreland, William Walter
Mothorn, Perry Douglass
Murdock, Glen Elbert
Nay, Heber Lewis
Nickerson, Zemira Doane
Norton, Edward Molloy
Osborn, Edward Welch
Passalacqua, j\.ndrew D.
Patrick, James
Patterson, Clyde Ray
Patterson, J. J.

ROSTER

ROSTER

Papera, Natale
Petersen, Peter Christian
Phillips, Samuel Edwarol
Pitts, Frank
Powell, Ransom
Provines, Lewis Bissell
Priest, William Henry
Raabe, Matthias, P . M.
Raymond, Charles Francis
Renill', Lewis Arnold
Rickman, James Louis
Roemer, Ernest Edward
Rosenberg, Harold Bush
Rosenberg, Ira Hays
Ro~enberg, Jnlian FlJycl
Hosenberg, Melville Milton
Rowland, Edwin Stanton
Seawell, James Walter
Seawell, James William
Sheriffs, George
Silberstein, Jacob
Skinner, William Henry
Soeniksen, Henry Nissan
Stanley, Charles Lewis
Staton, Avery Blythe
Stoffa!, Phillip
Stone, Mack Voorhees
Swisher, James Riley
Temple, William
Thompson, Edwin Davis
Tho~son, .Tohn Morrow
Tri.;i~ "Io'hn Riclunond
Walters, Soi(>mon
Wallace, Gli.n Allen
Warfield, Geckge H., P. M. ·
Whitney, Wi1liam Benjamin
Wickham, Charles
Wiltermood, William Robert
Wilson, John Hodgsen
Young, John, P. M.
Young, John Shaw
Zimmerman, Augusta David.

177

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Gibson, Thomas Jefferson
Hopper, Henry Lee
Grant, Frederick Thomas
Spankle, Gilbert Waugh
Warner, Paul Earl

Doane, Lafayette William
Price, Pitman H.

DIED:
Provines, Alex. Brookie
Terry, James William

TABLE MOUNTAIN LODGE, No. 124.
Cherokee, Butte County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next prece.diI:g Full Moo11.
OFFICERS:

Lloyd Paul Cornell, Master,
William S. Williams, Secretary,
Cherokee
Yuba Mine, Oroville
Elias Harris Jones, Senior Warden, Henry Franklin Bader, Sen. Deacon,
Joseph. Hurst Davis, Ju1tior Warden, Evan William Morgan, Jun. Deacon,
Daniel Claud Morgan, Treasurer, Francis Marion Cory, Tyler.
MEMBERS:

-145.

Bader; Charles William
Ba<le1, Henry Franklin, P. M .
Banks, William Henry
Bloome, John
Bollinger, James Sim
Campbell, James Alex.
Qhevill, Thomas Henry
Cohn, Levi
Cornell, Lloyd Power, P. M.
Cory, Francis Marion
Cox, .\lbert Brooks
Davis, Joseph Hurst
Eackus, Walter Jerome
Eclmunds, John
Fuqua, George Hale
Gassaway, Arthur Decatur
Gillispie, William M.
Goodday, Isaac Figle
Grant, Lincoln Ulysses
Hendrix, Charles Miles
Henclrix, William Sanford
12

Henry, Charles Allen
Hobsmier, Charles
Holub, Frank
Hufford, John Newton
James, Edwin Thomas, P . M.
Janson, Jonas
Jones, Elias Harris, P. M.
Jones, Richard Henry, P. M.
Jones, William Peter
Johnson, Charles Henry
Jurgensen, Peter Alex.
King, William H.
Kline, Boyd Gervias
Lee, Levi W oo-lbury
Lott, Charles Fayette, P. M.
Mack, William Edward
Medanich, George, P. M.
Mellon, William James
Morgan, Daniel Claude
Morgan, Evan William
Nisbet, Andrew

ROSTER

178
Patterson, Jacob
Piene, Joeeph Greenburg
Powers, Robert Sutherland
Rook, Aaron Columbus
Rowe, James
Ryan, Andrew
Smith, David Walter
Smith, Walter Boyston
·smith, Willie Ernest
Sovereign, George Whitefield
Spangler, Christie Marshall

ROSTER

Tate, Frank Raymond
Tegrunde, Herman
Vandegrift, Samuel A.
Wells, John Eli11ha
Wells, Michael Waldyer
White, Henry Caldwell, P. M
Whitelaw, John Frederick
Williams, David Herbert
Williams, William S.
Wilson, Edgar Cal\"in

-63.

WITHDRAWN:
Dolan, Martin John

Morrison, John

DIED:
Kester, Jessie William

LA FAYETTE LODGE, No.

126.

Sebastopol, Sonoma County,
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Ralph Evans Swarts, Master,
Ira Grant Hambleton, Chaplain,
Sebastopcl
Horace Munson \'Veeks, Sen. Deacois,
Harold Morrison, Senior Warden, William Ellsworth Park, Ju11. Deacois,
Harry Homer Hall, Junior Warden, Albertus Evermont Finnell, MMsha1,
Thomas Garrett Wiltcn, Treasu1·cr, Isidore Dufrane, Steward,
George Henry Corbin, Secretary,
Wilbur Worth Snow, Steward,
Sebastopol
Joseph Clinton Moran, Tyler.

Armstrong, George James
Armstrong, George Riley
Atzeroth, Henry Brugge
Baity, William Henry
Baxter, Samuel Emanuel
Benepe, Wesley Leander
Blancharu, David Henry
Burneson, Andrew J.
Burroughs, Charles, P. M.
Burroughs, David
Burroughs, John

MEMBERS:
Bradley, Roy Elmer
Case, Arthur Daniel
Chenoweth, James Merrett
Clfoe, John Wesley
Coats, William Bradshaw
Cody, Mathew
Compton, Thomas Jefferson
Corbin, George Henry
Crabtree, Albert Henry
Crawford, Jesse B.
Darby, Martin Ernest

179

Davis, Henry Clay
Paimer, Francis Warren
Do.ige, Fred Augustus
Park, William Ellsworth
Dufrane, Isidore
Phillips, Arthur Stephen
Dufrane, Vital
Proctor, David Clinton
Espey, George Moultrie
Proctor, David Dickie
Espey, Sydney, P. M.
Ragle, Alex.
Estes, Hickman
Rhodes, Elbridge L.
Finnell, Alburtus Evermont, P. M. Riekard, William Goodman, P. lll.
Hall, Albert Judson
Roaf, Clarence Edgar
Hall, Albert Leroy
Robinson, Thomas W.
Hall, Harry Horner
Ross, Fernando Elmer
Hambleton, Ira Grant
Ross, Robert
Harvey, Charles Edward
Ross, William Danforth
Hill, Charles Nelson
Sanborn, George N ewe.11
Howell, L. V. Hardenburg, P. M.
Sawyer, Joeeph Franklin
Hurlbut, Edwin T. Monroe, P M.
Scannon, Charles Melville
Jacobs, William
Scheidecker, Albert Frederick
Kerr, William James
Shelly, John Calhoun
Kimes, David Mandis
Sibly, Edward Franklin
Laton, Alfred Henry, P. M.
Sinclair, David Drake, P. M.
Laton, Edward Lee
Snow, Wilbur Worth
Libby, George Henry
Spangler, Cyrus Asbury
Libby, George Wilfred, P. M.
Speller, Charles George
Loser, John Benjamin
Story, James Augustus
Lyding, Peter Rasmussen
Story, Jerome Augustus
llfMdocks, Louis Allen
Strout, George Allen, P. M.
Mallary, Charles Wesley
Sullivan, Asa Isaac
Markham, Henry Clay
Surrhyne, Robert Henry
Martin, Frank Milton, P. M.
Swarts, Ralph Evans
Massie, Andrew, Sr.,
Tucker, Henry Arthur
McCormick, Hugh
Walk, Edward Grant
McGuire, William Pleasant
Walker, Joseph Erskiue
Mennetti, A. G. Perrelli
Watson, Valentine
Monroe, Walter Wavard
Watson, Walter James
Moran, Joseph Clinton, P. M.
Webber, Henry C.
Morris, Harry Bullen, P. M.
Weeks, Horace Munson
Morrison, Harold
Wilson, Dee Dial Evans
Muggi, Christian
Wilton, Thomas Garrett, P. M.
Nfohols, Henry James
Williams, Clarence Henry
Oliver, Charles
Williams, John Amos
Osborn, Alex.
Williams, William Walter
-104.
WITHDRAWN:
Withington, Peter Stanton
Kimble, Charles
DIED:
Ewing, Loer McDonald
Graham, Simon

ROSTER

ROSTER

180

HERMANN LODGE, No.

127.

San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
1739 Fillmore Street.
OFFICERS:

George A. Creon, Master,
Jakob Weiler, Senior Deacon,
457 Waller Street
Theodor H. Hage, Junior Deacon,
William H. Gercke, Senior Warden, Sebastian B. Kress, Marshal,
Friedrich Wilhelm Wolters,!. Ward., Ben Osswald, Steward,
Diedrich Bernhard Uhte, Treasurer, Leopold J. Alkalay, Steward,
Ludwig Schumacher, Secretary,
Herman Schoene, Tyler.
1335 Pierce Street

Affolter, Joseph
Ahlers, Henry
Alber, Emil
·
Alkalay, Ll'opold J.
Alpers, George
Atzeroth, Edlef
Baader, John
Bachmann, Adolph
Bahrs, George H.
Barth, William H.
Baumgartne.r, John
Be~kh, Gustav Carl, P. M.
Bechtold, Friedrich Chris
Berger, David
Blaich, Adolph
Blucher, George Henry
Blunck, Carl Ernst
Boge, Phillip
Borgfeldt, William H.
Bornholdt, Henry
Breuss, Michael A.
Bruns, Charles H.
Buescher, Wilhelm
Burgin, Gustav
Busse, August, P. M.
Busse, Ludwig
Carillon, Cha.rles A.
Clairmont, Ralph de, P. M.

MEMBERS:
Creon, Cesar Charles A.
Creon, George A.
Denu, Frank
Dickman, Charles A.
Dierks, Theodor
Eggeling, Henry
Eieher, William, P. M.
Emmrich, Ernst
Enderlein, Bruno
Fink, Conrad
Fischer, John; P. M.
Fritsch, Emil
Fuendeling, Julius
Gail, Andreas
Gall, Balthes G.
Gebhardt, Charles A. A.
Geilfuss, Henry, P. M.
Gercke, Fritz, P. M.
Gercke, William H.
Gier, Theodor
Grosse, Alfred B.
Gunther, Gustave C.
Habenicht, Fritz
Hackfeld, Hermann
Hage, Henry W.
Hage, Theodore Henry
Hagemann, Charles, Jr.
Hagemann, Fritz, P. M.

Hahn, Charles
Hans, Robert Gustav
Hansen, Volquart Nicholas
Hatteroth, William
Hechinger, Loui3 C.
Heinstadt, Peter
Heinz, Christopher
Hellberg, Henry
Hennings, Adolf
Hermann, John
Herold, Rudolph, Jr.
Herwig, Emil
Hess, Joseph
tlildebrandt, Charles Henry
Hink, Louis
Hinrichsen, Henry
Hocks, Oscar
Huslage, Hermann Arnold
Iekler, Henry
Jacobs, John
.Jonassen, Alfred
Joos, George
Jordan, Ernst C. H.
Jordan, Rudolf
Kaiser, Fritz
Keil, Gustav
Kenitzer, Henry, P. M.
Kiefer, Philipp
Klaassen, Henry
Kleiber, Paul
Klevesahl, Ernst P. C.
Koch, Frank
Kohn, Carl F.
Kohs, John
Koldenstrodt, F. W.
Koster, August
Kress, Sebastian B.
Krieg, Anton
Krieg, Henry Sebastian
Krumholz, Jacob
Kutsch, George
Leiss, Carl M.
1Lemcke, Otto, P. M.
Lenzen, Theodor William
J,eutholdt, Max

Levy, Louis
Luchsinger, George H.
Mainzer, Julius M.
Marquard, Henry
.Maurer, Leo
Mrnke, Frederick
Mensing, John H.
Meyer, August F.
Meyer, Henry
Muegge, Henry
Muller, Fritz
Muller, Louis, P. M.
Muller, Philipp
Munster, John Henry
Neuhaus, Christian H.
Nordholz, Frederick J.
Oppel, J'lhn V.
Osswald, Ben
Po£·ssenbacher, Ludwig
Pompeati, Wilhelm
Quardt, John
Rahtjen, Philipp
Raith, Johannes C.
Rt>hn, Charles
Reidt, Johannes
Remensperger, Ulrich
Rohrbach, Joseph Philipp
Rohte, Charles Emil, P. M.
Rolfs, Ernst
Ruediger, Julius
Rust, Ferdinand
Saling, Theodor
Schaefer, August
Schaefer, Fritz
Schernstein, Karl
ScMlling, William F.
· Schlichting, Claus H.
Schlichtmann, John
Schmidt, Henry
Schmidt, Hermann F. H.
Schoene, Herman
Schou, Frank M.
Schumacher, Ludwig, P. M.
Schurmann, Frederick William
Schussler, Hermann D. A.

181

182

ROSTER

Schutt, Carl
Schwarz, Karl August
Schwesinger, Hermann Geo., P. M.
Bimmen, Joiln
Sonne, Hermann Theodor
Spcekter, Richard
Speidel, Adolph Friedrich
Steinbach, William
Bternitzky, Richard, P. M.
Sternitzky, Robert Reinhold
Struven, John
Struwing, Johann Hermann
Theisen, S. Joseph, P. M.
Trautner, Charles
Tretten, Emil L.
tum Suden, Otto
Uhte, DiAdrich Bernardt
Vocke, Henry K.
Volkman, Carl Moritz
Voll der Mehden, J. Louis, Jr.
Waldenmeier, August
·

ROSTER

Wannenmacher, Robert
Warnke, William N. W.
Wassmann, Hermann
Weiler, Jakob
Weis, Arthur H.
Westphal, Peter
Wiese, John
Wiese, John G. H.
Winter, Moritz
Wohltmann, William
Wolf, Victor
Wolters, Frederick William
Wolters, George
Wucherer, William
Wurzbach, William
Zeiss, Louis
Zenker, Robert
Zerweck, Ernst
Zimmermann, Gustav
Zinkand, Ferdinand J .
Zinkand, William Charles

-188.

WITHDRAWN:
Waizman, Max

Korbel, Franz

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Bonfg, August •
Relchwald, Paul
Plagemann, Henry
Rapp, John

DIED:
Sternfeld, Moritz
Stanke, Albert F.
Willwebe r , Otto

VISALIA LODGE, No.

128.

Visalia, Tulare County.
Stated Mce~ings, third Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Frank Lamberson, Master,
Jonas Adelmas Allen, Chaplain,
Visalia
Darius Enoch Perkins, Sen. Deacon,
Ira Chrisman, Senior Warden,
Charles Abbott Whitmore, ! . Deacon,
Simon Levy, Junior Warden,
Harry Beaumont McClure, Marshal,
Lemuel Clason Hyde, Treasurer,
Howa rd Gorin Parish, Steward,
Frederick Daniel Steel, Secretary,
David Cromwell Oliver, Steward,
Visalia
Freedom Moulton Rice, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Adams, Charles Lincoln
Goldstein, Leon
Allen, Albert Henry
Graham, Edward McDonald
Allen, Jonas Adelmas, P. M.
Gray, Wheaton Andrew, P. M.
Anderson, David Oscar
Green, Wilber W.
Baker, Edgar E.
Grove, Millard Fillmore
Barton, Franklin Frederick, P. M. Guggenheim, Leon
Beales, George Francis
Hausch, Charles H enry Joseph
Bell, William Jordan
Bausch, Ch1"ietian
Belz, Frank Arthur
Hawkins, Rufus Morgan
Belz, George Andrew
Hayes, Timothy
Berry, Hugh Rier
Howard, John William
Braverman, Max
Hunsaker, Allen
Brooks, Albert El)is
Humphrey, Wyatt Marion
Hyde, Lemnuel Clason, P. M.
Calhoun, Milo Adam
Carroll, Hul)ert Cowley
Iseman, Myer E.
J eruealem, .iienry
Chambers, Ludlow
Johnson, John Sublitt
Chatten, Richard Jasper
Jordan, John Francis
Chatten, Thomas Alex.
Jordan, Ray Francie
Chrisman, Ira
Judd, Orion Mathias
Cohn, Eugene Alfred
Combs, Fielding Alex.
Kell enberg, Frank Guido
Combs, James Ennis
Kelsey, Harlem Waite
Kinkler, Charles Henry
Cook, Leslie
Couzens, William Jacquenay
Kirkman, Grant
Cor, Edward Theo.
Lamberson, Frank
Cranston, Floyd Cole
Larkins, Edward Oliver
Crosett, James Haren
Lawless, John Byrd
Croes, Oscar Reeves
Levis, J,eon
Cross, William Walter
Levinson, Harry
Crowley, Arthur
Levy, Nathan
Cutler, John
Levy, Simon
Cutler, Leonard
Lucier, Louis
Maddox, Ben Moyers, P. M.
Davidson, Warren I.
Deming, Raymond H.
May, James Johnson
McClure, Harry Beaumont , P . :M.
Dozier, William Gaillard, Jr.
Duckwall, Simon Weaver
'McFadzean, Daniel, P. M.
Dungan, James Wilson
Mcswain, Thom11s Omar
McVeagh, Edward Erastus
Edwards, Duncan M.
Miles, Edward Harrison, P. M.
Ellis, William Josiah
l:<' rankenau, Max
Miller, Ernest Hendricks
Fudge, Edmund Jones
Miller Everette LeRoy
Gannon, James Edwin
Mitcholl, Jay E.
Gilbert, Frederick Samuel, P. M.
'Mixter, Francis Wilber
Goad, John Enseley
Murray, Abram Hunter, P. :M.

183

184

ROSTER

ROSTER

Murray, Abram Hunter, Jr., P. M.
Newman, Henry, P. M.
Nuttall, Hassalom
Orr, Alfred Randolph
Osborn, Daniel
Osborn, James Orland
Overall, Daniel Griffith
Overall, Orval
Owen, Richard Hugh
Patterson, Thomas Jefferson
Parish, Howard Goin
Parker, George Alvia, P. M .
Pease, Edwin R.
Perkins, Darius Enoch
Pettit, Mark Lytton
Pendola, Beneditto
Prothero, Jerome
Quinn, Harry
Ralston, Elza Clark
Refd, George Victor, P. M.
Riee, Freedom Moulton
Robertson, James Logan
Seligman, Louis
Shiffert, irwin A.

Smith, Ernest Le Roy
Smith, George David
Smith, Gcqrge Depler
Smith, Milton Wix
Smith, Seth
Shore, Edward Grant
Spear, .Tacob Benjamin
Steel, Frederick Daniel
Swanger, Francis Asbury
Sw('et, Adolph David
Th0mas , Walter Franklin
Tuohy, John, P. M.
Uhl, Fred
Waddell, Eftwin Hamilton
Walker, Charles Jesse
Wallace, William B., P. M.
Ward, .Toseph Clarence, P. M.
Warner, Frederick Appleton, P. M.
Waugh, Jasper Dodridge
Wells, Morgan James
Wells, William Ree<l
Weishar, Augustus
Whitmore, Charles Abbott
Williams, .Tames Frederick
-136.

WITHDRAWN:
Callison, Robert Henry
DIED:
Houston, William Washington
Hunsaker, Henry
Stoneman, Finis Ewing

NICOLAUS LODGE, No.

129.

Wheatland, Yuba County..
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon

Absalom, Thomas Harris
Anderson, Frank Willis, P. M.
Atkisson, Albert Alpheus
Atkisson, William Brice
Austin, Edward
Baun, John Frederick, P. M.
Baxter, Willard Morris
Beck, Herman Hansen
Bennett, Lemuel Jones
Bergman, Nester W.
Bevan, Thomas Edward
Blackford, Price
Brigg~, Alfreil E c1ward
Brewer, Themas Highfield
Carpenter, Charles William
Click, Daniel
Creps, Burton L.
Creps, Roscoe
Durst, Jonathan Hains
Enochs, E!i8ha Franklin
Em•chs, Plummer
Frasier, Daniel
Glazier, Frederick
Griffiths, Albert Gerard
Grant, Charles Fitch, P. M.
Hadley, Albert Alex.
Haile, Henry
Hartley, Joseph Robert
Hedger, Joseph Mason
Hie ks, James Martin, P. M.
Hicks, Stephen Douglr.s
H.illiard, Frederick Jesse
Huffaker, Anthony
Huffaker, Harry Hays
Hutchinson, Frederick LaF.

OFFICERS:

Amasa George Oakley, Master,
Stephen Douglas Hicks, Sen. Deacon,
Wheatland
William Albert Stull, Junior Deacon,
Albert Alex. Hadley, Sen . Warden, Henry Carrington Jasper, Steward,
Henry Hayes Huffaker, Ju11. Ward., Charles Wilder Oakley, Steward,
Elisha Frank Enochs, Treasurer,
Jam es Polk Kesner, Tyler.
John Frederick Baun, Secretary,
Wheatland

Berry, Rufus Cowan

MEMBERS:
Hutchinson, Perkins LaF.
,Jasper, H enry Carrington
Jasper, Wilham George
Kesner, James Polk, P. M.
Kimerer, L. Lincoln
Landis, James Frederick
Lund, Charles Walter
Manwell, Edward Tecumsa
Meran, John William
Mccurry, Lewis Waters
McCurry, Samuel Sievers
Midgley, Fred W.
Miller, William Ernest
Muck, Francis Henry
Niemeyer, Herman Albert
Nelms, George Frederick
Oakley, Amasa George, P. M.
Oyster, William M.
Pincur, Emll
Purinton, Henry Osgoorl
Purcell, John
Rhmehart, William Rufus
Riechers, Augustus, P. M.
Robson, Andrew Armstead
Bowell, Benjamin Fra11klin
Sowell, Ernest Elmer
Sow~ll, John Amos ..
Stoddard, Cyrus
Stratton, George William
Stuell, William Albert
Thomas, Benjamin W.
Thomas, Lewis Evans
Uhler, David William
Wilson, Thomas Jefferson

WITHDRAWN:
Viles, Carlton Hoodlet

SUSPENDED FOH NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Thomas, William Henry

Coffin, William Franklin

185

-69.

ROSTER

186

WOODBRIDGE LODGE, No.

187

ROSTER
131.

Woodbridge, San Joaquin County.
~tated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moor..

OFFICERS:

Frank Henry Ashley, Master,
\Villiam Henry Tredway, Chaplain,
R. F. D. No. 2, Stockton
Elmer John Shinn, Senior Deacon,
Elbert Allen Covell, Senior Warden, Fred Greives Perrott, Junior Deacon,
Edward Harlan Wakefield, J. Ward., Camden Warren Keen, Marshal
Charles Robert Rutledge, Treasurer, Henry Wilcox Sharp, Steward, '
Blakely Robert Woods, Secretary,
Thomas Galdwin Mcintosh, Steward,
Woodbridge
George Dunn McClelland, Tyler.
0

MEMBERS:
Anderson, George William, P.· M.
Henderson. Jam!'~ Mite.hell
Arthur, Samuel Richard, P. M..
Henderson, William Woods, F. M.
Ashley, Frank Henry
Hilliard, Samuel Emlin
Beckman, Henry
Holmes, James William
Beekman, Theodore Henry, P. M.
Housken, Gc·orge
Beckwith, Charles Marion
Housken, George Edwin
Blackley, James
Hull, James Porterfield, P . M
Boyce, Amos
Hi~ron, William Wilson, P. M .
Brack, Jacob
J ahant, W a.lter Vietor
Burkett, Thoma!! Robeson, P . M.
Jefferson, Jacob Price
Caldwell, James Thomas
Johnson, William Horton
Carr, Walter LeGranil
Jones, George Waahington
Christian, James Tilden
Keen, Camden Warren, P. M.
Corell, William
Langford, George William, P M.
Cory, John Braiy, P. M.
Latta, S11.muel Eikenbarry, P . M.
Costello, John Franklin
M<"Clelland, Amos Amson, P. M.
Covell, Allen Palmer
McClelland, George Dunn
Covell, Elbert Allen
Mcintosh, Thomas Baldwin
Covell, George Francis
McNoble, George Francis, P. M.
Covell, Wright Thompson
Mills, Freeman Benjamin, P. M.
Crump, John Edward
Myers, Benjamin Sylvester Neil
Culp, James Elmer
Newton, Charles Lewis, P. M .
Denehy, Robert Emmett
Newton, Charles Victor
DeVries, Marion
Newton, Cyrus Brownlee
Favenger, George
Newton, Frank C1·awford
Gro.ves, Hamilton Shotwell
Ogden, Henry Thoma3
Hall, Charlie Louis
Parker, John Straughn
Hart, Edward Baker
Parkinson, George David
Haetings, Hervey LeRoy
Pattee, Walter J.
Hemphill, Edward Hendryx
Perrott, Frank, P. M.

Perrott, Fred Grieves
Ralls, Frank De La
Reed, Jonathan Piere~
Roush, Chester
Rutledge, Charles Robert, P. M.
Rutledge, George
Sharp, Henry Wilcox
Shinn, John Elmer
Smith, Charles Robertson
Sovereign, Seth
Steen, Moses Duncan Alex.
1'hompson, John Chatten, P. M.

Keller, John
Mcintosh, Edwin J.

Thompson, John Henry
l'owne, Burton Augu~tus'
Treadway, Orvis Wesley RinR
Treadway, William Henry
Van Gelder, Morris
Vickerson, John Irving.
Wakefield, Edward Harlan
White, Willis Washington
Wilken3on, Thomas Edgar
Williams, William Henry
Woods, Albert James
Woods, Blakely, Robert
-84.
DIED:
Sargent, .James Henry
Thompson, Edward Rees

SINCERITY LODGE, No.

132.

Greenville, Plumas County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Robert Augustus Boyden, Master, Dougald Alex. McMillan, Sen. Dea.,
Wm. Herbert Draney, Sen. Warden, Frank James Standart, Jun. Dea.,
Frank Kruger, Junior Warden,
Thomas Henry Trezise, Steward,
John R. Murray, Treasurer,
D onald William McKenzie, Steward,
William Price Boyden, Secretary,
Robert Leslie McGill, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Janney, Edwin Howard
Abbott, Edward Hiram
Kelley, John Henry
Ament, Ed. Newton
Kruger, Frank, P. M.
Bonning, James Henry
Langrehr, Henry Christian
Boyden, William Price, P. M.
Laufman, Robert Lee
Boyden, Robert Augustus, P. M.
McGill, Robert Leslie
Bunnell, Lucius Abraham
McKenzie, Donald William
Bressler, Charles
McLeod, Kenneth
Draney, William Herbert
McMillan, Alexander Dougald
Droege, Roy William
McMillan, Douglas Alexander
Elam, William Arthur
Morton, William Bennett
Goebel, Frederick August
Murray, John R., P. M.
Gr!lnt, Angus Duncan
Ranker, Edward Arthur
Harland, Henry Lumley
Robertini, Peter Anthony
Hepler, Charles Y.

188

ROS·f ER

Stephenson, William Graham
Stover, Charles Franklin
Trezise, Thomas Henry, P. M
Treleaven, William Thomas, P. M.
Trubody, Charles Malcolm

Urbun, Frederick George L.
Wardlow, Harry Dell
Wardlow, J 'o hn
Wolters, Gustav Herman
Young, Robert William, P. M. -38

SUSPENDED !<'OR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Flynn, William
McRorle, Thomas
DIED:
Lautman, Cyrus

YOSEMITE LODGE, No. 133.
Coulterville, Mariposa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
(No Certificate. See Appendix.)
MEN.BERS:
Blum, Rudolph Antone
McCarthy, Thomas Bernard
Down, Charles William
Mutton, Thomas Henry, P. M.
Ferguson, 811.muel Benjamin, P M. Quick, John James, P. M.
Floto, William Charles
Schell, Edwin Herbert
Ford, Charles Christopher
Schwart?., Charles Adolph
Hilliard, Miner
Tyacke, Frederick
Hobron, Samuel Douglas, P. M
Wagner, Daniel, P. M .
Koenig, Theo. Theron
Wagner, Charles
-16.
WITHDRAWN:
Park, Wl!liam Dean
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Broan, Joseph James
Thomas, John Lewis

ROSTER

189

VACAVILLE LODGE, No. 134.
Vacaville, Solano County.
Statecl Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon
OFFICERS:
Harry Danforth Chandler, Master, George Adelbert Powers, Chaplain,
John Watson Spear, Senior Deacon,
P. 0 . Box "O," Vacaville
.. ............. . . . Senior Warden, Rudolph Schaefer, Junior Deacon,
Frank Herbert Clark, Jun. Warden, Orestes Humboldt Allison, Marshal,
Walter Hatch Edwards, Treasurer, Lewis Carson Marshall, Steward,
Herbert Franklin Fowler, Secretary, F. B. McKevitt, Jr., Steward,
Henry Eversole, Tyler.
P. 0. Box 614, Vacaville
MEMBERS:
Dickie, Frank Eugene
Akerly, Georg~ Parry
Dobbins, Sterling P., P. M.
Allison, Orestus Herman
Drew, Francis Bernard
Allison, Ore5tus Humboldt, P. M.
Dunn, Henry Clay
Andrews, Edward Cleveland
Ellison, Samuel Franklin
Apperson, Victor Virgil
Engstrom, Adolph L.
Arnold, John Monroe, P. M.
Ennor, Harvey Wilford
Arnold, George Allen, P. M.
Eversole, Henry, P. M.
Attkisson, Oscar Brice
Evr.rsole, James
Atwater, Henry
Edwards, Walter Hatch
Basselt, Alvin Guy
Fisher, Edward
Bassford, Joseph Edward
Blum, Jacob, P. M.
Fitzgerald, James Thomas
Fotheringham, Charles Allen
Brown, Homer Grant
Fowler, Herbert Franklin
Buck, Ingalls Kinney, P. M.
Buck, Frank Herbert
Frahm, William Claudius
Bur.k, William Henry
Frame, George
Buck, Fred McClellan
French, Fred Manning
Buck, Frank Henry
Gates, Robert Campbell
Buhn, Frederick William
Gates, Thomas Lee
Caughy, John
Gamble, Frank Alex.
Chandler, Harry Danforth
Gamble, Stephen Everett
Chandler, Frederick Brewster
Goodwin, Woodbury McC.,P. M.
Chandler, Walker William
Gray, William Smith
Chase, Ernst Samuel
Hagerty, John James
Clark, Frank Herbert
Hartley, Clement Madison
Condon, Harry Leslie
Hartley, Victor Worthington, P. M
Crystal, Carlton Clark
Hathaway, Harry Rivers
Derby, Charles Mason
Haworth, Morris Wells
Derby, Daniel Blanchard
Hewitt, Trent Logee ·

ROSTER

ROSTER

Palmer, Humphrey Parin
Jones, Harry Nathaniel
Jones, Robert Hugh
Powers, George Adelbert
Price, William Henry, P. M.
Jenney, Warren C.
Killingsworth, Wiley Smith
Reid, Robert Lincoln, P. M.
Richardson, Hiram Eugene
Kowanda, Thomas
Kruse, Fred Herman
Riechers, Charles
Lancaster, Ralph Edward
Robinson, Chester Gates
Lawrence, William Edward
Rust, Charles Baldwin
Lindquist, Carl Ludwig
Samuels, George Washington
Losee, Albert William
Schroeder, William L()uis
. Losee, Charles Henry
Schaefer, Rudolph
Losee, Elmer Lyonidas
Smith, Fred Martin
Sponslor, Alanson Chandler
Losee, Fred Asa
Spear, John Watson
Maas, William Mitthias
Maclay, Samuel Ralph, P. M
Sta dtfeld, Joseph Rose
Manuel, Eli William
Stevenson, Andrew Vincent, P M.
Marshall, Lewis Carson
Stevenson, George Maupin
Marshall, James
Stevenson, Charles Albert
McBride, William Zeph
Stitt, James Warren
McKevitt, Frank Benjamin, P M. Stanford, David
McKevitt, Frank Benjamin, Jr.
Sullivan, James William
Tate, Horace Phillip
McMillan, Edward Houston
. Thurber, Edwin Robinson, P. M.
McMillan, Robert Boone
Thurber, Edwin Robinson, Jr.
Miller, Meredith Raines
Moffitt, ~olla Maxwell
Triebel, Frank Henry
Montgomery, John Thomas, P. l'rL. Troughton, Francis Thomas
Montgomery, William Creed
Watson, Henry Melville
Morgan, Bertram Franklin
Weed, Ulysses Edgar
Weldon, Clyde Allen
Morris, John Westley
Wilson, Lee A. .
Niel, Charles
Noel, William ·Henry
Wilson, Thomas Stanley
Wooderson, Geo. Frederick, P. M.
Parker, William Boyd
Peabody, Ernest Augustus
Wood, Eugene G.
Wooden, John Henry
-126.
Peterson, Louis Henry

VALLEY LODGE, Ne. 135.

190

WITHDRAWN:
Hawkins, George Marshall
Buckingham, Thomas Hugh
Neilsen, Carl Henrich,
Brown, Archibald T.
EXPELLED:
McFarland, Elden Eugene

191

Linden, San Joaquin CoU>lty.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
(No Certificate.

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Lorch, James
Loker, Victor Manuel
J,ucas, Charles Godfrey
Martin, David Patton
Mahl, Godfrey
McCausland, James Audley
Meyer, Charles Herman
Ormsby, Elon Arwin
Owen, Henry Taylor
Pearson, Seth Allen
Peck, John Loveman
Perryman, Charles
Peters, John Henry
Pope, .Sidney Pernell
Rich, Arthur Henry
Ryburn, John Clarke
Ryburn, David Beattie
Sheets, William Henry
Seyser, Jacob
Smith, Arthur
Thomas, Wayne
Thomas, Charles W., P. :M.

Alling, Mark Norman
Anderson, John, P. M.
Bonham, Andie Lester, P. M.
Bonham, William Harvey
Brooke, Thomas Jefferson
Case, Carlton Coolidge, P. M.
Corson, Joseph Morrison, P .. M.
Davis, Edward Freeman, P. M.
Davis, Edgar Lee
Davis Albert New~on
Day, Thompson Blount
Day, Gordon Martin
Drace, James Albert
Dyke, Ozre. David
Eldred, He.villa Pembroke
Freeman, Walter
Frost, Haller Conventry, P. M.
Glasgow, Wood Irwin
Hancock, Arthur Raymond
Harrison, Charles Norval
Hopkins, George Marvin
Lewis, Horace Churchill

Bryson, David

DIED:
Ried, John Calhoun
Kelver, David WUllam

-44.

ROSTER

ROSTER

PACIFIC LODGE, No. 136.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, 11.rst 'ruesday in each month.
1739 Fillmore Street.
OFFICERS:
Edward Samuel Isaacs, Master,
Herman Wertsch, Senior Deacon,
722 Clement Street
Ernest Leonard West, Junior Deacon,
Walter Scott Gray, Senior Wa.rden, Hugo Hertz, MarshaJ,
Robert Willis Madden, Ju11. Warden, Thomas Anderson, Steward,
George Louis Darling, Treasurer,
Frank Mueller, Steward,
George Penlington, Secretary,
James Whitten, Tyler.
Odd Fellows Cemetery, Pt. Lobos Av.
MEMBERS:
Adams, Monson Reid
Berel, Samuel
Adelstein, Samuel
Berg, Alfred
Alexander, Joseph
B erliner, Charles Adolph
Andersen, Niels
Bernstein, Milton Melville
Anderson, Henry Andrew
Bianchini, Louis
Anderson, James Wright, P. M.
Bien, Joseph
Anderson, John
Biller , John
Anderson, Thomas
Binge, Theodore C. Daniel
Anderson, Wellington Joshua
Birnhack, Benjamin
Andresen, Niels Julius
Bloom, Solomon
Andrews, Edwin Harold
Bolander, Louis Philip
Andrews, Harry Alta
Boley, Daniel
Armitage, William Henry
Bond, Charles Benjamin
Arnold, Louis Edgar
Booth, Frank Edmund
Arnold, Thomas Cook
Borchardt, Paul
Aschheim, Israel Julius, P. M.
Borkheim, William Irwin
Austin, George Henry
Boyd, Colin Macnicol
Babbitt, John Henry
Bragg, Robert, Jr.
Baccus, Louis Richard
Branderstein, Charles
Ballard, .Francis Marion
Brignoli, Nicholas Peter
Bankey, Charles
Brisco, Hylton Aubrey
Banner, Marcus
Browell, J eremiah
Baskerville, Edwin
Brown, Andrew
Baum, Gustus
Bunzl, Julius
Beck, Frederick Charles
Caley, James Henry Corteen
Beck, William Arthur
Cameron, John William
Beckley, Lawrence Victor
Camp, Mervyn Louis
Bell, Dickson Gabriel
Campbell, James

Caples, John Wallace
Caro, Alex. Hyman
Carrick, James Ross, P. M.
Casner, Mark
Casanova, William
Casselmann, Julius Molter
Castle, Frederick Lawrence
Cavanaugh, James Bernard
Church, David Orion
Clark, George Waverley
Clark, Howard Ellsworth
Clark, James William
Clifford, James Benjamin
Cline, Jobe
Coffin, Lincoln Alverton
Cohen, Melville
Cohen, Philip
Cohen, Simon
Cohn, Jacob
Cohn, Louis Meyer
Compton, Louis Francis
Congdon, Joseph Hopkins
Cook, Stonewall Jackson
Cope, James Henry
Cormack, William
Cornehl, Henry
Cousins, Herbert William
Craig, David Calder
Craig, Frank
Craig, Lee Dar.neal
Crandall, Charles Ellis
Crocker, Nathan, P. M.
Crouse, John Miles
Crowe, Joseph
Crowley, Timothy Jay
Crozier, Herbert William
Crum, George Washington
Currell, John William
Currie, Robert
Curry, John
Cutting, John Tyler
Daly, Charles E)mer
Da.mner, Samuel
D 'Ancona, Alexander Dawson
13

Dann, Frank Rudolph
Darling, Charles Sherman
Darling, George Louis, P . M.
Davidson, Alexander Hunter
Davidson, George
Davis, Arthur Eugene
Davis, George Eu~ene
Delfs, Marcus Alexander
Dettner, George William
Dettner, Walter Theodore
Dickinson, Robert Francis
Dixon, Frank Albert
Doble, Robert McFarland, P. M.
Dobrin, Samuel Leo
Dodge, Zenas Upham
Donald, William
Dougherty, Hugh
Dragomanovich, Spiro S. G.
Druhe, John Gerhard
Dundas, Moubray Robert, P. M.
Dunn, Berry Elder
Earle, Henry Halford
Eaton, William Roberts
Edlin, Juda
Edwards, Meyer Aaron
Edwards, William Harvey, P. M.
Ehlert, Charles Henry
Einstein, Berton
Elkus, Eugene Samuel, P. M.
Eltingham, Robert Linnwood
Ebzas, Emanuel
Epsteen, Henry
Eslick, William
Everding, James Campbell
Fairfield, Orlando Weston
Falk, Emile Samson
Fee, William Marcus
Ferguson, John
Ficke, Charles Henry
Findlay, Alexander
Finnegan, Matthew
Fleisig, George Lawrence
Fleisig, Harry
Fleming, John William

193

ROSTER
194

Fraiberger, Max
Fraser, Daniel Gray
Fraser, Edwin Joseph
Frazier, Frank Edward
Freudenberg, Gustav Adolph
Fross, Isaac
Fuller, Andrew Henry
Fulwider, Lucien Edgar
Furman, Henry Matthew
Gardiner, Robert McKay
Garrett, James Hyland
Gallld, James Green
Getz, Bernard
Getz, Marcus
Getz, Solomon, P. M.
Gilbert, John Henry
Gilberts, Edward
Gilmour, James
Gimpel, Maurice Christian
Glass, Samuel
Glucksman, Max E.
Goetze, Frederick William
Goldbaum, David
Goldberg, Louis Raphael
Goldsmith, Joseph LeConte
Goldstein, Simon
Good, Robert Williamson, P. M.
Goodman, Abraham
Gordon, Benjamin Eclwin
Gordon, George
Gough, William George
Grady, James
Graham, Frank Gordon
Grant, William
Graves, Walker Coleman, P. M.
Gray, Henry
Gray, Walter Scott
Green, George Sedwick
Green, Simon
Greenberg, Frank Lui
lheer, William John
Gruhn, Victor Jacob
Grunig, Louis Herman
Gunzburger, Benjamin Mitchell
Gunzburger, Emil

ROSTER
Hagedon, Henry Howard
Hakes, Clinton Devillo
Hale, James William
Ham, Charles Herbert
Hamilton, James Thomas, P. l!4.
Hamilton, Walter William
Hancock, Robert John
Hansen, Axel Markward
Hansen, Frederick Ludwig, P. M.
Hanson, John
Harris, Benjamin
Harris, Charles Sigmund
Harris, Clarence Edgar
Harris, Isaiah
Harris, Louis Lehman
Harris, Matthew
Harris, Simon
Harvey, Sidney Wilberforce
Hathaway, Harry Lee
Hawton, Frank Lait
Healey, Lauren Everett
Hechheimer, Leopold
Heins, Herman
Heller, Louis Charles
Hemphill, David Abercombie
Henderson, Hugh C.
Hendry, Andrew Murray
Hertz, Hugo
Hills, Reuben Walmarth
Hilp, Henry, P. M.
Hinz, August Julius Henry
Hobson, Clark
Hoffman, Abraham
Holdsworth, Charles tienry Ottway
Hollub, Samuel Simon
Hollzer, Harry Aaron
Hollzer, William
Holmes, Alfred Edward
Howard, Frank Harvey
Rueter, Ernest Claus
Humphrey, George
Hunter, Thomas Charles, P. M.
Hyman, Henry
Hyman, William Sylvanus
Irvine, Alexander

Irvine, Nathaniel
Isaacs, Edward Samuel
~saacs, Frank
Isaacs, Michael Henry
Jackson, Charles Edward, P. M.
Jacobson, Charles
James, Jefferson Gilbert
Jellinek, Charles, P. M.
Johnson, Alfred
Johnson, Francis Fenelon
Johnson, George Henry
Johnson, George Oliver
Johnson, Henry
Johnstone, Robert Murray
Jones, Alfred
Jones, Frank Able
.Tones, John Thomas
Jones, Martin, P. M.
Joost, Fabian Sebastian
Juhl, Jesse Peter
Katz, Manda!
Kaplan, Bernard Michael
Kelley, Michael John
Kelly, Robert Edward
Kennedy, Albert Warren
Kennedy, Thomas
Kent, Thaddeus Benning
Kern, Henry
Kerr, Earl
Kincaid, Isaac Philamson, P. M.
King, Charles James, P. M.
Klein,· Charles
Kleinhaupt, Moses
Kluver, Henry
Knighton, David William
Knudsen, Knud Johan
Knudsen, Philip Julius
Knudson, Ingelbright
Kock, William Lincoln
Kramer, Maurice S.
Lace, Thomas Joshua
Lachma.n, Edward
Lachman, Gustave
Lange, Edmund William Richard
Larsen, Lars Christian

Lasky, Michael Charles
Leighton, Elon Ernscli:ffe
Lemaitre, Jules
Lenchner, Henry
Lengfeld, Abraham Lewis
Leonard, Edward Francis, P. M.
Lerond, Theodore
Levin, Louis
Levinsky, Mark, P. M.
Levy, Barnard
Levy, Louis
Levy, Lucien
· Levy, Samuel Wolf
Levy,- William Herman
Lezinsky, George
Lincoln, Eiljah Whiting
Lipman, Abraham
Lipman, .Joseph Carroll
Lippitt, Philip
Lippman, George
Livingston, Andrew William
Lochbaum, August Hermann
Lockwood, Thomas
r,oebner, Edward
Loring, George Arthur
Ludwig, John
Lutz, William Edward, P. M.
Lynch, Chester Thompson
Lynden, James Henry
Lynden, John Ross
MacKinnon1 Thomas Alexander
Macowsky, Isaac
Macowsky, Jacob
Madden, Robert Willis
Madison, James
Maguir.e, Thomas Frank
Maison, Nathaly E.
Makins, James Nicholas
Mann, Seth
Manner, Charles Vogt
Marcum, Robert Francis
Maris, William
Marliave, Edward Cornelle
Marshall, Eugene Lee
Marshall, Patrick Slight

195

196

ROSTER
ROSTER

Mayle, George Dennis
McClure, William
McCray, Franklin Philander
McDougall, Charles Campbell
McElroy, Robert
McGregor, Alexander Henderson
McJunkin, Hugh King
McKay, John Henry
McLaren, John
McLea, Arthur
McLean, Alexander David
McLean, Malcolm
McLeod, Daniel
McLeod, John Alexander
McNealy, Mark
Mehrken, Peter John
Melin, Charles Gustoff
Melluish, Herbert Stanisland
Melrose, Kenneth
Mendelson, Morris Aaron
Mentz, John Henry
Mertens, Max
Meyer,· Alfred
Meyer, Milton
Meyer, Martin Solomon
Meyerfeld, Herbert George Wash.
Michaels, Abraham
Michaels, Solomon
Milcovich, Martin Louis
Miller, Charles August
Miller, John Fred
Miller, John Rudolph
Miller, Samuel
Monasch, David
Monroe, Charles Adams
Moore, Thomas
Morehouse, Chris Columbus
Morris, Edward Hart
Morris, Herman
Morrow, Almond Raleigh, P. M.
Mouser, Silas Mercer
Mowbray, Robert Henry
Mueller, Frank
Muirhead, Thomas
Mullen, Edwin Thomas

Mundt, Francis Augustus
Munroe, Thomas William
Murray, Robert Henderson
Nansen, Peter Nielsen
Nash, William Joseph
Nelsen, Jacob Loining
Nevin, John Henry
Newbauer, Herman Wolf
Newman, Ignatius
Nicol, Alexander
Nieol, William
Nield, John Detlifson
Nodder, William John
Noonan, Lawrence Edward
Oberfeld, Charles, Jr.
Obermeyer, Tons Frederi.:ik A.
Odgers, William Henry
Offer, Charles
Olinsky, Nathan
Ormsby, George Oliver
Pague, Frank Culver
Palmer, John Alexander
Parle, Michael Charles
Parsons, Charles Bird
Peiser, Solomon (1)
Peiser, Solomon (2)
Penhallow DeBlois Pearce
Penlington, George, P. M.
Penlington, Thomas, P. M.
Perine, George Mairs, P. G. M.
Peterson, Charles Edward
Peterson, Niels Andrew
Peterson, John Cigord
Peterson, Julius Caesar
Phillips, Louis Albert
Pidwell, Cyril Trevosso
Pippey, Robert Norman
Plato, George Jacob
Plato, Louis
Pomin, George Joachin
Porter, Robert Daniel
Posner, Alva Max
Posner, Max
Price, Ephraim William
Qualman, Frederick Henry

Quinlin, William Giles
Rabjohn, Thomas Henry
Rabling, Charles Albert
Rae, William
Raymond, George Henry
Reeves, Sydney Richard
Reichardt, Otto Henry
Reid, John
Reiss, Max Bernhard
Reppey, James Washington, P. M.
Rhodes, Charles Durell
Rich, Arthur Milton
Richards, Charles West
Rink, Louis
Robbins, Frederick Averill
Roberts, Augustus Henry
Roberts, Thomas
Romain, Solomon
Rosenblatt, Arthur Stern
Rosenblatt, Irving Ste:rn
Roseuthal, Mauriee
Ross, Andrew
Ross, David Adam
Roth, Herman
Rylander, George William
Sachs, Edgar David
Samuels, Jacob
Sargent, William
Scally, John Henry
Scheeline, Edwin
Schlesinger, Charles
Schmit, Henry
Schneider, Joseph
Schoenberg, Henry
Schoenfeld, Alexander
Schutte, John Henry
Schwartz, Adolph
Schwartz, Morris
Schwartze, Karl Gustav
Schwerin, Edward
Schwormstede, Diedrick Wilhelm
Searey, John Joseph
Selig, Arthur Edwin
Seller, Sanford Elkan
8 r rn borg, Nils Hilding

Sewell, Amos Fuller
Sharp, William John
Shaw, Henry
Shaw, Lionel Solomon
Sheideman, Bahr
Simpson, Frederick Ernest H .
Slack, Edgar Simpson
Smith, Louis John
Smith, William Isaac
Speier, Bernard
Speier, Henry
Speier, Leon
Spencer, James Marshall
Speyer, Walter Morris
Spier, Edward Ellis
Spiro, Michael
Springer, Elias
Springer, Joseph
Sproston, Frank
Stalder, John Rudolph
Stackpole, Frank Harvey
Stanton, Andrew Palmer
Stern, Moses Milo
Stevenson, Thomas
Steven'9on, Thomas George
Stich, Benjamin Mitchell
Stidger, Oliver Perry
Stivers, Arthur Gus
Strauss, Michael
Sundelius, Severns
Sussman, Samuel
Sykes, Thomas Rutledge
Taussig, Hugo Aloia
Taussig, Rudolph Julius
Terry, Joseph Tripp
Thayer, Charles Clayborn
·rhompson, Clarence E van P.
Thompson, Edward Mealing
Thompson, George Forbes
Thompson, Henry
Tonn, Adolph
Toplitz, Robert Louis
Trask, Jesse Wall
Troppmann, Charles Martin
Tschauner, Charles Lewis

197

108

ROSTER

ROSTER

'l'uckey, Bertram
Tuckey, Harry William
'l'urpin, Andrew Walker, P. M.
Turpin, Frederick Light
Tuttle, John
Urquhart, John Ferguson
Vagts, John David
Van Arsdale, John Rutherford
Van Dyke; Samuel Russell
Vogt, Alfred Herman
Von Werthron, Joseph
Wagner, Theodore
Wallace, John William
Walkington, John Henry
Ward, William Braddon
Warnock, William Henry
Wasserman, David E.
Watterson, George ThoI11pson
Waugh, Samuel James
Wankowski, William
'Wechter, Abraham
Weil, Alexander William

Weil, Moise
Weisel, Charles
W~isel, George Gustav Henry
Weisel, Oliver Richard
Weiss Philip
W ei3skopf, Samuel
·w ertsch, Herman
·west, Ernest Leonard
White, Robert Horace
Whitten, James
Wilhelmy, Max
Williams, Hugh Perry
Williams, John W.
Williams, William Stich
Wilson, Frederick Green
Woerner, Frederick William
Wolf, Emanuel Myron
Wolff, Harry Keller
Wood, Benjamin Russell
Wood, Louis
Young, Arthur Lansing
Zemansky, Samuel, P. M.

WITHDRAWN:
Clow, George B. Newell
Griffith, Daniel Joseph

Lewis, John Clement
Holcomb, Irving Alfred
DIED:

D' Ancona, David Arnold

Feldman, Dedrick
Frledhofer, William Ferdinand
Gump, Solomon
Hathaway,' Harry Richard

.Johnson, Christian Emanuel
Kryse:', Alonzo
11.! nrs;·. e~ d . John White
Scott, Alber t Woodburn
Sowell, John Franklin

199

CROCKETT LODGE, No. 139.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each montll.
Golden Gatee Commandery Hall.
OFFICERS:

Henry William Maass, Master,
Hugh McBirney, Senior Deacon,
1335 Golden Gate Avenue
Hugh John Lloyd, Junior Deacon,
Conrad Teigeler, Senior Warden,
William John Christ, Marshal,
George Henry Moulton, Jun. Ward., Charles Melvin Tripp, Steward,
William Marcus Glindemann, Treais., Arthur Brand, Steward,
Richard Hassard McPherson, Sec'y, Carsten Hildebrandt, Tyler.
134 16th Avenue

-549.

Adamsen, David
Adolphson, Gustav Adolph
Aldetson, John Atkinson
Alpers, Claus
Andersen, Martin
Anderson, Aren
Anderson, Charles Oscar
Aufindsen, Bernhart
Atthowe, William Charles
Baetje, John Peter
Baker, Robert Thomas
Bannick, Albert John
Barthold, Albert Theodore
Bartlett, Edward Phelps
Barton, Robert George
Beach, Harry
Beaston, Jeremiah B.
Bechtel, George William
Becker, Adolph Cornelius
Benelect, Emil
Berendes, Carl Joseph
Bertelson, Peder Beier
Bitzer, Jerome E.
Bivins, Walter Thomae
Blaine, Robert James
Bloden, Paul Ralph
Blumenthal, Albert
Boesen, Hans Christian B.

MEMBERS:
Borek, Leopold Julius
Brady, Thomas Washington
Brand, Arthur
Brandemann, Carsten Otto
Brasch, Samuel Lewis
Bra'!lting, Constantine W.
Braun, George
Broman, Albert
Brugge, Edward Gustav
.
Btunswig, Jas. Oscar Ludwig, P. M.
Bruse, Bernard Frederick
Burkhardt, Edward George A.
Burnett, Richard James
Burnham, George Ellsworth
Butt, Peter William
Buttner, Frederick Harrold
Cahen, Solomon
Caley, John
Cameron, Howard McDougall
Carroll, Charles Carrollton
Castagna, Frank
Cattermole, Charles Henry
Cattermole, John Lud11r W.
Cavill, Sydney St. Lawrence
Cellarius, Charles, P. M.
Cellarius, Frederick August
Gbambers, George William
Chase, Harry Fitzwilliam, P. M.

200
Christ, William John
Christiansen, Jacob
Ciprico, Edmund Samuel, P. M.
Clute, Alva Baker
Connelly, James Anthony
Conroy, George Stephen
Corkill, Joseph Albert
Cosgrove, John Francis
Court, John Pearce, P. M.
Cox, Richard
Cresse, Frank Hazen
Dallamore, George Charles
Dennis, Robert Walter
Dietz, Frank Edwin
Dippel, Henry
Edelmann, Leonhardt Charles
Ethier, Louis Napoleon
Faber, Johan Frederick
Fee, Harry Ring
Feldermann, John Diedrich
Fick, Nicholas
Fisher, Charles Morris
Fischer, Jacob
F!athmann, Claus
F!athmann, J. H .. Martin
Flathmann, William Claus
Fluegel, Emil F. Christian
Frahm, George Edwin
Frank, Arthur Henry
Frankenberg, Nathan
Fredrichs, Claus Detlief H.
Frisken, James
Furey, Walls McClure
Gardiner, Ar.thur McKenzie
Geauque, George Wash., P. M.
Gerckens, Jacob
Gerdan, Walter Julius
Glahn, Hother
Glindemann, William Markus ·
Goddard, Joseph
Go!Usmith, Albert Simon
Grant, John
Grieb, Henry Tobias
Gries, Frederick August
Griswold, William HEnry

ROSTER
Grupe, Henry Gilmore
Gullixson, Emil Sophus
Gutte, Henry William
Hagerup, Charles S. C. A.
Hanni, Ernest
Hanselman, Andrew
Hansen, Claus Christian
Hansen, Felix Amanclus D.
Hansmann, Frederick
Hanson, Per Alfred
Harder, Peter
Harder, Walter Gustave
Harrison, Frank Cassius
Hart, George Edward
Ha·~shagen, Carl Theo.
Haub, Louis
Hayes, Henry Lawrence
Heins. Adolph Friederich
Heise, Albert Percy, P. M.
Heise, J'ohn Diedrich
Herbst, Charles Lincoln
Hilderbrandt, Carsten, P. M.
Hoadley, Milo
Hofiich, Max
Hoffmann, Isaac L.
Hohmann, August Henry
Holloway, Charles Marion
Holmes, Joseph Ear}
Holton, Charles Roscoe
Horstmeyer, Frederick
Huber, Adolph
Huber, Hermann
Hughes, David
Hughes, John Hugh
Hughes, Richard John
Humbert, William Edward
Hunt, Charles William
Ingram, Robert
Jackson, Charles
Jacobsen, Halvor Julius T.
Jessen, Niels
Johnson, Axel Fridolf
Johnson, Frederick
Johnston, .John Cairns
Jones, Edward N.

RO~TER

201

Mergen, Mathew Bernard
Jones, Humphrey Llewelyn
Metzler, Hermann
Jungblut, Otto August
Meyers, Robert Charles, P. M.
Kahn, William, P. M.
Miller, Frederick Hermann Carl
Keck, Frederick Charles
Kirkwood, Alexander Macfarlane
Moffat, James
Mohr, Ernest August
Knerr Claire Frank
Moore, George Alexander
Knox, Arthur Wallace
Morris, George Washington
Knust, Henry
Moulton, George Henry
Koeberer, Theophilus Carl
Muller, Heinrich
Kummerlander, Fred 'k August
Muller, Peter Henry
Laughton, James
Mullins, Fret! James
Larrison, Seymour
Murken, Albert Henry
Leary, Thomas Cox
Murray, Duncan Stuart
Lehrke, Albert Wendell
Nachbar, Frederick William
Lehrke, Gustav Frederick
Newell, James Thomas
Leonard, Edward Joseph
Newhoff, Harry, P. M.
Lester, Henry Charles
Nichols, Thomas Henry
Lewis, John Walter
Lippert, Leonard.B.
Norby, John A.
North, John Gunder
Lizer, Napoleon
Oberfeld, Charles
Llewellyn, Reece
O'Brien, William Thomas
Lloyd, Hugh John
Olsen, Lars Emil
Loewe, William George
Olsen, Martin Christian
Lowe, John Hall
Lutz, William Henry
Olsen, Olaf
Maass, Henry William
Palmer, Albert
Palmer, Edward
Mll:ckillop, Archibald
Pankow, Hermann
Mann, Gustav
Parker, Thomas Beede
Mansie, William
McArron, Chas. Willfam Drummond Partridge, Clifton Clark
Pattison, George
McBirney, Hugh
Paulsen, Oscar Francis
McCann, Richard
Paulsen, Reinhold Johan
McCorkell, James Alexander
Peach, Theodore Frederick Charles
McCluskey, John
Pein, George Heinrich
Mccreadie, Abraham Peter
McFarlan, Frederick K. Perry
Pein, John Henry
Perle, Charles W. Frederick
McLaren, William Merville
Perle, Johan Friedrich
)M:cKay, Alexander
Petersen, Christian Herman F.
McLaughlin, Armour
Petersen, Hans Peter
McNeill, William Webster
Peterson, Charles
McPherson, Richard Hassard
Peterson, Edward Peter
Mehrtens, Richard
Meinhard, Theo, Henry Jacob Louis Peterson, Gustav
Peterson, Henry Clarence
Meisel, Herman Joseph
Peyser, Harry Michael
Mengel, Otto Henry

202
Phipps, Charles
Picard, Charles
Plagemann, Frederick Peter
Pockwitz, Adolph Augus~us
Pockwitz, Leopold
Porter, William
Pramme, Henry, Jr.
Preddey, Sydney Lawson
Price, Evan John
Preston, Walton
Rackerby, John James
Rasmussen, Hans Lauston
Rathjens, Peter Ferdinand
Read, George
Rehmann, Charles William
Renner, Jean
Richardson, Nicholas Joseph
Riechers, John Henry
Righetti, Henry A.
Rithmoeller, Henry
Roberts, Joshua Benjamin, P. M.
Robinson, Henry Goland
Robinson, Oscar Maynard
Roeder, William Frederick
Roesch, Louis
Ross, Harry Bellsland
Rowlands, Thomas, P. M.
Rueben, John Bernard
Russell, Samuel Gray
Sachau, August Henry Theo1iore
Salter, Frederick Whitcomb
Schlesinger, Charles
Schmid, John
Schmidt, Herman Christian
Schmidt, John Hinrich
Schmidt, Louis
Schneider, William
Schomer, George
. Schomer, Henry
Schottler, Hermann
Schroder, Herbert D.
Schulz, George Edward Theodore
Schwab, Henry Frederick
Schwarz, Gustav
Seaman, George Walter

203

ROSTER
Segesser, John Uhrich
Shaw, William Hermann
Sheffer, Clarence Edmunu
Shepherd, Ray Clifton
Simon, Philip
· Simpson, Albert Lemuel
Soomann, Johan Joachim T.
Spencer, Gardner Alex. Brody
Spc•yer, Hemy Manfred
Stager, William Ernest
Stange, John Ernest William
Stanle, Frederick Henry
Stemley, Charles
Stanton, Lewis Edgar
Stein, William Frederick
Stephens, Luther Cox
Stimus, Hermann Otto
Stradling, Lafayette Ferdinand
Strycker, Charles
Strauch, Paul
Stussy, Henry David
Sundman, Otto Imanuel
Suttman, Frederick Parker
Swanson, John Paulin
Taaffe, Christian Frederick B.
Teigeler, Conrad
Ten Winkel, Frank William
Thierbach, Charles Frederick
Thomas, Bertrand McNulty
Thomas, Robert"Humphreys
Thornley, William Henry
'l'ilsner, Heinrich E.
Trask, Joseph Clement
Tripp, Charles Melvin
Twomey, James
Ungermann, Gustav John C.
Vock, Simon
Volkmann, Alexander William
Vollstadt, Frederick
Vonder, Lieth Harold Otto
Voss, Harry David
Waldron, Jerome Bonaparte
Wambach, George
Wa rd, James William
Webber, Charles

Weber, Richard Franklin
Weiss, Frank John
Weiss, Robert Nathaniel
White, Edward Harris
Wieneke, Robert
Wilcox, Alfred Ernest
Willis, Charles Grant
Wolf, Reuben Augustus

Wolters, John Bernard
Wood, Alljlert Charles
Wreden, Henry
Zaph, Charles Fred 'k
Zaun, Henry
Zeiss, Otto John
Zimmermann, Louis Michael
-341.

Wl'l'HDRAWN:
Watts, Herbert Charles
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Fry, Thomas
Wells, John Augustus

Evans, David John

DIED:
Nelson, Evald

CURTIS LODGE, No.

140.

Cloverdale, Sonoma. County.
Statell Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Edward Andrew Cooley, Master, Charles Loring Sedgley, Sen. Deacon,
Cloverdale
Gotlob Hagmeyer, Junior Deacon,
Fredrick Pope Conner, Sen. Warden, Charles Emeli Humbert, Marshal,
George Weston, Ju11ior Warden,
Clayton Taylor Coffey, Steward,
Simon Pinchower, Treasurer,
John Wilcox Caldwell, Steward,
Ernest Bricens Thompson, Secretary, John Goetzelman, Tyler.
Cloverdale

Allman, Joseph Peter
Baer, George Baker, P. M.
Brown, George
Brush, William Thomas
Brush, Fred Walker
Caldwell, John Wilcox
Caluwell, William Beatty
Cauch, Frank R.
Coffey, Clayton T.
Cooley, E tlward Arthur

MEMBERS:
Coe, George Washington
Conner, Frederick Pope
Dixon, Eugene Flutcher
Doty, William Edward
Field, John
Gale, Albert Orlanclo
Gillispie, William Eddy
Goetzelman, John, P. M.
Green, Robert F.
Hagnrnyer, Gotlob

204

ROSTER

ROSTER

Hall, John Henry
Harris, Charles William
Hensley, Joseph Clinton
Hollopeter, Elmer E.
Hood, George
Hurlbert, Robert H.
Humbert, Charles Emilie, P. M.
Kleieer, George W.
Kleieer, James Albert
Kleiser, James Henry
Kusich, George
Lamb, Francis Marion
Martens, Carl Hermann A.
Marincovich, Antone
Merritt, Frank K.
Moore, Harley LaVerne
Moore, Lawrence F.

Kier, Henry McBride
Kimerer, Albertis, P. M.
Kimerer, Carl
Leathers, John Abner
Leathers, Robert Scott H., P. M.
Mcclintock, James H.
McClintock, William Wirt
McGrath, U. Webster

Netherton, William B.
Perazzo, Joseph
Perazzo, Victor
Pinchower, Simon
Reed, Jeremiah, P . M.
Robb, James
Sedgley, Charles Loring, P. M.
Shelford, Peter L.
'l'hompson, Ernest B., P. M.
Trim, Charles F.
Ward, James Abram
Warren, George F.
Weston, George
Williams, Oliver Clayton
Wilson, Thomas Beggs
Yordi, Frank Arthur

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Thompson, Benjamin l~ranklin

-53.

EXPELLED:
Domine, Henry Fred

GRAFTON LODGE, No. 141.
Grafton, Yolo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Thomas Harry Dixon, Master,
I. J. Ely, Senior Deacon,
Grafton, Yolo County
R. S. H. Leathers, Junior D eacon,
Albertis Kimerer, Senior Warden, William McLean, Marshal,
Frank Elmo Ely, Junior Warden,
J. B. Huber, Steward,
Lloyd Nelson Tabler, Treasurer,
L. Fritz, Steward,
\\'illiam Harry Wraith, Secretary, Geo rge C. Peart, Tyler.
Grafton, Yolo County
MEMBERS:
Ely, Isaac Jefferson, P. M.
1',itch, Edward Lowell
Fritz, Leonard, P. M.
Goettsch, Peter, P. M.
Huber, ,John Boardman

-26.

WI'fHDRA WN:
McCune, Francis Eugene

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Guldager, George Madison

Cope, Clarence
Crane, Donald
Dixon, Thomas Harry, P . M.
Eakle, Quintus Vernile
Ely, }'rank Elmo

McGarth, Carroll S.
McLane, William
Peart, Barkley Gilbert, P. M.
Peart, George Clark, P. M.
Peart, Homer Lester, P. M.
Showball, Heiiry Havelock
Tabler, Lloyd Nelson
Wraith, William Harry

205

FRANKLIN LODGE, No. 143.
Courtland, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Howard D. Kercheval, Master,
Harrison Span Ivey, Chaplain,
Courtland, Cal.
William Henry Dean, Sen. Deacon,
Elbert Merwin Kercheval, S. War., Harvey Stephen Warren, Jim. Dea.,
Charles Emile Bauer, Jun. Warden., Peter Jacob Huth, Marsha·/,
Henry Franklin Isham, Trea<Surer, Russel Julian Coggeshall, Steward,
Charles Ernest Bunnell, Secretatry, Louis Helmer Fallman, Steward,
Courtland
Abner Coombs Phillips, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Green, Peter B., P. M.
Arrasmith, Vernon
Green, Beckman Boyd
Bauer, Charles Emilie
Greene, Arthur Edison
Bell, William Thomae
Greene, George Albert
Billups, Lewis Cass
Hechtman, Albert John
Bishop, Nathan Elmer
Hinsdale, Lester Jesse
Bunnell, Charles Ernest, P. M.
Hinsdale, Seymour Sidney
Coggshall, Russel Julian
Hollister, Charles Edwin, P. M.
Cornish, George Franklin
Huth, Peter Jacob, P. M.
Dean, William Henry
Hutton, William Mathew
Dean, Miles Robert, P. M.
Hyde, Joseph Henry, P. M.
Dean, Thomas Webster, P. M.
Ivey, Harrison Span, P. M.
DeBack, John August
Isham, Henry Franklin
Ellis, Henry Herbert M.
Fallman, Louis Helmer
Isham, Murray Leo

208
Goodwin, James Albert
Gordon, James Edward
Graham, Harry Irvine
Grant, Thomas Chamberlin
Grauerholz, Henry John
Gray, John Hatfield, P. M.
Green, Adam Treadwell
Gregg, Harry Blackburn
Gregory, Edward
Groves, Harry Leland
Habenicht, George Nichols
Habenicht, Rudolph
Hamilton, William Silas
Hammond, John Hays
Hanna, George Baum
Hardie, Frank Diedrich
Hawkins, James Shook
Hawks, James Lawrence, P. M.
Hedger, Leslie Arthur
Hendry, George William
Henshall, Richard Percy
Heuer, William Henry
Hicks, Oscar Penn, P. M.
Hilbert, Christian Henry
Hobro, William Dovey
Hodge, Robert, P . M.
!Iolcombe, Royal Arthur
Hooper, George Warren
Hopkins, Timothy
Hotaling, Richard M.
Houghton, Edward Payson
Hovey, Richard Hoffman
Holmes, Fred Elijah
Howard, Oliver Marshall
Howell, John Short
Hubbard, Adolphus Skinner
Hughes, Frederick Summerfield
Huie, Edward Mercer
Huie, Wm. Henry Thompson
Hume, Herbert
Hume, John Scotchler
Hume, Joseph Wadhams
Hunkin, Samuel Johns
Hunter, John Valpey
Hnsing, John Henry William

~OSTER

ROSTER
Hutchinson, Ely Israel, P . M.
Hyde, Richard Etting
!ls, John George
Imhof, Henry Francis
Jackson, Alden W.
Jacobs, John Peter
Jacobsen, Henry
Jaegeling, Julius Philip
,Teffreys, Herbert Morgau
Jennings, Edward B.
Jewell, Richard Corneliu:i, l. M.
,Tohnson, Roger
Johnston, Samuel Perry
Jost, George Willis
Jost, Joseph
Jost, William Rbeinhard, P. M.
Josselyn, Charles
Keith, Herbert Bayly
Kewell, Fred William
Kern, Herbert Prederick
Kibbler, William Thomas
Kip, James
Klein, Joseph
Kleinhans Albert
Knight, Charles Edwin
Koenig, Edward George
Labatt, Charles Bagot
Ladd, Frank Bacon, P. M.
Lake, George Bradbury
J,ang, Albert George
Lawton, George Ernest
Lee, Samuel James
Levensaler, James Adams
Lillard, Markwell
Lindsay, Matthew John
Lloyd, Fred Brochwel
Lotz, Augustus
Mackenzie, Charles Alex.
MacMullen, James
Macpherson, Fitzhugh
Mann, Clarence Martin
Marcus, Morris
Martin, Frank Chapman
Mathews, Henry Edward
Matheson, Kenneth

Mauzy, Byron
Mccutchen, Edward Johnson
McGinnes, Robert Tooms
McKenzie, Elmer Ellsworth
McLaughlin, William Francis
McPherson, Edward Butler
Merry, William Laurence
Metzner, Charles Francis
Meussdorffer, John Charles
Milestone, William Hebden
Miller, George Washington
Milligan, Robert
Mitchell, Albert Jerome
Moeller, Albert John
Montague, Wilfred Weed
Moody, Robert Roddy, P. M.
Morffew, Thomas
Morgan, Frederick Charles
Morris, Daniel Edward
Morris, Harrie Chester
Morrow, Robert Head
Morrow, William W.
Morton, Raymond Albert
Morton, William Earl
Muller, Henry Gustave
Murphy, Samuel Greene
Nauman, Clarence Charles
Nauman, Howard Arthur
Nelson, Arthur Selby
Newhall, Edwin White, P. M.
Newhall, William Mayo
New Myer, Willis Goss
Nichols, Thomas Henry
Onyon, Richard Toppin
Orear, Horace William
Parrish, Ellis Howard
Partridge, Edward Briggs
Partridge, Edward Briggs, Jr.
Partridge, John
Patrick, Walter Hartman
Patterson, Daniel James
Peel, Jonathan Morffew
Pennell, Henry Edward, P. M.
Pennell, Thomas Mead
Perry, John Melvin
14

209

Pierson, Fred Howard
Pike, Charles William
Pinkstone, Arthur John
Pitchford, John Benjamin
Plattner, Eugene Lester
Poheim, Joseph Francis
Poindexter, Theodore
Polk, James Knox
Pool, William Worth
Pryor, Alfred Edmund
Puckhaber, Charles Richard
Quigley, Leigh Richmond
Radke, August Hermann
Radke, Richard Lawrence
Rail, Eugene Benton
Ralston, William Chapman
Randall, Clement
Randall, Samuel Bunker
Randall, William Morse
Redington, Alfred Poett
Reid, James Steele
Remensperger, William Alex.
Riley, Earll Thomas
Ringressy, Albert Preston
Rising, Alfred Hunt
Robinson, Cornelius Preston, P. M.
Robinson, Leighton Charles Powell
Roebke, Fred Carl, Jr.
Rosie, Walter
Ross, Thomas Paterson
Roach, Elmer Duncan
Rowell, Leonard Gifford
Scherr, John Frederick
Schmid, Christian
Schmidt, Frederick
Schmitt, Joseph William
~chneider, Edward William
Schoning, Otto Alvin
Schohay, Albert John
Schott, Louis
Scott, Ebenezer
Seelig, George
Selfridge, James Russell
Seyler, Charles, Jr.
Siebe, George Henry

ROSTER

ROSTER

Turner, William John
Simpson, Waldie James
Van Ness, Arthur W.
Sloan, Clarence Barstow
Van Norden, Rudolph Warner
Sloane, Charles Francis
Veen, Frank Joseph
Smit}\, Edward Bruce
Von Rhein, Frank Lincoln
Smith, Harry Burt, Jr.
Voorman, Henry Augustus
Smith, Henry Sydney
Wallace, James Hargraves
Smith, Isaac Lincoln
Ward, John Thomas
Smith, James Coleman
Ward, William Douglas
Smith, Lewis Warren
. Warner, Charles Hutchinson
Smith, Walter Bashford
Washburne, Lynde Arthur
Snow, Alfred James
Watkins, Alonzo Augustus
Somers, Howard
Weaver, Albert Snyder
Spader, Charles Thoms
Weaver, <1hester Neal
Sprague, Peter Tiburco
Westerfeld, Carl
Spreckels, John Diedrich
Wells, Albert Ackley
Stillman, Charles
Wells, Norton Chamberlin
Stoddart, Augustus Wynne
Westdahl, Ferdinand, P. M.
Stokes, Frederick Robert
W estdahl, Ferdinand Wisby
Stoll, Albert George
Westdahl, Lawrence Hawley
Stroh, George Noyes
Wetherby, Wallace Tappan
Swain, Clarkson
Whelan, William Augustus
Swan, Benjamin Ralph
White, Charles Chesley
Swanson, Alex.
Whitehead, Ernest
Sullivan, Alan Elwood
Whitney, Charles William
Suydam, Charles Henry
Wieland, Emil John
Tallant, Frederick William
Wienand, Leopold David
Templeman, Henry
Willits, Charles Davis
Therkof, Gustave Henry
Williams, Arthur Volmar
Thomas, Henry Ignatious
Williams, Charles
Thompson, George Howard, P. M.
Wilson, John Charles
Thompson, Thomas Larkin
Windeler, Henry Frederick
Thomson, Stuart Coventry
Wood, Abraham
Thurston, Samuel Royal
Woolsey, Chester Howard
Tonningsen, John, P. M.
Younger, William John
Troutt, James Morris, P. M.
-361.
'furner, David

EXPELLED:
Danly, Marion Price

210

WITHDRAWN:
Bourke, ·wnuam Henry
Carlson, Charles James
Harrison, William Greer
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Smith, Henry Julian
Parsons, James Allen
Wadsworth, John Joseph

DIED:
Cubery, William McBurney
Hume, Robert Deniston
Eagleson, John Geddis
Jost, Charles, Sr.
Lloyd, Reuben Hedley

VITRUVIUS LODGE, No. 145.
Bloomfield, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

James King, Chaplain,
John D. Hinshaw, Master,
Ira B. Harvey, Senior Deacon,
Bloomfield
Rasmus Larsen, J u11ior Deacon,
Luis C. Bailey, Senior Warden,
Chauncey A. LeBaron, Jun. Warden, Harry S. Levens, Marshal,
A. J. Bianchini, Steward,
H. M. LeBaron, Treasurer,
Thomas J. Steele, Steward,
W. N. Cunningham, Secretary,
B. T. Cockrill, Tyler.
Bloomfield

Bailey, Louis Clark
Bianchini, Augostino
Bonaiti, Achelle
Borland, Robert
Caughey, James Francis
Coporgno, Virgil
Collister, Oscar, P. M.
Collister, William Stanley
Cockrill, Bruce Travis
Cockrill, William Aaron
Cornett, William Henry
Cunningham, William Nassan
Dickinson, Leon
Duncan, Thomas Jefferson
Eastman, Gustave
Freeman, Warren W.
Gouldager, Hans
Galehouse, Frank Clark
Hall, William Parker
Harvey, Ira Berry, P. M.

MEMBERS:
Herbert, William Henry
Hinshaw, John David, P. M.
Hopkins, Albon David
Irvin, James Thomas
Jameson, James Marshall
Jones, Patrick Carroll
Jones, Walter
King, James
Kowalsky, Henry Isaac
Larsen, Rasmus Gergen
Laufenberg, Michael Ney
LeBaron, Harrison Melvin, P. M.
LeBaron, Chauncey Arthur
Levens, Harry Stocking
Linebaugh, William Abraham
Morganti Epi
Oliver, John Salton, P. M.
Pellascio, Miglio John
Reinoehl, Charles Henry
Sartori, Ignazio

211

ROSTER

213

ROSTER

212

Seaman, Albert
Smith, Commodore Perry
Smith, Russell L.
Steele, David
Stillwell, Valencourt

Steele, Thomas John
Stump, John Conrad
Williams, Charles Celey
Wilson, Andrew

-48

DIED:
Winn, Albert Clark

ABELL LODGE, No. 146.
Ukiah, Mendocino County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OF:FICERS:

Bertram Leon Cleland, Master,
George Pressley Anderson, Chaplain,
Ukiah
James Davis Maddrill, Sen. Deacon,
Florine Eric Anker, S enior Warden, Frank Thomas Barker, Jim. Deacon,
William Bromley, Junior Warden, Louis Peter Ank~r, Marshal,
James Robert Mathews, Treasure1 , 'William Finne, Steward,
Isaac Wilson Grover, Secretary,
Charles Edward Peirce, Steward,
Ukiah
. Joseph Gannett, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Cleland, Bertram Leon
Abraham, Louis
Conry, Clarence Albert
Allen, Frederick Emerson
Cunningham, Charles, P. M.
Anderson, George Pressley
Cunningham, Wm. Watkins, P. M.
Anker, Florine Eric
Diddle, John Franklin
Anker, Louis Peter, P. M.
Dickinson, Almer Edwin
Anker, Niel, P. M.
Donohoe, Robert Emmett
Babcock, Lyman Wilbert, P. M.
Douglas, Roy Horton
Baily, Washington Irving, P. M.
Eversole, John Walter, P. M.
Banks, Robert William
Ewert, Alfred Henry
Barker, Frank Thomas
Fairbanks, Mandal Whipple
Barker, John Henry
Finne, William
Berryhill, Joseph Tanner
Finne, Fred
Bolm, George Hermansen
Flaherty, George Jay
Bond, Thomas Benjamin, P. M.
Foree, William Henry
Bradley, George Felix
Branscomb, Benj. Franklin, P. M. Frehe, Alfred L ewis
Gannett, Joseph
Bromley, William
Carothers, Thomas Langley, P. M. Ganter, Clarence Franklin
Ganter, Clinton Everett
Carothers, .Tames Holliday
Gowell, Charles Alfred
Case, Edwin Gains, P. M.
Grant, Francia Marion
Charlton, Thomas
Grant, Horace Gustavus
Chessall, William Henry, P. M.
Grover, Isaac Wilson
Cleland, Thomas Montana, P. M.

Porterfield, William Wilson
Handy, Fred Clark, P. M.
Proudfoot, William
Handy, Percy West
Held, William Daniel Louis
Randall, Henry Joshua
Hendrix, Jay Ward
Rhodes, George Harold
Hirsch, Benoit Samuel
Rosenberg, Samuel Louis
Roeder, Frederick Murdock
Hirsch, Maurice, P. M.
Hoag, Leslie
Rudee, Max
Hofman, Charles
Sandelin, Frank
Holliday, Stonewall Jackson
Saunders, John Herbert
Hopkins, Charles Blodget
Sandman, John Jacob
Schaefer, Max Alfred
Howard, William Harper
Schefer, John Henry
Hutchison, Robert Lee, P. M.
Johnson, Louis
Scholtz, Antone
Kellen, Orvelle Warren
Shinn, George Edgar
Kilbourn, William Vincent
Smith, Charles Henry
King, Edward Warren, P. M.
Smith, Douglas Clair
Lance, Goodman Harvey
Smith, Howard B., P. M.
Langren, August
Snow, John
Layton, Frank Burton
Stipp, Ralph
Maddrill, James Davis
Stout, George Washington, P. M.
Mannon, James Milton, Sr., P. M.
Stewart, George Duncan Bennett
Mannon, James Milton, Jr.
Taylor, John
Mannon, Charles McFeraon, P. M.
Thatcher, Arthur James, P. M.
Mathews, James Robert
Thomas, Micaja h Anderson, P. M.
Thomas, James Roberd
Mathews, Charles William
Thomas, William Pendleton
Markle, Robert Bruce
Thomson, Harry Adelbert
McClure, Arthur Bedford
Viles, Carlton Hoodlett
Mccowen, George, P. M.
Wagenseller, Norton
Mccowen, Hale, P. M.
Walton, Benson
McCraeken, Joseph Leslie
Montague, Lemuel Davia
Waugh, Fred Hittell
Morris, Harry
Westerman, Pleasant Ba.Uey
Wheeler, Samuel
Moseley, Oscar John
Wills, John Perry
Mulcahy, David
Wilson, Francis Marion
Orr, James Henderson, Jr.
Yell, Archibald, P. M.
Orr, James Henry
Zimmerman, William Tell
Peirce, Charles E dward
Poage, William Gustavus
-121.
WITHDRAWN:
Whitten, Carroll Henry
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Orr, Samuel Mu:ory
DIED:
Paxton, Samuel Dihel

214

ROSTER

ROSTER

EEL RIVER LODGE, No. 147.
Rohnenille, Humboldt County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Wellington Homer Stewart, Master, John William Dixon, Chaplain,
'
Metropolitan
Charles Frederick Evers, Sen. Dea.,
John Melvin Connick, Sen. Warden, Maxwell Parke Alexander, Jun. Dea.,
William John Norwood, Jun. W a,rd., George Edwin Stewart, Marshal,
Brice Hoagland McNeil, Treasurer, Samuel Porter Guthrie, Steward,
Charles Austin Eastman, Secretary, William Daniel Gray, Steward,
George Wells Stone, Tyler.
Fortuna.

MEMBERS:
Alexander, Maxwell Park
Eastman, Charles Austin, P. M.
Ellis, Clarence Eugene
Anderson, Martin
Baker, Henry Grant
Evers, Charles Frederick
Barkdull, Alva Raymon<l
Feigenbaum, Joseph
Fisher, Walter Thomae, P. M.
Barkdull, Joseph Carley
Barnes, Aaron Selby
Frost, Charles Baker
Frost, James Lambert
Beckwith, Frank Walter
Faulkner, Eaton
Bird, James Bishop,
Fuller, Willis Mears
Bowman, Reginald Hamilton
Fulton, Warren
Burgh, Louis Joseph
Cady, Ernest Carlton
Gillogly, Mathew Lee
Gray, William Daniel
Callihan, Robert
Chidester, Marion, P. M.
Grossen, Ebbe
Corning, Smith Peabody
Guthrie, Samuel Porter
Guthrie, William Porter
Connick, Alex. Grant
Connick, John Melvin, P. M.
Hansell, Harry Guthrie
Crabtree, Frank
Hansell, Hitrry Kingston F., P. M.
Dale, Jeremiah
Hansell, Amos, Jr.
Dale, John
Hancock, William Luther
Dale, Harvey, P. M.
Hansen, Daniel Webster
Davis, Henry Delasaux
Harris, Robert Lee, P . M.
Davis, Henry Nelson
Hauck, Nathan
Davis, George Oxley
Helmke, Frederick Martin
Delamere, Henry Sinclair, P. M.
Herrick, George Arthur
Dinsmore, Harold Adam
Hiller, George
Dinsmore, Fred Andrea
Hiller, Phillip Alex.
Dinsmore, George Evans
Howard, James Bloxum
Dixon, John William, P. M. ·
Hull, Joseph
Dobbyn, William Benton
Hubbard, James Calvert
Dunnigan, William Good
James, Samuel Oliver

Kay, Fred Moses
Kelley, Thomas Lamb
Lamb, Alex. Abel
Lamb, Winfield Scott
Lane, John Alex.
Lawson, James
Legg, Gordon Rolley
Long, George William
Loring, Ernest Ballard
Luther, ·Frank William
Leach, Frederick Arthur
Masson, Alexander
Maxwell, James Washington
McNeil, Brice Hogland, P. M.
Medcalf, John Edward H.
Newall, Daniel Sheldon
Newman, John George
North, Davis Beauregard
Norwood, William John
Oliver, Frank Wright, P. M.
Orcutt, Thaddeus Adam
Perrott, Walter Louis
Palmer, Edwin Alex.
Parkman, Clarence Edward
Plymale, Dionicius

Hansen, John Owen

Rowley, Charles A. E.
Runnels, Leslie
Runnels, William Leonard
Runner, John William
Ryan, John Walter, P. M.
Slingeby, James
Smith, Frederick David
Starr, Chester Thompson
Sears, Guy Travis
Stewart, George Edwin
Stewart, Wellington Homer
Stone, George Wells
Swanger, Samuel Frederick
Travis, John Armstrong
Tuttle, Frederick Ackerman
Towzey, William John
Underwood, George
Van Sickle, Thomas
Vancil, George Washington
Wagner, Ernest Edward
Weber, Martin
Weber, Michaels Nicholas
Wood, John William
Whitney, Charles Harris
Webster, Edward Warren
1

WI'l'HDRAWN:
McCord, James Clinton

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Johnson, William Rufus
Armstrong, Leon D.
Wellock, Charles Orville

Bryan, William Henry

DIE;D:
S!lngsby, George

215

-110.

216

LASSEN LODGE, No 149.
Susanville, Lassen County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
James Augustus Pardee, Master,
Ross Eber Bangham, Senior Deacon,
Susanville, Lassen County
Willis H. Davis, Junior Deacon,
John Skedge Borrette, Sen. Wa.rden, \Vi!liam Brockman, Marshal,
Albert Eugene DeForest, Jun. Ward., George Estell Bassett, Stewa.rd,
Louis Davis Hall, Treasurer,
John Fritz Hulsman, Steward,
William Stone Harrison, Secretary, Lewis Thibault, Tyler.
Susanville, Lassen County
MEMBERS:
Dodge, Edmund R.
Alexander, Jules
Arnold, Alex. Thrall
Easton, George Breeding
Earl, William Howard
Arnold, Medford Roop
Emerson, Charles Thomas
Asher, Morris
Emerson, Charles Ed., P. M.
Bangham, Eber Gaston
Bangham, Frank Henry
Enhorning, Herman Olaf
Bangham, Sandusky Fred
Folsom, Lewis Melville
Bangham, Ross Eber
Folsom, Melville Orman
Fraser, William Walter
Bassett, George Estell
Bennett, Herbert Warren, P. M.
Goumaz, Philip Jacob
Blake, James Curran
Gregory, A. Martin
Borrette, John Skedge
Hall, CharlP.s E.
Branham, James, P. M.
Hall, Wright Patrick, P. M.
Brockman, William, P. M.
Hall, William Henry, P. M.
Bunnell, Abel
Hall, Louis Davis
Burroughs, Harry De Forest
Hallowell, Charles Willis
Cahlan, John, P. M.
Hai:rison, William Stone
Cain, Fred A.
Hart, William Ralph, P. M.
Hines, Fred
Campbell, John Elmer
Caswell, Preston
Hulsman, John Fritz
Caughill, Charles Francisco
Hulsman, William Grant
Coffin, Erle B.
Hunsinger, Augustus Cassius
Collins, Raymond Humphrey
Hurlbut, Robert Ward
Cramer, Charles
Hyer, David Campbell
Cramer, Daniel Frederick
Johnson, William John
Davis, Willis H.
Kingsbury, Edward Orrin
DeForest, Charles Vaden
Knoch, David,
DeForest, Gilbert Edwarcl, P. M.
Knoch, Isaac
DeForest, Albert Eugene
Knudson, Lewis

217

ROSTER

ROSTER
Leavitt, B!!njamin Harrison
Leonard, Jared G.
Martin, Edward Alonzo
Masten, John Thomas
McDow, George Nelson
M ~Kay, Henry Thad.
McKinsey, Noble Samuel
Minckler, William David
Nathan, Solomon
Odett, Charles Albert
Otto, Fred A.
Pardee, James Augustus
Pardee, Julien Eugene, P. M.
Philbrook, Alonzo Kelley
Ramsey, Thomas Abner
Roseberry, Thomas Alex., P. M.
Rulison, Frederick Joseph
Schofield, Frank Crain
Shanks, Frederick Hastings
Sharp, William Walker

Sifford, Alex!
Smith, Louis Sprigg
· Snyder, Henry
Spalding, John Bridger
Spalding, Wilbur Fisk
Streshley, Frank D.
Talbott, Basie Homer
Thibault, Lewis
Tomb, George Lincoln, P. M.
Tremain, Joseph Mellow
Van Loan, Elmer
Van Norden, Thomas Albert
Vogt, John Henry, Jr.
Vincent, William Elmer
Ward, David Franklin
Ward, Franklin Millard
Williams, Joseph Billings
Wilson, Ernest Everett
Win<lhester, George Edward
Zimmerman, John William

-98.

WITHDRAWN:
Wilson, Jarred Morgan
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Mosley, Albert William
!:<'ox, Albert A.
DIED ;
Davis, William Smith

Johnston, Frank

MOLINO LODGE, No.

150.

Tehama, Tehama County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OI'I'IOERS:
Otto Edward Asman, Master,
Fred. Fleming Anderson, Chaplain,
Tehama
William Edward Wanee, Sen. Deacon,
George Beecher Champlain, S. War., Alfred Roy Clark, Junior Deacon,
Ernest Pier Clark, Junior Warden, Simpson Finnell, M arrshal,
George Charles Simpson, Treasurer, Henry Clark, Steward,
John James Worthington, Secretary, John Risse, Stewall'd,
Tehama
Charles Henry Clark, Tyler.

218

ROSTER

ROSTER

Aitken, Andrew Boyd
Aitken, Robert Balentine
Anderson, Fred Fleming
Asman, Otto Edward
Asman, Ulrich Henry
Boyd, Samuel Madison, P, M.
Bratten, John Michael
Britt, George Leroy
Carr, Nielson
Chamberlain, Joseph
Champlain, George Beecher
Clark, Alfred Roy
Clark, Aurelius Ray
Clark, Charles Henry
Clark, Henry
Clegg, Robert
Finnell, Simpson
Golden, John Henry
Golden, Nicholas Francis
Gyle, Louis Abraham
Gyle, Sylvan Herman, P. M.
Gyle, Joseph Charles
Hall, John Edward
Houseman, John Samuel
Houseman, Robert Porterfield
Lee, William
McBride, William G.
McGuinness, Thomas, P. M.

MEMBERS:
Miller, William Wallace
Montgomery, William Thomas
Morrisey, Thomas Francis
Muller, John Baptist
Osborn, Jesse Mason
Peden, Albert Oliver
Pitts, Eugene Hiram
Risse, John
Rikert, Benjamin Frederic
Schroer, Frederick
Sellick, William Joseph, P. M.
Simpson, John, P. M.
Simpson, George Charles
Smith, Matthew Allen
Smith, Raymond Manlove
Stanley, Edward Charles
Stock, Joseph Ferdinand
Tuman, George Elmer
Tuman, Edward Whited
Tyler, Ulysses Butte
Vogelsang, George
Wanee, William Edward
Weitemeyer, George James
Williamson, William
Wood, Charles
Worthington, John James
Zintz, Conrad Thomas

WITHDRAWN:
'"Rankin, John Moses
DIED:
Storrs, Edward William
•Degrees conferred during the year.

-55

219

WOODLAND LODGE, No. r56.
Woodland, Yolo County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Charles Edward Dingle, Master,
Eugene :r'homas Lampton, Sen. Dea.,
Woodland
William Dykes, Junior Deacon,
John William McQuaid, Sen. Ward., Charles Wilbur Thomas, Jr., Marshal,
Thomas Green Hughes, Jun. Warden, Aytchmonde Clearance Read, St'd.,
Frederick Miller, Treasurer,
Warren Allston Brown, Steward,
William Henry Curson, Secretary, Tracey Boerstler, Tyler.
Woodland
Armstrong, Bert
Bafrd, Edward Llewellyn
Ball, Byron, P. M.
Ball, Chester Alex.
Ball, Gerald Lamont
Balfour, Douglas, P. M.
Bandy, James Edward
Bandy, Claude Marion
Barnes, Henry Thomas
Beamer, Richard Henderson
Black, William Small
Blanchard, Frank Williams
Blevins, William Joseph
Boerstler, Tracey
Brown, Richard Marion
Brown, Warren Allston
Browning, Robert Welch
Burns, Daniel Monroe, P. M.
Bush, Henry Jonathan
Coil, Herbert Elmer
Coil, LeRoy
Craig, Wilton Porter
Craig, John Stephens
Criteser, William Thomas
Crutcher, Elliott Wallar
Curson, William Henry, P. M.
Day, Russell Traver
Deaner, Samuel Christian
Dickinson, Clarence Fitzhugh

MEMBERS:
Dickey, Edward Willise
Dingle, Charles Edward
Dungan, Jesse Holland
Dykes, William
Eakle, Henry Poffenberger, Jr.
Elliott, Henry Baker
Ellison, John Harrison
Everett, Louis Phillip
Ewert, Friedrich Charles
Fairchild, Fred Ross
Farnham, Erastus Sylvester
Ferguson, Franklin Benjamin
Gaddis, Edward Everett
Garoutte, Jere Monahan
Gable, Hayes Harvey, P. M.
Gibson, Thomas Ballard
Gibson, Robert James
Gill, Henry Davis
Gostick, Charles Edward
Grant, John T.
Gregory, William Henry
Griggs, Sylvester Minor
Harling, John Douglas
Hartsock, Herman Adam
Hartsock, Luzerne Harrison
Hawkins, Bellwoo<.l Chase
Hawkins, Nicholas Andrew
Hays, David
Hayward, Edward Babbitt

220

ROSTER
ROSTER

Hecke, Gustav Henry
Hilliker, Loren Warren
Hollingsworth, George Warren
Holt, David Eldred
Holt, Isaac Henry
Houston, Arthur Craig, P. M.
Houston, Edward Panamore
Houston, Harry Lyle
Hughes, Thomas Green
Hyman, William ·Morris, P. M.
Kauffman, Forrest Augustus
Kean, William Otho
Kincheloe, Zachariah Benson
Kitto, Thomas Humphrey
Lampton, Eugene Thomas
Lasky, Israel
Langenour, William Roy, P. M.
Langenour, Charles T.
Lawhead, Hiram Davis
Lee, Adelbert Robert
Leithold, John Vincent
Malcolm, Walter Francis
Mattei, Fred Louis
Mattei, Frank Peter
Miller, }'rederick
Miller, David
Miller, Hezekiah Monroe
Miller, Norman Boone
Michael, Joseph
Michael, Morris
Mixon, William Franklin, P. M.
Morris, Amiel
Morris, Ira Allen, P. M.
Montgomery, Samuel Morris
Murray, Joseph Alfred
Murray, Sidney Lafayette
McConnell, James Isom, P. M.
McFarland, John Carr
McQuaid, John William
Musgrove, Jacob DeKalb
Nason, Fred Lowell
Nelson, William Wirt
North, Arthur Walbridge
Osborne, Clyde Albert

Owens, Ivor David
Parker, Oscar Erwin
Per.ltlns, Calvin
Petersen, Wilhelm Johan
Pond, Wallace Rognetta
Porter, Harry Delosa
Rablin, William Henry
Rahm, Francis Marion
Rasmussen, Hans Jacob W.
Rasor, U!aire
Read, Aytchmonde Clarence
Reese, Thomas Brown
Relyea, Simon Baker
Richmond, Charles Lambard
Roberts, Hampton Evans
Rosenberg, Isidor
Russell, Willie F.
Ryan, Henry Philander
Saunders, Harry Russell
Schuder, William Campbell, P. M.
Sieber, Christian Henry
Sieber, Louis Chris
Smith, James Kerson, P. M.
Spaulding, Thaddeus Stephens
Stephens, Benjamin Hickman
Taylor, James Thomas
Taylor, Justus Hurd
Thompson, George Gilbert
Thomas, Charles Wilbur, Jr.
Van Meter, Conrad Lucius
Von Jochumson, Frederick
Wallace, Richard Percival
Ward, Moses Wylie
Weaver, Frank Walter
Whitney, George Elledge
Wilcoxon, Caleb Russell, P. M.
Wilson, Preston Gillen
Wirth, Christian Frederick
Williams, John Calvert
Williams, Samuel Thomas
Windsor, John William
Winne, William Henry
Witham, Alvin Milton
Wright, John Henry
-146.

221

WITHDRAWN:
Smith, James Leroy

Diggs, Marshall

Beckwith, Charles J.

DIED:
Howell, Marcus W.
Ish, Monroe S.

KEYSTONE LODGE, No. 161.
Milton, Calaveras County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFTOERS:

Chandler Huntington, Master,
Steven Decatur Hildebrand, Chap.,
Milton
.
Horace Bell Allen, Senior Deacon,
Johann Freidrick Helms, Sen. Ward., William Samuel Dennis, Jun. Deacon,
Addison Leroy Hartsock, Jun. Wa,r., Milton Honey, Marshal,
Marion Lee Hunt, Treasurer,
James Joshua Lillie, Steward,
Charles Wise Rhodes, Secretary,
Nills Jorgen Wm. Jorgenson, Stew'd,
Milton
Wm. Henry Harrison Rhodes, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Allen, Horace Bell, P. M.
Jorgenson, Nills Jorgen Wm., P. M.
Baker, John Manuel, P. M.
Klemp, Jacob
Batcher, Conrad Franklin
Mercer, Robert Ainsworth
Brooks, Walter Ellsworth
Nevens, Thomas
Buckley, William Langdon
Persons, William Milton
Burnham, Frederick Cloyd
Rhodes, William Henry Harrison
Rhodes, Charles Wise, P. M.
Cameron, James Henry
Ross, Arthur Gilbert
Dennis, William Samuel
Denton, Walter Lines
Shepherd, James Shields
Shipley, William Chapman, P. M.
Fontana, Charles Dominic
Smith, Donald Craig
Helms, Johann Frederick
Hildebrand, Steven Decatur, P. M. Snow, William
Honey, Milton
Stewart, John Daniele
Thompson, John Joseph
Horne, Frank Edmond
Hunt, Marion Lee
Williams, George Manley
Wheeler, Rees Thompson
Huntington, Chandler, P. M.
Johnston, Benjamin
-33.
Hendrick, Nathaniel Ward

DIED:
Ortman, Herman

222

ROSTER

ROSTER

HARMONY LODGE, No 164.
Sierra City, Sierra County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
William Andrew. Lavery, Master, Arthur Richard Pride, Sen. Deacon,
Sierra City
.
Jay Clarance Folsom, Junior Deacon,
Thomas Colfax Botting, Sen. Ward., Levi Garfield Steward
John Avignoni, Junior Warden,
George Scott' Black, sieward,
John Sorrocco, Treasurer,
Richard James, Tyler.
William Cox, Secretary,
Sierra City
Avignoni, John
Avignoni, Richard F elix
Black, George Scott, P. M.
Botting, Thomas Colfax
Busch, Ernest Frederick
Cox, William, P. M.
Castagnetti, Jerome, P . M.
Culbertson, Claude Milnott
Folsom, Jay Clarance

MEMBERS :
Garfield, Levi
James, William Matthew
Jani.es, Richard
Lavery, William Andrew, P. M.
Mooney, Isaac Thompson
Pride, Arthur Richard
Sorrocco, John
White, George Edward
-17.

WITHDRAWN:
Castagna, Charles

EXCELSIOR LODGE, No. 166.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
1739 Fillmore Street.
OFFICERS:
William Henry Dick, Master,
P hineas Fanning Ferguson, Sen. Dea.,
San Francisco
Joseph Arthur Kuykendall, Jun. Dea.,
Henry Charles Collins, Sen. Warden, William Francis Buswell Marshal1
Howard Delos Noble, Jun. Warden, J ames Hardy Lewis, St;ward,
Sam Houston Daniels, Treasurer,
Benjamin Milfred Wood, Steward,
Hugh James Owen, Secretary,
George W ashington Perkins, Tyler.
1888 O'Farrell Street

MEMBERS:
Boutelle, William Clarence
Adams, Adolph
Bramsted, John Henry
Adams, Charles Albert, P. M.
Brann, Walter Scott
Alexander, George Lewis
Breidenbach, Emile Henry
Allen, Arthur Fuller
Bristol, Harlan Page
Allen, Isaac Patten
Brown, Albert Nelson
Allen, John
Brown, Henry Eastman
Ammerup, Gottlieb Adolph
Brown, James Albert
Anderson, Reinhold Laracenius
Brown, Moses Pettingell
Arding, Walter Arthur
Brown, Willis Merritt
Armstrong, George Robert, P. M.
Brunings, John Henry
Atkins, Frank Ernest
Atkinson, Thomas Thompson, P. M. Brunt, Walter Neat, P. M.
Bryan, Charles Henry, P. M.
Auger, Harry Leon
Bryant, Edgar Reeve
Averell, Herman Ellsworth
Buchanan, James Campbell
Ay ers, Edward Newton
Buchse, Ernest Augustus
Baker, Francis Joseph
Buffington, William Horace
Baker, James Whitney
Bull, Franklin Pettingel, P. M.
Ballard, Jedediah Stow
Bundy, George
Balls, John
l3usley, Frederick Henry
Bane, Christopher Columbus
Buswell, William Francis
Barnhisel, Epenetus Rodgers
Cameron, John William, P. M,
Barr, William George
Campbell, Henry Homer
Barrere, Louis
Campe, John George
Bauer, Charles Franklin
Carlson, Gustave Edwin
Bauer, George William
Carter, Stewart
tlaxter, Charles Arthur
Chandler, Lewis Edward
Baxter, Hiram Dudley
Chlopeck, Erwin Ladislaf
Beatty, John
Christesen, Martin August C.
Belcher, William Johnson
Clark, True Sanford
Bender, Carl Godfrey
Claussenius, Maximilian
Bender, George Lee
Cloak, Henry Burdell
Benjamin, Frank Edward
Clover, John Alex.
Berry, DeLos Tracy
Clufl', William
Bisbee, George Washington
Coffin, Joseph Wilbur, Jr.
Black, James Alex.
Cole, Nathaniel Parker
Blake, Sumner Iverson
Colestock, Thomas David
Blanchard, Walter Hutchings
Blanckenburg, Emil Louis William Colford, Lewis Oscar
Collins, Henry Charles
Bodler, Frank Frederic
Collins, William Henry
Boettcher, Paul
Conrad, John George, P. M.
Bogen, William
Cook, Carroll, P. M.
Bohls, Henry
Corbett, William Colver
Borland, James Howatt
Cory, Frank Hoyt
Bothin, Julius Christopher

.

'"223

224

ROSTER

Covert, George Howard
Croal, George James
Cumback, William Elbert
Cuthbert, John William
Cutter, Edward Bowie
Daniels, Sam Houston, P. M.
Davidson, John Clay
Davia, Burt Lincoln
Davis, Charles Lott
Davis, Marks
Davis, Warren Franklin
Davis, Winfield Scott
Deering, Frank Prentiss
DeGuire, Robert Paul
Delamater, Rolla Cornelius
Delzelle, William Robert
Dial, Edwin Lee
Dick, William Henry
Dillon, Gerald Luke
Doherty, John Charles
Dorr, Levi Lewis
Dorr, William Raymond
Dow, Edwin Tyson
Duff, Thomas Carson
Dunkle, Edwin M.
Dunne, Joseph John
Dye, Milo Ernest
Earhart, Earl
Easton, Wendell, P. M.
Eaton, Louis Page
Edwards, James Washington
Edwards, Raymond Arden
Edwards, William
Bidenmuller, William Cooper
Emerick, Walter Archibald
English, Edward
Esser, Alex. Julius
Evers, Edward Napoleon
Faulkner, Charles Pittman, P. M.
Faull, Ashley Richard
Faull, William Clark
Fenkhal.lsen, Rudolph Henry
Fennimore, Walter Dana
Ferguson, George Bonnell
Ferguson, Howard William

.Ferguson, Phineas Fanning
Ferguson, William Cook
Ferullo, David
Feudner, Martin Otto
Fischer, Edward George
Fisher, William
Fitch, Luther Edward
Forbes, John Franklin
Ford, Joseph Daniels
Forry, Charles Edward
l!'orster, Edwin Lycurgus, P. M.
Foster, Colin Lawrence
Frazer, Thomas Jackson
Frisbee, George Gordon
Frisbee, Jacob Lynn
Gallet, Henry Wells
Gardner, John l!.indicott
Garoutte, Charles Henry
Garratt, Milton Donohue
Gauthier, Eugene, Jr.
Geissler, Carl George Lewis
Gerdes, Frederick Carsten
Gerdts, John
Gingg, Emil
Gingg, Herman Charles, P. M.
Gingg, Rudolf Cleveland
Gould, Charles Walter
Gould, Harry Folsom'
Graham, Thomas Dunnett
Greene, Charles Henry
Gregory, Edward Herbert L.
Gruenhagen, Charles Henry
Gruenhagen, Theodore Godlowe
Gues.t, Thomas Frederick
Guyett, Roderick George, P. M.
Hagbom, Emil Wilhelm
Hagglund, John Gustave
Hall, Frank Delmer
Halsted, William Augustus
Hammond, Manton E.
Hannigan, Michael Percival
Hare, Darrell Allen, P. M.
Hart, Harrold D.
Heitmu.Jler, Henry Diedrich
Hellwig, Herbert Frederick

ROSTER
Hemenway, Sylvester Wash.
Hensley, Frederick Conway, P. M.
Hensley, George Augustus
Hensley, William John
Herndon, Newton Booth
Hess, William Edward
Hill, John Ellis
Hoffman, Ramon King
Hogan, Howard Henry
Hollister, Frank E.
Howard, Charles Stewart
Hughes, Jesse Pierce
Hulme, Charles Allen
·Hulme, Edwin Page
Hulme, James Garfield
Hummel, Herman Henry
Humphrey, Charles Franklin
Hunter, Frank Lee
Hunter, Lewis Clarence, P. M.
Hutchison, Benjamin Franklin
Iredale, Charles Winslow
Irvine, Leigh Hadley
Irving, Alex.
Johnson, Frank
Johnson, James Halvor
Johnson, John Charles
Jones, Albert Thomas
Jones, Arthur Owen
Jones, Arthur Sidney
Jones, William Ernest
Kampe, Solomon
Karasek, Frank
Keene, Reginald Edwin
Kelton, Edward Ames
Kempston, Arthur
Kenyon, Curtis George, P. M.
Kern, Morris James
Kerr, Thomas Blair
Kincaid, John Evans
King, Thomas Carter
Klein, John Adolph
Knowles, Samuel Edwaru
Knowlton, John Sylvester
Kohn, Isaack

225

Koster, John Andreas
Krieger, Charles Mathew
Kuenzi, Albert Rudolph M.
Kuhls, Frederick August
Kuykendall, Joseph Arthur
Lacey, Albert Ernest
Lacey, Joseph Carlisle
La Forest, Emile
Lank, Samuel James
Large, William Henry
Laughlin, Clyde Briggs
Lawrie, John Urquhart
Lawton, Zephaniah
Leary, Daniel Florence
Leavitt, John Wheele
Legge, Robert Thomas
Leithead, Charles Ellsworth
Lewis, James Hardy
Lewis, Leland Stanford
Lindsey, Edward Kimball
Lloyd, William Vaughn
London, Henry
Long, George Searley
Love, James Alex.
Lowe, Edmund Ashbrook
Lucas, Walter Edward
Lumley, John
Lund, Peter Renhold
Lutkey, George
Mackie, William
Mangrum, Arthur Sherman
Marks, Jesse Emanuel
Martens, Frederick Theo.
Marweclel, Charles Walter
Masterson, Joseph Alfred
Maxwell, Franklin
Mayer, Loui~ Carl
Mcclaughry, Hull
McCoy, Henry Dohrman
McGregor, Samuel
McKenna, Joseph Dimond
McKeller, Norman
McLean, Walter Joseph
McMullin, Samuel

15

•

226

ROSTER

McNair, William Wilson, P. M.
Mehrtens, John Henry
Merrill, Jay Harrold
Mettmann, Frank Xavier
Miall, Cuthbert Erskine M.
Miles, William Emmert
Miller, Alex. Charles
Miller, Glen
Mills, Warren Fountain
Minor, Theo. Henry
iJ:inson, Robert Kemp
Mitchell, George Marion
Mix, Lee Williamson
Moraghan, John Owen.
Morgan, Charles Lewis
Morrison, John Chambers
Moseley, Anclrew Simpson
Murdock, George Hamilton
Naunton, George
Nichols, James Francis
Nicoll, Wallace Clifton
Noble, Howard Delos
Nutter, Eugene Colby
Osborn, Lamartine
Overgaard, Soren K!!~~den
Overton, Charles Parshall, P. M.
Owen, Edgar Hugh
Owen, Hugh James, P. M.
Owen, Melville Griffith
Parish, Mark
Parker, Edwin Everett
Parsons, Edward Darious
Patterson, Robert Hamilton
Pease, Charles Julius
Pedlar, William James
Percy, Earl Newman
Perkins, George Washington
Perkins, Samuel Henry, P. M.
Perry, Frederic Jewell
I-ippy, George Henry
Plughoff, Albert David
Polastri, Richard Stephen
Porcher, John
Postiglione, Guiseppi Maria
Powers, Aaron Hubbard

•

Purdie, John Stewart
Purrington, Clarence Woodford
Quevedo, Francisco
Quigley, George Frederick
Ralph, James Davison
Ralston, Henry James
itamacciotti, Hugo Francis
Raubinger, William John
Reardon, Charles Fairfax
Rednall, William Walter
Reichling, Albert Henry
Rice, Richard James
Richards, James Symmes
Rietzke, Gustave Charles
Sanford, Wimburn Laurie ,
Scheerer, Joseph
. Schetzel, Adolph Georg
Schmidt, Edwin Valentine
Schmidt, Henry Claus
Schroepfer, Albert
Scott, George
Scott, Horace Vanansdol
Scull, Charles
Seybolt, Frederick Lewis
Shainwald, Herman
Sharp, William Enfield
Shartzer, Thomas Farrington
Shaw, Butler Emerson
Shaw, Herbert Goss
Shortridge, Samuel Morgan
Sims, Richard Maury
Skinkle, Almeron
Smith, Charles Robert
Smith, Haldor
Smith, Robert Masson
Southard, Albert Burley
Sparrowe, Thomas William
Specht, Charles
Spencer 1 Franklin Morse
Spengler, Edward Philips
Staley, Robert 'l'ilghman
Stephens, James Alex.
Stites, George Reid
Stockfl.eth, John
Stofen, John Jacob, P. Id.

ROSTER

Stowell, Fred Willis
Strachan, John Ernest
Stratford, Harry James
Stromberg, Bernard Fritho:ff
Stroud, John Rodgers
Stuart, William Elder
Sturken, Fabian Henry
Sumner, Frank William
Suydam, James Hobart
Taber, Charles Wesley
Tait, William Cove
Taylor, George McClellan
Taylor, Henry
Terry, Wallace Irving
Tibbitts, Francis Albert
Tiffany, William Zobel
Tolman, Rufus Jenkins
Tomlinson, Richard Frank
Trittenbach, Emil
Umbsen, Gustave Henry
Vail, Aiken Hiller
Van Schaick, Frank Chester
Veeder, Herman Greig
Veeder, Howard Potter
Von Bonin, Carl
Von Hartwig, Carl
Von Wefelsburg, Alex. B., P. M.
Walbey, Reginald Walter
Walker, Thomas Dawson
Wallace, James Sanderson
Walters, Edward Charles
Ward, Charles Herbert
Weber1 John
Bremner, George St. John

227

Webster, Walter Byron
Welch, Willard Choate
Wenzelburger1 Chas. Wm. Augustus
W enzel]:mrger, Emil
Werner, Carl
Westphal, Christian Henry
W estphl, Edward William
Westphal, Henry William
Westphal, Otto Frank, P. M.
Wetmore, John Griffith
Whirlow, Herman Francis
White, Majer John
Whitelaw, Henry William
Wiegel, Louis Henry
Wiesenhaven, Henry Herman
Williams, Albert William
Williams, Harry de Nell
Williams, Joseph Rickard
Wilson, Charles Harold
Wilson, Joseph Lewis
Wilson, Thomas Chamberlain
Wolfe, Clarence Navarre
Wood 1 Benjamin Milfred
Wood, Charles Michael
Wood, William Joseph
Woods, Henry Frank
Woodward, Gideon Paschall
Wright, Francis Finelon H.
Wynn, John Edward
Young, Cla1·ence Eaton
Zett, George John
Zipf, Albert l!'erdinand
--421.

WITHDRAWN:
Parnell, William Russell

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Wllson, Victor Grlfilth
DIED:
Darden, James Goodman (E. A.) McDonnell, Samuel Alex.
Friend, Edmund
Nevin, Charles William (E. A.)
Perkins, Willis Thomas

22!)

ROSTER

228

ROSTER

ALAMEDA LODGE, No. 167.
Centerville, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Edward Arnold Grau, Master,
Philip Austin Ellis, Chaplain,
Irvington
Arthur Webster Haley, Sen. Deacon,
George Whitfield Wright, Sen. War., Edward Blaine Kientz, Jun. Deacorf,
Eugene Nathaniel Babb, Jun. Waird., Farley Benjamin Granger, Marshal,
Peter Christian Hansen, Treasurer, George Frazier Sullivan, Steward,
Arthur Theodore Biddle, Secretary, Samuel Franklin Brown, Steward,
Newark
James Albert Spencer, Tyler.
Ames, Alden Thayer
Babb, Eugene Nathaniel
Baker, Ellis William
Barry, William
Basler, Henry Ernest
Beebe, George A.
Biddle, Arthur Theo.
Blacow, John Robert
Blacow, Richard Deering
Blair, Thomas Henry
Brewer, James Morris
Brisacker, Leo
Brown, Barton Alva
Brown, Samuel Franklin
Burt, James Frederick
Christiansen, Andrew
Corkefair, Charles Parson
Cushing, John Henry
Cushman, Douglas
Colby, Herbert Eugene
Cook, Arthur G.
Crosby, Henry
Dilliard, Caleb Edwin
Dixon, Mathew William
Durham, Judge Haley
Ehrman, Solomon
Ehrman, Alfred
Elli!!, Phillip Austin
Eggers, Louis Herman
Emerson, Henry Whyle, P. M.

MEMBERS:
Evans, Charles, P. M.
Farley, Newton Seymour
Finn, Alexander
Ford, William Henry
Ford, Henry Darnal
Fischer, George Cresent
,
Granger, Farley Benjamin, P. M.
Grau, Edward Arnold, P. M.
Graham, George Edwin
Green, Harry Beck
Gregory, George L.
Hansen, Peter Christian
Haley, Arthur W.
Haley, Comfort
Haley, William Wallace
Hare, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
H ellwig, George Peter
Higley, Seward, Oliver
Horner, Charles Frederick
Huxley, Thomas Charles, P. M.
Ismert, Edwin Julias
Jung, William
Jackson, H enry William
Jacobus, Julian Edgar
Kientz, Edward Blaine
Kirk, William Bruff
Lang, Ernest George
Larkin, Amos Stephen
Lebrecht, Adolph
Lowry, John Charles F rederick

Love, Charles Allen
May, Henry
M~Dougal, James
McLeod, James M.
McKeown, James
McKenna, Fergus
Mills, James H.
Morrison, Perry
Mortimer, Frank
Mowry, Joseph Ch('ney
Nicholson, John Alex.
Norris, Albert, P. M.
Overacker, Charles Bernard
Overacker, Howard
Patterson, Henry Hawley ·
Peterson, William Beadford
Plourde, Prosper
Ralph, Ivan Bernett
Runckel, Christian
Salz, Clarenc.e Ferdinand
Salz, Sigmund

Satterthwait, Abbott, P. M.
Silva, Manuel Francisco
Simpson, Ozias Buddington
Smith, Walter Roderick
Southwick, Oliver Lyman, P. M.
Spencer, James Albert
Stanley, James
Stormer, Fred Arly
Sullivan, George Frazier
Symon, James Charles
Terrill, John Byron, P. M.
Trefry, James A.
Volmer, Rudolph, P. M.
Walton, George Edward Parsons
Werner, Edward Peter
Whipple, Edwin, P. M.
Whipple, James Ray
Whitfield, Albert Arthur
Williams, George Henry
Wills, Clarence A.
Wright, George Whitfield
-102.

WITHDRAWN:
Rigsby, John Wllllam
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Hudson, George Henry

Fowler, Herbert Eli

DIED:
Hellwig, Frederick Phllllp

REDWOOD CITY LODGE

No. 168.

Redwood City, San Mateo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next pre<'.eding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Roy Walter Cloud, Master,
John Emory Cowgill, Senior Deacon,
Redwood City
James Ellis Ensor, Junior Deacon,
Ernest Henry Werder, Sen Warden, James Jay Rogers, Marshal,
Richard Frederic Chilcott, Jun. War., George Henry Leary, Steward,
Ludwig Philip Behrens, Treasurer, George Page Baldwin, Steward,
William Henry Kelso, Secretary,
John Watkin Glennan, T yler.
Redwood City

230

ROSTER

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Holmquist, Rudolph Carl
Andreen, Nils Andy
Bacon, Willard Wilson
Jacobus, Charles
Joyce, William Holland
Baldwin, George Page
Kelso, William Henry
Barret, Walter Melville
Kempster, James William H.
Barstow, William Addison
Bassetti, Antonio
Kreiss, George Augustus
Beeger, Charles Christian
Landscheit, Charles George, P. M.
Leary, George Henry
Behrens, Ludwig Philip
Lipp, William Henry
Black, Henry
Locklin, Curtis Brockway
Blomquist, Alfred George
Look, William Clarence
Boicelli, Daniel
Boicelli, Victor
Lowe, Albert Louis
Lowe, Julius William, P. M.
Breeze, James Pattison
Brown, Robert
Mansfield, Joel Henry
Chamberlain, P. Peregreen, P. M. MacBain, John
Chilcott, Richard Prederic
Matheisen, Boh
Cloud, Roy Walter, P. M.
McCracken, Charles Larkin
Conover, John Simpson
McCrea, Samuel Pressly
Cook, Alonzo
McNulty, George William
McPherson, John Andrew
Cowgill, John Emory
Crowe, James
Muller, Carl
Dobbel, Charles Henry Louis
Moberry, L eonard Albert
Eckhart, Charles Harmon
Mosher, Alvin Hiram
Einstein, Gabriel
Murray, Kenneth Sinclair
Elvin, Ferdinand
Neal, George Albert
Emmett, Walter Alfred
Nielson, Knud Kristian
. Ensor, James Ellis
Orton, Wellington Eugene
Fox, Edwin Benton
Otzen, Lorenz
Fulton, Albert Leonidas
Peers, Alex.
Gillespie, James
Pipkin, James Marion
Glennan, John Walkin
Pipkin, William Henry
Goodspeed, Isaac Roscoe
Poole, John
Graham, Andrew
Poole, John Wesley, P. M.
Haseler, H enry
Ralston, John Thurston
Hayward, Clarence Decatur
Ramsay, Thomas Henry
Headley, William
Rice, Thomas Clarke
Heiner, Harold Otto
Rich, Charles Robert
Heiner, Lawrence Andrew
Robertson, Charles David
Rogers, James Jay
Hexner, Louis
Ross, George Carlos
Hextrom, Charles August
Ross, Joseph Louis
Heydenfeldt, Thomas 0., P. M.
Rumbol, Richard Foyster
Hillebrand, Henry
Saunders, Benjamin Rankin
Hoffman, Carl Paul M.
Sebastiana, Salvatore
Holden, George Walcott

Shrewsbury, William Arthur
Stevenson, Howard Griffith
Stuart, William Baker
Swanson, Carl
Thompson, Henry Bailey
Towne, Frank Kendall, P. M.

231

West, George Elmer
Werder, Ernest Henry
Winkler, John Karl G.
Wisnom, John
Yount, George Henry
-99.
DIED:

•carter, William Bottomley

Hughes, William

MISSION LODGE, No. 169.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, First Wednesday in each month
2668 Mission Street.
OFFICERS:
Harry Everett Leland, Master,
John Hazlett, Senior Deacon,
790 Ashbury St., 19 Fremont St. Otto Louis Sues, Junior Deacon,
Robert Edward Allan, Sen. Warden, Eugene Bartlet Hallett, Marshal,
Henry Hall, Junior Warden,
Thomas Inglis Janes, Steward,
George William Lunt, Treasurer,
Ernest Deaderick Woodman,, Stew'd,
Frank Wesley Smith, Secretary,
James Edward Parmelee, Tyler.
2668 Mission Street.
Aikins, Thomas George
Aitchison, William John
Allan, Robert Edward
Allan, Thomas John
Allen, Arthur Dence!
Allen, Richard Spicer, P. M.
Allon, Waldo Frederick
Allen, William James
Amy, Winfield Scott
Anderson, Edward Walter
Anderson, Isaac
Anderson, Jonathan
Andrews, John
Andrews, Marine Axel
Antonsen, Hans
Apperson, John Alex., P. M.
*Rt,stored during the year.

MEMBERS:
Arata, Mario Frank
Arnberger, Richard Claus
Arnold, Harry Brown
Arthur, James Lemuel
Astrup, Hagen Frederick
Atkinson, George Frederick
Ayres, William Wallace
Badgley, Gilbert Benjamin
Ball, Thaddeus
Ballinger, Fred Sessions
Barker, Joseph
Barlow, William George
Barnes, William Wallace
Barz, Frederick Carl
Basney, Virgil Fyler
Battelle, Ernest Leslie

232
Bates, William Edwin
Bean, Herbert David
Becht, George Joseph
Beck, Adam
Becker, George Ernest
Beede, Stephen McDonald
Beicke, Louis John Emil
Bemiss, Lincoln Edward
• Benedict, Amos William
Benedict, Charles Edward
Benedict, James Seymour
Benner, Emerson Ozias
Bennett, John Joseph
Berg, George Charles
Berg, Isaac
Berger, William Joseph
Bettancourt, John Franklin
Beverly, Edward Howard
Bigelow, Edwin Wells
Bishop, Frank Bryant
Bishop, Sherman Augustus, P. M.
Bitley, Frank William
Black, Edwin Crane
Black, William
Blackburn, William Henry
Bloomer, Samuel Merritt
Bodie, Harry William
Boelen, William Charles
Bolander, Louis Phillip, Jr.
Bolting, Arthur John
Booth, Percy Harold
Bovadt, William
Boyd, Geo:rge Washington
Boyd, Harrison Woodbury
Boyles, Edgar Amos
Boysen, Edward Constantine
Brace, Nathan
Brady, William, Jr.
Bragg, Frank
Brandon, Frederick Duke
Brandtjen, John Charles
Brann, Harry Harding
Bray, Nelson, Hudison
Breitenstein, Edmund Ed. Wm.
Brewer, Frederick Adolph

ROS'l'ER

ROSTER
Brewer, Frederick Irving
Brierley, William Henry
Brizard, Maxime John
Broad, Edward .James
Brockmann, George Robert
Brockmann, Henry Frederick Wm.
Brodek, Robert Tuch
Brookove), Joseph Cochran
Brooks, Alpheus Baxter
Brooks, Orion
Brown, Clive Augustus
Brown, Daniel Davis
Brown, James Henry
Browne, Robert Daniel
Bruns, Henry Frederick
Bryan, Jacob
Bunker, Charles Dimmock
Bunker, Henry Chase, P. M.
Burg, Carl Henry
Burg, Gustaf Frederick
Burgess, Cornelius Simmollds
Burgess, Joseph Edward
Burgren, Arthur William
Burness, John Elder
Burness, Robert Duke
Burroughs, Charles Rickertson
Burton, Arthur John
Butler, Alfred John
Butler, John Alfred
Butte, Paul Charles
Butterfield, William Abram
Button, Asa Phineas
Cadwallader, Rawlins
Cadwell, Howard Wiswell
Cameron, Dudley Alfred
Campbell, Donalil R.
Campbell, John Malcolm
Cardinell, John Douglass
Carnall, Henry
Carren, John Thomas
Carson, Edwin Beatty
Center, Hugh
Chapin, George Edward
Chapman, Robert Henry
Chatham, William

Chorley, Ross Robertson
Christenson, Andrew, P. M.
Christian, James Allen
Christiansen, Ernst Wm. Charles
Clare, Robert Moffitt, P. M.
Clark, Alfred
Clark, Frank Emerson
Clark, Joseph Edmund
Clark, Milton Sutton
Claussen, Gustave Frederick
Cla!)', Wade Hampton
Clough, Charles Andres
Cobb, William Henry, P. M.
Coburn, Charles Edward
Coffin, Dewey
Coiner, Oscar Christian
Coles, Harrison Palmer
Collier, Henry Borradaile
Collins, Thomas Cahall
Condon, Michael Daniel
Conway, George
Cook, Donald
Cooke, Archibald
Cookson, Frank Spencer
Cooper, Arthur William
Cooper, Herbert Henry
Cordes, William Frederick
Corrie, Ruby Ray
Coulter, Robert Ashford
Couper, Edgar Ward
Courtright, William Leander
Cousins, Richard Joseph
Coutts, James Stirling
Cox, John Hadden
Cox, Palmer, P. M.
Crichton, John Lithgow
Crim, William Henry, Jr.
Cropley, Marshall Freeman
Crosett, Edward Franklin, P. M.
Cruden, John
Curnow, George Livingston
Currie, John Stewart
Currie, Robert, Jr.
Curtis, John Morrison
Cuthbertson, George Washington

Daggett, Harry Mayhew
Daly, John Donald
Daly, Samuel Joseph
Damuth, Wilbur Civill
Danielson, Gustaf
Davidson, George Bailey
Davies, David Caradoc
Davies, Thomas Abraham
Davis, George Alvinza
Davison, William Henry
Dawson, Otto ·John
Day, Charles Austin, P. M.
Day, Donald William
Day, Henry Lucas
Daywalt, George Washington
Dean, Corbet George
Dean, Francis
Deemer, John Franklin, P. M.
·De Guerre, Wade Hampton
De Langton, George Handy
DeLano, Willie Winfry
Deremberg, Emil
Dethlefsen, Nicolai Friedrich
Dettmers, George
Dickie, Walter Murray
Diserens, Frederick
Dodd, Milton Franklin
Dodd, Robert William
Dominguez, Eichard Arthur
Donaldson, Robert
Dorsey, Gilbert Maxwell
Douglas, George Willard
Douglass, William
Dowle, William Godfrey
Doyle, Charles Davis
Draffin, William Henry
Driefer, Conrad. Ludolf
Dunbar, Hubbard Foster
Duncan, James Hepburn
Duncan, Robert L.
Duperu, William Alphonsa
Dyer, Emerson Crocker
Dyer, Richard William
Eastman, Edward Ferry
Eastwood, Charles Archibald

233

234
Eastman, George Mason
Eaton, John William, P . M.
Ede, William
Edwards, John Henry
Edwards, William
Efford, Robert James
Elam, Grover Cleveland
Elam, Thomas
Elder, Robert
Ellefson, Charles
Ellinger, Charles Georg Gustaf
Ellis, Arthur Clarence
Emmons, Joseph Engle
English, George Edward
English, John Francis
Evans, Chester Hepburn
Evans, Chester Willard
Evans, George Herbert
Ewell, Augustus Hyde
Fahrenholz, Frederick William
Fairchild, Willard Wilson
Fairfield, Marshall
Fairfield, Marshall Joseph
Falconer, John
Falkenstein, Christian Jacob
Farrell, William
Feiling, Louis
Fell, Thomas
Ferrier, George Washington
Fetter, Frank Culin
Fisher, Charles Emmons
Flack, James Maurice
Flack, William Malen
Fluth, John Henry
Forbes, Theodore Henry
Ford, William
Forrest, Edwin
Forrest, William Irwin
Fortune, James Alexander
Fossey, Harry Edwin
Foster, George Lewis
Frahm, Claus
Frahm, Henry Thomas
.Frantz, Clarence Sherman
Fredericks, William Godfrey

ROSTER
French, Edward James
Freyermuth, Otto George
Fricke, John William
Gage, Charles Leslie
Gaines, Rufus Henry
Gallagher, Robert Ferra!
Gardiner, Alexander Smith
Gardner, Fredric Archie
Gatley, John
Gatley, Richard Henry
Gee, William Stokes
Genesy, Walter Alexander
Gentle, William Frederick
George, Anson Northrup
George, Clarence Farmer
George, William Henry
Gesford, Henry Clay
Gibson, William Walker
Gilbert, Ernest Joseph
Gilbert, Frank L.
Gilley, Curtiss N1>b!e
Gilson, John Edward
Ginty, Eugene Mabury
Gitsham, Charles
Giuro, Paul
Goode, Walter Thomas
Goodfellow, Summerfield Isaiah
Gordon, Robert
Gosliner, Harry Benjamin
Granicher, Walter August Herman
Grantland, John
Gray, James Alfred
Green, Morris
Greenfield, Charles Edward
Greenwood, Joseph Theo.
Griffith, William
Grotefend, Charles William
Gummow, Leon LeRoy
Gunderson, Thomas
Gunn, Alfred Scott
Gunnison, Albert Warren
Gunnison, Frank Sawyer
Haight, Louis Montrose·
Haines, Samuel Newell
Hale, Charles Everett

ROSTER
Hale, Charles Rector
Hale, Frank Orrin
Halket, William Duncan
Hall, Henry
Hall, James Robert
Hallett, Eugene Bartlet
Hallgren, 1"ed
Hallquist, Philip
Halsted, John Bernard
Haman, Henry
Hambly, Harry Bishop
Hammer, Lars John
Hammit, John Nimrod
Hansell, Calvin Emerick
Hansen, Christiai. Winchler
Hansen, Edward Paul
Hansen, Theodore Peter
Hanson, George Franklin
Hargraves, Herbert Ellery
Harper, Alexander James
Harries, .Tames
Haslehurst, William Walla~e
Hatch, Francis Oliver
Hatch, Herbert Locy
Haughton, John
Haughton, John William
Haussler, Gustavus Adolphua
Hawksley, Alexander
Hayes, Benjamin West
Hayselden, Percy James
Hazlett, James
Hazlett, .John
Headrick, Andrew Johnson
Hedges, Joseph Wharton
Hellwig, Karl Frederick H. C.
Hemminga, Harvey John
Henn, The1Jdore Edwin
Henry, Robert Allan
Hepburn, John
Herring, Richard, P. M.
Hesse, Edwin Ellsworth
Hetzer, Henry August
Hickie, Peter William
Hiofield, Alfred Thomas
Higgins, Robert

Hildebrand, William Charles
Hilder, Louis
Hill, William
Hillman, J1Jhn Edward
Hillman, John Reuben, P. M.
Hilton, Franklin Charles
Hind, George Urwin
Hitzeroth, Lorenz Devenport
Hoag, Jonathan Kittridge
Hock, Henry
Hock, Henry Tobias
Hoertkorn, Charles Albert
Hohfeld, Clarence Henry
Holladay, Terry Bruness
Holland, Frank Stuart
Holloway, Albert Eugene
Holmes, Clarence Rawson
Holton, Albert Marion
Hooper, John Milton
Hopkins, John Louis
Horton, Charles Coates
Hougaard, William Frederick
Howe, William Dikeman
Howell, Josiah Rowland
Hoyle, Albert
Hulse, David Andrew
Hummel, George William
Hursh, Loren Leigh
Hursh, Ray Leslie
Hurst, Prederick J-oseph
Husar, Christian
Hussey, Wallace Maxwell
Hutt, Harry John
Ingersoll, John Francis
Inman, Thomas George
Ireland, Elvie Levan
Irwin, Charles Milton
Jacks, Henry
Jackson, Charles Hooper
Jackson, John Quincy
Jager, George
Jager, Will Phillip
Jagger, Henry Corbett
Jamieson, Andrew
J·anes, Thomas Inglis

235

236

Janes, William Henry
Jenkins, William McDonald
Johnson, August
Johnson, Charles Thorwalu
Johnson, Edward Charles
Johnson, Lucian Field
Johnson, Olaf
·
Johnston, George
Johnston, George Alexander
Jones, Bert Monroe
Jones, Edward Thomas
Jones, Frederick Charles
Jones, Hu
Jones, John Bates
Jones, John Richard
Jones, Osgood Keener
Jones, Samuel A.
Jones, Thomas
Jones, William Franklin
Jones, William Gustus
Jordan, William Henry
Jose, Ricardo Juan
Juel, Adolph Oliver
Kage, Henry Robert
Kanzee, Arthur
Kanzee, Austin
Keller, James Edwin
Kellie, Charles
Kenne, Frank George
Kern, Louis Adolph
K ern, Raymond Lewis
Kerr, Charles
Kessen, James Morton
Keyser, Paul
Keyston, James Woods
Keyston, James Woods, Jr.
Keyston, Samuel Albert
Keyston, William Donald
Kight, David Mooreland
Killgore, Edwin Read
Killgore, Robert Read
King, Dennis Wyckoff
King, John Watt
King, William Riddick
Kingsland, George Robert

ROSTER
Klein, John Mathias
Klitgaard, Carl Edler
Klose, Emil Adolph
Kneass, Edward Daniel
Konrad~ Joseph Leopold
Kornbeck, Christian Hansen
Koshnitzki, John Frederi. Charle
Kreher, Otto Max
Kreisel, Edward
Kress, Augustus Herman
Krug, Peter John
Kruse, Louis Frank
Kuhl, Max John
Kuhl, William Frederick
Kyle, Edwin Louis
Lamont, William
Land, George Burton
Lane, Mark Graham
Langlois, Francis Bernard
Larimer, Elmer Forrest
Larsen, Christian Thorwald
Lawrence, James
Leider, Albert Christian Fred 'k
Leland, Harry Everrett
Lemon, Alexander
Lemon, Gordon Cruickshank
Levensaler, Joseph Gillchrest
Lewis, Charles Francisca
Libby, Charles Frederic, P. M.
Lieb, Henry Melville
Liebenow, Herman Carl
Linderman, Samuel Williard
Lindley, William Purdy
Lindsey, Douglas ·
Lindstrom, John Francis
Little, Archibald .D unlap
Lord, Thomas
Lothrop, Arthur Baxter
Lowrie, John Morrison
L6wry, Herbert Gay
Luce, John Francis
Luee, Samuel Andrew
Lundstrom, Knut Arvid Magnus
Lunt, George William, P. M.
Lyon, Walter Seth

ROSTER

•

MacDonald, Lincoln Duncan
Mackenzie, Allister
Madden1 Edward Ernest
Malcomson, Thomas
Mangelsdorf, Willy
Mann, Patrick James
Manuel, George Frederick
Marsh, John Alfred
Marshall, Charles
Marston, Frank Wheeler
Martin, George Wilbur
Marx, Otto Frederick
Mason, Frank
Mathews, George Monroo
Mathis, Jacob Lenhardt
Mn ttern, Frank Herman
Mattern, Henry John
Matthews, Willie S.
Mau, Charles Albert
Maundrell, Harry
Maundrell, Harold Hugh
Maurer, William Center
May, Fulton Hugh
McAllister, Richard Victor
McCall, Elvin Carlile
McCall, William
McCarty, James
McClinton, Myron Giles
McCook, James
McCormick, William Whipple
McCracken, John Wesley
McDaniel, William Henry
McDonald, John Glen
McDonald, Wallace Sinclair
McGavran, Stephen William
McGilvray, John Duff, Jr.
. McGinley, Robert Henderson
McGregor, John Ingram
McGregor, William
Mcintosh, John
Mcintosh, John Frazer
McKee, Charles Dunlap
McKenzie, Albert William
McKenzie, Colin Mortimer
McKenzie, Wesley

McKillop, William John
McKnew, Henry Lee
McLachlan, Thomas Mitchell
McLagan, Charles
McLaren, Archibald Rowan
McNair, Andrew
McNoble, Emery Lewis
McPhun, William, Jr.
Meaney, Lewis Joseph
Mecredy, Frederick Albert
Mecredy, John
Melendy, H<1.rry Whaitcs
Mennie, Alexander
Merrill, Gilman Berlin
Meroy, Edward Thomas
Meyers, William Alfred
Miller, John Alexander
Miller, John Edward Adolphus
Miller, John Wallace
Miller, Oscar Ewell
Miller, Robert John
Miller, Robert Notman
Miller, William (1)
Miller, William (2)
Mirk, Thomas
Mitchell, William Henry
Mocine, John Calvin
Moenning, Milton Gunther
Moffat, James Campbell
Mohr, Henry Anton
Moore, John Cutler
Moore, William Hiland
Moore, William Wallace, P. M.
Moran, Allan Garfield
Morgan, Dayton Henry
Mori, Emille Daniel
Morse, Charles Elias
Mothander, John Johnson
Morton, Henry Elrington
Moulthrop, Howland King
Muller, George Edwar,d
Munck, C1iarles Emil
Munro, Henry
Munroe, Theodore Francis
Murray, Oliver Perry

237

238
Murray, Percy Victor
Murray, Robert
Murray, Walter Charles
Murray, Warren Edwards
Musgrave, Henry John
Neal, William
Nelson, Henry Severen
Nelson, John Archibald
Nelson, Louis
Nelson, Nels Lawrence
Newman, Jerome
Nicol, Walter Dair
Nicolai, Charles John
Nielsen, Niels Andersen
Nilson, Brown Oscar
Norris, Joseph Kenny
Nuhrenberg, Martin Jurgen
Nutter, Joseph Lyman
O'Brien, William Lawrence
Oehne, Frederick
Oeverndiek, Frederick Charles
Ogden, Benjamin Franklin
Ogden, Charles Roy
Ogden, George Henry
0 'Keefe, Jeremiah
Oliver, David Jr.
Ollrich, John Frederick
Olsen, John Jacobsen
Olsen, John Jacobsen, Jr.
Olsen, William Christensen
Olson, John
Onslow, Frank
Ordway, William Chase, P. M.
Osgood, Henry Benjamin
Owen, William Lunt
Padgett, William Thomas
Palmer, John Henry
Park, Alex. Dewar
Parmelee, Chauncey Albertus
Parmelee, James Edward
Paterson, William
Patten, Henry
Patterson, George William Hill
Payne, Noah
Peabody, Edward

ROSTER
Peck, Clarence Edwin
Peck, Carl Wilhelm
Peltret, Peter Glode
Pennington, Thomas Edwin
Percival, Elijah
Periam, Charles James
Perry, John
Perry, John Wilson
Petersen, Hans
.Petersen, Hans Lausten
Petersen, James Albert
Petersen, Niels Mason
Peterson, Andrew Jackson
Pettersen, Axel Hagbarth
Pfingst, Ferdinand Louis
Phelps, George Wesley
Philip, Adrian Sickles, P. M.
Phillips, Geor.g e Joseph
Phillips, William
Pinkerton, Samuel
Piper, Stephen Livingston
Poar, Charles Burnett
Poch, Charles Emil
Pope, James Bond
Porter, George Keith
Potter, Edwin Segsworth
Prahl, Gustave Joseph
Pratt, Charles Henry Sinclair
Price, William Edmond, P. M.
Prince, Henry Gilman
Prior, John Stanley
Quellmalz, Fred
Quinlan, James Henry
Raab, Frederick William
Ramsden, Thomas
Read, William James
Reed, Walter Norman
Reich, Frederick William
Reid, Archibald
Reid, John Miller
Reid, William Henry
Reigle, Henry Herfert
Reinecke, Alfred Walter
Renwick, Myron Hatch, P. M.
Richardson, Clifton Page

ROSTER
Rickard, Richard Penrose
Roberts, Marshall Calloway
Roberts, Oliver
Roberts, Richard Morris
Robinson, George
Robinson, Seymour Heman
Robischon, Marie Richard
Rodecker, Elias, P. M.
Rogers, William Clement
Rogers, Charles Sumner
Rolph, Ronald Taylor
Rood, Frank Henry
Rosich, Nieholas Charles
Ruckstell, John Rudolph
Rudy, Benjamin Mylin
Saffold, Ray Phillips
Sanborn, Irving Howard
Saul, Eugene Carroll
Saunders, Frederick
Sawdon, Thomas 'rhompson
Sayles, Harry Albert
Scammon, Meltiah Lancaster
Schloegel, Frederick E. Augustu1
Schmitt, Henry Clay
Schott, Carl Conrad
Schrader, Edwin William
Schrader, Otto
Schramm, Carl Christopher F.
Schulz, Paul
Schwarzmann, Ed. Gustave
Sl\ott, Edwin George
Scott, George Booth
Sears, Harry Dickson
Seaver, Fred Dan
Seel, Ernest
Severance, Isaac Hillman
Sewell, Daniel Robert
Shafer, Frank Ellsworth
Shaver, Hamilton Elijah
Shephard, Bertram Charles
Shephard, Bertram Holmes Doug.
Shephard, Vernon Charles D.
Siemers, John Diedrich
Sigler, John D.
Silovich, John

239

Silvia, Michael
Sipe, Milo 'l'aylor
Siskron, Charles Alfred
Smith, David Charles
Smith, Frank Joseph
Smith, Frank Wesley
Smith, Isaac Henry
Smith, James (1)
Smith, James (2)
Smith, William Alvord
Smith, William Irving
Smith, William Thomas
Snell, Frank Scott
Somers, Frank Alton
Spadoni, Joseph
Spear, Lewis Eugene
Spencer, Alex.
Spinney, John Crozier
Starbird, Ralph
Statham, William Mathew
Steere, Jesse Edmund
Steinmann, Frederick Adolph
Stephenson, William
Stevenson, John
Stewart, ,James Emsley
Stewart, Otho
Stewart, William Harley
Stidston, Archibald Wakeham
Stile, Henry David
Stone, John Thomas
Stone, Wilbert H.
Strickler, John Conrad
Sturgess, Charles William
Sues, Otto Louis
Summerhayes, William Ruggles
Swenson, John Augustus
Sykes, Frank Centennius
Tabrett, Henry Charles
Taylor, Charles Herbert
Taylor, Fred William
Taylor, George Howes
Taylor, Martin Van Buren, P. M.
Terbush, George Finchly
Theller, George Platt
Thomas, Arthur Frederick

240
Thomas, Edward Henry
Thomas, Frederick G.
Thomas, Henry Jerome
Thomas, Philip Matson
Thompson, Bernard
Thompson, Chadwick
Thompson, Charles Jefkins
Thompson, George
Thom peon, Hans
Thompson, John, P. M.
Thompson, Thornton
Thomsen, Einar Tonnessen
Thomsen, Oscar Ludwig
Thomson, Samuel Mehaffy
Thorp, Clement Barton
Thorp, Henry Walker
'1.'hrall, Frank Hurshall, P. M.
Tietje, Ernest Henry
Tietjen, John Edward
'l'imbrell, John Benjamin
Titchworth, Charles Canfield
'!'oft, Christian Peder
Todd, Oliver Julian
'1.'olley, William ~dward
Townsend, Walter Boyd
'!'readwell, Edward Franci!I
Trevivick, William George
Trowbridge, Henry James
Troyer, Roderic Arthur
Truman, Irwin Joseph, Jr.
Tucker, Edwin Warren, P. M.
Tucker, Edwin Warren, Jr.
Turbitt, William Alexander
Turnbull, Albert Carlyle
Tyler, Thomas
Vanatta, Frank Tuller
Yan Buren, George Martin
Vandercook, Roberts
Yan Orden, Charles Howard
Y 11n Orden, George Newins
Y arney, Frank Hastings
Varney, John Warner, Jr.
Varney, Kit Roberts
Voight, George Fritz
Yon Werthern, Henry
0

ROSTER

ROSTER
Y oorhies, Cyrus Firman
Voorhies, Harry
Wagner, Adam, Jr.
Wagner, Edward Ludwig
Wagner, John, P. M.
Wagstaff, Denman Sully
Wahl, Robert Gottfried
Waldau, Christian
Walker, George
Wallace, Albert William
Wallace, Lew Edward
Wallace, Robert
Wallace, William
Walter, Henry
Warren, Frederick Melville
Watson, John Gibson
Watson, Sage
Watson, Sidney
Watson, William Walter
Weaver, Hammond Shipley
Webster, George Albert
Weigel, Joel
Welch, H erbert Warren
Weld, Charles Wallace
Wellington, Ueorge Henry
Welton, John William
West, George Washington
West, John
West, John Charles
West, Joseph Daniel
Westaway, William Charles
Wes ton, John Arthur
Westwater, Andrew
Wetmore, William Brown
W eule, Ernest Louis
Whitaker, George Everard
White, Arthur Erwin
White, Charles Harry
White, William Harrison
Whorf, Frederick Ellsworth
Whyte, Malcolm Crawford
Wiedenbeck, George
Wildenradt, Herbert Louis
Wilhelm, John Henry
Wilkins, de Winton William, P. M.

Williamson, Edwin L.
Wilson, G. Hazelton
Wilson, George Hazelton
. Wilson, Henry Adams
Wilson, James Andrew, P. M.
Wilson, John
Wingate, ,James B~aurnont W.
Winkel, George
Winter, Morris Jacob, Jr.
Winzler, Alfred Charles
Wolfe, Edward
Falrgrieve, William
Gibson, Fr6'l. Herbert
Hutton, Cassius Albert
Jones, Job,n Edmund

241

Wood, Homer Winfry
Wood, John
Woodman, J<~rne s t Deadrick
Woods, Robert
Worden, William Henry
Young, George Samuel
Young, John James
Young, Lyman Foster
Ziegler, Charles Louis
Zillmer, Adolph Louis William
Zollner, William Adolph
-864.

WITHDRAWN:
Lover, \Valter
Siskron, Henry George
Tourtelotte, William Ellsworth
Wohlsteln, Willlam Frederick

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Callender, Walter Louis
Hatton, George
Comings, Orrington Lunt
Hermann, Emil Arminius
Gostlln, Thomas
Mullln, James
H a slett, Joseph
Wallis, Samuel Charles
Anderson, George Magnus
Boelen, Alfred Blatchley
Day, Thomas Henry
Dow, Cyrus Clln ton
Drummond, Mark
Floyd, William Erwin

DIED:
Hodgdon, James Peverly
Mack, Albert Christian
Morse, George Lascelles
Roy, John Alex.
Scott, Shaller Mackintosh
Soper, Joseph Henry

ELK GROVE LODGE, No. 173.
Elk Grove, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Albert Henry Watson, Master,
Aubrey Maurice Leavitt, Sen. Dea.,
Care Franklin Stage, Sacramento Co.Joseph Russell, Junior Deacon,
George Moore Taverner, S en. War., Perley Kilbourn Bradford, Marshal,
Charles Bruce Bradford, Jun. Ward., Andrew Elliott, Steward,
William Th~mas Stephenson, Treas., Stanley Robinson Gage, Steward,
George Shaw Williamson, Secretary, Claud Duval Tribble, Tyler.
Elk Grove
16

242

ROSTER

ROS'rER
MEMBERS:
Leavitt, Aubrey Maurice
Leavitt, Albert Fletcher
Mahone, Robert Henry
Martin, Clarence L.
McConnell, Thaddeus Curtis
McKee, James Anderson
Mealer, Thomas Jefferson
Messenger, Richard
Morse, Elbert Oscar
Reith, Jesse Lee, P. M.
Richards, John Lincoln
Rowley, Eugene
Runyon, William Smith
Russell, Joseph
Smith, Gideon Henry
Springstead, Ernest Willard, P. M.
Stephenson, !gal Kennedy
Stephenson, John Nichols
Stephenson, William Thomas, P. M.
Stephenson, John Francis, P. M.
Stephenson, George Edward, P. M.
Taverner, George Moore
Tribble, Claud Duval
Trueblood, Edward Ellsworth
Ulman, Frederick George
Walther, Charles Frederick, P. M.
Watson, Albert Henry
Watson, George Franklin
Wells, Cary Thomas
Williamson, George Shaw
Yenger, William Henry

Alltucker, Henry, P. M.
Alltucker, George Henry
Barry, Edmund Edward
Bradford, George Bruce, P. M.
Bradford, Hugh Barr, P. M.
Bradford, Pearley Kilbourn, P. M.
Bradford, William Barton
Bradford, Charles Bruce
Coffing1 Claud Courtney
Ehrhardt, Frederick William
Ehrhardt, Henry Lester
Elliott, John
Elliott, Christopher Adam, P. l\C.
Elliott, Andrew ·
Foster, William E.
Freeman, Isaac Lake, P. M.
Gage, Arthur Delos, P. M.
Gage, Stanley Robinson
Glann, Peter
·
Gray, Arthur Irwin
Hasman, Joseph Lewis
Haviland, Phillip
Herbert, Louis
Hogaboom, Benjamin Baldwin
Ho.o ver, Benjamin Van Zandt
Johanson, Carl Johan
Jorden, Daniel Obediah
Kelley, James Monroe
Korn, Joseph, P. M.
Krull, Ane Ayets
Lewis, Edmund William
Leimback, John Herbert

-63

243

DRYTOWN LODGE, No. 174
Drytown, Amador County.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday or or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFicns: ·
George Leslie Lynch, Master,
Fred Butler LeMoin, Chaplain,
Moise Roos, Senior Deacon,
Dnrtown
Thomas Silva, Junior Deacon,
Trevor Weston, Senior Warden,
Charles Harrison Marchand, Marshal,
John G. Smith, Junior Warden,
Charles Henry Sl;iields, Treasurer, John Milton Hinkson, Steward,
Allen Lee McWayne, Secretary,
Claude Wilson, Steward,
Drytown
Guissepi Bo, Tyler.
Bawden, Thomas P.
Bo, Guiseppi
Buskin, William J.
Dach, Arthur
Eudey, John
Evans, Robert
Hinkson, John Milton, P. M.
Honey, Church Thomas
Jennings, George Choat
Lawenthal, Julius
LeMoin, Fred Butler, P. M.
Lynch, George Leslie, P. M.

MEMBERS:
Marchand, Charles Harrison, P. M.
Mc Wayne, Allen Lee
Moore, J. Henry
Ralph, Joseph Henry
Roos, Moise, P. M.
Shields, Charles Henry
Silva, Thomas
Tiffany, Edward Vestor
Weston, Trevor
Weymouth, Wilbur Shadrach
Wilson, Claude, P. M.

-23.

WITHDRAWN:
Scoble, W1ll1am
DIED:

Rouse, Thomas

ANTIOCH LODGE, No. 175.
. Antioch, Contra Costa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Archie Valentine McFaul, Master, Henry Fuller Beede, Chaplain,
Black Diamond, Cal.
Ernest Herman Ward, Sen. Dea.,
Bruce Forrester Brown, Sen. War., Leroy Wemple Beede, Jun. Deacon,
Frederick Cameron Woolcott, !. W., Harry W . Reinhart, Marshal,
Robert Harkinson, Treasurer,
Harry Wallace Kent, Steward,
Harry McNulty Beede, Secretary, William Jongeneel, Steward,
Ant.ioch, Cal.
Stephen Horace McKellips, Tyler.

244

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Hutchison, John David
Abbott, Joshua Plummer, F. M.
Jacobs, Morris Harris
Anderson, Oscar
Johnson, Frank Henry
Baker, Josiah Rio, P. M.
Jongeneel, Albert Hendrick
Beede, Harry McNulty
J ongeneel, Martin
Beede, Charles Frank Tyler
Joslin, Arba Vandenberg
Beede, Henry Fuller, P. M.
Joslin, Royal Tregea
Beede, Leroy Wemple
Jost, Frederick
Beede, Ralph Merrill, P. M.
Keeney, Collins W oodru:ff
Belshaw, William Walter
Kennerly, George Oliver
Bermingham, Samuel
Kent, Harry Wallace
Bonslett, Jacob A.
Klengel,
Otto Emil, P. M.
Brown, Bruce Forrester
Kuys, Andreas Theo.
Brown, Murray Grant
Livingston, Frank William
Bruce, William Elmer
Lomax, William Benoni
Buchanan, William James
Lowes, John
Campbell, Robert Paul
Maupin, Lan
Carter, James, P. M.
Moore, Leroy Wilburn, P. M.
Cox, John Thomas, P. M.
Moore, Walter Shelby, P. M.
Clark, George Hudger
Mead, Louis Durant
Clarke, Edwin Gilding
Minaker, George Alex.
Cleaves, Steven Chase
McFaul, Archie· Valentine
Collins, William Arthur
McFaul, James Reid
Crawford, Robert Elmer
McKellips, Stephen Horace
Croxon, Warren George Hubbard,
McPherson,
Roland Thomas
Cull, John Augustine
Montgomery, Curtis Franklin
DeWitt, John Wallace
Mu!'phy, William Green
Durham, Lee Bartlett Holt
Nellis, Walter
Dunningan, Marcus Wesley
Nicholls, Joseph Robert Vincent
Ellis, James Wardrobe
Ni:fforous, Dimitrios
Franks, Frederick Clarence
Peters, Frederick William, Jr.
Fraser, Samuel George
Peterson, Oscar Amil
George, Worth Scott
Rapp, Edward Percy
Glass, James Riley
Rattan, Frank
Hamlin, Marshall Calvin
Reinhart, Harry W.
Hansen, Rasmus Emil
Rogers, Orlando Newton
Harkinson, Daniel Donald
Rother, Frederick Garlip
Harkinson, John Lincoln
Smith,
George Wallace
Harkinson, Robert, P. M.
South, William Richard
Hartley, Anderson Corbin, P. M.
Story, Walter
Hay, William Edgar
Trythall, John Henry, P. M.
Hazlett, James
Uren, William
Hooper, Frank Joseph
Veale, Richard Reines
Horr, Charles Perry

ROSTER
Ward, Ernest Herman
Wear, James Renwick
West, Jacob Hial
Wilkening, Frederick
Wightman, Joel David
Card, ''Valter Beecher

245

Williams, Thomas Morgan
Woolcott, Frederick Cameron
Worrell, Edwin Carter
Wright, George Creighton, P. M.
-95.
WITHDRAWN:
*Hamilton, Gordon B.
Kennedy, Frank L.

PHOENIX LODGE, No. r78.
San Bernardino, San Bernardino County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
John Lee Anderson, Master,
965 5th Street, San Bernardino

Mark Bailey Shaw, Chaplain,
Sanford Stephen Smith, Sen. Deacon,
......................................Senior Warden, George Jury Reece, Junior Deacon,
Walter Byron Howes, Jun. Warden, Josiah Wheeler Morgan, Marshal,
John Anderson, Sr., Treasurel,
James Edwin Johnston, Steward,
Francis Leroy Holcomb, Secretary, John Harley Griest, Steward,
San Bernardino
Sydney Mee, Tyler.

Absalom, David Reese
Aldridge, David Lehigh
Allen, Jonas
Anderson, John Lee
Andreson, John, Sr.
Bailey, William Allen
Baillie, Frederick Hollister
Baldwin, Melville Jay
Barker, Donald McGregor
Barnum, John Harold
Barrows, Charles Edgar
Barrows, Elmer Arthur
Barrows, George Louis
Barton, John William, P. M.
Bechtell, Daniel Snyder
Beck, Charles August
Beck, Webster
Beggs, Henry Jackson

MEMBERS:
Beimer, Anthony
Bellamy, Herman Greer
Biggs, John C.
Blackburn, James Jackson
Blair, William Jackson
Blanchard, John Frederick
Bodkin, William George
Bowman, Thomas Hilt
Braid, Harold Reade
Breene, Walter Simmons
Brooks, Charles K.
Brouse, Ernest Francis
Brown, John William
Brown, Joseph
Burkhart, John B.
Carpenter, Daniel Jerome
Carpenter, Harry Griffin
Carr, John Louis

•Degrees conferred during the year.

246
Castro, Raymond 0.
Chambers, George Robert
Chase, Herbert Harrison
Chase, Phillip James
Champion, Douglas
Clapp, Thomas John Sercome
Clark, Hiram
Clark, John Davis
Cleghorn, John
Cleghorn, Lorenzo Dow
Cole, Charles Davis
Colliver, Jefferson Thomas
Colliver, John Adams
Colliver, Simeon Robinson
Conway, Michael
Coombs, Robert Hippsley
Coomes, Willard Edward
Costello, Patrick James
Covalt, George Wallace
Culbertson, John
Culverhouse, William Sylvester
Curtis, Jesse William
Curtis, William Jesse, P. M.
Davis, Andrew
Davis, James H.
Desmond, Louis Alex.
Doran, Arthur L.
Fairall, Howard Lee
Foltz, George
Fording, William Hunter
Foster, Alfred Brian
Fox, George Chester
. French, John Bourne
Ganser, Charles
Gates, Harry
Gaylora, George
Gibson, James Alex., P. M.
Good, Israel Jonas
Griest, John Harley
Guthrie, Harrison Hazlett
Haile, Smith Cook
Ham, Harrison Howard
Harold, Andrew Douglas
Harwood, Gustavus
Hawks, Charles William

ROSTER

ROSTER
Hecht, Louie Milton
Hecht, Milton Ephraim
Herbert, Lewis Charles
Holcomb, Francis Leroy, P. M.
Hook, John
Howes, Walter Byron
Howland, Frederick Edson
Hubbard, Anthony Gerhard
Huffman, Ira B.
Hulsizer, John
Hvam, Thowald
Jarvis, Peter William
Johnson, Albert
Johnson, Edward Powell
Johnson, James Hunter
Jones, Griffith Isaac
Kendall, George Theo.
Kennedy, Robert James
Kerr, James Stewart
King, Robert Calvin
Knapp, Calvin Reason
Krausman, Joseph
Lansing, Richard St. Clair
Lapelle, Elisha Elias
Laurane, Adoplh
L eighton, Hal Stewart
Leisenring, Frederick Gideon
LeRoy, Charles Edwin
Lloyd, George Washington
Lothrop, Luther Ra msdale
Mack, John Alex.
Mack, Royal Hegmer
Magoffin, Frank Hooker, P . M.
Margetson, Frederick George James
Marks, Joseph
Marshall, John Albert
Martin, Homer Harry
Mccarter, John
Mcconnico, Clifford Vaiden
McFarland, Gail Haines
McFarlane, Thomas Louis, Jr.
McFarlane, Thomas Louis, Sr.
Mee, Sydney, P. M.
Metzger, Edward DeLos
Miller, Albert Charles

Miller, James Blaine
Mills, Henry William
Mills, Theo. Hardin
Morgan, Josiah Wheeler
Morris, Daniel Voorhees Orsman
Mortenson, Christian Nelson
Mudgett, Elvin Leroy
Mudgett, William
Newburg, Mervyn Jacobs, P. M.
Nichols, William Buell
Orme, Thomas Whitefield, P. M.
Oster, Frank Frederick
Ousterhout, Fred Griffith
Oldaker, George Gad
Owens, Charles W., P. M.
Owens, Walter Rufus
Painter, George Washington
Parker, John Wesley
Parker, Lemuel
Parker, Robert Bryant
Penhollow, Phillip Albert
Perkins, Nathaniel
Perry, Morgan
Phillips, Charles Siddall
Phillips, Joseph Wilber
Pierce, George Strunk .
Platt, Nowe Fayette
Poole, Charles Augustus
Poppett, Robert
Porter, Lewis Edwin
Porter, William Robert
Potter, Rollins
Ptomey, William Henry Isaac
Pullian, James Harry
Reese, George Jury
Reese, Sanford Marian
Rhinehart, John Taylor
Roberts, E dward David
Roberts, Horace J ewell
Robertson, William Jay
Russell, James
Sayre, Edwin Weaver
Seay, Chester
Seeman, John J.
Shaw, David Albert

247

Shaw, Mack Bailey, P . M .
Shuster, William Clement
Skinner, Guy Elmer
Skinner, William Wright
Smithen, Walter
Smitheram, William
Smith, Newell Noble
Smith, Sanford Stephen
Snow, Marcus Leonard
Sprott, Thomas William
Stephens, George Milan
Stone, David P.
Stone, Ralph Todd
Talmadge, Francis LeBanon
Talmadge, William Seymore
Taylor, Lewis Nathan
Taylor, T. Herbert
Terrass, Milford Byron, P. M.
Terry, John Yale
Theobalds, Newton Lyle
Thomas, Alfred Bennett
Thompson, Victor Little
Thompson, Wesley
Tinkham, Stephen Howard
Turner, Robert Lee
Tyler, John Hugh
Umbs, Jesse
Upson, Orin Alva
Van Buskirk, Melville Allen
Van Meter, Charles Edward
Vaughn, Rolla Brinton
Wachtell, John Kirby
Waite, Sydney Payne
Walker, Walter Waldemar
Wall, Harry Joseph
Wallace, Albert Ernest
Waters, Byron Brewster
Wiggens, William R.
W egnori, H enry Francis
Wells, James Thomas
White, George Otto
White, Michael Lewis
Wilson, Charles Henry
Wilson, Newton
Wilson, Thomas Jefferson

•

ROSTER

248

Wilson, Thomas Jonathan, P. M.
Wilson, William Henry
Winn, William Spencer
White, Eugene Lee

Foster, John
Miller, George W.

Whiteman, John Stephen
Wolff, Lewin
Worn, Eugene A.
Yount, Charles Edwin

ROSTER

-224.

WITHDRAWN:
Moffatt, James
Shuford, Thomas Robert
Williamson, George Edward

SUSPENDED FOR UNMASONIC CONDUCT:
Hubbard, Walter
DIED:
Aspinwall, Francis Thomas
Daoust, Simeon
Holden, John Alex.

MENDOCINO LO_DGE, No. 179.
Mendocino, Mendocino County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Garfield Nelson Zavetz, Master,
James Melville Fisher, Chaplain,
Mendocino
William Henry Bennett, Sen. Deacon,
Roy Moore, Senior Warden,
Olaf Tannlund, Junior Deacon,
Bert Robert Zavetz, Junior T-Varden, Fred Halling, Marshal,
Henry Herbert Jarvis, Treasurer,
Gustaf Henning Swanson, Steward,
John Arthur Chambers, Secretary, Ralph Ranley Byrnes, Steward,
Mendocino
William True Wallace, Sr., Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Ahlin, Nils Emil
Bowden, Charles Foster
Allen, Leonard Joel
Burwash, Henry Jefferson
Anderson, George Levi
Burlingame, Homer Sherwood
Ayer, Oliver Daniel
Byrnes, Ralph Rauley
Ayer, Samuel Lucine
Carpenter, John Jn.cob
Barker, William Henry
Chambers, John Arthur, P. M.
Barnes, Allen Percival
Coombs, William Boyd
Beckwith, George Lewis
Corrigan, James
Bennett, William Henry Horace
Cox, .Toseph Baird
Berry, John Charles, P. M.
Cranen, Clarence Buchanan
Bither, Lawrence Hartson
Dailing, E. D.
Bodell, Robert
Daniels, Percy Lenwood

Dart, Frederick William, P. M.
Dart, Joseph Howe
Dodge, Jefferson Lee
Doig, James Muir
Drumb, Samuel A.
Durst, Fred M.
Fisher, James Melville
Flood, Emery Newell
Flood, William Henry
Foresyth, Ross W.
Foster, Edwin Star
Fraser, James William, P. M.
Furlong, Arthur Thomas
Gilkison, Melville Allen
Gould, Byron
Gray, Charles Thomas
Gray, Harold Cyrus
Gregory, Lester Claud
Grindle, Joshua
Guthardt, Philip
Hall, Frank
Halling, Frederick, P. M.
Henningson, Charles August
Hanson, Hans Peter
Hoak, Newman Ervine
,Huff, Charles Edward
Jacobs, Jacob Dircks
Jarvis, Henry Herbert
Johnson, Nels
Johnston, Andrew Earl
Johnston, Alfred Rhyerson
Keen, James Edward
Keller, Willis Alfonso
Kent, Nathaniel Warren
Ledger, Fred
Leishman, John
MacDonald, John
Madsen, Mads Jargen
Maxwell, Perley
McClelland, George
McClelland, George Blain
McClelland, James Garfield
McColgan, Dennis
McElroy, John Henry
McDonald, John Kenneth

McKay, Andrew
Moeller, Edward
Moore, Roy
Nelson, Joseph Alvin, P. M.
Newman, Andrew
Norbery, Charles Antone
Openlander, William Henry
Packard, Charles Oscar
Penther, Carl Frederick
Perkins, Fred Hillman
Perry, John Edward, P. M.
Peterson, James Louis
Peterson, Thomas Henry
Philbrick, John C.
Pitner, Oron Barry
Popp, Fred William
Pullen, William
Reinertsen, Johannes Andrias
Rewcastle, James Goodie
Rice, James Charles
Richards, Thomas Jefferson, P. M.
Ross, John Simpson, P. M.
Robinson, Thoma11 Alexander
Rushing, Joel Willshire
Russell, Ro·d erick Dhu
Rush, Barnard
Ryan, John Carbrett
Salsig, Edgar Budd
Sangster, Donald, P. M .
Scott, Alonzo D.
Scott, Edward Slaughter
Severance, Frank Billings
Smith, Frederick Hall
Smith, Harold Fred
Smith, Martin Thomas
Stanley Otha Lonzo
Stanley, Perry Alfred
Stone, Walter Morison, P. M.
Stout, Clarence Leroy
Stuckey, Simon Fillmore
Steudeman, Henry Clay
Stickney, Fred Walter
Speer, Samuel, P. M.
Sutter, Richard Wesley
Swanson, Gustof Henry

249

ROSTER

250

Taunlund, Olof
Todd, James Wilson, P. M.
Turner, William Price
Van Ahnen, Paul Frederick
Wahlstrom, Carl Gustaf
Wallace, William True, P. M.
Wallace, William True, Jr., P. M.

ROSTER

Weiss, Frederick, P. M.
White, Clarence Ulmer, P. M.
Williams, Egbert Carson
Wood, Casimer Jackson, P. M.
Zavitz, Bert Robert
Zav'itz, Garfield Nelson

-127.

WITHDRAWN:
Wells, Robert Kerr
DIED:
Rushing, Joel Willshire

Clark, Byron

PETALUMA LODGE, No. 180.
Petaluma, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
James McFadden, Master,
John Partridge, Chaplain,
239 Kentucky Street.
E. A. Potter, Senior Deacon,
John Alexander Olmsted, Sen. War., W. D. Thomas, Junior Deacon,
Park Anderson Van Bebber, J. War., A. W. Horwege, Marshal,
William Thomas Spridgen, Treas., John Lawler, Jr., Steward,
George Nelson Smith, Secretary,
Sandy McFadden, Steward,
119 Main Street, Petaluma
George H . Mills, Tyler.

Adams. John Quincy
Adams, William Samuel
Anderson, John Alfred
Allen, George Frank, P. M.
Ayers, William David
Arthur, James C.
Athanassin, George H.
Bauer, John
Bell, W e!lie Samuel
Berri, Vittore
Bidwell, Herman
Blim, Peter Joseph, P. M.
Bloom, Adolph John
Bowen, William Eladsit
Bowen, Alfred Daniel

MEMBERS:
Bowers, Alphonzo Benjamin
Bowles, Scott
Bowles, Bourbon •
Brainerd, Henry Paine, P. M.
Branch, George Byron
Brown, Frank Huston
Brown, Robert Henry
Brown, Robert Spear
Brunner, Robert
Burdell, James Black
Button, Isaac V.
Byee, Lyman C., P. M.
Camm, Edward Irving
Camm, John Lincoln, P. M.
Campigli, Charles

Cantel, Eugene
Champlin, Charles Chaffee .
Coate, Henry R.
Collins, Frank Miller
Corliss, Albert
Crane, Tarleton Lee
Cromwell, Frank Arlington, P. M.
Crossley, Nathaniel Mason
Dean, Chauncey Theo., P. M.
Dean, James Burroughs
De Martin, Eligio
Denman, Frank Hardenbergh
DeTurlt, William Sherman, P . M .
Denny, Thomas Carmen
Dillon, Charles Hardy, P. M.
Dinwiddie, James Lockridge
Drees, Ernest Emil
Dreyfuss, Edward
Dun ton, Oscar
Edwards, William Philips
Eddy, William Samuel
Engel, Michael
Evans, Edward Wm. M., P. M.
Fairbanks, Hiram Tolbert
Forbes, Hugh Whittier
Fraser, Charles Gladstone
Gale, VQ'allace Samuel
Giacomini, Natale
Gill, George Willard, P. M.
Gossage, Harry Sherman
Graham, Jonathan Harvey
Grandi, Salvatore
Grant, Henry Delano
Graves, Sewel Fogg
Gray, Henry Charles
Gray, Fred Lafayette
Green, Lyman, P. M.
Guldner, Waiter Adelbert
Hamilton, George Washington
Hardin, Andrew Evan
Haskell, William Barnabee
Haubrich, Leonard •
Henry, John
Higbee, Hiram Bedell
Hitchcock, Frank Newton, P. M.

251

Hill, Alex. Blaky
Hoag, James W.
Hopkins, Henry Clay
Hopkins, Samuel Judd
Horwege, Augustus William, P. M.
Huntington, Horace Hutchings
Husler, Edward Aloia
Jensen, Hans
Johnson, John Eber
Kahn, Achille
Kyle, Arthur Leonard
Lackey, Alex.
Lawler, John
Lawler, John, Jr.
Leehau, Albert Edward
Levin, Manuel
Lewis, James Hall
Lippitt, Edward Spalding, P. M.
Lippitt, Frank Kavanaugh, P. M.
Lovejoy, George Palmer
Maclay, Thomas
Mardis, John D.
Martin, Samuel
McDonald, Gilbert
McFadden, James
McFadden, John Thomas
McFadden, Reuben
McFadden, Sandy
McGuire, Thomas Talbot
McGuire, William Campbell
MeKillop, Dugald
McMartin, John Alex.
MeMullin, Smith
MeMurtry, Mathew
MeNear, George Plummer
Merritt, John
Middleton, John Henry
Miller, Theo.
Mills, G·wrg<' K .
Mills, William Andrew
Murphy, George Bennett
Nauert, Frederick Anton, P. M.
Nauert, Frederick Anton, Jr.
Nelson, Francis Vietor
Neuburger, Morris

Olsen, John
Olmsted, John Alex.
Ormsby, Ernest Walter
Ott, George Herbert
Ottolini, Ferdinando
Parker, James Augustus
Parrish, David Franklin
Partridge, John
Penry, John Edward
Phillips, Abraham Lincoln
Phillips, Frank Harry
Poehlmann, Conrad
Potter, Emanuel Andrew
Purvine, Thomas Byron
Purvine, William Burton
Ramsay, isamuel
Rankin, Lowry Elmer
Reed, Clarence Ellsworth
Reynolds, Edward Henry
Risk, David Rankin
Roberts, Henry John
Rodd, George Blackburn
Roseburgh, Allen
Robinson, William, P. M.
Rundall, Napoleon B.
Samuels, Ernest Rohert
Sartori, Victor
Schlicker, Frederick
Schlueter, Frederick Charles
Scott, John Columbus
Sharpe, Chauncey Oscar
Simidian, Mihram M.
Skinner, Arthur Tapin
Smith, George Neilson, P. M.
Smith, Harry Francis

Phelps, Frank T.

ROSTER

ROSTER

252

Spridgen, William Thomas, P. M.
Stayner, Charles Allen
St. Jonu, Silas Cady
Stradling, William Charles
Strauss, David
Stull, John
Sweed, Philip
Sweetman, George Richard
Taft, Chester Kimball
Taft, Hiram Fayette, P. M.
Taft, Louis Russell
Thomas, William David
Tibbetts, Arthur Livingston, P. M.
Torr, Charles Lafayette
Towne, Walter
Tupper, John Henry
Van Bebber, Park Andrew
Van Bebber, Peter
Vander Naillen, Edmund Lewis
Van Marter, William Henry
VP-ale, William Roe, P. M.
Wakefield, Orrin .Lewis
Wallr.ce, Robert G., P. M.
Webb, Edward Henry
Weber, Herman, P. M.
Weil, Adolph Leopold
West, Frederick Charles
Weston, Harry Mccurdy
Weston, Henry Little
Wilder, William
Willard, Thomas
Winsor, John Henry
Woods, Robert
Zartman, William Henry
Zook, Frank Kurtz
-190.

WITHDRAWN:
Riese, Herman William

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Anderson, Alexander
Ruffin, David Taylor
Fuller, Harve
Thomas, Charles· Edward
Knock, Charles
Thomas, Winfield Scott .
Rohrer, Charles Frederick
Ward, Erastus Caselton Ward

Fairbanks, Dolph Bryce
Hinkle, J. B.
Johnson, Robert Francis

253

DIED:
Meyer, Jacob F.
Pitts, Isaac Jasper
Weyhe, Paul C.

RUSSIAN RIVER LODGE, No.

181

Windsor, Sonoma. County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next s·J.cceeding Fnll Moon.
OFFICERS:

William Henry Small, Master,
Christean Julues Martin, Sen. Dea.,
Joseph Charles Pohley, Sen. Warden, Louis Lehn, Junior Deacon,
William Franklin Wilson, Jun. War., James Buchanan Sheppard, Marshal.
Andrew Jackson Carter, Treasurer, Albert Filmore Misener, Steward,
Thomas Miller Yates, Secretary,
New Steward Wilson, Steward,
Warr en Bell, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Balbi, Joseph
Jones, Cellie
Barnes, Edwin Harrison, P. M.
Kruse, John Anton
Bell, Warren
Laughlin, Grant Alex., P. M.
Berns, Jacob William
Lavelle, John
Bertoni, Joseph
Lavelle, William Thomas
Bosch, John David
Lee, Stacy
Calabella, Charles
Leech, Albert Earnest
Carter, Andrew Jackson
Lehn, Louis
Cooper; John David
Leslie, Thomas
Crosbie; J1<mes
Lindsay, Walter Clark
Litton, Thomas Buckman
Cunningham, Reuben Henry
Davis, John Martin
Macy, William Clinton
Eckle, Tobias Louis
Maddux, Jamee Everet
Edmondson, William John
Maddux, Lee
Emery, Fred Artemus
Maddux, Willill.m
MaKinson, Herbert Arthur
Estinghousen, Wm. Adam, P. M.
Frey, Peter
Martin, Cristian Julius, P. M.
Gaines, William Crockett
Mather, John
Graham, James William
Mccutchan, William Charles
Green, John James
Misener, Albert Fillmore
Mitchell, William James
Hembree, Andrew Jackson
Hembree, Atlas Thompson
Mitchell, John Wesley
Higbie, Earl David
Nowlin, Andrew Brail
Opfer, Frank Augustus S.
Hoffer, Charles Augustus
Jacobson, John Henry
Overton, Theo. Talbot

254

HOSTER

Peterson, Peter Hanson
Pohley, .Joseph Charles
Pool, Charles Augustus, P. M.
Pool, Frank .Johnson
Pool, Harry Edward
Poch, Augustus Frederick
Russell, Hugh Alex.
Roat, Charles Wesley
Sheppara, .Tames Buchanan, P. M.
Small, William Henry
Snook, Edward Birdsey
Snow, Wilford Manhattan
Starke, Claude

Tartter, Frederick
Temple, Richard
Trowbridge, George Tyler, P. M.
Tuttle, .Tames
Walk, .Jasper .Jerome
Wilson, William Franklin
Wilson, Ned Stewart
Wilson, Lawrence Henderson, P. M.
Wilson, .Julius
Wilds, George Edward
Yates, Thomas Miller, P. M.
Young, William Henry
-75.

ROSTER
Stewart, Charles William
Ward, .John Canne·d y
Stewart, William .John, P. M.
Wilkins, Robert Watson
Traynham, Henry Vaughn
Woodland, .Tames Ward
Trueblood, William Erwin
Zumwalt, Marion
Ward, Edgar Kirby
WITHDRAWN:
Hardy, Herbert

OFFICERS:

George Conrad Meckfessel, Master, Douglas Cramer, Senior Deacon,
Berlin, Colusa County
George Herman Christian, Jun. Dea.,
Edgar Kirby Ward, Senior Warden, John Henry Myers, Marshal,
Samuel Alvah Pendleton, Jun. War., John Marshall· Peart, Steward,
James Ward Woodland, Treasurer, Peter Grevie, Jr., Steward,
Roscoe Rahm, Secretary,
John Cannedy Ward, Tyler.
Arbuckle
Abraham, Ira
Briscoe, David Frisby
Cramer, Douglas, P. M.
Christian, George Herman
Devendorf, Edwin M.
Evans, Foster Mott
Frazier, Guy H.
Gabby, Robert Smiley
Grevie, Peter, .Tr.
Grove, Walter
Hollister, .John Wilson
Howell, William Franklin
Hyde, Harry Edward
Kaerth, George Wash. Lincoln
Knox, Ellis Langdon
Langenour, .John Hamilton

MEMBERS:
Locke, Charles Henry
Marders, Cay Nelson, P. M.
Martin, .Julius, P. M.
McCracken, Thomas .Jefferson
Meckfessel, George Conrad, P.· M.
Mitchell, .Tames Edgar
Moore, George William, P. M.
Myers, .John Henry
Myers, Lorenzo Dow
Pendleton, Samuel Alvah, P. M.
P eart, .John Marshall
Rahm, Roscoe, P. M.
Sherer, .Tames Hamilton, P. M.
Sherer, .John Dillon
Stanton, Claude Devon
Stebbins, Cyril Adelbert

-41

Ci.EAR LAKE LODGE, No. 183.
Lower Lake, Lake County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next prE.ceding Full Moon

MERIDIAN LODGE No. 182.
Arbuckle, Colusa County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full .!.foon

255

OFFICERS:

Albert Hiram Kennedy, Master,
Francis Marion Herndon, Sen. Dea.,
Arabella P . 0 ., Lake Co., Cal. William Henry Smith, Jun. Dea.,
James Dt)nbar Branerd, Sen. War., Hiram Kennedy, Steward,
William Jardine Clayton, Jun. War., Thomas Loi:enzo Castellaw, Tyler.
Frank Akins, Treasurer,
Luke Evans, Secretary,
Lower Lake, Cal., Masonic Bldg.

Akins, Frank
Arbuthnot, Phillip Stewart M.
Bell, .Joseph Eugene
Brenard, .Tames Dunbar
Brewer, Herbert William
Castellaw, Thomas Lorenzo
Clayton, William .Jardine
Crawford, .John Naff
Cohn, Abraham
Evans, Luke, P. M.
Forshe111 Frank Hamilton
Frank, Leon Harrison, P. M.
Herndon, Francis Marion
.Tones, Daniel, P. M.
Kennedy, Hiram

MEMBERS :
Kennedy, Albert Hiram, P. M.
Kirtley, .John .Elliott
Levy, Morris
Levy, Herbert, P. M.
Morrell, Albert Fairfield
Pardee, Bill .Jennings, P. M.
Pardee, George Washington
Palatine, Samuel Thomas
Rawson, William Busfield
Reynolds, William Clarence
Snow, George Horace
Smith, William Henry
Tyler, .John Alex.
Wayne, George Washington
Wilson, Henry Harrison, P. M.,-30

256

ROSTER

ROSTER

SIERRA VALLEY LODGE, No. 184.

CLAIBORNE LODGE, No. 185.

Sierraville, Sierra County.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of ' or next preceding Full Moon.

Point Arena, Mendocino County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:

Owen Nathan Webber, Master,
Sierraville
James M. Turner, Senior fVarden,
John Landegrebe, Junior Warden,
Daniel Jasper Webber, Treasurer,
James Morgan, Secretary,
Sierraville, Sierra County

William James Copren, Sen. Deacon,
Harry Augustus Turner, Jun. Dea.,
'William Lewellyn Nichols, Steward,
Robert Louden, Steward,
John Mowrey Wood, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Miller, William Egbert
Barton, Walter S.
Blinman, John
Morgan, James
Chandler, William Henry, P. M.
Nagle, George
Nichols, Albert S.
Coates, Gaines Lane, P. M.
l'iichols, William Llewellyn
Copren, William J.
Nichols, Herbert Oma
Crow, Samuel Harold, P." M.
Dennis, William
Olsen, Jacob John
Dolley, Linus
Patterson, David B.
Dolley, Walter John
Perazzo, Joseph
Feiss, Earl
Place, John Norton
Hamlen, Edmund Higgins, P. M.
Pritchard, Maurice
Hockett, Robert Vista!
Rowland, Francis Marion
Howk, John Simeon
Strang, Jared
Humphrey, Jacob Butte
Turner, Harry Augustus
Johnson, Julius
Turner, James M.
Kynoch, Walter Anson
Webber, Daniel Jasper
Langreb'e, John
\Vebber, Owen Nathan, P. M.
Louden, Robert
Wood, George
Mercer, William Earl
Wood, John Mowrey
Miller, Thomas E.
-3~

257

OFFICERS:

(No Certificate.

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Bishop, Elijah
Borden, Joseph Hea
Callnon, Eugene William, P. M.
Chalfant, Aaron, P. M.
Chalfant, Harold Philbrick, P. M.
Christie, Fred Abasolem
Clark, John
Cuthbertson, James Ernest
Davis, William Oliver
Dunn, Jamed
Ferry, Peter Christopher
Gardenel', Robert Curtis
Gillmore, Emmitt Potter, P. M.
Gillmore, Everett Emerson
Grifi!'th, Forestes Lawson
Halliday, Joseph Crockett, P. M.
Halliday, Joseph Henry
Hargrave, Edwin Williard
Haskell, William Burton ·
Haskell, William Hascombe, P. M.
Hathaway, Robert S. Baker
Hick~ Arthur W. Trenholme
Howe, Henry, P. M.
Hunter, Samuel

Hussey, Riehard
Iversen, Soren, P. M.
Kingren, Jacob William
Lane, John Crosby, Jr.
Lane, John Crosby, Sr., P. M.
Lane, William Rufus
Litchfield, Frank
Lobree, Phillip
Mahlman, William Theo.
Marsau, David Allen
Miller, Augustin
Neto, Joseph Rafael
Newfield, Aaron
0 'Brien, Chester Francis, P. M.
Peterson, Channey Edward
Phelps, Forestus Purcevil
Rasmussen, Martin
Redemeyer, Luther
l:'ltronetta, Antone
Whelpton, Charles
Watrous, Robert Winthrope
Williams, Richard Holbrooke, P. M.
Williams, William Lewis
Worthington, Peter Duncan
--48.

WITHDRAWN:

WITHDRAWN:
Parker, Robert H.

Hummel, James Clarance

DIED:
Toomy, John Shriver

17

ROSTER

BOSTER

EVENING STAR LODGE, No. 186.

KEITH LODGE, No. 187.

Etna Mills, Siskiyou County.
Stated Meetings, fourth Saturday in each month.

Gilroy, Santa Clara County.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.

258

259

OFFICERS:
OFFICEES:

Charles Wilber Nutting, Master,
Charles William Kist, Senior Deacon,
Etna Mills
Alexander Parker, Jr., Jun. Deacon,
George Henry Mitchell, Sen. Ward., John Wallace McBride, Marshal,
Charles Jenner, Junior Warden,
Orson Valentine Green, Steward,
Fred George Smith, Treasurer,
Edwin William Bathurst, Steward,
Martin Marx, Secretary,
Robert Pey Taylor, Tyler.
Etna Mills
MEMBERS:
Adams, John Howe, P. M.
Baird, Charles
Barandun, Simon
Bathurst, Edwin William, P. M,
Benson, John
Benson, Ost!ar Leonard
Dannenbrink, Henry
Diggles, James Alden
Geney, Henry Ferdinand, P. M.
Green, Orson Valentine, P. M.
Haines, William Homer
Hall, Edward Monroe
Hughes, James Robert
Isaacs, Walter
Jenner, Charles, P. M.
·Kist, Charles William, P. M.
Luce, Irving Jacob
Marx, Martin, P. M.

McBride, John Wallace, P. M.
Messner, John Frederick
Messner, John Martin
Mitchell, George Henry, P. M.
Nutting, Charles Wilber, P. G. M.
Parker, Alex., Jr., P. M.
Parker, John
Rostetter, George
Smith, Fred George, P. M.
Spooner, George Cummings, P. M.
Swain, William Cartwright
Taylor, Alexander Stuart
Taylor, Robert Pey
Traverse, John
Wallis, Albert
Wilson, Lucius Stalford
Wilson, Lucius Stafford, Jr.
-35.
DIED:

Hansen, Hans

James Ralph Zuck, Master,
Frederi~k Lamb, Senior Deacon,
Cilroy
August Gubsor, Junior Deacon,
Frederick Henry Sebere, Sen. Ward., William Frederick Blake, Marshal,
George Arthur Haydon, Jim. Ward., George Edward Charles Tice, Stew'd,
Henry Hecker, Treasurer,
David Thornton, Steward,
Benjamin Barshinger, Secretary,
Henry Lynn McDuffee, Tyler.
Gilroy
MEMBERS:
Barshinger, Benjamin
Hellstrom, Carl Alex.
Bennett, Edwin Joseph, P. M.
Keaton, George
Keith, John Mathew, P. M.
Bigley, William Henry, P. M.
Kilpatrick, Samuel William
Blair, William Grant
Blake, William Frederick
Lamb, Frederick
Bradley, John Harrison
Lewis, George Martin
Brel\1, Richard
Lewis, James William
Burr, Daniel, Jr.
Lennon, Mark
Campbell, Archibald
Linnell, Allen Sylvester
Chappell, George Alfred
Martin, Albion Alonzo
Chesbro, Heverland Rogers
Martin, Jasper Franklin
Martin, John Henry
Clark, Jonas
Conover, Virgil Melville
McCoy, Arthur Howard
Cordes, Paul Henry
McDuffee, Henry Lynn
Crawford, Edward Darrell
Moore, Oscar Thomas
Danis, John Mathews
Moore, Samuel Thomas, P. M.
Darrough, Thomas, P. M.
Moore, Walter Scott, P. M.
Mount, Malcolm
Davidson, Richard B.
Dunlap, George Thomas
Myers, James Henry
Earl, George Wheeler
Onyon, Fred Gage
Einfalt, John Michael, P. M.
Parmelee .• Phinias Ward
Emlen, Clement Henry
Patison, James Clair, P. M.
Farmer, Edward Henry
Peterson, Frederick
Franklin, Bernard Hodges
Percy, William J,
Gubsor, August
Phelps, William
Hayden, George Arthur
Porter, Walter Sherman
Haydock, William Henry, P. M.
Pratt, Charles Francis
Hayes, William Clarence
Pyle, Darius Mack
Hecker, Henry, P. M.
Pyle, William Robert

ROSTER

260

Rea, George Elmer
Rea, Samuel
Rice, Marshall
Rice, Frank
Riley, Daniel John
Robertson, Robert Neilson
Rohnert, Waldo
Sargent, James Alexander
Sebire, Frederick Henry
Skillicorn, George Edward, P. M.
Slocum, George Washington
Smith, Arthur Dee
Smith, James
Smith, Sidney Henry
Springett, Rofand
Staniford, Frank Chester
Sutcliff, John
Thomas, Rowley Montague

Thornton, David
Tice, George Edward Charles
Tracey, Harry Woodbridge
Tryon, Ambrose Bruen
Wagner, Harry
Wardell, Benjamin Augustus
Watson, Alexander
Weaver, Clarence Roy, P. M.
Wentz, George Adam
White, George Charles
Wild, Harry Lee
Willey, Howard
Willson, Carlon Russell
Wild, William Bradford
Wolfrom, Adam
Wright, George William
Wright, James Henry
Zuck, James Ralph, P. M.

ROSTER

-94.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES.
Rea, James William
DIED:
Miner, John Franklin

OAKLAND, LODGE, No. 188.
Oakland. Alameda Ce>unty.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

William Samuel MacMurtry, Master, William Delaware Smith, Chaplain,
907 Kirkham Street
George Edward Perkins, Sen. Dea.,
Thomas Irving Miller, Sen. Warden, Harry Thornton .Moore, Jun. Deacon,
Harry Benner, Junipr Warden,
Francis Ami Braun, Marshal,
Edwin Nelson Walter, Treasurer,
Daniel Webster Pratt, Steward,
Charles Nelson Walter, Secretary, Charles Fletcher Gilcrest, Steward, '
Care of First National Bank
Thaddeus Robinson Joy, Tyler.

Abell, John Jacob
Adair, William Holledey
Adams, Frank Samuel
Alexander, George Washington

MEMBERS:
Allen, Ernest
Anderson, William Wilson
Antonelli, Joseph S.
Arrowsmith, George Edward

Badger, Thomas Norman
Baker, Alfred Septimus
Baker, Ernest Emery
Barnard, Charles Sumner
Basham, John Alden
Bassford, John William
Batchelder, William Frank
Baxter, Ormie Reed
Beatty, Joseph Crawford
Beck, Alders Clark
Belcher, Gilbert Luke
Bell, Harmon
Benjamin, Edward Hewlett
Benner, Harry
Bennett, Henry Thomas
Berkefeld, John Wolfram
Bixby, Levi Samuel
Bixby, Wilfred Everett
Black, Joseph
Blair, William Wallace
Bliss, Percy Laughland
Boggs, Edward Marshall
Bones, Samuel West
Borland, Archibald
Bowen, Pardon Mason
Brabban, Dixon
Bradford, Alonzo ·Sylvester
Bradshaw, Benjamin,
Bradshaw, 'fhomas
Braun, Clarence Thomas
Braun, Francis Ami
Bray, George Garfield
Brayton, Edward Lacey
Breed, Arthur Hastings
Breed, Herbert Lincoln
Brigman, Martin
Britton, John Alex., P. M.
Britton, Van Leer Eastland
Broadwell, Melvin Luther
Bronson, Edwar<l D.
Brown, Erle Millwater
Browne, Henry Robinson
Brownell, Frank Allen
Bruce, Samuel James
Bruml, Oscar Charles

Bruns, J.ohn Christian Conrad
Buckley, Milton
Burgess, George Waldo
Burpee, Joseph Solomon
Burpee, Lester Glenn
Burns, John William
Burrell, Alfred Ray
Burtchaell1 George Thomas
Button, Fred Lawrence, P. M.
Cantin, Augustus Samuel
Carl, Charles Frederick
.Carpenter, Tom
Carter, James
Cary, Benjamin Gates
Casod, Samuel Grant
Chaloner, Henry
Chamberlain, Nelson H.
Chamblin, Ulyde Luther
Channell, William Leon
Child, Edward
Clark, Alvah Kittredge, P. M.
Clark, Charles Edward
Clark, William C.
Clay, Isham Harrison
Clift, Frederick Charles
Colbourn, Frank
Cole, Charles Finney
Cole, Walter Hill
Coleman, Silas Ellsworth
Collins, David Edward
Colcanon, Wilfred Walter
Concanon, William Newton
Congdon, Ernest Niles
Conno.r, William Alfred Hopkins
Corder, Arthur Elmer
Corey, John Sanborn
Corrigan, John Sinclair
Crafts, Henry Gray
Craig, Albert William
Craig, Hugh
Creed, Wigginton Ellis
Crist, Frederick George
Curtis, Bert Leonard
Cushman, Edwin Burke
Dalziel, Robert

261

262
Daniels, Gilbert Barber, P. M.
Davie, .Tohn Leslie
Davis, William Rude
Degen, Ludolph Phillip
DeGolia, George Ellis
De la Montanya, Harry O.
De la Montanya, Mathew
Dewar, Frank Milne
Dilling, Alfred Ernest
Dingee, William Jackson
Dixon, Robert Vickers
Drapeau, Louis Claude
Dunne, John Carlos
Dusinbury, Myron Thompson
Du Val, William Moyland
Dyer, James Hamden, P . M.
Eadie, John
Eadon, Moses, P. M.
Eadon, William Henry
Earle, Guy Chaffee
Eber, George
Eber, .John William
Edwards, Ambrose Frederick
Erdman, Ludwig
Ericsson, Charles
Evans, Richard Henry
Evans, Talisien
Evans, Tli~mas Daniel
Everson, Wallace
Fairchild, Judd Hobart
Feight, Albert Volney
Fieberling, John Peter
Finkeldey, Edward John
Finkeldey, William Henry
Fischer, Charles Frederick
Fischer, George Irvine
Fitzpatrick, Frank Emmett
Folte, Gustave Julius Oswald
Fortin, Damiens Edmont
Fowler, Douglass Thomas
Franke, Rudolph Charles
Fraser, Alex. Grant
Fraser, Hugh
Freidlander, Marcus
French, Asa Telford

ROSTER

ROSTER
.Friend, William Hovey
Frost, William Edmond
Gage, George Guilford
Gage, Stephen Thornton
Gale, Maurice Armand
Gallagher, James Joseph
Gardiner, Claud Melnotte
Gause, Charles William
Gaylord, Robert Brainerd, P. M.
Giamboni, Louis Alonzo
Gifford, Arthur Swift
Gifford, Charles Terry
Gifford, William M.
Gilchrist, Charles Fletcher
Gilman, Joseph
Gilman, Samuel Meiggs
Glas, Maxmillian
Goodhue, George Brooks
Graham, Charles Kiriaird
Gray, Roscoe Spaulding
Greenwoo·d, Frank Munroe
Grismore, John Thomas
Grover, William Sherwood
Gurnett, William James, P. M.
Hackett, Samuel Allston
Hammer, George
Handy, Lucius Harvey
Hansen, Charles John
Harris, Don Frederick
Harris, William Baker
Hawkett, Arthur Wellington
Hayes, .John Ferdinand
Heaver, Walter
Henderson, John Henry
Henshaw, Tyler
Hermle, William Adam
Heron, Ernest Alvah
Hewes, Charles Leslie
Hewes, Charles Weslie
High, William Henderson, Jr.
Hill, Benjamin Chickering
Hill, John Autnstus
Hill, Robert Lewi!!; jr,
Hill, Robert Lewis, Sr.
Hildebrand, Raymond Cecil

Hobbs, Clarence Leavitt
Hoffman, Charles Frederick
Houts, Wallace Alfred
Howard, John L.
Howden, Robert
Howie, Thomas
Hubbard, Bert Sheridan
Hughes, William
Hunt, Symmes Harrison
Hunt, Thomas Edward
Hyde, Wallace Edward
Irish, Spencer Kline
Irving, Charles Edward
Ismon, George Henry
Jackson, Francis Frederick
Jackson, George Edgar
Jasper, Oscar Wood
Jenkin, Joseph Henry
Jepson, Louis
Jillson, Charles Brooks
Johnson, Charles Emile
Johnson, Emil Theodore
Johnson, Gunst
Johnson, Stephen Howard
Johnstone, Peter Mitchell
Jonas, Abraham
Jonas, Irving
Jones, Richard
Jones, William Henry
Joy, Thadeus Robinson
Judie, Benjamin L.
Kinsman, Richard
Keyes, Charles Edwin, P. M.
Keyes, Charles Edwin, Jr.
Keyes, William Reed
King, Robert
Kirby, Henry Harrison
Klein, Sigmund
Knowles, Edwin Irving
Koser, Newton Alexander
Laidlaw, Frank
Lamar, Henry Everett
Lange, Paul Woodrich
Lange, John Frederick
Lathrop, Solomon

263

Lawrence, John
Laymance, Millard Josephus
Lea, Frederick John
Leckie, Robert Stevenson
Legleiter, Robert
Lehnhardt, Emil
Lindsay, Thomas
Littlefield, Roscoe Wentworth
Logan1 William Wills
Lovett, Alvah Eugene
Lowden, William Heron
Lutkey, Charles Henry
Macdonald, John Archibald C.
Macdonald, William Isadore, P. M.
Macu-regor, Charles Manning
Mack, Oscar Eugene
MacLafferty, James Henry, Sr., P. M.
Maclise, James
Madden, Frank Ellsworth
Mariner, Gideon Stanwood
Martens, D. Bichard
Martin, Neils M.
Mayo, Bertram Chapman
Mayon, James Lenox
Meade, George Frederick
McClure, James Thomas
McCully, Judson
McGowan, Charles Mastersen
McGrew, Henry Grant
McKinnie, Charles Earle
McLeod, John Campbell
McMurtry, William Samuel
Melquiond, Lester Lawrence
Mengel, Charles Peter
Merritt, Albert Humphrey
Merritt, James Bestor, P. M.
Miller, Charles William Joachim
Miller, Frank Thomas
Miller, Homer Theophilus
Miller, Lewis Albert
Miller, Robert Willis
Miller, William Henry
Miller, William Noble
Miller, Thomas Irvine
Mincher, Burton Lewis

264

ROSTER

Petersen, Fred Albert
Mock, Theodore Lewis
Moore, Harry Thornton
Phelps, Nelson Dwight
Phillips, Frederick
Moore, William John
Mohr, Henry
Pierce, Edward
Pierce, William Frank, P. M.
Mohr, Henry Cornelius
Morgan, Edward Harrison, P. M.
Pocock, Henry Edwin.
Morse, Fred Wellington
Poole, Charles Oscar
Mosher, Howard Nelson
Porter, Phil
Mock, Theo. Freylinghuysen, P. M. P1Jwell, Alvin
Powell, Howell Aubrey, P. M.
Moss, David
Pratt, Abner Harlow
Muller, Jacob
Muller, John Peter
Pratt, Daniel Webster
Munsell, James Roy
Proctor, Richard Ernest
Munson, Arthur King
Pulcifer, Henry Willis
Rand, Hall Bergin
Murdock, Homer Blaine
Ransome, Ernest Leslie
Myrick, Chester Stanley
Redding, Albert Putnam
Naismith, James Semple
Reed, James Gilbert
Nash, Alfred Edward
Roach, James Vincent
Neff, Myron Dilbert
Nelle, Hans William
Robbins, John Harvey
Roberts, Jesse Sanford
Nelle, Harry Willard
Nelle, William
Rodolph, Francis Bequette
Roeth, Charles
Nelson, Nels Peter
Rogers, Cecil D.
Neighbor, Robert Webster
Ross, John Mimmo
Neilsen, Christian Severin
Rossier, Charles Augustus
North, Hart Hyatt
Rowe, Albert
North, Samuel D.
Rutledge, James Josiah
Nourse, Stephen Henry
Ogden, Fred Roderick
Sagehorn, Henry Albert
Sagehorn, William Deidrieh
Otis, Albert Henry
Sadler, Herman Julius
Ott, Charles Frederick, P. M.
Parcells, Charles Edward
Samuels, Herbert Joshua
Sause, Clifton Archibald
Pardee, George Cooper, P. M.
Searight, Beath Paul
Parker, Samuel
Searles, Mailler
Parry, Thomas Hendry
Schaackey, John Daniel
Paterson, George Wannon
Schachtebeck, Christian Lewis
Patterson, John Alexander
Scott, Andrew Lowndes
Pearce, Edward Hugernin
Shankland, Thomas Clinton
Pearce,. Webb Nicholsen
Sherman, Edwin Allen
Pedder, Stanley
Perkins, George Clement, P. G. M. Shortill, Walter
Simpson, Joseph H.
Perkins, George Edward
Skimmings, Robert Hoskings
Perry, Andrew John
Slater, Urotes Mayer
Perry, Henry Lee
Smilie, ,Tames Alexander
Perry, Joseph Joshua

ROS'!' ER
Smith, Albert Lippitt
Smith, Andrew Derby
Smith, Edwin Lowell
Smith, George Henry, P. M.
Smith, Guy Cummings
Smith, Horace Edwin
Smith, John Frederick
Smith, Le Roy
Smith, Sumner Stewart
Smith, William Clay
Smith, William Bailey
Smith, William Dela ware
Snow, Harry Kervan
Soderberg, Carl Fred
Souter, John Souter
Southwell, Frank Lyman
Spangler, Lawrence Alfreu
Spaulding, Nathan Walter
Spence, Aaron Tindle
Stafford, Walter Alfred
Stewart, Robert William
Stone, Louis Stanwood
St. Pierre, George
Stratton, Wallace Clinton
Stromberg, John Warren
Sturges, Frank Fanning
Sturges, Frank Foster
Suckerman, Jacob
Sunkler, Wilson Hillier
Sutton, John Richard
Swanberg, Eric
Swanson, Charles
Swenson, John Arthur
Swenson, Swen •August
Taft, Henry Clay
Tate, Samuel Patton
Tashiera, Lewis
Tayler, Samuel Johnson, P M.
Thomas, Hayward Glazier
Thornbury, Herbert John
Todd, James Hamilton
Towle, ,John Francis
Treadwell, John Bartlett
Trepp, Jeff Everson
Trower, Albert Ebenezer

Trower, Frank Whitaker
Turnbull, George Wylan
Turner, John
Upton, Lewis Mylon
Upton, Mylon William
Van Court, Eugene Salter
VanEmden, August Emile
Van Schaick, D'Ehnry Sylvan
Vidy, James Gabriel Powers
Von Hirsch, Sementi Julius
Voorhees, Fred Duane
Wachs, Harold
Wachs, Martin
Waldron, Vernon
Walker, Wilb'er, .Tr.
Walker, Wilber, Sr.
Walker, William
Walter, Charles Nelson, P. M.
Walter, Edwin N.ehnu
Walton, Jesse, P. M.
Ward, Eobert
Warren, John Chester
Waterhouse, Charles John
Watlington, Abraham Lincoln
Watson, Harry Elmer
Watte, Charles
Webb, Arthur James
Weilbye, William Hansen
Weill, Armand
Weill, Eugene
Westlake .• Benjamin Franklin
Wharton, Henry Edward
Wharton, Harry Edward, Jr.
Wheeler, Roscoe Samuel
White, George Stevens
White, James Stevens
Whitney, Frederick Eugene
Wilb!Jrg, Ernest Nicholas
Wilcox, Walter Cary
Williams . CJhampion
Williams, .John
Williums, John Edward
Williams, Robert Neal
Williamson, Hazard Snowden
Williamson, W. Forsythe, P. M.

265

ROSTER

266

Wixon, Julius Stanton
W oesner, Frank H!lnry
Wood, Hart
York, Charles Bannon
Young, Julius Alexander
Zeigler, Andrew M. Theodore
Ziegler, Arthur Herman
-472.

Wilson, Adelbert
Wilson, Joseph, Jr.
Wilson, William
Wise, Charles Ferdinand
Wise, Melvin
Wise, Raphael
Wishaar, John Herman

WITHDRAWN:
Kohler, William
Brigham, Frank Eugene
Leet, Lewis Cass
Cook, Norman Dunn
Lyman, Edmund Rensalaer
Gray, Albert Warren
MacLa1'l'erty, Holcomb Rhees
Keith, Arthur Raymond
Schultheiss, Charles Frederick
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Morry, Nicholas
Humphrey, Morton

Blethen, James Edward
Brown, Albert
Burrell, Alfred William
Crellin, Thomas
Emery, Joseph Stickney
Gunn, Adam Francis

DIED:
Johnson, Andrew
Merrill, Isaac Newton
Rattray, Joseph
Rosenberg, Nathan
Spangler, Emmons Rutledge
*Trower, Ebenezer

NORTHERN LIGHT LODGE, No. rqo.
Millville, Shasta County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
George Frederick Taylor, Master, George Washington Thatcher, Chap.,
Bella Vista
Lorenzo Spencer Hackler, Sen. Dea.,
Levi Rawlings, Senior Warden,
John Wesley Thatcher, Jun. Deacon,
Henry Herman Butzbach, Jun. War., Harold Milton Ross, Marshal,
William Gresham Wagoner, Treas., Benjamin Franklin Davis, Steward,
Merritt Dempsey Rathbun, Secretary, Otto Fredrick Schraer: Steward,
Millville
Jacob Daniel Overmyer, Tyler.
•Degrees conferrecl during the year.

ROSTER

Adams, John Quincy
Asher, Fredrick
Atkins, Benjamin Wilberforce
Backus, William J.
Baker, Lewis Edward
Bass, Herbert
Bateman, Charles Edgar
Butzback, Henry Herman
Crawford, James
Cutter, Henry Hill
Davis, Benjamin F.
Dirsch, Frederick, l'. M.
Dunham, Almond Nathaniel
Dunham, Joseph Albee, P. M.
Eick, Howard D.
Edwards, Marshall E.
Eldred, Stephen James
Flowers, Marshall L.
Forslund, Charles Fred.
Gay, Walter Leeforest
Hackler, Francis Marion
Hackler, Lorenzo Spencer
Harris, Amiel M.
Hathaway, John Ray
Heryford, Henr:r Wilson
Hurst, Ferdinand
Klotz, William F.
Koehler, Frank William
Lippoldt, Herman August
L ewis, Charles Henry
McBroom, Alva
Metsker, Alonzo Bryon
Middleton, George Thomas
Middleton, Joshua Joe

Ilrown, Frank Leroy

MEMBERS:
Morgan, Richard William
Ogburn, Jefferson D.
Ogburn, John William
Overmyer, Jacob Daniel
Rathbun, Merritt Dempsy
Rathbun, William H. Harrison
Rawlings, Erastus Edward, P. M.
Rawlings, Levi Petit
Rock, Samuel Oliver
Ross, Albert Frederick, P. M.
Ross, Harold Milton, P. M.
Scott, Thomae Joel
Schrarer, Otto Frederick
Silver, Levatty
Smith, James Edward
Smith, Louis Clarence
Smith, William Atkin, P. M.
Sorenson, Samuel
Taylor, Edward Milton
Taylor, Clarence Cparles
Taylor, George Frederick, P. M.
Taylor, Harvey Edward
Thatcher, Alexander
Thatcher, Bert William
Thatcher, Earl Sylvester
Thatcher, John Thomas
Thatcher, John Wesley
Thatcher, George Wash., P. M.
Thatcher, Mark Carr
Thomas, Francis Marion
Wagoner, William Gusham, P. M.
Walsh, William
Witherow, Samuel Newton
Wright, Ernest Walace,
-68.

WITHDRAWN:
Smith, Samuel G.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Messinger, Edward Otis
Webb, Abraham Lincoln
Simpson, Thomas Je1'l'erson .

267

DIED:
Taylor, Lewis Walter

ROSTER

268

ROSTER

MARIN LODGE, No.

191.

San Rafael, Marin County.
Stated Meetings, second Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Henry Marius Hansen, Master,
Dudley C. Bates, Chaplain,
San Rafael
Carl R. Schmidt, Senior Deacon,
William P. Murray, Senior Warden, John M Sims, Junior Deucon,
Raymond I. Shaver, Junior Warden, Henry Schluter, Marshal,
.S. M. Augustine, Treasurer,
Albert N. Boyen, Steward,
George G. Vanderlip, Secretary,
Arthur L. Adams, Steward,
San Rafael
Leslie E. Warden, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
•Burnham, Burton Nicholas
Abbott, William Henderson
Byrne, ,James Douglass
Ada.ms, Arthur Leslie
Caldwell, Angus Byrne
Adams,-Walter Miller
Angellotti, Frank Marion, P.G.M. Carlile, Charles Edgar
Chamberlain, William Lewis
Augustine, Samuel Miller
Christensen, Charles
Ault, John Milton
Christoffersen, Hans Christian
Barr, Robert Joseph
Barr, Thomas Ira Cook
Claussen, Peter Heinrich C.
Barr, William
Clute, John
Codoni, Guiseppe Abbondio
Bates, Dtidley Conent
Codoni, Silvio Celesto
Beaurgard, Harry Julius
Collins, Samuel Wilson
Becker, Victor Frederick
Cooper, Alfred Ber_trand
Bennett, John Donovan
Corbaley, William Gladden
Bent, Wilson Dexter
Crisp, Frederick John
Berry, Fred Leslie
Davidson, James B.
Bettancurt, .John Enos
Davidson, Samuel J.
Birlem, Frederick William
Davis, Robert James
Bishop, George Duelbere
Dewing, Albert Becher
Bogle, Eugene Edwin
Bonneau, Thomas Siah, P. M.
Dickson, Fredel'ick William
Boole, William Augustus
Dickson, Robert Edwin
Borkheim, Abraham Lincoln
Dodge, George Andrew
Boyen, Albert Nicholas
Dollar, Alexander Melville
Brehm, Adam
Dollar, Robert
Brown, Will Walker
Dollar, Robert Stanley
Buchanan, George
Donohoe, Denis
Buck, John Aldridge
Doody, Michael Chic
Buck Walter Ehlers
Dougall, William Wallace
Bullock, Edwin Mortimer
DuBois, Charles Hall

DuBois, Ernest Blois
Duncan, David, P. M.
Elliot, Frederick Nelson
Elliott, Thomas
Elliott, William, P. M.
Ellison, Charles Eugene
Passett, Byron Vale
Fish, Charles Hull
Fisher, William Fred
Fonnesbeck, John
Foster, Arthur William, Jr.
Frank, Leonard David
Fuller, Harvey Holland
Furlong, Robert, P. M.
Gibson, Fred Herbert
Gilmore, Clyde Phillip
Graham, Mark MacDonald
Grandjean, Walter
Green, Thomas Blair
Greer, Henry Elijah, P. M.
Gulde, Valentine
Gustafsan, Charles
Hansen, George Carson
Hansen, Carson Christopher, P. M.
Hansen, Henry Marius
Hardy, Douglass Harry
Hartman, Paul
Healy, Frank Jewell
Heilfrori', Bernhard
Hoover, Frank Curtis
Howard, Frederick Paxson
Inman, Pratt Cook
Innes, George Alexander
Jack, John Tunwault
Jacobs, Francis John
Jensen, Charles 0.
Jepson, Henry
Jones, Herbert Ellis
Jones, Richard Clarence, P. M.
Jones, W. Farrington, P. M.
Kaempff, Charles William
Kaneen, John Stephen
Keffer, Guy Vickrey
Kendrick; George Freem:ln
Kierulff, George Dudley

King, William Joseph
Kirk, Andrew
Klammer, .Eugene
Knittel, Henry
Kuser, John Henry
Lauck, Joseph Benjamin
Lauff, Oscar Bengua
Lewis, Harry Thomas
Lichtenberg, Rudolph George
Lic.htenstein, Milton
Lietz, Adolph, Jr.
Lietz, Adolph
Magnes, Robert
Mahony, William IL
Murchison, Neil
Marshall, William
Mason, George
McLean, James 'l'homas
Meyer, Henry Bernhard
Millan, George Barnes
Murphy, Felix
Murray, Fred
Murray, George, P. M.
Murray, William Paul
Muscio, Dante Rogers
Nelson, Edgar Burton
Nelson, John
Nelson, Walter Shippee
Olmsted, Stephen Horatio, P. M.
Paine, Charles Sanford
Par kin, John
Parks, '.rra Hamland
Pearson, Otto
Petersen, Peter Henry
Pfaff, Bernhart George
Pfaff, Louis
Pitcher, Jay Clifford
Polssan, Adolf
Powers, George Herman
Porcella, Stephen
Rea, Henry Augustus
Reinhold, Anton Peter
Reinhold, Peter William
Richards, John
Rice, William Ackerman

269

ROS'rER

270

Robertson, William Edward, P. M.
Robson, Neil Stewart
Rodden, George Frederick, P. M.
Rudolff, Herman Hart Fred
Rydberg, August Julius
Saunders, John Algeo
Sawin, William Grant
Sawyer, Fred Earl
Schaer, Fred William, Jr.
Schernstein, Frank Charles
Schlos~er, Henry
Schluter, Henry Arnold
Schmidt, Carl Richard
Schmidt, Max August
Sharp, William Fuller
Shaver, Charles Bird
Shaver, Raymond Isaac
Sherer, Rex William
Silveira, Felix Augusto
Sime, Frank Jed
Simpton, Frank George
Sims, John MacKenzie
Skinner, Wilber DeEsting
Sparrow, Arthur James
Spencer, Harry

Stipp, Logun
Strong, Edward Beebe
Sturtevant, Wilbur Daniel
Sweetser, Fred Wiley
Taylor, James Irving
Taylor, Samuel Penfield
Taylor, Will Penfield
'rhayer, Raymond Haven
Trumbull, Robert Hamilton
Vanderlip, George Gore
Von Husen1 Henry Johannes
Warden, Leslie Edwin
Warden, Robert Audley
Warden, Russell Harvey, P. M.
Waterman, George Burton
Wessell, William C.
Whaley, Thomas Joseph
Wheeler, Robert Scott
Williams, Peter
Wilkins, James Hepburn
Winberg, Per
Woodward, Archimedes Bucknor
Woodward, Arthur Clinton
Wreden, Carl von
-197.

WITHDRAWN:
MacKinnon, Duncan

Alexander, Thomas Newton

SUSPENDED FOR UNMASONIC CONDUCT:
Deysher, William L.

Dunbar, Luis Lane

DIED:
Weigel, Samuel Mann

ROSTER

SANTA BARBARA LODGE, No.

271
192.

Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next succeeding Full Moon,
OFFICERS:

Anthony White Dozier, Master,
William Cross Merrill, Chaplain,
Santa Barbara
David Howard Schauer, Sen. Deacon;
Eugene Oscar Farnum, Sen. Warden, Lee Omer DeRieux, Junior Deacon,
Albert Perham Hardy, Jun. Warden, James Ross, Marshal,
Winfield Bradbury Metcalf, Treas., Victor Eugene Trace, Steward,
Charles Oscar Garretson, Secret.ary, John Henry Teegen, Steward,
211 E. Haley Street
Samuel Manchester, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Almy, Ira
Ellery, Henry
Alves, John Joseph
Emigh, Frank Edward
Barker, James Lawrence
Faber, George
Baylies, Frederick Henry
Fairbanks, Charles Devin, P. M.
Bither, Frank Denny
Farnum, Eugene Oscar
Boeseke, Albert
Faulding, Mervin Coulter
Bowen, Richard Alfred
Fergus, Oscar Warren
Brassfield, William Leonard
Findlay, James
Breslauer, Theodore Mattews
Forrester, William Lucien
Brown, Joseph H.
Fulton, Robert
Burson, Arthur Edward
Garland, Thomas
Burson, Joseph l!.
Garretson, Charle·s Oscar, P. M.
Casebeer, Joseph Wilson
George, Edgar Sherman
Citzler, Bernard
Gerow, William Sperry
Cornwall, James Tod
Gibbs, Albert Wyman
Cornwall, Thomas
Grant, Alexander Charles
Crawford, William Samuel
Grant, William Richard
Curran, Joseph Pierce
Grenzin, John Andrew
Daniels, Thomas Payne
Hardy, Albert Perham, P. M.
Dawe, George
Harrington, John Kennedy, P. M.
Day, Benj. Robert
Hayman, Fred
De Rieux, Lee Omer
Higgins, Phineas Clark
Dodge, Edward Gardner, P. M.
Hiller, John N., P. M.
Dillin, George William
Hiller, John Roy
Dorrance, William Friend, P. M.
Hilliard, Horace Mann
Dozier, Anthony White
Humphrey, George Walker
Eaton, Joseph Osborn
Ireland, William Moore
Eddleman, Jacob Joshua, P. M.
Jones, Rufus Thomas
Edmondson, Alfred Robert
Kilgore, Moat Molden

272

ROSTER

Ross, James
Knight, Clarence Crosby, P. M.
Rowell, William Arthur
Lory, Eugene Aime
Rowley, Charles Harvey, P. M.
Loveday, Claude
Schuster, Augustus Carl, P. M.
MacLeod, John Alexander
Sexton, Joseph Foster
Malone, John Miller
Manchester, Samuel, P. M.
Skinner, Charles
Martin, Ai Dennis
Slosson, Willis Martin
Mason, Stanley Cordell
Smart, Joseph Frederick
McAvoy, James Milton
Smartt, J<'rank Preston
McDonald, Duncan
Smith, Elmer Leonard
Merrill, William Cross
Smith, Frank Burton
Metcalf, Winfield Bradbury, P. M. Smith, Frederick John
Moore, Ellis Passmore
Squier, Eugene Wesley, P. M.
Moore, Peter Louis
Squier, Oliver Perry, P. M.
Moraga, Jose Gabriel
Taylor, Arthur Wilson
Moraga, Juventino
Taylor, John Brutus
Morse, William Henry
Taylor, John Lewis
Moyer, Daniel
Teegen, John Henry
Neyhart, Perry Herbert
Thompson, William Hundley
Noble, Clare Adams
Trace, Robert Bradley
Ogan, John Higginson
Trace, Victor Eugene
Olmstead, Stephen Hart
Waibel, William Clyde
0 'Neill, Owen Hugh
Warnekros, William Louis
Ott, Adam
Waters, William Gardner
Paddock, Edgar Luzern
Webster, Chauncey Elemuel
Par-k, Roy East
Wells, Peter Callin
Potter, Albert Webster
Williams, Alfred Bascom
Pyster, John Neal, P . M.
Williams, David C.
Raffour, Louis
Williams, James Garfield
Ramsey, Henry Arvil
Wilson, Albert Calhoun Joseph
Rasey, Charles William
Wilson, William Arthur, P. M.
Rickman, Charles
Wyman, William P.
-192.

Holley, Jackson Robert

Squire, Will!am Brasted
Stewart, Robert Carlyle

WITHDRAWN:
Taylor, Thomas Lock
DIED :
Tebbetts, George Parish
Todd, Charles Edward

ROSTER

273

FERNDALE LODGE, No. 193.
Ferndale, Humboldt County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next succeeding Full Moon;
OFFICERS:

Preston R. Burris, Master,
Ferndale
Ira A. King, Senior Warden,
A. W. Blackburn, Junior Warden,
F. N. Rasmussen, Treasurer,
W. N. Damon, Secretary,
Ferndale

Charles W. Moore, Senior Deacon,
John E. Gries, Junior Deacon,
E . C. Damon, Marshal,
R. H . Smith, Steward,
J. D. Rogers, Steward,
E . Varley, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Alford, Charles Clyde
Francis, Decimo App
Fulmor, Smith
Alford, William Brazzilia
Barnes, Isaac Bloomfield
Garrett, Charles Austin
Barney, William Edward
George, Calvin Harold
Bartlett, James Frederick
Gries, Joijn Ericsson, P. M.
Benson, HanR Madsen
Hall, Thomas Jefferson
Beck, Peter
Hart, Smith Clark
Hansen, Henry August
Blackburn, Arthur William
Hicks, Leonard Salmon
Bowen, John Murry
Branstetter, Walter Grant
Hiller, Theodore Ferdinand
Hindley, George
Burris, Preston Ray
Caltoft, Harry ·
Hurlburt, Harry Ellsworth
Church, Walter Merton
Inskip, Philip Seward, P. M.
Christiansen, Hans Christian
Kemp, John Wellington
Keohan, Alfred
Comisto, Silva
Damon, Elbridge Cham., P. M.
King, Ira Adolph
Damon, William Nelson
King, John Russell
Lytle, Edward B.
Devinney, James Mark
Michael, Luther
Dinsmore, Albert Maurice, P. M.
Miller, Austin Vincent
Dinsmore, George Charles
Miner, Cyrus William
Dinsmore, Samuel Potter
Miner, Leander Haskins
Doe, Charles Albion
Moore, Charles William
Edwards, Ray Henry, P. M.
Ericksen, Jens Christian
Morrison, George William
Morri11on, Lafayette
Ericksen, Leven Christian, P. M.
Morrison, Silas V.
Evans, Ernest Theo.
Morrison, Silas William
Fenaty, Rollin Stanton
Muller, John Gotliff
Flowers, Frank B.
Nelson, Martin
Foster, John ~dmon P. M.
18

ROSTER

ROSTER
0 'Neal, Smith Demit
Olsen, Lewis Herman
Patrick, Zelotus Bingham
Pierson, Edward Augustus, P. M.
l'ollard, John Thompson
Price, George Alexander
Price, Isaac
Rackliff, Charles Clark
Rasmussen, Frank Nissen, P. M.
Rasmussen, Jacob
Rasmussen, Morris
Ring, Hogan J.
Roberts, Elis Richard
Robertson, Johnathin F.
Rogers, James Davis
Russ, Ira Alonzo, P. M.
Russ, William Nehemiah
Samuels, Henry Charles
Samuels, William
Samuels, William Martin
Fitzen, William Sloan

Schreiner, Charles Theodore
Scott, Ira Lewis
Siples, Louis Justin
Shaw, Joseph Armitage, P. M.
Smith, George Peabody, P. M.
Smith, James
Smith, Lucus Miles
Smith, Robert Hunter, P. M.
Snowden, Isaac Wayne
Spillers, Luther Douglas
Stone, Louis John
Sw!let, George William
Tooby, Ernest Norton
Trost, John Henry, P. M.
Varley, Edwin
Waddington, Alexander
Whittier, Oscar Dunwreath, P. M.
Williams, Frank George, P. M.
Wing, George
-91.

WITHDRAWN:
Notley, George Andrew

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Capw.cll, Charles Henry
DIED:
Goff, James Henry

MOUNTAIN VIEW LODGE, No. 194.
Mountain View, Santa Clara County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Walter Allan Crossman, Master,
John Albert Merrill, Senior Deacon,
Sunnyvale
Frank Seneca Daniels, Junior Deacoff,,
Charles Henry Mockbee, Sen. Ward., Frederick Lawrence Peterson, S.tw'd, '
Arthur Jacob Zschokke, Jun. Ward., Chester William Gibbs, Steward,
Madison Monroe Kleckner, Treas., Cassimie Scossa Baggi, Tyler.
Cyrus Philbrick Berry, Secretary,
Mountain View

275

MEMBERS:
LaPiere, George Warren
Ackley, Harry Milton
Me1rill, John Albert
Ackley, William A.
Meyer, William Daniel
Anderson, William Austin
Mockbee, Charles Henry
Ames, George J.
Mockbee, Jacob S.
Baggi, Cassimir Scossa •
Berry, Cyrus Phillrick, P. M.
Morgan, Oscar Crellin, P. M.
Mudge, Robert Simpson
<lamp, Wilber Lee
()arothers, Ed. Dawson
Muender, Rudolph
Norris, Benj. Andrew
<Jhapman, Eber Owen
Osborne, Clyde Hull
Charleston, John B.
Owen, Herbert
Clark, Walter Armstrong
Parkir.son, Charles Roseberry
Cooper, Charles Homer
Peterson, Frederick Lawrence
Crossman, Walter Allan, P. M.
Prideau, Frank William
Cutter, John Jay
Rathburn, Franklin LaRue
Daniels, Frank Seneca
Rengstorff, Henry Andrew, P. M.
Ehrhorn, Charles Horatio
Ehrhorn, Edward McFarland, P. M. Rogers, Alvin Pride, P. M.
Rogers, Arthur Blake, P. M.
Emerson, Edwin Lester
Roger, Wilfred
Emerson, Frank Lincoln
Fishman, Ely Louis
Saunders, Frederick Kincaid
Sciarini, Charles Louis
Foss, Elmer Edwin
Foss, William F. Farrington, P. M. Showers, James
Spaulding, Charles C.
Frink, Daniel Benjamin
Stevens, Marcus Harloe
Frink, Lester Daniel
Swan, George
Frink, Louis Hitchcock
Gordon, George Clarence
Swan, Lester George
Thomason, Andrew Elmer
Greenlaw, William Everett
Trulsen, Houkan, P. M.
Hanson, Nelson J orgen
Walker, John William
Humaston, Charles
W eilheimer, Henry
Hushbeck, Harry
Weilheimer, Julius
Johnson, Edward Thompson
Kleckner, Madison Monroe
Zschokki, Arthur Jacob'
-64.
Becker, Oswald

WITHDRAWN:
Cornes, Thomas Patten

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Kircher, John Charles
Towne, Peter

· DIED:
Whitmire, W1lllam Austin
Whittemore, Benjamin Franklin

276

ROSTER

BUCKEYE LODGE, No

ROSTER

I95·

Winters, Yolo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Henry Roy Brinck, Ma.ster,
Frank Wolfskill, Senior Deacon,
Winters
Henry Clay Settle, Junior Deacon,
Joseph Rains Griffin, Senior WMden, James Benj. Griffin, Marshal,
William Albert Brink, Junior War., Oliver Herbert Allen, Steward,
Daniel Huston Waughtel, Treasurer, William Irwin Baker Steward
William Samuel Baker, Secretary,
Charles Henry Wolfe: Tyler. '
Winters
MEMBERS:
Allen, Oliver Herbert
Haile, James Henry
Baker, Irwin William
Harlan, Joseph Ludwell, P. M.
Baker, William Samuel
Heilig, Irwin Winfield
Bandy, A. L.
Harling, Macajah Oglesby, P. M.
Bassett, Willis Harris
Hememvay, Fred Clyde
Boyce, Hamilton Guy
Hoy, Samuel M. H.
Bray, LeRoy
Humphrey,' J. Whitney
Briggs, James Richards
Hutchens, George Washington
Briggs, Robert Lee
Ireland, Elias
Brinck, August
!sh, Arthur Baldridge, P. M.
Brinck, Henry
Maxwell, James Oli"9'er
Brinck, Henry Roy
McFall, Theodore E.
Brinck, William
McNeal, Frank
Brinck, William Albert
Moler, Clarence Raymond
Brock, Louis Tom
Moler, John Frank
Button, Henry Leslie
Morrison, Robert
Caldwell, Edson KnoJ
Nash, Warren G.
Coleman, John Logan
Nehring, Lee
Crane, Thomas Jefferson, P. M.
Ormsby, Martin Powell
Edwards, George Nathaniel
Owen, Frank Henri
Ely, Benjamin
Putzker, Ralph Waldo
Englehart, Clevin Edward
Renfro, Lewis Clark
Fairchild, Chester Hyman
Ritchie, Alexander
Germeshausen, William Emil
Ro bimmn, Alfred A.
Goodyear, John Murray
Robinson, James
Griffin, James Benjamin
Robinson, William Henry
Griffin, John Frank
Rucker, Edward
Griffin, Joseph R.
Rummelsburg, Jonas
Guthrie, Thomas Walter, P. M.
Sackett, John Elwood, P. M.
Haas, Henry
Sackett, Louis Arthur, P. M.

:r.

Warder, Shadwick Morris
Waughtel, Daniel Huston
Wilson, Frederick Walter, P. M.
Wolfe, Charles Henry
Wolfskill, Edward, P. M.
W olfskill, Frank
Wyatt, Marcus Oscar
Young, Walter B.
-77.

Seeley, Mack Jay
Seifeit, Otto Emil
Settle, Henry Clay
Shearer, Levi
Sims, George
Sims, Wilbur
Smith, Charles Egbert
Stinson, Alonzo D.
Thompson, George
Rummelsburg, Simon

277

WITHDRAWN:
Solomon, Benjamin
DIED:
Ganey, William Greenwood

SAN SIMEON LODGE, No. 196.
Cambria, San Luis Obispo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full l\foon.
OFFICERS:
Alex Paterson, Master,
Adolph Frankl, Senior Deacon,
Cambria
George S. Dickie, Junior Deacon,
Gilbert Van Gordon, Senior Warden, Ritner Dodson, Marshal,
Dick Sanders, Junior Warden,
John H. Bradhoff, Steward,
James F. Stewart, Treasurer,
Pompeo Righetti, Steward,
James S. Arbuckle, Secretary,
Edward Asebez, Tyler.
Cambria
Arbuckle, James Smith, P. M.
Asebez, Edward
Bradho:fl', John Henry
Cass, Henry Kingdon
Cook, Alexander Stirling
Dawson, Byron Francis
Dickie, George Scott
Dodson, Ritner, P. M.
Eastman, Charles
Eubanks, John Henry
Frankl, Adolph, P. M.
Gamboni, Fredrico
Guesa, Jasper P.

MEMBERS:
Hardie, Angus M~erson, P. M.
Kaetzel, Philip
Laloli, James
Luchessa, Antonio
Maggetti, Peter Lorenzo
Minor, Robert Andrew
Muma, Irving Johnston
Murphy, Pliny Hayward, P. M.
Muscio, Abram
Music, Ethelbert David
Paterson, Alexander, P. M.
Righetti, Edward
Righetti, Francisco August

ROSTER
278

ROSTER

Righetti, Robert Marco
Tonascia, Charles
Righetti, Pompeo
Tognini, A. B.
Sanders, Diek ·
Van Gordon, Gilbert
Steiner, George A.
Vanoni, Mark Antony
Watson, James William
Stewart, James Fackler, P. M.
Tognazzini, Peter, P. M.
WITHDRAWN:
Hunter, William s.

HARTLEY LODGE, No. 199.
Lakeport, Lake County.
stated Meetings, Saturday of or ne::i:t preceding Tul: Moon.
OFFICERS:
-37.

WILMINGTON LODGE, No. 198.
Wilmington, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Thomas Benj. Hayes, Chaplain,
Edward Isaac Starbuck, Master,
Wilmington.
P. I. Merithew, Senior Deacon,
Allyn Fred'k Harris, Sen. Warden, D. C. Fohl, Junior Deacon,
John Thomas, Junior WMden,
Harry Easton Gannaway, Marshal,
Joseph Perry Sylva, Treasurer,
Benton McCoy, Steward,
William Henry Barker, Secretary, Anthony N. Winchester, Steward,
Wilmington.
Johann A. M. Koster, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Barker, William Henry
Multhrop, Willey Howard
Brilliant, Benjamin, P. M.
Myer, Charles Clarence
Burke, Arthur Oliver
Schweiser, Frederick
Carey, George J 'oseph
Seileman, Albert
Edelman, Benjamin W.
Sherman, William Henry Alfred
Forsberg, Frederick
Sjoberg, Charles James William
Gannaway, Harry Easton, P. M.
Smith, Albert Victor
Harris, Allyn Frederick
Smith, George Reid
Hayes, Thomas Benje.min, P. M.
Starbuck, Edward Isaac
Hayes, Victor William, P. M.
Sylva, Joseph Peny1 Jr .
Jargstorft', Arthur Clark
Sylva, Joseph Peny, Sr.
Jordan, John Norman
Sylva, Manuel Vienia
Kennedy, Silas Eli, P. M.
Talman, Edward W.
Koster, John August Mathias
Thomas, John S.
Marbut, Edgar Hume, P. M.
Young, Andrew, P . M.
McCoy, Benton
Vignes, John Lewis
McCoy, Oscar
Warren, Robert Boyle
Miller, William
Winchester, Anthony N.
Moore, Wellington S.
Wright, Charles Alex.
Morris, Frederick William
-39.
WITHDRAWN:
Priestley, Herbert Ingraham
Crook, Henry

Joseph Martin Church, Master,
Lakeport
William Ralph Lane, Senior Warden,
Heber Byron Churchill, Jun. Ward.,
Jabez Banks, Tr ea.surer,
Dudley Welch Greene, Secretary,
Lakeport
Ackley, Charles Fremont
Appleton, J"ohn
Atherton, David Hooper
Banks, Jabez
Barnert, Charles
Barry, Robert Emit
Biggi, Angelo, P. M.
Boardman, Oscar Terry
Boggs, Lilburn Henry
Brown, Henry Nath'!-n
Brown, James Humphrey
Brown, William Harrison
Brundige, Joseph Allen
Butler, Doron Kay
Byrnes, John Warren
Caldwell, Horace Newton
Carpfinter, Herbert
Chamblin, Marcus Richardso:r..
Church, Joseph Martin
Churchill, Heber Byron
Clemenson, Peder
Cockrell, H enry Bradley
Collier, William Bell, Sr.
Collier, William Bell, Jr.
Craig, Joseph
Craig, M.A.
Crawford, Woods, P. M.
Crump, John Gillion
Daily, George Leonard
Deputy, Addison Hester

MEMBERS:
Deputy, Horace Edward
Edmundson, James Dave
Ells, Theodore
Fearn, Walter Henry
Fitzgerald, George Richmond
Foree, George Haynes
Fraser, Lovett K .
Galino, George W.
Green, Arthur Wellie
Greene, Dudley Welch
Greene, William Wood
Greene, Willis Elihue
Hamlen, John E.
Hay, James Arthur Brue~
Henderson, Blythe Hendricks
Henderson, Lewis
Howard, Elmo Faber
Howard, Euvelle, P. M.
Howe, Frank
Hyman, Joseph
Keathley, William Thomas
K eeling, Herbert Venn, P. M.
Kellogg, Clarence William, P. M.
Kelsey, John S.
Lane, William Ralph
Lang, George August
League, James Neal
Levy, Aaron
Levy, Joseph
Levy, Samuel

ROSTER

ROSTER

280

Lundborg, Kornard Marquis
Marley, Leonard Harrison
Mathews, Shafter, P. M.
McClure, John Frank, P. M.
McCoy, General Hugh
Mcintire, David Floyd
McLean, Daniel
Meddaugh, Oscar Edson
Miner, Mark Leonard
Monroe, Curtis Jefferson, P. M.
Monroe, Jonathan Daniel
Morrison, John William
Murdock, George Gwan
Myers, George Welton, P. M.
Neal, George Harold E.
Nicoll, David Cox
Polk, Robert Choteau
Price, Benjamin Allen
· Rantz, William Dodridge
Reynolds, Albert Milton, P. M.

Hayter, Thomas Fletcher

Rideout, Winslow Lester
Robinson, Don Alonzo
Sanborn, Charles A.
Sayre, Burt Geung
·Sayre, Morton Smith, P. M.
Sohweers, Harvey Tillmon
Shirley, Ethan Allen
Simmons, J,ester Gaskell
Sleeper, Ed
Slocum, Willett
Smith, William Thomas
Storm, Greenberry Larkin
Sylar, Daniel Patton
Sylar, John L.
Utter, Joseph Perry
Voss, George Heinrich
Webb, William Henry
White, David Edward
Whitman, Adora Abial
Williams, David
-100.
DIED:
Kelsey, John

TRUCKEE LODGE, No. 200.
Truckee, Nt.vada County.
Statecl Meetings, third Thursday of each month.
OFFICERb:

Samuel R. Cupples, Master;
Jacob Frederick Adolph, Chaplafn,
Truckee
George Carson, Senior Deacon,
George Ernest Rutherford, S. War., John Russell Young, Junior Deacon,
Leonce Francois Lapoint, Jun. War., Charles Adam Ocker, Marshal,
Frank Mitchell Rutherford, Treas., William Steimer, Steward,
Jacob Frederick Adolph, Secretary, Gustav Adolph Schumacher, Stew.,
Box 134, Truckee
Daniel McPhetres, Tyler.

Adolph, Jacob Frederick
Agnew, David
Albone, Samuel 'William
Balaban, Andro
Barton, Charles Henry, t:>. M.

MEMBERS:
Bird, James
Bliss, Charles Tobey
Bliss, George Russell
Bodkin, Frederick John
Bofinger, George Herbert

Booth, Mylo Albert
Bryant, George Waldo
Burckhalter, Walter Marion
Calkins, Willard Peck
Cameron, Ashley Duncan
Carpenter, Harry Hancock
Champion, Francis
Champion, Josiah
Carre. Charles Kehoe
Carson, George
Crabtree, John Quincy
Cuppl<!s, Samuel R., P. M.
Davies, Llewellyn
Delaney, John
Dolan, J ease Casper
Doyle, Paul Maurice
Dunster, George William
Eveland, George Hamilton
Fay, John
Fleming, Charles Edgar
Flickinger, William Amberly
Franzini, Morris
Freeman, Edgar Daniel
Giffen, George Washington
Giffen, Thomas Jefferson
Glass, James
Gordon, Peter Henry
Gowling, Joseph
Gracey, Robert Christian
Guise, Sidney Franklin
Hartwell, Oliver Albert
Harvey, Irving Francis, P. M.
Hill, William Henry, P. M.
Hilton, George William
Hilton, Joseph Dearborn, P. M.
Hirschler, Gustav David
Jacobs, Herman Hiram
.fohnson, Martin G.
Kelley, George Frank
Koepke, Robert Charles
Kruger, Eugene
Lapoint, Leonce Francois
Leach, Da.n iel Walter
Lewison, Jacob Louis
MacWilliams, Thomas Charles

281

Madison, Albert William
Mann, Arthur Royal
Martin, Henry Edwin
Marzen, Joseph, Jr., P. M.
Maxsom, Jesse Bellamy, Jr.
McCloskey, George Herbert
McCullough, Franklin J .
McGlashan, Chas. Fayette; P. M.
McKay, Robert Gibson
McLellan, Charles Roderick, 1!. M.
McPhetres, Daniel, P. M.
Micander, John
Moody, Harris Lee
Moody, William
Muldoon, Francis James
Nahl, Constante A.
Niepage, John Gottholdt
Ocker, Charles Adam, P. M.
Oliver, George Davidson, P. M.
Ohland, Heinrich Fred. Ernest
Owen, Thomas Jefferson
Owens, Edward Llewellyn
Paris, Ellis Howard
Parker, Samuel, P. M. ·
Painter, Charles Franklin
Peterson, Andrew Jackson
Patterson, Seward Edgar
Phillips, Virgil
Redmond, Samuel
Poole, Stephen Buchanan
Poppe, Charles Bernard
Rabe, Augustus Louis
Rath, Ji'rederick Robert
Richardson, Warren Vincent
Rowe, Herbert
Rutherford, Frank Mitchell, P. M.
Rutherford, George Ernest
Schneider, Adam
Schneider, Peter Gottleib
Schumacher, Gustav Adolph
Scofield, Norman Elias
Sharp, James L.
Sherritt, John, P. M.
Shoemaker, David, P. M.
Shute, John William

ROSTER

282

Siegel, Charles, P. M.
Smith, George Hutsel
Spaulding, William Rufus
Steen, Nathaniel
Stephens, Leroy Hamilton
Stelzner, William
Swain, Ellis Marion

ROSTER

Thomas, Charles
Thompson, William
White, Charles Browne
Whitney, Thomas Byron
Wilkie, William Ferdinand
Wilmoth, H. Wellington, P . M.
Young, John Russell
-114.

WITHDRAWN:
Galbreath, Andrew Jackson
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Coyan, George Ellsworth
McDonald, John Joseph
Grant, George Hugh
Welty, Ira Bennett
DIED:
Williams, Martin L. (F. C.)

SILVEYVILLE LODGE, No.

201.

Dixon, Solano County.
Stated Meetings, Saturda;r of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Robert Edmund Lee Stephens, Mas., Winfield Rightmire Madden, S. Dea.,
Dixon
John Ludwig Nagel, Junior Deacon,
Rowland Moss, Senior Warden,
Lester Parker Hall, Marshal,
Francis Freeman Marshall, J. Ward., Robert McElwaine, Steward,
John Henry Rice, Treasurer,
John Ludwig Nagel, Steward,
John Devana Grady, Secretary,
Charles Martin Kirby, Tyler.
Dixon
MEMBERS:
Apperson, James Edwin, P.·M.
Garnett, William Henry, P. M.
Baker, William
Gates, Thomas Milton
Bessac, Henry William, Jr.
Grady, John Devana, P. M.
Carpenter, Milton Plummer
Grady, Parke Edwin
Clarke, Crawford Calvin
Grady, Stuart
Currey, Robert John, P. M.
Grove, Henry Clay
Collier, Aubry Austin
Grove, John Calvin
Hall, Lester Parker, P. M.
Coover, John Edgar
Downs, George McClellan
Hill, Joseph Silver
Hutton, Fred Albert
Dudley, Earl Delmar
Eppinger, Herman, P. M.
Johnson, Alexander
Ettlinger, Bernhard
Johnson, John Dwinell
Garnett, Moscoe St. Clair
Kelly, Benjamin Franklin, P. M.

Kidwell, Claud Bradley
Kirby, Charles Martin, P. M.
Little, George Arthur
Madden, Wirefieid Rightmire
Marshall, Francis Freeman
Martin, James Philip
Martin, John Brinckerh.Jff
McBain, James Alvah
McCune, Henry Ewald
McCune, Joseph Henry, P. M.
McElwaine, Robert
McF,adyen, Harry, P. M.
Moss, Rowland
Nagel, John Ludwig
Nudd, Elmer Ellsworth
Pedrick, William Stonem:~n
Peters, Henry
Petersen, Jorden Henry
Plummer, Charles Edward
Rice, Carroll McFadyen
Schulze, Oscar Carl

283

Rice, John Henry, P. M.
Rice, Scott McCune
Rockwell, Myron Salsbury
Rogers, Thomas Gilbert
Ross, Albert Thomas
Schulze, Gustave D.
Schulze, Otto Theodor
Smith, Leonard B.
Stephens, Robert Edmund Lee
Steinmiller, George
Sweany, John, P. M.
Timm, Charles Richards
Timm, Henry R.
Timm, Henry William
Thomas, Wade Frank
Ulsteen, George
Ulsteen, John G.
Uren, Thomas Henry
Wells, William Henry, P. M.
Wright, Oren
-66.
DIED:
Garnett, James Sinclair
Kline, Joseph

. PENTALPHA LODGE, No. 202.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

John Amos Kingsley, Chaplain,
William Rhodes Hervey, Ji,faster,
John Luther Matheson, Sen. Deacon,
Court House.
Fred Alexander Stephenson, S. W., James Black Gist, Junior Deacon,
Orville Deveve Stone, J 11n. Warden, Edwin Lupton, Marshal,
William Whipple Robinson, Treas., Charles Henry Brown, Steward,
Herbert Hamilton Clark, Steward,
William Puriston Musuas, Sec'y,
Harry Hauschild Mayberry, Tyler. ·
304 Laughlin Bldg.
Adams, Charles Francis
Adams, Earnest Bennett
Adams, George Price
Adams, William
Add~on, Rufus Choate

MEMBERS:
Allen, Herbert Smith
Allen, William Sayre
Anderson, John Thomas
Anderson, William Felix
Anderson, William Wallace

284

ROSTER

ROSTER

Armstrong, William Delano
Arnold, George Leonlj.rd
Astley, Charles, P. M.
Atchison, James Roberta
Atwell, Thomas
.Averill, George Edward
Avery, Robert Henry
Aylesworth, Walter Eug•3ne
Ayres, ~enry Washington
Bacon, Frank William
Baerthlein, Albert William
Bailie, Charles Girvin
Bair, Darius H.
Baker, Rouie Brown
Balch, Allen Christopher
Barber, William Marshall
Barclay, David Erie .
Barlow, Allison
Barto, Fred Oliver
Barton, Herbert Parks
Beach, Oscar Clarence
Beamish, William Maitland
Beattie, Robert Fountain
Beckett, Wesley Wilbur
Behrens, Herman Albert
Beleher, Harry
Benbrook, Charles Mallard
Berner, Gustav Emanuel
Berner, John Bismark
Bennett. Albert Alfred
BE'nz, Carl Dold
Beschor, Gustavus William
Best, John
Bicknell, John Dustin, l'. M.
Blackwood,, John Howard
Blake, Clarence Howard
Blakeley, Harry Bowen
Blakeslee, George Andrews, P. M.
Blossom, Edmund Wheadon
Blumoe, John Augustus
Bodman, Richard Stuart
Booth, Harry
Boothe, Charles Beach
Hortells, Frank Lily
Bosbyshell, Edward Christian

Boswell, Frank Moore
Botsford, William Finn
Bower, Euzema Clarence
Bowers, Alex. Forrester Neill
Bradrick, George Marion
Brain, Webster Cook
Brewer, John Aukeney
Brian, David
Brill, William
Brossmer, Sigmund
Brown, Asher Park, P. M.
Brown, Charles Henry, l'. M.
Brown, Clement A., P. M.
Brown, John Alexander
Brown, Paul Clifford
Brown, Robert Rufus
Bryant, Albert James
Bull, Ingall William
Bulla, Robert Nelson
Burke, William Edward
Burns, John
Burns, Thomas Walter
Burton, George Finley
Butler, Willard Wall
Calder, James Squair, P. M.
Calkins, John' Summerfield, P. M.
Cason, Edward Woodburn
Caswell, William Mitchell
Cavanaug_h, Charles Michell
Chambers, Richard Henry
Champlin, Henry
Chase, Charles Wheeler
Chase, Horace W.
Chipron, Arthur Paul
Church, Stephen Hayes
Churchill, David Lawrence
Clark, Henry Graham
Clark, Herbert Hamilton, l'. M.
Clemens, Nicholas
Clement, William Arthur
Cline, Edgar Harris
Cline, Ross Carroll
Cobb, Edward Sigourney
Cochran, William George
Cocke, John Vinton

Coddington, Fred Elmore
Col dwells, Joseph .Arthur
Cole, Jerrett Water
Collins, Burton Vincent
Collom, Charles Dwil!:ht
Connett, Harry
Conrade, Simon
Cooper, Henry Hill
Copes, Jacob Marion
Cottle, Rainsford Ensor
Craig, Moray John
Crawford, James Seth
Cridland, Edwin Louis
Cunningham, Robert Gilmore
Currier, Ezra Newton
Cuzner, James
Davies, John Roland
Davis, Edwin Ransome
Day, George William
DeCamp, Clarence Eastman
Devins, Charles Alonzo
Deyoe, Fred Theodore
Dezell, James
Diamond, Charles Boardman
Dietsch, Curt Oscar
Dilly, Louis
Dougall, John Park
Downie, William
Duncan, Hugh Welch
Dunsmoor, Charles Henry, P. M.
Dunsmoor, Cylos Taylor
Eagon, Henry Charles
Earl, Edwin Tobias
Eberle, Franz Xaver
Eckley, Frank Knight
Eckley, William Henry
Eddy, Frank Cowan
Edwards, Alfred Hannibal
Edwards, David Kitzmiller
Eldridge, Beptimus Tustin
Ellis, Morris
Engle, William Henry
Entler, Norman McClellan
Enyeart, Clarence DeRuyter
Erwin, Thaddeus McFarland

Fargo, Dwight
J!'arrell, Arthur Leslie
Fellows, Alfred
Ferguson, William
Fisk, Charles Edward
Fleishman, Adolf Gabriel
Fleming, Richard Lee
Ford, George Oscar
Ford, Joseph Drouillard
Fordham, Milton Cephas
Foster, James
Foulkes, Thomas
Francis, Ira Johnson
Francisco, John Bond
Fry, Abraham
Fulkerson, Tunison
Furrey, William Cobbett
Gardner, Gilbert Emery
Gehrkens, Christian Magnus
Genrick, Henry Francis
Gibbs, Frank Nelson
Gibson, Edward David
Gibson, Hugh Simons
Gilbert, Charles Silliman
Gilham, William Thomas
Gill, William Henry
Ginaca, Camille Armand Joseph
Gist, James Black, P. M.
Glasgow, Alfred Stevens
Goodhue, James William
Grable, Charles Elliott
Gray, Benjamin
Green, Samuel Miles
Griffith, John Tomlinson
Gr,ubb, Edwin L.
Guthrie, Arthur Stanley
Guthrie, Edward Marshall
Haab, Benjamin Albert
Hale, Francis Seraph
Hall, Charles
Hall, George
Hamilton, Albert Newell
Hamlin, Ralph Cunningham
Hanna, James
Harding. Charles Wesley

285

•

286

ROSTER

Harding, William George
Harms, Herman
Harrison, Lisle Ryerson
Hart, Frank John
Hartmann, Frederick Charles
Hartup, Edmund
Hawgood, Harry
Hayes, Louis Augustus
Hayward, John
Heartt, Charles Lawrence
Hellman, Irving Herman
Henderson, David Cockran
Henderson, John Armstrong
Hepp, Adolf
Herington, Monroe Davis
Herr, George Frederick
Hervey, William Rhodes, P. M.
Hetherington, Isaac
Hewitt, Leslie Randall
Hewitt, Randall Henry
Hiller, Sidney Warner
Hilliard, Samuel William
Hinman, Clifford Irving, 'P. M.
Hirschler, Jacob Peter
Holcomb, Elmer Joseph
Holmes, William Taylor
Holton, George Mortimer
Hoppins, Henry Isaac
Hough, William Arthur
Houselibe, William John
Howard, Perry Alonzo
Howard, William Woolworth
Hubbard, Albert Allen
Hudson, Frank Dale
Hudson, Josiah Whitcomb
Huebsch, Charles Frederick
Hughes, Henry West
Hughes, John Francis, P. M.
Hunnewell, William Bowne, P. M.
Hunter, William Alexander
Hussey, William Clark
Imendorf, Gustav Adolf
Innes, Daniel
Jarrett, Benjamin Samuel
Jesberg, Paul August

•

Johnson, Benjamin
Johnson, John Smith
Jones, Cummins Butterfield, P. M.
Jones, Leonard
Jones, William Wood
Jordan, Elmore Chidister
Judson, Richard Paul
J 'u dson, Walter Horace
Judy, James Howard
Keeley, Edward Ellsworth
Keifer, John Henry
Kennedy, William, P. M.
Killian, Joseph Adolf
Kincaid, Eugenio Hough
Kingsley, John Amos, P. M.
Kinsel, Ernest Frederick
Kirkpatrick, John Lawrence
Knecht, George Gustave
Knickerbocker, Niles
Knotts, Harry Hope
Koepfli, Joseph Otto
Kohler, Charles Frederick
Kuhrts, Jacob
Kurtz, Eugene, William
Lang, Gustav John
Lankershim, James Boon
Laraia, Joseph Nicholas
Latsch, Theodore Martin
Law, Horace
Lawrence, John
Lea, Homer
Leake, Edward
LeMasters, James Calvin
Lester, William George
Levy, Leander
Lewis, James Clinton, P. M.
Lewis, William
Lieber, Louis Otto
Little William James
Livermore, Philarmon Patten
Lloyd, Henry Joseph, P. M.
Long, Edward Haynes
Lovell, Lawrence Archer
Low, Alvin Harrington
Lowe, Oliver Edward

ROSTER
Lucas, Charles Fred
Luebbers, William Bernard
Lupton, Edwin, P. M.
Luther, Clarence Howard
Macleod, Malcolm
Madden, Michael Henry
Marble, Byron Monroe
Martin, Julius Herbert, P. M.
Martin, Russell Clinton
Mason, John Cheney
Mason, Horatio Shumway, P. M.
Matheson, John Luther, P. M.
Mathews, William Burgess, Jr.
Maull, William Knapp
Mayberry, Harry Hauschild, l'. M.
Mayne, William Hawthorne
Maxson, Edmund William
Mead, Charles Abie!
Merrill, Charles Calvin
McCallum, Cyrus Alexamler
McClure, John Clarendon
McComas, Charles
McComas, Jesse
McConnachie, John
McCray, Mor·ris Lynn
McFeely, William Kenyon
McKeeby, Lemuel Clarke, P. M.
McKenzie, Charles Bell
McKirahan, Merlin Evart
McLain, William R. T.
McMahon, Peter Augustus
McManis, John Rodman
McNeely, Malachi Toland
McReynolds, Orval Omar
Melligan, Albert Wood
Miles, George Clark
Millard, Marshall Albert
Miller, Frank Henry
Mills, Theodore
Mohn, George Frederick
Montgomery, James Andrew
Moore, Alfred
Moore, Sidney Roberts
Moore, Thomas Edward
Morton, William Ona

287

Moser, GregQry Frederick
Mulford, Shobal Patton
Murray, John Emmett
Musuas, ¥lilli1tm Purinton, P. M.
Mushet, William Cresswell
Myers, Burdette Richard
Myers, Thomas Chalmers
Nelson, William Matthew
Neves, Alsey James
Nichols, Thomas Edwin
Nicolay, Ferdinand Francis Louis
Noble, William
Norton, Lowell Prinston
Noyes, Charles Frederick
Ohse, Albert Edward
Osborne, Henry Zenas, Jr.
Osborne, Sherrill Blasdel
Osgood, Josiah Alonzo
Oxnam, Thomas Henry
Page, Roger Sherman
Page, Samuel Lester
Park, Lee Wesson
Parker, Francis Marion
Parker, Frank Tudor
Parks, Lyman Bertram
Parrish, Henry
Parkyns, George Arthur
Pearson, Atlee Rhodes
Pease, Niles
Peipers, Paul Clarence
Pendleton, C. Welles, P. M.
Perkinson, Al Vernon
Peters, Robert
Peters, Samuel John
Pettigrew, Eugene T.
Pfunder, Albert
Phelps, William Rees
Pickit, Daniel
Pickrell, Esau Addison
Pierce, Clarence Warner
Pierce, John Nelson
Pillsbury, George Eber
Platt, Henry Plummer
Platt, Robert Stark
Pomeroy, Abram Ehle

288

ROSTF.R

Potter, Lewis Arlington
Powell, Thomas
Powers, Luther Milton
Price, John A.
Prince, James
Probasco, Robert Purdy
Raymund, William Bernardo
Redding, Elza Leander
Reese, William Buchanan
Register, Henry C.
Reid, Frank Edwin
Reinhart, John Graves
Retzer, George Washington
Reynolds, Elbert Wilson
Rice, Harry Earl
Righetti, Robert
Ritch, Joseph Royal
Robertson, Andrew
Robertson, Edwin Chase
Robinson, David Elmer
Robinson, Robert
Robinson, William Whipple, P. M.
Rose, Richard Thornton
Rouse, Wylie John
Rowan, Valentine James
Russell, John Newton, Jr.
Ryan, JamcR Tillman
Salisbury, Samuel Scott, P. M.
Sanborn, Eugene Franklin
Searelle, Ernest Edward
Seeley, Calvin Mason
Selover, Sidney, P. M.
Senseney, Anthony Emory
Sheldon, Melville Austin
Shelton, Harry Ashton
Shepard, Abraham Dummer
Sherer, William Walter
Shibley, John Kenneth West
Shorb, Andrew Stephen
Silverwood, Francis Beatty
Simon, Ernest George
Sippy, William
Slaughter, John Louis
Small, Richard Ellsworth
Smart, Carlos Levi

Smith, Everett Russell
Smith, Ira Bacon
Smith, Irving Raynor
Soults, James Kennedy
Southwick, Thomas Smythe
Stanbery, Donald Warren
Stavnow, Charles Ashworth
Stein, Fred William
Stephenson, Fred Alex., P. M.
Stevens, William James
Stewart, George Hadley
Stewart, William
Stinson, Marshall
Stivers, Charles Gaskill
Stoll, Arthur Lincoln
Stoll, George Henry
Stone, Orville Devere, P. M.
Storrow, Samuel
St. Pierre, William Charles .
Strathearn, Robert
Sutherland, Ed. Paine
Taylor, Edward Lloyd
Taylor, William Cylouas
Thatcher, Frank Lawrenc~
Thielen, Ralph Alexis
Thomas, Benjamin Franklin
Thomas, David Charles
Thomas, Everett Beecher
Thomas, Herbert Ivor, P. M.
Titus, Elmer Maurice
Tompkine, Edward Payson
Topel, Robert Fredrik
Train, Robert Farquhar
Tresslar, Elkanah P.
Trout, John Henry
Tucker, Edwin Franklin
Tuttle, Victor Hugo
Tyler, Ormond Eugene
Valiant, George Francis
Van Nuys, Isaac Newton
Varcoe, George, P. M.
Variel, Robert Henry F.
Vawter, Edwin James, Jr . .
von Ache, Abram Garrison
von Ache, Wilson Canard

ROSTER
Wade, Robert David
Wadleigh, George Hutchinson
Walker, Daniel Henry
Wall, William Dillard
Wallace, Thomas William, P. M.
Ward, Harry Clay
Warren, Pickett Latimer
Way, Archibald Chisholm
Webb, Benjamin Oliver, P. M.
Wedgwood, Charles Herbert
Welch, William Henry Seward
Wheatou, Alonzo
Whedon, Willard Loring
Wheelan, Frank M.
White, Arthur William
White, Charles Esmond Jeffries
White, Harrie Leslie
White, William Emory
Whittier, Henry Frederick
Whomes, Isidore Frenkel
Wickizer, Hite

Williams, Daniel A.
Williams, George Miller
Williams, Seth Stanley
Williams, William James
Wilmans, Henry Stickney
Wilson, Christopher North
Wilson, James
Winkler, William Carl
Winter, Charles Henry
Wintrodc, Frank Cunningham
Wood, Charles Modini
Woods, William Thomas
Woodworth, John Joesph
Woves, Charles Roth
Wright, Chauncey Arthur
Wright, Charles William
Wright, John Gibson
Young, Milton Kelly
Young, Samuel Alexander
Young, Thomas Watson
Young, Warren Smith
-502.

WITHDRAWN:
Long, Richard Joseph
Anderson, Henry
Mason, John Harlan
Foster, Ernest Kidd
Pease, Edward William
Lindstrom, Albert Stewart
White, William James
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Adams, Harold Charles
Mays, James Wesley
Poudel, Leopold David
Dibble, Harry Edward
Dryden, Henry Francis
Stroh, Harry Louis

Baruch, Jacob
Bowen, Calvin Case
Breed, Levi Newton
Garnier, Camille (E. A.)
Glass, Henry
Grymes, George Anderson
Haines, Thornton Griffith
Haines, Rufus Rowe

19

•

289

DIED:
Haskell, John Condit
Matthay, Charles Herman
Oliver, Byron Lee
Plotts, Thomas Mitchell
Renshaw, Fred
Stombs, Thomas Allen
Tolbert, John William
Whitman, William Colfax

290

ROSTER

ROSTER

CONFIDENCE LODGE, No.

203.

Castroville, Monterey County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Manuel M. Silva, Senior Deacon,
Christopher Dudley, Master,
Castroville
John T. Collins, Junia~ Deacon,
Walter C. Butler, Senior Warden, C. R. Whitcher, Jr., Marshal,
Harry John Hall, Junior Warden, Albert J. Foster, Steward,
Thomas Phineas Clark, Treasurer, Andreas Andersen, Steward,
Robert Henry Martin, Secretary,
Thomas Prince Labree, Tyler.
Castroville
MEMBERS:
Black, Victor Delmas
Foster, Albert J.
Butler, Albert Newton
Hall, Harry John
Butler, Thomas
Labree, Thomas Prince
Buttle, Walter Charles
Lang, Frank Herbert
Martin, Robert Henry
Brown, Clinton Edward
Chappel, Thomas
Miller, John Edward, P. M.
Northrop, Joseph, P. M.
Clark, Charles Thomas
Clark, Thomas P.
Sherfeck, John Moffat
Collins, John Frederick
Silva, Manuel M.
Collins, Raymond Leslie
Skaarup, Nels Moffat
Uttley, George
Collins, Walter Ross
Whitcher, Charles Rose
Dudley, Christopher
Willson, Lew H.
Estabrook, Cl11:rence Robert
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :
Lawler, Lawrence Joseph

SALINAS LODGE, No. 204.
Salinas, Monterey County.
Stated meetings fourth Friday in each month.
OFrICERS:

Charles Lawrence Pioda, Master,
William Madison Black, Sen. DtaCfJ#,
Salinas
Charles J. Fulle, Junior Deacrm,
Louis Schneider, Senior Warden,
James Ashley Webster, Marshal,
John H. Harvey, Junior Warden,
Elmer P. Alexander, Sfeward,
Charles Joie Whisman, Treasurer, Daniel Martin Bernt, Steward,
J -0seph A. George Adcock, Tyler.
Francis Alvin Abbott, Secretary,
Salinas

•

MEMBERS:
Fulle, Charles J.
Abbott, Arthur Johnson, r. M.
Gordon, Samuel Buffington
Abbott, Carlisle Stewart, P. M.
Graw, Jeppa A.. ·
Abbott, Edwin Kirk, P. M.
Greenlaw, Alfred George
Abbott, Francis Alvin, P. M.
Grimes, John William
Abbott, Harvey Eldon
Hamilton, William Johll, P. M.
Abbott, Herbert Page
Hansen, Alber't C.
Alexander, Elmer Pendleton
Hare, Llewellyn George
Alexander, John King, P. M.
Harris, James
Adcock, Joseph Anthony George
Harvey, John H.
Anselmi, Charles Pasqual
Hayward, Harrison N els9ljl
Austin, Walter Pike
Hebbron, Edwar<l. Linco.1.l1
Ball, Henry Seyi:nour
Hebbron1 John James
Beck, John A.
Hill, Charles Caleb
Bell, Harry G.
Hill, William Jay, P. M.
Bennett, John Baron
Hills, Edwin ¥iii.es, I'. M.
Benson, William Henry
Hoey, John Crais Frank
Bernt, Daniel Martin
Hoffman, Henry
Bertlesen, Werner
Hollingsworth, Everett Thomas
Black, William Madison
Hopps, Frank Jacob
Blanchard, Charles N .
Hunn, George
Boukofsky, Henry
Hudson, Harry M.
Bromley, George Alfred
Joy, Charles
Brassel, Edmond Horace
Joy, John Green
Burks, Charles Ephram
Joy, Thomas Phair
Cahoon, James
Kalar, David Gilmore
Chandler, Benj. Bradley, P. M.
Kellogg, Frank Frisbie
Clark, Mark Can
Keogh, James
Cook, Thomas W.
Keonecke, Adolph
Connor, Joseph Johnson
Krauss, Albert Gray
Cutting, Griffin Marshal
Lacey, Claud Fountaine
Day, Frank Beardsley
Lacey, George Edwin
Dorn, Carl Delos
Lawson, Peter Christian
Duncan, James
Lingschied, Robert F.
Duncan, William Thomas
Lynch, Peter John
Durner, Fred W.
Lynn, Ira Evart
Edwards, Thomas Clay, 'P. M.
Macquoid, Roy P.
Faulkner, Geo. Francis, P. M.
Maderia, Donald Arthur
Faw, Thomas Felix
Majors, Erga A.
Fenton, Edward
Malloy, James B.
Fenton, Louis Edward
Malloy, James C.
Fisher, William Randolph
Martin, William Jefferson
Fitch, Andrew
Massengill, James Talbot
Forster, Charles Alfred
McCandless, George Lindsay
Foster, John.Handle

291

ROSTER

292

Meyers, Fred
Michel, Frederick
Middlecoff, Walter Whitefield
McClary, Samuel Hayes
McLaine, William Laughlin
Murphy, James H.
Nelson, John
Nissen, Christian
Norris, Walter E.
Olsen, John Peterson
Outhier, Clyde B.
Palmer, James
Peterson, John Frederick
Pierce, Samuel Cassel
Pioda, Albert Woodbridge
Pioda, Charles Lawrence, P. M.
Porter, D 'Arey Allan
Porter, John Brewer
Porter, Robert Lindsay
Powell, Simeon
Rankin, John E.
Renison, Thomas
Riley, James Ross
Robertson, Alexander, P. M.
Robinson, Ashmun
Robson, Thomas

Roe, Lee Wilson
Rosendale, Charles B.
Salacci, Batisti
Salacci, Mateo
Salkeld, John
Schmechel, Frederick W., P. M.
Schneider, Louis
Scott, John B.
Secor, Valette V.
Snyder, Jacob
Sottvini, James
Steinbeck, John Ernest, P. M.
Thompson, Cagie Grand
'rhomsen, Arnold
Thompson, Oscar
Torstenson, Nels Otto
Tynan, Michael
Vanderhurst, William, P. M.
Van<ierhurst, William Michael
Vetter, Philip
Warnock, Robert
Webster, James Ashley, P. M.
Welt, William G.
Whisman, Charles Joel
Winham, Frederick
Winham, Harry
-UO.

WITHDRAWN:
Jones, Philo

Cayer, Ovilla

DIED:
Graves, James E.
Hitchcock, Benjamin

ROSTER

293

NEWVILLE LODGE, No. 205·
Ne'wville, Glenn County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
(No Certificate. See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Luce, Isaac Daniel
Markham, Edgar Roscoe
Markham, Samuel Stephen, P. M.
Markham, William Henry
McGuiness, Henry
McKinley, John
Mitchell, David Edgar
Mitchell, David John
Moore, Allen Earl
Moore, Allen Twinon, P . M.
Morris, James Nelson
Osborn, Sullivan
Price, John Robert
Price, Stephen Howard
Rupert, William Franklin, P. M.
Scribner, Henry Alvin
Scribner, John Alex. T.
Smith, Albert Mutton
Snelling, Gilbert M. L.
Stapp, Walter Hall
Stockton, Gabriel Sutherland
Winters, Sterling Price
--44.

Burrows, Ira Ancil
Bur~ows, Orlando Arthur
Burrows, Rufus Gustavus, P. M.
Cleek, William Andrew
Conklin, Marcus Lafayette
Corrington, Steven Munson
Dyer, Zimri Parker
Flournoy, William Edwin
Flournoy, Thomas Francis
Foreman, Benjamin Franklin
Friday, Michael
Green, Hiram Renney
Hartford, John William
Hayward, Martin Haynon
Holderer, John
Houghton, Francis, P. M.
Houghton, Oscar William, P. M.
Hulen, John Thomas
Hull, Daniel Mosier, P. M.
Johnson, John William
Knight, Henry D.
Logan, Allison Robert

WITHDRAWN:
Dexter, Samuel S.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Walker, Alden Bradford

ROSTER
294

2115

ROSTER

STANISLAUS LODGE, No.

206.

Modesto, Stanislaus County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Thomas Henry Kewin, Maste1·,
Fred Russell DeLappe, Sen. Dea.,
Salida.
Sylvain Simon Latz, J u11. Deacon,
Herbert Mavro Hatch, Senior War., Claude Stephen Shafer, Steward,
Jared Waldo Hawkins, Jun. War., Harry Jacob Wood, Steward,
George Russell Stoddard, Treas.,
Charles Henry Griffith, Tylet.
Newton Edward Leek, Secretary,
Modesto.
MEMBERS:
Alexander, John Stewart
Hawkins, Jared Waldo
Andrews, Richard
Hayter, Abraham LaFayette
Bailey, John Valentine
Hewel, Charles L. Adolphus, P. M.
Bailey, Robert Covert
Jones, Claud Lee
Baker, John Robbin
Kewin, Thomas He:nty
Beard, Thomas Kennan
Kewin, William Edward
Bledsoe, Alfred Leroy
Latz, Sylvain Simon
Bledsoe, Willis
Leek, Newton Edward
Cameron, George Wa!hington
McQueen, Hugh Albert
Cavanaugh, Emi Oscar
Meinecke, Edward
Clark, Henry Harrison
Meyer, Alex.
Courtright, Charles Milo
Minniear, Charles Wilson
Courtright, Charles Milton
Mourat, Julian
Craig, Robert, P. M.
Needham, Jamee Carson
Crowe, Harry Spencer
Park, Howard
Dale, William Copeland
Parker, George Washington
Davis, Franklin Collins
Perley, George
Davis, James Alfred
Phillips, Robert
De Lappe, Fred Russell, P. M.
Plato, Gabriel David
DeYoe, Nathan Emery
Player, Lionel Pagett
Elder, Robert
Rea, Thomas Levi
Elias, Solomon Philip
Severin, Johannes Henry
Elliott, Charles Tappan
Shafer, Claude Stephen
Fulkerth, Loring William, P. M.
Shoemake, Albert B.
Goelfcrt, George Stepp
Sloan, Charles Edmund
Griffith, Charles Henry
Smith, Burton
Harp, James David
Spenker, Joseph Christian Theo.
Hartman, Lewis Clinton
Sperry, Charles Alvaro
Hatch, Herbert M.
Stafford, John Ivy
Hatton, William Henry, P M.
Stoddard, George Russell, P. M.

Surrhyne, Benjamin Franklin, P. M. Vogleman, Henry
Weyer, Frederick Karl
Swan, Charles Donald, P. M.
Weyer, Gustavus A~lphns
Thompson, David B.
Will, John August Thomas
Tregea, William Leonard
7.ander, Frederick Henry
Turner, John Daniel
Vchawn, James Oliver

-71.

WITHDRAWN:
•Booth, Charles Lemon
DIED:
Root, Milton Burdett

Stone, Walter Scott

ANAHEIM LODGE, No. 307.
Anaheim, Orange County.
Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Arthur Lee Porter, Master,
Sidney Holman, Chaplain,
Anaheim
William Herald Wickett, Sen. Dea.,
James Allan Knapp, Senior Warden, Wesley Rockling{on Quarton, J. Dea.,
Walker Willis Adams, Jun. Warden, Elmer Love] Goodrich, Marshal,
David Rowland Brown, Treasurer, Otto Tad Cailor, Steward,
Joseph Helmsen, Secretary,
Robert Wilson, Steward,
Anaheim
Argus Brutus Cowan, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Crowther, William, P. M.
Adams, Henry Martin
Davis, Albert
Adams, Walker Willis
Dunham, Fay Montgomery
Asher, Isadore
Draper, Robert E. Lee
Bailey, Mark Castleberry
Falkenstein, William
Barr, Erwin
Gardiner, Alex.
Beebe, Bird Valentine
Goodrich, Elmer Lovel
Boege, Charles Arthur
Grimshaw, Thomas Spencer, P. M.
Bradford, Albert Hartwell
Hatfield, Bernard
Bradford, Albert Sumner, P. M.
Hatzfeld, Julius Philip
Brown, David Rowland
Helmsen, Joseph
Cailor, Otto Tod
Hill,
Oliver
Chambers, William Henry
Holcomb, Chester E., P. M.
Cole, William Henry
Holman, Sidney
Cowan, Argus Brutus
Houck, Frederick Horn
Crowther, Walter Henry
•Restored during the year.

21J6

ROSTER

ROS'l'ER

Hutchinson, William Bell
Sandilands, Gerald W.
Hutt, James Hagar
Schade, Gustav
Johnson, Alexander
Schwenckert, William Otto F.
Johnston, James Roberts Holmes
Shank, Clyde Earl
Knapp, James Allan
Smith, Ethan Dwight
Krebs, Richard
Spake, William Henry, P. M.
Krick, Philip Hermann, P. M.
Spielman, Harry Garfield
Lagman, Octave Antonie
Teel, Samuel David
McLauchlin, William
Thompson, Arthur Evylin
McNelley, Wallace Hiram
Tipton, Will Silas
Miller, Louis Everett
Tyler, John Harvey
Nagel, August
Tyler, Norman
Pallas, Frank Wilhalm
Waldorf, Creighton 0.
Pa~chall, Samuel Jefferson
Walker, John Franklin
Pickering, .James McKenzie
Wallop, William Thomas
Porter, Arthur Lee
Wickett, William Herald
Quarton, Wesley- Pocklington
Webb, William Philip
Rea, John Blacklock
Weisel, Peter Joseph
Resh, John
Wilson, Robert
Riniker, Henry
Youngbluth, Frederick August
Rose, Walter Miner
-71.
WITHDRAWN:
Chynoweth, Henry William
Lewis, Thomas Jefferson
Smith, Winfield Scott

RIO VISTA LODGE, No.

208..

Rio Vista, Solano County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
James W. Hamilton, Master,
Ivan K. Hamilton, Senior Deacon,
Rio Vista, Calif.
Neil R. Hamilton, Junior Deacon,
John Milton Talbert, Senior War., August Gloff, Marshal,
Louis Henry Church, Jun. Warden, Thomas McCormack, Steward,
John McCormack, Treasurer,
Mark lsrel Church, Steward,
Henry J. Dirr, Secretary,
J aines Hamilton, Tyler:
Rio Vista, Calif.
MEMBERS:
·Brown, James Thomas
Church, Emery Ephraim
Caldwell, Euler Jones
Church, Louis Henry
Christensen, Christian Frederick
Church, Mark Isr,ael
Christensen, John, P. M.
Church, Smith Calvin
Christensen, Martin
Davis, Charles Kirkpatrick

Donald, Robert
Dozier, Edward Charles, P. M.
Dozier, Mortimer Roberts, P. M.
Dirr, Henry John
Emigh, James Livingstone
Emigh, Milton
Emigh, Thomas Powell, .P. M.
Emigh, William Jarvis
Everley, Phillip Jacob
Footman, Henry Edward
Fleischer, Benedict
Gloff, August, P. M.
Hamilton, Ivan Knox
.hamilton, James
Hamilton, James William, P. M.
Hamilton, Neil Russell
Hansen, Henry Wilson
Hoyt, Julian Buel
Herzog, Emil
Johnson, Frederick Christian, P. M.
Kelley, Albert Gallatin
Lindsay, Orville Andrew
Makemson, Winfield Scott
Markawitz, Abram Jack
McCormack, John

297

McCormack, Thomas
Monroe, Albert Harrold
Nicholl, John Robinson
Perry, Horace Grant, P. l\II.
Pollard, Louis Elmer
Pressley, William Burrows, P. M
Proctor, George Lawrence
Rice, Cyrus
Robinson, John
Rush, John Nelson
Smith, George Richard
Smith, Louis T.heron
Stanton, Jed Clarke
Stewart, Daniel C•
Stewart, David Alexander
Stewart, Harry Kerrison
Stewart, Matthew, P. M.
Stewart, William Alex.
Talbert, John
'I'albert, John Milton
Timm, William Delbert
Totman, William Nuell
Weckwerth, Herman
Westgate, Edward William
-59.

WITHDRAWN:
Smith, John Edward T.
DIED:
McCall, George Alex.

KING DAVID'S LODGE, No. 209.
San Luis ,Obispo, San Luis Obispo County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Walter Doughty Adriance, Master, Joseph Leland Kalfus, Senior Dea.,
San Luis Obispo
William Thomas Marshall, J. Deacon,
Edward Harvey Berry, Sen. Warden, Clarence Kendall Sanborn, Marshal,
Charles James Humphreys, J. Ward., William George Proper, Stew(J)r'd,
Pietro Benedetto Prefumo, Treas., J olm Thomas George, Steward,
Francis Horatio Throop, Secretary, Isaac E. Epler, Tyler.
San Luis Obispo

ROSTER
MEMBERS:
Adams, Stephen ·Thomas
Jack, Fred Bartlett
Adriance, Walter Doughty
Jack, Robert Edgar, P. M.
Albertoni, Nicola
Jacks, Doniphan Richard
Akers, Noel Prentice
Jackson, Fred Charles
Anderson, Leroy
Jackson, Paul Kingsley
Austin, James Henry
Jonson, Ernest
Ballou, Stephen Davis
Knight, William
Bayley, William Stowe
King, Harlan Clarence
Black, Edward William
King, Joseph Milton
Berry, Edward Harvey
Koshland, Max. Isadore
Bradford, Walter Wiley
Lake, Herman Wingate
Brooks, Benjamin, P. M.
Lamb, Charles William
Brooks, Samuel Wright
Lang, Clarence Cuthbert
Carpenter, Walter Clyde
Latimer, Benjamin Griffith
Lewis, Elmer· Merril
Cass, James
Cherry, William Wesley
Lewis, Jesse E.
Colen, Arthur Max
Lima, Manuel Frank
Cook, Neil
Marshan, William Thomas
Cox, H. Milo
McManus, Lewis Merton
Crocker,' Adolph
McNeil, Arthur James
Crocker, Jacob
Miossi, Bernardo
Cottmire, William Lewis
Meck, Oliver Hazzard Perry
Curtis, Charles C.
Metz, William Henry Harrison
Defos.set, Lucien Julius
Merrill, Arthur Merton
Donnelly, William Lester
Merritt, George, P. M.
Miller, Charles Arthur
Dorn, Fred Adolphus, P. M.
Ferguson, Edward Tompkins
Morgan, James Aaron
Muenter, Edward
Filipponi, Dionigi
Francis, James Dorsey
Negrich, Thomas Geo.
Fry, Pleates
Nelson, Albert, P. M.
Fuller, William Earl
Noah, Louis Meyer
Gardner, Ralph
Osborne, Louis John
Gilbert Mathias
Patton, Joseph Albert
Green, Aaron
Payne, Howard Morgan
Post, Albert Merrill
Green, Abram
Green, Morris
Pozzo, Frank, Jr.
Gregg, Paul Mills
Prefumo, Peter Benedett\l
Proper, William George
Garrison, Daniel Marcus, P. M.
Hankenson, Roscoe Ralston
Reed, Irvin
Hansen, William
Righetti, Robertino
Hoff, Marcus Jacob
Rockwell, James Justice
Hollister, John Hubbard
Ready, Phillip Francis, P. M.
Hollister, John Hubbard, Jr.
Robbins, Fred. Olmstead
Sandercock, William
Humphreys, Charles James

299

ROSTER
Schulze, Henry Frederick
Schoenfeld, .T~eph Bennett
Schwartz, William
Seaton, Joseph Henry, Jr.
Simpson, Frank Berry
Sinsheimer, Otto Oscar
Sinsheimer, Louis Felix, P. M.
Smith, Walter .Otto
Smithers, John
Snyder, Delos Daniel
Spencer, William Harrison, P. M.
Squire, James
Staniford, William Buckley
Story, George
Steele, Edgar Willis

Sutliff, Ralph Parker, P. M.
Throop, Francis Horatio
'.l'rewiek, Roger
Tucker, Ira Ward
Unangst, Edwin Peter
Van Sickle, George Arnold
Vollmer, Edward
Walraven, Francis Wells
Waterbury, James Edwin
Weir, John Porter
Whicher, John, P. M.
Wiley, James William
Williams, John
Wilson, James Eugene
Woods, Victor Hugo

-118.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Hanson, Simon Hempel
DIED:
Green, Kaufman
Barger, Denll Edwin
Lasar, Isaac
Call, Samuel Johnson
Steinhart, Alphone Washington

FRIENDSHIP LODGE, No.

210.

San Jose, Santa Clara County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Theodore McKay Wright, Master, Frederick Leslie Cauch, Chaplain,
45 W. Santa Clara Street
Joseph Pash, Senior Deacon,
Jacob John Kocher, Se~ior Warden, Louis Eugene Wilson, Junior Deacon,
George Thomas Lemon, Jun. Ward., :Franklin Bertrand Warring, Marshal,
George Butterfield McKee, Treas., William T. Reese, Steward,
Frank TenEyck Edmans, Secretary, .Francis Adolphus Smith, Steward,
58 W. Santa Clara Street
William Henry Lamrock, Tyler.
Abbott, Daniel
Allen, Napoleon Bonaparte
Anderson, Marten Theodor
Anticevich, Ant{)n G.
Arthur, James Gordo!!
Bacon, George Graham

MEMBERS:
Bailey, Lamartine Edward
Bangs, Fred Herbcrl
Barker, Charles Alphonse
Barker, Frank Page
Barlow, George Q.
Battee, Albe~t .Jackson

300

ROSTER

Battelle, Erle Eugene
Bauer, Hermann Wilhelm
Berr, Augustus William Rudolph
Beckert, Alex. Felise
Bein, Louis Phillip
Bell, Harry Edson
Berdrow, Asa
Bodley, Thomas
Boomer, Preston Hamilbn
Bostwick, Isaac Davis
Bozelle, Charles Lester
Bozelle, Nate Overman
Bragg, George Henry
Briggs, John Gregg
Briscoe, Ivan Bowen
Broedel, Michael
Brown, Francis Marion
Brownell, Elmer E.
Bruch, Louis •
Bruner, Henry Smith
Bullard, Arthur Rebard
Burbank, Gideon Webster
Burlingame, Leo D.
Cadwell, Richard Grant
Cambers, Joseph Benjamin
Carling, Edward
Cauch, Frederick Leslie, P. M.
Chambers, Arthur L.
Chambers, Seymour
Chipman, William Fitch
Clark, William Henry, P. M.
Clegg, Milton Manford
Cook, Joseph Wheeler
Coulter, William A.
Cozzens, George Washington
Cruzan, John Alex.
Cureton, Horace
Davis, Frank
Davis, George Arthur
Denker, William Henry
Dittus, John Jacob
Dorn, Arthur LAmuel
Drexler, Henry Otto
Easterday, John Davie
Edmans, Frank Ten E., P. M.

Edmans, Walter John
Edwards, Henry William
Edwards, Wilbur James
Entriken, Benjamin Frank
E'ving, Harry .Jason
Falconer, Sherman De!orest
Feldman, Carl Fred
Finley, Samuel Henry
Fisher, Hamilton Henry
Fisher, John Edwards
Fitzgerald, George Lee
Fleming, George Alex.
Fogle, John
Folsom, Henry Cathers
Fox, Abraham D.
Frazer, Isaac Abner
Gable, Harvey Edward
Garnes, John Franklin
Gee, William
Geer, Albert Warren
Gillespie, Walter Weir
Gish, Ralph Mason
Gorr, Charles Henry
Gorr, Lewis Lawrence
Gosbey, Perley Francis, P. M.
Graham, John Martin
Gripenstraw, Louis Arthur F.
Gray, Albert Maywood
Groves, William French
Hamilton, Joseph C.
Hansen, John Owen
Hardy, William Carlton
Harris, James Thomas
Harris, John Edward
Hatman, Frederick Daviu
Hayden, Zachariah Taylor
Hayes, Albert Cummins
Haynes, Aaron Jefferson
Heckenroth, Louis
Hemsworth, William Henry
Heriot, Robert Alex.
Hill, John TB.Liner
Hines, George Clayton
Hogg. Charles Henry
Hogg, Henry Clay

.ROSTER
Hollis, William Henry, P. M.
Howe, William B.
Hunkins, Charles Frederick
Jackson, Charles E.
Jackson, Lewis
Jones, Harry Ellsworth
Kennedy, Willi&m Charles
Kent, Herbert Lynd
Kenyon, George Phineas
Kingdon, George August.is
Knight, Isaac Allison
Kocher, Jacob John
Kocher, .Tohn Randolph
Ladd, Oscar T.
Lamrock, William Henry
Lee, Robert Alex., P. M.
Lemon, George Thomas
Lenzen, Theo.
Liddle, James Ward
Lighthall, George Elisha
Long, Peter, P. M.
Lotz, Joseph Albert, P. M.
Lovejoy, Edwin Palmer
Lunsford, Lewis Monroe
MacBride, Colvin Garland H.
Magee, Edgar Emmett
Mahony, Denn~s Vincent, P. M.
Main, Delbert Harold
Main, Earl Paine
Manhire, Alfred William
Mantz, Warner Henry, P. M.
Marckres, Clair Cutting
Marckres, Harvey Austin
May, Frederick
May, Harry N.
Mathews, Henry Davenport, P. M.
McCornick, Samuel
McCoy, Luther Addison
McGinnis, .Tames Sumner
McDougall, Giles Eggle!on
McKee, George Butterfield
McKee, James Franklin
McLaurin, John James
McNeil, Albert Beebe
Metcalf, Ambrose Burtton

Metcalf, Philey Henry
Montgomery, Seymour Thomas
Montgomery, Thomas S.
Moore, George Henry
Murgotten1 Alex. Phillip
Naf, John
Neame, Edgar Austin
Newcomb, Charles Thomas
Nikirk, Frank Austin
Nikirk, John Hill
Noble, William. Worden
N orrish, Joshua
Northern, William Leander
Nott, Edwin
0 'Doherty, Henry Palmer B.
Orcutt, Leslie Squire, P. M.
Osgood, Marion Hudson
Pallesen, Christian
Parker, Edwin Byron
Pash, Joseph
Paull, William Walter
Pawley, Casper
Payne, William Arthur
Perrin, Thomas Abram
Pieper, Charles Herman
Porter, Daniel Avery
Potts, John Samuel
Purington, Byron
Ratz, Frederick Henry
Raven, Walter Leroy
Reeso1 William T.
Riehl, Adam
Ripperdan, Herold Davis
Rogers, Morgan Protheus
Rogers, William James (1)
Rogers, William James (2)
Ross, Fred Cary
Rothermel, George Lewis
Rouse, Ernest G.
Rucker, William Walter
Ryan, John James
Sarzin, Joseph
Schroder, Albert
Schumacher, Frederick
Sheldon, William McClelland

301

ROSTER

302

Shelton, William Thomas
Shrader, Rufus Woodruf
Shumate, Albert E.
Singletary, Charles Fisk
Singletary, Emory Curtis
Skiff, Herman Albert
Small, Charles Kendall
Smith, Bradley
Smith, Francis Adolphus
Smith, Francis Jacob
Smith, Peter Barr .
Smith, Walter M.
Smythe, Delos William, P. M.
Soderstrom, Ernest Theo.
Sonniksen, Louis
Spitzer, Frank Easterday
Spitzer, Lewis Amiss
Stackhouse, John Wm.
Stern, Frederick Marcus
Stevens, Orvis
Stiver, Hershey Annin
Stone, William Boulogne
Stull, Judson L.
Thimann, Bernhard Conrad
Thomas, Rene! Kent
Trace, Merritt Pascoe
Trengove, James

Garrison, Fred Merrlll

Trew, Wilfred Carlisle
Van Dalsem, William Stoddard
Van Gorder, Arthur Grant
Von Boden, Bernard H.
Von Dorsten, Henry August
Voshelle, Francis S.
Warren, Raymond Edward
Warring, Bertrand, Franklin, P. M.
Wayland, Elbert Francis
Weisbach, Lewis Charles
Welch, George W.
Wells, George Summers
Wetmore, Cly de Timothy
Whiffen, Roscoe Albert
Whitehurst, George Arthur
Whitehurst, Joel Shipp
Williams, William Henry
Williams, Charles R.
Willkomm, Adolph
Wilson, Archibald
Wilson, Louis Eugene
Woodin, Scott Perry
Woodrow, William Larkin, P. M.
Worthen, George Wash., P. M.
Wright, Theo. McKay, P. M.
Young, Clarence G.
-245.

WITHDRAWN:
Gussefeld, WHllam
Wilson, Lewis Benjamin
· EXPELLED:
Seely, Martin Van Buren

Ball, Hiram Jerome
Boynton, Joshua T.

DIED:
Clayton, Edward Wllllam
Curnow, James Russell
Dittus, George Benjamin

ROSTER

303

SAN BENITO LODGE, No. 2u.
Hollister, San Benito County.
Stated Meetings second Friday in each Month.
OFFICERS:

Fred. Antipas Earle, Master,
Collins Monroe Brown, ChCDplain:
Hollister
Carl Leonard Ladd, Senior Deacon,
James Philip Davis, Senior Warden, Clarence Melvin McKee, Jun. Deacon,
Fred Lewis Barnhisel, Jun. Warden, Archie D. McKinnon, Marshal,
Heylin Beaumont Harris, Treasurer, James Alton Cushman, Steward,
Roderick Shaw, S ecretary,
Richard B. Williams, S teward,
Hollister
Francis John Titus, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
French, Theo. Hugh
Agnew, Gilmore
Geach, John Sowden
Barnhisel, Fred Lewis
Gray, Robert Brew
Bingamon, Joseph Wheel.er
Green, Alfonso
Black, George A.
Grubb, Joseph Roy
Black, William Walter
Hamilton, Fred Judson
Blank, William Henry
Bolton, Eugene Elsworth, P. M.
Hamilton, Judson Gerould, P. M.
Hardin, Richard Owen
Bonnel, Franklin Calvin
Hardin, Robert Marshall
Boucher, Joseph
Harlan, Ulysses Grant
Briggs, Nash Corwith, Jr., P. M.
Harris, Heylin Beaumont
Briggs, Nash Corwith
Harvey, William Hardgrave
Brown, Collin11 Monroe
Higby, William, P. M.
Bruder, Emil August
Hollingbery, William Voss
Chaney, William, P. M.
Hopcroft, Charles
Cole, George Washington
Hubbard, William
Crow, William Jasper
Hubler, Manuel Rena
Croxon, Jeremiah John
liull, Leonard Charles, P. M.
Cunning, Francis Asbury, P. M.
Rutz, Leonard
Cushman, Jamee Allen
Dalzell, William Francis
.Tean, Georga William, P. M.
Je1ferson, Lewis Weston
Davis, James Philip
Davis, John Oscar
J enlc.ins, Elmer Ray
Dean, Bernard
Johnson, William Andrew
Ladd, Carl Leonard
Daniel, Charles Mellen
Dowdy, Elmer
Ladd, Leonard Murch
Dunlap, William Anderson, :P. M.
Lauritzen, Christian Otto, P. M.
Earle, Fred Antipas
Lauzenberg, Julius
Logan, Erwin Sanford
Eckert, William Lloyd
Lowe, John Thomas
Estes, Gustavus Kendall
Floyd, Benjamin
McConnell, George Montgomery

3().5

ROSTER

ROSTER

McCi'oskey, Benjamin Burratt
Shore, Frank E.
Mccroskey, John Marshal
Shore, Richard Elijah
McCray, Alfred Marion
Skow, Ham Christian
McDonald, Daniel
Skow, Peter Christian Lauridsen
McKay, Alex. J.
Slatore, James Augustus
McKee, Clannce Melvin
Steinbeck, John Adolf, P. M.
McKinnon, Archie D., P. M.
Steinbeck, Wilhelm Peter, P. M.
Stephenson, Robert Pr axed es ·
Marcum, Leo
Nash, Francis Orlando
Tebbett, James Henry, P. M.
Newton, Henry Bascom
Thomas, Leonard Lyon
Noble, William Francis
Tiffany, Edwin Wm.
Nye, Jacob
Titus, Francis Joseph
Orr, Albert
Trau, William Robert
Ottolini, Ludovico
Turner, Albro Griffith
Pieters, Adrian John
Wagner, Charles Henry
Pond, Hiram
Wagner, Hiram
Pruett, Wm. Clifford
Walberg, Lars Erick
Rlchardsen, George Horris
Wapple, George, P. M.
Rosenberg, Marcus
Williams, Richard B.
Ruckledge, Robinson, P. M.
Williamson, Herbert Monroe
Shaw, George Eden
Will, Grant
Shaw, Roderick
Wright, John Amos
Shield, Charles Henery
- 105.
WITHDRAWN:
,Clement, Robert Richardson
•Cole, Philip Sheridan
Sebler, Fred Henry

MEMBERS:
Elkington, James Edward
Artigues, Charles Alex.
Elkington, William Edward
Ashford, John Parker, P. M.
Faber, Matthew Peter
Aver, James Henry
Fairclough, Freeman
Bahrs, John Jacob
Fairgrieve, John
Bailey, James Smart
Felt, John William
Bailey, Phillip John
Fetz, Joseph
Bancroft, John Royal
Fitschen, Adolph Frederick, P. M.
Baraille, John William
Flood, Charles
Barreilles, Eugene Louis Emile
Fulton, Charles Everett
Baum, Peter
Gardner, Jerome T.
Beck, Carl Marinus
Green, Wm. George
Bensen, Charles yvmiam
Haas, Leonard
Berendsen, Julius
Hamilton, James William
Berry, Wm. Anthony
Hamm, Sigmund
Birbe, Henry Carl, P. M.
Hansen, Carl
Blangy, ·Samuel Francis
Hansen, Peter
Blank, William
Hansen, Samuel, P. M.
Bothe, Alfred
Harder,
Henry .Tohn
Burns, John
Hare, Elias C., P. M.
Caubu, Peter
Hare, John S.
Cerf, Emile
Harlow, George Winfield, P. M.
Christsen, James
Hartwick, Sophlius Ferdinand
Cochins, Ludwig
Hasse, Arnold
Copus, Jay Nelson
Holland, John Paul
Crawshay, Edward
Horn, Bernard Jeremiah
Crystal, William
Horn, Frederick
Cron, Eugene Charles
Ingold, Charles August
Crosby, Horton James
Iverson, lVIa<lsen Jensen, P. M.
Daudibon, Alexis
Jacobs, John Adolph
Danielson, Albert Hijalmer
1 Johnson, Arthur Herbert
Davis, Ben
Johnson, Wm. Henry
De Gear, Jefferson
Katz, Frank Philip
Dietrich, Christian
Kay, David Scott
Dippel, John
Kehlenbeck, Henry
Dodds, James
Kirsch, Louis Charles
Doran, William Richard
Kiepert, Charles Frank, P. M.
Duncan, Franklin Thomas
Klein, Maurice
Dunshee, Cornelius E., P. M.
Kollmer, Jacob
Dunshee, Willis Adrian
Kramer, Louis George, P. M.
Dunwebber, Charles Christian S.
Kuhlman, Die
Eastman, George Solomon
Leger, M.auriM
Eggert, August
Levridge, Henry Wm.
Ellis, William Potts

304

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Coleman, Harry

SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO LODGE, No. 212.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
Masonic Hall, Railroad Avenue.
OFFICERS:
James Edward Elkington, Mcrster, James Alex. John McDonald, Chap.,
33 Albion Avenue
Albert Hjalmer Danielson, S. Deacon,
Richard Neilan, Senior Warden,
Herman Erdwig Rahlman, Jun. Dea.,
Simon McGregor McDonald,!. War., William Henry Johnson, Marshal,
Adolph Frederick Fitschen, Treas., August Frederick Mayer, Steward,
William John Bagley Warner, Sec'y, Kenneth March Brown, Steward,
1637 Oakdale Avenue
James Smart Bailey, Tyler.
•Degrees conferred during the year.

20

ROSTER

ROSTER

Litchfield, Charles Amical
Rapp, Charles Frederick
Locke, James Brown
Rasmussen, Harate
Long, Piercy Vincent
Raundey, George H.
Mahlstadt, Henry
Reiser, Edwin Oliver
Mangels, Hans Mac. C.
Reusch, Jacob
Mayer, August Frederick
Riccomi, Frederick Josepil
Mayer, Frederick Christian, P. M. Riccomi, George Leo.
McDonald, James Alex. John, P. M. Riccomi, Olinto
McDonald, Simon McGregor
Sambuck, Prosper
McDonald, William, P. M.
Schenkel, Peter .Joseph
McDowell, Thomas
Schneider, John Henry
Mead, Ray
Schultze, Albert Walter
Meley, Frank
Schultze, August Henry
Miller, John Edward
Schultze, William Frederick
Miller, Samuel
Simon, Samuel Collins
Milly, Charles
l:>impson, Josiah Adam
Milly, Charles Amond
Smale, William James
Milly, Joseph
Smith, George Bebington
Milly, Jerome
Smith, Henry
Mitchell, John James
Soares, Joseph Dias
Mofl'.at, Henry
Stamps, James Murray
Montgomery, John
Strahle, Paul Charles
Moulton, Levi Everett
Stricker, Henry
Morris, Leon Ephraim
Stumpf, John
Morris, Simon
Stumpf, Peter Benjamin
Muir, William
Suhr, Geo. Louis
Muller, C. Alvin, P. M.
Sweeney, Everett William
Munil, Leo
Tanner, William
Myers, Jacob
Taylor, James King
Neilan, Richard
Terrill, John Gladding
Nelson, Charles
Thompson, Charles
Nonnenman, Charles
T~dd, David Byron, P. M.
Nonnenman, Louis
Uhlenberg, Chester H.
Partridge, John Slater
Ulenberg, Peter Hansen
Pedersen, ·John Petler
Valente, Joseph L.
Peters, Charles · Loraine
Warner, William John B., P. M.
Petersen, James Peter
Wedemeyer, Bernard Henry
Petersen, Peter
Welch, James Millar
Pfeiffer, George Peter
Williams, Henry Fairfax, P. M.
Piver, Edward
Willment, Chas Henry
Potting, · Henry Frederick
Wilson, John Archibald
Quayle, Erhelred Edward
Wolter, Herman Matthew
Quinn, James Henry
Worsdale, Phillip
Rahlman, Harry Frederick, P. M.
Zimmerman, Phillip
Rahlman, Herman E.
-175.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
McPherson, William McD.

306

Andrews, William James
Israel, Max Jacob

307

DIED:
Israel, Simon
Niles, Jackson Edward
Wcienne, Emil

SAN BUENA VENTURA LODGE, No. 2r4.
Ventura, Ventura County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Frank Carrel ton Doty, Ma.st er,
Rev. James B. Stone, Chaplain,
Ventura
Thomas Orlando Toland, Sen. Dea.,
Mark Edwin V. Bogart, Seti. Ward., Scott Freeman Taylor, Jun. Deacon,
Fred Mercer, Junior Warden,
Christopher When Cannon, Marshal,
George Cook, Treasurer,
Delbert Arthur Reese, Steward,
Paul Hornung, Steward,
Jacob Lewis Argabrite, Secretary,
Ventura
William Wesley Masterson, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Andrews, Lewis Whitney
Chaffee, John Hyde
Argabrite, Jacob Lewis
Chrisman, Gilpin Wallace
Argabrite, Joseph Mayo, P. ]I[,
Clay, Henry
Arkley, Willia Wallace
Cook, George, P. M.
Crandall, George Brady
Baker1 Frederick Neill
Baker, Frederick William, P. M.
Cunnane, Thomas Edward, P. M.
Barker, James Edward
Daly, Thomas Henry
DeArman, David Hamilton
Barnes, Earl Elsworth
Barnes, George Silverman
Dennis George Palmer
Barnard, Frank Everett
Denison, David Rodes, P. M.
Dewing, Alonzo Wilson
Bateman, Welter Watts
Doty, Frank Carrelton
Beckley, Leroy Salsb'ury, P. M.
Dunning, Edward E.
Blackstock, Nehemiah, P. M.
~·alkenstein, U. S. Grant
Bogart, Mark E. Vander
Featherstone, James William
Bowker, Donald Glenn
Brecheen, Thomas Levin
Foster, Eugene Preston, P. M.
Bynum, John C.
Fox, Logan Oscar
Francis, Willard Hugo
Calio, Gardner Ranlett
Fraser, Allan Polic
Canet, Edward C.
Frost, Charles L.
Cannon, Christopher Wren, P. M.
Gerry, Edmond Waite ·
Cannon, Marion, P. M.
Cannon, William Herschel
Gibson, Wallace Robinson

309

ROSTER

308

ROSTER

Giddings, Herbert Alvaro, P. M.
Giddings, James Horace
Gosnell, Ira
Gosnell, Truman Barrick
Grant, Kenneth Peter, P. M.
Hall, Edwin Seth
Healy, Charles Edward
Herold, Stanly C.
Hirschfelder, Julius Eli
Hornung, Paul
Hubler, Rolla Alonzo
Hunt, Richard Orville
Kilson, George Elmer
Lemmon, Charles Fisher
Lewis, William Leachman
Lincoln, Leslie Earl
Lincoln, Willis Phillip, P. M.
Lothrop, Frank Whaley
Marple, James Albert
'Masterson, William Wesley
J.~cCandless, Benjamin Wright
McDavid, Irwin Alex.
McGuire, William
McKay, John Daniel
McKay, John William
Menzel, William
Mercer, Fred
Neel, Henry Harrison
Neel, Thomas Wm.
N ewbauer, Joseph Sigimond
Newby, Thomas Sheridan
Overmire, Milton Strader
Peck, Henry Essington
Philipps, Milton W.

Poplin, Adley Greenfield
Power, George Coffin
Rasmussen, James Peter
Ready, Charley Edwjn
Ready, William Edward, P. M.
Reese, David John, P . M.
Reese, Delbert Arthur
Reese, George Llewellyn
Reynolds, James Edward, P. M.
.Rithenbaker, Harry Charles
Robinson, Richarc"\ Owen
Rogers, Merle John, P. M.
Roth, Joseph
Sackett, George Lmcoln
Selby, Edward Milton
Sexton, Walter Ralph
Sheldon, Charles Henry
Simpson, Volney Alex.
Slosson, Leonard Butler
Starkweather, George Albert
Stone, James Blackwood
Sudden, Robert Cowperwait
Taylor, Scott Freeman
Thurmond, Gwyn D.
Todd, Theo.
'l'oland, Thomas Orlando
Turner, William Henry
Vincent, William Cluett
Walker, James Alfred
Walker, James Russell
Wilde, Wellington Goodwin, P. M.
Willett, Mucktar
Williams, Benj. Tully, P. M.

WITHDRAWN:
Collins, John Stevenson
Ogg, Thomas Daniel
Green, Charles Norris
•Ready, Virgil Elbert
Lathrop, Walter Herbert
tSence, Addison
Tenney, Alfred Davison
DIED:
Seward, Amos Dudley
•Degrees conferred during the year.
tRestored during the year.

-111.

OAK GROVE LODGE, No.

215.

Alameda, Alameda. County.
Stated Meetings, second Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Charles Edward Stokes, Master,
James Alfred Collins, Chaplain,
1429 Morton Street
James Niels Eschen, Senior Deacon,
Frank Victor Bordwell, Sen. Ward., Charles Alexander Allardyce, J. Dea.,
Chester Larned Robinson, Jun. War., Otto H. Fischer, Marshal,
Theodore William Leydecker, Treas., Henry Ferguson Strachan, Steward,
Oswald Lubbock, S ecretary,
Henry Christian Lassen, Steward,
'2:207 Lincoln Avenue
George Sturtevant, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Boehmer, Fritz
Abbott, Chas. Tvenstruz
Bolton, George
Abrahamson, Frank Bernard
Bordwell, Frank Victor
Addison, James
Born, Aug. Julius Wilhelm
Addison, Samuel
Bradley, Theo.
Agnew, Gilmore Marion
Bramman, Henry S.
Aitchinson, Gavin
Branch, Roya.I Daniel
Allardyce, Charles Alex.
Brevoort, John F.
Angelo, Wallace Purmort
Brock, Henry
Anthony, Edward Requa
Brower, Charles William
Bacon, Lewis Goodwin
Brown, Brainard Creswell
Bailey, Edward LaForge
Brown, Cyrus Austin
Bancroft, Harlow Palmer
Brown, He.rbert Hamilton
Barber, James 'Burton, P. M.
Brown, Horace Percival
Barstow, Frank Edward
Brown, Nanowa Theo.
Barstow, Joseph Nathaniel
Bruce, John Alex.
Barton, Phineas Wesley
Brush, Frank Spencer
Bates, Joseph Clement, Jr.
Buttrick, John Farrar
Baurhyte, Wm. H. Moore, P. M.
Cameron, James Angus
Baxter, Robert William
Carpenter, Hugh Slicer
Beach, Arthur
Cattermole, Henry John
Beegle, Charles Warren
Chapman, Isaac Newton
Benedikton, John
Cherry, Frank Wright
Benseman, George Adolph
Chipchase, Chester Garfield
Benson, Benjamin Ha.rlow
Christensen, Peter
Biddle, Edward Samuel, Jr.
Christy, James Robert
Binder, Frederick
Chucovich, Stephen Daniel
Bird, Robert Barnabas
Clark, John Russell
Birkholm, Soren Gudme
Clay, Allen Morgan
Blanding, Herbert Bowen
Clifford, Joseph
Bliss, John George

310

ROSTER

Collier, Richard Bartlett Howard
Eschen, Sidney Lawrence
Collier, Richard Henry
Eyre, Manuel Gelwick
Collins, James Alfred, P. M.
Fischer, Charles Frederick
Colver, Anthony Wayne
Fisher, Bertrand Lee
Combs, Burton Elliott1 P. M.
Fisher, Otto H.enry
Conger, Sidney John
Fleming, Frank Mosel;r
Conrad, George Edgar
Foderer, George Stevens
Conrad, J oh!l
Foderer, John Wesley
Cooley, Walter Wood
Foderer, J Q.Seph Frank
Copeland, Isaac
Fortner, Clinton Alfred
Copeland, William Forest
Fowler, James
Cormeny, Eugene, P. M.
Franciscovich, Mateo
Cornelius, Albert Wardner
Frodden, Volkert Meinert
Counties, Robert" Hays
Gentle, Ira Manary
Cortelyou, Lockeman Shafter
Gibbs, Albert Wm. John, P. M.
Courtney, George Henry
Gibson, William Maurice
Cousins, Frederick William
Gilfillan, James CairnP.s
Cramer, Charles Wesley
Gillogly, William Jay Syms
Crane, Alna LaRue
Glissmann, Henry
Crooks, Richard
Godfrey, Henry Squire
Culver, Charles Marshall
Goodwin, Selden Jewell
Curtis, Thomas John
Greene, Lucius Ellwood
Daniel, James
Griffiths, George Chandler
Daniels, Fred Hall
Guddal, Louis
Davis, Percy
Guion, Earl King
Davis, Samuel Haines
Hacke, Frederick Henry
Davis, William Henry
Hacke, Henry Christian
Deas, Harry Wigfall
Hall, Gilbert Cowles
Decker, Henry Peters
Hally, Frank
Decker, Robert Birtin
Hammersmith, Frank Arthur
Delius, Auto Ferdinand Wilhelm
Hammersmith, George
Dibert, Wayne Clay
Hammond, Anselm Charles, Jr.
Dill, John William
Hammond, Charles John
Doane, Thomas Henshelwood
Hammond, Charles John, Jr.
Doe, Charles Paden
Hammond, Henry Miller, P. M.
Dow, Henry Alvah
Hansen, Hans Peter
Droscher, Frank
Hansen, Hans Thomsen
Dungan, Eugene Leon
Harris, Edward Frisby
Eickhoff, John Henry, P . M.
Harris, Robert Eugene
Eisfeldt, Theo. Adrian
Haskell, Walter Williams
Eisfeldt, William Theo.
Haynes, William Ellsworth
Ellsworth, John
Heaney, Frank Noble
Emmons, George Wellington
Hebrank, Charles Lewis
Eschen, James Carl
Hegeland, Harry Rasmus
Eschen, James Niels
Heidt, Charles Louis

ROSTER
Hehn, Lucien Everett
Henderlong, William Randolph
Henderson, John Norman
Henrici, Harry Hermann
Herbert, Henry Vandeveer, P. M.
Herman, Charles Louis
Hesemeyer, Frederick William
Hess, Henry
Hesse, William Alex.
Hikes, Howard Lincoln
Hildreth, George Francis
Hiller, Henry Frederick
Hillman, Richard George
Hintz, Henry Louis
Hirschfeld, Emil
Hodges, William B.
Hodgkiss, William Henry
Holt, Edward James
Holt, Robert Lyman
Howlett, Frank
Howlett, John Charles
Hughes, Walter Renwick
Hunter, Robert Draper
Hurlbut, Frederick Haynes
Ilderton, Henry George
Innes, Arthur Gray
Innes, Walter Babson
Jackson, Frank Kennedy
Jackson, Joseph Wilson
Jacobs, Alex.
Jacobs, Saul Roberts
Jacobsen, Jacob Erick
James Edward Pond
James, Frank Vivien
Jamieson, John Cameron, Jr.
Jenkins, Frederick Eugene
Johnson, Christian Ole
Johnson, Elmer Ellsworth, P. M.
Jones, Emmet Renwick
Jones, Lee Savage
Jones, Ralph Arthur
Jordan, Wm. Henry
Junkins, Charles Keeler
Kaufmann, Emil Hermann
Kebby, Harry Maurice

811

Kemp, Edward Henry
Kenney, Arthur Edward
Kenny, Franklin Augustus
Keyes, Charles Edward
Keys, Ernest Mulford
Keys, Harold Harte
Kiefer, William Colfax
Killam, Geo. Thomas
Killman, Henry C.
Klein, George Henry
Klein, Peter
Kline, Lucien William
Knowland, Joeeph
Knowland, Joseph Russell, P. M.
Knowles, William Brook
Koerber, August
Kollmyer, William Blythe
Konigshofer, Leon Andrew
Kouft', David
Kramer, Ralph
Lancaster, Chester Jack'!lon
Lancaster, Joseph
Langley, Charles Lester
Langren, Louis L.
Larsen, Niels Christian
Lassen, Hans Christian
Lassen, Henry Christian
Lehners, Carl Frederick Aug.
Lessig, Charles Herbert
Leu, Adolph Charles
Lewis, George Leonard
Leydecker, Arthur Herman
Leydecker, Theo. Willia1.n
Lipman, Harrison Randolph
Lohse, Nicholas
Loomis, George Rodney
Loop, Frank Sumner
Lovejoy, Edward Bell, P. M.
Lubben, Frederick
Lubbock, Oswald
Luderman, Henry William
Ludera, Randolph Otto
Lutgen, John
Mace, Harry Scarlett
Mackie, Alex.

312

ROSTER

Magagnos, Charles Plumner D.
Nylander, Gustaf Adolf
Magill, Robert Henry
Oeding, Franz Johannss
Margrave, Charles Edmond
Oehlmann, .Ludwig
Marshall, Sidney Smith
Olinder, William Rudolph
Martin, David Chester
Owen, George Marshel
Martin, David Wilkins
Paff, Charles
Mason, Fred 'k. Eldredge
Pagels, Edward
Mastick, Charles Levi
Parker, Dudley Allerton
McCallum, George Stirling K.
Paulsmeier, Albert Carl
McComber, Frank Kerrick
Peck, Ferdinand John
McFarland, Benj. Salisbury, P. M. Penfield, William Henry
McFarland, Francis Watts
Perry, l,{irkham Lockhart
Mciver, Gilbert Leslie
Petersen, Andrew Hansen
McNu•t, James Henry, P. M.
Petersen, Robert
Meinecke, Henry George
Peters, Thomas Lynn
Melrose, Charles Francis
Pettes, William Ethan
Merriman, George Marsuall
Phillips, John
Merriam, Harnden Wallace
Philpot, Charles Henry
Merriam, Horace Robert
Pickthall, Myles
Mesick, Samuel Peter
Pierc1:, George Henry
Messer, Joseph Oneseme
Plummer, George Elliott
Meyers, Henry Haight
Porter, Abel Willard, Jr.
Michaels, Charles Frederick
Potts, James
Minor, Robert
Powell, John Milton
Mitchell, Henry 'fhomas
Powell, John Wesley
Mitchell, Sidney George
Priestley, Frank Henry
Mitchell, Sidney Valentine
Pyne, Thomas Ireland
Mock, Arthur, P. M.
Quast, August F.
Moore, Fred Thompson
Rasmussen, Peter
Moulthrop, Carlton Fran()is
Rathbun, George Arthur
Moulthrop, Horace Lankton
Ravens, Arthur
Moyes, Edwin Moyes
Reeves, Herbert Villiers
Mundwyler, John Lewis
Reeves, Thomas Villiers
Munthe, Daniel Peter
Reynold, George Potter
Nason, Arthur Graham
Rhodes, James D.
Nauman, Paul Zeligo
Rick, Charles Beauregard
Nelson, Franz Otto
Riddle, Douglas
Nelson, Hans
Riggle, Frank Hagen
Nelson, Marius
Robinson, Chester Larned
Nicklas, Philip
Roeder, William Edward
Nield, John Lingard
Rogers, Jesse Isaac
Nobmann, John Henry
Rosenberg, Gay Allender
Nobmann, John Henry, Jr.
• Rosenberg, Robert Colman
Noy, William Henry
Ross, James
Noyes, Charles Edward
Rounds, John Albert

ROSTER
Rudbach, John Christian
Rue, Edmond Davidson, P. 114..
Rue, Frank Alvan
Hussell, James Rainey
Hust, William Jefferson
::;ale, William Truman
Sanford, Joseph Warren
Sansom, John Andrew
Sansom, Louis Nelson
Schmalz, Claus
Schmidt, Gustav Ludwig
.Schoenan, Henry
Schneider, Henry
Scott, Arthur Walter
Scovel, Horace Hezekiah
Sedgley, Joseph Irving
Seymour, Edward Howard
Shannon, Albert Sydney J.
Shear, William Mortimer
Shearman, James Spotiswood
Sheeran, James Andrew
Siegfried, John Christian
Simon, Lucien
Simpson, Milton William, P. M.
Sloan, James Ralph
Smith, Clarence M.
Smith, John Alex.
Smith, Weston Orlin
Sonnenberg, Albert
Spark John Home
Speddy, Thomas Howard
Spreckels, Richard
Stack, James Henry
Stafford, Auren Alfred
Stallman, Frank Oscar
Starkweather, Haynes Kingsley
Stephenson, Stanley
Stocker, Frederick Henry
Stokes, Charles Edward
Stracham, Harry Fergusson
Stratford, Harry Cornish
Strong, Milton Grosvenor
Strunz, Albert
Sturtevant, George
Sullivan, Dennis Joseph, P. M.

Swayne, Robert Henry
Swett, Daniel Storria
Swithenbank, Charles
Taylor, Charles Nielson
Taylor, Edward Kimberlin
Taylor, Henry Reed
Taylor, Morgan Stuart
Taylor, Raymond Eugene
Teller, Harvey Earl
Teller, John de Peyster
Teller, Philip Shepheard, P. M.
'l'homas, Edwin James
Thompson, George Stuart
Thompson, Hans Andreas
Thompson, William
'l'ilden, Charles Lee
Tisdale, Charles Lewis
Townsend, Henry Clay
•1·oy, Howey Marshall
'J.'ul't, Walter Edward
Turner, Myron C.
Van Brunt, William Roger
Van Orden, Leander
Van Oterendorp, Klass
Volberg, Charles Christian
Volberg, Frederick Ludwig
Vosberg, Joel Brown
Wall, Carlton flobbs
Walton, Frank Newton.
Ward, George Harold
Ward, H enry
Warren, Fit"' Henry
Weaver, William Henry
Weeks, George Franklin
Wever, Charles Herbert, P. M.
Whitney, George Hanna
Willie, Isadore
Wilson, Edward Rudolph
Wilson, Fred'k. Gilbert
Wilson, Silvt ster Frank ·
Winn, Gc>orge Herbert
Wolfrom, George Edward
Woodin, Eugene
Woodside, William John
Wright, George Thomas

313

SH

ROSTER

ROSTER

Wulzen, Richard John
Yablonsky, John, P. M.
Young, Charles Frederick

Young, Lars Gustaf
Youngberd, Frank Easterby
Youngberg, John Emmanuel, P. M.
,-426.
WITHDRAWN:
Barber, Lyman Hempstead
Dodge, Edward Hall
Michaels, Henry
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Byrne, John Thomas
Heck, Victor
Cone, Frederick Sprague
Steltzner, Emil Johann C.
Ebbetts~ Arthur Stevenson
Timmons, .Joseph Henry
Vivier, Armand Maurice
Ebe rle, Adam Winfield
Jones, lteed
Lubbock, Henry Schultz
Payne, George Henry
Poyzer, Richard Henry

DIED:
Smith, E!iphalet Minor
Stoddard, Asa Church
Thompson, David
Von Shoen, George F . A. C.
Walter , W!lliam Henry

DORIC LODGE, No. 216.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
Golden Gate Commandery Hall.
OFFICERS:
Ben. Levi, Master,
William Lane Scott, Chaplain,
327 K earny Street
Albert Adolph Rosenshine, S en. Dea.,
J ames E zra Wilson, S enior Wardeii, F rederick William Stapff, Jun. Dea:,
William Burton Cameron, J. Warden, 'William Parsons Read·, Marshal,
J oseph Aaron Bush, Treasurer,
James Richard Williamson, Steward,
Julius Raphael Goldsmith, Secretary, Manuel Lefee, Steward,
San Francisco
Edward Wilson Currier, T yler.
Abraham, Charles Jacob
Abraham, Samuel
Abrams, Nathan
Adler, Nathan Max
Alexander, William
Allen, Charles
Allingham, William
Andersen, Hjalmar

MEMBERS:
Anderson, Henry
Anderson, John Olof
Andrews, Abraham
Arnheim, William Samuel
Asher, Hugo Kiewe
Avan, John
Backstein, Ferdinand
Bacon, Charles Augustus

Badt, Alexander Leipschuetz
Banks, William Oscar
Bareilles, John Parrott
Barsotti, Joseph
Bartlett, Frank August
Bauer, Adolph Charles, P. M.
Beck, Charles L ouis
Beerman, Adolf
Behm, Alfried Herman
Behrend, David
Belvel, George Elijah
·Bennett, George Washington
Berwin, Charles
Bickley, John
Blum, Isidor Leon
Blume, Daniel
Blumenthal, Bello Julius
Bock, Frank Joseph
Bohle, Albert Frederick
Bosch, P eter
Boskowitz, George Henry
Breeding, William Henry
Bressi, Enrico Guiseppe
Brown, Herbert Morris
Brown, LouiR Calvin
Buckley, Edward Murray
Bullion, Alfred Hanna
Bunger, Fred 'k. ·Christ ian
Bush, Joseph Aaron
Button, Isaac Elb ert V.
Caccia, Joseph
Ce.hen, David Solomon
Cameron, William Burton
Cerf, Alvin Edgar
Chaban, Joseph
Chapman, Fred Lawrence
Chonette, Otto William, P. M.
Christ, F erdinand P ranz
Christensen, John
Church, Joseph William
Clawson, Leonard Edwin
Coburn, Ira Winn
Cohen, Joseph
Cohn, Herman
Cohn, Leo·n

Colbentz, Lambert
Collins, Samuel Henry
Conway, John Francis
Cook, Morton Leon
Cooper, Samuel Marum
Copeland, William Glenn, P. M.
Craig, Archibald F . McD.
Crank, Paul
Creagh, John William
Crozier, Samu.e l
Cunningham, James
Curtlett, William, P. M.
Currier, Edward Wilson
Dangers, Henry
Danziger, Simon
Davis, David
Davis, Maurice William
Deal, William Griffith
Denker, Nicolas Carl
DeWitt, Frank Clinton
Dorn, Gus Emil
Dunand, Louis Frank, P. M.
Dyer, George Henry
Eber, Karl
Edwards, Alfred Soule
Eichbaum, Chas. Williamson
Eickhoff, Henry
Eisenbach, Julius
Eshel man, John Franklin
E uphrat, Martin
F aircloth, Frank Thomas, P. M.
Falk, Harry Henry
Falk, Morris
F aller, Ike
Ferral, Robert
Ferris, Crawford
Fershtand, Theodore
Finkler, Henry Charles
Fishel, David
F isher, Moses
Fitzgerald, Robert Harrison
Floud, .John William Randall
Folsom, Eugene Hampton
Fontana, Frank Andrew
Fox, Morris

315

316

ROSTER

Hassell, William Prescott
Fraser, John P., P. M.
Haven, Acton
Freudenthal, Felix
l!"'riedlander, David
Healing, George
Friedlander, Otto Wilhelm Anton
Heineberg, .Jacob A.
Reinicke, William Frederick
Friedman, Abe
EI ell er, Joseph
Friedman, Henry Albert
Henderson, Alexander
Friedman, Samuel
Herzog, George Kramer
Gabriel, Julius Lester
Herzog, Joseph
Gassner, Louis
Herzog, Maximillian
Geddes, William
Herzog, Sidney Garfield
Gee, Charles Ezra
Herzog, Sigfried Kramer
Gee, William Herbert
Geitner, Robert
.
Heskins, Herman
Hicks, Herbert Reuben
Gelatte, Fred Gordon
Hill, Thomas Locker, P. M.
Geppert, Cletus Francis
Hoefter, Ludwig Mathias, P. M.
Getz, Moses Milton, P. M.
Hollidge, Harry Hamlin
Gille, William Henry
Holmes, Harold Charles
Gillespie, William John
Holmes, Henry Edmund
Goetze, Edward Henry
Holzberg, David
Goicovich, George John
Hornblower, Frederick Augustus
Goldberg, Gauett Milton
Golitberg, Max
Isaac, Adolph
Isaacs, Louis Raymond
Goldsmith, Julius Raphael
Goldstein, Leon
!ten, August
Goodday, Jacob Louis
Ivanovich, Martin
Jacobs, Harold Wihl
Goodday, Louis, P. M.
Jacobs, Henry Albert
Gorter, Herman H enry
Grant, Isaac
Jacobs, Murry
Gray, Frank Sidney
Jacobs, Myer
Gray, Lee
Jacobs, Sol
Janes, Graziano
Green, Isaac Michael
Greenzweig, George
Jewett, Albert Cavallo
Groh, Anton Frederick
Joel, Arthur
Gross, Louis
Johnson, Frederick Joseph
Jones, Samuel
Gut, Karl
Joslyn, William Edwin
Gutman, Alexander
Judell, Emil
Haake, John Rudolph
Judie, Alphonse
Haines, Allie
Kalmuk, Louis
Halla, Otto
Katz, Charles
Hannah, Jesse Daniel, P. M.
Kaufmann, Eduard
Hannah, John Sidney
Hansen, August Wilhelm Hermann Kauffman, Leon
Keilus, Charles
Harris, Chester Sigmund
Keller, Abe
Hart, Richard
Kellogg, Albert Crawford
Hartje, John Herman Frederick

ROSTER
Kendall, Alfred Thomas
Kendall, Robert
Kerrigan, Frank Henry
Klinger, Charles
Koshland, Adolf
Lafee, Manuel
Lande, Edward
Landgreen, William
Larkin, Harry
Larsen, Hans Henrik
Larsen, Niels
Learner, Max
Lenoir, Gustave Abraham
L eon, Samuel Ralph
Leszynsky, Isidor
Leudan, Joseph
Levenson, Samuel Millard
Levry, Benjamin Coleman
Levi, Ben
Levi, Sainuel
Levil!, Aaron Simon
Levin, Abraham
Levingston, Harry
Levison, Alex.
Levy, Adolph
Levy, Elias
Levy, Harold Walter
Levy, Jacob
Levy, Leopold Harry
Levy, Louis ·
Levy, Mark, Washington
Levy, Maurice
Levy, Morris Frank
Levy, Reuben
Lewin, Helmut
Liebman, Lloyd Harry
Lipman, Leopold
Logan, James Francese, P. M.
Long, Edward Melvin
Lowe, Clarence Willie
Ludwig, Ernst Hubert
Lustig, Daniel David
Lyons, Charles Gerald
:Macdonald, Charles
Magee, David Bartholomew

.•

Mann, Leo
Manzer, Frank Eugene
Marchus, David Edward
Marks, Marcus
Markwitz, Louis
Martinoni, Emil
Matthiesen, John Andreas Phillip
McCroskey, Cyrus Burr, P. M.
McCullough, Thomas
Mendelsohn, Louis M.
Mendelson, Julius
Meyer, Arthur
Meyers, John Jacob
Miguel, Paul Shirley
Mikkleson, Robert
Miller, James William
Miller, Louis Cecilius
Monro, William James
Mooser, William
Morris, Henry
Morris, Saul Nathan
Morrisson, Albert Charles
Muller, William
Mulville, Daniel Frank
Munter, Bernard
Myrson, Simon, P. M.
Nannestad, Henrik Elias
Nassau, Samuel Nathan
Nathan, Aaron Riggs
Neal, Robert Waterman
Nelson., Charles Frithof
Nelson, William Arthur
Neuer, Carl
Norberg, John
Nordman, Adolph
Nye, Joseph Merrill, Jr.
0 'Connor, Joseph
Oldis, Frank Evelyn
Olesen, Knnl1 Christian
Olsen, Andrew
Olsen, Peter Andrew
Oppenheimer, Albert Henry
Ormsby, Edgar Lionel
Ottinger, Adolph
Packscher, Charles

318
Paton, George
Peiser, Solomon
Pence, John Wilson
Peshon, Peter Alfred
Peterson, Charles Gus. Ferd.
Pettersan, Gottfried Teodor
Phillips, Joseph James
Pierotti, Henry Collingwood C.
Plant, Sydney Lomax
Pollak, Arnold
Poppic, Arnold
Porter, Royden Henry
Preddey, George Henry
Prince, Albert David
Prince, David Solomon
Radulovich, Spiro
Ragland, Rufus Ely
Rainey, William Austin
Raphael, James Greerson
Read, William Parsons
Reid, Rafe Robinson
Reiner, Charles Edward
Reinhard, Sebastian Eilert
Reinhart, Manfred
Reinhart, Simon
Reinstein, Arthur Henry
. Reles, Peter
Riblet, Henry Nelson
Richardson, Willard Ashton
Riley, John Francis
Robertson, John Milne
Rosen, Carl Albin Amandu11
Rosenberg, Joseph
Rosenheim, Samuel
Rosenshine, Albert A.
Rothenbusch, Carl Adolph
Rothschild, Abraham
Rothschild, Joseph
Rothschild, Lew
Ruggles, Albert Burleigh
Rusconi, John Batista
SalomCln, Leon Gilbert
Salz, Edward
Samuels, Albert Samuel
Sandstrom, Chas. August Phillip

ROSTER
Sattler, Herman H.
Schaertzer, Henry Conrad, P. M.
Scharff, Isaac Clare
Scheppler, Louis William
Scheuch, Leopold
Schmalz, William
Schmidt, Carl H.
Schmidt, Ernst
Schraubstadter, Ernst
Schroder, Edward Henry
Schroeder, Fridrick William
Schuhl, Leon
Schwarz, Jacob
Scott, Arthur George
Scott, William Lane, P. M.
Seoville, Calvin Ernest
Seeley, Joseph
Semmel, Eduard
Short, John Ueorge
Short, Joseph Edward
Silver, Robert Napier
Silverstein, Bernard
Silverstein, Jacob
Simon, Irwin Blaine
Simon, Belmar
Sinclair, John Stewart
Sommerfield, Morris T.
Sperling, Frank
Spiero, Caesar Noah
Spreen, Carl Fred August
Sprout, Sidney Smith
Stapff, Frederick Wm.
Stangenberger, ·George Bernard
Steers, Frank Morgan
Steinbach, Henry
Steiner, Theodore
Steinmann, Carl Wilhelm Ferd.
Stokes, Henry Arthur
Strom, Christian
Strouse, Mark
Surges, John
Swanberg, Charles Olif
Swanberg, Frederick Augustus
Taylor, Carlton Maybin
Taylor, William Henry

319

ROSTER
Terrill, William Albert
Thomas, David John
Thomson, William Tobias
Thurston, Charles Paschal
Tilton, James Alex.
Trebell, John
Trebell, William, P. M.
Triest, Joseph
Vercevich, Adam Lazar
Walter, Nathan Leon
Warshauer, H11:rry
Warshauer, Jacob
Watkins, Henry Ward
Watson, Horace Daniel
Weil, William Montague
W einshenk, Sydney
Wheeler, Edward Alvin
White, Thomas Benton, P. M.
Bastheim, Edmund
Becker, Johannes Paul

White, William Mercer
Wight, Frederick Lawrence, P. M.
Williams, Alex. Francis
Williamson, James Richard
Wilson, James
Wilson, James Ezra
Wobber, William Peter
Wolbach, Karl
Wolf, Simon, P. M. /
Wolff, Simon
Wolters, Theo. Ludwig
Wood, John
Wright, James William
Yarneberg, Charles
Young, Arthur Lawrie
Young, Hermann Hartmann
Young, John Stuart
--411.

WITHDRAWN:
David, Joseph Wlllla·m Roland
Wither, William Matthew

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Burn, James Edwin
Hall, Frank Henry
Campbell, George Tawse
Lange, Julius Fred
Nagle, Richard Hamilton
DIED:
Levin, David
Anderson, Andrew Petter
Thomson, Douglas Henry
Harris, Samuei
Warren, Charles Albert

MONTEREY LODGE, No.

217.

Monterey, Monterey County.
Stated Meetings second Saturday in each Month.
OFFICERS:
Howard Daniel Severance, Master, Tom Lee, Chaplain,
Box 625, Monterey
Leroy D. Lacey, Senior Deacon,
Arthur James Mason, ·Sen. Warden, William Sandholt, Jr., Jun. Deacon,
George Sylvanus Gould, Jun. War., Charles Shellman Olmsted, Marshal,
Henry Alexander Olmsted, Treas., Edward Roberts, Steward,
William Kay, Secretary,
William Henry Farringhy, Steward,
404 Larkin Street, Monterey
Sherlock Harmon, Tyler.

ROSTER

321

ROSTER

320

MEMBERS:
Lacey, Leroy D.
Anway, Clayton Loren
Lee, Tom, P. M.
Bagby, Jacob Warren
Leppert, Joseph
Barker, Eldridge Kendall
Liddle, Edwin Elliott
Beardsley, James Harry
Lillie, Wm. Adam
Berry, Frank Swan
Little, David Spence
Bronson, Andrew
Longley, Adna Hecox
Brown, Wallace Clarence
Maddock, Robert Henry
Bennett, Charles Newton, P. M.
Mason, Arthur James
Boyce, Arthur Elliott
McMillen, Hiram
Bowler, William Emmons
McMurphy, George Bailey
Chambre, Meredith
Mitchell, Robert Grant
Clark, Amir Birno
Moseley, Alex.
Cook, Theo. Webster
Messe, George William
Currier, William .Pcrkius
Olmstead, Charles Shellman, P. M.
Davidson, James C.
Olmsted, Henry Alex., P. M.
Edwards, William Sawyer
Olmsted, Henry Martin
:Emmons, Robert Forest
Otis, Ney
Faringhy, William Henry
Parker, Will Emory
Garrick, Adolph
Petersen, Chas. Wm.
Geisler, John George
Pierce, Frank
Gibbs, Joseph
Pyburn, William Henry
Gillooly, Emmet
Richesin, Jesse Oliver
Grimes, Edward
Roberts, Edward
Gunzendorfer, Adolph
Rowe, Herbert
Goldstine, Samuel
Salterback, Charles W.
Gould, Fred Caldwell
Sandholdt, William
Gould, George Sylvanus
Scholze, Ernest August, P. M.
Harmon, Sherlock
Schwartzenbeck, Frank Xavier
Harrington, John Joseph
Senestrari, Jacob Theo.
Hart, Stephen Charles
Severance, Howard Daniel
Hilby, Francis Martin
Stockdale, James Thomas
Himmelsbach, William
Swetnam, Isaac Newton
Hove, Charles Gerard Van
Tidball,
Thomas Theodore
Jacks, Will, P. M.
Tustin, Thomas Reeves
Johnson, John Aleck
Warren, J!enry Lyman
Kay, William, P. M.
Wright, Jonathan
Kench, William Russell
Wroble, John Goodell
-76.
Kennedy, Leo Eugene
Awl, Francis Asbury
I

Birks, Riley

WITHDRAWN:
Stanberry, Raleigh J.
DIED:
Patrick, John Randolph

MOSAIC LODGE, No. 218.
Livermore, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full M:oon.
OFFICERS:
Frank Lee Savage; Master,
G. C. Lucas, Chaplain,
Livermore
William Lowethal, Senior Deacon,
William Fredrick Johnson, S. Ward., John Wilson, Junior Deacon,
Carl Frank Wood, llmior Warden, Charles F. Mess, Marshal,
George Edwin Kennedy, Treasurer, A. L. Henry, Steward,
Thomas Francis Brady, Secretary, P. H. McVicar, Steward,
Box 118, Livermore
J. H . Johnson, Tyler.
MEMBERti:
Henry, Arthur Lindsay
Anderson, James
Herbert, William
Anspacher, Simon
Hicks, George Henry
Archer, William
Hortenstine, John Baker
Armstrong, John
Hunter, John Ramsey
Bailey, Hiram
Hunter, Ruben
Bayley, William Barrow
Hutchinson, James
Bardellini, Joseph
Barker, Benjamin Philips
Johnson, Julius Henry
Barnes, George Robertson
Johnson, Lawrence Westerfield
Barzelotti, Louis Francis
Johnson, William Frederfok
Beck, Madison Hartwell
Jones, Lewis Glynn
Joseph, Isaac C.
Bernal, Denis Filbert
Kennedy, George Edwin, P. M.
Black, Frank Sim.peon
Lafever, Howard
Bowles, Jesse
Brady, Thomas Francis
Lefever, Charles Prine
Brumbough, James
Lowenthal, William Baum
Bruns, Geo. Andrew
McClain, Charles Addison
McDonald, David
Bruns, Herman Luther
Clark, Jnmes William
McGill, Henry Gordon
McKown, Joseph Oscar, P. M.
Decker, Henry Harrison
McVicar, Philip Hugh
Demartini, Antonia
Mess, Charles Frederick, P. M.
Dieckhoff, Diedrick
Duncan, Arthur Clarence
Meyers, Jacob Franklin
Miller, Edward Hershel
Fassett, Francis Ronello, P. M.
Fish, Albert Lester
Munch, Charles Gottlieb
Foster, Arthur Owen
Norton, James T.
Gerst, Edgar Anspacher
Peterson, Charles Lorize
Graner, Adolph Thomas
Pray, Clarence Syme
Hagemann, August, P. M.
Reimers, John Claus
Rivers, Edwin Winford
Hayes, John Cary, P. M.
21

ROSTER

ROSTER

322
Rowlands, Edmund
Savage, Frank Lee
Savage, Silas Lee
Schluter, William
Schrader, Frederick August
Scott, Thomas
Seller, Herbert Anspacher
SeUer; Samuel
Shidaker, Robert Frederick
Shierloh, Henry
Taylor, Anderson Charles
Taylor, William Henry
Taylor, William Stewart
Therkof, George Alex.
Teeter, Daniel Marion
Fish, Gardner Canfield

Teeter, Frank Ransome
Treadwell, Edward Clinch
Tretzel, Frederick William
Venn, Thomas
Victor, Charles Solomon.
Warner, James Kyle
Warran, William Theo.
Wente, Carl Heinreich
Wetmore, Clarence Jesse
Williams, Richard Griffiths
Wilson, John Hodgson
Wood, Carl Frank
Wright, Jesse Royal
Wright, William Henry, P. M.

-89.
DIED:
Inman, Daniel

SPERANZA ITALIANA LODGE, No. 219.
San Francisco, San Francisco County,
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
1739 Fillmore Street.
OFFICERS :
Perseo Righetti, Master.
Emil Victor Lonigo, Senior DeacOff,
Phelan Building
Clemente C. Peini, Junior Deacon,
Aurelio George Dondero, Sen. War., Antonio Cogliandro, Marshal,
Ginotto Marioni, Junior Warden,
Joseph Perazzo, Steward,
Giuseppe Carlo Saia, Treasurer,
Tadini Joseph Bacigalupi, Steward,
Giovanni Scaimanini, Secretary,·
George Goicovich, Tyler.
325 Lick Building
Andreazzi, Ubaldo
Aragona, Tony
Bacigalupi, Davide Eugenio
Bacigalupi, Gaetano
Bacigalupi, Giovanni
Bacigalupi, Luigi Domenico
Bacigalupi, Paolo
Bacigalupi, Tadini Joseph
Balzarini, Carlo, P. M.
Bazzini, Giovanni
Beccuti, Giuseppe, P. M.

MEMBERS:
Belli, Silvio
Berta, Pietro
Bianchi, Carlo
Bianucci, P ietro
Bini, Giuseppe, P. M.
Blanco, Antonio Bua
Boccardo, Giovanni U.
Bonfigli, Emilio
Bosia, Guglielmo
Bozzetti, Ippolito
Bozzo, Michele

Bulotti, Giovanni
Calpestri, Elia
Calpestri, Italo
Canepa, Giuseppe
Canepa, Lorenzo
Carfagni, Pietro
Cariani, Luigi
Cassaretto, Giovanni
CaV'6gnaro, Carlo Mario
Cereghino, Luigi
Chiappari, Giovanni
Cogliandra, Antonio
Cominoli, Giuseppe
Compagno, .Toseph
Compagno, Matteo
Condari, Teodoro
Cordano, Giovanni Battista, P. M.
Costamagna, Pietro
Cuneo, Giovanni
Cuneo, Tomaso
!)ampnte, Antonio
Davini, Andrea, P. M.
DeBono, Giovanni
Dedomenico, Domenico
De Farrari, Fred
De Julio, Cristoforo
Del Carlo, Giuseppe
Dell 'Osso, Carlo
Delmonte, Angelo
Delsoa, Francesco
Delsol, Giovanni Francesco
Demartini, Filippo, P. M.
Demartini, Luigi
Demartini, Paolo
Devoto, James August, P. M.
Di Beo, Claudio
Digrazia, Lorenzo, P. M.
Domenici, Basilio
Dondero, Aurelio George
Dongo, Luigi
Eluro, Antonio
Fantina, Antonio
Filippini, Felice
Fiorio, Silvio
Fiscalini, Giovanni

Fodera, Antonio
.l!'ontana, Giusto
Fontana, Marco G.
Forni, Carlo
Gadina, Pietro
Gaibado, Giacomo
Galeoto, Severino
Garibaldi, Giacomo
Garibaldi, Giovanni
Giancoli, Pietro
Gotelli, Lorenzo
Greco, Francesco
Griffo, Joseph
Gronrlono, Carlo Francesco
Guanziroli, Luigi
Iaccheri, Garibaldo
Iaccheri, Leonida
Icardo, Giovanni, P . M.
Lagomarsino, Carto
Lagomarsino, Giacomo
Lepori, Giovanni, P. M.
Levaggi, Giovanni Battista
Lorenzen, Frederick
Lonigo, Victor Emilio
Maggio Fortunato
Mancini, Augusto
:Marcacci, Antonio
Marchi, Giovanni
Marini, Luigi
Marioni, Ginotto
Marioni, Luigi
Marra, Frederick
Marsili, Giuseppe
Martina, Pietro
Martinoni, James Frank
Masoero, Cesare
Massoni, Paolo
:Matcovich, Natale Marco
Micheletti, Alfredo Angelo
:Micheletti, Italo
Messina, Luigi Candido
Minelli, Zanabi
Mino, Augusto
Mino, Giovanni
Molfino, Antonio

323

324

ROSTER

Monotti, Alfredo
Nave, Cesare
Nave, Pietro Nave
Negro, Guiseppe
Nicholas, Nahan
Onesti, Guiseppe, P. M.
Puccinelli, Vincenzo
Paganucci, Adolfo
Paladini, Achille
Pardi, Cesare
Passalacqua, Benedetto
Pedrotta, Guiseppe Antonio
Peini, Clemente
Pellizza, Domenico
Perata, Pietro
Perazzo, Joseph
Perrone, Dario
Pesenti, Carlo
Petri, Angelo
Podesta, Guiseppe
Poli, Ciro
Puccinelli, Archimede
Righetti, Perseo, P. M.
Rittori, Edoardo
Rossi, Anselmo
Rossi, Benedetto F.
Rossi, Giovanni Frank
Rovere, Vittorio
Rusconi, Gottardo
Russi, Frank Bertolli

Russi, Frederick Bertolli
Russi, Bartolo Pietro
Sala, Giuseppe Carlo, P. M.
Sanguinetti, Guiseppe
Sbarboro, Andrea
Scalmanini, A. Beniamino, P. M.
Scalmanini, Carlo, P. M.
Scalmanini, Giovanni, P. M.
Simoni, Pio
l::llavich, George
Stafford, Giovanni
Stuparich, Nicola
Stuparich, Stefano
Tassi, Antonio
Tomasini, Guiseppe Rolinllo
'fomasini, Filiberto
Tonini, Michele Gaudenzio
Torello, Emilio
Torre, Giovanni
Torre, Ottavio
Toso, Antonio
Toso, Marcellino
Trapani, Antonio
Valsangiacomo, Luigi, P. M.
Valvo, Guiseppe
Verga, Guiseppe
Vitalioni, Alfredo
Zabaldano, Alessandro, P. M.
Zunini, Domenico
-171.
DIED :
Zeiro, Filippo

Micheletti, Pietro

DOWNEY LODGE, No. 220.
Downey, Los Angeles Comty.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each Month.
OFFICERS:
George Arthur Young, Master,
Edward Atherton Brunson, Chaplain,
6142 Mesa Avenue, Los Angeles James Lafayette Hooper, Sm. Dea.,
James 'Wallace McKellar, Sen. War., Paul Haygood, Junior Deacon,
John Wesley Rudd, Junior Warden, Edward Prince Haskell Marshal
Arthur Llewellyn Darby, Treasurer, John Martlett, Steward,'
'
Leonard Rupert Paxton, Secretary, Walter Main, Steward,
Rivera
Albert Perry Henry, Tyler.

ROSTER

325

MEMBERS:

Ardis, John Dawson, P. M.
Ardis, Julius Harris, P. M.
Arrowsmith, Charles Curtis
Bartlett, John
Baruch, Berthold
Brunson, Edward Atherton
Church, Charles Robert, P. M.
Church, Raymond Frank
Condit, William Robert
Crooker, Henry Appleton
Darby, Arthur Llewellyn
Dorman, Dudley M.
Dwire, Dumont, P. M.
Dwire, Francis Belmont
East, George Earl
Elliott, George Richard
Fanning, Burton Everett
Garrison, James Addison
Gibson, Toy Berry, P. M.
Grant, Aaron George
Gray, Algernon Sidney
Gray, Austin Newell
Hall, Alonzo
Harper, Robert Bills
Harris, Ranae Bird, P. M.
Haskell, Edward Prince
Haygood, Atticus Greene, P. M.
Haygood, Paul
Henry, Albert Perry, P. M.
Henshaw, Geol'ge Marshall
Hooper, James Lafayette
Horn, Jacob F.
Houghton, Lake William
Hull, Denton Elias
Kuehny, Menno Simon
Lally, James Mathias
Loew, Jacob

Main, ·waiter Johnston
Mayes, Robert Serry
McKellar, James Wallace
Monahan, Patrick
Nagle, Voyle Jacob
Nancti, William Henderson
Neighbours, Burrel David
Orr, William Warren
Park5, Leanfler Norwood
Paxton, Leonard Rupert
Pendleton, Matthew Rainey, P. M.
Pentz, Ernest Burrel
Perkins, John Franklin
Ramp, William
Renfro, Thomas Faulkner, P. M.
Rowley, Quinton John, P. M.
Rudd, John Wesley
Ryan, Andrew William
Ry1m, Lee Matthew
Scott, Robert Lee
Shaeff, Norman Butler
Shanker, Barney William
Skidmore, Edward Upshaw
Skidmore, Stephen S.
Skidmore, Grey Maxwell
Standlee, Claude Edward
Steinart, Jacob
Stewart, Albert Julius
Stewart, Alex.
Taylor, George Washingt1>n
Towne, 0. P.
Venable, Joseph William, l'. M.
WRde, Andrew Tuller
Wathen, John Bush
Whaley, Charles Mallory
W oo'd ward, Samuel Kitchens
Young, George Arthur
-74.

Carrico, Joseph B.

WITHDRAWN:
Shoemaker, Frederick Wilcox

Caruthers, William

DIED:
Martin, Frank Emerson

326

ROSTER

ROSTER

INYO LODGE, . No.

221.

Independence, Inyo County.

Mulholland, Irving H.

327

WITHDRAWN:
Piper, Noah T.
DIED:
Mairs, Omle I.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

GRANITE LODGE, No. 222.

George Dallis Calvert, Master,
William Lyle Skinner, Chaplain,
: Independence
Walter Anderson Lamar, Sen. Dea.,
Benjamin H. Yandell, Sen. Warden, Jullian E . Eibershutz, Junior Deacon,
William Daniel Dehy, Jun. Warden, Jesse William Hession, MMshal,
James Edward Shepherd, Treasurer, Norman J. Mairs, Steward,
Cecil Isaac MacFarlane, Secre·tary, William V. Butler, Steward,
Independence
William A. Calvert, Tyler.

Rocklin, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Anton, John Charles
Balzar, Bert Russell
Balzar, l<'red Bennett
Baxter, John Clifford
Brady, James
Burke, John
Butler, William V.
Calvert, George Dallas
Calvert, William .~rick
Conklin, Norman Edward
Cross; Ernest Lyon
Dehy, William Daniel
Eibeshutz, Aaron Washington
Eibeshutz, Julian E.
Forbes, Peter Wallace, P. M.
Fowle, James Elcho Zare
Gorman, John Sarsfield, P. M.
Gregg, Stephen Gregg
Harvey, Alvey Curtis
Harvey, Frederick Guy
H ession, .Jesse W.
Laird, John Wash. Pierce
La Mar, Walter Anderson
Lewis, George Hubert
Libbey, Jason Mariner
Mairs, Norman J.
Mairs, William Paul

MEMBERS:
McLean, John Gregor
McLean, Neal
McMurry, Samuel J ackson
Meroney, John Edgar
Meroney, William Oscar
Miller, William Sherman
Murkle, George Frederick
Neil, Albert Augustus
Pidge, William C.
Rhine, Bertrand
Richards, William McEilisk
Shepherd, J ames Edward, P . M.
Shepherd, .Tohn Arthur
Short, Daniel W.
Skinner, Joseph Villey
Skinner, Lloyd de V.
Skinner, Max McCune, P. M.
Skinner, William Lyle, P. M.
Steele, Charles Henry'
Spear, Freder ick R.
Thurston, Samul D.
Walker, August
Walker, Webster Hilton
Wright, James William
Yandell, Benjamin Hart
Yaney, Israel Putnam, Jr.
Zaun, Sebastian
-54.

OFFICERS:

Lewis Barrett, Master,
Walter Gates Osborn, Senior Deacon,
Roseville
David Orr Christian, Junior Deacon,
Lyman H . Barber, Senior Warden, Albert Maurice Grindell, Marshal,
Ovid Hall Ricksecker, Jun. Warden, John Samuel Egger, Steward,
William Nico1, Treasurer,
Frank Madison, Steward,
William Huff, Secretary,
Samuel Heber Wood, Tyler.
Rocklin
MEMBERS:
Astill, James
Grindell, Albert Maurice, P. M.
Hanisch, Alvin August
Barber, L;yman Hempsted
Harris, Charles Samuel ·
Barrett, Lewis, P. M.
Biscoe, Walter ]'red
Hislop, Colin
Holder, John
Boston, Harry Elswcn:th
Huff, William
Burchard, George Henry
Layton, Edward Leonard
Butler, Frank Albert
Levison, Isidor
Christian, David Orr
Madison, Frank
Clark, George Burt
Maker, Rufus
Connor, John Michael
McKellips, Daniel Ozmon
Crafts, Forest Bowers
Mears, Edward Thomas
Craig, Roy Hugh
Mullinix, Henry David
Day, Joseph Calhoun
Newton, Thomas
Delano, Ira Lemuel, P. M.
Nicol, William, P. M.
Dickey, David Allen
Duggan, Charles Martin
Odom, Samuel Oscar
Osborn, Walter Ga tes
Duncan, Charles Douglass
Panabaker, Edward Elsworth
Dwelleg, Nelson Shields
Philippi, Carl John, P. M.
Dyer, Jay Ralston
Dyer, John Ralston
Priest, Marion Warren
Roberts, William John
Egger, John Samuel
F ord, James Cooper
Shearer, Jesse Herbert
Smith, Benjamin Franklin
Filson, Lee
Staft'ord, Ralph Lewis, P. M.
Gillilan, Delbert Irwin
Sterling, Edward Eugene
Graves, E dgar

328

ROS'l'ER

ROSTER

Sweeney, John, P. M.
Thyle, Alvin Clarence
Trippett, Homer Charles
Vivaldo, Paul
Wanek, Christy James
Hill, Forest Carlyle

Wells, Richard Herbert
Whallou, Samuel Norton
Woodbridge, Bradford
Woods, Samuel Heber, Jr.
Wentworth, Samuel Augustus

~60.

WITHDRAWN:
Van Maren, Phillip
Winne, Charles Wilson

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :
Boltz, Harry Clyde
Brenten, Walter

DIED :
Ketcham, Marvin

BAKERSFIELD LODGE, No. 224.
Bakersfield, Kem County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each monfo.
OFFICERS:

Jabez Right Gist, Master,
Davis Crabtree, Chaplain,
Kern
Charles Schwain, Senior Deacon,
Elbert P orter Munsey, Sen. Warden, Angus Jewett Crites, Junior Deacon,
;Benjamin Brugler Thomas, J. War., Arthur Saxe Crites, Marshal,
Alonzo Deeble "W hittemore, Treas., J ames Edwin Baker, Steward,
Clemen Danbeney Oldershaw, S ec'y, Charles F aro, Steward,
Bakersfield
Abel H ervey Grine!!, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Alexander, Charles Lee
Beatty, Charles Wesley, P. M.
Alexander, William Henry
Beer, Lucian
Anderson, Calvin Vance
Bickerdike, Charles
Anderson, Robert Merrywether
Bickerdike, Charles Edgar 0.
Applegart~, Clark Norman
Blodget, Claude Raymond
Arnold, Clarence Edmond
Blodget, Hugh Allen, P. M.
Arp, James Harris
Blodget, Percy Langdon
Baer, Charles Eugene
Blodget, Rush Maxwell
Baer, Edward Arthur
Boggs, William Spencer
Borden, Robert Winslow
Ball, Herbert George
Bradford, Charles Edwin
Ballagh, Herbert Allen
Baker, James Edwin
Brame, Wilburn M.
Bare, Reuben H enry
Brench, William
Barnes, John Waddington Harry
Briggs, J oseph William
~eal, Eldon Marius
Brockman, John W.

Brower, Celcus
Brown, Eugene McCabe
Brundage, Benjamin, P. M.
Brundage, Benjamin Leonard
Bryant, Oscar Marion
Buck, Howard Burdett
Burke, Thomas Francis
Cabe, Albert Lee
Caldwell, Alonzo
Camp, Frank Bartlett
Carpenter, Archibald George
Carr, John Henry
Carson, John Lovell
Clark, Levi Clement
Clay, William Oliver
Clickard, John
Colm, William Wallace
Comer, Edward H.
Condict, Henry Ford
Congdon, Charles Henry
Conner, Caswell Lee, P. M.
Coons, William Henry
Correa, George Augustus
Crabtree, David Montgomery
Crease, Fred John
Crites, Angus Jewett .
Crites, Arthur Saxe, P. M.
Crites, George Solomon
Cruthers, Frank Dravo
Darmes, Harry
Davis, Frank
Dickin1lon, James Edward
Duncan, Eugene Bennett
Duncan, Millard Augustus
F ain, Charles
Formway, Louis E nglehart
Fox, Charles Douglas
Fox, Jesse Price
F reeman, Albert William
J<,risselle, Ralph
Fry, John Adolphus
J<,urguson, Granville Lewis
Gaddy, William Enoch
Garfield, Clyde Sherman
Gibbons, Walter Walden

Gibson, William Clarence
Gillespie, Robert Martin
Gist, Jabez Right
Glenn, Ira Huston, P. M.
Glover, Thomas William
Grant, Robert Elmore
Hack, Frederick Bernard
Hageman, Benjamin Stryker
Hall, William Griffin
Handy, Thomas Benjamin
Hardman, Edmond J.
Harris, Wm. McMahon
Hayden, Edward Blaine, P. M.
Heard, John Wilkerson
Henshaw, Holmes
Hiemforth,<Peter
Hill, William Harlow
Hireley, Charles Ashbury
Hoffman, Archie
Humist on, Charles
Hunt, James Benjamin, P. M.
Hussey, Ralph Harman
Hutchings, George Grant, P. M.
Jackson, James Reynolds
James, Walter
Jamison, John Mack
Jastro, Henry Alex., P. M.
J enkins, Joseph Ed.
' J errue, Daniel Bernard
J ohnston, William
Jones, Augustus Guy
Jones, John Dunlap
Kaye, William Wallace,!?. M.
K eller, Frank, Jr.
Kidd, Archie M.
Kimball, Will S.
King, Layton Judd
Lightner, David James
Longacre, John Jackson
Low, John Alex.
Lufkin, Harry Roscoe
Lupton, George William
Mack, Julius Jacob
MacKnight , Smith P .
Macmurdo, Wirt Robinson, P. M.

329'

330

Mahon, Jackson W.
Maio, Charles Francis
Mallett, Holland Kenneth
Mason, Harry P.
McDonough, Sidney Roy
McKee, George Sidney
McKelvey, Lewis
McLane, Robert Bruce
McRae, Alex. William
Medina, John Blancarte
Metcalf, Charles Thomas
Miller, Harry Vincent
Miller, Isaac Le filer
Mills, Frank D.
Milne, James
Morley, Joseph Vivian
Morris, Charles Alfred
Morrow, Robert Ewing
Morton, Albert Sumner
Mullins, Stephen D.
Munsey, Elbert Porter
Munzer, Francis George
Murray, Peter Allen
Neill, Hugh
Neill, John
Neill, Robert
Newberry, Charles Francis Moore
Noble, Eugene Baker
Oldershaw, Clement D.
Payne, James Campbell
Peacock, Harrison Ross
Rawlings, Walter Franklin
Reynolds, George Augustine
Rice, Frank Sabinus, P. M.
Rintoul, Dewitt Talmage
Roberts, John Ellsworth
Robinson, Frank Wilkins, P. M.
Rogers, Guy
Rogers, Homer
Rogers, Lewis Styles, P. M.
Ross, Lyman Caskey
Rousseau, Elijah
Rowland, Wm. Blackburn
Sawyer, Frank Newcomb
Schamblin, Gustav

Schwain, Chas. Henry
Segur, Clyde Harry
Shackalford, Grover Murry
Shanks, J arn:es Watt
Smith, Jesse Murray
Smith, Byron Ellis
Snell, Frank Sebastian
Snook, John
Snyder, Frederick William
Sornberger, William Oscar
Stewart, Johnson
Stinchfield, Herbert Colfax
Stockmar, Edwin Linwood
Stockton, Ch!'istopher Columbus
Stoll, Charles Michael, P. M.
Stone, James Edgar
Stroble, Godfrey F.
StroU<J, Benj. Kendrick
Stuart, Harry Grant
Swain, Arthur Hussey, P. M.
Taylor, Arthur Washington
Taylor, Floy Joshua
Thomas, Benjamin Brugler
Thompson, John Walter
Thompson, Louis Thomas
Tibbetts, Willie Edmond
Tilton, George Albert
Tomlinson, Richard Hiram
Tupman, Hamer Irvin
Tyler, William
Underwood, Wm. Edwin
Van Vleck, John Dorsey
Walker, Charles Thomas
Webber, William John
Weir, Dillard Spencer
Weller, Amos
Weill, Alphonse, P. M.
Westfall, Bert Edgar
Westfall, Marshall Elmer
Whitaker, Edward Howard
Whitaker, G-eorge Allen
Whitaker, Perry.
Whittemore, Alonzo Deeble
Whorff, Fmnklin Teed
Whittekin, Ralph Oscar

331

ROSTER

ROSTER
Wiard, George Edward
Wible, Samuel Peter
Wilbur, Parker Swift
Wilkes, Carl Perry
McClure, Frank D.
Judd, Store Morris

Williams, Hibbard Smith
Woods, Daniel Rosson
Wright, Ernest William
-217.

WITHDRAWN:
Henderson, Edward Earle
DIED:
Stern, Louis
Whittemore, Harry D.

BROOKLYN LODGE, No.

225.

East Oakland, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
\Valter Fearey Vane, Master,
Thomas Baldwin R. Crandell, Chap.,
158 Lester Ave., East Oakland
Francis John Rennie, Senior Deacon,
George Earle Kelly, Senior Warden, Charles Edward Stowe, Jun .. Deacon,
Charles Henry Davies, Junior War., Henry William Efkamp, Marshal,
George Henry True, Treasurer,
John Edward Moseley, Jr., Steward,
John Charles Foster, Secretary,
Edwin "J." Wold, Steward,
1122 Magnolia Street, Oakland
Alexander Cop!Cland, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Brooks, James Hiram
Adamson, Daniel Patterson
Brown, Henry Augustus
Anderson, Alex. Watson
Brown, Thorwal<l
Anderson, Archibald Borland
Buswell, GHbert Sission
Anderson, Franklin Pierce
Buswell, John Gill
Anderson, Thomas, Jr.
Campbell, John Alex., P. M.
Armer, Victor Ellis
Campbell, Murdock
Avan, George Wash.
Campbell, Robert Vernon
Ayer, Richard Bartlett
Capell, Howell Pratt, P. M.
Back, Martin Andersen
Carlson, Joseph Adrian
Baker, John William
Castellanos, Salvador
Bangle, Edward
Christiansen, Nis
Bassitt, Virgil Everett
Cobbledick, Levans Newsom
Berg, Aaron
Cohick, Walter Hildebrand, P. M.
Berg, William Meyer
Cohn, Abraham S.
Black, Samuel Thorburn
Colvin, Fred Henry
Bontan, Leonard
Conklin, Frank Granger
Bray, Anthony
Cook, Frank '.Bigelow
Briggs, Cyrus Franklin
Copeland, Alex.
Briggs, Herbert Pasha, P. M. ·

:&OSTER

3ft2

ROSTER

Corbett, Joseph Bailey
Corrigan, Clyde Sinclair
Couper, Thomas
Covell, Calvin Milton
Cowell, Charles Herbert
Cowell, Richard
Crandell, Harry Arnold
Crandell, Thomas B. Ripley, P. M.
Crosby, Magnus Charles
Cross, Charles Warren
Cumming, George Gordon
Curran, Robert Alford
Davies, Charles Henry
Davis, Elliott Barrington
Davis, Reeves
DeMooy, Harry Bernard
Dennis, George A.
Dickinson, William Edwin
Doane, Raymond Orrine
Dodge, Edward Carlos
Donaldson, William Augustus
Dow, William Alonzo
Downey, John Charles, P. M.
Duby, Alfred Lionel
Dunn, Daniel C.
Efknmp, Henry William
Eliassen, Edward Russell
English, Norris
Evans, John Walter, P. M.
Evans, William Robert, P. M.
Everett, Frank Inches
Ewan, Israel Chew
Faunt, William John
Felley, Philomen Henry
Forsting, Lester William
Foster, John Charles, P. M.
Fraser, Havelock Newton
Frederickson, Vernor
Fuller, Amos Leighton
Furgason, Charles Horace
Gardiner, Thomas Moir
Giesen, Henry George
Gillam, Jefferson
Goff, Henry Franklin, P. M.
Goldberg, Leon Barnett

Graham, Frank Elmer
Graham, William Herbert
Grandjean, Eugene Henry
Gray, Robert Wallace
Griffins, Benjamin Hall
Grimes, Everett Ma·s on
Hall, William Haynes
Halsey, Henry Luther
Hambleton, Charles George
Harbinson, George Washington
Harrington, John Alex.
Hartman, George Bressler
Harvey, Lewis Perry, Sr. ·
Hassard, Henry Houston, Jr.
Hatch, John Davis
Hatch, Theo. Henry, P. M.
Hawkins, John Timothy
Hayden, Kenneth McKenzie
Hazen, Edson
Heath, George Brown
Hemphill, Charles Lorin
Henderson, Herbert Beal
Henderson, John Ezra
Heney, Archibald Henry
Henshaw, William Griffith
Hermansen, Herman Christian
Hill, Frederick
Hill, Robert
Hill, Robert Benjamin
Hodge, Charles
Holmberg, Ernst
.Tackson, Clyde
Jackson, Edwin Rushmore
Jess, William
Johnson, Emil Edward
Jorgensen, Christian
Keay, William
Keller, David Conrad
Kelley, John Joseph
Kempkey, Augustus, Jr.
Kempkey, Augustus Fred 'k Karl
Kelly, George Earle
Kirkhoff, Clay
Koppikus, Dudley William
Lamb, Willis

Leach, Harvey William
Lewis, Irving Cowham
Lincoln, Charles
Lindsey, Albert Wheeler
Lorenzen, Niels Christian
Magill, Arthur Edward, Jr,
Marks, Martin Elkan
Mason, George Henry
Mason, William Cowan
Mathieu, Harry James
Mazor, Milton
McCracken, 'William James
McErving, John
McLaughlin, David Henry
McLean, James
Mead, Lewis Risdon, P. M.
Melvin, Henry Alex.
Michener, David Biddison
Miller, Charles
Miller, James
Miller, John William
Money, William Thomas Caleb
Moseley, John Edward, Jr.
Muir, Andrew Robertson
Myers, Peter Johnathan
Newell, Chester V.
Norris, Thomas Wayne
Orra, Camille Frank
Pedersen, Bernhard Stork
Perkins, Fred Wilbur
Petersen, Walter Joseph, P. M.
Petty, John
Petty, John Arthur, P. M.
Petty, Joseph
Petty, Rowland
Phelps, James Glover
Phillips, John Waterman, P. M.
Pierce, Howard Haynes
Plunkett, James Arthur
Pond, James Haven
Randle, Franklin Gilder
Rankin, Simon George
Read, Alfred Christopher P.
Reece, Angelo
Reece, Oliver

333

Rees, Howard Horace
Rennie, Francis john
Richards, Ulysses Grant
Rinehart, Wm. Barbour
Rogers, Henry Joseph
Rowe, Harrison D.
Ruppert, Charles Henry
Rutledge, William
Sabin, John Murray, Jr.
Samuels, George
Samuels, Marcus Lorne
Samuels, Samuel
Sargeant, Edwin Lyman, P. M.
Schmidt, Theo. August
Schulze, Henry Atherton
Scott, .John Walter
Seal, Alfred Blake
Seither, Frank William
Seither, Frederick William
Shapter, William
Simmen, Samuel
Simpson, John Shepherd
Smith, Byron Grover
Smith, Charles Horn, P. M.
Smith, Clayton Kerper
Smith, Frank Milton
Smith, Guy Window
Soule, Beach Carter
Spanggord, Severin B. L.
Spradlin, Charles Blanchard
Steel, Wm. Shurvell
Stewart, Frank Holman
Stewart, Michael Young
Stirling, Charles
St. Johnson, William Howard B.
Stowe, Charles Edward
Swalley, Harry Martell
Swift, Charles Ingham
Swift, Samuel Crosby
Tate, George
Thiele, Edmund Henery
Thomas, Henry Sherman
T}\omas, John Hiram
Todd, William Platt
Tonks, Wm. Henry

ROSTER

334

True, George Henry
Tunley, Adam Tinley
Vandercock, Edward Pickett
Vane, ·waiter Feary
Vockel, Herman Theo.
Warren, Granville Dexter, P. M.
Webster, James Alvan, P. M.
Webster, Jonathan Vinson, P. M.
Welch, Bert Henry

ROSTER

West, Ross Raymond
Wethern, George Hiram
Whitmore, Willis Whitney
Wilcox, Wilbur Jairus
Williams, Eugene Francis
Williams, George Roscoe
Williams, Justin Leroy
Wold, Edwin J.
Wooflworth, James Lemuel

-236.

WITHDRAWN:
Dingley, Charles Llewelyyn
Jarvis, Charles Fitz Howard
French, George Thomas Weadon Rice, Calvin Bacon
Cox, James Warren
Dunbar, Joshua
Gibbs, William Thomas

DIED:
Scherl!ng, Ferdinand Chas. Conrad
We ntworth, Charles Oscar
Harwood, Ev.gene (E. A.)

SAN MATEO LODGE, No.

226.

San Mateo, San Mateo County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Lewis Anson Smith, Master,
Neptune Blood Wm. Gallwey, Chap.,
Box 565, San Mateo
William Henry Cone, Senior Deacon,
Charles Arthur W ainwright, S. War., Kenneth Milton Green, Jun. Deacon,
Charles Aug. M. Vandenbos, J. W., Harold Rollin Worsley, Marshal,
Fernand Levy, Treasurer,
Thomas \Vood, Steward,
Eddy Stillman Moulton, Secretary, George Hammond Earhart, StewMd,
Box 245, San Mateo
Burt Emmet Edwards, Tyler.
Aldwell, Edward C.
Allen, Charles
Allen, Fred Walter
Alton, Thomas William
Baker, Wood C.
Barron, Andrew Scully
Beer, Frederick Ernest
Blackburn, Daniel Edward
Bonner, Robert
Bonzani, Antonio
Borden, Charles Wightman
Boring, Frank Henry

MEMBERS:
Brill, Arthur Thaddeus
Brown, Arthur Stanley
Browne, Augustus Frank
Buchanan, Edward
Butte. Chris Frederick
Call e~en, F redric Peter
Chiflister, Walter Clifford
Cochran, Francis Joseph
Cone, Wm. Henry
Cough, George Walter
Cousins, Martin Moir
Crawford, Ralph Kallact

Divelbiss, Jacob Wesley
Dresbach, Charles Leslie
Earhart, George Hammond
.E dwards, Burt Ernest
Elftman, Maximilian A.
Ensign, Leon Emmett
Eskelson, Christ
Fisher, Carl Wallace
Gallwey, Neptune B. William
Glidden, Willard Wesley
Gordon, Alexander
Gracier, Seth Bertram
Grant, Andrew William
Green, Charles Arthur
Green, Kenneth Milton
Green, Eldridge
Green, Milton James, P. M.
Hansen, Albert Marquid Otto
Hatch, Alvin Schuyler
Hatch, James
Hatch, John Henry
Henwood, Arthur William
Herrick, ClaTence G.
Hodges, Judson Chase
Howard, Victor St. Clair
Hunter, Jo;ieph Hayton
Izzard, John
Janssen, Henry Godfreed
Ignace, Ernest
Johnston, James Gilbert
Johnstone, Walter Lee, P. M.
Jury, Richard Henry
Keeling, George
Kelley, John Joseph
Kennedy, Joseph
Kettlewell, William
La:f!ranchi, Antonio
Larson, John
Lawrence, Grove, P. M.
Laurenco, Jacinto
Lawrence, William. Babcork1 P. M.
Levy, Armand Archer
Levy, Edmond L.
Levy, Fernand
Levy, Fernand A.

Levy, Henry Naph
Levy, Joseph, P. M.
Luff, Herbert, P. M.
McCracken, John Porter
Mead, Benjamin L.
Milliken, Albert
Morrison, Norman Donald
Moulton, Eddy Stillman
Munro, William
Nelson, Horace
Nelson, William
Nickerson, Geo. Raymond
Notley, George Andrew
Ogborn, Joseph Benton
Painton, Harry Renowden
Parkin, Frederick
Peckham, John Bryant
Penton, Jesse, P. M.
Phillips, Charles Orval
Plummer, Sanford
Rawles, Robert Allen
Raymond, William Harrison
Repsold, Amandus
Royden, Herbert Nathan
Rue, Joseph
Russell, John
Sanderson, Fred Grant
Schaefer, George
Schneider, William Rudolph
Shand, .John Edward
Smart, William Vernon
Smith, Andrew
Smith, Joseph
Smith, Lewis Anson
Smith, Willard M.
Sneath, George Richard
Soule, John Alden, P. M.
Taylor, Howard Matthew
Thompson, Hiram Walter
Tilton, Howard Quincy
Tourtelotte, William Ellsworth
Turnbull, William Fisher
Vandenbos, Charles August
Vankammen, Nicholas
Wainwright, Charles Arthur

ROSTER

336
'Williams, Edward L.
Wisnom, John
Wisnom, Robert James
Bettelheim, Paul

Lea, Henry E.

Wisnom, Wm. Donnan
Wood, Thomas
Worsley, Harold Rollin

337

ROSTER

-120.

WITHDRAWN:
Brewer, William August
Eldred, William
DIED:
Duncan, George
Davids, Charles Henry

ATHENS LODGE, No. 228.
Davis, Yolo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Carl Theadore Oeste, Master,
Franklin Benjamin Wire, Chaplain,
Davis
James Henry Brady, Senior Deacon,
Benjamin Becher Tuttle, Sen. Ward., Thomas Wilber Lillard, Jun. Deacon,
Albert Brady, Junior Warden,
Hugh Arthur Robson, Marshal,
John B. Anderson, Treasurer,
Charles Morton Light, Steward,
Eli Snider, Secretary,
Jessie Gray Rowe, Steward,
Davis
George Stamp, Tyler.
MEMBERS :
Anderson, John B.
Gallagher, Joseph James, P. M.
Bates, Walter Ernest, P. M.
Hamel, Henry, P. M.
Brady, Albert
Hamel, George Frederick, P. M.
Brady, James Henry
Hamel, Henry Jacob
Brady, Patrick H., P. M.
Hamel, William Charles
Brady, Thomas, P. M.
Hand, William Henry
Boatright, James Albert
Hanson, Claude M.
Brunson, Ruben B., P. M.
Haussler, George John
Haussler, William Ji'rederick J.
Cary, George Ransome
Chamberlin, Vincent J.
Henle, John Frederick, P. M.
Dicky, Thomas John
Henle, Joseph
Dietrich, Charles John
Hillman, Arthur Constantine
Dyer1 Edwin Lee
Hite, Bert
Keser, Louis
Fowler, Ralph Melville
Klays, Addison
Gallion, Thomas William
Lehrman, August Fred
Greene, Charles Edmond, P. M.
Libby, Alvin Bates
Gude, Richard
Gude, Richard Emile
Lillard, Thomas Wilber

Maddox, Charles Wesley
Miller, Albert James
Miner, Guy L.
Oeste, Carl Theo.
Ray, Carroll Martin
Read, Samuel Milford
Reid, Samuel McNeir
Reith, John, Jr.
Russel, Frank Edwin
Russel, William Ogburn, P. M.
Robson, Hugh A., P. M.
Rowe, Jesse Gray, Jr.
Sanders, Geo. Warren
Sanders, Samuel S.
Snider, Eli

Stamp, George
Sharp, Myron Phillander
Smith, Frederick Philo
Smith, Hiram Henry
•raylor, John
Tuft, Andrew Jackson
•ruttle, Benjamin B.
Weber, Frank
Wilson, Frederick Warner
Wire, Franklin Benjamin, P. M.
Wire, James Elzy, P. M.
Woods, William Louis, P. M.
Wy:-.tt, Walter
Zane, Georgo Solon

SOLANO LODGE, No.

-65.

229.

Vallejo, Solano County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in ear.h mont>•
OFFICERS:
George Grant Halliday, Master,
Adam Armstrong McAlister, Chap.,
810 Sutter Street, Vallejo
Frank Michael Drapeau, Sen. Deacon,
James Edward Sanderson, Sen. War., Andrew Jackson Whitney, Jun. Dea.,
Herbert Leslie Thompson, Jun. War., Paul Otto Mende, Marshal,
Andrew White, ·Treasurer,
Harry Bird Babcock, Steward,
Alonzo Sherman Halliday, Secretary,Charles Henry R~ch, Steward,
P. 0. Box 393, Vallejo
Zachariah Antone Jamison, Tyler.
Adams, John Quincy, P. M.
Anderson, Carl
Anderson, William Oliver
Arner, Mil ton Elijah
Atkins, George
Aunette, James Lovell
Babcock, Harry Bird
Barnhart, Leon Franklin
Bassford, Fordham Clay
Basson, William
Baumeister, Edward Emery
Bessing, Joseph Jaques
Black, Frank Jury
22

MEMBERS:
Brownridge, George Thomas
Burrall, Charles Frederick
Clyne, John Ross
Commons, George Gurney
Cooper, Johnston Hilliard, P. M.
Crandall, William Green
Damstedt1 Neil Carl
Davidson, Edward W.
Deboldt, Frederick Rufus, P. M.
Demmon, George Washington
Dempsey, Fred 'k. Marion
Demp'Bey, Harrison Edward
Dempsey, Robert Boune

ROSTEB

ROS'rER
Dick, Thomas Brown, P. M.
Donnel, Albert Franklin
Doolittle, Robert Curtis
Douglass, Charles Wallace
Drapeau, Frank Michael
Dufour, Dempsey Franklyn,P. M.
Edmonston, Brook
Eklundh, Carl Frederick
Evans, Joel Clements
Farnham, John, P. M.
Fisch, Fred
Fitzgerald, Clarence Ashbury
Fitzgerald, Jenkins Augustus
Fitzgerald, Russell Plummer
Frahm, Henry August
Fritshaw, Chester
Garland, Fred Hildreth
Gee, James, Jr., P. M.
Gee, William, Jr., P. M.
Giant, Mathew Kenark
Gill, Adam
Goldman, George Rowland
Halliday, Alonzo Sherman, P. M.
Halliday, George Grant
Harrier, Louis Garaboldi, P. M.
Harrier, Victor Virgil
Harris, George Gregory
Harrison, William P.
Hatch, Charles Napier
Hayford, Oscar William
Hill, Carl Albin
Hoey, Hugh Dennis
Hosung, Charles Henry
Inglis, John Miller
Irvine, John
Itrich, Franz Antone
Jacobsen, Charles Simon
Jamison, Zachariah Antonio
.Johnson, Jesse Claude
.Johnson, Seward Thomas
Jollain, Joseph
•Tones, Humphrey B.
.Jones, Thomas David
Jones, Thomas William
Judd, Edward Clarenee

Kell, Edward Eleazer
Keys, Charles Bernard
Kidd, Ronald Stanix
Kitteringham, John James, Jr.
Kregelo, John Grant
Larmour, Harry
Laviere, Frank
Lazelle, Henry Daniel, P. N.:.
Leavitt, Daniel Henry
Lockwood, Robert George
Loeffier, John Melchoir
Longfellow, George Wm.
Lovell, Adrian Philip
Lundgren, Charles
Lyon, Andrew Franklin
Marshall, James
MacLean, David
MacLean, Jamee Henry
McAlister, Adam Armstr:>ng
Mccarte, George
McDonald, Charles Wood
McNally, Michael Joseph
Melvin, Nathaniel
Mende, Paul Otto
Michael, Harry Lockwood
Miller, Frederick Heinrich Theo.
Miskin, Albert Stanton
Morris, Frank Napoleon, P. M.
Murray, Samuel
Nagle, Richard Wellington
Nelson, Jens
Nielsen, Niels
Nord, Johan
Olson, Erland
Olsen, Ole
Patitta, Luigi
Peabody, Frank Joseph
Peabody, George Hewitt, P. M.
Pedersen, James Peter
Pressey, William Brown
Raahange, Robert
Ramsay, John, P. M .
Ratto, Charles
Reed, William Thomas Winston
Ripsom, Frank

Roberts, Frank Hamilton
Robertson, Robert Lovery, P. M.
Rock, Peter
Roney, James, P. M.
Roney, George Allen
Rose, John M.
Rottier, Christian Ludwig
Ruch, Charles Heµry
Sanderson, James Edward
Shillingsburg, Elias
Smith, Arthur
Smith, Curtis Cuthbert
Smith, Henry Judson
Smith, William Owen
Smith, Wm. Whittock
Stallard, Thomas Alfred
Stephenson, George
Sorensen, Peter Karl Kristian
Squire, Harry Edwin
Stephenson, William B., P. M.
Stewart, Carl Vere
Stiles, William Enos
Street, Augustus Marlsberger

339

Street, William Thomas
Sweet, Fred Samuel
Terry, Clinton Hays
Thompson, George, P. M.
Thompson, Herbert Leslie
Thompson, John
'rhompeon, Rowland Maynard
Towle1 Herbert Augustus
Treese, Elhannen Johnson
'l'ufreson, August Fredericksen
Wagoner, Missouri Arnold
Walker, Henry James
Walters, John Fred, P. M.
Ward, William Frank
Weirman, Samuel Arthur
White, Andrew
Whitney, Andrew Jackson
Wiley, Alden Bridgman
Williams, James Edward
Winton, John Wilton, P . M.
Wood, Lyman Charles
Vfortman, John Samuel
-162. .

WITHDRAWN:
Huntington, Edward Talmadge
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Bragonier, Oscar
Cox, James Luther
Chadwick, George Birney
Coghlan, Joseph Bulloch
Hyde, Calvin Lamphere

DIED:
Kemper, Melchoir
Lemon, Frank Bertrand
McCool, Daniel Mlller

NORTH BUTTE LODGE, No. 230.
Gridley, Butte County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
David Humphrey Evans, Master,
Thomas Jackson Long, Chaplain,
Gridley, Butte County
George Wesley Blair, Senior Deacon,
James Porter Fagan, Sen. Warden, Charles Warren Chase, Jun, Deacon,
Bernhard Munter, Junior Warden, Richard Campbell, Marshal,
George Deidrich Wickman, Treas., Roy William Barker, Steward,
Homer Allen Woodworth, Secretary, Leroy Eugene Girdner, Steward,
Gridley, Butte County
Nelson Franklin Todd, Tyler.

340

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Arnold, Theodore Henry
Hutchins, John Sullivan
Baldwin, William Thomas
Hutchins, Thomas Boyd
Barker, Roy William
Jones, John Harvey
Barker, Washington Dunn
King, Charles Lee
Beebee, Robert Martin
Lavy, Wm. Sebastian
Bigelow, Marcus James, P. M.
Long, Thomas Jackson, P. M.
Biggs, Edward Earnest, P . M.
Marshall, James, p, M.
Bissett, Thomas McCoy
Mccurry, Samuel Baxter
Blair, George Wesley
Mitchell, Frank Chester
Block, Charles Henry
Moore, Charles Alonzo, P. M.
Bonslett, Arnold
Mould, William
Brown, Charles Henry
Munter, Bernhard
Brown, Charles Henry
Myers, James
Burleson, William Davis
Myers, John Calvin
Campbell, Richard, P. M.
Norman, Richar<l Augustus, P. M.
Campbell, Riley
Rathbun, David L.
Cbannon, Thomas Bending
Schorr, Charles A.
Chase, Charles Warren
Shannon, George Washington
Crusick, Fred
Shaeffer, John Franklin
Crumb, Jones
Shelley, Luther Madison
Daniels, George Seymour
Simpson, William Edward
Evans, David Humphrey, P. M.
Smith, Almon
Fagan, Edward
Sperry, Willard Felton
Fagan, Edward Peter
Stafford, Thomas Henry
Fagan, James Porter
Stafford, William Henry
Furgeson, Thomas Henry
Todd, Nelson Franklin
Galbreath, James Thomas, P. M.
Wickman, George Deidrich
Woodworth, Homer Allen, P. M.
Girdner, Leroy Eugene
Granier, Charles
Young, John Cottrell
Hampton, James Madison
Young, Sewell John, P. M.
Henninger, James
-c-61.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Sheridan, David
DIED:
Evans, John Alson

341

ROSTER

COVELO LODGE, No.

231.

Covelo, Mendocino County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full .Moon.
OFFICERS:

William Francis McClure, Master, Charles Henry Hurt, Senior Deacun,
George Biggar, Junior Deacon,
Covelo
David Allison Jameson, Sen. Ward., F. M. Thomson, Marshal,
George Elmer Squires, Jun. Warden, John Travis, Steward,
Frank Spurlock, Steward,
Andrew H. Burton, Treasurer,
Amos Dennis, Tyler.
Walter Hargrave, Secretary,
Covelo
MEMBERS:
Hurt, Cha.rles Henry, P. M.
Azbill, Europe
Jamison, David Allison
Bennett, Josiah
Liftchild, Judson, P. M.
Biggar, George Milton
Lovell, Henry Solon, P. M.
Bowers, Henry Owen
Marders, Robert Ambrose
Brown, Albert Martin
Marks, Henry
Brown, Charles Ira
McClure, William Francia
Burton, Andrew Hayden
Meyer, Victor
Carner, John Irwin, P. M.
Miller, Albert Harvey
Cummins, David Brown
Peterson, Peter Hanson
Cummins, George Wash., P. M.
Perry, Alex. Collier
Dennis, Amos
Purdy, Edward
Dennis, William Ritchie
Randrup, William
Eldred, Horace AleL
Rea, Joseph Nelson
Everett, Ralph Waldo, P. M.
Rhoads, William Denham
Finley, George Wear
Spurlock, Thomas Franklin
Fiske, James Saxon
Squires, George Elmer
Foster, Jesse Gilbert
Thomson, Francis Marion
Gibson, Edwin
Travis, John Henry
Grist, John Wesley
Tuttle, Lorenzo Brady
Hall, Henry Miller
Vain Dyke, William S. Jr., P. M.
Handy, Philo
van Dyke, William S., Sr., P. M.
Hansen, Christian
Wattenberger, Jacob
Hargrave, Walter
-47.
Hornbrook, Sanders
WITHDRAWN:
Spaulding, Horace Reuben
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Liston, Harry Finley

ROSTER

ROSTER

JANESVILLE LODGE, No. 232.

CALISTOGA LODGE, No. 233.

Janesville, Lassen County.

Calistoga, Napa County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:
Guy Pleasant Johnson, Master,
Jacob William Broadwell, Chaplain;
Milford
Stanly Edison Tyler, Senior Deacott,
Arad Way, Senior Warden,
George Benton Bailey, Junior DeacOff,
John Burton Christie, Jun. Warden, William Emmit Agee, Marshal,
James Irving Christie, Treasurer,
Granville Pullen, Steward,
Ira Eugene Bailey, Secretary,
Jeremiah Bond, Steward, ·
Milford
James Alexander Wood, Tyler. •

OFFICERS:
Charles Wiley Crouch, Master,
Henry James Clement, Sen. Deacon,
Calistoga
David Douglas Evey, Junior Deacon,
Harry Baughman Miller, Sen. Ward., Franklin Ashton, Marshal,
John Clarence Wilson, Jun. Warden, James Hunter Safley, Steward,
Ephraim Light, Treasurtr,
William Abbott Colburn, Steward,
Charles Afton Carroll, Secretary,
Frank Sherman Crouch, Tyler.
Calistoga

MEMBERS:
Agee, William Emmet
Grass, Leonard
Bailey, George Benton
Greeno, George William
Bailey, Ira Eugene, P. M.
Hammond, Harry James
Bass, John Edward
Hemler, John Oscar
Bass, Stephen Shore
Jellison, John Edwin
Bond, Jeremiah, P. M.
Johnson, Guy Pleasant
Bond, Samuel Harris
Johnson, John
Broadwell, Jacob William
Laufman, Edwin Douglas
Bronson, William Marshal
Leavitt, George Benjamin
Clark, Charles Bates
Leavitt, James Byers
Clark, William Henry
McDermott, James
Christie, James Irving, P. M.
Meylert, Warden W.
Christie, John Berton
Pettenelli, Thomas Henry
Cook, Warren Daniel
Pullen, Granville, P. M
DeWitt, Walter Beauregard
Rowland, Clark Church
Doyle, Leo Walter
Rowland, Edgar Frank
Doyle, Oscar Hill
Smith, Isaiah Wright
Doyle, Otis Mark, P. M.
Stiles, Lyman Goumaz
Dill, William Andrew
Theodore, John Thomas
Elledge, John Robert
Tyler, Stanley Edison
Elledge, Robert Wade
Wemple, N. V.
Fortner, Samuel John T.
Wood, James Alexander, P. M.
Gerichten, George Pierce Von, P. M. Way, Arad
~6.

Adams, Ira Winchell
Arms, William
Armstrong, Elbert Lawrence
Ashton, Franklin, P. M.
Bassett, Ezra Amador
Benvie, George P.
Boland, Michael Sixon, P. M.
Bornhorst, William Frederick
Brown, Harry Harding
Burgess, Charles Melzar
Butler, John Samuel
Butler, Samuel .Reed
Carroll, Charles Afton, P. M.
Clement, Henry James
Colburn, William Abbott
Collins, Nelson Walton
Cordes, Tobias John
Crouch, Charles Wiley
Crouch, Francis Asahel
Crouch, Frank Sherman, P. M.
Cutler, Frederick Markham
Cutler, George Starr
Conner, Newton
Davis, Charles Greer
Decker, Porter Alfred
Easley, Roderick Hugh
Evey, David Douglass
Farmer, George Lester
Foss, Charles Clark
Frank, Ferdinand, P. M.

MEMBERS :
Fuelscher, Marcus Julius
Gehrman, Frank
Gerber, John Francis
Gibbs, Horace Lockwood
Gravel, Francis Xavier
Hicklin, George Thomas
Hoover, Abram
Hoover, Charles Marion
Hunter, Giles. Emory
Johnston, Richard Purchase
Kahn, Adolph James
Kimball, Ruel Mather
Light, Edward Ephriam, P. M.
Light, Ephriam
Maclean, Marcus Alexander
Martin, Oscar
Mathewson, Carleton
McArthur, Archibald Henry
Miller, Harry Baughman
Monroe, William Alex.
Pickett, Charles Nathan, P. M.
Pickett, Roy Dustin
Porter, William Henry
Robinson, James :Percy
Rutherford, John Ritchie
Rutherford, Wallace Taylor
Salley, James Hunter
Siemsen, John William, P. K.
Tamagni, Charles
Thirlwall, John Richard

344

ROSTER

Thomas, George Henry
Willis, David Conner
Wilson, John Clarence
Wolleson, Martin

ROSTER

Wright, Frederick A.
Wright, Joseph William
Wright, Joseph Carson, P. M.

-61
WITHDRA"\V'N:
Wright, Frank Talbot

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Failing, John Sanford.
Cable, Emanuel Hoover

DIED:
Simmons, Amos

Neseman, Fred John
Noee, Michel Joseph
Nutter, Frank Les.
Ramelli, David
Ripley, John Calvin
Ross, James Lincoln
Scolari, Peter

Bringham, Marrian Castor
Goodwin, William Holmes
Goble, Edmon James
Moffitt, William Lyle

Smith, William Mitchell
Thomas, Sylvester Augustus
Titus, William Henry
Totten, John Graham
Webster, James Wellman
Yearington, Lester Booth
Young, Plumas Arthur

345

-50.

WITHDRAWN:
Morgan, John Calvin
Peck, Frank Ferdinand
Peterson, John Henry
"'Saunders, William Francis

HOPE LODGE, No. 234.
Beckwith, Plumas County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or ne_x t succeeding Full .Moon.
OFFICERS:
Llewellyn Hayes Hughes, Master, John William Middleton, Sm. Dea.L
Beckwith
P eter Scolari, Junior Deacon,
J ohn Lewis Mathews, Sen. Warden, David Heriot, Marshal,
Luis Laffranchini, Junior Warden, Charles Laffranchini, Steward,
Aquillino Peter Laffranchini, Treas., William George Gibson, Steward,
John Calvin Ripley, Secretary,
Sylvester Augustus Thomas, Tyler.
Beckwith
MEMBERS:
Arms, William Street
Humphrey, James Lockhart
Bergeret, Joseph Aubin
Johnson, Robert Lee
Bridgman, Joseph Aron
Joy, Charles Riley
Campbell, Frank
Joy, Frank S.
Cate, George Washington
La:lfranchini, Acquilio Peter
Cate, Putnam M., P. M.
La:lfranchini, Antone
Dedmon, Henry Pool
Laffranchini, Charles
Dedmon, John Washington
Laffranchini, Louis Antone
Ede, Charles Walter
Lawler, Robert Emmett
Ede, Leonard Greely, P. M.
Lawrence, Jackson Hathaway
Ede, Stephen Robert
Marra, Federici;>
Gibson, William George
Martin, Richard
Guidici, Maurecilli
Mathews, John Lewis
Hamlin, Ray Arms
Mathews, Roger David, P. M.
Haskell, George Paul
Mattis, George
Heriot, David
Maxwell, George Albion
Holman, George Prescot-t
Merry, Joseph Francis
Hughes, Llewellyn Hayes, P. M.
Middleton, John William

SURPRISE VALLEY LODGE, No. 235.
Cedarville, Modoc County.
Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each Month.
OFFICERS:
Winston Decatur Coates, Ma.ster,
J ohn Calvin Morgan, Chaplain,
Cedarville
Anthony Rose, Senior Deacon,
J ames Henry Trimble, Sen. Warden , Frank Burns, Junior Deacon,
George Clark Turner, Jun. Warden, William Mullins, Marshal,
William T. Cressler, Treasurer,
James Wylie, Steward,
Thomas Henry Johnstone, Secretary, Ranson Heenan Stanley, Steward,
Cedarville
John Elison Sly, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Berry, Doctor Champlin
Pyle, Charles Hunter
Cook, Harry Drake
Ratcliff, Osmond
Cressler, William T.
Richardson, Elijah Allen
Ehrhardt, George Edward
Rose, Anthony
Sawtelle, Frederick Adolphus
Gray, Elijah Davidson
Scott, Gabriel Jackson
Johnstone, Thomas Henry, P. M.
Sly', John Elison
Jones, Joseph Lewis
Lindemenn, John Burnam
Stanley, Ransom Heenan, P. M.
McClintock, Frank
Stevens, Ward Spooner, P. M.
McCormick, William Harvey, P. M. Thompson, Josephus Moore
Minto, Robert Wield
Trimble, James Henry
Mullins, William, P. M.
Turner, George Clarke
Murdock, William Stewart
Wylie, James, P. M.
Parman, William Joseph
Winder, Norman, P. M.
-28.
•Restored during the year.

346

ROSTER

ROSTER

WITHDRAWN:
Merryfleld, Henry Lyman

WITHDRAWN:
Lathrop, James McElroy

DIED:
Shackelford, James Henry

DIED:
Bunker, Nathaniel Emmons

HILL'S FERRY LODGE, No. 236.

GUADALUPE LODGE, No. 237.

Newman, Stanislaus County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Guadalupe, Santa Barbara County.
etated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full .Moon

OFFICER.$:
Alexander Monroe Williams, Mas., John Hardin Yancey, Senior Deacon,
Newman, Cal.
Hans J. Smith, Junior Deacon,
Julius Wahlhaus, Senior Wardm,
Charles William Schauk, Marshal,
Hartley Roy Smith, Junior Warden, Carl Peter Paulsen, Steward,
Thomas Grayson Yancey, Treasurer, Rufus E. Shepherd, Steward,
Howell Venable Armistead, Sec'y, Jasper N. Stuhr, Tyler.
Newman, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Armistead, Howell Venable, P. M. Parker, Leland Harris, P. M.
Paulsen, Carl Peter, P. M.
Bartch, Frederick
Pfitzer, Frank
Bunker, Frederick Edgecomb
Robison, Elisha Henry
Bunker, William Edwin
Cain, Jules George Sincere, P. M.
Russell, John
Crow, Edward Wyman
Schank, Charles William
Crow, George Henry, P. M.
Schmidt, Hans Jorgensen
Shepherd, Rufus E.
Dalby, Samuol Price
Dobrzensky, Adolph
Smith, Hartley Roy
Draper, William Fisk
Snyder, John Frank
Dunning, William Albion
Sowers, William Bablan
Edgecomb, Frederick
Stratton, John Augustus, P. M.
Elfers, Charles Deidrich
Stuhr, Jasper Nicolaisen
Fortune, James Pulaski
Thompson, Nilse Andrew
Hunt, Martin Luther
. Trefts, Charles Edgar
Jensen, Hans
Tucker, Homer Celcis
Kaufman, Norman Wilson
Wahlhaus, Julius
Klehn, Henry, P. M.
Williams, Alex. Monroe, P. M.
Kuhns, Elmer
Woodworth, Alvin Orton
Lockwood, Nathan Kilburn
Worthington, Andrew Jackson
McDonald, Mark Elmer
Yancey, John Harden, P. M.
McLaughlin, Robert Emmett
Yancey, Thomas Grayson
McMurtry, Louis Campbell
Yates, Albert Davis
Mills, Henry Hammer
Yates, Albert Lansing, P. M.
Morrie, Julius
Yates, John Davis
Ostrom, Gilbert Paul
-51.

347

OFFICERS:
Virgil Lunotti, Master,
Walter William Stokes, Chaplain,
Guadalupe
Walter D. Hines, Senior Deacon,
Alfonso Morris Chavrez, S en. War., Alfred Fixter, J11t1ior Deacon,
Alfred Palmer, Junior Warden,
Harry Leslie Anderson, Marshal,
Stephen Campodonico, Treasurer,
Alfred Bettridge, Steward,
William Rosenblum, Secretary,
Frank Righetti, Steward,
Guadalupe
Frank E. Campodonico, Tyler.
Albert, Walter
Aquistapace, Felice
Armstrong, Herbert E.
Bettridge, Alfred
Birra, Giuseppe
Burola, Isarel M.
Campodonico, Frank Edward
Campodonico, Stephen, P. M.
Carter, Paul Branch, P. M.
Chavrez, Alfonso M.
Clausen, Samuel
Dickie, Daniel
Esterbrook, G. G.
Fevini, Peter
Fixter, Alfred
Fullor, Ernest Pearl
Giacomazzi, John, P. M.
Giacomini, Paul
Gormley, Thomas
Green, Edwin Burrow
Guzzi, Clemente
Hall, Elmer McKinzie
Hines, Walter D.
Johnston, Sidney Alonzo

MEMBERS:
Lapanchi, Angelo
Laughlin, Henry James
Lewty, David
Lucas, Lee Foreman
Lucas, William Thomas, P. G. M.
Lunot ti, Virgil
McFarland, Thurston
McGuire, Nathaniel
Morganti, Orellino
l\follenary, George Frank
Newton, William T.
Pala, Carlo
Palmer, Alfred
Pezzoni, Battista
Pezzoni, Ernest Julius
Pezzoni, Vittore
Pius, Charles
Powell, John Reese
Rathbun, Fay Fillmore
Rhodes, Charles William
Righetti, Frank
Rosenblum, William
Sampson, Wm. Foster
Scott, David Silas

ROSTER

ROSTER

348

Smith, Martin Luther
Souza, Antonio Jose
Stokes, Walter William, P. M,
Tognazzini, Tilden Constance
Tognazzini, Ullise

Treppy, Allen William H.
Wade, Henry
Woolley, Albert Vale
Zanetti, Severino

-57.

SUSPENDl'JD FOR UNMASONIC CONDUCT:
Dacoto, John Robert
DIED:
Norris, John Robert

COLUSA LODGE, No. 240.
Colusa, Colusa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon,
OFFICERS:
Adolphus Ahlf, Master,
Frederick H. Fatt, Chaplain,
Colusa
Alex. Stockton Boulware, S en. Dea.,
George Peter Ahlf, Senior Warden, William Clive Blean, Junior Deacon,
'fhomas Rutledge, Junior Warden, Frank Zea Pirkey, Marshal,
Harr.y Freeman Osgood, Treasurer, Robert Edward Blevins, Steward,
William Thomas Beville, Secretary, Phil Brent Arnold, Steward,
Colusa
William N eichouls Herd, Tyler.
Ahlf, Adolphus, P. M.
Ahlf, George Peter
Ahlf, Herman
Ahlf, John Claus
Anderson, Archibald ·Barron
Arnold, Phil Brent
Beville, William Thomas
Blean, William Clive
Blevins, Robert Edward
Boulware, Alex. Stockton
Brown, Uriah Waverly
Buster, William Harrison
Butler, Albert Burton
Cosner, Robert, P. M.
DeJarnatt, John Burris
DeJarnatt, William Burris
Daly, Arthur Burton
Denton, Harry E.
Etter, Henry Haverlock

MEMBERS:
Farnsworth, George Noble
Fatt, Frederick Hilling
Ford, Joel Haden
Ford, Samuel Ben
Goud, James Wilkins
Greenfell, LeRoy W.
Grover, Johnson
Hall, Henry Luster
Harden, George Beatty
Harrington, Tennent
Harrington, William Merrill
Hart, James
Hicok, Lora Lean, P. M.
Herd, William Nichols
Holloway, Edward Shortridge
Hubbard, William Henry
Hurlbert, Randolph
Jacobson, Emil
Jackson, John Lowry

Kass, John
Kilgore, Frank
Kilgore, Orrin J .
Lockwood, Milford M.
McLean, Francis George
McNary, James David, P. M.
McVay, Irwin Nelson
McVay, Joseph Edwin
McVay, Willis Nelson
Mitchell, Burr Hudson
Mogk, John Charles
O'Hair, Michael, P. M.
Osgood, Harry Freeman
Poundstone, Jesse
Pirkey, Frank Zea
Poage, Charles Allen
Rathbun, William Timothy
Retterath, George
Robinson, Oscar, P. M.
Rummelsburg, Selig

349

Rutledge, Thomas
St. Maurice, Charles Albert de
St. Maurice, Claude Edward de
St. Maurice, George Ed. de
Scarlett, Arthur Everett
Scott, George Franchville
Showier, George Edwin
Smith, George
Stanton, Joseph Byron, P. M.
Swinford, Edwin
Thayer, Albert Austin
Thompson, Milton James
Totten, Marco Bozzaris
Vann, Eugene Bird
Vann, William A.
Vickers, Elmer Albert
West, Joseph Simon
Wilson, Worth Wilbur
Young, Charles Walter
Zumwalt, Ivy George
-78.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Percival, Walter C.
DIED:
Cilley, John Wills
Roe, Harrison Alex.

Cheney, John

SANTA ANA LODGE, No. 24r.
Santa Ana, Orange County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Archibald Napoleon Zerman, Master, Edward Theodore Langley, Chap.,
Santa Ana
H . Roy Andre, Senior Deaco11,
Arthur Henry Pease, Sen. Warden, Arthur Bonnicastle Gardner, J. Dea.,
Ralph Waite Mead, Junior Warden, Orel Harris Coulter, Marshal,
Max Reinhaus, Treasurer,
George Robert Parker, Stewar1i1
George Akerman Whidden, Sec'y, James Morrow, Stewarr,
Santa Ana
George Eddie Robinson, Tyler.
Anderson, John Nelson
Andre, H. Roy
Albee, Charles Stolf

MEMBERS:
Angle, George Willard
Atwood, Elmer Dennis
A.ustin, Frank Lincoln

350

Baker, Bayard 'l:aylor
Balcom, Baylis Greenwood
Balderston, George .
Ball, Charles Dexter
Barnes, Henry E. W,
Baxter, Charles Bruce
Beals, Albert
Beckwith1 Fred Walter
Benedict, George Marshall
Bird, Addison Elliott
Blako, Edwin Meador
Blodgett, Volney Ebenezer
Bowers, Addison Crockett
Brock, David Truax, P . M.
Brock, Neal Ulm
Brown, Nathaniel Nelson
Bruner, Francis Marion
Bundy, Milton .John, P. M.
Butz, Adolph
Chapman, Charles Herbert
Cheeney, Tilford Denton
Clapp, Benj. Lewis
Clark, .John Ingram
Clark, William C.
Cobau, David
Collings, .Joseph Sutcliffe
Connell, Hiram Davis
Corbett, Robert Vance
Cotter, .James Stapleton
Coulter, Orel Harris
Crookshank, Miles Mcinnes
Cummings, .James, P. M.
Cushman, Ruggles A.
Davis, Samuel McClellan
Dicker, Willet S.
Diers, Henry
Dobson, George Henry
Dryer, George William
Dryer, .John Lewis, P. M.
Dungan, Samuel Morrison
Dunstan, .John
Edgar, George Alex.
Edinger, Christopher Columbus
Emerson, Lewis Sleeper
Emerson, Lucius Norman

ROSTER
Ey, Frank
Faust, George Andrew W.
Faust, Willis, Jr.
Ferguson, Joseph
Ferguson, Walter Perry
Fox, Charles William
French, Charles Edwin
Gardner, Arthur Bonnicastle
Garnsey, Felix Rainey
Garnsey, Louis James
Gilmaker, Joseph
Glenn, E arl George, P. M.
Gockley, David
Gordon, Howard Samuel
Greeley, John Philip, P. M.
Griffiths, George Whitefield, Jr.
Griffiths, William Light
Grubb, Wm. Lloyd
Halladay, Wm. David
Halse!, Oliver Linden
Hannah, Charles William
Harding, Foster William
Harris, Herman
Harvey, Leonard Frank
Hately, William
Haywood, John Saxton
Heaston, James Henry
Helwig, Benjamin Reason
Hermes, Albert
Hervey, Albert Rhodes
Hill, George Pliney
Hill, Herbert Curtfo, P. M.
Hill, Louis Hamilton
Hill, Samuel, P. M.
Hill, Thomas Morse
Hilton, Everett
Hoffman, Frank Thomas
Holt, John
Howenstein, Claude M.
Huffman, Robert Lincoln
Hull, Harold Guy
Innes, William Law
Johnson, William Ira
Jones, Erastus Clinton
Keeler, Marshal Lucius

ROSTER
Kelly, Charles Spurwell
Kellog, Hiram Clay
Kimball, .John Wesley 'l'rue
King, .John Richard
Kinley, .James Frank
Lamson, William Bradford
Langley, Edwin Theo., P. M.
Lane, Martin Luther
Laurence, George Parker
Leihy, Harold Arthur
Lentz, George
Lewis, Thomas Jefferson
Livsey, James Edward
Levy, Louis
Lipking, Frederick William
Lovett, Charles Edward
Lutz, William Frederick
Luxton, Emanuel Henry
Majors, Emil Ritt
Makosky, Herman Frank
Ma thews, Henry Thomae
Mathews, Mitchell
Mansur, Carlos Frederick, P. M.
Mansur, Frederick Warren, P. M.
Mason, William Bertie
McCormac, John Wesley
McDowell, John Colvin
McNeill, Christopher
Mead, Ralph Waite
Medlock, James Randolph, P. M.
Menges, Marion Albert, P. M.
Metzgar, James Clow
Meyers, Henry Dietrich
Mills, Ira D.
Monaghan, Francis· Elbert
Morse, Charles Horace
Morse, Nathan Frank
Mosbaugh, George Jacob
Munger, Samuel William
Nichols, John Brown
Nourse, John Thomas
Obar, William Shelby
Overshiner, Charles David
Overshiner, Clifton John
Owen, Albert Joseph

Page, Thoma11 Percival
Padgham, Albert John
Parker, George Robert
Parker, Charles Edward
Parks, Joseph
Parsons, John Daniel
Parsons, Joseph Garrett
Parsons, John Fred
Peabody, George Tompkins
Peabody, Henry Adams
Pease, Arthur Henry
Perkins, Albert Jackson
Peterman, Benj. Franklin
Peters, George Edwin
Phillips, Jefferson Davis
Potter,. Albert Alex.
Preble, George Edward
Preble, James Orme
Pumphrey, Charles Hammond
Putnam, John Day
Raplee, William Henry
Reeder, John Milton
Reinhaus1 Jul~us, P. M.
Reinhaus, Max
Richardson, Erwin Ellsworth
Richardson, James Richard
RoJ:>bins, Osmond Milton, P. M.
Roberts, Thoma·s Leonard
Robinson, George Eddie
Robinson, Fred Martin
Rooney, James Francis
Rowland, John Byers Anderson
Sackman, John William
Schenk, Charles Robinson
Shaw, Linn Lee, P. M.
Sheats, Clarence Warren
Sleeper, James
Smalley, William, P. M.
Smith, Allan Fowler
Smith, Ezekiel Bernard, P. M.'
Smith, Harry Roy
Smits, James Thompson
Smith, Robert Lee
Smith, Samuel Franklin
Snow, James Edmund

351

352

ROSTER

Stanton, George Munson
Stright, Henry Shannon
Sullivan, John C. ·
Sylvester, Harry Oman
Thacher, George Scott
Tiede, August Charles
Tillotson, J. Elizur
Tower, Lewis Edward
Towner, James William, P. M.
Townsend, Benj. Franklin, P. M."
Trago, Eli Brock, P. M.
Tressler, Sidney Pinney
Trickey, Cecil Clayton
Trickey, Frank Stover
Trickey, Jasper Newton
Trickey, Thomas Nudd
Trickey, William Thomae
Trudo, Edward
True, Frank
Turner, James Andrew
Tyerman, Thomas Benton
Uttley, Birkett
Vandermast, Asa
Van Pelt, Warren Wiley
Garnett, William M.
Hall, James Hedges

Vegely, Frank, P. M.
Violett, Charles C.
Visel, Augustus Jacob
Von Schriltz, Isaac Miles
Waffie, Edson Dwight, P. M.
Wallace, Elmer S.
Warner, George Bradford
Wasser, Joseph Sylvester
Wasser, Wilbur Wellington
Wassum, Howard Allen
Werhly, John
West, John Franklin
West, Leonard A.
West, Zephaniah B.
Whidden, George Akerman, P. M.
Whitehead, William
Whitson, Walter Verne
Wilkite, William Lane
Wilkinson, Laurence Smith
Winslow, Fred W.
Wood, Allen Jefferson
Young, William Charles
Zerman, Archibald Napoleon
Zielan, ,John James
-234.

WITHDRAWN:
, *Hooker, Amos Henry
Potter, Leroy W.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :
Fife, Charles Cordella
Tubbs, Harry Sheldon
Wright, Alcinus Young
DIED:
Andrews, Robert Joseph
Finley, James Andrew
Dorman, Dudley Marvin
Lane, John
Wall, William Burges
•Degrees conferred during the y ear.

ROSTER

MAGNOLIA LODGE, No.

353
242.

Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon. .
OFFICERS:
Summerfield Tippet Ricketts, Master, Benjamin Franklin Thomas, Chap.,
Santa Barbara
William Ross, Senior Deacon,
Albert Thomas Eaves, Sen. Warden, J oseph Riley Granger, Marshal,
............. . . ... , Junior Warden, ]. C. Hassinger, Steward,
Frank Adelbert Conant, Treasurer, Samuel Manchester, Tyler.
Philip Crother, Secretary,
Santa Barbara

MEMBERS:
Axtell, Joseph Daniel
Frost, Samuel
Bainbridge, James Carden
Granger, Joseph Riley, P. M.
Hanlon, John
Baker, George ~ussell
Hartell, John Edward
Beattie, Clay Hathaway
Bentz, Nathan
Hassinger, James Charles
Bond, Charles Scott
Hawley, Walter Augustns
Butcher, William Preston, P. M.
Hayman, Albert
Heck, John Wesley, P. M.
Carrel, George Russell
Hickey, Floyd Jamison
Christensen, Mads
Hogue, James Valentine
Clark, Wilson Lincoln
Hollings, Richard B.
Clough, George Ben
Hollister, Harold Albert
Coates, James Arthur
Conant, Frank Adelbert, P. M.
Humphrey, DeWitt C.
Cope, Walter Burton, P. M.
Hurat, Julius Harold
J eft'ress, Ernest Gunn
Crimminger, Charles Mance
·crother, Philip
Johnston, Fred Lyle
Cunnane, William Bernard
Johnston, John Thompson, P. M.
Curtis, Charles
Keiser, Milton Daniel
Damm, Andrew
Kincaid, Joseph Albert
Dane, George Burt
Kuster, Adolph I .
Lebo, Clarence Alva
Day, William Clarence
. Leckner, James Abram Garfield
Day, William Scott
Lillard, Jeremiah Beverly
Diehl, John Frederick
Linquist, August Ludvick
Eaves, Albert Thomas
Lorenzi, Bartolo De
Eisenberg, Jacob I.
Lowsley, James Dennis
Ewing, Frank John C, L.
MacBratney, William Charles
Farnsworth, Hugh T.
Madison, Arthur Edward
Fish, Henry Berrien
Matthews, John
Fish, Thomas Nathaniel
Miller, Willard Isaac
Foster, Frank Brooks
23

ROSTER

ROSTER

354
Monteith, Andrew Ector
Morton, James St. Clair
Nielson, Fred Macfarlane
Nielson, Wiley Cleveland
Phoenix, Charles Elwood
Pritchard, Howard Monroe
Reynolds, Ambrose
Reynolds, Charles Phillip, P. M.
Richardson, Lance, P. M.
Ricketts, Summerfield Tippet
Ross, William
Rounsevel, Ashton William
Rounsevel, Lyman
Rounsevel, Walter Howland
Scales, Horace H.

Senteney, George Albert
Sexton, Horace Arthur
Sexton, Harry Eugene
Sloan, James Esler
Smith, James Wilson, P. M.
Smith, Rufus Daria
Thomas, Benjamin Franklin, P. M.
Vosburgh, Graham
Walker, George F.
West, John Edward
Whipple, Joseph
Whittingham, Martin
Williams, George Martin
Wilson, Jerome Calvin
Wood, Clio Leonard
-90.

WITHDRAWN:
Stafford, Percy Munroe
Crane, Jabez Tunis

DIED:
Garcia, Manuel Francisco

EUCALYPTUS LODGE, No. 243.
Haywards, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month,
OFFICERS:
John McConaghy, Master,
Martin J . Madison, Senior Deacon, ·
San Lorenzo
Harry Alonzo Bradford, Jim. Deacon,
Edward William Jones, Sen. Ward., Alonzo Bradford, Marshal,
Leo Preston Worrell, Jun. Warden, William Robert Lovejoy, Steward,
Joseph David Armstrong, Treasurer, Bert Andrew Strobridge, Steward,
Henry Ernst Brunner, Secretary,
Eli Howla~d, Tyler.
Hayward
Alexander, Archie Addison
Alexander, George Edward
Armstrong, Joseph David
Austin, James Davis, P. M.
Backus, Matthew Watson
Bradford, Alonzo
Bradford, Harry Alonzo
Browne, Ralph Stuart

MEMBERS :
Brunner, Henry Ernst
Christensen, Jens Lauritzen
Christensen, Ivor
Christensen, William Tyroll
Clawiter, Edward Henry
Crosby, Peter James
Cull, William Davenport
Curley, John Edward

Curley, John James
Cutler, Frederick Storer
Dahle, Carl Oscar
Dennis, Frank
Edgar, George Avery
Fenton-Smith, William Harvey
Fischer, Albert Ehrhardt
Frick, George William, P. M.
Gamble, John
Gray, George
Gorrie, Thomas Cullen
Griffis, Sabin
Grindell, George Edward
Howland, Eli
Haley, William Wallace
Harder, Jacob
Harrison, George E.
Hinckley, Horace Cameron
Johnson, Matthis
Johnson, Peter
Jones, Algernon Sidney
Jones, Edward William
Kolze, Robert Aug. Frank, P. M.
Krap, Jes Mathaus Hansen
Lassen, Hans
Long, Charles Stuart, P. M.
Lovejoy, William Robert
Macintosh, James Thomas
Madison, Martin J.
Madsen, Soren
Maggioli, Silvio
Mansfield, George
Martin, Paul
Mathiesen, Hans
McConaghy, John

355

Meek, Harry Wert, P. M.
Meek, William Ellsworth
Meek, William Harold
Montgomery, Bert Beamer
Moore, John Wesley
Musson, Edwin Frank, P. M.
Neudeck, Carl Niaholas
Neudeck, Geo. Wm.
Oliver, 'Adolph August
Oliver, Henry Andrew
Prowse, Joseph Bradshaw
Prowse, Charles
Prosser, John Raymond
Petray, Henry Calvin
Parsons, Isaac Brown
Russell, Thomas Bartlett, P. M.
Rowlands, William Edward, P. M.
Reid, Rinaldo
Reynolds, George Edmund
Ramage, William Arthur
Schafer, Henry August, P. M.
Sequeria, John Joseph
Smalley, David S.
Stanton, Thomas Joseph
Sorensen, Hans
Sorensen, Lawrence T.
Strowbridge, Bert A.
Suss, Charles F.
Thomas, Charles Frank, P. M.
Thompson, Hans ·
Thorup, Harold
Turri,· Matteo
Wold', William
Worrell, Leo Preston
Welsh, John Elm~r, P. M.

-81
Mitchell, Franklin Rising

WITHDRAWN:
Wotten, John Edward

Glass, Clement Rowland

DIED:
Jordan, Leslie Alex.

ROSTER

ROSTER

356

ALCATRAZ LODGE, No. 244.
Oakland, Alameda. County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Henry Adolph Meese, Master,
Arthur Dean Hughes, Chaplain,
966 Cypress Street, Oakland, or 725 Jacques Leonard Vandenbos, S. Dea.,
Folsom Street, San Francisco
John Kennedy Jeffress, Jun. Deacon,
Charles Henry Sommer, Sen. Ward., Albert Thomas York Marshal
John Gustaf Sjoberg, Junior Warden, Arthur Fra.nk Soders trand, St:ward,
Warren Guice Mobley1 Treasurer, James Cassius Smith, Steward,
Herbert Atherton Glines, Secretary, Sidney Herbert F arrell, Tyler. ··
1450 7th Street, Oakland
1

Adams, Charles Henry
Adams, Claude Nichols
Adamson, Franklin Chris.
A·d amson, Geo. Wm.
Aird, Alex. Fisher
Aldrich, Hugh Shafter,
Alison, Archie
Allen, John Willas Tamas
Allgewahr, August Eugene
Andersen, Harold Sophue
Anderson, Edward Jamee
Anderson, Frank William
Anderson, Wm.
Asher, Walter Gusham
Aspen, Edward Johnson
Austin, George William
Avan, William John
Bachrach, Henri Isaac
Baker, Alvin Walter
Baker, Henry Mathews
Baker, James Bartlett
Barnes, Harry Clinton
Barnes, Jamee Louie
Barnett, Rufus Putnam
Barrett, Lawrence Whitlatch
Beck, John Henry
Bishop, James Robert
Blackwell, Robert John
Blake, Sherman Tecumseh

MEMBERS:
Blanchard, Cyrus Edgar
Bock, George
Bolster, Jeremiah Clemens
Boyce, Edwin Herbert
Bramstedt, William Christian
Bronstrup, Gustave Adolph
Bruhning, Emil Geo. H .
Brum!, Arthur Benedect
Buchanan, Alex.
Buckingham, George Albert
Bucknum, James Harvey
Burgess, Samuel William
Buzzo, Benjamin H eywood
Buzzo, Joseph Thomas
Cardwell, John Henry
Cardwell, Joseph William
Carlson, Oscar Rinhold
Carman, Charles Way
Carman, Frank Vanoy
Carpenter, George
Champion, Louis Frederick
Chase, David Bunnell
Chase, Quincy Acastus
Christianson, Christ
Christianson, Robert
Classen, Albert
Climo, Samuel
Coates, William Henry
Cockburn, Wm. Alfred

Cogswell, John Benjamin
Coley, Vernon Jacks on
Comstock, Herbert Mark
Cope, Harry Beisly
Corwin, Lewis Thornton, P. M.
Cotton, George Douglas
Cozzens, Arthur Eugene
Crandley, William John
Crawford, Frank Reed
Crossman, Archie Kean
Crossman, Edwin John
Crossman, John, P. M.
Crossma n, Roy Everett
Crossman, William Thomae
Cummings, Lawrence Wash.
Dailey, William Curtis
Dallerup, Benjamin
Dallerup, John
Davidson, William
Davis, Charles Franklin
Davison, William Gardiner, P. M.
Deaner, Hiram Franklin
DemYoy, Frank
Dickerson, James Henry
Dickson, George
Deardorff, William Perry
Deckard, Stephen Anderson
Dieves, Charles isaac
Dieves, Joseph August
Dodds, Thomas Garfield
Douglass, Frank Johnson
Douglass, Ja.mes Alexander
Dunsmore, William Gelchrist
Edmonds, Thomas
Edwards, Henry John
Edwards, Walter John
Eiben, Frederick Gerhard
Everett, Charles Daniel
Fairchild, Claude Wilkins
Farrell, Sidney Herbert
Farrell, Sidney Herbert, Jr.
Fay, Max Henry
Finely, Charles John Jasper
Fogelstrom, Walter John H.
Foster, Sydney Hill

Fraser, John Eugene
Fraser, Neil
Gardner, David Thomas
Gardner, Hiram Smith
Gemmell, Stewart Farwell
Gentis, William Ira
Gibson, Charles Luke
Gibson, Edward Franklin
Glines, Herbert Atherton, P. M.
Godbeer, William
Graham, Edward Joseph
Graham, Robert Grant, P. M.
Graham, William Joseph
Gray, Frank Virgil
Gray, Jamee
Green, Stanley
Greenlee, James William
Hadcock, Eugene Berrel
Hale, Louis Wm.
Hall, James
Harrigan, John William
Harris, Theo. Howard
Havard, Richard Daniel
Heckell, William Frederic
Helmore, Paul Algernon
Hewitt, Lowen Gifford
Hignera, Ferdinanil
Hufschmidt, Alfred Frederick
Huggins, Henri Tyler, P. M.
Hughes, Arthur Dean
Hunter, William Alex., P. M.
Hutton, David
Ingersoll, Clarence George
Isaacs, Alfred Solomon
Jackson, Oliver Mann
Jamieson, John Carlyle
Jansson, Fritz Paul
Jeffress, John K ennedy
Johnson, Frank, Jr.
Johnson, Wilhelm Magnus
Johnstone, Andrew Edward
Johnstone, John Crawford
Johnstone, Robert
Jones, Fred Thomas
Jones, Mathew Hines

357

358

Jordan, Earl Leroy
Jorgensen, Johannes Christian
Jurgens, Charles Henry
Kahn, Solomon
Kelly, Edwin Forriess
Keyser, John Harold
Kieley, John Francis
Kirschbaum, Jans Peter L.
Krueger, Paul Frederick
Kitto, William John
Kydd, Isaac Ferguson
Lagerson, Walter Henry
Lambourne, Arthur Frederick
Lane, William
Lane, William Thomas
Lang, Frederick William
Langford, Thomas
Lawry, William John, P. M.
Lister, Kenneth Gordon
Lind, William Garcie
Linster, Peter Edward
Long, Albert Vance
Long, William
Lowell, Frank
Lumsden, William Stephen
Lundin, August
Lutgen, George Vest
Lutgen, John Peter
Macdonald, Charles · John
MacGregor, Henry Mortimer
Madison, Maurice Austin Henry
Mahan, James Claud
Mahony, William Henry
Maiden, Frederick Bruce
Mangan, John Martin
Marcus, Geo. Peter
McComb, Edward
McDonald, Frank Jesse
McDonald, George Bruce
McGuffick, George Nelson
Mcintire, Austin Garfield
McKay, William
McKeen, Albert Atwater, P. ]If,
McKeen, Arthur Hugh
McKeen, Herman Scott

ROSTER
McKellar, Alexander
McKellar, Harry Duncan
McKenzie, Joseph Henry
McLean, Edward John
McLeod, Angus Martin
McRae, John Henry
Meade, Linley Merwin
Medros, Joseph Jason
Meese, Henry Adolph
Megraw, George Emery
Melvin, James Garland
Merrill, Arthur
Meves, Bernhard, Sr.
Meves, Bernhard A., Jr.
Meyers, John Hart
Mobley, Warren Guice, P. M.
Moon, Holly Francis
Moore, John Briggs
Moore, John Thomas
Moore, Richard Geo.
Moore, Robert H.
Mosbacher, George
Mueller, Ernest
I Iunson, Nicholas Fred
Murchison, James Daniel
Murphy, Eugene Joseph
Murphy, James Joseph
Myrick, John Brown
Nash, Chester Bell
Neal, William Waterman, P. :M.
N edderman, Benjamin
Neilsen, Francis Joseph
Neilsen, Hans Frederick
Nicol, William Scott
Nissen, Julius Linnit
Nor, Andrew Jorgensen
Nussbaum, August Otto
O'Brien, Thomas Edward
O'Neil, Peter J.
Owens, Eric Hjalmar
Parker, David Elmer
Partridge, Abram Peter
Pasquale, Edward Valentine
Peacock, Alfred, P. M.
Pegg, Ernest Francis

ROSTER
P erkins, Eugene S., P. M.
Peterson, Peter Hansen
Pett, David
Pierson, Willard Hubbel
Pontious, Joseph Edwin
Porter, George Washington
Poulson, Christian Nicolia
Powell, George Garfield
Preslar, Henry Allan
Prince, Julius Theban
Pringle, James
Putney, Edward Fisher
Putzar, Edward Louis
Raphael, William Kinney
Redington, Charles Henry, Jr.
Redington, Charles Henry, P. :M.
Redington, Jo Peter
Reed, James Lon
Reed, Thomas
Reilinger, Edward Nathan
Renshaw, :John G.
Rerat, Albert Louis
Rhein, William H.
Rice, Mark Desmond
Rittigstein, Frank Adolph
Rittigstein, Herman
.
Robertson, Albert Atwater
Robertson, Daniel
Robertson, Robert
Rogers, Edward Almond
Ruley, Guy Fairfax
Runyon, 'Paul
Russell, William Hicks
Sanborn, William Kelly, P. :M.
Sandelin, Charles Frederick
Sargent, George ·
Sartori, Augustino Paulo
Scheithe, Carl F.
Schiveley, Arthur Marion
Schnidler, Henry Bernard, P. :M.
Schrock, William A.
Schumacher, August Peter
Schwarz, Henry, P. M.
Searles, Niles, Jr., P. M.
Seller, John

Sheldon, William Wallace
Sherrott, Frederick Albert
Siddorn, Edward
Sjoberg, John Gustaf
Skilling, H enry Hugh
Slaughter, Charles M.
Slaven, John Thompson
Smay, Homer W.
Smit h1 Andrew Perry
Smith, George Frederick
Smith, Julius Cassius
Smith, Orville, Alex.
Snook, William Sayer
Snook, Charles Edward, P. M.
Sode1'5trand, Arthur Frank
Solomon, Isadore Edward
Sommer, Charles Henry
Sorensen, Hans Frederick
Sorensen, Jesse Reinhold
Stephens, Ira Oscar
Stephens, Samuel
Stephens, Thomas
Stokes, Levi
St. Pierre, John
Stromgren, George Albert
Stromgren, Gustave Adolph
Suber, Timothy Brooks
Swenson, Charles
Tait, Allen James
Tambs, Emil
'l'ambs, Hartnig Carsten
Tarr, Alvin Eugene
Thomas, Charles Goodwin
Thomas, William John
Thomson, James
Torrence, Henry George
Trigg, William Thomas
Trombley, Henry
Undhjen, Ole
Vandenbos, Jacques .Leonard
Verg, Mark Earl
Vetter, Nicholas
Walker, Thomas Rose
Walker, William Henry
Walters, Valentine

359

ROS'l'ER

ROSTER

360
Wave, Francis Edgar
Warness, Axel Christoffer
W~rness, Paul Andrew
Watson, Warren Mortimer
Weigt, William Albert
Westdahl, James Robert
Weston, William Pomroy
White, Albert Frederick
White, Cornellius
White, Herman Shea
White, Joseph
Whitehead, Thomas
Wiley, Jasper Grant
Wilkes, Farrington
Wilkes, William Ernest
Willard, Charles Martin
Birch, Albert Hampton
Clark, Charles Anthony
Clark, Henry Adelbert

Williama, Ernest Clement
Williams, Frank Delmore
Williams, John Jones
Williams, Robert Richard
Wills, John Tyzzer
Wilson, Andrew John
Wilson, James B.
Winthar, Thomas Ludwig
Wolf, Joseph
Wooley, Eliphat Burt, P. M.
Wrede, August Adolph
Wyllie, Robert Pedan
York, Albert Thomas
Young, Theodore Henry
Zeimer, Henry Kahn
-359.

WITHDRAWN:
Erwin, David Lyttle
Karman, Andrew I.
Olson, Alfred

SUSPENDED FOH. NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Hale, Henry Hubbard
Helvie, Roscoe S.
Harjes, William Edward
Love, Thomas

Eames, George Washington
Greenwald, Frank Julius

DIED:
Keiser, Christian
Trefethen, Eugene Augustus

LAUREL LODGE, No. 245.
Willows, Glenn County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Edwin Moore Garrison, Master,
William Winfield Scott, Chaplain,
Willows
Andrew Aloysius Heidrick, S. Dea.,
Byron Otis Cobb, Senior Warden, Lucine Maurice Benoit, Jun. Dea.,
Robert Lee Black, Junior Warden, Jefferson Davis Danner, Marshal,
James Madison Silvey, Treasurer, Eustace Wow a rd Rhodes, Steward,
William Raymond Zumwalt, Std.,
Lew Ernest Wickes, Secretary,
John Henry Zumwalt, Tyler.
Willows

361

MEMBERS:
Lathrop, Charles John, P. M.
Bailey, John Amity
Levy, Ellis J.
Barber, Henry Dwight
Linderoot, August John
Barham, Edwin
Lindstrom, Albert Stewart
Barham, Marcus Lafayette
Luman, William_ Eugene
Black, Robert Lee
Lyons, Patrick
Boyd, James
Markewitz, Milton
Brock, Irving
Marshall, William Walker
Brock, Malcom
McDaniel, Joseph Elijah
Bungard, George
McRae, AleL
Cardiff, George Henry
Neate, Sidney Herbert
Chaney, Samuel Marshall, P. M.
Mellor, George
Clark, Pleasanton Henderson
Merrill, William Reed
Cobb, Byron Otis
Miller, Isaac
Cowart, Zachariah Taylor
Crawford, Fred 'k Gustavus, P. M. Mitchell, James Henry
Montgomery, Elmer Frank
Crawford, Russell Tracy
Moody, Frank, P. M.
Danner, Jefferson Davis, P. M.
Moore, Harry
Davis, Charles Wilson
Newman, Charles
Duncan, Addison Eugene
Nordyke, Marion Augustus
Farnham, Daniel Cromwell
Orr, George Wesley, P. M.
Finch, William Morton, P. M.
Pollock, .Tosepti Edwin
Freeman, Frank
Raper, Orville Lawrence
Freeman, George Richard
Rasor, Andrew Jackson
Freeman, William Valentine
Raulins, Frank
Garnett, Hugh McCune
Rhodes, Howard Eustace
Garnett, Peter Richard
Robison, Enos Cordell
Garrison, Edwin. Moore
Scott, William Winfield, P. M.
Graves, Fremont Ashurst
Silvey, James Madison
Graves, John Hiram, P. M.
Smith, William Augustus
Gutman, Gustave Arthur
Snowden, James William
Hanlon, John Russell
Stewart, Francis Davis
Hatcher, George Jackson
Talcott, Frederick William
Heidrick, Andrew Aloysius
Tyler, Elias Mortimer, P. M.
Hirsch, Otto Nathan
Watt, George
Hochheimer, Ira
·west, Hiram Leroy·
Hochheimer, Mosel!, P . M.
Wickes, Lew Ernest
Johnson, James Otis
Williams, Frank Wesley
Klemmer, Lewis Jacob
Winkler, James Jackson
Kline, Ben George
Wylie, Hartson Delmar
Knock, Bayard
Wylie, John Elsworth
Knock, Thomas L.
-84.
Zumwalt, J·ohn Henry
Knock, Malcolm A,

362

ROSTER

ROSTER

Baylor, William Catlett

WITHDRAWN:
Heeran, Henry Amandus
Wickes, Harvey Orin

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Carr, Theron Francis
Long, Robert Augustus
DIED:
Walker, John

POMONA LODGE, No. 246.
Pomona, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, firs t Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Jerome Adelbert Ludden, Master,
Walter Brewster Todd, Chaplain,
Pomona, Los Angeles County
Charles Richard Hutchings, S. Dea.,
James Henry Wilkinson, Sen. Ward., Donald Barbour Crites, Jun. Deacon,
Edwin Wilton, Junior Warden,
Joseph Reitan Garthside, Marshal,
Charles Micah Stone, Treasurer,
Harry Edison Russell, Steward,
James Lapsley Armstrong, Secretary, Fred Henly Charles, Steward,
Pomona, L-os Angeles County
Feordoon D. Baker, Tyler.
Anderson, Henry Clay
Androus, Samuel Newell
Anis, Americus Benizetta
Armstrong, James Lapsley
Ashton, Palmer
Avery, Albert Sinclair, P. M.
Baldwin, Frank Henry
Baynham, Frank Leslie
Bell, James Edwin.
Bowen, Charles Oscar
Bigham, John Ross
Boyce, George
Boyd, Sydney Robert
Bowen, John F.
Brown, Frederick Alfred
Brown, Rae
'Brown, William Elliott
Bryant, Leslie George
Burke, Allen Willard
Caldwell, Andrew Becton

MEMBERS:
Caldwell, Gus Becton
Camp, Orrin B.
Campbell, Melvin
Carter, Ira Caleb
Charles Fred Henly
Clark, Charles
Clark, Charles Ralph
Cogswell, Franklin, P. M.
Cohn, Nathan
Cowdery, George Willis
Cowles, Lyman Warner
Craig, Gavin
Cramer, William Theo.
Crites, Donald Barbour
Crookshank, David Crane
Crowford, Thomas Travis
Davi;i, R aymond Milton
Debrunner, Vitus
Dickie, William
Diller, Herman

Dole, Arthur Macdonald
Dorsey, Kewen Hillard
Doughty, Charles Homer
Douglass, Joseph
Dowling, Thomas Jackson
Dreher, Edwin Ludwig
Dreher, Peter John
Dye, John Hiram
Edwards, George
Eells, George Nelson
Elder, Noble Smith
Fitch, Joseph Ahira
Ford, Elmer R.
Ford, Seldom Irwing
Fosdick, Clarence Watson
F ox, Charles James
Fox, Charles Kirby
Frankel, Samuel
Friedman, Herman
Gallup, John Adam, P. M.
Garcelon, Frank, P. M.
Garcelon, Harris
Garthside, Joseph Relton, P. M.
Geer, Francis Herman
Gerling, Edgar Schroder
Graham, Fred Eugene
Graf, Robert Edward
Grant, Arthur Cameron
Ground, George Ardo
Guerin, Clarence Walter
Ransler, Frank Ernest
Hansen, Hans Broderson
H arris, Charles McPherson
Haskin, Lorenzo Hix
Hayes, Calvin Campbell W.
Hefti, Rudolph
Hibbard, Ethan Allen
H ennessey, William John
Henderson, Edward
Herder, William
Hicklin, Edward
Hill, R amond Chalmers
Hillen, Joseph Henry
Hinman, Ell:ott
Hoffmaster, Edgar Joseph Lemp

Hoke, Orrie Wilson
Hondyshel, Cecil Ernest
Howeli, William Harvy
Huft', Charles Clark
Hunter, Arthur Daniel
Hutchings, Charles Richard
Hyatt, Frank Henry
Irwin, Silas S.
Jackson, Arthur Buxton
Jencks, George
Jess, Stoddard
Johnson, Frank Walter
Johnson, James Dixon
Kauffman, Park Wilford
Kerckhoft', Hermann Henry
Kessler, William
Kinney, Harry Hartman
Kitchen, Edwin Bruce
Knox, Reginald L.
Leake, Norman Augustue
Lewis, Frederick Rice
Lewis, Walter Atwood, P. M.
Llewellyn, Frederick B., P. M.
Loney, James
Ludden, Collins Adelbert
Ludden, Hugh Courtney
Ludden, J erome A.
Luddington, Henry Clay
Lyon, Will Bently
Martin, Albert Bruce
Martin, Frederick Herbert
Martin, William Thomas, P. M.
Martin, William Claiborn
Mathins, Lee Rex
McCollum, John Timon
McCormick, William Arthur
McGowan, James Edwin
Meeker, William Metzger
Merrill, George Whitney
Metz, Meethell Kar
Midgley, Wilmot Wentworth
Milliken, Thomas Duper
Moles, Samuel David
Molyneaux, Francis Asbury
Monahan, John William

363

364
Moon, Thomas James
Morris, Noah
Morrison, Edward Hugh
Mosher, George Erastus
Mumford, Ira Edgar Leroy
Myer, Milton Armsted
Newman, Orlando Jay
Nichols, Allen Penfield, P. M.
Nichols, Hervey James
Niodermyer, Frederick William
Olcott, Shepard Pond
Overhaltzer, Oscar Lee
Paul, Charles Wesley
Perdy, Adelbert James
Persons, Dennis L.
Phelps, Charles Austin
Perry, Mulford
Phillips, George Stephen
Phillips, William Riley, P. M.
Pool, George Anthony
:Poston, William Herbert
Potter, Mark Hugunin
Powell, William Lytle
Powers, James Macnish
Rampton, Charles Henry
Reed, Alfred Cummings
Reed, Alfred Riley
Rice, George Heber
Richards, Adison Whitaker
Rickerich, William Henry
Ricketts, Arlo Edward
Robinson, Edward Clark
Robinson, Prank Clark
RobinRon, George Printiss
Robords, Charles Harrison
Roper, Guy Fox
Ruptz, Perry Edward
Rus·sell, Harry Edison
Saltonstall, William Matthew
Schulze, Leonard Paul
Schisler, Henry Richard
Scott, Henry
Seaver, Carlton, P. M.
Seaver, Frank Roger
Sheets, Henry Lee

ROSTER
Shutt, Fred Ordway
Siddell, William Allen
Smith, William Daniel
Snow, Albert F!avie
Short, Cecil Hackney
Soper, George Edmond
Spicer, Charles
Staig, Arthur Davis
Staples, Robert Martin
Steadman, Charles Arthur
Steele, Robert Cauley
Steffa, George Addison
Stevenson, Ira
Stone, Cnarles Micah
Stormer, William Ernest
Swindt, Joseph Keener
Tanner, Walter
Teague, David Clinton
Teague, Walter
Thomas, Frank Webster
Todd, Walter Brewster
• Toland, Clarence Gains
Truitt, William Henry, Jr.
Turner, George Madison
Twomey, Samuel Sparks
Vandergrift, William Alfred, P. M.
Walker, Charles Edwin
Warner, Orrion Austin
Webb, Clarence Edward
Weigh, August Matthew
Weigle, Charles Fred
Welch, Everett Haskell, P. M.
Wentworth, Clyde Samuel
Wheeler, Frank
White, Edwin Plimpton
White, Frederick Alson
White, Jay John
Whyte, John
Widdes, Robert James
Wilcox, John Wealton
Wildman, William
Wilkinson, Henry Patterson
Wilkinson, James Henry
Williams, Noah
Wilson, Charles Patton

.ROSTER
Wilson, James William
Wilton, Edwin
Witman, Alex. Hamilton
Witman, Alex. Hamilton, Jr.
A,llen, Frederick Madison
Carroll, Phldellia Patton

Wolfersberger, John Fohl
Wright, Charles Digby
Wright, Silas Gould
Wyman, Francis George

365

-228.

WITHDRAWN:
Huse, George Elmer
McQultty, David Crane

Bell, William Alonzo
Hunneman, William
Manchester, Erastus Taylor

DIED:
Raynes, Frank
Wasson, John
White, Darius

FRESNO LODGE, No. 247.
Fresno, Fresno County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Clarence William Edwards, Marshal,
Emil Frederick Bernhard, Master,
Charles Anderson Munn, Chaplain,
2222 Tuolumne Street
Thomas J. Hammond, Senior Deacon,
Herbert Levy, Senior Warden,
Ben Randall Walker, Junior De11con,
Hans Graff, Junior Warden,
William John Harris, Steward,
Leopold Gundelfinger, Treasurer,
Lassen Elwin Hogue, Steward,
J oseph Layman Beall, Secretary,
Alexander Jenkins, Tyler,
2033 · Fresno Street
MEMBERS·
Bates, Dudley Urias
Aarestrup, Theo.
Beall, Joseph Layman, P. M.
Alexander, Walter Edwin
Bel:fils, Ernest Kreichbaum
Allen, Axel
Benas, Isaae
Allum, LeRoy Martin
Benas, Morris
Anderson, Frank Arthur
Bernhard, Emil Frederick
Anderson, Frank William
Berry, Fulton Greene
Anderson, Gus Walter
Berry, Tom Jones
Anderson, James
Beveridge, George Paxton
Apply, Judson
Bibbero, Sam
Ashman, Stonewall Jackson
Bodwell, Samuel Procter
Bachant, David Lewis
Boles, George Marion
Bang, Anders
Bowie, Albert
Barham, Courtney L.
Bramblett, James Mitchell
Barker, Charles Willis
Brooks, Albert Preston
Barnwell, David Monroe
Brooks, William Washington
Barrett, Charles William, P. M.

366

ROSTER

Bullock, Edward
Burdick, Arthur Wadsworth
Burk, John T.
Burke, Fred Miller
Burks, Floyd L~uncelot Rowell
Burks, William Tilman
Burleigh, Charles Morrell
Burnham, Floyd
Burness, Hector
Bush, Edward Everett
Butler, Alban Bernard
Byrd, Charles H.
Cardwell, Bert
Cate, James Wilbur
Cathcart, Benjamin Franklin
Challup, Charles Martin
Church, George Emory, P. M.
Coddington, Oliver Clinton
Coffman, J. W.
Collins, Alfred Scott
Collins, James Darwin
Colson, Benjamin Young
Comfort, Aaron R.
Connelly, Frank Henry
Cooley, Menzo Wesley
Cornforth, Charles Henry
Cosgrave, George, P. M.
Cronkite, Bert E.
Crissman, .Joseph E.
, Davison, William
Deal, John Hamme Smith
DeLong, Charles Warren
Dellman, Ernest
Dennett, William Bibb
Dressen, John Chrietopher
Detoy, Charles L.
De Voe, Robert Joseph
Doyle, Ollein Burton
Dunn, Thomas
Dunn, Tom Montana
Dunn, William Francis
Eberhart, Clyde George
Eckland, Charles Maurice
Edwards, Clarence William, P. M.
Edwards, Edward Darnell, P. M.

Egan, James Henry
Elliott, George
Ely, Millett
Enloe, Henry Enoch
Errett, Henry Fred K.
Ewing, David Shelby
Fry, Edwin Claude
Gardner, William Clifton
Goddard, Henry Albert
Goggin, Richard DeLacy
Goldstein, Alex.
Goodman, Solomon Bearline
Graff, Hans
Gray, Lee Lincoln
Grunig, Charles
Gundelfinger, Emil
Gundelfinger, Leopold
Hague, Benjamin Murrell
Hague, Berry Madison, Jr., P. M.
Hall, Roy
Hammer, Richard LaFayette
Hammond, Thomas Jefferson
Hanner, John William
Hanson, Harvey Stickney
Hanson, William George
Harris, Milus King
Harris, Rollin Romney
Harris, William John
Harrold, Thomas Richard
Hart, Alvin Curran
Hart, Leon
Hatfield, George Anderson
Hayden, Edward Martin
Hays, Oliver Thomas
Henry John Samuel
Herrington, Herbert M.
Higgins, Frank
Hinch, William Sproule
Hinds, Herman Jacob
Hindsberger, Jacob
Hixson, Joseph Foster
Hoffman, Allen F.
Hogue, Lassen Elwin
Hogue, Samuel Larsen
Holland, William Bismark

ROSTER
Hollenbeck, James H.
Homan, Frank Andrew
Hopkins, Ethan Littler
Hughes, Thomas Edwin
Hutchinson, Charles Caswell
Inns, Ernest Frank
Jackson, Andrew
Johnson, George L.
Johnson, Rasmus Bartholin
Johnson, Samuel Walter
Johnson, William Mallory
Johnston, Harry Mumford
Jones, George Wallace
Jones, Oscar Knox
Jenkins, Alex.
Kerney, Aden G.
Kirk, Thomas Jefferson, P. M.
Kirkman, William Thomas
Kittrell, William Joseph
Kohler, George Mathias
Kreider, Joseph Charles
Lang, James Albert
Lane, William Samuel, P. M.
Laning, Frank
Lee, Frederic Morgan
Levy, Herbert
Levy, Herman, P. M.
Levy, Leon
Levy, Nyman
Longacre, John Richard
Lowe, Camille Danton
Lurie, Harrie
Lynch, Thomas Halpin
Lynch, William
Lynn, Theo. Ayers
Machen, William Wallace
Mackinnon, Arthur Ward
Madsen, Theo.
Manheim, Emil Edward
Manuel, Louis
Marks, Christopher D.
Marks, George
Marshall, Hampton Othello
Marshall, Warren Carey
Martin, Samuel

Mattingly, John Andrew, P. M.
Maupin, James Laurence
Maupin, William Thomas
May, Francis John
May, Richard Elwyn
McClurg, James A., Sr.
McDonald, James Bruce
Mcindoo, Ivan Carter
McKinnon, Albert Dwight
McLane, Charles Lowry, P. M.
Mellon, Thomas Eugene
Metzler, Brenton Jarvis
Miller, Charles Herman
Mitchell, Dean Clark
Mitchell, James Stephens
Monroe, George Hays, P. M.
Morris, Henry
Morris, John Knox
Muldary, Richard Morgan
Mulholland, Robert Smith
Munn, Charles Anderson
Murray, John William
Musselman, Albert E.
Myer, Isaac
Neal, John
Neal, John Wesley
Nelson, Louis
Normington, George Henry
North, John Wilson .
Olney, Albert Downing
Olney, Clyde Albert
Olufs, Oluf Bernhard.
0 'Neal, Charles
Palen, Bion Carlysle
Palmer, Arthur Henry Gordon
Pasch, Robert
Patch, George
Payne, Le Roy
Peachman, Ferdinand
Peterson, Christian
Peterson, Nathaniel Houston
Peterson, William Harrison
Pike, Willis
Pollard, Oliver Lee
Porter, W. F.

367

368

ROSTER

ROSTER

Powell, A. L.
Stone, Marcus Akin Victor
Prince, Thomas Brown
Stuart, Richard I., P. M.
Pugh, John M., P. M.
Sutter, William Henry
Puleston, William Henry
Swartz, Alex. Culbertson
· •
ii
Radin, Henry
Sweeney, Albert Hamlet
Radley, Thomas Henry
Taylor, George Colvin
Ralston, Rupert Robert
Taylor, James
Redden, Silas Henry
Taylor, Paul Chester
Reborn, Frank
Tegeler, Frederick William
Reno, Frederick Rensalaer
Teller, Orlando Prentiss
Rhodes, Johnson Guy
Thomas, Montgomery
Richardson, Charles H.
Thompson, Oliver McGrady
Riege, Charles Henry
Thorwaldson, Horace
Robbi, David Harry
Tinnin, Wiley James, P. G. M.
Robinson, William Harrison Jackson Tombs, Samuel Bell, P. M.
Roessler, Frederic Martin
Trowbridge, Dwight Howe
Rudy, Henry Vernon
Tunzi, Norberto
Sahm, Henry
Turner, George WasJiington
Samelson, Samuel Joseph
Valentine, Edward Sharpe, P. M.
Samuel, Lawrence
Vanderlip, Frederic Douglas
Van Meter, Edgar Snowden
Seadler, James
Selling, Christian Hansen
Wade, Lincoln
Sewell, Walter John
Walker, Ben Randal
Sherman, Walter Nathan
Walker, John Robert
Shields, Adolphus James
Warner, Albert Owen
Shoemaker, Walter
Warrington, Thomas Henry
Shoobert, Charles Warren S.
Watkins, J oseph Spinning
Short, Frank Hamilton
Webster, James Alfred
Simpson, Timothy William
Wells, George John
Sloane, William Burtis
Whepley, William Lang
Smith, Anson Burlingame, P. M.
White, John James
Smith, Ardie Lee, P. M.
White, John Wesley
Smith, Christine Hansen
Whitney, Walter
Smith, Eugene Robinette
Whitney, Willia:n Joel
Wilkinson, H erbert Edwin
Smith, George Washington
Smith, L eslie Smiley
Willis, Glenn Trowbridge
Smith, Samuel Nathaniel
Winne, Douglas Thompson
Woodward, Oscar J.
Smith, Victor Raymond
Snow, Alva Edson
Wrightson, John Mowell
Zibbell, James W .
Sprouse, Jasper Newton
Stephens, Lewis Oliver, P. M.
Zener, Steven Olin
Stone, Benjamin Franklin
- 295.
VV~THDRAWN:
Armstead, Robert Grieve
Kerney, Charles H.
Cohn, Solomon Jacob ·
Kinman, Norman Park
Pulliam, Charles Irwin

36D

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DU ES:
Bagley, Frank Sylvester
Bowdish, Percival
Barnesberger, Henry
Butler, Richard Blanton
DIED:
•Cowan, Samuel Finley
Davidson, Joseph Dobbins
Hansberger, Harry Stone

ALTURAS LODGE, No. 248.
Alturas, Modoc County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Thomas Lawrence Denson, Master, Simeon Theodore Ballard, Chaplain,
Alturas
Robert Henry Conley, Sen. Deacv11,
Luther Grant McDowell, Sen. Ward., Christopher Edwin Rachford, J. Dea.,
Reuel Alfred Laird, Junior W arden, W illiam E vans Armstrong, Marshal,
Ernest Chappell Bonner, Treasurer, Charles Lee Brown, Steward,
Isaac Lauer, Secretary,
William Lott Keene, Steward,
Alturas
Elmer Elsworth Bush, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Armstrong, William Evans, P. M.
Connon, John Peyton
Baldwin, Charles Sherman, P . M.
Coppedge, Walter Edwin
Ballard, Charles Arthur, P. M.
Davis, Madison
Denson, Thomas Lawrence
Ballard, James Thornhill
Duke, Geo. A. ·
Ballard, .John Raridal
,
Fleming, Henry Albert
Ballard, Simeon Theo., P. M.
Ballard, Thorn Hill
Gausted, Rasmus Oliver
Huffman, Fred Harmon
Barker, Harry Earl
King, Albert A vis
Baty, Samuel E.
Laird, Reuel Alfred
Bayley, Adin Spooner
Lauer, Benjamin
Bayley, Simeon Stovall
Bonner, Ernest Chappell, P. M.
Lauer, Isaac
Bonner, John Todd, P. M.
Lauer, Marx
Lauer, Arthur
Brasher, Robert Williams
McDowell, Luther Grant
Brown, Charles Lee
Methvin, Dorr
Bush, Elmer Ellsworth
Caddel, Elijah Daniel
Morgan, Charles Poe
Caldwell, Francis Warren
Ogle, Elvin Fulton
Oliver, Charles Martin
Collier, James J .
Owens, John Franklin
Conley, Robert Henry
' ·J".ffillated during t he year.
24

ROSTER
Pepperdine, Silas Washington
Rachford, Christopher ~dwin
Rachford, John Charles, P. M.
Raker, John Edward
Reid, David
Russill, Richard Madison
Salisbury, William A., P. M.
Smith, Albert Augustus

ROSTER

Smith, Alex. Elsie
Smith, Artogrel Cisero
Smith, Chandlar Holton
Spargur, Charles Goodwin
Spicer, Albert Fulmer
Stewart, Jose~ Henry
Stile, John
Wood, John

ADIN LODGE, No.

BODIE LODGE, No.

252.

Bodie, Mono County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
-56.

250.

Adin, Modoc County.
Statell Meetings., Saturday of or next prcee<ling Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Ezra Morton Wilson, Master,
Edwin Stanton Pickard, Sen. Dea.,
Adin, Calif.
Homer LeRoy Brown, Ju11. Dea.,
George Roseberry Walker, Sn. War., Richard Biddle Clark, Marshal,
Claud Raymond Brown, Jun. T-Var., Arthur Mathias Trough, Steward,
George Horace Knight, Treasurer, Buffington Albert Chace, Steward,
Charles Mathias Tinsman, Secretary, Eisley vViman Groves, Tyler.
Adin, Calif.
MEMBERS:
Kunkler, Joseph
Lenenton, Hiram L.
Lorenzen, Peter
McArthur, Rodrick
McArthur, Scott
Packwood, Warren Dale, P. M.
Parrish, Frank Pierce
Pickard, Edwin Stanton, P. M.
Preston, Edmund Benjamin
Rice, Thomas Jefferson
Squire, Andrew Jackson,. Sr.
Squires, Andrew Jackson
Tinsman, Charles Mathias
Tocher, William
Traugh, Arthur Mathias, P. M.
Traugh, Lemuel George
Walker, George Roseberry
Wilson, Ezra Mortem, P. M.
Wilson, Thomas Walter

Braden, Lincoln
Bradshaw, Arthur Franklin, P. M.
Blaske, Morris
Brown, Charles Monroe
Brown, Claude Raymon
Brown, Clyde Earl
Brown, Homer LeRoy
Chase, Buffington Albert
Childs, Benjamin Neeley
Clark, Richard Biddle, P. M.
Davis, John Lassen
Ford, Emery Walter
Fruits, John Sebastian, P. M.
Geisendorfer, Henry Albert
Groves, Elsley Wiman
Harrell, James Porter Grove
Henilerson, Paul Duglas
Holl, James Hartwell
Kesselring, Francis M.
Knight, George Horace, P. M.

371

William Henry Thompson, MQISter, Cecil Bertrand Burkham, Sen. Dea.,
Bodie
Frederick Charles Kieke!, Jun. Dea.,
Alfred Gould Reading, Sen. Warden, Harvey Hayden Boone, Marshal,
John Curtis Bawden, Junior Wat·den, Gregory Morandi, Steward,
Ja~c:s Stuart Cain, Treasurer,
John J. McKenzie, Steward,
Wilham Jordan Crawford, Secretary, William Turley, Tyler.
Bodie
MEMBERS:
Bawden, John Curtiss
McCaghran, Hugh, P. M.
Bell, Fred A.
McKenzie, John Johnson
Blanchard, Henry Clay
McKinlay, William, Jr.
Boone, Harvey Hayden, P. M.
M cLaughlin, Roy Parmelee
Boyd, Nathaniel W., P. M.
Morandi, Gregory
Burkham, Cecil Bertrand
Nelson, Hugh Wellington
Cain, Jame3 Stewart
Parr, Edward William
Conger, Peter B.
Parr, John Forest
Crawford, William Jordan, P. M.
Pierce, Richard Thomas
Davidson, Hugh Robinson
Pryor, John
Davis, Thomas Lewellyn
Quinville, Frank Edmund, P. M.
Dupuich, Leon Raphael
Randolph, Franklin M.
Fitzpatrick, George Kenny, P. M.
Reading, Alfred Gould
Graham, Archie
Reading, George McLellan
Hawks, James Augustus
Reading, William Francis
Heath, Warwick Ptomy
Schweiger, Francia Paul
Holston, Charles Thompson
Smith, Franeis l~arian, P. M.
Jeffery, John
Stanley, Thomas Donald·
Kelly, John Nelson
Thompson, William Henry, P. M.
Kieffer, Jacob
Turley, William
Langrell, Joseph Mitchell
Weitfle, Joseph King
McAlpine, John
--43.
*Euler, Grover Hicks

WITHDRAWN:
Cadle, Albert Ross

'Degrees conferred during the year.

-39.

ROSTER

ROSTER

LANDMARK LODGE, No. 253.
Madison, Yolo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

(No Certificate.

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Abbott, William Willis
Hurlbut, George Rogers, P. M.
Archer, Edward Hutton
Hurlburt, Daniel Bradley
Bauer, Ernest Christian, P. M.
Johnson, Henry Boneparte
Craig, John Milton
Kennedy, John, P. M.
Craig, Thornton
Levy, Ellis Louis
Cole, Francis
Levy, Wolf
Davisson, Benj. Franklin, Jr.
Needham, Guy Parks
Eckhardt, Carl Alex.
Nieman, Robert Lee
Fredericks, Harry Lawrence
Pfannstiehl, Louis
Fredericks, John George, P. M.
Scoggins, Clarence Noah
Galvin, Harry Albert
Scott, Arthur
Galvin, Henry
Silberstein, Charles A. A.
Grim, William Everett
Stephens, John Lucas
Gose, James Christopher
Strickland, Francis Marion, P. M.
Gray, Wiliiam Joseph
Tandy, George
Haines, Henry
Tandy, George Washington
Hall, Thomas, P. M.
-33.
DIED:
Corbin, Newel
Davisson, Benjamin Franklin, Sr.
Tutt, John Samuel

READING LODGE, No, 254.
Redding, Shasta County.
Stated Meetings, third Tuesday in each· month.
OFFICERS:

Charles Zwiebel, Master,
Charles Colfax Corbiere, Chaplain,
Redding
Orr M. Chenmyeth, Senior Deacon,
Antonio Furtado Souza, Jr., S. War.,James Joseph Glaszer, Jun. Deacon,
Rudolph Andrews Saeltzer, !. Ward.,William Ora Blodgett, Marshal,
Arthur Mason Dean, Treasurer,
Harry Edgar Thompson, Steward,
Albert Sherman Mason, Secretary, Louis Breslauer, Steward,
Redding
Joseph H ammond Hunter, Tyler.

•

MEMBERS:
Hansen, James Dudley
Ashcraft, Aldis Isaac, P. M.
Hill, Henry Gladstone, P. M.
Bailey, Edward Langdon, P. M.
Bainbridge, Eugene Blackburn
Hill, William Glover
Bedford, Homer Peter
Hoffmaster, Charles Augustus
Bishop, Herbert Hall
Houston, Thomas James
Hunter, Joseph Hammond
Blodgett, William Ora, P. M.
Brackins, Samuel Elbert
Herron, Matthew Wilkes
Hudson, William Atherton
Braun, Charles Alex.
Hoyle, James Hansen
Breslauer, Louis
Hurst, August
Bretherton, Wallace Bruno
Jacobson, Charles .
Brown, Henry Warren
Jeffrey, William
Brown, Frank Leroy
Jewett, George Parish
Bush, George William, P. M.
Johnson, Israel Joseph, P. M.
Bush, Harry Edward
Kaveney, John
Campbell, William Mott, P. M.
Kite, Walter Allen
Carson, George Campbell
Lambson, Giles Hammon
Chenoweth, Orr M.
Collins, Richard Emmet
Lawry, Olin Joseph
Ledgerwood, LeRoy
Comstock, James Warren
Lefebore, Joseph Jalma
Corbiere, Charles Colfax, P. M.
Lowdon, · George Brownlee
Crews, Philip Paton
Lowdon, John Richard, P. M.
Dean, Arthur Mason, P. M.
Marshall, Amos Hiram
Dean, George Edward
Mason, Albert Sherman
DeLashmutt, George Wiley
Dennis, .Leslie Mosley
Maxwell, Fred Brooks
Depue, Carl Harmon
McNabb, William
McCall, John Applegate
Dittmar, Carl Frederick
McCarty, John LaFayette
Dobrowsky, Frank Reed
McCool, Elmer Francis
Donley, Charles Edwin
Donley, William Albert
Merrill, Abbott
Downing, Isaac Hayden
Milburn. Warren Palmer
Dozier, Ernest
Moody, He;obert Lyle
Dustin, Fred Fay
Murray, George James
Eaton, Byron Gilbert
Newton, Orrin Lathrop
Eaton, James Parley
Nichols, John Frank
Edge, Thomas George
Niedecker, Charles Edward
Fillman, Samuel Phillip
Nordyke, Byron Abram, P. M.
Fisher, Fabian
Nordyke, Felix Lysander
Glaser, Peter
Norton, Roscoe Joseph
G!aszer, .James Joseph
Nou.rse, Charles Freeman
Glover, Harry Ward
Orr; John Brown
Pehrson, Alfred Ferdinand
HRmilton, James Brodie, B. M.
Hampton, Delane Wash.
Plymire, Fred A.
Hampton, Floyd Young

373

374

ROSTER

Ponder, Wilson Churchill, P. M.
Souza, Antonio Furtado, Jr.
Primm, Franklin Pierce, P. M.
Stable, Ferdinand
Randall, Charles. Alfred
Stillsop, Leonard La Grande
Rathbun, Donaldson W.
Stokes, Robert Thomas
Rathbun, Louis Brooke
Sutliff, Horace Aaron
Reading, Robert Lee
Stone, Sidney Marvin
Reid, Daniel Gerrard
Swasey, Frank Marshall, P. M.
Reynolds, John Edward
Swedburg, Eric
Reynolds, Thomas Benjamin
Sweeney, Frank Thomas
Rhom, J. Thornton
Tucker, Arthur Henry
Ross, John
Tillotson, Willard Denton
Rote, James Albert
'fhomas, Morgan David
Rountree, Walter Benjamin
Thompson, Charles Francis
Rutherford, John, Jr.
Thompson, Harry Edgar
Baeltzer, Pudley Victor
Thompson, Harry Herman
Saeltzer, Rudolph Andrews
Todd, Elmer E.
Saeltzer, Rudolph Moritz
Trewarthal, William
Sanders, Edward
Van Valer, Claude Oscar
Sandholdt, John Peter
Walker, Albert Edward
Sandry, Samuel
Wheeler, William Walter
Schoonover, James William
White,. Sherman Tecumseh
Sechrist, George Howard, P. M.
Wilder, Charles Thornton
Seed, Alfred
Wilson, Alva A.
Smith, Clyde Wade
Witherow, John
Smith, Samuel Gaston, P. M.
Witherow, William Hellery
Smith, Thomas Burton, P. M.
Woll, Joseph
Smithson, James Stenton
Wood, William Augustus
Southern, Elzy Thomas
Zwiebel, Charles
-143.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Anderson, Harrison
Garv!n, Robert Jackson
Brown, Robert Anthony
Jones, .John Rees
DIED:
Mitchell, Marshall Alex.
Watson, Eugene Sullivan
Williams, William Wallace

·ROSTER

3i5

WELCOME LODGE, No. 255.
Lemoore, Kings County.
Stated Meetings :first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
John Henry McGlashan, Master,
Robert Kerr Eccles, Chaplain,
Lemoore
Frank Jacob Walker, S mior Deacon,
Richard Edward Shore, Sen. Ward., Seymore Floyd Brown, Ju11. Deacon,
Green Bedford Chinn, Ju11. Warden, Charles Jason Fenner, Marshal,
Gilbert Edward Shore, Treasurer, J<!hn Jefferson Odale, Steward,
William Horace Sanborn, Secretary, Lynn Lee Fox, Steward,
Lemoore
John Henry Siegfried, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Benton, John
He.hn, Jean Melnotte
Berry, George
Hancock, Benjamin Harrison
Berry, Napoleon
Hays, William Price
Blakely, Charles Roy
Heidorn, John Henry E. W.
Blanchard, Dudley R.
Jennings, Frederick
Brothers, George Alex. J. F., P. M. Keller, Charles William
Brown, Seymore Floyd
Knapp, Adolphus Eugene
Buchanan, William Fletcher
Kreyenhagen, Emil
Buckner, Andrew Brown
Kurtz, John Leopold
Buckuer, William Rollo
Lane, Oliver Perry
Byron, William Pete
Latham, Charles
Carter, Marcus C., P. M.
Martin, Charles Frank
Chinn, Green Bedford
Marriott, Joseph
Clark, Josiah Brown
Mccrady, W. Winter, P. M.
Cross, Roy Marion
McCormack, James A.
Curtis, Arthur Bibbings
McDonald, Alex. Roderick
Dickie, William Tupper
McGlashan, Alexander
Dingley, Willard Ernest, P. M.
McGlashan, John Henry, P. M.
Eccle~, Robert Kerr
McLaughlin, Stiles Ambrose
Evans, Harry Ward
Merrill, Walter
Ellsworth, Elmer Ellsworth
.Momson, Henry
Morton, Lee Weed
Ewing, Claud Lee
Murphy, Richard Augustine
Fenner, Charles Jason
Nidiffer, David Perkins
Finn, Raymond Sylvester
Nielsen, Andres J orgen
Foley, Robert Emmet, P. M.
Odale, John Jefferson
Fox, Julius Henderson, P. M.
Paulding, William Barnett
Fox, Lynn Lee
Gaunt, Elmer Boon
Richmond, James Morgan
Ritchie, William Rufus
Gilroy, Launcelott
Sanborn, Leavitt Riley
Gorden, George

376

ROSTER

ROSTER

Sanborn, William Horace, P. M.
Vincent, Ferdinand M.
Schwartz, Gottlob
Walker, Frank Jacob
Seavers, Henry L.
Weems, Harry Leroy
Shore, Gilbert Edward, P. M.
Williams, John W.
Shore, Richard Edward
Wilson, John W.
Siegfried, John Henry, P. M.
Wilson, Willard Merrill
Sweetland, Byron Kear
Woodgatee, Harry Vacher, P. M.
Taylor, Noah Daniel
Young, Samuel
Tobin, John Coffman
.,--77.
WITHDRAWN:
Dingley, Frank Everett
Pratt, Leo11ard Hope
Livermore, John Wilson
Shaffrath, Max
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT
Evani;i, Asa Jay

OF DUES:

EXPELLED:
Denton, James William
Bloyd, William Washington

DIED:
Marlow, William

LODI LODGE. NO. 256.
Lodi, San Joaquin County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

John Frederick Blakely, Master,
George Washington Hill, Chaplain,
Lodi
Edward Henry Pope, Senior Deacon,
Frank Albert Henning, Sen. Warden, Joseph K. Newfield, hmior Deacon,
John Silas Montgomery, Jun. Ward., Ambus Ozro Eddleman, Marshal,
John Millard Blodgett, Treasurer,
Chester Bascom Welch, Steward,
George \Varley LeMoin, Secretary, Wilson Henry Thompson, Steward,
Lodi
Calvin Allen Bright, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Allen, Wilbur Sabin
Blaisdell, Charles Edward
Andereon, Augustus Samuel
Blakely, John Fredrick
Axtell, Sam Beach
Blodgett, John Millard, P. M.
Barbour, Nathan Roswell, P. M.
Blodgett, Walter Scott
Bauer, Adolpli, P. M.
Bowen, James A.
Beckman, Henry Christopher
Bright, Calvin Alle,n
Bewley, John Clinton
Brown, William Clifford
Black, Charles A.
Bryant, J11-mes Rea

Buchard, Edward Adelbert, P. M.
Buchenan, George William
Buck, Charles Henry
Cary, Edward Colfax
Cary, Fred Grant
Chrisman, Frank
Churchman, Benjamin Conway
Clark, Harvey Smith
Clark, William Sibley
Clemente, John Henry
Clifford, Claude Linley
Cogswell, Nathaniel Merrill
Colman, Frederick William
Corson, Charles Hartwell, P. M.
Craig, Howard Miller, P. M.
Creason, William M.
DelValle, Jacob
DelValle, Joseph
Dickey, Hugh Leavitt
Dustin, Charles Roscoe
Eaton, Edgar Jay
Elder, Isaac Arthur
Eddleman, Ambue Ozro, P .. M.
Ferdun, Charles Marshman, P. M.
Ferguson, John Charlesworth·
Foster, George Albert
Friedberger, Alex. Valentine, P. M.
Friedberger, Joseph
Friedberger, Leo
.l!l-oebnert, Max John
Galloway, John H.
Garretson, George R.
Gillingham, Samuel A.
Griswold, Charles A.
Grosshauser, Fral;lk
Gum, Adelbert Keller
Hale, Frank Orlando
Hale, John Ralodine
Hamilton, George Hayes
Harris, Samuel Milton
Hawkins, Daniel Zachariah, P. M.
Heil, Henry
Henning, Frank Albert
High, James Hamlin
Hill, George Washington

Hines, Lloyd B.
Hogan, Eugene Sue
Hogan, George
Hopkins, James Everett
Hughes, William T.
lrey, Frank F.
Jackson, Bernard
Keagle, George Andrew, P. M.
Kettelman, David
LeMoin, George Worley, P. M.
Lillie, Charles Franklin
Lillie, John Harry
Magee, Stillman Look
Martin, Robert William, P. M.
Mason, Louis T.
McClellan, William Cyril
McClure, Richard Burton
McKenzie, Hugh Alexander
Montgomery, John Silas
Moree, Edmund Elliott
Mowry, Sherman Wesley
Nelson, James Everett
Nelson, Svend Christian
Newfield, J oeeph K.
Newfield, Marcus
Newfield, Melville Warren
Norton, Charles Willis, P. M.
Pearson, Benjamin Franklin
Perrott, John, Jr.
Pope, Edward Henry
Poppe, Frank
Rothwell, John Henry
Sanborn, Horatio Wallace, P. M.
Schu, Robert Alexander
Scott, John Wesley
Segsworth, Frederick
Seigel, William Frederick
Smith, Horace Manning
Sollars, Charles
Spooner, William Alden, P. M.
Springer, William Alex.
Stannard, Henry Bert
Steacy, Edwin George
Sterling, John Calhoun
Steele, George Martin

377

378

ROSTER

Thomayer, William Jacob, P. M.
Thompson, Wilson Henry
Tindell, Pleasant Hay, P. M.
Vi!linger, Charles Lucian
W eiblen, Frank
Weinert, Albert John
Welch, Chester Bascom
Welch, Edwin Forrest
Welch, Hilliard Elihu, P. M.

ROSTER

Westfall, Eugene M.
Westlake, William Nelson
White, Corwin Douglas
Whittaker, David Newton
Whittaker, Marion Wm.
Wootten, Joseph Bivens
Wright, Edgar B.
Zimmerman, Sam Herman
-123.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT
Stuckey, Ora Ottuwa

OF

DUES:

DIED:
Norton, Oscar Orlando

Hageman, Charles

PENRHYN LODGE, No. 258.
Penryn, Placer 'County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Frank E. Small, Master,
Penryn, Placer County
Antone Fevera, Senior Warden,
E. G. Crofts, Junior Warden;
W. Lininger, Treasurer,
Fred J. Gibson, Secretary,
Penryn, Placer County

W. Archibold, Chaplain,
C. Freed, Senior Deacon,
J. A. Bickford, Junior Deacon,
R. Kayo, Marsha·l,
W. Kayo, Steward,
P . Taylor, Steward,
G. Bowler, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Archibald, Edward
Day, Samuel Chester
Archibald, William
Eckhardt, Albert Dostel
Barrett, Marquis de Lafayette
Eckhardt, Earnest Frank
Bickford, Joseph Arthur
Fereva, Antone
Bickford, Warren Scott
Fereva, Leon Carl
Boggs, John Gove
Files, John William
Boller, George Carl, P. M.
Fippins, William Wheeler
Boller, Warren Bigforth
Ford, Robert Wharton
Brainard, Charles G.
~"reed, Clark Yerian
Brooke, Wm. Ansil, P . M.
Gibson, Frederick James
Butler, Harry Everett
Howell, Harry Burton
Carlson, Charles
Hughes, David Griffith
Crafts, Elmer Gorden
Katzenstein, Edmund
Cullen, Charles Wesley
Kayo, Frederick Eugene

Kayo, Robert, P. M.
Ketchum, Henry Clark
Laird, Samuel Clark
Lininger, Wm. Ervin, P. M.
Logan, Robert Adelbert
Lovers, Clifton Gilman
Manley, John Moreley Everett
Martin, Charles, P. M.
Mason, Frederick Julian
Misley, Thomas Brazil
Miles, Frederick Charles, P. M.
Owen, David Robert
Owen, Owen Rola~d
Pendleton, George H .
Phillips, James P. Medland, P. M.
Rackliffe, Pitt Bartlett
Roberts, David Allan
Robertson, Edgar Simpson

379

Schmitt, John Jacob
Schnabel, Carl Kenneth
Scroggs, Chester Alexander
Shepherd, Benjamin Walker
Small, Frank Elwin, P. M.
Smith, Arthur Edward Hughes
Smith, Mortimer Leggett
Spratt, Newton Glascoe
Stone, Henry Howard
Taylor, Harry Leonard
Taylor, Howard Buford
Taylor, Porter Lee
Torrence, Charles
Turner, Frederick William
Wallace, John
Worth, Elmer Jason
Wilder, Abbott Pierson

-63.

EVERGREEN LODGE, No. 259.
Riverside, Riverside County.
Stated ·Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Henry Dearborn French, Chaplain,
James Earl Drayton, Master,
James Percy Robeson, S enior Deawn,
Riverside
John Harvey Ellis, Senior Warden, Leonard Albert Cowles, Jun. Deacon,
John Gunn Bayley, Junior Warden, John T. Jarvis, Marshal,
Frank Herkelrath, Steward,
Meno S . Bowman, Treasurer,
Robert Preston Cundiff, Secretary, Joseph Edward Shields, Steward,
Philip Andrew Gunsolus, Tyler.
Riverside

Alguire, Myron
Alguire, Urban
Allen, Benjamin Franklin
Allum, Ralph Loyd
Amstulz, John William
Angell, Andrew H.
Arbaugh, Daniel
Babcock, John ·w.
Banks, Walter Charlton
Barker, Charles Omer

MEMBERS:
Barker, Thomas Jefferson
Barton, Clarence Walter
Bauman, John Henry
Bayley, Charles Bowdofu, P. M.
Bayley, John G.
Beamer, Jacob Eden
Benton, Herbert Elmon
Binney, Joshua
Bittinger, George E.
Boalich, Edwin A.

380
Boggs, Augustus Wash.
Bowman, Menno £., P. M.
Boyd, J. Calvin
Boyer, Lewis Alexander
Bray, William Frederick, P. M.
Briggs, Frederick Alden
Brouse, Charles Emery H.
Brownscomb, Thomas Fairchild
Brown, Alva Thurlow
Brown, Lyman VanWinkle
Brundige, Louis A.
Buehler, Richard M.
Buckley, Henry Demetrius
Burgess, Clayson Sylvester
. Burnham, Daniel Heath
Caldwell, Albert Augustine
CJampbell, Albert Park
Campbell, Donald Wm.
Carpenter, James Collier
Carr, William Wallace
Castleman, John Saxton
Castleman, Pember Stearns
Castleman, Stanley Joseph, P. M.
Cerveau, Alexander
Chamblin, Wilber Newton, P. M.
Chase, J. Warren
Christern, Abraham Chapman
Christianson, N eales Peter
Clancy, William Bernard, P. M.
Clark, Arthur B.
Clark, Walter David
Cornwell, Jos. Wm.
Cowles, Leanard Albert
Cox, John Henry Dutcher
Cox, William Emery, P. M.
Crimmins, ,John T.
Cundiff, Robert Preston
Cunningham, Geo. Dimock, P. M.
Cuthbertson, James
Cuttle, Francis
Daniels, Milton J.
Darling, Loreniio Franklin, P. M.
Daughters, John James
Davirleon, William Creighton
Davie, Frank Clark

ROSTER

ROSTER
Davis, George Robert
Delano, Francis Junius
Dewey, Philip Henry
Dickson, Charles Sanford
Dole, George Hathaway
Dowler, William Ross
Drayton, James Earl
Dunbar, Frederick Martin
Dunlap, Horace G.
Elbinger, John Christian
Elliott, James Rutherford
Ellis, A. Ellsworth
Ellis, John Harvey
Estudillo, Miguel
Euderley, Frederick W.
Fairchild, Thomas
Fish, Charles Dearborn
Flagg, James Alfred
Fox, John Porter
Fraser, Hugh Mills
Freeman, Isaac Newton
French, Henry Dearborn, P. M.
Fulmor, Alex. Chope
Gage, William Judson
Gamble, Austin Abraham
Gates, DeRoy Harkness
Gilbert, James
Gill, Lafayette
Gilliland, Hosea Franklin
Glenn, Ludwill Gaines
Gray, Charles R.
Gray, Howard P.
Griffith, Thomas R.
Gunderson, Halvor
Gonsolus, Philip Andrew
Hall, Priestly
Hamilton, Ernest G.
Hamilton, Ralph Alexander
Hammond, Harry Walter, P. M.
Hancock, Claude Perceval
Harger, K. D.
Hathaway, Walter Scott
Hawes, Norman Sunderland
Hayt, William Augustus
Heath, Charles E.

Heath, Frederick Miller
Hebert, Charles Prescott
Hedger, Leonard Weyman
Helmer, William Zeaman
Herbert,_ Jes~e Ernest
Herkelrath, Frank
Hewett, Theodore Dwight
Hibble, William Edward
Hinckley, Samuel Bond, P. M.
Holland, Joseph Howard
Holmes, Elmer Wallace
Hooker, Amos Henry
Horton, A~raham Anderson
Horton, Joseph Robert
Hotchkiss, Stephen Stearns
Hudson, John Herbert
Hudson, Josephu~
Hull, John Wyatt
Humphreys, John Fletcher
Huse, Curtis Ferdinand
Jarvis, John T., P. M.
Jarvis, Joseph
J enkins, Robert Theo.
Johnson, Eugene Christian
Johnson, Jay Joel
Johnson, Wm. Arthur
Keith, Walter Elmer, P. M.
Kelsey, George. Hyde, P. M.
Kightlinger, Elmer Ellsworth
Kirkondall, James L.
Kjellburg, Gunner
Klinefelter, Peter K.
Knight, Lewis A.
Lamar, Richard David
Leighton, Hampton Wild
Lewis, Arlington Cyrus
Lightner, Felix
Longfellow, Byron Melnot, P. M.
Lowell, George Willard
Martin, Achilles
Martin, Hugh Ralph
Mason, Dwight Bisco
Mattoon, George Warren
Maynard, Horton Dunbar
McBain, Daniel

McClure, Daniel Rishler
McDougall, James
McFarland, Chauncey Loth
Mc!nty,re1 Hillary A.
Melrose, George C.
M1!.Tohnston, Robert. E.
McKenney, Joseph Wilson
McLeocl, Lemuel James
Merrill, Charles Henry
Miller, William Andrew
Miller, Wm. Burritt
Mills, James William
Mills, Henry Nathaniel
Mitchell, David G.
Morrison, Francis Templeton
Moulton, Ernest Smith
Moore, Winifred F.
Moorman, Orange L.
Newman, Gustavius Olivio
Newman, Lewis Henry
North, John Greenleaf
Noyse, Frank Albert
Ocheltree, Arthur Robinson
Paddock, Job Albert
Palmer, Oscar J'ltcob
Papineau, Ottley
Parker, Ashley Stephens, P. M.
Parkhurst, John
Parimne, Frank Watson
Payton, William Bruce
Peach, Charles Arthur
Pearson, George Mitchner
Pennington, Charles E.
Peter, Frederick
Phelps, William Wyke&
Piddintton, Alfred Alexander
Pilgrim, William Mawer
Pontius, David Willard
Prescott, Mervin Ferris
Priestly, Herbert Ingram
Purington, Wiiliam Ansel
Putnam, Nathan T.
Rayner, Edward
Reed, Benjamin B.
Reynolds, George Nicol

381

382

ROSTER

Rice, Almer L.
Rice, Charles Thomas
Richards, Charles Edgar
Riddle, George
Rimell, Philip Geo.
Robeson, Jas. Percy
Robertson, Robert P.
Robinson, William Henry
Roblee, Wm. Wallace
Rockhold, John Ellsworth
Roles, C. Grant
Ross, George C.
Rouse, Gaylor
RusRell, Robert William
Russell, William Prior
Russell, Wilson Byron, P. M.
Russell, Zadoc
Samuelson, William
Sanborn, Kingsbury, P. M.
Sanker, Sylvester
Sarles, Lewis Winser
Schwab, Peter
Sculp, John Peter
Sebring, George Alva
Seburn, Thaddeus K!
Severding, John Henry
Shields, Joseph Edward
Shiels, Charles Montgomery
Skinner, George Mortimer, P. M.
Small, Henry Kimball
Spoonamore, Morris D.
Stone, Philip Casper

Stower, Alex. Campbell
Taylor, Frederick Franklin
Taylor, Zachary A.
Thayer, George Richard
Thomas, William Frederick
Tracy, Thomas
Tucker, Edwin Waite
Turner, Joseph Dodson
Twogood, Milo Judson
Van Fleet, Mayne L.
Vermason, Cornelius
Vosburgh, Charles H .
Vredenburgh, John R.
Waddingham, Edward Francis
Waite, Charles Edgar
Waite, Claude Weld
Wallace, Thomas Clarence
Ward, Chas. Henry
Ward, George Franklin
Warren, Geo. Randall
Way, Ellsworth. Henry
Webb, Edward D. Hatton, P. M.
White, Samuel Ada.ms
Whitney, Jno. Samuel L.
Wiclaman, Oliver P.
Wildes, Samuel Morrison
Wilson, Frank Pierce
Wothley, Frederick Almon
Young, Cornelius
Young, John Torrance
Younkin, Albert
Zscheile, Frederick Paul
-264.

WITHDRAWN:
Anderi:nn, William Austin
Brock, Wllllam Ernest
Beard. Clarence Eugene
Hamilton, Charles De Coudry
Wimpress, Charles Henry
SUSPENDED
Boyd, Joseph Warren

FOR

'l'ON-PAYMENT OF DUES :
Fish, .John Wallace

DIED:
Atwood. Charles Goodrich
Fllklns, Charles Wesley
.Jackson, Lewis Edward

ROSTER

KING SOLOMON'S LODGE, No.

383
260.

San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
1739 Fillmore Street
OFFICERS:
Edward Elmer Conn, Master,
Ira Sedley Hobbs, Chaplain,
45 Sacramento Street
Hermann William Noethig, Sen. Dea.,
Frank Paul Simmen, Senior Warden, Frank Allston Swain, Junior Deacon,
John Harold Murch, Jr., Jim. Ward., Frank Wickes Hosmer, Marshal,
William Parker Filmer, Treasurer, John Fletcher Campbell, Steward,
Harry Baehr, Secretary,
Henry Lloyd Green, Steward,
1745 Fillmore Street
Hiram French Wright, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Ahlborn, Henry
Baum, Simon
Beall, Samuel Josiah
Ahlers, Henry C.
Beanston, Peter
Aitken, George Joseph
Alexander, Archibald Mcintosh,
Beck, Adolph
Alexander, Harry
Bell, Arthur Reginald
Alexander, William Frederick
Bell, Charles Henry
Altvater, Edward Louis
Belser, Julius Henry
Ambrose, Frank Murray
Beretta, Caesar Louis
Berson, Maurice Adolph
Anderson, Julius
Armbrust, Adolph Charles
Bertrand, Frederic Joseph
Best, Louis Horner
Armstrong, James William
Bethell, Thomas Waldron
Ascher, Henry Dietrich
Asher, Maurice Louis
Birdsall, Walter Buell
Auld, Ernest Christian
Blade, Arthur Macdonald, P. M.
Aust, Frank William
Blakely, Joseph Henry
Austin, Arthur Thomas Craxford
Block, Archibald Ira
Boardmar., Wilbur Fisk
Ayers, Clarence Warwick
Ayers, Herman Charles
Bolte, Carl Noble
Bone, John Christopher
Ayers, John Clarkson
Bonney, Charles Sumner
Ayers, Lyttleton Fennimore
Bacon, Gaston Ernest, P. M.
Bottomley, Liberty Halstea1
Bader, Henry
Bourne, John Philip
Baehr, Harry
Bowers, Charles Silvey
Baehr, Walter Harry
Boyan, Charles Max
Banks, William Edward
Brandt, Louie B .
Barclay, Alex. James
Brandt, Walter Bernard
Bartlett, Walter Jason Robert
Broad, Alfred Fry
Batkin, Alfred Augustus
Brobeck, William Irvin

384

ROSTER

Brown, John Fred
Brown, Richard
Browne, Allan Henry
Browne, John Lawrence
Browne, Thomas Henry
Bucher, Charles Columban
Buescher, Arthur Gustave
Buetow, Frederick Wm. Carl
Bunnell, Edwin
Burich, George
Burnley, Alfred
Bush, Charles George
Cai!leaud, Henry Alex.
Campbell, John
Campbell, John Fletcher
Carpenter, John Lewis
Chapin, Frank Eugene
CheeRman, Thomas
Chevalier, Edward Victor
Childs, Bolton Gardner
Christman, George
Cleve, Clarence Taylor, P. M.
Cluness, William Ross, Jr.
Cobb, Charles William
Cohn, Max Meyer
Cole, William Lake
Colton, Alric Oswy
Conn, Edward Elmer
Cook, Abijah Catlin
Cook, Jesse Brown
Cordell, Edward Charles
Cords, David Anclrew
Cords, William G.
Corliss, Edward Mitchel
Cox, Alex. Middleton
Cranston, John
Creswell, Harry Thornton
Cross, C'i!arles Vernon
.Crough, John Arthur
Curran, Daniel Joseph
Curry, Charles Forrest
Danforth, Edwin, P. M.
Darms, John Livingstone
Daverkosen, Frank Edward
Davidson, Louis Naphthaly, P. M.

Davies, William Henry
Davis, Emanuel
Davis, George Mabery, P. M.
Davis, Griffith
Davis, Henry H.
Dawson, George Charles, P. M.
Dean, Robert Armstrong
Dean, Stephen John
Deckelman, Hiram Abiff
DeLuca, Gesualdo
Denhard, Otto Ernest
Detjen, Henry Louis
deWit, Henry .A lbert
DeYoung, Michel Henry
Dibble, Oliver
Dickhoff, Bernard Seligman
Dixon, Samuel Wash.
Dobbin, Hamilton Henry
Dodge, Henry Wash.
Dolman, Percival
Donlon, Thomas Arthur
Doose, John Christian
Dore, Emile
Downey, George Wright
Dreher, Frederick Louis
Drinkhouse, Frederick Rosenbaum
Drucker, George Ihmer
Duke, Thomas Samuel
Dunlevy, Chas. Ed. Sheridan
Dunn, Albert Wheelock
Dunne, James Pahick
Edwards, Edward
Egan, Edward Matthew
Eichorn, Julius Anthony
Eisert, Henry William
Elliot, Charles Melville
Elliott, Charles Cornelius
Ellis, John Craw
Emanuel, Samuel
England, William Albert
Ernst, Thomas
Eubanks, James Clarence
Eva, James Martyn
Eva, Samuel James
Falk, Adrian Joseph

ROSTER
Fannin, James Henry, Jr.
Farnsworth, Edward P.
Faulkner, Richard Douglas
Federspiel, Sophus
Felter, William Rensalaer
Fetter, Ferdinand
Fiddes, Oscar Henry
Filmer, George
Filmer, William Parker, P. M.
Finberg, Martin Isaac
Fitz Gerald, John Joseph
Fletcher, George Robert
Fletcher, Joseph Marshall
Frank, Jacob, P. M.
1', rankhouser, Enos Bennias
Fritch, John Homer
Gamble, Frederick Nixon
Gard, John Cecil
Gaston, Henry Carson
Gates, Harry Everett
Gauld, George Green
Gay, Frank Henry
Gedge, Donald McCulloch
Ge1Jert, Isaac
George, Louis Elstner
Gerdes, Henry George
Gilbert, Melvin Elam
Gillman, Thomas
Gilmore, John Henry
Gilson, Alfred Goodrich
Ginley, Edward
Goldman, Joseph Hamilton
Goldstone, Joseph
Goldstone, Leo William
Goodman, Jacob Leon
Gorman, Edward Mitchell
Gorman, James Bartholomew
Gould, Frank Horace, P. M.
Graham, George Davis
Graham, Gilbert Fuller
Green, Frederick Pell
Green, H enry Lloyd
Griffith, Robert Hamilton
Grundel, Otto Ferdinand
25

Gunzendorfer, Gustave, P. M.
Haag, Charles Paul
Hagedorn, August George
Halsted, James Lafayette
Handley, Charles James
Hansen, Lawrence Henry
Hansen, Lorenz Henry
Hare, George Arthur
Harlow, George Totten
Harris, Cyrus Burnett
Harris, Henry
Harris, James William
Harris, Levi
Harris, Marshall C.
Hal't, Frank Loring
Hart, Henry Hersch
Hartley, Roland English, P. M.
Harvey, Joseph
Hatch, James Henry
Hatcher, James Berry
Hatfield, Arthur Solomon
Hathaway, William Russell
Hawkes, Robert Hamilton
Hawthorne, Charles Ralph
Healy, Edwin Clifford
Hegeman, Frederick Mehno
Heinecke, George
Henderson, Alexander Boyd
Henderson, John
Hertz, Louis
Higgin!, Charles Clunn
Hinkel, George Was·h ington
Hirsch, David
HobblJ\. Ira Sedley, P. M.
Hockwald, Abraham
Hoffman, Albert
Holje, Martin
Holling, Frederick Charles
Hollister, Geo. Watkins
Honigsberg, Hubert Sylvain
Hoover, George Spencer
Hosmer, Frank Wicks
Hourihan, Engene Patrick
Hoxie, Vivian Walt er

385

3'B6

ROSTER

Huber, Martin Henry
Huber, Otto Frederick
Huff, Wm. Henry Routin
Hughes, Edward Calvin
Hulling, James Alexander
Hult, Clarence Albin
Hunsaker, Hiram Walker
Hutchings, Hiram Samuel
Hyer, John Jacob
Ingerson, Harry Ford
Irvine, John Christopher
· Irwin, Joseph Newman Hall
Jackson, Archibald
Janssen, Edward Anton
Jellison, Benjamin Franklin, P. M.
Johnson, Henry 'fheodore
Johnston, John
Jones, Ottiwell Wood
Jones, Richard Huber Sayers
Kant, Max David
Kayton, Abraham Harold
Kernall, Andrew Jackson
Kidd, Arthur
Kimble, Charles William
Kinread, William Henry
Klein, Adolph
Knapp, Wilbur Frederick
Kochman, Michael J.
Koch, John
Koop, Otto Lewis
Knopfmacher, Maurice Henry
Krafft, .Julius Ernest
Kroenke, August Ernest
Kroenke, Edward Henry Ferd.
Kucich, Spiro
Labhard, Theodore James
Lange, Charles Edward
Lang, Giles Benjamin
Lattimore, Andrew Johnston
Lau, Albert Henry
Law, Hartland
Layng, John Beatty
Layng, William Gib~on
Leete, Walter Howard
Levingston, Lafayette

Levison, Benjamin
Levison, Harry
Levy, Melville Samuel
Levy, Sylvain Samuel
Lewis, Emanuel
Lieb, Warren Frederick
Linde, Theodore
Lindsay, Fred Johnston
Little, William Thomas
Livingston, Harvey L.
Lowenberg, Albert Joseph
Lurmann, Carl Fritz
Lurmann, Frederick William
Lynch, Henry Hudson
Maack, Walter Henry
MacDonald, Allan
Maginnis, Charles
Manning, George Patrick
Manning, Horatio Seymour
Marais, Charles Louis P., P. M.
Marcus, Siegfried
Marlin, William Abel
Marshall, Joseph Lawrence
Martin, Henry Sebastian
Martin, Oliver Brooks
Ma.thison, John Alfred
May, Angelo Mayer
Mayers, Edgar John
McCullough, Edwin Clifford
Mcllvaine, Winfield Kennedy
McKee, William Joseph
McKelvey, Samuel, P. M.
McMullen, Burton Fletcher
Mee, John Sydney
Meinen, Fred August
Merralls, William Augustus
Metson, William Henry
Meussdorffer, Charles George
Meyer, Adolph
Meyer, Albert Adolph
Miller, Adam
Miller, Gustave Edward
Miller, Jesse Harrison
Miller, Joseph B.
Millman, Louis Philip

ROSTER
Minedew, Oliver Francis
Mitchell, John Renton
Mocker, Andrew
Moelk, Henry Peter
Mollenhauer, John Louis
Monckton, Frank Daniel
Moore, Robert Bruce
Moores, Charles William
Morel, Charles Frank
Morgan, Percy Tredegar
Morgenstern, Alfred William
Morris, Milton Edward
Morton, Thomas John
Mote, Elmer Ellsworth
¥ues, John Frederick
Mundell, William Anderson
Murch, John Harold, Jr.
Murch, John Haven
Nauert, August Bertram
Neal, George Folger
Nelson, Peter Nicoll
Neville, Samuel Edmund
Nichols, Hiram Delbert
Nielson, Thomas
Niemann, Carl Henry
Noethig, Hermann William
Noethig, Wm. Frederick
Ochsner, Richard Leon
Ohm, Rudolph Ferderick
0 'Keeffe, Daniel Joseph Augustin
Olcovich, Julian Herrman
Packer, Charles Henry
Patterson, Lloyd Horace
Peek, Allen Harris
Peek, George Foster
Pennycook, William Gemmel
Peters, Henry
Peterson, George
Peterson, Ivan
Peterson, Julius Ole
Petrie, Frank Branson
Pickard, Charles
Pinkham, Chas. Bradley
Place, George Coxon
Pratt, Frank

Prfoe, William
Proll, William Reginald
Puck, Richard Frederick S .
Rainsbury, John
Raisch, Albert John
Raisch, William Christopher
Ralston, Franklin Freeman
Ranft, Henry Andrew, P. M.
Recarte, Domingo Henry
Redfield, Francis Edwin
Redmond, Ezekiel
Reynolds, Johnson, P. M.
Rice, William Henry
Richards, James Henry
Richards, John Francis
Riehl, Richard
Rier, August Fredrich
Rixon, Albert William
Roberts, Joseph W.
Roethe, Charles Henry
Roethe, Edward John
Roemer, Oscar Max
Rogers, Henry George
Rogers, Samuel Lucius
Rohde, Peter Frederick
Rose, Carl Walter
Rosendorn, Solomon
Rosekrans, Isaac Newton
Ross, William Moulton
Rossick, Frank
Rothkopf, Albert Peter
Rowe, Purcell
Rupp, George Paul
Rushton, Charles Austin
Ryan, Frank Bradberry
Ryfkogel, William James Yuill
Sainges, Prosper Albert
Salsbury, Charles
Saxton, James George
Saylor, William Henry
Sehalitz, Carl Louis
Scheel, Conrad Ernest
Schiff, Edwin Raymond
Schiller, Nathan
Schilling, John Charles

387

388

Schleicher, August Frederick
Schloss, Aaron, P. M.
Schnee, Gustave
Schober, Henry Julius
Schord, Louis Gustaf
Schraemli, Emile
Schussler, Toby
Shimer, Harry Woodworth
Silver, Mark Butler
Simmen, Frank Paul
Skellinger, Harry Dow
Smiley, Samuel Patton
Smith, Andrew Francis
Smith, Charles Alfred
Smith, Frank Landers Markham
Smith, John Thompson
Smyth, Owen Henry
Solmonson, Julian Kaskel
Spenr.er, Willirim Freeman
Spanton, James
Spowart, James Beverage
Sproule, William
Staneart, John Warren
Steiner, Joseph Samuel
Steinmann, Otto
Stevens, James William
Stevenson, Samuel Boyd, P. M.
Stewart, Charles Richard
Stone, Waid James
Stott, Joseph Hood
Suhr, Herrman Fred, Jr.
Swain, Frank Allston
Taber, Orrin, Jr,
Tade, John Edwin
Thaten, Peter Hansen
Thomas, Allen Lloyd
Thomas, Francois Charles
Thomson, Harry Stoddard
Toni, Edward George
Toothill, Albert
Tracy, Theo, Foster
Trail, John Critchley F.
Tryon, William Merrill
Tunstead, Thomas Dunscombe
Turner, Ernest
Van Emon, Button Charles

ROSTER
Vecki, Victor G,
Veit, Mathias
Vogelsang, Alex. Theo.
Waas, Louis Henry Hermann
Wagener, Francis Emil
Wagner, Henry Fred
Walker, Robert Andrew
Warwick, David
Warwick, James Blain
Watkins, Joseph
Webster, Frank Woodward
Weihe, Otto Albert
Welch, James Francis
Welisch, Armand L.
Wendell, Clarence Theo.
Wenzel, Henry
Wertheimer, Bertram Ed.
Wertheimer, Kaufman
Wetherbee, Charles
Wetherbee, George
Wethered, William Lowry
Whiting, Randolph Virginius, P. M.
White, Walter Hastings
Whitley, Gerald Storer
Whit..on, John Granville
Wieboldt, Peter Wm. Nicholas
Williams, Thomas Carlisle
Willis, Christopher Cooke
Wise, Wallace Christian
Wise:fl.ock, John Michael
Witham, William Leonard
Wittman, George Walter, P. M.
Wolpmann, Dietrich
Wood, Fred Burrage, P. :M.
Wood, Thoma!'
Woods, Roy Vayne
Woodworth, Norval D.
Worthington, Harry Lee
Wrenn, John Winchester
Young, Henry Fred
Young, James
Zahler, Emil Frederick
Zeiss, Walter Peter
Zellerbach, Isadore
Ziliani, Faustino
Ziliani, Joseph Charles
-506.

ROSTER

389

\Vl'fHDRAWN:
Maddock, Robert Henry
Tracey, Robert Eugene
Williams, Percy Alton
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Depew, Charles Milton
Russell, Lee Fontaine
Dickson, Edward Augustus
War.Held, Richard Emerson
Gardner, George Henry
'Wilkinson, William
Zollner, Alfred
Graham, Robert Fox
Johnston, James
Kalben, Edward Charles
Lewis, Mark Emanuel

DIED:
Loud, Eugene Francis
Norris, Eugene ~oseph
Rankin, Samuel Hamilton
Smith, Samuel Harrison
Warwick, James

TUSCAN LODGE, No.

261.

Williams, Colusa County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or ne:z:t preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

George Henry Simmons, Master,
Gustave Ernest Franke, Sen. Dea.,
Williams
Benjamin Franklin Peters, J. Dea.,
John Lindsay Mendenhall, S. War., Austin Arthur Entrican Marshal
Percival Hamilton Northey, J. War., Charles Lemuel Schaad,' Steward,'
James McFarran Stovall, Treasurer, George Vine Northey Steward
James Wilson Crutcher, Secretary, Horace Herbert Rathbun, Tyle~.
Williams
MEMBERS:
Abel, George Lambert
Brim, John Wiley
Abel, Henry Herman
Carne;r, Joseph Francis
Abel, John Frederick, Jr., P. M.
Clark, Reuben, P. M.
Anthony, George Jonathan
Comstock, Geo. Courtland, P. M.'
Anthony, Lewis Hurd, P. M.
Corse, John Mitchell
Anthony, Orville Angelo
Crutcher, James Wilson
Apple, Joseph Henry
Eakle, Stephen Smith, P. M.
Barker, George William
Entrican, Austin Arthur, P. M.
Boardman, Francis Marion
Fouch, Ira Albert, P. M.
Bond, David Milton
Fouch, John Franklin, P. M.
Bosworth, Henry Clark
Franke, Gustave Ernest

ROSTER

ROSTER

390

Graham, Patrick Henry
Harris, Joseph Warren
Hemenway, George
Kimball, A. Wellington, P. M.
Kidd, Floyd Edwin
Kneutzen, Edgar Hound
Leck, Ernest August
Levy, Aaron B.
Manor, Lewis G.
Mendenhall, John Lindsey
Mitchell, David .Grover
Noble, William Wallace
Northey, George Vine
Northey, Percival Hamilton
Olsen, Peter
Peters, Benjamin Franklin
Peters, Benjamin Henry
Pryor, Benjamin Pollard

Rathbun, Horace Herbert, P. M.
Rathbun, Joseph Edwin, P. M.
Schaad, Charles Lemuel
Schaad, Clarence August
Schuckman, Charles Walter
Schuckman, Frank James
Spencer, John Anderson
Simmons, George Henry
Stites, William Henry, P. M.
Stovall, Hiram Curl, P. M.
Stovall, James McFerran
Sutton, Adam Fisher
Tully1 William Curtis
Tully, William Robert
Ware, George Abner, P. M.
Welch, Robert Francis
West, Charles Edward, P. M.
-58.
White, John Cobb

LOMPOC LODGE, No.

262.

Lompoc, Santa Barbara County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Robert Danneberg, Master,
Henson P ~ lnnd, Chaplain,
Lompoc, Cal.
Cyrus Milburn Tucker, Sen. D~a.,
Walter Robert Smith, Sen. Warden, Freder•ck Allen Brown, Jun. Dea.,
William Helmer Bye, Jun. Warden, Clyde L. Huyck, Marshal,
James Sloan, Treasurer, .
Gaston Dreyfus, Steward,
Henry Harrison Lambert, Secretary, Jens. Peter Poulsen, Steward,
Lompcc, Cal.
James Henry McGee, Tyler.

Andrews, Owtln Merriwether
Bailey, William Henry
Ball, Walter Colton
B&yley, Benjamin Franklin
Beardslee, William Satterlee
Beatty, Sanford Wilson
Eissinger, Wright Conrad
Boyd, Alan March

MEMBERS:
Browne, Frederick Derwin
Burns, Alfred Isaac
Bye, William Helmer
Corbett, Frederick William
Danneberg, Robert
Dimock, Harry Clinton, P. M.
. Dimock, Joseph
Dyer, Albert Hull

Dreyfus, Gaston
Earl, James Fennel
Elkins, Iris Benson
Field, Ezra Grant
Graham, James William
Griffin, Richard S.
Halloway, James Weaver
Hardenbrook, Charles Kelley
Holst, Gerhard Tonberg
Huyck, Clarence L.
Jackson, William, P. M.
Jackson, Walter King
Kahn, Louis
Ktl!liher, Mayville Sumpter
Kidd, Robert Bohen
Klein, Julius, P. M.
Lambert, Henry Harrison
Lazier, Richard Albert
Lehmann, Armand, P. M.
Lehmann, Charles Emile
Lewis, Frank Stanton
Lind, John Christian
Luton, George Roscoe
McCabe, Carl D.
McCabe, Harry. C.
McCabe, Henry Edwin
McGee, James Henry
McGregor, Robert Roy
McPhail, Albert Franklin
Meade, Alonzo

391

Meals, Charles Andrew
Perry, Thomas Longworth
Poland, Henson, P. M.
Poulsen, Jensen Peter
Reynolds, Geo. Edgar
Robertson, James Edward
Rosendale, Henry Johannes
Rucker, Geo. Ferguson, P. M.
Rudolph, Arthur, P. M.
Rudolph, Harvey Sampson
Rudolph, John Franklin
Sheridan, Elmer Mccaskey
Sloan, James
Smith, James Henry
Smith, Walter Robert
Spanne, Nis Lauritzen
Spicer, Charles A.
Starr, Edward Bean
Sudden, William Henry, P. M.
Talbot, Homer Irwin
Talbot, William Lyman
Talliday, Jerome W.
Thompson, John Henry
Truitt, Daniel Tingle
Truitt, Samuel Paul
Warwick, Austin C., P. M.
Weill, Armond Charles
Wilkins, Edwin Chester, P. M.
Whittemore, Amos C., P. M.
Wigen, Wilson B.
-76

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Gleaves, Archibald D.
DIED:
Irwin, John Lloyd

392

lWS'l'ER

ROSTER

HESPERIAN LODGE, No. 264.
Santa Maria, Santa Barbara County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding .Full .Moon.
OFFICERS:
Albert Allen Dudley, Master,
Frank Irving Shepherd, Chaplain,
Santa Maria
Ralph Rolland Fillius, Senior Deacon,
Albert Rennels Jones, Sen. Warden, Robert Bruce Grant, Junior Deacon, .
Henry John Abels, Junior Warden, Ormond Pinkerton Paulding, Marsh'/,
Leopold Pio Scaroni, Treasurer,
Charles Henry Lockwood, Steward~
Robert James Gray, Secretary,
Frederick Arthur Baker, Steward, '
Santa Maria
Mortimer Lafayette McGuire, Tyler,
Abels, Henry John
Allen, Oliver 0.
Armstrong, Charles U.
Bagby, Henry Clay, P. M.
Baker, Frederick Arthur
Baker, Major P.
Bell, Joseph Ross
Blosser, Lorenzo Waugh
Bradley, Charles
Bradley, James Fred'k.
Brown, Chas. Benj.
Brown, George Gilbert
Brown, Marcellus
Buchanan, Porter
Bussell, Mark R.
Chandler, Lafayette F.
Cost, August
Craighill, Ernest James
Crees, Robert
Crow, Samuel Eugene
Cuff, Charles Armstrong
Culp, William Woods
Doane, George Mason
Dudley, Albert Allen
Dutcher, Charles B.
Eames, Abraham Lincoln
Easton, Robert Eastman
Evans, Oscar Elmo
Ebel, Julius
Fesler, Stephen

MEMBERS:
Fesler, Sterling Oliver
Fillius, Ralph Rolland
Freiley, William Ellmer
Froom, Ace! Harvey
Gardner, Charles Vergil
Gates, Franklin Henry
Goodwin, James Franklin, P. M.
Grant, John W.
Grant, Robert Bruce
Gray, Robert James
Hanline, Clarenile Vincent
Harpster, David Pyle
Harris, Henry Hurch
Haydon, John .Harrison, P. M.
Heath, John Holloway
Hcbbnrd, Francis Edward
Heller, Herman A.lion
Herron, James Williamson, P. M.
Hickey, Abraham Lincoln
Holt, Leon c.
Hopper, Joel Leigh
Houk, John
Howertan, Matt Warm
.James, Charles Edward
Johnston, George Kay
Jones, Albert Rennels
Jones, Warden S.
Kaiser, Joseph
Kelley, Henry Joseph
Kelley, William F.

Kennedy, Albert Patterson
Kennedy, Harry
Kimball, Henry W.
Kobloth, Julius
Krohn, Henry Harrison
Lang, John
Lang, Mark
Langfeld, Karl G. 0.
Liben, John Babtiste
Lind, James Melche
Lindeman, Fred
Livingston, Charles Simon
Lockwood1 Charles Henry
Logan, John Samuel
Logan, William Pleasant
Long, John Samuel
Macdunald, William Grant
Martin, Charles LeRoy
McGuire, Irving Nolan, P. M.
McGuire, Mortimer Lafayette
Miller, I.saae, Jr.
Mitchell, Eel.gar Lillian
Mitchell, Watson E.
Moore, Harvey A.
Murdock, Charles Wallace
Nance, Thomas
Niverth, Stephen
Norris, John McNeil
Paulding, Ormond Pinkerton
Peterman, Joseph L.
Pires, Manuel Francisco, P. M.
Prell, John Gottlob
Bell, Benjamin Franklln
Orr, Addison Harvey

393

Priesker, Thomas Clayton
Rice, John Tandy
Robertson, Hugh Franklin, P. M.
Sawyers, Wade Hampton, P. M.
Scaroni, Lepold Pio
Shepherd, Frank Irving
Shuman, John Lennington
Sinsheimer, Samuel Charles
Smith, John 'Yilliam
Snudden, Benj. Dudley
Spalding, David Carter
Stowe, Dudley Dunning
Stowell, Henry Edgar
'fhornburg, Frank Leslie
'fhornburg, Madison, P. M.
Tietzen, Paul Otto
Todd, Willard
Treat, James Madison
Trumbull, William Washington
Tunnell, Henry Clay
Tunnell, William Hulbert, P. M.
Twitchell, Fremont C., P. M.
Van Lone, Walter Allan
Von Breyman, Geo. E.
Walker, James
Walker, John E.
Walker, William Frederick
W eilheimer, Alfred
Whitney, Mark H.
Williams, Thomas Jeffrey
Wolfe, John Richard
Wood, Nathan Hinkley
-124.

WITHDRAWN:
Maulsby, Larkin W.
DIED:
Stllwell, Wllliam Wllson

ROSTER

ORLAND LODGE, No. 265.
Orland, Glenn County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Willard Clar.k, Master,
George E. Wright, Chaplain,
Orland, Glenn County
Louis M. Reager, Senior Deacon,
Roy O'Hair, Senior Warden,
Ralph Papst, flmior Deacon,
Garfield S. Kirkpatrick; Jun. Warden,]. B. Morrissey, Marshal,
Frank S. Reager, Treasurer,
C. D. Miller, Steward,
George E. Rawlins, SecretMy,
Eugene Ehorn, Steward,
Orland, Glenn County
William W. Thomas, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Miller, Charles Douglas
Milner, Thomas
Morrissey, James Byron, P. M.
Morrissey, William Henry, P. M.
Murdock, Gawn Worth
Murdock, Robert Burns
Murdock, Stanley Worth, P. M.
Neilson, James
0 'Hair, Henry
O 'Hair, Roy
0 'Hair, William B.
Papst, Albert
Papst, Ralph Rudolph
Rawlins, George Edgar
R eager, Frank Seymour
Reager, Louis Martin
Roberts, Brunn Sheldon
Skillman, .James Michael
Steuben, Walter Robert
Sutliff, Fred Courtland
Thomas, John
Thomas, William Wesley
Utz, Adolph Albert
Utz, Gustave
Utz, Magnus Carl
Utz, William Henry
Waite, George Edward
WatJcins, William Wallace
Wright, George Ephraim, P. M.
-59.
DIED:
Kastrup, Thomas Nelson

Bailey, Mark
Bancroft, George Mason
Bane, Paul Davis
Brown, David
Brown, De Arnold
Brown, Thomas, P. M.
Busey, Fred 'k. Lewis
Clark, Willard, P. M.
Clawson, Charles Wilson
Cleek, Jeb Stuart
Conley, Joseph
Drake, Thomas Benton
Ehorn, Eugene Michael
Ehorn, Joseph Evart
Ehorn, Samuel Fraley
Green, Edward Elmer
Greenwood, Willis Adelbert
H1tmilton, John Cummins
TTannah, Davi1l
Tfarriger, George Washington
Hightower, Roy DeWitt
Holmes, Raleigh
Jglick, Samuel, P. M.
Joy, Wm. Henry
Kesselring, Emanuel Bentz
Kirkpatrick, Garfield Stanley
Kirkpatrick, Thomas J.
McCandlass, Alfred Lewis
McC!intock, John Porter
Mecum, Earl Horton

ROSTER

395

NORTH EAST LODGE, No. 266.
Fort Bidwell, Modoc County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Walter Reuben Lowell, Master,
Robt. Franklin McConnaughy, Chap/.,
Fort Bidwell
John Moffit, Senior Deacon,
Edward Chas. McConnaughy,S.War., Charles Daniel Kafader, Jun. Deacon,
Fred Meyers, Junior Warden,
Francis Kastner Smith, MarshaJ,
Max Fidcher, Treasurer,
Albert Longley Baty, Steward,
Henry Kobes, Secretary,
Albert S. Ward, Steward,
Fort Bidwell
George Christy Smith, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Ayres, George Hamilton, P. M.
Bailey, Oliver Eugene
Baty, Albert Longley
Browne, Daniel Parish
Bucher, Douglas
Bucher, John
Dodson, John
Ellis, James
Fee, Charles Haven, P. M.
Flemming, Theo. Mirten
Fulcher, Frank Edward
Fulcher, Max.
Hamlin, Alfred Marshall
Herrington, Jerry
Hickey, James Bartlett
Hunter, Hugh Alex.
.Topp, Hudson Orsen
Kafader, Charles Daniel, P. M.

Kober, George Martin, P. M.
Kober, Henry, P. M.
Lowell, Albert Carroll, P. M.
Lowell, Walter Reuben, P. M.
Mcconnaughy, Edward C., P. M.
McConnaughy, Robert Franklin
Messner, Fred George
Meyers, Fred
Moffit, John
Raymond, Irving Clark
Shartel, William Warren
Smith, Eber Dexter
Smith, Francis Kastner
Smith, George Christie
Snelling, Roy L.
Tonningsen, Asmus Frederick
Ward, Albert Smith
Williams, James
-36.

3!16

ROSTER

GALT LODGE, No. 267.
Galt, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
(No Certificate. See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Adams, Charles Campbell
King, William Isaac
Ames, Alden Thayer
Latourrette, Pardes H., F. M.
Andrus, John
Lease, Charles Edward
Baldwin, Lewis Gardner, F. M.
Lewis, Samuel Amanzo
Barnhart, Thomas M.
Maddison, Benjamin
Bolton, Curtis Arthur
McClaughry, Samuel C., F. M.
Conklin, William A.
Merrell, Timothy S.
Conley, James
Morrison, Lebbius B.
Erchenberger, Frederick
Orvis, Joseph Lloyd
Prazier, James Oscar, F. M.
Prouty, William Harrison
Gaun, James Franklin
Rae, John Goodwilla
Gower, Ray Louis
Sawyer, James C.
Hagel, John
Sawyer, Tom John
Harms, Frederick William, F. M.
Sawyer, Wallace Born
Hartman, John
Shepard, Amor D.
Henley, Elihu Shields, F. M.
Short, James Madison, F. M.
Hobday, Kelsey Henry
Smith, Charles Samuel
Kennedy, K,enneth Clyde
Thompson, James Henry, F. M.
Kientz, Edward Blaine
Whitaker, James
-38.
DIED:
Mllls, Ralph A.

DURANT LODGE, No. 268.
Berkeley, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, :first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Dozier Finley, Master,
Robert Greig, Chaplain,
2725 Elmwood Avenue, Berkeley Edward Grosvenor Bolles, S. Deacon,
Burton James Rose, Senior Warden, Gustave Adolph Griesche, Jun. Dea.,
Henry Day Lansing, Junior Warden, George Edmund Oxley, Marshal,
Francis Henry E. O'Donnell, Treas., Edmund JohJ:l Thomas, Steward,
Wm. Henry Harrison Gentry, Sec'y, Isaac Don Bluxome, Steward,
li47 Delaware Street, Berkeley Barzillai P . Bull, Tyler.

BOSTER

397

MEMBERS:
Bowring, Franklin
Acheson, William John
Bradley, Johu Samuel
Adelsack, Edward
Bradley, Walter Wadsworth
Adler, John Olaf
Albee, Marshall Pickney W., F. M. Branthaver, Daniel
Bretherton, Sidney Elliott
Alberti, Frank Jackson
Bricker, Lorin H.
Allen, Charles Edward
Bridgman, Edward Charles, P. M.
Allyn, George Spencer
Bridgman, Harry William
Alston, Chas. Frederick
Brown, George Chester
Andersen, Andrew
Browne, Alexis Leonidas
Anderson, Alfred
Bowers, Jonas Irwin
Anderson, Arthur DeVere
Bull, Barzillia P., P. M.
Anderson, William Walker, F. M.
Burg, Edward John
Appleton, William
Burnham, Carl Bridges
Arlett, Arthur
Bush, Robert Edward
Ashland, William Elbert
Bush, Will Pratt
Atthowe, Reginald
Caldecott, John William
Atthowe, Wm. John
Caldecott, Thomas Edwin
Baalmann, Peter Henry John
Cameron, William Harry
Backus, Watson Goodban
Chapman, Paul Edwin
Baker, Barney P.
Carter, Charles William
Bancroft, Charles Edwin
Chadbourne, Thomas Edgar
Barnes, Henry Humfrey
Chase, John Franklin
Bartlett, Thomas Edward Eve
Chase, Thomas Henry
Barton, John Edward
Chick, Guy Hyde
Beattie, John Wm. Cox
Chilcote, Gaylord Hammond
Becker, Johanne.a Paul
Church, Sidney Leroy
Bell, James Aloysius
Christoph, Gustav
Berry, Rufus Albert
Clark, Ernest Brooks
Berryman, Frederick Miles, F. M.
Clark, Lemuel Seth
Berryman, John
Clark, Thomas James
Betts, Percy George
Clemensen, Edward
Biedenbach, Charles Louis, F. M.
Cloudman, Harold Caldwell
Biehl, Philip Fred 'k Christian
Cloudman, Octavius King, P. M.
Blanchard, Milton Eugene
Coggins, Clifford Edmuud
Blank, Charles Alexander
Coleman, William Seward, P. M.
Bliven, Ralph Wagener
Colemore, Charles Arthur
Blohm, Charles Henry, P. M.
Connor, Fred Frank
Bluxome, Isaac Don
Cooley, Arthur Stuart
Boag, Matthew Pettigrew
Cooley, Frederick Allen
Bolles, Erlwartl Grosvenor
Cornish, Harry Louis
Bolton, Adelbert Elwin
Creagmile, Thomas
Booker, John Coakley L~
Crow, Clarence Cross
Bourke, Louis
Dakin, Clarence Casebolt
Bowman, Benjamin Franklin

398
Dakin, Frederick Holroyd
Dakin, Frederick Holroyd, J r.
Daseking, Herman
Davis, David George
Day, William
DeLancie, Richard
Deming, James Hervey
Dibble, Robert Mitchell
Dobbins, Hugh Hills
Dodsworth, Robert Metcalf
Doolittle, Nelson Roseville
Donough, Andrew Ormsby
Dore, Cornelius William
Dowling, Daniel Edward
Dozier, Charles Thomasson
Drum, Will Pierpont
Dungan, Herbert Leo
Dunscomb, Charles Ell9worth
Durant, James Alvah
Durgin, Frank Ward
Durrell, George Gilman
Dyke, Louis Henry
Dykes, Benj. Currier
Dykes, Hugh ThomaR
Edgar, Arthur
Edgar, Robert, P. M.
Edgar, Samuel
Edgar, William James
Edwards, Benjamin Franklin
Elwell, Frank David
Emanuels, Geo. Frederick
Etzel, Louis William
Etzel, Theo. Christopher
Farrar, Joseph Teel
Farrar, Joseph Teel, Jr.
Farrar, Wendell Dale
Fenander, Kaarlo
Ferrier, Francis
Finley, Dozier
Foss, Martin
Fouch, Albert, P. M.
Fox, Michael Peter
Frank, Frederick Sophus
Franks, Henry Ernest
Fraser, Daniel McLeod

ROSTER

ROSTER
Frazier, Silas Henry, P. M.
Frey, Arthur Ferdinand
Galloup, Henry Clay
Gentry, Wm. Henry Harri.son, P. M.
Gerrard, Halford D., P. M.
Gerrine, Charles Andr•1W
Gibb, Charles Leo
Gilbert, Charles Phelps
Girard, Francis John
Godbold, John Henry
Gompertz, Charles Felix
Gompertz, Walter Alex., P. M.
Goodburn, William Robert
Goss, Homer
Gottshall, Louis
Graber, Thomas Frederick
Gregg, Thomas Monroe
Gregg, Wellington, Jr.
Greig, Robert, P. M.
Griesche, Arthur James
Griesche, Gustave Adolph
Griesche, William Fred
Griffith, David Joseph
Haines, William Barre
Hamlin, Terrel Lambert
Hampton, Joseph Charles
Hanscom, Meldon Leroy
Haring1 Clarence Melvin
Harms, Edward Theo.
Harroun, Philip Embury
Hartley, Edwin
Hartley, Joseph Harlan
Haseltine, Richard Snell
Hays, Thomas Abram
Reans, Robert Gage
Heydorn, Harry Gerome
Heywood, Charles Dingley
Higgins, Charles Henry
Hill, William Lair
Hiney, William
Holland, Frank Leonard
Holt, George Washington
Hopkins, William Hewes
Huberich, Victor Hugo
Hueter, Ferdinand Edward

Hughes, Alva Fish
Hunt, Clarence Melvil]e
Hunt, Philip M.
Hutton, James Alex.
Hyde, Wm. Herschel, Jr.
Ison, William, P. M.
Jaqobsen, Nels August
James, Chas. Herbert
Jenness, Herbert Henri
Jensen, Jens Peter
Jensen, John Charles, P. M.
Johnston, Charles Edward
Jones, Herbert
Kelly, William Harris
Kelsey, Clarence Early
Kelsey, Frank Bayles
Kelsey, John Edson
Kerr, John Norman
Kierulff, Thomas Cundell
Ki.lburn, Cleon
Kirk, Miles Woolery
Kittridge, Maurice 'Cogswell
Kline, George Washington
Knowles, Wm. A. Lindley, P. M.
Knowles, William Edward
Laine, Frederick Adolph
Laird, Herbert Frank
Lansing, Henry. Day
Lassen, Fred Norman
Leale, Richard Andrew
Leonard, George, P. M.
Lester, James Robert
Lewin, Robert Allen
Lindsay, Lionel
LitVe, James Edwin
Lockett, Albert
Longnecker, Harry Ellsworth
Lord, Carlos Reuben, P. M.
Lorenz, William Frederick
Love, Joseph Charles
MacLennan, Malcolm C.
Macomber, Benjamin
Maddrill, John William
Maldondo, Fernando B.
Marsellis, Ford

399

Martin, John, P. M.
Mason, Wm. MacPherson
Masters, Stuart Galbraith
Mattern, George Alfred
Maydwell, Charles Allen
McClain, Charles Joseph
McCleave, Thomas Crooke
McDonald, Runcan T.
McGrew, Gifford Horace G.
McGrew, James Bracken
Mcintyre, Dan Hugh
McLean, Charles Henry
McNulty, Charles Raymond
McNulty, Harry James
McNulty, James Monroe
Meredith, James Wash.
Merrall, Willard H enry
Merrill, Clarence Sidney
Merrill, Ralph Howard
Mesick, William Rundle
Mesow, Frank Herman
Metcalf, George Dickson, P. M.
Mikkelsen, Christian
Mills, Philo
Mohr, George Lewis
Monges, Henry Baba:d, Jr.
Moran, William Chadwick
Morris, Moses
:Morris, Ozias Manly
:Morrison, Hugh Robert
Morse, Clinton Ralza
Myers, Elmer Ellsworth
Mosher, James Walton
Needham, William Gloss
Neiman, William Frank
Neiman, Wm. Henry
Newhall, Charles Abbot
Nichols, John Carroll
Niehaus, Edward Ernest
Nixon, Joseph Robert
0 'Brien, George William
O'Donnell, Francis Henry E., P. M.
Oxley, Arthur Verney
Oxley, George Edmund
Parry, David Henry

400

ROSTER

Seaborn, Fred
Patterson, Henry Robert
Servis, William Ratcliff
Peake, Frederick Richard Graham
Sharwood, William John
Pearce, Jackson Andrew
Sherman, Andrew Fairchild
Perry,· Wm. Stanton
Peters, Joseph Arnold
Sherman, Robert Waddelle
Shirk, David Lawson
Peterson, Theo. Carl Wilhelm
Shoecraft, Byron Nye
Phillips, Welton Josiah
Pierce, Archie Burton
Shreve, Earl Owen
Popert, William Hoff
Shuman, John Franklin
Sill, Stephen Joseph
Putzker, Albin
Ralston, Robert Gorden
Simpson, Frank Wm.
Sittig, Edward John
Ramoni, Frederick Louis
Slack, Walter Keyes
Randall, Henry Irwin
Smith, Howard Murray
Rasmussen, Peter Niels
Smith, James Lumbert
Reece, Frederick Bennett
Reed, Fred Elroy
Smith, Lovett Reynolds
Smith, Sterling Wallace
Reef, Henry Jacob
Smyth, George Blood
Reid, Clarence F.
Bolinsky, Frank Joseph, Jr.
Reinhardt, George Frederick
Remond, Prudent
Soule, Edward Lee
Rhodes, James Woodmanse
Springer, Fred Foster
Springer, George Ernest
Ricard, Thomas
Squires, Harry James
Richards, J ohn William
Richardson, Friend William
Stamper, Alva Walker
Stephens, Alex. Hamilton
Richter, Frederick Charles
Stevenson, Thomas
Rice, Philip
Stewart, Robert
Riegar, William
Stocking, Reuben Hurd
Roach, William Henry
Robinson, Harrison Sidney
Stone, Jack Livingston
Rose, Burton James
Stone, Marion Pierce
Rowell, Hubert Nathan
Strother, Horace Feaguis
Rowell, Joseph Arthur
Stubenrauch, Arnold Valentine
Such, William Thomas
Ruble, George Frank
Runde, Christopher Henry George Swain, George
Swayne, Richard Barnard
Rutherford, Robert Ruecastle
Ryder, Morgan Lewis
Sykes, Joseph Smith
Taylor, Henry Willard
Sanchez, Joseph Gordon
Saph, Augustus Valentine
Thomas, Edmund Davies, P. M.
Sawyer, Able Allen
Thomas, Edmund John
Schmitz, ltugo
Thompson, Robert Crawford
Thomson, Robert
Schneider, George Louis
Schott, Walter Edgar
Thornton, Albert Warren
Schuldt, Emil George
Thrall, Herbert Parsons
Scotchler, Joseph Lincoln
Traub, Harry Louis
Threlkeld, Melville Calvert
Scott, George Arthur

ROSTER
Titus, Louis
Tobin, David Joseph
Todd, Frank Morton
Van der Haas, Pieter Adrianus H.
Van Wynen, Edward Alfred
Wadsworth, William Henry
Wagner, Ernest Albert
Wagner, Peter A.
Wall, George Samuel
Wallace, Fred William
Walsh, Edward Marion
Wanger, Gustav Adolph
Waste, Harry Lotis
Waste, William Harrison, P. M.
Waterman, Sylvanus Dexter
Watson, Henry Hugh
Webb, Christopher Clark
Webb, George Standish
Weeks, George Rufus
Weir, Robert John
Weir, William Kirkwood
Welden, David Ralph
Wentworth, Daniel Rodger
Westenberg, C~arles Albert
B evan, Lynne John
Brier, William Wallace

Whalley, Thomas Williams
Wharff, William Hatch
Wheeler, William Henry
Whitham, Jolln Hastings
Wiggin, Charles Edward
Wilcox, George L.
Wilder, John Chase
Wilkinson, Crayton Winsor
Williams, James Henry
Wilson, Gustaf Herman
Winham, Harry Granville
Winter, De
Wise, James Hugh
Wood, Alpbeus Joel
Wood, Jacob Hanlin
Woolsey, Philip Sheridan
Woolsey, Wm. Edgar
Worden, Elisha Case
Wright, Harry Manville
Wright, William Abourn
Wyman, J. Henry, P. M.
Young, Roy Jackson
Young, William Albert
Zehner, Harry Scott

(01

-406.

WITHDRAWN:
McMahan, Bernard Strange
Pierce, Albert Ernest

DIED:
Goodman, William Graves

OLIVE BRANCH LODGE, No. 269.
Tulare, Tulare County.
Stated Meetings, second Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Ulysses Grant Cottle, M a.ster,
Wooster Beach Cartmill, Chaplain,
Tulare
Charles Lee Evey, Senior Deacon,
Frank Adelbert Ellsworth, S. Ward., Alvin William Smith, Junior Deacon,
Joseph Glazebrook Nelson, J. Ward., Henry Whaley, Marshal,
Charles Ford Smithson, Treasurer, Melville Green Cottle, Steward,
James Winnard Davis, Secretary, Alfred Lindsay, Steward,
Tulare
Albert Augu••·1s Hall, Tyler.
26

402

ROSTER

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Fraser, Alex.
Alford1 Benjamin Michael
Giannini, Frank
Allen, Joseph
Gleason, William Roderic
Anderson, Frank Elliott
Green, Francis Harrison
Anderson, James Morrow
Grimsley, Wann William
Anderson, Harvey George
Hall, Albert Augustus
Anderson, Samuel Bard
Hall, Anson Parson ·
Abercrombie, Louis Le Bon
Hatch, Charles Melzer
Bacigalupi, Theo.
Hayes, Frank Penn
Bachelder, Isaac. Otis
Haney, Lewis Joseph
Beaver, Romanus Hess
Henry, Charles Alex.
Beckwith, Harry Howe
Higgins, William Alvey
Bering, Robert Eugene
Holford, Lyman David
Bigham, Walter Lafayette
Hunsaker, Irvin Burton
Birkhead, John Nixon
Janes, Arthur Augustin
Blodgett, Thomas DeHaven
Jarrard, Thomas Newton
Blythe, Samuel Allison
Jones, Ralph
Boone, Thomas Lee
Jones, Thomas Woodward
Broadwell, John W.
Lewis, George Shepard
Brock, Cecil Calvert, P. M.
Lindsay, Alfred
Buehrer, Wm. H enry
Martin, John
Burnlltt, Clarence Martin
McMillan, Robert Thompson
Burnett, George Carter
Meador, John
Busby, Francis Marion
Mesler, Orlando Alexander
Carruthers, Thomas Calvin
Miller, Christian
Cartmill, Wooster Beach, P. M.
Moore, James Samuel
Chute, Harris Oberlin, P. M.
Moore, Stephen Baldy
Clarke, Robert Carrick
Morton, James Hamilton
Cottle, Melvin Green
Neff, Andrew Daniel
Cottle, Ulysses Grant
Nelson, Joseph Glazebrook
Cowan, Miles
Nutting, David Wheeler
Cross, !fhomas
Oakford, Edward
Davis, James Winnard, P. M.
Odell, Robert Adelbert
Dresser, Roland Henry
· Pace, Henry Lee
Dresser, Wm. Christopher
Parr, Edward Franklin
Dunlap, Wm. Evered
Polley, Egbert Marion
Ellis, Frank Freeman
Pratt, Clarence Francis
Elwood, John Henderson
Premo, Walter Emile
Eldridge, Frank Marion
Ratliff, William Pierce, P. M.
Ellsworth, ·Frank A.
Ray, Randolph
Evey, Charles Lee
Richardson, Samuel
Fetting, Albert Walter
Rosenthal, Solomon H.
Fowler, Alonzo Tully
Roth, George Henry
Fry, Angus Eugene
Rubble, Milton Alfonso
Fothergill, William Alfred

403

Russell, Calvin Louis, P. M.
Schoenemann, Charles Samuel
Schoenemann, Louis Emil
Sheppard, Thomas Armstrong
Shreve, Harry Marston
Smith, Alvin William
Smith, Charles Leipt
Smithson, Cha!les Ford
Steininger, Edward Andrew
Tarkington, Matthew Simpson
'fhompson, Thomas Henkley
Treadwell, James William, P. M.
Turner, Jesse Thomas

Munroe, Frank Marion
Suiter, Henry Arthur
SUSPENDED

Warner, Joseph Henry
Walters, Richard Jefferson
Westfall, John Christopher
Whaley, Henry, P. M.
Whaley, Robert
Wheeler, Alex. Woodfall
Whitmore, Dwight Joel
Whitmore, George Francis
Williams, William Payne
Wilson, John Lewis
Woody, John Harrison
Young, Robert James
Zartman, George Washington, P. M.
-114.
WITHDRAWN:
Washburn, Reuben Jewett
Wilkinson, Herbert Edwin

FOR NON-PAYMENT
Stewart, Daniel

OF DUES:

DIED:
Chism, James Thomas

SNOW

~OUNTAIN

LODGE, No. 27x.

Stony Ford, Colusa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon,
OFFICERS:
William Joshua Lovelady, Master, John Manor Morris, Senior Deacon,
Stony Ford
David Porter Ray, Junior Deacon,
Samuel Edwin Stites, Sen. Warden, John Fernando Stites, Marshal,
Charles Alexander, Junior Warden, Jarrett Maupin, Steward,
Leo Leroy Burrows, Treasurer,
Wilbur Addison McKaig, Steward,
Arthur Thomas Welton, Secretary, Thomas Wesley Morris, Tyler,
·
Stony Ford
Alexander, Charles
Barnes, George Pettis
Barrett, Wade
Burgett, Richard Sisk
Burrows, Leo Leroy
Davis, Edward

MEMBERS:
Fender, Johnson
Howard, Charles Benjamin
Howard, James Wesley
Hanes, James Henry
Lovelady, William Jo~hua, P. M.
Maupin, Jarrett

4-04

ROSTEB

McKaig, Wilbur Addison
Morris, John Manor, P. M.
Morris, Thomas Wesley
Ray, David Porter
Sanber, Hulbert Herbert
Sites, John
SUSPENDED FOR
Boardman, Herbert Elias

ROSTER

Sites, William Franklin
Stites, John Fernando
Stites, Rufus Gideon, P. M.
Stites, Samuel Edwin, P. M.
Welton, Arthur Thomali'

-2a.
NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Moon, Alfred Sax

PASADENA LODGE, No.

272.

Pasadena, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each Month.
OFFICERS:

Roscoe Paul Congdon, Master,
Harold Grant Simpson, Chaplain,
Ill N. Hudson Avenue
William Henry Snudden, Sen. Dea.,
Guy Stanley Bliss, Senior Warden, Carl Hayes Yearian, Ju11ior Deacon,
Walter Richard Gibbings, Ju11. War., Lucius Allen Parmele, Marshal,
Sherman Washburn, Treasurer,
Ea rl Warren Way, Steward,
Henry Ramel, S ecretary,
William Frank Creller, Steward,
504 S. Euclid Avenue
George Rasmas Weaver, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adams, Augustine Miller
Boutelle, George Henry
Allen, Charles Emory
Bowdle, I saiah
Allen, Clark Parker
Bowman, Robert Barkley
Allin, Charles Arthur
Breiner, John
Allin, Thomas David
Brenner, Frank Edward
Almond, Andrew
Bridges, Gilbert Lee
Bailey, Isaac
Briggs, Solon
Baker, John Hamilton
Bristol, Albert Oliver
Barnhart, Warren Earle
Bristol, Sidney Albert
Bartlett, Louis Azel
Brown, Charles Cowan
Bennett, Henry Graves
Brown, Luther Grinnell, P. M.
Bettes, Adoniram Monroe, P. M.
Brown, Patrick
Binderheim, John Wm, Fred'k
Buchanan, .Jerome Robinson
Black, James Robert
Buchanan, Charles Wesley, P. M.
Bland, Reginald
Buchanan, Frank Wilmer
Bliss, Ashley
BMkins, John Jacob
Bliss, Guy Stanley
Bunnell, ·C larence Udell
Blow, Richard Tunstall
Bunnell, George Havila
Boden, George Adam
Burnham, Frank Dwight
Bonner, Lewis Henry
Case, Edmund W .

,,

Casmire; John Jacob
Chynoweth, Henry William
Clark, Laureston Livingston
Clarke, James
Clapp, William Billings, P. M.
Clapp, William Taylor
Clifford, Arthur Miller
Coates, John
Coffman, Joshua Stevens
Cole, Galusha M.
Coleman, Theo.
Collins, Philip Angelo
Collis, George Watson
Colwell, Louis Trowbridge
Congdon, Roscoe Paul
Conger, Everett Lorentus
Conger, Howard Willis
Cook, Arthur Newell
Cook, Frank William
Cook, William B.
Cooney, Thomas
Coryell, George R.
Coulston, John Bishop
Crane, Frank Le Roy
Creller, William Frank
Crinckshank, Falconer George
Cronkite, Henry Murray, P. M.
Crowell, Charles Frederick
Crowell, Weymouth
Crump, Edward Sisson
Cundy, William Albert
Davies, Edward William
Davis, James Porter
Day, Charles Ambrose
Day, Clarence Parkman
DeHuft', Thomae Jefferson
Dickson, Henry Leslie
Doolittle, Samuel Hosmer
Dorn, Joseph H.
Dorr, Charles Colby
Doud, William Manning
Drawbaugh, William
Dunn, William Henry
Dunsmoor, Albert Vandorus
Dwyer, William George

Eckman, Arthur Wilson
Edmondson, Jamee, P. M.
Edwards, Albert Ernest
Edwards, Simon Josiah
Edwards, William Bryant
EHler, Louis Edward
Eieenauer, Michel
Ellsworth, Herbert Lee
Engelen, Gerard
Erickeson, Olof Frederick
Ernsberger, Frank Armstrong
Fabian, Lionel John
Fairman, Thomae
Fansher, Samuel Wesley
F1wour, Howard Horace
Featherston, Henry Ward
Ferrand, Philip Emile
Fiske, Harold Albert
Fletcher, Frank Sylvester B.
Folts, Herman Christian
Forbes, George Lewis
Ford, William W.
Foye, Frank Alonzo
Frank el, Ben
Frary, Frank Luman
Fraser, J effereon C.
Freeman, Oscar Ot to, ·p , M.
Freeman, Lingard Clay
Frost, George H enry
Fuller, Charles Clifford
Gammon, Ansel Elder
Ga rd, William Brant
Gardner, Charles Andrew, P. M.
Garwood, Harvey Honestue
George, Herbert Edmund
Gibbings, Percy Nicholas
Gibbings, Walter Richard
Gibson, Lester Henry
GiddingS; Lawson Henry
Gould, Fred Ambrose
Graham, George Le Compte
Greely, George Augut!ltus
Gregory, Charles Pickett
Griffin, Arthur Leslie
Grimes, Charles

405

406
Hahn, Benjamin Winfield
Hahn, Ed. Franklin
Hall, John Herbert, P. M.
Hall, Peter
Halsted, John Franklin
Halsted, Richard Carlton
Hansen, Christian Martin
Hanson, Fred
Hanson, John
Hanson, Nels Peter
Harris, Frank Parks
Harris, Isaac
Hartshorn, Jonathan Thomas
Hartwell, Calvin, P. M.
Hartwell, John Lovekin
Hauser, William Thomas
Hayes, Arthur Harry
Hayes, Orren Henry, P. M.
Heffner, Fred M.
Henderson, Norman W.
Herrmann, Louis ·
Hess, Bruce Stanley
Hickmore, John William
Hill, Alfred Julius
Hlavin, Louis
Hoag, Thomas Leggett
Rodding, Fred 'k Eustace
Hollister, John I., Jr.
Holloway, Andrew
Holloway, George
Hoover, Geo. Elliott
Hoover, Samuel Francis
Hoover, William F.
Hopper, Joseph Edward
Horrell, John Alexander
Hotaling, Henry C.
Hovey, Frederick V.
Hubbard, Allen James
Hubinger, John Adams, P. M.
Huff, Lucius Johnson
Hughes, Charles
Hughes, James Barr
Hundrup, John Peter
Hunter, Andrew Duncan
Hunter, William John

ROSTER'

ROSTER
Hupfer, George Philip, P. M.
Ingalls, George Robie
Israel, Joseph
Ives, Hubert Frank
Janes, Edmund Storrer
Jarvis, Lucius Emerson
Johnson, Albert Ezekiul
Jones, George Danforth
Jones, Lucien Corydon
Jones, William Asbury
Jung, John Frederick
Kennan, Robert Case
Kienly, George Edward
Killgore, Albert Russell
King, Charles Lee
Klock, Aaron Robert
Knapp, Howard Lee
Kuder, George Franklin
Kuhn, Henry Gustave
Lancaster, Edgar Frecmont
Lancaster, Thomas Morgan
Lane, David Courtney
Laspada, Joseph
Laspada, Louis
Leach, George A.
Lee, James Longbotham
Leech, Charles Holt
Leith, Leslie Wilkinson
Lowman, Zac!inriah Henry
Lusby, J'ohn Randolph
Manning, Charles Dewey
Manning, Frank Robert
March, James Nelson
Marlowe, Thomas Clarence
Marsh, Norman Foote
Masters, Moses Marion
McAdam, James
McAdam, Robert
McClelland, William
Mccreadie, Charles William
McDonald, John
McDowell, Robert Snyder
McGregory, William Whitney
McKesson, Lewis Robertson
McLachlan, James

McPherson, James Cullen
Meacham, Albert
Menning, Charles Edward
Mercer, Albert, P. M.
Metcalf, Carl Ostrom
Metcalf, Richard Lee, P. M.
Meyer, Henry William
Michener, Edwin
Middleton, Harry Lewis
Miller, Harold Lester
Miller, Rollin Hurlburt
Mills, Cyrus Lincoln
Mills, Frederick Milton
Mills, John Stevenson
Mills, Karl Kent
Misner, He.rvey Wells
Moody, Charles Bates
Moody, Elmer Isaac, P . :r.J.
Morrison, Charles James
Morrow, Walter
Munroe, John Wm.
Murrell, William James
Myers, Charles K .
Meyers, Harry Eugene
Nay, Earl Warren
Nay, Edward Oscar, P. M.
Newell, Harley Foster
Newman, George Weller
Nickerson, Herman Mansfield
Norris, Charles Henry
Nosworthy, William Samuel
Nuss, William Henry
Ogan, Frank Clarence
Ogier, Walter William
Osborne, Edward Sylvester
Packard, Elmer Charles
.Packard, Harry Tillson
Paine, George Albert
Parker, David Niles
Parker, James Edward
Parmele, Lucius Allen
PSBhgian, John Sarkis
Payne, George Arlando
Pearson, Charles James
Pearson, George William

Peaslee, John
Peek, Harry Graham
Peters, David Akard
Pierce, Anthony R.
Plant, John Henry
Prince, Purley Ogden
Proffer, George
Puffer, Alphonso Crosby
Quast, Herman Theo.
Raftery, Michael Loftus
Ramel, Henry, P. M.
Rapp, Elmer Michael
Reed, George Warren
Reeves, William Henry, Jr.
Reynolds, Isaac Julian
Rice, Peter P., P. M.
Richardson, Warren Josiah
Robinson, William John
Robinson, William Tates
Roche, Albert Wilson
Rood, John Thompson
Royce, Edward Horace
RuRae, Edward Albert
Rush, George Phillip
Rust, John Charles
Rutan, Harry D.
Sandham, Frederick
Scherer, George
Schneider, William Charles
Schoeller, Henry Lewis
Scott, Calvin Luther
Seabury, John E.
Seaman, William W.
Sewall, Spencer Kirby
Shaw, Albert
Shelhamer, Clarence Albert
Short, James Curtis
SimpRon, Harold Grant
Sisson, John Francis
Smith, William Tecumseh Sherman
Smith, Willis Hayes
Smiley, Sumner Francis
Smiley, Walter Carl
Snoddy, Jesse Edwin
Snudden, William Henry

ROSTER

ROSTER
Spencer, Alvah Jacob
Stanham, Allan George
Stanley, Charles Newton
Starrett, Robert Henry
Steadman, Levergn John
Steiff, Jacob
Steil, Peter
Stephens, Arthur Joseph
Stevens, Arthur Bush
Stevens, Charles Warren
Stevens, Grant Harrison
Stevens, Kingsley Noble
Stokes, Frank
Stone, Leonard Allison
Sutliff, Virgil Renaldo
Taylor, Lewis Richard, P. M.
Taylor, Richard, P. M.
Taylor, William D.
Taynor, David Silas
Thomas, Cyrus Backus
Thomson, Henry Martin
Thorns, Alfred
Thurston, Albert Greene
Todd, Isaac Newton
Tom, George Marion
Tousley, Joseph Hawley
Tracy, Coyle John
Tracy, James Dawson, P. M.
Turbett, Albert Steel
Turk, John
Turner, William D.
Tuttle, Henry Elihu
Tyler, Eckford Dodds
Underwood, Francis Marion
Davia, Paul McDonald
De Pencler, Silas Theo.
*Key, John Patterson

Vail, David
Van Buskirk, Morris Henry
Van Etten, Albert Sanford
Vedder, William Henry
Vesper, Arthur Eugene
Vlier, Benjamin
Wadsworth, Hiram Warren
Wagner, John George
Wakeley, William Henry
'\'ard, Charles
Washburn, Sherman
Weaver, George Rasmas
Webster, Edwin Casey
Week, Charles Erastus
W erden, Stephens Collins
Welsh, Joseph
Weston, George Edward
White; Edwin Matelanu
White, James Strothard
Whitsall, Oliver Cunningham
Wilcox, Heziekiah
Williams, Robert Adriiin
Wilson, John Irwin
Windham, William Spencer
Wisehart, Richmond
Wood, Almon
Wood, Isaac Newton
Wood, William Henry
Woodbury, Elmer Franklin
Wright, George Elmer
Wright, Russell Clifford
Wright, Walter Savage
Yearian, Carl Hayes
Young, Frank Nathan
-378.

WITHDRAWN:
McDowell, Norman Dick
t P arks, Leander Norwood
:j:Rockwoocl, Frederick Leslie

DIED:
Conger, William Henry
Bangham, Jonathan Perkins
Williams, Romayne
•Affiliated during the y ear.
t Degrees conferred durln.g the y ear.
tRestored during the year .

........,,
iii;

409

ANCHOR LODGE, No. 273.
Compton, Los Angelts County.
Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full l\Ioon.
OFFICERS:

George Washington Bryson, Master, Harry Gillingham, Chaplain,
Compton
John Oliver Burris, Senior Deacon,
Preston Reese Mercer, Sen. Ward., Wright Watson Edwards, Jun. Dea.,
Joseph Henry Dimmler, Jun. Wrd., Thomas Clay Mayo, Marshal,
Elmer Elsworth Elliott, Treasurer, Ralph Courtland H askin, Steward,
Clarence Anson Dickison, Secretary, Edward Marcellus James, Steward,
James M. Duke, Tyler.
Compton
MEMBERS:
Holcombe, Arthur Lowell
Amlin, John L.
Atchison, Joseph Andrew
Ifteger, Hugo Julius
Imbler, Walter Webster
Bird, Abraham Calvin
Jacobs, John Franklin
Blackman, Lunard L.
James, Edward Marcellus
Boynton, David Greenlief
Kellogg, William M.
Briggs, Robert Redman
Kincaid, Ralph Eugene
Bryson, George Wash., P. M.
Kratzer, Benjamin Richard
Burris, John Oliver
Lewis, Edward William
Burritt, Charles Lewis
Camp, Arthur James
Lewis, Harry
Lewis, Joseph
Catey, George Washington
Lord, Alex. Napoleon
Conklin, John R_a ymond
Mayo, Harmon Jeft', P. M.
Copeland, John Charles
Mayo, James Monroe
Cox, Robert Lee
Mayo, Thomas Clay
Crum, Dwight Mark, P. M.
Mayo, William Riley
Daetweiler, Lewis
Martin, Peter P.
Davis, William Seymour
Decker, John
Mealey, King
Mercer, Preston Reese, P. M.
Dickison, Clarence Anson, P. M.
Miller, Alvin Wash.
Dimmler, Joseph Henry
Miller, Erwin
Duke, James M.
Mitchell, Leroy Frye
Eclwards, Wright Watson
Morton, John Jay, P. M.
Elliott, Elmer Ellsworth, P. M.
Musselman, Charles Wilfred
Epperson, John William
Norton, John Bryant, P. M.
Frew, Will L.
Oates, James Albert
Gaines, William Albert
Proctor, James Buchanan
Gunby, Edward Smith
Reynolds, Isaac Johnson
Hauselman, John Wesley, P. M.
Rickman, Elvin
Haskin, Ralph C.
Haynes, Emmett Sylvester
Rickman, Thomas M.

ROSTER

410

Vance, James Joseph
Watts, Seymour Locke
Welton, Arthur Foote
Williams, Justus H erbert
Zadock, Gustave Adolph

Schildwachter, George Henry
Shamrak, William
Smith, Richard James
Stahl, William
Trodd, Frederick Remmington

ROSTER

-70.

WITHDRAWN:
Harshman, Nathan Sylvester
SUSPENDED l!'OR
Epperson, Harry Valentine

NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Moore, Elmer Ellsworth

Mccomas, Asbury

DIED:
Raycraft, George Stanley

Noble, Clare Shipman, P. M.
Parrish, John Edgar
Phillips, Adolph
Phillips, Samuel Sampson
Phoenix, Fred James
Poole, James
Poole, William Clark
Quaresma, Antonio Silva

OFFICERS:

Allan L. Bickell, Master,
Arroyo Grande
C. F. Denham, Senior Warden,
F . J. Phoenix, Junior Warden,
George P. Ide, Treasurer,
C. S. Noble, Secretary,
Arroyo Grande
Alexander, Siegfried
Ball, Jessie Combs
Bakeman, George Augustus
Banks, Elwin James
Beckett, John Archer
Beckett, Lemuel James
Bickell, Allan Leslie
Brieger, Adolph
Brown, Adam, P. M.
Clark, Charles Sammis
Cook, Robert Mahlon
Cook, William Thomas, P. M.
Conrad, Francis Howard
Conrad, William Arthur
Denham, Clarence Freemont
Denham, Morris

Thomas Keown, Chaplain,
J. R. Reinike, Senior Deacon,
). C. Ball, Junior Deacon,
B. E. Short, Marshal,
R. M. Plympton, Steward,
A. W . Hawkins, Steward,
W. C. Poole, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Dower, William Henry
Gale, DeWitt Clinton
Gilliam, John William
Goodin, Robert Edgar Lee
Grieb, George
Guild, Henry Grant
Hawkins, Arthur Wheelock
.
Heinrich, Johannes Richard, P. M.
Ide, Bela Clinton, P. M.
Ide, George Pitt, P. M.
Jones, Merle McClaren
Keown, Thomas H.
Kinney, John Seth
Linn, Ho~ard ·M.
Miller, John Nicholas, P. M.
Nicholson, John R.

-47.

FOR NON-PAYMENT
English, Frank A.

OF

DUES :

DIED:
Aron, Isidor

ARROYO LODGE, No. 274.
Arroyo Grande, San Luis Obispo County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next .preceding Full Moon.

Reinike, John Ralph ·
Schwob, John C.
Short, Benjamin English
Silva, William
Smith, William John
Squires, Clement C.
Waterman, William Fred
WITHDRAWN:
Werner, John William

Balaam, Arthur George
SUSPEND.Im

411

OAKDALE LODGE, No. 275.
Oakdale, Stanislaus County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Darcy Edgar Lee, Master,
]. Audley Young, Senior Deacon,
Box A, Oakdale
George W . Collins, Junior Deacon,
Pleasant Bailey Westerman, S. War., Martin Van Buren Mann, Marshal,
Lee Earl Prouty, Junior Warden,
William McKinley, Steward,
John Hubbel, Treasurer,
Frederick James Martin, Steward,
Alfred B. Haslacher, Secretary,
Ebeneezer Foster Crabtree, Tyler.
Box A, Oakdale
Bardo, Levi
Barton, Henry Clay
Barnett, Derby H.
Benson, Robert Gray
Bentley, Ison Hilliard
Booth, James Godfrey
Broughton, James Richard
Bratten, Thomas Wilson
Carson, Thomas Masilina
Clark, John Henry
Coley, John Ambrose
Collins, Georg.e William
Crabtreo, Ebenezer Foster

MEMBER8:
Dorsey, Eppa Sydnor
Dorsey, Thomas Beale
Endicott, Elmer M.
Gilbert, Amos Lawrence
Gilbert, Irving Clarence
Hall, William Wheeler
Hall, William Solon
Haslaeher, Alfred B.
Heiskell, Jefferson Davis
Hennemuth, John Louis, P. M.
Hess, George Washington
Hubbel, John
Hueton, Norman C.

ROSTER

ROSTER

412
Johns, Thomas William
Kahn, Joseph H.
Laughlin, Francis William
Le Clerk, Sebastine Theo.
Leitch, Arthur Lee
Lee, Darcy Edgar, P. M.
Mann, Martin Van Buren, P. M.
Martin, Frederick James
Myers, Frederick Henry
Myers, Sidney George
Mulroy, John Henry
Murry, Herbert David
Pfarr, George Nicholas
Prouty, Joel Leople

Prouty, Lee Earl
Rickart, David, P. M.
Stearns, Geo. Francis
Thompson, James Goodwin
Tulloch, Earl Patterson
Wann, Silas M.
Warfield, Dennis Burdette, P. M.
Weaver, Henry Edward
Wigley, George Washington
Wigley, Jefferson
Wood, Alonzo Thomas
Wood, Charles Calvin, P. :M.
Woods, William Henry
-53.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Shackford, Henry Harrison
DIED:
Richardson, Thomas

Haslacher, Jacob

SELMA LODGE, No. 277.
Selma, Fresno County.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Fred Drew, Master,
Samuel J. McConnell, Chaplain,
Kingsburg
John Jay Vanderburgh, Sen. Deacon,
Herman J. Lohman, Senior Warden, Joshua W. Brown, Junor Deacon,
Roy Crittenden Gibbs, Jun. Warden, William H. Shafer, Marshal,
David S. Snodgrass, Treasurer,
Christian Bachtold, Steward,
Mark A. Sawrie, Secretary,
Theodore E. Turner, Steward,
Selma
George W. Russell, Tyler.

Albrecht, Albert
Allen, George William
Allen, Parris, P. M.
Bachtold, Christian
Barnwell, Robert Wm.
Berry, Cla.rence J,
Bixter, Adam
Borchers, Herman Henry
Bronson, Oscar Edward
Brown, Joshua W.

MEMBERS:
Burton, Cornelius N.
Byrne, Joseph B.
Compton, Warren
Cutler, Herbert Nelson
Cutler, William Cheney
Cohn, Samuel
Cook, Henry Taylor
Cooke, William Rutledge
Davies, John Foster
Dorman, Herbert Orval

413

Drew, Fred
Ricketts, Walter S.
Drew, George Freeman
Robertson, Ralph Denny
Dusy, Chester, P. M.
Robinson, Winfield Scott, P. M.
Edgar, William Taylor
Rose, James Edwin
Elliott, Charles Thomas
Rosenberger, Guy Walker
Foulke, Forest Edmond
Russell, George William
Gibbs, Roy Crittenden
Sargeant, Charles Black
Gilbert, Julius Langdon, P. M.
Sawrie, Mark Alvin, P. M .
Gilreath, Marshall Alex.
Schuwendt, Charles
Harlan, Newell
Scott, George Milton
Hinkson, Richard Summers, P. M. Shafer, William Herbart
Holcomb, Clyde Lafayette
Sherwood, Charles Henry
Hoover, Preston P .
Skaggs, James A.
Howell, Lawson Joel
Smith, Albert Anderson
Hudson, Julian Wiley
Smith, George Spencer
Kilburn, Charlea Menzo
Smith, James Collins
Lambert, Charles Leslie
Stammers, William Robert, Jr.
Lambert, Euward Frank
Stammers, William Robert
Laughlin, Ernest Claude
Snodgrass, David S., P. M.
Lewis, Edward Adolph
Stearns, Orville W.
Lohman, Herman Joseph
Steinwand, Oscar William
McConnell, Samuel J.
Townsend, Eli Sheridan
Messersmith, Joseph
Townsend, Isaac M.
Mitchell, James William, P. M.
Vanderburgh, John Joy
Mitchell, John Lair, P. M.
Vincent, Manuel, P. M.
Morris, Charles
Wagner, James Daniel, P. M.
Murray, Charles F .
Wagner, James Holliday, P. M.
Noble, Shelby Hampton
Wasgatt, Cornelius
Pallidini, Benjamin Ronaldo
Westhover, Martin H.
Paulson, Edward
Wood, Charles Robert, P . M.
Peters, Henry Frank
Wootan, John Thomas
Wiley, John L.
Peterson, Elmer Christian
Pugh, Edward M.
Wright, Flavius Joseph
Pugh, James V ercoe
Wright, Jacob Henry
Pugh, John S.
Yoiot, William Antone
-90.
Palen, B!on Carlisle

WITHDRAWN:
•Stroud, John Allen

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Blackman, Charles Monroe.
Pugh, Aaron Uriah
Johnson, lngvall Andrew
Pugh, John S.
Kaarsburg, Henry M. H.
Pugh, Perry Allen
DIED:
Reargin, John
•Restored during the year.

414

ROSTER

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA LODGE, No. 278.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Adelbert Starr Abbott, Master,
John Scott V. DeC. Thomson, Chap.,
168 Central Avenue
James Gustave Scarborough, S. Dea.,
Frank Hartley Small, Sen. Warden, Caleb Amos Yarnell, Junior Deacon,
Earl Walter Mueller, Junior Warden, Herbert Ross Kells, Marshal,
Robert Wankowski, Treasurer,
William Henry Harrison, Steward,
Warren Edward Rowley, Secretary, Robert Harold Bacon, Steward,
335 E. Second Street
Julius Randolph Walker, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Abbott, Adelbert Starr
Barnwell, Walter Galt
Abbott, Fred~rick William
Bartholowsky, Johannes
Adams, Hugh White, Jr.
Barton, Thomas William
Belcher, Henry Arthur
Adams, Paul Allen
Benz, William
Ainsworth, Frank Kenley
Alexander, Harrison Babcock
Berg, Christian Gottlieb
Berger, Andrew S.
Allen, Charles Carroll, P. M.
Allen, Dane Lorenzo
Bessing, Theo.
Alles, Fred Lind, P. M.
Bicknell, Frederick Thompson
Anderson, Charles Sherman, P. M. Biehl, Nicholas
Bilicke, Albert Clay
Anderson, Horace Philip
Anurews, Chas. Gordon
Billington, Theophilus
Blaisdell, Mylon John
Arend, William Frank
Bleecker, Henry Lloyd
Armstrong, George
Arnold, Jesse Houston
Bloeser, John. Condit
Arnold, William Ralph
Bonfilio, Nicholas
Ashton, Charles
Boone, Andrew Jackson
Boone, Blair Ford
Aufdemkamp, Henry
Booth, Franklin
Austin, John Comeby Wilson
Booth, Willis Holyoake
Bacon, Robert Harold
Bagley, Arthur Eugene
Bordner, Isaac
Baird, William Smillie
Boshyshell, Edward Parris
Baker, Charles Minton
Bosler, Thompson, P. M.
Baker, Fred Linne!
Boucher, Joseph
Baldwin, Cornelius Vanoy
Bowen, John Wesley
Baldwin, George Everett
Bowker, Walter King
Barlow, Walter Jarvis
Boyle, James Luke
Barnard, Frank Steele
Boynton, Fred Wesley
Barnes, Frank Amos
Bradbeer, James Hudson
Barnes, Harvey Stevens
Braden, Frederick Bassett

ROSTER
Bradish, Avery Jackson
Braly, Arthur Hughes
Braly, Harold Hyde
Braly, John Hyde
Brauer, Adolph Karl
Brent, Edward Jaines
Bridges, Herbert Frank
Brink, John Edward
Brock, George Alex.
Brode, Alex. Charles
Brode, Walter Charles
Bronson, Roy DeWitt
Brookman, Arthur, P. M.
Brown, Fred Winfield
Brown, Henry Lee
Brown, Walter Elbridge
Bryant, Norman LoI'enzo
Bryon, David Parker
Bryson, Charles William
Bryson, Frank
Bullard, Frank Dearborn
Bullis, William Shufelt
Bumiller, Arthur William
Bundrem, Howard Graham
Bunnell, Charles Eugene Dewey
Burgwald, Hugo Mathias
Burnett, Frank .W ilbur
Burns, John W.
Butler, Sidney Aleut
Butler, Sidney Tortelus
Cauwalader, George Downing
Cake, George ?i:fyers
Callahan, Walter
Callender, Harry Rea
Campbell, Charles
Campbell, Edward Franklin
Campbell, John Mis
Cannon, John Stevens
Carlson, He~ry
Carr, Joseph Elmer
Case, Alonzo Beecher
Case, Charles Hempstead
Cates, Horace Getchell
Catey, Stacey Francis
Chaffey, Andrew McCord

Chandler, Harry
Chappelear, Henry Stewart
Chase, Lucius Kurtz
Christopher, John Francis
Church, Benjamin Franklin
Clark, George
Clark, Harold Francis
Clark, Oliver Perry
Clarke, Frank Brainerd, Jr.
Cleaver, John Mordecai
Cleaver, William
Cochran, Robert Thomas
Cogswell, William Gardner
Cole, Elmer Ellsworth
Cole, Henry Edmond
Coleman, Albert Loring ,
Coleman, Robert William
Colton, George Frederic
Conant, George Frederick
Conklin, Will Hall
Conner, Edward Hurlbut
Conner, Luther Lucien
Conrey, Nathaniel Parrish
Coomber, Henry William
Cooper, Alfred Sunley
Cooper, Frank J., P. M.
Copp, Andrew James, .Tr.
Cornish, Herbert Lemuel, P. M.
Corwin, Carl ,Toseph
Corwin, Wm. Bassett
Coulter, Thomas Jefferson
Cox, Emit J.
Crabill, Simeon Wolford
Crandall, Shannon
Culver, Alex. Stephens
Culver, Joseph Eli
Cummings, Bartholomew Peter
Cunningham, Frank R.
Cunningham, John Calvin
Dahl, Christian James
Dake., George Daniel
Darling, Charles Edward
Davids, Mark Abraham
Davidson, Paul Beck
Davis, Harvey

415

416
Davis, Webster
Davisson, John Henry
Day, James Anderson
Day, Robert Verne
De Garmo, Ellwood
Dennis, Albert Lee
Denton, Eugene Elias
Detmers, Frederick Wm. Adolph
·Dewey, James Henry
Dickson, Clarence Bishop
Dillin, John
Dixon, Charles Clark
Dodge, Shailor Calver
Donnell, John Tilden
Dorris, Charles Wesley
Dow, Herbert Gruby
Driscoll, Timothy
Drought, Robert
Duffie, John Jefferson
Duffin, Harry
Dupuy, James Robert, P. M.
Dutcher, Claude Elmer
Dyer, Trusten Polk, P. M.
Eakins, Herber.t Brown
Earle, Lucien
Easton, Geo. Blakeley
Eckstrom, Albert Axel
Edmonds, Glenn Denique
Edwards, John William
Edwards, Leoland Cloise
Eichelberger, Harry Martin
Eikenbary, Sidney Joseph
Eisenmayer, Walter Graeser
Ellis, Henry Bertrand
Elsom, Robert Wesley
Ely, Tayler Lewis
Emerson, Fred Lee
Emery, Robert Dudley
Ennis, Charles Wesley
Esdor, William Henry
Everett, Newton Baldwin
Fairchild, John .Anthony
Falvella, John
Farnsworth, Willis Cleveland
Fenner, Fred Cooper

ROSTER

ROSTER
Ferbert, John C'.
Fernald, Benjamin Walter
Ferris, Harvey Olmsted
Feuei:born, Edward Randolph
Field, Benjamin Franklin
Field, Daniel Webster
Finlayson, Frank Graham
Fiscus, Joseph
Fiscus, Marshall
Fiscus, Marshall Elsworth
Fisher, Donnell George
Fitch, George Atkins, P. M.
Ford, Lewis Eugene
Forrester, Edmund Arnold
Forrester, Frank Linnaeus
Forrester, Fred Warren
Fosdick, Archibald Morris
Foshay, James A., P. G. M.
Fox, Harry Davis
Franklin, Edward Joseph
Fredericks, John Donovan
Freeby, Mordecai Paul
Friedgen, Barry Raymond
Fryman, Harmon Christian
Fuller, William Harrison
Fulton, Frank
Gadden, Edward Tad
Getz, Henry Augustus
Geissler, Edward August
Gibson, Leo LaForest
Gibson, Thomas
Gifford, Charles Levi
Gillespie, Mathew McGill
Gilmore, Edward Watson
Goehring, John George
Golding, f:rederick Earnest
Gordon, Christopher McMath
Gordon, Frank Henry
Gragg, Robert Fennally •
Graham, Edward Hewitt
G:ranicher, Oswald
Grant, Cyrut William
Gray, Marion Robert
Green, Luther Herbert
Greppin, Ernest Henry, P. M.

Gregory, Miles Sirena
Grundy, Frederick
Guy, Ivester Clark
Hagen, William
Hall, Cornelius Alfred
Hamilton, Harley Erastus
Hamlin, Fred Hanniable
Hammell, Delbert Cool
Hammon, Percy Vernon
Hammond, Watts
Hammond, Wm. Tecumseh Sher.
Hanna, Harry Rogers
Harlan, George, P. M.
Harris, Murray McCheyne
Harrison, George Wright
Harrison, Henry Oziah
Jiarrison, William Henry
Hart, John Wicks
Harvey, John
Haskell, Eugene Craddock
Hathaway, Chas. Frederick
Haupt, Paul
Hauser, Henry
Itavemann, William
Hayward, Henderson
Hazard, Geo. Emmott
Hazzard, Ira G.
H eber, James Earle
Heffner, Robert Armstrong
H einemann, Bernard Henry
Heller, Charles Clinton
Helm, Edward Everett
Hench, William AllisQn
Henderson, Horace Henry
Henderson, John Blancha:rd
Henderson, John William
Henderson, William Augustus
Henry, James Wheaton, P. M.
Hensley, Sylvester Peter
Herron, Fred Irwin
Herron, Rufus Hills
Hess, Orlando Boyd
Hicks, Walter Thomas
Hill, Randolph William
27

Hinchcliffe, Chas. Warren
Hines, Fred Amos, P. M.
Hirtz, Nathaniel Frederick
Hoagland, Wm. Wyckoff
Hodge, Charles William
Hoffman, Marcus Irven
Holliday, Wm. Harrison
Hollingsworth, Clarence Binford
Hollingsworth, William Irving
Holman, Claude Stonum
Hornbeck, Charles, P. M.
Housh, William Harvey
Hovis, Harry Henderson
Hubbard, Ralph Beatty
Hubbard, William Lewis, P. M.
Hum, James Winnard
Humphreys, Charles Harkness
Hunsaker, Lycurgus
Hutchinson, J<~dwin Herbert
Hyatt, Henry Lamb
Jack, Harry Meikle
J ackins, Harry
Jacobsen, Christian Frederick
.Jacobson, Frithrof Gustavous
Jeffries, Richard Hoy
Jeffries, Wm. -Parrish, P. M.
Jenkins, John Joseph
Johannsen, Fr:mklin George
Johnson, Edward Purcell
Johnson, Frede!ick Orson
Johnston, John Milton
Johnston, Nobl,.. Ellis
Jones, Algernon Sidney
Jones, Everett Gaylord
Jones, Frank Massie
Jones, Henry Spencer
Jones, John Taylor
Jones, Mark Gordon
Jones, Mattison Boyd
J onee, Richard Girard
Jones, Robert Freeman
Jordon, William Francis
Kardell, Benjamin Franklin
Kay, Harry Bailey

417

4l!:!

Keller, Will Edward
Kelly, Richard Wash.
Kells, Herbert Ros3
Kelsey, Arthur Louis
Kenny, Robert Wolfenden
Keohane, John William
King, James Seaman
Kinney, Arthur Wilson
Kirkland, Derwentwater
Kitchen, George Washington
Kitchin, Philip
Kohlmeier, Benjamin
Koster, Eugene Will
Koyer, Arthur Sheppard
Kramer, Henry Jacob
Krueger, Charles George
Kubach, Christian John
Kunow, Charles August
Kyte, George Irwin, P. M.
Lamb, Porter Emerson
La=ert, Fred William
Lampshire, John Oxnam
Langdon, F .r ederick' Sylvester
Laughlin, Herbert Sisson
Laughlin, Homer, Jr.
Laux, Carl
Lawless, William Joseph
Laws, William Henry
Lebus, Prentice
Lee, Bradner Wells
Lehman, Charles Joseph
Lindley, Hervey, P. M.
Lindley, Samuel Kingston
Lindley, Walter
Locke, Charles Edwin
Logan, George Burket
l,01:/g, Charles H.
Long, James William, P. M.
Longyear, Willis Douglas
Lovett, William Watson, P. M.
Lowsley, Oswald Swinney
Lnckel, Louis
Lundy, Edwin Arthur
Lynch, Ira Owen
Lyndall, Charles Penny

ROSTER
Lyon, Philip Henry
MacDonald, Jesse Juan
Mackay, George Grant
MacKellar, William Malcolm
Macnab, Arthur Campbell
Macready, Benjamin
Maeder, William Richard
Major, George Jefferson
Malke, Edward James
Mallmann, Leonard Herman
Malone, John
Manuel, Franklin F.
Marden, Leo Wall ace
Marden, Reo Burnham
Markham, Monroe
Marsh, Robert
Mart, James Jackson
Martin, Austin Oliver
Mason, Oliver Arland
Mathews, Bryant
Mathews, Frank Berry
Mathuss, Zack Duncan
Matson, Wilfred Hosford, Jr.
McAllister, William Thomas
McClurkin, William John
McCollough, Alex. Millard F.
McCollough, Vernon Clare
McComas, Frederick Bernard
McEwen, Charles Roland
· McFie, Maynard
Mcintosh, William P.
McKee, Milton
McLean, Daniel Alexander
McMillan, Basil James
McNeely, James Thomas
Mead, Willis Howard
Medlar, James Abraham
Merce:teau, John D.
Merrill, Joseph Lane
Merryweather, Charles
Merwin, Andrew Homer
McMsmore, Frank Hiram
Micldlecoff, Walter Whitefield
Middleton, Ralph Dodsworth
Miles, Charles Sweeting

ROSTER
• Park9r, Calvin Ebenezer
Miles, Nelson Appleton
Parson, Loxley Rhees
Millar, David Servis
Parsons, Arthur Mervil
Millard, Jay Bird
Miller, Charles Francis
Pascoe, Thomas
Miller, Frank Lee
Patterson, Wilson Campbell
Miller, Nicholas N.
Paulding, James Francis
Pauly, Edward Stanley
Mitchell, George
Pauly, Frederick Nye, P. M.
Mitchell, Robert
Peairs, Howard Allen
Moiso, James Hoy
Pease, Sherman
Moll, Frederick .Jacob, Sr.
Peasley, Andrew
Morgan, Charles Ford
Peck, Daniel Gager
Morgan, Franklin Llewellyn
Pendell, Charles Elisha
Monlux, John B.
Percy, Harry Lord
Monnette, Orra Eugene
Petty, James Millard
Mott, Albert Clark
Pfaffinger, Frank Xavier
Moulton, Horatio Frank
Phillips, Lee Andrew
Moultrie, Lloyd Walker
Phillips, William
Moyse, John Ira
Piedmont, Louis
Mueller, Earl Walter
Pierce, Darwin Willson
Mueller, Oscar Charles
Plummer, Amos Weston
Murphy, William Warren, P. M.
Preston, William Holyoke
Murray, Alexander Wilson
Prince, Frederick William
Mushet, Edward Robert
Prince, George Henry
Myrick, Nathaniel Willis
Probert, Frank Holman
Nagel, George Edward
Putnam, Charles Edward
Nance, Benj. Franklin
Rapp, William
Nauerth, Jacob ·
Raze, Arthur Eldridge
Neel, Wherry Elden
Read, William Charles
Nelles, Frederick Charles
Ready, Russell Wilbert
Nelson, N elus Paul
Rebard, Eugene Mays
Neubauer, Frank
Rector, Robert Lee
Newell, Henry Temple
Reed, Willis Johnson
Newman, Emil
Reese, John Wesley
Newton, Edward Payson
Reynolds, Charles Frederick
Noble, George Oscar
Rice, Justus William
Nourse, Charles Oren
Rice, Robert Lincoln
0 'Donnell, Thomas Arthur
Richardson, Joseph
Off, John William Arnold
Richardson, William Weise
0 'Reilly, Thomas William
Richert, Arno Segin
Orme, Henry Sayre, P. G. M.
Roberson, John Calhoun
Osborn, John
Robertson, Ernest
Osborne, H enry Zenas, P. M.
Robinson, Ray D.
Owen, Frank Dale
Owens, Madison Townsend, P. M.
Rogers, Albert Clark
P11.hl, Peter Christian Heinrich
Rommel, Edward David

419

420

ROSTER

Smith, Horace Osbun
Rose, Wm. Edward
Smith, Norman Eugene
Ross, Frederick William
Smurr, John Randolph
Rowley, Edwin Silas
Snyder, Meredith Pinxton
Rowley, Warren Edward, P. M.
Somarindyck, George
Royse, Jeremy
Spaulding, Frank Leverett
Rozell, David Rightmire
Spence, William Glenn
Ruddy, George Drake
Spencer, Edward Byron, P. M.
Rule, Oro·v ille Rey
Spencer, Richard
Russell, Howard Marvin
Spinks, Andrew Mosley
Ryus, Harmon David
Spinks, Mosley Enoch
Sale, Howard Malcolm
Spinks, Wallace Humphrey
Sargent, Edwin William
Sproule, Isaac Henry
Savage, Stephen Decatur
Spruance, Lewis J. Clauson
Scarborough, James Gustave
Scarborough, William Byron, P. M. Squire, Arthur Mosely
Stanley, Edwin Kimble
Schaefer, Henry
Stanton, Joseph Leighton
Schaffer, Jacob, Jr.
Stanton, Erastus James
Schave, Joseph
Starkweather, Charles Henry
Schleicher, Adolf Burgess
Starr, Joseph Lee
Schmidt, Edward
Starr, Stanley S.
Schneider, George Henry
Stephens, William
Schoder, Howard Joseph
Stephens, William Dennison
Schoder, Joseph
Stetson, Albert L.
Scott, Henry
Seaman, William Washington, P. M. S t evens, Roy
Stewart, Victor Baldwin
Seeley, James Wesley
Strasburg, Edward
Selby, Lemuel Julian
Summers, James Alex.
Shaffer, Goorge Bruce
Swaine, E dgar Lacy
Shannon, William Alexander
Tars, Nathan Winship
Sharpe, John
Tate, Cyrus Francis Steele
Shaw, Hartley
· Taylor, Horace Noble
Shaw, Lucien
Taylor, Nelson
Sherer, Edward T.
Teed, Freeman Golding, P. M.
Sherer, Henry Emanuel
Thomas, Roger Ray
_
Sherman, Moses Hazeltine
Thomson, John Scott Vance DeC.
Sherwood, William Franklin
Thomson, Robert Mossman
Shettler, Leon Throp
Thompson, Chester Weaver
Shives, Alexander
Thompson; Frederick William
Simms, John Harker
Thompson, Harry Oliver
Sinsabaugh, Simpson McC.
Thompson, Omer Cones
Small, Frank Hartley
Thorpe, Lewis Sanborn
Smart, George Joseph
Thorpe, Willard Gardner
Smith, Charles A.
Tomeney, Peter Patrick
Smith, Conrad
Treen, Rupert de George
Smith, Cornelius Emery

ROSTER
Trobeck, John August
Trueworthy, John Wesley
Truitt, Charles Leslie
Upright, Oscar
Urmston, John Keck
Valentine, William Lucas
Van Brunt, William
Van Culin, Trabue
Van Doren, John Suydam
VanNorman, Edgar Vernon
Vaughn, John William
Veasey, Frank Burr
Vieira, George Joseph
Von Homeyer, Albert
Waddington, William
Wade, Reuben Alex. Slavin
Wadhams, William .Jesse
Walker, Julius Randolph
Walker, Samuel Millard
Walrath, George Byron
Walton, Charles Strong
Wankowski, Robert
Warden, Charles Dusten
Watson, George Samuel
Weaver, William Kennedy
Webber, Charles Sumner
Weid, Otto Johannes Munk
Weller, Dana Reid, P. M.
Wetterauer, Andrew Peter J.

421

Whaley, Francis John
Wheeler, Edgar True
Wheeler, Horace Marcellus
White, Charles Henry
White, John Edward
Whitson, Levi Henry
Whittier, Mericos Hector
Wier, Charles
Wigmore, George Herbert
Willard, Charles Dwight
Williams, Albert Scudamore
Williams, Joseph Franklin
Wilson, Erasmus
Wilton, George Robert
Winston, James Wallace
Wishon, Frank Lenox
Wood, Francis Gideon
Wood, Samuel Grosvenor
Woodward, William John
Wright, Gilbert Sol
Wuerker, Otto Leon
Yarnell, Burton Fleming
Yarnell, Caleb Amoa
Young, Jacob Clark
Young, John William
Zaiser, Lewis G.
Zaiser, Oscar Henry
Zuchelli, John B.

VV~THDRA WN:
Pearson, Harry F.lrnest
Emmons, Elljah Alex.
Price, Arthur Blake
Johnson, Frank Alex.
Stevens, Benjamin Francis
Morrison, William Gentry
Walker, Hugh Kelso

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Dlades, Paul Harcourt
Talma.ge, .James Clark
O'Neill, Albert Sidney
Webster, Stephen Merritt
Wlgmore, Francis Marlon
DIED :
Barnes, James Whitney
Marden, Henry W1lllam
Dearth, Leonard
Scot t, Charles Otis
Lee, Fred Leonard
Wells, Guilford Wiley
Dotter, Geo. C. (E. A.)

-655.

422

ROSTJ!;R

HANFORD LODGE, No. i79.
Hanford, Kings County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Francis Cunningham, Master,
James Curtiss Ensign, Chaplain,
Loyd Crasy Trewhitt, Sen. Deaco»,
Hanford
Harry Vellejo Brenton, Sen. Ward., Lymon Dwight Farmer, Jun. Deacon,
Arthur F . Hammond, Jun. W(Jrden, George Washington Kelly, Marshal,
Stephen Bright Hicks, Treasurer,
Sheld::in Johnstone Rarey, Ste·ward,
Walter Andrew SanhDrn, Steward,
Lewis C. Dunham, Secretary,
James William Treadwell, Tyler.
Box 51, Hanford

MEMBERS:
Allen, Arthur Bailey
Cross, Charles Marion
Ayers, Amos Melzar, P. M.
Cunningham, Francis, P. M.
Ayers, Andrew Mansfield
Dillon; Thomas Fuller
Barton, Herman Dany
Dowell, Chaster
Bernstein, William Francis
Downing, Robert J ess1:1
Bingham, Charles Fr11.nkli11., P. M.
Dunham, Lewis C.
Booker, Sanford
Ensign, James Curtil!, P. M.
Boudreau, Young Hutert
Farmer, Milton Thomas
Bowdon, James Richard
Fo·s ter, Willett Sudds
Brenton, Harry Vallejo
Fowler, George Oliver
Brown, Charles Rose
Furby, Charles Edwin
Brown, Harry Pfister
Furby, John Charles
Brown, William Herbert
Goodrich, Geol'ge Edwin
Bulloch, James Lindon
Goldsmitll, Rutledge Loyd
Butler, Chester Orville
Greatwood, Frederick E'd ward
Butler, Rudolpµ Rey
· Gurnee, Bruster Smith
Budinger, Philip Leidy
Hall, George Arthur, P. M.
Charles, William Bryant
Hall, John Ewell, P. M.
Chastine, Charles Edward
Hall, Samuel Whitson, P. M.
Chittenden, Lyman Sylvester
Hammond, Arthur F.
Chrisman, Archibald Yell
Hawley, Samuel Vincent
Clock, LouiR David
Heathcote, Rennie James
Clow, Ora T.
Hendricks, Henry Thomas
Cooper, Calvin Savage
Herrod, John
(',ooper, Silas Halsey
Hicks, Stephen Bright
Cosper, Elias .T ruman
Hickman, Jan:ies Oscar
}'J:ight, Frank Robert1 P. M.
Crigler, John Ch~stopher
Crowell, Abner Buel
Hobler, Charles J::m1;es .
Crowell, Chester Charles
Hob:io11, Rufus Asbery
Crowell, Letus Narcissus
Hochstrasser, Rudolf

ROSTER
Raney, Arthur Leon
Hord, Robert Thomas
Raney, Sheldon Johnstone
Howard, William Harrison
Raney, Sumner
Howland, Clar~nce Sears
Rea, John
Hoyt, Homer James
Rehoefer, Samuel
Isaac, Frederick Neville
Reuek, Henry Edward
James, Reuben Sterrett
Ritchie, Isaac Andrew
Johns, Herbert Montrose
Rogers, George Henry
Johns, Zachariah David
Ross, Fred Darwin
King, Arthur Dale
Ross, John Patchen
King, Edgar B.
Rosenberger, Schuyler Mont.
Kuney, Harry Albert
Sanborn, Walter Andrew
Lacey, Orra Mell
Schueler, Henry John
Lane, Alpheus Wilbour
Sensabaugh, John Samuel
Latimer, Delmar Hood, P. M.
Sharp, Benjamin V.
Lee, William Tomas
Sherzer, Simeon Newman
Lens, Lodewyk Clement
Shields, Fred Rex
Lewis, Benjamin Francis
Simpson, Louis
Long, Robert Adam
Slight, George
Lovelace, Thomas James, P. M.
Smith, Judd
Manor, Lawrence Charles
Steele, Francis John, P. M.
Martin, Ernest Eastburn
Stewart, .Tohn Campbell
McCord, James W.
Sullivan, John Longwell, P. M.
McCord, William P.
Tandrow, James Andrew
McCreary, John Edward
McQuiddy, Thos. Jefferson, P. M. Taylor, Julius Calisto
Thompson, Samuel Alexander
Mullen, Samuel Surlee
Tiffany, Charles Henry
Musgrave, Robert Wm., P. M.
Trewhitt, Loyd Crary
Nelson, Harold Mann
Trewhitt, Wayne Douglas
Newport, Fred Tate
Walp, James Lincolrl Duff
Noel, Henry Hamlyn
Webster, Cassius Monroe
Paul, Arthur
Weems, George Melvin, P. M.
Payton, John Welby, P. M.
White, Royal George
Pickerill, Ernest Fred
Wilkinson, Jame11 Price
Powell, James Henry
Wilson, Frank J.
Pratt, Leonard Hope
Young, Arthur Judson
Price, Albert Ruskin
Young, Edmund Ellsworth, P. M.
Price, Alberto Bell, P. M.
Young, John Wesley
-136.
Ramsey, John Wilson
WITHDRAWN:
Dopklns, Joseph Henry
Boulware, Alex. Stockton
Farnsworth, Charles Clark, Jr.
Brennon, John Abram
DIED:
D'ollenmayer, A. Gustav
Newman, Leo Disrael
Rafallovlch, Nicholas M.

424

ROSTER

MADERA LODGE, No. 2 8o.
Madera, Madera County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

George Adelbert Clark Master
L
J .
Madera'
,
arue am1son Woodson, Sen. Dea.,
George William Bernhard Sen W
GCharles Frederic Tully, Jun. Dea.,
· ar., eorge Brown Marshal
'
J ames Lawrence Davis Jun. Warden w·1r
A B '
,
Return Roberts, Trea;urer
, J. i i~m . rown, Steward,
Jo h E
N
,
osep A. Secara, Steward
sep
mory e'1(man, Secretary, William Stahl T I
,
Madera
' Y er.
Anderson, Henry Clay
Armstrong, Charles Duner
Arondell, Ellsworth
Badger, Charles Taintor
Barnett, John Robert
Bernhard, George William
Boa tmann, George Henry
Brown, George, P. M.
Brown, William A., P. M.
Burns, Charles Edward
Byars, Alfred Henry, p. M.
Christiana, Albert Eustace
Clark, George Adelbert, P. M.
Cochrum, Spir!ing Young
Cox, Elmer Henry
Curran, James
Daulton, John Francis
Davis, James Lawrence
Downey, Hugh Josep.h
Downey, William G.
Dwyer, John
Eastin, Pulaski Clark
Elvidge, George Ford
Fuller, John Wade
Gazzolo, Vietor
Galbreath, John William
Giles, Henry
Hall, Merritt Jordan
Hargrove, Robert Lee, P. M.
Hearenirich, Arthur Willard

MEMBERS:
Hely, Levi St. John
High, John Bryan, P. M.
Hosmer, James Abel
Hughes, William Marshall
Hughes, Kenneth Leach
Hunter, Willie Wilkin Wood
,Johnson, . Harold Gustave
Jones, George Washington
Jones, John Marion
Ladd, Monroe Jefferson
Lehrfield, Moses David
Leidig, Donald s.
Luttrell, George McClure
Maze, William Camel
Mccardle, Edwin Mace
McDonald, Archibald
McKee, John
McKenzie, Donald Cameron
Newman, Joseph Emory
Owens, Samuel Gasiway
Petty, Charles M.
Radii.ff, Charles DeWitt
Ramsey, Will Whitten
R~nsom, Don Harvey St. J.
Richardson, John Royal
Roberts, Frank P.
Roberts, John Griffith
. Roberts, Return
Robison, Charles Byron
Roeder, Charles Henry

425

ROS'l'ER
Rosenthal, Nathan
Rummelsburg, Charles
Schmitz, John William
Secara, Joseph A., P. M.
Skaggs, Allen Alexander
Skaggs, Samuel Lee
Sledge, Levin Lane
Sledge, Strudwick
Speegle, Andrew Lee
Spitzer, Joseph James
Stahl, William
Thurman, William Bloodworth
Barker, Delbert 0.
Bennett, John

Tooker, Clinton Edward
Tully, Charles Fred
Vanuiveer, Pollard Franklin
Walde, Henry
White, William Edmund
Williams, Elmer Boyce
Williams, William L.
Wolters, Edward David
Woodson, Guilford Leo
Woodson, Larue Jamison
Wooten, Elias Nelson
Wooten, George Drake

-84.

DIED:
Cox, Wilbur Henry
Ward, Charles Murray (F. C.)

MOUNT SHASTA LODGE, No. 28r.
Anderson, Shasta County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

John Calvin Kesler, Master,
Levi Jeptha Tabler, Chaplain,
Anderson, Shasta County
Earle Madison Downing, Sen. Dea.,
Harvey Lincoln Bishop, Sen. Ward., William Reid, Junior Deacon,
Edwin Lee Story; Junior Warden, Edward Guy Carter, Marshal,
John Franklin Bedford, Treasurer, Charles D. Peterson, Steward,
Alvin Dozier, Secretary,
Frank Marion Landen, Steward,
Anderson, Shasta County
James Alexander Robertson, Tyler,
MEMBERS:
Anderson, William Somers
Dales, George Benson
Bainbridge, Clarence Edwin
Douglass, Torrence Samuel
Bedford, James Franklin, P. M.
Dozier, Alvin, P. M.
Bedford, John Franklin
Dozier, John Dudley, P. M.
Bedford, William Wesley
Dunning, M. Lee
Beecher, Jamee Harvey
Goodman, Charles Hillor
Bishop, Harvey Lincoln
Goodman, Herbert Edward
Blichfeldt, Fred Ernst
Goodman, Timothy D.
Buckley, Jerry
Hainline, Charles Grant
Burbank, Arthur Charles, P. M.
Hawkins, George Edward
Burbank, Joseph Parker
Johnson, Harvey Petit
Carter, Edward Guy
Kempton, John Lincoln, P . M.
Cassell, Ernest Vivian
Kesler, John Calvin

426

ROSTER

ROSTER

Lindsey, Charle!l Beauford
J,ove, William
McNeill, William
Munter, Carl, P. M.
Noble, Owen Price
Parish, Joseph Franklin
Peterson, Charles David
Pleisch, Theodore
Reid, William
Robertson, James Alex.
Shanahan, Thadeus W. H., P. M.

Shepherd, George Frederick, P. M.
Smith, Albert Ferdinand, P. M.
Spann, Charles Henry, P. M.
Stor,v, Edwin Lee
Strange, Morris
Stuck, Andrew Jackson
Tabler, Guy Clairmont
Tabler, Levi J epthah
Todd, William Hawley
Weaver, William
--47.

WITHDRAWN:
Reynolds, Lincoln C.

CALLAYOMI LODGE, No. 282.
Middletown, Lake County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Charles John Koopman, Master,
George Arthur McKinley, S. Deacon,
Middletown
Warren Walter Bates, Junior Deacon,
Lon McKell~y. Senior Warden,
James Parrish, Marshal,
George Giles Hawkins, Jun. Warden, Charles Henry Tully, Steward,
Joseph Lilburn Read, Treasurer,
Thomas Albert Read, Steward,
John Bynum Preble, Secretary,
Samuel Farley, Tyler.
Middletown
MEMBERS:
Aby, Charles William
Koopman, John Charles
Bailey, Wellman Jenness, P. M.
Longley, Frank Beatty
Bates, Warren Walter
McKelley, LoR
Brookins, Robert Minor
McKinley, George Arthur, P. M.
Bruilhart, John
Nelson, Paul, P. M.
Cheeney, Alonzo H.
Nielson, John Ingerman
DeMartin John
Parrish, James, P. M.
Farley, Samuel
Preble, John Bynum
Fruit8, George Arthur
Read, Joseph Lilburn
Hawkins, George Giles
Read, Thomas Albert, P. M.
Henry, Charles Edwin
Reed, Pliney Wilfred
Holt, Ole Kristian
Ryder, Irwing Lampluey
Kelly, John Melvin
Reese, William Henry Clay
Kemp, George Washington
Reinike, John

Robison, Perry Quint
Rocca, Andrew, P. M.
Sawtell, Fred
Schwartz, Earnest William, P. M.
SuSPENDED

Stoddard, Edward B.
Tully, Charles Henry
Vandewater, Henry Clay, P. M.

FOR NON·PAYMENT
De Loney, Henry

-35.
OF DUES:

DIED:
Sacry, George Arthur

SOUTH WEST LODGE, No. 283.
National City, San Diego County.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Baxter Kyle Adkisson, Master,
Charles Harry Stuart, Chaplain,
National City
Fred E. Doty, Senior Deacon,
Dale Smith, Senior Warden,
Walter Henry Ladroot, Jun. Deacon,
Wilson Kittrell Felton, Jun. Warden, Charles Pitman, Marshal,
Richard E. Gatus, Treasurer,
Jerry O'Connell, Steward,
C. C. Van Deripe, Secretary,
Arthur Virgil Bragg, Steward,
National City
Esau Hodges, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adkisson, Baxter Kyle, P. M.
Henderson, David
Angelo, William Robert
Henderson,. Walter Jamee, P. M.
Arnold, Arthur Mitcheltree
Hodges, Esau
Ash, George L. H.
Hodges, Jacob Greeneville
Atkins, Wellington B.
Holderness, Ed. Page Granville
Barnes, Lucius Bentley, P. M.
Ivers, John
Belcher, George
Kimball, Augustus Brooks, P. M.
Bragg, Arthur Virgil
Kimball, Frank Augustus, P. M.
Burnham, George
Kellogg, F:rederick Roderick
Ladroot, Walter H.
Carter, Mark Orley
Davis, Emery W.
Leibrick, Geori'lMa tthiessen, Albert Henry
Doty, Fred English
McN eill, Joseph Bowers
Eggleston, William
Evans, Thomas J.
Miles, Fre<lerick W.
Felton, Wil11on K.
Mills, Warren Everett
Fly, Edward Mulll'oe
Mullen, Orland,9. A,lfred
Gatis, Richard Ed:ward
Meyers, Jam,e11 Washington
Grandier, Frank :
Noyes, Oliver Clarencq
Hale, Richard L.
0 'Connell, Jerry

428

ROSTER

Osborne, Elbrige F.
Palmer, Theodore Romayne
Pattee, Raymond Wilson
Patterson, Harry James
Phelps, Hulcy
Pitman, Charles
Priest, Charles Henry
Reed, Frank Pierce
Riggs, William Mallory
Rouland, Neils Peter
Sawyer, Charles Henry
Seymour, John
Litterer, Louis Adolph
Copeland, Herman

Smith, Dale
Smith, Geo. E.
Strahl, David E.
Stuart, Charles Harry, P. M.
Tingley, Charles Herbert
VanDeripe, Chas. Chris., P. M.
Vaughan, Warren Briggs, P. M.
Ward, Martin Luther, P. M.
Williamson, Samuel King, P. M.
Yenawin~, Geo. Lafayette, P. M.
Yenawine, Julian Oustin
Zeigler, William
-62.

WITHDRAWN:
Nichols, Frank Jay
DIED:
Jerauld, Herbert Arnold

TYRIAN LODGE, No. 284.
Dunnigan, Yolo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

1:f

Thomas Jefferson umma, Master, Norris E. Hughes, Senior Deacon,
.
Dunnigan
Byron Hughes, Junior Deacon,
Walter A. Bernard, S~nior Warden, Frank F. McCollough, Marshal,
Herman B. West, Juntor Warden, William Franklin Smith, Steward,
Henry West, Treasurer,
Edward Mast Steward
Samuel W. Barker, Secretary,
Walter Duncaif Tyler '
Dunnigan
'
.
MEMBERS:
Arens, Thomas Otto, P. M.
Barker, Samuel William
Bernard, Walter Allen
Betterton, Charles Albert .
Cain, William Henry
Cummins, Thomas Due
Decker, Jasper Newton
Duncalf, Walter, P. M.
Fish, Charles Orlando, P. M.
Fish, Leon Henry
Green, Germain

Higham, John
Hughes, Byron Charles
Hughes, Delwyn Edward
Hughes, Norris Edwin
Hyman, George F.
Langenour, Henry Watkins
Langenour, Philip Thomas, P . M.
Mast, Edward John Frederick
McCullough, Frederick Frank
McCullough, Frederick Gapen
Mumma, Thomas Jefferson, P. M.

.ROSTER
Persons, George Washington, P. M.Suggett, Homer Marvin
Smith, William Franklin
Rummelsburg, Alexander
West, Herman Bradford
Sellman, George Washington
West, William Henry, P . M.
Suggett, Buford Culwell

42'.J

-30.

DIED:
Woodward, Edward Durgan

SAN MIGUEL LODGE, No. 285.
San Miguel, San Luis Obispo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:
Charles Forbes, Master,
Edward Allen McGowan, Chaplain,
San Miguel
Jaachin G. Weidemann, Sen. Deacon,
George L. Andrews, Senior Warden, William Pinkerton, Junior Deacon,
Olof Braren, Junior Warden,
Albert F. Benton, Marshal,
Lorenzo Dowell Murphy, Treasurer, Philip Green, Steward,
Henry Twisselmann, Secretary,
James Forbes, Steward,
· San Miguel
John Thompson, Tyler.
Andrews, George L.
Benton, Albert F.
Bergersen, Elmer G.
Betts, Charles H.
Blair, Charles Henry
Boys, Henry Stanford
Brandebury, King
Braren, Olof
Clark, Edgar Marvin
Cole, Oliver Port
Coyne, Martin
Densmore, ,Tason Fletcher
Douglas, Gerald Noel, P. M.
:jl:aston, Robert
Edrington, Edgar Wallace
Forbes, Charles, P. M.
Forbes, James
Forbes, William Dindas
Foulkner, Pitman Lee
Fowler, George William
Ganoung, Edwin
Green, Philip

MEMBERS:
Hennage, William Romar
Horswill, Fred A.
Hunte1·, Byron Powell
Knights, Frederick
.Lightner, Edward Mills
Linderholm, Henry
Lynch, Henry Walter
McCandless, Lawrence, P. M.
McConnell, Gibson
McFaddin, Hadin V.
McFaddin, Higgins
McGowan, Edward Allen
McQuown, Henry Monroe
Murphy; Henry Cloyd
Murphy, Lorenzo Dowell, P. M.
Noggle, Dwight Keefer
Pinkerton, William
Polla1·d, J. T.
Rauscheit, Henry George
Remington, Henry Charles
Rice, Geo. Washington
Richardson, John

430

ROSTER

ROSTER

Seaman, John Detliff, P. M.
Stanley, William Winfield
Taylor, Edwin
Thompson, John
Thompson, John William
Thralls, Arthur

TwiSl!elmann, Henry
Victors, Henry
Webster, John Calvin
Williams, William Alfred
Weidemann, Jaachin G., P. M.
-55.

PASO ROBLES LODGE, No. 286.
Paso Robles, San Luis Obispo Cowity.
Stated Meetings, second Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
William Garfield Gates, Master,
Geo. Washington Hamilton, S. Deac.,
Paso Robles
Fred George Booth, Junior Deacon,
Joseph White Eddy, Senior W a1·de11, Warren Clifford Bennett, Marshal
Hugh "J." Corcoran, Jr., Juii. iYard., Charles James Trussler, Steward:
David Speyer, Treasurer,
Andrew Hanson Iversen Steward
Arthur James Beaty, Secretary,
George Hill Bennett, Tyier.
'
Paso · Robles
MEMBERS:
Abernethy, Edward
Frost, Frank Daniel, P. M.
Anderson, Herman Leslie
Frost, Edward Parker
Anthony, James Buchanan
Gates, Wm. Garfield
Barber, Richard
Gerst, Michael
Booth, Frank Johnson
Glass, James Hargis, P. M.
Booth, Fred George
Grant, Adam Lucas
Beaty, Arthur James
Gray, Oscar Clarence
Beggs, William Crow
Griswold, Eugene Carlton
Bennett, Edwin Montgomery
Hamilton, Geo. Washington, P. M.
Bennett, George Hill
Hayes, Samuel Wesley
Bennett, Raymond W.
Howard, Walter Hugh
Bennett, Warren Clifford, P. M.
Hedgpeth, William Rufus
Bickell, Clift' Ormond, P. M.
Iversen, Andrew Hansen
Booth, Eugene Latimer
Iversen,, Christian Anderson
Brewer, Lyman
Iversen, Josias
~
Brooks, Myron Holly, P. M.
Jack, Albert LeForrest
Cassin, Richard Joseph
Kelshaw, John
J
Cohn, Lewis
Ladner, Edwin
r
Corcoran, Hugh J.
Macdonald, Robert Carlton
Cox, Ewell
Manderville, Henry Lewis
Eddy, Joseph White
Mcintire, Ernest B.
Eddy, William Samuel, P. M.
Monroe, John Reed
Elliott, Vandiver Reid
Muckinstrom, Joseph Isidore
Eppinger, Herman
Neal, James W.

Neel, James Oliver
Nelson, Andrew
0 'Leary, Michael
Patriquin, Alex. George
Pierce, Benjamin Bowlin
Poulsen, Jacobi
Schroeder, Arthur Van Camp
Seideman, Conrad
Shackelford, Richard Mathew
Sherman, Thaddeus, P. M.
Horton, Alvin

431

Speyer, David
Steele, Osman N.
Steinbeck, Charles Minor
Tidrow, Joseph
Trussler, Charles James, P. M.
True, Hanson William
Webster, Alexander
Weyer, Robert C.
Williams, Samuel Anthony
\Yetzel, Prank George
-68.

WITHDRAWN:
Shupp, George Albert
DIED:
Armstrong, Richard S.

WINNEDUMAH LODGE, No. 287.
Bishop, Inyo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Leicester Campbell Hall, Master,
William Hart Mitchell, Chaplain,
Bishop
Thomas Gracey Watterson, Sn. Dea.,
Albert Lloyd Wells, Senior Warden, George Lucil'n Wells, Jun. Deacon,
Charles George Lenham, Jun. Ward., Frederick Mortimer Hess, Marshal,
Asher Cohn, Treasurer,
John Simpson McQueen, Steward,
Will Arthur Chalfant, Secretary,
Lazare Weill, Steward,
Bishop
Harvey Adams, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adams, Harvey
Collins, Charles Albert
Albright, George Langton
Collins, George
Andrews, Frank Kellogg
Collins, John Leonidas
Austin, Stafford Wallace
Doyle, Guy P., P. M.
Barton, Hiram Arthur
Dunlap, John Elijah
Butler, Frank
Dunn, William James
Edwards, Benjamin Franklin
Cape, Henry Mitchell
Evans, Thomas William
Chalfant, Will Arthur
Clark, Ira Otis
Farrington, Archibald
Foorman, Carl Theodore
Clarke, George Alexander, P. M.
Freeman, Alexander Cassidy
Clarke, John
Given, Arthur Milton
Cohn, Asher
Collett, James Bradford
Groff, William Edwin
Gunter, Hannibal Newton
Collins, Albert Oscar, P. M.

ROSTER

-132

Hale, John
Hall, George Wallace
Hall, Leicester Campbell
Hammett, William Atwood
Hess, Frederick Mortimer
Jones, James
Jones, John Edward
Joseph, Louis
Joughin, William Daniel
Kilpatrick, Alexander Franklin
Larson, Owen W.
·
Leicham, Charles George
Longley, George
Love, Robert
. McAfee, George Addison
McDonald, Allan Ray
McDonald, William, P. M.
McMurry, John Wesley
McMurry, Jonathan Wesley
McMurry, Samuel Goforth
McQueen, John Simpson
Mitchell, William Hart
Newlan, Sampel Jefferson
Reed, Stewart
•Carhart, James Ralph

Richel, Charles Arthur
Rose, Charles Norman
Schiveley, Albert Duncan
Shaw, Harry
Shipley, William Frank
Shirley, Arthur Ashton
Smith, Ulysses Grant
Strong, Archibald McClure
Summers, Lloyd
Summers, Thomas
Todd, John Wagner
Towner, Hick Marcus
Vandercook, Albert Emerson
Vermilyea, Samuel E.
Wardwell, Ralph Watts
Watterson, Mark Quayle, P. M.
Watterson, Thomas Gracey
Watterson, Wilfred Wm., P. M.
Watterson, William
Weill, Lazare
Wells, Albert Lloyd
Wells, George Lucien
Wildasinn, Charles Fell
Wright, .Joseph Henry
~76.

WITHDRAWN:
Collett, William Henry

Kilpatrick, Alex. Sanderson

DIED:
McGee, John Simpson
Olds, David

MAXWELL LODGE, No. 288.
Maxwell, Colusa County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

James Warren Danley, Master,
Maxwell, California.
Arthur John Fouch, Sen. Warden,
John S. D. Taylor, Junior Warden,
George Washington Desrosier, Tr. ,
James Wells Marshall, Secretary,
Maxwell, California.
•Degrees conferred during the year.

................................. Chaplain,
George W. Desrosier, Senior Dea.,
Frederick Scriver, Junior Deacon,
..............,.................. Marshal,
................................ Steward,
................................. Steward,
George Hineline, Tyler.

ROSTER

433

MEMBERS:
Abel, George Henry
Fouch, Arthur John
Baker, Francis Marion
Hastings, George Washington
Braddy, Joseph Albert
Hineline, George
Brown, Lycurgus Jerome, P. M.
Marshall, James Wells
Cook, Henry Jason, P. M.
Marshall, Wm. Porter
Cook, Hiram S.
Mushett, Leo Lee
Cuthbertson, Alex. Macbeth
Pence, Geo. B. McClellin
Danley, James Warren, P. M.
Rumelsburg, Herman
Desrosier, George Wash., P. M.
Scriver, Frederick
Duncan, Chas. Prentice, P. M.
Snyder, August Charles
Fisher, Horace Winter
Taylor, John Delos Sharp, P. M.
Felts, Christopher Columbus
-23.

ELSINORE LODGE, No. 289.
Elsinore, Riverside County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

James Stewart, Master,
Harold J. Frothingham, Chaplain,
Elsinore.
Cecil V. McClintock, Senior Deacon,
Henry E. Lawrence, Senior Warden, Herman H. Niemann, Junior Dea.,
Charles Theiss Meredith, Jun. War., Lester Henry Young, Marshal,
Charles Dickens Pool, Treasurer,
Lewis Delancy Clark, Steward,
Stanley Jesse Cobb, Secretat"y,
J ohn Timmis, Steward,
Elsinore.
Orsamus D. Crandall, Tyler.
Barnett, Adrian Benjamin
Barnett, Cephas Logan
Barnett, Eli Elsa
Barnett, John Zachariah
Barnett, Marcus Elsa
Brown, William Edwin
Brum, George
Chickering, E. N.
Clark, Lewis Delancy
Clark Oliver Stewart
Cobb, Jesse Stanley
Combs, George Arlington
Cowles, Charles Henry
Crandall, Orsamus Delo,s
Feathingham, Harold J,
28

MEMBERS:
Guthridge, Wm. Alonzo
Gyger, Charles E.
Gyger, James H.
Haworth, William Penn
Hoag, Julius Adelbert
Hook, Joseph Frederic, P. M.
Hudson, Charles, P. M.
Kimball, Albert Thomas
Lawrence, Henry Eugene, P . M.
Maloy, Walter C.
Manatt, Scott E .
Meredith, Charles Thiers, P. M.
McC!intock, Cecil V.
Merrifield, Charles Sumner, P. M •
Murphey, W. E.

ROSTER

ROS'fER

434

Nelson, Richard Clark
Niemann, Herman Henry
Peck, John Emmet
Pool, Charles Dickens .
Portius, William Francis
Smith, Walter F.
Stewart, James, P. M.
Tibbet, John Franklin
Black, Lester
Compton, Andrew Jackson

Timmis, John
Tipton, John C.·
Tuell, Bernca, J.
Walker, Hugh
Wall, Peter
Woodford, Asa W.
Young, Lester Henry

....-46.

WITHDRAWN:
Ross, George C.
Whitfleid, Nathaniel Churchlll

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF . DUES:
Morrison, William L.
Shaffer, Charles

EAST GATE LODGE, No. 2~0.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, second Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Austin Calvin Snively, Chaplain,
Hemy Elmer Herman, Master,
Eugene Fancher Gray, Sen. Deacott,
520 S. Griffin Avenue
William Henry Davidson. Sen. War., Robert Vint, Junior Deacon,
Frederick Williams Tyler, Marshal,
Jacob Ferdinand Haller, Jun. Ward.,
Willard Wright Shea, Steward,.
Charles Martin Burr, Treas,urer,
Charles Alfred Holland, Steward,
Edward Lee Stephens, Secretary,
James Madison Tibbitts, Tyler.
3115 N. Broadway
MEMBERS:
Anderson, Doris
Adams, James Gilmou:Anderson, John Francis
Adams, Robert Henry
. Andrews, Clarence Carlton
Adams, Robert Perry
Archer, Arthur Jasen
Adcock, Robert James
Arnold, Oscar Robert
Ahrens, August
Arnoldt, Herman
Allen, Carroll Hess
Atherton, Nelson
Allen, Robert Mitchell
Ashley, William Buckley
Allison, John P.
Aydelotte, George Howard
Alexander, Charles Ambrose
Baetz, John Henry
Alexa.nder, Oran Laffatat
Bailey, John Mark
Ale:ic&'adel', 811ephen W. Dorman
Bailey, John T.
Ambrose, Wiley Vance
Bainer, Andrew Michel
Ames, Charles Ellison
Baker, Charles Edwin
Anderson, Claude Orval

Baker, Henry Edgar
Baldwin, Evan Jenkins, Jr.
Bard, Hampeus Victor, P. M.
Barrett, Clyde Alexander
Bascom, Edgar Floyd
Bates, Norman Francis
Baum, Jacob
Beamon, Alexander Mortimer
Berman, Harry
Berne, Martin Alonzo
Berry, John Price
Beyrle, Andrew
Bigler, Robert Caleb
Black, Robert
Blackstone, Henry Winthrop
Blair, Cassius Davis
Blessington, Frank Edward
Bogart, Charles Henry
Bouchard, Philips
Bourne, John Franklin
Bovee, William James
Bowersock, Charles Andrew
Boyd, Charles Elmer
Boyle, Peter Murray, P. M.
Bradford, Charles Samuel, P. M.
Brain, Robert Thomas
Brown, Clinton Orlin
Brown, Joseph Edgar
Buehler, Charles
Bulkey, Olcott Smith
Bullard, Wm. Bradford
Burdeck, Edward Grant
Burgoyne, William
Burr, Charles Martin
Burr, Edwin Rice
Burr, William Henry
Bmt~, Arthur Valentine
Calef, Frank John
Campbell, Henry Chapney
Carlson, Charles August
Carrick, Harvey Hall
Carroll, Frank
Carson, John Kingsley
Case, Edwin Alanson
Cecil, Thomas Luther

435

Chaney, Edward Watson
Chatfield, Glenn E .
Christian, Harfield Timberlake
Chapman,. John
Chambers, Andrew Jacksc>n
Charbonnel, Marie Joseph Zoisime
Childs, Wiley Waldron
Chester, Charles Monod
Clark, Edgar Willard
Clapp, Victor
Coedry, Thomas Wallace
Cole, Nathan, Jr.
Coleman, Thomas Newton
Collette, Louis Pri.me
Collins, Silas Martin
Conklin, Leon Robbin
Connell, George Brinton
Cooksey, William Mansfield
Cooper, Milton Gilbert
Cottrell, Leonard Jerald
Craig, Hiram Anson
Crane, Floyd Walter
Crawford, John H enry
Cray, Oliver
Crmtchshank, Lewis
~rowley, James Thomas
Cutter, Everett Parsons
Daniel, William Thomas
Davidson, William Henry
Davison, Allen
De La Monte, Jacques Henry
Dibble, James Robert
Dickson, James
Dockstrader, Ernest Clayton
Dockstader, Martin
Donato, Henry Delmond
Donivan, John William
Dromgold, Reuben Wisor
Dunda·s, Robert Chester
Durfee, DeLois Atkins
DeNick, John Adam
Denison, Frank Edgar
Eagan, Daniel Augustus
Edgerton, Edwin Oviatt
Eggert, Gustave

•

43G

ROSTER
ROSTER

Eisenmayer, George Franklin
Eisenmayer; Philip Henry
Eno, Bert William
Etchepare, Gaston Joseph
Eubank, Stephen James
Evans, Evan Arthur
Ewing, William Samuel
Fairclough, Harry
Fee, John Chester
Fehrensen, Louis Henry
Feidler, Max
Felt, Charles Benjamin
Fenton, James Averill
Fernald, Joseph Harry
Fisher, Walter Willard
Fletcher, John William
Flint, Frank Putnam, P. M.
Flint, Motley Hughes, P. G. M.
Flynn, Rudolph
Forbes, Frank Sumner
Forschner, Donald Robert
Frankhouser, Francis Wm.
Frembling, Albert Fred
Fulton, William Henderson
Gale, William Knight
Garber, Arthur Clem
Gardiner, Francis Irwin
Gates, ~arry Henry
Gies, Albert Joseph
Gillingham, Caleb
Gilteman, Robert Emmet
Goble, William Franklin
Goodfriend, Arnoldt
Gordan, Benhard
Gould, Robert Delos Baldwin
Gray, Eugene Fancher
Gray, Melville M.
Gray, Thomas Henry
Green, Jonathan M.
Gronow, Tracy Deering
Gundlack, Augustus
Gwynn, Alfred Edward
Hable, George Henry
Hafford, Ferris Samuel
Haines, Newell Langley

Hall, Harry Barton
Haller, Jacob Ferdinand
Hallett, William Hovey
Hamm, ·wm. Geo.
·Hand, Alfred Harold
Harris, Harry Lester
Hart, Richard D.
Harting, John Henry
Harvey, Frank Kramer
Hathaway, LeViene Josiah
Hawley, Mark Lee
Hayes, Fred
Hayward, Frank Edward
Healy, Bernard
Heaney, Robert
Rease, John Max
Helfin, Francis _Ashbury
Hellman, Marco Herman
H emphill, Robert Simms
Henderson, William , Alexander
Henshaw, William Ambrose
Hermon, Henry Elmer
Harwick, John Steck
Higgins, Solon Lee
Hobble, Benjamin
Hogancamp, Robert Thomas
Holderman, Clarence Smith
Holdridge, Charles Henry
Hollis, George Henry
Holland, Chas. Alfred .
Holloway, Bert R.
Holloway, Joseph Brevitte
Holmes, Alfred Henry
Horner, John
Horton, Leo White
Houser, Frederick Wilhelm, P. M.
Hudson, Geo. Whitfield
Huestis, Ed. McCook
Hurd, Fred Barrows
Hutchins, Ray
Ingersoll, Robert Leroy
Jacobs, Isaac Orlando
James, Frank
Jay, Frank Augustus
J effries, John Henry

Jenkins, James Curtis
Johnson, Charles William
Johnson, James Thomas
Johnson, John Griffith
Johnson, Pierce Floyd
Jones, Roy Temple
Joslyn, Charlton E.
Judon, George
Keese, Roy Boardman
Kellogg, Frederick Ranney
Keyes, Asa, P. M.
Keyes, Charles George
Kinch, Arthur Lamborn
King, Francis Everton
Kletting, Oscar
Knoer, Charles Albert
Koretz, Emil
Lampton, Leon Eugene, P. M.
Landsberg, Marcus
Lane, Ralph Elthworthy
Lanphar, William Vaughn
Lawler, Oscar, P. G. M.
Lawler, Norman
Lawrence, John
Leavers, George Reynolds
Leeds, Walter Ransome
Leeds, William Harmon
Le:ffler, John Robert
Lerrigo, Francis Richard
Lester, Albert Austin
Levy, Oscar
Lewellin, Bert C.
Lewis, John Clement
Ley, George John
Lovejoy, William Robertson
Lyle, Charles Francis
Lynch, Edward C.
Maag, Jacob Henry
Maley, Charles Wesley
Mann, Henry
Mann, Henry James
Mann, Wm. Austin
Martin, David, P. M.
Martin, Gordon
Martin, James Rufus

Mastin, Thomas Chester
McAlpine, Bertram
McClure, John
McCully, Richard Overall
McDonald, Charles Alexander
McGarvin, Donne Clio
Mcintyre, Charles Ira, P. M.
McKeag, William Heisler, Jr.
McKillip, Denis Edward
McMillan, Erwin Adelbert
McNab, Frank Brown
McNelly, William Tolman
McWhorter, Thomas Lakin
Mendelsohn, Myer
Menthie, Gustav Frank
Meredith, William Gaylore
Merithew, Charles Frederick
Messacar, Frank William
Metzler, Milton
Michelson, Homer Manuel
Miller, William
Milligan, Noevall Webb
Mitchell, Chester Arthur
Monkman, Rollin Wilfred
Montgomery, Chester Arthur
Morrill, Mattson, Annis
Morris, Bernard
Morris, Jacob
Morrison, Edwin M.
Morgan, James Glenn
Morgan, William Brazelton
Moore, Robert Beach
Moss, Clemence Felton
Moss, George Franklin
Motta11hed, John Alexander
Mulkey, Frank Cannon, P. M.
Murphy, Denis Timothy
Musso, Rocco Vincenzo
Nairn, James Meatland M.
Nesbit, Hayes William
Nevin, Leon Wesley
Nickell, Francis Marion
Nickerson, John William
Nightengale, John Henry
Nutter, Lyman Eugene

437

'

438

ROSTER

Oliver, William Edwin
Orr, Oscar Owen
Ottarson, Earl Ferdinand Joaquin
Palomaras, Frank Josiah
Park, Clarence Eugene
Parker, Claude Irving
Parr, Frank A vory
Passow, Henry William Frederick
Patterson, Charles Edgar
Patterson, Peter F.
Patton, Vaughn Quain
Paul, John Rink
Pearson, Carroll Addison
Pearson, Otio Well en
Penn, Charles Franklin
Perillard, Joseph Daniel
Perkins, Albert Henry Scudder
Pettit, Zachary Taylor
Pierce, William Harry
Plumb, William Benjamin
Poll, Matt
Porter, Charles Alfred
Potts, Alexander Robert
Priddy, Ulysses Grant
Putman, Frederick Singleton
Ragan, Nathaniel Richard
Randle, William Alonzo
Reber, John Edward
Rees, William Davitl
Remington, Samuel W.
Renfro, Alva D.
Reynolds, Clay Moses
Richardson, William
Ritchie, Alfred George
Ritchie, James
Robinson, ' Henry James
Rogers, Joseph Redford
Rogers, Wm. Madison
Romans, Lorenzo
Romans, Theo. Denny
Royere, Paul Peter
Rush, Jnt1son Randolph
Rushton, George Wilson
Russell, Almen Butler
Sanborn, Clarcnee Kendall

..

Sanborn, Frank Herbert
Sanborn, Wheelock Kimball
Sayre, William Ernest
Schader, Herbert George
Schmidt, Herman Carl
Schroeter, . Robert George
Schultheiss, William Frederick
Schultz, Emil Albert
Searl, Albert ·
Seavers, Frank Loran
Shana.felt, Thomas Edwin
Shang, Hubert Story
Shaw, Cecil Guard
Shaw, Ross D.
Shea, Willard Wright
Shellen, Helmer Augustus
Sheasby, Gilbert Wash.
Sherlock, Henry William
Shilling, Warr.en ;Randolph
Shorb, Orri~ Ashley Andrew
Showen, James C.
Shultis, Jordan
Sincerbox, John William
Smith, Benjamin Nathaniel, Jr.
Smith, Frederick William
Smith, Melvin David
Smith, Ross Williams
Snively, Austin Calvin
Sovereign, Geo. Roscoe
Spalding, William Andrew, P. M.
Spear, Joseph Morgan
S;>ear, Samuel Dunn
Spencer, John Daniel
Spencer, T,b,omas Jarvis
Spring, Arthur Logan
Squire, Guy Oliver
Stead, Benson, Jr.
Stearns, Elmer Paine
Steen, Adam
Stephens, Albert Miller, Jr.
Stephens, Clarence Edward
Stephens, Clarence Eugene
Stephens, Edward Lee, P. M.
Stephens, Harry Shryock
Stevenson, Charles Oscar

ROSTER
Stewart, Frank
Stockwell, George Washington
Stoddard, Frederick H.
Stone, Harry Eli
St. John, Walter Lee
Street, Wm. Harry
Streshley, Richard Channey
Stuart, Joseph Leroy
Stumpf, Elmo John
Suell, Elijah
Sutton, Geo. Elmer
Syminton, Gilbert John
Taylor, Russell McDonald
Terrell, Herbert Tonrnan
Thorn, Cameron DeHart
Thom, Catesby Charles, P. M.
Thomson, James
Tibbitts, James Madison
Tomlinson, William Glenard
Treadway, Clinton William
Tresher, Arthur Ward
Trueblood, Samuel T.
Tyler, Benn Champion
Tyler, Frederick Williams
Vandegrift, Malcolm Robb
Van Dingster, Cornelius
Van Dingster, Hiram M.
VanWhy, August Marion
Vaughn, Alton Rogers
Vint, Robert
Blair, Philips Albert
Bullis, Wesley H.
Cohen, Abraham Louis
.i.colllns, Hagan Emery
Curl, William T. W.
Donaldson, John Robert

Von Poser, Otto Daniel
Vlodeck, Alexander
Walbridge, Otis Collins
Walsh, Daniel Potter
Ward, David Montzuma
Ward, George Washington
Washburn, William Johnson
.Weaver, Lucian Leroy
Weir, William Warren
Weller, William Woods
West, George Miller
West, Henry Hebard
Whalin, Elmer C.
Wheeler, Frank Harry
White, Charles Alfred
White, William
Wharton, Charles B.
Wicker, Clarence Baldwin
Wilkes, Alfred Galpin
Wilkes, Thomas
Williams, Herbert George
Willis, Frank Rominar, P. M.
Wilson, Charles Allen
Wilson, William Frank
Winans, Alonzo Cully
Winters, Charles Oscar
Woodsmall, John Walter
Yager, Sherman Alvin
Younkman, William Earl
-449.
Zeitz, William David

WITHDRAWN:
Halzllp, John Franklin
Hale, George Varnum
Jenning, Edward Paul
Leffler, 'Charles l3lackburn
LeVan, Charles William
Purdy, Frederick Theo.
Rlttlngsteln, Joseph

SUSPJ<~ND.ED FOH NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Ambrose, Frank Fielder
Carhart, John Warren
Aylsworth, George Webb
Harris, Cornellu1> Radcliff
Witham, William Henry

•Degrees conferred during the year.

4311

440

ROSTER

ROSTER

SANTA PAULA LODGE, No. 29r.
Santa Paula, Ventura ·county.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Fuu Moon.
OFFICERS:
David Wallace Mott, Master,
Thomas Hindman Bond, Chaplain,
Santa Paula
Hari;, Bernice Carver, Sen. Deacon,
Ray Comfort Joy, Senior Warden, Lucien Clare Rausauer, Jun. Deacon,
Alton Lucius Drown, Junior Warden,Willie McCain Stein, Marshal,
Frank Elwell Davis, Treasurer,
James Burrows Titus, Steward,
Edwin Virden, Secretary,
Wm. Mathews Reese, Steward,
Santa Paula
Harry Nicholas Synder, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Allen, William Henry
Gailey, Dan Gregg, P. M.
Best, Willis Austin
Good, Frank Elwin
Blanchard, Arthur Hall
Hales, WiJJiam
Blanchard, Nathan Weston, P. M.
Hardison, Guy Lyman
Hardison, Louis Arthur
Blanchard, Nathan Weston, Jr.
Hardison, Lowell Mason
Bond, Thomas Hindman
Brown, Rennie Colmer
Hardison, Oliver James
Harrington, James Hastings
Browne, Isaac Proctor, P. M.
Haugh, Joseph Reck, P. M.
Burson, Albert Louis, P. M.
Hawley, Oscar Franklin
Call, Arthur Milliman
Henderson, Herbert Curtis
Carver, Harry Bernice
· Hudson, Charles Henry
Cauch, John Robert
Hutchins, James Varcoe
Churchill, Joshua Perry
Hutchison, Robert Newton
ChurchilJ, Ralph Loven
Jenkins, Samuel Rogers
Claberg, Norris Leander
Joy, Olin Comfort
Clarke, Robert Montgomery
Joy, Ray Comfort
Clayton, Alfred Dorn
Kenney, William
Cleveland, Charles Jerry
Mack, James, P. M.
Corbett, Leonard White
Mahon, John
Crane, John Briggs
Martin, Ira Benjamin
Davis, Frank Elwell, P. M.
Mcintosh, George Robert
DeNure, Delos DeWolf
Miles, George Washington
Derbyshire, Fred Levi
Mills, Lauren Elmer
Draper, Arthur Edgar
Mott, David Wallace, P. M.
Drown, Alton Lucius
Naugle, Wm. Burket
Fagan, Michael
Orcutt, John Hall, P. M.
Farrand, George E.
Owen, Paul Guy
Farrand, Harry Mil ton
Pickering, James Alex.
Flisher, George Washington
Plaugher, Frank
Foster, Frank Cheney
J<,rey, William Lester
Plaugher, John Paul

Poplin, Robert Lee
Pruitt, Henry Daniel
Ransdell, Alex. Moore
Rausauer, Lucien Clair
Reese, Wm. Mathews
Rice, James Clarence
Richardson, John A.
Richardson, William Fenney
Salathe, Frederick
Say, Norman Oliver, P. M.
Scotti William Benjamin
Shain, Halver Alonzo
Skinner, Ernest Guy
Skinner, .George Horace
Sloan, James Harvey, P. M.
Slocum, Thomas Arnold
Simpson, James Allen
Snyder, Henry Nicholas
Sperry, James Clarence
Stein, Willie McCain, P. M.

441

Stetson, Richard N.
Stewart, James Foster
Strong, Jacob Corrington
Teague, Charles Collins
Teague, Richard Henry
Thomas, Simeon John
Titus, Frank Keith, J!, M.
Titus, James Burrows, P. M.
Todd, Marquis DeLafayette
Vance, Thomas Logan
Virden, Edwin, P. M.
Webb, Charles Tichner
Wt1bster, David Augustus
Wedekind, Edward
Whitmer, George
Wilson, Charles Berry
Wiser, Frank Alfred
Wright, Walter Henry
Youngken, Benjamin Noble
-102.
Youngling, Paul Fisk

WITHDRAWN:
Barry, George A.
Kays, Henry B.
Ramsey, W1l!lam Mccreery
Graham, John Biggs
Guiberson, Joseph Warren
Skinner, George Leonard
W1111ams, Frederick Smith
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF
Puckett, Charles Newton

Briggs, Emory
Gibson, John Archibald

DUES:

DIED:
Hardison, Wallace Libby
Underwood, William Lane

ROSTER

442

LOS GATOS LODGE, No.

ROSTER
292.

Los Gatos, Santa Clara County.
Stated Meetings, third Thursday in each Month.
OFFICERS:
Harry St. Clare Finley, Master,
Hugh Augustine R. Ramsay, Chap.,
Los Gatos
Robert Bowhan Chandler, Sen. Dea.,
George Anthony Green, Sen. Wara. , Russell Henry Sund, Junior Deacon,
Francis Marion Denickson, J. Ward., Charles Hunter Briggs, MarshaJ,
Arthur Berryman, Treasurer,
Robert Ernest Smith, Steward,
John Edward Ellis, Secretary,
Robert Abner Cilker, Steward,
Los Gatos
James Hardie Lyndon, Tyler.

Anderson, Anton, P. M.
Balch, Stevens Delos
Beckwith, Henry Seamon
Bell, Richard Runde!
Berryman, Arthur, P. M.
Blank, Moses Franklin, P. M.
Briggs, Charles Hunter, P. M.
Bullard, Sewell Francis
Butler, Edward Samuel Stone
Chandler, Robert Bowman
Charles, Charles
Chubbuck, Samuel Willis
Cilker, John Marion
Cilker, Robert Abner
Cole, Lawrens A.
Curtiss, Merritt C.
Decker, Charles Magnus
Derrickson, Francis Marion
E"astman, Harry Campbell
Ellis, John Edward
Ellis, William Robert
Emerson, George Randolph
Erickson, Andrew Lawrence
Finley, Harry St. Clare
Fretwell, Joseph Joel
Gober, Robert Pearis
Green, Geo. Anthony
Hook, Jonathan Wesley
Hogg, Raymond Clay
Hunter, Charles Mandeville

MEMBERS:
Hutchins, William Octave
Johns, Thomas Edwin, P. M.
Johnson, Albert
Jones, William, P. M.
King, John Jay
KnO"iVles, Frank Wesley, P. M.
Latham, Allen Roscoe
Lint, Peter Franklin, P. M.
Lowell, Frank Sumner
Lundblr.d, William Arthur
Lupton, Henry W.
Lyndon, James Hardie
Lyndon, John Weldon
Lyndon, William Weldon
Matheson, David
McMurtry, George Sherman
Mead, Thaddeus Home
Morrell, Jesse Burrell
Osmer, George
Pearce, Bartholomew William
Pearce, Franklin Walter
Pearce, James Henry
Pearce, James Henry, Jr.
Penny, Albert
Pierce, Charles Henry
Ramsay, Hugh Augustine R.
Rice, John Austin
Riggs, Zedd Smith, P. M.
Roberts, Carl Jackson
Roberts, Douglas J.

Roberts, Hugh Ross, P. M.
Roberts, Sumner Van Ness, P. M.
Robertson, Richard Felix, P. M.
Rogers, Noah Garcelon
Sage, Lewis Alvin
Sams, Abram Lash
Scammon, Charles Franklin
Schofield, John Albert
Sheffield, Leslie Ellsworth
Shirley, Horace .Gordon
Short, Wilbur Clinton
Siman, John Bohumil
Simon, Paul
Simpson, Samuel

443

Smith, Erle Temple
Smith, John William
Smith, Robert Ernest
Sporleder, William
Stanfield, James John
Sund, Russell Henry
Templeman, Arthur Wellington
Van Eaton, Charles Calwell
Warren, Linton Allen
Watson, Robert M:atthew
Weaver, Nelson Holland
Wells, Eagon C.
Wilder, Notia Irwin
Y occo, George Henry
-88.

WITHDRAWN:
Moore, David Charles

ORANGE GROVE LODGE, No. 293.
Stat~d Meetings,

Orange, Orange County.
Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:
Alton Lincoln Hitchcock, Master, Charles Waldo Meadows, Chaplain,
Orange
George Logan Jackson, Sen. Deacon,
Harrison Zachariah Adams, S. War., Edwin Leroy Gilman, Junior Deacon,
William Cushman Lee, Ju11. W arden, William Arthur Holt, Marshal,
Arthur Childs Newell, Treasurer,
Harry Franklin Dalrymple, Steward,
Walter Scott Gregg, S ecretary,
Ross Lloyd Folger, Steward,
Orange
John Sidney Braisher, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Adams, Harrison Zachariah
Brown, Edwin J,
Adams, John
Brown, William Martin
Arnii;n, William Laidley
Burnett, Ralph Lewis
Baker, Charles
Bush, William Tandy, P. M.
Bates, Charles Myron
Clark, Milo Monroe
Bennett, Francis Marion
Close, Nathaniel M. P.
Bishop, Clyde Livingston, P. M.
Collins, Isaac Lea, P~ M.
Boice, A. Croxton
Cooper, Harry R.
Bollinger, Robert
Crawford, Daniel Peers
Boring, Johnty Purcell
Dalrymple, Harry Franklyn
Bowen, David
Dalton, Robert C.
Braisher, John Sidney, P. M.
Donovan, Napoleon

ROSTER

444

Drake, David Clarence ·
Durfee, Louis Adelbert
Edwards, Nelson Thomas, P. M.
Eells, Arthur Lewis
Ferguson, Chancy C.
Field, Charles Otis
Folger, Ross Lloyd
Frederick, Joseph Hanna
Fullerton, James, P. M.
Gardner, Dian Rathburn
Gilman, Edwin Leroy
Gitchell, Fred E.
Granger, Wm. Delos
Gregg, Walter Scott, P. M.
Gregg, William Merrill
Haw, John Henry
Haynes, Chas. Asa
Hayton, John Burr
Helwig, Walter Lee
Hitchcock, Alton Lincoln
Hollister, Chas. W.
Holt, Ben Albert
Holt, William Arthur
Honey, Edwin Alonzo, P. M.
Jackson, George Logan
Jernigan, Samuel
Jessup, Sellers
Killefer, Joseph, P. M.
King, John Allen
Knesel, Jacob L.
Lankford, Asher Frank
Lee, Eugene Tewkesberry
Lee, Wm. Cushman
Mallory, Charles Perrin
MacMullan, Daniel A.
McDonald, William Henry
McTaggart, Neil Godfrey
Meadows, Charles Waldo
Meehan, John Edward

Mellor, Franklin Horace
Miller, Herman A.
Morgan, John William
Myers, Jesse David
Newell, Arthur Child, P. M.
Paine, James Robert
Park, Wm. B.
Perkins, Wyllys Warren
Peters, Herman Christopher
Pixley, DeWitt Clinton
Porter, John Robert
Potter, Noah Ulysses
Poussette, William Courthope
Riley, George Allan
Robertson, Francis Eloen
Rowley, William Orion
Royer, Daniel Franklin, P. M.
Schmidt, John
Scott, Alfred Jay, Jr.
Scott, Walter Maxwell
Small, Albert Kimball
Smith, Ernest Hartford
Smith, Willard
Smith, William Arthur
Sproule, Gilbert
Swinney, Vincent Bolivar
Tiffany, Abrah~m B.
Upham, Harry George
Vau~han, James Edwin
Wade, Llewellyn
Waldorf, Albert J.
Watson, Kellar E.
Weaver, Cyrus Edquist
Weber, Francis S.
Williams, Howard Orlan, P. M.
Williams, James Thomas
Williams, Warner Bryant, P. M.
Weymouth, Albert B.
-101.

WITHDRAWN:
Robinson, Fred Martin
SUSPENDED FOR
Johnston, Wllllam Daniel

NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:
Lounsberry, ·John Brown

RO:::l'l'ER

445

TRAVER LODGE, No. 294.
Kingsburg, Fresno County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Forrest Roy Stirewalt, Master,
Hugh L. Bishop, Senior Deacon,
Kingsburg
Francis Leo Rea, Junior Deacon,
Asa Bird Loomis Senior Warden, John Forrest Forney, Marshal,
Walter Henry Dresser, Jun. Warden, Martin Sandy Stirewalt, Steward,
Levi Garrett, Treasurer,
Ch~rles Jackson Clarke, Steward,
Nathan Alfred King, Secretary,
Charles Heimrath, Tyler.
Kingsburg
MEMBERS:
Barnard, Arthur Lee
Loomis, Asa Bird
Barry, William Scott
:McGovern, George Washington
Bishop, Geo. W.
Muggler, Albert Miller
Bishop, Hugh L.
Nelson, William Dennis
Bowhay, Newton J.
Ogden, Henry Samuel
Brown, Daniel E.
Ogle, Emmett
Buchanan, Alex. Marion
Olson, John Adolph
Buchanan, Jesse Alvis
Palladine, Antonio C.
Clarke, Charles Jackson
Payne, Oliver Payton
Collins, Manuel E.
Pennebaker, William Findlay
Curle, Garland Ward, P. M.
Peterson, William
Dill, Charles Henry, P. M.
Pillsbury, Joseph Davis, P. M.
Dresser, Walter Henry
Pinkley, Eugene Willarn
Duval, Ernest H. ·
Rea, D. Bunn
Ellison, Barton
Rea, Francis Leo
Estabrook, Joseph S.
Redenbaugh, Milton
Fowler, Oswald Percy
Rosendahl, Frank D.
Forney, John Forrest
Ross, Samuel A.
Fray, Reubin Henry
Rutherford, James M.
Garret, Levi
~tirAwaJt, Forrest Roy
Heimrath, Charles
Stirewalt, Martin Sandy
Hurst, Walter
Thomas, Henry Colby
Johnson, Andrew Edward
Van Buren, William Henry
Johnson, Axel
Walsh, Martin Franklin
Kimberlin, Ernest Marion, P. M.
Wolfe, Alonzo D.
King, Nathan Alfred, P. M.
Wolff, Seigmund
-62.
WITHDRAWN:
Holcomb, Clyde Lafayette
8USPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT
Mllleap, Eugene Albert

OF

DUES:

ROSTER

ROSTER

446

MOUNT JACKSON LODGE, No. 295.
Guerneville, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Williard Chester Cole, Senior Deacon>
David Benjamin Peugh, Master,
Edward Allen Peugh, Junior Deacor.,
Guerneville
William Arthur Turner, Sen. Ward., David Hetzel, Marshal,
Laur.e n Maucine Martin, Jun. Ward., Thomas Fluden Duncan, Steward,
Albert Pettis Mosely, Steward,
Oliver Wescott, Treasu~·er,
John Jefferson Keaton, Secretary, Marshall Florence, Tyler.
Guerneville
MEMBERS:
Abbey, Alfred Bailhche
Austin, David Lee
a.ustin, John Overton
Ayers, William Henry Martin
Bacon, Oscar Franklin
Bagley, Herbert Lincoln, P. M.
Banks, James Asa
Beattie, John, P . M.
Bohn, Frederick
Brown, Chester Brock
Campbell, James Madison
Carr, Charles Fremont
Cobb, Omer Otto
Cole, Williard Chester
Uole, William Lester
Duncan, Thomas Fluden
Florence, Arthur
Florence, Marshall
Hasek, Frank Joseph
Reason, George Walker
Hetzel, David
Hrusa, John
Irwin, Joseph Wesley
Keaton, John Jefferson
King, William
Kuster, Mathias
Many, Edward

Martin, Lauren Maucine
McGuffin, Isaac, P. M.
McPeak, Anthony
McPeak; Mathew Lawrence
Miller, James Zering
Mo1·elli, Joseph Barnaba
Morelli, Lee Gaulinzie
Mosley, Albert Pettis
Nuttall, William Henry
Oberiell, William
Peugh, David Benjamin, P. M.
Peugh, Edward Allen
Plath, Fritz
Prestwood, Jesse Franklin, P. M.
Prosek, Charles Martin, P. M .
Ridenhour, Lewis Edward
Riese, Samuel Helmute
Shera, Albert Edward
Snow, Phillip Henry
Teaderman, Edward
Tunstall, Robert Noel
Turner, William Arthur
Ungewitter, Henry Wl!st, P. M.
Van De Mark, George Franklin
Warren, Harry Claude
Watson, James Reade, P. M.
Wescott, Oliver
-54.

SUSPENDED FOR
Abbey, Alfred
Byron, Edward Herbert
Fickeisen, Frederick William

44;

NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Patton, John
Rule, William Johnson
Watson, Marvin Albert

DIED:
Corbaly, Walter Bond

SILVER GATE LODGE, No. 296.
San Diego, Sau Diego County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Gustaf Brelin, Master,
Charles Leonard Marks, Chaplain,
2078 University Avenue
. Franc.is James Sillifant, Sen. Deacon,
Parker Earl Baird, Senior Warden, Alfred Gordon MacKenzie, Jun. Dea.,
George Huet Garner, Junior Warden, Lawrence Augustus Creelman, Mar.,
Frank Augustus Frye, Trea·surer,
Charles Ernest Butler, Steward,
Joseph Henderson Francis, Secretary, Asa Roderick Jones, Steward,
1502 Front Street
Frank Dodgeson Jefferis, Tyler.
Acheson, Nathan Bailey
Airhart, Wm. Henry
Almgren, Louis, Jr.
Anderson, Gottfred
Bachman, Joseph Sylvester
Baird, Parker Earl
Bates, Oscar Winfield
Barth, William G.
Beach, Henry Ward
Beach, John Chauncey
Benoit, Victor
Benton, William C.
Billing, John
Bode, George Elton
Bolting, Charles Stewart
Boyle, Daniel
Bradley, Andrew Joseph
Brelin, Gustaf
Brisco, William Rigg
Brown, Edward Leslie
Bruschi, Virgilio Geacomo
Buck, Adam

MEMBERS:
Burbeck, Edward Mitchell
Butler, Charles Ernest
Bye, Charles Richard
Campbell, John
Camp bell, John C.
Cantrell, David Gooding
Cartwright, Royden M.
Cassidy, James Henry, P. M.
Chapman.-George Burton
Chilton, Ulysses Grant
Chilton, William Brown
Clark, James Smith
Clarke, Virdal Cushing
Clements, Austin Henry
Comstoek, Merton M.
Cornell, Anson Fiske, P. M.
Uovell, George Leonard P.
Covert, John Francis
Crandall, Wesley Clarence
Creelman, Lawrence Aug., P. M.
Daney, Eugene, P. M.
Davenport, Mayon S.

448
Davis, Fredric Eugene
Davis, William Justus, P. M.
DeFerrari, Joseph Charles
Doddridge, Frank
Doddridge, William Henry
Downs, Benjamin Fuller
· Doyle, Jarvis Lathrope, P. M.
Dudley, Irving Bendell
Edwards, Alfred Geo.
Ebiman, Henry Stephens
Elliott, Albert Jeremiah
Ernsting, Christian William
Escher, John Frederic
Fano, Edward Aaron
Fletcher, Edward
Francis, Joseph Henderson
Frye, Frank Augustus, P. M.
Fuller, George
Furguson, William Joseph
Garner, Geo. Hunt
Gearhart, Wilber Fisk
Gittings, Aeon R.
Green, Jay Homer
Greene, Wilber Eugene
Grier, Samuel Wood
Grove, Edward
Hakes, Charles Cliffor.:l
Hakes, Ledyard Burdette
Halbretter, William
H all, Wilbert Nathan
Hansen, George
Hardy, Charles Saunders
Harris, Felix
Harrison, George Richard
Harry, Sidney Curtis
Helms, Ruben Endorus
Henning, Thomas James
Hertzborne, Jacob Seymore
Hoar, Thomas Charles
Hoberecht, Albert
Holmquist, Claus
Holmquist, Carl Alfred
Holt, Lloyd
Hornbeck, Edson A.
Hulburd, Ebenezer Wallace

ROSTER
Hyers, Fred Cqrnelius, P. M.
Ingram, Wm. Baker
Ireland, Joseph
Iverson, Iver Bonde
Johnstone, Albert Edward, P. M.
Johnstone, Harry Smith
Johnstone, James Simpson
Jones, Alfred
Jones, Asa Roderick
Jones, Evan Robert
Julian, Charles Hueston
Kaford, Theo. Lawrence
Kaidel, John Theo.
Kearney, John Edgar
Kinser, Enoch Calvin
Klein, David
Kneale, Thomas
Kneale, William
King, Enoch Leander
Kretsinger, David Lewis
Kurtz, John Bloxham
Lundgren, John Edward
Lyke, Charles William
MacDonald, Allan
MacKenzie, Alex.
MacKenzie, Alfred Gordon
Malmberg, Nils
Marks, Charl es Leonard, P. M.
Marshall, Oscar Darlington
Marshall, Otta
McCreesh, Wm. Charles
McDnell, Charles Edward
McGar, Percy Herbert
McKenzie, Bernard Wright
McKenzie, George M.
Mcinnis, Magness
Merrill, John Gale
Mertzman, Frank
Millspaugh, Allanson Gillespie
Moran, Alford
Morey, Charles Eugene
Napierski, Julius L.
Naylor, Francis Bryon
Neely, William Thomas
O'Farrell, Fred

ROSTER
0 'Neil, James Clifford
Olson, Robert Emil
Palmeter, Charles Sumner
Park, Charles Clarence
Parker, Peter James
Peterson, William James
Phillips, Edwin Theophilus
Phillips, George Andrew
Phillips, George Washington
Pierce, Julian Clayton
Pollick, Hal'old Kent
Prien, Henry Frederick John
Pringle, William Henry
Robinson, Fred Henson
Rockhill, Clement
Santee, Addison J.
Schlesinger, Louis
Schrader, Adolph
Schrader, Charles Adolph
Schultheiss, Herman Martin
Shaw, Francis Albert Thompson
Shepard, William Milton
Sillifant, Francis James
Slye, George E.
Smith, Ernest Howard
Smith, Henry Francis
'Smith, William Mifflin
Snyder, Nelson Spencer
Spriggs, Frederick Henry
Stafford, John
Stead, Grove DeForest
Steade, James Milton

Sweet, Adelbert Hiram, P. M.
Symons, John Quiller
Taber, Homer Galena
Tarr, Cl;rence Lincoln
Taylor, Archibald, P. M.
Thomas, Richard A.
Thorp, Milton Rollin
Toms, George Ernest
Treahy, John Patrick
Trepte, Moritz
Turner, Abner Marleborough
Updegraff, William Henry
Vergon, James
Wade, William Edward.
Walker, Frank Lawrence
Walker, James Henry M.
Wandry, Bruno John
Watkins, Archie E.
Weiland, Edward Lewis
W elisch, Herman
Wellington, Charles Irwin
Wellington, Roy C~nnor
Wells, James, P. M.
Westcott, John Clark
Wilson, William
Willard, Harry N.
Wittemore, Arthur Dewitt
Wolf, Edward Wm. Julius Lewis
Wood, John Andrew
Wood, Royal A.
Wright, Orlando S.
Ziegler, Piter Baugh
-198,
DIED:

Timken, Henry

29

449

450

ROSTER

DUNSMUIR LODGE. No. 297.
Dunsmuir, Siskiyou County.
Stated Meetings, third Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Byron Francis Dunn, Master,
Charles Elliot Thompson, Chaplain,
. Dunsmuir
Jeffrey William Hawkins, Marshal,
Alexander Levy, Senior Warden,
Henry Schoonover Herron, Sen. Dea.,
William Thomas Small, Jim. Warden, "William Robert Lee1 Junior DeaconI
Gustav Albert Hut:aff, Treasu1·er,
John Willard Fitzgerald, Steward,
Francis Cuming Nourse, Secretary, Robert Purcell Flynn, Steward,
Dunsmuir
James Robert Shaw, Tyler.
Anderson, Fred
Banfield, Harry Wentworth
Bates, Sidney Lloyd
Beard, .John Augustus
Bowen, Elisha J.
Brazelton, William Harrison
Brown, Herbert Ernest
Bryan, Perey Abbott
Campbell, .John Milton
Carnahan, Charles Abraham
Clark, Sheldon
Culver, Alex. Eugene
Culver, .James Dallas
Cuvellier, Rene William
Dougherty, Charles Fremont
Dougherty, .James Barton
Du Bose, .John Evance
Dunn, Byron Franklin, P. M.
Elfendahl, ErD;est William
Ellis, William Ned
Emerson, Ralph Waldo, P. M.
Engwicht, George
Eubanks, Calvin
Fitz Gerald, .John Willa.rd
Fuller, Louis Clark
Gotthold, .Julius Charles
Grant, .Joseph Clement
Griffith, Aaron Sumner
Hallisey, .James
Harter, Albert Eli

MEMBERS:
Hawkins, .Jeffrey William, P. M.
Herron, Henry S.
Hill, Samuel Henry
Hobart, Frederick Edward
Hoffman, .Jacob Ziba
Hollis, Fred .John
Hughes, .J. 8.
Hutaff, Gustave Albert, P. M.
Ipach, Charles Wilmer
.Jenkins, Walter Storey
.Judy, Fred Vardan
Kilborn, Harry Alden
Lambert, Luther .Jackson
Land, Henry Augustus
Lee, William Robert
Levy, Alex., P. M.
Levy, .Joseph
Malone, George Edward
Marriner, Wilbert Plimington
Maxey, Walter Lewis
McCoy, George Watson, P. M.
McCoy, William Henry
Neeley, David Arthur
Nourse, Francis Cummings
Nunnemaker, Walter D.
Parkinson, George Martin
Reagan, Edwin D.
Roberts, William Bailey, P. M.
Robertshaw, .James
Russell, .James Edward

ROSTER
Salzman, George
Saunders, .James Lee
Schemmerling, Frederick Gustav
Schandel, Matthias Charles
Schulze, William Austin
Shearer, George Edward
Silva, Louis
Small, William Thomas
Smith, Ernest William
Stuckey, Harrison F.
Tarter, Horace Van
Thompson, Charles Elliott
Thompson, .Joseph

Atkins, John Hugh

Trudgeon, William George
Van Vactor, Harold Grant
Van Vactor, William Emmet
Walters, .John William
Walthers, Harry Lincoln, P. M.
Ward, Charles Rawson
Wentz, Henry
Wickes, Charles Elsworth.
Wilcox, Robert Burns
Wilkins, Alva Roswell
Williams, Albert Speneer
Wilson, Harry W.
-86.
Winne, Charles W.

WITHDRAWN:
Riekseeker, Ovid Hall
Shearer, Jessie Herbert

SUSPENDED FOR
Fussier, Julius Earl
Joesink, George Henry
McDonald, William Dorsey

451

NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Southwick, Roy Francis
Sull1van, Daniel Francis
Victory, W1lliam Henry

MOKELUMNE HIL.L LODGE, No. 298.
Mokelumne Hili, Calaveras County.
Stated Meetings, fourth Saturday in each month.
C. A. Berry, Jvfaster,
Glencoe
T. C. Peters, Senior Warden,
A. P. Clark, Junior Warden,
F. W. Suessdorf, Treasurer,
Ed P. Congdon, Secretary,
Mokelumne Hill

OFFICERS:
Themas Wilson Ta.xlor, Chaplain,
Thomas Hanna Irving, Sen. Dea.,
W. E. Esken, Junior Deacon,
Eugene Edgar Bruce, Marshal,
J cseph Dell Orto, Steward,
F~?nk Bernardi. Steward,
J. H. Sterling, Tyler.

Barazini, .Joseph
Berry, Clarence Allison, P . M.
Blake, Charles Henry
Bruce, Eugene Edgar, 1?. M.
Chaffee, Frank
Champion, ,John
Clark, AHiert Perry

MEMBERS:
Congdon, Edward Philip
Congdon, George .Julius
Cortmarsh, Frank Odilon
Cowell, Thomas Albert
Cox, .James Mason
Day, Charles Eugene, P. :M.
Day, Francie Henry, P. M.

ROSTER

452

Day, John Benjamin
Davidson, Samuel Louis
Davoust, William Louis
Dell 'Orto, Joseph
Dondaro, Bartholomew
Emerson, George
Esken, Walter Eliott
Flanders, Addison
Flanders, Henry Scribner
Gnecco, John
Guth, Charles
Hamaun, Theo.
Hexter, Louis
Holbrook, Eugene Harvey
Houston, Harry Lee
Jones, Evan Llewellyn
Luke, Simon
Lunt, Charles Riehard
Magaw, James, P. M.
Maher, Edward
Mayer, Joseph
Meyer, John Wilhelm
Crawford, Arthur Eugene

Miller,. Ralph Anderson
Murry, Henry Gordon
Pattie, Joseph Henry
Peek, Frank Wilson
Peters, 'rhomas Constantine, P. M.
Rathbun, Sylvian Ford
Read, Walter
Robinson, William Thomas
Rodonovich, John
Sauve, John Baptiste
Schrag, Henry
Shute, John William
Sterling, John Henry
Stewart, James Oscar
Suessdorf. Frederick William
Swithenbank, Albert A., P. M.
Taylor, Thomas William '
'
Thompson, James Thomas
Thompson, Lewis Quinton
Towle, Franklin Zeba
Wilson, Thomas Alex.
Yeager, Weldey Smith
-58.
WITHDRAWN :
Warnecke, Carl Main

EXPELLED :
Thompson, Ross Stevens
Bruce, Hardy Elsworth

DIED:
J ennings, Caesar
Vuslch, P e ter

"

LIBERTY LODGE, No. 299.
Santa Clara, Santa Clara County.
Stated Meetings the first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Horace Asbury Myers, Master,
Frank Nichols Smith, Chaplain,
Santa Clara
J ohn Moss Taylor, Senior Deacon,
Max Kohner, Senior Warden,
James Edward Glendenning, J. Dea.,
William Creque Raymond, Jun. War., Hamilton McVicar Russell, Marshal,
Albert H arris, Treasurer,
Samuel Howland Morrison, Steward,
Edward Chase, Secretary,
Th-0mas Henry Smith, Steward,
Box 562, Santa Clara
Louis Gairaud, Tyler.

ROSTER

453

MEMBERS:
Goodrich, Edward Elizer
Adams, Frank Yale
Gordon, Harry Virgil
Alden, Edward Henry
Gruwell, Lawrence Chriss
Alderman, Fred Alton
Allen, James Alphonso
Gruwell, Melvin Lawrence
Hall, Wallace Johnson
Angus, John Archie
Haman, Carl Wesley, p, M.
Ayres, Clarence Mortimer
Baker, Edward James
Hamilton, George Edward
Baldwin, Sheldon Smith
Hamilton, Henry John
Barli, Allessandro Luciani, P. M.
Hanscom, James Duane, P. M.
Beattie, David A.
Hargreaves, Robert Henry
Beattie, John Irving
Harris, Albert
Hart, Orlando Elton
Beattie, Murray
Benjamin, Otho Howard
Hart, Richard Franklin, P. M.
Berry, Henry Sanford
Hersey, Edward Johnson
Berry, John William
Hillis, John Ralph
Bishop, Ezra Francis
Hobson, Jesse Iris
Bohannan, Willis George
Horst, William, Jr.
Hutchinson, James
Bowdish, Melville Sherwood
Britton, Lewis Henry
Irwin, Samuel Joseph
Chase, Edward
Isham, Wallace Place
Chickowich, George John
Jackson, Newton Senter
Chilson, William Charles
,Johnson, Carl Frederick
Johnson, Hans Christian
Clark, Earl Danforth
Conner, Alfred Wordham
Johnson, William Henry
Cox, Jacob Milon, P. M.
Kenyon, Eugene Crouse
Coyne, Robert John
Killam, Amos Franklin
Cramer, George Franklin
Kimberlin, Louis Melvin, P, M.
Darling, Paul Lindsley
Kohner, Ignatz
Davidson, James Nelson
Kohner, Max
Landrum, Andrew Jefferson, P. M.
Dillon, Robert
Dixon, Mathew Alexander
Landrum, Thomas Moore
Downing, George Lucas, P. M.
Lonard, John
Durling, Perry Douglas
Lillick, Harry Andrew
Eberhard, Henry Philip
Linderoth, Nels August
Eberhard, John Jacob
Long, Lafayette
Eberhard, Oscar Michael
Machefert, Frederick Leon Emile
Elkins, Frank Edgar
Mackay, Hugh
Emig, Frank Benjiman
MacSwain, Alex. Reginald
Emig, Otto Jacob
Maddox, Daniel Irwin
Farley, Nye Lincoln
Matthews, Arthur James
Fletcher, Alex. B.
Mcintyre, Cyrus Albert
Gairaud, Louis
McWilliams, Glen
Glendenning, James Edward
Menzel, George Teaford
Goetz, Christian Herman
Menzel, Henry August

454

ROSTER

Menzel, Robert Frank
Menzel, Robert, P. M.
Miller, Calvin Wilson
Miller, John James
Moore, Charles Edward
Morling, Octavius Josiah
Morrison, John Cameron, P, M.
Morrison, Kenneth
Morrison, Lewis John
Morrison, Samuel Howland
Myers, Horace Asbury
Nelson, Virgil Elliott
Offield, Lorenzo Adolphus, P. M.
Osborne, Antrim Edgar
Packscher, Maurice Goodtime
Parker, Joseph McConnell, P. M.
Parker, Wilber Fiske
Percival, Freeman Foster
Peterson, Antone
Pfister, Henry Adolph
Putnam, Tarrant
Quivey, Willard Henry
Raymond, William C~eque
Rayner, Thomas Elkanah
Regnart, Carl Wetherell
Regnart, Percy Stuart, P. M.
Relph, Ovid Samuel
Rhodes, Jay Cloyd Barras
Roberts, Franklin Henry
Rob.e rts, William Edward
Roberts, William Henry
Roll, August Edward
Roll, John
Roop, George Ben,;amin
Rucker, Robert Russel
Rusconi, Vincent
Russell, Alex. Allen McVicar

Bean, Harry Joel
Harrison, Edward
Hirsch, Emll George

Russell, Hamilton McVicar
Russell, Lawrence
Schiermeyer, Christopher J.
Shields, James Ralph
Shiel<is, James Robert, P. M.
Smith, Frank Nichols
Smith, George Warren
Smith, Spencer Monroe
Smith, Thomas Henry
Smith, William Henry
Snively, Daniel
Stanley, Edward Payson
Stelling, Henry Gottlieb
Stocking, Leonard Emiah
Street, William Roe
Taylor, John Moss
Teubner, Gustave Louis
Thompson, John Homer
Thompson, Thomas S.
1'revarrow, Anthony
frogden, Wiley Hudelston, P. M.
Tully, George Franklin
Tully, Sylvanus Giles
Underwood, Alex. Richard
Van Dine, Melvin Everett
Waelty, Edward Henr1'
Wallace, David. Norman
Waste, J olln Morton
Wemer, Willia.ru Henrv
Whybark, George Washington
Wilkinson, Samuel Wallworth
Williams, Harry Lee
Withrow, Ralph Vargrave
Wood, Willard Abraham
Worrall, George H.
Worthington, Joseph Sharp
Zumwalt, Don John
-162.

WITHDRAWN:
Rice, Delmer Sherman
DIED:
Shoemaker, James Allen
Smith, Henry Kendall

,455

ROSTER

REDLANDS LODGE, No.

300.

Redlands, San Bernardino County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Noah Lee Levering, Master,
J ohn Day Easter, Chaplain,
Redlands
Homer P. D. Kingsbury, Sen. !Jea.,
Fred. H. Clock, Senior Warden,
Charles H. Clock, Junior Deacon,
Charles Elliott Latham, Jun. Warden, J ames Albert Stone, Marshal,
Robert Morris Hamilton, Treasurer, William Hildreth Montigel, St'd.,
Otto George Suess, Secretary.
George Frank Taylor, Steward,
Redlands
Samuel S. Waldo, Tyler.
MEMBERS :
Case, Ameron A.
Cave, Bennett White
Champion, Fred
Clark, Lemuel Watson
Clock, Uharles Livingston
Clock, Charles H.
Clock, Fred H.
Coffee, Luen
Cook, Alexander Bradshaw
Cook, William Omar
Cope, Edward Mitchell
Cortner, George Paul
Uovell, Charles Herbert
Covington, Peter Horton
Covington, William Dockrey
Crafts, Ge9rge Herbert
,,
Dart, L ewis Sidney
Davis, Alva Sylvester
Davis, Charles E.
Deck, Lewis
Deming, Harvey Clayton
Dostal, John Frank
Drake, James Frederick, P. M.
Drake, Robert Zale
Easter, John Day
Eaton, Clement Hand
E<lwards, Edward Frederick
Estle, Charles Bernard
Field, Jasper Newton
Fine, William Isac

Abbey, Charles Coy
Alex, John Francis
Allen, Halsey Warren, P. M.
Anderson, John Young
Ansley, James Gilbert
Bailey, Charles Frederick
Barker, George Henry
Barton, William Thomas
Ball, Archibald E.
Baughman, Charles H.
Bay, Alva Clinton
Beer, James Clark
Benson, Ralph William
Birch, James
Bishop, Peter Stephen
Boberick, John Joseph
Bowley, John
Branckman, Cornelius
Brock, Archibald Ellison
Bro:wn, Charles Corey
Brown, Charles Milton, P. M.
Browning, Charles Clifton
Brunn, Christian P.
Bryan, Edwin Horace
Burk, Carl Gustave
Burns, Ulysses Grant
Cameron, Andrew Charle!
Campbell, Walter McNutt, P. M.
Carlson, Carl Otto
Case, Alonzo

456
Fitzsimmons, Michael H.
Ford, Harry Henderson
Fowler, Frank L.
Gaylord, Clinton Gilbert
Grow, Arthur Earl
Gore, John Wesley
Guthrie, Edmond Pierce
Hagan, John Reese
Hall, Cassius M.
Hamilton, John W.
Hamilton, Robert Morris, P. M.
Harris, F rederick Thomas
Hart, Alex. Hamilton
Hartig, Charles S.
Hartzell, Joshua
Hatch, Albert Wilson
Hayward, Theron
Heitman, John Barston
Hendrickson, Andrew Jackson
Hersee, Charles Henry
Hewitt, Albert Murray
Hill, Howard Gilman
Hird, John Preston
Hobart, Charles H., P. M.
Hotchkiss, Fred E.
Hough, Ira Millard
Horne, Harry, P. M.
Howland, Rollie Miller
Hoyt, Charles Harmon
Johnson, Benton Oscar
Johnson, Nathan Augustus
Johnson, William M.
Johnstone, Herbert W.
K ennard, George Gilbert
Kennedy, Duncan
Kerr, John Angus Heber
King, Anderson Whitney
King, Lymon Maurice, P. M.
Kingsbury, Homer P. Donaldson
Kline, William N.
Koehler, George William
Lansdom, Lincoln E.
Larue, William T.
Laird, Alex.
Latham, Charles E lliott

ROS'l'JilR

ROSTER
Leland, George H.
Leonard, Arthur James
Levering, Noah Lee
Link, Sylvester
Long, Frank Law
Malone, Hatton CJ.
Mccaslin, Isaac Lafayette
Mccaslin, James Alex.
McNairn, William Daniel
McWhorter, Cyrus S.
Medland, Thomas James
Medland, William
Meserve, Frank Pierce, P. M.
Milligan, Joseph C.
Montgomery, George Washington
Montigel, F erdinand
Montigel, James Ralph
Montigel, William Hildreth
Moore, Andrew A.
Moore, Elliott Augustus
Moore, Paul Walter
Moore, William Herbert
Morris, George H.
Morrison, Frank Pierce
Mosbough, Edwin Harvey
Nelson, Arthur Pinkory
Neuls, Joseph Dale
Newton, William Martin
Nutter, Frank Wilbur
0 'Kelley, Robert Charles
Osbun, Albert
Peel, Thomas Leopold
Pentland, David
Phinney, Mellen Davis
Phinney, Mellen Mosher
Pierce, Martin· Frank, P. M.
Pondstone, Jacob
Porter, Orin
Prendergast, Jeffrey Joseph, P. M.
.Prescott, Frank Clark
Putnam, Willis E.
Pyle, William Lamborn, P. M.
Reed, David Craig, P. M.
Reeder, Thomas Benton
Reesor, Arthur E.

Thaxter, George C.
Thornquist, John Theodore
Thornton, Thomas
True, Alfred Adams
Truesdell, Charles E.
Tuck, Edward Payson
Tyler, Hoell
Vahey, Charles E.
Van Leuven, William Henry
Walcha, Albert George
Waldo, Samuel S.
Wales, Frank Adelbert
Wallace, John Easton
Warren, Eugene Charles
Wells, Karl Colby
Wheat, James Madison
White, William Lewis
Williams, Silas
Williams, William Griffiths
Wilmot, Paul Walter
Wolfin, George Hugh
Woodside, William
Worley, Henry Elmer
Wright, Carey Thomas
Yost, Charles
Zunmerman, Milton

Reid, Clarence Samuel
Richardson, John Franklin
Ring, William
Ritchey, James Thomas
Rivera, Joseph Apollo
Rockwell, Sidney Eason
Rucher, Rolle John
Ryan, John G.
Sanborn, Christopher Allen
Sanborn, Clifton E.
Sanford, Frank Eugene
Show, David Augustus
Setchfield, Richard
Skuce, Charles Elbin
Sparks, David Ernest
Sparks, Earl Leland
Springberg, Alfred Emile
Stearns, Augustus George
Steele, Louis Seymour
Stefan, Fred.e rick Joseph
Steward, J oseph Ireland
Stewart, William Hugh
Stone, James Albert, P. M . .
Suess, Jacob John, P. M.
Suess, Otto George
Taylor, Albert Edwin, P. M.
Tayler, George Frank
Hines, Frank Benjamin
Inch, Thomas Benjamin

457

-203.
WITHDRAWN :
Myers, Robert H.
Noble, John S.

SUSPENDED FOR
Clark, Charles Wllliam

NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Diss, John Wallace Fox
Patton, Herbert

Craig, Scipeo
Mitchell, Vinton Littleton

DIED:
Riggs, James Sherburne
Ryer, George C.
Wright, Wllliam K.

41i8

ROSTER

ROSTER

ONTARIO LODGE, No.

301.

Ontario, San Bernardino County.
Stated Meetings, first Frid;'-Y in each month.
OFFICERS:
James Henderson Hatcher, Master, Wilbur Walstein Smith, Chaplain,
Ontario
Edward Brunner, Senior Deacon,
Albert Dennis Hagaman, Sen. Ward., Kennith Dunbar Blaikie, Jun. Deacon,
Frederick Edward Unholz, J. Ward., Cassimer Beringer Kustel, Marshal,
Cornelius Garrett H . Bennink, Treas., Clarence Dene! Van Wie, Steward,
Robert Orwig Brackenridge, Sec'y, Charles Pierce Fuller, Steward,
Ontario
Isaac Whitaker Whitaker, Tyler.
Abrams, Elijah Danford
Andrews, Josias J.
Armstrong, Abel
Armstrong, John Samuel
Banks, John Wesley
Beesley, George Edward
Beesley, John George
Bennink, Cornelius G. Henry
Berger, Sheridan Y.
Blaikie, Kennith Dunbar
Blaikie, William Francis
Blain, Charles Edward, P. M.
Brackenridge, Robert Orwig
Bradley, Le Roy
Brunner, Edward
Burleson, Esta B.
Caldwell, Edward Volom
Caldwell, John Volmer
Catto, William
Cheel, Stanley George
Chipps, William Clay
Clark, John JI.
Cohn, John Edward
Collins, Constantine
Crane, George Rice
Cutler, Lewis Tasheira
Durfee, Ulysses Grant
Dyar, Guy Edward
Fallis, George Frederick
Farron, Lewis Haile

MEMBERS:
Ford, Charles Benjamin, P. M.
Frankish, Charles
Fredendall, John Frank
Frost, John
Frost, William Henry
Gale, Augustus J.
Glass, Silas Franklin·
Glenn, Byron Price
Gray, Robert, P. M.
Hadden, Abram Olmy
Hagaman, Albert Dennis
Hall, Albert Jay
Hatcher, James Hendersoa
Henry, William Penn
Hill, Eugene Leroy
Holbrook, George Robert
Holbrook, Jay
Howard, George F.
Jackson, Harrison Webster
J esson, Jacob
J ohnston, George Francis
.Tones, Isaac
Jones, James C.
KelsPy, Carl .r.
Kennedy, Harry Clayton
Kustel, Cassimer Berringer
Lee, Dorr B.
Lee, .Tohn A.
Lee, Lane R.
Leeson, Richard H.

'.459

Robertson, John Polk
Linder, Lee
Rosenberger, William Dayton
Lord, IGeorge Johnston
Russell, Solon Young
Maben, Jay D.
Sawyer, Francis Lewis
MacLeod, Malcom H.
Scott, John
Magill, Robert David
Shepherd, Benjamin Chaffey, P. :M.
Magley, Jesse Elmer
Sheppard, Christopher
Mann, Bathurst Billers
Short;
Richard Childs
Martin, John William
Simpson, William D.
Martin, Ora F.
Smith, George .l:"ettit
McMinn, James L.
McQuigg, Martin Van Buren, P. M. Smith, James St. Clair, P. M.
Smith, Lovias Oliver Perry
Merrill, Lewis E .
Smith, Wilbur Walstein, P. M.
Merrill, William Kern
Southworth, Alva Morrison
Mitchell, John Shepard
Spalding, James S.
Minter, Frank
Spencer, Ripley F.
Moore, Albert Dean, P. M.
Spies, Henry Alvin
Morris, John Todd
Thompson, Albert Henry
Morrison, Angus M.
Tucker, Lawrence Ed.
Motsinger, Jacob L .
Tyler, Labien Jeheil Elmer
Murphy, William Roe
tJnholtz, Frederick Edward
Nichols, Thomas Milan
Vandegrift, Samuel G.
Palmer, Millard Fillmore
Van Wormer, Edwin B.
Payne, Jesse Howard
Van Wie, Clarence Deuel
Payne, William Edward
Whitaker, Isaac Whitaker
Phillips, Hickman
Williams, Bertram Eldred
Powell, John Benjamin
Wright,
Jake Cullen
Rarick, John ·
Zenze, Anton
Reid, Jam&.i Perry
-117.
Rhodes, Edwin
WITHDRAWN:
Wigglesworth, Alembert G.
Rankin, William Atkinson

Broail, Thomas
•Hooper, Charles Jose
•Atflllated during the year.

DIED :
Johns, Lloyd Garrison
Palmer, Ara Htland

ROSTE~

460

461

ROSTER

PORTERVILLE LODGE, No. 303.
SANTA LUCIA LODGE, No. 302.
King's City, Monterey County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
William Clayton Hamilton, Muster, Lambert H. Smith, Senior Deaco~
Ki~g City, Cal.
Wm. Annear, Junior Deacon
'
'Wm. Madison Branstetter, S. Wa.r., George P . Henry, lvfarshal, '
Christopher J. Falkenberg, Jun. W., Hans ]. Lang, Steward,
Robert Ralston Allen, Treasurer,
H. A. Kent, Steward,
Joseph Rice, Secretary,
David Lerse, Tyler.
King City, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Allen, Robert Ralston, P. M.
Leese, David
Annear, William
Lumley, Walter Johnston, P. M.
Beam, John Worloek
Mardon, John B.
Basham, Robert Matteson
Melander, Charles Richard, P. M.
Beebe, Frank Merritt, P. M.
Montgomery, Herbert Chester
Besse, John Nelson, P. M.
Palmer, FI·ank Lovell
Branstetter, William Madison
Patterson, Alex., P. M.
Brown, James M.
Prewitt, John Calhoun
Bunte, Herman Deatrich
Rapp, Jacob D.
Bunte, Samuel Nahman
Reynolds, Arthur Eugene
Copley, Andrew Jackson
Rice, John Henry
Domianovich, Charles Frank
Rice, .Joseph
Falkenberg, Jorgen Christian
Rogers, Robert James
Gates, Frederick Wellings
Sawyer, Charles Waite
Giacomazzi, Silviero Frank
Schroeder, Frederick William
Hall, Racine D.
Smith, P erey Hatton
Hamilton, Thomas Scott
Stevenson, William Grant, P. M.
Hamilton, William Clayton
Talbot, David Paul
Hanning, Charles Albert
Thorpe, George C.
Harboldt, John Fielding
Wallis, Daniel Whitfield
HarriA, Robert Uriah
Warren, Alfred
Henry, George Philip, P. M.
Westlake, Frank Harloe, P. M.
Juhl, Gregorious ".Frederick
Witham, James Edward
Kent, Henry Arthur
Whitam, John
Keef, Robert Melvin
Wood, William Abraham
Landrum, Joseph MeKendrie
Woods, Walter Trew
Lang, Hans Jasperson
Wetzel, Harry Edward
-54.
Hedgpeth, W!lllam Rufus

WITHDRAWN:
Long, Joseph Johnson, Jr.
DIED:
Dom!anov!ch, John

..,.,-. .

Porterville, Tulare County.
Stateil Meetings, second Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Allan Rutherford Laidlaw, Master, Andrew Leslie, Chaplain,
Porterville
Obed William Carr, Senior Dcaco11,
Walter Sylvester Shippey, Sm. War., Frank Loufburrow Kennedy, J. Dea.,
Andrew Allan Leslie, Junior Warden, Leslie Vineyard Claubes, Marshal,
Wilko Mentz, Treasurer,
George Watson Willis, Steward,
Joseph Franklin Wright, Secretary, Robert Musgrave Higgins, Steward,
Porterville
Gustaf Adolf Ekman, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Allen, Benjamin
Feemster, Robert Frank
Baker, Nils
Flaugher, John Daulton
Baker, Swan
Frame, Harvey Andrew
Baier, Phillip Murra.y
Frankum, George Taylor
Gilbert, Samuel Jonathan R., P. M.
Ba.rbero, Charles Gardner
Grant, Walter Adams
Barbero, Harry Lee
Grant, William Henry
Bearse, Frederick Ellsworth, P. M.
Greenough, Carl Rutherford
Bearse, John Theo.
Black, Franklin Ellsworth
Hale, George Hoyle
Hall, John Dallas
Bolfing, Charles Thomas
Hathaway, Harry May
Boller, Frank Villette
Boller, Jacob Franklin, P. M.
Hathaway, Oscar Clark
Brey, Hiram F., P. M.
Hayes, George
Brooks, William Herbert
Hayes, James Crayton
Burford, Marvin .Alvah
Henderson, Marion K.
Buswell, Charles William
Henderson, Thomas Edwaru
Carle, Charles Joshua
Henry, Rufus Francis
Carpenter, Byron L.
Hewey, John William Ernest
Carr, Obeci William
Higgins, Charles Raymond
Carter, Henry Barton
Higgins, Robert Musgrave
Clark, Frank
Hodges, Charles Parker
Claubes, Charles H., P. M.
Hoobler, Samuel
Claubes, Leslie Vineyard
Hoover, Joseph Laird
Claubes, Henry Erving
Horbaeh, Robert, P. M.
Claubes, Todil Cornelius, P. M.
Hornbeak, Montgomery Adams
Cramer, Moses Lockhart.
Howell, James
DeWitt, Marcus Elmo
Howell, John Andrew
Ekman, Gustaf Adolf
HugheR, .Tolin Hugh
Etter, Albert
James, John Henry
Jones, Wiley Franklin
FarnAworth, Charles Clark, Jr.

ROSTER

Kennedy, Frank L.
Reynolds, Amos H.
Kessler, Joseph Pyle
Robbins, George Lovell
King, Guilford Dudley
Rogers, Carroll Bishop
Laidlaw, Allan Rutherford
Root, Coryden Bee
Lambdin, Harry Willis
Sayre, Alfred Miller
Lawrence, George Edward
Schulz, Adolph Gustave, F°. M.
Leslie, Andrew
Schulz, Harry August, P. M.
Leslie, Andrew Allan
Schulz, Lou Ernest
Leslie, Frederick Arthur
Scott, Eugene Louis
Leslie, John August
Settle, J 'a mes Pendleton
Leslie, William Walter
Shippey, Walter Sylvester
Lewis, James Sylvanus
Shultz, Joseph Franklin
Lockyer, George
Stone, Frederick
Lockyer, John Burns
Sturm, Daniel
Lord, Mount Cloud
Sutherland, Bert John
Lumley, Aubrey Montague
Templeton, Hugh
Lumley, Gerald Robert
'l empleton, John Lee
Traeger, Charles Albert
Masner, Joseph Wilfert
Traeger, Henry Godfrey
McDonald, Robert Henry
McFarland, Robert West
Ulmer, Joseph Ames
Van Deusen, Ezra Bullar
McGowan, Arthur Wayne
Velie, Fred Ward, P. M.
Mcintyre, Thomas
Ward, Jackson Orrin
McKeany, Edward Montgomery
Wessman, John August
McLees, Martin C.
White, Carlos Moulton
Mentz, Wilko
Mitchell, joseph
White, Ernest Nathaniel
White, Howard Collins
Mitchell, Michael
White, James Smith
Mooney, William J.
Murphy, George Christopher, P. M. Williams, John Howard
Williams, Robert George, P. M.
Murry, George Gordon
Willis, George Watson
Nesbitt, Charles Wesley
Winters, Lewis William
Newbury, Andrew Jackson B.
Woodley, Frank Erwin
Owen, Levi Milton
Wright, Hiram Roy
Phillips, William Bamber
Wright, Joseph Franklin, P. M.
Porter, John Harvey
Wright, William Whitfield
Price, Thomas Lawrence
Young, William Moore
Putnam, Willie Porter
Reinhardt, Harry Joseph
-135.
WITHDRAWN:
Hand, Clifford Nott
DIED :
Gilliam, Samuel Thompson

ROSTER

463

REE_DLEY LODGE, No. 304.
Reedley, Fresno County.
Stated Meetings, second Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

M. W. Beadle, Master,
E. W. Crosby, Senior Deacon,
Reedley
George A. Harkleroad, Jun. Deacon,
A. V. Acker, Senior Warden,
P. V. Bartos, Marshal,
John W. McBrier, Junior Warden, A. T. Bollinger, Steward,
C. W. Mathews, Treasurer,
C. A. Hale, Stewara,
H. F. Winnes, Secretary,
H. M. S/laffer, Tyler.
Reedley
..J:EMBERS:
Acker, Arthur Van
Hicks, John Collins
Barnes, Charley Leveritte
Jones, Chester Clarke R.
Bartos, Paul V.
Lombardi, Julius Caesar
Beadle, Max W., P. M.
Lowery, .John Linton
Bollinger, Albert Thomas
Mathews, Carey Woods
Bollinger, John Franklin
McBriar, John
Caesar, Thomas
McClanahan, Allen Ensley
Chisolm, Joseph Robert
McCubbin, John Cameron
Clarke, William Henry
McDonald, David Chalmer
Coffin, Christian August
Moomaw, Joseph Burson
Crosby, Albert Canning
Neil, James Polk
Crosby, Everett Wilber
Neil, William Rice
Crossfield, Otto .J ohannis
Osterhout, Frank Edward
Davies, Walter Young
Rankine, John
Deneen, Marion
Reed, Daniel Lyle
Dewhirst, Roy Daniel
Shipe, James Walker
Gebhart, Erastus Manford
Simpson, Albert Taylor
Green, William Wesley
Simpson, David Calviu
Gummow, Charles
Sowell, William Henry
Hale, Clarence Alvin
Studley, Frank E.
Hathaway, Roswell Rube
Thomas, John Neil
Hawkins, George Augu~tus, P. M.
Wasgatt, Frederick Marcian
Hawkins, William Lard
Wi.nnes, Harry Fmnk
WITHDRAWN:
Dudley, Christopher

-46.

464

ROSTER
ROSTER

AZUSA LODGE, No. 305.

Stuart, Samuel James
Robinson, George Leroy
Wade, Willard J., P. M.
Rury, William Isaae
Ward, Herbert Ellsworth
Sheldon, William Adams, P. M.
Weeks, George Warren, P. M.
Sitton, Jerry
Wetherby, John Francis
Smith, Conrad Le£lie
Wilson, Hiram L.
Smith, Delta Cornelius
Woodward, John Geoffrey
Stark, Riney
Streshly, William Orlando
Y: ITHDRAWN:
Gordon, Hugh Taylor
*Bain, William Guy
Howard, Wallace Lawton
Bidwell, Rolfe Bishop
Mathias, Jasper Chester
Braddy, William
Morgan,
Don De Witt
Casey, Ben Shane
Rogers, Andrew Berry
De Shields, John Walter
Smith, Frank Richard
Gordon, George Basil
*Suydam, Keith McDonald
Gordon, Charles Franklin
West, Oscar Roy

Azusa, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Thomas F. Heth, Master,
George Martens, Chaplain,
Azusa
Chas. Frederick Richardson, S. Dea.,
Edwin Mace, Setiior Warden,
Cornelius Delta Smith, Jun, Deacon,
Conrad Leslie Smith, Jutiior Wat'den, Charles Henry Lee, Marshal,
John William Calvert, Treasurer,
Leland Starke Poage, Stewat'd,
Edward E. Helsby, Secretary,
John Hopkins Akard, Stewat'd,
Azusa
George Washington Juden,· Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Anderson, Julius Hiekok
Heimbaugh, James Wilson
Barker, William Thomas
Heth, Thomas F.
Beardslee, David Arthur
Heth, William W., P. M.
Bernard, Kenneth Lee
Huber, Julius Edmund, P. M.
Berner, Orlando James
Juden, George Washington
Bierbower, Hugh Reed
Kaufman, Frank Enos
Briggs, Henry Dwight
Ketchum, Isaae Williams
Burt, Osear Marshall
King, Dana Charles
Calvert, John William, P. M.
Lee, Charles Henry, P. M.
Casey, Charles Clark
MacDonald, Edward Andrew
Clark, l!'red Longworth, P. M.
Maee, Edwin
Coffman, Charles Henry
Martens, George, P. M.
Cole, Winfield Seott
Mattatall, Levi Peter
Coulter, Herbert M.
McNa'ir, William Righten
Crane, Edgar Willis
MeNair, Donald Wallace
Criekmore, Joseph Clinton
Metcalfe, James Arthur
Daly, John E.
Moran, George Wallaee
D,avis, William Allan
Newby, Robert Daniels
Dawson, Robert Wesley, P. M.
Noel, . Charles Lee
Dingman, Frank Lincoln
Noel, John Thomas
Dougherty, William. Emmet
Parkinson, Henry Fitzgerald
Ellis, Samuel Augusta, P. M.
P oage, Leland Starke
Fliek, David Thomas
Ramsaur, Ben Walker
Follows, Ralph Morton
Ramsaur, Robert Shuford
Foote, John Lafayette
Ream, Charles Osear, P. M.
Fox, Edward Albert
Petree, Oran Adrian
Fraisher, Robert Love
Rieherdson, Charles Frederiek
Glover, George Edwin
Riehter, Ernest George
Hall, Almon Asa
Roaeh, Arving David
Hall, Hiram Thomas
Robe1·tson, Benjamin Columbus

4ti5

-75.

DIED:
Fralsher, William Washington
Rury, Henry

Aikman, William

ASHLAR LODGE, No. 306.
Colton, San Bernardino County.
Stat.e d Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
J ames Macdougall, Master,
Meyer Solomon, Chaplain,
Box 418 Colton
E arl Jayson Strack, Senior Deacon,
Oscar Delfield Guire, Sen. Warden, Thomas C. Lanier, Junior Deacon,
Fred Arthur Button, Junior Warden, Thomas Charles Browning, Marshal,
Chester W. Curtis, Tt'easurer,
George A. Fisher, Steward,
George Lyman Coe, S eCt'etat'y,
Harry Millard Carr, Steward,
Box 361, Colton
William Frederick Wilbur, Tyler.

Adkins, Thomae Stanton
Allen, Robert Finlay
Andrews, John Jay
Andrews, Samuel Edward
Beaeh, W eeley Heman
Boalich, George

•

MEMBERS:
Bright, Frederiek Riehard
Brink, Irwin William, P. M.
Browning, Thomas Charles, P. M.
Brooks, Silas Fleteher
Bruee, Charles Albert
Bruee, David Frederick

•Degrees conferred during the year.
30

ROS'rER

466
Butterfield, Minor Clarence
Button, Fred Arthur
Carr, Elijah Goodrich
Carr, Harry Millard
Caster, George Brinton, P. M.
Champion, Josepn Austin
Clark, Ward Eastman
Coe, George Lyman
Colvin, Elton Samuel
Colyer, Fred Wilber ·
Cosgrove, Eugene William
Crawford, Oscar Gerard
Culross, William Burdick
Curtis, Chester W.
Deakins, Robert Lee
Devlin, Andrew Jackson
Emery Ormiston L .
Fancher, ·William Hoyt
Fox, Abram Stoner
Frazer, Fred
Glascock, William Leon
Gordon, William Clark
Green, George Matthew, P. M.
Griswold, Alfred Hatch
Guire, Oscar Delfield
Hamerly, John Wash.
Hanna, John Bennett, P . M.
Hanna, Wilson Creal
Hanson, James William
Hatt, Joe Thomas
Hays, Wilson
Hebberd, Walter Channing
Hendee, Thomas Frederick
Higgs, Albert James
.Tohnson, William Cttrtis
.Tohnston, Charles Edward
Jones, Henry
Kirsch, Karl Eugene
Kno~, James David
Lancaster, James Wash.
Lanier, Thomas C.
Lash, Frank Gilbert
Burral, George Edward

Lightfoot, Silas Swallow
Lockh!lrt, Thomas Reed
MacdougaU, James
Madison, Forest Lamont
Martin, Robert Johnston
Matot, John Ernest, P. M.
McGregor, John
McLean, William Bernatd
McKinney, John Alex.
Minnick, Albert
Monnet, James Larrison
Morris, Cramer Bismark
Nauert, Charles
Newcomer, Lyle Caleb
Perrin, William Artemas
Pumphrey, William Byton
Purdum, Wade
Ratliff, Milton Sexton
RP.adman, William Harmen
Ripley, Thomas Freed
Robinson, Devillo
Rutherford, John Dew
Sharpe, John Jack
Shepley, Bertie Halsey Wm. L.
Smith, Howard Burton, P. M.
Smith, Thomas James
Solomon, Meyer
Spring, Adolphus Dualle
Stone, Byron Andrew
Stone, William Eli
St:cock, Earl Jayson
Strong, Donald Watkins
Swartz, Daniel Crist
Swepston, Mayo Bundy
Thornton, Arthur Gilbert
Ward, William Gillmore
Warner, Josephus Darby
Warnick. Frlink RltS~el, P. M.
Wilber, William Ptederick
Wilcox, Wilson Wallace
Wilkerson, ~11gene :B.a ker
-96.
Wright, Albert

WITHDRAWN:
Vogel, Herman Gottlelb

ROSTER

467

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:
Barmour, Warren
Creamer, Edward Franklin
Wetteroth, Frederick
DIED:
Hamilton, Charles Burnes

SANTA MONICA LODGE, No. 307.
Santa Monica, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, third Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
John Ansley Balsley, Master,
David Johnson, Chaplain,
Santa Monica.
Ira Danforth Wheeler, Sen. Dea.,
Cladius Walton Rogers, Sen. War., William Frederick Wiebiers, /. Dea.,
William Newton Barrow., Ju11. ivar., Martin Edwin Balsley, Marshal,
Clark Homer Power, Treasurer,
Willis Allen Norton, Steward,
Charles H . Thomas, Secreta.ry,
Wirt P. Griffis, Steward,
1424 10th St.
.Bernard Su.es, Tyler.

Balsley, Benjamin Lewis
Balsley, Ben Randale
Balsley, John .Allen
Balsley, Martin Edgar
Barker, Alvin Perry
Barrow, William Newton
Bloye, Herbert Arthur
Bontty, Edward Frank
Botighner, John D.
Boston, Andrew Jackson
Boxall, William Louie '
Braden, John Charles
Brown, Joseph Gabel
Brown, Thomas Pollock
Browne, John David11on H.
Carlisle, Earnest Otway
Carpenter, Stephen Fisk
Case, Lynn Hess
Case, Samuel Hess
Chambers, William Henry
Chambers, Willie Lee
Coffman, Harry Lee

MEMBERS:
Cota, Frank Walter
Dales, Charles Scott
Dales, Edward Verner, P. M.
Dexter, George Byrd, P. M.
Dombroski, Gottlieb
Doty, George Francis
Dow, Roscoe H.
Dudley, Thomas Horace
Dunham, Jamee Elias
Emerson, Edward
Engelbrecht, Henry John
. Failor, Benjamin Franklin
Feather, Marcus D.
Fife, William Wilson
Folsom, Niles Rathbone, P. M.
Garry, Stephen Thomas
Gidley, Frank Perry
Gillis, Robert Conran
Gillis, William Templeman, P. M.
Goehring, Herman Franz
Goldman, Isaac St. .Clair
GriJ!ilh, Wirt P.

•
ROSTER
ROSTER

468

Hamilton, Newell Hiram
Hasse, Carl Edward
Hawes, Albert David
Heath, Stacie Ross
Hemingway, John Charles
Hostetter, William Morgan
Hunt, Albert F.
Hunt, John Standish
Hunter, John Stuart
Hutton, George Howard
Jackson, Arthur Edmund
Jackson, James Henry ·
Jamison, Allen Muir
Jenkins, Robert Chesley
Johnson, David
Keller, Henry Workman, P. M.
Kennedy, James Wash.
Kennedy, John
Kimball, Myron Holly
LaBerge, Joseph Rosario
Lehman, August Herman
Lockwood, William Salte
McHenry, William A.
McPherson, A. William
Miller, Robert Meek
Mooser, Leon Nutin
Mooser, Joseph Nathan
Nichols; John William
Norton, Willis Allen
Odell, Samuel William
Peak, Emmet Steadman
Peterson, Lauritz Angkjar
Power; Clark Homer
Elser, Frederick

469

Proctor, John Barton
Pullham, John Alvin
Randall, Ellis E.
Reynolds, James Walter
Rockwell, Lorenzo Anson, P. M.
Rogers, Claudius Walton
Schader, Carl Francis
Sheckles, Eugene Cassidy
Smale, John B. Emile
Smith, Nathan Franklin, P. M.
Steen, Harold
Stewart, Joseph Brown
Sues, Bernard
Summerfield, Kennedy Brown
Sweet, Alonzo Frederick
Sweetzer, Edward Healy
Tanner, Richard Robert
Taylor, James Wesley E.
Thomas, Charles Henry
Todd, J. "Walter
Tullis, Oliver Grant, P. M.
Vogel, Frank William
Volkman, Martin Francis
Volkman, Martin Henry
Webb, Henry Horace
Webb, Perry Horace
Wheeler, Ira Danford
Wheeler, Samuel A.
Wiebers, William Frederick
Wilson, Earl Alonzo
Young, Eugene Louis
Zander, William Edward
-109.

WITHDRAWN:
Spies, Henry Alvin
DIED:
Smith, John Byron

MONROVIA LODGE, No. 308.
Monrovia, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, second Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Edmund Elnathan Knepper, Master, Francis Wayland Parsons, Chaplain,
Fred. Abraham Slick, Senior Deacon,
Monrovia
Charles Taylor Renaker, Sen. Ward., Loring Leete Day, Junior Deacon,
Ebenezer Ingram, Junior Warden, Edward Spence Armstrong, Marshal,
Joseph Albert Fraulob, Steward,
John Henry Bartle, Treasurer,
Sanford Maxan Barber, Secretary, Samuel Emerson Salisbury, Steward,
Richard Bates Cowan, Tyler.
Monrovia
MEMBERS:
Eager, Frank Octavius
Allison, John Stephen
EaRou, William Reaves
Anderson, Charles
Armstrong, Edward Spence, P. M. Esberger, Max Ernest
Esberger, Michael Joseph
Bacon, Williamson Ware
Farman, Willis Edward
Baker, Herbert Lewis
Fowler, Hardiman
Barber, Sanfor<l Maxon
Fowler, Joseph, P. M.
Bardill, John Warren
Fraulob, Joseph Albert
Barnes, Leonidas
Fulton, Frederick Gans
Barnes, Samuel William
Glenny, Thomas
Bartle, John Henry
Griffith, Ira Jackson
Barth, Otto Frank
Hall, William Creighton
Best, Maynard Harvey
Handley, Damon Carl
Blair, James Elmer
Hanna, William Laghrin
Baurne, Frank Smith
Harris, Jonathan Bentley
Bowerman, Clarence Clark
Harvey, James William, P . M.
Bowos, Charles Austin
Hawes, Frederick Norman
Brooks, William Alcl,en
Hayes, John
Casner, Charles Wesley
Hinters, Adolph Christian
Cooper, Victor Roscoe
.3:otehkiss, Leonard Edward
Cornes, Frank J., P. M.
Howell, Franklin Davenport
Cowan, Richard Bates, P. M.
tngersoll, Charles Kelly
Crandall, Horace E.
Ingram, :li;benezer
Crandell, John Abner
Ingram, Samuel S.
Cronenwett, Albert Emanuel
.Tohnson, Albert Hurlbut
Dash, Charles .Jacob
Jones, Lester M.
Day, Loring J,ertc
Knapp, Edward Walter
Deutsch, Emile
Deutsch, William Emile
Kneppe1·, Edmund E.
Kramer, Gottlob William
Dickie, Edward Hale
. Lemberger, Arleigh Francesse
Dunn, John

•
4.70

ROSTER

Long, Ernest Benjamin
Macfarlane, Walter·
Marsh, Cla1·k Herbert
Mccament, Andrew Lee
McCullough, Howard Tremble
Monroe, Campbell Otto
Moore, Cassius Fremont
Neely, Robert Hugh
Newman, Miles Robert
Northup, Eugene Daniel
Parsons, Francis Wayland
Pinney, Albert
Pottol, Robert
Powell, George Ernest, P. M.
Prindle, Edward Manville
Rader, Howard Elton
Reed, John Wall ace
Reese, Arthur William P. M.
Rehrman, Charles
'
Renaker, Charles Taylor

Reynolds, Stewart Harris
Ryder, Andrew
Sarwine, Christian Henry
Sawyer, Reuben Ande;son
Slemmons, Hal Maxwell
Slick, Pred Abraham
Spence, Edward Follis, P. M.
Spence, William Parker, P. :M.
Strine, .John Harvey, P. M.
Thom&B, Herbert .Tohn
Tuggle, William Erwin
Udell, Herbert George
Ward, Francis Neville
Wardall, Ralph Hugh
Wardall, Ray Clifford
Wardall, Thomas
Wheeler, Lawrence Newton, P. M.
Whitaker, William Wallace, P. :M.
White, Genius
Wcolley, Pardon Sebastian
-100.

WITHDRAWN:
Godlove, William Ashb"""
Staples, Paul Chester
*Walker, Will!am Murray

ROSTER
Cornwell, Daniel Dennis
Crangle, John
Dorsey, Richard Valentine
Duggins, James Madison
Eustache, Jean Etienne
Faure, Joseph
Faure, Peter
Green, .John Townsend
Hawley, Harvey
Hays, Emmett Lowell
Howard, Frank Byron
Hughes, George Franklin
Kitchen, Charles Edwin
Kramer, Alex. Sames, P. :M.
Lary, Clyde Clifton
Lockridge, Albert Newton
Perrier, Auguste

Ramsay, Ernest Hastings
Robertson, Laughlin
Robertson, Orie Oliver
Robertson, Thomas Abner
Ro bison, Harry Byers
Schlitz, John Jacob, l'. M.
Sheppard, Archibald, l'. M.
Smith, William Lannon
Stockton, .J.ames Walter
Thomas, Anthony Harrington
Thomas, Benjamin, P. h,L.
Thomas, Clay Benjamin
Van Valer, Clarence Alpha
Wait, Fred
Witterow, John Russell
Zimwerman, He.nr,r David, l'. :M.
~5,

WITHDRAWN:
Egger, John Samuel

SISSON LODGE, No. 310.
Sisson, Siskiyou County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month,
OFFICERS:

DELANO LODGE, No. 309.
Delano, Kern County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in eaeh month.
OFFICERS:
Homer Andrew Bower, Master,
John Jacob Schlitz, Secretary,
Delano
Delano
Daniel Dennis Cornwell, Sen. Ward., Ernest Hasting Ramsay, Sen. Deacon,
Ral~h ~aldo Ammons, Jun. Warden, Clay Benjamin Thomas, Jun. Deacon,
Ben1amm Thomas, Treasurer,
Auguste Perrier, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Alderson, G. Edwin
Bowers, Homer Andrew
Allen, Marcus D.
Buchanan, Frank August
Ammons, Ralph Waldo
Bnlock, Arthnr Brown
Arm!'trong, Evelyn B.
Burton, Ebenezer Scott
Bawtinheim1>r, Clarence Laugen
Cecil, Dan Leander
Bonnabel, Jean
Cline, Christian William, P. M.
•Degrees conferred during the year.

E. H. Kaupp, Master,

C. E. Glidden, Senior Deacon, .
Charles Wright, Junior Deacon,
H. B. Andrews, Marshal,
W . H. Shebley, Senior Warden,
Charles F. Galbreath, Jun. Warden, J. M . Schuler, Steward,
Michael Culligan, Steward,
John W. Rinckle, Treasurer,
A. P. Smiley, Tyler.
Nicholas Mugler, Secretary,
Sisson
Sisson

Adams, John Crittenden
Alexander, Samuel
Andrews, Hugh Blythe
Antone, Lee Leon
Amann, Joseph
Ball, Frank
Barnes, Willard Franc1s
Bartlett, Wallace Coggins
Bonney, Charles Lester

~7l

MEMBERS:
Burk, George Washington
Cass, Frederick Layton
Craig, Henry Alonzo
Culligan, Michael
Delaney, Joseph John
Durney, James Nathaniel
Edson, Archie Galen
Farnum, Edmund Truesdell
Fidler, Alfred Augustine

4i2

ROSTER

Gage, Charles George
Galbreath, Charles Frederick
Glidden, Charles Edward, P. M.
Grimm, Harry Lee
Hall, Elmer Ernest
Hancock, Charles Edwin
Hopkins, William Richard
Harvey, James Maurice
Hoey, Henry Patrick
Holmes, Alexander
Holmes, John William
Hunt, Eugene William
Hunt, William Broderick
J'ohnson, John Charles
Kaiser, Anselm Charles
Kaupp, Edward Hepperlen, P. M.
Kennedy, John
Knight, Alton James
Kuck, Ferdinand Henry
Leach, Martin Andrew
Liberoth, Niles West
Lo,cey, Chlirles Arthur
McKea, John
Metclilf, Samuel W.
Mugler, Albert
Mugler, Nicholas
Murphy, Charles William
Murphy, Morton Jeremiah
Neidigh, David M.
Nichols, Frederick Byron
Orr, Francis Price

Painter, Joseph Lincoln
Pratt, George Albert
Requa, Ralph Waldo
Rinckel, David Wesley
Rinckel, John Wesley
Ross, Henry F.
Saul, Theodore Julius
Sawyer, Joseph Clark
Sawyer, Nathan
Schuler, John Martin
Shebley, Frank Albert
Shebley, William Henry, P. M.
Sheldon, Darwin Alonzo
Smiley, Albert Parah
Smith, Charles Caswell
Smith, Simon Franklin
Sollner, John B., P. M.
Stevens, James, P. M.
Sullaway, John William
Sutherland, David Lawrence
Tetzlaff, Arthur John
Thompson, Fenton Graham
Weed, Abner
Wheeler, Thomas Rattery
Wickham, Charles
Williams, Horace Albert
Willilims, Edward Charles
Wood, Oscar Hiram, P. M.
Wright, Charles
Wright, Thomas Benton
Young, Eugene Vincent
-so.

WITHDRAWN:
Belcher, John Warren
Barr, Zachariah Taylor

Linsley, Carlos Shelton
Peterson, Charles D.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Gridley, Wallace Augustus
McLellan, John Rodger

ROSTER

473

LOS BANOS LODGE, No. 312.
Los Banos, Merced County.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
William Jasper Stockton, Sen. Dea,.
Joseph Elmer Place, Master,
Adolphus Henry Salau, Jun. Deacon,
Los Banos, Merced County
John Frederick Muth, Sen. Warden, James Long McClellend, Marshal,
George Walter Mead, Jun. Warden, William Walter Wright, Steward,
Edward Martin Kruger, Treasurer, Nicholas Bibby, Steward,
Charles Frederick Wade, Secretary, James Patrick Hagerty, Tyler.
Los Ban-0s
MEMBERS:
McClelland, James Long
Ak~rd, Joseph Green
Mead, George Walter
Arbios, Henry Bernard
Mitchell, James
Bachle, Fred
Bibby, Nicholas
Mitchell, William John
Muth, John Frederick
Cheatham,, William Thomas
Peterson, Fred Johannes J.
Clare, Frank
Place, Josepn Elmer, P. M.
Davis, Walter Mortimer
Roberts, William Mason
Dobrezensky, Joseph
Drummond, John Quincy
Riley, Samuel Paul
Grunig, Emil
Snla11, Adolphus Henry, P. M.
Hagerty, James Patrick
Schumacher, William Edward
Hall, 'rhomas Marion
Schaf, Frederick William
I rliart, John Prosper
Stockton, William Jasper, P. M.
Jameson, 'William Josiah, P. M.
'l'orchiana, Henry A. VanC., P. M.
Wade, Charles Frederick, P. M.
Kruger, Edward Martin
Lacy, Joseph
Wiley, William Merritt, P. M.
Leaf, Robert Emmett
Wright, William Walter
Leonard; Dennis Allen
-31S.

TEHACHAPI LODGE. No. 313.
Tehachapi, Kern County.
Stated Meetings, last Thursday in each month,
OFFICERS:
Phil Marx, Master,
John Hickey, Chaplain,
Tehachapi
William Henry Whistler, Sen. Dea.,
Jesse Elmer Hicks, Senior Warden, Everet Vest Reed, Junior Deacon,
Franklin Crawford Chormicle, J. W .. Peter James McFarlane, Marshal,
Jonas Galinger, Treasuref',
Geo. Theron Van Voorhees, Stew'd,
Samuel Fred Willard, Secretary,
Burton Martin Denison, Steward,
Tehachapi
William Walter Speakman, Tyler.

474

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Asher, Arthu~
Marx, Arthur
Baird, James
Man:, Harry A.
Boden, Louis Frederick
Marx, Phil
Brewster, Charles Lindsey
Mathias, Patti G. H.
Burges, George
MeCrea, George W.
Oavano, William Michael
McFarlaue, Peter James, P. M.
Oenterno, Jules Bruneau
McKell, James Robert
Champ.ion, Thomas Evelette
Monroe, Duncan Frank
Chormicle, Franklin Crawford, P.M. Monroe, .Tames A.
Clark, Alfred Monroe
Moo.-e, Julius Durkee
Clark, Samuel Remington
Newell, Daniel Boone
Coffey, George Alva
Nicholson, Edward James H., P. M.
Coleman, Earl Victor
O'Hagen, John Walter
Crum, Ed. Frederick
Osburn, Henry Emmet
Cuddeback, William Nicholas
Pentland, Walter Johnson
Dartt, David James
Peter, Jesse, Jr.
Denison, Burt<m Martin
Pippitt, George Henry, P. M.
Dei;iman, Georg~ Alfred M.
Pullman, Adolph Arthur
Dodge, Norman McClellen
Purcell, William Franklin
Emery, William Oscar
Richter, William Mortiz
Fishel', George Amasa
Ripley, John
Fagberg, Charles John
Reed, Everet V.est
Freeman, John Ban
Scovern, Louis · (}ranville
Freeman, Robert Buchanan
Seymour, Eilward Humphrey
Galinger, Jonas
Shackelford, Dick, P. M.
Garlock, George Sylvester
Shackelford, Jesse Bell
Gillespie, Earl Richmond
Shackelford, Marcus Sterling
Shackelford, Rowzee Foster
Glenn, James
Gray, William Slater
Sheridan, John Henry, P. M.
Grubb, James Coulter
Smith, Charles Henry
Hamilton, Hiram Culbreth
Speakman, William Walter
Harris, James Erwin
Spencer, Patrick William Henry
Hast.ings, George
Sperry, Jacob Price
Heath, Charles
Strouse, Edwar\} Eugene
Hickey, John
Sutton, William Henry
Switzer, Henry Wilmington
Hickey, J <>lm Haney
Taylor, Charles Sumner
Hicks, Jesse Elmer
Thayer, Joseph Herriot
Hendrickson, John James
Hoxie, Frederick Stickney
Thorne, Walter F'rane\s
Jacobs, Herman Manuel
Tournot, Peter, P. M.
Jenkins, Lenard Truman
Turner, George Wyman
Tyler, Matthew Ha1e
Kelly, .John William
Vance, William Harvey
Kryste:ll, i3amt1 el
Van Voorhees, Geo. Theron, P. M.
Macdonald, Reginald Edwin

ROSTER
Willard, Samuel Fred
Wilson, William Cabaniss
Young, Austin

Waage, John
Waterman, Walter Benjamin
Weldon, Arthur
Whistler, William Henry

Fletcher, John William

-95.

WITHDRAWN:
Lovejoy, Arthur Edward

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Vance, 'Lee Roy

Chamberlain, Leroy William

Stanley, Abram

DIED;
Williams, D. V. A. (E. A.)

TEMESCAL LODGE, No. 314.
Corona, Riverside County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.

•

•

OFFICERS:
Byron Cecil Randall, Master,
John Patterson Key, Senior Deacon,
Cor-0na
Julian Augustus Keeler, Jun. Deacon,
Harrv Frank Scoville, Sen. Warden, Charles Median Scoville, Marshal,
Fred-Jacob Mueller, Junior Warden, Wilbur Grafton Darst, Steward,
Thomas Paine Drinkwater, Treu.s., Fred Lacy Wilkin, Steward,
Albert Polk Kelley, Secretary,
Henry Anson Prizer, Tyler.
Corona
MEMBERS :
Chaney, Joseph We$ley, P. M.
Alden, Fred Shelton
Clayson, Marshal Emery
Andrews, Linus Lackner
Cochran, Willard W.
Austin, George Morgan
Cross, Alvin Harvey
Baer, George Nickey
Darst, Wiibur Grafton
Baird, Fred Milton
Davis, Allen Jones
Barber, Rio Deloe
Barth, William Christian, P. M. • Davis, James Lemuel, P. M.
Dean, Gustavus Franklin, P. M,
Bates, Albert William
Dorn, Walter Ashley
Billings, Rufus Sumner
Drinkwater, Thomas Paine
Bonfoey, Edward
Ferguson, George L.
Brown, Alex. B,
Freeman, George Robert
Brown, George, P. M.
Gcneroux,
E1lward Joseph
Bloom, Samuel Lincoln
Gleason, Clifford Velovrous
Bush, George Lyne
Gooch, John Barton
Byler, Silas Russell
Grinnell, James William
Cathey, Harry Willis

476

ROSTER

Riddell, William
Gully, Cuthbert
Scoville, Charles Median, P. M.
Ha=er, John Thomas
Scoville, Frank, P. M.
Harter, Elam
Holmes, Henry Harrison
Scoville, Harry Frank
Seares, Isaac Newton
Huxsaw, Orville A.
Slaten, Alfred Theodore
Keeler, Julian Angnstus
Somerville, William D.
Kelley, Albert Polk
Spining, Joseph Montfort
Key, John Patterson
Sullivan, Thomas David
Kidder, Ethan Pier
Tilson, Walter Nathaniel
Kinney, Charles Ashley
Larrabee, Arthur Hamilton, P. M. Triolo, John Patrick
Trepening, Mason, P. M.
Lockett, Sterling Wiley
Tuthill, Arthur Brewster
Lord, Daniel
Lyman, Harry Lynn
Valentine, William Edmond
Vankirk, George Wesley
Main, Charles William
Yea<1h, Andrew
Mayer, Michael Joseph
'Walton, Arthur Lavington
Mayfield, James Smith
McCarty, George Albert
Walker, John
McGillivary, George Brown
Willard, Stephen Sylvester
McNiel, David Carey
Willets, Robert Leander
McVicar, William Gray
Wilkin, Fred Lacy
Patton, Luther
Wollitz, Robert Max
Perkins, Frank Arthur, P. M.
Wood, Albert Clark, P. M.
Prizer, Henry Anson
Wyatt, Charles Frederick
Randall, Cecil Byron
-81.
WITHDRAWN:
Brown, David Rowland
DIED:
Glass, John Dennen

ROSTER

•

MEMBERS:
Johnston, Darius David
Baker, John Samuel
Lumbard, Albert JJor
Bradbeer, Andrew B.
Martin, Michael Arthur
Branch, John Franklin
McCarrick, Franklin
Buben, George Christ
Mason, Charles Cole
Burrows, Herbert Gates
Neubauer, Simon
Uhurch, Clyde Melville
Orr, Charles Augustus
Couchman, Harry Hawver
Orr, James Robert
Custer, Harrison K.
Orr, John Joseph, P. M.
DeLong, James William
Pallange, Percy Peter
DeWitt, Almond Dor
Pe.t ty, William Robert
Dillman, Thomas Milton
Dressel!, Alphonso Edward, P. M •• Randall, Wallace
Ray, Thomas Allen
Duncan, Charles Wilson, P. M.
Shaw, Robert James
Duncan, Garnett
Bollinger, John Henry
Eliot, James Smith, P. M.
Sproul, Frank Preston
Emery, Charle~
Sproul, William Uharlee
Fraser, Alexander Isaac
Strong, Stephen
Glazier, Clarence M.
Swigart, Jacob
Gordon, John
Waterman, .Jlarence 0.
Groover, John Franklin
Waymire, Frank D.
Hay, James, P. M .
"Weise, Charles Arthur
Hughes, Harley
WE>st, Edward Garrison
Hughes, Nicolas Henry
White, William Erastus C.
Hutchinson, Arlie Frank

Smith, James Edward

-48.

V.'ITHDRA WN:
West, Wyatt Orin

NORWALK LODGE, No. 315.

SANGER LODGE, No. 316.

Norwalk, Los Angeles County.
Stated meetings, Tuesday of ot next precedmg Full Moon.

Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.

Sanger, Fresno County.

OFFICERS:

OFFICERS:

Frank Preston Sproul, Master, .
Percy Peter Pallangc, Seni'or Deacon,
Norwalk
Arlie Frank Hutchinson, Jun. Deacon,
Geo. Christian Buehn, Senior W,trden,Nicholas Henry Hughes, Marshal,
Simon Neubauer, Junior Warden, William Charles Sproul, Steward,
Darius D avid Johnston, Treasurer, Stephen Strong, Steward,
Alphons Edward Dressell, Secretary, John Henry Sollinger, Tyler.
La Mirada

J ohn Newton Lisle, Master.
George Thomas Dockery, Sen . Dea.,
Sanger
Ora James Hudson, Junior Deacon,
James Edward Burnett, Sen. Warden, George Penfield Manly, Marshal,
Frank King Sayre, Junior Warden, Albert Monroe Parker, Steward,
James Peter Nelson, Treasurer,
Milo Woodworth Bacon, Steward,
Orie Hayward, Secretary,
J ohn Alexander Patterson, Tyler.
Sanger

478

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Anderson, John Adolph
IIuclson, Ora James
Andrus, William Frank
Ingram, Charles Ray
Bacon, Milo Woodworth
Jones, Iven Henry
Bacon, William Milton
Jones, William Frederick
Baird, Benjamin Morgan
Kutner, Alfred
Baird, Ellward Ellsworth, P. M.
Lang, Carl Adam
Ballard, Berton Joseph
Lisle, John Newton
Ballard, Joseph Fain
Madden, Thomas Frederick
Bennett, Frederick George
Manley, George Penfield, P. M.
Bosserman, Robert Lee
Maxson, Charles Newton
Brown, Percy Whitcomb
McLaughlin, Harry Blaine
Budworth, George Thomas
MJJLaughlin, Lee, P. M.
Burnett, James Edward
McGee, James Henry
Burnett, Robert B.
Meaves, Charles Henry
Burns, Miles Francis
Messer, Harry F.
Bradshaw, John
Mitchell, Harry Chandler
Brehler, Oscar A.
Murphy, Charles William
Carlton, Thomas Franklin
Neeley, Herbert William
Carlton, William David
Nelson, James Peter
Carter, Flavius Josephus
Norman, Louis Vernon
Clay, William Robert
Paden, Robert J.
Coblentz, George Samuel
Parker, Albert Monroe
Curran, Choate Howe
Patterson, John Alex.
Dennis, Nelson, P. M.
Pressley, John Brockinton, P. M.
Depew, William Brenning
Radley, William
Dewey, Edward Porter
Rosenberger, John Ashley
Dirvin, Henry
Sayre, Frank King
Dock<>ry, George Thomas
Swank, William E llwood
Dudley, Edward C.
Tackaberry, Benjamin Franklin
Elmore, Benjamin Franklin
Taylor, Leroy, P. M.
Evinger, Daniel R.
Turner, ,John Labin
Faller, Peter, P. M.
Walton, Charles Perry
Field, Anders Thorwaldsen
Walton, William Albert
Fleming, Luther Parker
Weldon, Abraham James
Garrison, Frederick Merril
West, Philanrler Nathan
Hagen, Andrew C.
Weston, Charles
Hamilton, Andrew
Wheeler, Barton James
Harlem, Louis
Wilson, Henry Scott
Hayward, Orie, P. M.
Woodside, Robert Clifton
Hooper, James F.dward
Zink, Henry ,Joseph
-80.
WITHDRAWN:
Ballard, Lewis Morgan
Fink, Charles Laton
Rock, George Mitchell

ROSTER

479

FALLBROOK LODGE, No. 317.
Fallbrook, San Diego County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Lee Colby Ellis, Senior Deacon,
Frank Day, Master,
Hr.rry C. Colestock, Junior Deacon,
De Luz
Ernest A Walton, Senior Wa>rden, MiJlard F . Neff, Marshal,
· ·Edward C. Reader, Junior Ward~, William E. Crane, Steward,
Edgar C. White, Steward,
George F. Westfall, Treasurer,
Allen Russell, Tyler.
Alonza M. Bell, Secretary,
Fallbrook

Bell, Alonzo Mandeville
Belt, Henry Morrow
Butler, George
Chapman, Etna Gaston
Chestnut, Jim
Clark, Almond James, P. M.
Crane, William E.
Day, Frank Richard
Fickas, Jesse Tingle
Giddens, Levi Cornelius
Goodenow, Fran'cis G.
Johnson, Percy Alex., P. M.
Magee, Victor Miguel
Martin, Joseph George

Hall, Wilbert Nathan

MEMBERS:
McCarty, Thomas
Moulton, Montgomery McD., P. M.
Myers, Edward
Neff, Millard Fillmore
Reader, Edward Charles
Ross, Albert, P. M.
Russell, Allen J.
Salmons, Frank E.
Treat, Thomas Robert
VI<·al t•Jn, Ernest Allen
Westfall, George Franklin
White, Edgar Cornelius
Woodbury, Bert

-21.
WITHDRAWN:
Meredith, Charles T.

ROSTER

480

EMMANUEL LODGE, No. 318.

ROSTER

'

481

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Cleveland, William Mayo

Biggs, Butte County.
Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.

SUSPENDED FOR UNM.A.SONIC CONDUCT:
*Hicks, John Leander

OFFICERS:

Henry William Haselbusch, Master, William Mark Doty, Chaplain,
Biggs
Charles Hansen, Senior .Deacon,
Aaron F. Staudt, Senior Warden, Francis Charles Kemper, Jun. Deacon,
Paul Albers, Junior Warden,
Buchanan Caldwell, Marshal,
Gilman Kendall Smith, Treasurer, Moses La Point, Steward,
William Edwin Walker, Secretary, Charles Edwin Chatfield, Steward,
Biggs
Andrew More ·woodruff, T)•ler.
MEMBERS:
Albers, Paul
Lawrence, Philip Edward
Archambault, Frank Edward
Leeper, John Franklin
Bervillier, Jean Nicholas O.
McKee, Matthew
Boyd, James Sankie
Morse, :rJdmond
Brink, Henry Seine
Nelson, Joel Moore
Burchett, William
Nelson, William Oscar, P. M.
Caldwell, Buchanan
Ollsenbriggen, Matthias
Camp, Albert Edward
Riddle, William R.
Chatfield, Charles Edward ·
Rutland, James Bell
Cohn, Harry, P. M.
Shippee, Watson Allen
Craig, Thomas Franklin
Smith, Gilman Kendall
Doty, Lymon William
Smith, Walter Marcus
Doty, William Mark
Stansell, Fred Richard
Fox, Henry
Stoudt, Aaron F.
Hammon, Wen dell Philucius, P. M. Stout, George Homer
Hansen, Charles
Spencer, Franklin Edward
Hawkins, Orwin Cullen, P. M.
Walker, William Edwin, P. M.
Haselbuach, Henry William, P. M. WaRhburn, Oliver Arnold
Huffaker, Ebenezer
Washburn, Calvin Uriah
Jackson, Charles Herbert
Watson, Franklin Haskell, P. M.
Johnson, John Alfred
White, Walter Herbert
Jones, James Richard
White, Emmons
Kemper, Francis Charles
White, Edwin Earl
La Point, Leroy Anson
Woodruff, Andrew Moore
La Point, Moses, P. M.
-49.

Ivy, Martin Tillman

WITHDRAWN:
Kessler, Joseph Pyle

HOLLENBECK LODGE, No. 319.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
1956 East First Street.
OFFICERS:

Frank Handy Brooks, Master,
Winfred Joseph Sanborn, Chaplain,
216 Currier Building
Brinton Blake Gregory, Sen. Deacon,
Benjamin Nelson Powers, Sen. War., Hudsr:n Young Gibson, Jun. Deacm,
Lewis August Hauser, Jun. Warden, Charles Frederick Clark, Marshal,
Peter Johnson, Treasurer,
Henry Wilson Reynolds, Steward,
John William Dick, Secretary,
Harry James Raymond, Steward,
1196 W. 36th Street
George Reed Ellis, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Bannister, George Lucas
Absalom, David Reese
Barber, David Cassett
Adams, Harland George
Bartlslee, Arthur
Adams, Horace Bishop, P. M.
Barker, Edward Lawton
A$}ams, Oliver Perry
Barnes, Charles Adams
Alexander, Daniel Potter
Barnes, Thomas Finley
Alkire, Charles Osborn
Barr, John
Allin, Ernest
Barth, Theodore Adam
AlliRon, Samuel Browles
Barton, Charles Oliver
Ammon, Ralph Bell
Barton, Hugh
Anderson, Charles Edward
Batcheller, Charles Lucian, P. M.
Anderson, Charles Stuart
B each, Charles Frederick
Anderson, John
Beaumont, Frank Carroll
Anderson, Marshall S.
Becher, Max Albert
Atwell, John Haye
Beede, John Wallace
Augustus, Edward Hikes, P. M.
Behrendt, Leon
Bacon, George
Behrendt, Sam
Bacon, Walter Romayne
Behymer, Luden Ellsworth
Bagley, Charles Leland
Bell, James George
Bailie, Hubert Charles
Bell, Robson Orde
Bancroft, George Hess
•Restored during the year.
31

482

ROSTER

ROSTER

Bemis, Ernest Hudson
Benjamin, Robert
Bennedict, Charles E.
Bethune, James Neils
Binford, Henry Mettaur
Blanchard, Clarence William
Blanchard, Everett Loring
Bliesner, William John
Bollschweiler, Charles Frederick
Borden, Admiral Faragut
Bostwick, Edward Everett
Botsford, Frank Leroy
Boyer, Richard Peter
Bradley, Frank L.
Bresee, Melvin Arthur
Bresee, Phineas Wright
Brooks, Frank Handy
Brown, Harry Van Brick
Brown, Henry West
Brown1 Jesse Franklin
Browning, Daniel Rawlins, P. M.
Bulpin, Thomas W.
Burns, Robert Wallace
Busch, Samuel
Bush, Harris Haven
Butterworth, Erlward Summers
Cady, Freeman Risley
Campbell, George W.
Carr, Noble Spencer
Carter, Henry Edwin
Carter, John Asher
Casey, Charles Booth
Chaffey, John Buxton
Chandler, Burdette
Chapman, Ward
Chrisman, Arthur A.
Chrisman, Charles Franklin
Charlton, Chas.' Augustus, P. M.
Charlton, Roy Currier
Christy, Adison Barton
Clampett, Don L.
Clampett, Edward Anthony
Clark, Charles Frederick
Clark, Don Denman
Cochrane, Malcomb

Cohn, Abraham B.
Cohn, James B.
Cohn, Maurice
Coker, Frank Mathews
Collins, Arthur Jack
Conart, G,llorge Washington
Condley, Darrell
Cone, William Smith
Coo.1r.e, Charles Prentice
Cowan, John
Cox, William Leonard
Crane, Henry Root
Crail, James
Crause, Vassell M .
Daniels, Albert Leroy
Davis, Morgan Lewis
Davisson, Charles Elmore
Derby, Charles Ferdinand
DHby, George Morris
Dessery, Alfred Bonney
Dessery, Hypolite Louis
Dessery, Victor
Dibble, Horace B.
Dick, Clyde Orris
Dick, John William
.Dickson, James Lemuel
Dillingham, Frank Stinson
Dingle, Ervin
Doane, Douglas Freret
Dodd, Samuel Harvey
Dodge, William
Dod8on, John Henry
Dorr, George William
Dreyfus, Louis Ernest
Du Casse, Eugene Leon
Dunsmour, John Marcus, P. M.
Dunsmour, Robert Morris
Dyas, Bernal Hubert
Eddy, Nelson Butler
Edwards, Herbert Llewellyn
Egar, Charles Lucius
Ellis, Capen
Ellis, George Reed
Elliott, Milo D.
Elwell, James Frank

Etzel, Edward Henry
Evans, Charles W.
Fallis, Garland Prentice
Farley, Frank
Fechyew, Benjamin Reader
Ferris, Horace Bayles
Filz, Frank Jacob
Finlay, John
Fitzgerald Archibold Thomas
Fitzgerald, Wallace Andrew
Flawer, Sinclair
Fleming, John Leslie
Follmer, Raymond Irving
Force, Floyd Centenial
Ford, George Jackson Parker
Forrester, Arthur Walter
French, Charles Edward
Frost, Harry Willis
Galbreath, Ross Morgan
Garnier, Ralph Lee
Garrett, Louis Russer
Gll.rritt, Edward Hewett
Garvin, Charles Louie
Gibbs, William Francis
Gibson, Hudson Young
Gibson, William S.
Gill, Robson Osborn
Gilmer, Charles M.
Gilmer, Robert De Witt
Uilmore, Arthur Freeman
Ginther, Jacob Blick
Girton, Thomas Collins
Givernaud, Charles Louie
Glass, John Alex.
Goshorn, Archie Treburtis
Graham, William H.
Gray, John Walter
Groene, Ge1Jrge Rterling
Gregory, Brinton Blake
Gregory, Edmund Robert
Grohs, John Philipp
Grubb, Stephen Leander
Hagadorn, William Morley
Haines, Frank Knickerbocker
Hall, Orin A us tin

Hammond, Rollin C.
Hampton, Thomas Welch
Harrison, John
Hart, Winslow Caruthers
Hauser, Julius
Hauser, Lewis August
Hauser, Wesley Charles
Hay, Emil Otto
Heartt, Burton Elmer
Heasley, Hugh Adair
Hendrick, James Wesley, P. M.
Henkle, Byron
Henshey, Benjamin Botsford
Hesselberger, Milton
Hillebrand, Frank Joseph
Hiller, Edgar Dewey
Hoffman, Frederick Otto
Hollenbeck, Edward Henry
Holmer, Charles Reumond
Holt, James Erle
Hood, Frederick Donald
Houck, Perry Homer
Huggins, Flernoy Walker
Humm, Harry Lewis
Hutchine, Alvin George
Irvin, Edward Samuel
Ingersoll, Ralph William
Jackson, Chester Harrold
Jacobi, Louis
Jameson, Alvah Lee
Jenney, Ferdolin
.Johnson, Allen Henry
Johnson, Arthur De Cart
Johnson, Charles Gar
Johnson, Harry G., P. M.
Johnson, Frnnk William
Johnson, Peter
Jones, Arthur
Jones, Charles S.
Jones, Chas. Thomas B.
.Tones, Robert Curtis
Jordon, Robert Collins
Jung, Andrew Nenvood
Kammermeyer, Ed. Charles
Keefe, Thomas Francis

/483

484
Kelley, William Landon
Kendrick, Albert
Kennedy, Leneaus Ray
Kennedy, Louis Henry
Kerr, William McLachlan
Kingsbury, William Stephens
Kirshner, Emile
Klein, Henry
Knighten, William Ammon
LaBerge, Frank Edward
La Berge, .Frank William
La Berge, Robert Charles
Lamboutn, Frederick
Larronde, John Martin
Lawton, Joseph
Layng, John Rose
Leckner, Charles Henry
Lee, ·Charles Franklin
Leix, Frederick, P. M.
Leland, Harry Jasen
Lenz, Etlmund Henry Carl
Levering, Martin Murry
Lewis, George Arthur
Lewis, John James
Light, Harry Breson
Lillie, Harry Curtis
Little, Richard Herbert
Lofthouse, Charles Pendleton
Logan, Charles Lincoln
Long, Frank Benajah
Loomis, Lester Grant
Lovett, Gus Ansel
Lusby, Albert Clifford
Mackay, Roderick
Madoery, Carl Wilhelm Arnold
Magee, Robert
Mahone, Charles B.
Manning, Clarence W.
Marshall, Andrew B.
Marshall, Frank Thomas
Masters, John Henry
Masters, Oscar P.
Martin, Karl
Maynard, Rea Edward
McCartney, Herbert Swift G.

ROSTER

ROSTER
McCarty, Walter George
McCarty, William Herbert
McColl, John
·
McConnell, Henry Elmer
McCullough, Ray
McCullough, John Anderson
Mc!lrath, George Wesley
Mcintire, John Roy
McLachlan, Archibold Alex.
Md,achlan, Willis Linsey
McLean; John
McLennan, Alexander Frazer
McLeod, Alton De Witt
McKay, John Patton
McKeeby, George Lemuel
McNeil, James Elliott
Meserve, Edwin Alvin
Miller, Clarence Webster
Miller, Jacob A.
Miller, George Lee
Miller, George Mikel
Millette, Charles Joseph
Miner, Wilbur Thomas
Moore, Albert William
Morin, Noles James
Morgan, Octavious
Morrison, Norman Holt
Morro, August Edward
Mottram, John Henry Harper
Murphey, Clare Warren
Nethery, William John
Nesbit, Hayes William
Neuner, Sidney Martin, P. M.
Newkirk, Adamson Bertley
Newman, Toby
Noble, William Clarence Hayes
Nolton, Chester Dearborn
Norris, James Franklin
Norton, Isiack F.
Norton, Louis
Nye, Charles Isaac
Obst, Oscar Harmon
Ohlsen, Oscar Ed.
Orvis, Joseph Lander
Owen, Ira Lloyd

Park, Frank Leon
Parker, Chrisman Harrison
Parker, George Hampshire
Patterson, George Frank
Peck, Earl Wellrose
Penfield, Archibald Robertson
Perham, Charles Edward.
Perigo, Charles Herbert
Perrin, Lewis .E dward
Petrie, James Buchan
Pfuhl, Hugo Christopher
Phipps, Lester Ernest
Pierce, Harry Lewis
Plank, Charles David
Plath, Emil Ludwig
Pontious, Marion Francis
Porter> Charles Hasting
Post, John Cambel
Potts, Amos Harry
Powell, Don St. Clair
Powell, John Benjamin
Powell, Thomas Watkins
Powers, Benjamin Nelson
Powers, Edward Everett
Powers, Levi Osgood
Preston, Frederick Brewster
Price, Watt Wynn
Priddy, Courtland
Prince, Lewis Ectward
Priwer, Aaron
Quackenbush, Richard Orris
Quint, Sumner Joseph
Ravenscroft, Alvia E.
Raymond, Harry ,Tames
Reavis, William Everett
Rech, John Nicholas Ossacar
Reed, Parker Clarke
Rees, Samuel
Rees, Walter Bert
Reynolds, Henry Wilson
Rhemchild, George
Rice, John Garland
Richmond, Hedley Vicars
Rising, Franklin Edward

Robbins, Herbert Warren
Roberts, Edgar Lee
Robertson, William Campbell
Robinson, Henry F.
Robinson, Oliver Raymond Wade
Roddam, John
Rodgers, James Frederick
Rogers, Frank Burroughs
Rogers, Read Wyman
Rogers, William
Rogers, William (2)
Romer, Clarence Ernest
Rosenfelt, B enjamin Franklin
Roth, Lewis Frederick
Ruckman, Charles Leroy
Rudder, Adam
Ruddy, William
Runkle, Frederick William
Ruvane, William Henry
Sadler, Rupert John
Sanborn, Charles Henry
Sanborn, Winfield Joseph, P. M.
Sandford, Frederick
Schlosser, William Perry
Schrrlidt, Oscar Emile
Schwaebe, Lewis H.
Schreiber, William George
Schroeder, Leo .Adelmo
Sentous, }'rank Peter
Sessions, Nathan Paine
Sexton, Charles Loyal
Sexton, Charles Wesley
Shaffer, Robert Kennedy
Shanks, Colin
Sharpe, Frederick Henry
Shearer, William Dixon
Sherwin, Edward Underwood
Shiffler, Levi
Shorten, Albert
Shrader, William Wallace, Jr.
Shulthies, Henry
Shuman, John William
Sickel, Ferdinanrl Henry
Sisler, Samuel

485

486
Sittle, Albert Casper
Slatter, Joseph McGue
Smith, Charles Fuller
Smith, Frederick Augustus
Smith, James Albert
Smith, Joseph Augustus, P. M.
Smith, William S.
Smith, Zena Bruce
Snyder, William
Sook, Henry Sylvanius
Spreng, Charles Gottfried
Spreng, Frederick Charles
Stamm, Julius George
Stearns, James Bert
Stearns, William Henry
Steddom, Francis White
Stevens, Thomas John
Stevenson, Andrew William
Strans. Adolph
Stringfellow, William Boothby
Strohm, Louis Robert
Strong, Lee Abram
Sturgeon, Phineas Boyd
Summerfield, John Wyatt
Sweet, Ernest James
Talbot, Edward Alonzo, P . M.
Tanner, Robert Wilfred
Taylor, Floyd Hale .
Taylor, Raymond G.
•rnylor, Samuel
Teale, Frederick Joseph
Teetzel, Fred William
· Thomas, Frederick Smethurst
Thomas, Winfield Corwin
Thompson, Edward H.
Thompson, Paul
Thompson, Richard
ThoJ'.!lpson, Thomas
'l'hornton, William Crane
Tipton, Lawson A.
Trainor, Charles August
Treleaven, Arthur
Trickle, Ralph Emmerson
Trimble, Henry Bassett

True, Herbert Fred
Turner, Edward
Uber, William Robert
Vanderbeck, Lester John
Vandergrift, Charles Rhode
Varey, Harry Louis
Variel, William James
Veseleck, Stephen P.
Ve~per, Charles Richard
Vestal, John Everett
Vetter, Louis Fisher
Walton. William Ransom
Wambold, Edward Howard
Ward, Thomas James
Ward, William Henry
Warden, Charles Prentis
Wardling, George Benjamin
Warren, Hugh Mead
Watson, George Clark
Webster, Lou B.
'Veisenberger, Julius
Welsh, Patrick Joseph
West, Ernest L.
Wetzel, Edwin Charles
Wheeler, Ferdinand
White, Harry Edgar
White, Myers Taylor
Wilkey, Arthur Septimus
Willard, Cyrus
Williams, George W.
Williams,' Julius J.
Wilson, James
Wilson, Licuel George
Wilson, Silas A.
Winlack, James Trepland
Wirshing, Robert Ernest
Wohefarth, August
Wood, Thompson
Woodill, Hiram Blanchard
Woodis, Warren Albe·r t
Woods, Albert Alex.
Woolsey, .John Grant
Woormwood, Harold Arthur
Workman, Boyle

487

ROSTJ<JR

ROSTER
Workman, William Henry
Wright, Arthur Lowe
Wylie, John Perry

Young, Charles Franklin, P. M.
Youngworth, Leo Valtus, P. M.
Zimmerman, Roy Elden
-49~

WITHDRAWN:
Gray, Albert Frederick
Bagnall, Albert Edward
Hesse, Charles
Bell, Otis Freeman
.
Howell, John Graham
Craig, Charles Carpenter
Park, Clarence John
Fuller, Vernon Ripley
Walker, Joseph Atwood
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Perssan, Thelin Alexes

Burroughs, Mark
Dow, Arthur Stephen

Schee, Walter Scott
Williams, Darius H .
DIED:
Stickney, Wlllard Adelbert
Thompson, William Edward

•,

SOUTH GATE LODGE, No.

320.

Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
Corner Thirty-third and Main Streets.
OFFICERS:

Charles Alvin Sweet, Master,
Edward William Campbell, Chaplain,
223 E. 31st Street
Frederick Clements Kruell, Sen. Dea.,
Charles Louis Phister, Sen. Warden, Ralph Waldo Emerson Cole, l. Dea.,
Martin Luther Griffith, Jun. Warden, Guy Hyde Casler, Marshal,
Elbert Taylor Parke, Treasurer,
John Sherman Bailey, Steward,
Frank Harrison White, Secretary,
Harvey Benjamin Dalton, Steward,
330 E. Jefferson Stre~t
Isaac D. Stine, Tyler.

Adams, Chester Lowell
Adams, David Lewis
Alexakis, Louis James
Alexander, George
Alford, Chauncey Higley
Allen, Albert A., P. M.
Anderson, Charles John
Armstrong, Arnold ·
Arnold, Emmer Bowman

MEMBERS:
Arnold, Frank Norman
Atkins, George Mall
Austin, Foster Calhoun, P. M.
Bailey, John Sherman
Bailey, Ralph Waldo
Baker, Peterson Smith
Baldwin, Cornelius Joseph
Ball, Charles Edwin
Ball, Robert Bruce

4S8
Barbor, George Francis
Barber, Jay Burdette
Barlotti, James Anthony
Barnaby, Asa
Barrett, Frederick
Bartlett, Cornelius
Bartlett, Oswald
Battle, James Whittle
Bean, George, Jr.
Beattey, J'ames Leo
Bell, Edgar Newton
Bellringer, Edward Aubrey
Bente!, Frederick Carl
B erry, Hartley Maxwell
Rettinger, Marcus Clark
Bevan, Eugens Alexander
Beyrle, Robert
Biles, Elmer Ellsworth
Binz, Edward Gabriel
Bird, Arthur Milton
Blake, Benjamin Howard
Bluff, Charles George
Bonynge, William Alfred
Boone, Richard G.
Bopst, Robert David
Borgum, Edwin Arnold
Boyd, Walter Leigh
Bradley, Knowlton R.
Bradley, L eigh Porter
Bradley, William
Brady, Joseph John
Brasher, William Summerville
Briggs, John William
Brisco, John
Brittain, John Randolph
Brooks, James Marion
Brown, James Henri
Buckingham, William James
Bullies, Frederick Charles
Bulfinch, Stephen Amos
Bull, Robert Wilcox
Burgess, Henry Arthur
Burroughs, Granville George
Butler, Frank Bertrand
Butterworth, Albert Stanton

ROSTER
Caldwell, John Alex.
Cameron, Allen Wilbur
Campbell, Edward William
Cal)lpbell, Emerson Bristol
Campbell, ,John Bartholomew
Carlson, Milton
Carpenter, John Malines
Carrenter, Leigh Richard
Carter, Harry Von
Carter, Norman Brace
Case, George Boyd
Cash, Charles DeAlton
Caeler, Guy Hyde
Cass, Bruce Alonzo
Cass, Frank Tufts
Cavanaugh, Angus Leonard
Chambers, William
Chesley, Benjamin Millard
Christin, L eo Stallow
Clark, Lincoln
Clark, Ray Webster
Clark, Thomas Maxwell
Clemente, Charles C. A.
Coenen, Gustav Adolph
Cole, Ralph W. E.
Collier, Frank Chester
Collins, Charles W.
Colvin, Rol;>ert
Condon, William J a mes
Conklin, L ewis H enry
Conklin, Wright
Cook, Benjamin Augustus
Connor, Willia m Tell
Copeland, At wood Reynolds
Costerisan, George Felix
CouRins, Oliver Ro es
Cowan, William K een
Cox, .Tohn Randolph
Cramer, William Henry
Cribb, James Coburn
Crippen, Ellery Hicks
Criswell, Ralph Luther
Crook, Delbert Henry
Cross, William S.
Cuccia, Peter Luke

ROSTER
Curl, Samuel Alexander
Curry, John Michael
Dalton, Harvey Benjamin
Danenhower, William James
Davey, William Edward
Davis, Prank Edward
Davis, Hugh Clinton
DeBerry, Angus Jasher
Deeds, Douglas Daniel
Deffebach, Elbert
De Haven, James Lapsley
Deman, Max
Dennis, William Riley
Detlor, John Freeman
Diethf.'lm, Conrad Eugene
Diggs, Lowell Clyde
Devendorf, Fred Clark
Dill, Robie E verett, P. M.
Donohugh, William Lineoln
Drake, Frank Norton
Drummond, Edwin Charles
Duncan, John
Dunn, Arvine Spencer
Dunn, Frederick William, P, M.
Dunnahoo, George Richard
Durard, George F elix
Dusoe, Robert Moses
Dutwiler, Michael Eby
Eader, L ewis William
Earll, J ames Cornelius
Eastman, DeBarrett
Eby, John Leonard
E ccleston, J oseph William
E l<'lridge, Thomas Bolling
Ellis, Edward Stephen
Ellis, Josephus Elijah
En3ign, Frank C.
Espe, Frederick
Evans, Frank Robert
Evans, Thomas Jerome
Falkenstein, Harry Ti.
Faris, William Adam
Farmer, Jasper
Faust, Frank Abner
F ennessy, Thomas Downey

-

Fiano, Ariotide Philip
Fleming, Thomas Jefferson
Flinn, John Howard
Follows, John
Ford, Benjamin Franklin
Foster, Edward Clarence
Francisco, Andrew Wiggins
Franklin, James Breckenridge
Frost, Arba Wright
Fulton, Preston Renreth
Gardiner, John Nasmyth
Gardner, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
Gates, Arthur Frank
Gay, Cassius Mason
Gaynor, William Henry, P. M.
George; L eb X.
Gerson, Edward
Giambastiani, Egisto
Giambastiani, Francisco
Gibbs, Charles Alfred
Gifford, Robert L ee
Gifford, Clarence May
Giffor•l, Robert L ee
Gillett, Fred James
Girdlestone, Charles Henry
Glover, P ercy Carson
Goddard, William Henry
Goldman, Clarence Orlando
Goldman, Gordon Bruce
Gooding, H enry Olay
Graham, William N ewton
Gray, Alex., P. M.
Gray, Frank Richard
Gregg, William Seaton
Griffith, Martin Luther
Groff, Charlie Addison
H ackley, Ge.orge Trowbridge
H alberg, Bernard Theodore
Hahn, Philip, P. M.
Hale, Robert
Hale, Robert, Jr.
Hall, John Allen
Hamilton, George Reed
Hampe, Georgs Solomon
Hamrick, P et er Willis

489

490
Hancock, Walter Perry
Harlin, William Sidwell
Harper, Charles Harvie
Harris, Samuel
Hart, Dwight Howard
Hart, George Alandson, P . M.
Hastreiter, Rolland Frederick
Hathaway, Worth Murray
Hatton, Clarence Irving
Haye, Ewing
Hays, John
Hazen, Robert Lee
Heaton, Charles Page
Hefferman, William Thomas
Heins, Charles Wesley
Henderson, Frank Gilbert
Henry, I,.eslie A.
Henry, William Albert
Hicks, Charles Forest
Hitchcock, William Wesley
Hoffman, Winnie Eugene
Holliday, Arthur
Homann, Emil
Hopperstead, Eric Warren
Horlock, Harry Buckhurst
Horton, Rufus Landon
Hossack, Lawrence N.
Howe, George Edward
Howry, Robert Root
Huff, Charles Clayton
Hunt, Carl William
Husted, Thomas Seymour
Irwin, Robert
Jacobus, Delbert Wayne
Jepson, Carl George
Johnson, Carl Reed
Johnson, Franklin
Johnson, Victor Andrew
Jones, George Wiley
,fones, John Jaccb
Julius, Peter Michael
Kelsey, Frank Meeker
Kemp, John William, P. M.
Kerr, Thomas William
Kilner,1William Henry D.

ROSTER
King, George Irving
King, John Millen
King, William · Levi
Kinnah, Robert Peter
Kelker, Harry 0 'Connor
Kelker, Lester Collins
Kinney, Burt Ornon
Kistler, Samuel Lee
Koll, August Juergen
Kolp, William
Kruell, Frederick Clements
Lamb, Stacey Caldwell
Lamb, Theo. Pusey
Lang, Frederick Selwyn
Lanterman, Frank Dexter
Larkin, Albert Henry
Lawrence, John Gordon
Leary, Frederick Jame~
Leck, William Frederfok
Lenox, Andrew Jackson
Lewis, Eugene Arnold
Lickley, Ernest Jameson
Lidgerwood, George Irving
Linder, Claudius Wade
Lindsay, Jasper
Little, Frederick Eugene
Lloyd, Charle!!
Lloyd, Edward
Lloyd, Francis Harold
Lockwood, Edward Bruce
Longo, Ignacio
Losekamp, Gustave Willard
Love, Charles Evans
Lovelace, Archibald Manuel
Lowe, James Henry Eldon
Lubin, Benjamin
Lucas, Ebenezer Wesle'y ·
Lynde, George Osbourn
Machtig, Eugene
Mainich, John Andrew
Maitre, Charles Joseph
Mann, John Jacob
Margrander, Frederick Oswald
Marr, Hinton Nicholas
Marsh, Charles Page

ROSTER
Morganstern, Alfred J.
Marston, Luther Moulton
Morin, Samuel Williamson
Martin, Frederick Herbert
Morse, Henry Clay
Martindale, Walter W.
Morton, Clyde Walter
Mathis, Elbert Nelson
Mosley, Frederick Clifford
Mathis, John Anthony
Moss, Leon Fremont
Matthay, Ferdinand Louis
Moyer, Charles
Mayer, Joseph Bernard
Muller, Frederick Frank
Mays, Terry
Murch, Edward Weston
McAllister, Frank Allister
McAllister, James Pinkerton, P. M. Murphey, Charles Simon
Murphy, Jerome
McAlpine, David Johnson
Musselman, John William, P. M.
McBride, Harper Ellsworth
Myers, Cecil Bauer
McClure, Alfred
Nace, Roy
McCollum, Alvin Sanborn
Nadeau, Hubert
McCollum, Frank Elwin
Nelgner, Richard Albert
McConnell, Lee Alene
Neiswender, Chester Bernard
McCreery, Samuel Robert
Newell, John J.
McCulley, William Bissell
Nicolaus, William
McDevitt, Daniel, Jr.
Niederer, Walter John
McDonald, Frank
Noble, Ivory Bean
McDonald, Norman
Norton, Chalmers Scott
McGilliard, Gideon Deloss, P. M.
Nye, Arthur Maurice
McGinty, William Gipson
Odell, Abram Henry
McGraw, James Henry
Odhi.ar, Fritz
McGuire, Guy
O
'Kelly, Thomas Jefferson
McKay, William
Olshausen, Olfwald Leo.
McKeon, C. Roy
Ourfalian, Paul Lar'!tis
McKeon, Harry
Palmer, Amos Lorenzo
McKinley, James Welford
Park, Albert David
McKnight, Louis Columbus
Parke, Elbert Taylor, P. M.
Mc.Millan, Daniel Alex.
Parke, Oliver Hazard P., P. M
McNeeley, Thomas Berry
Parker, Francis Marion
Meagher, Charles Francis
Parker, Robert
Meek, William
Parsons, Alfred Harry
Meiklejohn, Matthew Caldwell
Pauly, Julius
Messerly, Everett Alpheus
Pawley, James
Meudell, Asa Yoernana
Pawley, Joshua Medlin
Milburn, Thomas Smedley
Payne, Rottham Kenner
Miller, George Francis
. Perrelli, Roxey
Miller, Henry
Peters, Charles Rufus, Jr.
Miller, Robert Warren
Peters, David Buehan
Minton, John Erwin
Peterson, Frederick Erskine
Mitchell, Alex. Muir
Pepe, Fernando
Moore, Charles Elijah
Perry, Arth~r St. Clair
Moorhead, George Bonynge

491

'

4'12

Pessell, George Douglas
Pfaff, William Henry
Philp, Harry Grafton Rowe
Phister, Richard Louis
Pike, Charles
Pitblado, James Bruce
Porter, William Sterling
Posch, .Tohn
Potts.• Henry Samuel
Pratt, Frank Fay
Preston, Jasper Newton
Pretz, Jacob Christian
Pritchard, Stephen Lacy, P. M.
Prosser, Albert John
Quiggins, James Allen
Quitzow, Charles
Randall, Ottho Lee
Rank, Isaac Elliott
Rankin, William John, P. M.
Rannells, John William
'Rebman, John
Reed, Charles Joseph
Redd, Harry Leroy
Reel, P eter Alex.
Ricciardi, Nicholas A.
Rice, James Edward
Hiedeman, .John Henry
Riggle, Elmer Willis
Roberti, Edward Lincoln
Roberts, Guy Malcom
Robinet, Joseph Z.
Roeder, Frederick
Roeder, Karl, Jr.
Rohde, Charles Julius
Rose, Louis Carl
Rossiter, Holland Benson
Roth, August
Roth, Otto Morris
Routzahn, Willis HarRey
Russell, Robert Nimmo
Ryse, Richard
Salyer, Alfred Mark
Salyer, Charles Alfred
Salyer, Frank Hamilton
Sanders, George Leon

'ROSTER

ROSTER
Saunders, William Seymour
Sautter, Alfred
Savage, William Edward
Schmalzried, Edward
Schmitz, John
Schrader, Gustave
Schwartz, Adolph
Scott, Arthur Morseman
Sentous, Camille
Shafer, Charles Franklin
Shaw, William Herbert
Sheets, Sylvester Newton
Shott, William Philip
Senegram, Philip
Siefert, John W.
Simonson, Albert
Signor, Arthur M.
Singleton, James William, P. M.
Skinner, Eckert
Sl:iter, William R.
Smith, George William
Smith, Herbert Lee
Smith, Isaac Horatio
Smith, Llewellyn James
Smith, Robert Jefferson
Smith, Robert Pendleton
Snowden, William Nelson
. Sohm, Alfred
Sprague, James Wesley
Sprague, William Brown
Stader, .TReob Edward
Stansbury, Charles Vivian
Staples, Charles Robert
Startzman, Charles Frederic
Steckel, George
Stewart, John Taylor
Stine, Isaac D.
Stone, William Harry
Strayer, Arthur James
Summers, AlexiR Charles
Summers, Samuel Lee
Sutton, Gilbert Campbell
Swank, Wiley
Sweet, Charles Alvin
Talmage, Frank Dewitt

493

Weiser, Abraham Grant
Taylor, Charles Russell
Welch, Charles llmory
Thompson, Rip Victor
Welch, William Ormond
Throop, George Warren
Wellborn, Charles
Tipton, .Charles Melville
Wells, Charles J edidiah
Titus, Robert Hill
Werdin, Ernest Rudolph
Todd, Ulysses Samuel G., P. M.
Wht'eler, John Bernard
Trainor, John
Wheeler, Royall Walter
Trainor, John William
White, Frank Harrison
Frastcr, William Harrison
White, Robert
Tritt, William Winters, P. M.
Whitfield, Robert
Tubman, William
Whitehead, Alex.
Tucker, Jame.s Peter
Whitney, Grant Ulysses
Tulloch, Thomas Mcintosh
Wickersham, Daniel Ross
Unwin, Edward George Oxford
Wickstrom, Eric Gustave
Valiant, Charles Weldon
Wilcox, Kearney Lee, P. M.
Valiant, Frank Doble
Wilcut, John Alfred
Valiant, Harry Alfred
Wilee, Solomon Franklin
Van Alstyne, George Warren
Wilkinson, Thomas Bertrand
Van Cleve, Rae Gird
Williams, Charles Allen, P. M.
Van Norman, Harvey Arthur
Willis, Charles Golden
Van Norman, James Linn
Wilson, Andrew Porter
Van Table, Karl William
Wilson, Frank Stewart
Viero, John Paul
Wolf, Frank Charles, P. M.
Wagner, DaJJiel Arthur
Wolf, Frank E·.lward
Walker, John Ansley
Wood, Emerson Lee
Waller, Perry Jay
Wood, George Henry
Walsh, Frnnk Edward
Workman, Robert Ferguson
Walterg, William Thomas
Wright, George Veach
Ware, John Francis
Wuesthoff, Maumilian W.
Watson, John William
Wyman, Frank Irving, Jr.
Webb, Charles Marion
Young, Walton
Webb, Harry Ed. Cloudman
Young, William, P. M.
Weber, John
-538.
Ziegler, .Tohn Louis
Weichmann, Henry Philip
Weinspach, Erwin Roland
WITHDRAWN:
*Jencks, George
Banks, Walter Charlton
Robinson, Frank
Coon, Willard Alden
tSmith, O!lin Eugene
Ellis, Isaac Newton
Thompson, Charles Santford
FulJer, George
Thompson, Joseph Franklln
Jackson, Harold F. D'A.
•Restored during the year.
t Affiliated during the year.

494

ROSTER

ALISAL LODGE, No.

321. ·

Pleasanton, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

(No Certificate. See Appendix.)
MEMBERS:
Albrecht, Herman William
Harris, Thomas Willi'am, P. M.
Apperson, Elbert Clark
Harris, William
Bannister, .Joseph Arnold
Helms, John Robert
Benedict, Edward Lewis
Hitchcock, Jess
Bonde, Hans Peter
.Johnson, George
Bryan, Daniel
.Jmy, Riley
Cale~ .Tohn 'rhomas
Latham, Crawford
Chadbourne, Henry Pierce, P. M.
Mayo, Clarence Earl
Colestock, Logan Alfred
Mohr, Henry Paul, P. M.
Cope, William Henry, P. M.
Peach, Rathsay Castle
Corbett, H enry Havelock
Peterson, Antone Iversen
Crellin, Charles Louis
Richards, George Henry
Crellin, Ernest Willard
Saunders, Joseph W.
Crinkshank, .Tames Robert
Schad, George Edward
Dall, Christian Hansen
Schween, Walter James
Day, Arthur Chester
Schween, William Frederick
Day, Walter
Silver, Thomas Homo
Dakin, Wilbur .Tameson
Sinclair, Hugh Arnold
Ellis, Robert
Thel'kelsen, Hans Christian
]'eusier, Henry Edward C.
Thorp, Peder Christian
Gill, .James S.
Trimingham, George
Haley, .John .Tad
Walter, Louis Christian, P. M.
Hall, Ernest Edwin, P . M.
Weilbye, .Julius Lars
Hall, Fred .James
Wells, Samuel .Jenkins, P. M.
Harms, Martin Frederick E.
-50.
Harris, ·Neal
WITHDRAWN:
Hedemark, .John Christian

ALHAMBRA LODGE, No.

4115

322.

Alhambra, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, second Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Melvin Ulysses Butterbaugh, Master, Jimmie Napier Hall, Senior Deacon,
Alhambra
Steward Lee, Junior Deacon,
Sloan Pitzer, Sen.ior Warden,
Lewis P. Hanscom, Marshal,
Olof G. Myren, Junior Warden,
Oscar Franklin Easley, Steward,
Hans Olson, T1·easurer,
Charles Alden Bishop, Steward,
Albert Adams Clapp, Secretary,
Theodore Knight, Tyler.
Alhambra
MEMBERS:
Corey, Francis Edwin
Algie, Matthew
Cornell, Ernest Bone
Allen, Charles Wesley
Anderson, Charles Axel
Creamer, James Montgomery, P. M.
Crow, Samuel Dickinson
Bailey, Charles Alden
Crowe, William Launcelot
Baill:ly, Elmer Ellsworth
Behlow, Irwin Wesley Merritt
Cumming, John Albert
Behlow, Robert Roscoe
Damon, William H.
Biddle, George Arthu1
Dempster, William H.
Bishop, Charles Alden
Dillman, Ira F.
Bolz, Emil
Drake, Samuel Ambrose
Easley, Oscar Franklin
Borden, Gail
Brady, Charles Evey
English, Manon ·Columbus
Bronaugh, Charles Augustus
Ferguson, Edwin Paul
Bronaugh, Daniel Dodge
Foote, Robert Ordway
Brown, Burton Leroy
Ford, Ernest Elwood
Bryant, .Joseph Allen
Gates, Austin Bryant
BulFs, Sherman Allen, P. M.
Graham, Clarence Van .
Butterbaugh, Melvin Ulysses, P. M. Gray, Francis Edward
Cartwright, Alex. Benjamin
Hall, Arthur Frederick
Cartwright, Benj. Brooks, P. M.
Hall, Jimmie Napier
Carlin, William M.
Hanley, George Thomas
Hanscome, Henry Ir.v ing, P. M.
Caulk, Harry Parsons
Hanscome, Lewis P.
Chamberlin, Harrie H.
Charles, Merrill Stull
Heslop, Stephen .J.
Hawkins, Arthur George
Clapp, Albert Adams
Clapp, Ralph Bissell, P. M.
Hazelhurst, .Tames L.
Clapp, Randall Corning
Holt, Thomas Elijah E.
Hoover, David Elwood
Clover, Samuel Traver
Clark, Paul Hipolit
.Johnston, Rufus
Cohen, Benjamin
.Johnson, August

496

ROSTER

Johnson, Henry Alfred
Reigha_id, Earl Marion
Kaufman, Charles F.
Reighard, Wave
Keating, Henry C.
Reynolds, Duncan L.
Lansford, James M.
Robins, L eigh Hoskyns
Lattin, K elley Walter
Robinson, Thomas Wilfred
Lee, Stewart
Roedder, Alfred
Liddell, Van Ranssalier
Rossi, Albert
Lingenfelder, Edward
Seay, John Philip
Lloyd, William Frazier
Sexton, Joseph Brownell
Lord, Thomas Newton
Bipprell, William A.
Lundy, Walter James
Smi th, Johnson S. B.
March, Daniel Webster
Smith, Roy Thornton
McDonald, Henry Dalton
Sorenson, Neal, P. M.
McDonough, James
Sprague, Charles H.
Messenger, Albert C.
Stanton, Edmund WooJ
Messenger, Bernard Ellis
Stevens, William Oliver
Messenger, John
Stone, Fred George
Middleton, William Philip
Strifler, Chester Eldrige
Miles, Harry Stors
Stuart, Edward Brookbank, P. M.
Miller, Jacob
Sutton, Earl .Vernon
Molique, Philip R.
Swan, Harry E.
Morga n, Guy Stephen
Taylor, Walter T.
Mulock, Daniel Connolly
Thompson, Newton Warren, P. M.
Munsell, William Alex. Oliver
Thuna.ck, Julius Hermann
Myers, John Albert
Utter, Frank Ames
Myren, Olof G.
Van Hagen, Fred
Menendorfer, Charles
Wallace, Robert M.
Northrup, William Moulton, P. M. Walters, Simon
Olson, Frank Thomas
Ware, Henry P eace
Olson, Hans
Wheat, Charles Albert
Olson, Henry John, P. M.
Wickerd, Homer Merritt
Parker, Benjamin Franklin
Wilks, Frank
Passino, Franklin Gilbert
Willard, Frank Stansbury
P atten, Freilerick William
·wmis, William Elmer
Percival, Winston George
Witherbee, Orville O., P. M.
Pitzer, Sloan
Woolpert, Royal Myren
Postle, Kenn eth Fountain
Wuest, Samuel Franklin
Powell, Lewis Smallwood
Yelland, George L.
-136.
WITHDRAWN:
Lawrence, Henry Eugene
Meeker, William M.
Musselman, Charles Wilfred
DIED:
Bartlett, Henry H.
Rich, James Jasper
Fortney, George Washington
Stickle, Commodore C.
Stuart, Thomas Jefferson

ROSTER

497

WHITTIER LODGE, No. 323.
,Whittier, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full ~oon.
OFFICERS:

Paul John Denninger, Master,
James Hope Stewart, Chaplain,
Care of S. C. E. Co., Whittier Arthur Theodore Emory, Sen. Dea., ·
Carl Edward Arfwedson, Sen. Ward., James Gibson Pease, Junior Deacon,
John Philip Wyatt, Junior Wardim, Paul Dahlitz, Marshal,
John Henry Gwin, Treasurer,
Raymond Fleetwood Frantz, Steward,
Edwin Hiscutt Payne, Secretary,
Daniel Reid, Steward,
Box 447 Whittier
Hugh McDonald, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adams, William George
De Ment, Earl Hilton
Denninger, Paul John
Allen, Milo
Arfweuson, Carl Edward
Denny, Louis Hoyt
Dopper, Charles Franklin
Ault, Henry
Barnes, Wilbert Edwin
Dressor, William L.
Bauer, Lewis Jacob
Dunham, Oz'ro Kenneth
Bell, Samuel Henry, P. M.
Dunlap, Albert Houston, Jr.
Binford, David Samuel
Dunlap, Albert Houston, Sr.
Blasdel, Elijah Sparks
Edeburn, Edward B.
Blinn, Irving Lewis.
Ellis, Nathan D., P. M.
Bold, Francis James
Emory, Arthur Theo.
Borden, Lindon A.
Evans, Christmas Stephen
Evans, John W.
Bostaph, Charles A.
Buck, John Henry
Essley, Edgar L.
Fairchild, John Jasper
Buffington, Charles Clifton
Butman, John S.
Farnsworth, John C.
Butterfield, Edward Clarence, P. M. Flanders, George Hiram
Burke, Edwin Alonzo
Flanders, Ray Johnston
Fletcher, Frank Augustus
Coverley, John Henry
Foster, Fred Monroe
Campbell, Frank Chester
Frampton, Thomas Madge
Carter, Eber Earnest
Frantz, Frank Edward
Cornett, James Henry
Frantz, Raymond Fleetwood
Crane, Donald Leroy, P. M.
French, Eugene K inkaue
Culver, Bert Lewis
Fletcher, Marcus Elwood
Cunningham, Ed. Clark
Gilman, Charles Sidney
Dahlitz, Paul
Gwin, Ancil
Davidson, Lewis Halberton
Gwin, John Henry
Davis, James William
Gray, Fred Willis
Davisson, Luther Charles
32

4\JS

Gregg, Augustus Hugh
Guthrie, Finis William, P. M.
Hazzard, Earl Chester
Hazzard, Frederick A.
Hazzard, George Lee
Hazzard, Marshall Lyman
Hayes, Samuel Buchanan
. Hiatt, John C.
Hiatt, William Macy, P. M.
Hill, George Goldsmith
Holbrook, Morrill
Hole, Willett J.
Holton, Charles Rufus
Humphrey, Henry E.
Hurst, Albert E.
-Hurst, Charles J.
Hutchinson, Manuel B.
Inners, Aaron
Jacobs, Alfred
Johnson, Lewis
Keene, Ed. Ballard
Kendrick, Henry W.
J.tinsler, Charles Clement
Lawhead, George C.
Lloyd, Thomas Ervin
Locke, James S.
Maddox, Jeff Thomas
Martin, George Edward
Martin, Oscar David
Martin, William Herndon
Maulsby, Larkin W.
Maulsby, Orlando Wood
McDonald, Hugh
McMillen, David Madison
McNces, Ralph
Miller, Frank De
Moorhead, Talbert Buchanan
Morehous, Benjamin Franklin
Monroe, George Walter
Montgomery, Lonnie Clarence
Myers, Lemuel Allen
Nickson, John
Owens, Frank Centennial, P. M.
Payne, Edwin Hiscutt

ROS'l'ER

ROSTER
Pease, James Gibson
Pickering, Loring A.
Powers, Jerome Frank, P. M.
Rainbolt, Winfield Scott, P. M.
Raymer, ·Floyd Parkis
Reed, Arthur Lucius
Reed, Cass Arthur
Reed, Ralph John
Rees, Cassius Alfred
Reichling, William George, P. M.
Reid, Daniel
Reider, Eddy Willis
Rendleman, Andrew Jackson
Risum, Chris
Robbins, Fred
Rogers, Ora Earl
Russell, William Henry
Rutherford, John Ashley
Sargent, Frederick Oscar
Sargent, George Herbert
Schenck, Daniel Brininger
Seaver, Fred Solon
See, Marshall Marion
Seeley, James Brown
Smith, Warren
Smith, William Alfonzo
Souden, Oscar May
Stacker, John Martine
Steinart, Bernard William
Stewart, James Hope, P. M.
Stone, Frederick George
Swain, Arthur William
Swaine, Charles Seymour
'J:odd, Joseph S.
Tomlinson, William Neeld
Triggs, George Elmer
Tyler, Guy
Vernon, Walter A.
Way, Robert B., P. M.
Whitson, .Tohn Wesley
Wheatland, Earl Manford
Wilson, Horace P.
Wiles, Joseph Mansfield
Wilson, Norris Remington

Wolfe, Thomas
Wood, John
Woodruff, George Hobart, P. M .

t

•Beam, Charles Hudson
Garrison, James Thomas

Woodward, Ray Ralph
Wright, John E.
Wyatt, John Philip

4µ9

-152.

WITHDRAWN:
Lambert, Edward Frank
Lambert, Charles Leslie
Wyatt, Robert E .

SUSPENDED FOil
Clabaugh, Adam Grant
Riho, John Perry

NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Stafford, Paul Leslie
West, Charles Elihu

Isbell, James Fletcher

DIED:
Kelly, James Campbell

CORONA LODGE, No. 324.
Pasadena, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

· William H. Holland, Master,
Heman Dyer, Chaplain,
141 Chestnut Street
Harry Trumbull Clifton, Sen Deacon,
Hugh Eglinton Montgomery, S. War., Alvin Wallace Viney, !lmior Deacon,
Peter Orban, Junior Warde11,
Dorr Gilbert Chapman, Marshal,
Farnum Lorainne Slate, Treasurer, John Visscher Eliot, Steward,
Wallace Kendall Gaylord, Secretary, Edwin John Goins, Steward,
75 N. Hudson Avenue
George Rasmas Weaver, T-yler

I

MEMBERS:
Baxter, Samuel Castner
Aberle, John
Beach, Fitz E.
Allen, Andrew Smith
Beal, Michael L.
Allen, Robert Stuart
Beatty, Harry Wilson
Allin, John
Bell, Charles Webster
Anderson, Homer John
Bell, Nelson William
Andrews, Dorsey Giles
Bigham, Leonard 0.
Andrews, Harry Eugene
Biles, Fred Eugene
Armstrong, Robert
Blankenhorn, Louis
Bacon, Frederick Albert
Blatz, Herman
Bailey, Frank Woods
Bleecker, John James
Ball, Benjamin Franklin
Blick, John Charles
Barlow, Hiram Woods
Blick, Joseph James
Batchelder, Benj. Franklin, P. M.
Boner, Frank Sherman
Batchelder, Ernest Allen
Boucher, William Abbott
Baxter, John Fleeger

500
Bowie, Hanson Rutter
Braddock, Oscar Louie
Bridge, Norman
Brigham, George Franklin
Brown, Charles Lee
Brown, Frederick Leonard
Brown, George Elmer
Brown, Ira W.
Brownson, Howard Eugene
Burnham, Frederick Russell
Butler, Maynard Balch
Byram, Joseph Hull
Byrne, James Edward
Cambell, James Hanford
Carr, Frank Leslie
Carrothers, Walter Roland
Carter, William Mathews
Cartzdafner, Frank LeRoy
Cary, George Peter
Case, Gideon Seward, P. M.
Catalano, Joseph Canzone
Chamberlain, Arthur Henry
Chamberlain, Clarence Edwin
Cbapman1 Charles William
Chapman, Dorr Gilbert
Chase, Henry Ashley
Chatfield, Harry Ives
Clark, George Albert
Clifton, Harry Trumbull
Cook, William Vanalstine
Coolidge, Douglas William
. Crandall, Charles Joseph
Crowell, William Chamberlain
Crumb, Edgar Dwight
Daniels, George Alvin
Davies, William Tremper
Davis, George Russell
Davis, J esse Miller
Davis, Joseph Edward
Davis, Mayhew Whitesall
Deacon, George
Dickinson, Gardiner Williams
Dockery, John Otto
Dodworth, Allen Roy
Doty, Henry Aaron

ROSTER
Dunham, Samuel Gaston
Dyer, Heman
Eason, Robert, P. M.
Eipp, John Peter
Eliot, John Visscher
Ewing, James 1... ndrew
Farrand, 'l'homas Manchester
Felker, Norval Gibson, P. M.
Fessenden, Alfred Newton
Fish, Clinton Thomas
Fogg, William Kelty
Foltz, Hudson
Frary, Leander Warren. P. M.
Frayer, Dent Beckwith
Frost; Charles Henry
Frost, Stephen Charles
Furness, Joseph Clarence
Gaylord, Albert Pattersvn
Gaylord, Robert Horace
Gaylord, Wallace Kendall, P. M.
Geohegan, Harry
Gibbs, George Albion
Gilmore, William Duncan
Gillmor, David Todd
Gillmor, Grant
Glasscock, Joseph Sherman
Goins, Edwin John
Gordon, Theodore Granger
Grace, Frederick Albert
Gray, Edward Everett
Green, Manly P.
Greene, Henry Mather
Griffith, Eugene Cook, P. M.
Groenendyke, Edward, p, M.
Hadley, James Luther
Halsted, Samuel Hazard
.Hamilton, Arthur Lincoln
Hansen, Lorenz Peter
Hansen, Waldemar Grant
Harris, Fred Reid
Harvey-Elder, Churchill
Hawkins, Arthur Lou
Hawkins, John William
Hedges, Albert Marion
H enderson, Leroy Munson

ROS'l'ER

•

Herlihy, David Walter
Hertel, Herman Rudolph
Heyn, Robert Nicolas
Hibbard, William Edward
Hill, Charles D.
Hobbs, Sidney Freeman
Hoge, Smith B.
Holland, William H.
Holmes, James Huston
Holt, Herbert Charles
Honberger, Paul Sprenger
Horton, George Clifford
Huddleston, Clayton F.
Huff, Melvin Byron
Huggins, Fred Trotwood
Jackson, Charles William
Jacobs, Julius Richard
Johnston, ]franklin Herbert
JoneR, Frederick Clifford
Jones, Paul Vernon
JoneR, William Lloyd
Kelty, Elisha F . B.
Keyes, Charles Henry
Khazoyan, Haigag Hagop
Kiehl, Roy C.
Kiesling, Henry
Klamroth, Henry Herbert
Knight, William Franklin
Lawrence, William Johnston
Leithead, William Wilson
Lindsay, Harry Wyatt
Lisk, Byron
Lockwood, Charles Daniel
Luken, John Arendt
Maccormack, William
MacLaughlin, Leo Ga rnett
Macomber, Abraham Kingsley
Makepeace, Thomas Ransome
Malaby, Zachary Taylor
Marquardt, Jeese Claude
Mattison, Fitch Champlin E.
May, Ernest Heath, P. M.
Mccament, John Oliver
McDonald, Robert Walker
McLarn, Robert Harper

McNally, Patrick Jamee
McPherson, William Penton
Meday, Henry Hawes
Merriam, John Howard
Merritt, Cecil Adelbert
Merwin, Dane.an Salisbury
Metcalf, Hiram Franklin
Minassian, John Horhannee
Montgomery, Hugh Eglinton
Mordoff, Jamee Malcolm, P. M.
Mueth, Adolph Albert
Mulligan, Edward Howell
Munson, Byron
Munson, Spencer M., P. M.
Neff, Edwin Dorland
Nelmes, Thomas Hussey
Nettleton, Ashbel Griswold
Newby, Henry
Nicholls, John Sprague
Nichols, Walter Edmund
Off, Edward T.
Orban, Peter
Palmer, Arthur Hopkins, P. M.
Parker, Harold A.
Parnay, Serope Yedicar ' n
Paterson, Schuyler C.
Patten, Henry Sheridan
Patton, J. Howard
Pearce, James Henry
Pearman, John Henry
Perkins, Henry Alfred
Permar, David Wilson
Pierce, William Jacob
Porter, Lafayette Seward
Powers, Fremont
Prianlx, P ercival James, P. M.
Proudfoot, Frederick M.
Proudfoot, John
Pyle, Edward Jehu
Quillin, Asbury
Raftery, Leon Francie
Randall, Merton Orlando
Rawles, Joseph Arthnr
Rawls, Ruf118 Br.nnett
Reynolds, Charles Calvin

501

ROSTER

502
Rhodes, Charles Hilliard
Roberts, George Burhans
Roberts, Richard Stockton
Roberts, William Humes, P. M.
Rossiter, John Gormley
Sadler, Alden Howard
Sanborn, William Elmer
Sargent, Chester Davis
Schroeder, Diedrich
Schwacofer, Edward Blake
Sch'l'.Vedler, Otto
Sheldon, Lionel Allen
Sherman, Henry Bushnell
Sherry, Henry, P. M.
Sherwin, Billy Ebin
Shibley, William
Short, Albert N.
Shumway, Charles Dwight
Simpson ·John Hifford
Skillen, Charles Moses
Skillen, Ralph George
Slate, Farnum Lorainne
Slavin, Matthew
Smith, Charles Warren
Smith, Edward Clarence
Smith, Elbert Whitne~·
Smith, Frederick George
Smith, William Charles
Smith, William Henry
Smith, Willis Hubbard
Snowball, MacDougall
Staats, William Richardson
Stafford, John D.
Stanton, Edwin Moore
Stanton, William
Stearns, Charles Henry
Stodua~d, Bert
Hutchins, Alfred
Markham, Henry Harrison

Stuart, Holloway Ithamer
Sturdevant, Charles Victor
Sullivan, Daniel Cornelius
Sutton, Charles 'l'homas, P. M.
Swan, Frederick Howard
Test, Lemuel Langstaff, P. M.
Thomas, Frank Newton
'l'hompson, C'harles Santford
Torrey, Frank Sedgwick
Turner, Lewis Horace
Twombly, Fred Eugene
Upton, Samuel ~\Tarren
Vanderhoff, Mclancthon H.
VanNuys, William Nelson
Van Sickle, Garrett Foster
Viney, Alvin Wallace
Wallace, .Tames Temple
Wallace, Silas Ives
Ward, Victor Leigh
Warren, Kenyon
Watkins, Edwin Phillips
Weaver, l!'red Joseph
Webster, Joseph Carl
Weed, Oscar F., P. M.
Wheeland, Charles Grier
Whito, George Henry
Wilkie, Luther Erwin
Willett, Charles Joseph, P. M.
Winters, Roy Leighton
Wolkyns, Webster
W ooo, .T. Perry
Wood, John Windell
Wood, Melvin Edgar
Wooster, Charles, P. M.
Wotkyns, Walter Livingston, P. M.
Wright, Thompson Barrett
.Young, William Peter
-284.

WITHDRAWN:
Martin, John Franklin
Torrance, Lewis Curtis

SUSPENDED FOR
Gentry, Henry Fletcher
Goodrich, John Albert
Graham, Samuel Findley

NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Jewett, Stanley Punchardon
Johnson, Thomas
Polley, Frank John

ROSTER
DIED:
Bowen, Stephen Oliver
McNaughton, James
Gleason, Cassius M.
Montgomery, James Eglinton
Marshall, William Sunderland
Pike, Alfred Pillsbury
Smith, John Martin

CONSUELO LODGE, No. 325.
Escondido, San Diego County.
State<l Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon ·
OFFICERS:
(No Certificate. See Appelldix.)
MEMBERS:
Jercslaw, William
Judson, John N.
Kelley, John L.
Kies, Byron W.
Larzalere, J. V.
Lehner, George
Marshall, Henry
Marshall, Hugh J.
McNiel, Lewis W.
Merriam, Gustavus F.
Moon, Alonzo R.
Mudd, William S.
Nordahl, Andrew W.
Nordahl, Oscar Carl
Oaks, David T.
Phillips, Andrew
Plowman, A. R.
Quinlan, Edward
Ramey, William Luther, P. M.
Reed, Sewall A. •
Steiner, Sigmund
Stevenson, Frank H.
Stevenson, Lloyd A.
Tarvin, E. M.
Tee<l, Hamilton J.
Turrentine, Edgar E. ·
Turrentine, Howard B.
Turrentine, John Neil, P. M.

Bailey, Charles Wesley
Bailey, Clinton J.
Baldridge, William Henry
Blount, C. E.
Boyle, James
Butler, William Nelson
Carpenter, Wm. W. Jr., P. M.
Churchill, Edward Marion, P. M.
Churchill, Charles B.
Clark, William L.
Colahan, Franci's J.
Connor, Mayrant
Covell, William A.
Conway, Mereoith
Crise, Bruce L.
Crise, Davin
Crise, Harry Null
Dickson, George G.
Dickson, John Charles
Dickson, Samuel Clark
Dunn, Alvin Delos, P. M.
Estes, PRyton Wade
Garrett, Benjamin G.
Hansen, N. F.
Hayes, Hiram C.
Hinman, Byron
Holmburg, Charles K.
Jenkins, George R.

1503

504
Vanasen, William H.
Van Derveer, Jacob L., P. M.
Whetstone, John A.
Welty, Henry

Wisdom, Pierce J.
Witt, Charles G.
Wohlford, Alvin W.
Worth, Jehoida J.

-64.

WITHDRAWN:
Durfee, Ulysses G.

NEEDLES LODGE, No. 326.
Needles, San Bernardino County.
Stated Meetings, second Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Elmer N. Baker, Master,
Larry Warren, Chaplain,
Needles
'Charles Angel Shepard, Sen. Deacon,
Arthur McCandless, Sen. Warden, Harry Muns Greer, Junior Deacon,
Welburn Hiner Dillehunt, Jun. War., A. B. Riley, Marshal,
Frank Bryce Krallman, Treasurer, Harry F. Hope, Steward,
Otto Willis Dannell, Secretary,
W . H. Hall, Steward,
Box 125, Needles
'N. Cubbage, Tyler.

Ackerly, William Keating
Ahrens, Henry
Anderson, Henry Temple
Armantage, John
Baker, Elmer N., P. M.
Baldwin, Harry Coffee
Ballenger, Dan Robert
Beath, Clarence Gilbert
Bedell, Stephen Allen
Berding, Gerhard Herman
Bigler, Ch.r istian Andrew
Bispham, William
Bowen, Hector Morgan
Briggs, George Smith
Butler, George Eugene, P. M.
Cheney, Raymond Stewart
Christie, John Alexander
Clark, Ray R.
Cooey, Malachai Harry
Crayne, Daniel Edward
Crew, Abner Lafayette

MEMBERS:
Crowthers, John Richard
Cubbage, Wilford
Cumback, Edward Lynn
Dillehunt, Wilburn H.
Donnell, Otto D.
Perguson, Neil Edward
Fluhr, Charles George
Fowler, Robert A.
Frazer, Hugh Wilson
Freeman, Herman
Freeman, William Francis
Fish, Eli Willis
Godshall, Lincoln D.
Gilbert, Isaac Sylvester
Greer, Harry Munns
Guthrie, Robert Edward
Havill, Frederick H.
Huber, Herman Louis
Jones, Harry Albert
Kelly, Fred M., P. M.
Krallman, Frank Bryce

505

ROSTER

ROSTER
Kendall, Charles Forrest
Kflnnedy, Albert C.
Mathison, Paul Otto E.
McCandless, Arthur
McElmell, James A.
Mealy, Solomon Richard
Miller, Charles William, Jr.
Miller, William Lewis
Mills, William Henry
Monaghan, Charles Burns
Monaghan, Francis, P. M.
Moore, Charles Edward
Morden, Thomas
Morgan, James Clark
Murphy, Daniel
Newhall, Henry Martin
Nolton, Lester Leonard
Null, Edward Jacob
Patten, Wallace J.
Pellat, Robert Wesley
Perkins, Guy Irvine
Phillips, Roscoe Erwin

Pine, Bertram Reuben
Platner, William Albert
Riley, Albert Bentley
Root, Leroy Vincent, P. M.
Runyon, Fred
Saunders, George W.
Schiller, Frank Christ
Shale, Samuel Clarence
Shepard, Charles Angel
Smith, William Alpheus
Springer, James Munsen
Stearns, Albert Henry, P. M.
Steffey, Orange De Wolf
Sydnor, Alfred Wyatt .
Thompson, Hora.ce N.
Topp, William Wallace
Vick, William Robert
Warren, Larry
Wild, Arthur Grant
Williams, James
Woon, Arthur John
Yeager, Sherman Abner

-86.

WITHDRAWN:
Rhodes, Charles Edgar
Renlen, Otto Frank
Rlchenbacker, Herman Walter
SUck, Fred Abraham
W~lte, Howard Bennett
SUSPENDED FOR
O'Donnell, Martin William

NON-PAYMENT OF
Taylor, Carl I.

DUES:

LONG BEACH LODGE, No. 327.
Long Beach, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, :first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Leonidas Frederick Johnson, Master, Shelton Bissell, ChCJJp/ain,
Box 324, R. F. D . No. 1
Forrest Marion Whitaker, Sen. Dea.,
James Duncan Graham, Sen. Ward., John Henry Feers, Junior Deacon,
Frederick Birdsall Fritz, Jun. Ward., William Wallace Lowe, Marshal,
William Samuel Stevens, Treasurer, David Gardner Earl, Steward,
Hugh H. Williams, Secretary,
Samuel Waddell Coverdale, Steward,
225 W. 7th Street
Mark Trapton Berry, Tyler.

506

Abbott, Arthur Marion
Adams, Lloyd Garfield
Allen, Charles Alfred
Allen, James Van Loon
Almind, Anders E.
Anderson, James William
Austin, Albert Bennett
Austin, William Horace
Bailey, Henry Clay
Baldwin, Walter George
Barndollar, Harry, P. M.
Barton, William Thomas
Bassett, H enry Willard
Beard, George
Becanon, Herchel Francis
Benson, Claud Miller
Benson, George Samuel
Benson, John Paul
Birkle, William
Bisby, Robert Lee
Bissell, Shelton
Bonar, Charles Abel
Boone, Harvey Elsworth
Bowers, James Ervin
Bowers, Wesley Clay
Bowman, Ivory Lowe
Brandenburg, Frank
Brayton, William Lorentus
Brewer, Alvin Lee
Brown, Edwin Severance
Brown, Harry Gardner
BrQwn, Rufus Donaldson
Buckwalter, Charles E.
Butts, Duane R.
Callahan, Henry Seymour
Campbell, Marcus Herbert
Campbell, William Leslie
Cario, Albert
Carlson, Charles John
Carpenter, Louis K.
Carse, Elmer George
Clayton, Albert Benjamin
Clem, David
Cleveland, Edgar H.

ROSTER

ROSTER
MEMBERS:
Clewett, Chester C.
Cobourn, William Henry
Connett, Albert Bradwell
Connett, Harvey Mahlon
Cooper, Dale Goodwin
Counts, John Ellis
Coverdale, Samuel W.
Covert, Joseph Newton
Craig, Prank Sigel
Creeth, Ernest Ray
Cullen, John Thomas, P. M.
De Meulle, JoPeph
Dewey, Edwin Preston, P. M.
Donnell, Theophilus Crosby
Dougan, Andrew
Douglas, Bruce Edwin
Douglas, Cyrus Edwin
Dower, William
Drake, William Lord
Driskill, J ease
Dudderar, Clarence Boyd
Earl, David Gardner
Edmunds, Robert W.
Ewen, Andrew James
Eno, Rufus A.
Fager, Wiliam Clarence
Feers, John Henry
Fellows, Ernest Frank
F etterman, Isaac Leonard
Finlayson, John
Flint, George Clifford, P. M.
Foster, William Addison
Fritz, Frederick B.
Galer, William
GaRtrieh, Joseph Wimam
Goodhue, Arthur Martin
Graham, James Duncan
Green, Horace William
Greenwell, George
Greive, Anselm de Grellier
Grube, Aaron Christain
Gutzler, Alfred John
Hammer, Samuel Crawford
Hargis, Charles Jones, P. M.

Harley, Robett Pollok
Harris, Adam Singleton
Harrison, Henry
Harthorn, Dell Henry
Harvey, Edwin Ruthven
Hateh, Ira Selden
Hatch, Philander Ellsworth
Heartwell, James Benjamin
Henry, Joseph Baxter
Hess, Logan
Hill, James Andrew Paton
Hincks, Harvey Wellman
Hirsch, George Fred
Holden, Joseph Matthias
Holladay, Alvin Cosmo
Horn, Harvey
Horne, Walter Jame!!
Horsch, Elias Henry
Hough, John J.
Huff, William F.
Jackson, Edward Hendryx
Johnson, Leonidas Frederick
Jones, George Gray
Jones, Edward Palmer
Jones, William Harriman
Julian, William Bailey
Kendall, William Wesley
Knight, Frederick Alonzo
Kennedy, William Anderson
Kimball, Rollin Freeman
Kinzer, Samuel
Kring, Ulysses Grant
Langnickel, Joseph Magnus
L eaming, George Ambrose
Long, George Washington
Long, Stephen Gano
Lopp, William Rader
Losee, Judson B.
I.owe, William Wallace, P. M.
Loynes, Richard, ·P. M.
Lyster, William Grafton
Mac<lonald, Harry Beverly
MacKinnon, John William
Martin, George
Martin, William Simon

Marshall, Harry Bateham
Masters, Robert Emmet
May, Joseph Jacob
Mayers, Lewis Deara
Mayhugh, Spencer Arthur
McClintock, George Henry
Mccutchan, Henry Chest.er
Mccutchan, Hugh Henry
McCiJ.tchen, Frank
McQuigg, Frank Robertson
Mears, Charles Franklin
Miller, .Tiimr.A Alden
Mitchell, Charles Edward, P. M.
Mohr1>nstecl1er, George Adolf
Moore, Eugene B.
Moore, Harry Dawson
Morlock, Hngo
Morris, John Miles
Munholland, John Guthrie
Munholland, John Henry
Murphy, Charles Thornton
Murphy, Michael Bennett
Neece, George Washington
Neel, Melvin
Nelson, Albert
Nelson, Swanti Louis
Newkirk, Francis Marion
Norton, Elbert Elsworth
Oakford, Richard Scholes
Pascoe, William Frederick
Paul, Bert Hamilton
Peacock, Rolland Robert
P earce, Robert Whaley
Pease, Charles
Perce, Lewis Ansen
Phillips, Everett Nay
Pierson, George H.
Pingree, Franklin Pierce
Porteous, Arthur Leopold
Porterfield, Walter Lowrie
Potter, Pleasant G.
Ratliff, Samuel Gully
R.obinson, Chester Ellswood
Ross, Ulysses S. Grant
Russell, Albert Chapman

507

508
Saunders, Franklin
l:\cales, Joseph Henry
Schiedknecht, George
Schlesmayer, Conrad William
Schulze, Theodore Gustave
Scott, Henry Adison
Shackleton, James
Shaw, Clark Hervey, P. M.
Shaw, Frank Edwin
Shaw, Hervey Ebenezer
Shaw, William Ray
Shuffiebotham, John G.
Shull, David Paul
Smith, Edwin W.
Smith, Harley Earl
Smith, Louis Hazelwood
Snow, Albert B.
Springer, James Bowie
Stafford, Wm. Perry Lucien
Stannard, S. Grant
Stephens, Timothy Alva
Stevens, William Samuel
Story, Archie Edward
Stovell, Thomas
Strickland, Steelman Leeds
Stuart, Harry Carlos
Stubenbord, Jacob John
Stults, William Leon
Symonds, Henry
Taylor, Charles John Edward

ROSTER
Taylor, Humphrey
Thayer, Delos P.
Thornburg, Charles Hix
Tucker, William A.
Twombly, James C.
Twombly, James Richard
Vanderburg, Robert Benton
Varney, William Madison
Wade, Charles Howell
Waite, Earl Sherman
Waldron, Thomas Henry
Walker, Allen Cyrille
Wallace, John Meredith
Walters, Guy Oakley
Watson, Matt Paul
Weinberg, Isaac
Welsh, William
White, Walter C.
Whitehead, Earle McL.
Whitiker, Forrest Marion
Williams, Hugh H.
Wilson, Harry· Milton
Wilson, George Hay
Wilson, William Harrison
Wiseman, William Edwin
Wood, James Watson
Woolsey, Arthur Lution
Wright, Robert Allen
Zahler, Fredrick William
Ziegler, Harry B.

WITHDRAWN:
Gilbert, Christopher Columbus
Mccaslin, James Alexander
Kenniston, Arthur Hiram
Myers, George Ridley
McCaslln, Isaac Lafarett
Wheeler, Frank
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Balley, Louis Albert
Gollum, Frederick Walker
Baldridge, William Rankin
J1llson, Norman Stanley
Ewing, Louis Franklin
Smith, Walter Clifford
Stlgner, David B.

DIED:
Westgate, Charles Adams

ROSTER

509

REDONDO LODGE, No. 328.
Redondo, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, third Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Barre Augustus Furlong, Master,
Denton John Pitts, Chaplain,
Redondo Beach
Louis Hartman Heath, Sen. Dea.,
George Holm Anderson, Sen. Ward., Alton Matthew Brooks, /1m. Dea.,
Ernest Clark Heath, Junior Warden, Earl Bringley Whiteside, Marshal,
Peter Brown, Trea-.surer,
Calvin Sawyer Coleman, Steward,
Augustus Medores Harter, Secretary, John Edward Seargeant, Steward,
Redondo Bhch
Louis Von Rockabraudt1 Tyler.

-238.

MEMBERS:
Hinman, Orrin Clark
Abell, James Nelson
Holm, George Hansen
Anderson, George Holmes
Hull, Frederick Homer
Anderson, William Austin, P. M.
Kew, James Herbert
Barnes, Frederick Albert
Klein, Alfred Henry
Bluett, James
Kosterlitz, John C.
Brown, Peter
Leftwich, Jerry Tiffin
Burt, Walter B.
Leuzinger, Adolph
Callaway, Fred
Lichty, Bert Christian
Carter, Walter
Lindsay, Gaun Jai>kson
'cate, George
Lindsley, Samuel Goodwin
Chrisman, James M.
Maddex, William Thomas
Cleghorn, William Jackson, P. M.
Mangold, Charles Clarence
. Coleman, Calvin Sawyer
McMillan, Edwin Harbaugh
Culver, Roy W.
McNally, Henry Jacob
Dry, Wilson Joseph
Meacham, Harry Douglas
Eneix, David Sylvester
Means, Charles Vernon
Feder, Henry Charles
More, Melvin John
Fisher, Martin Van Buren
Moyan, Alphonse
Funk, George Spalatin
Paine, John William
Furlong, Barre Augustus
Paine, William Lee
Galentine, Charles Corrington
Parker, David Jonathan
George, James Harvey
Parker, Perl Scott
Gillespie, Joseph C., P. M.
Perry, Frank Lorin
Grasse!, Charles William, P. M.
Pitts, Denton John
Hansen, Alff Scharff
Protsch, Alex. Frederick
Hardin, Louis Brownlow
Quint, Leander John
Harter, Augustus Medores, P. M.
Raby, Henry George
Heath, Ernest Clark
Rettig, Louis Ebrohardt
Heath, Louis Hartman
Rice, Calvin
Heath, Roy Watson

ROSTER

510

Rice, Charles Albert
Riley, George Andrew
Rowell, Nathan Leavit
Russell, John Tecumseh
Schaur, Herbert Martin
Schlegel, John
Scott, Raymond Chester
Searing, Jesse Albert
Shultz, James
Smith, George Vinson
Smith, Richard Dallum, P. M.
Smith, William
Spaulding, Edgar Warren
Spaulding, Elbert Augustus
Sprinkle, Wm. Foote, P. M.
Stark, James Guy, P. M.

Anderson, Arthur Torrence
Cowper-Thwalte, Edward

Stark, John Wright
Steel, Arthur Bridge, P. M.
Venable, Charles Earle
Venable, Joseph William, Jr.
Venable, Pierce Samuel, P. M.
Venable, Thomas Eldrichc
Von Rockabrandt, Louis
Weaver, John Lenard
Weaver, Wallace Herman
Webb, Sherman Albert
Wells, Lucian Fayette
Whiteside, Earl Bingley
Whiteside, Thomas Bingley
Whiteside, Ross Saxton
Whomes, Arthur
Woolley, William Willard
-92.

WITHDRAWN:
Smith, George Montgomery
Whomes, Joseph

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Barkey, Samuel Deal
Griffin, Cecil Lelland

511

ROSTER
Chiarodit, Georges
Christopher, Louis Joseph
Curtet, Leon, P. M.
Deutsch, Charles, P. M.
Dore'l_, Jean
Escallier, Leon
Eyraud, Alphonse
Eyraud, Francois
Ey,raud, Joseph
E:yraud, Marcelin
Fava, Arthur
Fleur, Ernest
Gabard, Louis
Gianetti, Guisseppe
Gravet, Charles Adolphe
Grob, Walter
Hiriart, Pascual
Humbert, Etienne Edward
Labourdette, Pierre
Lacour, Frederic
Lacour, George Solier
Laporte, Henri
*Cerveau, Alexander

Louazon, Joseph
Machris, Alfred Paul
Machris, George Louis
Malais, Clovis
Mirossou-Castig, Jean F.
Mazet, Cacimir
Mazet, Jean
N esa, Bernard
Pedy, Louis
Pourroy, Pierre
Puissegur, Francois Raymond
Roques, Paul
Salthu, Dominique
Salthu, Martin
Sentous, Jules Jean
Sentous, Louis, Jr., P. M.
Taix, .Jaachim
Tischhauser, Arnold
Tisnerat, Edouard
Van Calbergh, Eugene
Vial, Scipion
Vincent, Clement

-52.

WITHDRAWN:
Lorldan, Florlmond

VALLEE de FRANCE LODGE, No. 329.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
Masonic Temple.
OFFICERS:
August Frank Bouelle, Master,
Louis Sentous, Jr., Chaplain,
2367 W. 22d Street
Henry Laporte, Senior Deacon,
Marcelin Eyraud, Senior Warden, Louis Pedy, Junior Deacon,
Dominique Salthu, Junior Warden, Charles Deutsch, MarshaJ,
Ernest Fleur, Treasurer,
Paul Germain Lacay, Steward,
Leon Curtet, Secretary,
Martin Salthu, Steward,
316 W. 7th Street
Clement Vincent, Tyler.

Allemand, Jeremie
Apffel, Alex. Louis
Barthe, Jean Bertrand, P. M.
Bouelle, Frank Auguste

MEMBERS:
Bresson, Francois
Caj.al, Antonio Domingo
Castera, Jean
Cazeaux, Arnaud, P. M,

KILAUEA LODGE, No. 330.
Hilo, Hawaiian Territory,
Stated Meetings, Saturday nearest the Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
William Henry C. Campbell, Master, George Herbert Williams, Chaplain,
Hilo, Hawaii
John Napier, Senior Deacon,
Everett Nathan Holmes, Sen. War., Robert Todd Moses, Junior Deacon,
Donald Scott Bowman, Jun. U7 ar., Eugene Nelson Deyo, Marshal,
Adam Lindsay, Treasurer,
Hermann William Ludloff, Steward,
Frank Arthur Medcalf, Secretary, John Henry Maby, Steward,
Box ~58, Hilo, Hawaii
William McKay, Tyler.

Ainslie, Archibald
Anderson, Frank Moir
Andrews, Lorrin Andrews

MEMBERS:
Andrews, Wentworth Kinney
Arnswaldt, Anton Walter von
Arnswaldt, Erl!est August von

•Degrees conferred during the year.

512

ROSTER

ROSTER

Aungst, Luther Stine
Humburg, Johann August
Austin, Ernest Harper
Hutchison, Robert Allan
Baker, John Thomas
Irwin, Archer
Balding, William Thol:nas, P. M.
Jamieson, George
Baldwin, Erdman Dwight
Johnson, Peter
Beckley, Henry Pitman
Kauhane, Samuel
Blake, George
Kelsey, Evelyn Henry
Bole, John Hodge
Kennedy, Charles Reid
Bowman, Donald Scott
Kennedy, John Downie
Brein, William
Kennedy, Ronald Clark
Breyman, Fred
Keolanui, William Mansole
Brunaghim, Everett
King, Charles Edward
Bryant, Howard Rattenbury
Linder, Axtell Ferdinand
Butehart, David Greig
Lindsay, Adam
Lindsay, Andrew Bonnar
Cameron, James Murray ·
Campbell, Wm. Henry Colen, P. M. Lougher, Robert
Ludloff, Hermann William
Castendy, K. Christian H .
Lyman, Levi Chamberlain
Conradt, Julius Wilhelm
Maage, Frederick William
Cosgrove, James
Maby, John Henry
Curtis, Albert Guild
Mackenzie, Daibhidh
Curts, John Paul
Macpherson, John
Deyo, Eugene Nelson
Maxfield, Dani11l Edwin
Dickson, Charles
McDougal, William Paul
Eliot, Harold Beatty
McKay, William, P. M.
Engalls, Hans
McLean, Walter Scott
Fairer, Charles Henry, P . M.
MeNicoll, James
Fineke, Heinrich Wilhelm
MeQuaid, William Matthew
Fitzgerald, John
Medcalf, Frank Arthur, P. M.
Forbes, David MeHattie
Meinecke, Joseph
Forbes, Robert
Moir, Jl!>hn Troup, P. M.
Fraser, Alexander
Moses, Robert Todd
Gere, Giles Henry
Muir, James Marriner
Gerlach, Henry August
Napier, John
Gibb, Arthur Charles
Nichols, Ezra Francis
Goodale, William Whitmore
Omsted, Olaf
Grace, John Johnston
Overend, Henry Sheridan
Green, Charles David
Paetoe, Frank Christian
Guard, Thomas
Parsons, Charles Francis
Haeniseh, Fredrieh August
Patten, Harold Vaighan
Hapai, George Washington A.
Peek, Philip
Henderson, James
Peek, Samuel Stodole
Hill, Charles William
RayJ Ira Elmer
Holmes, Everett Nathan
Ray, Willis Alfred
Horner, Alb'ert
Richards, Elmer Ellsworth, P. M.
Howland, John Hastings

513

Richmond, Frank Adams
Wall, ~llen Serouny
Weatherbee, Charles
Rickard, John Smith
Ridgway, Thomas Caldwell, P. M. Webster, James
Ross, John Monroe .
Weight, Edward Joseph
Weight, William
Rycroft, Robert Henry
· · White, Thomas Corbert
Schoen, Irving Baruch
Willfong, Nathan Crosby
Shaw, Henry Leonard
Smith, John Ulric
Williams, Geo. Herbert, P. M.
Wilson, George
Souza, Florentin
Wise, William Seaburn
Stobie, Charles Alexander
Woods, James Frank
Stow, Charles Lethbridge
Woods, Palmer Parker
Vannatta, William
Woods, Samuel Parker
Vicars, George Henry, P. M.
Wagener, Frederich Wilhelm
Wright, Charles Edward
-124.
Parsons, Sllenus Dewitt

I

Bohn, Will1am Siegfried

WITHDRAWN:
Pierce, George Henry
McKnight, W1lliam
DIED:
McKay, WiJJiam, Sr.

EXPELLED :
Gunclelfinger, Siegfried (F. C.)

PACIFIC GROVE LODGE, No. 331.
Pacific Grove, Monterey County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
John Proctor, Master,
William Sutton, Chaplain,
Pacific Grove
Richa rd Chivers, S enior Deacon,
Elmer George Brua, Senior Warden, Daniel Freeman, Junior Deacon,
Charles Kingsley Johnston, J. War., Charles Edward Tuck, Marshal,
Robert Miller Fitzsimmons, Treas., Frank Harrison Hine, Steward,
Edwin Simpson Johnston, Secretary, Herboct Emery Van Horn, Steward,
P. 0. Box 211, Pacific Grove
George Francis Ingham, Tyler.

Brink, William Otho
Brown, Charles Fredrick
Brua, Elmer George
'
Buck, Frank La Vern
33

MEMBERS:
Buffum, Eldridge Clayton
Campbell, Samuel H.
Chivers, Harry
Chivers, Richard

ROSTER

514

Cook, William Charles, P. M.
Dangerfield, Charles Lucius
Eardley, Bedson Alma
Ellis, Frank Wilson
Fifield, Daniel Black, P. M.
Fifield, Willard George
Fitzsimmons, Abram Miller
Fitzsimmons, George Lyman
Fitzsimmons, Robert Miller, P. M.
Freeman, Daniel
Gardner, Joseph Marshall
Harper, Hind, Jr.
Hart, Charles Edwin
Hine, Frank Harrison
Howard, Fred Dudley
Ingram, George Alexander
Ingham, George Francis
James, Richard L.
Jamison, William Thomas
Johnston, Charles Kingsley
Johnston, Edwin Simpson
Lawrey, Francis Edward

ROSTER

Leary, Daniel Joseph, P. M.
Lee, Abraham
Lewis, Edward Branham
Newlon, William Wirt
Oliver, Joseph Kurtz
Pa trick, Harry Lee
Peterson, John August
Proctor, John
Reynolds, Fred Irvine
Richardson, Fred Orland
Scoble, William
Stalter, John
Steiner, Adam Jackso·n
Stewart, William Wallace
Sutton, William, P. M.
Swanson, Oscar
Trimmer, Oliver Smith
Tuck, Charles Edward
Tuttle, Charles Kirkham, P. M.
Wyeth, Frank Joe
Yates, James Jackson

-51.

WITHDRAWN:
James Elias Olan

SAN PEDRO LODGE, No. 332.
San Pedro, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, second Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
William Gordan Mills, Chaplain,
George Stephen Kling, Master,
817 Waterloo St., Los Angeles. Frederick William Blausey, S. Deav:.,
Ernest Albert Miller, Sen. Warden, Raymond Addie Scott, Junior Dea.,
Niels Almy Larsen, Junior Warden, Newell Bailey Stetson, Marshal,
Edwin Butler Moores, Treasu11er, Gilbert Clyde Bell, Steward,
William Davis, Secret0try,
Edmund Percival Ingmire, Steward,
San Pedro.
William Algo Carpenter, Tyler.
Aarup, Emil
Abbott, Edwin Stewart
Abel, William H.
Ahlin, Karl Albert

MEMBERS:
Allan, Howard Clinton
Allison, Frederick William
Anderson, Johan Alfred
Asmussen, Marcus Frederick

Augustine, Leo Stanley
Back, Mathias Christenson
Baker, Charles Joseph
Baly, Henry
Bell, Gilbert Clyde
Benjamin, Thomas Clay
Benjamin, William Brooks
Birkholm, Frederick Sophus
Blausey, Frank Edward
Brand, Robert L ee
Brose, John Ambrose Octovius
Buckley, John Wilkinson
Carpenter, William Algo
Clair, John Edward
Clough, George Fletcher
Colman, Edwin Waterman
Dakin, William Stevens
Davenport, Walter Lewis
Davis, David P .
Davis, William
Duncan, William Burnett, P. M.
Eggleston, Fred Eugene
Eliason, John August
Fawcett, Thomas H.
Foldat, John
Gillespie, Joe White
Graves, Stephen Douglas
Gray, John, P. M.
Greely, William Charles
Gridley, Frederick Harland
Griffin, John
Goodwin, Andrew Peter
Gwaltney, John Sandford
Gwaltney, Sylvest er
Hamilton, Kenneth Chapin
Hansen, Carl A. S. R.
Hanson, Christian
Hart, Edwin George
Heckman, Fred C.
Hill, William Cornelius, P. M.
Hogue, Joseph Morse
Hyatt, William Harvey
Johnson, Charles W.
Johnson, Gust Ferdinand
Johnson, Joseph Henry

Kallenberg, Ernest Walfred
Karr, Frank
Kiff, Frank Oscar
Kittleson, Jacob
Kling, George Stephen
Knight, Charles Chester
Krohn, Peter George
Lane, Henry Stanton, P. M.
Langkilde, Sage Andreu
Larsen, Niels Almy
Lawyer, Ila Calvin, P. M.
Lemon, Ole James
Levy, L ouis
Levy, Philip
Lippman, Bernard Bear
Lippman, Lazard Harold
Lol?an, John Edward
Long, Harper Mervin
Lurman, George Henry Frederick
Martin, John Isaac
Mather, Rolf Harold A.
Miller, Charles Laird
Miller, E rnest Albert
Mills, William Gordan
Mitchell, Ray
Moores, Edwin Butler
Myers, Bernard
Neilson, Carl Peter
Nielsen, Paul
Oman, E ric William
Pearce, Ira
Pearce, Peter
Peterson, Laurens
Pitman, John Spence
Quinn, Richard
Riggs, Murray Hez
Robinson, Charles Guy
Schell, Lafayette Cornelius
Schroeder, Frederick William
Schwartz, Clifford Dieee
Schwartz, Moritz
Scott, Raymond Addie
Sjogren, Albin
Smitherman, John Thomas
Spadeholtz, Lester Bates

515

516

ROS'rER

ROSTER

Spencer, William
Stetson, Murrell Bailey
Stewart, George
Strom, Fred Nestor
Svenson, August Wilhelm
Svenson, Charles John
Supelveda, Albert George
Thornton, Daniel Clarkson, P. M.
Tucoo, Bernard
Tutt, Edward Stanley

Walton, Joseph Walton
Weaver, Harry George ·
Weddle, Joseph Milton
Weir, James
W esterdale, Gus
Wickersham, William Howard
Wilson, Robert
Young, Edward Everett, P. M.
Zaddart, David Ernest Johan
-117.

WITHDRAWN:
Richardson, Jacob Funk
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Abbott, Osceola C.
Sargent, Charles Albert
Whitman, Frank Scott

Sawyer, John Merrick
Sawyer, Robert William
Schreck, Herman Leonard, P. M.
Scott, Franklin Alexander
Simmons, Benjamin Lewis
Smith, Samuel M., P. M.
Smith, William Henry, Jr.
Stroud, James
Towle, Joshua West, P. M.
Travis, Abner Andrew
Waltze, Alton Denwood
W edertz, Charles Edward
--42.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Bump, George Henry
Crowell, Frederick Everett
Taylor, Charles Henry
DIED:
Hunewill, Napoleon Bonaparte

DIED:
Powers, James Henry

ALTA LODGE, No. 333.
Bridgeport, Mono County.
Stated Meetings, :first Wed~esday in each month.

COVINA LODGE, No. 334.
Covina, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month,
OFFICERS:

OFFICERS:

John Douglas Murphey, Master,
Stanley Hyde Hunewill, Sen. Dea.,
Bridgeport, Mono Co., Cal.
Elmer Augustas Kinney, Jun. Dea..,
Leslie Edwin Elliott, Senior War., Alton Denwood Waltze, Marshal,
Claude Henry Hardy, Jun. Warden, William James Cargill, Steward,
George Delury, Treasurer,
Baxter Denis Barnes, Stewarrd,
Joshua West Towle, Secretary,
John Merrick Sawyer, Tyler.
Bridgeport, Mono Co., Cal.

.

Barnes, Baxter Denis
Batjer, Frank Wilhelm Robert
Bernard, Herbert James
Brandon, Edward Leroy, P. M.
Cargill, William James
Chichester, George
Cook, Frederick William
Cook, Harry Sawyers
Creaser, John Alexander

•

Kirkwood, Emery Edgar, P. M.
Kirkwood, George Augustus
Laws, Arthur Herbert
,
Murphey, Edward Alanson, P. M.
Murphey, John Douglass, P. M.
Montrose, Harold Albert
McEwen, Duncan
Patterson, Hiram Barnes, P. M.
Patterson, Rezin Grant
Patterson, Robert Ralph
Rickey, Charles William
Sayre, Andrew Phleming

517

MEMBERS:
Day, Charles Eugene
Delury, George
Drake, Roy Niles
Elliott, Leslie Edwin
Hardy, Claude Henry
Hunewill, Stanley Hyde
Kinney, Elmer Augustas
Kinney, George Leonard
Kirkwood, Charles Melvill
I

Alois Nigg, Master,
Joseph Fletcher Brow, Chaplain,
Covina
George B. Schofield, Senior Deacon,
J ohn Charles H. Brunjes, Sen. War, Robert Allen Welch, Junior Deacon,
Percy Louis Nash, Junior Warden, Edward August Sprotte, Marshal,
Thomas Francis Griswold, Treasurer, John Newton Wilson, Steward,
Bryce Morrow Given, Secretary,
George Wesley Hursey, Steward,
Covina
Robert Lee Kingery, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Anderson, Alex. Wilson
Cass, Hugh
Clark, William
Atwood, George Nichols, P. M.
Collins, Westwood Hugh
Benton, Henry Clay
Bristow, Charles E.
Colt, Arel Elias
Brow, William Charles Henry
Coltrin, Amador Francis, P. M.
Coltrin, Marion Chester
Brow, Joseph Fletcher, P. M.
Coolman, John Henry ·
Brunjes, Jacob, P. M.
Cooper, Ellsworth Arthur
Brunjes, John Charles H .
Bnllcr, Charles Osborne
Dudderar, Franklin Edgar, P. M.

518

ROSTER

Dudderar, George Otis, P. M.
Nash, Percy Louis
Dudderar, George Washington, P. M. Na·s h, William Wallace
English, Van Ormun
Nelson, Gustaf
Fairly, Guy Ernest
Nigg, Aloia
Graham, George
P elton, Frank Edward
Graham, Levi D.
Plant, Francis Benjamin
Given, Bryce Morrow
Pollard, Richard Caswell
Greenlaw, Ernest Ellwood
Poole, Alfred Allerton
Greenlaw, Isaac .
Rooks, Andrew J ., Sr.
Griswold, Eugene I.
Reed, James Denny
Griswold, Thomas Francis, P. M.
Richer, Charles Anthony
Griswold, William Merton
Rush, Bert
Griffiths, Charles Edwin
Scofield, George B.
Harris, Howard
Shoemaker, Orlando
Hazzard, George Alfred
Simpson, Ralph Oliver
Hoogendyk, William
Stanton, John Minter
Huff, David Eyman
Sutherland, Russell Forbes
Hursey, George Wesley
Thorpe, Benjamin French
Hulce, Clarence Lester
Tripp, Henry Spencer
Johnson, Charles F .
Van Auken, Erastus W.
Johnstone, William Arthur
Vincent, Bert
K erckhoff, Anton Phillip
Wanty, Charles Camille
.Kingery, Robert Lee
Warren, William Mark
Kline, John William
Watson, Henry
Lavayea, William Henry
Webb, Benjamin S.
Linberg, Charles
Welch, Robert Allen
Leebrick, Karl C.
Wellington, Arthur Lee
Matthews, James Lewis, P. M.
Wells, Hugh Neal
Menefee, Charles
Wilson, John Newton
Menefee, Clarence Wheeler
WITHDRAWN :
Ware, Edward S.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Corbett, William Henry
Hines, Robert Bynum
Hay, Daniel Cregler
Shouse, George Owen
DIED:
Clapp, Eli Garfield

ROSTER

5Ill

WEST GATE LODGE, No. 335.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
Masonic Temple.
OFFICERS:
Alfred Eben Adams, Master,
Henry Loewenthal, Chaplain,
Central Police Station
Morris Arons, Senior Deacon,
Charles Flavel Turner, Sen. Warden,Alfred T . Kingsbaker, Jun. Deacon,
Joseph Philip L oeb, Junior Wm·den, Isaac Oury Levy, Marshal,
Fred Zucker, Treasurer,
Harry Charles Newman, Steward,
August Wackerbarth, Secretary,
Julius J acoby, Steward,
956 Court Circle
Edward H. Miller, Tyler.

-77.

Abrahamson, Nils Severinus
Adams, Alfred Eben
Adler, Melville Charles
Ainsworth, Thomas
Altman, Harry William
Alven, Richard William
Ancker, Albert
Archibald, Herbert Owen
Arons, MorriB
Atkinson, Harry Ross
Backer, Henry Frank
Baer, Henry Simon
Baer, Oscar Isaac
Bagby, Edwin Hanson
Bailie, William Nassau
Bair, Herbert Stanley
Baker, Robert Samuel
Barham, Albert Dudley
Barman, Frederick Ferdinand
Barrett, Simeon Alphonso
Bartels, Bernard William
Bartholomew, Charles August
Baruh, Joseph
Bastheim, Edmund
Bayless, Herman Gordon
Beekler, John G.
Benjamin., Herman
Berge, Carl Theo. Emil

MEMBERS:
Bernheim, Abraham
Bernstein, Arthur
Besselman, Charlie Fred
Besselman, Fred L.
Black, George Nathan, P. M.
Black, Julius Richard
Blakely, William Thornton
Bock, Charles
Boothe, Stephen Sterling
Boswell, Albert Baldy
Bowen, John 'fhomas
Britt, Eugene Waddell
Brocksieper, Clarence Edward
Brown;Henry Stephen, P. M.
Brownstein, Aleck
Brownstein, Daniel Jacob
Buell, Samuel Washington
Campbell, Warren Irving
Carl, Irving L.
Cave, Daniel, P. M.
Chamberlain, Wm. Edwin, P. M.
Chandler, Logan Bertram
Chase, Willi:am Elmer
Cheshire, Charles Albert
Church, Samuel Barber
Cline, William
Cohen, Louis
Cohen, Susman

520

ROSTER

ROSTER

Cohn, Albert
Cohn, Herman
Cohn, Isidor
Cohn, Isidor N.
Cohn, Jacob
Cohn, Morris
Cole, Louis Maurice
Co'tton, Henry Gilbert
Craig, William Talton
Cronshaw, John Henry
Darby, William T.
Dobbins, Irvin Waterman
Doull, Albert Prince
Dunkel, Otto
Edwards, Frank Elmer
Ehrlich, Morris
Eisner, Isidor
Evans; Charles Edward
Everhardy, Matthew William
Fallas, Fred La Pere
Feintuch, Abram
Figg, Gay William
Firth, Emil
Fishburn, John Eugene
Finkenstein, Maurie Josephus
Flaxman, Samuel Alex.
Francis, John Haywood
Frank, Herman Washington
Frankel, Adolph
Frankel, Cecil
Frankenstein, Abraham Frankens
Gainsley, George Christian
Gerecht, Emmanuel F.
Getz, John
Gibson, Robert Cary
Glafke, Charles
Glass, Herman Theobald
Godfrey, Arthur Molbone
Goldberg, Harry Samuel
Goldsmith, George
Goldsmith, Gerson
Goldsmith, Joseph
Goldwater, Lemuel
Gottschalk, William M.
Grant, John Edward

Green, Robert
Greenewald, Aaron Ben
Haines, Charles Johnson
Hamburger, David Asher
Hamburger, Moses Asher
Harding, George Winans
Hardman, James Manford
Harper, Arthur Cyprian
Harris, Howard Jacob
Hartnack, Albert Charles
Harwood, Benjamin
Harwood, Sprigg
Hasenburg, Fredreick B.
Hauser, Edward Charles
Hauser, Herman Julius
Haynes, John Randolph
Hecht, Sigmund, P. M.
Heiman, Jacob
Hellman, Maurice Samuel
Henry, Edward George
Herrington, Ira
Higginbotham, Samuel H.
. Hill, Thomas Lincoln
Hinzeman, Edward Anthony
Hookstratten, Edw.a rd Gregory
Hudson, Charles Henry
Hunsaker, William Jefferson
Hupp, Georg~ Shother
Hutchison, William McGuffie
Hyman, Morice
Jackson, Harold Frederick D.
Jacobs, Jay Berthold, P. M.
Jacoby, Abraham
Jacoby, Julius
Jones, William Westbrook
Joyce, William Henry
Kahn, Frank G.
Kahn, John
Kaiser, Otto
Kalchheim, Eleias
Kauffman, Jules
Kazinsky, Joseph Sim
Keene, David Herman
Kellogg, Charles Giles
Kern, Charles

•

Kingsbaker, Alfred Theo.
Kirkpatrick, Campbell Berry
Kirschner, Samuel
Kitchen, John Franklin
Klatscher, Joseph
Klein, Arthur Menyhart
Klein; Philip
Klingenstein, Isaac
Korn.,, Jake
Krafft, Justus, P. M.
Krassow, Cai-I Axel von
Kujawsky, Jacob
Kurtz, Carl
Lacroix, William F. C. L.
Lamb, Hamilton Gordon
Lang, ~ugustus
La Niece, Edwin
La Strong, Frank
Laukota, John
Laventhal, Isidor Edward
Laventhal, Jacob
Lazard, Edmund Myer
Leavitt, Frederick Clinton
Lerner, Samuel Alex.
Levi, Bernard
Levi, Herman
Levin, Zernach
Levy, Alfred
Levy, Barp.ett Louis
Levy, Charles
Levy, Isaac Oury
Levy, Leo Louis
Levy, Louis
Levy, Samuel Garland
Lichtenberger, Herman Carl
Lissner, Meyer
Livingstone, George Benjamin
Llewellyn, David Edgar
Llewellyn, John
Loeb, Joseph Philip '
Louis, Henry Washington, P. M.
Lubin, William
Lustig, .Jacob Stern
I~yons, Harry
Maas, Simon

521

Maier, Bernhard
Maier, Leopold
Mallory, Llewellyn A.loord
Malmed, Abraham T.
Mansbach, Edward
Marks, Joshua Harry
Markwalder, Louis
Marshutz, Siegfried G.
Marx, David
Maxson,.Herbert Elmer
McArthur, Peter Robb
McCord, Arthur William
McDivitt, Frank Paul
McKay, Walter Warner
McMillan, Robert Wilson
Meertief, Charles
Mendelsohn, Edward
Mepham, Charles Henry
Merigold, Harry Patteraon
Merigold, Robert Lee
Mertes, George Adams
Meyberg, Manfred
Meyberg, Moritz
Meyer, Edgar Ulman
Meyerstein, Jacob
Miller, Frank
Miller, Herbert Reilley
Miller, Isaac Max
Mitchell, Arthur J.
Mitchell, Frec1erick William
Mitchell, Robert
Mole, Harry Porter
Morgan, Cosmo William Edward
Morris, Julius Samuel
Morrison, William Edward D.
Murphey, Joseph Lanes
Murphy, Neil Hart
N eisser, Otto ·
N ewbauer, Sanford Robert
Newman, Julian Sanford
Newmark, Marco Ross
Newmark, Maurice Harris
Newmark, Philip A.
Newmark, Phineas
Newmark, Samuel Mark

522

ROSTER

Nokes, Irwin Dana
Siegel, Frederick
Nordlinger, Louis S., P. M.
·Siegel, Myer
Norton, Aaron Friedman
Siegel, Ralph
Norton, Richard Henry
Silver, Herman, P. M.
0 'Neil, Owen Hugh
Simms, Vinton Delos
Parker, Joseph Herndon
Simon, Eli Harry
Partridge, Harry
Skeel, William Spencer
Paulsen, Paul Olmer
Slack, Harry Simpson
Peddie, Andrew
Slotterbeck, Harry
Pefley, Arthur
Smith, Francis William
Pettebone, Henry Welles
Smith, Joseph Lafayette
Plummer, Charles Hicks
Smith, Thomas Sherman
Pollock, Frank Joseph
Snodgrass, Henry. Milton
Powell, William Harris
Snyder, Abraham
Prenzlauer, Albert
Solomon, Jacob Carl
Purcupile, Charles Archibald
Solomonson, Julius
Purwin, Leo Max
Stanton, Philip Ackley
Raiss, Cati
Stein, Samuel H.
Ramish, Adolph
Steinbeck, Ernest Frederick
Rangan, Joseph Alfred
Steinlein, Karl
Raphael, Meyer
Stephens, Frank Arch
Reichenbach, Frank Benjamin
Stern, Gustave
Rendon, Victor Armand
Sternberg, Max Joseph
Reynolds, John Jacob
Stevens, Will Phoender
Reider, Michael
Stewart, William Daniel
Richards, Ellsworth Francis, P. M. Stick, John Chester
Ritchie, Matthew R. Steele
Streicher, Michael
Robertson, Orville Leroy
Stnmp, Charles Ayen
Robinson, Ed. Burnham
Summerfield, Isidor
Rosenstein, Fritz
Sweet, Otto
Roth, Eugene Henry
Switt, John Ferguson
Rumage, Otto
Taskey, Paul
Sain, Alfred Hants
Taylor, Waller
Salkey, Jacob Samuel
Thompson, Arthur Marsh
Salzman, Maurice
Tibbitts, George Arthur
Salzman, Max
Triest, Karl
Sargeant, Theo. Anthony
Triolo, Charles
Schiff, Ludwig, P. M. .
Triolo, James Slorach
Schiff, Solomon
Trippet, Oscar A.
Schneider, Martin
Tunison, Albert Lafayette
Schutte, Johann Gottfried
Turnbull, Mark
Schwartz, Charles Edward
Turner, Chas. Flavel
Schweitzer, Arthur Dell
Tyroler, Adolph
Scolary, Philip Anton
Waeherbarth, August
Sheuerman, Bernhardt
Wacholder, Joel

ROSTER
Walter, Albert
Watson, James Henry
Weinberger, Isidor
Weismeyer, Clifford T.
Weismeyer, Glen Morton
Weyl, Emil Marx
White, Charles Henry
White, William Addison
White, William James
Willard Eugene
Brown, Francis Henry
Duncan, Francis Marlon

523

Wittenberg, Ernest J.
Wood, Percy Neville
Woolner, Henry Sigmund
Youngerman, Moses
Zeehandelaar, Felix Josephus
Zeisler, Adolph
Zinnamon, Joseph
Zucker, Fred
Zuckerman, Maurice
-345.

WITHDRAWN:
Keeler, Marshal Lucius
Kurtz, Saul Benjamin
· Mertes, Anton

SUSPENDl:CD FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Burns, John Charles
Wendt, Henr~ Paul
Auble, Walter Herman
Cooper, Jay J.

DIED:
Lowman, Isaac L.
Naudain, Thomas Nelson

FRUITY ALE LODGE, No. 336.
:Fruitvale, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Frederick Stu'!,rt Ellard, Master,
Arthur Walter Hansen, Chaplain,
3006 High Street, .Fruitvale
John Henry Helmstein, Sen. Deacon,
Arthur Alfred Barber, Sen. Warden, James Everett Parish, Junior Deacon,
Frank Oscar Schullerts, Jun. Ward., William 'Herbert Bartlett, Marshal,
William Henry Hackett, Treasurer, Clifford William Scott, Steward,
Frederick Calvin Clark, Secretary, Walter Edwin Kenyon, Steward,
3012 Central Avenue, Alameda Charles Bendell, Tyler.

Albers, William Richard
Anderson, Frederick
Barber, Alfred Arthur
Bartlett, · William Herbert
Beaven, Alfred S. A.
Beckwith, Ward Maklelow
Beeman, Reuben W.

MEMBERS:
Bendell, Charles
Bender, John Valentine
Bennett, Alfred Edward
Blake, Llewellyn Week
Blake, Philip Henry
Bolesworth, Britten
Bowlsbey, Edward S.

.
524

ROSTER

ROSTER

Boyle, Harry Louis James
Bridge, William Bayley
Bridgman, William Calib
Briggs, Charles Linford
Burman, John
Carew, Cornelius, P. M.
Churchman, William H.
Clark, Frederick Calvin
Claudius, Peter
Clough, George M.
Cole, Albert Samuel
Colquhoun, James Crawford
Coolidge, George Harry
Cornwall, Henry F.
Crawford, Thomas Olin
Crosby, Daniel
Crump, John M.
q utting, Edwin M.
Dahuke, Frederick M.
Davis, Edward William
DePuy, Anson Augustina
Dicken, Charles Edward Lee
Dickson, Richard
Durant, Francis Alex.
Ellard, Fredrick Stuart
Everett, Thomas Burton
Fake, George
Fehnemann, Benjamin
Finkenstedt, George
Fording, Howard William
Fraser, Walter Henry, P. M.
Frederickson, Niel Andrew
Frost, An.drew Nisson, P. M.
Gillies, John
Graf, Walter Henry
Greenman, Charles Hydron, P. M.
Gustafsen, August
Hackett, William Henry
Hambleton, Thomas Clair
Hammel, Julius C., P. M.
Hansen, Arthur Walter
Hansen, P eter Erland
Harper, William John
Hartman, Henry Lustenberger
Hawkins, Alfred

Helmstein, John Henry
Hiller, Herman Franklin, Jr.
Holst, Peter Mathisen
Howatt, Scott Bell
Hughes, Charles
Ingle, Elbert Quincey
Johannsen, John Olaf
Johnson, John
Jones, David Melvin
Kendrick, William
Kennedy, Edwin Amon
Latimer, William George
L epori, Constantine
Leve, Marcus Solomanson
Litton, Roy Burton
Lubbock, Oswald John
Lund, George Emil
Manning, Wilder Munson
Martin, Thomas Calicoat
Maus, Charles Frederick
McArthur, John
McDonnell, Noble Alex Johnson
McEwen, John Cameron, P. M.
McKay, Oliver Bland
M cTear, William George
Merkel, George Karl
Merrill, William Francis
Mowbray, Henry Buckingham
Nason, Hubert Cecil
Nielson, John Alfred
Noonan, Frank
Nordman, Peter
Parish, James Everett
Post, Philip Joseph
Pladwell, Franklin Townsend
Rice, William Frederick
Roane, Robert Heron
Rounsevell, Philip Nelson
Rosseter, Frank Stuart
Schullerts, Frank 0.
Schenck, Stephen Alex. Douglas
Scott, William Clifford
Sittman, George August
Skow, Niels Anderson
Slavan, James P., P. M.

Wade, J'rancis North
Snow, Arthur Pliny
Walker, Herman Otto
Storch, Hugo William
Walton, Jacob Philip
Stow, Frank Lee
Welch, George Deake, Jr.
Strobridge, Frank Elward
Whitaker, Lucian Myron
Stromer, John Antone
Wi'ggenton, Jamee W.
Thompson, Simpson
Wightman, Minor
Thornalley, William G., Sr.
Thornalley, William G., Jr., P. M. Williams, David Greenleaf
Williams, George Francis
Thorsted, Peter Jansen
Williama, John Edward
Tomlinson, Josiah
Williama, Robert Henry
Tyack, Henry
Williama, William R.
Truitt, Harry Ellsworth, P. M.
Baylus, Levi Marlon

525

-128.

WITHDRAWN:
Gibbens, Edward Lewis
>Holman, Edward Allen

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
DePuy, Edward Spence
Gates, Elwin William
DIED:
Gates, Edmund

CARQUINEZ LODGE, No. 337·
Crockett, Contra Costa County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Jacob Erratt Hughes, Master,
Alvin A. Paul, Chaplain,
Crockett
William Francis Booth, Sen. Deacon,
William Murray Laidlaw, Sen. War., Charles James Collings, Jun. Deacon,
John Lincoln Gabbs, Junior Warden, Clarence Hushbeck; Marsh~l,
George Jones, Treasurer,
George William Sweetser, Steward,
Herbert George Powers, Secretary, William Charles Madden, Ste'ward,
Crockett
James King, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Beda, Paul
. Alexander, John McLay
Baltrusch, Richard Carl
Anderson, John Christian
Booth, Charles Henry
Astleford, Robert Jones
Booth, William Francis
Bahney, Luther William
Bowman, Melville Bryant
Barnard, Leo Harcourt
Broder, Joseph
Beam, Arthur Wellesley, P. M.
•Restored during the year.

526

ROSTER

Burgin, Clarence Otto
Collings, Charles James
Davis, John James
Delacruz, Manuel
Dorman, John Henry, P . M.
Dow, David Winter
Dunning, William Sheldon
Edwards, Thomas
Fenwick, John Frederick
Freund, Edmund, P. M.
Fulton, John Weir
Gabbs, John Lincoln, P. M.
Garwood, William Simpson, P. M.
Gates, Isaac Newman
George, Frederick Robert
Glick, John Alva
Goodfriend, Aaron Isaac
Gordon, Luther de Wayne
Harris, Eugene R.
Harris, Thomas Allen
Helmer, George Alfred
Hodgkins, George Melvin
Howard, Ewin Loammi
Howser, William Willard
Hughes, Jacob Erratt
Huntington, Ralph Stanley
Hushbeck, Clarence
Hyde, George
Jack, Robert Leonidas
Jeffery, Edward John
J ochem, Fred
Jones, George, P. M.
Jones, Harry Lorenzo
King, James
Knudsen, Louie
Laidlaw, William Murray

Le Bourveau, John Franklin
Lloyd, Griffith
Long, John Albert
Madden, William Charles
Mccown, William Evans
McNaughton, William Francis
Moignard, Philip Rich'lrd
Moiles, Theo. Despard
Narbett, James Thomas Syrian
Nicholls, Harvey Bartlett
Nuttall, Wiliiam
Paul, Alvin A., P. M.
Petersen, Emil Henry
Phillips, John Barber
Polson, Paul
Powers, Herbert George, P. M.
Quinn, John William
Reid, Edmund Robert
Rodney, Hiram Ault
Rowlando, Matthew Arthur
Skinner, Walter de Esteng ·
Shaecker, George Oliver
Sherman, Francis Harvey
Sullenger, Albert .Noah
Sweetser, George William
Taylor, George
Thomas, Charles Philip
'l'homas, Frederick Reuben Grant
Thompson, David
Turner, Manley Mansfield
Upton, George Lane
Warren, Chester Howard
White, Arthur Harry
Whiteman, George Herbert
Woodside, James Elliott
Yates, Henry Newton
-84.

WITHDRAWN:

Odell, Clarence Archer

ROSTER

527

SAN JACINTO LODGE, No. 338.
San Jacinto, Riverside County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Robert J ohn Roulston, Master,
George Grover, Senior Deacon,
San Jacinto
Harry Hartman Van Dusen, I. Dea.,
George Franklin Hunt, Sen. Warden, Frank Anthony Druding, Steward,
Robert Raymond Smith, Jun. Ward., John Plato, Steward,
Ellis Theodore Tanner, Treasurer, John Bertolomo Garbani, Tyler.
Gustave Matthews, Secretary,
San Jacinto
MEMBERS:
Aleksa, Girolamo
Jacobs, William Donaldson
Anderson, Everett Johnson
Keil, William .Frederick
Ballou, William Addis
Kimmel, Welland E.
Bell, Robert Lemuel
Kinne, Elmer Frederick
Bingham, Samuel John
Knapp, Edward Burke
Black, Samuel
Knight, Herbert Cecil D.
Blackburn, Fred Abner
Ladd, Zaccaheus Ezra
Blackshaw, Jos. Benjamin
La Rue, James Zeller
Blackshaw, Jos. Edward, P. M.
La Rue, Jeremiah
Blair, Alex.
Lawson, Andrew Nils
Cannon, Solomon Royce
Martin, Frederick Clinton
Clevior, James G.eorge
Martin, Wallace Gustave
Cook, Frank Heald
Matthews, Gustave, P. M.
Crofton, Robert Augustus
Maxwell, James Baker
Curl, Charles Albert
Milliken, Peter
Davidson, Callou James
McCue, Joseph Benton
Druding, Frank Anthony
Molyneux, Robert Sefton
Farmer, Frank
Nightingale, Daniel Webster
Fast, William Alger
Oliver, William Thomas
Pierce, Clark Clyde
Garbani, Jaeinto
Garbani, John Bartolomo
Plato, John
Roulston, Robert John
Goff, Hugh Roy
Goodstein, Maurice
Sager, Edgar Pendleton
Grover, George, P. M .
Sallee, John P.
Hart, William James
Scales, John Henry
Haverman, Cornelius D.
Schawcofer, Leonard Tryon
Hopkins, Jackson
Sears, William J.
Sharpe, John Christopher
Howard, Perley Windsor
Hunt, George Franklin
Smith, Earl Burt
Huntoon, Joseph Horton
Smith, Homer Albert

ROSTER
ROSTER

528
Smith, Robert Raymond
Smith, Selvester Kincade
Snow, Rose Rutledge
Snyder, Ferdinand, Jr.
Strand, Henry Gerald
Stanley, William Henry
Strasser, Frederick Karl
Swezea, Jay
Tanner, Ellis Theo., P. M.

Ticknor, Jason Charles
Thomae, Rocky Mountain
Van Dusen, Harry Hartman
Vosburg, William Gatell, P. M.
Walker, Fred
Walker, Hayes Alonzo
Whitney, Horace Kimball
Wilson, William
Wright, Lucius Alonzo
-78.

WITHDRAWN:
Scherman, Anton
Edwards, Edward Frederick
Shaug, Charles J.
Lindley, James Ambrose
Waterman, Julius Max
Powers, George Washington
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Cogan, Philip Joseph
Nelson, Henry Coffy
Ferguson, James Franklin
Waller, Henry George
Chapman, Thomas S.

DIED:
Otto, Henry

FULLERTON LODGE, No. 339.
Fullerton, Orange County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Henry W. Daniels, Chaplain,
Charles E. Ruddock, Master,
Jefferson L. Seedle, Se11ior Deacon,
Fullerton
John R. Gardiner, Senior Warden, James R. Scott, Ju11ior Dlacon,
Squire J . Lillie, Marshal,
Jesse Chilton, Junior Warden,
Mathew M. Good, Steward,
Elmer W. Dean, Treasurer,
Thomas J. McCart, Steward,
Henry J. Wyman, Secretary,
Charles I. Curtis, Tyler.
Fullerton

Ameri,ge, Edward Russell
Bailey, William Hervey, Jr.
Barnes, Wilson Asa
Benchley, Edward Kelbgg
Benchley, William Leonidas
Berkenstock, William
Bonderson, Peter N.
Bradfield, Elias Harvey

MEMBERS:
Bmdford, Percy L.
Braly, John Claude
Brewer, Edwin Wellington
Brown, William Thomas
Bryson, John Lawson
Burgees, William Eugene
Canavan, Franklin Austin
Case, George McClellan

Chapman, Charles Clark
Carhart, James Ralph
Chilton, Jesse
Christie, Samuel Longhead
Clark, George Cook, P. M.
Connoly, William Arthur
Coulter, William Fair
Coulter, William Fair, Jr.
Craig, Edgar
Craig, Guy
Crandall, Clyde W.
Culmer, Edward Cruse
Cunningham, James Lloyd
Curtis, Charles Irving
Dahlman, Ludwig
Daley, Frederick H.
Daniels, Charles
Daniels, Henry W.
Dean, Elmer Williams
Drips, Thomas George
Fairbanks, James Francis
Ford, Charles Keith
Ford, James Ezekiel
Ford, William Martin
Fowler, Franklin Lee
Frankenberger, Joseph Idell
Freeman, Alanson Willey
Freeman, William, P. M.
Fritz, Michael
Fuller, Samuel N.
Gardiner, John Reeder
Garrison, Thomas Lantlon
Gobar, Frank J. ,
Good, Matthew Melancthon, P. M.
Gustafson, Roy William
Haas, Charles E dmund
Hale, Willie Lee
Hamlin, William Lee
Hamm, Lewis
Hanst, Jacob Geo~ge
Harkey, Levi John
Harding, James
Head, Horace Caldwell
Henderson, Alexander
84

Hiltscher, August
Hoffman, J'oseph Page
Holcomb, Francis Reuben
Holloway, Ralph Evans, P. M.
Kammerer, George
Kammerer, William
Kreighbaum, Oscar Adelbert
Leslie, William Lincoln
Lester, Calvin Devore
Lillie, Orrin Wilson
Lillie, Squire Joshua
Lotz, Charles Edwin
Lotz, John Henry
Marks, Emerson Joseph
Marshall, John Lundy
_.\foBride, Francis
McBride, Walter
Mccart, Thomas James
McDermont, Arthur
McFadden, Clarence Earl, P. M.
Melrose, Richp.rd
Miles, George 1!'ranc1s
Mills, Charles Newt on
Munday, Walter Linville
Newell, James W.
Pendergrast, Albert Austin
Pendleton, Alexis Theodore
Phillips, John Alex.
Pitt, John Frnnk
P 0meroy , Albert Vi'alker
Porter, Charles George, P. M .
ReJelbnger, Fred
Reese, Paul
Rich, Clayton L.
Ruddock, Charles Edward
Ruddock, George Albert
Robb, Charles James
Saine, David Thomas
Schulte, H enry John
Scott, James Royal
Seidle, Jefferson Leroy
Sloan, Ambra Alfred
Small, Clifton Mordan
Smith, Clinton Howard

529

ROSTER

ROSTER

530

Staley, Arthur, P. M.
Stephens, Lewis Ely
Stephens, Rosco William
Welton, George Chauncy
Wickers, Henry Max
Boucher, William Abbott
Delozier, James Garland

Winters, William Jacob
Wittmer, Jacob
Woodruff, Walter Jonathan
Wy,man, Henry Joshua
-113.
WITHDRAWN:
Ford, Elmer A.
Raiser, Raymond F.
DIED:
East, James

SANTA MARIA LODGE, No. 340.
Santa Maria, Santa Barbara County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Robert W . Earl, Chaplain,
R-0bert W. Brown, Master,
Lambert B. Coblentz, Senior Deacon,
Santa Maria
War.,
Ernest J. Parish, Junior Deaco_n ,
L ewis Llewelleon Colvin, S en.
Thomas
Boyd, Marshal,
L. L. Lemon, Junior W arden,
Edgert E. Blosser, Steward,
Samuel Coiner, Treasurer,
John Boyd, S teward,
L-Ouis J. Morris, Secretary,
Addison Austin Patterson, Tyler.
Santa Maria
:MEMBERS:
Earl, Fred Emmett
Alverado, William Pablo
Earl, Robert Wesley, P. M.
Blosser, E.l bert Eldridge, P. M.
Egleston, Byron Clarence
Blosser, Garett Lorenzo
Elliott, Walter, P. M.
Bonette, John Baptist
Elliott, George
Boyd, John
E lliott, James William
Boyd, Thomas
Finley, Theo. Randolph, P. M.
Brennan, John Keim
Fleisher, Mark, P. M.
Brown, Robert Walker
Fleisher, Samuel, P. M.
Chester, George Henry
Fox, Llewellyn Lawrence
Coblentz, Lambert B., P. M .
Fry, Herman Constantino
Coiner, Samuel Taney
Genrich, James
Coker, Francis Martin
Gutherie, Charles Marion
Colvin, Lewis Llewelleon
Glines, Robert Cassius
. Davis, Barnard
Halfield,
Guy D.
Davis, Dalis Denver
Hartley, James Benton
Davis, William Frank
Helvey, Alfred Allen
Dobson, Edward G.

Hemingway, George
Herring, Edward Lewis
Hobson, Clarence Jay
Ingram, Edward
Jansen, Robert Christensen
Johnson, Charles L.
Jones, Henry Martin
Kelly, Hugh Sylvester
Kemp, William Park, P. M.
Lopez, Joseph Virgil
Lemon, Lee Lester
Martin, John Howard
Mattie, Charles Clayton
Mattie, Clarence Rudolph
Mattie, Felis
McCan, John Earl
McMurry, Thomas Zelem
Miller, Wayne Anthony
Morris, Louis Joseph, P. M.
Muscio, Guessepie

Patterson, Adison Austin
Parish, Ernest J.
Perraud, Antonio
Pettie, James R.
Pierce, Frank Ogden
Pierce, William A.
Pratt, Clarence Melton
Reghetti, Elvizo
Saunders, James William
Seely, James Watt s
Smith, Frank B.
Smith, James
Stewart, Joseph Ross
Strahan, William Calvin
Supulvedo, Frank R.
'fhompson, James Rodrick
Tunnell, George Robert
Waterson, William
White, John Alton
Whitner, Raymond Charles

531

-74.

WITHDRAWN:
Nelson, Robert Andrew
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Oliver, Manuel
DIED:
Rice, Charles Lee

OXNARD LODGE, No. 34r.
Oxnard, Ventura County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Rudolph Beck, Master,,
Elijah Bird Short, Chaplain,
Oxnard, Ventura County
Charles Haskell Weaver, Sen. Dea.,
Herman Rudolph Erkes, S en. Ward., John Ray Gabhert, Junior DeacofJ,
Louis Stanley Lothridge, Jun. Ward. , Samuel Bremner Bagnall, Marshal
Achille Levey, Treasurer,
Albert Guedemann Steward ·
,
George Rolen Bellah, S ecretary,
Walter Monroe G~aser, Ste'ward,
Oxnard, ':'entura County
Barclay Stokes Braddock, Tyler.

532

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Alvord, Julius Bela
Engstrum, Frans Otto
Arnold, Charles Rupert
Engstrom, Frederick Edgar
Argabrite, John Riley
Eakes, Herman Rudolf
Avery, John Howard
Fulkerson, James Frederick
Badger, Norman Nash
Fulkerson, Jonathan Floid
Bagnall, Samuel Bremner
Gabbert, John Raymond
Bard, Thomas Robert
Gabbert, Thomas Y.
Baum, George
Gill, Charles Alex.
Bayley, Charles Homer
Gill, Ernest David
Beardsley, Robert Lee
Glenn, Jesse Lee
Beasley, Henry Charles
Goodyear, William Ernest
Beck, Rudolph
Gourlay, Arthur
Bellah, George Rolen
Grasser, Walter Monroe
Black, Edward Jacob
Green, Chari~ Norris
Blackstock, Charles Fidelia
Griffith, James Keating
Boechke, Guy
Grove, Marvin Hurd
Bovee, Henry Hopkins
Gudemann, Albert
Braddock, Barclay Stokes
Hall, Robert
Brewster, Elbert Pineo
Hatch, Roger Knox
Broughton, George Anthony
Hawkins, Alonzo
Haydock, Richard Banett, P. M.
Browne, Albert O'Brien
Bruckman, Christopher
Heckman, John
Buckley, August
Herlick, Jeesenius
Carr, Earle, P. M.
Henry, Hugh
Carr, Martin Van Buren
Hentrich, Lewis Valentine Bernard
Carr, Philetus Sprague, P. M.
Hetrick, Jasper
Coen, Othello Jerome
Hill, Ernest Rice
Cook, Leon H.
Hitch, James Wilson
Cornell, Charles Henry, P. M.
Hoffman, Roy B.
Coultas, Alex. Evert
Holst, Bendix
Coultas, Thomas Arthur
Hood, Theodore F.
Coultas, William Walter
Roswell, Jeremiah Trone
Crowley, William Henry
Howland, Jamee L.
Dickerson, William Warren
Hughes, Edward Thomae
Dorn, Charles I.
J enkine, Henry
Dreher, Gustav Peter
JenninltS, Robert
Driffill, Jamee Alex., P. M.
Johnson, James Leborn
Dunn, Oliver Benjamin
Kastle, John
Eastwood, George Edmond
Knight, Uly Grant
Eastwood, Hurbert H .
Knox, Chester Baker
Edmondson, Robert Buchanan, P. :M. Lambert, Herbert Smith
Elliott Charles John
Lang, James Elton
Ely, Martin Juda
Le Blanc, Thomas Sydney
Emtman, Theo.
Lehmann, Edmond

ROSTER
Lehmann, Leon, P. M.
Lehmann, Mathew
Lehmann, Paul
Lamb, Harry Ralph
Lathrop, Walter Hubert
Leavitt, Norman Jenkins
Levy, Achille
Levy, Henry
Livingston, Robert George, P. M.
Livingston, Wm. Reinhardt, P. M.
Lodwig, Augustus Carl
Lothridge, Louie Stanley
Mack, Soloman Lawrence, P. M.
Marx, Charles
May, Ellie Connell
Mcinnee, William Joseph
McMillan, William Jamee
Meyers, Benjamin Franklin
Miller, Joseph Charles
Milligan, John Leslie
Moddrell, Jesse Hugh
Murray, Joseph Henry
Myers, John Hyland
Nelson, Robert Andrew
Parish, John Wesley
Petit, Albert Clayton
Petit, Frank
Pettie, Frank Brockman
Plumb, Max Alaric
Poggi, Isaac Martin, P. M.
Powell, Heber Chase
Rice, Ernest Everet
Rice, Paul Alvin
Rice, Thomae Alex.
Rodaway, Alfred Biggs
Rose, Jacob Walter
Rummelsburg, Simon
Rust, William Le Page
Saviers, Winfield Scott
Sebastian Alfred Tennyson
Sebastian, John Louis

533

Sebastian, Robert Milton
Seeka tz, George Philip
Shone, Edward
Short, Eli John Bird
Small, John Adame
Shillingeton, James Wesley
Smith, Alvin Billings
Smith, Charles Thomae Elmer
Smith, Raymond Earl
Smith, Robert Percy
Smith, Winfield Scott
Snively, Ray Dean, P. M.
Snow, Hiram King, Jr.
Snyder, Frederick Autes
Spence, Jay
Steinmiller, John
Stewart, Isaac William
Thatcher, Fred Hartzell
Thatcher, Harry Seymoure
Thatcher, Hugh Arlington
Thurston, Albert LeRoy
Turbett, Alvarado Doremus
Turbett, John Smith
Turney, Douglas
Vennink, Henry Leonard
Vickers, Ashby Christian
Viles, Earl
Virden, Benjamin 8.
Wadleigh, Orville Austin
Walker, Thomae Eaton
Wat1;t'man, Emil Max
Waterman, William Max
Weaver, Charles Haskell
Weill, Sam
Wellington, Lorenzo Dow
Wineman, Henry Leonard
Wineman, Murray Jay
Witman, Henry William, P. M.
Witman, Roy Bradfield
Wolff, Moise Lazarre
Wood, Edwin H.
-171.

534

ROSTER

ROSTER

WITHDRAWN:
Carver, Harry Bernice
'rhatcher, Amos Davis
Snyder, Henry Nicholas
Whitmore, Charles Abbott
V\-"ineman, Alvin Harold
DIED:
Lothridge, Orson Stiles

MANILA LODGE, No. 342.
Manila, Philippine Islands.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Wilson Ansel Blossom, Master,
Lee Allen Parkinson, Chaplain,
Box 407, Manila, P. I.
Luther Abraham Renner, Sen. Dea.,
Herman Pink Hodson, Sen. Warden, Benjamin Lafayette Burdette, J. Dea.,
Ernest Nichols Stevens, Jun. War., Mark Scott, Marshal,
Joseph Paul Heilbronn, Treasurer, James Walter Boyd Mannion, Stuld,
George Cooper Mason, Secretary, Alison Bruce Gilman, Steward,
Box 407, Manila, P. I.
George Adam Hausman, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Blossom, Wilson Ansel
Bondurant, Olney
Bowers, James Newlin
Breaker, Frederick William
Brock, Leo
Brown, George Edward
Bruening, William Herman
Bryan, L emuel Arthur
Burdette, Benjamin L11-fayette
Burton, Joseph Harvey
Cabling, Axel Rudolph
Cameron, Charles Raymond
Campbell, Oscar Franklin
Casaday, George Harry
Uhadwick, Harry Richmond
Christensen, Waldemar Alfred
Clayton, George Ruben
Clinton, Guy
Cobb, David Lewis
Cody, Frank Jay
Colton, Charles Maxwell

Adams, Owen M.
Ainsworth, James Everett
Allan, Arthur Spelman
Allen, Richard
Alther, William Keller
Anderson, Henry Charles
Argetsinger, James Cameron
Atkinson, George Edward
Bach, John
Baldwin, Robert Caleb
Ballin, Alfred
Barner, John Emil
Beach, John Hartwell
Beard, Stephen Roscoe
Beeman, John Hollen
Bellis, Amos G., P. M.
Bernhard, John George
Best, Wm. R. Llewellyn, P. M.
Bingham, William Otterbin
Bish, William Nelson
Blossom, Dallas Emerson

Conklin, Frank Milton
Connolly, John Fauden
Cook, Ernest Bradford
Cooper, Henry Richardson
Creagh, Merrick Woodman
Cromwell, Ellis
Cullen, Gilbert Isham
Dann, Bernard
Dell, Robert Victor
Denson, Hugh Cowan
Deyo, Arthur Eugene
Doran, John Henry
Drees, Franklin Henry
Du Fresne, Ernest Faustine
Durham, Jacob MeClay
. Durr, Benjamin Franklin
Dykstra, Clark N.
Eames, Horace Lovell
Elser, Henry William
England, Herbert F. Townley
Fagerquist, Carl August
Fawcett, John
Fayant, Joseph
Fels, John Gustav
Ferguson, Henry Gardiner
Ferrier, Francis Coote
Fischer, Leo
Fletcher, Harrison Otis
Frank, George I.
Ga ches, Samuel Francis
Gallin, William Frederick, Jr.
Garrett, Milan Jay
Gerdes, Claudius W.
Gill, Bruce Dean
Gilman, Alison Bruce
Golt, John Thomas
Goodrich, George Edwin
Gracey, William Miller
Grant, Louis Theo., P. M.
Graves, Benjamin Hugh
Greenwell, Samuel Alex.
Hale, Walter Franklin
Hanek, John Frederick
Harding, John Ellery
Hargis, Lionel Desmond

Harn, Wilson Winslow
Harris, Emory Lorenzo
Harstedt, William Henry
Harvey, Stuart Smeillie
Haswell, William Clark
Hausmann, George Adam
Headington, John Labon
Heilbronn, Joseph
Hemmett, Perey Elmer
Hershey, Harry Lee
Hillgrove, Thomas Albert
Hinckley, J ohn Scofield
Hinton, Charles Pell
Hodson, H erman Pink
Hofman, John David
Holland, Guy
Horan, John Joseph
Huff, Elkanah Wynn
Hurd, George Northrop, P. M.
James, Edward M.
Jenkins, John H.
Jenkins, William Isaac
Johnson, Louis Marsena
Jones, Alfred Belcher
Kahl, Otto Henry
Kehoe, Frank, Jr.
Kimball, Guy Burtrand
Kindler, Charles Jacob
King, William Johnston
Kipp, William J.
Kirk, William
Krook, Lenns Gustaf Theodore
Kruegel, William Carl
Lenthold, Calvin Andrew
Libby, Perey Campbell
Loeber, Charles Hugo
Loring, Sylvester C.
Lynch, Walter
MaeKay, James
Mainland, Henry
Margelin, Julius
Marquardt, Walter William
Mason, George Cooper
Masters, William George
Maynard, John

535

536

ROSTER

ROSTER

Schipnll, August
McClinton, William Lewis
Scott, Mark
McCord, John D.
Scott, Robert Brough
McDonald, John Francis
Searcy, Daniel Moody
Mcintyre, William Hoyt
Searcy, Oscar William
McLellan, Edgar Stanley
Seaver, George Henry
Miller, Alex.
Sherman, William Ed.
Miller, Hugo Herman
Shuler, Joseph George
Miller, James
Silk, Charles
Miller, Thomas Cavin
Simmons, Charles Mercur
Milliron, Clark Jay
Smith, Bert P.
Moody, Joseph Elbert
Smith, 'Charles Ayron
Moylan, Patrick
Smith, James Eugene
Mygatt, Porte George
Smith, William John
Nathorst, Charles Edward
Soll, Charles Harold
Neisser, Stanislaus Maxirnillian
Springer, Milton Earle, P. M.
Nichols, Taylor Abrah11.m
Squier, H erman Grey, P. M.
O'Brien, Charles William
Squire, Charles Henry
O'Donovan, John Jam~s
Stafford, Harry Eugene, P. M.
Ostrand, James Adolph
Stark, Charles
Parkinson, L ee Allen, P. M.
Stevens, Ernest Nichols
Patstone, Lewis
Stevenson, John Speer
Peabody, Henry Sterling
Stewart, John Logav_
Perrine, Francis Joseph
Stiles, Luther Clarence
Pettus, John Anthony
Stohner, George Wagner
Pittman, Frank
Strattan, Guy
Preston, Richard Andrew
Sutherland, Albert Erastus
Preuss, Oscar
Tarrant, Cliarles Wesley
Quinn, James Francis
Thebaut, William Maxwell
Rankin, Adam Warrell
Thomas, Owen
RE>iff, Christopher Arlo
Thompson, William Vessey
Renner, Luther Abraham
Thomson, Thomas W.
Richards, David John
Tilbury, George Herbert
Richards, William Wilson
Tornorth, Werner
Riehl, John Jerome
Turner, Frank Powell
Ritchey, Addison Barnhart
Vandeford, Ottis Leonard
Ross, Harry Schultz
Vaughn, George Irwin
Rupp, Alex. Charles
Veutorini, Nicholas Teodor
Ryer, Andrew George
Vilain, George Washington
Sachaklian, Aaron Harritune
Waddington, James Scholefield
Saleeby, Najeb M.
Walker, Joynee Harwood
Satterthwaite, George William
W'alstrom, David
Schiftb'auer, Hans E. W.
Walters, Henry Llewellyn
. Bchoendube, Chas. Albert Harry
Walters, Thomas Edward
Schroeder, Earnest
Schimnming, Edward August Wm. Watt, Charles Dewar

•

Weber, Walter William
Welch, Hix James
Waltner, Charles Burch
Weston, Warren Wallace
Wilder, Whitford Thompson
Williams, Charles Absalom
Williams, Charles Edwin
Williams, Richard Lewis
Bardelson, Samuel
Colbert, Percy Dudley
Cowdrey, Clarence Eugene
Eisenman, Francis Joseph
Ernst, John, Jr.
•Foehrenback, Francis
Fuller, Harry Nelson
Gard, Adam R.
Gray, William Smith
Hammer, Hubert H.
Heinrich, Julius
Kanehl, Julian S.
Koehler, Robert Gano
Lang, Louis Magnus
Lay, William Grant

Wilmarth, Charles Yates
Wilson, Walter Eli
Winterburn, George William
Wittenberger, Nace
Wolff, Thomas John
Wolson, Joseph Napoleon
Wright, Albert Pleasant
Wright, Charles Edwin
-338.
WITHDRAWN:
Lear, Ben, Jr.
tLord, Lester Winslow
Lyons, Charles
McLure, Carlin Hamlin
McLaughlin, Wendell
Miller, John Thompson
Reinhart , Allan
Sharman, Herbert
Stafford, Frank Cornish
Stratton, William
•Turner, Allen Donald McG.
Weinberg, Max
Westcott, Harold Edward
White, Frank Russell
tZwink, William Jacob

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Chandler, William D.
Peat, James Bonner
Simpson, Walter Henry
McLain, Charles Campbell
Thompson, Frank Carroll
Monson, Morton Lawrence
EXPELLED:
Breszee, Hugh Spencer
DIED:
Brower, Charles Clinton
Evans, John
Crowley, Thomas Francis
Hamilton, Matthew
iParry, Thomas John
during the year.
tl>egrees conferred during the year.
tAfflllated during the year.
~Resto red

537

ROSTER

538

SAN FERNANDO LODGE, No. 343.

ROSTER
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Boyce, George
Munro, John

San Femando, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
James H. Jenifer, Master,
Clifton Wilson Judy, Chaplain,
San Fernando
Charles J . Shaug, Senior Deacon,
Robert Lave Fraisher, Sen. Warden, Edwin H enry Schwinger, Jun. Dea.,
James Edward Smith, Jun. Warden, William Thomas Burr, Marshal,
Frank Larne Troxel, Treasurer,
Samuel Berger Bensen, Steward,
Fred E. Strader, Secretary,
Charles Symans, Steward,
San Fernando
John Hugh Barclay, Tyler.

Abel, Alex.
Aiken, John Martin
Allen, Henry Cornell, P. M.
Bailey, George Herbert
Barclay, John Hugh
Barnier, Ed. Grafton
Benson, Samuel Berger
Brown, James Dougal
Burr, John, P. M.
Burr, William Thomas, P. M.
Daniels, Elmo Charles
DeArmand, Roy
Dodd, Miles William
Erwin, William Francis S.
Evans, Roderick Dhu
Folger, Wilber Barton
Frazer, Simon K.
Gifford, John Thomas
Glasscock, Raymond Kerns
Grass, Frederick William
Harps, Jacob
Hawk, Charles Whetzel
Hewett, William Charles
Hitchcock, Francis Willis
Hogan, Charles Sturdivant
Hopkins, Charles Chapin
Hubbard, Henry Cutler

MEMBERS:
Jenifer, James H.
Judy, Clifton Wilson
Kidder, Frank Allen
Lovejoy, Arthur Edward
Mackey, John Galbrath, P. M.
Martin, Thomas Peter
Matthews, William Henry, P. M.
McCandless, Charles William
Myrick, Charles Nelson
·
Olin, Dwight B.
Peterson, Carl Alex.
Powell, John Francis
Rickels, Thomas
Pilcher, John Samuel
Rinaldi, Otto Franklin
Schwinger, Edwin Henry
Sedwell, George William
Strader, Fred E.
Smick, James Phillip
Smith, James Edward
Symons, Charles
Troxel, Frank Larue
Wagner, Claude C.
Walker, Thomas James
Weldon, Arthur
Wheat, James Edgar
Wright, Francis Marion
-54.

539

Genzel, Charles

DIED:
Rinaldi, Carl Robert

STARR KING LODGE, No. 344.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, :first Wednesday in each month.
1739 Fillmore Street.
OFFICERS:

Harry Lewis Simon, Master,
Harry Wallace Patrick, Organist,
454 Scott Street
J ohn William Gale, Senior Deacon,
Charles Michel Hackmeier, S. War., Thomas Smith, Juni'or Deacon,
Chas. Maurice Wollenberg, J. Ward., Charles Oscar Munson Marshal
Albert Henry Leaf, Treasurer,
Charles Baer, Steward,'
'
Hiram French Wright, Secretary, Herbert Edmond Manners Steward
881 Fulton Street
John Henry Sampson, Tyl;r.
'
MEMBERS:
Abraham, Nathan
A braha::ns, Abe
Abrahams, Myer
Alpers, Aaron Albert
Ames, Joseph Howard
Baer, Charles
Baer, Louis
Baker, William John
Batt, Saul Charles
Bernard, Samuel
Bernstein, Jacob Alfrerl
Benham, George Bates
Berg, John
Berlie, Frank
Berry, Gustia Shield
Binns, Joseph Harry
Blackman, Ellis Aaron
Blackman, Morris Jacob
Blackman, Oscar Lemuel
Blume, Mier
Bock, Jacob
Boyd, Robert

Brandenstein, Henry U.
Bray, Arthur
Bright, Joseph Aaron, P. M.
Brownstone, Louis H.
Bush, Ira Charles
Cale, Francis Moses
Carlson, Mathew A.
Chick, Herbert E.
Chollet, Henry Edward
Cohn, Carl
Cohn, Joseph
Cohn, Max
Cohn, Samuel
Cohen, Baruch
Cooper, Abraham
Cooper, John Freeman
Crow, Samuel Marmat.luke
Curtaz, Benjamin
Curtaz, Oscar Hugo
Daniels, George Eaton
·Daniels, Boy Alonson
David, Charles

ROSTER

540

ROSTER

David, Isaac Lazarus
Davis, Burris Kincaid
Davis, Philip
Dethlefson, Fred
Deutsch, Ferdinand
Deutsch, Solomon, P. M.
Dinkelspeil, Henry George W.
Dodel, Hans
Dodel, Xavier
Dowling, John Charles
Dudley, Tyler
Dugdale, George Edward
Duwer, August Paul
Elser, Edwin Emile
Eschen, Lee
Farley, Frank Eugene
Fletcher, Claude Mathew
Ford, John Franklin
1''orsyth, Frederick Jacob
Fox, H enry
Franklin, Harry Paul
Friedlander, Melville Lewis
Friedman, Henry
Gale, John William
Gale, Milton
Garren, David
Gates, Alex. Warren
Gensler, Julius
Gilbert, Leo
Glaser, Arnold, P. M.
Glaser, Michaelis
Glass, Arthur
Goldman, Isaac
Goodman, Isaac
Goodman, Joseph, P . :M.
Grange, Louis August
Green, Isador S.
Gregory, Frank Starr
Gunzberger, Berthold
Hackmier, Charles M.
Hagerdon, Charles Henry
Hall, Andrew Leslie
Heath, Benjamin, Jr.
Hen8haw, Warren Wash. James
Herbst, Jacob

Herzog, William Melville
Higgins, Solomon Franklin
Hirsh, Samuel
Hirshberg, David Samuel, P. :M.
Hirshfeld, Peter
Hislop, Robert Cooper
Honig, Samuel
Howe, Harvie Bosworth
Iberso11, Robert T.
Israel, David
Jacobs, David
•racobson, Samuel
Johnson, Delius Oscar
Joost, Henry M.
Joseph, Bernard Julius
Kapperman, Edward Peter
Katschinski, Alfred
Katchinski, Bernard
Katz, Arthur S.
Kearney, William Bernard
Keller, Henry A., P. M.
Klatt, Walter F.
Kroll, Frederick William
Lazarus, Leon Ochile
Leaf, Albert Henry
Leland, Thomas Byers Wood
Lemoine, Emil August
Leopold, Samuel
London, Mortimer A.
Lester, Albert Mona
Levicy, Starling Clark
Levy, Albert
Levy, Maurice Thomas
Liebling, Samuel
Lightner, Frederick E.
Littlefield, James Marqhall
Lobree. Aaron Allen
Lunger, Harry Elmer
Lynch, James Francis
Manners, Herbert E.
Marks, Clarence D.
Matthews, Thomas R.
Marston, Walter Harmon
May, Louis
Mayer, Emanuel Belaseo

'

McNab, Gavin
Meinhardt, John David
Mish, Solomon Gerson
Munson, Charles Oscar
Myers, Oliver Hazzard Perry
Nathan, Herman
Nathan, Louis David
Neumann, Edward Rudolph
Neumann, William Frederick
Nicholas, Mathias D.
Nielson, Wilhelm
Odland, John 0.
Oppenheim, Samuel Philip
Owen, Ferguson
Patrick, Harry Wallace
Peake, William
Rafael, John
Rechsteiner, Emil August
Roberts, Adam
Robinson, John Lee
Rombach, William
Rosenthal, H enry
Salomon, Sam
Sampson, Fr.ank Robert
Sampson, John Henry
Samuels, Jacob
Schmidt, Theo.
Scott, Joseph Harry
Scrivener, Martin D.
Simon, Harry Lewis
Martin, William Augustus

Smith, Harry L.
Smith, Thomas
Speck, John Henry
Spencer, Carlington Theo.
Stevens, Myron Munson
Strine, George Wesley
Thomas, Isaac
Tonkin, James Varco
Truman, Charles Henry Jacob
Unger, Isidor
Wegener, George Nich?las
W ehser, Will Emil
Weidenthal, Samuel H .
Weir, James
Wendling, George Xavier
Wessel, Harry A.
Williams, William Robert
Winterberg, Gustave Conrad
Withington, Charles M.
Wittman, William George
Wolfenden, George Carlile, P. M.
Wolfe, Edward I.
Wollenberg, Charles M.
Wollenberg, Isidor
Worster, Arthur Bourne
Worster, William Dennott
Wright, Hiram French
Yeatman, John Andrew
Yonge, John Duke
Zelinsky, David
-194.

WITHDRAWN:
Sexton, Horace C.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Bernard, Emil A.
Codington, Arthur David
Rehnstrom, Charles H.
Salomon, Ben I.

541

DIED:
Schantz, Isaac Biehn
Keller, Wllllam Arthur

542

ROSTER

ROSTER

BRENTWOOD LODGE, No. 345.

PALO ALTO LODGE, No. 346.

Brentwood, Contra C_osta County.
Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.

Palo Alto, Santa Clara County.
Stated Meetings, :first S&turday in each month.

543

OFFICERS:

OFFICERS:

Oriana Columbus Pruett, Master,
Robert Wallace, Jr., Chaplain,
Oakley
Walter Broox Hinebaugh, Sen. Dea.,
John Boyd, Senior Warden,
Henry William Heidorn, Jun. Dea.,
Austin Watson Collis, Jun. Warden, Francis Simon McN utt, Steward,
Enoch Wanda Sheddrick, Treasurer, Francis Stevens Cook, Steward,
William Wallace Pettit, Secretary, Ulysses Ambler Boydston, Tyler.
Brentwood

William Benjamin Allen, Master,
Albert N. Umphreys, Chaplain,
Palo Alto
Frank Jotham Snow, Senior Deacon,
George Washington Harms, S . War., James "Webster Wells, Junior Deacon,
Alfred Seale, Junior Warden,
Clarence Eugene Henry, Marshal,
John Fletcher Byxbee, Treasurer,
William Ollerenshawe Horabin, St'd.,
William Clowes Werry, Secretary, J ames Bennett Liggett, Steward,
Palo Alto
Richard Werry, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Agnew, Jesse B.
Lemoin, Rueben E.
Altizer, William Taswell
Lewis, Thomas Archibald
Babb, George Alfred
Lucksinger, Frederick M.
Bettens, Albert
Ludinghouse, George Henry
Boyd, John
McCabe, Roy Lester, P. M.
Boydston, Erwin Johnson
McKean, William Giles
Boydston, Ulysses Ambler
McNutt, Simon F.
Bridges, Aaron Nelson
Morgans, Watson Philip
Brown, Frank Thomas
Morgans, William Watkins
Carey, James F.
N aeon, James Edward
Collis, Austin Watson
Nunn, George
Cook, Francis Steven
Pearson, Frank R.
Cowan, Charles
Prewett, Joseph Granville
Prewett, Orlando Columbus
Dean, Alden Ora
Estes, William Jefferson
Richards, Louis
Russell, George Clifford
Gardner, Robert
Glass, George Walter
Shafer, George Henry
Grigsby, Byron Lindsey, P. M.
Sheddrick, Enock Waldo
Grigsby, Warren Miller
Shellenberger, Charles Thomas
Harley, Sherman Ellsworth
Stone, Harry
Harrower, Robert, Jr.
Taylor, Volney
Heidorn, Honry William
Veal, William Worth
Hinebaugh, Walter Broox
Wallace, Robert, Jr., P. M.
Weihe, Frederick William
Howard, William Guy
Kelley, Fernando Gus
Whipple, William M.
Koppernd, Anders Harold
Williamson, William Colbert
-52.
DIED:
Bonnickson, Hans

Ackley, Edward
Allen, Benjamin Graves
Allen, William Benjamin
Barker, Lewis Harmon, P. M.
Barnhisel, Winfield Scott
Barrett, Frank
Beal, William Harvey
Bell, John Henry
Bille, George Christian
Billwiller, Ernest Oswald
Black, Marshall
Blackman, Harold Stabler
Blake, Thomas Barnard
Boyd, John Duncan
Braunschweiger, Edward
B~inton, Walter Franklin
Burke, William Edmund
Buss, William Gardner
Byxbee, John Fletcher
Campbell, Henry Aver
Childs, Clarence E.
Clack, George Sydney
Clack, Sydney
Clute, Elbert Schuyler
Cochran, Thomas Craig
Colton, Albert Sanborn
Cone, James Stowe
Cook, Finlay
Crawford, Perry Orson

MEMBERS:
Crooks, John Chisholm
Cuthbertson, Harry Fender
Dean, William
Decker, Charles William, P. M.
DeForest, Albert Tracy
Derby, William Flagg
Downing, Claude Standish
Dudfield, John
Duryea, Edward, Jr.
Engle, Alf red Jones
Ferguson; Aleck Sanford
Firebaugh, Charles Ludwig
Fitzgerald, Fred Finley
Fose, George Lawrence
Foss, James Calvin
Gallagher, Gustave Charles
George, Emery Edwin
Gilman, Charles Edward
Gilman, Philip Kingsnorth
Goodman, Theodore Henry
Griffin, James Owen
Greenwood, Harlow Verne
Raehl, Harry Lewis
Hall, George Elbert
Harms, George Washington
Henry, Clarence Eugene
Herdman, Robert Ernest
Hodges, Charles Edward
Horabin, William 0.

544
Hughes, Watt
Hutchinson, Francis George
Johnson, John Olaf
Kaiser, Joseph Jacob
Lakin, Egerton Drew
LaPeire, Edwin Arnaud
Laumeister, Gustave
Lausten, Brousen Peter
Liggett, James Bennett
Lockey, Richard, Jr.
Logan, James Blaine
Martin, Ernest Whitney
Martin, James Dickason
McComish, Ralph Clinton
McDowell, John Ezra
McFadden, Ralph John
McKinney, William Thomas
Meares, John London
Metz, William
Miller, Clark Flickner
Monzingo, John Johnson
Morris, Joseph Jonathan
Mosher, George Wilbert
Motz, Arthur Frank
Munger, Arthur Lee, Jr.
Newland, Lloyd
Ogier, Andrew Reid
Orr, Horatio William
Palmateer, Theron Josiah
Patrick, William
Patterson, Henry Samuel
Patton, John Quincy
Perry, Henry Fates
.Porter, Arthur Miller
Prewitt, Jesse Augustus
Read, Bill
Reinhart, Jacob Henry
Reynolds, Harry Clendenin
Roberts, Hugh Roland
Roller, Arthur
Roller, Josiah Wickerd, P. M.
Roller, Milton Benjamin, P. M.
Ryan, Shirley Bell

ROSTER
Sabin, Henry Wells
Saunders, Arthur Bertram
Saunders, Howard Elwood
Seale, Alfred
Seargeant, James Everett
Schwarzkopf, Rudolph Herman
Shumate, Charles Henry
Simkins, Henry Walter
Smith, Charles Lewis
Snow, Frank Jotham
Sonnickson, Andrew Outzen
Spencer, Allan Thomas
Spencer, John
Starnes, Xaver Brand
Taylor, Charles Marvin
Taylor, Edwin Lothrope
Taylor, Henry Thomas
Taylor, Rodman M.
Thoits, Edward Clair
Thoits, Willis Clifford
Thomas, Benjamin
Thompson, Philip Johnson
Thorpe, Roy Pearl
Umphreys, Albert N., P. M.
Upham, Henry Laurens
Walker, Charles Conwell
Walker, Lou Cain
Wallace, Van Alstine
Waring, Gerald Ashley
Weck, Edward
·weisshaar, Emil Florentz, P. M.
Wells, James Webster
Werry,. Richard
Werry, William Clowes
Wideman, John Baptiste
Wiley, Joseph Woods
Williams, George
Winsor, Anon A.
Wilson, Carl Groves
Woods, Ira McMicken
Worsley, Ralph Harlow
Zschokee, Theodore Christian
-143.

ROSTER

Atterbury, Charles D.

545

WITHDRAWN:
Hughes, William Thomas
May, John

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Yost, George Herbert
Duncan, Peter Young
*McC!eave, Francis

DIED:
*Park, Dean Wllllam
*Steiss, Albert John

McKINLEY LODGE, No. 347.
Richmond, Contra Costa County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Frank McVicker Palmer, Master,
Harry Leander Ells, Chaplain,
Point Richmond
William Edward Rose, Sen. Deacon,
John Herbert Rumrill, Sen. Warden, James Watson Cruickshank, !. Dea.,
William Brook Richmond, Jun. War., Antonio Nicodemo Codeglia, Marshal,
John Richard Nystrom, Treasurer, Charles Johan Peterson, Steward,
Walter Theodore Helms, Secretary, Lambert Wierda, Steward,
1131 6th Street, Richmond
Max Michaels, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Barney, Hawley Nathan, P. M.
Critchett, Frank
Barnhouse, Howard Remus
Cruickshank, James
Beer, John Charles
Dailey, Benjamin Clinton
Belding, William Forsythe
Dalton, Charles Irving
Bennison, Walter Scott
Davis, Daniel David
Bergold, Wilbur Weygant
Differding, Henry
Blake, Charles Robert
Dolan, Edward
Boorman, Benjamin
Downs, Fred Robert
Brown, Warren Bateman
Doyle, Vaechel Valentine
Bunting, George
Duke, Ernest Clifton
Calfee, David Walker
Ells, Harry, P. M.
Campbell, Archibald Hamilton, P. M. Erwin, David .Little
Campbell, Palmerston Cornick
Follett, Geary Alton, P. M.
Church, Palen, P. M.
Fitzpatrick, Patrick B.
Codeglia, Antonio Nicodemo
Fenwick, William Brownlee
Cowan, Charles Henry
Forrest, James
Coward, John Robert
Forster, Carl Emil
*Affiliated during the year.
35

546

Fox, William Alex.
Gillispie, Robert
Gregory, .Tohn Hamilton
Hammill, Eddie Luman
Helms, Walter Theodore
Hopkins, David
Hulin, Henry Titus
Hulse, .Tohn Sidney
.Jacobs, Thomas Parker
.Johnston, Milford Ray
.Johnston, Henry Albert, P. M.
.Johnston, William Granville
.Johnston, William Henry, P. M.
Kirkwood, Edward
Kinney, Herman Bishop
Keeney, Thomas .Te:fferson
Kennedy, Charles Clark
Larrabee, William Leroy
Leber, .Joseph Charles
Leight, William Alexander
Linsley, Carlos Shelton
Little, Leonard
Leavell, Lewis Edward
Lubeck, .Tohn Reinhold
Lucas, William Austin
Luidnhl, .Tohn
Martin, .Joseph Sautana
Mason, William Daniel
McCombs, Frank
McHugh, Evall Huber
McRacken, Winfield Scott
McVicker, Archibald
Metzger, Elias Burgees
Michaels, Max
Mitchell, David Leroy
Morrison, .Tohn ,Mcintyre, P. M.
Murray, .Tohn
.
Neville, Frederick Morgan
Nixon, Walter Wood
Nystro~, .Tohn Richard
Odell, Alpheus
Carter, Roy Frank
.Tones, J. Shirley

ROSTER

ROSTER
Odell, Clarence Archer
Palmer, Frank McVicker
Park, George
Parker, Robert Lee
Peterson, Charles .Tohan
Peury, Henry Lincoln
Pfeil, .Tohn Edward
Picton, William
Poulson, Otto Alex.
Richmond, William Brook
Rihn, Charles .Joseph
Rose, William Edward
Roth, .Tohn
Rumrill, .Tohn Herbert
Schoen, Frederick
Severio, Frank
Slattery, Richard Edmond
Smallwood, Ed. Bnltimore
Smith, Beverly Bailes
Smith, Herbert Williamson
Smith, John Samuel
Spagnoli, Ben Wesley
Stults, Frank Peter
Sutherlen, William Nelson
Swearingler, Barney
Thomas, Benj. Franklin
Thompson, William Lewie
Topping, George Washington
Trull, Walter B.
Turkovich, Charles
Walker, William Andrew
Weirick, .Tohn Calvin
Whitcomb, Charles David
White, Howard Bennett
Whittle, .Tohn Franklin
Wierda, Lambert
Willets, Edward Brackett
Williams, William Henry
Wood, Frank Goodacre
Wood, Robert Newcomb
Wylie, Oliver
-116.

WITHDRAWN:
Lowman, William Bodykln
Ragland, Jay Gould
Walker, Thonias Shelby

547

SUSPENDED FOR UNMASONIC CONDUCT:
Bayless, Benjamin Oscar
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Loucks, Don Anderson
Clyma, William Stanley

DIED:
Wagner, Ernest Herbert

SAN BERNARDINO LODGE, No. 348.
San Bernardino, San Bernardino County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Henry Adolph Weirwille, Master, James Sheddin, Senior Deacon,
Cor. 11th and B Streets
Joseph Eugene Rich, Junior Deacor,,
.Charles Post, Senior Warden,
George Rollin Barcume, Marshal,
John B. Phillips, Junior Warden, James Cunnison, Steward,
William Swayze Hooper, Treasurer, Walker Keith Bledsoe, Steward,
John Flagg, Secretary,
Sydney Mee, Tyler.
Box 477, San Bernardino
MEMBERS:
Albee, Albert Austin
Bled~oe, Benj. Franklin, P. M.
Albert, .Tames Edward
Bledsoe, Howard
Aldridge, Marion Lafayette, P. ;M. Bledsoe, .Tames Blair
Allen, Byron William
Bledsoe, Robert Emmett
Allen, Oliver A.
Bledsoe, Walker Keith
Allen, William David Franklia
Boehm, Hiram .Tesse
Allison, Charles Loran
Boger, Roger Frank
Allison, Claude H.
Boggs, William Stewart
Allison, Monte Demoss
Bright, .T. Shirley
Andreson, .Tohn, .Tr.
Bright, .Joseph Shannon, P. M.
Anker, Rudolph
Brill, Henry Edward
Arbios, Joseph .Tacob
Brison, Wm. Willey, .Tr., P. M.
Armantage, William Lilley
Brown, William Lear, P. M.
Armstrong, Royal Milton
Brush, Frederick Morton
Arnott; Frank Hoover
Burgoyne, George
Ball, William Amo!
Caldwell, Oliver Morton
Barcume, George Rolland
Carey, Charles Francie
Batchelor, Sherman G.
Carpenter, Lucius Jerome
Benjamin, Isaac
Carner, .Tackeon Ernest
Benson, Nels R.
Carner, .Tames Henry

548

ROSTER

Carter, Tom Osland
Casey, Ben Shane
Cleveland, Frank A.
Cobbs, Albert Richard
Cohn, Caesar
Cole, Frank Horace
Conner, Henry
Coultrap, Clyde
Craw, Ralph Richard
Crutchfield, James Edgar
Cunnison, James
Curtis, Isiah Hamilton
Daley, Charles Jefferson
Daley, Frank Barber
Daley, Michael Breen
Dean, John William
Deuchrass, Robert Howie
Donnatin1 Frank
Douthat, Warren H.
Downer, Abner John
Draper, Joshua Clinton
Draper, Stoddard Stevena
Dresser, Nathaniel A.
Drew, Arthur Linford
Drew, Fred Charles
Drew, Roy Fordham
Dubbell, Peter John
Dunn, Frederick William
Eddy, Arthur James
Esler, Frederick John
Feetham, Geo. Francis Andrews
Fisk, Oliver James
Fitting, Hans H.
Flagg, John, P. M.
Frith, Joseph Breathwhite, P. :M.
Frye, Gailen K .
Frye, Thomas Wilmott
Fussell, Elbert Ross
Gansner, Henry Florian
Geiger, Frank .
Glasgow, Nathaniel B.
Glatz, Albert
Gorall, Charles
Graham, Henry Noel
Grow, Charles Melville, P. :M.

Hadden, Thomas
Ham, Alex. McMillian
Hanf, Charles Morrill
Harbison, Robert Clelland
Harris; Burton Lee
Harrison, John
Harrison, John Parker
Henderson, John Alexander
Henderson, Lubin James
Herkelrath, Charles Philip
Herlick, Peter
Hibbard, Oscar Henry
Higginson, Osmond Francis
Hight, John Platt
Himes, Benjamin Franklin
Hitchcock, William England
Hooper, William Swayze
Hoover, William Davis
Houghton, Lagona Derias
Howland, Harry Charles
Ingersoll, Joseph
Irving, Carl
Irving, William Edward
Izenour, Angus Wesley
Johnson, Ammi Keyes
Johnson, John Franklin, Jr., P. M
Johnson, Volney Thomas
Jonas, Jacob Samuel
Kendall, Albert Glenn
Kelley, Stephen Francis
K errn, William
Keyser, Howard
Lebovitz, David
Levy, Henry Raphael
Levy, Morse Samuel
Liverman, James Rufus
Longmire, Rufus Elbert
Loring, George Washington
Lothrop, Clinton Augustus
Lyman, Eugene Harding
MacGillivary, Russell
Mackenzie, Donald William
Maddox, William Clarence
Manson, William Alex.
Mark, Max

ROSTER
Martin, John Franklin
McDonald, 'fhomas Clifford
McElvaine, Jefferson
McEivaine, William Augustus
;McMullen, John Calvin
McNabb, Samuel Brown Wylie
Mettler, Alfred Samuel
Miller, William Henry
Monahan, Charles' William
Mort, Clyde Everett
Neff, J. Roderick
Newcomb, Leroy E .
Newton, DeWitt Perkins
Nish, James Easton
Nye, William Edward
Paddock, Aland Bertram
Parker, Wilbur Melton
Peck, Elbert Charles
Pert, Thomas James
Pfeiffer, Louis Alexander
Phillips, John B.
Phy, John M.
·Poppett, Edward
Poppett, John Robert .
Post, Uharles
Prescott, George Wash.
Preston, Godfrey
Preston, Thomas Cleveland
Rawirz, Louis Morris
Rawirz, Samuel R.
Rich, Joseph Eugene
Roberts, Clark Victor
Roberts, Henry E.
Rog.ers, Daniel Ambrose
Rogers, William Horton
Rourke, William
Rouse, Charles Augustua
Ryan, Edmond D.
Runyan, James Madison
Schlott, Dwight Coleman

Brown, Archie Rutherlord
Israel, Joseph

549

Shatto, Samuel M.
Shay, Walter Alexander,
Shedden, James
Sibley, Hiram Dell
Slama!, John
Sloat, Orrin Peck
Smith, Edward D.
Starbird, Edward Palmer
Starke, William
Stevenson, Oren Menzie
Stiles, William Heman
Stone, Moses Phillips
Smith, James William
Smith, Victor C.
Surr, John Howard
Swarthout, Albert Riley
Talbott, William Park
Thomas, John Winchester
Thompson, Robert Scott
Thoms, Clifford Carlson
Tillapaugh, George Washington
Tucker, Edward W.
Underwood, Frederick Gilbert
Wagner, Walter Douglas, P. :M.
Waide, James Wilkerson
Waite, Everett Randall
Walsh, Henry Arthur
Wath, Robert Floyd
Weston, Joseph
Weston, William Henry
Whitcomb, Horace Vernon
Whitcomb, Rupert Webster
Whitham, James Henry
Wierwillie, Henry Adolph
Woodling, Frank Leighton
Yarnell, John L.
Yerkes, James Houston
Young, Walter
Zompro, Sumpter F.
-209.

WITHDRAWN:
N efl', Lawrence Wilson
Scott, Josiah P.

.550

ROSTER

Eadie, William Hunter
Efkelma:n, John George

DIED:
Harmon, James F.
Stevenson, Neltson Romeo

SEQUOIA LODGE, No. 349.
Oakland, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Frank Flint Porter, Master,
James Cairns Cole, Chaplain,
.
1016 Broadway
Edward Floyd Hughes, Sen. Deacun,
Francis Delmar Dol~ier, Sen. Ward., Frederick James Whiting, Jun. Dea.,
C~arles .c~u~b, Junior Warden,
Alexander Simpson Kelly, Marshal,
Gilman Wilham Bacon, Treasurer, Orville Benton Caldwell Steward
John William Gwilt, Secretary,
Edwin Mason Fant, Ste~rd,
'
906 Broadway
James Rothschild Sloan, Tyler.
Aikens, Ebbie Campbell
Anthony, Thomas Maurice
Appling, Jaekson Beauregard
Atherton, Almon Dwight
Bacon, Gilman William, P. M.
Bakeman, John Fred
Baker, Arthur Tullock
Baker, Harry Hamilton
Bartelme, Ferdinand John
Bayley, Frank Leslie
Bennett, Peter
Blessing, Chas. Bernhardt
Bouterious, Amie! Oliver
Bowes, John Edward
Bright, Herbert Nelson
Brill, Oscar Charles
Brockman, Isaac Hugh
'Brodien, Edward Benjamin
Bromley, George Scriber
Brown, Clifford Edwin
Brown, Frank Theodore
Brown, Harry Winchester
· Brown, Samuel, P. M.
Browne, Roy James
Brune, Alfred Ernest
Brusetar, William Smith, Jr,

MEMBERS:
Bulmer, James
Cahill, Patrick
Caldwell, Orville Benton
Chapman, William H.
Chesney, William James, P. M.
Christopher, Charles Andrew
Chubb, Charles
Chubb, William Henry
Clarke, Austin Fisher
Cobb, Lewis Harrison
Cobb, Rufus Warren
Codington, Charles Frederick
Coffman, Alfred Bonh
Cole, Archie Duane
Cole, James Cairns, P. M.
Collins, Willis Harold
Cooley, Frank Lucius
Coon, Mathew Fernandez
Cox, William Warren
Currlin, Varlin Albert
Currlin, Waldemar Edmund
Curzon, Frank
Darrow, John Walworth
Davis, Warren Marcus
Dean, Orie Snyder
Dexter, Henry Cushing

ROSTER
Dimpfel, George Peabody
Divelbiss, Charles Elsworth
Dixon, James Isaac
Dolbier, Francis Delmar
Donahoo, Edward Denniston
Doughtrey, Edwin
Dukes, Charles Alfred
Dyer, Theo. Xavier
Earl, Wallace Leroy
East, Henry
Elkinton, Jacob Henry
· Elliott, John Scholes
Ellis, George Walter
Ellis, Louis Albert
Emery, Charles Delmar
Fant, Edwin Mason
Filgate, James Robert
Fletter, Oliver Watson
Forbes, Ernest
Fuller, George Carlyle
Galbraith, Alexander
George, William Henry
Gibbs, Samuel Henry
Gilbert, Thomas
Gilbertson, James Coolidge
Gilbertson, John
Gillet, Wallace Levi
Glando, Frank ·
Goldsmith, Bernard Seaman
Grahn, Walter A.
Gray, Leon Ernest
Greer, Jerome Bonaparte
Guild, William
Gwilt, John William, P. M.
Hadler, John Henry
Hadley, Marquis De Lafayette
Halliday, George, P. M.
Hallowell, Edward Lewis
Hamilton, William Britton
Hanna, James Clendenin
Hansen, Andrew Martin
Harford, Albert Kellogg
Harlow, Wilbur Burton
Hartley, David Clough
Hawley, Robert Tipton

Heathorne, William Elisha
Hedemark, John Christian
Hendrickson, Alonzo Bell
Henning, John Arthur
Hobron, Samuel Harris
Hopkins, Dan Leslie
Horton, William Rogers
Haugh, Edward Stanford Samuel
Howard, Willis Clinton
Hubbard, Ludlow
Hudspeth, Charles Ernest
Hughes, Edward Floyd
Huntley, John Stanley
Hurlbut, Reuben Preston
Husband, Charles, P. M.
Hutchinson, Gilbert Henry
Innes, John
Irish, Clifford Lucius
Jeffery, Charles Alex.
Jeffery, Richard Edgar
Jenkins, William Norman
Johnson, Charles, Jr.
Johnson, Richard Bruner
Journal, Philip Samuel
Jung, Gottlieb
Kehoe, William Evans
Keifer, Harry Edward
Kelley, John Phillips
Kelly, Alexander Simpson
Kergan, William Wesley
Kirkland, John Nicholson
Klinkner, Frederick S.
Klinkner, Herman Parke
Knapp, Sherman Irwin
Krueger, Maximillion Adolphus
Lackey, Howard Julian
J,ake, Rufus Nathan
Larter, Harry de Witt
Laufer, Frederick William
Leiter, George Laren
Letts, Henry John
Lewis, Hiram James
Lewis, Walter James
Lilley, John 'F rancis
Lind, Edward Martin

551

552

ROSTER

ROSTER

Lindeblad, Peter
Lockwood, Julian Lyman
MacDonald, Arthur Thomas
Macfarlane, William Johnston
Macfee, Neil
MacGregor, John Ryle, P. M.
MacMillan, Alexander
'
Marquardt, Reynolds Gottlieb
Martin, George Hayward
Martin, George Washington
Martin, Thomas Clark
McClunie, William Johnstone
;M:cCoy, William Johnson
McDonald, William James
McEwen, John Alex.
McGregor, Archibald McL.
McKinnon, Chester Gordon
McKinnon, Russell Norman
McMath, John Frederick
Mead, Rollen Orlando
Meredith, George Sargent
Metcalf, Solon Thayer
Mielenz, Francis William Pinnick
Miller, Wesley Washington
Morris, Ray Hunt
Mote, Jesse Frampton
Muller, Robert Eugene
Myhre, Samuel Alfred
Nebrkr, Frank Orlando
Nickerson, George Whitefield
Nielson, John
Norman, Robert Edward
Norton, Dixon Beldon
Olmsted, Theodore
Olsen, Hans
Olsen, Oscar ·
Olsen, Sydney Gilbert
Parke, James Henry
Poterson, Carl Theodor
Pettigrove, Alfred Raymond
Platt, Samuel J.
Porter, Frank Flint
Porterfield, Arthur Colmery
Poulter, Alfred Mayer
Poulter, Charles Thomas

Quinn, Paul John
Ragland, William Beverly
Ileagh, Edward Mitchell
Reed, Clarence Monroe
Recd, George William
Reed,. WilliRm
Robinson, Thomas M.
Robinson, Thomas Shanks
Rogers, Eb.gene Charles
Rugg, Ray Ruggles
Russell, George Albert
Sayers, John Walter
Schwaner, William Frederick
Scott, George Amos
Seavey, Benjamin Eastman
Seavey, Ralph Eastman
Seiler, Herbert Frederick
Senram, Frank C.
Sharp, Craigie
Sharp, Harry William
Sharp, Joseph William
Shepperd, Elmer Earl
Sloan, James Rothschild
Smith, Dudley Almonte
Smith, Ray Sidney
Smith,_ Robert Tangier
Smith, Rufus Garfield
Somerville, Samuel Moir
Sparhawk, Edward Ernest
Spencer, Wirt D.
Stein, Philip Harry
Stewart, .Tohn B. A.
Stieper, Julius Theodor
St.oelting William John
Stratford, Chester Grant
Stratford, Frank Cornish
Stricklen, Edward Griffith
Struckman, Paul Fred
Stuart, Victor Daniel
Swift, Jesse Herbert
Taylor, Albert Enri
Taylor, Charles Harold
Taylor, Guy
Thompson, Edward Anderson
Thompson, Thomas Jeffries

•

Tolley, John Howard
Trousdale, Elmer Hill
Trousdale, Otto J.
Tutt, Richard William
Valentine, Lincoln Garfield
Walker, William Pearl
Ward, Herbert Merritt
Weeks, Anson Button
Wells, Herbert Arthur
Whiting, Frederick James
Whitmore, Campbell Dunlap
Whitehead, Rupert
Dowdle, Everette Stanley
Edwards, Henry Frederick
Mariotte, Paul Alonzo
Murphy, Charles Alonzo
Powell, Charles Ezra

553

Whitney, Hamlin Avery
Williams, Herbert Lerenzo
Williams, William
Williston, Thomas Allan
Wilson, Oliver Thomas
Winchell, Calvin Smith
Wollaston, Thomas Allan
Wood, James Burris
Wyndham, Arthur Cherrington
Young, Charles Clinton
Zeis, Adolph
-255.
WITHDRAWN:
Selover, Samuel A.
Starbuck, Henry Fletcher
Thaler, Conrad Henry
Vane, James Playford
Wraith, W1111am Harry
DIED:
Ernst, George

CA VITE LODGE, No. 350.
Cavite, Philippine Islands.
Stated Meetings, second Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Harry Johnson Braman, Master,
Burton Whitcomb, Chaplain,
Naval Station, Cavite, P. I.
Wilford Charles Dupea, Sen. Deacon,
Camillus Judson Taliaferro, S. War., Harlie Hiram Brown, Junior Deacon,
Charles Bruce Smith, Junior Warden, Emanuel Valmas, Marshal,
Wm. Engelbertus Wichman, Treas., Edmond Thomas Spillman, Steward,
Er:Jest Harris Hammond, Secretary, John ·Vigo Sigwald Breson, Steward,
Cavite, P . I.
Alfred Woodruff, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Anderson, John
Breson, John Viggo Signald
Babson, Charles Bradford
Burns, Edward
Bathke, Max Frederick
Clapp, Leander Alston
Beers, Benjamin Franklin
Cochrane, David Melville
Bellinger, Jl:mes Warren
Copassaki, Andrew Nicholas
Borgen, Albert Bernard
Cowan, John William
Braman, Harry Johnson, P. M.
Coyne, James Matthew

ROSTER

ROS'l'ER

554
Dilks, Isaac Carter
Douglas, .Tames Robert
Dupea, Wilford Charles
Ely, Clyde Baldwin
Fedak, Albert Louis
Forrest, Oakley
Hamilton, Ralza Benjamin
Hawkes, Edward Joseph
Hennewey, John
Henrichsen, Oscar Gustav
Holmgren, Valdemar Louis
.Torgensen, Alfred Kristian
Karle, Harry
Kelly, Francis Patrick
King, 'Nelson Ransom
Kirby, Robert Pleasant
La Vanway, Merton .Joseph
Lavin, Thomas Bernard
Lewis, Frank
Lindberg, Alfred John
Meriwether, Henry Thornton
Murphy, James Gordon
Norwood, Frank Mattison
Nygaard, Carston
O'Connell, John
0 'Harra, Edwin Lee
Olin, Louis
Olsen, Valdemar
Perry, Frank William
Peterson, Chester Aubrey
Pierce, .Tames Louis

Purrucker, Fritz Charles
Rinehart, Archibald
Rocher, George
Rydeen, Hjalmar
Ruttledge, John Fife
Sainsbury, Joseph Edward
Schaffer, Charles
Schmidt, Helmar Oswald
Schoon, Peter John Christian
Seibert, Frederick Carl
Shaw, .Tames Russel
Smith, Charles Bruce
Snell, Edgar Wright
Spillman, Edmond Thomas
Smith, Frank ,Otto
·
Svenesen, .John
Taliaferro, Camillus Judson
Taylor, Charles Glading
Valmas, Emanuel, P. M.
Vaughan, ·Reuben Vance
Walker, .Tames E.
Welcome, E arl Howard
Wesley, Marvin
Whitton, Arthur Mervyn
Whitcomb, Berton, P. M.
Wilcomb, Owen Victor
Wilson, Frank
Weichman, Wm. Eng~lbertus, P. M.
Woodruff, Alfred
Woods, Paul
-75.

PALESTINE LODGE, No. 351.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Walter Francis Haas, Master,
Samuel Wakeling, Chaplain,
302 Coulter Building
Robert Payson Tuttle, Senior Deacon,
Joseph Fleischman Chambers, S. W., Joseph Stevens, Junior Deacon,
Otto Frank Reinen, Junior Warden, Abraham Louis Cohen, Marshal,
Charles William Evans, Treasurer, Arthur Edward Miller, Steward,
Elmer Ellsworth Bradley, Secretary, Frank Albert Hamilton, Steward,
1434 E. Adams Street
Jacob Edward Goetz, Tyler.

WITHDRAWN:
•Connell, David Davis
Holt, Campbell Lloyd
Ericson, Julian Clarence
Utz, Joseph William
Winkler, Charles August
DIED:
Pray, George Alden
. •Degrees conferred during the year.

555

•

MEMBERS :
Alger, Duncan
Cook, Charles Henry
Adamson, Lewis Frederick
Cooper, Frank Searles
Corum, William Thompson
Allen, Ethan Ray
Ashby, .Tames Charles
Couser, Richard
Atkinson, .Johnson
Cox, Jasper
Crisler, Lewis Allen
Bagnall, Albert Edward
Baskerville, Charles Albert
Cunningham, Robert
Curtis, George Elmer
Beck, Warren Penn
Bell, .Tames William
Dickey, Arthur Meod
Brown, Frederick Henry
Downie, Emerson .Tames
Brown, William Lundy, P. M.
Dunham, James Almond
Best, William Newton
Easton, Ernest Eugene
Black, Frederick Rufus
Eddy, George Sigel
Blott, William Leander
Eddy, Joseph Roderick
Blum, Solomon
Ehlers, Peter William
Bockway, George Henry
Elwell, William Henry
Bolton, Albert Edward
Evans, Charles William
Bosserman, David Wernick, P. M. Faust, :Mahlon Ellsworth
Bradley, Elmer Ellsworth
Feller, George Willard
Brakebill, Bruno
Flammer, Paul Ernest
Brock, George
Fondersmith, Addes Henry
Bryant, William Franklin
Foster, Edward Ware
Cain, Andrew Henry
Fox, Willard Henry
Califan, F erdinand
Fretz, Edwin Henry
Chambers, .Joseph Fleischman
Fullerton, George Herbert
Church, Reuban Sylvester
Garrett, Frank
Civille, Leroy Henry, P. M.
Goetz, Jacob Edward
Clark, Ashford Woodward
Goodrich, Edwin G.
Gordan, Isaac Carl
Clark, Thomas Tedford
Gowen, Samuel Henry, P. M.
Cohen, Abraham Louis

556
Grant, James Cameron
Greene, George Simons
Greenwood, Albert
Haas, Walter Francis
Hamerlund, John Peter Nelson
Hamilton, Frank Albert
Hancock, Walter Edward
Haughton, Albert Scott
Havil, Fred H.
Heard, Isaac Stephen
Henck, Ellery Longshore
Henderson, Andrew
Hoagland, Robert Stout
Horne, William Anthony
Hughes, Charles Ed.
Hunter, Harry Tracy
Hunter, Howard Moore
Hyney, Paul
Inman, William Charles
Jepson, John Augustus
Johnson, Alfred B.
Johnson, Charles
Johnson, Swan Peter
Jordan, Zachariah Thomas
Judd, Marvin DeLos
Judkins, Louis Crane
Jurdon, Albert Leonard
Kelly, Charles Leonard
Kelpatrick, Aaron Edward
Kemp, Robert Walter
Kessler, George Henry
Kirkpatrick, George Bertram
Kleinkauf, Samuel Ernest
Knoll, Theodore
Kornblum, Morris Samuel
Leibrock, John
J,eighton, William Henry
Lowe, Perry Benton
Marshall, Clifford David
Martin, .Jesse R.
Mason, Edwin Horatio
Maxcy, William George
Mears, Benjamin Franklin
McCabe, Henry Debasco, P. M.
McConnell, Otis Levy

ROSTER

ROSTER
McDonald, Daniel Joseph
McDonald, Frank Virgil
McDonald, Thomas J'oseph, P. M.
McDonald, Walter James
McDonaugh, Sidney Roy
McKinnie, Frederick Campbell
McNeal, Thoe. Andrew, P. M.
McNeely, William Thayer
Mendell, George Herkimer
Miller, Arthur Edward
Miller, Edmund Alexander
Miller, Frank Eugene
Miller, Thomas N.
Millsap, Edmund Moise
Millsap, Sylvester
Nathan, Morris
Neel, John Henry
Negley, Adelbert Miles
Nelson, William Reseniaus
Nickols, George Swanson
Niehon, Christian
Overell, Walter Edward
Owen, Theo. Powell
Partridge, Harvey
Patterson, George Robert
Pedgrift, George
Pennington, Norman Augustu1
Pepping, Charles William
Peterson, Louis Nathaniel
Power, Charles Ora
Raymaker, William Arnold
Reed, Burt Warren
Reinen, Otto Frank
Rich, Levi D.
Richards, Charles Albert
Ri\lhards, John
Richardson, Fred Thomas
Roberts, Richard Gorony
Robertson, Carl
Rollins, Fred Aaron
Russill, Henry Davis
Ruston, Ernest Samuel
Sams, Peter W.
Samuel, Frederick David
Scherer, Oliver Franklin

•

Scullin, Harry Robbins
Sherer, Robert
Sherman, Samuel Wesley
Sledd, Warner Alfred, P. M.
Smith, John Clayton
Smith, William Henry
Sonderegger, Arthur L .
Stead, James Robert
Stevens, Joseph
Stevens, Mark
Stewart, John A. C.
Strong, Herbert Vincent
Strouse, Louis Alva
Sumption, Frederick Albert
Suter, John
.
Tate, Albert Kyle
Taylor, John Lees
Thacker, Frank L.
Thom, Sewel Watson
Thomas, Ernest G.
Thompson, Frank Slusher
Tinklepaugh, Ray Deoerne
Knesel, John George

557

Tracy, Charles Clifton
Tracy, James William
Tuttle, Robert Payson
Tyler, Martin Rich
Van Vranken, David Able
Waggoner, Charles Henry
Wakeling, Samuel
Waterman, Collins Palmer
Watkins, Albert Berline
Welsh, Clifford Durham
Wheeler, Arthur James, P . M.
Wherry, Daniel Van Atta
Willits, Charles Nelson
Wilson, Thomas Leonidas
Winter, Albert Charles
Wolf, Christian
Womersley, George Frederick
Wood, William Bell, P. M.
Woodworth, Theo. Whitingham
Wride, Frank George
Wright, Thomas H .
Zimmerman, Joseph E.
-194.

WITHDRAWN:
Ross, John Carlton
Williamson, Evert Claud

DIED:
Harrington, Fred Jennings
Hunter, Thomas
Selph, Edgar Eugene

SUNSET LODGE, No. 352.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Louis Murdock, Master,
William Warren Martin, Chaplain,
Care T. I. & T . Company
Dale Owen Peet, Senior Deacon,
Edwin Morrill Williams, Sen. Ward., Arthur Clarence Higham, !. Deacon,
Edward Louis Farmer, Jun. Warden, Wickliffe Matthews, Marshal,
Harold Ernest Allen, Treasurer,
Enoch Aaron Troxel, Steward,
Elliott Stacy Rogers, Secretary,
George Edward Delavan, Jr.., Steuld,
1238 New Hampshire Avenue Eugene Leonard Titus, Tyler.

558

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Crouch, George Andrew
Adams, James Edwin
Crow, John Channing
Aitken, Paul Benj.
Deeble, William Davie
Allen, Harold Ernest
De La Matyr, Nathan Henry
Armstrong, Ambrose Harvey
Dillon, Torn Augustus
Armstrong, John Z.
Dobson, Elisha Robert
Baker, Milo Arnet
Dow, George Rufus Shetler
Ballard, Earl Blakeley
Duncan, George Nolan
Bank, Christian Nelson
. Dunn, George LaFayette
Barclay, Henry Augustus
Durfee, Rafael Burke
Barrow, Thomas Martin
Eccles, Cloudy Morning
Beauchamp, Hiram Frederick
Eitelgoerge, William Frederick
Beresford, Charles Tristrain
Eley, Allison
.Blair, Luther Reed
Ericson, Knute Napoleon
Bower, Niles Frank
Faithfull, Claud Augustus
Brand, Louis
Farmer, Edward Lewis
Brasher, Horace Clyde
Fechtig, John Freanor
Brasher, Russell John
Fiske, William Kingston
Brasher, William Floyd
Fox, William Poland
Bridges, Charles Henry, P. M.
Franken, Robert
Bridges, Charles William
Frick, Moses Light
Bridges, George Horton
Frost, Howard
Brock, Edward Ivory
Gaddie, Henry Alvin
Bruflat, Martin
Garver, William Merrell
Burgess, Frederick William
Guthrie, Robert Allen
Burke, Samuel Edgerton, P. M.
Gray, Samuel
Burrows, Robert Hughston
Gregory, George W.
Burson1 Albert Lewis
Gripp, Edwin Adelbert
Capito, John Orin
Gripp, Uris Robert
Carter, Frank Edward
Hanson, Charles Frederick
Carter, James Thomas
Hanson, Gotfred
Chamberlain, John Joseph
Hardage, James Madison
Chase, Ralph Arthur, P. M.
Chesworth, Joseph Reginald
Harding, John Brent
Harnish, William
Clark, John ·Beaver, P. M.
Clatworthy, William E.
.Hatch, William Kinersley
Colby, William Wallace
Haynes, Elmer Eugene
Coles, Edward Augustus
Heinecke, William Barker
Henderson, William
Collin, William Boliver
Conlee, Monroe Harold
Herendeen, Wesley Eugene
Conkling, James L.
Higham, Arthur Clarence
Cook, Milo Rowland
Hillman, Delmar Orrin
Hodges, Jonathan
Courser, Charles Henry
Howard, Horace Emory
Craig, Gavin William
Hubner, William Fred
Crego, Claude Miles

ROSTER
Hughes, Herbert Franklin
Hughes, Isaac Tremont
Hunt, James Edwin
Hyde, John Church
Iles, Harry
Ivens, Frederick Ballard
James, William Perry
,Jenkins, Herbert Alonzo
Jensen, Henry Christian
Johnson, Henry Samuel
Johnson, John
Johnson, John Dedrick
Jones, Richard Gordon
Jordon, Leander Richard
Kelley, William Pliney
Kelsey, Dean Stanley
Kelsey, James Henry, P. M.
Kelsey, Ralph Henry
Kirkby, Mark
Kirkpatrick, John Reid
Lacroix, John Francis
Lago, Knute
Larrigo, George
Leake, Francis Marion, Jr.
Leighton, Luther W.
LepoidR, Paul Emile
Lutts, James Everett
Lynde, George William
Macdonald, J arnes Enon
Marsh, Reese Bradford
M~rtin, William W.
Matthews, Harry Edwin
Matthews, Wickliffe ·
McCune, Leroy Verne
McGuire, Martin. Samuel
McDonald, Fred Stephen
McLaughlin, William F.
McLeod, John Munro
Mercer, Edgar
Miller, Charles Henry
Morgan, Charles Thomas
Morris, Charles Hensley S.
Mort, Albert Cliffton
Murdock, Louis
Musser, Roy Robert

559

Myers, Algernon David
Nelson, Alfred
Nelson, Charles Oscar
Newberry, Frank John
Ordway, Frederick M.
Osmun, Sidgewick Ziba, P. M.
Osmun, Silas Cook, P. M.
Peachy, Frederick Stoddard
Peet, Dale Owen
Peet, Daniel Ario
Pierce, Frederick Eugene
Pirirni, Francis
Pollard, Earl Royal
Rhodes, John Albert
Rice, Bruce Viers
Riley, Daniel Pike
Roberts, John Ernest
Rogers, Elliott Stacy
Rommel, ;Tohn Calvin
Rommel, Samuel Edward
Rose, Henry Howard
Ross, Percy Wallace
Rudell, Charles August
Sawyer, Edmund Ogden
Schaefle, John Martin
Shag, Hugh Gill
Schilling, Frank Charles
Seales, Corbley L.
Siemer, Henry
Singer, John
Smith, Cyrus Donald
Smith_, George Loomis
Smith, Winfield Scott
Smock, Ephriam Howard
Snyder, Aaron
Sook, Julius Frederick
Spangler, David Etherington
Stegemeier, Charles Frederick
Stokes, Robert
St. Pierre, ZE'nas W.
Sutherland, David Munroe, P. M.
Sutton, Roy Ira
Swayer, Edmund Ogden, Jr.
Templeman, William
Thomas, Orsen Theo.

ROS TE~

560

White, Laertes Tayler
Whitice, Robert Doll
Willand, Arthur Gay
Willey, Marion F.
Williams, Edwin Morrill
Wilson, Frank
Wilson, Oliver Samuel
Winton, Orlum Russell
Zachary, William Francis
Zimmerman, George Washington
-199.
WITHDRAWN:
McCormic, John Wesley

Thompson, Ashley Spencer
Tilden, William Frederick
Titus, Eugene Leonard
Trail, John William
Troxel, Enoch Aaron
Upp, George B.
Van Fleet, Joseph Charles
Vaughan, Chas. Talom
Von Weber, George
Walker, Henry
Walters, Reuben

DIED:

Gudgell, William Arthur

*Haynes, William Merrill

PINOLE LODGE, No. 353.
Pinole, Contra Costa County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Theod9re Scott Catlett, Master,
George Pfeiffer, Senior Deacon,
Pinole
Thomas Benito Fe"mandez, Jun. Dea.,
William Berry McKenzie, Sen. War., Henry McCullough, Marshal,
Walter Hunt Jackson, Jun. Warden, Henry El!erhorst, Steward,
John Alexander Fraser, Treasurer, William Campbell Gerrish, Steward,
John Warren Towns, Secretary,
Emil Bleuler, Tyler.
Pinole
MEMBERS:
Davies, Thomas
Bacon, William Thomas
Downer, Edward M.
Barrett, John Peter
Downing, Fred Parsons
Barrett, William Henry
Ebsen, Edward Christian
Bermingham, John, Jr.
Ellerhorst, Christopher
Bleuler, Emil
Ellerhont, Henry Herman
Brandt, Frederick John
Emery, Elliott Gifford
Carr, Edward Moon
Engel, Otto Herman
Catlett, Theo. Scott
Engelbret, Niles Swenson
Chaquette, Ephram Charles
Enloe, Joseph Valley, P. M.
Cooper, Clinton Clifford
Evans, Levi
Daniels, Frederick Hugo
•Affiliated during the year.

ROSTER

561

Fernandez, Thomas Benito
Fraser, George Whittier
Fraser, John Alexander
Garland, Fred Augustin
Gerrish, William Campbell
Greenfield, Abraham, P. M.
Hall, John Charles Fremont, P. M.
Hamilton, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
Hanson, William
Harris, Wiiliam Woodson
Hayes, Phineas Durkey
Hery, Robert Leopaul
Hitch, Abraham
Holiday, Charles Hiram
Horne, George
Hunt, Horice Edwin
Jackson, Walter Hunt
Johnston, Stephen
Kemline, Ludwig
Lehman, Max
Lehmkuhl, Chas. F. Christian
Lumsden, William John
Mann, Joseph
Mann, Robert
Mann, William Hodgson
Marx, Joseph Sidney

Donaldson, Mason W.

McCullough, Henry
McDee, James Thomas
McDonald, Frederick
McDonald, Ralph Ernest
McKenzie, William Berry, P. M.
McKinley, Samuel Stuart
Mendelsohn, Philip N.
Murphy, Raymond Cornelius
Newfield, Joseph
Page, Ernest H.
Paterson, John Chalmers
Pfeiffer, George
Pfeifer, William Jennings
Pomsett, Howard B.
Prentice, William Judson
Rice, DeWitt Talmage
Robison, Edward Wade, P. M.
Ruff, Carl Frederick
Southworth, Eugene Edward
Stevens, Brainard Wyman
Swenson, Andrew John
Thode, Rudolph Nicolas
Towns, John Warren
Van Prooyn, Cornelius
Viano, Bernarto
Walker, George Cleveland
-75.
WITHDRAWN:
Graham, George Jarves

PRESIDIO LODGE, No. 354.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
1739 Fillmore Street.
OFFICERS:
John Burke Glennie, Maste1·,
Frank Mason Jackson, Chaplain,
124 Third Avenue
Clarence Maxwell Cheney, S. Deacon,
Anton Emil Schuhmann, S. Warden, William Joseph Weitzenberg, J. Dea.,
Hugh King McKevitt, Jun. Warden, James Oliver Greenwell, Marshal,
Andrew Jackson Vining, Treasurer, Horace Woodward, Steward,
Benjamin · Loring Hesseltine, Sec'y, John Berthold Wuersching, Steward,
1843 Bush Street
Frank George Watson, Tyler.
S6

ROSTER

Allen, George William
Altvater, Wm. Frederick
Ames, George Wesley
Andornetti, Paul
Baker, Thomas Leonard
Barker, Henry
Batcher, John Henry
Bawden, Charles Edgar
Bemmerer, Henry August
Blanchard, Cortland J.
Boivin, Louis Edmond, P. M.
Borges, Joseph Fearney
·
Bonick, William Hood
Bowes, Alfred
Bowley, Argel Levere
Boxton, George Wynell
Boyd, John Houston, P, M.
Boyd, William James
Burt, Benjamin Walter
Burt, William Henry
Butterfield, John Ed.
Butterworth, John Barlow
Caler, Frederick Edward
Campana, Pietro Sebastian
Campbell, Archibald
Cheney, Clarence Maxwell
Cobb, George Douglas
Coggins, Herman Appleton
Coggins, Raymond Boynton
Cooke, George Warren
Cooley, Aaron Riley
Cowden, .Tames Bowes
Crowley, David, Jr.
Davis, Roy Hartwell
Denke, August Reinhold
Denke, Edmund Herman
Dillon, Charles Monroe
Dittman, Frank
Dye, Marcus Brutus
Emerson, Charles Mason
Emerson, George Waldo
~ngle, Walter J .
Ericsson, Joseph Edwar:i
Ernst, Carl Frederick

MEMBERS:
Estes, William Edward
Fischbeck, Jules Minckle
Fisher, Charles Douglas
Fleischer, Ernest Custer
Fuson, Amandus Ulysses
Gallagher, Hugh Patrick
Gallagher, Joseph
Gaskill, Varney William, P. M.
Gibbs, Harry Throckmorton
Glennie, John Burke
Gomersal, Fergus
Graham, George
Greenwell, James Oliver
Grier, Robert Arthur, P. M.
Gwinn, William Madison
Hardy, Frederick Alden
Harwood, Albert Oliver
Haslehurst, Oscar Alvinza
Hearn, William Daniel
Helgesen, Nelson Rodvelt
Helms, George Leo
Hemmer, H~nry
Herbst, A.
Hesseltine, Benjamin Loring
Hilbert, Frederick Henry
Hobro, Alfred Watson
Hobro, Frederick Sylvain
Hobro, James Louis
Hobro, .Lester Frank
Hobro, William Dovey, Jr.
Homburg, Martin Julius
Huff, William Conrad
Huggins, Walter Samuel
Hubbard, John Minkel
Ingermann, Albert Lewis
Jackson, Frank Mason, P. M.
Jackson, Frank Ringo
Jacobsen, Christian Theo. Fred.
Jensen, Theodore Rasmus
Johnson, Albert Allan
Johnson, Otto Bernhard
.Johnson, Thomas Arthur
Keator, Robert Stone
Kelly, George Francis

ROSTER
Kelly, Francis Patrick
Kelly, John Harold
Kinsman, John Raymond
Kipp, Joseph Henry
Kipp, Matthew E.
Klute, Henry Louis
Knight, Carlton R.
Knowles, Ned Lewis
Koch, Walter Valentine
Krugar, Charles Frederick
Kroger, Frederick Claus
Kreft, Henry
Kunder, John
Lackeman, Charles Emil
Lauterback, Edmund
Lear, Frederick, Jr.
Leonard, John Vaughan
Leu, Matthias Adolph J.
Lewis, Chester Owen
Locks, Carl Henry
Locks, George Herman
Locks, Herman, P. M.
Long, Charles Henry
Maiden, Alva Lincoln
Marsh, Alonzo Ralph
Mason, Arthur Calvin
Mason, Frank
Mason, Paul William
McMillan, Alfred Ernest
Miller, George Herman
Mills, Frank Henry
Milton, Louis Bernhard
Mitchell, Ch1trles Burton
Mohr, Rudolph
Morcom, Fred Nicholas
Morrice, Thomas Brown
Morse, George William1 Jr.
Moyle, James William
Mullender, David Fraser
McK~vitt, Hugh King
McKevitt, Thomas Eugene
Nelson, Charles A.
Obradovich, Nicholas
Partridge, Newton Edgar
Payne, Clyde Sylvenus

Pennington, Percy George
Plagemann, Walter Otto Henry
Prechtel, George Philipp
Ree4, Warren Stedman
Rice, Albert Eve:rett
Roberts, Leonard Vance
Rohe, George Web~ter
Rolls, Edwin Lacey
Roussel, William Herbert
Sandy, George Howard
Schroder, Henry Andrew
Schuhmann, Anton Emil
Schuhmann, August Max
Sedgley, Harry Timothy
Sherman, William Albert, P. M.
Smith, Francis Gilbert
Smith, Frank Edward
Smith, Fred Lawrence
Smith, Walter Egerton
Speers, William Alex.
Starling, Andrew John
Starr, Edward Charles
Steed, David Mark
Strand, William Francis
Strohmeier, Otto
Tellefsen, John Cornelion
Thomas, Alvin J.
Thomas, Coryedon Clark'
Thomas, Veriin C.
Thomason, Frank
Tidell, Andrew Gustaf, Jr.
Tomasini, Henry Elvezio
Toye, William Osbourne
Trailer, Lewis Clinton
Trezise, John Samuel
Trull, Charles Bert
Ulrich, John Alvin
Valdespino, Henry Carlos
Van Dieken, Herman Henry
Vaughan, William Weaver
Vining, Andrew Jackson
Walker, George Henry, Jr,
Walker, Joseph Hamilton
Ward, Charles Henry
Watson, Frank George, P. M.

563

ROSTER

ROSTER

564

Watson, Kenneth
Weitzenberg, Wm. Fred. Joseph
Wetzel, Theodore, Jr.
Wetzel, Theodore, Sr.
White, Henry James

Wilkinson, Eli J.
Williams, Ralph E.
Woodward, Horace
Wooley, George Alfred
Wuersching, John Barthold

-188.

WITHDRAWN:
Utterback, Charles Norman
EXPELLED:
•Tetsall, Frederick
DIED:

Smith, Adam

HOLLYWOOD LODGE, No. 355.
Hollywood, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Robert Young, Master,
Hollywood
Edward Winterer, Senior Warden,
Herman L. Baake, Junior Warden,
J. Eugene Law, Treasurer,
Almon R. Gates, Secretary,
546 Prospect Avenue, Hollywood

Alber, Herman
Allen, Russell, Joseph
Aldritt, John Allen
Anderson, Charles
Baake, Herman Louis
Bakman, Charlie Henry
Blette, Edward Henry
Bynon, Frederick Silas, P. M.
Boag, Charles Edward, P. M.
Boehncke, George
Barnes, George Henry
Bartels, Arnold
Barter, Henry James

R. C. Crane, Chap/am,
M. T. Spencer, Senior Dea·con,
C. E. Toberman, Junior Deacon,
L. M. Waugh, Marshal;
N. E. Woodward, Steward,
A. R. Schloesser, Steward,
George J. Graham, Tyler. ·

MEMBERS:
Berry, Bennett Burritt
Burke, Herbert Hope
Cammett, Ira Allen
Chamberlain, James B.
Clark, Herbert F.
Clarke, Watts
Claussenius, Carl Henry
Cook, James Todd
Cooks, Walter Cyrus
Crane, Ralph Cassius
Crissey, Charles A.
Davidson, Amstruther
Davis, Sylvester Byron

"'Degrees conferred during the year.

Day, John Pinkney, P. M.
Denne, Fred Vincent
Douglass, Frank M.
Dunlap, George Howard
Dunscomb, Jay Luther
Edwards, Benjamin Clarence
Elliott, Edwin Windsor ·
Evans, John William
Exley, Fred George
Ferry, Francis Charles, P. M.
Ferry, Louis
Fox, Edwin William
Frieburg, Carl A.
Gates, Almon Reno
Gardner, Allan
Gehrkins, William H.
Glass, Clement Studebaker
Glass, Edwin Marshall
Graham, George Jarvis
Grass, Joseph Fernand
Green, Jesse Benjamin
Gregg, Lloyd William
Griffith, Percival Howard
Grove, Irdell Allen
Hampton, Ellis Clark
Hanna, George
Hanson, Harry Webster
Harper, Benjamin William
Harrett, Edwin
Hauce, Frank Webster
Heigold, George Henry, Jr.
Heinig, Theo., P. M.
Hoover, Frank Sheridan
Howell, Clarence Walter
Howland, Frederic Charles
Jackman, Florin B.
Jackson, Joseph Addison
Jackson, Walter Arnold
Jepson, Jacob
Kennedy, Benjamin Edward
Kincaid, James Leslie
Kleinkauf, William Henry
Koehler, Charles Frederick
Knowles, Charles Michel
Law, John Eugene ·

Law, John
Leask, James
Letts, Arthur
Lingo, George, P. M.
Mallette, Charles Ernest
Marsh, Howard E.
Maxwell, John
Marvin, Otto A.
McCoy, Lewis R.
McCray, Louis A.
Mead, William
Melcher, Howard Wash.
Merkley1 Harry Samuel
Merrill, Albert Edward
Miles, George Bishop
Miller, Edward William
Miller, Louis D.
Milner, Robert Virgin
Monson, Olaf
Moore, Ola
Morck, Thomas
Morgan, Gordon Thomas
Morris, Frederic I.
Pales, Ularence
Pogson, Robert M.
Palmer, Edwin Obadiah
Pierce, Charles Merritt
Price, Veazey
Pursell, William Fox
Raven, Fred Joseph
Redden, Loring Alton
Reynolds, Wilfred T.
Rich, Sanford
Rodenhouse, Harry Edward
Schloesser, Alex. Rudolph
Schloesser, Alfred Guido R.
Smith, William Edward
Snodgrass, Walter F.
Soiland, Albert
Soules, Charles Henry
Spalding, William Brockhurst
Spear, Charles Nathan
Spencer, Meredith Talmage
Stadle, Rudolph R.
Steadman, John Judson
0

565

566

ROSTER

ROSTER

Stephens, Albert Lee
Stevenson, Gilbert Field, P. M.
Thompson, Percy W.
Tibbot, John Wesley
•roberman, Charles Ed.
Townsend, William Henry
Valdez, Alexander Avaline
Vickroy, Hugh Kennedy
Wakeman, E. B.
Walton, Frank M.
Warnecke, Carl Marie
Waugh, Lionel Morgan

Exton, George Tory

,

Weddington, Fred Rutledge
Whipple, Henry White
White, William Calhoun
Wilson, Griffin W.
Whitley, Hobart Johnston
Wilkerson, Harry Douglass
Wilson, Isaac Newton
Winnett, Percy Glenn
Winterer, Edward
Woodward, Nelson Ed.
Young, Moses
Young, Robert

-140.

DIED:
Holman, Paul

MILL VALLEY LODGE, No. 356.
Mill Valley, Marin County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Alonzo Coffin, Master,
George Maxwell, Chaplain,
2902 19th St., S. F., or Mill Valley Clinton Folger, Senior Deacon,
Kent Jarvis Chase Seymour, S. War., George Henderson Cook, Jun. Dea.,
George Hillary Harlan, Jun. Warden, Alfred William Bush, Marshal,
Charles Harvey Huntoon, Teas11rer, Horace Coffin, Steward,
Charles Jacob Brockhoff, Secretary, Ludwig Clarence Koster, Steward,
100 Sansome St., S. F., or Mill ValleyEzeri R. . Nichols, Tyler.
Ankers, George
Baker, Warren Garfield
Becker, Christopher Henry
Becker, Philip Sheridan
Beirao, Manuel Peireira, Jr.
Bostwick, Frank Fiske
Bremer, Bernard Christian
Brockhoff, Charles Jacob
Brown, Charles Leslie
Bunker, Edward Abel
Burden, Frederick Alex
Burt, John
Burt, Samuel Murdoch, P. M.

MEMBERS:
.Bush, Alfred William
Cappelmann, Oscar Cornelius
Carothers, Harrie William
Chase, James V nnon
Cofer, Lorenzo Rich
Coffin, Alonzo
Coffin, Horace
Cook, George Henderson
Cowper-Thwaite, Edward
Cox, Joseph George
Cox, Walter
Crumpton, Hezekiah John
Demmer, Mathew

de Sella, Leo
Doherty, Earle Leeper
Dorsey, Horace
Downs, Leonidas Windfield S,
Eisen, Edward George'
Eusor, Henry Taylor
Evans, Ernest Albert
Farrar, Walter William
Findley, Frank Beatty
Finn, Charles Chamberlain
Fleming, Willard Stephe11.
Folger, Clinton
Freeman, Walter K.
Garcia, Manuel Rodgers
Gardner, Leslie Jacob
Gray, William Benson
Greaves, Thomas Travis, P. M.
Grindley, William Cecil
Guth, Henry
Haake, Henry Charles
Harlan, George Hillary
Hayden, Allen David
Hayes, Daniel Edward
Heydenfeldt, Frederick Ochtreigh
Higgins, Frederick Ernest
Howard, George
Hunt, George Elliott
Huntoon, Charles Harvey
Rustad, Paul Ludwig
Jackson, Ernest Wedg-wood
J·anes, Louis Lyman, P. M.
Johnson, Harry Lee
Klyce, Harvey Asbury, P. M.
Koster, Ludwig Clarence
Lange, Mathias
LeBaron, Monta Ray
Lilyard, Frederick William
Linsley, Frederick Douglas
Lockwood, Frank Edgar
Losh, Francis Adams
Mackenzie, Charles Fyfe
Maxwell, George
Merriman, Edwin Strong
Miller, Allyn John
Morrow, William Grant
Newlands, James, Jr., P. M.

567

Nichols, Ezeri R.
Norris, John Floyd
Nye, Douglas Arthur
Parcell, Charles Henry
Peters, Charles Henry Fred.
Pritchard, Alfred Henry
Pryor, Joseph Henry
Pryor, Percy Church
Regan, Henry
Ritchie, William Lloyd
Robertson, William Andrew
Runyon, Charles Francis
Runyon, Frederick Francis
Schlingman, John Fred
Belwood, Fred 'k Wm. Gordon, P. M.
Seymour, Kent Jarvis Chase
Shaw, Albert Victor
Shaw, Frederic Grant
Shaw, John Edward
Smith, Arthur Emmett
Staples, Melvin
Stevens, Harry Osborn
Stocker, Charles Ellis
• \i
St. John, Chauncey Milton
Struby, Carl Jacob
Stubergh, Otto Henry
Thomas, William Edward
Thomas, William James
Thomson, Daniel Webster
Treat, Archibald Jennings
Urquhart, George Archibald
Urquhart, George Archibald, Jr.
Verdellet, Victor Leon
Wachs, Lionel
Ward, Roy Culver
Wall, Charles Joseph
Watters, Thomas flydney
Westcott, Harry Blake
Wetherell, Charles Elton
Whitcomb, Bonner
Williaips, Robert Barker
Wilson, Robert Archie
Wootten, John Edward
Wray, Alban Ernest
Wright, Joseph
Yost, Nicholas Peter
-118.

ROSTER

568

ROSTER

DIED:
Makin, Robert Ross

Corbin, Oliver Lee

569

WITHDRAWN:
McKinney, Joseph Wilson
White, Charles Edward
DIED:
Sailor, Richard Allen

BUENA PARK LODGE, No. 357.
Buena Park, Orange County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.

GOLDEN STATE LODGE, No. 358.

OFFICERS:
Merton Chesley Cawthon, Master, Charles Lincoln McComber, S. Dea.,
Buena Park
Oliver Hazzard Perry, Junior Dea.,
Samuel Durbin Winters, Sen. Ward., William Edges Tice, Marshal,
Isaac De Loit Jaynes, Jun. Warden, James William Bishop, Steward,
Arthur Leslie Bennett, Treasurer, Samuel William Little, Steward,
John Sargent Perry, Secretary,
Samuel Huff, Tyler.
Buena Park

Angell, Edgar Edward, P. M.
Belt, Charles Elmer
Bennett, Arthur Leslie
Bennis, Karl V.
Bishop, James William
Cady, Eugene Caldwell, P. M.
Cawthon, John Clayborn
Cawthon, Merton Chesley
Damron, Charles Lee
Domecq, Louis
Dutton, George Eli
Ellison, Elbert Ralph
Feagan, Albert Sidney
Hall, Jesse Clark
Hasson, David William, P. M • .
Hasson, Edwin Galen
Hansen, Henry
Huff, Samuel
Kellenberger, John, Jr.
Jaynes, Isaac DeLoit
Landell, Gilbert Stuart
Lawrence, Howard Chester
Little, Samuel William
Macdonald, John Alexander
Mann, Charles Homer

MEMBERS:
Mann, Robert Carlos
McAllep, William Reed
McComber, Charles Lincoln
McGuire, Thomas
Miller, George Barter
Milliken, James Emanuel
Morgan, Ralph Herbert
Osborn, Maurice Nelson
Pechstein, William Bruno
Perry, John Sargent, P. M.
Perry, Oliver Hazzard
Potter, William Gibbons
Sanford, William Alfred
Schantz, Mathew
Smith, Sidney Charles
Street, Jonas Philander
Taylor, William Saunders
Tice, William Edges
Tweed, George Hume
Walker, Simeon Oglesby, P. M.
Warren, Henry Elias
Whitaker, George Andrew
Whitaker, James Henry, P. M.
Winters, Samuel Durbin

-49.

Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Benj. Franklin Kierulff, Jr., Master, Theodore Dwight Kanouse, Chaplain,
120 S. Los Angeles Street
Jonathan Columbus Duncan, S. Dea.,
Heber Hamilton Balderston, S. War., Harry Eugene Betz Junior Deacon
Henry William Bohrman, Jun. War., Herbert Carlos Wrlght Marshal
'
James Irving, Treasurer,
Charles L. Wilde, Ste~rd,
'
Peter W. Garn, Secretary,
Harry Conger Bowers, Steward,
3027 Kenwood Avenue
Adolph J. Maas, Tyler.
Alberti, Robert Arminio
Anderson, Charles Ge~rge
Anderson, James Madison
Angell, Robert Algernon
Ashley, Chester Carlisle
Badham, Willard Edmund
Balderston, Heber Hamilton
Bannister, Alfred William
Barkley, Chester Mathias
Bathey, Herbert Theodore
Bean, John Hill, P. M.
Benford, George Arthur
Bennett, Nelson D.
Beebe, George Brewster
Berry, Nathan
Betz, Harry Eugene
Bishop, Herbert Martin
Boaz, Clarence Dooley
Bohrman, Henry William
Bowen, William Miller
Bozorth, Charles Walter
Bowers, Harry Conger

MEMBERS:
Brill, Frederic Waltz
Briseno, Carlos Jose
Brockett, Clarence William
Broodhea<l, Thomas Harvey
Brown, Archie T.
Brown, John Colville
Brown, Robert Edward Lee
Buckins, Ed. Morris
Burke, Robert John
Butcher, Robert
Callender, Clarence William
Carter, George Washington
Cherington, William Stacher
Christian, Emile John
Clemens, John Charles
Coleman, George Warren
Conoway, Othello Parker
Copenhaver, Robert Carter
Creswell, Frank W.
Crop, William Mathew
Crump, Ernest Clare.n ee
· Cummins, Francis Marion

q70

Cunningham, George
DeForest, William Heath
Dinsmore, Joseph Henry
Dixon, Willis Milnor
Dolton, Louis Algernon
Doyle, John Hurst
Drew, James Timothy
Dukeman, Frank Clayton
Duncan, Jonathan Columbus
Edwards, Godfrey
Fi'Bh, Charles Winthrop
Flannigan, David Willis
Fogel, Jacob Solomon
Franklin, James Edward
Franklin, Reuben Henry
Frost, Fred Rufus
Fuller, George William
Gardner, Raymond Albion
Garn, Peter W., P. M.
Gaud, Richard Hamilton
Gertz, Peter William
Gifford, Augustin Andre
Gilbert, William Henry
Gillons, George Henry
Gloege, Edward Frederick
Gockley, Charles Edmund
Gray, Jacob L.
Gratz, Louis Wilfred
Griffin, Oliver George
Grundy, Joseph
Haigler, Albert Chester
Hamer, Joseph W.
Hamill, Edgar Samuel
Hauke, Edward Bell
Haupt, Robert Samuel
Heath, Robert Lee
Henderson, Harvey Milton
Hildebrandt, Henry George
Hinton, Thomas
Hixon, James Hauks
Hoffman, John Vernon
Holbrook, Leroy Heber
Holmes, Joseph Benjamin
Howell, Robert Paine
Hutchinson, William Edward

ROS'rER
Rydell, John Baptist
Irving, James
Isaacs, William Henry
Jackson, John William
Janssen, Julius
Jensen, John Cornelius
Jones, Fred Hooker
Jones, John Leland, P. M.
Jorder, Frederick
Kanouse, Theodore Dwight
Kelch, Jacob
Kierulft', Benj. Franklin, Jr.
Krause, Julius Webster
La Dow, Charles
Lambert, Mathew
Ledgerwood, Newton Green
Levy, Solomon
· Lichtenstein, Thomas Victor
Locke, Edmund
Long, John Thomas
Lowman, Charles Oscar
Lybye, Hans Christian
Lyon, Frederick Saxton
Madden, Maurice Bernard
Mars~ Willis Charles, P. M.
Martin, Jame.a Edward
Martin, Richard William
Motte!, Joseph Jason
McBirney, Alexander
McKay, William
McKenzie, Samuel Jerome
McKeown, James Washington
Mead, Charles Leland
Mellus, Frank Hancock
Mellus, Grover Blair J.
Mellus, Louis Randolph
Milburn, Charles Nathaniel
Miller, George William
Moodie, Joseph Grove
Moore, Newton
Morgan, Thomas Elisha
Morley, John George, P. M.
Morrison, George Denton
Mote, Ira Ebenezer
Moodie, James Russell

ROSTER
Norton, Frank Latbey
Oldershaw, Frank Henry D.
Oliver, Ernest Warner
Palmer, Benjamin Gardner
Panzer, John Charles
Parker, Herbert Raymond
Parker, Lucius Clark
Peckham, William Mason
Perry, William Franklin
Plischke, Frederick William
Purdy, John Henry
Raney, Joseph Francis
Raymond, Ed. Shelton
Rawson, Guy Allison P.
Reed, George Albert
Reed, George Houston
Requa, Clarence James
Requa, Herbert Davis
Rhoads, Charles Edward
Risk, Joseph
Riverall, Elfigo
Roberds, Frederick Ottie
Roeder, Henry
Roseburg, Samuel Robert
Rosemann, William
Rosenberg, Samuel
Rosenkranz, Jacob
Ross, Robert Marion
Rothgeb, James Frank
Sanborn, Benjamin Franklin
Saunders, Robert Howard
Sayre, John Scott
Schneider, Frederick William
Schneider, George Henry
Schneider, William Theodore
Schultz, Henry Dentlift'
Schreiner, Rudolph Albert
Schweitzer, Charles George
Schweitzer, Ernest John
Selander, Robert Bond
Sellers, Oscar
Shanahan, Maurice
Sheffield, Charles Thomas

571

Shellhorn, Arthur Lemon
Sherer, Albert James
Skinner, George Leonard
Smalley, Clifford Allison
Smith, Richard Robertson
Sobieski, John
Spears, Barton Walter
Spreen, Charles Carter
Stevens, Frank Alfred
Stice, Chauncey Albert
Strangman, Theodore
Strickler, John Henry
Sutch, Wendall Hamilton
Tedford, George Walter, P. M.
Tenbrook, George Henry
Test, Edward Allen
Thies, Charles Louis
Tierman, Albert
Tolley, Charles Stanley
'!'ruby, E<lgar Allen
Vosburgh, George Herman
Wagner, Robert Garfield
Walker, Walter
. Watson, Charles Frank
Weaver, Sylvester Lafin
Wheelock, Raymond Patterson
Whitfield, Nathaniel William
White, Arthur Burr
White, Sylvester William
Whyte, William James
Wilde, Charles I,,.
Williams, William Henry
Wing, William Allen
Winn, Albert
Winter, Albert Henry
Winters, Harry Lewis
· Wright, Herbert Carlos'
. Wright, Parley
W oelz, Leonard Charles
Wood, Arthur Pearce
Wood, Thomas, Jr.
Wright, Albert Edgar, P . M.
Zemansky, Ellis Lewis
-220.

ROSTER

ROSTER

572

WITHDRAWN:
Frankelton, William B.
Heath, Charles R.
Richmann, Emil Frederick
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Snavely, Archibald Clinton
DIED:
Ledgerwood, Wllliam Hendricks

LOYALTON LODGE, No. 359.
Loyalton, Sierra County.
Stated Meetings, second Tuesday in each month.

Thompson, Peter Julian
Thorne, Robert William
Walsh, Frank Denton
Walthers, Adolph Robert
Weston, Isaac
.Wilson, John Everett

Arnold, George Ezra
Becker, Michael Thomas
Bent, William R.
Black, George Thomas
Bradner, Edward John
Buck, Sylvester John
Coats, Winston Decatur, P. M.
Conklin, Louis William
Counter, Charles Reuben
Darby, Frank Howard
Davies, Arthur ·
D11ncan, Walter Henry
Enscoe, Joseph Robert
Goble, Edmond James
Goodwin, Harry Nettles
Gustafson, John Alford
Hampson, George Harvey
Henderson, Robert Leon
Hopkins, Oliver Garrett
Huyck, Richard Asa, P. M.

MEMBERS:
Hoover, Benjamin Franklin
Kynoch, Walter Henry
Lewis, Horace Edmund
Lewis, Richard Hiram
Medearis, Albert I.
Millar, James John Orimbah, P. M.
Mcintyre, John
Moffitt, William Lyle
Pearson, Isaac
Peck, Frank Ferdinand
Peck, William Ottway
Penney, Jesse Hunter
Peterson, John Henry
Robinson, Henry Harrison
Sanders, William Francis
Schleef, Charles
Schroeder, Marion •
Smith, John X.
Sparks, Frank Beeson
Sparks, Joseph Beeson

Wheeler, Brent Marshall
Worn, George Ross
Wren, John Samuel
Young, Frank Leander
-49.
WITHDRAWN:
Thorne, William Davis

SAN FRANCISCO LODGE, No. 360.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, ~rst Tuesday in each month.
1739 Fillmore Street.

OFFICERS:

George Harvey Hampson, Master, Isaac Weston, Chaplain,
Loyalton, Cal.
Charles Schleef, Senior Deacon,
Frank Beson Sparks, Senior Warden, Charles Reuben Counter, Jun. Dea.,
Brent Marshall Wheeler, Jun. War., Richard Asa Huyck, Marshal,
James John Orimbah Millar, Treas., Joseph Beeson Sparks, Steward,
\Valter Henry Duncan, Secretary, Albert Iredell Medearis, Steward,
Loyalton, Cal.
John Alfred Gustafson, Tyler.

573

· OFFICERS:

Charles S. Sherman, Master,
John R. Aitkin, Chaplain,
1306 4th Ave., Sunset District.
Arthur S. Young, Senior Deacon,
Alfred D. La Motte, Seuior Warden, William E. Hague, Junior Deacon,
A. Woodley Baker, Junior Warden, Frank V. Kington, Marshal,
Stephens I. Simmons, Treasurer,
Andrew M. Forman, Steward,
Lewis E. Sawyer, Secretary,
George R. Bell, Steward,
1739 Fillmore St.
Walter B. Herndon, Tyler,
John C. Hugh es, Organist.
Aitken, John R., P. M.
Alderson, William Howard
Anderson, Archibald Andrew
Anderson, Axel Ferdinand
Anderson, George Murdock
Auld, John Davidson
Axman, Rudolph
Baker, Arthur Woodly
Baker, George Washington
Barden, Charles, Jr.
Bass, Thomas
Batkin, Norton Thomas
Bell, George Rutledge .
Benham, Joseph Marshall
Benjamin, Elmer Hopkins
Bergen, Peter Cornelius J.
Biggerstaff, Eugene Knight
Blank, William Augustus

MEMBE'RS:
Bliss, Porter Lincoln
Brace, Herbert Edward
Brackett, Earle
Bray, Walter Garfield
Bruckman, Robert R. Conrad
Burns, Joseph Augustus
Cady, Alfred Henry
Chamberlain, Newell Day
Chambers, Thomas A.
Chisholm, Alfred Arthur
Cowan, Norman
CI"andall, Burr Harrington
Crozier, Alfred Bernard
Crozier, Harry Perryman
Cushing, Stephen Russell
Dall, Cornelius GMrge
Dangers, Chester Arthur
De Lasaux, Harry Edward

5i4
Dement, Richard Henry
De Meyer, Gabriel Henry
Dillon, Isaac
Dillon, James Root
Dillon, John Francis
Dodge, Frank Lewis
Doig, James
Dunn, Edgar H.
Dutcher, Forrest LeGrand
Epler, Samuel Edgar
Folger, Roy Sinnott
Foreman, Andrew, Jr.
Foreman, Andrew Macpherson
French, William Gordon
Glissman, Pearlie Randolph
Grim, Lucullus K.
Hacket, Thomas Ophir
Hague, William Edward
Haller, Emile Lucas
Hammersmith, Louis
Hanna, Rea
Hanna, William Albert
Hansen, Oscar Herman
Heim, Herman Marcus
Hendry, Charles Stewart
Hendry, William ·
Herndon, ·walter Brotherton
Herrington, William Merced
Highfield, ]'rank Knight
Hinton, Russell
Hofmann, Jacob Gustav
Hoin, Theodore Stone
Holloway, Howard Stanley
Huffman, Edwin Towne
HugheR, John Calvin
Johnson, Harry Sumner, P. M.
Johnson, William Cleas
Jordan, James Joshua
Kimball, William Ernest
King, Clarence Otto
Kington, Frnnk Valentine
Kirkpatrick, George Edward
Krueger, Henry Jacobus
Laist, Otto, Jr.
La Motte, Alfred Daniel

ROSTER

ROS'fER
Laumeister, Anton
LeeCamp, Edward
Lindsay, Francis
Lindsay, Ulylles Grant
Linz, Fred John
Lipowitz, Maximilian, P. M.
Litvinoff, Michael
Loveland, Harvey Davis, P. M.
Macurda, Arthur Amsden
Magill, William Wiridren
Marrack, Reginald
Martin, Benjamin Risdon
McDonald, Frank William
Mcintyre, Eugene Blake
Mery, Jacob Laurence
Miller, Eugene
Miller, Otis Locke
Moll, Francis Oliver
Moore, Robert Isaac
Moulthrop, John Robert
Munroe, Louis Francis
Nelson, Arthur Julius
Nelson, William Christian
Newell, Ralph Gerard
Newroth, Louis Henry
Norton, John Francis
Oakes, Charles Wesley
O'Neill, Hugh
Otto, Robert William
Pabst, Rudolph Ambrose
Palmer, Robert Charles
Peck, Mordecai Alonzo
Pelletier, John Francis
Pence, Orlando Edward
Perry, .Tesse Claude, P. M.
Perry, Victor Elmo
Peters, Charles Richard
Prost, Herbert Greiveldinger
Pye, Alfred William
Ralph, Phillip Henry
Ramsay, John Domingos
Rasmussen, Edwin Otto
Rasset_te, Samuel Joseph
Rebard, John Emil, Jr.
Rennie, Zenas Crane

Reynolds, Francis Edward
Rice, Basil Warner
Richardson, William Joseph
Rowling, William Henry
Russell, Samuel Wilson
Sanborn, Harvey Hackett
Sawyer, Lewis E=ett
Scharowsky, Hans Albert
Scheilein, John Paul
Segur, Howard Bradberry
Sherman, Charles Seymour
Shields, Hugh Francis
Sickles, George Lewis
Simmons, Stephens Isaac, P. M.
Simpson, Arthur Pierce
Spohn, John Henry
Stern, Henry Stuart

Moore, Francis Joseph

575

Terrill, George Clark
Trimble, James Felix
Tucker, Alber John
Van Bergen, Harry
Van Nest, Gamaliel C.
Veale, Almer Fletcher
Vogel, Otto Alvin
Walworth, Charles Harper
Watters, George Franklin
Webster, Stanley
Whan, William Weir
Williamson, Herbert Edward
Williamson, John Colonel William
Willis, William Walter
Wilson, Matthew Thomas, P. M.
Wood, John Charles
Young, Arthur Sidney
-160.

WITHDRAWN:
Talbott, William Henry

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Morgenstern, Arthur William
Bennett, Henry Charles
Munroe, Thomas Anderson
Cross, William Wood
Myland, George
Denroch, Charles Percy
Slye, Joseph
Gates, Merville Elwood
Stevens, Harry Clay
Goe, George Clarence
Jarvis, Thompson Pearson
Stapleton, Gilbert Bertram
Waters, Barclay
Lane, Warren Cox

FORT BRAGG LODGE, No. 361.
Fort Bragg, Mendocino County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Otto Henning Seaholm, Master,
William Gaston Jones, Chaplain,
Fort Bragg
Henry Augustus Doidge, Sen. Dea.,
Edward Evens Brown, Sen. Warden,Charles Edgar Wright, Jun. Deacon,
Henry J. Dellett, Junior Warden,
Charles William Mero, Marshal,
Herman Robert Baum, Treasurer, Horace Alanson Weller, Steward,
George Golden, Secretary,
William Henry Dixon, Steward,
Fort Bragg
Guy Vary Weller, Tyler.

576

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Albert, David L owell
Lowell, John Walter
Albert, Frank Hiram
Lowry, William Scott
Baum, Herman Robert
Lyman, Arthur Stephen
Beckman, Oswald Heribut, P . M.
Macrum, John Wilson
Bouton, Edward Fillmore
Mathews, Charles William
Brown, Edward Evan13
McCallum, John Alex.
Carlisle, Ira Herbert
Mccornack, Edwin Roy
Cavanagh, Charles Joseph
McCornack, William Andrew, P . M.
Cullen, John Winchell
Mero, Charles William
Milliken, Horace Fremont
Curtis, Carlton Allsopp
O'Connor, Edward James
Dellett, Henry J.
Dixon, Edward William
Olson, Goodmund
Dixon, William Henry
Peirsol, James Kastar
Doidge, Henry Augustus
Pringle, Douglas Lindsay
Dorwin, Frank Romeo Canfield
Rasmussen, Alfred
Duffey, Albert Edward
Schmitz, Charles
Duffey, Andrew Dallas
Schow, Henry Curtis
Duffey, Fred
Seaholm, Otto Henning
Fee, George Henry
Shafsky, Abraham Henry, P . M.
Shafsky, Samuel
Foye, Henry Eugene
Foye, Henry Malcolm
Stillings, George Hutchinson
Fuller, William Fred 'k Horace
Switzer, Albert James
Gnnlner, Robert Curtis
Todd, John
Golden, George
Tregoning, Henry Stewart
Gray, Mark Dana
Tullis, Edward
Grimm, Charles Andrew Frederick Ward, William Burchard
Higgins, Walter Francis
Weller, Charles Russell
Holmes, Harry
Weller, Guy Vary
Huggins, Eri
Weller, Horace Aaron, Jr.
Hunter, Frederick Charles
Weller, Horace Alanson, Sr.
Jones, William Gaston
Weller, John Elwyn, P. M.
King, Joseph Belway
White, Fred Cyrus
Leiser, Leo.
W oodrufi', Chester
Wright, Charles Edgar
Lendrum, Berney Alex., P. M.
Lord, Alfred Austin
Zerbe. Samuel John
Lowell, Andrew Jackson
-71.

R08'1.'ER

577

CHARITY LODGE, No. 362.
Campbell, Santa Clara County.
Statecl Meetings, second Monday in each month.
OF FICERS:
George Stokild Robson, Master,
Stillman Augustus Moulton, Chapl'n,
Campbell
John Fellows Dnncan, Sen. Deacon,
George Whitney, Senior Warden,
Harlow Mortimer Plimpton, J. Dea.,
Lewis Dan Bohnett, Junior Warden, Irving Walter Snow, Marshal,
Sylvanus Raynor Wade, Trearnrer, George Edwin Hyde, Steward,
James Fablinger, S ecretary,
Charles Berry, Steward,
Campbell
Charles Townsend, Tyler.
Ainsley, John Colpitts
Atkinson, George Ernest
Bartholomew, Fleury K .1 P. M.
Beattie, William
Beattie, William Alfred
Berry, Charles
Bohnett, Lewis Dan
Carter, John Easton
Cornell, J esse James, P. M.
Curtis, William Holman
Duncan, John Fellows
Fablinger, James
Farrington, Perry Francis
Fore, Daniel, P. M.
Galbraith, Nathan Buchanan
Greene, James Adelbert
Griffith, William Bu~ler
Hanson, George Warren
Hartman, Pope Catlin, P . M.
Helliesen, Charles Frederick A.
Hyde, George Edwin
Johnson, Andrew Lytgow
Keesling, Homer Grant
L ewis Edward W.
Main1 William Haines
Marn, Tom Elliott

MEMBERS:
McLaughlin, George Thomas
Merrill, Alex Pomroy, P. M.
Millard, Fred
Miner, Welty Daniel
Miracle, Curtis Brown
Mitchell, Frank Espin
Moulton, Stillman Augustus
Oliver, John Welch
Parker, Charles L., P. M.
Parso, George Lewis
Peterson, John Edvart
Plimpton, Harlow M.
Powers, Edward Augustus
Righter, Francis Marion, P. M.
Robertson, Lance Scott
Robson, George Stokild
Rubell, William Henry
Schmitt, Jean Emmanuel
Snow, Irving Walter
Townsend, Amos Brown
Townsend, Charles
Tuttle, Thomas Jeffe'r son
Wade, Sylvanus Raynor, P. M.
Waite, Demmon Weston
Whitman, Chauncey Hira
Whitney, George
-52.

WITHDRAWN:
Betts, Barney
DIED:
Hutchins, Samuel
37

578

ROSTER

BERKELEY LODGE, No. 363.
Berkeley, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Harry Dayton Kelsey, Master,
John Tower Morrison, Chaplain,
1506 Spruce Street
Guy Robertson Stewart, Sen. Deacon,
Henry Byron Phillips, Sen. Warden, Frederick Charles Roberts, Jun. Dea.,
Charles Henry Benten, Jun. Warden, Alfred Percall Bartley, Marshal,
Robert Bowne Baird, Treasurer,
Edgar Albert Weymouth, Steward,
James Faulkner Hill, Secretary,
John Thomas Peck, Steward,
2023 Shattuck Avenue
William Riley Stamper, Tyler.

Adams, Leonard t>liver
Adams, Orville Davenport
Alexander, Thomas Newton
Allen, Irving Cowan
Anderson, L eslie Herman
Andrews, William Samuel
Annis, Jerome Walter
Arnold, Edwin Charles
Arnold, Robert Paramore
Arntzen, Valdeman
Bailey, Charles Grant
Bailey, Lewis Newton
Bair~, Robert Bowne
Barnes, Henry S.
Bartley, Alfred Perea!
Battelle, Harry Thomas
Barber, Oscar Thomas
Baxter, George Perkins
Bayly, David Harry
Beecher, Henry Ward
Beedle, Elbert Ellsworth
Behm, Augustus Clair
Benton, Charles Henry
Benton, Julian Juriah, P. M.
Birdsale, James Bussey
Biglow, John Edwin
Bradhoff, Clarence Otto
Bradhoff, Peter Francis
Bou,:e, Claud Sylvanus

MEMBERS:
Brothers, Walter Edgar
Burchett, George Letchford
Burton, Will David
Butterfield, Fred Louis
Card, Walter Beecher
Church, Allen
Church, Charles Edward
Coe, Herbert Milton
Cohn, Jacob Isaac
Cole, Charles Martin
Colen, Lewis Herman
Congdon, Merton Joseph
Cowley, Herbert Parkhurst
Cowley, William Ashline
Cox, George E ckert
Cuthill, Thomas Andrews
Crackbon, Charles Lemuel
Craig, David
Craig, Harry Sherwood
Davies, Arthur Parker
Davis, James Randal, P. M.
Duw~cm, Fred~rick Joseph R.
Demerritt, Hayden Lewis
Dicki, George Elwood
Drivi:ir, John Rush
Dudley, William Christopher
Fish, Leon Henry
Forbes, Edward Clyde
Forbes, William John

French, William Henry
Eberhard, George Hammil
Egleston, John Valentine
Elliott, George Alexander M.
El.lis, Charles Zenas
Ellis, Eben Bethnel
Emerson, Ralph Waldo
Edcbon, Antaria
Eslick, Joi<eph Harold
Everett, George Linus
Ey, George Phillip
Fenton, William Joseph
Field, Ifonry Norman
Furlong, Herbert William F.
Gage, Benjamin Franklin
Gibbs, John Walter
Gillihan, Allen Francis
Glissner, Harry Horbach
Goorlchild, Richard Henry
Godwin, James Madison
Gray, Frank Sidney
Griffith, Hanford Berry
Grigg, Harry Herbert
Gross, Joseph Watson
Hagan, Hugh. Laurence
Hager, Adolph John
Hall, Charles Ambrose
Hanford, John Raymond
Hartwell, Thomas Dwight
Hathaway, Frederick Clancy
Heath, George Ralph
Herrmann, Andrew
Heywood, Walter Minturn
Hilderbrand, Frederick Jacob
Hill, James Faulkner, P. M.
Hill, John
Hodge, James
;E!odge, James Hamilton
Hodge, John William
Holt, William Henry
Horton, Albin
Hows.on, George William, Jr.
Hugill, Elbert Abram
Hutton, John Adams Duglas
Irwin, Horace Dunn

579

Jackson, Arthur Vincent
Jaggard, Belmont Perry
James, Elias Olan
Jenkins, Joel Harry
Johnson, Edward
Johnson, Frederick Woodward
Johnson, Gustof Adolph
Johnson, Samuel Woodward
Jones, David Fowler
Jones, Harry Oliver
Jones, John R.
Juster, Cyril Cecil
Kaiser, William Harry
Kelsey, Harry Dayton
Klaus, Fred James
Klein, Julius
Koford, J·ames Morris
La Baree, William H.
Laws, Henry Hudson
Lawton, Frank Houtelfng
Linsley, Howard McMinn
Little, George Wesley Willis
Loring, Ernest Linwood
Luhr, William Frederick August
Lyons, George Washington
Macaulay, Henry Clayton
Macdonald, Hershel Holt ·
Martin, William Augustus
Maxim, Harry I van
McClain, Frank Walter
McClintic, John
McCoy, Charles Henry
McDonald, George Roy
McKelvey, Charles Angelo, P. M.
McKeown, Arthur
McLauren, Jay Lucullus
McNair, Frederick Henry
Meder, Walter John
Merrilees, John M.
Miller, James Arthur
Miller, Robert Luther
Morris, Fred Ludwig
Morrison, John Tower, P. M.
Morse, George David
Mortensen, Clarence N .

580
Morse, Newell Obadiah
Mortimer, Walter John
Mosher, Ernest Hiram
Mueller, Fred Albert
Needham, Harry Burr
Needham, Paul Arnold
Nelson, Hans Peter
Nelson, Louis Levy
Nelson, William Orr
Newman, Oliver Simon
Nichols, William, Jr.
Nielsen, Neils Jensen
Nielsen, Nicholai Lauritz, Jr.
Ochiltree, Gilbert Brydon, P . M.
Oliphant, Joseph
O'Reilly, Garrett
Otis, George Fredron
Ott, August Louis
Owens, William Evan
Ozouf, Henri Eugene
Packer, Orville Hugh
Parmenter, Charles N.
Parsons, Albert Samuel, P. M.
Patty, Lee Hardin
Peck, John Thomas
Peck, John William
Peck, Louis Stanley
Phillips, Henry Byron
Preston, James Theo.
Pratt, Edward Payson
Price, Raymond David
Poston, Theron Gregory
Quackenbush, Simco Simeon ·
Ramsden, Charles Harold
R~ndolph, Robert Lee
Rankin, Ivan Sloan
Reed, George Edward
Reed, William Elwood
Reed, Richard Cecil
Reynolds, John Henry
Richards, Ernest A.
Ro.a dhouse, Chester Linwood
Roberts, Frederick Charles
Robison, James Leman, P. M.
Roslington, William

ROSTER

ROS'rER
Ross, John Sutherland
Ro~tein, Louis Albert
Russell, Merrill Leo
Sanger, Walter Max
Schaeffer, James Garfield
Schmidt, George
Schwessler, Louis Edward
Schultz, Gustav Fred 'k Wilhelm
Schuster, Gustav Adolph
Sheldon, Albert N.
Shepherd, Joseph M.
Sherman, Cornelius Augustus
Siddail, Clarence H.
Simonds, Charles G.
Sisson, George Henry
llater, George Rhodes
Smith, Charles Medred·
Smith, Dwight Timothy
Smith, Lycurgus Dee
Snyder, Lewis N.
Sorensen, Hans Rudolph Nicolai
Sorensen, Otto Valdemar
Spear, Charles Henry
Spear, Charles Morton
Spinks, Charles Henderson
Staats, Redmond Cyril
Stamper, William Riley
Starke, Eric Alex.
Stevens, Carl Emile
Stevenson, Herbert Barrows
Stevenson, Thomas Edward
Stewart, Guy Robertson
Strom, .Carl August
Thomson, Tom Rogers
Thies, John
Trueblood, George Linebarger •
Turner, Edward Quale
Turner, Thomas
Underwood, Byron Edward
Verrue, Harry Randal
Vickers, Austin Lot
Wagner, George Ralph
Walker, Albert Jay
Wallburg, Charles
Ward, John Edmund

Wharton, Raymond Dias
Weymouth, Edgar Albert
White, George W.
Whiteing, Homer
Williams, Albert McQueen
WHson, Leonidas Edward
Wint er, Cla~ence S.
Bailey, Lyman Clapp

581

Witte, Gustav Adolph
Wittich1 Julius Henry
Wooldridge, Jesse Walton
Woods, William Fowler
Woolsey, Frank Reeve
Wright, William Charles
Young, John William

-252.

DIED:
Whitworth, George Frederick

OLIVET LODGE, No. 364.
Corning, Tehama County.
~tated Meetings, third Tuesday in each

month.

OFFICERS:

George Alexander Hoag, Master,
William Henry Darden, Chaplain,
Corning
William Herbert Samson, Sen. Dea.,
Edgar Conrad Rickman, Sen. Ward., Frank William Koehler, Jun. Deacon,
Robert Albert Foster, Jun. Warden, Edward Frederic Conway, Marshal,
Warren Nicholas Woodson, Treas., John Cockroft, Steward,
William John Crooks, Secretary,
Perry J. Newton, Steward,
Corning
William Walker, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Blanck, Humboidt A.
Maynard, John Baptist
Busey, Allen A.
Mcllroy, John James
Uase, Edgar Elroy
.Moffitt, Isaac Frank, P . M.
Uase, Elias Payne, P. M.
Newton, Perry John
(,11.~e, Mason Nutting, P. M.
Notz, Frederick Theodore
1.;uckcroft, John
Remick, Henry Clay
Conway, Edward Frederick, P. M. Rice, Napoleon D.
Crooks, William John
Rickman, Edgar Conrad
Dale, William
Samson, William Herbert, P. M.
Darden, William Henry
Smith, Alex.
De Motte, Marshall
Thompson, Lewis Hartwell
Foster, Charles Frederick
Waite, Frederick Warren
Foster, Robert Albert
Walker, James
Fripp, Richard Bacot, P. M.
Walker, William
Harper, Hiram Augustus
Wheeler, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
Hoag, George Alex.
Wilbourn, Thomas Jefferson
Jacobs, Henry Frederick
Wilson, Elias McCarty
Kenney, Marcus Endorus
Wilson, George Benton
Kent, Nelson Gilman
Woodson, WP,.,.en Nicholas
Lukens, Ernest Paul
-39.

582

ROSTER

ROSTER

Nichols, William J.

WITHDRAWN :
Thompson, Rowland Maynard
Watkinson, Alfred

White, Gaston David
Woelffel, George August
Youde, George

Smith, Abinadi Jefferson
Steele, Fred William
Thompson, Arthur Harlow
Walker, Herbert Edward

DIED:
Albertson, Frank B.
Auten, Leroy Kendall

583

-49.
WI'fHDRAWN:
Disher, George William

WILLITS LODGE, No. 365.

LAS PALMAS LODGE, No. 366.

Willits, Mendocino County.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Fresno, Fresno County.
Stated Meetings, third Thursday in each month.

OFFICERS:
Charles Edgar Palmer, Master,
Duane Bittenbender, Senior Deacon,
Willits
Frank Fielding Perry, Junior Deacon,
Frederic William Steele, Sen. Ward., Conrad Harris Goldberg, Marshal,
Robert Emmet Roach, Jun. Warden, Herbert Edward Walker, Steward,
Charles Alonzo Irvine, Treasurer, George Calvin Lewis, Steward,
Frederic Newhall Loring, Secretary, Oren Dunlap, Tyler.
Willits

James Wiley Smith, Master,
Duncan Wallace, Chaplain,
807 M Street
Samuel Joseph Lazarus, Sen. Deacon,
Herbert Frederick Briggs,-Sen. War., David Monroe Barnwell, Jun. Deacon,
Speed Butler Leas, Junior War~en, William Angus Sutherland, Marshal,
Charles Sheldon Pierce, Treasurer, Clarence Nelson Williams, Steward,
Raymond Waldo Baker, Secretary, Arthur Charles Wheelock, Steward,
Box 1285, Fresno
Charles Edward Stewart, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Bilodeau, Louis
Le Bars, Joseph
Bittenbender, Duane
Lewis, George Calvin
Blodgett, Walter LeRoy, P. M.
Loring, Fred Newhall
Branscomb, James Henry
Martin, John Wesley
Campbell, Alexander John
McPeak, Eugene
Coleman, James Owen
Muir, Henry Baker
Crawley, George Washington
Palmer, Charles Edgar
Crossfield, Francis Marion
Perry, Frank Fielding
Daniels, James Edward
Petrie, Alex. Haye
Davidson, Allen, P. M.
Rankin, John Moses
Dunlap, Oren
Reed, Theron Delmar
Edwards, William Richard Jones
Rice, William Isaac
Eggerts, Herbert George
Richardson, Geo. Washington, P. M.
Ells, Henry George
Riffe, Abraham Thomas
Fairbanks, Augustus John
Roach, Lew Jackson
Foster, William Anderson Scott
Roach, Robert Emmet
Goldberg, Conrad H.
Rowe, Horace Doolittle
Hart, Henry Herbert
Saxon, William Thomas
Hensley, Henry Livingston
Selfridge, Edward Augus~
Irvine, Charles Alonzo
Smart, David, P. M.
Joyce, James Alfred, P. M.
Smart, George Arthur

Adams, William Lanier
Allardt, Hugo Frederick
Allison, Duncan Donald, P. M.
Ambrose, Wiley D.
Anderson, John Quincy
Archibald, Lambert Lewis
Asbury, Frank Herbert
Aten, Ralph Roscoe
Austin, Herbert Z., P. M.
Austin, John Reubin
Austin, Mark Edward
Baker, Raymond Waldo
Balch, Albert Eugene
Ballard, Lewis M.
Barnard, Charles Robert
Barbour, Henry Ellsworth
Barnwell, David Monroe
Barrack, Guy
BarT, Wallace Leach
Bernhard, George Henry
Bernhard, Joseph Phillip, P. M.

OFFICERS:

MEMBERS:
Beveridge, James Young
Braverman, Alfred
Briggs, Herbert Frederick
Brix, Herman Hugo
Buker, Humphrey Oscar
Burgess, John Edward
Casner, Edward Rufus
Cearley, Ch1trles Talant
Chaddock, Emory Leroy
Chappell, Walter Lee, P. M.
Cherry, George Washington
Chittenden, Charles William
Chittenden, Robert D.
Clark, Albert Bazzle, P. M.
Coffman, John Franklin
Cowan, Angus Bartram
Craycroft, Harry Judge
Cutting, William Preston
Davidson, William, P. M.
Detoy, Louis
Dick, William

584

ROSTER

Drew, Alex. M.
Duvall, Joseph James
Eden, William Wallaee
Ellithorpe, Robert H,
Ellsberry, Benjamin
Elskamp, .Tohn Leo
·Everts, Alen Lee
Faris, George Atkinson
Fassett, Brieeno Aanendez, P. M.
Fassett, Franeis Ronello
Ferger, John Charles
Fink, Charles Laton
Gibson, Louis Wills
Glass, Edward
Grove, Millard Paine
Hamilton, Creighton Everett
Hasselbalch, Andre Marion
Hayden, Thomas Morris
Henning, Bruno William
Heron, John Maxwell
Hickman, Frank
Hickman, James Ross
Higgins, William Lane
Hill, Calvin Sheok
Holland, Herschel Horace
Huffman, Milton Decatur
Hutehinson, John Hamilton
Johnson, Herbert Greary
Jones, John Simeon
Jones, Roland D.
Jorgensen, Christian
Kerney, Charles H.
Kjaerbye, Claus Peter Hoyer
Kleiberger, Edward Adolphus
Lamkin, Burt B.
Lazarus, Samuel J.
Leas, Speed Butler
Leavitt, Charles Carroll, Jr.
Lindsay, Elliott William, P. M.
Lines, Silas Alonzo
Lingby, Louis
Loper, Albert M.
Ludvigsen, Peter Erick
Lundy1 Charles Albert
Lyons, Andrew Jackson

MacKinnon, Archibald R.
Markley, Osborn Lincoln
Marshall, William Sylvester
Martin, Joseph George
Maul, Bert M.
MeCain, Thomas J.
Mccardle, Charles M.
Miles, William Oscar
Miller, Frederick Marvin
Miner, Jesse Mayland
Mower, Eugene Adelbert
Munger, Albert Luke
Murphy, Lea vis Andrew
Murray, George Grover
:Nibloek, Samuel William
Noble, Jay Preston
Norton, Paul Bruce
0 'Brien, Charles Lee
Pickford, George
Pieree, Charles Sheldon
Platt, Sidney Lawrenee
Porter, Robert Milroy
Pottle, l!'recl 'Varren
Pottle, James Cyrus, P. M.
Price, William R.
Primrose, Bert Anderson
Rohrer, William Newton
Rowe, William
Ryan, Omar Wester
Sample, Thomas Nelson
Scholz, Oswald Sylvester
Shirriff, Charles LeBaron
Smith, Erenst Nathaniel
Smith, Frank Messer
Smith, Frederick Walter
Smith, James Wiley
Smith, Thomas Henry, P. M.
South, Franeis Palmer ·
Sprague, Hobart Almerin
Stewart, Charles Edward
Sunderland, Alpheus Eugene
Sutherland, William Angus, P. M.
Swift, Harvey Whalen
Telfer, Ralph Morris
True, Edward Henry

ROSTER
Walden, Charles E.
Wallace, Duncan
Walrond, Ernest Adolphus
Walter, Charles Lewis
Warner, Willis
Waterman, Edward Bentley
Weldon, Luther Edward
White, James Riggs
Whitney, Frank Jarvis

Wickstrom, Reuben N.
Wilkinson, John Howard
Williams, Clarence Nelson
Williams, William Rufus
Wishon, Albert Grave
Wright, John Elmer
Wright, William Calvin
Wyatt, Walter Frank
Youmans, John H.

585

-150,

WITHDRAWN:
Perkins, Darius Enoch

SOUTH PASADENA LODGE, No. 367.
South Pasadena, Los Anieles County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Charles William Wilson, Master,
Thomas Ingersoll Gifford, Chaplain,
629 Prospect Avenue
Jarvis Raymond Wilder, Sen. Deacon,
Hartley Crawford Packer, Sen. War., Charles Franklin Longley, Jun. Dea.,
William Lester Cox, ltmior Warden, John Thomas Peed, Marshal,
William Church Brainerd, Treasitrer, John Elmer Carson, Steward,
Jol;m Newell Hunt, Secretary,
Harry Will Masac, Steward,
1300 Lyndon Street
Alvin E. Pierson, Tyler.
Allyn, Calvin Ethan
Austin, Charles
Avery, Ralph W.
Axtman, William Franeis
Barden, Edward Everett, P. M.
Binder, George Lewis
Bishop, George Wells
Brainerd, William Church
Bush, George Clarenee
Carlin, Dee Elias
Carson, John Elmer
Cattern, Frank Addison
Chapman, Riebard Beck
Cooley, Elias Arthur
Coultas, George William
Cox, William Lester
Dodge, Jonathan Sherman

MEMBERS:
Douglas, Charles Kimball
·Dublin, John Ed.
Ewing, Charles
Fishburn, Chalmers Good
Fishburn, Claud Willard
Freeman, William Prescott
Garwood, Benjamin Vernon, P. M.
Gifford, Thomas I.
Green, George Adolphus
Hawkins, Robert Edward
Higgins, Roy Walter
Hirschler, David Rudolph
Hunt, John Newell
Jacobs, John Carpenter
Johnson, Walter J.
Jones, Harry Arthur
Jones, Walker F. D.

586

ROSTER

Lewis, Boon
Longley, Anzelotto Leonell, P, M.
Longley, Charles Franklin
Lowry, William Henry
Mackin, Frederick Blair
McCluer, James Henry
Mccutcheon, Robert J.
McKinney, Samuel Morehead
Menderson, Henry
Moffitt, Thomas
Moore, John W.
Moore, Raymond Bayard
Myers, Fred
Nelson, Charles Alfred
Newerf, William De Forest
Newton, Daniel Roque
Packer, Hartley Crawford
Pearson, Harry Ernest
Peed, John Thomas
Phillips, Frank Henry
Pierson, Alvin E.

Postle, Herman Richard
Pridham, James Chaplin, P. M.
Pridham, Richard Woodsworth
Reid, La Verne Sanders
Rhone, Charles Edward
Robertson, William James
Rush, Edward Humphrey
Schult, Adolph Frederic
Seay, Robert Horsley
Shank, Edmund Simpson
Shenk, John Wesley, Jr., P. M.
Soper, Joseph Bebe
Taylor, Charles Newton
Vatcher, Herbert James, Sr.
Vatcher, Herbert James, Jr,
Waddington, Albert Bascom
Wheatly, William Winston
Wilder, Jarvis Raymond
Williamson, George
Wilson, Charles William

ROSTER

-75.

DIED:
Keith, Merton Ellsworth
Taylor, B. Frank
Wachtel, John Valentine

UNITY LODGE, No. 368.
Glendale, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, :first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Arthur Campbell, Master,
James Hancock Henry, Chaplain,
R. F. D. No. 1, Burbank
John Hobbs, Senior Deacon,
Ruben Zinn Imler, Senior Warden, Richard Clark Sternberg, Jun. Dea.,
Charl~s Wilber McFadden, J. War., Harry Percy Coker, Marshal,
Asa Vfocent Fanset, Treasurer,
Earnest John Morgan, Steward,
Alphonso Welker Tower, Secretary, Thomas Percy Delegal, Steward,
885 Damasco, Glendale
Je$Se Sylvester Stine, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Ackley, Leroy C.
Ash, Harry Wilber
Albright, Frank Ellsworth, P. M.
Ayers, Edgar Stewart
Andrews, ,Joshua Earnest
Ayers, Edward

Barnes, George Nuttman
Borthick, William Esley
Black, William Goff
Blain, William John
Borthick, Samuel Littleton
Bryant, Allen Lincoln
Budd, Henry Johnston
Bulkeley, Henry Loomis
Bullis, Wesley H.
Burch, Nelson C.
Burk, Joseph James
Campbell, Arthur
Campbell, Daniel, P. M.
Campbell, Frank
Campbell, Matthew
Chandler, Alphonso Lafayette
Chandler, Cornelius. Lincoln
Chase, Raymond Everett
Coker, Harry Percy
Collins, Albert William
Delegal, Thomas Percy
Deal, Fred
Doyle, John Robert
Echels, William Alonzo
Emery, Edward IDysses
Fanset, Asa Vincent
Fisher, Frank Philias
]'iskA, Dana
Grannell, Charles Aldon
Griffith, Elijah
Hall, Henry Hamlin
Hartsaugh, Christopher William
Hobbs, John
Howe, Harry Lee
Hopkins, Edward Beae.h
Hopkins, James Edward
Hunchbergt'r, John Grabell
Imler, David Henry
Imler, Ruben Zinn
Larkey, George Emory
Lewis, Fred Richard
Logan, John Arthur
Logan, Oliver Cunningham
Malcom, William

587

McFadden, Charles Wilber
Mcintyre, James Freeman
McPeak, John
· McNutt, Porter S.
McWhorter, Wilber Walter
Miller, George Thomas
Mills, William S.
Moore, Stephen Walker
Monroe, Lewis Allen
Morgan, Ernest John
Moyse, George Ulysses, P. M.
Oberdick, Earnest Farrell
Ogden,. Hiram
Ogg, Thomas Daniel
Osenburg, Frederick Lee
Overton, John Lewis
Palmer, Samuel .Tames S.
Parker, Charles Frederick
P enn, William Thomas Prosser
Rae, James Hunter
Remsburgh, Melvin Zlora
Reynolds, Elbert Deville
Richmann, Emile Frederick
Russell, Charles Edward
Schick, Morris
Soper, Eldon Erskine
Sternberg, Richard Clark
Stine, Jesse Sylvania
Story, Warren
Taylor, John Hartley
Thatcher, Amos Davis
Tholen, Emile Francis
Thompson, William Alexander, P. M.
Thorne, William Buckingham
Thornton, Tom Croethurs
Tower, Alphonso Welker
•rower, Ora Isaiah
Valentine, John Sherwood
Vesper, Frank H.
Webster, Joseph Henry
Witt, Edwin M.
Woodberry, George Barker
Wright, Alfred
-93.

588

ROSTER
WITHDRAWN:
Fischer, Charles Bruno
Fischer, Edward Albert
Mccready, Frank Woodbrum

Burt, Forney Edwin
*Cook, Eugene William
Catlin, Charles W!lliam

DIED:
Schoemer, August

OCEAN PARK LODGE, No. 369.
Ocean Pa.rk, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month..
OFFICERS:

Edwin James Vawter, Jr., Treasurer, Robert James Haney, Senior Deacon,
Charles William Damerel, Secretary, John Walter Eads, Jimior Deacon,
Ocean Park
Percy Morris Grant, Steward,
George Carter, Chaplain,
William Edward MacCoy, Steward,
Leon Sanford Webster, Marshal,
Oscar Edwin Grubb, Tyler.
Alexander, James Victor
Allen, Harry Warfield
Anderson, William Henry
Baker, Daniel Webster
Berne, Martin Alonzo
Bliss, John Dallett
Bodillo, Pe<'iro Modesto
Brooks, Clarence S.
Brooks, Louis Robinson
Brown, ,James T.
Bryan, Stephen Douglass
Burks, Dana
Buhlert, Louis
Burns, Charles Young
Courtellier, .Joseph E.
Carter, George
Dales, John Bertram, P. M.
Damerel, Charles William
Dement, Eugene W.
Dodge, Charles P.
Donahue, Daniel
Dutton, Harry Adams
•Affilfated during the year.

MEMBERS:
Eads, Walter John
Eames, Frederick T.
Edinger, Ralph Garfield
Eichbaum, Herman William
Ericson, Augustus William
Elliott, Walter Sherman
Erkes, Walter Emil
Evi!le, Thomas Benjamin
Fanjoy, Charles A.
Farris, William T.
Ferris, J ames Alford
Field, Henry D.
Fraser, Alexander R., P. M.
Fraser, Earl Alexander
Gage, Herbert Richmond
Gillon, Charles Edwin
Good, Henry Manard
Good, Henry Mil ton
Grant, Percy Morris
Grubb, Oscar Edwin
Haney, Robert James
Hannn, Byron Calvin

ROSTER
Hanna, Thomas H.
Haskell, Wesley
Heimann, Richard
Huif, William T.
Jones, George M.
Kerklie, Ole A.
Kiger, William H.
Kiggens, Charles M.
King, Marvin R.
Koontz, Wilford Charles
Lawton, Frank
Makin, John
Meldrum, Thomas Miller
Mellen, Charles Henry
Meskimen, Charles E.
MeyE•rs, Henry M.
Miller, Harry
Morphy, Evan P.
Moore, Alfred James
Morre, Herbert B.
Morrison, Earl Benton
Morrison, Edward Donaldson
Newlon, Peyton Griffith
Oldham, John Y.
Oliver, William Edwin
Packard, Gordon Steve
Peterson, H enry C.
Phillips, Robert Alex
Pittenger, Henry C.
Crookshank, David C.

589

Rathbone, Charles Clary
Ritchie, Charles Hamilton, P. M.
Rogers, Harry Ermon
Sanders, Orlando A.
Simmons, John Edison
Smith, A. D.
Smith, Samuel McCalmont
Smith, Thomas Golden
Sohn, James Harve
Speakman, Harry
Stamps, Georgo Furman
St earns, Frank LeGrand
Steele, Murray Moore
Stevens, Benjamin Francis
Thatcher, Charles Seeley, P. M.
Tomblin, Eugene S.
Van Ormon, John T.
Vawter, Edwin James
Wagar, Milo Harry
' Valter, Charles John
Warner, Lorin Leroy
'Yebster, Alfred Francis
Webster, Leon Sanford
Williams, Leonard Wilson
Whit e, Lafayette D.
Wolff, Francis Carver
Woodward, John Ward
Young, Lee Harry
-101.

WITHDRAWN:
Garey, Thomas Stephens
Walker, Francis Ernest

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUE:::l:
Strachan, James
EXPELLED:
Lovelace, Charles Edward
DIED :

Lavayea, Henry Ell

590

ROSTER

AMITY LODGE, No. 370.
San Francisco, San Francisco Comity.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
2668 Mission Street.
OFFICERS:

Byron DeWitt Mcl;:>onald, Master, Henry Charles Klevesahl, Sen. Dea.,
1484 47th Avenue
Alfred Alvin Reed, Junior Deacon,
P aul Frederick Schaffner, Sen. War., William Everett Wood, Marshal,
William Palmer Stanton, Jun. Ward., Rudolph Frederick Lange, Steward,
William Bovey Curtis, Treasurer,
Richard Hugh Thompson, Steward,
Thomas Walter Walker, Secretary, George J. Palmer, Tyler.
1006 Pine Street
MEM:BERB ·
Conyers, Horace
Alberti, Lawrence Boyer
Corbin, Oliver Lee
Armstrong, Elbridge Robertson
Copping,>r, Clarence
Ashworth, Fred Drew
Cordes, Herman John
Augsburger, William Edward
Crew, Charles Edward
Babcock, Frank Leslie
Cullen, James
Banzhaf, Harry Augustus
Curtis, William Bovey
Bass, James Gifford
Cuthbert, Albert H .
•
Bauer, George Christian
Daggett, Leander Bradley
Bauer, John
Dawes, Winfield A.
B ell, Chal'les Edward
Dawson, George
Belser, Paul Arthur
Disston, Arthur Dixon
Bernhard, Paul Peter
Douglas, James
Billings, Lucius H.
Douglas, Walter Renick
Bittancourt, Thomas Marion
Dunbar, George August
Blanc, Stewart Alex.
Eaton, Arthur John
Bohr, Rudolph Henry 0.
Easson, William Lawson
Borgwardt, Herman William.
Edwards, George
Boyle, Albert Edward
Engle, Frank Thomas
Brailford, Frank Giles
Englehardt, Alex.
Burgess, Chandler William
Field, Joseph Clifford
Bultmann, Harry Edward
Fleck, William Alex.
Burgh, Gustav Joseph
:h~oster, Harold Turner
Buwaldo, Klaas Charles
:h'reudenthal, Albert Charles
Cain, Richard, P. M.
Gardner, George Milville
Clark, Archer Brenton
Gillmore, William Solomon
Coldwell, Turman 0 .
Glasson, Wm. Charles Worthingto11
Coles, Frant'iS Alexander
Gunn; John William, Jr.
Conklin, Elmer Hedges

ROSTER
Hamilton, Uharlcs A.
Henry, Raymond Manning
Hermitage, William Henry
Herrick, Clarence Green
Hoffer, John B.
Hogberg, Henry
Holcomb, Frank Herbert
Hunt, Oscar Fred
Jennings, Enos Charles
Jensen, Olaf Martinez
Jose, Chester Arthur
Kennedy, Robert Vance
Kidd, Elmore Allen
Kiefer, William Jacob
Klevesahl, Henry Charles
Lange, Rudolph Frederick
Leaman, William Tell
Lee, James Douglas
Lemon, James Arthur
Lillie, Clarence Belcher
Loughery, Robert Johnston, P. M.
Loveland, William Jay, P. M.
Lynam, Thomas James
Lynn, Theodore Ayers
MacKenzie, John Campbell B.
Mackins, Ernest Sidney
Maclauchlan, Charles Raabe
Maison, Lewis Arthur
Mccallum, Harold Howard
McCallum, John H.
McCready, Stephen Moody
McDonald, Byron DeWitt
McDonald, Silvester John
McDowell, William Andrew
McHenry, Thomas
McPherson, John F.
Mead, William Frederick
Meyer, Frederick William
Millar, Robert Forrester
Miller, John H.
Moller, Louis Henry
Moller, William Daniel
Murphy, Henry James
Nash, Fremont Roberts
Neil, Walter Scott

591

Nelson, Andrew
Nelson, William Wilks
Norman, Edward Peter
Osthoff, Henry William
Oughton, Oliver Henry
P almer, George J.'
Perry, Charles
Pierce, Eugene Irving
Putnam, James Wainwright
Rau, Benjamin Franklin
Reed, Alfred Alvin
Rivers, Edwin ·wesley
Ra'!mussen, John Charles
Rehn, George
Rentschler, ]'red John
Rey, Leon Martin
Robinson, Harding Ellison
Salter, John Westley
Savage, William Daniel
Scamell, Arthur Ernest
Schubert, Charles Edward William
Schaffner, Paul Frederick
Schcppler, Ernest John
Schott, William John
Scott, Royal Clyde
Seagrave, Joseph
Sarvice, Alt>x. Stuart
Shea, Charles Perine
Sivertsen, Charles Olof
S~ack, Enoch
Smith, Ross Richard
Smith, Rudolph Adam
Smith, Thomas Boarman
Stahle, Charles August
Stahle, Harold John
Stlmton, William Palmer
Stephenson, Edward, P. M.
Stockman, Ralph
Taylor, Edward Tomlinson
Taylor, Frank Percival
ThOI!lpl!OU, Richard Hugh
Tomkins, JQseph George
Trautvetter, Alexander Ott o
Upham, Walter Fuller
Upham, Walter Sumner

ROS'fER
ROSTER

592
Waite, Alfred Napier
Walker, Thomas Walter
Wall, Charles
Wara, George Andrew
Weisker. Emil Richard
Webster, Davi\i Frank
Wetzel, Hermann
Wheeler, Ira Miles
Whiteside, William

Wigney, Benjamin Arthur
· Williams, Enoch R.
Williams, William Jerome
Wi8ler, Russell Irvin
Wood, William Daniel
Wood, William Everett
Wythe, Frederick Stephen
Yardley, George Warner
Zett, August Lewis, P. M.

-164.

WITHDRAWN:
Bruchman, Henry Emile
"'Laing, Sam Lesl1e
Rowald, W111iam Frederick
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Reid, James Archibald
Reid, George Ferguson

OCEANIC LODGE, No. 371.
Honolulu, Hawaiian Territory.
Stated meetings, last Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Charles Bon, Chaplain,
John Aurelius Palmer, Master,
Edward Bates Blanchard, Sen. Dea.,
Honolulu
Elmer Louis Schwarzberg, Jun. Dea.,
William Henry, Senior Warden,
James Ernest Morgan, Jun. Warden, John Christian Wagner, Marshal,
Clyde Elroy Wright, Steward,
Carel Justus De Roo, Treasurer,
Henry Gehring, Steward,
William Henry Goetz, Secretary,
Charles Henry Thurston, Tyler.
Box 344, Honolulu
MEMBERS:
Bockus, Charles Gerald, P . M.
Alexander, Charles Frederic
Boisse, Gaston John
Andrews, George John
Bon, Charles, P. M.
Armitage, ·Harry
Bosson, Charles Lewis
Asbahr1 Louis Frank
Bowler, John Francis
Atwood, Ozro Millard
Breckons, Robert Warren
Baldwin, Herman James
Brown, Edgar Marion
Bechert, Gustav Carl
Brown, Embert Morelli
Bellina, Charles Henry
Buckley, John
Bemrose, Roes Hamilton, P. M.
Campton, George, P. M.
Blanchard, Edward Bates
&Capilos, Demosthenes
Blom, John Albion

Chillingworth, Charles F.
Clark Albion Fisher
Collins, .John Robert
Coney, John Hawkes
Coulter, George Thomas
Craw, Roy Alexander
Crowley, David William
Davis, David Henry
Davis, George Anthony
Dayton, David Kalaukaua
Dayton, Davis, P. M.
Dee, Lawerence Henry
Denison, Harry Norwood
DeRoo, Carel Justus
Detor, John Demetrios
Dillingham, Benjamin Franklin
Dolliver, Henry Calvin
Donnelly, William John
DuBose, Tascar Polk
Durant, Albert Allen
Eaton, William L.
Edlund, Frank G.
Fairweather, Norman Stanley
Farrington, Wallace Rider, P. M.
Fisher, William Lunkin
Gaines, John Dickson, P. M.
Gartley, Alonzo Floyd
Gehring, Henry
Goetz, William Henry, P. M.
Ham, William Albert
Hatch, Frank Lewis
Haughs, David Michell
Hayselden, Harald Thomas
Henry, William
Hundley, Samuel Napoleon
Hurtt, Allen Milton
Johnson, Edmund
Johnson, Merle McNaughton, P. M.
Johnson, Samuel
Johnson, William Paul
J esse~t, William
Kelly, Thomas
Kenake, William Chatre
Ketcheson, John Henry
38

•Degrees conferred during the year.

Lee, Charles White
Lutted, Oswald James
Mackenzie, James Harris
Mayer, Charles
McAllister, John Walter
McCoy, William Craig
McDonald, Angus Paul
Menefoglio, Alfred
Merrill, Charles Francis
Mills, Harry Thomas
Moore, Herbert Thompson
Morgan, James Ernest
Morris, Reade Horras L.
Neely, Arthur Webber
Neimann; Ernest Rudulph
Norton, Benjamin Hale, P. M.
Nott, John
Pfeiffer, Charles Henry, P. M.
Piltz, George Henry
Pinkerton, Samuel
Palmer, John Aurelius
Perry, John M.
Pratt, Joseph George
Reinecke, Henry Herman Martin
Rosenberg, Isadore
Schutte, John
Schwartz, Joseph
Schwarzberg, Elmer Louis
Simerson, Aaron Cook
Smith, Joseph Alexander
Smith, William Henry
Spencer, Joseph
Spitzer, Arthur James
Stearns, Benjamin Crouchley
Strohlin, Charles Hanford
Sturtevant, Charles Vale
Thurston, Charles Henry
Toussaint, Louis Mathew
Towse, Ed., P. M.
Treadway, Harry Gorman
Treuer, Henry
Wagner, John Christian
Waldron, Frederick
Ward, Livesey de Leyland, P. M.

593

ROSTER

ROSTER

594

Watson, John B.
Watt, Henry Chorley
Webber, Alva S.
West, Frederick B.
White, William George
Whitehead, Orlando John

Williams, Charles Edward
Williams, James John
Winant, Elmer Terry
Wri~bt, Clyde Elroy
Wright, George Scott
Yount, Wilmer W.

Hartman, Ernest Edward

WITHDRAWN:
Musgrave, Charles Alfred

-122.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Hutchins, Robert Jacob
Burke, Robert Emmett
Simpson, Harry

Jacobs, Mark Regnald
Klasgye, John W.
Longacre, James E:
Mccarroll, Walter Van
Michael, Adolph William
Michael, George M.
Miller, Charles Frederick
Mohr, Adam Bard
Mohr, Edward Bard
Pitman, Thomas C.
Pitman, Walter Walton
Pitman, William

595

Ro be.rte, William
Simpson, Walter
Spencer, John Foster, P. M.
Stephenson, Christopher Ward
Struthers, Andrew Jackson
Towne, Dannel N., P, M.
Tuck, Frank Milton
Tucker, Jay Thompson
Williams, Hugh E.
West, Loury Earl
Wood, William Herbert
-49.
WITHDRAWN:
Rogers, Mathias G.

DIED:
Wilkinson, James William

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Walters, Benjamin

GARDENA LODGE, No. 372.
Gardena, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, First Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
J. D. Green, Chaplain,
A. F . Hann, Master,
W.W. Pitman, Senior Deacon,
Gardena, Cal.
Walter Simpson, Junior Deacon,
W . E. McCarrell, Senior Warden,
T . M. Bodger, Marshal,
L. E. West, Junior Warden,
Walter Bodger, Steward,
J. H. Bathrick, Treasurer,
T. C. Pitman, Steward,
W. H. Wood, Secretary,
J. E. Longacre, Tyler.
Gardena, Cal.

Bathrick, John H.
Bathrick, William J.
Beem, Abner Lyman
Bergin, William J.
Biggart, Thomas
Bodger, John Charles
Bodger, Tom Marks
Bodger, Walter
Bristow, Henry
Cowles, Newton E.
Crerar, James R.
Christilllll, Henry L.
Day, John Warren

MEMBE.R S:
Dodgll, Francis E.
Dodge, Roy James
Dunn, John Murphy
Eaton, Harry Russell
Ergmann, William
Fanning, Beri
Gibson, Addison H. ·
Gardner, Arthur J.
Gilman, Louis Milton
Green, John D.
Green, William Henry
Hann, Alonzo Francis
Hewitt, Chester Frederick

Hudson, Richard Harvey

DIED:
Lakey, Joseph A.

VETERAN LODGE, No. 373.
Sawtelle, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, third Wednesday i,n each month.
OFFICERS:
Cyrus Lloyd Edinger, Master,
Marvin Robert Shade, Chaplain, .
Sawtelle
August B. Hromadka, Senior Dea.,
William Haas, Senior Warden,
Henry Schultz, Junior Deacon,
Roy Griswold Putnam, Jun. Warden, Frederick Dickley, Marshal,
George C. Wilson, Steward,
Ira Pierce, Treasurer,
Charles Edmond Tyler, Secreta.ry,
John L'Etoile, Steward,
Arthttr Kelly, Tyler.
Sawtelle

Arnold, Edwin M.
Attrill, Fletcher I.
Axtell, Charles Henry
Baker, Luther J.
Bates, Alfred W.
Bartlett, Thomas Herbert
Bonnick, Henry John
Bottomfteld, Sheridan

MEMBERS:
Bowerman, Nelson
Boyer, Eugene Franklin
Boyer, Leonard Bell
Bly, Carl Don
Calhoun, Ezra
Carnegie, Archibald
Clark, Albert
Conkling, Frank E.

ROSTER

.596

'ROSTER
Costelloe, Peter
Cowen, Earnest Astor
DeWees, Elisha
Denton, Samuel S.
Diebold, Andrew E.
Dickley, Frederick
Dills, George Abdiel
Dobbings, John Henry, P. M.
Driggs, Morgan
Dustin, Charles Lowell
Ea.gler, Charles E. ·
Edinger, Cyrus Lloyd
Falis, Perry Leroy
Flannery, David
Ford, Ira Beebe
Gill, Edmund Roy
Gill, George Ellerson
Gilmore, Hiram
Gregory, William Elmore
Guffin, Allen R.
Hall, William B.
Haas, William
Hasse, Herman E.
Heagy, Henry Washington
Hill, Fred Axtell
Horton, Schuyler D.
Hromadka, August B.
Howard, William Green
Hudson, Arthur
Hurlbut, Henry Alonzo
Jenkins, Robert
Keener, James P.
Kelly, Arthur
King, Abraham Lincoln
Laing, Robert Douglass
Lambert, Leonard M.
Lear, Peter R.
Leavers, John Estee
Lefevre, Joseph P.
L'Etoile, John
Logsdon, James Albert
Lore, Herbert David
Lufkin11, Frank H.
Smith, Norman Wallace

Lounsberry, William
Martin, Fred J.
May, William Wallace
Morgan, R.ichai:d W.
Mudge, Edwin Elmore
Muller, Albert Rudolph
Murch, John Wesley
Murphy, Thomas
Myrick, Mack Harry
Nellis, Clarence Jones, P. M,
Nirk, Sydney
Osborn, Joel Edgar
Peck, George William
Pendleton, Charles Henry
Pierce, Ira
Prichard, Martin Howard
Putnam, Roy Griswold
Rice, Sumey Allen
Richarclson, William
Rohda, August J,
Sagar, Thomas William
Schultz, Henry
Seager, Frank Walter
Seward, Allie A.
Shade, Marion Robert
Sigman, Marcus H.
Smith, John L.
Sonnesyn, Peter Herman
Ten Eyck1 James Campbell
Tyler, Charles Edmond
Wait, Dudley Monroe
Waggoner, Lewis S.
Warren, James Riley
Webb. Elwood Townsend
Westgate, George L.
West, Robert Leslie
Wheeler, William Daniel
White, Calvin Norman
Wilson, Charles August
Wilson, George C.
Wilson, Frank M.
Yelton, William L.

WITHDRAWN:
Wetstein, Andrew

597

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Elliott, Mathew
Pilgrim, Charles Mart
Gifford, Andrew Jackson
St. John, Andrew A.
DIED:
Howard, Charles

JEWEL LODGE, No. 374.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
·Golden Gate Hall.
OFFICERS:
Leo Bruck, Master,
Joseph Levin, Senior Deacon,
1250 Hyde Street
Leon Jacob Pinkson, Junior Deacon,
John Arthur Snell, Senior Warden, Isidor Henry Geballe, Marshal,
Arthur Douglas Davidson, Jun. Wa1. 1 Wiley Kimball Galloway, Steward,
John Jacob Mundwyler, Treasurer, Albert Abraham Greenbaum, Steward,
Charles Shaw True, Secretary,
Horace F. Tower, Tyler.
220 7th Avenue

•
-101.

MEMBERS:
Blodgett, Samuel Omega, P. M.
Jaulus, Bernat
Braendlein, John Conrad
Johnson, Robert Cummins, P, M.
Bruck, Leo
Kenney, Gerald
Butler, Alfred Joline
Lachman, Jacob
Cassassa, Charles Henry
Lachman, Louis
Cohn, Max
Lada, Edward B.
Cromwell, Burnside, P. M.
Langenberger, Charles H. F.
Corwin, Harley George
Lerond, George W eBton
Davidson, Arthur Douglas
Levin, Emanuel Monroe
De Boer, Albert
Levin, Joseph
Delaney, William
Levy, Louis
Evans, Frank Arden
Levy, Mark Eugene, P. M.
Finley, William Hugh
Lindley, Paul Jay
Galloway, Wiley Kimball
Lynngreen, Alfred L.
Geballe, Isiclore Henry
MacCleverty, Charles Coleman
Gee, Arthur Telford
Mahood, Caduceus J. W.
Greenbaum, Albert Abraham
Mansson1 Per
Gruenberg, Carl
Marlatt, Augustus G.
Hearn, Thomas Frederick
Maurer, Carl C.
Heller, Hei;man
Morey, Arthur Snow
Hunt, Fred A.
Mundwyler, John Jacob

.598

ROSTER

Nevin, Washington
Newbauer, ,Julius Herman
Newbauer, Louis
Nolting, Edward A.
Norcross, Frank Gilman
Now!lll, Howard Wallace
Pferdner, Louis Paul
Pinkson, Leon Jacob
Platt, Elisha Allsworth
Previati, Louis Joseph
Rice, William Henry, Jr.
Reynolds, David L.
Romer, Otto Bismark
Rusk, William Gee
Sanborn, Arthur Byron, P . M.

Schuhl, Sylvain
Siebenhauer, Solomon
Simpson, Joseph Dodd
.Snell, John Arthur
Bwain, Leonidas Clinton
True, Charles Shaw
Wa.lling, Richard William
V<' alters, Benjamin
Wayma.n, Mark·
v;,· eissbaum, Gustav
Wiley, Herbert
Williams, Ernest George
Winkley, Walter Wllliam
Wright, Dexter M.
Zeh, Frederic Christoph

ROSTER

-72.

RICHMOND LODGE, No. 375.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
Clement and Fourth Avenue.
OFFICERS:

Ernest Louis Fischer, Master,
William H. Standart, Chaplain,
177 8th Avenue
Luther Sanborn, Senior Deacon,
Walter Edmund Bidwell, Sen. Ward., William A. Burdick, Junior Deacon,
George Graham Gillespie, Jun. War., Angus MacKillop, Marshal,
John Faubel, Treasurer,
Sol. ]. Levy, Steward,
Havelock Fourness, Secretary,
Hugo Bielawski, Steward,
460 8th Avenue
William Burbeck, Tyler.
Baptist, Joseph
Barth, August Herman
Baum, George S.
Becker, Walter Frank
Bennett, Arthur William
Bernard, James Cumming
Bidwell, ·waiter Edmund
Bielawski, Hugo Theodor
Billingsley, Urban Clark
Binkley, Earle Waldo
Bleily, Alban Centenial
Booyer, Percy Tyler

MEMBERS:
Bradley, Albert Allan
Bradley, Charles Clarence
Bransford, Edgar McDowell
Brown, Calvin Daniel
Brown, William George
Brownlee, John P.
Burbeck, Julius Lee
Burbeck, William
Burdick, William Albert
Burtchaell, John William
Callie, Albert Howland
Calhan, Alvin Lane

Christiansoni .Tohn Marius
Clark, Henry Augustus
Clark, William Arnett
Clee~e, ·John Peter, Jr.
Collins, Asa Wes ton
Collis, William John
Comegys, Lloyd C.
Crane, Douglass Barnitz, P. M.
Crothers, Ralph
Davies, George Andrew
Dayton, V<'illiam Andrew
Dol}wig, Ed. James
Duncan, Earle James
Erb, Louis Francis
Fairweather, John Henry
Faubel, John
Fawcett, Pleasant E.
Fee, Grant
Fischer, Ernest Louis
Posscy, George Francis
Foster, Jesse Clark T.
Fourness, Havelock
· Freirmuth, · Henry Hervey
Gillespie, George Graham
Gless, Jules Paul
Glick, Henry •
Goetting Charles Lawrence, P. M.
Grimm, Lewis Robert
Hamilton, John Williams
Hanton, Alfred George
Harcom, Joshua John
Harrison, James E. D.
Hinds, Hiram Conlee
Inglis, Paris Leach
Isbell, George F.
Isbell, Henry LaSell
Jackson, George Benjamin
Jenkins, Edward Charles
Jessen, Christian Frederick
Johnson, ,John Alfred
,Johnson, John: Hobart
.Johnson, Shirley Wayman
,Tohn~on, Walter S.
Jones, Frederic Charles
Jordan, Joe Henry

Kennedy, Daniel Webster
Kenny, William Rowland
Kerr, John
Knox, Leslie Henry
Larkins, James Alex.
Larsen, Louis Albert, P. M.
Lawrence, Stephen
Lawson, John Finlay
Levy, Sol Jacob
Liechti, Arnold W.
K1int, Anton Henry
Langpaap, Hugo
Longwill, David C.
Longwill, John
Lucy, Roscoe Warren
· Mackillop, Andrew P.
Mackillop, Angus
Mnckillop, Angus W.
Mackillop, Archibald D.
Maddux, Parker Simmons
Mann, James Munroe
Mardis, Benjamin Allen
McLeod, Charles H.
McPhail, Roy Kenneth
Mehrtens, Louis
Miller, George Antone
Momyer, Harry E'.J Jr.
Momyer, Henry Eastman
Moore, Harry Christen
Morris, Robert
Morton, Robert Lincoln
Munday, Cbalmer C., P. M .
Nelson, Fernando
Nelson, William A.
Newburgh, Henry
Niemeyer, Harry Albert·
Norgrove, Richard Lester
Nystrom, Charles Alfred
0 'Connell, Patrick James
Rainey, Edwin Samuel
Riley, Martin Painter
Phelps, Orio
PomcrCJy, George Spencer
Pratt, John Haraden
Purdy, Frederic

.599

600

ROSTER

Rogers, John ~ashington
Rothermel, Frederick Charles
Sanborn, Luther
Scheer, George
Schofield, William Frederick
Seaton, Edward Monroe
Seccombe, Arthur Henry
Simpson, Max
Shorb, Orren Edward
Skillicorn, Arthur Edward
Slocumb, Hall
Smith, John William
Sommer, Carl George
8tandart, William Henry
Stobzenwald, Rudolf F.
Steffens, George Winfield
Stevenson, Edwin John
Stewart, Joel Lemley
Stone, Leonard
Strange, Ralph Rae
Sturtevant, George Abram

Temple, Jnmes Howard
Theisen, Adolph Ralph
Thompson, John E.
Tichnor, Austin K.
Trefz, Adolph Gustav
Walker. Joshua
Walters, William John
Wardell, Justus S.
Wehe, Alfred Wood
Werner, Charles Frederick
Wholey, William N.
Willey, George Henry
Wilson, Joseph Arthur
Wratten, Frank Lawrence
Yager, Philip
Yager, William Washington
Young, Edward Livingston
Zietich, Antone
Zobel, Alfred Jacob
Zobel, Jacob

601

ROSTER
Cosper, Volney Bernard
Cunningham, Fred Alonzo
Dennison, Leo;nidas Richardson
Davis, Charles William
Dessin, Harry W.
Edwards, Frank Porter
Eschelback, Albert Joseph
Guerra, John
Hamsher, .Clarence F.
Holston, George William
Hoon, Malcom James
Hynding, Andrew
.Jensen, Mattrup
Kauffmann, Alfred E.
Kauffmann, Charles Louis
Kauffmann, Edward Philip
Lawson, Edwin Richard
Ludermann, Adolph Fred
Martin, William James

McDonald, George Franklin, P. M.
McDonald, John Jame&, P. M.
·
Money, Walter Sydney
Nesbitt, William John
Newberry, George Andrew
Nunes, Frank C.
Patchell, Robert Kelso
Perham, George Lawrence
Plymire, David Brandley
Plymire, Harry Garretson
Scott, Abbe Percival
Smith, Du Ray
Snyder, Jesse Oglevee, P. M.
Styles, Harry Eckford
Swinkoski, Fred Vincent
Taylor, James
Wilson, Robert Alex.
Young, Charles
Zulk, Carl J.
-44.

EXPELLED:
Nealis, John Joseph

-155.

WITHDRAWN:
Bell, Harry Garfield

Stradwlck, Frederick William
Waterman, George Burton

FRANCIS DRAKE LODGE, No. 376.
South San Francisco, San Mateo County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Frank Porter Edwards, Master,
Charles Young, Chaplain,
South San Francisco
Edward Phillip Kauffman, Sen. Dea.,
Fred Alonzo Cunningham, Sen. War., H. Thomas Allen, Junior Deacon,
George William Holston, Jun. War., John James McDonald, Marshal,
George Franklin McDonald, Treas., Walter Sidney Money, Steward,
Ephraim Nixon Brown, Secretary, Timothy Bresnan, Steward,
South San Francisco
John Ellard Waibel, Tyler.

Allen, H . Thomas
Bresnan, Tinioth;v
Britton, George E el.

MEMBERS:
Brown, Ephraim Nixon
Cherry, JameR Curtis
Goombes, Samuel Arthur

ARTESIA LODGE, No. 377.
Artesia, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Guy Dennett Gamble, Master,
Frank Dunette Ashleigh, Chaplain,
Artesia
Ralph Halbrook Corum, Sen. Deacon,
Carl Howard Whipple, Sen. Warden, William A. Sackett, Jr., Jim. Deacon,
Louis Rueben Riave, Junior Warden, Levi Carse, Marshal,
William Harvey Smith, Treasurer, Grant Elmer Gamble, Steward,
John Herman Niemes, Secretary,
Jay Elisha Randall, Steward,
Artesia
Thomas Ewing Dempsey, Tyler.
Ashleigh,• Frank Dunette
Ball, Walter Alfred
Bingham, Robert William
Byng, Benjamin Francis
Carse, Levi
Corum, Simeon Tives

M1'1MBERS:
Costner, Albert Morris
Courtney, Joseph Edwin
Courtney, Zeanus Maywood
Cox, Robert Matthew
Craig, Clarence Elliot
Dempsey, Thomas Ewing

•

ROSTER

ROSTER

602
Dodd, William Frederick
Dohn, Phillip Carl
Dolley, Rolland Evert
Dougherty, Uharles
Dougherty, James Lewis
Elliott, Paul Shadrach
Frampton, Arthur Edwin
Frampton, Douglas Lighton
Frampton, George Reecl, P. M.
Frampton, Walter Nelson
Felts, George Wesley
Gamble, Grant Elmer
Gamble, Guy Bennett
Gillespie, Edwin Grant
Hancock, Fieldon
Hurley, William Walter
Marchbank, Robert Bruce
McKinney, Myron Robert

Mills, John Benjamin
Morgan, James Madison
Morse, Fred Theo.
Niemes, John Herman·
Norton, Frank Logan
Perrie, Augustus Sherman
Purdy, Fred Hiram; P. M.
Randall, Jay Elisha
Riave, Louis Ruben
Sackett, William Alford
Sackett, William Alford, Jr.
Sackett, Joseph David
Sanderson, Andrew Jesse
Smith, Jay Guy
Smith, William Harvey
Thowson, Elias
·watts, George Newtn'l
Whipple, C11rl Howard

--48.

MIZPAH LODGE, No. 378.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
Masonic Temple.
OFFICERS:

Bartholomew Marchese, Master,
George Edward Virgo, Chaplain,
3318 Griffith Avenue
Frederick Augustus Holmes, S. Dea.,
Lloyd William Harmon, Sen. Ward., John Edward Perrins, Junior Deacon,
John Benjamin Merrill, Jun. Warden, Frank Henry Stitt, Marshal,
George Frederick Barlow, Treasurer, Harry Alonzo Fulsom, Steward,
Clyde Otis Linn, Secretary,
George Rowland Harrison, Steward,
640% E. 23d Street
Adolph J. Maas, Tyler.

Anderson, August Theodore
Anderson, Edward Wirte
Alderson, Francis Earl
Anderson, William Wesley
Andrews, Fred Lantzenhiser
Allen, Harry Clinton, Sr.
Atland, Edward Neiman
Austin, Robert Harrison
Avery, Edwin Henry Butte

MEMBERS:
Babcock, William Wesley
Bacheller, Horace Charles
Baker, Fred
Baker, Thomas Geoghegan
Bardwell, Horatio John
Barlow, George Frederick
Barnard, Albert William
Barnett, William Brant
Barnum, Oliver Shepard

Battram, Henry Samuel
Bennett, Herbert Lafayette
Blac.kburn, Irwin William ·
Blackburn, Samuel Garfield
Booth, George, Jr.
Boyd, Ambrose
Boyd, Charles Arthur
Borkheim, Milton
Bowe, Martin Ralph
Bowen, Albert John
Brigham, Frank Hartwell
Brimer, Charles Arthur
Brisco, Wilfred
Brock, Allison Arthur
Brooks, David
Brown, Albert Allen
Brown, Oroville Eli
Brown, George Henderson
Brown, Theodore Stanley
Browning, J. Edward
Burt, Forney Edwin
Bush, William Jay
Ualder, Hugh Forrest
Calder, James William, P. M.
Caldwell, Wm. Elliott Hughes
Campbell, Otis Augustus
Carroll, Frank Daniel
Castleman, Casey Martin
Chase, Edward Tilden
Chollar, James Ralph
Colton1 George Felt
Uolyear, Curtis Calhoun
Cooper, William Frank, Jr.
Cotton, Lendel Merritt
Crecittt, Charles Henry
Creciat, George 'Lee
Creciat, William Lewis
Cresswell, Herbert Kemp
Crocker, Rowland Harris
Cromer, George Frederick
Davidson, Thomas Farley
Desmond, William Mannion
Dille, Clinton Francisco
Ditty, Thomas Ross
Dixon, Charles Edward

603

Dodd, George Melville
Dolland, Edward
Donaghy, Frederick
Donaghy, George
Donahue, William Henry
Downe, Alexander Byers
Edwards, John
England, Walton Sherman
Ernsberger, Raymond J.
Farmer, Robert Lorenzo
Fisher, Charles Dewees
Fisher, William Frank
Fitch, Harry Jay Maynard
Fletcher, Joel Conkling
Fragner, Donald
Frampton, James Alex., Jr.
Frampton, William Rex
Frazier, Frank O.
Freedman, Charles
French, Thomas 'F ox
Fry, Arthur B.
Fulsom, Harry Alonzo
Gain, Oliver J.
Gates, George Washington
Gillespie, 'Richard Johnson
Gardner, Arthur Clayton
Goge, Max
Golding, Raymond Edgar
Golding, George Washington
Goodman, Hugo James
Gordon, George Barr
Graham, Albert Edward
Graham, Alfred Henry
qraves, John Colburn
Graves, Wesley Richard
Green, Albert Price
Gregory, George Washington H.
Guedemann, Reinhard Fred'k, Jr.
Hag!'nbaugh, William Louis
Hermans, Frank Joseph
Harmon, Lloyd William
Harris, Nicholas Boilvin
Harrison, George Rowland
Hart, Frank Layton
Hathaway, Dexter Chamberlain

ROSTER
604

605

ROSTER

Herron, Frank Crail
Hickok, Harry Carlos
Hickok, William Roy
Haun, William Mars
Holland, Ulysses Grant
Holmes, Frederick Augustus
House, Beverly White
House, Austin Reed
House, John
Howard, Austin Fay
Hubbell, William Henry
Hugo, Maurice L.
Hughes, Joseph Robert
Hummel, William Augustus
Hunter, Calvin Fillmore
Hurt, Alfred Deavor
Hyde, John Church
Ingram, William Marque
Irwin, Theodore John
Itten, Joseph
Ivy, James Lancnear
Jackson, Charles Franklin
Jackson, Charles W.
Johnson, Peter Engelbert
Jones, Charles Austin
Jones, Guy
Jones, Thomas Lowis
Keller, Leopold
Kelso, Charles Edmund
Kennedy, James Henry
Kern, Joseph Edward
Kersey, Richard Wakefield
Kerslake, Harry
Kittredge, Charles Heber Francis
Kidwell, Oswald Gregory
Kitzele, Henry Joseph
Korngut, Samuel
Kremer, John
Kriege, Herman Rudolf Wm.
Krug, Walter
Lewis, George Myrick
Libby, Arthur Albion
Lindsay, Joseph Brown
Linn, Clyde Otis
Liston, John Grant

Lovey, Edward Burns
Luedke, Otto Rudolph
Mabry, Urb
MacLafferty, Halcombe R.
Maguire, James Harvey
Mansfield, Fred Almy
Marchese, Bartholomew
Martin, John Henry
Mattern, George Stewart
McClure, John
McCuen, Thomas B.
McDivitt, Clyde James
McGruder, James
McLeod, Harry William
Mendlesohn, Manny Soloman
Merrill, John Benjamin
Miller, Daniel
Miller, Ernest Clinton
Miller, 'l'hornas Sylvester
Miller, Ulysses Grant
Moffat, Alonzo Grey
Moore, l!'rank Grandville
Moore, Grover Cleveland
Mondon, Bdward Paul
Moses, Thomas William
Munger, Delaven Arnold
Moore, Roy Enos
Newell, John Thomas
Nolan, Arthur William
North, John Edward
Ogden, Blanchard
Orr, Frank Lewis
Owen, John
Page, Eziba Santford
Palmer, George Wesley
Parsons, Georgll Custer
Patee, Lester Gilbert
Peterson, Julian Ingersoll
Powell, James Rice
Powell, Herman H.
Philip, William Stewart
Pickering, James Melvin
Pister, Charles Christian
Porteous, Robert Herbert
Perrins, John Edward

Potter, George D.
P1·ugh, Julian Insco
Quaglino, John
Raftery, Michael Roy
Raftery, Thomas Albert, P. M.
Richardson, Bertrand K.
Richards, William '!'owner
Richards, William Washington
Redmond, Clement James
Roberts, William Nathaniel
Robb, Charles Miron
Rolfes, William Charles
Ross, Jacob
Rothfuss, Christian Frederick
Royer, ~enj. Franklin Simeon
Rutter, Amos Henry
Rutter, William Taylor
Sebastian, Charles Edward1 P. M.
Schwerdtfeger, Julius
Selkirk, Thomas Landells
Stutsman, Carl Allen
Sherrard, Edward Everett
Shepard, Albert Lee
Shepherd, Harry Walter
Skinner, Alfred Eugene
Small, Fred Fulton
Stair, Edward
Snyder, Charles Frank
Stevens, Corwin Worth
Stelzride, John Williard
Sanders, Erastus Neal
Schmidt, Jack William
Stitt, Frank Henry
Taylor, Ora
Taylor, Roland D.
Butler, John Lynch

Johnson, J. Frederick

Taylor, John Roberts
Toon, Rufus
'l'orosian, George Gregory
Tucker, Erving Palmer
Tyrrell, Frank Gill
Thorpe, Joseph Raymond
'!'tuner, Robert Morton
Utterback, John Louis
Valentine, Albl'rt Randolpil
Virgo, George Edward
Van Horn, Martin Francis
Volk, George Anton
Vidar, John L.
Wright, Arthur
Ward, Harry Wilfrid
Watkins, William Charles
Welch, Charles Henry
Wenham, Thomas
Williams, Alfred Stanley
Williams, Charles Wesley
Williams, J. Frank
Williams, Ros(ioe Conklin
Williamson, Frederick B.
"Wilson, Irwin Alex.
Winchester, Francis Orion
Weissert, Leopold Adolph
Whisler, Norman Kerry
White, William Ephriam
White, Oliver Orrin
Woolman, James Henry·
Wright, Cliffoi:cl Andrews
Yeager, Matthias
Zeigler, Thomas Harry
Zimmer, Nathr..n Warren

WITHDRAWN:
Heaton, Walter St. Clair
Watson, Ralph Mott
DIED:
Mason, John Armstus

--268.

607

ROSTER

ROSTER

606

HUNTINGTON BEACH LODGE, No.

FILLMORE LODGE, No. 379.

380.

Fillmore, Ventura County.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.

H1111tington Beach, Orange County.
Stated Meetings_:fi.rst Wednesday in each month.

OFFICERS:

OFFICERS:

John Powell Hinckley, Master,
Thomas Wileman, Chaplain,
Fillmore
Charles Herman Haines, Sen. Deacon,
Ira Loomis Hinckley, Senior Warden,Alfred Adney Warring, Jun. Deacon,
Richard Stephens, Junior Warden, Willis Burson, Marshal,
Jonathan Herbert Walker, Treasurer, Oscar H. Welch, Steward,
Gilbert Elisha Webb, Secretary,
James Harmon Walker, Steward,
Gespe
Ed. Bundren, Tyler.

George Arthur Shank, Master,
Edgar Elvin Clough, Chaplain,
Huntington Beach
Charles Robert Nutt, Senior Deacon,
Edward Hiram Darling, Sen. Ward., William Kesemann, Junior Deacon,
Ralph Emery Graves, Junior Warden, Edward Ray Bradbury, Marshal,
James Arthur Lake, Treasurer,
James Richardson Jelly, Steward,
Spencer Langdon Blodget, Secretary, Rush Maxwell Blodget, Steward,
Huntington Beach
Charles Promenchenkel, Tyler.

Allee, James Francis
Anderson, William Newton
Atkinson, Thomas Watson
Balcom; Henry Peter
Barnes, Louis Lee
Bowie, James Nathaniel
Bunclren, Ed.
Burson, Edward Wright
Burson, George Washington
Burson, Willis, P. M.
Dorman, Eugene Earl
Fairbanks,. Fergus Linn
Fleet, Walter Hugh
Grimes, John A.
RaineH, Charles Herman
Hemmelman, Criss Anton
Hinckley, Ira Loomis
Hinckley, John Powell
Hurlbutt, Levi Gould
Kays, Henry B.

MEMBERS:
Kenney, Benjamin Franklin
Maw, Norman Francis
Phillips, George
Pyle, Everett Anderson
Riley, West
Robinson, William Arthur
Sallee, Robert Franklin
Shiell~, Wiliiam
Stephens, Richard
Sutton, Edward Essington
Stoll, Adolf
!'l.towe, OsmE>r James
Trotter, John P.
Vogel, Herman Gottlieb
Walker, James
Walker, Jonathan Herbert
Warring, Alfred Adney
Webb, Gilbert Elisha, P. M.
Welch, Oscar Henzy
Wileman, Thomas

MEMBERS:
Howard, Charles Henry '
Huber, Orlando Henry, P. M.
Ingersoll, Cyrus Tweedy
Jolly, James Richardson
Kesemann, William
Lake, James Arthur
Lavering, Cecil Edgar
McDonald, John
Miller, George M.
Nutt, Charles Robert
Pollard, Herbert James
Promenchmkel, Charles
Shank, George Austin, P. M.
Trodd, Frederick
Van Orman, Chester D.
Wardwell, G<!orgc Warren
Wilson, Foster Ebenezer

Blodget, Rush Maxwell
Blodget, Spencer Langdon, P. M.
Bradbury, Edward Ray
Clough, Edgar Elvin
Conaway, Oscar Bigelow
Corbett, George Albert
Darling, Edward Hiram
Fisher, Eugene Irving
Fowler, William
Fox, Ernest M.
Gerhart, ~illiam Edward
Gillespie, Julius Milton
Goetz, John Jacob
Graves, Ralph Emery
Griffith, Andrew Wylie, P. M.
Harman, Nathaniel Oscar
Harrison, Frederick Earl
Hoornbeck, Eugene

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Graf!'., George Roy

-40.

WITHDRAWN:
Harthorn, Charles Whitney
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Guiberson, Samuel Allan
Guiberson, Nathaniel Greene

j

-35.

608

ROSTER

ROSTER

OCEANSIDE LODGE, No. 381.

HIGHLAND PARK LODGE, No. 382.

Oceanside, San Diego County.

Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.

Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Stated Meetings, second Thursday in each month.

OFFICERS:

Pasadena Avenue and A venue Fifty-seven.

John Franklin Martin, Master,
William Van Derverr Nichols, Chap.,
Oceanside
Edwin Bruce Johansen, Sen. Deacon,
John Albert Tulip, Senior Warden, Ernest A. Sloan, Junior Deacon,
James Tompson Morrison,Jun. War., Eugene Viele Griffes, Marshal,
Frederick William Rieke, Treasurer, Mathew Wellington Spencer, Stew'd,
Arthur Hugh Belt, Secretary,
George Addison Lane, Steward,
Oceanside
Herbert Lighton N ewham, .Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Johnston, John
Lane, George Addison
Martin, John Franklin
Manning, John, P. M.
Martin1 Isaac
MatthewR, Augustus Marion
Morrison, James Thompson
Newham, Herbert L.
Nichols, Wm. Van Derveer, P. M.
Rieke, Frederick William
Rorick, Davia
Sharp, Joseph Lewis
Sloan, Ernest A.
Sponeer, Matthew W.
Tulip, John Albert
-31.

Belt, Arthur Hugh
Berry, Charles Lee
Casterline, Myron Nelson
Coffey, Joseph Peter
Crouch, Joseph Lloyd
Davis, Ira Woodard
Franklin, Will Cook
Goldbaum, Simon
Griffes, Eugene Viele
Hall, Nathan
Hansen, John Adolphus
Hansen, Niels Frederick
Harrington, Herbert E.
Herman, Leopold Henry Penniman
Hindle, Norman William
Johansen, Edwin Bruce

WITHDRAWN:
Pittenger, Frederick William

609

OFFICERS:
William Russell Morehouse, Master, William Augustus Brown, Chaplain,
George Marshall Duntley, Sen. Dea.,
6424 Pollard Street
Robert Henry Gray, Senior Warden, Arthur Dalton Bond, Junior Deacon,
Harold Fraser Weller, Jun. Warden, \Villiam Ferguson, Marshal,
John Alexander Donnell, Treasurer, Rollin Henry Morse, Steward,
Charles Douglas Lewis, Steward,
Edward Difani, Secretary,
Herman Charles Mertens, Tyler.
311 West Avenue 50

Adams, Frank S.
Allyne, Ernest Osborn
Alfonso, Herbert Denis
Anderson, Arthur Torrence
Anderson, James Law
Archibalcl, Richard Christie
Avery, Charles Daniel, Jr.
Bailey, Arthur Henry
Basse, Fred Douglas
Blood, Willis Norton
Bowles, Arthur Cleveland
Bradford, Charl~s Raymond
Backus, John James
Blair, Paul Loughridge
Bond, Arthur Dalton
Boyd, Herb11rt Wales
Brier, William Wallace
Brock, Leo
Carver, Charles Elliot, P. M.
Chambers, Charles John
Chnmbers, William Kirtley
Clark, William Alton
Clifl', Charles Lee
Colby, Phi.lip Dearbon
Condron, Griffith
Corbin, Walter Augustus
Cline, George Thomas
Coles, Thomas Richard
39

MEMBERS:
Dauthit, John William
De Masters, Andrew T.
Difani, Edward
Dietcher, Henry Louis
Donnell, John Alexander, P. M.
Donnell, William Wendell
Duduit, James Edward
Dudley, Thaddeus L.
Dunscomb, Guy Sheldon
Duntley, George Marshall
Fellows, Thomas
Ferguson, George, P. M.
FerguRon, William
Fink, Hydalias Cyprian
Foote, Claire Ivan
Foster, Seth
Frederick, James Shaw
Gettins, Ed. Hillery
Good, Sidney Vincent
Goon, Wilfrid Bernard
Gos~ , John Herman
Graf, Albert Frederick
Gray, Robert Henry
Haas, Harry Homer
Handcock, Phillip
Hat~h, Leander 0., P. M.
Hayden, Bert Leroy
Hays, Robert Richard

610

ROSTER

RmHER

Heath, Charles Rhodes
Hight, George Harry
Hill, Benjamin Franklin
Hill, Nathaniel Mill
Holt, Shirley Luther
Hopkins, Ed. Wells
Howell, Ernest Frederick
Hubbard, John Frost
Hubbard, Hubert Sylvester
Jeffery; Elm.ore. Robinson
Jenks, Edward Dyer
Jones,_ Herbert Clinton
Judson, William Lees
Kennedy, William Homer
Ketchum, Marshall Bidwell
Knapp, Joseph Roscoe
Knox, Harry Clffton, P. M.
Koerner, Paul Albert
Leathers, Harvey Lewis
Leffler, Charles Blackburn
Lewis, Charles Douglas
Lock; George Ernest
Loud, Adolph Sternfeld
McCabe, James William
McCallister, Robert Bruce
McCrea, Thomas Pleasants
McFee, William Hamilton
McKenzie, Charles
Mertiln11, Herman Charles
Meye_rs, William Raymond, P. M.
Miles, Robert William
Mitchell, Franklin Rising
Morehouse, William Russell
Moore·, Alton Howard .
Moore, William Henry, Jr.
Morrison, Andrew Jacksox:
Morse, Rollin Henry
Murphy, Dennis· Frank
Musgrove, John Joseph
Norton, John
Noy~; Joseph Sibley
Nicolson, Alexander
Owen, Elmo Nelson
Parker, Stanford Devenport
Perry, Wightman Chappell
Pliipps, Edward

Piper, Noah Twidney, Jr.
Piper, Noah Twidney, Sr.
Prettyman, William S.
Price, William
Renfrew, Ontario John
Renner, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
Rice, George
Richards, Royal Francis
Riordan, Daniel
Ritchey, Cyrus Isaac
Rvb~·, Edwin EYerett
Saakes, Ott(I Charles
Scherer, Otto Max
Schulze, George William
i;ihoaf!-, Walter Randall
Smith, Charles H. D.
Smith, George Montgomery
Sp<'ncer, Roy Lucius
Stagg, Edward Houts
tiu.•inberg, Harry
Stewart, Robert
'l'horne, Henry John
Titus, Benjamin Greene
Train, John Henry ·
Trunick, John Stanford
Van Ornum, Allen Fish
Van 'l'rees, Paul Jones
Vernen. Elkry Peace
Vincent, Fred Ezekiel
Waddell, George Moore
Wall, Arthur Augustus
Wallace, Hugh Sinclair
Walker, Frederick Ernest
Walter, Fred, Jr.
Wayne, Ornval Franklyn
West, Leslie Melvin
Westergard, Peter
Well er, Harold Fraser
Westbrook, Richard
White, Charles Edward
Wigdal, Ole Johnson
Willson, Leon
Witherspoon, Gavin
Wood, John Charles
Wooflard, John William Lee
Yates, Sherman
-148.

611

WITHDRAWN:
*Morgan, Roy Germaine

OROS! LODGE, No. 383.
Orosi, Tulare County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

George Whitfield Knox, Master,
Fred Wright Conkey, Senior Deacon,
Orosi
James Henry Flack, l unior Deacon,
Frank N orvell Bumk, Sen. Warden, Orville Caughey Goodin, Marshal,
Edward Strachey Phil!ipps, !. War., Raymond Daniel Martin, Steward,
William Renard Pigg, Treasurer,
Eugene Albert Conkey, Steward,
Johri James Pugh, Secretary,
Miguel Veira Garcia, Tyler.
Orosi
MEMBERS :
Angel, Linzey Coleman
Hills, Arthur Augustus
Bacon, James Allen
Hills, Frederick William
Beinhorn, William M.
Johnson, Daniel Francis
Bigham, Charles Erastus
Kiggens, Elmer E.
Blair, Franklin L.
Knot t, Bruce
Blair, William Moffett
Knox, George Whitfield
Bump, Addison Joseph
Lowrey, Lee
Bump, Charles Addison
Martin, Raymond Daniel
Bump, Frank Norwell
McPherson, Jeromo W., Jr.
Biswell, George Washington
Morgan, Nelson Wesley
Black, John Douglas
Oxford, Walter
Blackledge, Lindley Ninde
Phillippe, Edward Strachey
Brooks, Edgar Rye
Price, 'l'homas G.
Cahn, Gustave
Pngh, .John James
Campbell, Charles, P. M.
Reed. Ra~'~on Jabey
Conkey, Eugene Albert
Schulp, Pet er
Conkey, Fred Wright
Redd, John Eaton
Faris1 Frei\ Perry
Reed, John Rayson, P. M.
Flack, James Henry
Starkey, 'Thomas Gideon
Garcia, Miguel Vilira
Trammel, George Foster
Goodin, Oroville Caughey
Wheeler, Austin Ellis
Hamilton, James Starr
WITHDRAWN:

Feaster, W1llfam Alvis
•Degrees conferred during the year.

.•

612

ROSTER

EL CENTRO LODGE, No. 384.
El Centro, Imperial County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Allender, William F.
Jones, James Sylvester
Azhdevian, Vahan John
Jones, William Clinton
Baker, John Billingsley
Mappin, Hugh Joyner
Baker, William Vinton
Martin, Harry Garrett
Beach, Thomas
McBratney, Kyle
Boyd, Edward Everett
McCary, Jasper
Brown, Carlton Barstow, P. M.
Mccombs, Virgil
Chaplin, David Hogue, P. M.
McDonald, Arch R.
Christopher, Thomas
McGuire, Jesse Lee
Cole, Franklin J.
Medhurst, Frederick Morel
Cook, Major S.
Miller, Ora Rufus
Cooley, Lewis Edward
Morgan, Isaac Arch
Delozier, James Garland
Morehouse, Howard W.
Dool, Edward
Morrison, John A.
Dunaway, Samu<>l William
Morton, William Loevett
Elder, Daniel S.
Noland, Daniel Vorhees
Eshelman, John M.
Norton, John
Force, Thomas Franklin
Pangborn, Edmund James W.
Fromme, Ernest A. William
Peterson, Frederick William
Griswold, Herbert C.
Peterson, Herman Holger
Hamilton, Walter Owen, P. M.
Potter, Lawrence Addison
Hamilton, William Pitts ·
Phillips, Peter Charles
Harding, Thomas
P utnam, Fred Barnes
Hart, Albert
Reed, George H.
Hoffman, James Borse
Rice, Charles Franklin
Holman, Milton Palmer
Salomon, Benjamin
Holt, William Franklin
Scott, Josiah Garfield
Hughes, Thomas Henry
Shenk, Adolphus M.
Johnson, M. Durward
Sprague, Walter H.
Johnson, William M.
Stover, Murray A.

Wimp, John Roy
Woolley, Lester J.
Zimmer, Samuel Blair

Swing, Phil D.
Tichenor, Paul Baker
Vencill, Truman
Wachtel, John Valentine, Jr.

OFFICERS:

John Morton Eshelman, Master,
John Billingsley Baker, Chaplain,
El Centro
Daniel S. Elder, Senior Deacon,
Herman Roiger Peterson, Sen. War., Thomas Franklin Foree, Jun. Dea.,
Ora Rufus Miller, Junior Warden, Samuel William Damivay, Marshal,
Franklin James Cole, Treasurer,
Major Samuel Cook, Steward,
Phil D. Swing, Secretary,
Walter Isaac McCoy, Steward,
El Centro
Jessey Lee McGuire, Tyler.

Eckert, Adolph Folker
Eckert, Carl Frederick
Hooper, Charles Jose

613

-61.

WITHDRAWN:
Jenkins, Herbert A.
McCulley, Ernest
Wade, George Royal
EXPELLED:
Woit, Charles

DIED:
*Atkinson, Thomas Austin

DINUBA LODGE, No. 385.
Dinuba, Tulare County.
Stated Meetings second Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Wm. C. Wyman, Master,
Dinuba, Cal.
Geo. P. Hedgpeth, Senior Warden,
Geo. M. Dopkins, Junior Warden,
C. C. Threlkeld, Treasurer,
John L. Rhodes, Secretary,
Dinuba, Cal.
Akers, Waltei:: Byron
Arthur, Tom
Ayer, Isaac Vaumeter
B arris, Emery
Bennett, Horace H.
Burum, Henry H.
Burum, Samuel Ernest
Burum, William Malcolm
Callison, Robert Henry
Cash, John Simpson
lauby, Joseph Fountain
Clot.felter, .T. Rene, P. M.

Jos. F. Cauby, Chaplain,
Abner Fraser, Senior Deacon,
E. C. W. Scruggs, Junior Deacon,
E. P . Conrad, Marsh.al,
W. C. Hauser, Steward,
Harry Moore, Steward,
H . H. Burum, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Conrad, Eli Perkins
Cress, Jacob Daniel
Day, William Frederick
Dichman, William James
Dopkins, George Madison
Dunn, George Ambrose
Ensign, Henry Wilson, P. M.
Fraser, Abner
Fullard, James Stanley
Giffin, Gordon Culbertson
Grimsley, Virgil H.
Hauser, Walter Cicero

•Degrees conferred during the year.

ROSTER

615

ROSTER

614
Hedgpeth, George Foster P.
Kash, David H.
Kirk, Robert Johnstone
McCracken, James Henry
Moore, Earl Morton
Moore, Fred Wilford
Moore, Harry H.
Morton, Richard Ephraim
Nichols, William Bates
Osterhout, G. W.
Page, Edward Joseph
Platt, Frank Lincoln
Reynolds, Junius Adrian

Rhodes, John Livingston, P. M.
Scruggs, E. C. W.
Sibley, Elmer
Scoggins, Andrew Jackson
Sharer, Ambrose N.
Threlkeld, Clarence Clifford
Wasgate, Archie Barton
White, Frank Low
Whittington, William
Williams, Thomas Freeman
Woods, William
Wyman, William Christie
-49.

:McCrory1 Robert :Morton
McLaughlin, Wen dell
Neal, William Thomas Gibson
Newman, Horner Worthington
Noble, Robert Houston
Olson, Charles Gunst
Phalen, Jack
Pohnke, Richard John
Redford, Arthur Frederick D.

Reed, Thomas ·
Ross, James
Roth, Emil
Round, Robert Clement
Shaud, James Reid
Soekland, William Godfrey
Torrey, John Morgan G,
Webber, Ralph Grant
White, Frank Russell

-48.

WITHDRAWN:
Smith, Charles H.

COALINGA LODGE, No. 387.
Coalinga, Fresno County.

CORREGIDOR LODGE, No. 386.
Manila, Philippine Islands.
Stated Meetings second Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Charles Centennial Cohn, Master,
Frank Dana Nash, Chaplain,
Manila, P. I.
David Milton Figart, Sen. Deacon,
Homer W. Newman, Senior War., Joshua Toggart Colvin 1 Jun Dea
Ralph Grant Webber, Jun. Warden, Ameen Mitry Saleeby Marshal .,
Joh~ Henry Ayres, Treasurer,
John Morgan Gaillai~ Toney St'd
Loms Cornelius O'Donnell, Sec.,
Joseph Frederick Bromfield, St'd., .,
William Godfrey Soekland, Tyler.
Aitken, Thomas Dickey
Ayres, John Henry
Barton, Eugene Martin
Blanchard, Rueben DeForest
Bruning, Frank N.
Chandler, Myron Hall
Cohn, Charles Centennial
Coleman, William W.
Colvin, Joshua Taggart
Comfort, Newton C, P. M.
Cook, Edward
Crossland, William. Alex.
Culver, Clarence Curtis
Davis, William Alex.
Edwards, Ralph Torrey

MEMBERS:
Enright, John Edwin
Eppstein, Tobias
Fansler, Orville Newton
Fisher, Frederick Charles
Frazier, Walter Faries
Gale, Herbert Daniel, P. M.
Goldsmith, William
Hamilton, James Yeager
Harvey, George Rogers, P. M.
Hoggrette, James Archibald
Kerr, Earl Harrold
Kneedler, Harry Dohme
Lampman, Howard A.
Lear, Benjamin Edgar
:McCall, Louis

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full :Moon.
OFFICERS:
Ray F. Holser, Senior Deacon,
Charles L. Kinney, Master,
Jno . H . Whaley, Junior Deacon,
Coalinga, Calif.
Harry M. Miller, Marshal,
Wilfred H. Boyce, Senior Warden,
Harry S. Davis, Steward,
Herbert J. Bender, Junior Warden,
Thomas P. Smith, Steward,
Henry C. Kerr, Treasurer,
J. Benj. Mead, Tyler.
John H. Webb, Secretary,
Coalinga, Calif.
MEMBERS:
Eversmeyer, Louis Edward
Andre, Robert Clement
Edland, Charles Frederick
Barber, George Wilson
Garrigan, William Henry
Bender, Herbert Jacob
t.:.-romley, Ulysses Sheridan
Black, Harry L.
Greer, William Alison
Boles, James Henry
Guiberson, Samuel Allen
Boles, Merle Lee
Guiberson, William Richard
Boyce, Willford Harry
Hendrickson, John :McElhaney
Calledway, Dedrick Frederick
Hinkle, George Washington, P. M.
Camp bell, Richard
Holser, Ray F.
Charlesworth, Benjamin William
Howell, Watson Isaac
Clow, Burton Roderick
Hughes, George :Mark
Crozier, Hubert R.
Jordan, Elmer Crawford
Davis, Arthur H., P. M.
Kerr, Henry Clinton
Davis, Charles Ernest
King, Roberson Jefferson
Davis, Harry Sprague
Kinney, Charles Lewis
Duncan, Lee Allen
Knowles, George
DeLoug, David :Magee

616

ROSTER

Lackey, John Harvey
Livermore, John W.
Maddern, Harold Hunt
McCutcheon, William Grant
McLemore, Calvin Arthur
Mea<l, Joseph Benjamin
Miller, Harry Merle
Miller, Luther Herbert
Mills, Samuel Ernest
Montgomery, Bartlett Edward
Page, Perryman Fredrick
Pierce; James H enry
Porter, Sylvester Douglas

ROSTER

Richmond, Henry Stuart
Rogers, David Thompson
Sanderson, Charles Nelson
Shafrath, Max
Shaffer, Howard McKinley
Sloan, Don Carlos
Smith, Alford Washington
Smith, Thomas Pomroy
Trumbull, Louis Thomas
Webb, Arthur Ernest
Webb, John Hickley
Whaley, John Henry
-59.

DIED:
McFee, William James

PARNASSUS LODGE, No. 388.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stat ed Meet ings, first Tuesday in each month.
F ourth Avenue and I Street, Sunset.
OFFICERS:

James Merton Hoyt, Master,
J ohn Samuel Gray, Chaplain,
1526 10th Avenue
Andrew Lewis Johnston Sen. Deacon
William A:thur Cree, Sen. Warden, John Joseph Dykeman,' Jun. Deacon:
Frank Christel Sunder, Jun. Ward., Edward Frank Lonideck Marshal
William Diedrich K oenig, Treasurer, Thomas Jackson Green' Stewar/
William Albert Hoyt, Secretary,
Walter Henry Je~sen, Steward, '
1526 10th Avenue
Edward Barnes, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adams, Frank Bertram
Callender, Monroe Nathan
Allen, William Wallace Jr., P. M. Carleton, Edwin Herbert
Anderson, Karl Gustav
Cavanagh, Leslie. Alonzo
Barlow, William
Cavanagh, Thomas Allen
Barnes, Edward
Chaquette, Albert Bernard
Beha, Charles Frederick
Christiansen, Jens Peter
Brekke, Lawrence
Collister, Matthew Fearn
Broaddus, Oscar J ames
Conner, Samuel Amannal
Brundage, Charles Edward
Cox, Edward
Brundage, Charles Stratton
Crabtree, George Leland
Bryon, Benjamin
Cree, William Arthur

Doherty, William Francis
Dorman, Clifford Thomas
Drake, Harry Ellsworth
Dykeman, John Joseph
Ferguson, Daniel B.
Fletcher, Edgar Roy
Force, Harold Wade
Fox, August William
Getz, Theodore
Goicovich, John George
Gray, John Samuel
Gray, Ralph Wendell
Green, Joseph
Green, Simon
Green, Thomas Jackson
Gregory, John Meredith
Grogan, David
Hart, Edgar Wayland
Heilmann, Ludwig
Hendricks, William Henry
Hoffman, Albert Frederick
Holman, Sidney Smith
Hopkins, Louis
Hoyt, James Merton
Hoyt, William Albert
Hughes, William Charles
Hunn, Percival Sidney
Hunt, Reuben Heywood
Iverson, Gerhard Warner
James, .Tohn Clarence
,Jessen, Walter Henry
J'ob, M. Harry
.Johnson, H enry Charles
Johnston, Andrew Lewis
Johnstone, Maurice
Jones, Robert William
Kaighin, John Ceasar
Kelly, Elmer Ellsworth
K err, George. Pringle
Koenig, Frederick H. Wm. D.
Little, John
Little, Will,iam
Limbaugh, William Albert
Long, James Francies

Longworth, Thomas
Louideck, Edward Frank
Loveland, Harvey Arthur
Makinson, John William
Marsh, Albert Le Roy
Marsh, George Warren
Mathieson, Chester Smith
Maxson, Wesley Searles
Mc:F'arlane, Arthur Henry
McKay, Richard Samuel
M cKee, Wilbur John
McWhirter, Willis J. B.
Miller, . William Rob
Millner, William Prosper
Mitchell, William Henry
Myers, William Henry
Nash, Bert
Parker, Albert William
Parker, William Chesley
Pederson, P eder
Peery, Chester Smith
Pitcher, E lmer Cyrus
Quimby, Manfred De Hart
Ragland, Jay Gould
Redpath, James William
Reese, Clement Tyree
Reimer, Otto
Remmel. Alva Jacob
Rickon, Harold John
Riffee, Clarence Walter
Rutherford, James Andrew
Saville, Harry Darius, P. M.
Segelken, Harry H erman
Shaw, Charlie
Sherwood, Stanley Edward
Smith, Byrd Oliver
Snibley, Harvey Blanchard
Somers, Harry Hayden
Sperry, Jared Boardman
f:!tille, Otto Ferdinand
Stolz, Henry Fred
Sunder, Frank Edward
Theriot, Joseph Edward
Thompson, Walter Alexander

617

618

ROSTER

Thumler, Henry William
Tobin, Austin Weston
Todd, Henry Lewis
Tooker, Simeon Edmund
Totten, Clair Harry
Turnbull, William Harvey

ROSTER

Varney, George Henry
Williams, John Butler
Williams, Oscar Floyd
Wishard, George Litel
Yates, Walter Henry

IMPERIAL LODGE, No. 390.
Imperial, Imperial County.
Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.
-121.

OFFICERS:

Roy Davidson McPherrin, Master, William Rankin Steve~son, Chaplain,
Imperial
Ralph Lane Oak, Senior Deacon,
Armenague G. Toprahanian, S. War., Louis Frederick Farnsworth, J. Dea.,
David Denton Copenhaver, J. War., Eugene Kellogg Carrier, Marshal,
Leroy Holt Treasurer
Thomas Edward Morgan, Steward,
William H:nry Hartsh~rn, Secretary, Henry Adam Ferd. Miller, Steward,
Imperial
John H . Beck, Tyler.

PALOS VERDES LODGE, No. 389.
Long Beach, Los Angeles County,
Stated Meetings, 1irst Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

John Hewitt, Master,
William F. Stevens, Chaplain,
117 Pine Avenue
James Ebert D.unbar, Senior Dea.,
Ernest Evered Archer, Sen . Warden, Edward Franklin Dotson, Jun. Dea.,
Frederick Baker, Junior Warden,
Benjamin Franklin Bond, Marshal,
Augustine Charles Malone, Treas., Jacob Edward Cadwallader, St'd.,
Frank C. Blair, Secretary,
William Middough, Steward,
Care First Nat. Bank, Pine Ave. Mark Trafton Berry, Tyler.
Archer, Ernest Evered
Baker, Frederick
Betts, Will Ambrose
Blair, Frank C.
Bond, Benjamin Franklin
Buffum, Charles Abel
Cadwallader, Jacob Edward
Carr, Roy Nathan
Carroll, John
Cate, Dallas Mason
Cook, William David
Crowe, Frank Austin
Denio, Elan Carlton
Dodge, Howard Lewis
Dotson, Edward Franklin
Dunbar, James Ebert
Dunn, John S.
Dunn, Orton Carrie
Galer, William Arthur

619

:MEMBERS:
Allen, William Henry
Holt, Leroy
Arnold, Mott Hunter
Kelly, William
Beck, John H.
Klein, Frank
Bixby, Samuel Munson
McBride, James Arthur
Breedlove, Roy Elmer
McPherrin, Roy Davidson
Brooks, Philip Whiting
Miller, Henry A. F.
Morgan, Thomas Edward
Bumgarner, George Marion, P. M.
Patten, Eugene Elmer
Carrier, Eugene Kellogg
Park, Herman Earl
Conser, William Daniel
Cook, Byron H., P. M.
Reid, George Hunter
Copenhaver, David Denton
Salisbury, Frank Melvin
Edgar, Arthur
Salisbury, William Benson
Edgar, John Herbert
Stevenson, Donald Rankin
Edgar, William Archibald
Stevenson, James Rankin
Stevenson, William Rankin
Farnsworth, Louis Frederick
Toprahanian, Almenagie G.
Farr, Finis Calvert
Hartshorn, Charles Darwin, P. M. Varney, George
Weinert, James L.
Hartshorn, William Henry

MEMBERS:
Gentry, John David
Heartwell, Charles Leonard
Hewitt, John
HuJJtington, Charles Elmer
Malcom, Charles
Malone, Augustine Charles, P. M.
Morgan, Jesse Josiah, P. M.
Mosher, Evan
Parker, John Robert
Parmley, Arthur Lynn
Porterfield, Austin Roy
Shaul, Marian J.
Sibley, Josiah
Simmons, Charles Leonard
Starr, Edward J.
Stevens, William F., P. M.
Thornton, Edwin William
. Wallace, William Haveloch
Young, William Howard
-38.

DIED:
Collins, Arthur Raymond
t

-36.

620

ROSTER

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Dennis, Willard Wallace
AU.a.ix, George Mitchell
Dishman, Edward Francis
Adams, James Clyde
Dopkins, Joseph Henry
Adams, Waiter Franklin
Drackett, William Bartholomew
Arbogast, Glenn Elven
Durgin, Walter Clements
Avery, Russ
Earle, Walter Hubert
Axtell, Clifton
Eisen, Percy Augustus
Barker, John Edwin
Farish, Oscar Eugene
Barschig, Charles Edward, Jr.
Farmiloe, Cyrennis Tyghe
Baum, Jacob
Feagans, George Elmer
Beers, Charles Joseph
Fearnley, Joshua
Bell, John Henry
Fechter, Louis Giesbauer
Benjamin, Charles Wilmot
Ferguson, Clarence
Biscailuz, Eugene Warren
Ferguson, David Walter
Blakeslee, Lyman Curtis
Finley, Theo. Gawn
Bresee, Paul
Fleming, Edward John
Brockway, H. Nelson
Foose, Charles Alexander
Brown, Andrew
l!'rackelton, William Burnside
Brown, Andrew McCormack
French, Malcolm Harry
Brown, Arthur Cortez
Gabel, Thomas Ring
Burt, William Jefferson
Galbraith, Samuel Valentine
Butler, John Lynch
Gallagher,
Richard William
Campbell, Charles Nicholas
Gamble, John Davis
Carpenter, Will Milton Varney
Gibbs, Amelius Marion
Chandler, Charles Lovell
Gibb"'s, Walter Dickson
Chandler, William Herman
Gifford, Harry Van Vleck
Clayton, Frank Rae
Gillette, William Winter
Clotfelter, Urill Thurston
Gilmer, John Parks
Coe, Edmund Wallace
Goudge, Herbert James
Cook, Clarence Weing
Goulding, Frederick William
Cook, Edward Jessup
Graves, Frank Fay
Cooke, Cadwallader Thomas
Greenland,
Sidney Albert P.
Cord, Harry Arthur
Gunther, Charles Winslow.
Cornwell, John Bates
Hadley, Charles Rose
Crampton, Walter Albert
Hall, Samuel Cortana
Crow, Benjamin Herbert
Halme, Simon Carl
Cuddeback, John Emery
Hammel, William Augustus, P. :M.
Curtain, Napoleon
Hammer, Jack
Cutts, Winthrop Raymond
Hancock, Paul Clifford
Danziger, Jake Morris
Hansberger, Robert Miller
Dean, Wilbur Huntington
Hanson,
William Gibbs
Dearing, Harry Lummis
Harbert, Frank B.
Defty, Emanuel
Hardin, Ferguson Smith
Dennis, George Charles

EAST BELT LODGE, No. 391.
Tuolumne, Tuolumne Collllty.
Stated Meetings, Saturuay of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Eugene Hamer Reid, Master,
William Hardin Wheeler, Chaplain,
Tuolumne
George Washington Wright, S. Dea.,
George Archer, Senior Warden,
Alfred Edward Walker, Jun. Deacon,
Frank Christopher Holman, J. War., George Albert Griffin, Marshal,
John Rogers Pr;.nce, Treasurer,
James Morris Burgess, Steward,
Casper Keller Goodwin, Secretary,
Mark Luke Tappendorff, Steward,
Tuolumne
Charles Grant McKenry, Tyler.

Archer, George
Beaser, Harry Phillips
Beeman, William Soper, P. M.
Breens, Walter Henry
Burgess, James Morris
Cunningham, William Price
Gallice, James Oscar
Green, Paul Franklin
Griffin, George Albert
Goodwin, Casper Keller
Holland, William Irwin
Holman, Frank Christopher
Ingersoll, William Leon
Johns, Josiah

MEMBERS:
Johnson, George Washin~ton
McKenry, Charles Grant
Morris, Paul
Pierce, Charles Lawrence
Prince, John R.
Ramsay, Archibald David
Reid, Edward Hamer
Ruwich, Alexander
Scott, William Richard
Tappendorf, Mark Luke
Walker, Alfred E.
Wheeler, William Hardin
Withers, Lewis Albert
Wright, George Washington

-28.

WEST LAKE LODGE, No. 392.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each Month.
Masonic Temple.
OFFICERS:
·wmiam Morgan Humphreys, Master, Harry Lummis Dearing, Chaplain,
241 N. Union Avenue
Paul Overton, Senior Deacon,
Charles Joseph Beers, Sen. Warden, William Herman Chandler, Jun. Dea.,
Milton Finley Curtain, Jun. Warden, Charles Woodford Yerxa, Marshal,
John Wilson Phelps, Treasurer,
George Henry Kelch, Steward,
James William Webster, Secretary, William Gibbs Hanson, Steward,
Boston Store
Ralph Morton Seely, Tyler.

621

•

622
Harris, Frederick Ernest
Harris, Walter
Hartung, Edgar John
Haydock, Clarence
Heaton, Walter St. Clair
Hewson, William Thomas
Hillis, Marshall Ezra
Hodson, Chester Arthur
Hoover, Clinton Dorsey
Hopkins, Benjamin Franklin
Howard, William Francis
Humphreys, William Morgan
Huppert, Edgar Francis
Hurd, Charles Calvin
Hurd, Henry Mix, P. M.
Hurst, Ernest Le Roy
Ibers, Max Charles
Inverarity, Frank
Jameson, Harry Moore
Jenkins, James Frederick Theo.
Jenkins, John Evans
Jones, Beecher Morgan
Keefer, George Lenfestey
Kehler, Henry Arthur
Kelch, George Henry
Kelly, Francis Asbury, P. M.
Kemper, William Bowler, Jr.
Kiggens, Jacob Thomas
Kister, Hannie Julius
Kreichbaum, George Herman
Lapp, Clemens Elmer
Lawrence, George Edward
Le Noir, Frank Howard
Lips, Walter
Lloyd, Robert Henry
Long, Harry Eugene
Lonterback, Samuel
Loyhed, Thomas Henry
Luckenbach, John
Lynu, Thomas Mason
M cArthur, Frank Crum
McCann, Bernard Carrigan
McClure, Frank D.
Mccuistion, William Jasper

ROSTER
McDowell, Edward Emerson
McKibben, Raymond Chase
McStay, Carl Elmo
Marcus, Eugene
Marxmiller, Harry George
Mathews, John Robert
Menwell, Edwin R.
Metzler, Irving Schlesinger
Miller, James Wesley
Mines, Harry Garnet
Mines, William Wales
Moore, Henry Phillip
Mortenson, Albert
Murphy, Uel Wesley
Norell, Oscar Aufelt
Oak, Ralph Lane
Olcovich, Albert
Olcovich, Emil
Osterholt, William Theo.
Overton, Paul
Pallette, Edward M.
Palmer, Edgar
Parker, Walter Francis
Parks, Thomas Billington
Pellett, William Johnston
Petterson, John Peter
Pfaffenberger, Walter Gladstone
Phelps, John Wilson
Phillips, James Samuel
Polsey, Jacob Everett
Quimby, Edward Hiram
Reid, James Arthur
Rewalt, Luther Louis
Riggins, Harley Edmund
Rittigstein, Joseph
Ruess, William Rudolph
Sale, Henry Thomas
Schmidt, Arthur A.
Schmidt, Frederick Wilhelm Theo.
Seely, Ralph Morton
Seibert, Edward Phillips
Shaw, Bertram
Siegel, Nathan
Silverman, Samuel

ROSTER
Ward, John Edward
Simmons, Sebastian
Washburn, Frank Leighton
Skinner, Alden Webster
Washburn, Harry Booth
Sloat, Harry William
Waters, Arthur Jay
Solomon, John B.
Watson, Ralph Mott
Sp:uks, Robert Stuart
Webb, Frederick
Splane, John ·Russell
Webster, Frederick Wiley
Stanley, Harry Emil
Webster, James William
Stocking, Ulyde Henry
Welbourn, Oclasco Carlos
Stone, Clarence Eugene
Whitman, Charles Henry
Talbot, James Arnold
Williams, George Henry
Taylor, Edgar Cleyrein
Willets, Ray Douglas
Taylor, Samuel Eugene
Wisehart, L.e onidas Kirby
Thompson, Clifford James
Woods, Henry James
Truex, Amasa Randall T.
Woods, Wilson Thompson
Valentine, Louis Hewlett
Woods, William Wallace
Vance, Champ Shepherd
Van Norman, William Vernon
Yankie, James Minor
Yates, James Pagden
Wakefield, Orin Haskins
Yerxa, Charles Woodford
Wakeman, Bennett T.
Walker, Joseph Atwood
WITHDRAWN:
Marlatt, Louis Brighton

623

-214.

DIED:
Selig, Adolph Louis

BALDER LODGE, No. 393.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Statecl Meetings, first Friday in each Month.
2174. Market Street.
OFFICERS:
F. 0. Renstrom, Master,
Geo. M. Rudebeck, Chaplain,
424 Stanyon
J. V. Stanquist, Senior Deacon,
F. G. Johnson, Senior Warden,
P. E. Person, ! unior Deacon,
C. G. Johnson, Junior Warden,
Emil Hogberg, Marshal,
E. 0 . l,indblom, Treasurer,
G. Palmer, Steward,
A. Lundquist, Secretary,
H. Brunnell, Steward,
410 Wells Fargo Building F. 0 . Holmquist, Tyler.
Adams, Edwin Axel
Anderson, Fridolf
Anderson, Gustave

MEMBERS:
Anqerson, Gustave E. F.
Anderson, Olof
Anderson, Per · Axel

624
Axell, Allan
Bergstrom, Andrew H.
Brown, Bernhard Horace
Brunell, Hjalmar Alfred
Gardelius, Conrad Rudolf
Carlson, Carl Anton
Carlson, John
Chytraus, Swan
Davis, Axel
Erickson, Peter Erick
· Farman, Charles Edward
Forsberg, Oscar
Forsberg, Samuel
Franklin, Carl P.
Georges, Carl Leonard
Gisslow, Klaus Lambert
Gradin, Anders August
Gruggel, Oscar L. Christian
Hanson, Karl Erick
Heinrich, Emil Bruno
Hogberg, Emil
Holmquist, Frank Oscar
Hulting, Frederick Benjamin
Jacobson, Jacob Lorentz
Johanson, Johan Hilmer
Johnson, August
Johnsop. 1 Charles Gustave
Johnson, Frans Gustaf
Johnson, John Walter
Johnson, Manfred
.Johnson, Oscar Walfred
Larson, George Peter
Lindblom, Eric Olof
Lindegren, Gustaf
Lindholm, Albert :bars
Lindstram, Axel Oscar
Lundahl, Victor
Lundholm, Carl Oscar
Lundquist, Axel Alfred

ROSTER

ROSTER
Mentzer, Harry
Monson, Olof
Nordin, August
Moren, George Gottfred
Nystrom, Charles C.
Olson, Alexander
Olson, Andrew ·
Olson, Otto Arthur
Palmer, Gustave Frederick
Pearson, Olof
Person, Iven
Person, Per Edvin
Peterson, Carl August
.Peterson, George
Peterson, Gustave
Peterson, Irving
Peterson, John Arvid
Petterson, Magnus
Price, George Nelson
Ramberg, Charles John
Randall, Charles Henry
Rehn, Carl John
Renstrom, Frank Oscar
Rudebeck, George Maurice, P. M.
Silverek, Gustaf
Sjagren, Frans Otto
Sjogren, August
Smith, Joseph M.
Stanquist, John Victor
Stanquist, Oscar Edward
Sutherland, Albin
Swenson, Jonne S.
Taylor, Henry William B.
Tornberg, Carl August
Trubeck, Nils Anders
Walkinshaw, Wilfred H.
Wallen, August Martin
Wallgren, Wilhelm Edward
Westfeldt, Gerhard Ewald
-84.

62.>

UNIVERSITY LODGE, No. 394.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, second Monday in each month.
721 West Jefferson Street.
OFFICERS:

Irving Jefferson Mitchell, Master,
Elijah Samuel Yeates, Chaplain,
Arthur McDonald Ellis, Sen. Deacon,
1127 W. 20th Street
George Williams, Senior Warden, Owen Rogers Stafford, Jun. Deacon,
Charles Hickle Ervin, Jun. Warden, Jam es Lawrence Collins, Marshal,
Byron Timothy Tilden, Treasurer, Daniel Clarke, Steward,
Carl Cronemiller, Secretary,
John Christi·an Netz, Steward,
Elisha Lyman Andrews, Tyler.
1574 W. 35th Street
MEMBERS:
Joslyn, Emmet William
Alexander, George Washington
Allen, Charles Wellington
Joslyn; Frank King
Andrews, Elisha Lyman
Lipe, Columbus Joshua
Austin, Burton Elijah
Litterer, Louis Adolph
Loridan, Florimon:d A.
Battey, Walter Raymond
McKinney, Samuel Pease
Beatty, Seydel Floyd
Miller, Thomas Kilpatrick
Bowers; Chester Herbert
Bridges, Thomas Mitchell
Mitchell, Irving Jefferson, P. M.
Mosher, Marino Benjamin
Brode, Francis Alfrey
Netz, John Christian
Buss, Anthony William Frank
Otten, John Willip.m
Carlsen, Eli Oliver
Rawlings, Charles Espey
Clarke, Daniel
Reimers, George Amos
Collins, James Lawrence
Cronemiller, Carl
Seeley, Walter Hoff
Cronemiller, Guy
Shadinger, Roy Orville
Shepherd, :Fretlric Monroe
Dolson, Albert Orlan
Duncan, Francis Marion
Sheppard, Harwood Allen
Shollenberger, Eugene D.
Donnelly, Patrick Joseph
Somerville, James William
Ellis, Arthur McDonald
Ervin, Charles Hickle
Stafford, Owen Rogers
Green, William Henry
Sweet, Charles Ibeson ·
Hazeltine, Paul Richard
Tartar, Christopher Columbus
Thomson, Archibald Percival
Hesse, Charles
Hudgens, Archie
Tilden, Byron Timothy
Hymer, James Alpheus
Todd, John Gilford
Johnston, Seward Wesley
Van Atta, Ivan Byron
40

ROSTER

626
Walker, John Douglas, P. M.
Walsworth, Chester Byron
Weifenbach, George Conrad
Whittington, John William

ROSTER

Williams, George
Wyckoff, Edward Blanchard
Yeates, Elijah Samuel, P. M.

627

APOLLO LODGE, No. 396.
-:-59.

WITHDRAWN:
Ames, Wlltlce. B.

TURLOCK LODGE, No. 395.
•rurlock, Stanislaus County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Benjamin Wainwright Child, Master, Alfred Hudiburg, Senior Deacon,
Turlock
Charles "G" Cuendet, Junior Deacon,
Clarence Humphrey Bronaugh, S. W., Willis Smith Chase, Marshal,
Hartman Walter Rickenbacher, J. W., Peter Eric Ander~on, Steward,
James Ray Quigley, Treasurer,
Carl Cornelius Carlson, Steward,
Louis James Gamwell, Secretary,
Henry Pierre Edely, Tyler.
Turlock
MEMBERS:
Anderson, Peter Eric
Holton, Franklin Alexander
Bronaugh, Clarence Humphrey
Homer, John Seymore
Brown, James
HudibMg, Alfred
Mains, Eldon Perry
Carlson, Carl Cornelius
McKenzie, Donald
Chase, Willis Smith
Child, Benjamin Wainwright, P. M.Mobley, Frederick E.
Clarke, Benjamin Franklin
Nuckolls, Holland McTyeire
Quigley, James Ray
Coffinberry, Corwin Camden
Raymond, Daniel
Cuendet, Charles G.
Richenbaeher, Walt. Hartman
Edely, Henry Pierre
Funk, James Abraham
Roberts, James Samuel
Simon, George
Funk, William Joseph
Shadle, Herbert Martin
Handy, Martin Monroe
Sperry, Louis Nelson
-28.
Hansen, Soren Anton

Alameda., Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, si>cond Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Mark Edward Gaines, Master,
Charles Horace Bradley, Chaplain,
1185 Park Avenue
Isaac Christman Bateman, Sen. Dea.,
William George Chaplin, Sen. Ward., Otto Riehl, Junior Deacon,
Elbert Neil Clintsman, Jun. Warden, William Franklin Green, Marshal,
Fred William Ray, Treasurer,
Percy Clarence Windham, Steward,
George Riceborough Gage, Secretary, Charles Buxton Greely, Steward,
2819 Van Buren Street
George Sturtevant, Tyler.
Bacon, William Robert
Bailey, Lewis Smith
Bateman, Isaac Christman
Beneuict, William Ezra·
Blair, Ralph Kirkham
Bradley, Charles Horace
Bryant, Charles Burton
Bunker, William Edwin
Chaplin, William George
Clark, Herbert Deans
Clintsman, Elbert Neill
Cohn, Gale Moses
Condon, Wilbert Shankland
Darch, John Frederick
Dexter, Albert George
Dodge, Edward Hall
Donaldson, Mason Willoughby
Edsen, Carl Hinrich
Field, Russell Bunce
Foard, Carl John
Gage, George Riceborough
Gaines,- Mark Edward
Garland, Alexander Murray
Grant, Ulysses Robert
Greeley, Charles Burton
Green, William Franklin
Gutte, Isador Julius

MEMBERS:
Hand, Roy Josiah
Harvey, Charles Fairfax
Hopps, Robert Edwin
Koerber, August Henry William
Latham, Alfred
Lee, Frederick Adolphus
Lehrkind, Oscar Frederick
Lorber, Hugo Milton
McCloskey, Walter Phillip
McWilliams, Robert Alex.
Meads, Norman Lansing
Parkman, Harry Leland
Pierce, David Henry
Porter, Ernest David
Ray, Fred William
Ricklefson, Harry Herman
Riehl, Otto
Sanford, John Stanley
Smith, Charles Henry
Spaulding, James Garfield
Stanley, William Henry
Staude, Frederick
Tracey, Robert Eugene
VonTager, Henry Peter Frederick
Weinmann, Louis
Williams, George Sprague, P. M.
Windham, Percy Clarence
-54.

ROSTER

628

ROSTER

R I SING L IGHT LODGE, No. 397.
Huntington Park, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, second Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Clinton De Witt Hubbard, Master, Richard Henry Thomas, Chaplain,
Huntington Park
William Francis Kittle, Sen. Deacon,
Joseph Alexander Bailey, Sen. War., William Carter Moss, Junior Deacon,
Charles Egbert West, Jun. Warden, Charles Henry Bevan, Marshal,
Henry Frederick Lenkfeld, Treas., Arthur Alfonso Rooke, Steward,
James Harrah, Secretary,
Marion Albert Steves, Steward,
Huntington Park
J ohn George Marshall, Tyler.

Herbert
Bailey, Joseph Alexander
Barber, Emmett
Bevan, Charles Henry
Clarke, Walter Henry
Dunn, David
Harrah, James
Hartley, Clifford C.1 P. M.
Higgins, John Crawford
Hubbard, Clinton DeWitt
Johnson, Thomas
Kittle, James Frances
Kittle, Walter Frances
Lenkfeld, Henry Frederick
Appleyar~,

MEMBERS:
Lindsey, William
Marshall, John George
Moss, William Carter
Pinkham, John Henry
Rogers, Charles
Rooke, Arthur Alfonso
Steves, Marion Albert
Stewart, Robert Anderson
Thompson, Frank Theo., P. M.
Thomas, Richard Henry
Walters, Alfred Eugene
Weber, Louis
West, Carleton Egbert

MEMBERS:
Hutchinson, Paul Hopkins
Allen, Glen Loring, P. M.
Leon, George Allen
Barnett, William
Matthews, James L.
Bott, William Simmons
Palmer, Roy Harold
Brouse, Allen McDonell
Patton, Chester Andrew
Brown, Wilbur L.
Renfroe, Joseph Brien
Browne, Harry Rosekrans, P. M.
Rigby, Charles Cubbison
Daugherty, Hiram
Shannon, William Russell
Dilley, Joseph Rodney
Harlan, William Lafayette
Smith, Alfred John, P. M.
W eseman, George
Hays, James
Hull, William Johnson

629

-21.

FRATERNITY LODGE, No. 399.
San Jose, Santa Clara County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS :
Samuel George Tompkins, Master, Edward Adam Moellering, Chaplain,
San Jose
Harry Wilkes Gilmour, Sen. Deacon,
Charles Lafayette Snyder, Sen. War., Paul Rudolph, Junior Deacon,
Frank Harris Ross, Junior Warden, Hugh W. Craig, Marshal,
Hugo Washington Otter, Treasurer, John Virgil Haley, Steward,
Walter Frederick Lillick, Secretary, George Kirtland McDonald, Steward,
62 E. Santa Clara Street
W . M. Pearse, Tyler.
- 27.

F OWLER LODGE, No. 398.
Fowler, Fresno County.
Stated Meetings Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
George Weseman, M aster,
Ray Harold Palmer, Senior Deacon,
Fowler
Joseph Rodney Dilley, Junior Deacon,
Chester Andrew Patton, Sen. Ward., Hiram Daugherty, Marshal,
, Joseph Brien 'Renfral, Jun. Wardeu, William Simmons Bott, Steward,
George Allen Leon, Treasurer,
Wilbur L. Brown, Steward,
Alfred John Smith, Se,cretary,
William Johnson Hull, Tyler.
Fowler

Bateman, David Taylor
Benepe, .John -L.
Blauer, William Edward
Brooks, Joseph Terrill
Brown, Frederick Benjamin
Buckett, George Parks
Butler, Robert John
Caldwell, Andrew Art hur
Chase, John Rufus
Cox, Herbert Every
Craig, Hugh William
Crawford, Ernest Jamee
Curry, William Frank
Dailey, Morris Elmer
Davis, Roy Veatch

MEMBERS:
Davie, William King
Davfaon, Charles William
De Fiore, Salvatore
Dinsmore, Dudley Fitz John
Doeer, Louie
Du Brutz, Arthur Gabriel
Durgin, Henry Jamee
Estes, Frederick Raymond
Gussefeld, William
Haley, John Virgil
HaMock, Joseph Edward ·
Harkness, Guy Herbert
Hayes, Jae. Orley
Johnson, Samuei Edgar
Kennedy, Joseph · G.

630

ROSTER

Koch, Valentine
Langford, Arthur Burr
Lillick, Walter Frederick
Lyon, William Penn
McDonald; George Kirtland
McMillan, John Gilmore
Moellering, Edward Adam
Monroe, Francis Merriam
Moreland, Samuel Edgar
Nash, Charles Henry
Nash, Dorr Edward

:ROSTER

Otter, Hugo Washington
Pfau, Lou.i s Jacob
Ross, Frank Harris
Rudolph, Paul
Sheriffs, Alexander
Snyder, Charles Lafayette
Tompkins, Samuel George,; P, M.
Trimbly, Stephen Bane
Wight, David, Jr.
Wilcox, Edwin Augustus
-.:i2.
Wilson, Lewis Benjamin

Lange, Eric
Little, Walter J"ohn
Logan, Ross Clay
Lorton, Frederick Douglas
Lyon, George Frederick
Maier, Henry
McEwen, Daniel Hudson
McMulty, Richard John, P. M.
Momberg, Gustave Adolph
Moores, Eldridg~, Morton
Murch, Louis Augustine, P. M.
Nelson, James .Arthur
Offield, Archibald Leonard
Oliphant, Edward

BURLINGAME LODGE, No. 400.
Bul'lingame, San Mateo County.
Stated Meetings? first Thursday in each month.

MEMBERS:
Alger, Oliver Effingham
Anderson, George Noble
Andrews, George Thomas
Atkinson, Frederi~k Williarc ·
Batchelder, Edgar Barnard
Bazata, Benjamin Vaclav
Beebe, George Alson
Bennett, Edward Olin
Berg, August
Billings, Homer A.
Bovee, Clarence Frank
Brewer, William A.
Christman, Henry S. J.
Chrisman, John Morris
Colby, Fred Talbot
Daudistel, Arthur Steven

Danielson, Hans Tobias
Diggles, Robert Newton
Durrell, Carlton Edgar
Easton, Ansel Mills
Edwards, John' Arthur
Eldred, William
Farrell, George
Foster, Charles Tilden
Goss, P. Bantacon
Gray, Thomas
Gray, Thomas Henry
Hansen, August Raymond
Hanscom, Allan :Raymond
Heuer, Frank
Kidd, William John
Krug, Albert

~o.

BAY VIEW LODGE, No. 401.

OFFICERS:

Frederick Dougl~s Lorton, Master, Benjamin Vaclav Bazata, Chaplain,
Burlingame
John Morris Chrisman Sen. Deacon
William John Kidd, Senior Warden, Robert Newton Diggle~, Jun. Deacon:
Walter Lagrange Scott, Jun. Ward., Frank Herbert Skellenger, Marshal, ·
August Berg, Treasurer,
Henry Maier Steward
Clarence Frank' Bovee, Secretary,
William Frederick Rci~ald, Steward
Box 240, Burlingame
Allan Raymond Hanscom, Tyler.
'

Penniman, Luther Eli
Regan, Harry William
Rebe, John
Robb, Jesse Calvin
Rowald, William Frederick
Scott, John Thomas
Scott, Walter Lagrange
Selander, Fred
·
Skellinger, Frank Herbert
Straug, John
White, John Miller
Williams, Clarence
Wisker, ]<'rank Gavin
Woolley, William Henry

631

Oakland, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.

•

OFFICERS:

Leroy W. Potter, Master,
Charles Edward Lloyd, Chaplain,
1146 Santa Fe Avenue
Sidney Homer Wilson, Sen. Deacon,.
Gwyn Harvey Baker, Senior Warden, Thomas Robert Tilley, Jun. Deacon,
Robert Stanton Wixson, Jun. Ward., Edward Wesley Miller, Marshal,
Harry Edward Brittingham, Treas., James Richard D. Mackenzie, Stw'd,.
Harry Clay Baker, Secretary,
Albert Francis Lovsie, Steward,
1051 56th Street
Charles Kimble, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adler, Adolph
Baker, Harry €lay
Baker, Gwyn Harvey
Blake, William Henry
Boyer, James Hoffman
Bray, Eustace Vivian
Brittingham, Harry Edward
Brisley, George Daniel
Brobeck, Hartford Thurman
Burrow, George William
Cain, Leslie Merrill
Clark, Byron Walton
Clark, George Russell

Callahan, Richard Edward
Catford, Dudley Alleyna
Chauvaldjy, Nicholas
Collins, William David
Devoe, Robert McCord
Dow, Hezekiah
Edwards, Henry Frederick
Emlet, Charles Wesley
Fisk, Arthur William
Fritz, Frederick Howaril
Gardiner, William
George, Edwin Lewis
Goldspring, Harry James

632

ROSTER

ROSTER

Gould, Harry
Grauholt, Charles
Griesemer, Abraham R.
Haroldson, Andrew
Harrington, Harris Francis
Henery, William Donaldson
Hogdon, Clarence Walter
Hollstein, George
Hull, Renick Winn
Ibsen, Hjalrnar
Ingram, Robert Henry
Janson, Carl
Jenkins, John
Kimble, Charles
Kohler, William
Leonhardt, John Richard
Lloyd, Charles Edward
Long, Harry Elmer
Lovsie, Albert Francis
Ludlow, Charles Edward
Mackenzie, James Richard Donald
Maganini, Joseph Francis
Marble, Carroll Mason
Matheson, Joseph James
McGuire, Hubertis
Miller, Edward Wesley
Monk, John William James

...

Muir, James Black
Nall, George Cookml!n
Parrot, William
Paulson, Paul Antone
Piltz, Ado.If Christian
Piltz, Stanley Adolf
Potter, James Pearson
Potter, Leroy W., P. M.
Rawson, John Sidney G.
Rittler, John Baptist
Rix, George Valentine
Robinson, Edward Oscar
Rodman, George E.
Schuster, Joseph William
Silveria, Joaquin Antonio
Smith, Erastus Floyd
Spott, Paul August
Sturgson, William Alberti
Suiter, Henry Arthur
Thomas, Ellis Irvine
Tilley, Thomas Robert
Van Wye, Scott
Whitten, Carroll H.
Wilson, Sidney Homer
Wixson, Robert Stanton
Yarovenko, Paul P.

Akin, Jerome
Baum, Harry
Bennett, John David
Cooke, John Liebert
Cox, Joseph Wilson
DeBoise, Edward Arthur
Dunn, William Tricky
Eaton, William Clarence
Eckert, Adolph Folker
Eckert, Carl Frederick
Fulton, Herbert Lionel
Gonder, Roy Eugene
Henarickson, Max
Jones, Harris Allen
Jones, Philo

633

MEMBERS:
Keener, William Alex.
Klasgye, John William
Moore, Alvin Ray
Nice, Charles Evart
Park, Clarence John, P. M.
Pound, Earl Clifford
Stafford, Percy Munroe
Stahl, Herbert Oscar
Stilgebouer, Edward B.
Wade, George Royal
Welcome, George Theodore
Whelan, William Henry
Withrow, Frank
Witter, Myron David
-29.

YERBA BUENA LODGE, No. 403.
Oakland, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
-79.

Henry Fletcher Starbuck, Master,
Charles Ezra Powell, Senior Deacon,
Macdonough .Building
Charles Hardie Campbell, Jun. Dea.,
Frederick Wm. Le Ballister, S. W., Arthur Herman Ziegler, Marshal,
Paul Alonzo Mariotte, Jun. Warden, Merrick Cheney Hersey, Steward,
Nathaniel William McDonald, Treas., Robert Clarence Parker, Steward,
Frank Durning Moyer, Secretary, Charles .Edward Ostrander, Tyler.
First National Bank Building

BRAWLEY LODGE, No. 402.
• Brawley, Imperial County.
Stated Meetings, Tue~day of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Clarence John Park, Master,
Alvin Ray Moore, Chaplain,
Brawley
Philo Jones, Senior Deacon,
Adolph Folker Eckert, Sen. Warden, Carl Frederick Eckert, Junior Deacon,
Herbert Lionel Fulton, Jun. Warden, Edward B. Stilgeboner, Marshal,
William Tricky Dunn, Treasurer,
John Lebert Cooke, Steward,
William Henry Whelan, Secretary, John William Klasgye, Steward,
Brawley
J erome Akin, Tyler.

Bell, Harry C.
Bilger, Frank William
Bowers, Jacob Lawson
Breman, John Abram
Campbell, Charles Hardie
Christensen, Charles
Clow, George B. Newell
Cole, Phillip Sheriden
Cook, Edwin Pelt
Cornish, Fred Earl
Craig, Claude Carpenter

MEMBERS:
Dingley, Charles Llewellen
Dowdle, Everett Stanley
Drake, .Fred Hugh
Edwards, Corman Orval
Enke, Albert Adolphus
Featherly, Rice Alvin
Fricke, Hubert Theodore
Gimmell, Charles Louis
Goodman, Arthur Ralph
Gould, Guy Torrence
Gray, Albert Warren

ROSTER

634

Gray, Harry Edwin
Henderson, Johnston Alfred
Hersey, Merrick Cheney
Hoover, Frederick Wheaton
Jarvis, Charles Fitz Howard
Le Ballister, Frederick William
Leedy, Charles Stewart
Leet, Lewis Cass
Madeley, George Woodland
Marriotte, Paul Alonzo
McDonald, Nathaniel Edward
McFarlane, Archibald
Merrill, Arthur William
Moyer, Frank Durning
Olson, Alfred
Ostrander, Charles Edward
Overly, Charles Hendrix
Parker, Robert Clarence

ROSTER

Patterson, Hubert Clyde
Penfield, Charles Augustus
Place, Niles Wesley
Powell, Charles Ezra
Robinson, Frank
Smith, Werdie Poe
Stalder, Joseph M.
Starbuck, Henry Fletcher, P. M.
Stevenson, Earle Vincent
Thompson, William Milton
Vane, James Playford
Vis, .Adrian
Von Schuckman, Norman
Whitehead, James Edwin
Wilde, William Thorwald E . Alex.
Williams, Fred Smith
Williams, Robert Vincent
Ziegler, Arthur Herman
-58. •

Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, fourth Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Frederick Theodore Purdy, Master, Thomas Jefferson Randall, Chaplain,
739 W. 55th Street
Everet Claud Williamson, Sen. Dea.,
Anton Mertes, Senior Warden,
H azen Emery Collins, Junior Deacon,
George Edward Witliarnson, J. War., Elijah Alexander Emmons, Marshal,
Frank Benjamine Hines, Treasurer, Winfield Scott Reisner, Steward,
Louis Brighton Marlatt, S ecretary, John Franklin Haizlip, Steward,
Los Angeles
Guy Llewellyn Davis, Tyler.

Glendora, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.

MEMBERS:
McQuitty, David Cain
Mertes, Anton
Mitchell, Chester Arthur
Myers, George Ridley
Norwood, William Hyatt
0 'Connell, William Henry
Ogroskc, Charles William
Peffley, William Francie
Pruitt, Drew
Purdy, Frederick Theodore, P. M.
Randall, Thomae Jefferson
Rappaport, Morris
Redpath, Frederick Hope
Reisner, Winfred Scott
. Shoults, Tracy Elbrige
Simpson, Leon
Smith, Ol!in Eugene
Spitzer, Maurice
Stern, Charles
Stift'lin, John Werley

Asbury, James Thomas
Burke, James King
Campbell, Claud Hornor
Collins, Hazen Emery
Craig, J . C.
Curl, William Thomas Wallace
Davis, Guy Llewellyn
Davis, Howard Woster
Donaldson, John Robert
Emmons, Elijah Alexander
Emmons, Floyd Burke
Field, George Franklin
Glick, Charles
Goldsworthy, John James
Haizlip, John Franklin
Hines, Frank Benjamin
Hokom, John
Marlatt, Louis Brighton
Mason, Harry Shattuck
McKeon, Mickel Thomas

OFFICERS:

Ashby, Nathan James
Bandholt, Juan F.
Bain, William Guy
Bell, Otis Freeman
Bidwell, Rolfe Bishop
Blackenship, Roland Foreman
Braddy, William
Cook, William Henry
Deshields, John Walter

Andrew Berry Rogers, Chaplain,
Geo. Basil Gordon, Senior Deacon,
Wallace Lawton Howard, Jun. Dea.,
Glenn Eugene Odell, Marshal,
Leslie Alex. Warren, Steward,
Thos. Elbert Wallace, Steward,
Robt. D. Kneeshaw, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Gordon, Charles Franklin
Gordon, George Basil
Gordon, Hugh Taylor
Howard, Wallace Lawton
Kingsley, Hugh Edward
Manderville, Ira Judson
Mathias, Jasper Chester, P. M.
Mullholland, Irving Harvey
Odell, Frank Eugene

-30.

MONETA LODGE, No. 405.

GLENDORA LODGE, No. 404.

Rolfe Bishop Bidwell, Master,
Glendora, Cal.
Irving Harvey Mulholland, S. War.,
Ira Judson Mandeville, Jun. War.,
Nathan James Ashby, Treasurer,
Vv·illard Selwyn ·wood, Secretary,
Glendora, Cal.

Warren, Herbert Clifton
Warren, Leslie Alex,
West, Oscar Roy
West, Orean Wyatt
Wood, Selwyn Willard
Wood, Willard Selwyn

Odell, Glenn Eugene
Ragan, Charles
Rogers, Andrew Berry
Smith, Frank Richard
Suydam, Keith McDonald
Taylor, B. Frank

635

t .

ROSTER

637

ROSTER

636
Stockwell, James Edward
Tillis, Hamilton Marion
Waggoner, George William
Wells, Burleigh Ernest
White, Ambrose · M.

Wilcox, Charles Edwin
Williamson, Everet Claud
Williamson, George EdwarP
Woodward, Charles Robert

LA MESA LODGE, U. D.

-49.

BURBANK LODGE, No. 406.
Burbank, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first 'rhursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Willard A. Coon; Master,
Almond S. D. Fulton, Chaplain,
Burbank
Charles H. Kline, Senior Deacon,
George M. Olin, Senior Warden,
_Henry W. Rouscup, Junior Deacon,
Charles B. Fischer, Junior Warden, Paul E. Jennings, Marshal,
Ralph 0 . Church, Treasurer,
Edward A. Fischer, Steward,
Walter A. Lovering, Secretary,
George H. Wood, Steward.
Burbank
J ames D. Hale, Tyler.
Bridgo, Ernest Hayden
Bridgo, James Ross
Catlin, William Charles
Church, Henry Arthur
Church, Ralph Owen
Conway, John C. ·
Cook, Eugene William
Coon, Willard Alden, P. M.
Craig, William Frederick
Dunning, Day Hix
Dunning, Harry Cole
Fainot, Fred H.
Fairburn, Simon
Fischer, Charles Burns
Fischer, Edward Albert
Forbes, Warren Jesse
Fowler, Edgar Blanchard ·
Fulton, Almond Samuel David
Gill, George Washington

MEMBERS:
Greenwood, Barzella Victor
Hale, James Draken
Hall, Francis Herbert
Huse, George Elmer
Jennings, Edward Paul
Kline, Charles Henry
Lovering, Walter A.
Ludwig, Uriah S.
Nesselroad, Charles Payton
Ogier, Clayton
Olin, George Monroe
Pupka, Martin
Rouscup, Henry Wilson
Salsbury, Charles Edward
Sence, Addison
Shelton, Judge Thomas
Thompson, Elmer Harmon
Townsend, Wilbur
Wood, George Herbert
-38.

La Mesa., San Diego County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
(Dispensation granted December 14th, 1909.)
OFFICERS:
John Ann MacRae, Master,
John William Doane, Chaplain,
La Mesa
Charles W. Leckenby, S enior Deacon,
Richard F. Gusweiler, Senior Warden,l\lexander Gibson, Junior Deacon,
William Ernest Lyon, Junior Warden,John Burbridge Davidson, Marshal,
Austin Henry Clements, Treasurer, Henry Lee Russell, Steward,
Ben E. Lyster, Secretary,
Charles Calvin Hull, Steward,
La Mesa
Peter Walls, Tyler.

Canon, Solomon Royce
Clements, Austin Henry
Davidson, John Burbridge
Doane, John William
Gibson, Alexander
Grable, Sherman Clayton
Gusweiler, Richard Fred 'k
Hammonds, John Daniel
Hull, Charles Calvin

MEMBERS:
L cckenby, Charles W.
Light, Edward Benton
L yon, William Ernest
Lyster, Ben Edward
MacRae, John Ann
Park, Charles Clarence
Russell, Henry Lee
Throustrop, Julius A. E.
Watts, Peter

-18.

SIERRA MADRE LODGE, U. D.
Sierra Madre, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
(Dispensation granted December 15, 1909.)
MEMBERS:
John W. Hanselman, Master,
Josiaah A. Osgood, Chaplain,
Sierra Madre.
William E. Deutsch, Sen. DeacoH,
Martin H . Bridle, S enior Warden, Mark D. Welsher, Junior Deaco,.,
William J . Lawless, Junior Warden, Tracey D. Veon, Marshal,
Herbert G. Flint, Treasurer,
George H. Letteau, Steward,
Samuel H . Spafford, Secretary,
Wayne E. Bechtelheimer, Steward,
Sierra Madre.
Frank Bederman, Tyler.

ROSTER

638

Adkin, Spencer D.
Bechtelheimer, Wayne E.
Bridle, M. Herbert
Deutsch, Emil
Deutsch, William E.
Depencier, Silas Theo.
Flint, Herbert G.
Gray, Charles Fred 'k
Hauselman, John Wesley

MEMBERS:
Lawless, William Joseph
Letteau, George H.
Nightingale, John Henry
Osgood, Josiaah A.
Spafford, Samuel Herbert
Staples, Paul Chester
Torrance, Lewis Curtiss
Veon, Tracey D.
Welsher, Mark D.

ROSTER

-18.

HONOLULU LODGE, U. D.
Honolulu, Hawaiian Territory.
(Dispensation issued January 21st, 1910.)
OFFICERS:

John Henry Drew, Master,
George Waterman Smith, Sen. War.,
Roscoe Wiley Perkins, Jun. War.,
MEMBERS:
Drew, john Henry
Smith, crement George
l!'enwick, James Fenton
Smith, George Waterman
Steiner, James
Jenkins, Christian Foster
Tait, John
Lyle, James Alexander
Williams, Henry Herbert, P. M.
Perkins, Roscoe W.
Petrie, Thomas Herbert, P . M.
Young, Alexander Smart
-12.

CHARTER ROCK LODGE, U. D.
Berkeley, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
(Dispensation issued February 12, 1910.)
OFFICERS:

Edward Alex. Stevenson, Master,
2412 Milvia St., Berkeley.
Samuel Wilson Smith, Sen. War.,
Harold Woodward Jewett, J. War.,
Allen Morgan Clay, Treasurer,
Charles Henry Freeman, Secretary,
492 College Ave., Oakland.

William Edward Rose, Sen. Dea.,
Max Alaric Plumb, Jun. Deacon,
Belmont Perry Jaggard, Marshal,
Oscar Sellers, Steward,
Albert Martin Poulsen, Steward,
Franklin Samuel Beckett, Organist,
Louis Conger Shingle, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
· Akers, Charles Duval, P. M.
Kendrick, Levi Jackson
Alderson, Frederick Lee,
Lee, Frederic Morgan
Allen, Albert Henry,
McCracken, John Porter
Allen, James Alphonso
McHale, Philip Edward
Anewalt, Henry Peter, P. M.
McKean, William Giles
Angwin, Lawrence Edwin
Madeira, William Ives
Armstrong, George Oliver
Marsh, George Irwin
Atkins, John William
Mensing, Herman Rudolph
Auze, Alfred
Miller, Frank Leslie
Baker, John Donald
Misenhelder, Charles
Battee, Albert Jackson
Moffat, James
Bayley, Simeon Stovall
Moffett, Edward Davis
Beckett, Franklin Samuel, P. M.
Moore, Williamson Glover
Bell, William Jordan.
Morris, Ira Allen, P. M.
Bennett, Fred Chauncey
Morris, John Westley
Blake, Sherman Tecumseh
. Nicklas, Philipp
Blanchard, Dudley Ravaud
0 'Brien, Patrick Edwin
Bonham, Louis Aron
0 'Grady, Thomas Frederick
Bradford, George Hosack
Parkinson, George Martin
Brady, William, Jr.
Patten, Joseph Albert
Buhring, Harry Herman
Peter, Jesse, Jr.
Camm, Charles William
Plumb, Max Alaric
Cardwell, Edward
Poston, Newton
Clay, Allen Morgan
Poulsen, Albert Martin
Cope, Harry Laverne
Pratt, George Albert
Cope, Leroy Johnstone
Raphael, James Grierson
Crew, Joshua Stafford
Reid, Robert Lincoln, P. M.
Cunha, ,Joseph Oliver
Reynolds, David Lawrence
Dowdell, Thomas
Riggs, Dalton Wallace
Eldridge, Arno Fisher
Robertson, .Ralph Denny
Freeman, Charles Henry
Roe, Joseph William
Garrard, Edward James
Rohlfs, John Charles
Goodman, Harvey Pulaski
Rose, William Edward
Gould, Charles Walter
Salbach, Leopold Frederick
Hall, Edward Lee
Seaton, Homce Scott
Hall, Sherrell Woodworth
Sellers, Oscar
Higgin, Frederick George
Shattuck, William Joseph
Hulett, Stuart McKeuster
Sheldon, Hiram Franklin
Jaggard, Belmont Perry
Shields, Fred Rex
Jameson, Charles Henry
Shingle, Louis Conger
Jefferson, Louis Weston
Smith, Samuel Wilson
Jeffress, Ernest Gunn
Smith, Willard Payson
Jewett, Harold Woodward
Souza, Emanuel Carl
Jory, John
Spence, Robert Wellington

639

640

ROSTER

Squier, Jay James
Stenger, William Henrv
Stevenson, Edward Al;xander
Stillman, Charles
Stout, George Homer
Thompson, Chadwick
Thompson, .Arthur Evelyn
Valentine, Edward Sharp, P. M.
Van Gorder, Arthur Grant
Walworth, Charles Harper
Wann, William Ashbury
Warnick, Frank Russell, P. M.
Warnick, James William

APPENDIX.
Watt, John Nelson
Weber, Adolph Hans
Webster, Thomas Eugene
W eslar, Willard Howard
Wilson, Dee Dial Evans
Winkler, Theophilus
Wishon, Frank Lenox
Wolcott, Benjamin Randolph
Wolcott, L ee Wheeler
Worster, William Dennett
Wright, Benjamin F .
Wright, Ernest William

641

APPENDIX.
TEXAS LODGE, No. 46.
Thomas George Lewis, Chaplain,
William Read Flint, Master,
Hollister, Cal.
Frederick William Kemp, S. Dea.,
George Holmes Moore, Sm. War., \Villiam George Regan, Jun. Dea.,
Irvin Webster Moore, Jun. Warden, Benjamin Flint, M arshal,
Mark J oseph Regan, Sr., Treasurer, Richard Hall Flint, Steward,
Arthur Smith Moore, Secretf'.ry,
Joseph Sylvester Willcox, Steu•ard,
Roscoe Greene Norton, Tyler.
San Juan, Bautista, Cal.

-113.

------

ST. HELENA LODGE, No. 93.
Louis Grant Clark, Master,
Jame~ Mitchell, Chaplain,
St. Helena, Cal.
James Alfred Newland, Sen. Deacon,
Geo. Sam. Connor, Senior Warden, Edw. Louis Bonhoti, Jun. Deacon,
Henry Andresen, Junior W arden, John Hiram Allison, Marshal,
Henry George Rammers, Stewar·d ,
John Henry Steves, Treasurer,
Benj. Franklin Kettlewell, S ecretary, Anker Miller, S teward,
St. Helena, Cal.
F ranz Ludwig Beck, Tyler.

VALLEY LODGE, No. 135.
Edgar Lee Davis, Master,
Charles Herman Meyer, Chaplain,
·
Linden, Cal.
Charles Norval Harrison, Jun. Dea.,
William Harvey Bonham, Sen. War., John Ryburn, Marshal,
James Lorch, JuKior Warden,
Andie Lester Bonham, Steward,
Albert Newton Davis, Treasurer,
Charles Perryman, Stewa4'd,
James Albert Drace, Secretary,
Charles Wayne Thomas, Tyler.
Linden, Cal.

1

41

642

APPENDIX.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR.'~!A

LANDMARK LODGE, No. 253.
Ernest Christian Baur, Master,
John George Frederick, Sen. Dea.,
Madison
James Christopher Gose, Jun. Dea.,
Francis Marion Strickland, S. War., John Lucas Stephens, Marshal,
George Rogers Hurlbut, Jun. War., Arthur Scott, Steward,
William Everett Grim, Trearnrer,
Carl Alexander Eckhardt, Steward,
Luis Plannsteihl, Secretary,
William Joseph Gray, Tyler.
Madison

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES.
Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

County.

Abell •............. 146 Ukiah ............... Mendocino.
Acacia •........ . ... 92 Coloma ...... ... •.... El Dorado.
Adin •............. 250 Adin ..............•. Modoc.
Alamo ............. 122 Walnut Creek .•..... Contra Costa.
Alameda ........... 167 Centerville ......... ·. Alameda. •
Alcatraz •........•. 244 Oakland ......•...•.. Alameda.
Alhambra ......•... 322 Alhambra ..........• Los Angeles.
Alisal . '" . .. ........ 321 Pleasanton ...........Alameda.
Alta •.............. 333 Bridgeport ......•... Mono.
Apollo ..•......... . 396 Alameda ...... . ......Alameda.
Alturas .......... . . 248 Alturas ..............Modoc.
Amity ............. 370 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Amador •........... 65 Jackson . .. .......... Amador.
Anaheim •.... .. .... 207 Anaheim . .... .....•. Orange.
Anchor ......•..... 273 Compton .............Los Angeles.
Antioch ............ 175 Antioch ...... .. ...•. Contra Costa.
Arcata .. . .......... 106 Arcata ........ . ..... Humboldt.
Arroyo ... •. ....... 274 Arroyo Grande ......•San Luis Obispo.
Artesia ...........• 377 Artesia . •. . . ......... Los Angeles.
Ashlar ....••....... 306 Colton ....... .. ......San Bernardino.
Athens •........... 228 Davisville ........... Yolo.
Azusa ............. 305 Azusa ............... Los Angeles.
Bakersfield ...•..... 224 Bakersfield ......•••..Kern.
Balder .....• , ...... 393 San Francisco ..... .. . San Franci11co.
Bay View ......... 401 Oakland .... .......... Alameda.
Bear Mountain ..... 76 Angels Camp •....... Calaveras.
Benicia . . . . . . . . • . . . 5 Benicia •.....•. . .•.•.Solano.
Berkeley ........... 363 Berkeley ..••.•..•... Alameda.
Bodie .....•....... 252 Bodie ................ Mono.
Brawley .•........ .402 Brawley ......... ; ••• Imperial.
Brentwood ...•..... 345 Brentwood ...•..•....Contra Costa.
Brooklyn •..•.••... 225 East Oakland .....•.. Alameda.
Buckeye •...•...... 195 Winters ............. Yolo.
Buena Park •....... 357 Buena Park •..••••..• Orange.
Burbank .... .• ..•. .406 Burbank ...........• Los Angeles.
Burlingame ..•..... 400 Burlingame .......... San Mateo.
California . . . . . . . . • 1 San Francisco ..•••... San Francisco.

643

644

ALPHABETICAi, LIST OF LODGES

Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County. .
Calaveras ...•..... 78 San Andreas .•....... Calaveras.
Callayomi ......... 282 Middletown •.•....•.. Lake.
Calistoga •.....•••. 233 Calistoga ............ Napa.
Carquinez .......... 337 Crockett .............Contra Costa.
Cavite .•..••.•••... 350 Cavite ......•....... Philippine Islands.
Charity ......•••.. 362 Campbell ............ Santa Clara.
Cha1ter Rock ..... U.D. Berkeley ............. Alameda.
Chico ...••......••. 111 Chico ..........•.... Butte.
Claiborne .......... 185 Point Arena .....•... Mendocino.
Clay .............. 101 Dutch Flat ...... : .... Placer.
Clear Lake ........ 183 Lower Lake ...•..... Lake.
Clinton ............ 119 Igo ................. .Shasta.
Coalinga ••.•.•.•... 387 Coalinga .•.........•. Tulare.
Concord .......•.•. 117 Sacramento •......... Sacramento.
Confidence ......... 203 Castroville .......... Monterey.
Consuelo .......... 325 Escondido .... : ...... San Diego.
Colusa ............ 240 Colusa ............... Colusa.
Corinthian . . . . . . . . . 9 Marysville •..•....... Yuba.
Corona ............ 324 Pasadena ............ Los Angeles.
Corregidor . . .•..... 386 Manila ......•....... Philippine Islands.
Covelo .. . ......... 231 Covelo .............. ,Mendocino.
Covina ............ 334 Covina .......... • ... Los Angeles.
Crescent ..•........ 45 Crescent City .....•.. Del Norte.
Crockett ........... J 39 San Francisco . ..... • ·San Francisco.
Curtis ............. J 40 Cloverdale ........... Sonoma.
Delano ............ 309 Delano .............. Kern.
Dinuba ............ 38ii Dinuba .............. Tulare.
Doric •.•.......... 216 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Downey ...... . .... 220 Downey ...•........ . Los Angeles.
Drytown .......... 174 Drytown ............ Amador.
Dunsmuir' •.•...... 297 Dunsmuir .•.......... Siskiyou.
Durant ........•... 268 Berkeley .. '. ....•.... Alameda.
East Belt ...•...••. 391 Tuolumne ........... Tuolumne.
East Gate .....•..• 290 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Eden ...•.........• 113 San Leandro .•.....•• Alameda.
Eel River ......•.•. 147 Rohnerville .......... Humboldt.
El Centro ........... 384 El Centro ...... ... .. . San Diego.
El Dorado ......... 26 Placerville ••••.•...• .El Dorado.
Elk Grove .... .. ... 173 Elk Grove •...... . ... Sacramento.
Elsinore ... . ....... 289 Elsinore ............. Riverside.
Emmanuel ......... 318 Biggs .•......••.•.•. Butte.
Enterprise ..... .. .. 70 Yuba City ..•...•.... Sutter.
Eucalyptus ........ 243 Hayward& ..• .. ..•... Alameda.
Eureka • . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Auburn •..•.••••...• .Placer.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

..

,

..

· No. Post Office.
County.
Lodge.
Evening Star ...... 186 Etna Mills ...•...•... Siskiyou.
Evergreen ......... 259 Riverside ............ Riverside.
Excelsior ...... • ... 166 San Francisco •....... San Francisco.
Fallbrook ......... 317 Fillmore ... . .....•.•. San Diego.
Ferndale .......... 193 Ferndale ......•..... Humboldt.
Fidelity ........... 120 San Francisco ... ... .. San Francisco.
Fillmore ........... 379 Fnllbrook ........... Ventura.
Forbestown ........ 50 Forbestown .......... Butte.
Forest ........... .. 66 Allegheny . ...•... ... Sierra.
Fort Bragg . .. ..... 361 Fort Bragg .. ... ..•...Mendocino.
Fowler .•.......... 398 Fowler .............. Fresno.
Franklin .....•.... 143 Courtland ............Sacramento.
Francis Drake ..... 376 Sou the San Francisco ...San Mateo.
Fraternity .......•. 399 San Jose .....••..... Santa Clara,
Fresno ............ 24 7 Fresno .... ... ........ Fresno.
Friendship .•...•.•. 210 San Jose ..........•. Santa Clara.
Fruitvale •....•.... 336 Fruitvale .....•...••. Alameda.
Fullerton •.•....••.. 339 Fullerton ........••.. Orange.
Gah ............... 267 Galt ... ............. Sacramento.
Gardena ...•...... 372 Gardena ............. Los Angelee.
Georgetown ......•. 25 Georgetown .......... El Dorado.
George Washington • 62 Chinese Camp ........ Tuolumne.
Glendora .......... 404 Glendora ............ Los Angeles.
Golden Gate •....•. 30 San Francisco ...•..•. San Francisco.
Golden State ...... 358 Los Angeles . ... ... .. .Los Angeles.
Gold Hill ...••..... 32 Lincoln .............. Placer.
Grafton ........... 141 Grafton ............. Yolo.
Granite ........... 222 Rocklin ......•....•. Placer.
Gravel Range •....• 59 Camptonville ..•....• Yuba.
Guadalupe .....•... 237 Guadalupe ........... Santa Barbara.
Hanford .......... 279 Hanford ............. Kings.
Harmony .........• 164 Sierra City .........• Sierra.
Hartley ........... 199 Lakeport ............ Lake.
Hawaiian ..• . .....• 21 Honolulu ......•.•...Hawaiian Ialands.
Henry Clay . . . . . . . . 95 Sutter Creek .•..•.... Amador.
Hermann .......... 127 San Francisco ....•.•. San Franci1co,
Hesperian ..... . ... 264 Santa Maria .......•.Santa Barbara,
Highland Park .. .... 382 Los Angeles ....•... , . Los Angelea.
Hill's Ferry ....... 236 Newman •......•..•. ~Stanislaus.
Hiram . . . . . . • • . . . • . 43 El Dorado •.....•.... El Dorado,
Hollenbeck ........ 319 Los Angeles •. : , .•••. .Loe AngelH,
Hollywood .. . •.... 355 Hollywood ...•....••. Loe AngelH.
Honolulu ........ . U.D. Honolulu . ....... . ... Hawaiian Tsland11,
Hope .............. 234 Beckwith ............ Plumas.

645

646

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Hornitos ....•...... 98 IIornitos ............. Mariposa.
Howard ........... 96 Yreka ......•........ Siskiyou.
Humboldt • . . . . . . . . 79 Eureka ............. Humboldt.
Huntington Beach ... 380 Huntington Beaeh ....Orange.
Illinoistown . . • • . . . . 51 Colfax .............. Placer.
Imperial ........... 390 Imperial .............Imperial.
Inyo ...........•.. 221 Independence ........ Inyo.
Ione .............. 80 Ione ................ Amador.
Jefferson .......... 97 Laporte ............. Plumas.
Janesville .......... 232 Janesville ........... Lassen.
Jewel ............. 3 74 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Keith ............. 187 Gilroy ............... Santa Clara.
Keystone .......•.. 161 Milton .............. Calaveras.
Kilauea .......•... 330 Hilo ................ Hawaiian Islands.
King David's •..... 209 San Luis Obispo ..... San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon '11 ••.. 260 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
La Fayette ........ 126 Sebastopol ........... Sonoma.
La Grange • . . . . . . . . 99 Merced .............. Merced.
La Mesa .......... U.D. La Mesa ............. San Diego.
Landmark .. " ...... 253 Madison ............. Yolo.
Las Palmas ........ 366 Fresno ............... Fresno.
Lassen ............ 149 Susanville ........... Lassen.
Laurel ............ 245 Willows ..............Glenn.
Lexington ......... 104 El Monte ............ Los Angeles.
Liberty ............ 290 Santa Clara . , ........ Santa Clara.
Live Oak ......... 61 Oakland ............. Alameda.
Lodi .............. 256 Lodi ................ San Joaquin.
Lompoc ........... 262 Lompoc .............. Santa Barbara.
Long Beach ........ 327 Long Beach .......... Los Angele11.
Los Angeles ...•.... 42 Los Angeles ......... Los Angele!!.
Los Banos ...•..... 312 Los Banos ........... Merced.
Los Gatos ......... 292 Los Gatos ........... Santa Clara.
Loyalton .......... 359 Loyalton ............ Sierra.
Madera ............ 280 Madera ..............Madera.
Madison ........... 23 Grass Valley ..•. , .... Nevada.
Magnolia .......... 242 Santa Barbara ... , ... Santa Barbara.
Manila .....•..•... 342 Manila .............. Philippine Islands.
Manzanita ........• 102 North San Juan ...... Nevada.
Marin ........•.... 191 San Rafael .......... Marin.
Mariposa ... , .•.... 24 Mariposa ............ Mariposa.
Martinez ...•...... 41 Martinez ............ Contra Costa.
Maxwell ........... 288 Maxwell ...........•. Colusa.
McKinley .......... 347 Point Richmond ..... Contra Costa.
Mendocino ...•..... 179 Mendocino .......... Mendocino.
"),

•

Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County,
Meridian .........• 182 Arbuckle ...........• Colu1&,
Mill Valley .......• 356 Mill Valley .........• Marin,
Mission ............ 169 San Francisco •....•.. San Franci1co.
Mizpah .........•.. 378 Los Angeles ......... Loa Aniete1.
Mokelumne Hill .•.. 298 Mokelumne Hill ...•.. Calavera1.
Molino ............ 150 Tehama .......... ·, •• Tehama.
Moneta ............ 405 Los Angeles ......... Loa AnielH.
Monrovia ......... 308 Monrovia ...•........ Loa Aniele1.
Monterey .....•.... 217 Monterey ............ Monterey.
Morning Star •..•.. 68 Stockton ............ San Joaquin.
Mosaic ............ 218 Livermore ........... Alameda.
Mount Jackson •.... 295 Guerneville .......... Sonoma.
Mount Moriah •.... 44 San Francisco ........ San Franci1co.
Mountain Shade • . . 18 Downieville .......••. Sierra.
Mount Shasta ...... 281 Anderson ............ Shasta.
Mountain View .... 194 Mountain View •..•.. Santa Clara.
Mount Zion •...•.. 114 Grizzly Flat .......... El Dorado.
Natoma ........... 64 Folsom .............. Sacramento.
Naval ............. 87 Vallejo .............. Solano.
Needles ............ 326 Needles ...•.....•... San Bernardino.
Nevada ........... 13 Nevada City ...•..... Nevada.
Newville .......... 205 Newville ............. Glenn.
Nicolaus .......... 129 Wheatland .........•• Yuba.
North Butte ....... 230 Gridley .............. Butte.
North East •.. , .... 266 Fol't Bidwell ........ ,Modoc.
Northern Light ...• 190 Millville •............ Shasta.
North Star .• , ...... 91 Fort Jones ........... Siskiyou.
Norwalk .......... 315 Norwalk ............. Los Angeles.
Oakdale ........... 275 Oakdale .........•... Stanislaus.
Oak Grove .......•. 215 Alameda ............. Alameda.
Oakland ........... 188 Oakland ...........•. Alameda.
Occidental ......... 22 San Francisco ........ San Franci1co.
Ocean Park ....... 369 Santa Monica .......• Los Angele•.
Oceanic ........... 371 Honolulu ............ Oahu.
Oceanside .......... 381 Oceanside ........... San Diego.
Olive Branch ...... 269 Tulare ......•...•... Tulare.
Olivet ............. 364 Corning ............• Tehama.
Ontario ........... 301 Ontario ........•..... San Bernardino,
Ophir ............. 33 Murphy's ............ Calaveras.
Orange Grove ...... 293 Orange ........• , .... Orange.
Oriental ........... 144 San Francisco ..••..•. San Francisco.
Orland ... , ... , .... 265 Orland .............. Glenn.
Orosi .............. 383 Orosi •....•...•..•.•. Tulare.
Oroville ............ 103 Oroville ............. Butte.

647

()48

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Oxnard ... , , ... , ••. 341 Oxnard , ....•...•...• Ventura.
Pacific ... , ...... , .136 San Francisco •.....•. San Francisco.
Pacific Grove ....... 331 Pacific Grove ..•....••Monterey.
Pajaro ............ 110 Watsonville ..........Santa Cruz.
Palestine ......•... 351 Los Angeles ..........Los Angeles.
Palmyra ...... " .... 151 Placerville .........•. El Dorado.
Palo Alto .......... 346 Palo Alto ............ Santa Clara.
Palos Verdes .....•. 389 Long Beach .......... Los Angeles.
Parfaite Union •... 17 San Francisco •....... San Francisco.
Parnassus •........• 3 88 San Francisco ....••.. San Francisco.
Pasatlena ..... , .. , . 272 Pasadena ......•••.•. Los Angeles.
Paso Robles ........ 286 Paso Robles ... . ......San Luis Obispo.
Penrhyn ........... 258 Penryn ........•.... ~Placer.
Pentalpha .. , .. , . , .202 Los Angeles , ........ Los Angeles.
Petaluma ... , .... , .180Petaluma ............. Sonoma.
Phoenix , .......... 178 San Bernardino • . . . . San Bernardino.
Pinole •............ 353 Pinole .....•......•.. Contra Costa.
Plumas . , ... , . , , . , . 60 Quincy .............•Plumas.
Pomona ........ , .. 246 Pomona ......•...... Los Angeles.
Porterville . , , , ..•. , 303 Porterville .•.•....•. Tulare.
Presidio ... , ..•.... 354 San Francisco •....... San Francisco.
Quitman , .. , .. , ..•• 88 North Bloomfield ..... Nevada.
Reading ... , , ...•.. 254 Redding ...•... . , .•.. Shasta.
Redlands ... , .... , .300 Redlands .............San Bernardino.
Redondo . , , ..... , .. 328 Redondo .. . .......•.. Los Angeles.
Redwood City • , , . . . 168 Redwood City •.•..•• . San Mateo.
Reedley ... , , .•.. , .304 Reedley •..•..••..•.. Fresno.
Richmond ......... 375 San Francisco ....... San Francisco.
Rio Vista . , ...••... 208 Rio Vista .........•.• Solano.
Rising Light, ...... , 397 Huntington Park ..••. Los Angeles.
Rising Star . , , . . ... 83 Forest Hill .......... Placer.
Rose's Bar , , .. , • • •• 89 Smartsville ...•.••.•..Yuba.
Russian River , , , , .. 181 Windsor •..•......... Sonoma.
Sacramento ..•..••. 40 Sacramento .......... Sacramanto.
Saint Helena •••.•.. 93 St. Helena •.....•..•. Napa.
Saint John's , , .•.. , 37 Yreka .........•.... .,Siskiyou.
Salinas .. , .... , ... , 204 Salinas .........•.... Monterey.
San Benito .•..•...• 211 Hollister .•...••.•..•. San Benito.
San Buenaventura ... 214 Ventura ..•........•• Ventura.
Santa Ana .......•. 241 Santa An<\ ..•........ Orange.
Santa Barbara ..•.• 192 Santa Barbara ..... • . Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz •....• , . 38 Santa Cruz ......... Santa Cruz.
San Diego . , , ..... , 35 San Diego ............ San Diego.
Sanger ... , .••••••• 316 Sanger .............. Fresno.

•

County.
Lodge.
No. Post Office.
San Bernardino ..•.. 348 San Bernardino •....• San Bernardino.
San Fernando ... , .. 343 Fernando .......... , , Los Angeles.
San Francisco ..... 360 San Francisco •..• , .•. San Francisco.
San Jacinto , ..• , , .. 338 San Jacinto , .......• Riverside.
San Joaquin •.....• 19 Stockton .. , , , .. , , . , , .San Joaquin.
San Jose ........... 10 San Jose ............ Santa Clara.
San Mateo ......... 226 San Mateo ..... , ..... San Mateo.
San Miguel ....... 285 San Miguel ... , , , .... San Luis Obispo.
San Pedro ......... 332 San Petlro , .......•.. Los Angeles.
Santa Lucia ..•.... 302 Kings City ....•. , .• Monterey.
Santa Maria , , ... , .340 Santa Maria , , , .'., ... Santa Barbara,
Santa Monica ...... 307 Santa Monica . , ... , .. Los Angeles.
Santa Paula •....•. 291 Santa Paula , , ......•Ventura.
San Simeon •...... 196 Cambria •......••.•• , San Luis Obispo.
Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ......•... Sonoma..
Selma •..........•. 277 Selma , , , ............ Fresno.
Sequoia •......•.•.. 349 Oakland •. . ..•.••• , •. Alameda.
Sierra Madre ...... U.D. Sierra Madre ..... , ... Los Angeles.
Sierra Valley ...... 184 Sierra ville ........... Sierra.
Silveyville ......... 201 Dixon ............... Solano.
Silver Gate ........ 296 San Diego ..... , .... . San Diego.
Sincerity .......•.. 132 Greenville . , , • , ...•. Plumas.
Sisson ............. 310 Sisson ............... Siskiyou.
Snow Mountain . ... 271 Stony Ford . , , , .... , .Colusa.
Solano ........... 229 Vallejo .............. Solano.
Sotoyome • .•....... 123 Healdsburg .. , , • , , . . Sonoma.
Southern California. 278 Los Angeles .... , , .. , .Los Angelea.
South Gate ........ 320 Los Angeles . , , .. , ..•Los Angeles.
South Pasadena .... 367 South Pasadena .. , ... Los Angeles.
South San Francisco 212 San Francisco • , .... , .San Francisco.
South West ..•..... 283 National City . , . , .•.. San Diego.
Speranza Ito.Hana .. , 219 San Francisco ...•.••. San Francisco.
Stanislaus ..... . .. . 206 Modeato •.....• , ••••. Stani~laus.
Starr King ........ 344 San Francisco ...•.. , . San Francisco.
Suisun . . . . . . . . . . . . 55 Suisun . ... . .•....... Solano.
Summit ........... 112 Knights Ferry . , , .... Stanislaus.
Sunset ............. 352 Los Angeles ... , ... , .Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley ... , 235 Cedarville .... , , ..... Mo<loc.
Table Mountain .... 124 Cherokee ..•......... Butte.
Tehachapi ......... 313 Tehachapi .. , •. , , .... Kern.
Tehama . . . . • • . . • . . . 3 Sacramento •......•.. Sacramento.
Temescal .......... 314 Corona .. , •.•...• , . , .Riverside.
Temple • . . . . . . • . . . . 14: Sonoma •. , ••.••••.•• Sonoma.
Texas ......•.•.... 46 San Juan .......... •' San Benito.

649

650
Lodge.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

No.

Post Office.

GRA:N'D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

651

County.

Traver ............ 294 Kingsburg ...... . .... Fresno.
Trinity ............ 27 Weaverville .... . .....Trinity.
Truckee ........... 200 Truckee .. ... ...... . . Nevada.
Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . . 8 Sonora . .. ........... Tuolumne.
Turlock ......... . .. 395 Turlock ............. Stanislaus.
Tuscan .... . ....... 261 Williams ............ Colusa.
Tyrian ............ 284 Dunnigan .... , ....... Yolo.
Union ............. 58 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Unity ............. 368 Glendale ....... .. ... ..Los Angeles.
University ......... 394 Los Angeles ...... . .. Los Angeles.
Vacaville .......... 134 Vacaville ....... . .... Solano.
Vallee de France .... 329 Los Angeles .........,Los Angeles.
Valley ............. 135 Linden .............. San Joaquin.
Vesper . ........... 84 Red Bluff . . . . ..... . .. Tehama.
Veteran • .......... 373 Sawtelle . .. . . ........ Los Angeles.
Visalia ............ 128 Visalia .............. Tulare.
Vitruvius .......... 145 Bloomfield ........ . .. Sonoma.
Vokano •.......... 56 Volcano ............. Amador.
Washington ....•... 20 Sacramento .. . ....... Sacramento.
Welcome ..•....... 255 Lemoore . ........... Kings.
Western Star . • . .. . 2 Shasta .............. Shasta.
West Gate •.•. ••.• . 335 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
West Lake .....•... 392 Los Angeles .. ....... Los Angeles.
Whittier ........... 323 Whittier •............ Los Angeles.
Willits ...•......... 365 Willits .............. Mendocino.
Wilmington ........ 198 Wilmington .......... Los Angeles.
~innedumah ..... . . 287 Bishop ............ . . Inyo.
Woodbridge ... .. ... 131 Woodbridge ......... San Joaquin.
Woodland .......... 156 Woodland ........... Yolo.
Yerba Buena ..... . . 403 Oakland ............. Alameda.
Yolo ............... 81 Yolo ................ Yolo.
Yosemite .......... 133 Coulterville .... . •.. .. Mariposa.
Yount ........... .• 12 Napa ...... . ..• ...•.• Napa.
Yuba . . ............ 39 Marysville ........... Yuba.

LOCATION OF LODGES.
Alphabetically Arranged.

Post Office.

T

Lodge.

No.

Aclin ............ ........Adin ... . ................... 250
Alhambra . .. ...........• Alhambra ... • . . ... . ........ 322
Alameda ........•....... Oak Grove .•................ 215
''
.............. . Apollo .................. . . . . 396
Alkghany •... .. •.•. ..... Forest .......... , . . . . . . . . . . 66
Alturas . ...............• Alturas ....... . .•.......... 248
Anaheim ....... .. ....... Anaheim ...... . ............ 207
Anderson ................ Mount Shasta ............... 281
Angel.a Camp .......... . . Bear Mountain ............. 76
Antioch .........•....... Antioch .................... 175
Arroyo Grande ...•.•.....Arroyo .... ... . •. .... . . .. . .. 274
Auburn ........ . ......... Eureka ... ." ....•..•.. • ...... 16
Arbuckle ...........•.... Meridian ...... .. ........•.. 182
Arcata .................. Arcata ....•......•....•.... 106
Artesia ........•.....•... Artesia .... . ...•............ 377
Azusa ............•..•••. Azusa •..••.•...•......... . . 305
'Bakersfield .....••.•.•••. .Bakersfield •....•.•......... 224
Beckwith ... • .....•..•.•. Hope ........•... ..... ......234
Benicia ...........•..•.• .Benicia . . • . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Berkeley ....•.•••...•••• Durant ......••............. 268
Berkeley ... . ...•.. •.•. .• Berkeley •. . ..•....... . .. ... 363
Berkeley ....•.. . . ... .. . . Charter Rock ; ............ . U.D.
Biggs ..........•••....•. Emmanuel .•..•.•........... 318
Bishop ......••• •.• .•..•• Winnedumah ....... . ....... 287
Bloomfield ........•..•••• Vitruvius ... • .............. 145
Bodie .. . ..........•..•.. .Bodie ......••...••.... .. .... 252
Brawley ..........••.•.•• Brawley . , .................. 402
Brentwood ......•.•••.••• Brentwood .•.••............ 345
Bridgeport ••.•.••.••..•. .Alta ..........•...••....... 333
Buena Park .......••...••Buena Park ......... .... . . . 357
Burbank ... . ....•.....••. Burbank .... ......... . .... . . 406
Burlingame ........ . •.... Burlingame ................. 400
Calistoga ................ Calistoga ................. . . 233
Cambria .......... • . . •.•• San Simeon . . • , .....•..•.... 196
Campbell ........••..•.. . Charity .................... 302

LOCATION OF LODGES

652
Post Office.

Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
No.

Camptonville .......•..•• Gravel Range ............... 59
Castroville ............... Confidence ................ .. 203
Cavite, P. I .. ; ...•.••••••• Cavite ......................350
Cedarville ............... Surprise Valley ............. 235
Centerville . .. ........... .Alameda ........... . ..... . . 167
Cherokee •..••..•.•...••• Table Mountain ............ 124
Chinese Camp ..••.•.••.•. George Washington .. . ...... 62
Chico ...•.•..•••••••.••••Chico ...................... 111
Cloverdale ••..•.......••• Curtis .............. . ....... 140
Coalinga .......•.•••..•.. Coalinga • .•....... ... .. . •. . 387
Coulterville . • ........••.. Yosemite ........... .. ...... 133
Colfax ...................Illinoistown • . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . 51
Corona .........•....•..• Temescal ........•.......... 314
Courtland ....•...••..•.• .Franklin . . .......•......... 143
Covelo . ...•..•... . ..•.•.. Covelo ...................... 231
Colusa .........•......•.. Colusa ................... ...240
Colton ........••..•••••• .Ashlar .. . ............ . ...... 306
Covina ...................Covina .....•..•. . .......... 334
Compton ...... ..... ......Anchor .....................273
Coloma .................. <\.cacia .. . ................... 92
Corning ........•• ,....... Olivet .........•.•.•...•.... 364
Crescent City ............ Crescent ................... 45
Crockett · .. • ..•.•••.••••••Carquinez ...................337
Davisvi1le .•...... .. .. .• . Athens ..•..•......... • . .. .. 228
Delano .....•.•....•..•.• Delano .... . .. ••.. .... . .. . .. 309
Dinuba .........•.•..•••. Dinuba ..................... 385
Dixon .•......•.•••.••.••Silveyville .... • ...•......... 201
Downey .....•..•.. . . .•• . Downey .........•. .. ....... 220
Downieville ....•.•....••. Mountain Shade •........... 18
Drytown .........•.•••.. .])rytown : ••..•.•........... 17 4
Dutch Flat .•......•.••.. Clay ............... ... . . ....101
Dunsmuir ................ lunsmuir •........•......... 297
Dunnigan ...... . ..•.•..••Tyrian .........•........... 284
East Oakland ......••. •. •Brooklyn ................... 225
Elk Grove ...•..•••..•.•. Elk Grove .........•........ 173
Elsinore ...........••..• ,Elsinore .................... 289
El Centro .......... . ...•• El Centro ................... 384
El Dorado ..........•.••. Hiram ..•.................. 43
El Monte .. . .. ..... .•...• Lexington .................. 104
Escondido ................Consuelo •.•..•............. 325
Etna Mill ................ Evening Star ............... 18.6
Eureka ...... , . , • , .•••.. ,Humboldt . . . . . . • . • . . . . . . . . . 79
Fa1lbrook .•.•.•••.••• •• •.Fallbrook .•.•.....•......... 317
Fernando ...•.•.•..••••.• San Fernando ...••..•....... 343

Post Office.

Lodge.

653
No.

Ferndale •..........••... .Ferndale ....................193
Fillmore ................. Fillmore ...... ..............379
Forbestown .............. Forbestown . . . ... • •.. .•. . . .. 50
Folsom ...............•.. Natoma .................•.• 64
Fort Bidwell •...•...••.•• North East ................. 266
Fort Bragg .............·.Fort Bragg ................. 361
Fort Jones ............... North Star .. ........ .... ... 91
Forest Hill .............. Rising Star . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Fowler .... .... .......... Fowler ............. . .... . .. 398
l!"'resno ...................Fresno ..................... 24 7
''
......... .~. .. ..... Las Palmas ... . ..... . ..... . . 366
Fruitvale ................ Fruitvale ............•...... 336
Fullerton ..... .. ........ . Fullerton ...•. . ... . .. ....... 339
Galt .......... ·........... Galt . . .. . .. . ....... . .... .... 267
Gardena ................. Gardena . . ............. . .... 372
Georgetown .............. Georgetown . ....•........... 25
Gilroy ................... Keith . ..... . . . . . ...... .. ... 187
Glendale • .......• . ... .... Unity ..............•....... 368
Glendora ......... '. ...... Glendora .............. .... .404
Grafton . ....... •.. .....• Grafton ......... .. ......... 141
Grass Valley ............• Madison ...........•........ 23
Gr.e enville ............... Sincerity .. ... ........ ...... 132
Grizzly Flat ............. Mount Zion . ........ . ....... 114
Gridley . . .• . ......••. •• •• North Butte •....•.. ........ 230
Guadalupe ............... Guadalupe .................. 237
Guerneville •.....••...•.. Mount Jackson ....• , ..... . . 295
Hanford .. .........• .••..Hanford ..• . ..••. ........... 279
Haywards .. . .•.• ... •.•.• Eucalyptus •..•......•...... 243
Healdsburg .•..••••..•..• Sotoyome ................... 123
Hilo, H. I. . .......•.••..• Kilauea .........•........... 330
Hornitos ............ . .. .'.Hornitos .........•......... 98
Hollister . . .....•.•......•San Benito ............. : ... 211
Hollywood ............... Hollywood .................. 355
Honolulu, H. I. ......... . . Hawaiian • ......•.......... 21
Honolulu, H. I. ...•...... ,Oceanic ... •. ...•..•...•.. , .371
Honolulu, H. I. ........... Honolulu ... .. ........ , .... U.D.
Huntington Beach •....... Huntington Beach ... . •...... 380
Huntington Park ..•....... Rising Light ..•........... . . 397
Igo ...................... Clinton ...........•.•....... !19
Imperial ................. Imperial ................•... 390
Independence ..••........Inyo •...........•...........221
Ione ..................... Ione ........•..•. . ..•.... . . 80
Jackson .•. , .. ... .. ...• .. Amador •.....•............. 65
Janesville ................ Janesville .. .. .............. 232

LOCATION OF LODGES

654
Post Office.

Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
No.

Post Office.

Kingsburg .•..•••.••••.•• Traver ........... . ...• , ... , 294
Kings City ••..••••••••••• Santa Lueia • ... •..•........ 302
Knights Ferry •.••••••.•• Summit ....•....•....•......112
Lakeport .....•...••....• Hartley .......•..•••....•.• 199
La Mesa ...• .•. •.••...••• La Mesa .•..•.•.......... . U.D.
Laporte ...•......•.•.••. Jefferson ... .• ......•....... 97
Lemoore .........•...•..• W eleome ........•.......... 255
Lineoln ........••••..••.• Gold Hill . . . . . . . • . . . • . . . . • . . 32
Livermore .......•...•.••Mot1aie ..... . . .............. 218
Linden ...•....•••••••... Valley . . . ..•..•.............135
Lodi •. . ...•. •• . •.• .•..•.• Lodi ........ . ... • ........ . . 256
Lompoe .......• ... ..•.•.•Lompoe . . .............•.....262
Lower Lake •...••.....•. Clear Lake ..................183
Long Beaeh .••..••..•.... Long Beaeh ................. 327
''
..... . ..... .. ,Palos Verdes ............... . 389
Los Angeles ....•.•...•... Los Angeles .........•...... 42
''
............. . Pentalpha . ...... .... ..... . . 202
.............. Southern California ......... 278
"
''
.. . .......... . East Gate .. ..... .. . . ...... . 290
''
.. .. ......... . Hollenbeck ................. 319
''
... , ......... . South Gate .. .. ............ . 320
...•..•..•••.• Vallee de Franee ............329
"
...•..•..•.••• West Gate . . ... ............. 335
"
......•...•..•
Palestine .. .. .....•........ . 351
"
...•..•....•.. Sunset .... : ...........•.... 352
"
. • . • ....•.•..• Golden State .......... ..... . 358
"
.............. Mizpah .....................378
"
.
. ............ Highland Park .............. 382
"
.............. West Lake .................. 392
"
. .. .. .. . . ..... University . . . ..•...... .. . ... 394
"
.............. Moneta · ...... .. ...... . .... . . 405
"
Los Bai10s .. . . .... ....... Los Banos .. . ... •• . • ...... .. 312
Los Gatos ........•••..... Los Gatos .....•...•.....•. . 292
Loyalton .........•....•.•Loyalton ...•............... 359
Marysville •...•...••..... Corinthian . . . • . . . . ... . . • . . . . 9
''
............. ·Yuba ....................... 39
Madison ........•..•.•... Landmark .....•..•......... 253
Manila ............••.•.. Manila, P. I. ................ 342
''

. ................. Corregidor .... . ...... . ...... 386

Maxwell .....•••....•••.•Maxwell •.......•.•......... 288
Madera • .. •..•.•••••.•.•.:Madera ...... .... .. ... . .. ... 280
Mariposa ...••.•••••••.•• Mariposa .. • ............ ..• . 24
Martinez •..•.... . ...•.•• .:Martinez . • . • • • • . . . • . . . . . • . .. 41
Mereed • . .••• • ••••••••••• La Grange .....•....•..•...• 99

·'

Lodge.

655
No.

Mendoeino • •.. •..•.••.•• Mendoeino ...•...... , ....... 179
Middletown ... .. .....•...Callayomi .......... , , •.••.. 282
Milton .............••.••.Keystone .. . ...•...... , .. ; .• 161
Mill Valley .....••.•..••. Mill Valley ..• , ............. 356
Millville .........•.....•• Northern Light •..........•. 190
Mokelumne Hill •.....•.•. Mokelumne Hill ...•........ 298
Monrovia ...•..•••••••. ~.Monrovia .................•.. 308
Monterey ......•.••••••.• Monterey .. .... ....... . ..... 217
Mountain View •••..••••••Mountain View •............194
Modesto •..•.......•••••. Stanislaus .... . ....•........ 206
Murphy's ...•.....•••.••. Ophir ...... , ..........•. , •. 33
National City .~ ...••..••• South West ................. 283
Napa ......•......•..•..•Yount . •., ..........•...... , 12
Newman ......•.•.•.•••• .Hill's Ferry .. , .........•. , . 236
Needles ........ , .•.•...•• Needles . , . . , .. , . .. .•. , . , . .. 326
Nevada City ........•...• Nevada ..... .. ... , , ........ 13
Newville ....•...... , , ...•Newville . , .... , ....•. , . , ... 205
North Bloomfield .....•..• Quitman , ....•..... , ....... 88
North San Juan .......... Manzanita ....... , .. .. ..... 102
Norwalk ... . .. , •.......•• Norwalk .. . .... . .... , ...... 315
Oakland .....• , .••••• , .•. Live Oak . ...... . , • , •. , ... , 61
''
.............. .. . Oakland . ........... ... ... . 188
''
................ . Sequoia ................... . 349
''
.............. .. ,Alcatraz ................... . 244
''
............... .. Bay View ................. . 401
''
· ............... .. Yerba Buena ................ 403
Oakdale •...•.••••.•••. • •Oakdale . , .••.•........ •.. .. 275
Oeeanside •• . ...•• ••• •.••• Oeeanside ......•..•.•...... 381
Ontario •........••.•••.•• Ontario .. .. . ...•........... 301
Orange ...••.....•.••.••• Qrange Grove ............... 293
Orland ......... , •.•.••• •Orland ... , ..•.............. 265
Orosi ...• . ..... .•• •. • •••• Orosi ............•...•...... 383
Oroville •.•. ..•....•••••• Oroville . , ... , ...... • •.... , .103
Oxnard ........•..••..••• Oxnard , ..............•.... 341
Paeifie Grove ......•.•.•• Pacitle Grove ............... 331
Palo Alto •....•..••..•.•• Palo Alto .........•........ 346
Paso Robles ... .. ...••..•• Paso Robles ....... , .. . ..... 286
Pasadena ........••.•••• :Pasadena ... . . .•.•......... 272
Pasadena .... . •.••..••.•• Corona . . ......•............324
Penryn .........•..•••••• Penrhyn ...•..•.......••..•.258
Petaluma ...• , ....••••.•• Petaluma ....... • ....•....• 180
Pinole ....... , • ..•••.••••Pinole .. . , ...•........•••.. 3~3
Pleasanton ........•.•••.• Alisal ......•..•.....••.•.•. llel
Plaeerville ...•.•••••••• • • El Dorado .•....•• , . • . • • • • • 26

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LOCATION OF LODGES

656

Post Office.
Lodge.
No.
''
.............. . Palmyra ................... . 151
Point Arena ......•....•. Claiborne ...........•...... 185
Point Richmond .......... McKinley ....... , .. , ....... 347
Pomona ..................Pomona .......... , ...••.... 246
Porterville ......•. , .... , . Porterville • , . , •.•.•........ 303
Quincy .........•........ Plumas ........ , . , . . . . . . . . . 60
Redondo ........... : ..... Redondo ..........•........ 328
Redding ...............•. Reading .................... 254
Redlands ...........•.... Redlands ................... 300
Reedley ................• Reedley .................... 304
Redwood City ............ Redwood City .............. 168
Red Bluff ..............•. Vesper . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . 84
Rio Vista ................. Rio Vista .................. 208
Riverside •............... ETergreen ...•.............. 259
Rocklin .....•..•.....•.. Granite ..................... 222
Rohnerville .............. Eel River .................. 147
Sacramento •............. Tehama .......... , . . . . • . . . . 3
•...•••....... Washington •..•............ 20
"
•...•.........
Sacramento ................. 40
"''
............. . Union ...................... 58
''
............. . Concord ................... . 117
Saint Helena ........... ; Saint Helena . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
San Andreas ............. Calaveras ............... . .. 78
San Bernardino .......... Phoenix .................... 178

''

.......... San Bernardino ............. 348

San Diego ............•.• San Diego . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
''
.............. . Silver Gate ................ . 296
San Francisco .......•.... California . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . 1
''
........... . Parfaite Union ............. 17
''
........... . Occidental ................. 22
''
...... , .... . Golden Gate ................ 30
•.....•..•.• Mount Moriah .....•........ 44
"
•........•.• Fidelity ..................... 120
"
.••..•...•.• }!erm'a nn ................... 127
"
..•..•.•..•• Pacific ............•........ 136
"
...•.....•..
Crockett ...........•....•. . 139
"
•.....•..•.• Oriental .................... 144
"
.....•••••.. Excelsior .......•........... 166
"
.•••.•••..•• Mission ...•.•.............. 169
"
............
South San Francisco ........ 212
"
•.•.•••.••.• Doric .........•.........•.. 216
"
............ Speranza Italiana ........... 219
"
.•.•••••••.• King Solomon's ............. 260
"
.••..••••••• Starr King ....•.••......•.. 344
"

J

'

l

..1

l

Post Office.
Lodge.
No.
San Francisco ............. Presidio ............ , . , ..... 354
''
.. ·.......... San FrS.ncisCo .............. 360
''
........... . Amity .................... . 370
''
........... . Jewel .................... , .374
''
........... . Richmond ................. . 375
''
............ Parnassus ................... 388
''
........... .Balder ..................... . 393
San Jacinto .............. San Jacinto ................ 338
San Jose ................. San Jose ......... .' ....•.... 10
•••.......... : ... J!'riendship ......•.......... 210
"
''
............ . ... . Fraternity .......... . .. . . .. . 399
San Juan ........•....... Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
San Leandro ............. Eden ....................... 113
San Luis Obispo .......... King David's ............... 209
San Mateo •.............. San Mateo •...••..•...•.... 226
San Miguel ...............San. Miguel ...........•..... 285
San Pedro ................ San Pedro ..•.......•.•••... 332
San Rafael .....••........ Marin ...... , .•.....•....•.. 191
Santa Ana .............. ,Santa Ana .................. 241
Santa Barbara ...•.•..•.. Santa Barbara .• , •• , .....•.. 192
...•.•..•.. Magnolia ......•.....•...... 242
''
Santa Cruz ......•...•.•.• Santa Cruz ...... , .... , ..... 38
Santa Clara •.......•....• Liberty .......... , , ..•••... 299
Santa Maria ..•....•..... Hesperian .••.••.....•...••• 264
"
............. Santa Maria ................ 340
Santa Monica .. : ......... Santa Monica ............... 307
"
; ........... Ocean Park ..... : .. ..... ~ .. 369
Santa Paula .....••.•••... Santa Paula .......••.•. , ... 291
Santa Rosa ....••..••.•• ,Santa Rosa ...•.....•.••.... 57
Salinas ........•...•...•• Salinas ...•................. 204
Sanger ...................Sanger ...................... 316
Sawtelle ..•....•••.•..•.. Veteran .............•••.... 373
Sebastopol ......••......• La Fayette •. .'..•.......•... 126
Selma •..........•.••..•• Selma ...................... 277
Shasta ..•..•..•.•..•...•• Western Star . . . . . . . . . • . . . .. 2:
Sierra City ..............•Harmony .........•......... 164
Sierra Madre ............ Sierra Madre ........ , .. ... U.D ..
Sierra ville ............... Sierra Valley ............... 184
Sisson .................•••Sisson ............•........•. 310
Smartsville ............•. .Rose 's Bar • . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . 89
South Pasadena ........... South Pasadena ............. 367
South San Francisco ....... Francis Drake •...........•. 376
Sonoma ....•.....•....... Temple .......•.•.. , . , .•...• 14
Sonora •.................• Tuolumne • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 8
42

. ..

LIST OF INSPECTORS

LOCATION OF LODGES

658
Post Office.

Lodge.

No.

Stockton ....••••.••••••.. San Joaquin ................ 19
''
................ . Morning Star .............. 68
Stony Ford .............. Snow Mountain ............. 271
Susanville ••••.•••••••••• Lassen .....................149
Sutter Creek •..•••••..••• Henry Clay • • . . • . • . . . • . . . • • . 95
Suisun ...................Suisun • • . • . • . . . • • . • . . • . . . . • 55
Tehama ..••.•..••...••.. .Molino ..•.•••••..•......•.. 150
Tehachapi ....•.••.•..••. Tehachapi •••••••..•..••..•. 313
Truckee ....•.•..•.••.••. Truckee •...•.•...•......... 200
Tulare ................... Olive Branch ..... ; ......... 269
Tuolumne .....•....•.....East Belt ... -. . ....... . ..... 391
Turlock ..................Turlock .................... 395
Ukiah .........••..•••.•• Abell •..•.••...••.•.•••••.• 146
Vallejo •• .••.•.••••••.•.. Naval . . . . . . . • . • . . . . . • . . . . . . 87
''
•...••••.••••..•.• Solano •••..•••...••.••..... 229
Vacaville .••••••••••••... Vacaville ..•..•..•.....•....134
Ventura • .•..•..•.••..•.. San Buenaventura •....••.... 214
Visalia ......•..•••••.•••Visalia .••..•••••..•....•... 128
Volcano .....•....•.....•Volcano ••..•...••.....•.•.. 56
Walnut Creek ••.••••••••• Alamo ...................... 122
Watsonville ••••.••.••.••• Pajaro •..••.•....••.......• 110
Weaverville ••.••. , , ..... Trinity ..................... 27
Wheatland •.••.•..••..... Nicolaus ..•..•.....•..••... 129
Whittier ...........•..•.. Whittier •........•..•..•.... 323
Winters ....•••.••..•.•.. Buckeye •..•....••.... • •.. · .195
Willits ...•.•••.•••.•.... Willits •......•...••.•...... 365
Willows ...•...••..••...• Laurel ...••.•••..•..•...... 245
Windsor ..•.....••.••.•.•Russian River ••....••.•..... 181
Williams .•...••.••.•.••••Tuscan ..••..........•...... 261
Wilmington ..............Wilmington .......... . ...... 198
Woodbridge ....... .. .... Woodbridge " .............. . 131
Woodland ...•.•........• Woodland ..........•••....• 156
Yolo .....................Yolo ........•...•....•..... 81
Yreka ........••.•..••... St. John's ....•......•.....• 37
'' ....••.•••••••••••• Howard . . • • . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
Yuba City •••••••••.••••• Enterprise ••.•.••••• · · · .... · 70

)

LIST OF INSPECTORS.
NAME
District
Town
Robert L. Harris .. .. ...... . •. .. 1st ........... Scotia.
John E. Perry . . . ... .....•...... 2nd ...... .. .. Casper.
Edwin· G. Case .................. 3rd .......... Ukiah.
Charles W. Nutting ...........• .4th .......... Etna Mills.
Gustav A. Hutaff . ...... .....• . 5th .....•.... Dunsmuir.
Charles C. Corbiere ............. 6th .......... Redding.
Ernest C. Bonner ............... 7th ... . ...... Alturas.
Perry O. Thomas .. ..... ..... ... 8th .. .. ...... Red Bluff.
Samuel H. Crow .. .. ..... ... .... 9th ...... .. .. Janesville.
James 0. Moncur ............. .. 10th ......... Quincy.
Gilbert May ................ . .. 11th ......... La Porte.
.'Eliphalet L. Case .. . ............ 12th . .. ... .. . Downieville.
John D. Murphey ............... 13th ......... Bridgeport.
Frederick L. Arbogast ... ~ ...... 14th ......... Nevada City.
Michael D. Lininger . ........... 15th .. . ... .. . Auburn.
Ruger S. Kit rick ............. . .. 16th ...... . .. Oroville.
Jay W. Ashley .................. 17th ......... Yuba City.
Samuel M. Chaney ........... ... 18th ......... Willows.
Morton L . Sayre ..... .•..•..... 19th •........ Lakeport.
Eli Bush ................•..... 20th . ..... . . . Healdsburg.
Charles E. Trower .. . .......... . 21st .. .. ...... Napa.
John F . Morgan . . .. ... . ........ 22nd ......... Sacramento.
Hayes H. Gable ..............••• 2:lrd ..•...... Woodland.
Louis A. Reeg .............•••.. 24th ......... Placerville.
James E. Dye .................. 25th ......... Jackson.
Frederick W. Clough ...•••.• , ••. 26th ...... .. . Angel's Camp.
Carlton C. Case ..........••.•••. 27th ....... .. Stockton.
Louis N. Buttner .. . ...•..•••... 28th ......... Martinez.
Sterling P . Dobbins .••••....••• 29th .... ... .. Vacaville.
Edmund D. Thomas ...•.• , •• , •.• 30th ........ . Berkeley.
Albert B. Webster .............. 31st .. .. ...... Oakland.
Charles N. Walter ..•.•••.•••••. 32nd .....•... Oakland.
Richard S. Allen •...••••• •• •••• 33rd ......... San Francisco.
Samuel M. Chancy .. ....••••••.. 34th ......... San Francisco.
George W. Lunt .....•••••• ,., •• 35th ......... San Francisco.
George W. Geauque ...•.• , ••• ,, .36th . .•..• . .. San Francisco.
George F. Rodden ....•.• ,,,,, ••• 37th ...... . .. San Rafael.

659

660

II

LIST OF INSPECTORS

NAME
District
Town
Roderick G. Guyett ............. 38th .........Palo Alto.
John P. Jarman ......... . ...... 39th ....... .. San Jose.
Charles K. Tuttle ...•. . .. . ..... .40th ..... . ... Pacific Grove.
Larentius A. C. 1I. Kylberg ...... 41st .......... Mariposa.
John Czerny .................. .42nd ... . .... . Merced.
Guy P. Doyle ............ ... .... 43rd . .• . . . . . .Bishop.
James U. Pottle ................ 44tlt ......... E'resno.
Fl'ed M. Velie ..... . .......... .45th ......... Porterville.
Francis Cunningham ........... .46th ... . . . . .. Hanford.
Arthur S. Crites .............. . .47th ........ . Bakersfield.
Myron H. Brooks ............. . . 48th ......... Paso Robles.
Robert W. Earl. .............. .49th ........ . Santa Maria.
David J. Reese ................. 50th ......... Ventura.
John II. Bean .................. 51st .......... Los Angeles.
Samuel E. Burke .............. 52nd ......... Los Angeles.
Fred E. Vincent .. ... ...•.. . .. . . 53ril ......... LOR Angeles.
Edward B. Spencer ............ . 54th .... . .... Los Angeles.
Robie E. Dill . . .. . . .... ..... .. . 55th ......... Los Angeles.
Lemuel L. Test ............... . . 56th ....... . . Pasadena.
Joseph R. Garthside ............ 57th ......... P omona.
Albert P. Henry ...... . ......... 58th ......... Downey.
Eli B. Trago .................... 59th ......... Santa Ana.
Joseph B. Fri th ................ 60th ......... San Bernardino.
George H. Kelsey ............... 6lst .......... Riverside.
Herbert A. Croghan ............ 62nd ......... San Diego.
Clarence J. Park ............... 63rd ... . .... .Brawley.
Joshua D. Tucker ............... 64th ......... Honolulu, H. T.
Luther .<\.• Renner ............... 65th ......... . Manila, P. I.
Orel M. Goldaracena ............ Special . . ..... San Francisco.
Louis Muller ................... Special ... . .. . San Francisco.
Giovanni Scalmanini ............ Special . . .....San Francisco.
Dnniel Cave ........ .•. . ...... .. Spe'elal •...... Los Angeles.

