EUGENE S. HOPP

EUGENE S. HOPP
Grand Mas ter
October 13, 1967 -October 18. 1968

Grand Master October 13, 1967-0ctober 18, 1968
Eugene S. ("Gene") Hopp, our 102d Grand Master, is the seventh
physician and surgeon to serve as Grand Master and the first since 1903.
Born in New York City on April 25, 1910. He received his B.S.
degree from the University of Georgia in 1933. A member of Phi Beta
Kappa and Phi Kappa Phi, honor scholas tic societies, he also was captain
of the swimming team and winner of cups for public speaking.
Dr. Hopp received his M .D . degree from the University of Georgia
School of Medicine in 1937, served a year of internship in Los Angeles,
and then a year and a half of surgery a t Vancouver Barracks Hospital.
He was on active duty in the Medical Corps of the U.S. Army at Letter...
man Hospital. San Francisco, for four years in the specialty of ear, nose
and throat. Commencing in 1944, he served overseas for two years as
Chief of the Eye. Ear, Nose and Throat service of the 8lst General Hospital, European Theater, and was later appointed civilian consultant in
his specialty to the Surgeon General of the U.S. Army, and later to the
Surgeon General of the U .S. A ir Force. He was discharged from the
military as Lt. Colonel of the Medical Corps in July, 1946.
While at Vancouver Barracks Hospital, he met Isabell Armstrong,
of Lewiston, Idaho. and they were married in Seattle on April 3, 1940.
Their son, Michael Eugene, was born in San Francisco, on August 12,
1947, and their daughter, Joy Marie, was born there on November 30,
1951. The children were active in De Molay and Jobs' Daughters, respectively. Joy serving as Honored Queen of Bethel N o. 51 during her
father's term as Grand Master.
It was in 1946 that Gene received his first appointment to the faculty
of the U .C. School of Medicine, serving as an assistant, then as instructor, assistant clinical professor, associate clinical professor, and finally
as Clinical Professor, with additional responsibility as Chief of the Ear,
Nose and Throat Service of the San Francisco General Hospital. He has
served his profession with distinction, receiving honors from numerous
honor societies in his fleld, and served on the Board of D irectors of the
Sa.n Francisco Medical Society and as a delegate to the California Medical Association.
He is the author of numerous articles in his medical specialty and is
the inventor of an instrument for examination of the larynx.
Dr. Hopp has served his community in many capacities, such as member of the Board of Directors of Goodwill Industries, Chairman of the
Educatlon section of the Commonwealth Club and as Quarterly Chair ...
man of that Club, chalrman of the Professional D ivision of the United
Crusade, and as bead of his neighborhood improvement association. In
1964 he received the Honor Certifkate Award of the Freedom Foundation at Valley Forge in recognition of a Memorial Day address delivered
in San Francisco.
ill

His Masonic service has been equally notable. He was raised in
Lebanon Lodge No. 495 on July 19, 1947, serving as its Master in 1956.
He was Master of Northern California Research Lodge in 1959. He affiliated with King Solomon's Lodge No. 260 and is a Past Master of the
consolidated King Solomon's Seaport Lodge No. 260.
He has been active in both Scottish Rite and York Rite. He received
the honorary Knight Commander of the Court of Honor of the Scottish
Rite in 1963 and Knight Templar Cross of Honor in 1968. He was High
Priest of California Chapter No. 5, R.A.M . and later president of the
Keystone York Rite Association. He is a member of California Commandery No. I. K.T., a member of the Order of the Red Cross of Constantine, St. Francis Conclave, and of Islam Temple, A.A.0. N.M.S. He
is the author of many Masonic papers, such as the pamphlet of Grand
Lodge on "The Laying of Cornerstone s," and the publication of the
Masonic Service Association, "Let Freedom Ring." As a speaker on
different Masonic subjects he has always been much in demand.
Gene served the Grand Lodge for many years, as Chairman of the
Board of Library Commissioners, Chairman of the Masonic Education
Committee, member of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes,
and in 1963 served as Grand Orator. He was elected Junior Grand Warden in 1965. Senior Grand Warden in 1966 and Grand Master on October 13, 1967. At the 1968 Conference of Grand Masters of North America, at Washington , D. C., he delivered the key-note address, and his
"Man and Masonry" has been widely reprinted and acclaimed.
During his year as Grand Master, he challenged Master Masons in
California and Hawaii to rededicate themselves to the fundamental principles of Freemasonr y. His conduct as a man and a Mason has exemplified his own dedication, just as his labors in Freemasonr y have manifested his deep and abiding love for our great Fraternity.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

I, EDWARD H. SIEMS, Grand Secretary of the M." .W.'. Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California , do
hereby certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcript of the proceedings of that body at its one hundred nineteenth
Annual Communication, commenced at the city of San Francisco, on
Monday, the Hth day of October, A. L. 5968, and terminated on Friday,
the 18th day of October, A. L. 5968.

I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have affixed
the seal of the M:. W .'. Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of California, at the office of the Grand Secretary, this fifth day of November, in the year of Light, five
thousand nine hundred and sixtyeight.

Grand Secretary

iv

v

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

PROC EEDIN GS

of

THE M:.W :.GR AND LODGE
of

1J1rrr auh l\rrrptrh flaanua
OF THE

STATE OF CALIFO RNIA
AT ITS

1I9TH ANNUA L COMM UNICA TION
HELD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANC ISCO
COMMEN CING ON
MONDAY . OCTOBER H.

A.O. 1968. A.L. 5968

ANO TERMINA TING ON
FRIDAY. OCTOBER 18. A.O. 1968. A.L. 5968
Copyright© 1968 by Gnod Lodge F. & A. M. of Californi&
Printed in rhe United Stares of America. All rights in this book ue re.erved.
No put thereof may be r<produced io any manner ,..hatsOC"Ver without ,..rineo
permisoion from the Gr•nd Lodg< of California, except that quotstions may
be tmbodied in rrvinrs by 1uch othtr Grand Jurisdictions as have been
recognized officially by this Gr&nd Lodge. Por information &ddr<ss Grand
S«rerary, 1111 California Stren, Sao Francisco, California 94108.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

3

ONE HUNDRED NINETEENTH
ANNUAL COMMUNICAT ION
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of California commenced its One Hundred Nineteenth
Annual Communication in the California Masonic Memorial Temple on
October Ii, A.L. 5968. at 10:00 A.M. Grand Lodge was raised by
Worshipful E. David Keller, Master of King Solomon's Seaport Lodge
No. 260. with a gavel presented to Most Worshipful Eugene S. H opp
by his corps of officers when he was Master of Lebanon Lodge No. 495
made of wood from the Cedars of Lebanon used to build King Solomon's Temple.
Roll call disclosed the presence of the following:
ELECTED OFFICERS
M. • .w.· .EUGENE S. HoPP ............................... ... .................. Grand Master
R." .W.'.RoBERT A . CRIGLER. ................ . .... ........ ....Deputy Grand Ma ster

R. ·. W.".CHESTER R. M>.cPHEE................. ...........Senior Grand Warden
R. ·. W. ·.HERBERT A. HUEBNER. ...........................Junior Grand Warden
V. •• W. ·.PAUL A. PPLUEGER............. ........................ ..... Grand Treasurer
v.· . w. · .EDWARD H. StEMS.. . . ................................. ... ...... Grand Secretary
v .·.w.· .HAROLD N. RICHARDS ................................. ......... Grand Le.cturer
APPOINTIVE 0PPJCERS
V. '.R.'.MAX L. CHRJSTENSEN............. ............... ..............Grand Chaplain
voNKONSJ<Y.... . ···· ··· .. ...... A ssistant Grand Lecturer
w.· . Be.RTRAM
W.' .FRANK P. LEMEN........ ....... ... ... .... ........Assistant Grand Lecturer
W." . ULYSSES G. PATROPULOS ...... ..... . ...... Assistant Grand Lecturer

c.

w .-. WALLACE H. PISKE............ ... ..... ......... Assistant Grand Lecturer
W." . BuRTON MEYER, }R...............................Assistant Grand Lecturer
WILLIAM H . PRICE. . ........ . ... ..... . ...........Assistant Grand Lecturer
W . ·.CARL H. ALLEN................................ . ....................... Grand Orator

W:.

w.· .VERNE w. HENDRIX . ............. . ... . .......Assistant Grand Secretary
W. ·.GILBERT A. BENOIT........................ .... ... .................Grand Marshal
W.".ELVIN C. DRAJ<E......... ....................... ...... Grand Standard Bearer
W . ' . A NDREW H . CHUNG........... .. ...... ................... Grand Sword Bearer
W . '.FLOYD H. GILL........ .... ....... ...... . ... .. . ................ Grand Bible Bearer
W. ·.GAREY B. WEIBEL. .......... . .... .. .......... ..........Senior Grand Deacon
W.' . GEORGE B. HoNoLD....... .. ....... ... ........ .. .......Junior G ra nd Deacon
W . ·.LLOYD R. TROUT......................... ........ .....Senior Grand Steward

c.

DAY, SR .............. ...................../unior Grand Steward
w . ·.WYNNE
BIREN ............. .......... ............ .................Grand Pursuivant
w.· .JOHN
w. · .HAROLD MuELLBR... .............. ........ ....................... Grand Organist
W.'.BuRTON 0. YoUNG..... ................ ........ .... . .... ..... ..... ......Grand Tiler

s.

5

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PAST GRAND OFFICERS

States Presidential candidates Richard M. Nixon, Hubert H. Humphrey and George C. Wallace. He also read a telegram extending fraternal
greetings and w ishes for a successful communication from the Grand
Lodge of the Philippines, as well as letters of similar import from the
Grand Lodge of the Sta te of Israel and from our Past Grand Master
Earl Warren, the Chief Justice. Supreme Court of the United States.

PAST GRAND MASTERS
M:.w:.EDwA RD H. SIEMs
M:.w: .ALPRED F. BRESLAUER
M : .w:.ELLswoRTH MEYER
M:.w:.GuY B. Miz E
M .'.W.' .H ENRY c. CLAUSEN
M .'. W .'.IRA w. COBURN
M :.W.'.E DGAR V . STEWART, JR. M:.W.".ELME R w. HEALD
M:.w:.LEo E. ANDERSO N
M:.w :.MYRoN E. SMITH
M .'.W.'.PHIL N. MYERS
M:.W.".LAUR EN CE E. DAYTON
M.'.W.'.JoEL . SHELL
PAST SENIOR GRAND WARDEN
R.'.W.'.JOHN F. PORTER
PAST GRAND LECTURERS
v:.w:.ELBER T W. D Av1s
v:.w:.DoNA LD G. CAMPBELL
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge was opened in ample form,
following which the Flag of our Country was received. The Grand
M aster called attention to the presence of the flags of Japan, Mexico
and Canada which were displayed in honor of visiting distinguished
guests.
During this Communicatio n 1517 officers and representatives from
706 chartered Lodges and one Lodge under dispensation, 1258 Past
Masters, and SO distinguished guests from other jurisdictions were
present.
APPOINTM ENTS
The Grand Master announced the appointment of Alfred W. Odle,
Past Master of Park Lodge No. 449, to fill the station of Assistant
Grand Treasurer. To fill vacancies on the Committee on Jurisprudence
he an nounced the appointment of Harlan P . Huebner, Past Master of
Wilshire Lodge No. 445; on the Committee on P olicy and General
Purposes the appointment of Past Grand Lecturer Donald G. Campbell; an d on the Committee on Grievances the a ppointment of Virl Bennehoff, Past Master of California Lodge No. 1.
The Deputy Grand Master a nnounced the a ppointment of Niles 0.
Millar as Chairman, Vincent P. McMurdo and E. Lloyd H anson as
members of the Committee on Distribution.
During the Communicatio n the Grand Master announced the temporary appointment of Inspector Leroy G. Connelly to serve as Grand
Chaplain at the Tuesday and Thursday sessions and the Friday morning
session.
TELEGRAM S
The Grand Master directed the Grand Secretary to send appropriate
teleg rams to each of the absent Past Grand Masters.
The Grand Secretary read telegrams of congratulation from United

GAVELS
The following Lodges, Districts , A ssociations and Club presented
gavels to the Gra nd Master which were used at v<irious sessions during
the Communicatio n:
Lodges Nos. 38, 188, 199. 20~ 254, 297, 316, 338, 409, 426. 443,
469, 495, 557, 580, 617, 702, 758, 784, 809, 823, 824, 825 and Palm
Desert U .D.
D istricts Nos. 154, 388, 406, 424, 426, 508, 574, 584, 602, 603, 605.
612, 620, 621, 622, 624, 625 and 626.
San Francisco Marine Square Club.
Santa Clara Masonic Officers Association.
East Bay Masters and Wardens Association.
(NOTE: At the breakfast and reception held on October. 2?· 1968.
the. San Francisco Masters and Wardens Associatrnn presented the newly installed Grand Master, Robert A. Crigler,
and junior Past Grand Master Eugene S. H opp with San
Francisco cable car bells.)
MEMORIAL SERVICE
DEVOTION AL AND NECROLOG Y
Organ Prelude ...................................... Harold Mueller, Grand Organist
Devotional ................................ The V ery Reverend Max L. Christensen
Invocation ·················-·············-·····················-·-·······-----·····- Grand Chaplain
Necrology Report .................................................. Edward A. Underwood
Eulogies .................... Committee Members and P.G.M. Ellsworth Meyer
Benediction ···-···········-----································-----··············· Grand C haplain
Taps ................................................................ Grand Organist and Bugler

Deuotional
Most Worshipful Grand Master and Members of Grand Lodge:
A useful and much appreciated custom allows me to take this
opportunity to thank the members of the Grand Lodge. and Mason_s in
California in general, and particularly our Grand Master. my friend
and neighbor, for the privilege of serving in this office during ~he pa~t
year. l\lso, I'd like to add a special word o.f th anks f~r th: fnend sh'. p
and kind service of Gil Benoit. who had quite a coachmg JOb to do in
a very short time. I don't know how weU we did it, but at least I'm
here. Gil. Thank you so much.

6

l'ROCEl!.DINGS OP THE
GR.AND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA

I told all my jokes last night. I want to get down to serious busines s.
know your underta kings here are of the utmost seriousn ess.
I've been thinking about texts from the Scriptu res which would be
appropr iate for this occasio n, and I'd like to use two. First, these word,~
of Jesus: "Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free.
And then by way of contras t to that remark, this question raised by
Pilate as he wrung his hands in indecisi on and despair and cried out
.
' 'What is truth?"
As a nation I think we display very often a certain ineptne ss, even
a kind of pervers ity, in our quest of truth-o ur desire to see things as
they really are. to assess things, to evaluate . We hear the phrase. ''Tell
it like it is," and we are anxious indeed to see it as it is, and then to be
able to "tell it like it is."
I have two purpose s this mornin g-one, to attempt in my way to
outline the dimensi ons of some of the major problem s which face our
genera tion-an d secondl y, to take a brief look into the future at some
of the problem s which are moving , even now, to the center stage of
man's concern .
There are. of course. the continu ing massive problem s of war.
racism, poverty , etc. We can't cover all these or even attempt to, but
we can list certain of the issues which are going to be close to us as
Masons , and as citizens , and as particip ants and believer s in our various
religiou s persuas ions.
I'd like to call attentio n to the curious disparit y pointed out by my
distingu ished predece ssor in this office last year-th e way that we
refuse to see it like it is in relation to our nationa l wealth. I'm sure that
everyon e here could make a pretty good guess about our gross nationa
l
produc t-our income. All of us could make mention of the standar d of
living that we enjoy- how many radios, TV's, miles of telephon e wires.
and miles of roads. We could describe the charitie s and welfare activities of the governm ent. We know that we are a rich country .
How many of us know. as we attempt to see it as it is, that we spend
nearly three times as much on cosmeti cs as we spend on churche s and
all other charitab le organiz ations combin ed-and that the nationa
l
gamblin g bill, which is $33 billion, is approxi niately equal to the total
bill for educatio n in this country for one year, kinderg arten through
college. I'm not here to knock gamblin g as such-th at's a separat
e
kettle of fish. But it is interest ing that we should have this kind of
similari ty of figure- $33 billion for one thing-$ 33 billion for another
.
We have the unsolve d ethical problem of the use of wealth in connection with war. Here again, I'm not on the podium to attack the governmen t's point of view on war-I' m as tom and as heartsic k as anyone
on this subject. But this feeling cannot serve to blind us to the financia
l
realities which are that in Caesar' s time it cost 75 cents to kill an enemy
soldier. By the time of the Napoleo nic Wars the figure had risen to

7

$3.000 per dead enemy soldier. In the Civil War it cost $5.000. Senator
H. T. Bone has estimate d that in World War I it was $21 ,000-W orld
War II. $50,00 0-and now it may be costing, we are told. as much as
half a million dollars for each dead soldier on the other side of the battle
line. At the same time it costs about $1.500 a year to provide a young
man with a good college educatio n. We could send a whole cou ntry to
college for four years-m an, woman, child-f or what it costs to engage
in war year by year.
The steward ship of wealth -I think Masons have a particul ar
obligati on to study these figures -to work upon them, to try to interpre
t
them.
My Senior Warden , who is a kind of Senior Deacon in our Church .
once told me, "Figure s don't lie, but liars figure." He said to me once,
"Remem ber, Max, that a man can drown while crossing a stream which
average s only two feet in depth. Also," he said. ''if one man can build
a house in I 2 days, I 2 men can build it in one day, 288 men can build
it in one hour, and 17,280 workers can finish the job in one minute."
While we admit that there is indeed the possibil ity for distortio n in
figures , there is also the very great possibility that the figures w hich
we're thinking about show in blunt, unargua ble terms some of the d isquieting realities which we would like to avoid facing. We w ould like to
avoid seeing things as they really are.
In our quest for truth-h ere again, as Masons and as citizens-we
need an accurat e and honest evaluati on of the attacks upon the major
instituti ons of our society. I think, for example , of the educatio nal institution we know as 'the Univers ity of Californ ia. I am sure everyon
e
here knows that Eldridg e Cleaver is speakin g there. I am sure th at
everyon e knows there was a fellow named Mario Savio a coup le of
years back who raised a little Cain over there. I wonder if all o f us
do know that there were 791 Peace Corps volunte ers from the University of Californ ia in one year-tw ice the number of any university or
college in the United States. I wonder if people know in general that
the Univers ity of Californ ia student body support s out of its own
student money and funds an orphana ge in coopera tion with a M a rine
unit in Danang in Viet Nam. I wonder if they can tell that there are
600 volunte ers doing all kinds of good work in law, teaching . etc., in
coopera tion with commun ity educato rs and teachers . We don't really
see it as it is when we look at the Univers ity of Californ ia. And granted
that press commun ications , etc .. are difficult, we have the obligation and
we have the tools of the trade-- in Mason ry-to take us beyond the
superficial, quick, light look at our instituti ons and try to figure out in
some depth what is going on.
What's going on? It is indeed difficult to say, but one thing is
change. Change we've always had. I'm carryin g in my notes a little
saying that was carved by a slave on a stone 300 years before the

8

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE Of' CAUE'ORNIA

Christian era. He said: "Children do not obey their parents." W ell .
you can find echoes of this kind of remark all down through the centuries to this present generation , and in finding them often one might
be led to think that in spite of everythin g we will somehow get along.
just as we always have. Not so. There is a new kind of geometric progression in idea change which mass communic ation has made possible.
We know, also, that the population moves at a rate that frightens us.
We know that there is great change involved in the economics of th is,
but we don' t know exactly what to make of it. As Masons, as citizens,
we are called to think more than s uperficia lly about these very great
issues of the time.
There is in this present world a backlash against individual is m.
E veryone who knows the history of this country knows the importanc e
of our philosoph y of individual ism and the contributi on that we as a
nation have made to the world. But people are saying more and more
that our institution s, whether they be political. religious or education al
institution s, must be so ordered as to plainly show that they are living
by the principles upon which they c.re believed to be founded a nd said
to be founded. The cager and even sometimes reckless manner in which
hypocrisy is challenge d in our schools. churches and governme ntal
agencies will serve, I hope, to sharpen the public conscience and make
us unwilling to compromi se our shared ideals. It's not enough to say
that we have ideals . We must put them into action, put wheels on them .
or they are simply dusty ideas which have no relevance.
And it is not proper for Masons to think that they are exempt from
the corrosive processes of change. Across the street is Grace Cathedral ,
and if you've rea d the history o f thnt place lately you know that there
may be some cracks beginning to appear in the concrete. There is a
shaking and a trembling and, as we consider Masonic ethics-th ose
which are particular ly concerned in the arts of Masonry -we know
that there are things in our own house that need to be rethought in
ethical terms. which need to be reestablish ed, retested- good things
can always stand exam ination. \Ve want to think about those things
in these days.
There is a new th ing on the ethical scene. which is to move away
from stress on ideals and use what is called situation ethics. This is a
technical term, but if the words "situation ethics" mean nothing to you,
I'd suggest that if it doesn 't mean somethin g to you before long you
may be out of the ball game. It's an important term necessary to understanding what's going on today.
And there is a significant change taking place as we go from spasmodic, voluntary gifts of charity in our society to support of agencies
which deal with these needs on the basis of justice.
There is an Old Testamen t ring about this modern cry. Ancient
Hebrew laws knew nothing of charity in the present secular definition.

and this is true of Judaism today. Grain was left in the fields, th ings
were shared. debts were forgiven- because it was the right thing to do.
The r ight to a free life. the r ight to employme nt, etc.-thes e are very,
very old ideas which are being dusted off by certain of the wild-eyed
youngsters and are now placed before us as a form of challenge.
The idea of charity as something optional on the part of a do~gooder
is not to be confused with the New Testamen t or ancient Hebrew concept of love. The familiar quotation, "Faith, hope and charity-th ese
three," should be accurately and honestly rendered: "Faith, hope and
love-t hes e three. And the greatest of these is love." Christian people.
among others. I'm glad to say, are trying to recover pristine attitudes as
they seek decent hea lth and housing, etc .. fo r all of our citizenry. The
fact that there are some very strong leftist groups may tempt us to turn
away from these considerat ions and these endeavors . but that would be
contrary to the vows that we have made to ourselves a nd to our God as
Mason5.
To our list of changes could be added such items as the rad ical
changes in theology. the new permissive ness. the new conscienti ous
objector, the stretching of doctrinal boundarie s and attitudes, the demand for freedom from ecclesiasti cal control. change in worship services. hippie love-ins- a ll within the vision of a thoroughl y secular
world. No one knows why so many and so great changes should be
jam-packe d into one generation . Only one th ing can be said for sure:
It is what's happening .

9

A study of the complex and only partly answered mora l questions
of today does not tend to make one feel that he is ready. com e w hat may,
for the questions of tomorrow, and rd like to think about some of them
very briefly. The questions are already here. They appear in every
endea vor, in every area of human life: medicine, spnce travel. education, family life. Again , in the manner of one scanning the horizon. let's
look quickly at some of these problems.
Consider the problems soon to be faced in human procreatio n. Testtube babies now live as long as two months. Does the scientist, knowing
that the embryo will certainly die, commit a kind of murder when he
starts a human life by fertilizing an egg in a test tube with a male sperm?
Or, is there a basic difference between the embryo nnd the more mature
foetus? Does a child become a human being at the moment of conception, at the time of the quickenin g of the foetus. or is this status ac hieved
at birth? If it happens at birth. when is the exact moment?
What about the wife whose husband is sterile? Artificial insemination is now a fairly common process- the egg produced by the wife is
fertilized by a sperm obtained through an anonymous male donor who
is "compatib le: · This procedure is under the direction of a qualified
physician. Now. is this adultery? An Archbisho p of England once said

10

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

it was. Should the husband in such a case feel that he is the father of
the child? Or, to look at it another way, must a couple have all of the
capacity for parenthood before they can experience some of the joy?
What is the Masonic definition which would apply here? Masonry is
an ethical society, among other things. We need to turn our thoughts
in these directions- to begin to answer questions which are coming
faster than we realize.
In the National Lutheran Magazine there is a report of the possibility of using chromosomes in any human cell as the basis of procreation. What. they ask, would this do to marital union? Who would
rule on genetic loans? What about the rights of individuals who desire
such procedures? Who would have the right to initiate chromosome
conception? Would this be more desirable, socially, than normal birth?
After a visi t to the marital counselor would the couple anticipating marriage go on to the genetic counselor? Is this a kind of a part of the
dream of the Nazis of the super-race? What is the role of the Church
here? What is the role of the State? What do Masons think? What
will Masons think? Unless they are thinking ahead, they won't think
anything.
Many of the not-yet-critical moral questions seem to be taken from
the pages of some outlandish science-fiction novel. Sooner than we
think, we shall have to face ethical problems involved in recent scientific
advances.
It will be possible, for example. for men's minds to be altered by
such things as chemical injections which will actually transmit knowledge-memory molecule transplants. Drug treatments will vastly accelerate the learning process. University of California at Los Angeles
scientists Ba bich. Jacobson and Bubash claim they have transferred
knowledge: from hamsters to rats by the injection of a certain acid,
RNA. from the brain of one animal to another. In a similar experiment
at U .C. scientists tell of transferring a "memory molecule: " from one
flatworm to another, so that the second animal knew what the first had
formerly known. A pharmaceutical manufacturer has developed a
compound that enables rats to learn five times faster, and the Food and
Drug Administration will soon have to decide whether to allow the use
of the compound in human beings.
And the day may not be far away when thousands of our citizens
wear "happy buttons," electrodes placed in the brain which can produce
a profound and instant effect on behavior. A man in a flt of rage could
press the button and receive: an electrical charge in a certain section of
his brain, and be immediately at peace with himself and the whole world.
And this is not out of science fiction-it's been done already. The
electrodes could be installed complete with batteries under the scalp and
they could be operated by remote control.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

11

The possibilities of mind control have been increased with the discovery that certain types of mental illness can be brought on by the use
of drugs. A pound of LSD in the water reservoir of a small town could
keep the community disoriented for weeks. In a similar vein, scientists
claim that biological agents capable of destroying man's will to resist
are only 25 years away. Well, are we going to have such things as
electronic catechism, sleep learning? Who will push the buttons?
There is the question of contamination of space. One British scientist
has said, "What right do we have to take measles virus to the moon?"
And this coming at a time when Schirra is floating around above us
with a very bad head cold.
The knottiest problems will not come from the medical laboratories.
however. It is expected that push-button factories and farms of the
future will some day do away with the practical need to work, at least
work in the sense that we know it. "The superior man of the future,"
says one writer, "will be the person who can cope with a world without
work .• .. He will prize his ability to relax, to contemplate:, to attend to
the world around him, to create, to fashion, to be aware of his inner
feelings."
This kind of future may look rosy to some people. but what about
the man who likes to work? Is there substance in the biblical injunctions
which give religious meaning to work? Is the pleasure of work to be
~llowed only to a few? If this generation finally succeeds in getting
)Obs for everyone, and we're doing our best to achieve it, will the next
generation succeed in abolishing jobs for everyone? We have to think
about it.
•
The problems of our world are so weighty, so complex, that most
of us fall into a mood of despair and futility as we attempt to face them
and understand them. Most of us want to feel that our individual efforts
do count for something, yet we are in continual need of reassurance.
I have a brief word of reassurance from the pen of James A. Francis.
who sums up the story of one solitary life:
" Here is a young man who was born in an obscure village, the child
of a peasant woman. He grew up in another village. He worked in a
carpenter shop until he was 30. and then for three years he was an
itinerant preacher. He never wrote a book. He never held an office.
He never owned a home. He never had a family. He never went to
college. He never put his foot inside a big city. He never traveled 200
miles from the place where he was born. He never did one of the things
that usually accompany greatness. He had no credentials but himself.
"While he was still a young man, the tide of public opinion turned
against him. His friends ran away. He was turned over to his enemies.
He went through the mockery of a trial. He was nailed to a cross between two thieves. While he was dying. his executioners gambled for

12

PROCEEDING S OF THE

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the only piece of property he had on this earth, and that was his co~t.
When he was dead. he was laid in a borrowed grave through the pity
of a friend.
" Nineteen wide centuries have come and gone, and today he is the
central figure of the human race and a leader of the column of progress.
"I am far within the mark when I say that all the armies that ever
marched, and all the navies that were ever built, and all the parliaments
that ever sat. and all the kings that ever reigned, put together, have not
affected the life of man upon this earth as has that One single, Solitary
Life."
A poet puts it this way:
"You say the little efforts that I make
Will do no good;
They never will prevail
To tip the hovering scale
Where justice hangs in balance.
I don't think
I ever thought they would.
But I am prejudiced beyond debate
In favor of my right to choose which side
Shall feel the stubborn ounces of my weight."
As Masons. we do indeed have ounces. As a group we have pounds.
Let us in the challenging days ahead use this weight for the glory and
for the purposes o f God . Amen.

Square Lodge No. 515 of Los Angeles, each having lost five P ast Masters. Sacramento Lodge No. 40 and EI Sereno Lodge No. 588 of Los
Angeles lost four each. Twent·y Lodges lost three each. Seventy-five
Lodges lost two each and 210 Lodges lost one each. The complete list
is attached to and made a part of this report.

l nvocation- Necrology
Once again we are assembled to pay tribute to the memory of those
Brethren who have departed from our midst during the past year. While
we pay tribute to their memory. let us not do so in sadness but rather
in gratitude for the privilege that was ours to walk with them and to
witness the good deeds that they have wrought upon the trestleboard
of life. As Masons, we believe in God, and we have the certain assurance that they are now safe in our Father's house. Let us remember the
words of comfort by the Master to his disciples as they gathered around
him and the shadow of the cross was closing in, "Let not you r hearts be
troubled: Ye believe in God, believe also in me. In my Father's house
a re ma ny mansions: If it were not so. I would have told you. And if I go
and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto
myself. that where I am may ye be also."
Since the last convocation 438 Past Masters and Wardens of our
Grand Lodge have passed to their eternal reward. Time will not permit
the recounting of the many virtues and services to the craft of more than
a few. The death toll was heaviest in Chico Lodge No. 111 and Vermont

13

Duke Paoa K ahanamoku. Death came swiftly on January 23 of this
year to a most remarkable man and brother, Duke Paoa Kahana moku. a
member of Hawaiian Lodge No. 21. A gentle. kindly man of simple dignity, an honored public figure, and a beloved personal friend to the thousands of people who were privileged to know him . Of pure Polynesian
ancestry he was born in the old Arlington Hotel. now the location of
The Bank of Hawaii, at the corner of Bishop and King Streets in downtown Honolulu. This simple child of the sea was destined to become the
friend of kings and commoners alike, the world over. He was born in
troubled times, August 24, 1890. during the reign of Kin q Ka l<J kaua .
las t of the Hawaiian kings. followed by his sister, Queen Liliuokalani ,
the last royal ruler of the Hawaiian kingdom. He was but 4 years old
when the short lived Republic of Hawaii was set up, and on July 7th.
1898, automatical ly became an American citizen when the American
flag was raised over the islands. unknown to most of the world. little
specks in the broad Pacific. In 1911, this hitherto unknown beach boy
electrified the entire athletic world when in an AA U swimming meet,
held in Honolulu , he broke the long standing 100 yard world sprint
record by an astonishing 4-3/ 5 seconds. All eyes were foc used on
Hawaii and the old days were over. During his lifetime H awaii was to
emerge from a slttpy Polynesian kingdom to the great commonwea lth
that we know today.
He became its unofficial am bassador as he toured the world setting
new records and w inning countless friends wherever he traveled. First
1912 and the Stockholm Olympiad, new world records ; more gold medals; then home to a hero's welcome. His modest demeanor and athletic
prowess had won the hearts of people the world over. This hitherto almost unknown land and its people overnight became of interest to the
whole world. Hawaii could ask no more of him. The years rolled by. the
1920 Antwerp Olympiad. Paris in 1924, Los Angeles in 1932. the only
man. save one. to ever qualify for such a number. Only World War.
1916. robbed him of a fifth Olympiad. June 1925 brought tragedy and the
supreme effort of his remarkable career. Duke was camping on the
beach at Corona Del Mar. 50 miles south of Los Angeles, with a party
of friends, when the yacht Thelma capsized in a heavy surf. With the
first sign of trouble, the Duke and his surfboard were on their way. He
made three trips through the rag ing surf. Seventeen lives were lost that
day and 12 persons rescued. D uke saved eight. The territory of Hawaii
struck a gold medal in his honor. The papers acclaimed his performance
as the most superhuman rescue act and the finest display of surfboard

15

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

riding ever seen in this world. The years rolled on. more fame, heartaches. ill health. Sheriff of Honolulu for 25 years and in the final years,
its official greeter. The sands were running out, yet honor upon honor
were heaped on him. When people saw or heard his name they thought
of Hawaii. He was truly the D uke of Hawaii, the land he loved so well.
that he wanted the whole world to share it with him. Governor John A .
Burns, at Duke's dea th, among other remarks said-"More than any
other man in our modem history, Duke embodied all that is fine and
ennobling in our Hawaiian culture. He reflected great credit and honor
to our Polynesian people. His humility and the dignity which characterized his life shall remain an inspiration for all our citizens. We shall
miss D uke as we miss few others whose friendship we were privileged
to enjoy."
Our brother was singularly attuned to the tenets of Freemasonry,
and his character and life, epitomized the pure principles of our order.
Raised in Hawaiian Lodge No. 21 on October 30, 1946, he immediately
embraced Masonry with the same zest and zeal that characterized his
every endeavor. He continued his Masonic career in the Scottish Rite
Bodies of Honolulu, where he received the rank and decoration of Knight
Commander of the Court of H onor. serving as Master of Kadosh in
1957. He also became a member of the Royal Arch, Royal & Select
Masters, Knights Templar and Aloha Temple of the Shrinl", where he
was most active in raising funds for the Hospital for Crippled Children.
His funeral was attended by thousands of every creed and from
every walk of life. At the conclusion of the Cathedral Services, the
funeral procession with his ashes moved to the Royal Hawaiian as the
flags of the Commonwealth stood at half mast. in honor of her most
famous son. On the beach, the urn containing his ashes was placed on a
surfboard atop his own red and white outrigger canoe, with his Masonic
apron and two white carnation leis. As thousands of tourists and friends
thronged the beach and every point o f vantage, Worshipful Master
Howard Wong performed the Masonic Rites, followed by the simple
beach boy service. As the funeral party embarked, black clouds formed
over D iamond Head. His widow, Nadine, sitting with his urn resting
in her lap, the procession moved out beyond the reef where the Revenue
Cutter Corwin waited. Her entire crew at attention, the final words of
commitment were spoken as his widow tenderly put the urn over the side
of the canoe and thousands of flower petals were scattered on the water.
To quote from Mark Anthony's funeral oration, in Shakespeare's Julius
Caesar, "His life was so gentle, and the elements so mixed in him that
nature might stand up and say to all the world. 'This was a man'."
Aloha. Duke Kahanamoku. aloha.

16. 1946. He served as its Master during 1954. Brother Mamath was
born March 13, 1905 in Libau, Latvia, of German parents. Educated in
European schools, he came to America at the age of 18 and in 1925 he
moved to California. A devoted fa mily man. he is survived by his wife.
H ilda, three sons : Rudolph, Eugene. Jr., Roland, and thei r families. He
loved them very much and they were the pride of his life. A devoted
Mason, he was active in many branches. A plural member of James H .
Kew Lodge No. 766 of Inglewood, Past H igh Priest of Inglewood Royal
Arch Chapter, Royal Arch; Past Commander Santa Monica Bay Commandery Knights Templar and Illustrious Master of Alpha Council
Royal and Select Masters. Greeted a Knight of the York Cross of H onor
in Los Angeles Priory 27 in 1961, and an active worker in the 26th Degree of the Scottish Rite, Valley of Long Beach. At the time of his passing, he was serving this Grand Lodge on the Committee for Youth Orders, having been appointed this year by the Most Worshipful Eugene
S. Hopp, Grand Master. His many friends admired him, first for his devotion to his family, for his res ponsibilities to his Masonic obligations
and lastly for his pride in being a citizen of the U nited States of America.
Nothing could be more fitting than to close this brief recital of his many
activities with the following verse which he loved so well and patterned
his life after.
" I shall pass through this world but once:
If, therefore, there be any kindness I can show,
Or any good thing I can do, let me do it now:
Let me not defer it or neglect it.
For I s hall not pass this way again."

Brother Eugene Ludwig Mamath was called from his earthly labors
by our Supreme Grand Master on July 27, 1968. A member of Inglewood Lodge No. 421. where he was raised a Master Mason on January

Brother Stephen Edward Skidmore was born in Downey, Californ ia ,
on August 4th, 1881. and passed to his eternal rest on November 4th,
1967. He was raised in Azusa Lodge No. 305 on March 17, 1914. serving as its Master in 1911. He served the Grand Lodge as Grand Chaplain in 1946 and thereafter as Inspector of District No. 608 from 1947
to 1961. He was Master of Upland Lodge No. 419 in 1924, and at the
time of his death was a plural member of Lexington Lodge No. 104 in
El Monte. H is fraternal activities included Azusa Chapter of the Royal
Arch, Jasmine Chapter of the Eastern Star and Pasadena Consistory of
the Scottish Rite.
Brother Ralph Benton Saffle was a native of Alma. Kansas, where
he was born July 9th, 1907. He served his country in the U .S. Navy
during W orld W ar II. Settling in Long Beach, he became active in veteran affairs, serving as Commander of Veterans of Foreign Wars, Golden State Post. He was raised in Service Lodge No. 594 in 1919 and
served as its Master in 1965 . He was a member of the Grand Lodge
Constitution Observance Committee in 1967 and died on January 7th
of this year. He is .survived by his wife Rita.

16

17

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

John Virgil Bacigalupi. In the passing of Brother John Virgil Bacigalupi, the Grand Lodge of California has lost one of its most stalwart
members. He was born in San Francisco on December 1, 1895. A banker
by profession, in which he served the Bank of America at San Rafael
as a vice president and manager for 43 years until his retirement in 1961.
He passed away March 29th in Catania, Italy, where he was vacationing.

William E. Bouton. Death, as it must to all men, came to Brother
William E. Bouton at the age of 92 on Friday night, June 21st. 1968,
at St. Francis Hospital in San Francisco following a lingering illness.
A native son born in Oakland in 1876, his entire life was spent in
and around San Francisco, where on January 6th, 1900, he was united
in marriage with his wife, Minnie, who survives him; also 3 daughters,
5 grandchildren and 5 great-grandchildren. He was for many years
engaged in the building and loan business in San Francisco and later on
established his own insurance business.
He was made a member of Occidental Lodge No. 22 of San Francisco September 30th, 1907, serving as its Master in 1942. He also
served his Lodge as Secretary from 1944 through 1965. He was a member of the Royal Arch and the California Bodies of the Scottish Rite,
which he joined in 1914, and received the honor and decoration of Knight
Commander of the Court of Honor in 1954. He served as Wise Master
of the Chapter Rose Croix in 1933 and Master of Kadosh of the Consistory in 1943.
Brother Hillard Merton Reeves, a member of McKinley Lodge No.
437 of Richmond, was born in the year 1917 in Buhl. Idaho. Graduating
from the University of California at Berkeley, he was appointed Criminologist for the City of Richmond Police Department in 1949. He was
a founder and first president of the California Order of Patrolmen. He
was also a member of California Association of Criminalists, Contra
Costa County Peace Officers Association, and the East Bay Municipal
Employees Union.
He was made a Master Mason in McKinley Lodge No. 347 November 8th, 1956, and served as its Master in 1964. He was appointed Inspector of the I 20th Masonic District in 1966, in which capacity he was
serving with distinction at the time of his death. He is survived by his
wife, Elizabeth, and daughter, Susan.
A man highly esteemed by all who knew him and in the words of
his friend and Secretary of McKinley Lodge, Brother Peter Slavazza,
"He was a man to ride the river with."

He was made a Master Mason in Marin Lodge No. 191, on March
3rd, 1938, serving as its Master in 1947. Subsequently. on many of its
committees, he was a member of the Grand Lodge Committee on Finance, 1947-48, and subsequently, for approximately 18 years, on the
"Pay of Members" Committee.
He was a member of many Masonic affiliated bodies: Marin Chapter
No. 10, R.A.M.; Redwood Empire Council No. 46, Royal & Select
Masters; Marin Commandery No. 73, Knights Templar; Islam Temple
of the Shrine; Pyramid Temple No. 31 of the Sciots, etc.
He is survived by his wife, Ruby, three sisters and a brother.
He was a true and faithful Brother, a great Mason, a fine citizen and
a devoted husband and father. We leave him in the hands of our Supreme Grand Master, thankful for the years which were given to him
to serve with us in the furtherance of Masonry.

Brother Horace Scott Seaton, a member of Charter Rock Lodge No.
410 of Berkeley, now consolidated with Berkeley Lodge No. 363, passed
to his well earned rest on June 3rd, 1968 and was a member of the Graft
for 76 years. A reception was given in his honor in 1967, at which time
he was presented with his 75 year pin by Grand Master Laurence E.
Dayton. There is only one other living 75 year member of the Grand
Lodge of California.
Brother Gladney Lee Hamilton served the Grand Lodge as Grand
Bible Bearer in 1957. A native of Texas he came to California as a young
man, settling in Delano, where for over twenty years he was office manager for the 5,000 acre Sierra Farms. Active in community life, he embraced Masonry in 1946 and was made a Master Mason in Delano
Lodge No. 309 in that year. He served as its Master in 1953. He is
survived by his wife, Berniece, and daughters, Judy and Jana.
Brother George Rhine Meyering was a member of Las Palmas
Lodge No. 366 of Fresno, where he was raised April 21, 1921, serving
as its Master in 1928. He was born in Muskegon, Michigan, January 17,
1886. He served Grand Lodge as Senior Grand Steward in 194 7-48 and
on the Masonic Homes Endowment Board in 1950-52. His fraternal
activities included the Scottish Rite, Royal Arch. Knights Templar and
the Shrine. He is survived by his wife, Mattie, and one son.

Brother Walter Frederick Flierl was a member of Eucalyptus Lodge
No. 243 of Hayward, where he passed away January 30th of this year,
A native son, our Brother was born in Oakland December 16, 1891, and
lived all his life in Alameda County. He was raised in Acorn Lodge No.
494, May 27th, 1922, and served as its Master in 1937. He served the
Grand Lodge on the DeMolay Committee for four years. Past President
of the Alameda County Historical Society and active member of the
First Presbyterian Church, he had many interests in civic affairs. Fraternally he was a member of the Oakland Scottish Rite Bodies and
Aahmes Temple of the Shrine.

18

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

19

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Brother Charles Elias Sones. To have known him was truly a gift of
God, a gift which would enrich the life of anyone.
Charles Elias Sones was born near Lacona, Iowa, on December 8.
1888. Moving to the Imperial Valley as a young man. he became active
in the lumber business.
He was made a Master Mason of El Centro Lodge No. 384 on June
22. 1914, and served as its Worshipful Master in 1925. He was actiYe
in the First Methodist Church of El Centro, served as that city's mayor
and for nineteen vears served on the school board of the El Centro
School District and was a Past President of the El Centro Rotary Club.
He was honored by the Supreme Council, 33° of the Ancient and
Accepted Scottish Rite of Freemasonry. by being coronated a 33° of
the Scottish Rite. He was a member of the Red Cross of Constantine, a
Past Commander Knights Templar. a member of the Royal Arch. He
served on the Grand Lodge Credentials Committee 1934-38 and on the
By-Laws 1960-61. He was Senior Grand Steward of this Grand Lodge
1940-41. At the time of his passing on August 16, 1967, he had been a
Master Mason for fifty-three years. He is survived by his wife, Carrie,
together with a son and daughter. "The Lord has given and the Lord
has taken away-Blessed be the name of the Lord."
Brother Egbert Andrew Hc1dson was a Past Master of Paso Robles
Lodge No. 286. He passed away on December 27, 1967.
We honor his memory not as a Past Grand Officer but rather for
the many contributions which he made to our fraternity, perhaps the
most notable being the beautiful model of King Solomon's Temple
which he built and presented to this Grand Lodge and which may now
be seen in the lobby. He also presented an electric train set complete
with track. modeled mountains, communities. etc., to the Home at Union
City for our senior guests' enjoyment.
Such brethren as Egbert Hudson who have given sacrificially of
themselves will live in our memory long after their departure. in that
celestial lodge above where the Supreme Grand Master of the universe
forever presides.
Brother Thomas Francis Mason . A great man was lost to our fraternity in the passing of this Past Master of Wilmington Lodge No. 198,
who passed to his well earned reward on March I st of this year. Born
in Cheyenne, Wyoming, on March 7, 1882. he moved to Southern California at an early age and settled in Wilmington. where he became
active in many organizations, rising to the top office in most of them.
serving all with noted distinction.
He was a man of tremendous drive and superior mental ability. yet
modest in deportment. He was made a Master Mason in Wilmington
Lodge No. 198 in January of 1921. He passed his proficiency on March

8th and acted as Master. conferring all three degrees within four months
after his raising. He served Wilmington Lodge as its Master in 1925.
He was appointed Senior Grand Deason 1939-40. Subsequently he
served on the Credentials Committee 1950-65 and Pay of Members
Committee 1966.
A member of many affiliated Masonic Bodies including the Royal
Arch. Royal and Select Masters. Knights Templar, Al Malaikah Temple
of the Shrine and served the Job's Daughters and DeMolay for many
years in an advisory capacity. He is survived by his wife. Eva Gay. and
three sons.

Brother Patrick ]. Tliompsett. Master Mason. devoted husband.
loving father, how can mere words convey to those of us who loved him
our sense of loss in parting from this devoted Brother. Raised in South
Pasadena Lodge No. 367 on May 26th. 1936. he began a Masonic career
of service which never slackened for more than thirty yea.rs. He served
his Lodge as Master in 1945-46 and thereafter as its Treasurer until
his last illness. He was a working Brother in almost every branch of
Masonry, particularly in the Los Angeles Scottish Rite Bodies. by whom
he was awcirded the rank and decoration of Knight Commander of the
Court of Honour in recognition of his many years of devoted service.
He is survived by his widow. Emily, daughters. Pat and Jackie, and
son Mike.
"Beautiful life is that whose span
Is spent in duty to God and Man.
Beautiful calm when the course is run .
·Beautiful twilight at set of sun.
Beautiful death with a life well done."
Brother]. Howard Edwards served as Senior Grand Deacon during
1949-50, the centennial year of our Grand Lodge. and established an
enviable record in that office. He participated not only in the annual
communications but in every special cummunication to lay a cornerstone.
dedicate a hall, or constitute a new lodge whether held in the southern
or northern parts of the state. His presence at every reception tendered
the Grand Master from Fresno to San Diego added to those occasions.
Brother Edwards was born in North Carolina and came to Los Angeles when he was twenty-two years of age. The year 1924 was a significant one in his life. for in addition to coming west he became a member
of the Los Angeles Police Department and was joined in marriage with
Evelyn Peterson. His affiliation with the Police Department was to be
for the next twenty- four years, his residence for forty years and the
marriage for life.
In 1937 he received our degrees in Progressive Lodge. Los Angeles.
and ten years later served as its Master; thereafter he served as officers'
coach for five years and on four of the lodge committees. He was elected

20

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

a trustee of the Los Angeles Masonic Board of Relief. serving for three
years. He was elected Worthy Patron of Melrose Chapter. Order of
the Eas tern Star, and served the same year Mrs. Edwards was Worthy
Matron. H is was a one h un dred percent M asonic family. for additionally his daughter served as Honored Queen of her Bethel in Job's
Daughters and his son is also a member of Progressive Lodge.
In 1948. aged 46, he retired from the police department. He had
risen to the rank of lieutenant of police and was attached to the Hollywood division. His services were in demand as a security o fficer for
various motion picture studios, and for a number o f years he operated
his own automotive business in the E agle Rock area.
In 1951 he received the degrees of the Scottish Rite and became a
faithful member of the stagecraft. Six years later he was decorated w ith
the rank and decoration of Knight Commande r of the Court o f Honor.
When the Los Angeles bodies of the rite moved to their new temple on
Wilshire Boulevard, he was design ated the stage manager for th e bodies.
Not only did he supervise the setting of the stage for several scenes
each Friday evening, but he and his fifteen associates constructed many
of the properties used o n that stage.
In consequence of h is service to his city, this Gra nd Lodge a nd several branches of M asonry and because of h is exemplary character and
conduct. he was coroneted with the thirty-third and last degree of
Masonry.
To chronicle some o f the events a nd dates in the life of a brother is
not difficult. but to capture and convey in words something of a brother's
personality and how those who knew h im best felt about hi m is difficult
and al ways inadequte.
Howa rd Edwards was of unquestioned integrity. quiet and unassuming. He never raised his voice. He never seemed to be in a hurry,
yet he was always doing things. most o ften for others. D espi te his reg ula l' attendance at his lodge a nd the Scottis h Rite for some months immediately preceding his passing he had been assisting a group of breth ren in Hacienda Heights move toward the formation of a new lodge in
tha t area.
Those w ho h ave had the pleasure of visitin g his ho me in Eagle Rock
or his new home in Hacienda H eights w ill recall the attractive a nd useful
adjuncts he built and the lovely gardens he planted. He devoted thirtyone years o f his life to M asonry. not now and then. n ot merely o ne night
a week but usually three plus many a Saturday. H e not only earned the
respect and approbation of his bret hren but also their deep affection.
Those who knew him well will think of him
"Not cold beneath the grasses.
N ot close-walled within the tomb.
Rather in our F athe r 's mansion .
Busy in anoth er room."

GRAND LODGE OF CALI FORNIA

21

PAST MASTERS, MASTERS AND WARDENS
OF CONSTITUENT LODGES

Loage
Date of
No.
Name
Death
1 McLeod, Duncan A. ........ 9-15-67
1 St reet, Charles E., Jr..... 4-1 4-68
3 Lansberry, Vyvan B ....... 7-17-67
8 Vars, Donald L ... . ......... 8-27-67
9 Studwell. Da vid H .........12-22-67
10 Zanker, Curtner W ....... .. 12-16-67
12 K inney, Clarence B ....... 1- 12-68
12 Retzer, Earl E............... 12-12-67
16 Robinson, Kelly D ......... 5-24-68
19 Stone, Alonzo W .......... .. 8-11-67
20 Wiesler, Raym ond A..... 2-12-68
22 Bouton. William E ........ . 6-21-68
23 Carveth, Clifford C........ .12- 16-67
23 Houser, Harold L .......... 5-30-68
24 McElligott, James P ....... 12-25-67
26 Gee, Frederick W...... ... . 2- 8-68
27 Kay, Marion F .... ........ .. 1-29-63
32 Fowler, Herbert B.. Sr... 7-26-67
35 Bangs, Egbert C...... ...... .11- 7-67
35 Ma rcelli, Nino ..... .... .. . .. 8- 4-67
35 Verdeckberg, Earl J .. .....12-28-67
37 Ackerman, Frank B ....... 9-23-67
37 Churchill, J erome .......... 8-17-67
37 Tebbe, George A., Jr..... 3- 4-68
38 Tomlin, Ralph B ............. 3- 7-68
38 Turver, H arry R. ........ .. 4- 1-68
40 Bassett, Geor;:?e C. . ..... 5- 3-63
40 Graham, Malcolm IL ..... 8-31 -67
40 Larrimer. Robert M ..... . 12-1 8-67
40 Talbot. Frank D ........ .... 1-1 1-68
41 Brackman, Helbert F ... 10-11-67
45 Ward. Maris L ................. 3- 9-68
46 Gervais, Fred E ...............11- 9-67
51 P ipes, Geor ge E............. 8-1 5-67
55 McGann. Benson B ......... 4-25-63
58 Thorp, Norman T ........... 3-28-68
68 Abbott, Alvin V........... 10-27-67
68 Cates, Andrew J ............. 2-24-6!!
68 Pope, Andrew B............. 10- 6-67
70 Walton, Frank S ............. 6-1 9-68
76 Swallow, Fred F ............. 10- 7-67
87 J e nkins, Osce, 0 ., Jr....... 3-27-68
87 Wh iteley, Bert C............. 12-14-67
91 Glendenning, Kelsie B ... 1-21-68
98 Poe, J oe S......................... 5-23-68
99 Brown, Charles A. .......... 3-14-68
101 MuI"ray, Frank ................ 1-30-68
103 Leggett, Elton J ............... 8-21-67
103 Stoller, Paul S ................. 1-16-68
104 Weaver, J ohn .................. 6-14-68
106 McLean, Harry .............. 9- 4-67
106 Swope, Lloyd G ............. 3-18-68
106 Webster, Cecil M............. 6-10-68
111 Byrne, Homer M............. 12-29-67
111 Estes, Roy G ..................... 7- 9-67

Lodge
Date of
No.
Name
Death
111 Giles, Herschel S ......... .... 10-20-67
111 McRae, Lorne C............. 4-22-68
111 Martin, Frederick F ....... 4-24-61.l
120 Rub enstein, David ........ 6-10-68
123 Frost, Harvey C............... 5-25-68
127 Werner, Willia m A......... 11- 2-67
134 McCrory, James R. ..... .12-28 -67
134 Schaefer, Rud olph ........11-13-67
136 Emery, Roy ..... ............... 11- 4-67
140 Scott. J esse F .... .... ...... .. . 7-1 5-67
144 Hartje, Richard H .......... 1-21 -68
147 P eterson, Laurie ............ 7-23-67
149 Sorsoli, George W .. ....... . 5- 10-68
150 Schick, William H . ... 7- 1B-G7
156 Cranston, Thornton E ... 3-24-68
166 Greever, Charles 0 ......... 6-1 6-67
168 McCrea. John D........ ... 6- 9-68
168 Steinegger, Emil G ......... 11-30-67
173 Markofer, Harry S ......... 7-17-67
174 DeMille, George E... . 6- 5-68
174 Wilkinson, Alfred ... ....... 10-14-67
175 Cox, J oh n F .. ..... .............12-25-67
180 Schwobeda, Ernest A. .... 12-28-67
183 Pe nland, Everet t M . . .. 9- 5-67
184 Joh nson. Wi lbe r D ......... 11-25-67
190 Bertholas, Henry W .... .. 7-23-67
191 Bacigalupi, John V .. .. . 3-29-68
J 91 Borkheim. Ha rvey A .... 7-20-67
19 1 Murray, William P .... ..... 2-26-68
192 Cook, Harold U ............... 6-16-68
195 Degener, Roderick E ..... 3-24-68
195 Stolp, Emil ................. .....10-19-67
196 Fry, James F ................... 6-17 -68
198 Mason, Thomas F ........... 3- 1-6i
202 Gerhar t, William E......... 5- 8-68
204 Hitchcock, Darold M..... 9-10-67
20S Brown, George H ........... 5-20 -68
206 Greenlee, Roy E .............11-13-67
208 Augusto, George M.......11- 2-67
209 Gaskin, Walter H .......... . 3-16-68
212 Winter, Emil .................. 12-11-67
214 Brown, Anson P ............. 2-27-68
214 Miller, Carl A. ................10-21-67
215 Bordwell. Frank V......... 8-28-67
216 Larsen, Harold N ........... 7- 1-67
216 Ringole, Philip F ........... 8-23-67
220 Bigsby, P aul A. ........... .. . 6- 7-68
220 Coward. Hume H ........... 1- 1-68
220 Pert, Thomas J ............... 8-27-67
222 Denney,
Frederick A., Jr......... 12-23-67
222 Moe, Harry E ................... 2-14-68
225 Getch ell, Firma n H ....... 2-13-68
226 Saysette, Ke nneth F ..... 10-21 -67
229 Stainer, Virgil E ............. 1-14-68

22

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Lodge
Date of
No.
Name
Death
230 St::mton, Edgar W., Jr ... 7-27-67
231 Heid, Arthur H .......... ..... 7-21-67
231 Sitterle, Oscar H .... .... .. 7-23-67
235 Tyeryar, Edwin R.. .....11-24-67
235 Warrens, George M ....... 10- 6-67
237 Burola, Israel M...... ..... 9- 4-67
237 Keeler, Joseoh W....
3-15-68
242 Graham, Harry R. ... ....... 6- 2-68
243 Flierl, Walter F ............... 1-30-68
243 Wilbur, John L...... . .. 9- 8-67
244 Wilson, Paul V.........
1-15-68
245 Bacon, Russell S......
.12-17-67
246 Allard, Joseph A., Jr ... . 3-24-68
253 Hopkins, Frank B ....... ... 4-12-68
254 Michaud, Harry A ... ....... . 8-13-67
254 Wolf, Louis G .......... ..... 10- 1-67
265 Masterson, Francis P.
8- 3-67
268 Sloan, Walter A ....... .. .. 2-14-68
271 Brittan, Harry N ........ .. 5-26-68
271 Niebuhr, Kermit E.. . . 12-21-67
273 Thomas, Addis E. .... ..... 9-20-67
273 Stamm, Cecil E ... .......... 11-10-67
278 Gautier, Lester E .
4- 5-68
278 Scarborough,
James G., Jr....... .. .. 1- 6-68
280 Hinkle, Jack C........
5- 2-68
263 Silver, Ira G.......
9-27-67
286 Hudson, Egbert A.
. .. 12-27-67
286 Sutton. Herbert C. .
8- 8-67
287 Bigelow, William .......... 2-26-68
287 Bulpitt, Ernest I. .. .... 7- ll-67
287 Harrah, Ivan E.... ...
6-19-68
289 Friedemann,
William M.............
8-31-67
289 Habenicht, Howard G ... 11-26-67
289 Turner, Wyman E .... ..... 6-23-67
292 Baker, Fred E ................. 4- 2-6!!
292 Jones, William .............. 1- 10-68
294 Scheline, Ray J ............... 2-23-68
296 Shepard, Clarence J ....... 3- 4-68
300 Nicholson, John H ......... 11-27-67
301 Carder, Roy P ................. 6- 3-68
302 Gruver, Burton F ........... 9-19-67
303 Burney, Paul ................ 8- 8-67
303 Web st er, Hobart S ......... 8- 3-67
304 Young, Charles P . ... . ... 4- 5-68
305 Skidmore, Stephen E ..... 11- 4-67
309 H amilton, Gladney L ..... 3-17-68
312 Scott, Ernest C.. ...... ...... 3- 7-68
314 Patton, Luther ................ 1- 3-68
315 Reese, J a mes A. .............. 12-30-67
316 Sayre, Frank K ............... 2-18-68
317 Baxter, John C ............... 9- 2-67
317 Stubblefield.
Charles E .....................11- 3-67
318 Persons, Stanley M ......... 9-21-67
319 Burton, Robert B ........... 9- 4-67
319 Lindskog, Cla rence W ... 2- 6-68

Lodge
Date of
No.
Name
Death
322 Cornwell, John R. .......... 7-17-67
322 Hodsdon. William H ..... 7-23-67
322 Mohler, Menno 0 ........ . 1-13-68
323 McCartney, Roy S ........ 4-30-68
323 Lee, Albert E ................... 12-23-67
323 Milliken, Charles ....... ... 6- 3-68
325 Brewer, Herbert W......... 6-16-68
327 Hawthorne, Robert B ..... 7-29-67
328 Tallman, Louis A ........... 11-19-67
330 Lavy, William F........ . . 3-26-68
330 Lindsay, Robert M ......... 2-23-68
330 Warner, Harold R. ...... .... 10-23-67
331 Benge, ~oy R. .................. 8- 9-67
333 McKenzie, Mervyn J ..... 8- 6-67
335 Franklin, Samuel L . . ... 3-28-68
335 Levoy, Leopold K. .......... 10-16-67
335 Mason, Fred R. ..... ... ... 11- 4-67
336 Bendell. Morton ............ 6-16-68
337 Miller, Peter, Jr.......... ..... 7-16-67
339 Edwards, Archibald M ... 1-29-68
339 White, Lisle M ................ 10-27-67
344 Issac, Lawrence W...... . 5- 9-68
346 Rum well, Arnold ... .. .. 9-30-67
347 Palmer, Franck McV... 9- 6-67
347 Seaton, Harry W ............. 12-20-67
349 Young, Charles C... .... 4-14-68
351 Erickson. Oscar .. .. ... 10-22-67
351 Tuttle, Robert P .......... ... 4- 10-68
352 Duncan, Albert E .... ..... . 8-10-67
352 Goodell, George M... .... .. 11-18-67
356 Burt. Francis G ......... .... 7-26-67
356 Low. Irvine T ....... ... .. . . 1- 5-68
356 Me.r riman, Dwight L ..... 5- 9-68
358 Good, Charles M........ . . 3- 8-68
365 Robinson, Clarence A ... 6- 1-68
366 Meyering, Rhine G ......... 2-26-68
367 La Freniere,
Richard E ..................... 10-13-67
367 Thompsett,
Patrick J . S ................. 2-21-68
369 White, Raymond R. ........ 6- 1-68
:no Christenson. Nelson D ... 9-21-67
371 Hansen, George .............. 7-20-67
371 McCraw, Osbuem ......... .11-28-67
372 Lee, Joseph F .................12- 5-67
374 Mayer, Louis P ............... 5-29-68
374 Rundell, Joseph P ........... 10- 8-67
375 North, George A. ............ 7- 6-67
377 Freeman, Frank A. ..... ... 7-22-67
378 Nicholson, Howard I... .. 10- 2-67
379 Wright, David L ............. 5- 3-68
381 Chase, F rank M., Jr....... 7-15-67
382 Taylor, William .............. 9- 4-67
383 Beckner. Arthur P ......... 5- 4-68
384 Sones, Charles E ............. 8-16-67
385 Fullard, James$ ............. 3-19-68
387 Pollard, Barney A. .. ........ 11- 1-67
389 Benton, Samuel F ........ ... 7- 6-67

GRAND l.OOGE OP C ALll'OR NJ.I\

23

Lodge
Date of
Lodge
Date of
No.
Name
Death
No.
Name
Death
393 Larson, Alvar F ........ .. .... . 5-18-68 463 Pine, George S ........... .... 12- 9-67
393 Matson, Walter J .. .... ....... 12-31-67 465 Byde, Norman P ............. 4- 5-68
394 Garnier, Ralph L ........... 9-17-67 467 Luck. Reynold 0 ......... ...12-31-67
394 Mitchell, Irving J .......... 7-28-67 468 Harman, Harry E.... ....... 8-14-67
394 Wolle, Wentworth A. .. .. 1-16-68 4.68 Krueger, Roy F ............... 5- 3-68
395 Kerr, Owen W ................. 10- 9-67
469 Bosche, John W ......... .... 11- 6-67
395 Stowers, Wayne G .. . ... . 1-13-68 472 Davis, Emil ................... 12-24-67
397 Perrin, Max P ............... .. 2-20-68 475 Watson, Laverne M....... 1-11-68
401 Cleary, Homer E ....... ......10-20-67
476 Dozier, Franklin B .........12-15-67
402 Palmer. Percy E. ............ 4- 4-68 483 Beigay, Otto F ................. 12-20-67
405 Cobb, George R. .... ........ 6- 4-68 434 Braendlin. Robert F ....... 3-25-68
405 Collins, H azen E ............. 1- 9-68 484 Greffoz, Francis M ......... 5-21-68
406 Russell, Thomas J ...... ... . 7-25-67 484 Hews. Lorraine M .... .. ..... 3-26-68
406 Sence, Ray R.................. 5-26-68 486 Moore, Walter N ...... ...... 7-28-67
406 Story, Nathaniel ... ...... ... 5-12-68 486 Nelson, Robert W ..... ..... 8-31-67
407 Holmes, Earl K. ...... ..... 11-28-67 487 Hilton, William T ...... ..... 5-29-68
407 Stanley, Alfred, Jr......... 2-29-68 491 O'Brien, Robert E ........ . 7- 8-67
408 Morgridge, George B ..... 5- 6-68 491 Stinson, Worden A. ........12-13-67
409 Purcell, Herbert C....... .. 8-29-67 492 Burpee, Clarence A. ......10-18-67
409 Houvener, Harold L ...... 4-14-68 493 Talbot, Wayne W...... ..... 7- 7-67
410 Plant, Frank W.......... .... 2-23-68 494 McDaniel, Horace S ....... 9- 8-67
414 Cavanagh, Angus L.. ..... 3-30-68 494 Wisheropp,
416 Brunell, Kingsley A ....... 12-19-67
William H., Sr..... ... . .. 9- 7 -67
417 Croyle, George S ... ........ 2- 5-68 495 Glass, Edwin A ............... 7-21-67
418 Sager, William S .............12-14-67
495 Tucker. Sidney N ........... 7- 2-67
418 Turpin, Nelson E ......... .... 1- 2-68 497 Sharp, Ernest F ............... 9-27-67
419 Daggs, P aul R. ........... .. ... 8-21-67 497 Turner, George C ........... 6-22-68
425 Dungan, John F ........ ..... 10- 3-67 498 Greenberg, Hymen ........ 2-16-68
426 Johnston, Eugene M ..... 3-19-68
499 Conger, Max 0 ............... 12- 1-67
427 Baumgardner, Rex P ... .. 4-11-68 499 Pardee, Josiah B ............ 4-26-68
428 Gillette. William J ........ 12-18-67 505 Jones, Albert H ............... 3-25-68
428 Jochimsen, Frank P .... . 6-26-68 506 Woolf, Elmer N............... 2-17-68
428 Smead, Harry J., Sr. .. :!-23-68
510 Welch, Euell B ........
4- 6-68
429 Buzacott, William A..... 12-28-67 513 Cave, William G ............. 2-29-68
4.29 Wildes, Raymond L ...... 10-21-67
514 Wilhelm, Frederick E ... 1-20-68
434 Colbert, John E.......... .11-30-67 515 De Jane, William M....... 4- 6-68
437 Burchfield, Thomas A.. . 3- 6-68
515 Link, Claude R. .............. 1- 17-68
440 Campbell, De Mille M . . 2- 10-68
515 Pilling, George H ........... 3-16-68
440 Murbach, Herman F.... 8-22-67
515 Sinclair, Kirkley L .... ... 8-20-67
442 Parkhurst, Duster D.
1-27-68 515 White, Clyde F ... ........... 6-11 -68
442 Welk, Edward W....
2-26-68 516 Muir, Jennings E., Sr..... 2- 7-68
445 Cronkite, Clarence E.. 5-28-68 516 Palmer, Asa G ................. 5- 2-68
446 Fedde rsohn, Peter L. .... 12- 15-67 517 Capps, Chester J ........... 10-15-67
448 Longwill, Robert E ....... .. 3-25-68
519 Burney, Rich ard P ......... 2- 12-68
449 Huppe.rt, Robe rt K. ...... 9- 6-67
521 Greaves, Valentine F ..... 4-21-6'.l
449 Kupper, F rank Y ...... .... 4- 9-68 522 Dodd, Moses B ....... .......... 12- 8-67
451 Vestal. Francis V . ....... 12-14-67 522 Doyle, Dayle 0 ............... 9-26-67
452 Sowerby, Theo J ... ....... 11-14-67 529 Taylor, Jack E ................. 11-16-67
452 Thomas, Ra lph B ........... 7-21-67
531 Dorsa, Joseph J ............... 6- 7-63
452 White. Donald G ............. 8- 7-67 531 Martin, Arthur J ............. 10- 3-67
454 Malone, Orie E ............ . . 1-12-68
537 Muir, Eugene S ............... 9-11-67
454 Nolte. Oliver J ........ ........ 10-20-67 539 Lefevre, Ora L . ............... 9- 2-67
455 F on taine, Rene G .......... . 5-25-68 539 Snidow, Cyren c C ........... 11-20-67
457 Brasington, James D ..... 7- 3-67 540 List, C. Elmer.................. 12-11-67
457 Madsen, Martin ... ...... ...12- 2-67 540 Seeley, Charles E ...........11- 4-6 7
459 Staley, Garold C ... ........ . 12-25-67 541 Flanders, Fred A. .... . ..... 4-25-68
460 Frerichs, Simeon J......... 8-11-68 542 Collins, John MacA....... 6-25-63
461 Fels, Sigfried .................. 2-29-68
545 Hiller, P erciva l F ........... 9-19-67
462 Kahn, Arthur J ............... 8-21 -67
545 Spangler, Lew E..
9- 9-ti7

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

2~

GRANO LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Date
of
Lodge
Death
No.
Name
7-31-67
620 Caudle,
Nay lor, JEodhn
621
warEd···N············
........ . 3-25-68
621 Skinner,
6-26-68
Edward F., Sr............. 4- 6-68
623 Ross, J acob 0 ................... 10 67
634 Cameron, Willard F .......12- 637 Sutherland, Audlcy G ... 8-10-~~
639 Phillips, Ernest D ........... 4- 7645 Clark, Alfred C ............... 7-27-67
646 Montgomery,
7-29-67
Wallace Ci w·······--------10-18-67
647 Faucett, Car
............... 1 21 68
648 De Bus, Henry................ - 652 Estep, CharRles JA············-~t;~=~~
652 ThompsoGn, ay ........... 1-29-68
656 Friend, B eorgle
6-29-68
661 Cogar, ever_y F··········· 6-14-68
665 Weeks, ::itrvi.; w ··---------12-23-67
666 Potter. C1 ard M ........... 6-13-68
669 Triplett, ree
···········
671 Divel, Rw-~:· Sr..E'........ ~=~~=~~
671 Tepper,
i iam .........11 21 67
672 Marshall Andrew B..... - 672 Palmer, Arch ow·---········-~i=~~=~~
673 Clasby, J ohn ...............
67
676 Laederich, Almar W ..... 7-15677 Sherwm,
1 m A ······· 5-15-68
. w l·11·a
681 Dawkins. Chester W ..... 12-19-67
681 Mason, Elmer L ............... 2-l 7-68
686 Bookenoogen,
2 68
Ce~il
EF. ····k····H
················ t1~=68
688 Martm, ran
............ .
690 Roberts, Stephen M ....... 12-13-67
691 Parker, Theodore C ....... 2-21-6 8
691 W1'll1'ams, John C ........... 5- 8-68
2 67
692 Fowler, Elza L ................. 7- 2 693 Sanborn, Gerald K ......... 5-17-68
694 McCurdy, Richard F ..... 10-20-67
698 H1·emstra, Wybren ........ 2-15-68
701 Buchardi, Ludwig W.....11 - 13-67
702 Gump, Charles S ............. 6-2140-6688
725 Quinn, Martin H ............. 5- 726 Saunders, Howard C ..... 7- 8-67

Date of
Lodge
Death
No. Murfe lt, Irvmg A.
5-30-68
547
.......... 88-67
547 Upson, Wayne F ............. 9-18-67
548 Bussey, Albert C ............. 6- 6-68
548 Vicars, R_obert B .............11- 3-67
555 Gould, Richard W.A
·········· 6- 1-68
556 Graham, Howard ······· _24 _67
8
560 Adams, Herbert Aw········· 5-14-68
560 Sweeney, Charles
..... 8- 6-67
565 St. Jean, Raymond F ..... 1-21-68
566 Robbins, Clay ················
568 Garrett, . F W
.10-12-67
BenJamm ·
·········· 6 _19 _68
569 Orcutt, Walter_E ............. 4-10-68
575 Solomon, Veshl P...........
5 68
576 Ballantyne, An~reAw L ... 1~= 1=67
579 Shoemaker, Elvm ······· 5- 1-68
579 Wilson, John N........... ...
580 Coddington,
7-20-67
Leonard P. ·················· 6_15 _68
581 Olsen, Ansgar~ R. ........ 1_11 _68
581 Wingate, Jc;ihn ············· 5-19-68
585 Marlatt, William W ....... 4- 2-68
588 Combs. Gordon c0········· 5-25-68
588 Cornish, George l·l-·O···--- 1-24-68
I ngraham, Marsha
... 8-17-67
588 Naus, Carl R. ................ ·· _27 _68
589 Waterhouse, George S ... ~-19-67
590 Boileau, John F ............... _14_68
5
594 Hammond, Floyd R. ...... 1- 7-68
594 Saffle, Ralphk
B ······p········· 6- 1-68
595 Channell, Par er .......
5 67
600 Garbutt, Gilbert F .........1I=14=67
S d
Glen L
···
600
an man,
ers, Wilham
. . ···:p····
602 Cole
....... 4-13-68
4- 4-68
602 Wirsching,. John T ......... _ _
2 3-67
7 67
603 Little. Wilham H ............. 11603 M Gih on Leonard ........ 1
605 C c !or Kenneth w ....... 12- 3-67
ay •Frank H............... 1-21-68
605 Miller.
6 67
605 Mitchell, Harlo ldR --·········· !=24=68
607 Brown, Reued ............. 2- 5-68
607 L a rsen, Davi ················ 3-30-68
607 L imb, J ack ······················ 9-14-67
609 Marchand, John L ......... 2- 8-68 737 ChG~~~~:eH'. .................... 1-14-68
610 Dransfie ld, No~an........ 8-19-67
744 M"ddleton, Thomas B ... 1-27-68
610 Ogde~, LNym~n A ............. 1-19-68
J elnsen William A. ........ 1-11-68
611 Reavis, orns ....... .....
749
'
9-28-67
24
67
613 G
Archie R
··· 7- -57
761 Perrott Th elo A ............
5
613
' Arthur
. PhTH::::::::
M ... 126- 6-68
785 Green, Burley
h w............. 8- 4- 57
614 Bixenstem,
1 ip ····· 9- 2-67
806 Thornburg ,
2-26-68
616 Upham, F.r1al_nk WF........... 1- 8-68
HerbertME. ····:·····-·M······-- 2-17-68
618 Gallin, W1 mm ··--·---··· 2-17-68 803 Webster, aunce .....
619 Wells, Allen P.................
. ·30 m
P· ·
At 12 :08 p.m. G ran d Lodge was called off until 1 ·

Nam~

E" ..........

zf:g~:~·

25

AFTERNOON SESSION-Monday, October 14, 1968
At 1 :30 p .m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. This session was raised by Worshipful Archie G. Allison, Master
of Los Alamitos Lodge No. 809. The invocation was delivered by the
Grand Lecturer.

DISTINGUISHED GUESTS
The following Grand Masters were received with privat e Grand
Honors, individually welcomed by the Grand Master, and escorted to
sea ts reserved for them:
M: . w : .WARREN A. McMrnIMEE.

Grand Master of Masons in Oregon ,
M . ·• W. ·.ROBERT L. GrLMORE.

Grand Master of Masons in Washington.
M.'.W.°.STEWART A. SHAPER.

Grand Master of Masons in Colorado,
M .• • w ... GEORGE T. MYERS.

Grand Master of Masons in Nevada.
M.'.W.".ADRIAN W. BoMERT.

Grand Master of Masons in Idaho,

M: .w:.G. MELVIN REEsE.

Grand Master of Masons in Arizona.
M ••. w . .. FRANCISCO LOPEZ GUTIERREZ,

Grand Master' of Masons in Baja California.
M:.w:.cHEsTER

o. NIELSEN,

Grand Master of Masons in Japan. a member of
our Naval Lodge No. 87.
The following distinguished guests were received with public Grand
Honors, individually welcomed by the Grand Mas ter, and escorted to
seats reserved for them :

M:.w:.w. PHELAN DouGLAs.
Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary of Tennessee.
M. ·.w.·.RoYAL D. CROWELL,

Past Grand Master and Grand S ecretary of Nevada.

M.' . W.'.J . H. N. MORGAN,

Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary of British Columbia.

M.'.W.°.GERALD l. CRAIG.

Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary of Arizona,
M.·.w.·.NoHEA

o. A. PEcI<,

Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary of Japan ,
R.'. w:.]oHN RILEY,
Deputy Grand Master of Tennessee.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

27

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

26

YOUTH GROUP REPRESENTATIVES
V.".W.'.WENDELL K. WALKER,

Grand Secretary of New York.
v. · .w.·.w. DEXTER ELLIOTT,

Grand Secretary of Oregon,
v.·.w.·.EoWARD L. BENNETT.

Grand Secretary of Washington.
v:.w:.CLARENcE M. GRosHELL.

Grand Secretary of Utah .
V .'

.w: .ALTON T. KAUFFMAN,
Grand Lecturer of Idaho.

The following distinguished guests were received with publi~ Grand
the Grand Master, and escorted to seats.
H onors, we lcOmed by
M : .w:.CoNRAD HAHN.

Past Grand Master of Connecticut.
M:.w:.H.

s. JAcKsoN.

Past Grand Master of Indiana.
M.".W.'.J. WM .

J. STEDMAN,

Past Grand Master of Washington.
M:.W.'.LERov AsERLIND.

Past Grand Master of Montana.
M.".W.'.GEORGEO . THORNE,

Past Grand Master of New Mexico.
M .· . w•.• BERNIE BROWN.

Past Grand Master of Alberta.
M:.W.'.STANTON YouNGBERG.

.

Past Grand Master of the Philippines .
M." .W.' .T. F. WEI.
Past Grand M aster of China,

M. w:.c. \VHEELER BARNES,

.

. Past Grand Master of Colorado and Representatwe of the
Grand Lodge of California in Colorado,

W.'.ALPHON SE CERZA.

Grand Orator of Illinois,
w . JAMES D . CARTER.

. Librarian-Historian of Southern Jurisdiction

w

A

r. As R

.u

• FELIX A. LENHART,

.

.

.

f

. Past Grand Treasurer of Czechoslovakia. a member o our
Durant Lodge No. 268.
RESPONSES BY D1sTJNGU1SH ED GuEsTs

f the Annual Communication various distinh
. During t e :~:er~:l~d on to address the members of Grand Lodge.
gEmshhed gue~:d with expressions of appreciation and presented refresh~
k
.
M
ac respon
ing. thoughful and constructive asomc remar s.

On Tuesday morning the Grand Master. pursuant to the stress in
recent years toward Masonic encouragement and interest in youth activities and particularly in keeping with his own feelings in this regard,
called down Grand Lodge and had escorted to the East the following
representatives of youth organizations who delivered the addresses
below:
Gayle Stiltner, Honored Queen, Grand Bethel of Job's Daughters" Who is a Job's Daughter? A Job's Daug her is a girl approaching
womanhood who has a Masonic heritage.
Girls are eligible for membership in Job's Daughters at the age of 12
and reach majority membership at age 20 or when married. Each girl
must have a relationship to a Master Mason in good standing or who
was in good standing at the time of his death.
At 12 years. girls are still developing character. A Job's Daughter
is a girl developing the qualities of character that will enhance her life.
The teachings of the International Order of Job's Daughters are
based on the Book of Job, found in the Old Testament. The girl learns
that faith in God will help overcome any trial that she may face in life.
Through her Masonic heritage, a girl is also developing her character.
She learns about filial love. Parents are encouraged to attend all activities
of Job's Daughters. This brings the girl and her parents closer, enhancing
this 6lial Jove and promoting friendship between parents and children
at a time when the parent~child dependency bond is changing in order
that the girl may become an adult.
Part of growing .up is developing friendships. Job's Daughters provides the opportunity for girls to develop friendships with others that
may last a lifetime. There are many opportunities to make frien dships
with members of the other Masonic youth organizations.
Any adult with proper Masonic relationship may attend our meetings. This develops friendships between girls and adults and bridges the
generation gap so that girls and adults know each o ther.
Part of character development is learning to help others. Compas~
sion is a womanly virtue. Job's Daughters are engaged in charitable
projects that extend the hand of friendship to those in need of love and
friendship .
Job's Daughters is a learning organization. Girls learn to work and
to speak with people. A girl is encouraged to increase her knowledge
in order to communicate more effectively. Job's Daughters gain poise
and beauty of character when they live up to the teachings of the Bethel.
A Job's Daughter is encouraged to be loyal to her country and to
take an active interest in the affairs of the nation.
A woman is virtuous. A girl following the teachings emphasized by
Job's Daughters will act and think in accordance with virtues emphasized in her religious heritage and in her Masonic background. She will

28

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

have the character that will make her beautiful from her youth into her
old age. She will be a true example of womanhood. worthy of the description of Job's own daughters (Job 42:15) 'and in all the land were
no women found so fair as the daughters of Job; and their father gave
them inheritance among their brethren'."
Gayle Marsh, Grand Worthy Advisor, Order of Rainbow for Girls"Worshipful Grand Master of the Grand Lodge, Honored Members
in the East. Members of the Grand Lodge:
Thank you for giving me the honor of speaking before this Grand
Lodge during its Annual Communication. On behalf of the Grand
Assembly in California Order of Rainbow for G~rls, I ~xtend to you a
most cordial invitation to visit our assemblies this commg year.
As our sponsors, we are very grateful for your support. You ha~e
helped to found our organization and we look to you for our leade~ship.
We realize the great amount of confidence which you have placed m us.
and, as your daughters, we will continue to uphold this confidence and
continue to carry out your plans.
As the people of our free nation look to their forefathers for wisdom ,
strength, inspiration, and guidance, we of California Rainbow look to
you, the Free and Accepted Masons, as our strong and able leaders.
Our country was founded by the strong and able men of our nation.
There was nothing too difficult for them to overco~e .. and no ~oal_ set
too high that they could not achieve. Certainly bu1ldmg a nation is a
great accomplishment; and the blood, sweat, and .tears th~t were so
much a part of their nation is today a part of our national heritage.
.
The adventurers traveled across the mighty land to find and bmld
new homes for their families and the generations to come. As the years
passed, many more people moved west and soon the star~ on our Rag
reached fifty. Today we stand on the very ground for which our forefathers lived and died so that we might have a place to call home. T?day,
because of them, the red, white and blue of our flag w aves proudly m the
breeze and freedom reigns throughout our la nd.
Today the men of our Country are fighting across the seas. Our
fathers, o~r husbands, our sons and our brothers are dying day after
day. But the cause they are fighting for is so worthwhile. We all know
the taste of freedom . and it is no wonder that "ve want others t~ know
the same. It is too bad that we must kill and destroy to reach this goal,
but thank God we still have the strength to do it after two world wars.
If we had not fought then the flag of our country would no longer be
waving proudly in the breeze, and our freedom-loving people as _well .as
our own Masonic organizations would probably no longer be m existence.
I for one as a Rainbow Girl, and I ask each and every one of you
to do the sa~e. salute the men of our armed forces who are fighting for

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

29

our liberty and our freedo m. I salute the flag of our country, may you
always reign aver these United States , and may you always be the
shining glory of our nation. And I salute you dear God, may you always
keep our minds right, our country strong, and our people free, and may
you always keep the lessons of patriotism uppermost in our minds, that
whether we shall have war or peace, we shall have PATRIOTISM."
Robert W. Laversin, Master Councilor. Northern Californ ia DeMolay Association"Most Worshipful Grand Master. Honored East. and D istinguished
Members of the Grand Lodge of Masons in the State of California. It
is a great pleasure and honor for me to be able to address your body on
behalf of the Order of DeMolay.
Yes, I am a DeMolay. R ig ht away, I am special and apart from the
rest of the world. People can look at me and they know immediately
that I am a special type of teenager. What is it that sets me apart from
the rest of the world?
Filial love, reverence for sacred things, courtesy. comradeship,
fidelity , cleanness, and patriotism. It is these seven things . virtues which
I have learned and practice, which set me apart. I love my parents; I
appreciate the fine upbringing they have given me, and I am not ashamed
to tell the world how wonderful I think they are . I serve God; I a ttend
religious services regularly and I take part enthusiastically; and I am
not ashamed of living in this world by the high moral standards by which
I have been taught.
I am courteous; I have a friendly attitude toward everyone, and I
am pleased to help any man along his way. I am a friend; I stand by
those whose acquaintanceships I have made, and I am willing to help
them at any time. I am faithful; whether it is simply a promise to do a job ,
or a major commitment in my life, it will be done to the b est of my ability
because I have given my word, and I will not shirk my responsibilities.
I practice cleanness in thought. word, and deed. I refuse to run wi th
the crowd; swearing, for example. shows a lack of vocabulary and there
are certainly better ways in which I can show the world that I am a ma n.
I am a good citizen; I obey the laws and I encourage others to do so as
well; I am learning about my government, so that when the time comes
I will be able to ta ke an active part in the running of it. I stand tall whenever I hear our National Anthem being played at an assembly or at a
ball game, because I am proud to be a citizen of our Great Country. the
U nited States of America.
So you see, I am not like the other guys on the block-I am a non
conformist. But I do not need long hair, dirty clothes, or other simple
marks to make people sit up and take notice of me, because I already
stand out in a crowd, I am a DeMolay."
The assembled members accorded them an enthusiastic standing
ovation as they were escorted out of Grand Lodge.

30

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRA:\'D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND MASTER's GoLD BurroN-SPECIAL PRESENTATION

Inspector Robert W. Dunwoody of District No. 402, on behalf of
Summit Lodge No. 112, presented a new Grand Master's button to
Grand Master Hopp. In making the presentation he read the following
summary:
"Gold fever has struck the hearts of men for centuries and ages
long since past. Today gold mining is almost an extinct skill here in
America, but each year the brethren of Summit Lodge No. 112, F.&A.M.
are affiicted with this ancient and highly contagious disease as they
gather their picks, shovels, pans and sluices when they journey into the
still gold-rich hills of colorful Northern California.

In an area near the historic town of Knights Ferry, in the eastern
foothill country of Stanislaus County, they assemble to perform their
venerable rite. The call of "gold" still creates a surge of excitement in
the hearts of these men. Thus it was in the spring of 1968, when Grand
Master Eugene S. Hopp suggested that Summit Lodge mine the necessary gold and create from it a new Grand Master's lapel pin to be passed
from Grand Master to Grand Master. The response from the members of
the Lodge was one of affirmative enthusiastic unanimity.
Needless to say, it didn't take long for brethren to mine the required
amount of the precious metal to make the pin, because they have been
doing this sort of thing for many, many years. It has been a tradition
among the members to mine the gold for their Past Master's jewels for
presentation each year at the Installation of Officers Ceremony to their
outgoing Master.
It is with great honor and pride that the new Grand Master's pin,
made from pure California Mother Lode Gold. is presented to our Most
Worshipful Grand Master at the 1968 proceedings of the Grand Lodge
of California.
The pin itself was made by Summit Lodge Past Master William L.
Waggle. It was cast in sand from clay of the same variety found in the
clay grounds of Jordan. No modern tools were used and it was hand
carved. The raw nugget. representing the rough ashlar, was contributed
by the former Inspector of the 402nd Masonic District, Claiborn E.
Schonhoff. An alloy of gold and brass creates the yellow background.
The rose color is the result of the combining of copper, brass and gold. A
combination of gold and silver provides the mountings for the three
diamonds. A close examination of the pin will disclose a number of
Masonic symbols. The crack near the letter "C" is emblematic of the
destruction of King Solomon's Temple."
The Grand Master expressed the appreciation of the Grand Lodge
of California and expressed the assurance that future Grand Masters
would wear the pin with pride and satisfaction.

Grand M aster's Gold Button
Presented by Summit Lodge No. 112
Monday, October 1-t, 1968

31

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

33

GRAND MASTER'S MESSAGE
On October 13, I 967 you, my Brethren, placed in my hands the great
responsibility of carrying out the tremendous duties and obligations of
this Grand Lodge and also charged me with observing your will in
accordance with the actions taken during the 1967 Communication .
Today, I am to render an account of that stewardship.
The task presented in I 967 seemed almost insurmountable for this
office had just been vacated by a dedicated, conscientious , able and
hard-working Grand Master and it was obvious that it would be virtually impossible to equal his footsteps, let alone follow them.
As I looked about the Temple on that Friday afternoon and saw,
at least in my mind's eye, all those distinguished Past Grand Masters
who had served this Grand Lodge so well and who had contributed so
much of themselves toward making this Grand Lodge one of the most
respected and admired in the world, I suddenly felt most humble and I
silently prayed for divine guidance and assistance.
How well I have completed my labors is for you, my Brethren, and
time to judge. I can but acknowledge the invaluable assista nce of our
Past Grand Masters throughout the year, and the warmth of your
Brotherhood and fraternal assistance whenever and wherever you were
requested to participate in the task before us. For the pleasure and honor
of these experiences I shall be eternally grateful.
FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF FREEMASONRY

On that day of in;tallation, 1967, I laid down the challenge to every
Master Mason whithersoever dispersed to rededicate himself to the
fundamental principles of Freemasonry.
This Tuesday evening of our Grand Lodge Communicatio n we have
been fortunate enough to be able to assemble three of the finest Masonic
scholars and speakers to discuss with you and your families and friends.
the fundamental principles of Freemasonry.
Dr. James S. Carter, Librarian and Historian of the Supreme Council, 33°, Washington. D . C .. will speak on "Truth and Justice."
Right Worshipful Alphonse Cerza, Grand Orator of the Grand
Lodge of Illinois, will speak on "Temperance, Fortitude and Prudence."
Most Worshipful Conrad Hahn, Past Grand Master of Connecticut.
and now Executive Secretary of the Masonic Service Association in
Washington, D. C .. will speak on "Brotherly Love and Relief."
In accordance with the fundamental teachings and principles of Freemasonry, I have this year encouraged participation in our public ceremonies by all organizations dedicnted to the support of the public schools
;i nd the Constitution of the United States and the brotherhood of man .
This has included the Knights of Columbus and other civic and fraternal

35

PROCEED INGS OJ:I THE

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

organiz ations. We have joined with these organiz ations in promoti ng
the observa nce of the signing of the Constit ution of the United States
in Norther n and Souther n Californ ia. In Woodla nd, the State Deputy
of the Knights of Columb us acted as Master of Ceremo nies on the occas ion on which I spoke on the Constit ution of the United States. In
Orange County , a magnifi cent parade and observa nce include d marchd
ing units of the Knights Templa r, the Knights of Columb us and splendi
N.M.S.
A.A.O.
,
Temple
groups from Al Malaika h Temple and El Bekal
In continu ing this manifes tation of the fundam ental principl es and
teaching s of Freema sonry, I have invited for the first time, to address
our Masoni c Semina r on Tuesda y evening , the Roman Catholi c Bishop
of the Diocese of Monter ey in Californ ia, Most Reveren d Harry A.
Clinch, D.D. I shared the platform with Bishop Clinch at the laying
of the corners tone of the King City Joint Union High School and I find
him to be devoted to true brother hood. The subject of his address will
be .. The Church in a Changi ng World. "
It is my firm convicti on as it was Most Worshi pful Ira W. Coburn 's
in 1963, that the greates t need in Freema sonry is not "gimmi cks" to
attract men but an increase d knowle dge among Master Masons of the
history and the fundam entals of Freema sonry and an earnest striving
to use those fundam entals to the utmost, inside the Lodges as well as
outside.

plish the laudabl e goal of impartin g more knowle dge of Freema sonry
to our Candid ates and to those who have received the Degree s but failed
to take advanta ge of. or even to recogni ze, the great lessons.
The lnspect oral Corps seemed a logical place to assign these functions but a survey of the time spent by these dedicat ed Master Masons
in instruct ing the officers in the ritual and in providin g that tremend ous
leadersh ip which enables the Lodges to carry on their adminis trative
work so proficiently, reveale d that these tasks alone required so much
c
time that only a very minute portion remaine d for matters of Masoni
leadbetter
provide
educatio n as well as for those studies which would
ership and better manage ment in the Constit uent Lodges.

34

CONFER ENCE OF GRAND MASTER S OF NORTH AMERIC A

I am also satisfied that what problem s there have been in our Grand
Jursidic tion this year have arisen entirely from a failure to underst and
and a failure to abide by the great teaching s of Freema sonry. In great
measure , this is the essence of the problem for Freema sonry through out
I
the world as I learned in Washin gton, D. C. in Februa ry 1968 when
was·
It
a.
Americ
North
of
s
Master
Grand
of
nce
attende d the Confere
my privileg e to have been asked to deliver the keynote address at that
session and I spoke on the subject '· Man and Masonr y." I endeavored
to trace the concept of ethical behavio r in man and to point out that
though our technol ogy has changed , the fundam ental characte ristics of
human behavio r have not and that man has continu ed to be, in this
comput er age, a creature capable of truly great ethical behavio r. Freemasonr y provide s a means of exercisi ng and develop ing this basic good
in human nature.
MASON IC KNOWL EDGE AND EDUCAT ION

Because of a great concern with the importa nce of building M aster
Masons rather than merely initiatin g new member s in our great fraternity; because I have felt that insufficient time was being spent in imparting the wonder ful teachin gs of our Degrees despite that fine Candid ate's
Coach's Handbo ok which in my travels I have discove red is all too
seldom used, I have reviewe d v<irious means by which we might accom-

RECOMM ENDATI ON No. I

I therefor e recomm end that the incomin g Grand M aster appoint a
special commit tee which will study the question of how best to implement the commun ication of the fundam entals of Freema sonry to every
Master Mason. I envision a number of ways in which this can be done.
Perhaps . by a somewh at parallel and subordi na te organiz ation, by groups
of Masoni c districts with a "coordi nator'' for each such groupin g whose
s
task it would be to arrange , at the request of the Inspecto r, for speaker
Con,
Schools
Public
as
such
Lodge
Grand
of
s
program
on the various
s ti tution Observa nce, etc. and also for speaker s capable of present ing
in an interest ing fashion , the basic teachin gs of Freema sonry.
Or there might be assigne d to each D istrict a coordin ator for nonritual instruct ion. I am satisfied that after proper study and consult ation
the commit tee would make worthw hile recomm endation s. It might even
recomm end a change in the use of the present organiz ation without
changes in its form.
This commit tee is to report its recomm endatio ns at our next Annual
Commu nication .
MASON IC C OOPERA TION

It has long been my firm belief that the greatest good could be
iaccomp lished for Freema sonry by Master M asons in whatev er prerequ
but
good
public
the
in
only
not
site body, endeavo ring to work togethe r
for the benefit of our Masoni c Lodges. Therefo re, just a few weeks after
the beginni ng of the Masonic year, on Novem ber 11, 1967, I invited the
heads of all the Masoni c prerequ isite bodies to attend a meeting at the
e
Californ ia Masoni c Memori al Temple in San Francisco. The respons
to
all
of
ess
willingn
the
trated
demons
was most gratifyi ng and again
work togethe r in true peace and harmon y. There were present at that
meeting , the head of the Scottish Rite Bodies, the Soverei gn Grand
Inspect or General for C aliforni a, the respecti ve heads of the York Rite
Bodies, the heads of the Order of the E astern Star, and of the seven
Shrine Temple s in Californ ia and of the Imperia l Divan of the
A.A.O. N.M.S. for North Americ a or their represe ntatives.

36

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Following is a complete list of those attending the meeting.
Eugene S. Hopp, Grand Master
Robert A. Crigler, Deputy Grand Master
Chester R. MacPhee, Senior Grand Warden
Herbert A. Huebner, Junior Grand Warden
Edward H. Siems, Grand Secretary
Harold N. Richards, Grand Lecturer
Phillip H. Mercier, Grand High Priest, Grand Chapter of Royal Arch
Masons
Leonard Hooper, Grand Master, Grand Council of Royal and Select
Masters
Allan S. Mason, Grand Commander, Grand Commandery, Knights
Templar
Chester H. Newell, Grand Secretary/Recorder , Grand y ork R"ite Bo d"ies
of California
Henry C. Clausen, Deputy Grand Commander'. Sovere!gn ~rand lnspec,
tor General in California, The Supreme Council, Scottish Rite
C. P. McGregor, Imperial High Priest and Prophet, The Imperial Coun~
cil, A.A.O.N.M.S.
George C. Courreges, Potentate, Aahmes Temple
Claude M. Christie, Chief Rabban , Aahmes Temple
Herbert Coney, Assistant Rabban, Aahmes Temple
C. Guy Selleck, Chief Rabban, Al Bahr Temple
Leo E. Anderson, Chief Rabban, Al Malaikah Temple
Phil E . Geiss, Potentate, Ben Ali Temple
C. Edward Best, Chief Rabban, Ben Ali Temple
Lawrence A . Schei, Assistant Rabban, Ben Ali Temple
James S. Finlay, Chief Rabban, El Bekal Temple
Theodore H. Balliet, Potentate, Islam Temple
Arthur S. Oliver, Potentate, Tehran Temple
Lloyd S. Jackson, Chief Rabban, Tehran Temple
Mrs. Lura Rae Dales, Worthy Grand Matron, Order of the Eastern Star
Mr. Robert M. Lutz, Worthy Grand Patron, Order of the E astern Star
Many suggestions were offered at this m~eting for gr~te~ coopera,
tion in our public schools observances and m our Constitut10n month
observances. These as well, of course, as the efforts expended by out,
standing committees and the diligent labors of the leaders of the various
groups resulted in the most outstanding pub~ic sch°<:>ls observances and
the finest Constitution observance programs m the history of our Grand
Lodge. To the leaders of these great prerequisite organizations, I must
acknowledge my personal gratitude and I . am certain, :he thanks and
appreciation of all Freemasons in California and Hawau.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

37

Within a week after the commencement of this Masonic year, I
caused to be circulated to all the Lodges a message calculated to clarify
the action of Grand Lodge at its 1967 communication with regard to
the liquor question. The message pointed out that since all proposed
legislation had been rejected, there was no change in the law and the
directive of Grand Master Dayton of October 26, 1966 was still in force.
Despite the widest possible dissemination of this information, it has been
necessary to order a strict observance of our law in several instances
among prerequisite organizations.
MASONIC HOMES

This year your support for our Masonic Homes has surpassed that
of the previous year by more than $8,000.00 and for that I know I
express the thanks of your less fortunate Brethren and their families who
are the beneficiaries of your contributions. The complete report of the
devoted activities of the Trustees of our Homes will be presented by the
President of the Board, Past Grand Master Alfred Breslauer. You
should be advised, however, of the momentous decisions made by the
Board in recent years which have finally resulted in their becoming able
to broaden the admission requirements and to accept guests for the
Homes they could not previously accept because of State law. The
Board has long felt that some means should be found to admit to the
~omes those who required the environment which these residences pro,
v1ded so well. In the past, the State Department of Social Wel£are
permitted only ambulatory residents at the Home at Decoto. After thor,
oughly reviewing the situation with representatives of the State Welfare
Department and the State Fire Marshal. the Board received permission
to admit non,ambulatory residents to the third and fourth floors of
Adams Hall. The Board is to be congratulated on this expansion of
needed service to the Craft.
In April, I was asked whether or not a Lodge could contribute to
the Masonic Homes Christmas Fund. It was contended that since the
Code did not prohibit the donation, it was not illegal and that since
Homes Superintendents had accepted such donations in the past, Lodge
action had thus been approved. I had to express my opinion that neither
of these contentions could be supported. Section 409 of the California
Masonic Code provides that a Lodge shall not use or permit use of its
funds "for any other thing whatsoever except, in its discretion, it may
make expenditures hereinafter permitted."
Since further, it had been held that Lodge funds may not be contributed to many worthy causes (Sections 409 m, 410 a, 412 1, 409 n)
and since in prior years Grand Lodge resolution was required to
authorize such things as contributions from the refreshment fund to
the Memorial Temple (Section 412 t) or to the Endowment Fund in

38

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

place of floral pieces for deceased persons (Section 411) I had to render
the opinion that the contribution could not be made. I pointed out clearly
that funds can be used for presents or clothing for Lodge dependents in
the Home (Section 409 aa and Section 409 ac) although they could not
be used to pay an item such as the insurance premium on the life of a
boy in the home (Section 409 h). I also pointed out that there was
nothing to prevent individual contributions by members of the Lodge.
Feeling, however, very keenly that the idea of the contribution by a
Lodge to the Masonic Homes Christmas Fund was an excellent one, I
communicated my opinion in the matter to the Homes Board of Trustees
and in response to my request they have introduced Resolution No. 10
which provides that contributions to the Masonic Homes Christmas
Fund by any Lodge from moneys in its refreshment fund shall be deemed
to be for the promotion of fraternal intercourse within the meaning of
Section 412 of the California Masonic Code. This resolution will be
before you for consideration at this session. I cannot urge strongly
enough that you approve this resolution which will provide for the practice of remembering our guests at the Homes during the holiday season.
This practice, in my opinion, is one that should be augmented and not
discontinued.
Because of the great program of the Investment Committee of
Grand Lodge under the very able and dedicated direction of our Grand
Treasurer. Paul A. Pflueger, the Homes Trustees were able this year
to recommend a reduction of 35¢ in the per capita for the Homes. The
Trustees are to be congratulated and if each Lodge redoubles its effort
on behalf of the Homes Endowment Fund the per capita could undoubtedly be reduced even further.
ELIGIBILITY OF APPLICANTS

Under the question of the eligibility of applicants, Grand Master
Laurence E. Dayton at the 1967 Communication discussed the question
of the effect of a previous conviction of crime on the eligibility of a man
to apply for the Degrees of Masonry. His Recommendation No. 5
adopted by Grand Lodge reads as follows: ''That the Committees on
Polioy and General Purposes and on Jurisprudence be requested jointly
to restudy this entire subject and to propose legislation for consideration
at the 1968 Annual Communication which (a) more clearly defines
policy, and ( b) establishes adequate guidelines for implementing the
same."
The two committees designated have studied the problem and they
have recommended as a matter of policy that no person who has pleaded
guilty or nolo contendere to or been convicted of a felony or a misdemeanor which is morally wrong s hall be eligible for the Degrees of
Masonry unless such conviction shall have been vacated or set aside

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

39

or unless the applicant shall have been pardoned for the reason that he
did not commit the crime.
The two committees noted that with the exception of the provision
relating to the vacation of a judgment of conviction and the matter of
pardon, this general polic·y determination was enacted into Masonic law
by a 5/ 6 vote of Grand Lodge in 1957 and is now contained in Section
511-o of the California Masonic Code.
Appropriate legislation to be proposed by the Committee on Jurisprudence will carry out the effects of these reco mmendations. I urge its
adoption. I firmly believe that the test of morality in a crime is a most
proper one for determination of an applicant's eligibility.
BOA RDS OF RELIEF

In Recommendation No. 4 Grand Master Dayton recommended "an
exhaustive study of sojourner relief and the Board of Relief System."
This was adopted by Grand Lodge with the change that a special committee be appointed to formu late recommendations and present their
findings for consideration this year. A very able committee has devo ted a
year of study to the problem and has uncovered many and va rying problems a nd multiple ramifications associated with this study. The Committee in its report to me pointed out that providing relief for sojourning
Masons, their widows and orphans, was a most proper func tion of the
Boards of Relief but that over the years, additional functions have been
assumed partly, undoubtedly, because they were vital func tions which
needed to be performed but which were not indeed wi thin the true
province of the Board of Relief. These functions included the opera tion
of a blood bank, the making of sick calls, the granting of awards and
the conducting of funerals which is certainly more properly the fu nction
of a Lodge.
P ractices throughout our Grand Jurisdiction with regard relief var y
considerably. Some Boards have solicited bequests and have received
very large sums of money; one recent bequest being in the amount of
$50,000.00.
In addition to the foregoing problems which will require resolution,
the questions asked by Grand Master Dayton in his message on this
subject of sojourner relief will, of course, require more detailed study
and specific a nswers. The questions ra ised include the present nature and
extent of the relief needs of so journers ; the distribution of the problem
geographically; the effect or the possible effect of such programs as
Social Security. Disability and Unemploy ment Insurance nnd other Federa l programs and StLtte programs up on the problems. This committee
must ~ome to gr ips with the answer to the question, "What is the proper
funct10n of a Board of Relief?" S ho11ld this be a program of Grand
Lodge and how should the finn ncial hmden he distributed ;;irnong th('
Lodges?
·

40

PROCEED INGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORN IA

BLOOD BANKS

desirable . Howeve r, the possible remedies involve some broad question s
of policy, the answers to which should not be the sole responsib ility of
the Finance Committ ee to formulat e. The need for consulta tion with
various officers and committe es of the Grand Lodge has become apparent
and this could not be accompli shed in the time available before this Communicati on." ( 1967) Recomm endation No. 3 was then made that "the
task of formulat ing for presenta tion to the I 968 Annual Commun ication
recomme ndations for action based upon the special study and the questions raised by it, be carried out by an interim committe e to be appointe d
by the incoming Grand Master. " This recomme ndation of the Grand
Master was adopted despite a recomme ndation of the Policy and General Purposes Committ ee "that the Finance Committ ee of the Grand
Lodge be requeste d to continue with its compreh ensive study and review
of the expendit ure of Lodge funds and Grand Lodge funds." In order
to encompa ss the broad areas indicated by our Grand Master Dayton,
I selected distingui shed Brethren represen tative of all of the areas that
conceiva bly could be involved. I asked our Junior Grand Warden , Herbert A. Huebner , a noted patent attorney, to serve as Chairma n. The
Committ ee itself was compose d of the Grand Treasure r; the Chairma n
of the Finance Committ ee, another Past Grand Master; and an Assistant Grand Lecturer, a member of the Ritual Committ ee. The committee
very carefully reviewed the detailed studies made by the Finance Committee. It consulte d with and met with Grand Lodge officers, Inspecto rs,
Committ ee Chairme n, Board Chairme n, and circulari zed by question naire, Inspecto rs and Committ ee and Board Chairme n, to endeavo r to
determin e and clarify current practices with the purpose of determin ing
those practices which" were in the best interests of Freemas onry. This
committe e has prepared for your consider ation a very fine and comprehensive report which was mailed to all the Lodges in August so that
there might be adequate review and discussio n of the recomme ndations .

I have also examine d the operation of our Board of Relief system in
connecti on with the blood bank service and learned that practices in
blood banking vary consider ably.
I received a letter from a Master of a Lodge regardin g one Masonic
blood bank of a Board of Relief in which I was advised that funds col~
lected for the blood bank were being diverted to the operation of the
Board of Relief or that the income from funds provided for a blood bank
were being so used. I promptly replied that in my opinion, neither funds
nor the interest on funds donated by members of Lodges through such
Lodges to the blood bank reserve account to cover the cost of purchasi ng
blood or for promotio n could be put in the general fund for operatio n of
a Board of Relief. I pointed out that these were trust funds donated for
a specific purpose and could not be diverted to the general funds of the
Board of Relief for its operation .
I have also discusse d the matter of blood banks with the Executiv e
Secretar y of our San Francisc o Medical Societi)' Blood Bank and I have
been advised that it would be possible to establish a blood bank for our
entire Grand Ju1'isdiction which would enable Master Masons and their
families to receive blood almost anywher e in the world, by means of a
phone call authoriza tion or letter to a central office perhaps in the Grand
Lodge.
RecoMME NDATION No. 2

I therefore recomme nd that a special committe e continue the study
of sojourne r relief and the entire Board of Relief system with a particular view to recomme nding to Grand Lodge at its next Annual Commun ication. the manner of organiza tion of relief; what areas shall be covered beyond those of sojourne r relief. if any; how these boards shall be
maintain ed financially and how blood banks shall be organize d.

41

RECOMM ENDATIO N No. 3
SPEOAL FI NANCE STUDY

At the I 966 Annual Commun ication of this Grand Lodge. the recommendatio n of then Grand Master Myron E. Smith was adopted that
"the Finance Committ ee of the Grand Lodge be requeste d to make a
compreh ensive study and review of the whole subject of expendit ures of
Lodge funds and Grand Lodge funds ... and to submit its findings and
recomme ndations at the next Annual Commun ication." Our Finance
Committ ee did indeed conduct a very compreh ensive and able study
which pointed out a number of areas in which the practices varied among
the constitue nt Lodges and in Grand Lodge with regard expendit ures.
In 1967, G rand l\faster Dayton pointed out that '"remedial measures
to achieve more equitable and consisten t practices at both levels are

I recomme nd that the report of the Special Finance Study Committ ee
be adopted in principle and that the Special Finance Study Committ ee
be requeste d to prepare the necessar y rules and regulatio ns to impleme nt
the recomme ndations of the report and that these shall be effective upon
approval by the Grand Master. Those recomme ndations of the Special
Finance Study Committ ee which require changes in our law shall have
these changes in the law prepared by the Committ ee with the assistanc e
of the Jurisprud ence Committ ee and presente d to Grand Lodge at its
next Annual Commun ication for approval or disappro val in the customary fashion provided for the introduc tion of resolutio ns which would
change the law of Grand Lodge.
I strongly urge your support of this recomme ndation. It will provide
for the first time equitable standard s by which all claims for reimburs e-

GRANO LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

42

ment may be judged. As you know, my Brethren , I have endeavored to
encourage the presence of the ladies at many of our functions this year
as well as the participation of the youth organizations and their representatives. Your response to this request has been most gratifying and
I am satisfied that we have been able to provide our families and our
youth organizations with a better understanding of Freemasonry.
On two occasions, therefore, during the past year, I felt it of the
utmost importance that the wives of the Grand Lodge Officers be present.
I therefore authorized the expenditure of approximately $560.00 on one
occasion and approximately $370.00 on a second occasion for reimbursement for these expenses. The Special Finance Study Committee has
agreed with the importance of this concept and provides for this reimbursement as a matter of policy.
Because of changes in the areas of lnspectoral compensation, etc.
it may very well be that the adoption of this Special Finance Study Committee report will occasion some additional cost. I would point out that
only 28% of our Inspectors have requested reimbursement for their
travel and every Grand Master and all of the elective Grand Lodge
Officers have contributed of their own funds on numerous occasions.
I am satisfied that those who wish to continue to do so will find nothing
in this report to force them to do otherwise.
I therefore, again, earnestly and sincerely solicit your support on
behalf of this Special Finance Study Committee.
STU OEN TS

It has been carefully and thoroughly pointed out in the 1967 Proceedings: Report of Special Committee for Programs for Students, that
"the Clubhouses are no longer serving their intended use." The Committee carefully documents the tremendous d ecline in membership and
the change in students' needs. The Clubhouses originally served to find
jobs and housing. These needs are currently met by extensive on-campus
services. The Committee also documented the changing nature of student
activities today. All of the details of this account can be found in the
Committee's report as well as in the references to it by Grand Master
Dayton in his 1967 message. It is understandable that the Directors of
the Clubhouses, w ho have given so much of themselves and of their
time over many years for the young people, should be reluctant to see
these two Clubhouses at Berkeley and Los Angeles sold. However,
Recommenda tion No. 8 of the Grand Master was adopted in 1967 as
follows:
"l. That the incoming Grand M aster appoint a special committee
to formulate plans for the incorporation of a multi-purpose foundation
under the auspices and control of Grand Lodge to establish and administer a flexible program of student aid and submit such plans for approval
at the 1968 Annual Communication.
"2. That the Board of Directors of each Masonic Clubhouse be

43

11
.
directed to take d · th ·
Clubhouse progra~~~gliqu~~:~~~~eaCl~t~essary steps t.o discontinue the
proceeds available to the proposed found1:t~~~.P.ropertles a nd make the
d .
The only change in the rec
of the term "during the inte . o,i;im~? hat1on as adopted was the deletion
nm w ic meant that it would not be necessary for the Clubb
offer could be obtain~~~es to be sold until such time as the best possible
.
I designated as liaison for the Grand M
d Waster with the C lubhouse
Directors in the North our S . G
arden R W Ch t R
e111or ran
'
es er
' · ·
ac Ph ee and a th 1· ·
M
D irectors in the South, R.W.
the
A. Crigler,
outstanding experienceyin real esta~st¥. Both ~f these men have had
appraisals of the two properties s th t hey o?tamed for ~s independent
prop:r value. The Clubhouse at B~rkcle w~ m1~ht be certam of ~eceiving
/ . as fe en sold for a price above
that indicated in the appraisal N
eg~~at1ons or the sale of the Clubhouse in Los Angeles are still.
important recommendations for~~~cf:~ulr:9· f ~am satisfied that the m~st
f ho Mreemasonry, the one which
most nearly encompasses the ch
arge o t e aster Mason degree " universal benevolence o
t~e first portion of ri'ec~~:e~~~~~~·~~o tc~l·c~te" l:s rat co~tained in
whic ca ~ or the mcorporation of a multi-purpose foundaf
ion un er t e auspices and control of
Grand Lodge.

Rober~

sDe;u~a1s~~at~dth~

d

CALIFORN IA MASON IC FOUNDATION

h
.
I appointed to this Foundation C
knowledgeable Master Masons I coul~~~tt~ ..&.,e C~ry finest and most
ester R. MacPhee,
our Senior Grand Warden the h d n . . .
very active in real estate w~s Ch ~a of Thwell-known foundation and
induded two attorneys.' one of ~~:~n.h e members. of t~e ~ommittee
Pad served with d1stmction as
.
Chairman of the Speci· C
f S d
a 1 omm1ttee on rogr
were also included the Preside t f M . C ams or tu ents. There
President of the University of ~e oPaci~~r~tt S ol~ge, Dr. Robert Burns.
d m toe ton, Dr. Oscar Anderson, a retired school administrat
authority on school finance in C ~~ an. per~aps the most outstand ing
sician with wide philanthropic i:t~r:~~a;: Dr. ~rd Cal.lison. a phyis spec1a committee has met
.
d
on numerous occasions and
the problem of a multi-purpos:nf ert~ke~ careful study of all aspects of
odun at~on. They have prepared Articles
of Incorporation and By law
mendations has been dr~ulat:dant a1l1la fstrhactLodf these with their recom0 a
o t e o ges.
.
.
Smee the Articles of Incorporation f h C l"£
Masonic Foun~ t e a I ornta
dation would be difficult to ch
broad in scope to allow the Gra~~g~~J =~f ~a~e ?een. ma?e sufficiently
t ~c1~es it wishes to do so,
to pursue a variety of charitable a f ~f
H ornes. In the By-laws of ti Cc tv1 ies exc us1ve, of course, of the
restricted to educational purp ie o~poration, the use of the fu nds is
oses, a ways under the direct supervision

44

PROC EEDI NGS OP THE

.
Lod e whic h must appr ove the budg et and
purp oses
of this Gran d
g . t be expe nded prio r to their expethe.
nditu re. The
for w~ich th~ ~o;h~: ;~u~dation, the princ
iples
estab hshm en. Gran d Lod e, will truly repre of whic h ha~e. been apsent our recognition of our
prov ed ~b'>'.l~thy1s as Mas ter ltaso ns in assis
ting the public sMchools. Wde
respons1 1 1
h.l
shall be estab lishi ng a most V-:bortthw ·t1hefufolul d · t whic h ason s an
nco:~d~n;e that the funds will
may cont n u e w1
non- M ason s a l'ke
i
f
h
t thou ghtfu l and intel ligen t cons1.derab.on
be disburse~ only a te~ t :~o~ompose the
Boar d of Trus tees and after
by resp onsi ble rm:~ ~o e. Man y Gran d
Lodg es throu ghou t the ~ni~ed
approval£ bA G ~
hav : estab lishe d Mas onic Foun dations of
a s1m1lar
Stat es o
men ca I have visit ed a Gran d Juris dicti on
with
such
a Foun
natu re. Whe reve r d . d
that it is perfo rmin g a magnificent task.datio n, th~y;av e;. v~t~s :e:s age the Foun
datio n will in no way inter
As I have m icate m
b
If d. to DeM olay Job's Da ught ers and·
h
th
supp
ort
to
e
o ere
fer~ wit
•
e .
.
The su ort whic h these orga
niza tions requ ire
as
~ad1.11bowd ~orthGe t~ols~municatf:ns from their
adul t lead ersh ip is not finanm 1cate m
cial but adul t Mas onic man pow er.
.
The estab lishm ent of this Foun datio n com
ing. at ~ tt~e whe ; t~:
. H
Boar d is reco mme ndin g a redu ction m t
e per a p
Mt asfom~ts s~mppe~rt indic ates again that this
will in no wayd infrinMge upo_n
ax or
the impo rtanc e and nee d e d supp or t for the Hom es an our
asom c
. . . .
$10 000 00 to our
T emp le Asso ciati on whic h this
year agat n ts g1vmg
,
.
Mas onic Hom es .
"th b efit f
I
t' 6ed that this F ound ation will inde ed
be for
e en
oI
am ~a i.~ nd that it exemplifies the very
best of the fund~menta
all man kmd a
I
. . le of Free maso nry. ams at·IS fled that the adop tion of this com pr.mc1~ s ort will be one
.
of the most impo rtant and far-s ighte d actio
ns
m1ttee s rep
.
G
d
Lod
e
1
stron
gly counsel your appr oval of
ever take n by this ran
g .
their Reso lutio n No. 33.
y OUT H ORD ERS
A Mas ter Mas ons enjo ined to exer cise the
talen ts with "".'hi~h God
h bfesse d us to the welf are of our fellow
crea
tures
, ~e. are ~1ta y co~d
as
..
h outh or aniz ation s of
cern ed with. t e. y h ord~r of the day, itM ason ic affiliation. n a wor
beco mes more impo rtant than
whe n rebelh~n IS t u~h with stan dard s agai
nst whic h they can mea sure
eve~ to provide yo d ds that have with stoo
their cond uct, ~tan ar . ·1· t·on at the d the test of time. havi ng
been obse rved m ever
y c1v11za i . . . peak of its dedi catio n to the
im ortan ce and the dign ity of the md1vidual
.
p
h' Gran d Lodg e appr oved the recom mend .
ation to chan ge
Last yea[ :h~s Com mitte e on DeM olay to
the Committ~e on you th
the nam e o x ande d its function to emb race
DeM olay , Jobs Daughte~s
Ort~:i~r;;!~ for Girls. In acco rdan ce with that rec~
mmendation off th~s
Gran d Lodge. I issue d for the first time a
proc lama tion on behalf o t e
you th Orde rs for a week of obse rvan ce.

GRAND LODG E OP CALI FORN IA

45

Grea t prog·ress has been made durin g the
past year in the yout h
orga niza tions but man y prob lems have arise
n which require addi tiona l
stud y. For the first time, there was held this
year a joint meeting of the
adul t head s of all of the yout h orga niza
tions . This enab led them to
discu ss mutu al prob lems and to dete rmin
e how they migh t be more
help ful to each othe r. I am satisfied that
the estab lishm ent of the You th
Orde rs Com mitte e has been instr ume ntal
in prom oting this type of
coor dina tion whic h cann ot help but prov e
beneficial to the youn g peop le.
Beca use of my grea t inter est in the yout
h orga niza tions and with
my own daug hter, Joy serv ing as Hon ored
Que en of Job's Dau ghte rs
Beth el No. 51 , I wrot e to the adul t head
s of the respe ctive Mas onic
affiliated yout h orga niza tions askin g them
to advise me in wha t specific
way s our Gran d Lodg e and more parti cula
rly, Mas ter Mas ons ever ywhe re, might be help ful to their orga niza
tions . One requ est stan ds out
abov e all othe rs. Tha t is the requ est for
peop le pow er. For exam ple.
in DeM olay the work load , both for chap
ter and for the juris dicti on of
Nort hern Cali forn ia, is main taine d by no
more than flve hund red individu als out of a total Mas onic membership
in the area of some 125,000.
Thes e five hund red work as advi sors , distr
ict supervisors. supe rviso rs
of ritua l and in othe r juris dicti onal activ
ities. I am advi sed that the
num ber shou ld be three times as grea t.
The re are. for exam ple. 131
chap ters of DeM olay in Nort hern Cali forn
ia and each chap ter shou ld
have a minimum of six activ e advi sors. At
the pres ent they aver age not
more than three . The kind of Mas ter
Mas ons who are parti cula rly
need ed are not only thos e willing to work
for the yout h orde rs but thos e
with an unde rstanding of youn g people. Too
man y of the chap ter advi sors are not only ·unfa milia r with the supr
eme council regu latio ns of the
respective yout h orga niza tions but are also
unfa milia r with the requ irements and laws of this Gran d Lodg e itsel
f.
The proc ess of the educ ation of an advisor
is a cont inuo us one as the
aver age advi sory council ch~mges completel
y ever y four year s. We must
reme mbe r that these yout h orga niza tions
are the only ones of their size
whic h run entir ely with volu ntary help. It
is undo ubte dly essen tial that
there be some full-time staff for the orga niza
tion. DeM olay has set up
the DeM olay Foun datio n of Cali forn ia, Inc.
to be able to prov ide some
of this type of flnancial assis tanc e. I urge
your supp ort as indiv idua l
Mas ter Mas ons. Ever y chap ter of DeM
olay or Rain bow Asse mbly or
Job's Dau ghte rs Beth el is self-sufficient as
far as finances are conc erne d
but I must sadl y relat e to you that a recen
t surv ey indic ated that at least
six yout h grou ps were char ged $75.00 or more
mon thly renta l amo untin g
in man y insta nces to a dolla r or more per
mem ber per mon th. Whi le I
am a firm believer in each yout h orga niza
tion prov iding for itsel f and
havi ng a shar e in the responsibility of finan
cing its activities, I can see
no usefu l purp ose serv ed by char ges that
virtu ally force them out of
exist ence . It has been sugg ested that there
coul d be guidelines for renta l

46

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

fees. The annual rental might perhaps be computed at not more than
$2.50 per member per year. This is only a suggestion.
We are now approaching the Fiftieth Anniversary of the Youth
Organizations. lt seems to me more important than ever that we broaden
our support for these fine groups. The Youth Orders Committee can
serve as a liaison group between our Grand Lodge and the California
Masonic affiliated youth orders. I urge that the committee also devote
careful study to the problem of financial support and human support
and report to Grand Lodge each year the results of their study and recommend legislation based upon that study.
The Y outb Orders Committee has prepared brochures which you will
receive soon after this Communication and which will provide a better
understanding and better communication between Freemasonry and
DeMolay, Job's Daughters and Rainbow for Girls.
Because of my firm conviction that the finest young people in the
land are those involved in DeMolay, Rainbow for Girls and Job's Daughters, I have this year for the first time in the history of our Grand Lodge,
set aside a short period on Tuesday morning of this Communication at
which time the Grand Lodge will be called from labor to refreshment for
the purpose of hearing from the young people who head the respective
organizations.
Gayle Marsh, Grand Worthy Advisor, Rainbow for Girls, is twenty
years old. She graduated from high school in her hometown of Fresno
and will return to her role of college student at Fresno State College
when her year as Grand Worthy Advisor is finished. I understand she
plays the" folk" guitar quite well and considers this an interesting hobby.
Gayle Stiltner, Grand Bethel Honored Queen, Job's Daughters, is
from Richmond. She is a Junior at California State College in Hayward
and is majoring in Psychology. One of her greatest pleasures is reading
and her favorite spectator sport is ice hockey.
Robert W. Laversin, Master Councilor of the Northern California
DeMolay Association, is from San Francisco. He attended San Francisco City College and is now enrolled in California State College at
Hayward where be is majoring in Business Administration. Bob was on
the Varsity Golf Team at George Washington High School and was
an Eagle Scout. He plans to become a Certified Public Accountant.
The administrative duties of the Grand Mas ter in recent yea rs have
grown by leaps and bounds. We are performing almost exactly three
times as many public ceremonies as we were ten years ago. I am satisfied
that these ceremonies present Freemasonry in its most favorable aspect
to the public and that they should be continued. There are increasing
demands upon the Grand Master's time in the various duties appertaining to his office. In order to provide him with invaluable assistance, in

order to provide the respe t. , I ·
ffl
would be invaluable to theme i:eteh e_ct1vebo cers with information which
111 eir su. sequent s t a t'mns an d m
- order to
.
improve
communication
.
among committees of ove 1
·
f
as~1gned several committees to each of the 1 .
r appmg unctions, I
this year by station. The De ut Grand ~ect1ve Grand Lo~ge officers
the Investment Committe tph YF_
aster acted as liaison with
e.
e mance Comm1·u
th C
· .
Observance Committee and
th C
.
ee,
e onst1tut1on
The S . G
e omm1ttee on Lodge Financing.
Committe:.n~~: ~:~~n;;1~rt:;a~~~~as lia_ison with the ~ublic Schools
C
o~~1ttee, the Public Information
Committee, the Board of L'b
mittee.
i rary omm1ss10ners and the Charters Com-

. .
The Junior Grand Ward
t d
Board, the Board of Control e~b ac~ as .1ia1s~n with the Endowment
Committees and the youth o' de Casom~ History and Historic Sites
E
'
r ers omm1ttee.
ach of these dedicated and devot d ffl
assistance to the Grand M t
d
~ o cers rendered invaluable
functioned.
as er an to t e committees with which they
RECOMMENDATION No. 4
d b d
Because of the tremendously in
of these elective Grand Lod e O~rease 1 ur en to be shared by each
Grand Warden and the De ~t Gra~ers, recommen_d that the Senior
ment to the Board of Tru~te:S of t~e Mc:t~r b: relieved !rom assignTemple. leaving the Junior Grand W d
I orn1a Masomc Memorial
year. 1 further recommend that th
e~ to ~erve on that Board each
Deputy Grand Master be relieved fro~ s~m~r
ranbd ~arden and the
of the Masonic Homes leavin th S . rvmg on t e oard of Trustees
t~at most vital and imp~rtant B~arJ ea~~1or Gra~d Warden to serve on
t1ons require changes in our la 1
yea~. Smee these recommenda-

aJ

t:Jga:~~
~{eJ:sruisap1 rudence
ant~re::~~e~~~~
tht:~~~~~d::~~~~a:;;
~:::~
·
manner pnor to our
·t A
]C

By virtue also of the reat increa _nex
.n~ua . ommunication,
borne by the Grand Mas~er
h se ~1: admm1strat1ve correspondence
the Grand Master and whe' r.ou ave ~ IS lear provided a secretary for
and the Senior and Ju~ior ~r~~~ w:~:·nsor te ~eputy Grand Master
pleasure ~o have serving in this capacity in th: G~·an~ ta~ been our great
B. J. Wa1dler. I know that man f
h
o ge Office, Mrs.
her in the hundred and one d t J:'I o you. ave had occasion to work with
travel, receptions cornerston:cae1rs asso.ciated w1I·th the arrangements for
..
•
~
emornes, etc. am d
1
f f
h er unfailmg
devotion to du~y and her ch f I . . eep y grate u 1 or
any task no matter how great
b d eer u wrllmgness to undertake
or ur ensome,
BLACKMER LODGE

Is!~~i~gf ~bCisaylefar, ~

442
suslpended the charter of Blackmer Lodge No
1 orma. present herew'th
'
'
·
stances which lead to this act·1on.
I
an account of the circum-

48

<;~AND I.OO Ge OF r.A J IPOR NIA

PRO CEB OING S OF THE

been trem end ous diss ensi on and
For mor e than two year s ther e has
suff icien t to hav e requ ired prev ious
lack of harm ony in Blac kme r Lod ge,
ers and som e of the Bret hren of the
Gra nd Mas ters to mee t with the offic
r prob lem s. Des pite repe ated effo rts
Lod ge in the hop e of reso lvin g thei
eavo r of lnsp ecto rs and the Ass istby then Gra nd Mas ters and ever y end
se
prob lem s, mat ters had beco me wor
ant Gra nd Lec ture r to reso lve the
me
beco
had
ge
Lod
the
in
ony
arm
dish
and had reac hed a poin t whe re the
mun ity of San Dieg o.
com mon kno wle dge in the pub lic com
thei r sour ce as far back as 1953,
Wh ile som e of the prob lem s hav e
, afte r a Pas t Mas ter was elec ted
they beca me muc h wor se in 1965
r
sed by our Insp ecto r and from othe
Mas ter. l hav e been relia bly advi
:
lem
prob
the
to
ors
fact
ribu ting
sour ces that ther e wer e seve ral cont
h inte rfer ence by Pas t Mas ters ,
muc
too
ge.
Lod
the
in
ip
poo r lead ersh
to run the Lod ge, too larg e a turn who hav e tried in ever y poss ible way
who m wou ld prob ably hav e mad e
ove r in the line of officers, man y of
rate the prob lem s and drop ped out.
goo d Mas ters , but who cou ld not tole
y Bre thre n wou ld rath er not atte nd
l am relia bly info rme d also that man
that ther e wou ld be an argu men t
ain
the Lod ge whe n they kne w for cert
kge room . The mem bers hip of Blac
or an unm ason ic qua rrel in the Lod
.
1080
ut
abo
to
bers
from 1300 mem
mer Lod ge mea nwh ile, had drop ped
1966
in
was a Mas onic trial held
A cont ribu ting fact or, und oub tedl y,
amo ng cert ain of the Bret hren .
ings
feel
whi ch left stro ng and deep -roo ted
pres ent Insp ecto r. it was nece sAt the time of the app oint men t of our
g the Thi rd Deg ree sinc e it was
sary to stop the officers from conf errin ecto r that the corp s of officers
Insp
the
obv ious to the offic er's coac h and
ugh to con fer the deg ree upo n the
at that time wer e not prof icien t eno
cand idat e.
r to Blac kme r Lod ge in Mar ch
On the official visi tatio n of the Insp ecto
lute ly no cont rol over the mee t1968, the Mas ter was foun d to hav e abso
wled ge of parl iam enta ry proc edur e.
ing. He disp laye d a tota l lack of kno
t talk ing befo re bein g reco gniz ed by
Bre thre n wou ld stan d up and star
betw een Bre thre n acro ss the Lod ge
the Mas ter. Arg ume nts took plac e
uct wer e mad e by a Pas t Mas ter,
Hall . Acc usat ions of unm asonic cond
stoo d up to argu e the poin t with out
and an officer of the Lod ge, in repl y,
Mas ter. The enti re argu men t was
even wait ing to be reco gniz ed by the
ic fash ion. Sev eral othe r argu men ts
cond ucte d in a com plet ely unm ason
occa sion conc erne d with the read ing
occu rred in the Lod ge room on that
mat ters . The beha vior of the officers
of the Sec reta ry's min utes and othe r
that occa sion was unb elie vabl y unand Pas t Mas ters of this Lod ge on
mas onic .
invo lved in activ ities conc erni ng
One officer of the Lod ge has been
viol atio n of the secr ecy of the ball ot
the inve stig atio n of a cand idat e and
for whi ch I und erst and , char ges
whi ch was com plet ely unm ason ic, and
erre d. In addi tion , ther e hav e been
of unm ason ic con duc t are to be pref
and proc edur es.
num erou s viol atio ns of Mas onic law

At the stat ed mee ting in M

49

h

officer ~f the Lod ge left his
the Mas ter,
waJk:do~;te~~~~:;,r~ission of wea
;~;~! o~~?usffily ang ry man ner, ter
ring the
room
~ ge ·1
lk d
also
·
o is o ce. A Pas t Mas
wa e out in a s1m1
ner.
man
ar
.
H avin g received wor d f
lem s
prob
the
of
ters
~o/s Gra nd Mas
in this Lod ge, and also at ~;::. ~:e
re1
ge.
Lod
the
of
bers
R rom mem
ques ted our Dep uty Gra nd Mas tern
stiinve
to
ler,
Crig
A.
ert
Rob
. Wd.
gate the mat ter for the Gra nd M as.t er an to act in his beh alf
The D
·
Bla k
epu ty Gra nd Mas ter visited
sted the
arre
ch
and
ge
Lod
mer
dcM
G
the
arte r as the repr esen tativ e of
aste r
ran
S b
.
u sequ ent inve stig atio n has b
ht out man y othe r mat ters such
roug
.
ters
Mas
t
Pas
the
of
ting
as a mee
Janu ary 1968 whe n such argu men ts
took plac e betw een the two fact io m
't
ns pres ent, that thre ats of civil law su1 s
foe slan der wer e mad e in th·is supp osed ly Mas .
~nic mee ting .
caus ed an aud it to be mad e of
e
r the Lod~ s acco unts and have been
adv ised by the aud itor that the reco
Som e
d~ wer e in very bad cond ition. edur
t
e
reco mm enda tion s have been mad
es
proc
ing
keep
o imp rove the boo
and the reco rd keep ing.

~tation a~d with out goin g to thea:~a 1967, a~

!

REC OMM END ATJO N

No. 5

It seem s to me that the Bre thre n of B}ackmer Lod ge have not yet been
a.hie to reco ncil e thei r difficulties I th
~re ore ~ecommend that the susp en s1on of the char ter be cont inue d unti
s uch t1?1e as the inco min g Gra nd
Mas ter shal l dete rmin e that the Lad
~re qualified to
ored, or unti l thi:~:ann~ Jffic ershis
~~~es~h~ir char ter res't:
reco mm enda on
ge
o
a perm anen tly revo ke it.

i{s

COD E REV ISIO N

.

~<:>r seve ral year s. spec ial commi
~he Cal.1fom ia Mas onic Cod e
Re~1s1on have stru ggle d with the ta~t:esf on
en eavo rmg to prov ide a Cod e

L!1~ch pres ents our law in such fa h' o ~~would enab le any Mas onic

ge officer to underst and its mea :. ion
mg Wit out requ iring lega l coun sel.
The task has not been a
·
alth oug h I appo inte
n easy one and
.
d an out·
stan din com mitt
With R
ce
rdan
acco
m
ee
g
G
b
ado pted
7
No.
n
atio
mend
e~om
.
y rand Lod ge at the 1967 C ommun1cat1on, the wor k is not t com ye
plet ed.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A
I 'IHH 'EE!Jl Ne;~

51

01' 'I'll I'

HAWAIIAN VtSITATIO N

One of the most enjoyable highlights of this Masonic year, as it is,
of course, with every Grand Master, began on Saturday June 15th when
we journeyed from our visit to the Annual Communi cation of the Grand
Lodge of Oregon to the Lodges in Hawaii. The hospitality of the State
of Hawaii is known in every corner of the world, but if possible, its
Masonic hospitality is even warmer and more delightful.
On Sunday, June 16 we had the privilege of a ttending services at the
Hawaii Kauaiahau Church where we were introduced to the congregation by the very famous Dr. Akaka, the rector, who delivered an extraordinarily fine sermon. Worshipf ul Howard Wong, the Master of Hawaiian Lodge No. 21, his family, and a group of other Brethren accompan ied
us to that Sunday morning service.
I subsequen tly had the privilege of laying a wreath at the tomb of
the Unknown Soldier at the very famous Punchbow l Cemetery, Pacific
National Monumen t. It was the same morning that the Japanese Prince
had visited and laid a wreath at the same tomb.
Our first ceremony was the Installatio n of Officers of Bethel No. 2
of the Internatio nal Order of Job's Daughters . The ceremony was most
impressive and the young people in attendanc e performed exceeding ly
well.
On my visit to the Hawaiian Lodges I had a luncheon meeting with
three Masonic Brethren who were interested in the formation of a Grand
Lodge of Hawaii. I had requested that our two Inspectors for the area
be invited and they were in attendanc e. Our discussion was most interesting. My concern as has been noted by previous Grand Masters in
their report to this Grand Lodge, was that all of the Brethren be given
an opportuni ty to decide what they regarded as best for Freemaso nry
in the Islands. In reviewing the material presented by the small number
of Brethren interested in forming the Grand Lodge of Hawaii now, I
found the informatio n incomplet e and at times rather misleading . In
discussing the question of a Grand Lodge of Hawaii with many of
the Brethren in the Lodges on all of the Islands, I learned that there were
some who preferred not to ha\'e a Grand Lodge of Hawaii; there were
some who felt that the time was not yet here when it could be successful ly
formed but that there would be a time in the future; and a third group
wished to establish the Grand Lodge of Hawaii as soon as possible.
Because of the interest of the Brethren I have asked the Committe e
which I appointed in response to Recomme ndation No. 2 of Grand
M aster Dayton to prepare factual material concernin g the cost, the needs.
the expectatio ns, etc. and the requireme nts for the formation of a Grand
Lodge of Hawaii. This committee which was to serve "as unbiased consultants to the Lodges in H awaii" is now preparing this material.
The problem in Hawaii is unique and quite different from mainland

California , for many of the members of Hawaiian Lodges live outside
of the state. For example, Ka uai Lodge No. 589 has approxima tely onethird of its membership living on Kauai, one-third living in H onolulu ,
and one-third living in California . I am advised that somewhat similar
conditions prevail in other Hawaiian Lodges.
The official receptions of the various Lodges in Hawaii were memorable events.
On the morning of Ju ne 24th, we were taken by Worshipf ul John
Sun Pui Lau. the Master of Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598, in the Admiral's gig, to lay a wreath at the U .S.S. Arizona Memorial. It was a
solemn and thought-p rovoking occasion. I could not help but reflect
with sorrow on the supreme sacrifice of these men who had served their
country. I was saddened by the thought that the task to which they
contribute d their lives had not yet been completed .
On Saturday, June 29th we laid the cornerston e of the new Masonic
Temple of Schofield Lodge No. 443. After consultati on with many of
the Past Grand Masters and others, it was decided because of the
unusual nature of the event to have the Deputy Grand Master. the
Senior and Junior Grand Wardens, the Grand Marshal and the Grand
Tiler participate in the ceremony. This they did with great dignity,
reflecting honor on our Grand Lodge. I was presented with a gavel in
the shape of a pineapple which has made a fine addition to an extraor ~
dinary collection of gavels this year. The ingenuity in the fabrication
of these gavels has been so marked tha t I have been tempted many times
to call this the "year of the gavel."
From Honolulu, we visi ted the Lodges on the other islands, Kauai,
Maui and Hawaii. On Kauai, we discovered that the Master of the
Lodge. Worshipf ul Victor Punua was also Master of Ceremonie s for
one of the finest Hawaiian musical groups in the islands. His charming
lady was reported to be the most outstandin g hula dancer and teacher
in H awaii. So enchanted were we by the Hawaiian music and dancing
that we invited the entire group to perform for the Grand Lodge at its
Monday night entertainm ent. I trust that all of you will enjoy them as
much as we did.
It is not possible in words to convey the depth of Masonic feeling
and brotherho od experienc ed in H awaii. I can but assure you, my
Brethren that there is no finer Masonic brotherho od anywhere.
GRAND LODGE APnONS AND COLLARS

In I 965 our Grand Secretary pointed out that the old white velvet
gold trimmed aprons and collars of Grand Lodge had become "disrep~
utable." The set of blue and gold aprons and collars which were purchased in I 964 have become the "traveling set." A second set was
purchased which was used for the first time during the 1965 Annual
Communic ation.

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

With the greatly increased number of ceremonies requiring the use
of the regalia for the opening of Grand Lodge in various parts of the
Grand Jurisdiction, there should be, I am advised, two traveling sets,
one essentially for the north and one essentially for the south. This
would necessitat e the purchase of a new set of collars and aprons which
could be kept primarily for the Annual Communi cation and for special
use that they might be preserved for a long time, in good condition.

CALIFORN IA MASONIC LAW

52

RECOMME NDATION

No. 7

I therefore recommen d the purchase of an additional set of blue and
gold aprons and collars, for use by the Grand Lodge officers.
OTHER GRAND JURISDICTI ONS

With the assistance of the Deputy Grand Master, the Senior and
Junior Grand Wardens, the Grand Secretary and the Grand Lecturer.
who on various occasions represente d our Grand Lodge with great
distinction, it was possible for one or another of us to visit the Grand
Lodges of Nevada, Colorado, Oklahoma , Arizona, Indiana, Oregon,
Washingt on, British Columbia and Idaho.
It was my privilege to be invited to give the official response for the
visiting Brethren at the Annual Communi cation of the Grand Lodge of
Colorado in January of 1968. We were met in Denver on January 21st
by our very gracious host, the Most Worshipf ul Charles T. Gore, Grand
Master of Masons in Colorado and his lovely wife. A special visit was
arranged for Mrs. Hopp and me through a new snowfall, to the Air Force
Academy at Colorado Springs. We were met at the Academy by Captain Gerard, a Master Mason, and teacher at the Academy who conducted us on a tour of the classrooms, the various buildings, the magnificent chapel and the hospital. Every citizen can be proud of that extraordinar ily fine Air Force Academy and the facilities provided to the
students. On our visit to the Academy hospital I had the opportuni ty
to "talk shop" with the Command ing Officer.
Our visit to the Grand Lodge of Colorado left memories that will
long be cherished.
The Deputy Grand Master. the Grand Secretary and I attended the
1SOth Anniversa ry Celebratio n of the Grand Lodge of Indiana. Several
years of preparatio n by that Grand Lodge made this one of the most
outstandin g Masonic events of the year. I was particular ly pleased to
note that the incoming Grand Master is a Physician .
We have always had cordial relations with our neighborin g Grand
Jurisdictions, and on the occasion of a reception for the Grand Master
at Truckee, there were present several officers of the Grand Lodge of
Nevada: Robert H . Parker, Past Grand Master; James A. Morrison.
Deputy Grand Master and George M. McTigue, Grand Standard
Bearer.

53

Knowledg e of our California Masonic Law is communic ated with
great difficulty to prerequisi te bodies. The communic ation of the law is a
nev~r-ending task. This year despite the clear prohibition in our law
agamst the playing of bingo whether it is called bingo or by any other
n~me, and whether or not there is a monetary or other considerat ion paid
directly to play the game, I had to advise a Shrine Potentate and a
Worthy Patron of an Eastern Star Chapter that they were in violation
of the law.
In another instance. a Masonic club used the Masonic emblem, the
S~uare .and. Compass, without permission and solicited advertisin g in
duect v10latton of our law. I believe that a list of all prerequisite bodies
shoul~ be maintaine d at the Grand Lodge office and an outline of the
essent1a~s of Masonic law in the areas most frequently violated should
be provided the heads of these organizati ons each year.
PUBLIC SCHOOLS AND CONSTITU TION OBSERVAN CE COMMl'ITE ES

. The efforts of t~o committees in particular have been outstandin g
th.is year. The Public Schools Committe e under the able direction of
Richard H: Dutw.iler, has endeavore d to make the support of public
schools, as mdeed 1t should be, a year-roun d obligation . The problems of
the public schools are too great to be resolved with a single visit one week
a year. Some of our Masters and Wardens Associatio ns have taken up
my ch.al!enge for year-roun d support of the public schools, and in San
Francisco for exam.pie, schools are assigned to each of the Lodges, for
the purp~se of h~vmg them maintain liaison with that school on an all
year basis .. In addition, this San Francisco associatio n has provided
represe~tat1on at the ~oa~d of Education meetings. As a result they
have discovered the vital importanc e of keeping Freemaso ns informed
about the problems confrontin g our public schools.
I am greatly indebted to our Brethren in the State Legislatur e, the
Honorable Don Mulford, 16th Assembly District, the Honorable Nicholas Petris, 11th Senate District, and the Honorable Lewis Sherman
8th S~nate District for obtaining from the California Legislatur e, out~
standmg proclamat ions on behalf of the public schools which I have
attached to this message. Similar proclamat ions have been issued by
the Hawaiian Legislatur e.
Last year at my request, the Chairman of the Constituti on Observa~ce <?~mmittee d.irect~d a letter to the Presidents of the colleges and
univers1t1es of Cal1forma urging recognitio n of the Constituti on Observance between the halves of their football games, scheduled nearest
~o ?eptembe r 17th. Although the President of one great university
md1cated that he could not hold such an observanc e at that institution
for fear the students might riot, I am proud to inform you that President
Robert E. Kennedy of California State Polytechn ic College in San Luis

54

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Obispo wrote as follows: "I was pleased to receive your suggestion a~d
asked those planning the half-time activities for our football game w~th
Sacramento State College on Saturday, September 21, 1968'. to give
recognition to this important occasion. I have just been advised that
this has been done, and that the program will consist of an event on t~e
field involving two sets of colors and color guards .. . one with today s
colors, the other with those of 1776 ... and such musical performers
as we may be able to assemble at that time. (Since classes here do not
start until September 23. we are unable to assemble the full ba~d for this
occasion.) A statement describing the significance of the field .event
a nd commemoratin g Constitution Day will be read over the public a~­
dress system . . . and simultaneously broadcast over t?~ local radio
s tation .. . following which those present will be asked to JO!Il the pledge
of allegiance."
Mr. Norman Rost. Director of the San Diego State College Band
"The Aztecs" wrote as follows: "This is to inform you that the San
Diego State Marching Aztecs will present a formation in honor of Constitution Day during the game scheduled for September 20th. We woul~
have been happy to schedule this for the September 14th game but this
is so early that the band will not appear on that .date. T.hank yo~ very
much for calling Constitution Day to our attention. Th1s event is certainly worthy of a great deal of our attention and s.hould.. be more adequately publicized. You·r work in doing this is appreciated.
I trust, my Brethren, that as many of you as ~ossible wi~I write to
these fine gentlemen complimenting them upon their outstanding efforts
on behalf of the Constitution of the United States.
The California State A ssembly issued a Resolution unanimously
adopted March 29. 1968 relating to Constitution Observance mo~th
by the Honorable Don Mulford of the 16th District. This Resolution
also is attached as a part of this message.
FIFTY YEAR PINS

In 1928. then Grand Master Will H. Fis her proposed that we "adopt
the delightful custom of a number of our sister jurisdictions and present
to each California Mason who has been a member of one or an~th~r o.~
our Lodges for half a century, an appropriate token of our appreciation.
The Grand Master recommended that the Grand Secretary be authorized
to prepare an appropriate design and to cause a su'.ficient number of gold
buttons to be made therefrom. This recommendatio n was adopted. The
following year, there appears a picture of that design which we know
today, which had been approved by the Grand Master.
REcoMMENDATION No . 8

Today, there are problems obtaining an adequate SU_Pply of gold.
The increase in gold prices causes a considerable uncertamty as to our

( ;u .!\ NI) l.ODCE OF Ci\ r.rFor~ NI:\

future ability to obtain the present Fifty year emblem. I therefore recommend that an appropriate committee appointed by the incoming Grand
Master, be requested to study the entire problem of the material and the
design of the Fifty year button and present recommendatio ns to this
Grand Lodge at its next Annual Communication .
GRAND MASTER 'S LAPEL PIN

I l~arned on a visit to the Lodges in the Mother Lode Country that
Summit Lodge No. 112 at Knights Ferry, every three years, pans for
g.old, to obtain .the mate~ial for its Past Masters' jewels. Since the present
Grand Master s lapel pm was worn almost to the point of being illegible
and had been used by Grand Masters since 1929, I encouraged the
Brethren to use some of the gold from the hills of California for a new
G~and Master's emblem. Worshipful Bill Waggle, Past Master of Summit Lodge No. 112 has completed the "new Grand Master's jewel." He
emplo~e~ no tool .in its manuf~cture that could not have been used during
the bmldmg of Kmg Solomons Temple. He has used three diamonds to
represent the three lights of Masonry. A rough A shlar and a perfect
Ashlar of p~re gold panned a short distance east of the Summit Lodge
Hall. On Fnday, October 18 this jewel will be presented to the incoming
Grand Master to be worn by him for the first time.
(NOTE: The.pin was presented to Grand Master Hopp on October 14,
1968, and was passed on to his successor October 18,1968.)
LIBRARY

.At .?ur 1967 Annual Communicatio n Grand Lodge approved as its
polJCy the fervent hope that the Temple Board will explore and in due
course develop ways and means of providing library and museum facilities commensurate with our n eeds and our status in the Masonic
World."
I have always been in wholehearted accord with this policy not only

beca~s~ of a deep and abiding love for good books but because of a strong

conv1ctron that our Grand Lodge cannot be complete without a satisfactory repository for the many fine volumes available to it. I envision
further, a place that can be used by students of history in our public
schools, searching for original references or delving into the relationships
between Freemasonry and public history.
Our Temple Board Trustees , in order to prepare for the future library
have recommended a fifty cent per capita. The Trustees will also request approval for the acquisition of additional property which will serve
to protect our beautiful building from intruders on its physical space. I
strongly urge your support for the recommendatio ns of the Temple Board
of Trustees.
CORNERSTONE CEREMONIES

There have been many impressive and noteworthy cornerstone ceremonies for public buildings this year. We are being invited to lay almost
exactly three times as many cornerstones as were being laid ten years ago.

56

PRO CEE DIN GS OF TH E

how eve r, aft er
in Gr and Lo dge his tor y,
Per hap s for the first tim e
R. W. Ro ber t
by
the lay ing of a cor ner sto ne
Ma ste r, at
the dep osi t of a cap sul e and
and
Gr
the
r, rep res ent ing
ste
Ma
and
Gr
y
put
De
r,
A. Cri gle
. Th ey we re late r
ne and cap sul e we re sto len
sto
the
.
ool
Sch
h
Hig
ico
Ch
ove ry, the re apAp ril 26, 1968, pri or to rec
rec ove red , but on Fri day ,
ich con tain s so
pri se- Rec ord an edi tor ial wh
pea red in the Chico En ter
tan din g of the
ers
cer em ony and suc h an und
t edi tor ial: It
mu ch of the ess enc e of our
tha
m
fro
not hel p but quo te
can
I
t
tha
ay
tod
of
ms
pro ble
ly Pos sib le Co mn. It is hea ded "T he On
wa s wri tten by a non -M aso
how hor rib le the y
"M ost crimes, no ma tte r
me nt: Wh y?" It beg ins :
alm ost eve ry inle to a cer tain ext ent . In
mig ht be, are und ers tan dab tion is app are nt, exc ept tho se per pet rat ed
tiva
sta nce , som e thr ead of mo
.
.•.
by the ins ane , of cou rse
ony wa s hel d
res siv e and ins pir ing cer em
"L ast Frida'Y, a sob er, imp
sto ne for the
ner
s the ritu al of lay ing the cor
ste r of Ca liat Ch ico Hig h Sch ool . It wa
Ma
and
t A. Cri gle r, De put y Gr
s An gel es
Lo
new sch ool bui ldin g. Ro ber
from
y
wa
the
gue s cam e all
lea
col
two
and
s,
son
Ma
ent
ram o, and a
for nia
ony . Oth ers cam e from Sac
to par tici pat e in the cer em
d stu den ts par civic officials and int ere ste
hos t of local edu cat ion al and
tici pat ed.
cor ner sto ne
es of the mo der n day , the
oni
em
cer
st
mo
n
tha
ore
"M
cro ss sec tion s of
bra cin g all seg me nts and
em
in
al
nic
me
ecu
s
wa
al
. In har mo ny
ritu
Am eri can con cep ts of lib erty
edu cat ion , bas ic mo ral ity and edu cat ion the me , the Am eri can flag was
and
ool ban d
wit h the gen era l Ma son ic
hon or gua rd and the sch
bus
lum
Co
of
ts
igh
Kn
a
rai sed by
Ba nne r.
pla yed the Sta r-S pan gle d
'tim e cap sul e'
com ple ted , wh en the cop per
"W he n the cer em ony wa s
n sec ure d for the
ay and yes ter day had bee
wit h its me me nto s of tod
the ma rbl e cor ner era tio n in the far fut ure ,
enl igh ten me nt of som e gen
It wa s som eth ing
on.
tly ma rk the occ asi
nen
ma
per
to
ced
pla
s
wa
as a ref ere nce
sto ne
of time, som eth ing to ser ve
ors
rig
the
nd
sta
to
ed
ign
des
ing wh ich peo ple
wo rld , so to spe ak, som eth
poi nt in an eve rch ang ing
... .
r
uld gaz e at and pon der ove
for a lon g time to com e wo
yde r arr ive d at
wh en Pri nci pal Ho wa rd Sn
r,
late
s
day
five
n
tha
ss
"Le
dis cov ery tha t
ng, he wa s stu nne d by the
rni
mo
ay
esd
dn
We
ly
ear
sch ool
... •
per time cap sul e we re gon e
the cor ner sto ne and the cop
dee p wo ods or
the
stly ani ma l kom
gha
e
som
if
as
s
wa
ne
sce
"T he
at wo rk. .. .
the r pla net had bee n wil dly
ano
m
fro
ng
bei
e
cen
obs
uen ce des cri bed
som e
mu st be adm itte d tha t the seq
On the rec ord of his tor y, it
r-s upp lied wit h
. Th e wo rld tod ay is too ove
to gra nt much
abo ve is of litt le significance
e
anc
urr enc es of glo bal imp ort
ear th- sha kin g eve nts and occ
not ice to suc h a sm all thi ng.
•. • ma y lie
epl ace in ..• (th is inc ide nt)
"Y et it mig ht be sai d tha t som
gic and mo der n tre nd.
the key , ... to ma nki nd' s tra

IFO
GU.AND LODGE OP CAL

RNI A

57

. . .
nt is a sm all one
is ind eed
it
.••
."T he cor ner sto ne inc ideof
t)
(bu
.
.
...
or.
sick beh avi
typ1caJ of a wid eni ng sph ere
.
.
r, the cor ner sto ne and th e time cap sul e wit h a few
Se~eral days late
T
.
red
ove
rec
of the item s mis sin g we re
box wa s lef t
e of th~e t~tte~~ c~pper
hom
the
at
car
a
ool .
of
d
hoo
on the
d h1ce nnc1pal of theionschupo n
the tim
lect
ref
the
sad
Bu t how , ind eed , typ ica l of
ow
es an
suc h beh avi or.
GR AN D REP RES ENT ATI

VES

I ..
sai d to b "
con for m
A Gr and Lo dge is ic
reg u ar wh en its pra ctic es
.
·
pr
bas
l
a
ent
dam
fun
d,
to the
dopted ~n~ recognized"
~;po~~e~~r:~~11Loadge
It is rec ogn ize
by our Gr and Lo dge and b;: 1 I .
s.
fra ter
ish ed an d "re p wh en an agr eem ent ofhav
a re at1?ns hasCbeefn est.abl
bn
any
if
..
es
ativ
res ent
ary
e een app oin ted
.
.
.
. . d Gn orm mg to a custom
M
and re
t
hou
oug
thr
s
dge
Lo
aso nic pra ctic e of reg ula r r f
d
ran
cog n1z~
ste
Ma
and
Gr
n
the
upo
,
on,
rld
icti
wo
the
Jur isd
og ~fa recogn~zed Gr and
rec eiving a pro pos al of rec
sions ~ wo rth y
mis
com
or
s
o~t
of ili~~1Gr?tci
ent his Gr and
and di~tinguished me mb er
odg e to rep res
r" th th er G ran
d Lo dge. Th us, the re can
Lo dge m the are a of "or nea
o G
e
d
. ted or com mis sio ned by th
b e app oin
~faster an official repre~
ran
de
Lo
and
Gr
ry
eve
r
nea
or
at
ve
tati
sen
t~e Gr and Lo dge
a dis tin ·g~ r~cogn1zed by this Gr and Lo dge
of
?f California, andothlikerewGriseand
M gm s e me mb er
nd juri sdic~
is app oin ted by
asters,,tohrep res ent the ir gra
"at
or
us
by
d
ize
ogn
rec
,
tion
. In bri ef the
ent ~: nea r t is Gr and Lodge eng the n' the
dut ies of a Gr and R~pres
str
: ~e a.~e ~o pro mo te and
bon ds of fra ter nal frie nds hip ~ f um y etw een the two Gr and Lo dge s
ge
by ma int ain ing an exc han
ce bet ween the
nod k~~;:.al cor res pon den
Gra
two
the
of
es
rep res ent ativ
. t d h . yea r:
es hav e been app om
e t 1s
Th e following rep res ent ativ
F O h er
Lo dge
Fo r Gr and
or t
.
'f
l ornza
Gr an dfu r·zsd'tct•ton
Gr and Lo dge
of Cat
R·
Ad elb ert L. Cla rk
Co sm os (M exi co)
iga ber to Tre vin o A.
n
tla
sca
Cu
(EI Sal vad or)
Fra nci sco A. Ro dri gue z
De nm ark
Le Ro y W . Joh nso n
Ge org ia
J. Lewis Les ter
Eu gen e S. Ho pp
Ma ssa chu set ts
Jam es Law rie Re id
Ne w Ha mp shi re
Sco tt No ttin gha m
Pa ra (Br azi l)
Ma nue l Jos e Dia s
Phi lip pin es
Ira W. Co bur n
Qu een sla nd
F. Pal eth orp e
Sw itze rla nd
Ra ym ond J. Ma lfa nti
V alle de Me xic o
Ed uar do Rin con
Ga lla rdo

f

60

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
RECOM MENDA TION No. 5

The Committee on Jurisprudence has fully consid ered the Grand Mas,..
of the
ter's Recommendation No. 5, recommending that suspension
as the
time
such
until
ed
continu
be
442
No.
charte r of Blackmer Lodge
officers
its
and
Lo~ge
the.
that
ine
determ
shall
Master
incoming Grand
on
are qualified to have their charte r restore d or until this Grand Lodge
it.
his recommendation shall perman ently revoke
We agree that the action of the Grand Maste r in arresti ng the
ed on
charter was warran ted on the facts and under the power conferr
the
offer
we
and
Code,
ic
him by Section 128 of the Califor nia Mason
following resolution:
the
RESO LVED , that the action of the Grand Master in arrestin g
be
442,
No.
Lodge
er
Blackm
of
on
charter and suspen ding the operati
and
and it is hereby approv ed:
of
BE IT FURT HER RESO LVED , that the arrest of the charte r
Ma~ter
Grand
ng
inco~.i
the
until
said Lodge remain in effect unless and
n,
shall restore said charter , or until Grand Lodge, on his recommendatio
shall either restore or revoke the charter .
We move adoptio n and recommend a "yes" vote on this resolution.
The Committee on Policy and Genera l Purposes indicated its concur
rence in the recommendation.
Adopte d.
RECOM MENDA TION No. 6
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes approv es the policy
reflected in the Grand Master's Recommendation No. 6, that a special
the
committee continue to endeav or to prepar e a new revised code for
recoma
with
n
consideration of the Grand Lodge, and moves its adoptio
menda tion for a "yes" vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence indicated its concurrence in the recommendation.
Adopte d.
RECOM MENDA TION No. 7
The Committee on Policy and Genera l Purposes approves the Grand
set
Master 's Recommendation No. 7 for the purcha se of an additio nal
n
endatio
recomm
a
with
n
adoptio
its
of aprons and collars, and moves
for a "yes" vote.
The Comm ittee on Finance indicated its concurrence in the recommenda,..
tion.
Adopte d.
RECOM MENDA TION No. 8
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes approv es the Grand
ttee to
Master 's Recommendation No. 8 for the appoin tment of a commi

61

its
study the material and design of the Fifty Year Button ' and moves
adoptio n with a recommendation of a "yes" vote.
The Committee on Finance indicated its concurrence in the recommendation.
A dopted .
SPECIA L COMMU NICATI ONS OP GRAND LODGE

1967
Octobe r 21-Co rnersto ne, Santa Cruz Govern mental Center , Santa
Cruz.
Novem ber JO-Co nstitut ion, Gemini Lodge No. 825, Union City.
.
Novem ber 18-Co mersto ne, San Jacinto High School. San Jacinto
·
d.
Oxnar
824,
No.
Lodge
illo
Camar
tion,
nstitu
28-Co
ber
Novem
Temic
Mason
790
No.
Decem ber I-Ded ication, Grana da Hills Lodge
ple, Granad a Hills.
an.
Decem ber 16-Co rnersto ne, Meridi an Eleme ntary School, Meridi
1968
Januar y 13-Co rnersto ne, Los Nogale s School. Camarillo.
os.
Januar y 20-Co rnersto ne, Los Alamitos High School. Los Alamit
Februa ry IO-De dicatio n, Fresno Masonic Templ e, Fresno .
Palm
March 2-Com erston e. Raymo nd Cree Junior High School '
Springs.
.
March 2-Com erstov .e. Yucca Valley High School, Yucca Valley
ft.
a
T
,
Center
ion
Educat
t
Distric
School
ne.
nersto
March 9-Cor
April 6--Cor nersto ne, Trona Intermediate School, Trona.
April 13-C omerst one, Rosemead City Hall. Rosemead.
g and
April 19:--Corners~one. Chico Senior High School Main Buildin
r).
Maste
Grand
Deputy
,
Crigler
A.
t
(Rober
Chico
,
. Library
ridge.
Woodb
April 27-Co rnersto ne, Woodb ridge Mason ic Temple,
CenMay I I-Corn erston e, Santa Barbar a County Educat ional Service
a.
Barbar
ter, Santa
June I-Corn erston e, Shasta College, Redding.
CrigJune IS-Co rnerst one. Elsinor e High School. Elsino re (Rober t A.
r).
Maste
Grand
Deputy
ler.
June 29-Co rnersto ne, Schofield Mason ic Templ e, Honolu lu.
ManJuly 13-Co rnerst one and Dedica tion, Hermo sa Mason ic Templ e.
hattan Beach.
King
Augus t 24-Co mersto ne, King City Joint Union High School
~~

.

Septem ber 7-Corn erston e, Durham High School, Durham .
Septem ber 13-Co rnersto ne, Lake County Courth ouse, Lakeport.
uir.
September 14-Co rnersto ne, Dunsm uir Eleme ntary School, Dunsm

63

G HAN LJ LU L)t;E UF CA LIFO HNIA

62

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

September 27-Cornerstone and Dedication, Masonic Temple, Big Bear
Lake.
September 28-Cornerstone, West Covina Masonic Temple, West
Covina.
October 5-Cornerstone, Administration Building, La Habra School
District, La Habra.
SPECIAL CEREMONIES -

DEDICATIONS

1967
November 8-Dedication, Venn W. Furgeson Elementary School ,
Artesia.
November 21-Dedication, Mariposa Elementary School. Brea.
1968
April 22-Dedication, Saddleback High School, Santa Ana (Herbert
A. Huebner. Junior Grand Warden).
April 24-Dedication. South Pasadena Junior High School. South Pasadena.
May 11-Dedication, White Hill School. Fairfax (Robert Smallman,
Inspector 1l4th).
September 21-Dedication. Francis J. White Elementary School.
Woodlake.
NEW LODGES INSTITUTED

May 29. 1968-Palrn Desert Lodge. Palm Desert.
RECEPTIONS AND MISCELLANEOUS

1967
October 14-Reception, King Solomon's Seaport Lodge No. 260. San
Francisco.
October 15-Breakfast, Masters and Wardens Association. San F rancisco.
October 16-Grand Chapter. Order of the Eastern Star. Anaheim.
October 19-Reception, Hollywood Lodge No. 355, Hollywood.
October 20--Feast of Tishri, San Francisco Scottish Rite Bodies, San
Francisco.
October 22-Breakfast, San Mateo County Masonic Officers Association. San Mateo.
October 27-State Hi-Twelve Convention. Sacramento.
October 27-Reception, Santa Clara County Masonic Officers Association, San Jose.
November 4-Reception, California Council, Royal and Select Masters,
San Francisco.
November 5-Breakfast, 107th and 108th Districts. Santa Rosa.
November 9-Grand Guardian Council of California, Job's Daughters.
Sacramento.

Nov em~er 12-Breakfast, San Gabriel Valley Masonic Board of

hef, El Monte.
ReNovember 13-Reception, 602, 603 605 and 612th Maso ·c D' t · t
R edlands.
'
nr
is nc s,
November 15, 16 .. ~ 7-Death Valley Daze. York Rite.
November 20-V1s1tation. Hunters Point Naval Lad
No. 706, San
Francisco.
ge
N ovember 24-Northern California DeMolay Convention Santa R
DecembAer B
Ball, Masonic Clubhouse ,
. eno1t, Grand Marshal).
D ecember 8--:-lnstallation, King Solomon's Seaport Lodge No. 260 S
Francisco.
' an
December 9-lnstallation, Fruitvale Lodge No. 336 Oakl d
December 11-lnsta llation, Justice Lodge No 549 S~ F an ..
Decembe r 15- Ins t a 11ation, California Commandery
·
• n Noranc1sco.
I K . h
Templar, San Francisco.
. '
mg ts
December 20--Installation, Bixby Knolls Lodge No 699 L 0
B h
December 21-Christmas Party-Masonic Home f~r Ch.ild ; ; Cea~ ·
December 29- Reception, Imperial Potentate, San Francisc~. ' ovma .

2~lnitiation

Berk~ley ( Gil~::~

RECEPTIO N S A N D MISCELLANEOUS

1968
January 6-Installation, California C ouncil No. 2, Royal a nd Select
Masters. San Francisco.
JanuaryF l~San Francisco Past Masters Association M eeting S
ranc1sco.
• an
January ld60 ~eception, Pacific, Fairmount, Veritas-J onathan, Pyramid
an
riental Lodges . San Francisco.
JanuaryC~OIDDinner, Chinese Acacia C lub, San Francisco (Robert A
ng er, eputy Grand Master).
·
January 20-lns tallation, Sacramento Scottish Rite Bodie S
January 24-Reception, 154th D istrict, Oakland.
s, acramento.
January 25- Annual Roll Call Night, Washington Lodge N 20 S
ramento.
o. . a cJanuary. 26-lnstallation, California Bodies, Scottish Rt
1 S
F
c1sco.
e, an ranJanuary 27-Dinner, Red Cross of Constantine, San F rancisco
Februar-y ~-Annual Meeting, Southern California Past Maste;s A
c1at1on , Los Angeles.
ssoFebruaB 5-Presentation of fifty yea r button to Brother F
·
erz, Alta Vista Lodge N o. 464, San Francisco
ranc1s J.
February 6-R:ception , 324th District. San Francisco.'
~ebbruary 9-Di~n.er, ~hina Masons Club. San Francisco.
e ruary 26-V1s1tahon, Justice Lodge No · 5"9
.
" . S an F ranc1sc.:o.

GRAN D LODG E OF CALI FORN IA

l'IWC EED! NGS 01:' THE

Rite Bodies, Los Ang eles .
Mar ch !-M eeti ng, Los Ang eles Scottish
ricts , Coachella.
Dist
h
609t
and
Mar ch 3-B reak fast , 607th
Bodies, Sacr ame nto.
Rite
tish
Scot
er,
Dinn
Mar ch 8-L egis lativ e
Club hous e, Los Ang eles .
Mar ch 9-R ecep tion , UCL A Mas onic
onic Boa rd of Relief.
Mas
Mar ch 10-- Brea kfas t, Los Ang eles
540t h Districts, Mon tere y
and
h
Mar ch I I-Re cep tion 536th, 538t
Park .
den s Brea kfas t, Oak land .
Mar ch 17-E ast Bay Mas ters and War
Dist ricts , El Cerr ito.
Mar ch ] 8-R ecep tion , 1] 9th and I 20th
lo Lod ge No. 448 and King
Diab
Mar ch 19- Join t Mee ting . Mou nt
cord .
Solomon's Seap ort Lod ge No. 260, Con
Bay Insu ranc e Squ are
East
and
o
cisc
Fran
San
n,
Mar ch 21---'Luncheo
Club s. San Fran cisc o.
man dery No. 1, San Fran cisc o.
Mar ch 22-R ecep tion , Cali forn ia Com
Mas ters Association, Livingston
Mar ch 23- lnla nd Mas ters and Past
den ).
(Ch este r R. Mac Phee , Seni or Gra nd War
on. Exet er.
ciati
Asso
cers
Offi
rict
Dist
h
426t
r,
Mar ch 28-D inne
de.
ansi
Oce
nce,
Mar ch 29, 30, 31-D ivis ion VI Con fere
nt." KCO P TV,
Pare
nt
llige
Inte
e
"Th
Mar ch 30-- Tele visio n broa dcas t,
Los Ang eles .
l Ord er of Rain bow for Girl s,
Apr il 8-G ran d Asse mbly , Inte rnat iona
Lon g Beach.
, Orin da.
ecep tion , I 18th. l 60th and 161 st Districts
9-R
Apr il
tish Rite Tem ple,
Scot
no
Fres
ices,
Serv
y
Apri l 11- Mau ndy Thu rsda
Fres no.
teca .
Apri l 16-- Rec epti on, 406t h Dist rict, Man
War den s Association. El
and
ters
Mas
eley
Apr il 18-R ecep tion , Berk
Cerr ito.
Con cord .
Apri l 19, 20, 2 I-D ivis ion I Con fere nce,
, 554, 556, 558, 560 and 568t h
Apri l 22-P ubli c Scho ols Wee k Prog ram
Districts , Los Ang eles.
, San ta Ana .
Apri l 21 thro ugh 25- Yor k Rite Sess ions
ied Scho ol District, San Fran Unif
Apri l 24-L unc heo n, San Fran cisc o
cisco.
den s Association,
Reception. Sacr ame nto Mas ters and War
27il
Apr
Sacr ame nto.
onic Boa rd of Relief. Sacr aApri l 28-Brea kfas t, Sacr ame nto Mas
mento.
butt on to Brot her James Finley,
Apri l 30-- Pres enta tion of fifty year
o.
Parn assu s Lod ge No. 388, San Fran cisc
el.
Carm
May 3, 4. 5-D ivis ion III Con fere nce,
ricts, Hun ting ton Park .
May 6- Rece ption, 580th and 590th Dist
San Francisco.
,
May 10-- Lun cheo n, Mar ine Squ are Club
Fran cisco.
San
May I 0-- Yor k Rite / Blue Lod ge Nigh t,
42, Los Ang eles .
No.
ge
May I I- Reception, Los Ang eles Lod

65

rd IR I'
May 13-M eeti ng, San Fran cisc o Boa ° e ief. San Francisco.
I
6
620,
n,
eptio
Rec
2 622 624 625
May 16-and 626th Masonic Dis'
'
'
tricts, Lon g Beach.
v C on Eerence, S an Diego
May I 7, I 8. 19-D ivis ion
18- Ea
M
.
M .
stern Star Reception S
ay
orge B. Honold .
(Ge
a
o111c
anta
,
.
con)
] unior Gra nd Dea
k
May 24-R ecep tion , 250th Dist6rict , T rue ee.
614
608
t
kfas
Brea
May 26-28 629 630· 63".I and 635t h D istricts.
·
·
'
'
·
Ana heim.
.
M
May 31-P rese ntat ion by US
sMof the.S ilver Star Awa rd
to Hug h Herr ing, As~i ~tan:r~ne CoT
ason1c Hom e at Union
o
upt.
City.
I S
I
May 31-M ason ic Sabb ath Tife reth s~aWe ynag ogue , San Dieg o
Gr
or
Seni
:
Phee
Mac
R.
r
este
(Ch
arde n).
B h an
June I-In stal latio n of
cers, et el No . 51 ' I n t erna tion al Ord er of
D
•
]o b s augh ters, San Fran cisc o
June 7, 8, 9-D ivis ion IV c f eren~e. ·Cam bria Pine s.
June 8-R ecep tion King ;~
Lod ge and East Gate
Lodge, San Francisco.o omon s Seap ort
lN
June l 6--I nsta Uati on of Officers Beth e H 0 · 2· I. 0. ]. D ., Honolulu.
Lad
Blue
u
Oah
,
tion
June I 7-R ecep
onolulu.
June 18-L uau , H onolulu Lad N ges,9, Hon olul u.
o.10
•
dge
Pro
le
ner
June 21- Din
gres e 1 0 cean ie No . 371 • H onolulu.
'
June 22 - D inne r, Wai kiki Lad N 0 · 774, Hon
olul u.
. . T geCon fe
June 21 • 22 ' 23- D·iv1s1
L k
on wo
e Tah oe.
a
e,
renc
N
June 23- Din ner, Koolau Lad
.
eohe
Kan
801,
o.
ge
D·
D
's
John
June 24- St.
e, Red Cros s of
clav
Con
Con stantine, Ho~~ulumner, Honolulu
.
tish R·
June 25-L unc heo n, Honolul~ Scot
ite Bodies, Honolulu.
H
d.
B
Rite
ork
y
r,
inne
25-D
June
0 ies,
onolulu.
.
June 27- R
ecept1on, Kauai Lod ge No 589 . L·h
I ue.
1une 28- Gra nd Bethel Session I 0 .
Oak land (Ro bert A. Crig .,
D
.
]
.
e~).
Mast
nd
!er, Dep uty Gra
June 28-A nnu a! Beefsteak Feed in Je,
ge No. 421 ( Rob ert A.
Crig ler, Dep uty Gra nd M;s te;). ;vood Lod
Ju:y 2-R ece ptio n, Mau i Lodg e No. 472 M .
~u;.
3
u y -R~ception, Kila uea Lod ge No. 3JO to.
H'.
1
330
N
ge
Lod
u y 5- Dmn er, Kila uea
. ilo.
July 6--D inne r, Kan a Mas ons. o.
.
July 6--T estimonia l dinn er honorin Se r Past M as ter Geo rge De2rno
Jo
e
Lad
own
rget
Geo
Vor e,
· 5 (Ga rey B. Wei bel, Seni or
g
Gra nd Dea con) .
.
July 13-R ecep tion , 571th and 584 h
Dist ricts. Play a de! Rey.
;c
o;:,
u~~s
August 3- Reception hono ring Ar:h
etter, Gra nd M~ster of
the Gra nd Council, Roy al and Sele~t Mdb
aste rs, San Fran cisco.

om

f

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

(j f~A NO LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

nville .
Augu st 15-R ecept ion. 388th Maso nic Distri ct, Watso
Alto.
Palo
ct,
Augu st 16--R ecept ion, 368th Maso nic Distri
s. Sacra mento .
Augu st 17-R ecept ion, Sacra mento York Rite Bodie
Rite Bodies. San
York
Diego
San
,
Night
ns'
Augu st 21>--Master Maso
Diego .
cts, King City.
Augu st 241-B arbeq ue, 392nd and 394th Maso nic Distri
Durha m.
cts,
Distri
Septe mber 7-Ba rbequ e, 2Hth , 246th and 247th
211th Disand
210th
am,
Progr
Septe mber 8-Co nstitu tion Obser vance
tricts , Wood land.
Dinner. Oakla nd
Septe mber 12-E ast Bay York Rite Assoc iation
.
en)
(Ches ter R. MacP hee, Senio r Gran d Ward
Franc isco MasSepte mber 17-C onsti tution Obser vance Progr am, San
isco.
Franc
San
,
ters and Ward ens Association
District, HolSepte mber 19-C onsti tution Obser vance Progr am, 566th
.
en)
lywoo d (Herb ert A. Hueb ner, Junio r Gran d Ward
Park.
Buena
e,
Parad
Septe mber 21-C onsti tution Obser vance Day
ct. DiDistri
424th
r,
Frase
nce
Clare
Septe mber 21-D inner honor ing
nuba.
Fresn o.
Septe mber 22-B reakf ast, 4 l 6th and 4 l 8th Distri cts,
isco.
Franc
Septe mber 25-R ecept ion, 340th District, San
637th Districts,
Septe mber 28-R ecept ion and Barbe que. 636th and
Fallbr ook.
cts, Ontar io.
Septe mber 29-B reakf ast, 606th, 610th and 618th Distri

,~,!f9• of OkJa;:;o;;'::~~~:~dGi:;:
;:'"~~'c~~b~;,-:.c:.
·was h'mgton ,
rence
Confe
rs'
Maste
22-G rand
ruag.C . andt rough
.•
W
Annu al Meeti ng Th G

66

ANNIV ERSAR IES

1967
Arbuc kle.
Nove mber 25-C enten nial- Arbu ckle Lodge No. 182,
1968
r Lodg e No. 316, Sange r.
Sange
,
ersary
Anniv
Marc h 15- 75th
nd.
Marc h I &-Ce ntenn ial, Oakla nd Lodg e No. 188. Oakla
Barba ra.
Santa
192,
No.
e
May 'I- Cente nnial. Santa Barba ra Lodg
y.
Gilro
187,
No.
Lodge
May 18-C enten nial. Keith
469. Fuller ton.
June &-Go lden Anniv ersary- Yorba Linda Lodg e No.
l.
July 27-C enten nial. Marin Lodge No. 191. San Rafae
To
V1sIT ATION s BY GRAN D LoooE OFFIC ERS
S
ICTION
JURISD
D
OTHE R GRAN

1967
tion, Grand Lodg e of N evada (Herunica
Comm
l
nnua
Nove mber 13-A
d N. Richbert A. Hueb ner. Junio r Grand Ward en and Harol
ards, Grand Lectu rer).
1968
tion, Gran d Lodge of Color ado.
unica
Comm
al
Annu
Janua ry 22. 23-

67

Maso nic
Natio nal Memo rial Associ~tion,e Alee;:~~ . Vhm gton
(Gran d Mas2~r, ~eputy Gran d Maste r and Grand Secr~;~ry
f
Lod
d
Gran
tion
unica
Comm
nnual
April
r1zona ( Rober t
ge 0
A. Crigle r, Depu ty Gran d Mast )
·
er
·
·
Ma 21 22- S
'
unication, Grand Lodge of I n d 1ana
d Mesqu1centenmal Comm
y ( •G
M
d
G
t
De
aster
ran
d Secretary ).
June 12, 13, 14-Ann~al tu y r?n . aster and Gran Orego n.
of
e
Lodg
Grand
June 18-A nnua ] Communi~:~un1cation,
n (Ches ter R. MacP hee, Senio r G~~n~r~~r1&~r of Wash ingto
L
June 20, 21-A nnua l Comm u · t'10 G
d Wodge of British Columbia (Ches ter R. MacPh:~caS ~· Grand
arden ) .
. emor ran
Se t b 17
of Idaho (Robe rt
Lodge
d
)Gran
P emA~rCrigle~o:;~t;~~:~dn~:i~n.
.
Ba1·a C l'f
Septe mber 30--V isitation to Gran ~;i: de Estad o ·
. a 1 orma.

tA .

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

68

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF CALIFORNIA

EUGENE 5. HOPP
GRAND MASTER

EUGENE 5. HOPP
GRAND MABTE.R

PROCLAMATION
Younr ORDERS WEEK-MARCH 17-24, 1968
.
f our nation today is its youth. By 1970
The most important asset o
I t'
ill be under twenty-five years
approximately one-half of o~ir P?Pu a i~~ whange young people need to
of
agespintua
.. 1~ thlese
ofd\ 1·rga~1:~~:a~p~ta~dards •of conduct. more than
have
va !days
ues an
ever before in history.
.
.
all mankind to do everything
As Freemasons we havefan dobhgdat107 tpo a philosophy that will better
we can to help the youth o to ay eve o
prepare them to cope with the problems of tomorro;. y th Orders. DeThe finest possible builders of ~har~c~r ;re ~f eJob~: Daughter~ and
Molay, for boys, and the In.ternatwna
r er
h 0 d of Rainbow for girls.
I
t e
r er
.
Masonic affiliated youth Organizations,
In support of these ~nef M
h 17th to 24th youth Orders Week.
hereby proclaim the we~ ?
aDrc M I y Chapter a Job's Daughters
h L d
to mv1te a e o a
•
ge A
bl ·nto their hall. Let us search for every
I urge eac
Bethel
or awhich
Rambow
y I
th e se fine young people in their remeans by
we canssem
encourage

~

spective activities.
t St ted Meeting of
I direct that this proclamation be read at the ne\ a
'ble that it
each Lodge or be distributed to each member or w en poss1 '
be reprinted in the March Lodge Trestleboard.
Dated: February 5, 1968.
Sincerely and Fraternally,

s.

EUGENE HOPP
Grand Master
Attest:

69

PROCLAMATION
PuBuc ScHOOLs WEEK -APRIL 22ND THROUGH 26nr. 1968
Freemasons have supported public education from its very inception
in the American colonies. We recognized that the PUBLIC SCHOOL
IS THE CORNERSTONE OF LIBERTY. It is a proper foundation
stone upon which today's youth will erect an edifice of good government,
human understanding and individual dignity.
The problems of the public schools today are far different from those
of 1920 when then Grand Master Charles Albert Adams founded
Public Schools Week. They cannot be understood or resolved by only
one week of study but we can in one week, arrange for an exchange of
ideas with some of the dedicated teachers and school officials, for the
purpose of sharing those fundamental values of our free enterprise system which made America so strong.
I request every Mason and every Masonic Lodge in California and
Hawaii to participate actively in a Public Schools Program during the
observance of Public Schools Week, April 22nd through 26th, 1968,
which I hereby proclaim.
I direct that no Lodge meetings or rrograms be held during this period except for Public Schools Ob~en-;1nu: with the exception of Stated
Meetings.
This proclamation shall be communicated in each Lodge by one or
more of the following:
] . Read at the March and April Stated Meetings.
2. Mailed to every member of the Lodge.
3. Published in the Lodge Tresdebo<ird.
Dated: February 9, 1968
Sincerely and Fraternally.

EDWARD H. SIEMS
Grand Secretary
Attest:
EDWARD H. SIEMS
Grand Secretary

EUGENE S. Hopp
Grand Master

PROCE EDING S OF THE

72

I furthe r direct that this procla matio n be comm unica
ted to the m~m­
bers of each const ituent Lodge either by being read at
t~e State d Meetm g
t f 110 wing its receip t and again at the State d Meetm
g for Septe mber.
nexd
here possible. by being publis hed in the Lodge Trest
leboa rd
an a 1so, w
prior to the month of Septe mber, or by t h e ma1·1·mg f
o a copy t o each
member.
Dated : Marc h 11, 1968
Since rely and Frate rnally .

GRAND LODGE OP CALIF ORN IA

GRA ND LOD GE
FRE E AND ACC EPT ED MAS ONS
OF CAL IFOR NIA

°

EUGE NE S. HoPP

Gran d Maste r
A ttest:
EDWA RD H. SIEM S

Gran d Secre ta ry

73

EUGEN E S. HOPP
GRANO MASTE R

PROC LAMA TIO N

OLD GLO RY
On Satur day, June 14. 1777, Cong ress record ed the
birth of "Old
Glory " - " Resolved, That the Flag of the Unite d
States be thirte en
stripe s altern ate red and white , that the Union be thirte
en stars, white in
a blue field repres enting a new consteJlation ."
Flags are symbo ls. As Freem asons we recog nize the
impor tance of
teachi ng by symbo ls. Our Amer ican flag repres ents
freedom under law.
It is a symbo l of honor , coura ge and duty. It has been
serve d even to the
sacrifice of life itself, by uprig ht men of every color.
race and creed , for
the purpo se of maint aining the free way of life for which
it stand s.
It was said of Old Glory on Flag Day, 1914: "I am
song and fear,
strugg le and panic and ennob ling hope. I am the day's
work of the weak est man and the larges t dream of the most daring . I
am the Const itutio n
and the courts , statut es and statut e-mak ers. soldie
r and dread naugh t,
draym an and street -swee p, cook, couns elor and clerk.
I am the battle
of yeste rday and the mista ke of tomor row. I am the
myste ry of men who
do witho ut know ing why. I am the clutch of an idea
and the reaso ned
purpo se of resolu tion. I am no more than what you believ
e me to be. and
I am all that you believ e I can be. I am what you
make me. nothin g
more. "
You, each one. my Breth ren, are the maker s of our flag,
by your courage and your faith and by "neve r losing sig ht of the
allegi ance due to
your count ry."
I ask that you join me in displa ying our flag, at home,
at busin ess, at
schoo ls or other public buildi ngs as a positi ve expre
ssion of loyalt y to
God and Coun try and as a demon stratio n of our determ
inatio n to insure
equal ity of opportunity for all peopl e with Freed om
Unde r Law.
I ask that this procla matio n or its intent be comm unica
ted now, by
whate ver means possib le to all Maste r Maso ns whith
ersoe ver disper sed.
Dated : June 3, 1968
Since rely and Frate rnally,
EUGE NE S. H OPP

Attes t :
EDWA RD H. SIEMS

Gran d Secre tary

Gran d Mast er

PROCEE DINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ASSEMBLY, CALI FORN IA LEGIS LATU RE,
1968 REGU LAR SESSION
RESO LUTI ON

THE SENA TE, CAUF ORNI A LEGIS LATU RE
RESO LUTI ON

RELATIVE TO PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK

By Honorable Don Mulfor d of the Sixteen th District
WHER EAS. Public School s Week has been observ ed in Califor
nia
since 1919 and will be celebra ted April 22 throug h April 26, 1968;
and
WHER EAS . While the problem s of the public schools today
are
far differe nt from those of 1919. neverth eless free public educat
ion r~­
mains a fundam ental part of the social and econom ic structu re
of this
nation; and
WHER EAS. Contin uing faith in Americ an ideals and institut
ions
in these trying times is suppor ted by the examp le and ~nqualifle~
succes s
of our system of opport unity for all throug h free public educat ion;
and
WHER EAS. Califor nia has achieve d notable succes s in the field
of
educat ion under an arrang ement of shared respons ibilitie s by
the state
and local commu nities for the public school system : and
WHER EAS. Public School s Week is celebra ted each year to renew
and reaffirm the dedica tion of the people of Califor nia to the continu
ation
and improv ement of the free public school system ; and
WHER EAS. Public School s Week has been sponso red each
year
since its incepti on by the Grand Lodge of Califor nia. Free
and Accepted Mason s; and
WHER EAS. Public School s Week affords every citizen of the
state
the opport unity to remain inform ed about the public schools in
his community; now, therefo re, be it
RESO LVED BY THE ASSEM BLY OF THE STAT E
0~
CALIF ORNI A. That the Membe rs join with al~ of the people
of ~ah­
fornia in celebra ting Public School s Week April 22 throug h Apnl
2~.
1968 and comme nd the teacher s and admini strator s of all of the
pubhc
sch~ls for their tireless dedica tion to the educat ion and trainin g of the
youth of this state.
(House Resolu tion No. 180 read and adopte d unanim ously Ap~il
1,
1968.)
Signed :
JESSE M. UNRUH
Speake r of the Assem bly
(Seal)
Attest:
JAMES 0. DRISCOLL
Chief Clerk of the Assem bly

75

of the Senate Rules Comm ittee
RELATIVE TO PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK

By Senato rs Petris and Sherm an
WHER EAS, Public School s Week has been observ ed in Califor
nia
since 1919 and will be celebra ted April 22 throug h April 26, 1968;
and
WHER EAS, While the problem s of the public schools today are
far
differe nt from those of 1919, neverth eless free public educat ion
remain s
a fundam ental part of the social and economic structu re of this
nation;
and
WHER EAS, Contin uing faith in Americ an ideals and institut
ions
in these trying times is suppor ted by the examp le and unqual ified
success of our system of opport unity for all throug h free public educat
ion;
and
WHER EAS, Califor nia has achiev ed notable succes s in the field
of
educat ion under an arrang ement of shared respon sibilitie s by
the state
and local commu nities for the public school system ; and
WHER EAS, Public School s Week is celebra ted each year to renew
and reaffirm the dedica tion of the people of Califor nia to the
continu ation and improveme1.1t of the free public school system ; and
WHER EAS, Public School s Week has been sponso red each
year
since its incepti on by the Grand Lodge of Califor nia, Free and Accept
ed
Mason s; and
WHER EAS, This year the theme that has been selecte d by
the
Grand Lodge in observ ance of Public School s Week is "The
Public
School- Corner stone of Liberty "; and
WHER EAS, Public School s Week affords every citizen of the
state
the opport unity to remain inform ed about the public schools in
bis community ; now, therefo re. be it
RESO LVED BY THE SENA TE RULE S COMM ITTEE .
That
the Membe rs join with all of the people of Califor nia in celebra
ting
Public School s Week April 22 throug h April 26. 1968, and comme
nd
the teacher s and admini strator s of all of the public schools
for their
tireless dedica tion to the educat ion and trainin g of the youth
of this
state: and be it further
RESO LVED , That a suitabl y prepar ed copy of this resolut ion

be

76

PROCE EDING S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

01 tead Senio r
en of the Fruitvale
trans mitte d to Myro n Ld. A ms t d. Maso ns Ward
Oakl and, Calif ornia .
Lodg e No 336, Free an
ccep e
. ·1 9 1968
Sena te.Rules Reso lution No. 35 adop ted Apn
l .
.
Signe d:
HUGH M. BURN S
Chai rman
(Seal )

NicHo I..As C. PETR IS

Sena tor 11th Distr ict
LEWl S P. SHER MAN

Sena tor 8th Distr ict

ASSEMBLY, CAL IFOR NIA LEG ISLA TUR E
1968 REG ULA R SESSION
RES OLU TION
Rela ting to Cons tituti on Observa nce Mon th
B H

ble Don Mulf ord of the Sixteenth Distr ict

.

!J Wo;:~~EAS The Cons tituti on of the Unite
d State~ of Amer ica ~~~
.
1C
f
by the unam mous conse n
d ted by the Cons
tituti

ona onven ion
a op
t787 ·and
the states prese nt on S eptem b~r 17
. •
' s then estab lishes justice. inWHE REA S. The.<?onstitu~:~:~ ~~;t~e com~on
defen se . prom otes
sures dome stic tranq uility , pro
.
of libert y to ourse lves
the gener al welfa re. and se<:ures t he blessm
gs
and our poste rity; and
f
vernm ent estab lished by our foreWH ERE AS. The syste m o go
f the rema rkabl e keyst one that
fathe rs in. 178 7 has surviv.ed b~cacs:n~titution
of the Unite d State s of
they ordai ned upon adop tmg t e
Amer ica: and
f d
l that we be ever mindful of the naWHERE~S. It is u.n ame~~~ that atten tion
be focus ed upon the
ture and £rag1leness of libert y d
d .
d
by
the
Cons tituti on: and
d
'd
an
e
princip Ies an ' ea ls repre sente
h 0 f S t msur
her has tradit ional ly been ob WHE REA S. The mont
ep ~~th· now there fore. be it
serve d as Cons tituti on o~e;.v55~~Ly OF THE
ST ATE OF CALRESO LVED BY TH
h b rvanc e of the mont h of
IFOR NIA. That the Mez_nbe.rs com:~~~:c: M;~t
h in schools. churc hes .
Septe mber 1968 as Const1tu~1on Ob riate cerem
onies and activities.
and other suitab le p~aces w1th8~pprod d adop
ted unani mous ly Marc h
(Hou se Reso lution No. 1 rea an
29, 1968 .)
Signe d:
JESSE M . UNRU H
Spea ker of the Assem bly
Attes
t:
(Seal )
JAME S D . DRISC OLL

Chief Clerk of the Assem bly

77

REP ORT OF GRA ND TRE ASU RER
To the Most Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodg e F. & A.
M. of California:
I take pleas ure in prese nting my fifth annu al repor
t as Gran d Trea surer. This repor t comp rises the official audit statem
ent of Gran d Lodg e.
Maso nic Hom es of Calif ornia and the Calif ornia
Maso nic Mem orial
Temp le.
The repor ts were caref ully revie wed with the
audit ors and staff.
Almo st daily conta ct with the Gran d Lodg e office
has kept your Gran d
Trea surer in close touch with fiscal matte rs. Supp
ortin g docum ents for
all items of expen se are availa ble for inspe ction in
the office of the Gran d
Secre tary.
The fiscal year unde r revie w prese nted a numb
er of unusu al varia tions. Gene rally all comm ittees kept their exped
itures well withi n their
budg ets. Ther e were a few items as show n unde
r Gene ral Expe nse.
Sched ule 4. and unde r Appr opria tions , Sched ule
5, that were excee ded.
The Sched ule 4 items of over- exped iture inclu ded
certa in activities not
conte mpla ted at the time the budg et was prese
nted to Gran d Lodg e.
All suppl emen tal expen ditur es were appro ved by
the Gran d Mast er and
are as follows:
Gene ral Expe nse Appr opria tions

$4,05 0.00
1,475 .00

The princ ipal difference in budg et versu s actua
l unde r Appr opria tions , Sched ule 5, is occas ioned prima rily by the closin
g of the clubh ouses
as of June 30, 1968. Cons ultati on with officers
of both clubh ouses indicated that each of ·them woul d have sufficient
funds to carry them
throu gh, hence one-h alf of the funds appro priate
d at the Annu al Communi cation was not releas ed to the clubhouses. In
carry ing out the dutie s
of the Gran d Lodg e as presc ribed in our Code .
"To take charg e of all
other prope rty of Gran d Lodg e, ... ", your Gran
d Treas urer has been
in close touch with the statu s of the two clubh ouses
. Until final liquid ation, the asset s a nd prope rties will remain unde r
the imme diate care and
custo dy of the officers of each of the two clubh
ouses subje ct to final
deter mina tion by action of this Gran d Lodge.
The office of Gran d Trea surer provi des close
conta ct with many
men in our leade rship group . Agai n my since re
thank s and appre ciatio n
to the Gran d Lodg e for its continued confidence
; to our Gran d Mast er,
Most Worshipf ul Euge ne S. Hopp , for his dedic
ation to Freem asonry;
to the members of the Inves tmen t Comm ittee for
their conti nued suppo rt:
and to the office staff in its desir e to be ever helpf
ul and coope rative .
Resp ectfu lly subm itted,
PAUL A. PFLU EGER
Gran d Treas urer
Refer red to Comm ittee on Distr ibutio n.

PROCEE DINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

GR>o.ND LODGE F. ~A. ~. OF CALIFOIUGA
ANO AFFILIATED ORGl>.NJU.TlONS

QRAND LODGE P. & A, H. OF CALIFOIUIIA
AHO AFFI LIATED O?.CANIZATIONS

78

CAPITAL CHARG&S
s~Y OF.REC EIPTS, EXP ENSES30AND1968
•nd 1967
For the years ended June
•
(Subjec t to accompa nying lettet)

In,ome receip ts:
Gnnd Lodge:
.
·
Per capita. contrib
ution an d fe ea
Interes t, dividen ds and other
Masonic Homes:
Ge neral Fund:
.
Grand Lodge per capita and
contrib utions
Paymen ts through Lodges
Income from endowm ent and ttust funds
Interes t, dividen ds and other
Endowment and Trust Funds•
Income fxam other end owment fund
Interes t. dividen ds and other
Memori al Temple :
Buildin g revenue
Interes t and dividend~ .
Gain on sale of sec urities

$

425,220
94,87 3
520.-093

SUMMARY OP ~CEIPTS , EXPENSES AND CAPITAL CHARGES .
Continu ad
Por the yeers ended Juno 30, 1968 and 1967
(Sub jec t to accompa nying letter )

$

Masoni c Hornes:
Genera l Fund:
.
Gain on sales of s~cu1:t
ies
Beques ts and contr7b ut1ons
Assignm ents by xesiden ts
Transfe r Decoto xesiden ts' accou~tsd
Incane fr om endowm ent and trust un s
Endowm ent and Trust Funds ; .
~ain on sales of aecuri tia.
Beques ts and contxib ution•
Net increas e (decrea ae) in
residen ts' account s
Me111orial Temple:
Grand Lodge per capita and
contrib uti ons
.
Bequea ts and contrib utions
Total receipt& - forward

340 ,491
82 ,073
422,564

502. 343
39,886
845,462
24§.Q9}

504,534
39,987
798,988
231,287

J.,~33,784

1 1 ~74 I 796

1,821
9e2,p3
~84 I 194

2,029
834' 387
836,416

"229,053
6,429

193,667
10' 396

l~,447

248,929

ca pit.al receipt s:

Grand Lodge:
Gain on sales of securit ies

79

204,063

19,812

813

785,448
580 ,023
574,922
61, 295
l ) I )04
2,Ql4,9 92

2,620
775,882
449,291
15,on
l, 242 ,865

475,231
1.244,0 01

30,848
1;319,4 62

2,3 54
l , 721< 586

! 4 I 55 l)
1,345,7 59

45,651
20,023
65,674

285,324
39,221
324,545

7, 109 ,064

5,951,8 21

~

Total receipt s - f orward
Expense disbur sements :
Grand Lodge :
Operati ng expense s
Masonic Homes:
Genet al Fund:
Operati on of Homes and outside relief
Admini atra tive a nd geneta l
Endowm ent and Trust Funda:
.His eel laneous
Memoti al Temple:
Operati ng expense s {except depreci ation)
Deprec iation
Interes t on notes payable
Contrib ution to Maaonic Homes

$7' 109 ,064

1967
$5,951, 821

407 ,097

389,156

l,921,9 31
144 '70 l
2,066,6 32

l,836,5 77
118,093
1,954,6 70

1,850

1,750

192,498
63.o18
128
10,000
265,644
2,741,2 23

145 , 164
62,999
2, 95 7
10,000
221,120
2,566,6 96

31,158

4, 115

845,462

798. 988

13,304

15 .072

1,821
61, 295
18 ,992

2,029

To tal expense disburs ements
Expense • and other chaxges to capital :
Masonic Homea:
Genera l Fund:
Pr operty transfe rred to Ptopert y Fund
EndoW!llent and Trust Funds:
Income transfe rred to General Fund
(income )
Income transfe rted to Geneta l Fund
(capita l)
Income transfe rred to Endowm ent a nd
Truat Fund
Transfe r Decato tesiden ts' a ccounts
Propert y transfe rred to Propert y Fund
Propert y Fund:
Retirem ent of buildin gs, equipm ent
and improve ments
Propert y transfe rred fr om other funds
Memori al Temple:
Deprec iation applica ble to prior years
Total expense s and other charges

550
(50,150 )

193,070
(4,115)

3,663,6 55

4 96,78 3
4,072,6 38

Net increas e in fund balance s

$3,445, 409

$ 1, 879,183

Followi ng ia a &WIUIWlry of changes in the fund balance
s:
Increas e or (decrea se) in assets:
Cash
Securi ties owned (cost)
Buildin gs, equipme nt and improve ments,
net of deprec iation
Miacel laneoua
(lncrea ae) or deer . .•• in liabili ties:
Loane from benke
Miecel bneaua

..

$

483,128
2,453,0 51

$

(74,330 )
2,443,9 05

290,253
253,240

(736,32 0)
(3,011)

(34,263 )

221,790
27,149

$3,445, 409

$1.879, 183

ll•t inc:c••• • in fund balanc ••,

·~·

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE O F CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE GRAND SECRETARY

CHARTER AMENDMENTS

80

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
It is my honor to present to you, in accordance with Section 150 of
our Code, my eighth annual report as your Grand Secretary.
The Grand Treasurer's report reflects again the recording of all
moneys received and credited to his account. The detail of di~bursements
made by Grand Lodge during the year has been made available to the
Committee on Finance as required by law. Supporting books. papers and
vouchers are on file in the accounting office. All records of a financial
nature have been audited. The certified audits reflecting the records will
be published in the Proceedings. The summarization of consoli?ated ~e­
ceipts and disbursements for the year ending June 30, 1968: mclu?mg
Grand Lodge, Masonic Homes , Endowments and Trust Funds, California Masonic Memorial Temple, bequests, capital gains and others; entails a tremendous volume of paper work. These are carefully segregated
into the appropriate accounts by entity. The convenience and practicability of such a centralized accountin~ program, whic~ has been in effect
throughout the years, continues to be confirmed d~1ly ~hrough the e~se
of handling the increased volume of recording required m the account1~9
office. Efforts continue to be m.:!de to keep abreast of and to practice
proven, modern accounting techniques. Following. prior consultation
with our auditors, certain mechanical improvements m our systems have
been installed and simplifications instituted which have made our accounting more flexible and capable of even greater dema~ds. We have
made much progress and continue to strive for further 1mproveme~ts.
The "team" effort on the part of our constituent Lodge officers, particulady the 711 dedicated Secretaries, the Inspectors'. and ou.r loyal. ~ffice
staff, has made these many accomplishments possible. It is a privilege
to be a part of that team.
UNFINISH ED BUSINESS

The following matters were continued from the last Annual Communication to the present one :
I. Eligibility of Applicants, pages 39 and 51, 1967 Proceedings.
2. Interim Committee - Expenditure of Funds, pages 33 and 50,
1967 Proceedings.
3. Sojourner Relief and Board of Relief System - Study, pages 35
and 50, 1967 Procedings.
4. Student Aid Proceedings.

Multi-purpose Foundation , pages 46 and 53, 1967

81

Change of Meeting Place:
Following is a list of Lodges and the changes of meeting place which
have occurred during the year:
Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625 from Playa del Rey to Hawthorne.
Westminster Lodge No. 787 from Seal Beach to Westminster.
Los Altos Lodge No. 712 from Palo Alto to Los Altos.
These changes of meeting place have been officially ap proved under
the authority of the Grand Master, and the Grand Secretary now requests permission to endorse their charters.
(NOTE: Approved. See Reports of Committees on Charters and on
By~Laws for action taken.)
Consolidation of Lodges:
All requirements of the law respect ing consolidation having been
complied with the Grand Secreta ry requests authority to properly
endorse the following charters :
East Bay Lodge No. 489 with H illcrest Lodge No. 573, effective
December 1, 1967, to be known as E ast Bay Lodge No. 489.
Sunrise Lodge No. 522 with Belvedere N o. 539. effective Ju ly 1,
1968, to be known as Belvedere Sunrise Lodge No. 522.
Berkeley Lodge No. 363 with Charter Rock Lodge No. 410. effective
July 1, 1968. to be known as Berkeley Lodge N o. 363.
Thousand Oaks Lodge No. 478 with Indian Reck Lodge No. 638,
effective October. I, 1968, to be known as Thousand Oaks Lodge N o.
478.
North Butte Lodge No. 230with Emmanuel Lodge No. 318, effective
October 8. 1968, to be known as North Butte Lodge No. 230.
(NOTE: Approved. See Report of Committee on Charters.)
P ER CA PITA TAX

Palm Desert Lodge U .D. was instituted on May 29, 1968 . This
Lodge collected a less amount of dues than the per capita tax, and in
accord with precedent the Grand M aster. at our suggestion, d irected
that they be not required to pay the per capita tax. It is respectfully
requested that this be approved.
(NOTE: Approved. See Report of Committee on Finance.)
New Lodges
Palm Desert Lodge U.D. , located a t Palm Desert, was formed during
the year. Dispensation granted May 1, 1968. The Lodge was instituted
May 29, 1968, at Palm Desert. Most Worshipful Eugene S. Hopp,
Grand Master, presiding.
The charter membership is as follows : Harold Emanuel Dahlberg
(Master ). Dan Wade Lyons (Senior Warden), Charles Virgil Logue

82

GRANO LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

, Peter Joseph
(Junio r Ward en) , Fred Clark , Charl es Louis Ream
Timm Troja n,
Peter
son,
Thore
Burns
rd
Cliffo
Brownlee. Arnol d Scbaa k.
n David Paul.
Walt er Badg er Stear ns. Duan e Willia m Whee ler, Melvi
d Joseph
Alfre
ds,
Roun
Tomm y Neal Wood ward , James McCa rthy
tt Mille r
Evere
s.
Harri
Allan
r
Ritzel, Orval Romzin Marsh all, Roge
dore
Theo
Dix.
rson
Ande
Lewis
n,
Peters on, Frien d Frank lin Wilso
t
Ernes
,
Pillow
D.
ey
Rodn
,
Alling
Treat
am
Willi
.
Ernes t Cland ening
Leonon,
Cann
rs
Georg e Jacobsen, Ralph Kensley Whyt e, Harry Bowe
e Charl es Stone ,
ard Melvi n Slayto n. Russell Allen Marsh all. Georg
Frede rick White ,
es
Charl
ck.
Nyba
n
Alfre d Gordo n Harke r. Jr .. Marti
Stanl ey Jones,
Frank
,
onald
MacD
on
Clayt
bald
Jr .. John Phillips. Archi
Harol d Rhod y Withe rbee and Fred Andre w Stump p.
MEMB ERSH IP

1964
4
..
...........
ed
Form
s
New Lodge
2
Conso lidatio ns ······················-6,412
Initiat ed ..............·-··-···--·-·----Passed ··-··············-·······-···-····--· 5,858
Raised ..................................... ...... 5,799
Affilia tions {Calif .) ..._ ............. 1,654
853
From Other Juris.........._.......
345
Reins tated ..............._...............
Withd rawn ....................................... 2,161
Suspe nded N.P.D..................... 1,401
Suspe nded or Expel led
32
for Cause ......._.....................
5,052
s
Death --·····------····-··········-·····
Numb er of Memb ers..............244,499•
Dues Remit ted ...................... .. 3,504
5
Gains ···--·-·--···----·-----·--·······
(exs
Lodge
of
er
Numb
707
eludin g Resea rch) ..............
•Plura l Memb ers {ineluded in Total) .................. 1,790
315
Resea rch 1-iemb ership -·········

1965
2
0
6,144
5,899
5,875
1,438
922
362
1,970
1,495

1968
2
0
5,390
5,079
5,211
l,396
784
352
1,870
1,501

1967
2
2
5,116
4,784
4,900
1,904
808
321
2,670
1,633

1968
1
l
5,078
4,652
4,638
1,500
748
374
2,251
1,664

37
5,008
244,586•
3,494
87

21
5,365
243,572•
3,414
-1,01 4

20
5,348
241,834•
3,532
-1,73 8

13
5,421
239,745•
3,603
-2,08 9

709

711

711

711

1,832
328

1,973
355

1,951
346

1,947
342

FEES FOR AFFIL IATIO N

1968
No.Lo dges
Amou nt
NO FEE ·--······-·-·-· -··-··· --·.391
$1.00 .. --·---·· ········- ·-··············· 45
2.00 ···-······ -··-·-··- ··-··-·· ····-··· 14
3.00 ··--·· ----·· -··-·- ··-··· 7
4.00 ···---·- ··-·-··- ······-· ···.. -··· 1
5.00 ···-··- ·--··-·-··--····-··IM
7.00 ···-··-· ····-··-··-··-··- ··-····- 1
10.00 ·--···-·-----· -··--·-···--··110
12.00 ............................................ 3

1968
No. Lodg "
Amou nt
15.00 ............................................ 6
20.00 ...................... ...................... 8
25.00 ···········-······-··············-··-··· 171
211.00 ...................... ......................
30.00 ··----·····-······-····---······-······· 1
50.00 ···-··-·----·················- ······-·· · 11
75.00 ...................- .......................
Total Lodge s ......................- .......711

Avera te ···········--··-······-······-···•3.68

83

F1rns FOR DEGR EES
Amou nt
$ 50.00
53.00
55.00
60.00
65.00
70.00
74.00
75.00
78.00
80.00
85.00
86.00
90.00
95.00
99.00
100.00
102.00
105.00
110.00
115.00
120.00
125.00
130.00
135.00
140.00
150.00
165.00
175.00
215.00
Total Lodge s
Avera ge

1958
No.Lo dgN
102

1961
Mo. Lodg..
73
1
2
1
11

InC1'94Mfn
No.Lo dgN

1

7
2
27
3
72
1
l
2
6

1
155
1
20
3
1
31
1
1
230
1
12
3
47
7
79
1
4
5
9

7
2

8
1

5
2
9
l
189
25
3
14
1
201

682

$88.80

3

1

Decre ase in
No. Lodge s
29
3
l

2

1

l

34
5

1
17
1
29
1
5
1
20
4
7
3
3
3
3
1

1

7IT
$94.14

ANNU AL DUES

Amou nt
$ 12.00
14.00
15.00
16.00
17.00
18.00
.20.00
21.00
22.00
23.00
.24.00
25.00
26.00
27.00
30.00
33.00
36.00
40.00
45.00
50.00
Total Lodge s

Avera ge

1958
No.L odg"
249
1
293
45

81!
4

3
1

1968
No. Lodge s

42

Increa se in
No. Lodge s

143
43

2
237
131
30

7
1
41
18
1
l
6
1

1
2
1
3

7IT

$18.89

2
151
127
30
7
1

38
17
1
1
6
1

1
2
1
3

Decre ase in
No, Lodge s
207
1
150
2

84

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF C ALIFORN IA

SOJOURNERS

85

EXHIBIT A

Pursuant to the permission granted at the last Annual Communication to make na mes and addresses of non-resident California members
known to the local Lodges in jurisdictions where they currently reside,
this program was carried out. We have had many favorable comments
with respect to this. As names and addresses of sojourning members
residing in California and Hawaii are received from other jurisdictions.
we sort and forward them to our Lodges nearest their residences. Where
there is concurrent jurisdiction, we follow the same procedttre as is our
custom with Veteran Buttons for sojourning Brethren.
GRAND LODGE LIBRARY

As Grand Librarian, I noted with pleas ure the action taken by the
Grand Lodge at its bst Annual Communication with respect to developing library and museum facilities commensurate with our needs a~d
s tatus in the Masonic world. The foresight of Grand Lodge and its
favorable response to the recommendation made by Past Grand Master
Dayton has been accepted with favor by the membership and has resulted in the receipt of additional books and museum items of historic
importance.
The need for development of such a facility was emphasized to your
Grand Librarian as a result of a visit last year to the Grand Lodge
Library in England; and re-emphasized this year when he visited the
beautiful and outstanding Grand Lodge Library in Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
when returning from the Washington Conferences.
More complete comments will be made on this subject by both the
Board of Library Commissioners and the Trustees of the California
Masonic Memorial Temple during this session.

DISPENSATION S ISSUED

To elect Officers at a time other than that fixed by law: Eureka No.
16: Illinoistown No. 51: Union No. 58; Calaveras No. 78: St. Helena
No. 93; Phoenix No. 178; Oriental No. 144; Claiborne No. 185; Marin
No. 191: San Simeon No. 196: San Benito No. 211: Solano No. 229:
Durant No. 268; Silver Gate No. 296: San Jacinto No. 338; S.in Franci~co-Victory No. 360; J ewe! No. 374: Francis Drake No. 376; Rising
Light No. 397: Crocker No. 451; Lincoln No. 470; Vallejo No. 487; Seaside No. 504; Bellflower No. 523; Justice No. 549; Fort Crook No. 575 ;
Kauai No. 589; Provident No. 609; Ri\'erside No. 635: Composite No.
639; Alta Loma No. 643; William D. Stephens No. 698; S,111 Ramon
Valley No. 724; Gemini No. 825.
To op~n Lodge in other than re[JUlar meeting place: ~kKinley No.
347; Chanty No. 362; Alpha No. 431 ; Schofield No. 443; Mount Diablo
No. 448; Morgan Hill No. 463; Center No. 465; H arbor No. 502; Sun
Garden No. 530; Queen Beach No. 540; Neptune No. 619; Saint Johns
No. 725; Clayton Valley No. 756: Josiah W. Roller No. 761; Westminster No. 787; Los Alamitos No. 809.
To change the date of a regular Stated Meeting: Pacific No. 136:
East Gate No. 290: Starr King No. 344; Golden State No. 358; Lebanon
No. 495; Harbor No. 502; Loyalty No. 529: James Madison No. 572:
Castro Valley No. 713; Maccabee No. 823.
Special permiss~on for conferring of D egrees: La Parfaite Union No.
17: North Star No. 91; Burbank No. 406; Clovis No. 417; Alpha No.
131; _Hammonton No. 433; Wilshire N o. 445; San Pasqual No. 452 :
Seaside No. 504; Arcadia No. 547; Big Bear No. 617; Southland No.
618; Ja mes A. Foshay No. 611; La Brea No. 650; San Antonio No. 694 ;
San Juan No. 732; Magnolia No. 715.
To receiue and act upon the application of a member of the Armed
Forces who lacks the qualification of residence: Madera No. 280: Brawley No. 402: Vallejo No. 487.

To receive and act upon the application for Degrees without referencc to committee: Santa Cruz No. 38; Blythe No. 473 .

Grand Secretary
Referred to Committee on Distribution.

. To receive and act upon the application for D egrees presented by a
re1ected Candidate within less than twelve months: El Sereno No. 588:
Five Points No. 779; Plaza de Los Angeles No. 814.
Miscellaneous: East San Diego No. 561,
DISPENSATION DENIED

. To receive_ and ac~ upon the application for Degrees presented by <1
re1ected Candidate within less than twelue months: H er itage No. 764.

86

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A
LIPE MEMBERS HIP

Fixing Fee: Belvedere Sunrise No. 522 . at $750.00; Sojourner No.
607. at $425.00; Rosemead No. 702. at $400.00.
lncrea.sing Fee: Live Oak No. 61, to $420.00; Downey No. 220, to
$1 .000.00; Hollenbec k No. 319, to $375.00; Whittier No. 323, to $840.00;
Hollywoo d No. 355 , to $437.50; Elysian No. 418, to $542,00; Schofield
No. 443. to $416.66; Harbor No. 502, to $420.00; Sun Garden No. 530,
to $600.00; Plymouth No. 560, to $400.00; Military Service No. 570 , to
$437.50; La Habra No. 659. to $420.00; Tila Pass No. 797, to $425.00.
R escinding Fee: Molino No. 150; Lincoln No. 470.
Denied: Lawndale No. 753.

ACTION BY GRAND LODGE
The Committee. on Jurisprude n ce has reviewed the special dispensations issued by the Grand Master during the past year and has reviewed
the resolution s relative to life membersh ips.
The Committe e finds that all the acts and steps taken by the Grand
Master in regard to these matters have been in complianc e with the requirement s of our Masonic la w.
We, therefore. recommen d that the special dispensati ons and life
membersh ip resolution s be approved by Grand Lodge.
Adopted.
EXHIBIT B
AM ENDMENTS TO BY-LAWS

Uniform Code of By-Laws: Adopted in toto ( C.M.C Sections 339
and 340): 8 lodges : Galt No. 267; Charity No. 362; South Pasadena
No. 367; San D imas No. 428: Belvedere Sunrise No. 522; Tujunga No.
592: Normal Heights No. 632; Palm Desert U.D.
Stated Meeting (Article Ill : C.M.C. Section 343 ) : 15 Lodges :
Fixing date: 1 Lodge : Amador No. 65.
Changing date: 10 Lodges : Monrovia No. 308: McKinley No.
347: Kerman No. 420; H a rbor No. 502; La Jolla No. Sl8; Angeles Mesa
No. 625 ; Triad No. 812; Willia m B. Ogden No. 816; Manhatta n No.
817; Southern California Research.
Changing hour: 3 Lodges : Seaside No. S04; West Covina No.
7S8; William Rhodes Hervey No. 767.
Providing for Legal Holidays: 2 Lodges: Oroville No. l 03; Smyrna No. S32 .
Fees (Article VIII: C.M.C. Section 3S4):
For Degrees : 12 Lodges :
Increasing : 12 Lodges : Eureka No. 16, to $100.00; Oroville
No. 103, to $100.00; Concord No. 117, to $11 S.00; Orange Grove No.
293 , to $100.00: Huntingto n Beach No. 380, to $120.00: Golden Rule
No. 479. to $100.00; Silver Cord No. 50S, to $10S.OO; Smyrna No. S32,
to $7S.OO; Wasco No. 583. to $11 S.00; John P . Jarman No. 669. to

87

$100.00; Pinnacle No. 777, to $90.00; Conejo Valley No. 807, to $120.00.
For Affiliation: 5 Lodges:
Fixing: 1 Lodge: Concord No. 1 J 7, at $I 0.00.
Increasing : I Lodge: John P. Jarman No. 669. to $10.00.
Rescindin g: 3 Lodges : Indian Wells Val!ey No. 691 ; William
D. Stephens N o. 698; Granada Hills No. 790.
Dues (Article IX : C.M.C. Section 3S6) :
Increasing: S2 Lodges : Eureka No. 16, to $18.00; Plumas No. 60,
to $20.00; Live Oak No. 61, to $20.00; Herm<:nn No. 127, to $24.00;
Woodbrid ge No. 131. to $20.00: Molino No. 150. to $20.00; Mendocin o
No. 179, to $1 8.00; Petaluma No. 180, to $18.00; Clear Lake No. 183.
to $24 .00: Claiborne No. 18S. to $18.00; Santa Barb<tCa No . 192, to
$24.00: Confidenc e No. 203. to $18.00; Downey No. 220. to $50,00:
Ca listoga No. 233. to $18.00: Laurel No. 24S, to $18.00: Madera No.
280. to $20.00; Reedley No. 30·1. to $18.00; Ashlar N o. 306, to $21.00:
Hollenbec k No. 319, to $1 8. 00; Consuelo Lodge No. 32S. to $20.00;
Hollywoo d No. 3SS. to $21.00: Burlingame No. 400. to $21.00: Elysian
No. 418, to $26.00; Chino Valley No. 427, to $20.00; Schofield No. 443,
to $20.00; Lincoln No. 470. to $21.00; Golden Rule N o. 479, to $1S.OO;
H a rbor No. S02. lo $20 .00; Silver Cord No. SOS, to $20.00: Arc;1dia No.
517, to $50.00: Plymouth N o . S60, to $18.00; Jam es A. Garfield No. 566,
to $22.00; Military Service No. 570, to $21 .00; Hawthorn e No. 647, to
$25.00; La Habra No. 659. to $20.00; H enry Knox N o. 662. to SI 8.00:
John P . Jarman No. 669, lo ~18.00; Vista No. 687, to $20.00; Indian
Wells Valley N o. 691, to $21 .00; San Antonio No. 694. to $20.00; Meudell No. 69S, to $25.00: P .::mdcrosa No. 700. to $2S.00; 'vVestchester No.
703, to $30.00; Estero No. 719. to $24.00: Tyre No. 741. to $2S.OO:
Hamilton No. 751, to $30.00: M ission Bay No. 771 . to $18.00; Avenal
No. 772, to $20.00; \ Vaikiki No. 774. to $2S.OO; Pinnacle No. 777, to
$20.00; Tila Pass No. 797, to $20.00; Conejo Valley No. 807, to $20.00.
Deere.a.sing: I Lodge : Anr.eles Mesa No. 62S. to $1 S.00
Charity Committe e: (Article X: C.M.C. Section 360) :
Increasing maximum amount: 2 Lodges: Blackmer No. 442. to
$100.00; Clayton Valley No. 7S6. to $SO.OO.
R ESOLUTION S

Change of Meeting Place:
Same. City (C.M.C. Section 372): 7 Lodges: Fresno No. 247;
Porterville No. 303; Center No. 465: Sun Garden No. 530; Angeles
Mesa No. 62S; Avenal No. 772: Manhatta n No. 817.
Another City or Place (C.M.C. Section 373}: 2 Lodges: Los
Altos No. 712; Westmins ter No. 787.

88

PROC EEDINGS OF THE

ACT ION BY GRA ND LOD GE

The Com mitte e on By-L aws:
The 1968 meet ing of your Com mitte e
on By-L aws bega n at 9 : 30
a .m. on Satu rday . Octo ber 12th, with all
seve n mem bers pres ent. Here tofor e this Com mitte e has cons idere d all
by-la ws appr oved by the Gran d
Mas ter up to the open ing of the Ann
ual Com mun icati on of Gran d
Lodg e. This year our revie w was conf ined
to the matt ers cont aine d in
the Gran d Secr etary 's preli mina ry repo rt
whic h has been distr ibute d to
thos e here in atten danc e . and whic h close
s at appr oxim ately Sept emb er
30, 1968 . Som e nine ty-ei nht cha nges in
by-l aws and nine chan ges of
meet ing place were cons idere d .
Of the chan ges show n in the distr ibute d
Gran d Secr etary 's Repo rt .
the follo wing are not appr oved :
Incre asing fees: Hun tingt on Beac h No. 380.
(No writt en notic e at next prec edin g State
d Mee ting. )
Incre asing dues : John P . Jarm an No. 669.
(Cer tified prior to the even t.)
The follo wing is held over until the next
Com mun icati on of th is
Gran d Lodg e:
Incre asing fees: Oran ge Grov e No. 293.
The follo wing are dele ted:
Unif orm Cod e of By-L aws:
Tuju nga No. 592. (App rove d in 1967 .)
Fix affiliation fee: Conc ord No. 117. (No
chan ge. )
The follo wing are adde d: (Thr ough adop
tion of the Uni form Cod e.)
Chan ge meet ing date : Char ity No. 362.
Fix affiliation fee: Sout h Pasa dena No. 367.
Resc ind affiliation fee: Galt No. 267.
Incre ase dues : Sout h Pasa dena No. 367 to
$18.00.
The incre ased fee of Haw thor ne No. 64 7
is to $20. 00. and the chan ge
of meet ing place of Ang eles Mes a No. 625
is to anot her city.
You r Com mitte e again espe ciall y sugg
ests to the officers of the
Lodg es that it is in their own selfi sh inter
ests to chec k whet her their respec tive Lodg es have recen tly adop ted
the Unif orm Code of By-L aws
and , if not. to initia te a resol ution to do so.
An obso lete set of by-l aws is
only a trap for the officers of the Lodg
e, beca use the Unif orm Cod e
adop ted by Gran d Lodg e is bind ing on
the cons titue nt Lodg es whe ther
adop ted by them or not. Failu re to ame
nd the by-l aws of a cons titue nt
Lodg e will not avoid the effect of chan ges
mad e by Gran d Lodg e. It can
only misle ad the offic ers of the Lodg e.
Furt her, it is the duty of the officers to conf
orm the by-l aws of their
Lodg e to thos e adop ted by Gran d Lodg
e. See C.M .C. Sect ions 339a ,
354c. and particula rly Sect ion 356a whe
re the Gran d Mas ter curta iled
the activ ities of a Lodg e until it comp lied.
It is agai n sugg ested that the Lodg es revie
w Artic le X of their by-

GRAN O LODG E O F C/\ U r O RNIA

89

laws whic h sets the maximum auth ority
of the Char ity C ommittee of
the Lodg e durin g the inter val betw een State
d Mee tings . M any Lodg es
have set this maxi m um pitif ully low whe n
cons idere d in term s of pres ent
purc hasin g pow er. Sinc e the Cha rity Com
mitte e cons ists of the Mas ter
and War dens of the Lod ge-n o one else
-a nd must repo rt to the Lodg e
a t the next Stat ed Mee ting. a nd file with
the Secr etary the nam es of the
recip ients and the amo :.mts paid ( C.M .C.
Sect ion 360a ). there wou ld
seem to be little caus e to fear that a rea sona
ble maxi mum will be abus ed .
. A very comm on error . both in adop
ting and in amen ding by-la ws .
1s the inclu sion in the affiliation fee of the
$25. 00 Mas onic H omes contrib utio n-an d some times also of the Mem
orial cont ribut ions. The M a sonic Hom es cont ribut ion . the Geo rge
Was hing ton Mas onic Na tiona l
Mem orial cont ribut ion, and the Cali forn
ia Mas onic Mem orial Tem ple
cont ribut ion are NOT inclu ded in the
fees spec ified in the by-l aws of
a Lodg e. They are IN ADD ITIO N to
the fees spec ified by these bylaws ( C.M .C. Sect ion 284a ). The by-la
ws shou ld show only the affiliation fee whic h the Lodg e inten ds to char
ge and keep -and if, a s with
man y Lodg es, no affili a tion fee is to be
retai ned by the Lodg e, these
blan ks shou ld show zero dolla rs.
The Gran d Secr etary 's office has form s
for the use of Lodg es who
wish to amen d by-la ws or chan ge meet ing
place. If these form s are reques ted befo re actio n is taken , much corr
espo nden ce-a nd sometimes
erro r-ca n be avoi ded.
F or reaso ns mad e obvious by the foreg
oing comm ents. the print ed
Unif orm Cod es s upplied by Gran d Lodg
e shou ld at all time s be kept
cont emp orary .
You r Com mitte e is gra teful to the Gran
d Secr etary and to his staff
for their cour tesy and coop erati on.
Mos t Wor ship ful. we mov e that Gran d
Lodg e appr ove the amen dment s and resol ution s listed in Exhi bit
B of the Gran d Secr etary ·s re port distr ibute d at th is Com mun icati on. with
the exce ption s and chan ges
here inab ove specified. a nd that the char ters
of the three Lodg es mov ing
their place s of meet ing to anot her city or
place be amen ded in acco rdance with C.M .C. Sect ion 373.
Resp ectfu lly s ubm itted .
VIR L BEN NEH OFF. Chai rman
ALD EN
FULKERSO ~
BERT RAND F. LURI E
ROB ERT A . WERT SCll
DoN ALD M. BtNK ERD
CHA RLES H . GRA CE
MAX S LOAN

J.

o.

Ado pted .

90

PROC EEDIN GS OF THE

EXH IBIT C
T1uA L RECO RDS
No. 1611 - Petition for resto rat ion. A member
of Guar dian Lodge No.
596. Expelled Nove mber 7, 1958.
No. 1742 -Pet ition for res toration. A member
of Conc ord Lodg e No.
117. Expelled March 6, 1962.
No. 1902 -Pet ition for restoration. A mem
ber of Fore st Hill Lodge
No. 534. Expe lled Augu st 3. 1966.
No. 191 1-( Re-tr ial). A member of Unit y Lodg
e No. 368. Acquitted
July 2, 1968.
No. 1927- (Re- trial) . A member of Mari n
Lodg e No. 191. Expe lled
Janu ary 10. 1968 .
No. 1930 --A member of Rockridge Lodge No.
468. Expelled September 5, 1967.
No. 193 1-A member of Forb estow n Lodg e
No. 50. Expelled Octo ber
7.
1967
.
No. 193 2-A member of Bars t:->w Lodg e No.
682. Reprimand Octo ber
6.19 67.
No. 1933 --A Fellow Craf t of San Buen aven
tura Lodge No. 214. Expelled Nove mber 7, 1967.
No. 1934 -An Entered Appr entic e of Pom
ona Lodge No. 246. Acquitted Marc h 7, 1967 .
No. 1935 -A member of El Segu ndo Lodg e No.
507. Expelled Janu ary
8. 1968.
No. 1936 -A member of Mou nt Shas ta Lodg
e No. 281. Expe lled January 4, l 968.
No. 193 7-A member of Providen t Lodge No.
609. Susp ende d Jan uary
14. 1968.
No. 1938-A member of H emet Lodge No.
615. Reprimand Febu ary
6, 1968.
No. 1939- A member of \Ves t Gate Lodg e
No. 335. Acqu itted September 7, 1967.
No. 194 0-A member of El Cajo n Vall ey Lodg
e No. 576. Expelled
Marc h 7, 1968 .
No. 1941 - A member of S. W . H ackett Lodg
e N o. 574. Expe lled July
11.19 67.
No. 1942- A member of Lexington Lodge No.
l 04. Acqu itted Apri l 1.
1968.
No. 1943- A member of Semper Vire ns Lodg
e No. 552. Expelled Apri l
9, 1968.
No. 1944 -An Ente red Appr enti<"e of Alex andr
ia Lodge No. 531. Expelled Febr uary 2, 1968.
No. 1945- A member of Foothill Lodg e No.
561. Susp ende d Apri l 4,
1968.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

91

No. 1946 --A
mem
1968
. ber of Need les Lod ge N 0

· 326. Susp ende d May 13,
1947
No.
-A
mem
1968
. ber of Emanuel Lodge No · 318· Expelled
June 10,
No. 1948 -A
mem
ber
of
Black
1968.
m er Loci ge N 0 · 442. Expe
lled Augu st 2,
No. 194 9-t. l~~~.ber of Mag nolia Park
Lodg e No. 715. Expelled July
No. 1950 --A
mem.ber of Scep ter Lodge No 808
9, 1968
·
· Expelled September
No. 1951 -A member of San Die 0 Lod
tember 6. J 968.
g
ge N 0 · 35. Susp ende d SepNo. 195 2-A member of La Mira da Lodge
No · 778 · E
7, 1968.
xpelled Augu st

ACT ION BY GRA ND LOD GE
The Com mitte e on Grievances:
Twe nty-e ight
recor ds have been refer red
Thre e of them aretrial
petit ions f
.
to your Committee
a sepa rate part of this repo rt
will be prese nted
ports to be read by members of. th ouCr ot :rs are
discussed in special re~
·I
e omm1ttee
na
T
Record Nos
1930 1
·
1937, 1939 .194 0, 194.1 1927
.194 2 194J i~!:i 1 i~·
1933, 1934, 1935. 1936.
and 1952 have been caref ully' e· . ' d . •d
7,
r v1ewe m etail b 1948 , 1949
C , 1950
. , 1951
fi n d t hat due proce dure has been follow d .
y your omm1ttee. We
are supp orted by the respective rec d e ·~
e~ch case, that the results
riages of justice.
or s, an t at there are no miscar~es~f..Jfore. offer ~he following resolution
:
ED. that m each of the T · 1 R
the actio n taken
and
the
resul t th
f bna
rds above-mentioned
firmed.
ereo e ratt·fieco
ed , appr oved and
con~
Adop ted.
..
TRIAL REcoRos No. 1611 , 1742 AND 1902
Petit
ions
for
resto ratio n have b
foregoing Tria l Reco
rds.
.
een re ferred to the Committee in the
We
haveution
caref
lowin
g resol
: ully cons1"d ered a 11 th e petitions, and we offer
the folRES
OL
VED
that
th
recor
·
·
ds be gran ted :
e pet1t1ons for resto ratio n in the following trial
No. 1611 -Gua rdian Lodg e N 596
No. 1742- Conc ord Lodg e No~·l 17, '
No. 1902 -For est Hill Lodg e No. 534.
Adop ted.
TRIAL RECO RD No. 1911
A member of Unit y Lod ge N o. 368 was charg ed
with four specifi-

orFrestora~mn, whic~

i~

92

PRO CEE DIN GS OF THE

·
me tax
false and Eradu lent mco
cati ons of wil full y an~ kno~vm
ill
6
I
gl
967
Gra
nd
Lod
ge
rev
erse d t~e
retu rns . He was acq uitt ed m
1
. ~he cas e for new tria l bec aus
finding of not gui lty and rem
e t e:
nndeld
t
der e and had offe red no e:xd
a
lea
of
no
o con en
acc use d had ent ere
P
pla nat ion of his con duc t. ( Pro cee d · s. t 96 7, pag e 83. )
.
mgl ead ed not gui lty. and test .
ified in
the
retr ial. the acc use d p
U pan
.
"tt d of the cha rge s.
.
exp lan atio n of his con d uct. H was aga in acqu1 e
. h
e:
h
h the re may be a conflict in
~ e:
Y our C omm itte e feels tha t, alt oug
h . disc reti on in mak ing
d
"
d
ot
abu
se
·de:
t
nce
e1r
the
Com mis sion ers i n f
.
eV i
ffe the following re:so 1ut1o
,
n:
the finding of not gu1·1ty. \Ve the re ore . o r
d
. .
f
t uilty in Tri al Rec or N o.
RE SO LV ED . tha t the finding
o no g
1911 be affirmed.
Ado pte d.
TRI AL Ri::coP.D No . 193
8
..
N 615 was acc use d of dru nk
A mem ber of Hem et Lod ge
dnv
mg .
o. d th t he ple ade d nol o con
te:ndere.
To the Ma son ic cha rge he answ
dereh. ·~vestigation. det erm ine
d tha t
n ma e
The Tri al M aste r. t h ere upo
II
fixed the penisalty
at rep rim and .
the acc use d was gui lty and ,
Ma son ic cha rge s is not ex~re:ss
The plea of nol o contende:re
~y
. to 713 C M.C . how eve r. pro
vid es in
thor i'•ed in Ma son ic law . Sec
tion
au
. h"ch to him. or his cou nse l.
~
par t tha t an acc use d may mak e any ans wer w '
.
.
sha ll seem mee t.
Ma son ic law the plea is adm1sWe hav e rule d in the pas t tha .
t ind o~r . of gui lt (Se e Pro
cee din gs.
'ble and is to b e con s t ru e d a<>- an a mis sion
·
83
)
~1967 Tri al Rec ord No. 1911 . page. .
f h
lea of nol o con ten der e is
'
Th e gen era lly acc ep t e d mea nin g o t e P
l d gui lty neit her doe s h e
con t es t
tha t, whi le the accuse.cl doesc~
~:
l~~
a
tbe
p\e~ sub ject s a def end ant to
the cha rge s aga inst him. In
h ' h he had ple ade d gui lty.
the sam e pen a 1 con seq u enc es as t oug
f
. .
. f the opm1on t hat w he 11 an ans wer o no1o con You r com mit tee is
o
.
. d the Ma ster sho ul d pro cee d as
ten der e to Ma son ic cha~g~\1s
d r~~e;i:ad No t Gui lty. (Se e Sec .
tho ugh the acc use d ha
692 .4
a1 e
C
)
C ·M · ·
Suc h pro ced ure ·was fo 11owe d in this cas e. ·o
vv'e. ther efo re. offe r the
foll owi ng reso luti on.
. .
f uilt of un- Ma son ic con duc
t and
RE SO LV ED . tha t the findmg 0 g d N
8 be app rov ed and
.
· Tn al Rec or
the pen alty of repr1rnan d m
o. 193
affirmed.
Ado pte d.
TRI AL REC ORD No . 19-1
5
·ng himself disq uali fied . did
The Cha irm an of the Commit.te~ d
. ee:rn1
.
·
not participate: in the d iscu
ss1 0 n of this cas e.
.

fHin

GRA ND LOD GE OF CA LIFO

RN IA

93
The acc use d . a mem ber of Foo
thil l Lod ge No . 564 , was cha
wit h un- Ma son ic con duc t as set
rge d
fort h in the following spe cifi cati
ons :
"Th at on or abo ut the 22n d
day of Ma y. 196 7, he did bea
t his
dau ght er, age 8. and cau sed mas
sive bru ises and cut s on her face
, han ds,
arm s and bac k. whi ch con stit ute
s a felo ny. "
The acc use d was fou nd gui lty
by his lod ge of un- Ma son ic con
and was ord ere d sus pen ded .
duc t
Th e acc use d was cha rge d in the
Sup erio r Cou rt of Ala med a Cou
for vio lati on of Sec tion 273 a
nty
(I ) of the Pen al Cod e whi ch
can eith er
be a felo ny or a mis dem ean
or. The acc used ple ad gui lty
and the
offe nse was fou nd to be onl y
a mis dem ean or. He was plac ed
on pro bation .
The acc use d from the ver y beg
inn ing den ied the fact tha t he
gui lty of un- Ma son ic con duc t;
was
exp lain ed tha t the bea ting adm
inis tere d
to his chil d by a stra p was in
an end eav or to solv e a disc ipli
nar y pro blem; tha t the chil d had a seri
ous beh avi or pro blem . It was
his sinc ere
beli ef whi ch was also adm itte
d by the girl 's sch ool teac her
tha t the accus ed was sinc ere but was mis
gui ded in his trea tme nt of the
chil d ; tha t
he was sinc ere in his effo rts to
rais e her as a goo d citizen.
Th e fact ual info rma tion also
sho ws tha t the chil d was larg
e for her
age ; tha t som e of the bru ises and
cut s resu lted from falling off a
bicy cle.
from bein g bitt en by a dog
and from a tab le falling upo
n her ; tha t
from time to time. she bec ame
ver y vio lent and wou ld go into
tan trums;
tha t she had difficulty in get ting
alo ng wit h oth ers in sch ool w
hich was
aga in exp erie nce d .wh en she was
pla ced in a fost er hom e by the
Pro bation Dep artm ent : tha t the pun
ishm ent adm inis tere d by the acc
use d was
to solv e the se pro blem s; tha t
he had reso rted to oth er solu tion
s wit hou t
ava il. suc h as cha nge of sch ool
s, psy chia tric aid and the sen
din g of the
chil d to a sum mer cam p. At the
tim e the Lod ge hel d its tria l.
the chil d
had bee n retu rne d to her par ent
s at her own req ues t.
Thi s com mit tee beli eve s tha t the
Lod ge was not justified in pro
cee ding aga inst the acc use d sinc
e he had ple ad gui lty and
was fou nd
gui lty of a mis dem ean or, rath
er tha n a felo ny, as the disc ipli
nar y action
or bea ting was suc h as not to
pro duc e gre at bod ily har m or
dea th, as set
fort h in Sec tion 273 a of the Pen
al Cod e.
It is the opi nio n of the Com mit
tee tha t the bea ting adm inis tere
d and
the circ ums tanc es atte ndi ng it
was not and sho uld not hav e
bee n fou nd
as un- Ma son ic con duc t but mer
ely poo r jud gm ent by the acc
use d in the
disc ipli nar y man ner in whi ch
he end eav ore d to cor rec t his
ch ild who
was a disc ipli nar y pro blem and
a beh avi or pro blem ; tha t his act
sho uld
not be con side red un- Ma son
ic con duc t as to war ran t his
bein g sus pen ded .
We , ther efo re, offer the foll owi
ng reso luti on:
RE SO LV ED , tha t the gui lty
jud gm ent of Foo thil l Lod ge No.
564

94

GRAND LODGE OF C ALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

be reversed; that the judgment be changed to not guilty of un-Masonic
cond•Jct; that the suspension be set aside.
Adopted.
TRIAL R ECORD No. 1946
A member of Needles Lodge No. 326 was found ~uilty of unMas•:>nk conduct in that he had sexual relations with the wife of a Master Mason. The accused was duly given notice of the ch~rges and failed
to reply. The trial master fixed the penalty at suspension. The procedures appear to be correct.
Your Committee, however, feels that the accus~d ~as violated a~
important precept of our Fraternity and after considering all the ~vi­
dence in the record is of the opinion that the penalty should be raised
to expulsion. We off er the following resolution:
.
.
.
RESOLVED, that the finding of guilt by the trial master m T~1al
Record No. 19-i6 be approved, but the penalty be raised to ex~~ls1on
and that the accused be expelled from all of the rights and pnv1leges
of Masonry.
Adopted.
Respectfully submitted,
FOLGER EMERSON, Chairman
J. WARREN MANUEL
RICHARD c. ROBBINS
EDWARD T . MANCUSO
V!RL BENNEHOFF

95

EXHIBIT D
FIFTY YEAR BUTTONS
Issued September I, 1967 Through September 1, 1968 ( 1.033)
Total Issued to Date. 12.'i03
NAME AND LODGl! NO.

DATI! OP RAISING

Abrams, Hyman L. (38) ..•........... 7-19-18
Acker, Ivan R. (272) -················ 2- 2-17
Adams, Eldred (-'123) .................... 8-19-17
Adams, Leland C. (399) ................ 6-19-18
Adams, Vern L. (469) .................. 2-17-15
Adler, Klaus ( 127) ........................ 7-29-1 8
Aitkenhead. George G. (332) ...... 3-25-15
Albertson, V erle L. (389) ............ 5-25-1 8
Allard, Howard R. (245) .............. 7- 2-18
Allen. William S. (303) ................ 12- 13- 17
Aller, Daniel I. ( 98) .................... 5-26-17
Anderson, Arthur R. (61 ) ... ... .. .... 2-15-1 8
Anderso n, Ernest J. (363 ) ............ 7-25-1 8
Anderson, John A. (324) .............. 4-27- 11
Andersson, Carl (205) .................. 5-19-13
Anqell, Thomas U. (21) .............. 6-29-17
Apffel. Edward A. (349) .............. 3-19-18
Archer, William D. (391) ............ 1-26-18
Armstron11. Wallace E. ( 409) ...... 6-27-17
Arnhold. Benjamin. Jr. (236) ........ 7-25-18
Arnold. Rolla R. (303) .......- ......... 2-28-18
Aubertine. Don J. F. (388) .......... 10-16-17
Austin, Ward H. (191) ....... - ...... .11-11-17
Auten, Earl J. (528) ..: ................... 7-29- 16
Avignone, Richard F. ( 164) ........ 11-14-08
Bachman. William H. (405) ........ 11-22-17
Bachmann. Prank (410) .............. 1-26-18
Bacon. Douglas J. (430) .............. 5-23-1 8
Bailey, George F. (144) ................ 10-18-05
Bailey, Mason A. (280) ................ 10-27-17
Baker, Glen E. (264) ......·- ·········-- 3-11 -18
Baker, Philip I. (511) .................... 8- 7-17
Baker. Walter 0. (290) ................ 10-25-17
Baldus, Norbert (327) ................ 9- 7-17
Baldwin, George W. (349) .......... 1-28- 18
Baldwin, Judson D. (457) ............ 9-11-1 6
Baldwin, Louis G. ( 68) .•.............. 12-18-17
Balthasar, Edward ( 139) .............. 1-30-18
Banc:z;yk, Andrew J. (615) ............ 7- 1-18
Barbour, Nathan P. (68) .............. 12-19- 17
Barjas, Fred P. (457) .................... 7- 9-18
Barker, Deon B. (37) .................... 5-28-18
Barnes, Edward T. (19 l) ............ 9- 6-11
Barnett, Kelso G. (392) ................ 1-28-18
Barstow, Frank H . (355) .............. 10..14-15
Bastian, Ralph J. (95).-............... 9-13-17
Bates. Joseph W. (20) .................. 3-28-18
Batien. Ira A. (643 )--·············-····· 2-20- 18
Batterson, Shelton M. (392) ........ 9- 3-17
Baysinger, Ralph C. (431) ............ 9-25-17

NAME AND LODGE NO.

DATI! OP RAISING

Bt'aty, Willinm E. (316) ............ 4-15-1~
Beckham. Roy T . ( 667) ................ 4-30-18
Beeman. Samuel W . (391) .......... 8-31-17
Beetle, Louis L. (87) .................... 7- 4-18
Behrend Julius (260) .................... 9-17-17
Belew. Benjamin F . (399) ........... 8- 15-16
Bell. C harles ~ · (468) ......... ........ 2-22-18
Bell, Geor~ e E. (454} .................. 8-27- 17
Benedict, Charles W. (366) ........ 12-21-17
Benjamin, J?s.eph (478? ................ 7-26-18
Benson, Wilham A. ( 391... ....... 3-27-18
Bennett, Russworth J. (477) ........ 2-15-17
Berbert, Henry (201) .................... 1-12-18
Sercovich, Joseph { 136) .............. 1-23-17
Berg, Einar J. N . (393) ................ 3-29-18
Berger, Tyrell A. S. (360) .......... 2-25-18
Bergh, Charles J. ( 20) .................. 4- 15-09
Bernheim, Jules H. (216) ............ 9-24-17
Best, Lewis C. (440) ................... 4- 22-1 8
Bevans, George L. ( 385) ............ 1-10-18
Biagi. Louis A. (30) .................... 11-13-13
Bidwt>ll. Morris C ( 272) ............! 0..17-17
Bierkamp, Walter E. (768) ........ 12-10..10
Bigelow. Samw•l ). (697) .............. 11- 6-17
Bihl. William E. (5 13) ................ 6-27-17
Billings. Arthur W . (629) ............ 12-22-17
Billings, Lauren R. (309) ............ 2-14-18
Black, Bruce R. (657) .................. 7-23-18
Black, Everett E. (409) ................ 7- 16-18
Blair, Edward (462) .................... 2- 8-18
Blake, Don K. (648) .................. 7-23-18
Blakelock. David H . (671) .......... 6-22-17
Blanton, Robert P. ( 561) ............ 3-20-1 8
Blodgct, Lewis W. (380) ............ 6-10-18
Bloom, Joseph (475) ....·---··········· 4-17-18
Blucher, Frederick L. ( 403) ........ 12- 8-17
Blucher, Gustav E. (225) ............ 8-21-17
Bocks. Cha rles R. (511) .............. 8- 6-18
Boge, Harry G. C. (449) ............ 5- 8-18
Bold, Frederick C. ( 382) .............. 10-10-17
Boldt, Herman H. (455) .............. 5-15-17
Bone. Henry O. (19) .................... 10-23-15
Borely, E uq cne P. (329) .............. 11-15-16
Bothwell, Bruce S. (399) ............ 1-23-18
Bouve. Walter A . (268) .............. 4-12-18
Bowen. Robert E. (201) .............. 6- 7-18
Bowes, Stuart B. (569) ................ 10-22-17
Bowman, James A. (678) ............ 6- 8-17
Boyce, William H. ( 156) ............ 3-13-16
Boyd, Alexander (382) ...........- ... 1-31-18

96

PROCEE DINGS O f THE
GUA NO LODGE O P CALIFO RNIA

N AM E ANO LODGE NO.

DATE OP RAISING

NAME AND LODGE NO.

DATE OP RAISING

Braddcx:Jr , Grover C. ( 455) ........ 10-30-17 Chlav in, Samuel (
42) .............. ...... 6-27-1 8
Brady. John W. (228) ................. 10-20-1 7 Christia nsen, Roy
A. ( 188) ..;;·--· 3-30-18
Brandel!. Jay (344 ) .............. ........ 4-15-18 Christiansen,
William A. ( 17') .. 5-10-18
Bra vot, Joseph B. (388) .............. 4- 13- 17 Christopht>r, Gus
Brendel. Walter G. (162) ............ 1-18-1 8 Cl aasen, Gus (277(247) ................ 5- 3-12
) .............. ........ 3- 9- 18
Brenner , John (632 ) ...................... 10-27-17 Clapp. Justin
0. (383) ................ 1-20-18
Brewer. Lester L. (449) .............. .. 2- 4-18 Cla rk. E. Russell
Brinker, Louis A. H . (105) ........ 8-16-17 Clark, Wi lson F. (652 ) ................ 3-5-1 5
Brinks, Jacob (494) .................... 7-12-1 8 Clauss, Jo hn. Sr. (657) ........ ....... 5-13-16
( 58) .................. 12- 12-17
Brou~h , Arthur F. ( ~15) ............ 1- 19-18
Clawson , Watson
Brow1tt, Harry M . ()58) ............ 10-12-17 Cleary, Ja mes M. S. (421) .......... 7-29-18
(81) .............. .. 1-26-1 8
Brown, Albert J. (305) .................. 6- 6-18 Clementz. Valentin
e G. (119) .... 8- 15-17
Brown, Arthur M. (324) ............. 1-25- 16
Cleveng er. Porter S. (261) .......... 3-25-18
Brown, Eugene B. (242) ............ 1-21-14
Clifford, Truman J. (547) .......... 10-29-17
Brown, Jesse I. (332) .................... 2- 18-15
Cline, Monroe
.................... 1- 18-1 8
Brown. Marshall W . ( 169) ........ 3-27-1 8 Coa tes, Ernest ((387)
14
Brown, Robt>11 S. 1191) ........... .. 9- 15-17 Coath, Arthur (561 ) .............. ........ 4-26-18
Brown, Vernon M. (455) .... .... . 8-2 1-17 Cochene r, Albt>rt ) ... ................ 3-27- 17
Bruce, Evert A. ( I I I ) .................. 5-29- 18 Cockrill . O be A R. (323) .......... 3-23-1 11
(752) ................ 6-11-18
Bryant, Allen B. (301) ................ 11-30-12
C"..oh11n, R obert L. ( 35j) ............... 10.. 2-17
Br y~ n . Edson L. (244 ) ................ 10-11\- 17
Cohn. M arvin R.
Buhl, Arthur ( 336) ............. .......... 3-30- I 8 Coker, Robert H. (570) .............. 2-16-18
( 117) .............. 6-17-1 8
Bultman n, Willia m J. (22) ............ 5-28-17 Cokle y. Leon
B urdick. H arry G. (55 ) ............... 3-22-18 Colas. M arcel H . (346) ................ 1-23-18
(17 ) ........................ 7-26-1 8
Burge , Martin H. (685) ................ 5- 5-17
Colbrrg , Edwin
Burkhal ter. E verett G. (542) .... 5-16-18 Colby, Alfred WJ.. (226) .............. 11- 5- 17
Burness, Fred A. (515) ................ 3-24-17 Cole. Unus Price ( 400) .............. 10-27-17
Burris, Roy E. (321) ... .............. .. 4-29- I 8 ColP. Victor L. (19(514) ........ ........ 3-18-111
1) ............. ...... 9- 11 - 17
Burris, W alter E. ( 35 1) ....... ...... 8-27-17 Co le. Wilry A.
(406) .................. . 10- 17-17
Burson, Howard M. (379) .......... 2-13- 18 Coif. Guy V
. (411) .............. ... .... 11 -23-H
Burton, Harold D. (194) ............ 8- 11- 17 Collins, Merton
Burum. James H. (309) .............. .. 12- 1-1 7 Comstoc k. Neil C. ( 191) ............ 3-28-18
(260) .............. 2-13-18
Bussey, Jesse C. (326) .................. 4-29-18 Coney. George G.
M . (589) ............ 7-24- 18
Butler, Robert H. (638) ................ 9- 9-17 Connell
ey. Ellis
Butler, \Villiam E. (327) ............ 2-28- 18 Cooper, ChaunceR. (225) ............ 3-26-1 8
Butschli. Henry A. 1426) .............. ll - 1- 16 C ooper, Clinto y F. ( 188) ........ 2- 2-1 8
C aldwell, Chester B. 1216) .......... 11- 11- I 6 Cope. Fredericn P . ( 3) .............. 10-22- 17
k T . (331) ..... ... .. 1- 18- 18
Callaha n. James L. (320) ..... ...... 12-20-16 CopPla nd. Norman
R. (391 ) ...... 1-28-1 8
Ca ll~ n. C lyde B. ( 110) ................ 5-20-16
Correll. Vincent
Callison, Ferd W. (461) .......... .... 8-27- 17 Cosart, William I. (655) ............ 5- 4-18
C alloway , Orton 0 . (752) .......... 11- 28-17 Cosmos, Speros F. (421 ) ............ 1-21-1 8
J. (10) ................ 1- 2-1 8
Camero n, Theodor e J. (422) ...... 2- 18-18 Cowell.
harles M. ( 349~ ----····· ··· 1- 16- 18
Campbell, C y ril J. (428) ..... .... 11 -13- 17 C owell. C
Howard W . (68 ............ 12- 15- 17
Campbe ll, David H . ( 16} ........... 11-30-17 Cowen, Mervyn
S.
Campbe ll. Frank V. (179) .......... 5-20- 18 Crandal l, Archi e C. (216 ............ 2-26-17
Campbe ll. Geo rge A. (5·44 ) .......... 4- 1-1 8 Crawfor d, Samuel (34 6) ............ 10-30-17
Carlsen, Isak (212) .... ...... .......... 6- 14-17 C renshaw . Floyd D. ( 708) ........1 2- 11-17
Carlson, Arthur C. ( 419) ... . ..... .. 8-22-1 7 Crismon . Frank CW . (351) ........ 12- 13-17
. (98) .............. 7-28-17
C armichael, James K. W . (472) .. 2- 15-11
C ritchlow . Earl
Carpent er, Cla ire Vv. ( 180) ........ 11- 15- 17 Croome, Leslie D . (382) ............ 7-29- 18
H . (155) .............. 9- 11-1 7
Carson, Arthur (603) ............. ...... 2- 8-1 8 Cr.)w, H arold C.
( 187) ............... 5- 18-1 8
Carson, Robert E . (332) ............ 4-21 - 18 Crume,
Robert M. ( 141) ............ 7- 3- 18
Carter, John E . 128 1) .................. 7- 11-18 Culbertson. Francis
L. (131 ) ...... 12- 1-1 7
Carty, William R. (326) ...... ..... 9-20- 17 Culey, Ro y T.
(318) ....................12-20-1 7
Cast11gnol;i, Tomaso (30) ............ 11-22-17 Culleton . P ierce H
. (378) ............ 2-18-1 8
Catterm ole, Lued er (30) ............ 7- 17-17 Cummin gs. Earl
R. (336) ............ 3-16-1 8
Champ, Gerald F. (296) .............. 7-19- 18 Cunning ham.
James E. (247) ...... 12-21-17
C hapman . Louis B. (10) .............. 2- 21-18 Cunning ham, Wesley
(63 1) ........ 3-13- 18
Chappel . Donald M. (387) .......... 7- 9-18 Curren, C harles (193)
......... ......... 3-27-1 8
Charter, Arlington M . (191) ........ 1-29-18 Currie, Thomas
A .. Jr. (326 ) ........ 3-31-13

NAMB ANO LODGE NO.

DA.TB OP R>JSING

NAMB ANO LOOGB NO.

97
DATE OP RAISING

Curtis. Maurice J. (129) .............. 11- 9-17
Ellingham, John H. (24 ) .............. 2- 5-1 8
Cmtis, Rupert C. (612) ................ 5-29- 18
C ushing. Alvord B. (229) ............ ll- 1- 17 Elliot, David H . (511) .................. 11-13-17
Elliott, Prank P. (568 ) ................ 6- 1- 18
Cushma n, Edward A. (21 1) ........ 3-22-18
Elliott. George E. (670 ) .............. 5- 19-17
Dachncr , Richard H . ( 127) .......... 10- 15- 17
Oallerup . John R. ( 2H) ................ 5- 2-18 Elliott, Stephen F. ( 229 ) ...... ..... 7-26-17
Elliott, Wllliam W . ( 323) ............ 1- 6-1 8
Dalton, Edwin P. (5 ) .................... I- 3-18
E llis, George C. ( 225) .................. 7- 16- 18
Danner, Fred E. (81) .................. 8- 18- 17
Engstran d, Roy M. ( 322) ............ 10-30-17
Davis, Byro n B. ( 3) ...................... 5-20.. 18
~n~s
trom, Alfred T. (61) ....... ..... 6-25-17
Davis, Earl P. (3) ........................ 5-20-18
Er man, William L. (229 ) .......... 7- 1-1 8
Dav is, Edward C. (206) ......... - ... 2-21-1 8
Erickson, George W. (229) ........ 3- 18-18
Davis, Walter H. ( 103) ................ 6-18-18
Essey, Caleel E. (5 13) .............. .. 8- 9- 18
D11visso n, Law rence E. ( 195) .... 5-25- 18
Dawson. Ben (655) ...................... 10-18-1 1 Evans, Charles C. (381 ) ............ 4- 1-18
Evans. William E. (230) ............ 3- 1-18
D ay. Raoul D. ( 319 ) .................... 1 -22- 18
Fahrner. Victor H. (57) .............. 10- 23-17
Dean, George W . (577) .............. 12-19- 17
Deimel, Frank Ii. (155) .............. 7- 7- 17 Fairchild, Jr.. George H. (268) .... 8- 23-18
Parish. Frank L. ( 156) .............. .. 3-31-18
Deister, John C. (811) .................. 3- 7- 18
Faulkne r, Ray (331) .................... 2-25-1 8
D r Lano, Clarence F. P. (22) .... 2-25- 18
F eh r, Edwin W. (3) .... ............. ... 9-22-1 7
Delano , Frank B. (169) ----····--····· 1-23- 18
Fennema , Carl F. (356) ............. .. 8-27-17
DeLue, .Edg~ (l.36) .............. ...... 10-29-17
Fenzl, James (1 11) ............. ........ .10-30- 17
DeMoul m, Enc E. (128) ......._..... 6- 2-IO
Dent. Sr., Alfred T. (397) ............ 3-21 - 18 Ferguso n, Allen E. ( 188) ........ .. 2- 9-1 1!
Ferguso n, Bert L. (19 ) ..... ... ..... 1-1 7- 18
Deuel, Joseph C. (346) .......- ....... 6- 11- 18
Ferrari, Lewis C. (65 ) ......... ..... 9-1 1-17
Dick, Kenneth Rhorer (229) ........ 1-20-18
Fieberts . Edward C. (511 ) ... ...... 3-1 &-11!
Dickinson, Carl C. (301) .............. 8-21-17
Dlcrke. John D. (155) .............. ...... 7-30- 18 Fink, John J. (201) ..................... .. 7-26- 17
Finley.J ames E. ( 388) ............... 1-26- 18
Dietrich , Fred C. (61) ... _............. &-31-17
Fiock, enry E. ( 37) ........... ........ 7- 10-18
Dietrich, Karl A. (419) .............. .. 8-28- 17
Fitzgera ld , James H. ( 162 ) ...... . 6-28-17
Dillinge r, Harley E. (26) ............ 11- 1-17
Fleisher. Robert R. (291) ............ 6-20- 18
Dindo re, George W. ( 319 ) ........ 5- 2-1 8
Flint, Arthur P . (471) .................. 4-21 - 16
Oistinich, Andrew K. (98) .......... 9-22- 17
Podrea, Russell B. (121) .... ......... 3- 19- 18
Do ane, Fred H . (373) .............. .... 7-22- 18
Folker, Herbert P. (356 ) ............ 2-25- 18
Doll. Edward W . ( 392) .............. 2- 2- 18
Folts, Herman C. (272) ............. ... 1-21-09
Doll, KelscyC . (251) ...: ........... ..... 5- 11 - 17
Dorland, Howard B. (465) .......... 3-30-1 8 Ford, Harlow B. (286) ................ 5- 9- 18
Fowler, Roy W. (38) .............. .... 2-22- 18
Dornte, George W. (592) ............ 6-22-17
Fox, William T. (713 ) .................. 6-27- 11\
Dougla s. SteFhen (616) ................ 3-11-17
Franck, Brutus ( 351 ) .................... 11- 15- I 7
Dow, Russel B. (123) .................. 10..14-16
Dowling . Leo W. (202) ................ 5- 7-l S Freeborn , Alan (363) .................... 8-30-17
F reeman, Charles W. (35 ) .......... 7- 13- 18
Drew, Prank (726) ...................... 3-27-13
French, Russell J. (349 ) ............. 1-22- 18
Drew, John H. (399) .................... 8-22-17
F rey, Ray (100) .....·-····· .............. 5- 1 - 1 ~
Driver, Robert S. (3) ....... ........ 9-17-17
F uentes, Patrick V. (318) ........... 1-1 7- 18
D r ysdale, George S. 157) ............ 5-28-18
Gardner , Ro)!er K. ( 268) ....... ..... 2- 15-18
D udley. D on11ld A. (254) ............ 9-11-16
Garretts on, veorge W . ( 11 3) .... 7-27- 17
Dunbar. H arry R. (-461 ) ........ ..... 5- 3-1 8
Gaskill, James W . (158 ) ............ 2-23-17
Dunsh~ e. Ra ymond L. 1191) ...... 6- 18-1 8
Gates, Walter S. (394) ............... 10- 22-17
Eaby. Jr .. William D . (5l ............ 2-2&- 18
Gauger. Ernest (233) ...... ........... 3-30- 18
E a ton. Ro bert H . J. (161 ............ 1- 9-18
Gauger, George (233) ............... .. 2- 9- 18
Eccles, 0 1cster R. (08) ................ 6- 6-18
Eck, Eli Y. (326 ) .......................... -4-22-1 8 Gerlach, Frederic k J. ( 10) .......... 7- 15- 18
Getsinge r, Joseph W . (51 8) ........ 8-22- 17
Edmisto n. David H. (637) ............ 7-20- 17
G ibbons, lames W. (256 ) ............ 5- 2-4- 11!
Edmonds, Da vid H. (375) ............ 7-29-1
Gibson. Tho mas C. B. (109) ...... 11-27-1 7
Edward s. G lenn J. (128) .............. 5-23-18
Edward_,, Leonard P. ( 10) .......... 1- 9- 17 Giles, Flopd F. ( 111 ) .............. .... 9-29- 17
Edward s. Lloyd C. ( 122) ............ 7- 7-1 7 Gillespie, au! S . (35 ) .................. &- 10.. 15
Gilliam, W alter J. (100) .............. 8-21 - 17
Ehrenreich, Nathan (-43) ...•... - .... 5-21-18
E ilert, Alvin H . (68) ............... - .. 9-22- 17 Gilmore, Milton H. (136) ............ 3-19- 18
Ekedahl, Axel H . (135) .............. 1-30-18 G ladding. Orman B. (61 ) ............ 5- 1- 18
G lodm, Rudolph F. ( 375) ........ .. 7-23-17
E larton, Alva G. ~325)..._ ........... 1-31-17
Glotfelt~ Charles R. (319) ........ 10-23- 17
E llery, John W. ( 2) ...- -·-·--·-··· J..25-18
Glynn.
win A. (256)
................ J..16-18

98
N,>.MI! ,>.ND LODGE NO.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF OR NIA

PROCE EDING S OP THE
O,>.TI! OF RAISING

NAME ANP LOOGI! NO,

DATE OF RAISING

. (450) ................ 10-25-13
Goldberg. W<1lter S. {216) .......... 6-22-18 He iman, Gus E
( 494) ...............__ l l-26- 17
J.
r
Walte
17
Held,
10-19.....
Goldman, H arold (462) ...........
J. ( 224) .......... 6-26- 17
17
Alfred
159cks,
..........
Hendri
Goodale, Charles D. (647)
) ................ 7- 9-18
Goodrich, W<1lter M. (465) ........ 6-10-18 H endry, Leslie C. {360
............ 5- 9-17
Goodwin, Donald P. (355) .......... 7- 8- 10 H enninger, AdolphA.( 139)
139) ........ 4-17-18
Gordon. Philip A. (420) ............ 2-20-18 Hennings, Walter C. (( 106
) ........ 9-20- 17
Gore, Roy C. (542) ...................... 6- 13-16 H enning sen, Albert (218) ............ 2-27-18
Goss, H arry E. (599) .................... 6-15-18 H enry. Maitla nd R.(244) ............ .... 2-28-18
Gould, c lwyn B. (35) .................. 1-18-10 Hensle y, Earl C. (22) ................ 3-1 8- 18
John R.
Graham, Harry W. (397i ·········· 6- 18- 18 Herma nn,
(99) ............ 11 - 13- 17
Graham. Harve y K. (442 .......... 5-23-18 H erron, Morga n E.
........... ..... 4-25-18
Granicher, Walte r 0 . (10 .......... 7-16-17 H ertz, Oscar E . (428)
..... __ ....... 6-23-14
Gray, Roland A. (319) ......... ....... 2- 12-18 Herve y. H arcour t (535)
.................. 1-29- 18
Green, John H. (244) .................... 6-20-18 H erz, Fra ncis J. (464)
C. (632) ........ 5-25- 18
Grider, Charle s C . (290) ........... ... 5-30-17 Heuler , Raymond A.
(58) ........... . 11 - 2- l 7
rdt
17
Bernha
90eyer,
.1
H
...........
(211)
W.
George
,
Griffin
........... 11-22-17
...........
(290)
2-17
6Braden
......
icks,
H
............
)
291
(
E.
Ezra
,
Griffith
..... 4- 16-17
...........
259)
f
L.
Harr}"
8-18
5-1
Hicks,
....
............
(403)
nE.
Griffit hs,Eva
4-16- 17
.........
...........
(2:J9)
T.
7
Ray
12-17-1
Hicks,
.........
...........
(3)
E.
Grimes, Leslie
12- 1- 17
.....
...........
182)
(
George
s,
5-17
11Higgin
......
(324)
W.
Grinstead, Roland
.................... 5-26-17
Griswold, Austin (422) ................ 9-14-17 Hill, Arthur C. (687)
.................. 4-22-18
Grodem . Jakobsen, J. (215 ) .......... 8-16- 17 H ill. Charles B. ( 349)
1) .................... 5-16-18
Gross, Albert E. ( 33) ............ ...... 3-30-18 Hill. James G. (45'...........
............. 5- 2- 18
Gross, Carl H. (522) .................... 4- 5-18 Hill, Roy U. (319)(357) ........... ..... 8-30-17
Grote. Harry L. (220) ........... ....... 12-30-16 Hill, W illiam G. (330) ............ .... 2-27-18
Guio, I-fa rrison (316) .................... 6-28-18 Hill, William H.
\... ......... l-10-17
Gulick, Quinn A. (339) ................ 4-29-18 Hilligardt, Paul J. S.(326
(382 ) ........ 7-22-18
Gumpert, Emil ( 19) ...................... 11-19-17 Hilper t, F rederick E. (369) .......... 6-26-17
Guntli, George C. ( 144) .............. 6- 8-18 H iltbrand, Oscar
(22) ........ 5- 18-17
Haase, Otto W. (379) .................. 2-13-18 Himmelmann, W m. E............
......... 8-10- 17
H adley, Earle L. (678) ................ 5-23-18 Hines, John C. (307)H. ( 136) ...... 3- 3-1 8
Hirsch felder, Erwin
H ale, Charle s C. (8 ) .................... 3-15-17
9) ........ 12-28- 17
Hall, Alfred (612) ........................ 5-21-18 Hiseroldt, Charle s C.C. (31
(719) ...... 12-29- 17
Hall, Clayto n M. (357) ........... ..... 10-25-1 7 Hitchem, Albert L.
........... ......... 3-20- 18
Hall, V ernon L. (399) .................. 8- 2-17 H oag. Carl B. (265)
) ................ 6-12-1 8
408
(
H.
arl
C
17
n,
85-1
Hobso
........
(128)
ubert
H
illiam
W
Hall,
.............. 8-31-17
(124)
E.
Alvah
s,
7-18
3Hodoe
....
............
(68)
A.
Sidney
,
Halsey
........ 5-31-18
(61)
L.
ick
Freder
3-28-18
s,
.
Hodkin
...........
(592)
C.
Clyde
on,
Hamilt
12-16-17
..........
(530)
P.
Ernt>st
ire.
Hodsh
1-11-18
........
(14)
L.
d
Hamilton, Edwar
2-23-18
...
...........
(382)
L.
r
Cheste
18
,
3-27Hogan
......
(678)
S.
or
H<1milton, Salvad
2-28-18
.........
...........
(314)
aniel
7
D
,
11-16-1
Hogan
....
)
(393
A.
Fred
Hamm arstrom,
8- B-17
............
448)
(
V.
m
Willia
,
Hogan
8-29-17
..........
)
131
(
Hammond. James A.
7-27-18
.........
...........
)
(68
P.
7
Carl
ogue,
10-29-1
H
........
............
Hanes, Karl T. (382)
........... ........... 7-27-17
Hanes. Simeon F. (404) ........... ..... 1l- 1-17 Hoke, Arnold (574)
W . (355) ........ 11 -28-14
Hansen, George T. (30) ................ 11-15-10 Holbrook, Harry
H olgate, Alfred (382) .................. 2-23-18
Hansen, Henry P. (494) .............. 10-25-17
M. (513) .... 8-24-17
Hanson, Carl J. (307) ................ 6- 1-17 Hollenback, George
) ................ 5-1 4-18
Hanson, Martin S. ( 104) ........... .12-14- 17 Holley, Clyde E. (685
(215) ............ 5- 11 - 18
Hanson. W alter C. (802) ............ 3- 6- l 8 Holmes. Stuart 0............
............... 5-25-18
Hapgood, Frank A. (346) ............ 5-30- 18 Holt. Fred (475) on A. ( l 98) .... 6-11 -18
Harbold, Roscoe H. (372) ............ 1-23-18 Honey cutt, M<1ttisF. (449) .......... 4- ll-17
Hardiker, Fred Earl (543) .......... 9- 1-1 7 Hons, Jr .. Henry
.................. 5- 15- 17
Hardman, B. Reede (478) .......... 3-21-18 Hoope r, Fred E. (518)
Hopkins. Richar d D. ( 175) ........ 9-14-17
Hargrave, Herber t R. (530) ........ 8-3 1-17
(590) .............. 7- 2-17
Harker, Raymond C. (605) ........ 2-1 7-15 Horne, Wilbu r E .ce J. (299) ...... 3- 7-18
Horstman, Claren
Harlow, Edwar d G. (431) .......... 2-26-18
W . (455) ........ 5-28-1 8
Harrison, Rudolp h E. (344) ........ 7-24-18 Houchin. Irving
H. (128) ........ 6- 5-18
ick
Freder
Hover,
3-20-18
....
............
465)
(
R.
arold
H
Hart,
........... ..... 7-16-17
(300)
R.
Carl
7
n,
9-21-1
..
Howso
...........
...........
(371)
John
,
Hauge
.......... 5- 5-1 7
(761)
D.
Henry
rd,
Huhba
5-28-18
...
...........
(399)
G.
Haureken, Bert
......... .10-10...17
(21)
N.
ce
Claren
ughes,
H
6-25-18
.........
...........
(55)
J.
Hayes, Louis

N,>.ME ,>. NO LODGE NO.

DAT!! OF RAISING

Hulber t, John W . (i03 ) ............ .. l l-24- 17
Humbe rd, John L. (306) ............ .... 12-1 9- 17
Hunt. Ellsworth I. (535 ) .............. l-25-16
Hurlbutt, Earl E . ( 147) ........... ..... 2- 3- 17
Hurlbu tt, Willar d A. (117) ........ 6-22-18
Hurst. O scar F. ( 35) .................... 1-20-18
Hussey, Charle s H. (452) ............ 8-22-17
Hutchins, Charle s F. (482) ........ 7-20-18
Huxtable, Milton F. (119) ............ 9-17-17
Hyman, Abe A. (2 11 ) ........... ....... 9- 8- 17
Innes, Alexander C. ( 399) .......... 1- 16-l 8
Irish, Freeman E. (3) ........... ......... 5- 13-1 8
Isenberg, Mathia s (127) .............. 8-27-17
Ives, Harold E. (414 ) .................. 6-28-l 8
Jacobs, Chris A. (201) ............ ...... 5-18-17
Jacobs, H arry I. (633) ................ 11-12-15
Jacobson, Ralph N. (344) .......... 8- 7-18
James, Will~ar_n H. {488 ) ............ 9-22-17
Jamiso n, W illiam H. (336) .. ...... 9-27-17
Jampolsky. Leo (674) .................... 6-21-17
Janssen, Howard H . (562) ............ 5- 6-18
aques. Herbert 0 . (403) ............ 7-16-18
ason, Albert. (22) .......................... 7-23-17
elfery, W1ll1am (204) .................. 3- 8-18
effres~. Wilfred F. ( l 68) ............ 8-23-17
ene vem, George A. (376) .......... 9-28-17
Jenk~ns , Clyde H. ( 460) ................ 3-22-18
Jennings. Fred H. (38) ........... ..... 7-19-18
Jensen, G~orge (462) .................... 2-1 8-1 8
Jensen, Jai mes D. ( 185) ................ 10-29-1 7
Johnson. Elwood P. (389) ............ 5- 5-16
Johnson, George W . (70) ............ 12- 19-17
Johnson, John F. (347) ................ 2-14-1 8
ohnson , Oscar N . (346) ............ 5-30-1 8
ohnson, Victor Arvid · ( 393) ...... 10-J 2-17
ohnson, William C. ( 375) ........ 5- 4-18
ohnsto n, Charles F. ( l) .............. 4-25-1 8
onas, Felix J. (335) ........... ........... 4-25-18
ones, Alonzo W. (323) ............ .... 2-12-18
Jones. Clinton L. ( 2) ............ ........ 4- 6- l 8
Jones, D onald L. (303) ................ 4-14-17
Jones, Egbert A. (532) ................ 7-17-17
Jones. Raymond D. (8) ................ 4-27-18
Jones, Russell N. ( 156).. ............. 5-10-18
ones, \Villiam M. (60 I) ............ 9-25- 17
ordan, Orville M. (351) .............. l-28- 18
Jorgensen, Albert V . ( 455) ........ 4-30- 18
Kahl, George F. (113) ................ 8-25- 17
Kalaj ian, Charles K. (461 ) ........ 4-25-18
Kamme rer, Archer W. (339) ...... 4-29-18
Ka rmann, George A. (400) .......... 4- 16-18
Katzev . Johiel (322 ) ...................... 7-30-17
Kays, Grove r C. (466) ........... ..... 5-21-18
Kea ton, Cla rence H. ( 10) ............ 3- 2-18
Keith, Gordo n L. (78) .................. 3-29-18
Kempe r, John F. (207) ................ 9-18-17
Kendall, Ca1:.-ton W . (61 ) ........ 3- 2-18
Kenton, Erle C . (202) ............ ...... 3-26-18
Kenwo rthy, Corlan d 0. (247) .... 3- 5-13
Kephart, Samuel W. (H9) ........ 5-31-18

J
J

I
J

J

NAM!! ,>.NO LODGE NO.

99
OAT!! OP RAISING

Kern, Laurence E. (38) ..............12-15-17
Kersey, Vierling (698) ................ 12-20-17
Keville , Hu\J h J. (260) ........... .... 5-15-18
Kickashe<1r, Anola B. (247) ........ 6-29-17
Killing sworth , Jr. Wiley S.
(134) ····-··-·································· 5-27-11
Kimball, Herbert L. (468) ............ 12- 8-17
Kimball, Oliver M. (56) ............. .12-20- 17
Kindscher, Logan G. (300) .......... 5-28-18
King, Everett W . B. (166) .......... 9-25-17
Ki ng, Willia m E. ( 401) ............ .... 8- 9-1 7
Kirkpatrick. James 0. (693) ........ 9-27-17
Klemp. Benjamin F. (405) ............ 6-18-18
Kline, Jere P. (319) ...................... 5-21-1 8
Klinke r, Thoma s R. (126) ............ 11-22-16
Knack, Charle s W. ( 354) ............ 9-28-16
Knight. Frederick W. (166) ........ 11-21-17
Knox, Samuel R. (5 18) ................ 5-10- 18
Koch. Elmer L. (336) .................... 2-16-18
Kocher, William F . (414) ............ 4-15-1 8
Kodil. Charle s E . (515) ................ 7-31-17
Kripp, O rlin A. (449) .................. 6-2 1-17
Kulzer, Arthur (315) ........... ......... 5-15-18
Kyburz , Georg e 0 . (64) .............. 3-12-18
Kyte, G eorge C. (61) ............ ...... 2-17-17
Lack, H arry R. (397) ............ ...... 5- 7-18
Lafferty, James H. (246) ............ 7-25-18
La Cirone. George A. (305) ........ 5-29-15
Lamb, Fred A. (168 ) .................... 1- 4-1 8
Land, W alter J. (394) .................. 4- 6-18
Lang, Alvin 0. (22) .................... 4-29- 18
Langlois, Herber t ( 462) ................ 10-22-l 7
Lanphere, LaVer ne 0. (406) ...... 8- 8-18
Larsen. Thorvald C. (403) .......... 5-18-1 8
Laun, Willia m P. (19) ............... .12-27-15
Lauten, Willia m V . (30) ............ 2-20-17
Leasen, Harry J. ( 166) ................ 4-20- 18
Lee, Arthur ). (542) .................... 9-21- 16
Lee. Edwar d G. (1 81\.. ................ 3-26- 18
Le<.>k, Howar d L. ( 132) ................ 6- 6-18
LeFebvre. Floyd R. (353) .......... 6-16-17
Leffler, Wilbe rt C. (256) ............ 3-28- 18
Lchm<1n. John F. (467) ................ 5-16- 17
Leiser, Adolph J. (241) ........... .....12-27-17
Leitz, Karl F. (515) ............... ____ 4- 2- 18
Lena, Nata le ( 30) ........... ............. 5-23-18
Levy, Lester ( 136) ........................ 3-19- 18
Levy. Louis M. (344) ............ ...... 10-31 - 17
Lewis, Louis A. (368) .................. 5-28-1 8
Lewi.~. William 8. (367) .............. 12-22-16
Leydecker, Otto A. (651) ........... .10-19- 15
Lhuilli er, E ugene A. (139) .......... 7-25- 17
Linderoth, Elvin V . (299) ............ 9- 8- 17
Linewe aver, Thoma s M. (339) .... 9-25-17
Linkins. H arold U. (465) ............ .. 3-30- 18
Links, F red W . (40) ................... 4-26-18
Lipking , E dga r K. (373) .............. 7-20-18
Lipking, Freder ick H. (373) ........ 6- 9- 18
Livingstone, John (454) ........... ..... 3-26-18
Loddell, Lcmual H. ( 111) ............ 12- 19-17

100
NAME AND LODGB NO.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
DATE OP RAISING

IA>gerwell. Rueben L. (258) ..... _ ll-li-17
IA>ve, Edwin B. (388) .................. 7-10-18
Love, Emmett R. (578) ................ 9-25-17
Luther, Fred L. (358) .................... 10- 6-17
Lyman, Earl W. (582) ................ 8-13-17
Lynn, Floyd C. (465) .................. 6- 8-18
Lyon, Ralph P. (156 ) .................... 5- 2-16
Lyons. John C. (191) .................... 1-15-18
MacKl'nzie, J. Ross (397) .......... 6- 3-18
MacNeill. David G. ( 113) ............ 3-18-18
MacTavish. Charley M. (349) .... 9-25-17
Maddocks, Frederick T. (58) ...... 8-23-16
Maffei. Paolo (30) ........................ 11-16-16
Maqasin. Julius A. (i2) .............. 2-25-18
M aler, Jack (42) .......................... 2-26-17
M'olik. Benjamin (431) ................ 3- 5-18
Mangelsdorl.
Frederick B. E. (169) ................ 9-26-17
M,mual, Harvey P. (455) .......... 7-10-17
Ma rco pulas. Andrew (168) .......... 12-28-17
Marr. Frederick B. (188) ............ 4-22-18
Marsh, Reese B. (517) ................ 9-21-08
Martin, Byron H. (393) .............. 12-28-17
'.'viartin, Fred (325) ........................ 4-23-18
Martin, Samuel K. (378) .............. 8- 8- I 7
Maskcy, Ralph P. (708) ............ 5- 9-18
Ma ssanova, Nicholas A. (319) .... 7-23-18
Matteson, Clifton K. (319) .......... 11 -23-17
Matthews, David S . (68) ............10-26-05
Mattis, George ( 188 ) .................... 4- 7-00
Mattley, Roy R. (56) .................... 8-13-17
Mayer, Emanuel A. (136) ............ i -23-18
Mead. IA>ren J. (659) .................. 1-15-18
Meadowcroft, Norman (307) ..•. 11-1 0-17
Mealey, Roy E. (389) .................. 3-23-18
Merrick, Weston G. ( 461) .......... 5-30-1 8
Merrill. Forrest D. (381 ) ............ 5-25-18
Miano. Rinaldo M. (312) ............ 'f-20-17
M iddleton. Alexander G. (562) .. 1-29-1 8
Middleton, Edgar D. ( l·H) .......... 10- 10-17
Millar, Norman E . (268) .............. 7-26-17
Miller. George W. (468) ............ 4-24-18
Miller, Graham (436) .................... 5- 31-17
Miller, Howard A. (685) ............ 12- 1-17
M ills. Harry F. (290) .................. 4-13-18
M ist'ner, Wade A. (1 8 1) ............ 8-16-1 8
Mitchell, Isaac V . (319) .............. 11-27-17
M:ttlestaedt. Richard E. (216) .... 5-20-18
Molenrich. Raymond E. (392) .... 5- 18-18
Monk. John Ludvig (61 ) .............. 11-27-16
Montgomery. Warren P. (685) .. 3-17- 17
Moore, Cecil M. (507 ) ................ 11-23-16
Moore, Daniel L. (483) ............ -- 7-23-18
Moor!', GE'Orge A. (i 6) .. - .......... _ 5-18-18
Moore, George H. (61) ................ 5-31-18
Moren, George R. (393) ... - ....... 10-12-17
Morgan, Albert R. (360) ............ 6-17-18
Morrice, Charles W . (6i 2) ........ 3-27-17
Morris. Emmdt E . (i83)_........ 4-19-18
Morris, George E. (297) ............ 8-23-18
Morris, Samuel (2+4) .................... 11-22-1 7

NAMB AND LODGE NO.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
DATE OP RA!MNG

Mortensen, William A. ( 139) .... 5-22-18
Morton, Ivan L. G. (139) ............ 7-31-18
Morton, Ralph R. (666J ····· .. ········· 4-22-07
Mott, William B. (458 ................ 3-29-18
Mudd, Walter R. (405) .............. 7-10-17
Muir, William (569) .................... 5- 19-1 6
Murray, Frank D. (667) ............ 12-27-16
Myers. Daniel F. ('!16) ................ 1-31-18
McAbee, Leland G. ( i6) ............ 10- 8- 17
McAllister, Alexander K. (58) .. 7-26-16
McArthur, Robert A. (510) ........ 5-28-18
McBath, Andrew J. (56) .............. 12-20-17
McBridge, Ch~rles J. (117) ........ i-27-18
McCabe, W11l1am H. (518) ........ 9-23-15
McCallum. Roy D. (211) ............ i- 9-18
McCambridge, Victor J. (58) .... 8-28-17
McComb, Marshall F. (392) ...... 3-28-18
McComber, John L. (173) ............ 10-27-17
McCormack, Thomas B. ( 208) .... 1-15-18
M cCormick, Clifford E. (132) .... 3-21-18
McCrea. John D. (168) ................ 10- 2-15
M cCrea, Raymond E. (202) ........ 8- 6-1 8
McCready, George M. (9) ........ 12-21-17
McCurry, Jack H. (i63) .............. 6- 15-1 8
McDonald, Jack B. (6 1) .............. 4-27-17
McDowall. Edward S. (117) .... 1-29-18
McGee, Mack L. (426) ................ 5-23-17
McGraw, John H. (320) .............. 5- 16- 17
McHenry, Irving E. (i55) ........ i - 30-18
Mcintosh, Thomas F. (H3) ........ 12- 12-16
Mcintyre, Andrew (192) .............. 4-18-18
McKenzie, Henry J. (418) .......... 4-27-18
McLay, Archibald G . (397) ...... 3-19-18
McMurry, Raymond D. (221) .... 8- 2-18
McNay. Stacy A. (424) .............. 7- 11-18
McPherson, Kenneth H . (471 ) .... 3-26-1 8
McOuade. Francis J. (409) .......... 6- 1-15
McRae, Connell C. (479) ............ 11- 14-17
McRae, Dugald W. ( 111) .......... 8- 13-18
McReynolds. Frank R. (319) ...... 12- 1-17
Nagel, Arthur (600) .................... 11- 2-17
Nason, Marion E. (20) ................ 7- 6- 18
Naumann, Karl R. (727) .............. 8-31- 17
Neill, Charles H. (19) ................ 3- 18-18
Nelson, John A. (58) ···- ······- ····· 5-21-18
Nerbovig, Martin J. (626) .......... 1- 1-18
Nicholas. Fredl'rick J. (449) ........ 8-28- 18
Nichols, Harry C. (523) .............. 5- 10-16
Nicol. Roland W. (230) ............ 9-22-17
Nielsen, Niels P. (321) ................ 1- 4- 18
N iman, Sberldan D . ( 422) ............ 1-24-18
Noble, Harold A. (68) ................ 6- 8-18
North. William C. (68) .............. 9-15-17
Norton, Edward J. (166) ............ 6-26-18
Norton, Leslie R. ( i05) ................ 7-26-18
Nowakowski, Stanley (650) ........ i -2-i-17
Nowlin, Mace F. (198) ................ i -25-18
Noyes, David H . (268) ..•............. 8-1 6-18
O'Brien, Clifton L. ( IH) .............. 5- 15-17
Olmstead, Lester T . (561) .......... 7-22-18
Olmsted, Gardner M . (3'+9) ........ 3- 19-18

NAMB AND LOOGB NO.

DATE OP RAISING

Olsen. Oscar C. (366) ........ ·- ···· 1-19- 18
Olsson, John L. (393) .................. 11-30-17
Orcutt. Thaddeus A . (38) .......... 12-11 - 17
Orr. James
(559) .................... 7-26-17
Osburn. W1llte (349) ................... .12-31-17
Pagone. Francesco (30) ·······-······· 5-23-18
Paice, Charles J. (375) ................ 5- 4- 18
Palmer. Frederick W. (132) ........ 10-17- 17
Papadakis. Anthony G. (HI) ...... 2-19-18
Parker. Hervey M. (544) ............ 11-11-08
Parker. Joseph A. (577) .............. 3-26-1 8
Parker, Sewall K. (103) .............. 4- 9-18
Parshall, Hugh R. (206) ............ 7-12-0i
Pascoe. \.Villtam G . (i!O) ............ 6-29- 18
Paterson. James (87) .................... 7- i-18
Patten, Lloyd H. (i89l.. ............. 11-21-17
Patton. Omar H. (530) ............... 10-21-15
Paulman. Henry G. 119-t) ............ 5-H- 18
Paulsen. Antonius ( 156) .............. 12-14- 17
Payne. William H. (226) ... ......... 5-30-18
Peavey, Hollis M. (397) ..... . ....... 7- 6- 18
Pecha rt, Homer S . (370) ............ 5-21 - 18
Pf'dersen. Ivar 0 . ( 180 ) ............. 11 -22- 17
Pehl, Arthur H. ( 419) .................. 8-27- 17
Pendergast, Hugh W. (HS) ........ 5- 1- 18
Pennell, Jr .. CharlesM. 1311) ........ 'f-11-17
Perkins. Fay ( 18 ) ............ ..... ....... 12- 6- 17
Perry-Fiske. James L. I 330 ) ........ 8-24-1 6
Peters. Arth ur H . (1 69) . ............ 2-20-1 8
Peters, Vvilliam A. (229) ....•.•..... 1-21 - 18
Peterson, Andrew B. 1346 ) .......... 3-19- 18
Peterson. David A. ( 22~). . ........ 2-l'f- 111
Peterson , Forrest 1462) .. ............. 11-23-17
Peterson, Frederick E .. / 61 L ...... 6-11-17
Pethrrlck. Edward G. ( 169 ). ....... 7- 6-18
Petlt. CharlesW. (214 ) .. ........ ..... 7-10- 18
Petray, Henry C. (J R.~ ) .... . ..... .... 8-1 8-17
Petrey. Jo~ eph S. (561 ) ... . . ....... 6-28-17
Petri. Joe (388 ) ........ ............... 5-28-18
Petttngell. Lewis W . (26S) .......... 7- 9- 18
Pettyjohn, Roland D . 1305 ) ........ 9-27-17
Phill ips, lc>11is Harry (6251..... .. 8-27- 17
Pillsbury. Harris ( 111) ..... .......... 10- 9-17
Pines!". Geor11e ( 392) . ................. 10-29-17
Pingel. H enry L. (681) ................ 8- 17- 17
Pinion, George V . (280) .......... 4-27-1 ~
Pixlry, James L. (514 ) ............ 6-15- 1'<
Placke. Gnhard F . (166 ) .. .......... 10-31-1 7
Podhurst, Nathan (495) ... ... ......... 12-IO- l 7
Polhemus, Edwa rd R. 1356) ........ 9-17- 17
Pope. James H. (355) .................. 10-26-!6
Portello, Em:inuel J. 1562) .......... 5-16- 1/\
Poulsen, Da na C. (57) ..... . ........ 4-11 - 18
Powtll. C11rl H. ( 504 l... ...- ........ 3-30- l .11
Powers, Robert A . (103) .............. 6-2-f- l.ll
Pratt. John R. (.515) ............ - - -·· 3-15- 1.11
Pratt. Haniden ( I) ·····--- ···-···-····· 3- 2-1 8
Pray, Russell H. (619) .... - ········- 9-29-17
Preble. Boyd (2i I ) ......... . ............. 3- 8- 18
Prenten, Cherlu A. (30).- ....... 5-22-17
Preston, Jr .. Edward J. (i5S) ...... 2-20-1 7

w_.

NAME ANO LODGE NO.

101
DATE OP RAISING

Prior, Ford E. (290\.. .................. 2-28-18
Proffitt, Harold A. (291) ..............! 0-2'!-17
Puffer, C . Bruce (22 ) .................... 8-27- 17
Puleston, Willia m D. (i65 ) ........ 11-24-17
Putnam, U>uie W . (632) .............. 12-11-13
Quimby, Shirley L. ( 175) ............ 12-21-17
Ransom. Frank G . (396) ............ 3-19- 18
Rapsher. Dawn F. (355) ............ 8- 2-18
Rawlins, GeorQe ( 61 ) .................. 2-27-1 8
Ray , Thomas M. (513) ................ 10-29-14
Redinger, David H . (417) ............ 12-27-1 7
Reed, Lee C. (272) ........................ 3-25- 18
Reed. Phillis B. (426) ............ ....... 10- 3- 17
Reeder, Arthur J. (246) ................ 7-20-1 8
Reeder, Willia m E . (320) ...... ...... 2-26- 18
Reilly, James (87) ........................ 3-22-17
Remy, Milton D . (272 ) ................ 4-1 7- 16
Resnick, Solomon (260) .............. 6- 19-1 8
Reynolds, Dutton C. (348 ) ........ 3- 14- 18
Reyn old~. Leslie H . ( 16) ............ 3-22-1 8
Reynolds, Louis L. (367) ........ ..... 3-18-16
Reynolds, Walter A. ( 16) ............ 1- 4-18
Rice, W alter E. ( 244 ) ................ 2-28- 18
Richardson. George ( 505) ..... ...... 3- 1- 18
Ricketts, Elmer A. (719) ....... - ..... 3-1 5-18
R iley, John T . 1319 ) ............. ...... 11-29- 17
Ringquist, Otto A. ( 689 ) .............. 5-25-17
Rinn, Albert G. (256) ................ 1-29-1 8
Ris. Ca rl A. (38) .................. .. ... 5-24-18
Ritter, William G. (437) ............ 11 - 2-1 7
Robertts, Wllliam S. (35-i ) .......... 7- 2-1 6
Robertson, Albert G. (522 ) .......... i- 5-18
Robertson, Marion F. (264 ) ........ i-29-1 8
Robertson, Ward (309 ) ............... 6-2 1- 17
Robin, Lewis E. (33 ) .................... 7- 11-1 8
Robinson, Isaac N .. Jr. (68) ........ 5-30-1 8
Robinson, John H. (80 2) ........ ..... 5-22-17
Robinson, Thoma s A. 1362 1....... 5-20- 18
Robinson, W alter E. ( 446) ........ 2- 2-1 8
Rodda, Vernal L. ( 20) ......... .... 9-20-17
Roos, Arthur C . (394) ......... ...... 6-2Q-18
Rose, Harold W. (440) . ... .......... 5-li - 17
Ross, William B. ( 87) ... ... ..... .... 6-22-18
Rossber g. Arth ur ( 576) .. ............. 6-1 4- 15
Rossow, Charles W . A. (449 ) .... 5-30-17
Roth, AuQ ust F. ( 169). ................. 6-26-1 8
Rother. James E . (6 1) .. .. ... ....... 6-1 1-1 7
Rousey, Roy N . ( 326) ................ 12- 3-17
Runnels. Raymond J. (393) .......... 8-31-17
Russell, fo mes W. (5371.. . .......... 3-20-17
Rutan, Alexander W . 124 1) ........ 6- 9-16
Ryan, \ Vinslow M. (338) ............ 8-14- 11
Ryce, And rew C. (642) .. ........... 12- 15-17
Sampson. Henry L. (352) ............ 6-15-17
Sanborn. W ilfred M . ( 191 ) ........ 11- 2-i-17
Sandelin, Frank \V. (145) .......... 6- H-1 8
Sanders. Elll'ry L. (222 ) .............. 4-22- 18
Sandman, Otto E . ( 19) ............... 1-25-1 8
Sapp, Hu11h E. 1394) ................. 5- 27-1 8
Sattio, Henry J. f . (i89) ..... ...... 2- 9- 18
Schaefer. Louis \ V . ( 435 ) ............ 3-26-18

102
NAM E l\ND LODGE NO.

GRA ND LOD GE OF CAL

PRO CEE DIN GS OP THE
DAT E OP RAIS ING

NAM E l\NO LODGE NO.

DAT E OP RAIS ING

........ 4-22 -18
Sou thw ell, Don ald H . (394 ) ....... 9- 6-17
.
M
.......
)
liam
(452
Wil
1.
o.
ger,
T~c
lber
,
Sch aufe
Sow erby
..... 4- 3-18
-18
············· ·········· 4-18
Spa hr, W1l11am K (375 ) .......
(670) ···················(68)
. 11- 6-17
......
.......
9-20-17
..
E.
John
r.
C.
Sch eure
Sp~nn, Wa lter
11-19-17
....... . 6-1 2-18
n, Rob ert J. (406 ................. 8- 10-1 7
Sch mid t. M ax H. W. ( 166) ....... 3- 4-1 8
Spla
Hen ry (40) ....... ..............
S cholz. Carl E. (362) ....... ......
.... 5- 6-18 Spr ing.man , Gw;t;iv H . (52 1 ) ...... 8-24-17
in11
Sch olz. Rob ert L. (362 ) ...... ......
Spr
.... 9- 17-17
...... .. 5- 8-18
Sch ott, H enry A., Jr. (404 ) ) ...... 6-15-18
Spro ule, H enry C. (229>-. ........... 9 -11 -17
Sch reib er, Fred eric k C. (450 .... 4-10 - 18
ford, Arth ur P. (324 ) ......
Staf
.......
...... 10-30-16
Sch ulz, Otto ( 139 ) ...... .............
Stam back . F rank C. (502 ) ......
7- 5-18
...... 7-31-18
Sch urz. Karl B. (528 ) ...... ........ 11-19- 17
key , Cha rles W . (323 ) ....... ... 17-17
Star
Sch war z, Wil liam P . (260 ) .... 6-16 -17 Stau b. John S. (479 ) ................... .126 -24- 18
ffer. Mar tin D . (349) ...... ......
Scro ggin s, Les lie A . (353 ) ......
) ..... .. 7- 2- 17 Stu11dman. Van e M. (670 ) ............ 12- 21-16
Sch wegel. Gt'o rge H. (502.......
StC'
..... 10- 18-17
....... . 10-20-17
Sea rcy, Cla ude \V. (334 )
Stei nbec k, E uge ne H . ( liS)
.... 12-22-17
E. ( 145) ........ 10-2 0-17
i<Jm
Wi!l
,
beck
See ly. Fea rnc M. (392 ) ............
tein
S
... 11- 2-05
.. .11-15-17
Seg ur, Cly de H . (224 ) ............. 5- 1- 18
Steinme tz, Joseph A. (461 ) ....... 8-23-17
.......
.....
.......
461}
(
0.
ur
Arth
,
Seh er. Wil liam A. (478 ) .......
neke
4-17
..... 6-11-1 8 Stei
s. Ald en R. (410 ............ 11-2
Sellers. Darrow H . ( 401 ) .......
....... . 7-30-18 Step hen Andrl.'w J. (212 ....... ..... 12-20- 17
Scmb, Chr is S. (396 ) ............
ens,
4-17
...... 2-20-18 Stev
Scw :ird , Hira m B. (775 ) ...... ......12- 8-17 Stev ens, Cha rles W. (246 ) .......... 12-2
4 -27-17
Sey dell . Wil liam C. ( 32} ...... ... 7-23- 17 Stev enso n, Eno s H . (it7 ) ............
- 15
n, H enry A. (220 ) .......... 4-23
Sha fer. Lero v V. ( 241 ) . ..... .......
16-1 8
..... 2-28-18 Stev enso
4.......
......
)
......
)
(600
C.
(402
ley
R.
Stan
Roy
,
r,
ffer
Sha
Stil gen bau
........ 4-12 -17
) .. 6-19 -18
Sha rp, Sr., Eug ene H . ( 211) ...... 6-10-18
St. John . Cha rles W. W. (502 .... 7-23-18
......
)
448
(
......
)
E.
(455
lter
V.
rt
Wa
erbe
Sha rpe,
Stoc kton , H
-18
... 3- 2-18
Sh;i v er, Edw ard S. (400 ) ............ 7-11-17 S toff. Lester (216 ) ...... .................. 6-29 -17
4-11
.......
)
...
......
(607
.
.......
C
)
(443
enry
H
E.
,
rlcs
She arer
..... 8-21-15 S tone, Cha ris (3i9 ) ...................... 9-24 -17
She ffey, Simeon E . (554 ) .......
- 18 Ston e, Har
4-18
.
.......
....
135)
(
.
R
er
Oliv
Lou ts P. (209 ) .............. 10-24-17
She lley,
......... 7-17-18 Stor nett a, rles E., Jr.. ( 1 ) ...... ...... 8-30-17
She lton , Jam es J. (452 ) ....... ...... . 7-28-17
Cha
et,
Stre
-18
She rrill , James L. (654 ) ....... ..... 3-23-17 Strihl!n g. Arth ur J. (393 ) .............. 2-16 -17
(290 ) ............ 9-27
l-1.
liam
Wil
She rwin . Fran k A. (328 ) .......
ud,
Stro
.... .11- 1-17
..... 5-13-0i
Sho rt, Ralph C. ( 126) ............. .. 7-13-18
Stry ker. LeR oy V. (8 ) ................... 3- 2-18
(455 ) ......
W.
ew
Sho rt. T ho m<1s A. (215 ) .. .......
atth
M
y.
Sull
..... 3- 2-18
ater B. (400 ) ............ 7-18-1 8
Shu gg. \Villi;im E. (1 04 ) .......
....... 10-29-17 Sum ner. Bow n (423 ) ....... ............. 7-26-1 8
Leo
Silv ers. Jose ph F . (657 ) .......
e.
shin
Sun
············ 5- 19-17
) ...... 5-15 -18
Sim.s, Col umb us M . (409 j .......
Suth erla nd. John H . H. (421 ...... 5-11-1 8
..... J. 9-1 8
.......
.......
8)
(41
.
H
Sinc lair, Geo rge M . (366 ............ 10-18- 17
John
n,
Swa
.... 2-21 - 18
Sing leto n, Lou is J. (303
Sw11nson. Geo rge N. (326) ......
...... 3-23- IR
Sitt on. Wil liam Ash ley (20) ... 8-16-17 Swe nso n, E ric H. (i 89) ................ 9-11 -17
...... 3- 2-18
Ska ggs. Vir gil R. (214 ) .............
Swi gart , Car l A . (9) .............. .. 2-25- 18
.. 3-29-18
.......
.......
......
O)
(H
S later, Lou is N. (247) ..............
J.
n
Sym s. Eva
........ 9- 5-17
rge D. (7 12) .............. 2-27-17
Slcu man . Geo rqe V. 1419)
......... 6- 6-17 Tal bot. Geo ence W. (19) ........ 5-2 1-15
Smi th, Abn er B. (426 ) ..............
Flor
Tar r, Jr. ,
... 3-19-18
(441 ) ...... ............ 6-11 -18
Smi th. Fran k A. (3 19) ......
......... 11 -26-1 7 Tav es, Fritz G.
Smith, Fran k W. (346 ) ...... .......... 7-17 -1 8 Tay lor, Edwa rd T . (206 ) ............ 8-20-17
Smi th, H a rold B. ( 188 ) ...... ........ 7-24-17 T aylor, Ralp h E. (354 ) .............. .. l -25- 18
...... 4-22 -18
Smi th, Mar ion (435 ) ............ ..... 7-22 -15
Tay lor, Wil liam 0. (345 ) ......
Smi th, Mer le F. (546 ) ............ .. 3- 16-18 Teb ow, Wa lter I. (594) .............. ..12-20-17
.......
Smi th, R alph D. 159 i) ....... ....... 6- 12-18 Tee d. Cha rles G. (469 ) .............. .. 1-21 -18
Smith, Ros.sell (539 ) ............. ... 2-28 -18 T elea ven , Ow en C. (33) -............. 2-26- 18
S mith. Rus.~ell B. (358 ) ...... ....... .. 8-29-17 Tha cka berr y, Mar cus N. (685 ) .. 11-30-17
.......
S mith , Rus sell G. (191 ) .......
y (349 ) ...................... 4-30...1 8
...-·-·· 6- 6-17 Tha rp, Kirb
Sna veley, Earl (156 ) ............
(349 ) .....-...... ..-..- 4-30 -18
yne
Wa
rp,
·· ..· 1-26- 18 Tha
Snell. Fred eric k C. (528 ) ····-··...._. 1-29-18 Tho mas , Cha ndle r E. (655 ) ....·-·- 5-13-15
J. ( 106) ............ 6- 7-17
Sno w, Lev i J. (180 ) ..............
..11 -22- 17 Tho mas , Wil liam d G . (272 ) __ 7-30-17
mon
Sny der, Low e R . (782 ) ..............
Ray
on,
mps
Tho
..... 8- 3-17
Sod crer . Car roll A. (669 ).......
liam S. (236 ) ....._ 3-28-13
...... 4-27-1 8 Tho mps on. Wil
Sore nsen . Han s Vv. 1465) ......
R. (224 )--.........._ 7-18-18
n
._ 4-24 - 18 Tho rnto n, Joh
Sore nsen , Alfred (743 ) ..............

(20l ·······.........

NAM E ANO LODGE NO.

DAT E OP RAIS ING

... 4-18- 18
Tho rogo od, John H. (406 ) .......
.... -.. 5-26-16
Tho rpe. Rob ert E. (457 ) .......
....... . 9-18 -17
Tiff any . Fran k G. (211 ) ...... ... 10-31-17
.......
)
(431
\V.
us
Ruf
s,
mon
Tim
....... 8- 16-17
Tits wor th, John R. (464 ) ....... ... 6-20-18
......
.......
)
(445
G.
ord
Giff
,
T odd
.. 8-16 -17
Ton kin, Wil liam (662 ) ....... ....... 2-10-16
....
......
)
(670
L.
on
Milt
~t._
Tornqui
) ...... 12-1 l -!
Tr~ mon tm1, Ern est A. (256 ..... 4_30_ 5
.......
18
761)
(
.
N
re
odo
Trip p, The
) ...... 9-2 9_17
Tro endley, Jr., John H. (620
_
.... 3 _29 18
Tre at, Clyde R. (671 ) ..............
....... .. 1- 3-18
:j:rukseR.f i \anl ey (325 ) ....... ...... . 4- 3-18
T UI . w·11·on (242 ) ...... .......
6-15 -17
cm H. (384 ) ....... ....... 126-17
...............
U h l ecA lb. (303 ) ..............
......... 12- 18-17
ert C . ( 12)
md. a t,
4_ 19_18
U n erw ood , Fran k R. (655 ) ....... .
4) .... 4 -19-17
Und erw ood , Joseph H . (61 ........ • J_l
1 3 8
Urbahn s .. The odo re D. (70)
............ 2-22 -17
V alco nes1. Aug usto (30)......
... II- 9 _17
Van ce, Jo hn A. (594 ) .......
) .. :::: 10. 31.1 7
Van Deripe, Cha rles H. (283 ) .... ll- 3-17
Van Nat ta, Cha rles \V. (330 . 2-13-13
.......
~an Rh1peHr,_Yance (224 ) ......
....... 7- 26- l 8
aug n, 1rarn B. (7 19) ..............
7 _ 6 _18
V~rsell. H erman J. (166 ) .......
...... 3. 15 _16
~~ncent, ~aco b C. (668 ) ...... ... 11 -2017
......
V1~cenz:F, can L. (366 ) ....... ..... 6-20-IB
01gts. • rederick J. (356 ) .......) .... 8-2 •
W acke rle, Lor raine F. {389.....___ _ 9_17
4 1 18
"Wa dsw orth. Ra y E. (52 1)
) ······· ·---·-· 3-20-18
~alter, r arry c. (349
........ 5- 18-18
Wa lker . Karnes G. (38). .............. .. 11- 4- 17
.......
)
(230
.
A
h
Wa lker , Reit
... 11-28- 17
Wa lkcr. vJY E. (417 ) ...... ............ 6-27-18
, ·i1 ·esleyWL . (244 ) .......
all eWr
W fl '
. (64) .............. 2- 8-17
I lam
(323) ............. . I - 29• 15
I s E.300
W a ll s, C h arc
\ Va lsh. Irvi n F . (
) ............. . 4- 3- 17
-l 8
\v
- dwa rd H . ( 334 ) ......:::: 4-16
' a Iters, E
.... 7_16 _17
Wa lthe r, Gus tav A. (128 ) ......
.......... 7-2 1-1 6
Wa rne r, Fred C. (458 ) ......
) ............ J0_ 22 _17
\Va rner, Hor ace E. (392)..
.........___ 7_31 _18
Warr~n, Arth ur L . (363
(78) .... 7. 28_17
N'.
ence
Wa rrm gton , Clar
M ax ' Jr · (354 ) ............ 2- 21- 18
n,
sma
Was
Ed
W ts
ward D. (319 ) .......... 5-28-18
\Va on,
ie J. (774 ) ............ .... 7. 6-!8
Lesl
n,
W atso
(667 ) .................. 12_27_17
E.
Fred
,
atts

uf:tc ·I

103

IFO RNI A

NA ME AND LODGE NO.

DAT E OP RAISING

..... 6-29-09
Web er, Rob ert W . (144 ) ....... .... 10- 5-17
......
)
307
(
L.
rren
Wa
cr,
W ebst
.... .11-11-17
Wer ner, Ric hard J. (253 ) ....... . 10- l 8- l
.......
7
......
)
(324
M.
liam
Wes t. Wil
) ...... 6-26- l
\Ve stco tt. Ade lber t G. (400 ....... 7- _ 6
Wet zel, Jose ph A. (371 ) ....... ... 1 • 6 _17
2 19 17
Wh aley, Che ster F . (126 ) .......
....... .. 7- 5- l 6
Wh aley , W illiam C. (426) )_
..... 4_23 _17
\Vh eeler, H enry H. (326 ).......
lliam A. (290 .......... .cIJ- 20- 18
Wi
r.
eele
Wh
\Vh " F.
556
.... .. 10-1 7-17
Wh :i!: Ll~rllc 1 2 ) ...... ......

1cnt~~ ~:-·('i"C>i')':::::::: 6t~~lO=rn
Wilc?xon.
on, Cha rlie (325 )
..... - - 18

kms L I G
.......
Wi!
W lk
.. ····· 4-27 -18
~' I y, Grs le . (4 18) .......
............ 3- 18-15
\v l •,~tt. t'Org e W. (77 1)) ......
..... 4_22_18
Wil11ams, Am os C. (414
. 5 -13-1 8
......
.......
)
(286
.
H
lvin
A
.
W~ 1m~r
7- 18-17
)
12
(1
A
0
tto
...
....
g.
......
tmm
·
El
w ·1
16- 17
.10....
.......
)
(368
L.
d
woo
W~Ison, G
-lS
2-25
.....
.......
)
(462
B.
rge
W~lson. peo
....... ..11- lO-l 7
~son . mil V. (244 ) .......
.... 3_ 23_18
W~l son, Stan ley A. (268 ) ).......
__ 5 _17 _16
.......
(390
V.
liam
Wil
W~lson.
JO- 3 _17
...
......
......
)
(499
.
H
W~nger, John
.......
)
291
(
J.
2_28 _18
d
mon
Wit hers. Ray
6- 3-18
.....
.......
......
~oJ~ tth ur F. (326)
5- 1-18
·
~-·-·
(~~?
e M~

W1

W~Jv~n. R':r

~ugen~

. .... . .

(38 i")"::::::~ U6:g

T.
Wo lver ton.
(236 ) .......... 1- 4-18
B.
~n
Mil
~
Jru
~::
............. ..... 10- 29-17
(19)
L
ene
J
W /'
) ................ 7- 17- 17
(241
.
vs
arme
s.
ol
wo
. 6-29- 18
oo ery. , u erne R. )( 131 ) .......
R. (285 .............. .. 4-13 -18
ert
Roh
ork,
W
11 G
\V
.. 7
orre , eorge S (464 )
..... ..,. ] -l8
V..'r ight , Clif ford L. 327 .......
·::::::::
Wu rslin , Th eod ore ). ( 1hi
······ 4-29 - 18
10)
(
H.
rge
Geo
h.
Vv'urtsbaug
_ _
...
Ye!l~nd, Rob ert M. (281 ) ...........:: 8 _ 1_18
....
.......
)
4
468
3 18
(
J.
n
Alle
k,
Y crnc
..... 7_20_17
.......
......
)
304
(
rles
Cha
ng.
You
6
You ng. Jam es W . (5 15). .
:::::: =1kJ~
Zac hore ck. Otto F. (38/l) ..':·:::. .... 4-26-18
(87) .......
Zande r, Cha rles E. (500
)
r C
Zecher, W alte
.............. 1-24- 18
(2i)
Zeile, John E.
3
Zeis ler. Dav id (
................ 9 _27_17
~~nonej ~enry (30) ......
...... 3_13_18
1met, u ms (37) .............. ......

~: 1 trn

7

120j·:::::::·:::::::::·:::: 1:

trn

104

PROCEEDINGS or THE.

REPORT OF THE GRAND LECTURER
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
It is the duty of the Grand Lecturer, according to the California
Masonic Code, to render to the Grand Lodge at each Annual Communication a full and detailed account of his services during the year, and
to set forth therein a report of the condition of the Lodges throughout
the jurisdiction. This report . accordingly, will cover the various activities
and responsibilities attendant upon those duties prescribed in the Code.
However, because of the structure of activities under the Grand Lecturer's direction, this report will also include various activities of the
Ritual Committee and the lnspectoral Corps.
RITUA L

Our Ritual is the lifeblood of Freemasonry in California, and it
serves as a vehicle by which the duties of Freemasonry are imparted to
our candidates. It is our Ritual and the manner in which it is employed
to teach our candidates that has elevated and maintained Freemasonry
preeminent among fraternal organizations. Our Grand Lodge, since its
inception, has long recognized the importance of striving for uniformity
in the work and conformity among the constituent Lodges. Consequently, a system of instructions has been developed over the past 35
years whereby our adopted Ritual is taught by the Grand Lecturer and
the Ritual Committee, through the Inspectoral Corps, to the constituent
Lodges and brethren. There is ample evidence that our present system
is achieving the desired results. The following activities were directed
toward this end.
I. The annual review of our adopted Ritual by the Ritual Committee was held at San Luis Obispo on December 1-3, 1967, under the direction of the Grand Lecturer.
2. The Division Conferences for the Inspectors were conducted by
the Assistant Grand Lecturers as follows, with all members of the Ritual
Committee present :
Division One at Concord, April 19-21, 1968, conducted by Worshipful Bertram von Konsky, Assistant Grand Lecturer;
Division Two at Bijou, June 21-23, 1968, conducted by Worshipful
Frank P . Lemen , Assistant Grand Lecturer;
Division Three at Carmel. May 3-5, 1968, conducted by Worshipful
Ulysses Patropulos, Assistant Grand Lecturer;
D ivision Four at Cambria, June 7-9 . 1968, conducted by Worshipful
Wallace H. Fiske;
Division Five at San Diego. May 17-19, 1968, conducted by Worshipful Burton Meyer, Jr.;
Division Six at Oceanside, March 29-31 , 1968, conducted by Worshipful William H. Price.

GRAND LODGB OP CALIPORN!A

105

3. Each Assistant Grand Lecturer conducted four to nine Schools
of Instruction for the Inspectors in the r~spective Divisions.
4. The Grand Lecturer's School of Instruction for Inspectors was
conducted on Saturday, October 12, 1968, as prescribed in the California
Masonic Code.
5. The Inspectors of the various Districts conducted Schools of Instruction for the officers of their respective Districts. The total of these
Schools in the various Districts averaged approximately seven per District.
6. In addition to the foregoing chain of instruction, the Masters and
Officers' Coaches of the constituent Lodges held and conducted Schools
of Instruction and rehearsals for the Officers of the individual Lodges.
Throughout the jurisdiction, the individual Lodges averaged fourteen
such Schools and rehearsals during the year.
Our steady progress for uniformity in our work and conformity to
our adopted Ritual is evidenced by the increasing proficiency exemplified
by the Inspectors at the various Division Conferences and at the Grand
Lecturer's School of Instruction. Further. the Inspectors' reports on the
work of the Officers in the various Districts indicates progress toward
greater proficiency among the Officers of the constituent Lodges.
By direction of your Grand Lecturer, Assistant Grand Lecturer
Wallace H. Fiske conducted a School of Instruction for the Inspectors
and Officers' Coache5 in the State of Hawaii. This program of instruction, adopted a few years ago, continues to show excellent results, and
provides ample evidence that our brethren in Hawaii continue to join
us in striving for perfection.
CANDIDATE'S COACHING

When the Candidate's Coaching program was instituted in 1962,
with the Handbook for Candidates' Coaches developed as an integral
part of the program, it was recommended by the then Grand Lecturer
Donald G . Campbell that the Senior Wardens in the constituent Lodges
be put in charge of the Candidate Coaching program. It is recognized
that this was merely a Tecommendation, and that it was not mandatory.
to permit flexibility. However, our most recent records indicate that a
total of 156 Districts of our 184 Districts have adopted the recommended
program and put it into effect. There are indications that this delegation
of authority to the Senior Warden has been most beneficial to this par~
ticular program.
One of the basic features of the Candidate' s Coaching program was
through the use of the Handbook for Candidates' Coaches to provide
an individual Coach with pertinent information and knowledge of Freemasonry to impart to the Candidate during his coaching periods. It was
anticipated that in this manner our candidates would become more fully

106

PROCEEDING S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

informed as to the various aspects of Masonry. It was hoped that
Candidate's Coaches would study and become familiar with the contents of the Handbook and thus qualif.y for certification by the Inspector
as proficient Candidate's Coaches. The total number of certified Candididate's Coaches, taken from the Inspectors' annual ·r eports, indicates
a n average of from six to seven certified brethren per Lodge throughout
the jurisdiction.
W e recommend that the M asters of the various Lodges who have
not already done so consider the feasibility of adopting the recommended program of putting the Senior Warden in charge of Candidate
Coaching. Further, that the various Masters, in ·c ooperation with the
Inspector. institute a progra m tha t would provide the Lodge with a greater number of certified Candidate Coaches.

48 a nd 49 years, and the average age of the Masters and Wardens serving this year is between 47 a nd 48 yea rs.

LooGE Acr1v1rrns

The great majority of the Inspectors' annual reports indicate that the
Lodges are filling the needs of the community, and that M asonry is advancing in the Districts.
Practically all Lodges are reported as having participated in or conducted an observance of our Grand Lodge Public Schools Week program, Constitution Observance, and promoted our Homes Endowment
Program. These activities. of course, will be reported on more fully by
the various Grand Lodge Committees involved.
However, some of our Lodges are encounterin g problems in regard
to both growth a nd activity. M any of our rural Lodges particularly are
beset with declining membership s, principally because the younger men
of the community are moving to other locations, leaving the Past Masters in many instances to carry on the activities of the Lodge. Also there
are Lodges located in metropolitan areas wherein the Temples are in
deteriorating areas of the city, and thus are not attracting new members.
Further, there are a few Lodges that are beset with factionalism and
dissension within their ranks, thus preventing growth and a ctivity. In
addition, some Lodges are handicapped by ineffective leadership, and
indifference on the part of the membership .
The foregoin g is evidenced in the Inspectors' annual reports whe-rein
47 Inspectors have indicated that the Lodges in their Districts have difficulty in obtaining adequate officer material, reasons being lack of interest, devotion to family ties, prior commitment s, and unwillingne ss to
devote the time necessary. This is further evidenced by the fact that
approximate ly 10% of our Masters serving this year are Past M as ters,
8 % of our Senior Wardens are Past Masters, a nd 8% of our Junior
Wardens are Past Masters.
It may be of interest to note, irrespective of the foregoing, that the
average a ge of the Masters serving our jurisdiction this year is between

107

INSPECTORA L CORPS

!his group of 184 de?icated and devoted servants of Masonry have
~gam dem?~strat.e d the importance of their duties and responsibilities
1~ th.e admm1strati on of our far-flung fraternity. The scope o f their activities mcludes: Schools of Instruction in the Ritual; Schools o f Instruction
in Masonic Law; examining the Officers in the constituent Lod 11 es for
th.eir. ad,·a~cem~nt;. inspecting the work and other activities of the Lodges
w1thm their D1stnct; supervising the work of the Officers' Coaches;
overseeing the candidates' coaching program; counselling with the Masters and Officers of their Lodges; assisting in the promotion of the various Grand Lodge programs; acting as arbiter when difficul ties arise; in
so.me inst~n ce s guiding a Masonic Club preparatory to applying for a
D1spensat1on to form a Lodge; coordinating Lodge participation with
certam Gra nd Lodge functions; and in general serving as a troubleshooter ;vhen required. Further, they are required to attend the Grand
Lecturers School of Instruction, the several Schools o f Instruction
called by the Assistant Gra nd Lecturer of the Division, and attend the
annual Division Conference of Inspectors of their Division.
The performance of th e foregoing duties and responsibilities represents a tremendous amount of time a nd effort on the part of our Inspectors, a nd in expressing our thanks and gratitude. we, the G rand Lecturer and Ritual Committee, realize that mere words cannot adequately
express our appreciation in a manner commensura te with their continuing and unselfish service to Masonry.
Another example of their intense desire to serve is found in the fact
that only 28 % of the Inspectors submitted ex pense claims during the
~ast year: and of that number most were for only the lengthy travel
mvolved m attending the Division Conferences . M any Inspectors have
~ever submitted an expense claim for the necessary expenses involved
m the performance of their duties.
In recent years the turnover in the lnspectoral Corps has been approximately 15 % each year. We commend those who have for sundry
reasons felt compelled to leave the Corps, pa rticularly such brothers
as Clarence Fraser, District 424, after 40 years of service; Sam Dollar
District 416, 32 yea rs; Alex Duncan, District 101. 23 years; Jim Lawson'
D istrict 426, 23 years, and many others who have served long and well:
. The mor~ recently appointed Inspectors a re building on the foundations of service erected by their predecessors, and brin11in!1 new ideas
and enthusiasms to the Corps. Such brothers as Jerry Rit~h . District 512 ;
John Reddick. District 227, and Clayton H einz, District 624, and many
others, have demonstrate d from their Annual Reports and supplementary comments that they have an insight into the spirit of d etermination

PROCEED INGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORN IA

and commen dable attitudes so desirable to insure the further progress
of the work of the Inspecto ral Corps.
A year a go a resolutio n was presente d, later withdraw n. that would
have establish ed an age limit for Inspecto rs. It may be of interest to
note that the average age of Inspecto rs appointe d to service this year
was under 46 years. From the standpoi nt of tenure, 30 Inspecto rs have
served 10 years or more. 80 have served from 4 to 10 years. and 74 have
served 3 years and under. The average length of service of our present
Inspecto ral Corps is under five and one-half years.

INSPECTO R'S MANUAL

108

CONCERN S

l. Funeral Service -We continue to receive criticism of the manner
in which our Funeral Service is being performe d in some areas of our
jurisdicti on. The Funeral Service is the means by which the uninitiat ed
and the general public are exposed to and form an impressi on of Freemasonry in general. and we must determin e that such impressi ons and
attitudes are in keeping with the stature and purposes of our fraternit y.
While it is true that certain sections of the Code imply that any Master Mason may perform the ceremon y, it is equally true that the Funeral
Service is Ritual. and therefore under the direction and control of the
Grand Lecturer and Ritual Committ ee, and conseque ntly in turn falls
under the direction of the Inspecto r to see that all Ritual is properly
performe d. Therefor e. following preceden ts of Grand Lecturer s Chester H. Warlow and Elbert W . Davis. who issued directive s for the purpose of tightenin g up the. control of our Funeral Service rendition s, we
are presently working out details of a program calculate d to insure that
our Funeral Service is properly performe d in the various areas of our
jurisdicti on by Master Masons who have demonst rated their proficiency.
2. Degree Teams- It has come to our attention that Degree Teams
compose d of brothers holding members hip in related organiza tions or
occupati onal groups are conferrin g degrees in our Lodges, with the consent of the Masters. devoid of the dignity and profkie.n cy required of
our Lodge officers. The. policy of the Ritual Committ ee. establish ed in
1955. provides that no Degree Team shall be invited by the Master to
confer a degree or any portion thereof unless the Master has, through
the Inspecto r of his District, received assuranc e as to the proficien cy of
the respectiv e members of the Degree Team in the stations or places
they are to occupy in the degree.
We cannot permit, in our Lodges, the kind of work which is marred
by poor rendition of the Ritual. Therefor e, we Insist that the Masters
of the various lodges. and the Inspecto rs, wherein such Degree Te.ams
are utilized, strictly comply to the policy heretofore. stated.

109

In previous reports. it has been expresse d that an Inspecto r's Manual. for guidance of all Inspecto rs, particula rly the newly appointe d.
was highly desirable . Much thought and consider ation has been directed
toward this end, and during this year consider able progress has been
made toward the ultimate compilat ion of the material deemed to be pertinent to such a handboo k of informat ion. The help and cooperat ion of
our Grand Master, Most Worship ful Eugene S. Hopp, in working out
details is particula rly apprecia ted.
The status of the proposed Manual is that the ultimate content has
been generally determin ed, the material assemble d under various categories. and is now in the process of indexing . It is expected that it w ill
soon be complete d, edited, reproduc ed. and ready for distribut ion to the
Inspecto rs.
BUDGET

In accordan ce with procedur es followed during previous years. for-

mal requests for budget allocatio ns have been submitte d to the Finance
Committ ee for consider ation.
CONCLUS ION

Another year of service approach es its end. and in consider ing our
activities in the various spheres of responsib ility. we recogniz e and
acknowl edge with grateful apprecia tion the support and counsel of our
Grand Master, Most Worship ful Eugene S. Hopp, and the "Line"
Officers; and the r~ady assistanc e of our Grand Secretary . Most Worshipful Edward H. Siems, and his staff. througho ut the year.
In closing, may I be permitte d to express my gratitude to the Assistant Grand Lecturer s for their strength , support. and the warm bond of
friendshi p that has pervaded our year of service together: and to you.
my brethren , my humble thanks for your having afforded me the opportunity to be of further service to the fraternit y during this Grand Lodge
year.
Respectf ully submitte d,
HAROLD N. RICHARD S. Grand Lecturer
Referred to the Committ ees on Distribut ion and on Finance. (Budget
allocatio n)

REPOR T OF THE TRUST EES OF THE
MASON IC HOME S
To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
The Masonic Homes of Californ ia located at Union City and Covina
are the outstand ing example s of Californ ia Masonry in practice. They
are the embodim ent of the principle s of Masonic assistanc e to those in

110

111

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

need. E very Mason can be justly proud of this practical exemplifkation
of our Masonic teachings and philosophy. As required by the Masonic
Code, the Board herewith makes its Annual Report and. sta tistically. it
constitutes the 76th report so made by the Board.
The work required of the Trustees is extremely heavy. The entire
Board meets every month , alternating the meeting place monthly between
San Francisco and Los Angeles. Each Trustee, prior to the meeting.
receives a summary of every application for admission and the investigator's report in connection with the application. In addition to the
Co;lsideration of each application. the Board must give attention to the
financial requirements necessary to maintain the Homes as outstanding
institutions. All of these matters require many hours of hard and ardous
work by each and every Trustee. The author of this report is the President of the M asonic Homes of California and, while the report is concurred in by all of the Trustees. he desires to pay tribute to the unselfish
devotion of each and every Trustee and to the long hours of labor contributed during the present year to Board matters.
Our Masonic law provides for three Trus tees ex officio. the Deputy
Grand Master, the Senior Grand Warden and the Junior Grand Warden . The other six Trustees are appointed by successive Grand Masters.
three being resiclents in the vicinity of the Home at Union City, and
three being residents in the vicini ty of the Home at Covina. Under
Masonic law, the Grand Treasurer is the Treasurer of the Homes and
the Grand Secretary is the Secretary of the Board of Trustees and of
the Homes. \ V hen the Board met immediately after the close of the
Annual Communication in 1967, for the purpose of organizing. the
election of Robert A. Crigler as Deputy Grand Master, Chester R.
MacPhee as Senior Grand Warden, and Herbert A. Huebner as Junior
Grand Warden. was reported to the Board. There w:is also reported to
the Board the appointment by Grand Master Eugene S. Hopp of Myron
E. Smith and Lau rence E. D<lyton for a three-year term each. and on
motion the ex officio designees and the appointed Trustees were elected
as members of the Board. Phil N . Myers and Donald G. Campbell.
whose terms expire in 1968. and Alfred F. Breslauer and Edward J.
Blickfeldt. whose terms expire in 1969. constitute the remaining members of the Board.
The Board proceeded with the election of the Officers of the Board.
Alfred F. Breslauer was elected President of the Board and Donald G.
Campbell was elected Vice President. As sta ted before. the GranJ
Treasurer. Paul A. Pflueger. and the Grand Secretary, Edward H.
Siems. constituted the Treasurer and the Secretary of the Board.
There is attached to this report a detailed report of the Superintendent of the Masonic Home at Union City, Gail H. David, and the
report of the Superintendent of the Masonic Home at Covina. James
C . Blain e. The Board. as well as the entire fraternity. owes great appre~

ciation for their fine work as evidenced by these reports, and for their
efficient administration.
What have been the significant changes during the year 1968 which
should be reported by the Board? Perhaps the most significant change
was in connection with the admission policies for the Home at Union
City regarding non-ambulatory applicants. Written notice of this change
was given to the Masters of the Constituent Lodges. and we will here
paraphrase such notice. Our Board has for some time been deeply concerned over the fact that a number of applicants for the Home at Decoto
could not be admitted because of their physical condition. This was
primarily for the reason that the Home has been licensed by the State
Department of Public Welfare for a mbulatory residents only. In other
words, one who could not take care of his personal needs without help
and who would not be able to leave the building quickly without assistance in emergencies could not be accepted as a resident in the Home.
Needless to say, this policy gave much concern to the Lodges themselves. because inability to accept an applicant in many of these cases
caused some discontent within the Lodge.
After a thorough review of the situation with representatives 0f the
Welfare Department and the State F ire Marshall, it has been determined that the third and fourth floors of Adams H all could be licensed
for non-ambulatory residents by making certain minor adjustments not
in\'olving structural change. The Board took the necessary steps and an
application wns made to the Department of Social Welfare for nonambulatory applicapts. The renewal of the license for the Home at
Union City included limited provisions for non-ambulatory applicants.
This will mean that it will be possible in the future to accept a limited
number of applicants who require more care and supervision than is
permissible in facilities restricted to the ambulatory. This will mean, for
example, that we could take in a husband and wife where one is ambulatory and the other is not.
Let me point out specifically. however, that those who require pro~
fessional care (nursing home or hospital cases) will continue to be
ineligible for admission. It is important that the Lodges clearly under~
stand that nursing home or hospital care cases cannot be accepted. We
feel that the Lodge, before filing a n application, should be certain that
the <:1pplicant is not a nurs ing home or hospital case, so that neither the
applica nt nor the Lodge will be disappointed when such an application
cannot be accepted for admission. The hospital maintained at Union
City is only for such cases as arise when admitted applicants subse~
quently require professional nursing care or assistance. The license
from the Department of Social Welfare was effective from July 15,
1968, and applications from and after that date will be considered under

112

PROCEED INGS OF THE

the expande d license. The applicati on form has been modified and supplementa ry instructi ons will accompa ny the applicati on form.
This might be the proper place to make some comment s regardin g
the applicati on form . It is importan t that all of the facts, including the
possession of assets or property previous ly disposed of. as required by
the applicati on form, be fully and truthfull y set forth . The Board is
acting in the capacity of Trustee for all of the Lodges a nd should be in
possessio n of the actual facts before ma king a determin ation in connection with the applicati on for admission.
It might also be noted here that the Board is available if the officers
or a represen ta tive of the Lodge desire to make a personal a ppearanc e
before the Board. Any misunde rstanding ca n be fully discussed " over
the table." and an effort made to resolve any dispute. The Board welcomes the opportun ity to discuss these matters personal ly if the occasion
should arise.
During the past year, another innovatio n in connection with the
operatio n of the Board was the appointm ent of one of our Trustees .
Laurence E. D ayton, on a retainer basis as counsel for the Homes. The
regular business of the Boa rd has increased immeasu rably over the past
several years. including additiona l estates in which the Homes Board
has been named as beneficia ry and the Board felt that it was time to
obtain a designat ed counsel. even though it were on a part-time basis.
Brother Dayton is an accompli shed attorney and during the year has
discharg ed his duties in a most creditabl e manner.
It was during the past year. also, that progress was made on a
matter that has been pending a number of years . The descripti on by
which the real property at Union City was acquired . which was a number of years ago. was vague and uncertain , and referred to some landmarks difficult to locate. Since its acquisiti on. the property has greatly
increased in value. A survey o f the property was complete d and legal
action has been filed to establish the boundar y lines as fixed by the
survey as the boundar y lines of the property . At the las t session of
Grand Lodge. certain legislatio n was adopted to clear up the transmit tal
of title to the property from the former Trus tees to the present corporation. the Masonic Homes of Californ ia. When the pending litigation is
complete d, the title w ill be fully establish ed in Masonic Homes of California to all of the property covered by the survey,
With reference to the Home at Covina. the past year witnesse d the
introduc tion of several new programs. One of these. a compreh ensive
vocation al testing program , has been impleme nted in a practical way.
We have vocation al contacts with members of the Craft in the special
field in w hich the particula r child has shown some aptitude. The interest
of the Fraterni ty. as always. is not only for the period during which
the child resides at Covina, but also in whateve r business, profession or
employm ent such child pursues after residenc e at the Home.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIPORN !!\

113

In the de-escala tion of the farm and animal project at the Home , the
general barn, farm and animal area has been changed into a recreatio nal
and vocation al site. The Superint endent's report shows in detail what
changes are contemp lated and what changes are being made. We are
most grateful to members of the Craft who have donated generous ly of
their time and effort in connecit on with the foregoin g and other activities
at the Home.
It appears that no chan ge will be made in the location of the Children's Home. and that it will remain at Covina. Refurbis hing and repairs
have been made on the present buildings. but ultimatel y it will be necessary for some new structure s to be erected. During this past year the
first steps have been taken for such master redevelo pment. The initial
step of interview ing responsi ble architect s and planning firms has been
undertak en and the Board will continue with its usual careful attention
to this project.
The recreatio nal facility at Big Bear has been improved during the
year and represen ts a valuable asset in the Homes' list of propertie s.
In line with all business activities . the Board has had to face the
increased cost of materials and increased wages. As yet, there is no
indicatio n that the coming year will reflect any reduction in these items.
However . it is the consider ed opinion of the Board of Trustees that the
Homes will be able to operate upon a lower per capita tax than last year
and the Board is requestin g the sum of $1.15 as a per capita tax. The
reason for this action of the Board is due primarily to a number of fac~
tors, namely. the increase of our Endowm ent Fund and other reserve
funds. the ability-o f the Investme nt Committ ee to obtain a good percentage return upon the investme nts of the Homes . decrease d medical
costs by reason of Medicar e. and the substant ial increase in the number
of bequests which the Homes recei ved during the past year.
This leads to the concludi ng statemen t of my report, of our great
apprecia tion to those who have so remembe red the Homes and have
provided for them in their w ill. This report is closed , also. with gratitude
to all of the employe es for their diligence during the year. to our Grand
Secretar y and to our Grand Treasure r for their untirin g efforts, a nd to all
who have made the Masonic H omes of Californ ia the Grea t Light of
Masonic accompli shment.
Respectf ully submitted.
ALFR ED

F. BRESLAU ER, Presiden t
Vice- Presiden t PHIL N. MYERS
MYRON E. SMITH
CH ESTER R. MACPH EE

DONALD G. CAMPBE LL,
LAURENC E E. DAYTON
ROBERT A. CRIGLER
HERBERT A. HUEBNE R

EDW ARD

J. BLICKFELf>T

Referred to Committ ee on F inance. (Budget allocatio n- per capita

tax.)

l Ii

PROC EEDI NGS OP THE

RE PO RT OF SU PER INT EN DE NT
MA SO NIC HO ME AT UN ION CIT
Y

It is a plea sure and priv ileg e to subm
it my repo rt for the flscal yea r
of 1967- 1968, this bein g my twel fth repo
rt.
The pop ulat ion July l, 1967 , was
305 , bein g 131 men and 174
wom en, including I 0 mar ried couples.
The aver age age was 82.14 year s.
On June 30, 1968 ther e wer e 315
resi dent s, incl udin g 17 mar ried
couples. The brea kdo wn bein g 130
men and 183 wom en, with an aver age age of 83.09 year s.
Age Gro ups
Men
Wom en
60 to 69 year s
7
4
70 to 79 year s
29
43
80 to 89 year s
77
111
90 to 99 year s
17
25
100 year s ( 1 - l 02)
1
( 1 - 103 )
1
130
185
The re wer e 117 pati ents confined in
our hosp ital on June 30. 1968.
98 of who m wer e cons ider ed perm anen
t, plus 33 conflned on the flfth
floor of Ada ms Hal l (sem i-inv alid )
whi ch is also und er the supe rvis ion
of the hosp ital staff.
Dur ing the past year ther e has been
no chan ge in the med ical program at the Hom e. We are usin g the
services of the Palo Alto Med ical
Clinic.
The Med icar e prog ram has been a
grea t help flnancially in payi ng
the doct or and hosp ital bills. We will
not kno w for seve ral mon ths the
exact med ical cost s.
The adm inis trati ve staff has rem aine
d stab le. exce pt for one chan ge,
bein g the repl acem ent of the Mat ron.
Mrs . Louise Wh ite now hold s
this position.
It was our plea sure duri ng the yea r
to hav e our Gra nd Mas ter mak e
seve ral visits to the home. Gra nd Mas
ter Day ton mad e a spec ial visit
on July 18, 1967 to pres ent red rose
s to Mrs . Ann ie Mat thew s and help
her cut the birt hda y cake. as the occa
sion was her 103 rd birth day.
Gra nd Mas ter Hop p also mad e seve
ral visit s to the Hom e duri ng
the past eigh t mon ths, one of the mos
t imp orta nt bein g the cele brat ion
of the 102 nd birt hda y of Mrs . Ter
esa Locke, whe n he pres ente d her
with red roses.
Man y of the Tru stee s and the Gra
nd Sec reta ry also visit ed and
insp ecte d the Hom e duri ng the past year
.
To all who hav e so gene rous ly cont
ribu ted to the Hom e duri ng this

GRAND LODGE OP CAL IFOR NIA

t15

year , our sinc ere than ks for you r gifts
. The se incl ude the gifts to the
Chr istm as Fun d by the lodg es-b ook
s. clot hing . television sets. radi os,
foods and othe r item s-by vari ous grou
ps and indi vidu als. Thr oug h the
gene rosi ty of the Yar boro ugh esta te,
we now hav e a new Low ery Lincoln woo d orga n in our audi toriu m.
Man y won derf ul and ente rtain ing
prog ram s wer e pres ente d in the
audi toriu m for the benefit of our resid
ents by vari ous grou ps, spon sore d
by the Mas onic Lod ges, Eas tern Star
, De Mol ay Boy s. Rain bow Girl s
and Job' s Dau ghte rs. also the San Lea
ndro Mus icia ns Uni on. Our hear tfelt than ks to all for taki ng of their time
to ente rtain us. We are grat eful
to all the movie book ing companies who
so grac ious ly furn ishe d wee kly
movies on a grat is basis.
We are very grat eful to Bro ther Find
ley Wra y for so grac ious ly
taki ng care of our sew er prob lem s with
his Roto -Ro oter .
Aga in it was our plea sure to welcome
the Eas t Bay Pas t Mat rons '
Asso ciati on on Aug ust 19, 1967 for
thei r ann ual trip to the Hom e for
"Jam and Jelly Day ," and rece ptio n
for the Gra nd Wo rthy Mat ron of
the Ord er of Eas tern Star . Our sinc
ere than ks to this won derf ul grou p
for thei r cont inue d inte rest and for
thei r gene rous gifts of jams , jellies,
fruit juices and man y othe r miscellan
eous items.
Our than ks also to othe r grou ps of
Eas tern Star ladi es who do the
sewing and keep us well supp lied with
hosp ital gow ns. lap robes, etc.
The visit atio n of appr oxim atel y 1500
Mas ons and thei r wive s to the
Hom e on "Gr and Lod ge Day ," Oct
ober I I, 1967, was ano ther grea t
high poin t. Thi s is a day the resi dent
s look forw ard to with grea t expe ctatio n as it is a day they hav e an opp
ortu nity to see the repr esen tativ es
from their own lodges.
Our regi ster indi cate s that ther e wer
e 3,09 4 visit ors, repr esen ting
i 13 Cali forn ia and Haw aiia n lodg
es, 14 othe r stat es a nd 6 fore ign
coun tries .
Dur ing the yea r carp etin g was inst alle
d in the main lobby and hall way off the lobby, as well as on the
ram ps lead ing to the dining room.
I am grat eful to all of our employees
for thei r extr eme inte rest and
the pers onal atte ntio n give n to each resid
ent.
On beha lf of all the staf f we exte nd
to all the resi dent s our grat eful
th~nks and appr ecia tion for thei
r coop erat ion and assi stan ce in mak
ing
this a bett er home in whi ch to live.
To the Boa rd of Tru stee s, I expr ess
my appr ecia tion and grat itud e
for thei r sinc ere inte rest in the Hom
e, also for their coop erat ion and
guid ance duri ng the year , a ll of whi
ch has been most help ful.
To the Tru stee s and the Cra ft, I conv
ey my sinc ere grat itud e for
the opp ortu nity of serv ing them in cari
ng for our Bret hren , thei r wiv es
and thei r wid ows .
Res pect fully subm itted .
GAI L H. DAV ID, Sup erin tend

ent

116

PROCEED INGS OP THE

REPOR T OF SUPER INTEN DENT- COVIN A HOME
It is with pleasure that I submit my third Annual Report as Superintendent of the Masonic Home for Children at Covina. At the year's end
our populatio n consisted of sixty-six children with twenty-s ix girls and
forty boys. Element ary enrollees numbere d thirty, Junior High eighteen .
::ind Senior High eighteen . June 1968 saw two young men graduate .
Wilson Perkins. Sojourne r Lodge No. 607, will be attending Automot ive
Mechani c School in Septemb er 1968, and William Cooper, Eden Lodge
No. 113, who will be enrolling at Azusa Pacific College as a Liberal
Arts Major.
Septemb er I 0. 1967 saw our Covina Home rededirn ted by Grand
Master Dayton, "Pete" Anderso n. Presiden t of the Board, the Board
of Trustees , and approxim ately 700 visitors and guests.
Our Home family has enjoyed relatively good health, for which we
are grateful. Customa ry colds. scratches and an occasional stitch helped
keep the infirmary partially occupied .
Many changes have taken place at Covina. A compreh ensive Vocational Testing program has been started. Follow-u p vocation al contacts have been arranged for our children with members of the Craft.
These contacts serve to answer question s, give counsel. guidance , and
share knowled ge with the children about selected professio ns, job responsibilities. opportun ities for advancem ent. etc.
The general barn , farm and animal area of the Home is in process
of being converte d into a Recreati onal-Voc ational site. Animal stalls
have been removed from the barn and this are.a converte d into an indoor
recreatio n building. Feeding pens have been removed , paved , and are
in process of conversi on to basketba ll, volleyba ll, and badminto n courts.
Farrowin g pens are in process of conversi on to bicycle repair, basic wood
shop. lapidary, and simple automoti ve repairs. PBX and secretari al experience is also being offered. These activities have been planned as a
result of the Vocation al Testing program referred to above.
Surveyin g. layout, specifications, and engineer ing for this project
were all complete d by voluntee rs within our Fraternit y. Bids for renovation were received from six firms with the low bid being awarded to
a member of the Craft.
At year's end. three couples were serving as Housepa rents for three
groups of children, affording them an opportun ity to be more "family
centered ." The feeling of fa mily was manifest ed when one couple left
for the hospital so that the Housemo ther could have her baby and seven
teen age boys wanted to go along to "greet their new baby."
Many contribut ions and gifts have been received from individua ls
and groups- not the least of which have been gifts by members of De.-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR N IA

117

Malay, Job's Daughte rs, and Rainbow Girls . Special thanks go to the
"Jo-De~Ra's" from San Francisc o who as a result o f their annual variety
show presente d our children with a beautiful Motion Picture Projecto r
and Screen.
Our Masonic H ome Alumni were quite active. A picnic and two
dinner-d ances were held and ma ny childhoo d memories were shared.
Many other alumni stopped by to say "hello" and also show their chi!~
dren where they lived their early years.
Our children have been involved in many and varied supervise d
activities. Weeken d and residenti al camping . special educatio nal and
cultural trips. music lessons, ballet. self-defe nse courses are popular and
participa tion encourag ed. F our young men are active in DeMola y.
Scouting and Campfi re occupy the spare time of some. All children
have savings accounts and are proud of them. All dorms have their
service projects, and all children look forward to your visits.
We again extend to our many friends an invitation to visit Covina
when time permits. We are grateful to the Board of Trustees and the
Masons of Californ ia and Hawaii for their continue d interest and support. Our children thank you.
Respectf ully submitte d,
JAMES C. Bt.AINE., Superint enden t

ANNU AL REPOR T OF THE
MASON IC HOMES ENDOW MENT BOARD
The members of the Homes Endowm ent Board take pleasure in presenting to you their report for the year ending June 30. 1968.
During the past year. with the assistanc e of Worshipful George
Calderwood of Long Bench Lodge No. 327, Worship ful Don Ingalls of
North Hollywo od Lodge No. 542, and Brother Lowell Keeley of Burbank Lodge No. 406 (and Walt Disney Studios) . we develope d and
presented 110 times a narra ted slide program about our two Homes.
Our sincere thanks go to the members of the Board of Trustees w ho supported our efforts in this program and provided the necessar y funds.
The Endowm ent Board members also appeared 265 times before
other groups w here the slides were not shown. All in a ll, we spoke
before lodges or other groups of M asons 375 times . speaking to over
22,500 Masons.
The slide program is good and is now offered for showing in your
lodge. Call or write to the Board member in your area soon. and set a
date fo r a showing to your members and, if possible, their families - it
will help .
The income from the Endowm ent Fund for the past year was
$813.776.35. This has been trans ferred to the operatin g account o f the

GRAND LODGE OF CAL!PORNIA

118

Homes. The income continues to grow because of the sincere interest
of the Masons of California in their Homes.
Also, during the past year, the Endowment Fund has received
$337,100.65 from gifts or bequests; $19.776.63 from memorials; and
$7.696.83 from donations from organizations and individuals, for a grand
total of $364,571.11. The Homes also received $553,732.44 direct from
bequests.
When we review the above figures and find that they total
$918,306.55, you can understand why we continue to remind the
Brethren of gifts and bequests.
CONTRIBUTIONS THROUGH LODGES

Eugene S. Hopp. our Grand Master. has reminded us many tim es
during the past year of the wonderful lessons to be learned from cur
ritual of the First Degree and. of course. one of the most important is
Brotherly Love; you may call it relief or charity, but whatever the name
I am sure the Masons of California were listening for 111,071 took part.
The average per contributor was $7.57 for a grand total of $863,339.82.
The only unhappy note in this report is that only 11 per cent of the
Brethren took part, giving us an average of $3.56 per member from a ll
lodges in the state. We of the Endowment Board feel. as we are sure
that you do. that our Homes are very near the heart of Masonry and
should receive the support of all our Brethren.
The Honor Roll lists 634 lodges who have attained this high position. To them we offer our praise and thanks.
The 456 listed below went on to an average of more than $3.00 per
member and certainly are to be congratulated for that extra spark ~
that extra effort.
No.
800
462
307
825
378
780
765
823
790
327
566
786
278
595
805
813
779
56
781

11 9

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Average
amount
Lodge
per member
Rio Hondo .....-.............. $18.03
Paul Revere .................... 15.70
Santa Monica ................ 10.66
Gemini ........·-········-··------- 9.98
Mizpah ............................ 9.38
Riviera ............................ 8.84
Dana R. Weller................ 8.69
Maccabee ........................ 8.57
Granada Hills ........-....... 8.52
Long Beach .................... 8.34
James A. Garfield ........ 8.15
Rio Linda ........................ 8.14
Southern Califo rnia ...... 8.08
Alexander Graham Bell 8.04
Camellia ....................._... 7.50
Old West ..................... .... 7.50
Five Points ...............·-··· 7.31
Volcano ................... - ....... 7.09
Rolling Hills.................... 7.02

No.
734
428
814
776
745
484
290
303
766
481
250
662
778
699
824
820
513
200
529

Average
amount
Lodge
per member
Kit Carson ...................... 6.96
San Dimas ...................... 6.7 7
Plaza de Los Angeles .... 6.73
East Whittier .................. 6.72
Peninsula ........................ 6.63
Albert Pike ...................... 6.59
East Gate ........................ 6.54
Porterville ...................... 6.51
James H. Kew ................ 6.25
Mt. Davidson .................. 6.22
Adin .................................. 6.18
Henry Knox .................... 6.15
La Mirad a ........................ 6.13
Bixby Knolls .................. 6.12
Camarillo ........................ 6.10
Mar Vista ........................ 6.10
Cahuenga ......................._ 6.03
Truckee ............................ 5.96
Loyalty ............................ 5.95

No.
4.55
580
815
20
768
542
755
464
733
596
743
729
61
393
191
445
42
202
812
637
710
731
764
522
242
653
623
394
95
548
794
697
702
166
642
769
373
355
194
727
797
264
694
450
685
483
785
706
300
7.17
475
599
645
713
600
144
412
127
578

Average
am ount
Lodge
per member
Golden W est .................. 5.93
Santa Maria .................... 5.88
Mount Baldy .................. 5.87
Wash ington .................... 5.85
Zenith .............................. 5.84
Nor th Hollywood .......... 5.82
Golden Bowl .................. 5.73
Alta Vista ... .......... ......... 5.69
Golden Empire .............. 5.69
Guardian ........................ 5.68
Oakwood .......... ............... 5.66
Cen tennial ...................... 5.(Jl
Live Oak .......................... 5.60
Balder .............................. 5.58
Marin ................................ 5.57
Wilsh ire ....... .................. 5.55
Los Angeles .................... 5.53
Pentalpha ........................ 5.52
Triad ................................ 5.52
Palisades .......................... 5.50
Anacapa .......................... 5.50
Two Rivers ...................... 5.48
Heritage .......................... 5.46
Sunrise ............................ 5.45
Magnolia .......................... 5.45
Fontana ............................ 5.44
Menorah .......................... 5.43
University ...................... 5.42
Henry Clay .................... 5.38
Triangle .......................... 5.35
Mt. Wilson ...................... 5.35
Saint Elmo ...................... 5.33
Ros emead ......:................. 5.33
Excelsior ....-..................... 5.32
La Cumbre ...................... 5.32
Palmdale .......................... 5.29
West L os Angeles .......... 5.29
Hollywood ...................... 5.28
Mou ntain View .............. 5.25
Verdugo Hills ................ 5.22
Tila P ass .......................... 5.22
Hesperian ....................... 5.18
San Antonio .................... 5.18
Van Nuys ........................ 5.18
San Marino .................... 5.18
Bell .................................... 5.15
Paramount ... ................ 5.15
Hunters Point Naval .... 5.12
Redlan ds .......................... 5.11
Wayfarer ........................ 5.10
Ameri ca .......................... 5.09
Carmelita ........................ 5.09
A. F. E. Irwin ................ 5.08
C astro Valley ................ 5.07
L y nwood .......................... 5.07
Oriental ............................ 5.04
Calexico .......................... 5.02
Herm ann .......................... 5.02
Pro gressive ...................... 5.01

No.
397
622

796
817
451
320
763
612
543
418
272
188
762
593
759
539
716
329
594
120
319
215
773
457
287
753
589
390
739
636
737
372
467
377
448
540
492
715
273
452
506
819
89
758
409
87
611
655
305
21
407
3
392
446
563
51
222
441
254

Average
a mount
Lodge
per member
Rising Light .................... 5.00
Atwater ............................ 5.00
Golden Valley ................ 4.99
Manhattan ...................... 4.98
Montebello ...................... 4.94
South Gate ...................... 4.93
Arabic _............................. 4.91
Temple City .................... 4.90
Signal .............................. 4.87
Elysian _........................... 4.83
P asadena ........................ 4.82
Oakland .......................--. 4.82
Coas tside ........................ 4.82
All States ........................ 4.82
El Rancho ........................ 4.81
Belvedere .......... ........... 4.79
Belmont Shore .............. 4.78
Vallee de France .......... 4.77
Service _........................... 4.71
Fidelity ......... .... ............. 4.70
Hollenbeck ...................... 4.70
Oak Grove ...................... 4.69
Tejon ................................ 4.69
Ramona .................... .... .... 4.66
Winnedumah .................. 4.61
Lawndal e ........................ 4.61
Kauai ................. . ...... ... 4.58
Imperial ........ ................ 4.57
La Canada .. . ................. 4.57
J oh n Marshall ..............-. 4.56
Hillsborough .................. 4.55
Gardena .......................... 4.54
Culver City .................... 4.53
Artesia ..... ..... ................... 4.52
Mount Diab lo ................ 4.52
Queen Beach .................. 4.52
Garvanza ........................ 4.51
Magnolia Park .............. 4.48
Anchor ............................ 4.43
San Pasqua 1 .................... 4.40
Mount Olive ............... .... 4.39
Frank S. Land ................ 4.39
Rose's Bar ...................... 4.37
West Covina .................. 4.35
Honolulu ........................ 4.34
Naval ................................ 4.33
Canoga .......................... 4.33
Monte Vista .................... 4.30
Azusa ............. .... ............... 4.29
Hawaiian ........................ 4.28
La Mesa .......................... 4.28
Tehama ................. ........... 4.27
West Lake ...................... 4.27
La Puente ..... ................ 4.26
S outh Park ...................... 4.26
Tilinoistow n .................... 4.25
Roseville .......................... 4.25
Coronado ........................ 4.24
Reading ............................ 4.24

120

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Average
amount
per member
Lodge
No.
598 Pearl Harbor .................. 4.24
406 Burbank ....... ................... 4.23
678 Altadena ....... ................... 4.23
422 Eagle Rock ......... .......... ... 4.22
546 San Gabriel .................... 4.22
809 Los Alamitos .................. 4.22
695 Meudell ............................ 4.21
635 Riverside ........................ 4.21
650 La Brea ............................ 4.21
629 Fairview .......................... 4.20
203 Confidence ...................... 4.18
698 Wm. D. Stephens .......... 4.18
334 Covina .............................. 4.17
414 Arlington ........................ 4.17
324 Corona .............................. 4.15
741 Tyre .................................. 4.15
527 Covenant ........................ 4.15
656 Citrol ................................ 4.15
1 California ........................ 4.13
523 Bellflower ........................ 4.12
818 Great Lights .................. 4.12
592 Tujunga .......................... 4.12
204 Salinas ...................... ........ 4.11
376 Francis Drake ................ 4.11
660 Baldwin Park ................ 4.11
302 Santa Lucia .................... 4.10
379 Fillmore .......................... 4.10
615 Hen1et .............................. 4.10
195 Buckeye .......................... 4.10
811 Woodland Hills .............. 4.l 0
659 La Habra ........................ 4.09
730 Polaris .............................. 4.09
237 Guadalupe ...................... 4.09
405 Moneta ............................ 4.09
587 Valley Forge .................. 4.09
486 Caledonia ........................ 4.08
732 San Juan ........................ 4.08
789 Oak Plains ...................... 4.07
618 Southland ........................ 4.07
352 Sunset ......................... ..... 4.06
714 Blue Lakes ...................... 4.06
538 Ascot ................................ 4.06
641 James A. Foshay ............ 4.06
709 Lorenzo ............................ 4.06
358 Golden State .................. 4.04
306 Ashlar .............................. 4.04
246 P omona ............................ 4.03
652 Crescenta Valley .......... 4.03
767 Wm. Rhodes H ervey .... 4.03
565 West Adams .................... 4.03
389 Palos Verdes .................. 4.02
740 Opportunity .................... 4.02
574 S . W. Hackett ................ 4.01
783 Mojave ............................ 4.01
804 Moreno Valley .............. 4.01
140 Curtis ................................ 4.01
198 Wilmington .................... 4.01
619 Neptune .......................... 4.01
336 Fruitvale .......................... 4.00

Average
amount
per member
Lodge
No.
437 Lancaster ........................ 4.00
806 Simi Valley .................... 4.00
369 Ocean Park .................... 4.00
586 Garden Grove ................ 4.00
816 Wm. B. Ogden .............. 3.99
572 James Madison .............. 3.96
791 Gen. Henry H. Arnold .. 3.96
505 Silver Cord .................... 3.95
443 Schofield .......................... 3.92
630 Ingleside .......................... 3 .92
677 Liberal Arts .................... 3.92
57 Santa Rosa ...................... 3.91
774 Waikiki ............................ 3.91
367 South Pasadena ............ 3 .91
402 Brawley .......................... 3.91
744 San Leandro .................. 3.90
701 Santa Ynez Valley ........ 3.90
533 Azure ................................ 3.88
670 Greenleaf ........................ 3 .88
139 Crockett ..... ... .. .......... ...... 3 .87
293 Orange Grove ................ 3.87
553 Point Firmin .................. 3.86
59 Gravel Range ................ 3.86
793 Maya ................................ 3.86
621 The Gardens .................. 3.84
777 Pinnacle .......................... 3.83
330 Kilauea ............................ 3.82
631 Benevolence .................... 3.82
259 Evergreen ................... ..... 3.81
761 Josiah W. Roller ............ 3.81
684 Trona ................................ 3.81
647 Hawthorne ...................... 3.80
559 Craftsmen ........................ 3. 79
328 Redondo .......................... 3 .79
241 Santa Ana ........................ 3.78
417 Clovis .............................. 3. 78
590 Compass .......................... 3.78
480 Fellowship ...................... 3.77
756 Clayton Valley .............. 3.77
537 Utopia .............................. 3.76
770 Lake Chabot .................. 3 .76
117 Concord .......................... 3. 75
588 El Sereno ........................ 3.75
145 Vitruvius ........................ 3.74
771 Mission Bay .................... 3 .73
168 Redwood City ................ 3.72
387 Coalinga . ...................... ... 3. 72
435 Fairmount ...................... 3.72
40 Sacramento .................... 3.71
602 Melrose ............................ 3.71
547 Arcadia ............................ 3.71
654 Jordan .............................. 3.71
535 Alexander Hamilton .... 3.70
604 Jubilee ............................ 3.70
351 Palestine .......................... 3.69
357 Buena Park .................... 3.69
477 Temblor .......................... 3.69
356 Mill Valley ...................... 3.68
576 El Cajon Valley ............ 3.68

Gll1\ !';D LODGE OF t' Al.IFO nN JA

Average
amount
pe r member
Lodge
No.
362 Charity ............................ 3.66
746 Soquel .............................. 3.65
528 Beverly Hills .................. 3.65
577 Sunnyside ·····-················· 3 .65
646 Metropolitan .................. 3.65
757 Channel .......................... 3 .65
503 Point ···········-··· .. ·············· 3.64
60 Plumas ............................ 3.64
214 San Buenaventura ........ 3.64
419 Upland ............................ 3.64
802 Yucca Valley .................. 3.64
343 San Fernando .... ....... ..... 3.63
524 Catalina Island .............. 3.63
688 Oildale ............................ 3.63
738 Arvin ................................ 3.63
64 Natoma ................. - ......... 3.62
267 Galt .................................. 3.62
104 Lexington ........................ 3 .62
571 Francis K. Shattuck ...... 3.62
101 Clay ........................... .... .. . 3.61
585 Manchester .................... 3.61
5 Benicia ................... ...... .. . 3.59
335 West Gate ...................... 3.59
80 Ione .................................. 3.59
458 Henry S . Orme .............. 3.58
425 Holtville .......................... 3.57
639 Composite ........................ 3.57
143 Franklin .......................... 3.57
181 Russian River ................ 3.57
449 Park .................................. 3.515
721 Home ......................... ....... 3.56
265 Orland .............................. 3.55
617 Big Bear .......................... 3.55
68 Morning Star ......... ......... 3.54
649 Florence .......................... 3.53
666 Reseda .............................. 3.53
322 Alhambra ........................ 3.53
667 Meridian .......................... 3.53
725 Saint Johns .................... 3.52
14 Temple ........................... 3.51
224 Bakersfield ...................... 3.51
299 Liberty ........................ 3 .51
436 Claremont ............... ....... 3 .51
380 Huntington Beach ........ 3.51
391 E ast Belt .......................... 3.50
512 Palms ................... ............ 3.49
515 Vermont Square ............ 3.49
616 R. E. Dolley .................... 3.49
626 Chula Vista .................... 3.49
696 Crossroads ...................... 3.49
346 Palo Alto ........................ 3.48
627 Lamanda Park .............. 3.48
447 Torra nce ·······-·····-.......... 3.47
544 Glendale .......................... 3.46
798 Ashland ............................ 3.46
325 Consuelo .......................... 3.45
383
Orosi ···········-····-··········... 3.45
661 Malta ................................ 3 .45
217 Monterey ........................ 3.45

No.
3 75
396
81

722
728

381
504
549
605
608
663
212
226

476

520

752

209
703
415
286

799
128

262
16
313
421
570
708
625

243
431

609
10
724
444
644
337
795

643
673
71 1
469

70

521
603
382
410
314
482

2
132
628
693

12 1

Average
amount
per member
Lodge
Richmond ........................ 3.45
Apollo .............................. 3.45
Yolo .................................. 3.44
George E. Tutt .............. 3 .42
Lakewood ........................ 3.42
Oceanside ........................ 3 .42
Seaside ............................ 3.42
Justice .............................. 3.42
Glassell Park .................. 3.42
Granada .......................... 3.41
Ojai .................................. 3.41
South San Francisco ·- 3.41
San Mateo ...................... 3 .41
Coachella ........................ 3 .41
Ionic .................................. 3.41
Luther Burbank ............ 3.41
King David's .................. 3.40
Westchester ............. ....... 3.40
Silver Trowel ................ 3.40
Paso Robles .................... 3 .39
Clairemont Mesa .......... 3 .39
Visalia .............................. 3.37
Lompoc ............................ 3.37
Eureka .............................. 3.36
Tehachapi ........................ 3.36
Inglewood ...................... 3 .36
Military Service ............ 3 .36
Seafaring ........................ 3 .36
Angeles Mesa ................ 3 .36
Eucalyptus ...................... 3 .35
Alpha ................................ 3 .35
Provident ........................ 3.34
San Jose .......................... 3.34
San Ra mon Valley ........ 3 .34
Carpinteria .................... 3 .33
Lom.ita .............................. 3 .33
Carquinez ........................ 3.33
American River ............ 3 .33
Alta Loma ........................ 3.32
Far West .......................... 3.32
Rim of the World .......... 3.32
Yorba Linda .................. 3.31
Enterprise ...................... 3 .31
Piedmont ........................ 3.30
Dimond ............................ 3.30
Highland P ark .............. 3.29
Charter Rock .................. 3.29
Temescal ........................ 3.28
Clarence F . Smith ........ 3 .28
Western Star .................. 3 .26
Sincerity .......................... 3.26
Truth ........... ........... .......... 3.26

Palm Springs .................. 3.26
Needles ............................ 3.25
26 El Dorado ........................ 3.24
234 Hope ................................ 3.24
131 Woodbridge .................... 3 .23
30 Golden Gate Speranza .. 3 .23
689 Pohona ............................ 3.22

326

122

No.
216
207
370
318
613
736
25
50
111

113

GnAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

PROCEE DINGS OP THE

Averag e
amount
per membe r
Lodge
Doric :······························· ~-~i
Anahei m .......................... ·
Amity -Seal Rock ........ 3.20
Emanu el ........ ·············· ··· 3 · 1 ~
Three Pillars .................. 3.l
Lemon Grove ............. ... 3·18
George town .................... 3·16
Forbes town .................... 3·16
Chico ................................ g~

~~it~ ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

i
L.g

3: 4
471
632 Norma l Height s ............ 3. 3
674 Los Cerritos .................... 3
705 El Ce~rito ........................
3
349 Sequoi a ............................
374 Jewel ............. ................... 3 ·13
682 Barsto~ ............................ 3 · 113
232 J~nesv1lle ........................ 3 : 2
353 P~nole............................... 3 12
810 Victori a Palms ············· · 3·12
93 St. Helena ........................ 3·11
808 Scepte r ............................ 3·11
301 Ontario ............................ 3 · 1 ~
579 Warren G. Hardin g ...... 3.1
668 San Gorgon io .................. 3 .lO
723 Acalan es ..........................
801 Koolau ............................ :
221 Inyo ·························· ········ 33 09
09
507 El Segund o ...................... ·
3.
09
.........
.............
ont
Larchm
614
712 Los Altos ............. ............. ~- 0~
501 Westwo od ........................ ·

gg
0

525 George Washin gton ...... 3 . 0~

~7~
47 9
748
408
35
297
344
545
193

371
395
552
499
196
472
208
211

338

424
822
5 68
58
365

368

19

2 95

399

648
41
657
?92
433

Averag e
amoun t
per membe r
Lodge
Fort Crook ......................
Golden Ru le .................... ·
Highla nd .......................... 3·08
Sierra . Madre .................. ~-g 7
San Diego ........................ · 7
Dunsmu_ir ........................ ~-g 6
Starr Kmg ············· ········· · 6
Ventas -Jonath an .......... 3.0 6
Fernda le .......................... 3·06
.......... 3_
S de
Le1,ProgrE;
_06
Oceam e ............
Turlock ···:······.................. 3 06
Sempe r V1rens .............. ·
. 1 c·t
1 Y ··•········••••····• 3 ·06
Capita
San Simeo~ .................... ~·gg
Lodge MaUI ···················· ·.o 5
Rio Vista .......................... 3
San Be1:1ito ······················ ~ ·g~
San Jacmto ······················ 3"04
Exeter .............................. 3:04
······ 3 04
Boron ··························
Park Boulevard ............ ·

~-g~

u~~n ······························ ~:8~
W1~lits ······························ 3.02
Unity ----···:························ 3 02
San Joaqum .................... ·
Mount Jackson .............. 3.0 1
Fratern ity ························ 3 -g~
Dam~scus ........................ ~ Martine z .......................... ·000
Jo_hn D. Spreck els ········
Millbra e .......................... ·
Hammo nton .................... 3·00

3·8o

D ISTRICT S

us throug h
of reat assista nce toual
b
h
~ d in their individ D istricts
The lnspec toral Corps ash een
theyd ~ve e:~ry e Our person al thanks go out
the years, and the efforts
.
y m
have been observ ed and note
list all of the Dis tricts
D" t . t can be on top so we \Vill 00
to them.
r more
d $3
Not every is nc
.
. o
where every lodge in the Distric t has averag e

123

All lodges in the followi ng district s averag ed $5.00 or more per
membe r :
Distric t
37 8

Inspect or
J. Fred Aeschli mann

Distric t

Inspector

592

James D. Kelso

All lodges in the fo1owi ng district s averag ed $1.00 or more per
membe r:
District
522
532
540
546
548
552
564

Inspect or
Ray L. Peterso n
Lawren ce C. Lamb
Arnold G. Roberts on
Jacque s C. Bourgu ignon
George W. P erkins
Cletus 0. Smith
Charles K. Schertl e

Distric t
572
588
594
618
622
626

Inspect or
Thoma s J . McKim son
Robert E. Crist
Fred F. Elliott
Lyle C. H all
John H. F erguson
Charles J . Wentz

All lodges in the followi ng district s averag ed $3.00 or more per
membe r :
District
168
215
216
217
218
219
226

330

336
338
366

382
384
385
430

431
504
516
516

520
524

526
528

Inspect or
Walter W. Beck
Sam I. Bonn
Edward E. Seagle
Ray E. Burdg
Daniel M. Camero n
A. Boyd Collier
Denzil D. Kitchen s
Robert A. Klinge r
Thoma s W, S. Wu
Robert M. Montgo mery
J ohn F. Roberts
William E. Foster
Charles H. McAlli ster
Frederi ck Bolte
J. Clifton Carpen ter
William W. Shugar t
James E. Bacon
William W. Dickso n
Jack R. Vickers
Donald Maltby
Frank W. Raddat z
George E. Harriio n
Edward W. Schneringer

District
Inspect or
530
T. Wm. H eidner
534
James E. We!Iet
536
Mark E. Schroc k
542
Frank L . Sutliff
544
Roy T. Kiele
550
Ray Smith
554
Arthur Linsk
556
William A. Fishbac k
558
Lloyd V. Smith
562
Robert A. Simon
566
Erwin H. Gebhar dt
570
Edwin W. Branau m
574
Robert W. Doan
578
William Bottorf f
580
Edward A. Weirick
586
LeRoy M. Rondot
603
John D. Williams
616
Stanley L. Channo n
620
Leonar d D. Babcoc k
624
Clayton R. Heinz
630
Leroy G. Connel ly
639
Gordon E. Pledge r

LooGEs WITH THE LARGES T AMOUN TS op CoNTR

No.

Lodge

Amoun t

462 Paul Revere .............. ... .$8,306.9 0
6~ Menora h ............. .......... .. 6,611.88
Los Angele s .................... 6,135.60
Van Nuys ........................ 6,069.52
ood ........ .. ........... 5,794.77
542 HollyW
North Hollyw ood .......... 5,686.92
596 Guardi an ............. ........... 5,315.20

:gg

No.

Lodge

IBUTloN s

Amo unt

327 Long Beach .................... 5,139.76
20 Washin gton .................... 4.780.51
4,636.02
87 Naval ·····-······················· 4,489.00
529 Loyalty .. ..........................
61 Live Oak ........................ 4,447.50
520 Ionic ........................ ..... 4,430.17
397 Rising- Light .................. 4,290.34

GRANO LO DGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS or THE

lH
No.
594
335
483
506
307
406
655
290
670

Amount
Lodge
Service .......................... 4,142.46
West Gate ...................... 3,991.26
Bell .................................. 3,853.84
Mount Olive .................. 3,712.74
Santa Monica ·······-······· 3,655.89
Burbank ·-·· ····················· 3,627.26
Monte Vista .................... 3,532.93
East Gate ........................ 3,460.47
Greenleaf ···················-··· 3,397.58

No.
296
3
451
303
666
35
366
513
188

Amount
Lodge
Silver Gate .................... 3,357.49
Tehama ·················--······· 3,355.50
Montebello ·············--····· 3,333.86
Porterville ····-·-······-··-·-· 3,295.75
Reseda ............................ 3,214.13
San Diego ...................... 3.191.15
Las Palmas .................... 3,100.20
Cahuenga ........................ 3,068.56
Oak.land .......................... 3,035.00

ENDOWMEln' FUllD

JULY 1, 1967 - JUNE 30 , 1968
(The Lodge designation indicate• connection by
interes t but not necessarily by meuiber1hip)
GI FTS A!iD DO~TI ONS
ESTATES:

CONCLUSION

"Brotherly Love"-1 feel I have learned of this, this year-every
member of the Board hase given of himself far more than has been asked.
To each of them I give my thanks. To the Grand Master and his officers
who have done so much for our Homes, my gratitude for your leadership and direction.
R io Hondo Lodge No. 800 and its Endowment Chairman have, for a
number of years. worked with a dedicated devotion for our Homes. and
this year top the list of lodges with the largest average contribution per
member. Our sincere thanks to you for this effort.
To the Inspectors: Masters, Wardens and members of the lodges
it is to you we tip our hats. Because of your love of Masonry and your
belief in its te:!chings. our Homes grow strong.
Respectfully submitted.
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD
Gum GLADSON, Chairman
KENT SEYMOUR. Vice-Chairman
PAUL A. PFLUEGER, Trea_~urer
EDWARD H. SIEMS, P.G.M .. Secretary

BOARD M EMBER S

T. GLE N GLADSON

WILLIAM GEHi\
HEN RY ALLCOCK
CHARLES RATKOVICH
CARL A. GREEN
GEORGE C. PoLOYNIS
GLADSTONE A .
~ORMAN W.
G ILLETTE
SHAW, JR.
KENT SEYMOUR
GEORGE P.
M. EDWARD ALLRED
CALDERWOOD
M. RICHARD ANDREWS ROBERT D . LINTNER
EvEREIT ToDo

WILLIAM HENRY
JOHNSON
RICHARD A. JOLLY
RALPH A. LA~SO.r\
LEROY ERVI N
MAURICE J . DUNGAN
AllBINEAU
GASTON
JOHN H. SHAFFER
Co~rnAD J. SPENCER

c.

Referred to Committee 011 Finance. (Budget allocation.)

125

HlSC:

(Beverl y Hills Lodge #528)
Guy A, Barrett
( Far Wes t Lodge f67J )
John A, Bell
(Al ameda Lodge fl67)
John R. Blac ow
Emma E, Boe hm
Ka.rybd H, Brock.
Stephen R. Coffee ( Yerba Buena Lodge 1403)
J eanette E, Daley
(Golden State Lodge 13.58)
Ambrose En.in
Ernest H. W. Gerdes
(Alameda Lodge #167)
Arthur W, Haley
Louil e S, Hill
Ruthe K. Hol11ee
May T, Lee
~orge Leland Heaaall
Lula J. Heasall
Clair D, Horrla
(West Lake Lodge 1392)
Arthur O' Neill
(Silve r Gaea Lodge 1296 )
Michale P•ndel
Hughu II, Parkes
Florence Porter Parks
Zelma H, Perdue
Helenll Prior
Charles Peter R.odoy (Hia51on lay Lodge #771)
(Arlington Lodae 1414)
K•rl L, llatzer
(Apollo Lodge 1396)
J•aea Jacob ~•ams
Berth• Shen.ood
Wulay Sitler
(Praaidio Lodge 13,4)
A.l!.ted J, Strei
(Sacramento Lodge 140 )
Orville ~. Sweeney
(King Solomon'• Lodge #260)
Otto Vhroth
(Hanry s. Orme Lodge ~58)
John P, Wair

$ 28,944,8.S

1,609,2.S
l,000 ,00
2, 000 ,00
2,500,00
2,l48,J4
3,757.J9
19,883,77
8 , 225,07
3,99J, 35
4 , 901, 01
286.50
1 7,65 3. 87
900, 00
1,600 , 00
65, 447,70
99, 536,04
l , 010, 00
6 ,583, 95
500 . 00
66 7,07
10 , 000, 00
1 , 400, 00
38, .501.71
169,8 7
1 , 074,09
5,000, 00
2,350,00
3, 533.30
738,86
1,184,66

Pacific Presa Eoiployee1
Charity Fund, Inc,
II, Kenne t h Pott&
Beverly J, Casaaday
Rancho Bernarda Ma•onie
Mrs. HatthN Codon
Club Wives
Roy Connolly
Raytheon Co ,
Ernest De Leon
Rocket Square Club
Foothill Council 142, R, & S, H.
Mr, & Mrs, Ferdi nand French
Norinan Ros e
R, Herritt Rowland
W, S, Garvin
Salinas Area C°"""unity Chest
General Telephone Co,
San Marino Foundation Inc ,
Winthrop Hoyt
Hr, & Mra, Will i am E. Seher
Huntington Pa rk fl27 , R,A,H.
Signet Chapter 157, R,A,M,
J.ay & Samuel Jacobs
So, Californi a Rapid Tranait
Robert H, ltina
Diet . Employee•
Lona Beach Ka1 onic Club
Tr .. tleboard Club Veterans Home
~ . H, Herriman
TRW Syate!UI Employees Charity Org,
Hill Valley Chapter #101, R,A,H.
u.s, Rubber Tire Co, Emp l~ees
Kiuion Pull Hucmic Club
W, J, Voit ~bber Corp,
llobil Oil Col'J', :i.ploy•••
Otticer• A.ltoc, Kaaaai~ otet, #584 Boward L. Weiabrod
L.. lte 1. Wooclvortb
Or-der o!· Gold.. Slipper,
11.lil.C, ?Jehtb
A,I.D,

Anonymous

126

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ttE.'10RIALS
Hargaret T, Abb~
Alvin V, Abbott
George lland.lll Abbott
\lill1Jm Ab bott
Arthur Haig Adams
llilliam M, Addington
Nellie Adkins
Carl Affeldt
Pearl Ahl

Allen Blackford
Walter B. Blac io.ore
Hilda Bloom
Stella Blougb
Samuel Blumenthal

Samuel Blurn•tein
Bill Bodendorfer
H•rvey A. Borkheim
James Hi ra~ Bradford

Roy V, Allen
Victorine Allen

Charles Bragulla
Wallac e E. Bran&ford
Maude Brlggs
o. II, Britt

Frederick Franklin Alsup
Harold T. Ames
Addle Arnrhine

Ben Bromb erg
\lilliam w. Browder

James Ain:svocth

Henry Cerl Albert

Arthur P. Ande~son~ Sr
Henry F. Anderson
Henry G. Anderson
James o. Ar.derson
Oscar F. Anderson

Robert Ho.,ell Angell
f!elen Ann is
Edw.-.rd Arriola
Charle& Thomas Ashby
John Ashburn

Homer Judson Aspey

John H, Axtell
John Edward AuBuchon
John v. Bac i galupi
Russell Sveet Bacon
Charlet Harcell i Baldwin
Norman A. Ballantine
Bill Bamber
Charles E. Barker
Mi nnie Barkoff
llilllam G, Sarks
Russell R. Barnard
George Wilcox Barnard
Richard Carl Barnea
Louis J. Barricks
Mrs. Francts B•rry

Ralph William Baughman
Merlin C, Baylesa

Harry Beck
Sherman c. Beckelhymer
Alonio Belnap
Morton Bend ell

Everet B. Brode rick
J ame.s F. BroiJer
Alexande r W. Brown

Cecil Carlyle Brovn
Cliff ord A, Brown
Gerald H. BrCJ'W'T\

Hl!l10RIALS (Continued)
Saroh Cheion l ck
William Cheney
Eugene William Childs
Joseph Ch ive llo
Wallace Luther Chrlsman
George Uans Chris tens en
Nelson D. Christenson
Carl G. Christiansen
Harold Churchman

Albert A. Clapp, Sr
Alfred Chesney Cl•rk
llor ry Edvard Chrk
Roger L. Clark. Jr
Ross P, Clark
John Owen Clasby
Lee Irvin Coates

George Cobeldick
Max Cohn
Gurn ey F. Coleman
Tom E. Coleman
llilliam P, Coleman

Sally Brownlng

Layton Samuel Conover

Rohe rt F. Brovnlee
Ha rtin F. Bryan

Bill Coplin
John R. Cornvel l
William Costello
Minnie Cragholm
Clyde E. Crowford

Albert H. Bryant
Chester Leroy lluckner
Albert E. Buderer
Thomas P. Bumpas s

Enwnet t L. Bundy
Wllllam E. Bunn
Ludvig W. Burchardi

c. Frank Burnett
Rob crt T. Burn•

Davi d Burson
Francis c. Burt
Kenneth c. Burt

Edvard A, Butler
lielen May Cameron
Frank C. Camp
R~ne

Canonica

Chester J, Cappa
Glenn Cappa
Pletro Capua
Marie A. Cardena
Aina Carlson
Carl J . Carlson

Carl T. Carlson
Earl Raymond Carpenter

George D. Crawford
lv•n J. Crawford

Thomas Crawford
Hrs. ThOl?\as Crawford

Alex.aader J, Crichton
Joe Crlder, Jr
Cl•rence Cronkite
Goldie Crook
Elvira Marian Cruse

Roy s. Culberg
J•1lles F, Cullen
Cl•rence w. CurnO\l
Robert s. Currey
Freeman K. Cushman

Martin L, Cuthbert
Robert C. Dalton

Earle R. Dapper
Gl•n Daugherty
Ernest J. Davi d
Emlen £ . Davis

Lee Madiaon Davis
Zelda L. Davis

John R. Benedict
Harry Wilkens Beaner

C, Wl nston Carroll

Milton G. Bennett

Clark s. Case
Hiram Elbert Casey
Mabel Cassady
Felix Ca•tagnola

William S, Dearing
George C, Deckard
Roderick Degener

Clarence R. Castles

Charles A. De Long
Ruby Demmon

Leonard a. D. Benning
Fred E. Benson
Zola Benson
~ent Berbllnger
Walter x. Bernhard
Guy M. Berry
Phillip E, Berry
William R, BlgelOll
Edvard Cbrh ti an Blod•r
llorace Bird\lell
fred G, Bl1hop

Nonnan R. Carter

Angus Cavanagh
Esther Chamberlain
St'""&rt B. Chandler
Lucien A. Chartier
Frank M. Chase, Jr
Ada Chatfield
Al Chellmaa

127

Chester W. Dawkins

Everett H. de Laney
Felix Jo6eph D'Entremont
.il&YIQOO f. Develey
George B. Devenifih

lluth Devilbliu
Audley M. D& YOUtll!
E1th&r Diu

T?teodore C. Dilke
Jooeph Dirickx, Sr
George Andrew Dittmar
Karry K, Doggett

Arthur r.:. Dorsey
F. Lee Douglas
Robert Vincent Douglas

Robert Earl Dove
Paul A, D<Nning
Jack Dawn&

Dorothy Drapeau
Roy Dreisbach
Ches ter llilliam Dryden
I>on Dry1dale
Clayton B. Duke
Marion V. Duncan

Joe Dunning
Louis Adelbert Durfee
Herb ert H, Durham
Kari A. Durr

George Dye
James William Dyer
Raoul L. Edmonds
Arnold Bornet t Ed.,ards
Mil ton Ehrlich
Hrs. Frederick H. Elliott
Kenneth K, Ellis
Thomas Evans Ellis
John Jay Elston
Chester F. Emery

Roy Emory
Joe Emry
Marion Engeh1an
Carlos R, Enriquez
Sidney R, Epperson
Ja~es

Monroe Erixon

Frona J. Ernst
Eldo T. Evert
•
Reginald A, Farquar
Rena Fe instein

Wilhm• Ferrell
Louis Field, Jr
Cf\arles Fischer
Wallace T. Fletter
Walter F. Flierl
Mrs, Hlnnie Follett
Jo•eph Follettie
Clyde H, Fonts
Janie Foster
Herbert B, Fovler
Chrh B, Fox
Rose Freund
E•tell e I. Friberg
Wllll&IO Pried em&nn
B~s5

Fulstone

Lucy Gabriel
Milli• G•c•.,ich
Opal Gdl

Th eodore R. Gail
John Galli
Mark Gardoer
R&}"lllond C, G•rdner

George Garthot"ne
Mar~arct Gascoigne

Donald A. H•rt

Richard Gascoigne
Morjorie D. Cavin
Fred Geissler
M•lvi lle Gellert

Richard H. Hartje

Edmundo c. Genis
J. Earl George

Mrs. J. Clyde Gephart
John A. G.rber
Anthony Gerv.isi

Henry L, Cibson
Harold L, GHford
\lilliam Hall Gilbert, Jr
II, E, Gilliam
Robert A. Gilmor•
Thomas Thrift Giv•nS
Edi/in A. Glass
Robe r t Gt.ass, Sr

Richard D. Hart
Eva Hasting.s

Cecil Havil•nd
Sa111 Havlet
Cecil Sylvan Hawkins
Robert B. Hawthorne
Fred c. Heinrz
J. W, Helm

Frank Mariner Hendricks
Arthur H. Hendricks on
Roy Hendrix

Arthur Irving Henning
Berthel H. Henning
\lill iarn D, Herman
Constance H, He rrmann
Agnes H. Hertel
Asa R. Hevitt
Prank Hiatt

Ell•vorth Dunham Goldsmith
F. Goldsworthy
Herbert Hickman
Klr. Gordon
Mrs. To~ o. Hickman
Cloyde E. H. Gorham
James Herndon Hicks
Lydi• May Gough
Henry Hien~r
Malcolm H. Craha~
John Lord Hill
Albert F. Craner
Percival F. Kill er
Alonso Earl Granger
Clarence H. Hillhouse
John W, Grant
llil llam ltil ton
Mrs. Seaforth Grant
Jack c. Hinkle
Grace GrattC'n
Darold M, Hitchcock
Burley Wilbur Gre•n
Frank J. Hoirup
Sella Greenberg
Myton D. Holaday
Edward F, Creehy
Andrew P. Hollern
Charlea Oscar Greever
Hoke R, Hollifield
Theodore Leon Griffin
Earl Kenneth Holme&
Wa lter Arthur Grlf f ith
J ohn F. Homeyer
Len C, Grlffltha
Henry Son Boi Hong
Robert Gri1:1111
Bessie Honig
Alfred Griswold
Jesse B. Hoops
Dorothy Gross
Jess Hopkla1
R.obert A. Grubb
Ed~ard Hornbrook
lllllard Wm, Grundel
George P. Hotchklas
Chester S. Gump
Charles E, Houser
Korrl s Gus tin
Ernest E. Houser
Theodore J, Hage
Mitch Hovard
Z1ss el Haimoff
James c. Howe, Jr
Jame• Russ ell Hale
Clarence J. Hoyle
Hec tor H. w. Hall
Egbert A. Hudson
Charles Tho1n11a Halliday
Charles E. Hudspeth
Phillip J, Hallbey
John Hudspeth
Gilbert Hamilton
Cha rles H'lghes
llillia~

Sam Hanner

Donald A. Hughe&

William Palmer Hamner
Timothy Hampton
W. J. Hansen

Hary Jane Hughes
Irving M. Hull
Harry Hultquist

Beatrice H. Hansford

Mary Hume
Jack L. Hunt, Sr
George Wm. Hunter
Robert K. Huppert
Robert Hutcheraon

Linnaeu• B. Harding
Claud e Howard llaring
Thomas II. Harland
Wayne C. Hanraoo
Theodore Hanns

TrUl!Uln Arthur Harri•

John X, Hutching•
Hrs. Glenn P. Hutson

PROCEED INGS Of THE

128

GRAND LCJDGE OP CALIFORN IA

K!MOllIALS (Continu..t)
John !'I. Hutton
Habel c. Hyde
Roy Ibach
John Coleisan Innee
Lawrence w. I saac
J oseph lten
Clifford w. Jackson
Lesley R. Jackson
Lester Jackson
Harry H. Jacoboon
George K. Jaques
Charles Jeffrey
George Jeffrey
Dee Jeffus
Willi&111 r. Jenkins
Mrs. Emery Job.nson
Eric Carl Johnson
J ess~

Johnson

Hartin R. Joho,on
Sigval B, Johnson
Debroah Lucille Johnston
[ugene H. Johnston
Alina Jones

Robert E. Jones
Jesae HcLendon Jord~n
Gladys Joseph
Arthur J, Kahn
Fred Kahn
Duke Paoa Kahanamoku
Levi Edward Kailey
James L, Kall1.1111
Robert 11.alm&n
~lice M, Kamphoefner
Gussie Rudorfer Kaplan
H•rk Kaplanoff
F.rnest Wm. Stephen Kates
Oran Kati
Kenneth Kaye
Joseph Wsrd Keeler
X.arl Keeler• Sr

Melvin Kent
Vera Bell KerboulAa
Estelle D. Kettlewell
Eorl H, Ung
Evelyn II, King
Ora Lavrence King
Or en B, King
Becky Kipperberg
Frank E. Kirkland
Ralph L. Kn<Nl es
Horris B. Knox, Sr
Conrad C, Kolander
Ethel Korb
Samuel D. Korb
George HeITl\&nn Koster
Esther Kriko risn
Welter c. Krome

Allen Vance Kuehn
Jan Kuja\la
oreda Kympton
Almer Wn>. Loederich
Richard La Freniere

Henrietta t.a1onarain o
Li 11 i•n Lamb
Ja~ea D. Lamb•rt
El J, Land
Emil J , Landolt
Thomas w. L&nr
Victor E. Laney
Ada Cooper Langford
Edward La Roche
Harold N. Larsen
lr• H. Larsen
Harry c. Larson
Edaun Wilfrid L4rson
Walter Carl Lasko
Williain Lauesen
IUlliM F, Lavy
RO\l&rd Thom&• Lawler
Som .Leddel
ThOC14a J, Lc iNich
B. C, Ledyard
Benjamin Fi1ler Lee
Billy Lee
Francis t. Lee
J. Ferard Lcic~ster
Mrs. Roy c. Leraoge
Mary func es Leslie
Barna~d J, Levy
Arthur Liblen
Sonia Liebman
Gherles G, Lifqui•t
Louil F. Lilli•
Robert H. Lindsay
John Albert Line
Georae W, Li cch
Hilton Little
Willi•m H. Little
William E. Littl~ton
Lily H, Livesay
)o!Arvi11 Loe
Arthur s, Long
George A. Longhll<N
Robert Emery Longvill
Hana Lor enzen
Edward Loughlin
Hr•. William Lucas
Wilburn Russell LUtm>io
C•orge Henry Lundvall
Arthur Lundy
Melvin J, Mace
John Alexander Hadden
Chester P. Haddox
Grant Maddy
James A. Madsen
Rudolph Henry Maier
Stanley A. H.ann

John L. Marchand
E,_. Marcum

Eatdl" Marker
Harry Marsh
Jooeph Ch~ rles Marshall
Robert Martin
Caora• Kale l\llrtine1

129

H!HORIALS (Continued)
Georae J:, l'laaker
l!lmu l'laaon

Thom•• P. Ma1on
Williain D. Mason
Walter J. Matson
Clare s. Matth""s
E • O. Mat thf!'WS

Fred W, Hay
H•nry Mayer
Maurice Davis Helanphy
Renry Hdchior
William Zachary Meyers
Harry Albert Michaud
Paul B. Middleton
Thoma• Middleton
Ralph E, Milu
Ch•rles T. Miller
Irving w. Miller
John Hiller
Peter Hiller
Ra)'1'10nd Hiller
Evelyn Hille
Floyd Milla
Tracy Milh
Bruno Hink
Oscar E, Mittelstae dt
Alice Mize
Henry George Hoeller
Wallace c. Montg001ery
Benjamin Franklin Moore
Grace L. Hoo:r:e
J.anie B. Moore
Walter Moor e

Morris Morlan

Clarence u. H.orr11

Clarence w. M0Tri1
Ratti• L, Mo rria
J 3.tnf!I C. Ho rris
H.eTbert Horse

Clara Mosi man
l'loyd Mosiman
Wi l lia:u S, Hoyera
Corolyn Huller
John Norman Hurchloon
Arthur F. Murdock
Jack Murphy
Pricilla Hurray
lloy Hunay
tarl B. Hyers
RoQaine. Hyer•

Duncan Macdonald. Sr
Robert J. McCook
Carl Albert McCune
JI.. Roy McCune
Melvin B, McDaniel•
Charles Edvard McFadden
Walter Wyatt McFall
Leonard HcGihon
Allan John McGuire
Lt"nnie. Mcintire

Walter H, Mcintyre
Charles M. McJ:ellipa

1>9ncan Angus McLeod
Leonard Daniel Mc Leod
tiarcia Rue McNaughton
aalpb H. McN..tt
Herbert w. Nau
o. G. Nagei
Bernard B, Neider
Ferry Ivan Neil
HUry s, Nebon
Wilford R, Nelaon, Sr
James Nesbitt
Jack Newhoui e
Cbarleo H, Nie
John Haber Kicholaon
Ctiarlea Clinton Noakea
11ellla Adell!. Noble
Oliver J, Nolte
llaY :E. Hoon
George A, North
Joaquin Nuneo
Donald"H, Nutting
Martin Guy Oatu
David Patric k O'Connor
:Evangeline Hae Oertar
L, E. Ogden
lay Ohmar
Edward L, Olmstead
Carl Walter Olsen
Peter A, Olson
Corth H, Ottney
Ja.ee B, 0Ut8tn

Aaa B. Overall
Francie Hay Padovan
Ray..ond Pagano
Arch Palmer
frank Mcvicker Palmer
Lloyd A, Pal~tag
Glen Papa
Leon A, Paria
Hugh W, Parkes
Harold R. Parker
Paul V. Parker
Chester B, Parkinson
L-.,,renc~ w. P.atnode
William Edward Patsel
William A. Paul
John s. Payne
Louis H, Pechette
J lftl.e1 E. Peck

Alfred D. Pepin
Luter Vernon Puerman
1', Carl Peters
Henry Paul Peth
A. J . Pethoud
Charles w. Petranek
Auauat Pflueger
Hugo Pflueger
Ottilie Pflueger
Timothy Pflueger
Joeeph Lea Pi fer
Jack Pi.nkua
htta Poetch

ThOll&a B, Pollard
J. A, Polley
K, A. Pohon
Alfred H. Poaipey
Robert Poppett
Casale Por t er
George M, Powell
William B. Poyner
Maybelle Priest
John A, Pryor
Kent D. Pursel
Denton Randall
Fenelle k. Randa ll
Ceorge Rasmussen
Walter S, Rawlings
Eugene Francis Razzano
Hatie Rud
Otto E. Reber
Harry Oka Redmond
Forrest S, Reed
Martha Reach
J. R, Retzloff
'IOlll Rew
Frank Reynold•
J oe Cars on Reynolds
Erma R. Richey
James A. Riemer 1
Philip F. R1ngole
John D. Roberta
Warren B. Robertson
Hildred Robinson
Wallace J, Robinson
Alfred G. Rodda
Hra. s. !. Rodda
Albert R.oddoclt
Carl B, Rodriques
Floyd O, Roediger
Mary E, Rogers
~illi•m Rogers, Sr
Everett K. Roseveare
Nelda Rou
Reuben P, Rot t

Hrs. Geo, H. Rovland Jr
Maynard Rowland
'
Marion (Jim) H. Rove
Walter Stuart Royater
Ada Ruch
Clifford Rucker
J ack D. Ruffell
ThOlllas E, Rua>bley
Jease Phillipa Rundell
Gundar Runn ing
Thomas J, Russ ell
Adelina Rutherford
Fanette Rutten
J an e t, Ryerson
Gerald K, Sanborn
Hugh H. Sanborn
I"an R. Sapp
John Sarland
Xen Sayoette
Jamea C, ScHborough

Irving Schacht
Rudolph Schaefer
Rudolph H, W, Schafer
S. M. Schaateen

Stanley s, Schlobohm
E, A, Schlueter
George A, Sclnidbaue r
Frank John Schmidt
Fred A, Schmidt
Minnie Schooler
John Schrednit&
Viol et Schroder
Arthur H, Schroth
Lavrence c. Schul tz
Frederick K, Schutte
Henry J , Schutz
Baruch Schwarz

Demba Runkle Scanlon
Matthew Scrima
Rob ert Sease
Harry w. Seaton
Melvin Seaweard
Louis Segal
Vaughn D. Seide l
Alexander Sellera
J , B, Shackelford
Archie P, Shacklock
Ernest Fairveathe r Sharp
Ella Heath Shaw
Joseph Hayes Shaw
George w. Sheppard
Frank T. Short
Harry Robert Shuman
James Sibley, J r
Charlu J. Siema
Leo Silberstein
Edward H, Silldorff
Cillie Silverman
John Levia Silvey
Robert Si11"1onds
Doris Simpkins
Willie B, Sipple
Adrian G, Sir•
Wade H. Sisson
John R. Sitton
Stephen E, Skidmore
Sally Eli•abeth Slesarunus
Reuben Maxwell Smira
Charles Smith
G. Ivan Smith
Gene Smith
Ja..es Smith
Lawrence Archie SMith
Leoaard E, c. Smith
Leota L. S"'ith
Ll oyd F, Smith
Van H. Smith
Belle Smoot
Charlea !, Sones
William H, Souther
Lena Souza
Conrad II, Sovi11

REPORT OP CONTRIBUTIONS TO ENDOWMENT FUND

MEMORIALS (Continued)
l\oy A, Spaeth
L. E. Sp&.ngler
Marianna Spence

William D""'ey Spence
A. v. "Bob" Spencer

Daryl D, Spencer
Ra)'Utond c. Spencer
Crace Spurlock
Fay A, Stallard
Cec il Elsworth Staon
Nonna Staples

Lenus H, Statler
Henry Steams
Ji' onnie Stein

Victor Emil Stein
Virgil E, Steiner
August Steinmetz
Frank Stei nmetz

Peter L. Stenderup
frank Stevens

t\arry Edmond Stier
Marvin Edson Stivers
Fred J, Stone
Hra. K. Stone

Roy Carl Stowsand
Charles E. Street, Jr

Dave Studwell
Fiora Susman

Fred E, Swallow
Phillip James Swearingen
Charles W, Sweeney
A, Raymond Swett
Kerman Syhre
Forr~t L. Talley , Sr
Lonis Alvin Tallman
Louis Tallman
Chnrles Tarugni
Elvin M, T11111agni
Ray LeRoy Tarleton
Norman D. Taylor
Enoch c. Teague
Albert R, Terr
Fred R. Tett.ner

Brennan S, Thomas
Re O, Thomas

Se)'Utour Thomas
Merle ferri s Thompson
Ray A, Thompoon
Norman Travis Thorp
Henry F, Ti..pe

Alexander Tobey
Mhu Togasaki
Theron L, Treat
Benjamin TTipp
Everett D. Troop
Edvard L, Tru e
Sidney N, Tucker
Earl Turner
John Turner
Robert Turner

Victor Hugo Tuttle
Michael C. Tyrrell
Anna Uhrig
Keith Eugene Vance
Myron VauDeHci
Fred M, Vanderlip
Linford R. Van Kirk
Rowena Van Riper

Cena Yeder
Duncan K. Vernon
Francis v. Ve stal
Edward A, Vitt
Harold S, Vreeland
H.ammon Wais
William S, Walford
Dean McLaughlin Walker
William walker
Mary L, W;il ker
Ivan Wallace
LeRoy I/, Wallace
Cuy L, Wal ton
Lee H, Walton
Myrtle Ward
William Ward
Kelly Warfield, Sr
Henu Warnke
Michael Joseph \la1ekanes
George Griffin Wa1hburn
Max A. Washer
Cerald A, Watson
Morrison R, Webb, Sr
Harry Willard Weber
Cecil M. Webster
Maurice Mercer Webater
I/alter JSntes Weldon
Harold G, Welling
Clara \/ells
Frederick J, llell1
Martha Wells
William A, Werner

131

GRANO LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

130

John £, Werry
H. w. Wesaenberg
Arthur \lest
Ray West
Donald G, White
Hartley I/, llhite
James White
Rosalie White
Travis c, llhite
Fred M, Whitlach
James A, llhitney
Elmer 11.,.ley llhitoon
Henry M, II icks
Robert L, lliel
Lela Wi ggens
Burton L. Wilcox, Jr
Frederick E, Wilhelm
John Edwin Williams
John R, Willia""'
Martha G, Williams
Percy 1111 liams
Norman llilliamson, Sr
Merle Morton Willits
Arthur T, Wilson
Erle D, Wilson
Frank Roy Wilson
Glenn W, Wilson
Fred II, Winberg
Joseph N, Wineroth
Emii Winter
John T. Wirsching
Romilda Wollenberg
Cecil Eric Woods
Frank Wool
Harold G, llooll
Carl Willillll Wright
David Leander Wright
Herbert Wright
William Robert Wright
Ra)'Utond A, Yale
Bert Yewell
Charles C, Young, Sr
Earle Michael Young
c. £verett Young
H0111er Youns·
Elizabeth Zachrioaon
Edvard A, Zager
John c. Zaharaopoulo1
Everett C, Ziegler
Anne B • Zuver

•Denotes Honor Roll

....

1968

Lodp

1 California ................
2 Western Star ···-···
3 Tehama ..................

1967

1968
Contrib.

1968 Participation
Membe~

%

A... Gift

387 $11,690.50
760.50
249
3,479.50
785
814.50
224
709.50
293
880.00
435
2,259.52
496
1,242.83
557
582.33
200
974.00
292
1, 794.50
402
254.00
101
58
752
2,306.00
817
4,017.19
365
1,562.75
505.00
520
332
496.50
191
428.29
75
226.00
310
982.21
164
429.50

$1,598.oo•
812.50•
3,355.50•
804.50•
121.00•
1,085.50•
1,654.35•
1,220.35•
492.53•
1,025.50•
1,351.50•
200.00
155.oo•
2,271.00·
4,780.51 •
1,563.oo•
898.00
201.25
494.50•
236.75•
1,005.75*
271.50

113
136
453
134
136
129
202
288
93
157
189
64
33
275
494
188
103
53
85
66
141
51

29
55
58
60
46
30
41
52
47
54
47
63
57
37
60
52
20
16
45
88
45
31

$4.13
3.26
4.27
3.59
2.46
2.50
3.34
2.19
2.46
3.51
3.36
1.98
2.67
3.02
5.85
4.28
1.73
.61
2.59
3.16
3.24
1.66

2,022.50
396.75
260.50
3,929.84
651.29
1,486.00
3,617.50
1,051.44
4,334.18
548.84
623.75
450.00
120.00
541.00
152.00
1,018.50
871.35
2,158.50
1,372.45
204.00
586.50
2,115.50
1,410.52
261.50
2,179.00
913.00
75.00
310.00
757.50
351.52
380.00
147.50
4,620.79

2,037.25•
361.oo•
300.00*
3,191.15.
100.00•
1,077.16*
2,906.00*
1,233.13•
6,135.60*
329.00*
582.00*
489.50•
90.00
489.75•
336.oo•
692.31 *
964.oo•
2,507.25•
1,958.31 •
401.00·
636.75*
4,447.50•
1,409.16*
256.oo•
2,284.oo•
1,240.50•
250.00•
345.oo•
1,049.oo•
376.50*
343.76•
104.15
4,638.02•

333
63
49
432
190
226
412
275
567
36
69
84
31
80
57
104,
94
261
285
35
122
167
203

53
51
42
41
69
53
67
51
25
26
39
46
52
72
32
69
41
44
34
70
21
52

52

52

302
180
36
63
238
80
66
24
656

47
48
41
48
46
76
66
10
61

3.23
2.91
2.54
3.07
2.55
2.01
3.71
3.00
5.53
2.30
2.16
2.28
1.34
3.16
4.25
2.11
7.09
3.91
3.03
3.86
3.64
5.80
3.62
2.58
3.54
3.31
2.87
2.63
2.01
3.59
3.44
.43
4.33

Mtmbenhip

5 Benicia ···············-·8 Tuolumne ..............
9 Corinthian ..............
10 San Jose ................
12 Yount ......................
13 Nevada ..................
14 Temple ....................
16 Eureka ....................
17 La Parfaite Union
18 Mountain Shade....
19 San Joaquin ..........
20 Washl.i:igton ............
21 Hawa11an ................
22 Occidental ..............
23 Madison .... ..............
24 Mariposa ................
25 Georgetown ..........
28 El Dorado ..............
27 Trinity ....................
30 Golden Gate
631
Speranza
32 Gold Hill ................ 124
33 Ophir ......... ............. 118
35 San Diego .............. 1041
37 Howard .................. 275
38 Santa Cruz ····-······ 537
40 Sacramento .......... 783
41 Martinez ................ 411
42 Los Angeles .......... 1110
43 Hiram .. ..... ............. 143
44 Mount Moriah ...... 270
45 Crescent ................ 215
48 Texas ...................... 67
50 Forbestown ............ 155
79
51 Illinoistown ..........
55 Suisun .................... 328
156 Volcano ········--······· 136
57 Santa. Rosa ·······-··· 641
646
58 Union ·········-·······
59 Gravel Range ···-··· 104
60 Plumas .................. 175
61 Live Oak ................ 794
64 Natoma .................. 389
65 Amador .................. 100
68 Momin~ Star ........ 646
70 Enterpnse ..... -....... 375
76 Bear Mountain ...... 87
78 Calaveras ····--······· 131
79 Humboldt ..... -....... 522
80 Ione ........................ 105
81 Yolo ···············-··-··· 100
84 Vesper ............... ..... 243
87 .Naval ········-··--~·-· 1070

Contrib.

42

132
Ho.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Lodp

1968

Memben~lp

89 R ose's Bar ..............
91 North Star ..............

86
102
128
88
107
499
102
392
637
325
389
605
76
434
353
578
493
240
365
217
146
564
146
204
86
308
97
482
374
97
102
135
272
146
349
264
243
145
314
49
34
341
358
652
524
149

93 St. Helena ·········-···
95 Henrr. Clay ............
98 Horrutos ·············- ···
99 Yosemite ................
101 Clay ........................
103 Oroville ..................
104 Lexington ·········-···
106 Arcata ....................
110 Pajaro ....................
111 Chico ......................
112 S ummit ········--······-113 Eden ........................
117 Concord ..................
120 Fidelity ..................
122 Alamo ....................
123 Sotoyome ..............
124 Table Mountain ....
126 La Fayette ..............
127 Hermann ·-·-··-·······
128 Visalia ....................
129 Nicolaus ................
131 Woodbridge ..........
132 Sincerity ................
134 Vacaville ................
135 Valley ···········-······136 P acific ....................
139 Crockett ..................
14-0 Curtis ·····-···············
141 Grafton ..................
143 Franklin ................
144 Oriental ..................
145 Vitruvius ................
146 Abell ........................
147 Eel River ................
149 Lassen ....................
150 Molino ....................
156 Woodland ..............
161 Keystone ................
164 Harmony ................
166 Excelsior ···········-···
167 Alameda ................
168 Redwood City ......
169 Mission ....................
173 Elk Grove ..............
174 Drytown ................
77
175 Antioch .................. 378
178 Phoenix .................. 720
179 Mendocin o ............ 100
180 Petaluma ....... .. ....... 326
181 Russian River ........ 124
182 Arbuckle ................
80
183 Clear Lake ···-··-··· 159
184 Sierra Valley
31
185 Claiborne ................
78
186 Evening Star ........
75
187 Keith ...................... 192
188 Oakland .................. 630
190 Northern Light .... 127
191 Marin -···--·-··--····-· 510

1967

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA

Contrib.

Contrib.

1968

1968 l'11tlcip1tlon
M1mben 'lit

Ave. Gift

399.46
251.00
1,273.43
534.00
139.00
1,182.07
254.00
1,148.00
2,594.05
775.00
878.00
1,867.00

375.96•
119.00
398. 17•
473.00·
123.00
1,004.50•
368.16•
1,014.50•
2,305.54•
745.oo•
9oo.5o•
1,906.oo•
181.oo•
1,367.12•
1,324.oo•
2,115.oo•
1,353.25•
714.00·
809.32•
460.07•
732.57•
1,898.38•
339.50•
659.75•
280.00•
660.50•

76
31
80
53
20

88
30
63
60
19
146 29
53 52
313 80
296 46
109 34
152 39
430 71
33 43
160 37
201 57
306 53
217 44
142 59
210 58
63 29
91 62
302 54
64 44
120 59
50 58
121 39

4.37

754.00
1,448.lO•
388.82•
125.00
481.50•
1,371.95•
546.00·
870.5o•
790.00•
176.00
398.oo•
698.90•
25.00
64.00
1,813.50•
1,044.83•
2,422.50•
1,199.50•
398.00°
136.44
773_50•
2,023.46•
114.25
865.15°
442.50•

82 17
203 54
49 51
26 25
73 54
164 60
94 64
140 40
160 61
34 14
73 50
145 46

209.00
58.00
215.50•
185.50•
155.50
3,035.oo•
280.00•
2,839.97•

56

1,170.60
1,380.00
2,706.00
1,102.47
730.00
886.75
457.00
755.45
1,912.33
464.00
513.50
199.00
727.00
136.27
877.50
1,412.25
4-04.94
196.00
785.00
1,116.50
352.50
1,756.50
841.50
418.86
513.90
639.15
23.00
64.00
1,699.50
1,026.50
2,295.00
948.50
403.00
175.00
809.80
2,043.27
186.35
803.00
464.50
160.50
58.00
107.50
231.50
424.50
2,448.00
141.75
2,483.85

3

6

25 74
173 51
130 36
319 49
190 36
68 46
23 30
165 44
299 42
26 26
149 46
71 57

9

21

33

37

35
29
27
44
19

419 67
44 35
300 59

1.17
3.11
5.38
1.15
2.01
3.61
2.59
3.62
2.29
2.31
3.15
2.38
3.15
3.75
4.70
2.74
2.98
2.22
2.1 2
5.02
3.37
2.33
3.23
3.26
2.14
1.56
3.87
4.01
1.23
3.57
5.04
3.74
2.49
2.99
.72
2.74
2.23
.51
1.88
5.32
2.92
3.72
2.29
2.67
1.77
2.05
2.81
1.14

2.65

3.57
1.31
1.87
2.76
2.47
.81
4.82
2.20
5.57

No.

Lodp

1968
MMnbenhlp

Santa Barbara ...... 361
Ferndale ................ 85
Mountain View .... 404
Buckeye ·······-······· 131
196 San Simeon ............ 101
624
198 Wilmington
199 Hartley .................... 248
200 Truckee ....... .... ....... 142
201 Silveyville .............. 150
202 Pentalpha .............. 363
203 Confidence .............. 128
204 Salinas .................... 572
205 Olivet ···········-·-······· 152
206 Stanislaus ·····-··-··- 645
207 Anaheim ······--······· 529
208 Rio Vista ................ 164
209 King David's ........ 402
210 Friendship ............ 694
211 San Benito
171
212 So. San Francisco 212
214 San Buenaventura .............. 432
215 Oak Grove .............. 492
216 Doric ...................... 345
217 Monterey ................ 283
218 Mosaic ···········-······· 301
220 Downey ···-··-········· 869
221 Inyo ........................ 138
222 Roseville ................ 506
224 Bakersfield ............ 705
225 Brooklyn ................ 391
226 San Mateo ............ 567
228 Athens .................... 196
229 Solano ............. ....... 482
230 North Butte ............ 239
231 Covelo ....................
63
232 Janesville .............. 137
233 Calistoga ................ 110
234 Hope ........................ 100
235 Surprise Valley...... 103
236 Hills Ferry ............ 169
237 Guadalupe ............ 270
240 Colusa .................... 155
241 Santa Ana .............. 599
242 Magnolia ................ 539
243 Eucalyptus ............ 559
244 Alcatraz ·-··············· 439
245 Laurel ·······-··········· 236
246 Pomona .................. 428
247 Fresno ···-··············· 657
248 Alturas .................. 173
192
193
194
195

250
253
254
255
256
258
259

Adin ···············-·······

Landmark ..............
Reading ..................
Welcome ................
Lodi ........................
Penrhyn ................
Evergreen ..............
260 King Solomon's
Seaport ..............
261
Tuscan ···-···············

133

Contrib.

1967

1968
Contrib.

Members

'lit

Ave. Gitt

1,224.75
266.00
1,402.75
288.50
187.50
2,853.92
240.00
706.50
397.00
1,940.00
521.50
1,031.00
456.50
1,631 .75
1,670.14
555.50
1,250.13
1,556.50
555.00
661.50

845.25 •
260.00•
2,122.00•
536.50•
308.00·
2,499.28•
125.00
846.50•
433.85•
2,005.oo•
535.50•
2,353.50•
330.00•
1,536.60•
1,695.98•
500.50•
1,367. 72•
1,850.25•
521.55•
722.50*

172
48
226
96
53
258
125
76
78
171
97
350
75
210
200
97
206
211
83
105

48
56
56
73
52
41
50
54
52
47
76
61
49
33
38
59
51
30
49
50

2.34
3.06
5.25
4.10
3.05
4.01
.50
5.96
2.89
5.52
4.18
4.11
2.17
2.38
3.21
3.05
3.40
2.67
3.05
3.41

1,778.32
2,000.00
1,106.00
971.35
777.00
4,405.83
432.80
1,990.65
2,284.16
1,086.75
2,230.90
832.00
1,013.44
629.50
38.50
338.00
265.50
322.00
69.50
435.00
804.50
207.00
2,095.65
2,585.50
2,012.00
1,218.00
764.00
1,715.69
842.78
360.00
59.00

43
268 54
105 30
157 55
112 37
113 13
74 54
287 57
283 40
122 31
217 38
86 44
142 29
187 78
9 14
80 58
56 51
84 84
13 13
60 36
145 54
26 17
219 37
439 81
244 44
123 28
74 31
255 60
171 26
174 100
17 18
89 86
201 56
70 36
83 21
33 23
217 30

3.64
4.69
3.2 1
3.45
2.22
2.60
3.09
4.25
3.51
2.65

222
13

92
103
359
193
396
141
715

1,270.50
417.00
950.00
284.00
2,510.82

1,572.35°
2,308.50•
1,108.75•
975.45•
669.50•
2,259.08•
426.50•
2,15 1.00•
2,477.40•
1,035.50•
1,930.97°
555.25•
1,038.65•
627.oo•
61.00
428.oo•
220.00•
324.13•
70.00
339.00·
1,104.05°
223.50
2,264.90•
2,937.50•
1,874.50*
849.25
443.50
1,726.82•
1,361.78•
348.oo•
569.oo•
206.00•
1,521.50°
394.08°
818.00°
233.50
2,725.57•

520
83

1,216.50
89.00

1,217.68•
59.00

1968 Participation

185

43
16

3.41

2.83
2.15
2.62
.97
3.12

2.00

3.24
.68
2.01
4.09
1.44
3.78
5.45

3.35
1.93
1.88
4.03
2.07
2.01
6.18
2.00
4.24
2.04
2.07
1.66
3.81
2.34

.71

134
No.

262
264
265
267
268
269
271
272
273
274
275
277
278
279
280
281
282
283
285
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
295
296
297
299
300
301
302
303
304
305
306
307
308
309
310
312
313
314
315
316
317
318
319
320
321
322
323
324
325
326
327
328

lode•

1968
Membership

Lompoc •................. 363
Hesperian .............. 448
Orland .................... 174
Galt ........................ 86
Durant .................... 318
293
Olive Branch
Snow Mountain..... 42
Pasadena ................ 469
Anchor .................... 552
Arroyo .................... 205
Oakdale .................. 225
Selma ...................... 205
So. California ........ 353
Hanford ·····-··········· 217
Madera .................. 272
Mount Shasta ........ 180
Callayomi .............. 64
South West ............ 550
San Miguel ............ 7 4
Paso Robles ............ 271
Winnedumah ........ 233
Maxwell ................ 62
Elsinore .................. 125
East Gate ................ 529
Santa Paula .......... 408
Los Gatos .............. 459
Orange Grove ........ 409
Traver ···········-······· 135
Mount Jackson .... 124
Silver Gate ............ 1152
Dunsmuir .............. 224
Liberty .................... 412
Redlands ·······-······· 488
Ontario .................. 515
Santa Lucia ............ 162
Porterville .............. 506
Reedley .................. 148
Azusa ...................... 321
Ashlar .................... 323
Santa Monica ........ 343
Monrovia ................ 284
Delano ···············-··· 230
Sisson ·····-··············· 98
Los Banos ·····-······· 197
Tehachapi .............. 174
Temescal ................ 296
Norwalk ·-·······-·-··· 375
Sanger ···········- ··-··· 312
Fallbrook ···-··-······· 175

Emanuel ·······-·······
Hollenbeck
South Gate ............
Alisal ·············-·······
Alhambra ·····-·······
Whittier ..................
Corona ·······-···········
Consuelo •...............
Needles ..................
Long Beach
Redondo ·····-··- ··-···

79

593
399
222
589
661
416
463
319
616
789

1967
Contrib.

1968
Contrlb.

1,048.25
2,289.50
554.50
425.50
848.00
462.25
39.00
1,538.70
2,511.28
519.75
416.00
291.00
2,509.02
549.50
707.00
393.00
42.50
1,526.00
223.00
796.75
759.27
132.00
308.15
3,459.14
1,015.30
1,127.00
1,429.99
308.35
249.50
3,410.63
715.00
1,299.45
3,006.61
1,575.81
390.64·
1,085.00
498.00
944.80
1,277.05
2,658.96
661.59
644.88
308.00
328.50
648.50
948.50
908.34
317.00
202.00
228.00
3,656.00
1,592.71
539.31
2,178.18
1,902.68
1,721.15
1,264.77
1,031.50
4,224.60
2,961.04

1,223.oo•
2,322.41•
617.50•
311.70•
660.50•
506.25
92.oo•
2,260.99•
2,442.86•
478.97•
648.50•
449.50•
2,853.07•
455.50•
446.14
262.00
17.00
1,491.oo•
162.50•
919.oo•
1,073.87•
124.oo•
255.28•
3,460.47•
896.37•
1,267.50•
1,581.95•
227.80
373.50•
3,357.49•
686.25•
1,446.60•
2,495.02•
1,601.02•
664.50•
3,295.75*
323.oo•
1,377.58•
1,304.84•
3,655.89•
299.07
506.65•
196.oo•
260.50
585.oo•
971.oo•

953.42•

432.75
219.65
252.00*
2,785.17•
1,968.30*
591.00·
2,077.37*
1,531.54•
1,728.33•
1,599.40•
1,035.95*
5,139.76*
2,987.26•

135

GRANO LODGE OP CALIF ORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
1968 Plrtlclpotion
Members 'lb

188 52
257 57
110 63
48 56
89 28
78 27
12 29
286 61
244 44
70 34
94 42
64 31
181 51
68 31
76 28
62 34

3

5

246
35
201
200
30
42
288
143

45
47
74
86
48
34
54
35
50
65
21
56
37
59
47
58
33
41
27
35
48
53
55
12
33
37
42
83
46
26
27
38
61
43
53
61
34
23
56
40
60
56
42

231

264
29
69
430
132
193
283
171
67
137
52
154
170
187
34
77
36
82
145
137
97
83
67
48
256
210
135
200
151
233
187
191
348
333

A.... Gift

3.37
5.18
3.55
3.62
2.08
1.73
2.19
4.82
4.43
2.34
2.88
2.19
8.08
2.10
1.64
1.46
.27
2.71
2.20
3.39
4.61
2.00
2.04
6.54
2.20
2.76
3.87
1.69
3.01
2.91
3.06
3.51
5.11
3.11
4.10
6.51
2.18
4.29
4.04
10.66
1.05
2.20
2.00
1.32
3.36
3.28
2.54
1.39
1.26
3.19
4.70
4.93
2.66
3.53
2.32
4.15
3.45
3.25
8.34

3.79

1988
Membership

"°· Vallee De France 125
329
lodp

330
331
332
333
334
335
336
337
338
339
341
343
344
345
346
347
348
349
351
352
353
354

355

356

357
358
359
360
361
362
363
365
366
367
368
369
370
371
372

373
374

375
376
377

378
379

380

381

382
383
384

385

387
388

389

390
391

Kilauea .................. 189
Pacific Grove ........ 305
San Pedro ·- ··········· 587
AU.a ···-··················· 152
Covina .................... 580
West Gate .............. 1111
Fruitvale ................ 700
164
Carquinez
San Jacinto ............ 114
Fullerton ................ 425
Oxnard .................... 421
San Fernando ...... 721
Starr King ............ 509
Brentwood ............ 169
Palo Alto ................ 743
McKinley ..... .. ....... 439
San Bernardino.... 1010
Sequoia .................. 829
Palestine ·······-······· 374
Sunset .................... 279
Pinole ...................... 197
Presidio .................. 345
Hollywood .............. 1097
422
Mill Valley
Buena Park ............ 500
Golden State ........ 473
75
Loyalton ................
San FranciscoVictory ................ 388
Fort Bragg ............ 149
Charity .................. 237
Berkeley ................ 529
Willits _..... .!........... 151
Las Palmas ............ 1064
South Pasadena .... 506
Unity ...................... 499
Ocean Park .......... 444
Amity-Seal Rock .. 476
Le Progres de
L'Oceanie .......... 680
Gardena .................. 588
West
Los Angeles ...... 464
Jewel ...................... 187
Richmond .............. 368
Francis Drake ........ 441
Artesia ·······-··-······· 250
Mizpah ···-······- ······· 296
Fillmore .................. 225
Huntington Beach 412
Oceanside .............. 543
Highland Park ...... 493
Orosi ........................ 144
El Centro ................ 479
Dinuba .................... 266
Coalinga .................. 336
Parnassus .............. 594
Palos Verdes ·····-··· 672
Imperial .................. 125
East Belt ................ 116

1968 Particlpetlon
Members %

1987
Contrlb.

1968
Contrib.

597.00
698.00
602.73
1,284.00
461.00
2,660.49
4,263.79
2,490.00
446.50
358.82
1,527.17
1,001.40
2,513.42
1,359.75
450.25
2,404.50
1,254.10
2,614.41
2,520.00
1,340.34
1,349.65
509.00
820.50
7,260.45
1,526.97
1,81 3.25
2,324.90

596.21•
122.00 •
791.67•
1,245.22•
377.oo•
2,419.98•
3,991.26•
2,800.00•
546.oo•
346.72•
1,262.95•
1,063.46'
2,614.90*
1,560.00•
437 .82•
2,584.52•
1,145.15•
2,421.79•
2,592.49*
1,380.61 •
1,133.57*
615.17•
964.oo•
5,794.77•
1,554.50•
1,844.20•
1,912.40•

73
109
118
96
87
278
499
470
69
52
132
102
363
284
83
430
171
281
289
202
160
101
123
602
183
264
194

58
58
39
16
57
48
45
67
42
46
31
24
50
56
49
58
39
28
35
54
57
51
36
55
43
53
41

4.77
3.82
2.60
2.12
2.48
4.17
3.59
4.00
3.33
3.04
2.97
2.53
3.63
3.06
2.59
3.48
2.61
2.40
3.13
3.69
4.06
3.12
2.79
5.28
3.68
3.69
4.04

1,072.50
286.65
721.86
903.50
480.00
2,191.50
2,195.50
1,349.3 1
1,587.06
1,638.95

1,058.oo•
258.00
867.00'
1,152.85*
457.00'
3,100.20•
1,977.68*
1,507.20'
1,775.48•
1,523.98*

158
54
138
169
53
446
229
181
150
208

41
36
58
32
35
42
45
36
34
44

2.73
1.73
3.66
2.18
3.03
2.91
3.91
3.02
4.00
3.20

2,133.98
2,643.09

2,080.00*
2,671.99•

327
315

48
54

3.06
4.54

2,793.53
594.00
1,277.50
1,892.48
903.55
2,857.63
890.58
1,124.52
1,789.77
1,820.82
426.50
1,238.81
607.00
1,274.94
1,352.50
2,876.56
458.84
324.50

2,452.43•
584.50·
1,267.78•
1,813.55*
1,131.06•
2,776.46*
923.oo•
1,445.47•
1,854.98*
1,624.35*
497.50*
905.90
540.50'
1,249.57'
1,296.oo•
2,698.22•
571.26'
406.50'

251
82
179
238
129
201
124
182
298
193
88

54
44
49
54
52
68
55

96
167
192

36
50
32
40
66
56

5.29
3.13
3.45
4.11
4.52
9.38
4.10
3.51
3.42
3.29
3.45
1.89
2.03
3.72

44
55
39
61

111 23

268
82
65

AV9. Gilt

2. 18
4.02

4.57

3.50

136
No.

392
393
394
395
396
397
399
400
401
402
403
404
405
406
407
408
409
410
411
412
414
415
416
417
418
419
420
421
422
423
424
425
426
427
428
429
430
431
433
434
435
436
437
439
440
441
442
443
444
445
446
447
448
449
450
451
452
454
455
457

Lodge

1968
Membership

West Lake .............. 582
Balder ...................... 446
University .............. 413
Turlock .................. 419
Apollo .................... 399
Rising Light ... ....... 858
Fraternity .............. 387
Burlingame ............ 584
Bay View ................ 596
Brawley .................. 234
Yerba Buena ........ 809
Glendora ................ 219
Moneta .................... 446
Burbank .................. 858
La Mesa .................. 618
Sierra Madre ........ 182
Honolulu ..... ........... 406
Charter Rock ........ 193
Perris ...................... 185
Calexico .................. 126
Arlington ................ 211
Silver Trowel ........ 395
Lindsay .................. 194
Clovis ...................... 589
Elysian .................... 359
Upland ·············-····· 285
Kerman .................. 154
Inglewood .............. 709
Eagle Rock ............ 458
York ........................ 289
Exeter .................... 225
Holtville ................ 154
Midway .................. 394
Chino Valley ........ 249
San Dimas .............. 191
Pittsburg ................ 327
McCloud ................ 101
Alpha ...................... 467
Hammonton .......... 114
Maricopa ................ 162
Fairmount .............. 336
Claremont .............. 215
Lancaster ................ 574
Tyrian .................... 243
Standard ................ 306
Coronado ................ 347
Blackmer ................ 1064
Schofield ................ 344
Carpinteria ............ 151
Wilshire .................. 406
La Puente . ........ ..... 286
Torrance .. .. ............ 637
Mount Diablo ........ 501
Park ............ ..... ..... 347
Van Nuys .............. 1172
Montebello ............ 675
San Pasqua l .......... 511
Crocker .... ..... .. ....... 484
Golden West .......... 467
Ramona .................. 506

1967
Contrlb.

2,581.16
1,728.50
2,170.58
1,308.44
1,546.50
3,380.33"
1,214.00
1,986.50
1,515.63
990.82
2,305.00
352.62
1,764.36
3,286.20
2,449.20
988.66
1,651.75
604.00
380.70
643.00
918.52
1,230.50
380.00
2,422.98
1,346.52
587.00
426.50
2,482.10
2,090.81
792.75
680.00
572.00
945.27
508.96
578.03
810.00
299.75
1,332.50
296.00
360.39
717.49
692.00
2,343.20
752.50
1,489.03
2,983.75
343.50
592.00
2,440.59
932.68
2,276.13
1,990.00
966.18
5,500.33
2,889.14.
2,467.20
1,370.00
3,016.00
2,301.39

1968
Contrib.

2,487.54•
2.487.50•
2,239.72•
1.280.75•
1,375.86•
4,290.34•
1,166.00·
1.723.oo•
1,551.50•
914.55•
1.926.75•
477.03•
1,823.01 •
3,627.26•
2,643.15•
558.77•
1,763.oo•
634.50•
523_50•
633.05•
879.28•
1,341.05•
333.00
2,227.27•
1,733.09•
1,036.98•
378.oo•
2,384.19•
1,934.04•
735.49•
684.oo•
550.00•
992.96•
330.67•
1,293.47•
646.50•
263.50•
1,564.12•
341.80•
292.50
1,249.02*
755.oo•
2,298.50*
100.00
729.50•
1,472.36•
2,933.64•
1,350.oo•
503.oo•
2,252.19•
1,219.69•
2,209.09•
2,263.25*
1,236.00*
6,069.52*
3,333.86•
2,247.06•
1,225.50*
2,769.oo•
2,356.86•

137

GRf\ND LODGE OP CALJPORNlf\

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
1968 Participation
Members %

421 72
211 47
192 46
212 51
215 54
499 58
162 42
161 28
254 43
141 60
141 17
41 19
230 52
500 58
312 50
62 34
210 52
77 40
96 52
56 44
113 54
211 53
65 34
293 50
174 48
168 59
74 48
231 33
305 67
92 32
86 38
75 49
188 48
52 21
161 84
117 36
50 50
158 34
48 42
38 23
157 47
78 36
345 60
7
17
91 30
202 58
446 42
178 52
79 52
175 43
127 44
242 38
251 50
328 95
672 57
401 59
248 49
193 40
225 48
269 53

Ava. Gift

4.27
5.58
5.42
3.06
3.45
5.00
3.01
2.95
2.60
3.91
2.38
2.18
4.09
4.23
4.28
3.07
4.34
3.29
2.83
5.02
4.17
3.40
1.72
3.78
4.83
3.64
2.45
3.36
4.22
2.54
3.Q4
3.57
2.52
1.33
6.77
1.98
2.61
3.35
3.00
1.81
3.72
3.51
4.00
.41
2.38
4.24
2.76
3.92
3.33
5.55
4.26
3.47
4.52
3.56
5.18
4.94
4.40
2.53
5.93
4.66

No.

458
459
460
461
462
463
464
465
466
467
468
469
470
471
472
473
475
476
477
478
479
480
481
482
483
484.
485
486
487
488
489
490
491
492
493
494
495
497
498
499
500
501
502
503
504
505
506
507
508
509

Lode•

1968
Membership

Henry S. Orme ......
Riverbank ..............
Mount Oso ..............
Argonaut ................
Paul Revere ..........
Morgan Hill ..........
Alta Vista ..............
Center ....................
Libertas ..................
Culver City ............
Rockridge ..............
Yorba Linda ..........
Lincoln ....................
Delta ···············-·······
Lodge Maui ..........
Blythe ....................
America ..................
Coachella ................
Temblor ..................
Thousand Oaks ....
Golden Rule ..........
Fellowship ............
Mt. Davidson ........
Clarence F. Smith..
Bell ..........................
Albert Pike ............
Chowchilla ............
Caledonia ..............
Vallejo ....................
Patterson ................
East Bay ................
Corcoran ................
Woodstock ..............
Garvanza .... !-.........
Atascadero ............
Acorn --···················
Lebanon ·········---·-·
Fremont ..................
Stockton ................
Capital City ..........
Roosevelt ................
Westwood. ..............
Harbor ....................
Point ........................
Seaside ... .................
Silver Cord ............
Mount Olive..........
El Segundo ·····-·····
J oppa ......................
Benjamin
Franklin ..............
Cupertino ..............
Sunnyvale ..............
Palms ......................
Cahuenga ..............
Argonne ..................
Ve.r mont Square ..

510
511
512
513
514
515
516 Taft ..........................
517 Mount Vernon ......
518 La Jolla --·-··--·--·-···

1968 P1rticip1tion
Members ')(,

1967
Contrib.

1968
Contrlb.

502
141
337
320
529
154
219
472
701
437
359
175
346
470
179
190
365
292
122
421
706
271
338
280
749
201
173
549
372
180
307
130
383
273
150
5·76
367
482
192
613
180
224
511
348
498
607
846
466
97

1,350.94
288.00
790.50
1,253.50
2,235.50
82.00
936.14
894.79
1,450.62
2,223.14
812.50
353.71
1,239.50
1,531.50
546.00
590.00
1,599.69
1,151.23
456.49
1,053.90
2,320.00
1,010.00
2,229.75
736.84
3,900.00
1,083.19
368.50
1,880.65
630.67
364.00
664.00
150.00
586.00
1,325.25
374.79
1,714.38
578.50
1,612.88
395.50
1,884.75
398.50
518.27
2,057.15
1,177.88
1,950.19
1,747.55
3,560.55
1,397.30
200.00

1,795.41 •
284.oo•
693.50•
615.80
8,306.90•
50.00
1,245.50•
999.30•
1,111.49
1,981.11 •
863.oo•
579.93•
964.50•
1,474.47•
546.oo•
551.50•
1,858.53•
994.88•
450.00·
1,105.46•
2,172.50•
1,022.50•
2,101.75•
917.94•
3,853.84•
1,324.33•
337.00
2,241.99•
1,020.34•
306.50
000.00•
172.50
799.oo•
1,232.42•
303.50•
1,360.00•
653.50
1,396.oo•
405.oo•
1,874.13•
497.50•
690.00•
1,330.oo•
1,267.25•
1,701.25•
2,397.35•
3,712.74•
1,440.93•
197.oo•

184
55
125
122
199
15
122
163
167
197
135
92
143
183
116
75
199
125
50
154
346
130
246
119
464
124
62
343
170
45
103
45
132
120
50
182
141
219
52
328
79
127
131
176
208
225
446
224
30

37
39
37
38
38
10
56
35
24
45
38
53
41
39
65
39
55
43
41
37
49
48
73
43
62
62
36
62
46
25
34
35
34
44
33
32
38
45
27
54
44
57
26
51
42
37
53
48
31

3.58
2.01
2.06
1.92
15.70
.32
5.69
2.12
1.59
4.53
2.40
3.31
2.79
3.14
3.05
2.90
5.09
3.41
3.69
2.63
3.08
3.77
6.22
3.28
5.15
6.59
1.95
4.08
2.74
1.70
2.61
1.33
2.09
4.51
2.02
2.36
1.78
2.90
2.11
3.06
2.76
3.08
2.60
3.64
3.42
3.95
4.39
3.09
2.03

266
260
464
443
509
289
375
275
164
339

838.45
779.50
780.20
1,756.87
3,045.86
415.50
1,077.15
721.44
360.50
430.00

758.90•
353.00
603.00
1,548.04•
3.068.56•
493.00
1,308.87•
590.18•
409.50•
406.19

102
60
92
245
442
67
170
97
72
62

38
23
20
55
87
23
45
35
44
18

2.85
1.36
1.30
3.49
6.03
1.71
3.49
2.15
2.50
1.20

Ava. Gift

138

1968

1967

lode•
Contrib.
Membership
519 Euclid ·····--·-···---------· 324
952.69
4,365.79
520 Ionic ··-··----····-·-·--··--- 1300
521 Piedmont ····-·····-····· 494
1,594.50
522 Sunrise .................... 226
992.13
2,652.10
523 Bellflower .............. 625
524 Catalina Island .... 119
430.51
525 George
Wash ington ........ 353
1,009.00
526 Bay City -·-··---··-·-··--- 392
865.25
527 Covenant ······-·-··----· 230
932.38
528 Beverly Hills --·----· 497
1,882.95
529 Loyalty .................. 755
4,317.34
1,416.58
530 Sun Garden ............ 518
531 Alexandria ............ 168
541.50
532 Smyrna .................. 218
456.50
533 Azure ...................... 425
1,084.74
534 Forest Hill ·--······--·-- 189
428.00
535 Alexander
Hamilton
1,047.79
264
1,626.24
537 Utopia ...................... 507
1,341.90
538 Ascot ··-··-··-····-··--·--··· 311
698.43
539 Belvedere --····---····· 175
1,135.05
540 Queen Beach -··------- 182
541 Henry Morse
897.15
Stephens ·····--···-· 268
542 North Hollywood.. 977
5,022.49
2,408.42
543 Signal .................... 526
544 Glendale ··--·---·--···-- 766
2,659.48
985.50
545 Veritas-Jonathan.... 293
2,685.28
546 San Gabriel ............ 579
2,454.42
547 Arcadia ··--···-·------·---· 626
1,517.79
548 Triangle ··--·-···-·---···· 321
549 Justice ·-·-··············· 360
1,245.19
691.50
551 Lakeshore .............. 248
883.00
552 Semper Virens ...... 332
748.50
554 Educator ................ 360
128.00
555 White Pine ·······----· 97
1,123.92
556 Fairfax ·-·-·········--· .... 497
959.46
557 Hermosa -··-········-··--· 421
1,139.48
558 Point Firmin .......... 315
1,288.58
559 Craftsmen ···--···-----· 309
1,376.50
560 Plymouth ·--····--·-·· 357
2,354.30
561 East San Diego...... 897
324.00
562 Pyramid .................. 285
1,518.39
563 South Park ............ 360
2,134.55
564 Foothill -···--·--·-------· 967
817.38
565 West Adams .......... 290
1,611.36
566 James A. Garfield.. 218
1,069.04
567 Searchlight
404
1,005.50
568 Park Boulevard .... 379
866.00
569 Chateau Thierry .. 315
720.00
570 Military Service .. 273
571 Francis K.
729.75
Shattuck
199
1,137.82
572 James Madison .... 295
173.00
573 Hillcrest ..................
2,310.21
574 S. W. Hackett ........ 571
612.00
575 Fort Crook ····--·----- 221
2,166.94
576 El Cajon Valley.... 619
1,243.82
577 Swmyside .............. 364
No.

1968
Contrib.

139

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
1968 Particlp1tion
Members %

Ave. Gift

886.42•
4,430.17•
1,628.50•
1,232.00•
2,577.93•
432.30•

102
606
253
121
247
88

31
47
51
54
40
74

2.74
3.41
3.30
5.45
4.12
3.63

1,088.00·
727.00
953.75•
1,813.94•
4,489.oo•
1,037.91 •
381.00·
518.oo•
1,647.40•
435.oo•

185
117
92
221
470
105
73
83
221
103

52
30
40
44
62
20
43
38
52
54

3.08
1.85
4.15
3.65
5.95
2.00
2.27
2.38
3.88
2.30

975.85•
1,908.83•
1,261.25•
838.42•
821.86•

96
168
118
107
87

36
33
38
61
48

3.70
3.76
4.06
4.79
U2

683.50•
5,686.92•
2,560.90•
2,653.02•
898.00·
2,445.71•
2,321.73•
1,717.50•
1,230.88•
718.50•
1,015.50•
822.50•
194.oo•
1,228.25•
957.69•
1,217.37•
1,172.22•
908.oo•
2,438.50•
788.50•
1,533.65•
2,410.50*
1,167.78•
1,775.91 *
912.67•
1,152.oo•
686.oo•
918.oo•

65 24
594 61
283 54
408 53
140 48
315 54
230 37
228 71
168 47
97 39
177 53
159 44
56 58
198 40
110 26
138 44
132 43
115 32
422 47
99 35
172 48
526 54
91 31
122 56
117 29
203 54
112 36
114 42

2.55
5.82
4.87
3.46
3.06
4.22
3.71
5.35
3.42
2.90
3.06
2.28
2.00
2.47
2.27
3.86
3.79
2.54
2.72
2.77
4.26
2.49
4.03
8.15
2.26
3.04
2.18
3.36

120.00•
1,167.96

117

129 65
40

3.96

2,292.06*
681.00*
2,274.94•
1,327.84•

283 50
148 67
272 44
151 41

4.01
3.08
3.68
3.65

3.62

.... Progressive
lode•

1988
Membership

1967
Contrib.

1968
Cont rib.

453

2,528.83

2,268.64*

258

57

5.01

658
135
403
332
315
301
296
491
397
387
110
346
158
359
532
879

1,826.75
776.32
1,331.4-3
748.60
866.85
1,022.58
1,418.64
2,139.27
1,410.94
1,092.30
338.00
1,340.00
214.50
1,564.58
2,393.90
3,882.38

2,044.80•
793.86*
1,081.98•
907.os•
854.21 •
100.93
1,067.63*
1,963.36•
1,621.86*
1,449.67•
503.50*
1.308.60•
269.50
1,478.07*
2,563.60*
4,142.46*

348
95
174
139
195
4
106
260
207
181
62
223
55
201
325
735

53
70
43
42
62
1
36
53
52
47
56
64
35
56
61
84

3.11
5.88
2.68
2.73
2.71
.34
3.61
4.00
4.09
3.75
4.58
3.78
1.71
4.12
4.82
4.71

245
936
620
340
563
117
252
240
424
388
322
727
501
252
485
510
447
356
348
241
167
364
306
694

1,875.84
5,718.56
2,484.75
2,163.96
3,003.07
367.50
957.20
855.45
1,249.37
1,357.22
746.74
2,737.85
1,456.00
472.00
1,919.97
2,226.98
1,535.25
972.90
1,351.61
778.34
541.00
1,371.78
972.24
2,292.25
1,840.85
1,827.03
7,182.23
352.05
1,868.54
2,564.91
1,272.16
996.96
954.46
869.00
797.00
2,461.40
2,148.48
1,122.00
2,534.97
1,114.03
2,191.64

1,970.51 *
5,315.20•
2,627.16*
1,731.94*
2,853.82*
3os.oo•
935.09*
791.00*
1,569.32•
1,326.38*
941.48•
2,479.50*
1,674.50•
400.00
2,098.45*
2,499.23•
1,421.50•
1,099.95•
1,428.50*
841.81 •
592.75•
1,481.43•
1,226.20•
1,465.oo•
1,935.51 •
1,790.59*
6,811.88•
205.00
2,135.23*
2,531,07*
1,032.28•
830.36*
1,155.76*
753.50*
947.61 *
2,566.52•
1,938.26•
889.50*
2,761.40•
1,289.51 •
2,178.84•

150 61
760 81
355 57
175 51
445 79
62 53
73 29
114 48
177 42
201 52
95 30
313 43
277 55
56 22
255 53
280 55
249 56
121 34
232 67
179 74
82 49
194 53
118 39
237 34
246 49
199 56
661 53
35 16
638 100
377 52
137 46
96 38
126 46
108 56
248 100
396 48
317 42
159 51
423 64
160 57
234 59

8.04
5.68
4.24
5.09
5.07
2.63
3.71
3.30
3.70
3.42
2.92
3.41
3.34
1.59
4.33
4.90
3.18
3.09
4.10
3.49
3.55
4.07
4.01
2.11
3.84
5.00
5.43
.94
3.36
3.49
3.48
3.26
4.20
3.92
3.82
3.13
2.57
2.87
4.21
4.56
5.50

578
579 Warren G.
Harding ..............
580 Santa Maria ..........
581 Security ..................
582 Rialto ......................
583 Wasco -·····--·-········-···
584 Harding ..................
585 Manchester ............
586 Garden Grove........
587 Valley Forge..........
588 El Sereno ·-·-······-···
589 Kauai ......................
590 Compass ·-··---·-····-··
591 Escalon ....................
592 Tujunga ..................
593 All States ................
594 Service --·····-·---·-······
595 Alexander
Graham Bell ··---·
596 Guardian ---------··--·-·
598 Pearl Harbor ........
599 Carmelita ------------··
600 Lynwood ------···-······

601 Grizzly ·----·----·-········

602
603
604
605
607
608
609
610
811
612
613
614

615
616

617
618
819
620

621

622

623
624
625
626

627
628
629
630
831
632
633
834
635

636
637

Melrose ·-----··--········
Dimond ···------·--·--·-·
Jubilee ·-···-···-·····-·--·
Glassell Park ---·-···
Sojourner ······-----·--··
Granada ··--·----·····-·-Provident ---·-·-·····-·
Elmhurst ----··----·--···
Canoga ....... .,...........
Temple City ---·······
Three Pillars ........
Larchmont ............
Hemet -·-················R. E. Dolley ·---··--·-··
Big B ear --·---------····
Southland --···---······
Neptune ------··------··-Point Loma ------····-·
The Gardens --··---··- 504
Atwater ·-··--·-·-------·· 358
Menorah ................ 1254
Fortitude ·--······-··---· 217
Angeles Mesa ........ 636
Chula Vista ............ 725
Lamanda Park ...... 297
Truth ···-----··---·-----··· 255
Fairview -···-------···-· 275
Ingleside ·-···------···.. 192
Benevolence -----·--·· 248
Normal Heights .... 819
Poinsettia ··-······-···- 755
Victorville .............. 310
Riverside ................ 656
John Marshall ...... 283
Palisades ··-···-·--·-···· 396

1968 P1rticip1tion
Members %

Ave. Gift

140
Ho.

638
639
641
642
643
644
645
646
647
648
649
650
651
652
653
654
655
656
657
658
659
660
661
662
663
665
666
667
668
669
670
671
672
673
674
675
676
677
678
679
680
681
682
683
684
685
686
687
688
689
690
691
692
693
694
695
696
897
698

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lod11

1968
Membenhip

Indian Rock .......... 157
Composite ·····--------· 754
James A. Foshay .. 205
La Cwnbre ............ 316
Alta Loma .............. 357
Lomita -··················· 379
A. F. E. Irwin. ....... 250
Metropolitan .......... 175
Hawthorne
560
Damascus ................ 734
Florence .................. 368
La Brea .................. 237
Menlo Park ............ 339
Crescenta Valley .. 632
Fontana .......................... 384
Jordan ···············-···· 384
Monte Vista ............ 822
Citro! ....................... 266
John D. Spreckels 649
Livingston .............. 195
La Habra ................ 323
Baldwin Park ........ 371
Malta ···············-·----- 256
Henry Knox .......... 378
Ojai .......................... 189
Kaweah ..... .................. 138
Reseda .... ..................... 910
Meridian ................. 512
San Gorgonio ........ 255
John P. Jarman.... 328
Greenleaf ·············· 876
San Clemente
168
Laguna Beach ...... 210
Far West ................ 324
Los Cerritos .......... 535
Modesto ·············----- 547
Willow Glen .......... 392
Liberal Arts .......... 437
Altadena ...................... 477
Canby Cross .......... 126
Carmel ····--·············-- 255
Dos Palos .............. 161
Barstow ........................ 488
Redwood Empire .. 124
Trona ........ ................ 167
San Marino ............ 481
Albany .................... 217
Vista ........................... .... 368
Oil dal e ........................ 289
Pohona .................... 90
San Carlos .............. 464
Indian Wells
Valley .................. 459
Travelers ................ 207
Palm Springs ........ 316
San Antonio .......... 281
Meudell .................. 232
Crossroads .............. 337
Saint Elmo ............ 305
Wm. D. Stephens .. 198

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

1967
Contrib.

1968
Cont rib.

529.50
2,966.49
830.00
1,462.70
1,601.93
1,401.29
1,274.21
677.49
2,133.59
2,621.46
1,243.44
1,073.66
1,121.50
2,450.59
757.65
1,204.61
3,268.06
1,227.25
1,700.52
577.00
1,184.26
1,608.08
1,558.34
2,451.48
667.85
357.00
3,072.10
1,754.63
789.67
971.00
3,172.04
480.00
649.00
1,068.50
1,548.94
1,105.00
885.50
1,550.79
1,513.86
73.50
286.00
334.00
1,609.80
321.85
658.00
2,782.60
464.00
846.19
1,007.00
260.15
1,416.00

248.50
2,691.95.
832.12•
l ,680.91 •
1,185.12•
1,262.93•
1,269.96•
638.15•
2,129.861
2,210.87•
1,300.31 •
997.70•
830.64•
2,549.79 1
2,088.36.
1,423.38.
3,532.93•
1,103.47•
1,949.oo•
498.oo•
1,321.70 1
1,523.84•
883.86•
2,325.35 1
644.80•
218.25
3,214.13•
1,806.04•
790.07 1
898.75•
3,397.58.
430.5o•
409.00
1,076.50•
1,677.01 •
1,113.55.
626.00
1,714.48•
2,015.77 1

38
380
81
180
103
168
158
125
268
253
162
82
120
308
152
188
386
166
303
100
165
138
42
188
72
48
396
195
148
142
495
66
75
214
331
161
ll5
271
322

35
35
49
40
49
47
62
47
51
51
37
16
50
38
35
44
38
58
43
57
39
36
66
62
29
29
62
68

1.58
3.57
4.06
5.32
3.32
3.33
5.08
3.65
3.80
3.01
3.53
4.21
2.45
4.03
5.44
3.71
4.30
4.15
3.00
2.55
4.09
4.11
3.45
6.15
3.41
1.58
3.53
3.53
3.10
2.74
3.88
2.56
1.95
3.32
3.13
2.04
1.60
3.92
4.23

707.oo•
347.oo•
1,526.50•
304.73•
635.58•
2,490.16•
441.00·
762.85•
1,050.oo•
290.00•
1,243.50•

112
90
279
44
117
312
105
157
199
68
185

44
56
57
35
70
65
48
43
69
76
40

2.77
2.16
3.13
2.46
3.81
5.18
2.03
2.07
3.63
3.22
2.68

1,121.50
674.25
1,035.38
1,462.25
967.09
1,247.44
1,320.00
1,047.50

532.50•
1,028.65•
1,456.27•
977_59•
1,177.50•
1,626.00·
828.50·

1968 P1rtlclpation
Members 'lb

71
126
174
184
256
186
112

24
50
40
57
29
44
63
71
48
34

44

34
40
62
79
76
61
57

Aw. Gilt

2.57
3.26
5.18
4.21
3.49
5.33
4.18

.... Bixby Knolls

141

1968
Membenlllp

1967
Contrlb.

1968
Contrlb •

419
380

2,526.99
815.50

2,565.30•
781.50 1

347
153

83
40

6.12
2.06

Valley .................. 156
702 Rosemead ................... 257
473
703 Westchester
705 El Cerrito .... :::::::::: 222
706 Hunters Point
Naval .................... 217
70'1 Lake Tahoe ...........• 114
708 Seafaring ................ 558
709 Lorenzo ····-······----· 381
710 Anacapa .................. 282
711 Rim ol the World .. 206
712 Los Altos ................ 249
713 Castro Valley ........ 355
714 Blue Lakes ............ 243
715 Magnolia Park ...... 350
716 Belmont Shore ...... 394
717 Wayfarer ................ 195
718 San Lorenzo
Valley .................. 121
719 Estero ...................... 168
720 Mineral King ........ 131
721 Home
657
722 George
200
723 Acalanes ·····-·--······· 225
724 San Ramon Valley 171
725 Saint Johns ............ 287
726 Yucaipa .................... 259
727 Verdugo Hills ........ 115
728 Lakewood .................. 280
729 Centennial ............... 166
730 Polaris .................... 202
731 Two Rivers ............ 207
732 San Juan ................ 255
733 Golden Empire ...... 178
734 Kit Carson .............. 203
735 Oasis of Mara ........ 137
736 Lemon Grove ........ 494
737 Hillsborough .......... 202
738 Arvin ...................... 129
739 La Canada .............. 178
740 Opportunity .......... 245
741 Tyre ........................ 297
742 Morningside Park. 189
743 Oakwood
105
744 San Leand~~..:::::::::: 232
745 Peninsula .................. 172
"146 Soquel ·········-·········· 195
747 Claude H.
Morrison ............ . 160
748 Highland .................. 205
749 Merced .................... 177
750 Mother Colony ...... 191
751 Hamilton ······-········-· 176
752 Luther Burbank .. 238
753 Lawndale
240
754 San Pablo :::::::::::::: 143
755 Golden Bowl ........ 192

602.77
1,263.12
1,643.82
697.50

608.00•
1,369.38•
1,609.70•
695.76•

144 92
148 58
190 40
113 51

3.90
5.33
3.40
3.13

1,150.50
521.00
1,386.86
1,434.50
2,000.23
505.00
797.00
1,637.50
856.80
1,289.58
1,654.79
800.66

1,112.00•
268.50•
1.876.52•
1,545.62•
1,551.94.
683.oo•
769.oo•
1,800.00·
987.50•
1,568.57•
1,882.lQ•
993.61•

166
25
239
291
202
143
119
311
139
179
210
126

76
22
43
76
72
69
48
88
57
51
53
65

5.12
2.36
3.36
4.06
5.50
3.32
3.09
5.07
4.06
4.48
4.78
5.10

449.00
582.72
309.00
2,196.13
611.50
697.16
595.25
908.25
655.50
1,037.75
964.25
885.70
1,002.50
1,063.47
813.75
1,158.50
926.00
350.49
1,759.86
779.00
557.50
818.14
1,870.63
1,079.60
878.61
500.00
985.16
907.50
623.75

355.50•
99.87
329.00*
2,341.07•
684.50•
697.45•
571.00·
1,009.55•
668.52•
600.57•
958.52•
930.46•
826.50•
1,134.40•
1,040.00•
1,012.50•
1,413.08•
341.52•
1,570.89•
919.oo•
468.50 1
814.23•
983.87•
1,232.90•
140.32
594.oo•
905.00·
1,140.lO•
112.00•

101 83
5 3
46 35
491 75
142 71
96 43
71 42
157 55
135 52
50 43
122 44
91 55
97 48
146 71
136 53
119 67
205 100
106 77
210 43
79 39
76 59
96 54
33 13
136 46
5
3
101 96
159 69
120 70
119 61

2.94
.59
2.51
3.56
3.42
3.10
3.34
3.52
2.58
5.22
3.42
5.61
4.09
5.48
4.08
5.69
6.96
2.49
3.18
4.55
3.63
4.57
4.02
4.15
.74
5.66
3.90
6.63
3.65

313.00
687.99
599.50
418.45
478.28
721.83
1,013.37
129.00
1,270.43

430.46•
631.02•
329.00
407_97•
521.34•
810.49•
1,106.15•
247.00
1,099.50•

91
99
57
50
103
159
138
41
134

2.69
3.08
1.86
2.14
2.96
3.41
4.61
1.73
5.73

lodp

699
700 Ponderosa ..............
701 Santa Ynez

·E·:·Tii1£·::::::

1968 P1rtlcipation
M1111bers 'lb

57
48
32
26
59
67
58
29
70

Aw. Gilt

142

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
1~8

No.

756
757
758
759
760
761
762
763
764
765
766
767
768
769
770
771
772
773
774
775
776
777
778
779
780
781
782
783
784
785
786
787
788
789
790
791
792
793
794
795
796
797
798
799
800
801
802
803
804
805
806
807
808
809
810
811
812
813

Loda•

1968 P1rticipotlon
Memb.rs %

1967
Contrib.

Contrlb.

330
136
226
243
149
211
162
195
196
154
160

1,048.50
464.00
908.34
976.58
497.69
924.50
514.50
1,974.00
1,034.59
1,208.73
997.51

1,244.oo•
496.oo•
984.oo•
1,169.44•
375.30•
804.50•
781.00·
956.50•
1,070.29•
1,337.74•
1,000.69•

129
65
86
120
73
114
133
117
140
142
99

39
48
38
49
49
54
82
60
71
92
62

3.77
3.65
4.35
4.81
2.52
3.81
4.82
4.91
5.46
8.69
6.25

159
308
265
169
249
67
240
196
211
246
57
207
125
163
136
146
8
18
149
128
133
105
283
194

836.90
1,528.56
1,139.03
495.00
1,039.50
210.50
1,082.97
753.50
292.75
1,201.63
186.05
1,499.11
884.29
1,400.03
1,012.10
386.00
308.00
451.50
864.71
1,003.90
195.36
263.50
1,268.00
1,452.33

641.00·
1,797.74•
1,402.26•
635.00•
929_50•
53.78
1,124.57•
766.50•
283.00
1,654.06•
218.so•
1,268.70•
913.33•
1,440.43•
954.11 •
360.00•
341.00·
300.00
766.70•
1,042.00•
313.66•
7.00
1,153.oo•
1,653.07•

78
176
164
115
139

49
57
62
68
56

203
120
40
199
50
186
89
162
80
88
63
64
100
118
60
1
142
145

85
61
19
81
88
90
71
99
59
60
74
35
67
92
45
1
50
75

4.03
5.84
5.29
3.76
3.73
.80
4.69
3.91
1.34
6.72
3.83
6.13
7.31
8.84
7.02
2.47
4.01
1.64
5.15
8.14
2.36
.07
4.07
8.52

152
80
103
165
172
182
139
129
116
135
109
172
84
85
146
121
137
146
123
112
161
106
133

507.86
270.00
397.74
675.67
568.33
836.06
917.74
383.00
342.50
2,233.31
370.00
271.00
304.50
203.26
1,174.83
189.00
525.00
489.75
637.50
291.58
626.50
536.47
1,123.20

601.65•
240.00•
397_53•
882.23•
572.25•
907.63•
724.92•
446.50•
393.oo•
2,434.49•
337_50•
625.55•
234_50•
341.17•
1,095.07"
484.oo•
337.52•
454.40•
519.50•
349.15•
659.49•
585.50•
997.39•

155 100
42 53
68 66
133 81
88 51
90 49
118 85
83 64
66 57
153 100
57 52
80 47
48 57
81 95
104 71
81 67
64 47
80 55
72 59
85 76
109 68
84 79
119 89

3.96
3.00
3.86
5.35
3.33
4.99
5.22
3.46
3.39
18.03
3.10
3.64
2.79
4.01
7.50
4.00
2.46
3.11
4.22
3.12
4.10
7.53
7.50

Mt1111krship

Clayton Valley .....•
Channel ..................
West Covina ..........
El Rancho ..............
Lakeside ................
Josiah W. Roller....
Coastside ................
Arabic ....................
Heritage ..................
Dana R. Weller......
James H. K ew ··- ··
Wm. Rhodes
Hervey ·····-·········
Zeni th ....................
Palmdale ................
Lake Chabot ..........
Mission Bay ..........
A venal ....................
Tej~~ :·····················
Waikiki ........... .......
San Dieguito ..........
East Whittier ........
Pinnacle ................
La Mirada ..............
Five Points ............
Riviera ....................
Rolling Hills ..........
Silverado ................
Mojave ....................
Leland Stanford....
Paramount ............
Rio Linda ···-·········Westminster ·····-···
Sierra ......................
Oak Plains ............
Granada Hills ........
Gen. Henry H.
Arnold ·······-·······
Millbrae ..................
Maya ........................
Mt. Wilson ............
American River ....
Golden Valley ......
Tila Pass ................
Ashland ·····-····-·····
Clairemont Mesa..
Rio Hondo ..............
Koolau ....................
Yucca Valley ........
The Gabilan ..........
Moreno Valley ... ...
Camellia ................
Simi Valley ............
Conejo Valley........
Scepter ....................
Los Alamitos ........
Victoria Palms ......
Woodland Hills......
Triad ........................
Old West ................

1968

f;RAND LODGF, O P CAT.IFOR N IA

g

2

3

Ave. Gift

No.

Lode•

1968

Memkrshlp

1967
Contrlb.

1968
Contrlb.

14'3
1968 Puticlpation
M11nb9rs %

814 Plaza de
Los Angeles........ 81
505.50
545.50•
76 94
815 Mount Baldy .......... 106
339.12
622.29•
66 62
816 Wm. B. Ogden ......
70
290.99
27.9.56•
24 34
817 Manhattan .............. 48
137.00
239.oo•
52 100
818 Great Lights .......... 182
442.68
750.02•
113 62
819 Frank S. Land ...... 137
533.00
601.14•
103 75
820 Mar Vista .............. 118
582.07
719.39•
88 75
821 Gateway ·······-·······
47
155.00
101.00·
19 40
822 Boron
···········-······-·
182.64
70
213.10•
42 60
823 Maccabee ·····--·······
93
584.00
797.oo•
99 100
824 Camarillo ··············364.00
82
500.50•
71 87
825 Gemini ···········-·······
46
276.00
459.oo•
43 93
U.D. Palm Desert···-······· 37
No. Calif. Research t 95
El Camino Research t 51
Central Calif.
Research..............
61
So. Calif.
Research .............. 135
266.50
Overall average contribution 863,339.82 114,063
Grand total ......239,745 855,116.02

A... Gitt

6.73
5.87
3.99
4.98
4.12
4.39
6.10
2.15
3.04
8.57
6.10
9.98

7.57

tNot included in total membership.

REPORT OF BOARD OF CONTROL
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
The Board of Con trol herewith submits the annual report covering
the activities of the twenty Boards of Relief in the various areas of this
jurisdiction. The duties o f the secretaries of these twenty Boards of
Relief involve many requests from other jurisdictions relating to their
sojourning Brethren and families. The duties which our secretaries of
these Boards of Relief perform are many-such as conducting funerals.
calling upon the sick, extending relief, investiga tions and many other
Eunctions too numerous to go into detail.
During the 1967- 1968 Masonic year, the Boards of Relief. through
their executive secretaries and executive committees, have performed
the following functions.
Advanced for relief.............................................. $15,063.79
Funerals conducted ..........................................•.............996
Calls on relief ·····································-·························6,275
Calls on sick. .........................•....................................... 9,677
Tota l calls made.......................................................... 20,896
Investiga tions ·························-··································· 1,405
The secretaries are to be commended for the performance of the
above important functions which they have been called upon to perform.
The jurisdictions for which these services are rendered are very appreciative for the affection and kindness shown to their Brethren and families.

GH.l'INO LODGE OF C:ALIPORNIJ\

PROCEEDING S OF THE

144

REQUEST POR REIMBURSE MENT

The East Bay Board of Relief has requested the reimbursem ent fr~m
Grand Lodge in the sum of $25.00. After reviewing this matter, which
has been of long standing. the Board of Control finds this amount to be
uncollectible. We therefore recommend that the East Bay Board of
Relief be reimbursed in the above amount of $25.00
In order that the Board of Control may function in an efficient manner, it has been their policy to meet three times during the Masonic
year-one meeting in the southern area, one in the northern area .and
one at the Annual Communica tion of Grand Lodge. These meetings
.
have proven important and successful.
The members of the Board of Control wish to express their appreciation for the advice and counsel so graciously given by Most Worshipful Eugene S. Hopp, Grand Master, and the Grand Lodge officers.
Respectfully submitted,
Loms H . MAHLER, Chairman
JOHN M. SWAN
NORMAN E. HALE

ANDREW BURKE
VARNUM PAUL

Ref erred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)
REPORT OF COMMIT TEE ON DISTRIBU TION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Committee on Distribution , to which has been referred the
Annual Message of the Grand Master and the reports of the Grand
Treasurer, the Grand Secretary. the Grand Lecturer, the Trustees of
the Masonic Homes, and the Masonic Homes Endowment Board, submits the following report:
GRAND MASTER'S MESSAGE

We recommend that the portions of the Grand Master's Message
herein listed be referred to the committees indicated:
l. To the Committee on Jurispruden ce-Recommend ations Nos. 4, 5 and 6.
2. To the Committee on Policy and General PurposesRecommend ations Nos. 1 through 8 inclusive.
3. To the Committee on FinanceRecommend ations Nos. 7 and 8.
4. To the Committee on RitualRecommend ation No. 1.
5. To the Committee on Masonic Education Recommend ation No. l.
GRAND TREASURER 'S REPORT

We recommend the referral of this report in its entirety to the Com,
mittee on Finance.

14'i

GRAND SECRETARY' S REPORT

We recommend that the portions of the Grand Secretary's Report
herein listed be referred to the committees indicated :
1. That portion of the report relating to the change of meeting
places to the C ommittees on Charters and By-Laws.
2. That portion relating to the consolidatio n of Lodges to the Committee on Charters.
3. That portion relating to per capita tax of Palm Desert Lodge
U.D. to the Committee on Finance.
The Reports of the Grand Lecturer, the Trustees of the Masonic
Homes and the Masonic Homes Endowment Board have gone directly
to the Committee on Finance so no action by us is necessary.
Respectfully submitted,
NILES 0. MILLAR, Chairman
VINCENT P. McMuRoo

E. LLOYD HANSON

Adopted.
At 4:30 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 a.m. T uesday.

146

PllOC F,EOINI.~

OF THE

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION-Tuesday, October 15, 1968
Grand Lodge was called on at 9:30 a.m., the Grand Master presiding. This session was raised by Worshipful Willard A. Peterson, Master
of Woodbridge Lodge No. 131. The invocation was delivered by Inspector Leroy G. Connelly. The minutes of the morning and afternoon
sessions of Monday, October 14. were read and approved.

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
This is the Fourteenth Annual Report of the Board of Trustees of
California Masonic Memorial Temple.
At the close of the 1967 Annual Communication of the Grand
Lodge, the California Masonic Memorial Temple Trustees met in
Annual Meeting. The President, Ralph H. Head. reported the election
of Robert A . Crigler as Deputy Grand Master, Chester R. MacPhee
as Senior Grand Warden, and Herbert A. Huebner as Junior Grand
Warden. On proper motion they were dul'Y elected members of the
Board of Trustees as provided in the California Masonic Code.
The Board then proceeded to organize with Ralph H. Head as
President, Samuel I. Jacobs as Vice President, Paul A. Pflueger, Grand
Treasurer. as Treasurer, and Edward H. Siems. Past Grand Master
and Grand Secretary, as Secretary.
The terms of the appointed members of the Board were as follows:
Expiring in 1968. Lyle E. Patton and Ralph H. Head; expiring in 1969,
Frank F. Goodman and Carl U. Zachrisson; expiring in 1970, Samuel
I. Jacobs and Howard H. McKinley.
Out in the Black Hills of South Dakota on Mount Rushmore are
carved in bold relief the figures of four great presidents of the United
States, George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Abraham Lincoln and
Theodore Roosevelt. As you stand below and gaze up at this splendor
in the sky you cannot help but say, "Would that I had been so inspired
as the sculptor to do this great work." But when you learn all of the
history you find that the sculptor did not do it all. He drew the design
on the trestle board and then ordinary workmen with chisel and hammer
in hand did the actual work on the mountainside.
The financial statement of the California Masonic Memorial Temple
for the year ending June 30, 1968, which by reference is a part of this
Report, clearly demonstrates who built this great Temple on Nob Hill
in the City by the Golden Gate: the Masons of California who contributed more than $6.250.000 for its erection.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

147

Because of the fine custodial and business acumen of the Manager
of the Temple. George D. Gavin, income from all sources during the
past fiscal year reached an all-time high of $229,000. After making its
·second annual contribution to the Masonic Homes of California in the
sum of $10,000, the net operating loss for the year was $6,715, or $342
less than the previous year. The financial statement also shows that
$63.000 for depreciation and replacement was added to a reserve fund
now totaling $640,000 or nearly 11 % of the original cost of the building
and furnishings.
In his message to the Grand Lodge at its 1967 Communication, Most
Worshipful Laurence E. Dayton urged the Temple Board to explore
and, in due course, develop ways and means of providing library and
museum facilities which would be commensurate with California's status
in the Masonic world.
Therefore, in keeping with the spirit of Past Grand Master Dayton's recommendation, the Board of Trustees has resolved that Grand
Lodge approve an annual per capita tax of flfty cents per member to
create a reserve fund for the development of an appropriate library and
museum. It is further resolved that plans and costs be submitted to the
Grand Lodge for approval prior to the commencement of construction.
The Trustees cannot urge too strongly the adoption of the resolution. A journey of a 1000 miles must start with one step. A navigator
may study a map for an indeterminable period of time but he will never
be one foot closer to his next destination until he makes a move. Nothing
could be more in keeping with the philosophy and the direction of California Freemasonry than the creation of a library and museum for the
preservation of the records and history of the Grand Lodge, its artifacts,
and the accumulated written knowledge of the ages
The first library in the history of the world was established 4000
years ago in Babylon. In 1698 the first library in America was built in
Charleston, South Carolina. At the instigation of Thomas Jefferson,
the Library of Congress was founded in 1800. Many years ago the
Grand Lodge of Iowa started what is now regarded as the finest
Masonic library in the United States.
Your Trustees believe the time is now at hand for the Masons of
California to take the first step toward the creation of what may well
become the depository of the finest collection of Masonic information
history and memorabilia in the world.
'
There is no more appropriate place and time for that action to be
taken than here and now.
California Masonic Memorial Temple has become the setting and
the showplace for business and professional meetings, for exhibits of
the products of industry. and for concerts. lectures. and premier performan ces. It is the focus of attention of thousands of visitors to San

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

148

h
ture in the Unit ed State s has so
Fran cisco . Perh aps no. ot er struc
subt ly dem onst rated to its gues ts th e p 1a ce Free maso nry has had in the
build ing of a fre~ anMd stron gbco untry . grate
ful for the insp irati on and
Le C 1' form a
ason s e ever
]'
th' a if men who caus ed the
drea m to beco me a rea ity.
1ea d ers 1p o
Resp ectfu lly subm itted .
RAL PH H. HEA D ( 1968)

Pres iden t
Offic ers and Trus tees:
SAM UEL I. JACO BS, Vice. Pres iden

149

Africa
Argentina
Australia
Austria

Ceylon
Irela nd
Pola nd
Colombia
Israe l
Rhodesia
Costa Rica
Japa n
San Salv ador
England.
Malaysia
Scotland
Bel~i~
Finla nd
Mexico
Sout h Africa
Bohv1a
Fran ce
Newfoundland
Sweden
su.rm a
Germ any
New Zeal and
Swit zerla nd
Canada
Holland
Norway
Taiwan
Canal Zone
India
Philippines
Tasm ania
Insp ecto r Ed Lohm eyer has agai n give
n the lectu re on our End omosaic wind ow durin g Gran d Lodg e. Our
than ks to him also for handling some spec ial tours of the Tem ple.
MAIN TENA NCE AND IMPR OVEM ENTS

t ( 1970)

PAU L A. PFLU EGER , Trea sure r
EDW ARD H. S1EM S, Secr etary
ROBE RT A. CRIG LER, Dep utg Gran
d Mas ter
CHES TER R. MAC PHE E, Seni or Gran
d War den
HERB ERT A. HUE BNE R, Junio r Gran
d War
LYLE E. PATT ON ( 1968 )
FRAN K F. GooD MAN ( 1969 )
CAR L U. ZACH RISS ON ( 1969 )
How ARD M. McK 1 NLEY ( 1970)

GRAND LODGE OP CALI FORN IA

den

Refe rred to Com mitte e on Fina nce. (Bud

get alloc ation )

REP ORT OF THE MA NA GER

To the Trus tees of the California Mas onic

Mem oria l Tem ple

Bret hren :
.
T
As we repa re our sixth annu al repo rt.
1
we reali ze our :mp .e h.as
celeb rated fts tenth birth day this past year
. Its beau ty dand its d1g;l;tyy
are reco gni·zed by the tens· of thou sand s who ente r our oors annu
.
TOU RS AND VISIT ATIO NS

The Tem ple is open to visit ors Mon day
thro ugh Frid a.{ 8:45 ~.mh
F
the week end visit ors. from 12 noon to
p.m.
ac
to 4:45 p.m._ or ~ s of Rain bow for
Girls , Job's Dau ghte rs. DeM olay
~~~r ~~er~~~:;,r;:y Area scho ol child ren of vario us
grad es on cultu ral
tours make our Tem ple one of their stop
s.
.
This ast summ er we were parti cula rly
happ y to welc ome ~es1dents
PM
.
Hom
e at Unio n City . Seve ral Thu rsda y morm
from our asom c
ng tours
.
were arran ged and recei ved with much
enth usias m.
.
..
The peop le of the worl d are still trave ling.
Our reg1 st¥ of ~1s1~~:
indic ates that man y out of the coun try trave
lers reach our emp e.
list of coun tries is inter estin g:

The cost of labo r, supp lies and outs ide
servi ces cont inue s to rise.
We have repla ced the tube s in our two boile
rs and have purc hase d new
small pum ps that were not feasi ble to repai
r. The settl emen t crac ks in
the sout h wall of the boile r room were succ
essfu lly seale d. G old leaf
was appl ied to our corn ersto ne, Squa re
and Com pass and Cali forn ia
Mas onic Mem orial Tem ple on the Cali forn
ia Stre et face of the Tem ple.
Win ches were adde d to our spea kers for
bette r servi cing and the syste m
was conv erted to 70 volts . Tho se who use
our Aud itori um comp lime nt
us on the acou stica l qual ity.
Muc h pain ting, seali ng of our terra zzo area
s and gene ral main tena nce
was acco mpli shed . Mod ern light ing for
the gara ge has been comp leted
exce pt for E deck .
It is our hope . with cons tant vigil ance , to
main tain our high stan dard s
of main tenan ce. Whe reve r poss ible to effec
t econ omie s and impr ove procedu res that will ke~p our cost to the lowe
st poss ible level.
The City has laid new sewe r lines on Tayl
or Stre et and the U tilities
made unde rgro und chan ges at the same
time. The muc h-needed stree t
pavin g is bein g acco mpli shed . Elec tric
traffic sign als were adde d to
Calif ornia at both Tayl or and Mas on Stree
ts.
INCO ME

For the fiscal year , the gros s incom e of
the Tem ple oper ation exceed ed $200,000. This was an all time high
.
The gara ge incom e mov es with the occu
panc y of the Tem ple and
conv entio ns at the Nob Hill hote ls. It
play s an impo rtant part of our
over all annu al inco me.
CON VENT ION AND AUD ITOR IUM

DEV ELOP MEN T

The grow th of San Fran cisco conv entio
n busi ness has main taine d
its phen ome nal grow th. We have ente red
into a "No b Hill Com plex ."
A broc hure has been prod uced featu ring the
facil ities of the Fairm ont,
Mark Hop kins , Hun tingt on and Cali forn
ia Mas onic Mem orial Tem ple.
The mess age will reach thos e inter ested in
high qual ity conv entio n facil ities and servi ces cont aine d with in a onebloc k dista nce.

150

P ROCEEDINGS OP THE

The Japanes e Cultura l Center in the Wester n .Additio n has been
Hilton Hotel is now going forward with a second tower.
opened . The
The St. Francis Hotel has acquire d more fronta ge for a tower tha t w1·u
also assu re them of an entranc e on Powell. Geary and Post Streets. The
Stanfor d Court Apartm ent tenants have been notified to move. Instead
of tea ring down the building , it will be complet ely rebuilt in the present
structur e as a 400-room hotel. The South of Market Yerba Buen~ Center
is now assured . through aid from the hotel tax. A new hotel adiacen t to
the Temple is being conside red.
O c cuPANC Y

We have continu ed our policy of keeping our rentals of the Auditorium and Exhibit Hall divers ified, as a protecti on against a slow down
in either the area of theatric als or convent ions.
This past year has brought many old friends into our Temple and has
added many new ones. We have had, among others , Ray Charles Co~­
cert· Jonatha n Winter s; Buffy Sainte-M arie; Jose Greco; Ario Gu~hne;
Ch~rles Aznavo ur; Manita s De Platas; David Oistrac h a~d the _mt~r­
nationa lly known M arlene Dietrich ; Van Cliburn , internat ional pi~mst;
Andres Segovia , guitaris t; and Don Ho and his Hawaii an group. Simon
and Garfu nkel. Clancy Brothers and Tommy Makem ; P~ter, Paul and
Mary; White Heathe r Concert of Scotlan d and th~ Mm-on <?ult_u ral
Japanes e Festival again repeate d their perform ances .m our Auditor ium.
Both the Melbou rne and the Minnea polis sympho mes perform ed, and
the Ebony Fashion Show in Decemb er was a sellout.
We enjoyed the San Francis co Boys Choir; Ball~t Spect~cul~r;
Finland 's 50th Year of Indepen dence Celebra tion, featurm.g the Fm~1sh
gymnas ts; Frula , the Yugosl av folk ensemb le; and Bras1liana Carn1v~l
de Rio. An annual favorite, Miss Chinato wn USA and the Queens
Corona tion were featured in Februar y. KYA Bridal Fair present~d a
fashion show and merchan dise and services of interest to the brides.
Parade of Youth at the Piano, with children of all ages from the Hunters Point area, returne d to the Auditorium for the third successful year.
The San Francisco Internat ional Film Festival , held in Octobe r immediate ly after Grand Lodge, was a success, both 6nanci~lly and .as a.n
entertai ning feature. They are booked to present their festival agam this
coming Octobe r.
.
We are always pleased to have the Salvatio n Army Gr_a duatton
Exercis es and Baccala ureate Service , as well as the graduat ing cla~s
from Golden Gate College . Six San Francis co high schools had their
graduat ions of some 3,000 student s and three sc~ools thei~ mid-term.
The State of Californ ia Bar Examin ations and Certifie d Public Accoun tant Examin ations are held twice a year and our facilities seem to be
ideal for their purpose s.
. .
Business is making more use of both the Auditor ium and the Exhibit

GRA N D LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

151

Hall. Among those served last year were the Californ ia Canners and
Grower s Associa tion, U. S. Savings and Loan League, America n Sa lesmasters , the Million Dollar Round Table, the Americ an Medical Association' s Inaugur al and Medicine in Religion meeting s.
We had four shareho lders' meeting s: Bank of Americ a, Pacific Gas
and Electric Compa ny, Genera l Telepho ne and Electron ics , and Nob
Hill Apartm ents. Stanfor d Gradua te School of Busines s repeate d their
annual meeting with guest speaker s of internat ional importa nce. United
Bay A·r ea Crusad e's annual report meeting and luncheo n were held in
our Auditor ium and Exhibit Hall. Our Auditor ium is ideally suited for
these business meeting s and it is becoming more popular each year, as
those who attend seem to pass the word on to others.
Spotlig ht on German y exhibit in the E xhibit Hall was very outsta nding. One of the features was a Bavaria n four- piece musical group w ho
entertai ned and were warmly received .
PROJEC TION

Our bookings for the remaind er of 1968 are very heavy. This is also
the case for the entire year of 1969. Firm booking s are already made
well into 1970. Beyond that point, we have " holds" or "first refusal"
on our facilities dating as far ahead as 1998.
Pusuc RELATIO NS AND Civic APPAIR S

We continu e as a Directo r of the Nob H ill Associa tion and the San
Francis co Conven tion and Visitors Bureau. W e also maintain our memberships in the Press Club of San F rancisco and the Greater San Francisco Chamb er of Comme rce. These contacts ena ble us to keep abreast of
matters which might affect the Temple activities.
Our image is good, not only within convent ion and theatrical groups
but also ethnic groups. A few quotes from satisfied tenants will illustra te
the feeling of those who use our T emple and come in contact with our
staff: " ..• it would be a w onderfu l world if everyon e could be as gracious as the folk with whom we have been in contact at M asonic A uditorium in San Francis co." " •.. to take this opportu nity to thank you
and your staff for a superb perform ance at our recent convention in San
Francis co." " .. . the marvelous cooperation you extende d me and the
staff in the prepara tion and execution of our annual meeting ." " P lease
convey to all of your people the appreci ation of both myself and my
staff for the quality of your associat es' coopera tion." "Your service and
attitude of all your employees was simply superb. It is comforting to
work with people who are as complet ely responsive as you and your
associat es were." "Please give my regards to all the staff who helped
us to make this one of the finest meeting s we have ever had." " It is time
to reflect on and extend thanks for the many individu al efforts which

152

PROCE EDING S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

went into making this proba bly the great est meeti
ng we have ever had."
"Eac h perso n treate d us most cordially and made
our stay that much
more pleas ant."
TEMP LE STAF F

Our small but capab le and devoted staff lost two
me~bers this y~ar;
one by retire ment and one by death. Repla cing
them will be most difficult. The Temp le staff members are to be comm ended
for their loya~ and
untiri ng service. With out their suppo rt we could
not have accomplished
our objectives.
It has been a privilege and a pleas ure to work with
the members of
the Boar d of Trust ees. The supp ort received from
the members of ~rand
Lodge and the Breth ren has been most gratif ying
and deeply appre ciated .
Resp ectfu lly subm itted,
GEOR GE D. GAVI N, Mana ger

REP ORT OF CAL IFOR NIA FRE EMA SON
PUB LICA TION BOA RD
To the Most Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodg e F. & A.
M. of California:
The publication and distribution of the California
Freemason is
admi nister ed by a board comprised of the Gran
~ Mast er, the Gran d
Secre tary and the Edito r-in-C hief who is appo
inted by the Gran d
Mast er.
The maga zine has been issue d at regul ar quart
erly intei:vals to all
members of Calif ornia Lodg es. It has main taine
d its stand ing amo~g
the best Maso nic publications. Each issue is diver
sified to su~ply its
reade rs with Maso nic infor matio n and inspiration
. Some space is allotted to Gran d Lodg e so that Maso ns may know abou
t state :wide activities. Long , schol arly articles, excellent in themselve
s, are av~1~ed becau se
they lack appea l for the majo rity of our quart er
of a million reade rs.
A quart erly canno t be a news magazine but w_ith
the help of our reade rs
we repor t a few outst andin g event s of gener al 1~tere
st.
Ther e has been a gratif ying numb er of paid subsc . .
riptio ns f~om sojourn ers and from intere sted perso ns in other sta~es
and c~untries.
The prese nt per capit a of 35 cents has been J~~t
suffic~ent .to cover
the cost of prepa ring, printi ng, distri butin g and ma1lm
g. This will suffice
for the future until such time as rising costs overt ake
us.
The financial figures for the past fiscal year will
be found in the
audit or's repor t.
Respectfully subm itted.
NEWC OMB CoND l!.E, Edito r-in-C hief
Euc;E NE S. HoPP,

EowARD H. SIEM S,

Gran d Mast er
Gran d Secre tary
Refer red to Comm ittee on Finan ce. (Bud get alloc
ation

)

REP ORT OF COM MIT TEE ON MAS ONI C HIST

153

ORY

To the Most Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodg e F. & A.
M. of California:
Your Comm ittee on Maso nic Histo ry prese nts the
following repor t :
The members of the Comm ittee unani mous ly expre
ss their appre ciation to the Gran d Lodg e and especially to our
Gran d Mast er, Dr.
Euge ne S. Hopp , for the privilege of servi ng. The
coope ration of the
Gran d Lodg e and the Gran d Mast er has made this
year a pleas ure and
a most produ ctive one.
This past year has seen the start of a progr am which
has set out to
catalo gue all of the Maso nic Lodg e build ings
, past and present. in
Calif ornia and Hawa ii. On May 8, 1968 a letter
was sent out to the
Secre taries of the const ituen t Lodges reque sting
infor matio n and pictures, if possible, of all the build ings used by each
Lodg e since the Gran d
Lodge was formed in 1850.
Out of the 706 Lodg es now in existence in Calif
ornia and Hawa ii
we have received answ ers, at the present, from
130 of them. We hope
that the Mast ers and Ward ens of the balan ce
of the Lodg es will see
to it that this inform ation will be forthcomin
g to the Comm ittee in the
near future. The members of the Comm ittee will
be glad to lend assis tance to any Lodg e reque sting help in prepa ring this
material. Just write
to the Chair man of this Comm ittee and a memb
er will be deleg ated to
help.
Some of the material reach ing this Comm ittee is
complete with pictures and in excellent form. We wish to thank
those members at this
time for their helpful assis tance and cooperation.
For some Lodges the
material will have to be suppl emen ted to be able to
complete the histo ry.
We hope in the near futur e to creat e a volum e
listing all of these
Lodge buildings in Calif ornia and Hawa ii. This
will be done out of the
material that has been subm itted to the Committee.
We want to be sure
that all the infor matio n of all the Lodges is inclu
ded so be sure your
Lodge gets all of its material in.
Your Comm ittee on Maso nic Histo ry also believ
es that the histo ry
of each Lodge is impo rtant. A file on each Lodg
e and its activities is
being kept in the Gran d Lodg e archives. If any
Lodg e has any impo rtant even t forthcoming let your Comm ittee know
and we will be glad
to assist you in your comm entar y of these event
s. Num erous corne rstone layings, dedications, and other Maso nic event
s have been atten ded
by the members of your Comm ittee throu ghou t this
last year.
The color ed slide lecture, "Som e Came by Land
by Sea," depicting some of the locales and build ings and Some Came
of pione er times of
Calif ornia Maso nry has been show n sever al times
and is still avail able
to any Lodg e on reque st. We will send the slides
and a writt en comment ary depicting each picture.
This last year your Committee has spent very little
of the allotm ent

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

154

appro priate d to it. This coming year, in order to get our
projec t of )~sting
the Lodge buildings off to a prope r start, we would
like to subm it the
following budge t :
Posta ge ····················-··············..................$ 60·00
Repro ductio n of Photo s............................ 100.00
Trave l expense.......................................... 100.0 0
Telep hone expense.................................... 40.00
.
This is a total amou nt of $300.00. We ask that this sum
be appro pnated for use by the Comm ittee during the coming Maso
nic year and
hereb y so reque st.
Respe ctfull y subm itted,
PHILI P L. GOLD STEIN , Chairman
PAUL COWG ILL
WILL IAM
GLIDD EN
LESTE R F. ANDE RSON

w.

RosER T E. DoE
RALP H E. COOP ER
DARR ELL D. HULL

Refer red to Committee on Finan ce. (Budg et alloca tion)

REP ORT OF SPEC IAL COM MIT TEE ON
COL UMB IA TEM PLE
To the Most Wors hipfu l Grand Lodg e F. & A. M . of
California:
lo behal f of the Columbia Temp le Comm ittee l wish
t~

thank th.e
Grand Secre tary, Broth er Edwa rd Siems , and his secret
aries for their
help and cooperation durin g the past year, and also to
the many Lodges
that held meetings in Columbia Temp le.
ln the museum we have installed two tape record~rs.
One tape tells
of the part Maso nry had in the founding of _Columbia.
_The other ta~
gives an accou nt of the various Maso nic artifa cts on
dtSpl~y. We will
be ve.r y glad to displa y and explain any artifa cts that
are given to us.
Broth er Kiersch of this Committee is prepa ring a new
broch ure on
the Columbia Temp le. These are to be given to the
members of the
Lodge s making visitations to the Columbia Temp le.
. •
In our budge t for 1968- 1969 we are askin g to have our
custo dian s
salary increa sed to six hundr ed dollar s a year. We feel
that his interest
and the extra work he does deserve to be recognized .
The following is our budge t for 1968- 1969:
Fixed Charg es and Expen ses :
Utilities ...................................................... $500.00
Miscellaneous Supplies ............................ 400.0 0
Burgl ar Alarm Service.............................. 96.00
Tape Recor der Service............................... 36.00
Insura nce ....................................................103.24
Tuolu mne Coun ty Taxes .......................... 55.45
Rental (Beac hes and Parks )....................
1.00
9
Custo dian .................................................. 600.0 0
$1,791.6

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Improvements :
Interp retati ve Imp..................................... 500.0 0
Instal lation of Cooler................................ 200.0 0
1Maste r's Hat. ...........- .................. ............. 150.0 0
(New and Repai r of Old One)
Tape s ........................................................ 50.00

155

900.00

Total ....................................................

$2.69 1.69
Respe ctfull y submitted,
WILL IAM D. ARCH ER, Chairman
GEOR GE A. JURGE NS
DONA LD M. S TEWA RT, JR.

A. T. KIERS CH
JoHN A. KIRBY

DONA LD P . PITMA N

Refer red to Committee on Finan ce. (Budg et alloca tion)

REP ORT OF COM MITT EE ON COM MER CIAL
ISM
To the Most Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodge F. cS A. M. of
California:
Again , your Committee is please d to repor t that as
of this writing
nothing serious has developed among the Blue Lodges.
There have been
a few minor infractions amon g individuals which when
called to the
members' attent ion were straig htene d out. In most instan
ces the infrac tion was due to ignor ance or failure to ascertain befor
e taking action.
( 1) In one instan ce a Temp le Association adver
tised in the local
newspaper of a Sund ay Break fast. specifying the price.
Whil e the in•
formation came to us after the affair, the Maste r and
Presid ent of the
Temple Association were called and admit ted an uninte
ntional and unthinking lapse. We have their letter acknowledging the
error and assurance of prope r future action.
Anoth er organ izatio n, using the Maso nic Embl em on
its letterh ead,
aolicited advertising from the public gener ally for their
souve nir pro-gram at a dinne r dance . Our Grand Maste r wrote the
Presid ent of the
group order ing him to cease and desist from their activi
ties in this connection and direct ed him to remove the squar e and comp
ass from their
letterhead and other statio nery, and directed the club
to suspe nd all
activities until furthe r order of the Grand Maste r.
We have had an inquir y concerning an ocean cruise from
one of our
Lodges. The Gran d Mast er advis ed that nothin g in our
law prohibited
any group of Maso ns from bandi ng togeth er on s uch
a ventu re so long
as the Lodg e was not involved in any way. The ventu re
being strictl y on
their own, no help could be antici pated in event of
a loss from any
Masonic Body.
A cemetery association solicited Lodges in Hawa ii in
writin g. The
'tlriter stated that he was "a member of the Frate rnity,
that he unde.rltood our roster s are not to be used for business or perso
nal gain," clos-

156

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

nl human?" It was pointed out
I
..
with the remark, Howeverjd amk: him subject to Masonic charges
ing
that such use of our roster wou ma

. stances still under investigation
under our Masonic Law.
1 into serious situa.
( 2) There are, however, severa1 m
wholly cognizant
which could, if not satisf~ctforll1·1y. afnswerJ~~~e~:
•
tions. Our Grand Master IS u y m orme

f:Ct.

b reac hes of our law by the concordant
.
transpired.
hashave
of what
been no serious
There
bodies.
As
.

ta.;~: ~:~~~~sn~~;~~fz:~ions have caused no hrobl~~~ drr
ar nor have the youth groups. t oug

e

e

~~l~h:. ~~~Ir: q'uite active, had several proposals which could

not be allowed as contrary to our Law. . Sh .
d 1 'th th
nbne. f
Ancient Arabic Order Nobles Mysh~
e
k f the Commercialism Committee, y ar, ea s w1
Th
les and clubs. In years past due to
. T
.
e wor o
d Master Anderson to pro.
activities of the various Shrme ef P G
these acti~ities it was necessa1 tor. s~:nan edict against circuses. In
hibit certam foot~al~ gGmes daM ~e~: relaxed that edict, permitting a
as hers their families and friends. with
later years one o t e f ra~h
Temple to hold a circus or el me:1·c The Temple was required to ask
no sale of tickets to thedgMenerat pu chi .year under an agreed set of rules.
f h
. .
as er ea
f the Gran
. .
her of Temples have requested permission o t e
perm1ss1on ~
which has been given under the. set of rules
Since that time a
. the circuses held by certam Temples,
1
then current Gran
adopted. Othef Temp esd st~e~~~he restriction has been lifted and are
hav~ apparent. y assu.~e t permission. It is our recommendation to t~e
~uttm~ on a c1rc~:1tero~hat he convene a meeting of all Potentates m
h of their staff as may be necessary, and the
.
mcomm.g
this junsd1ctton, with sue . 1·ism s hou Id also attend. At this meeting
d
'tt on Commerc1a
II C
h Sh . just what they can and cannot do an
omm1 ee
fu
should be outlined to t e. rm:rd to football games, circuses, and other
re~is not done we are afraid in time matters
them hU:mg
of somet
expected If
what isactivities.
public

~u~aster,

~r~nd

will get out of hand . . f 1 Eu ene S. Hopp, Grand Master, our sincere
gooJ counsel and assistance. He has been an

tha:;~ ~~s~i~~~~:~~e~

and especially to
to all ofGus. d Lodge Officers'. Inspectors
inspiration
.
To the other ran
Grand Secretary Siems, our thanks for their assistance.
Respectfully submitted,
VINCENT P. McMuRDO, Chairman
HARVEY HARKNESS

JAMES J. DALTON

CLARENCE GUPPEY

)
t'
II
B d
Referred to C omm1'ttee on Finance. ( u get a oca ion

157

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON LODGE FINANCING
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Committee on Lodge Financing respectfully submits its report
for the past year. A review of the activities of the Committee during this
period indicates continuing progress in the construction, maintenance
and operation of Masonic Temple properties. This increasing progress
is reflected in the annual financial statements submitted by the Lodges
and Masonic Temple Associations relative to their financial transactions
and other matters relating to Masonic Temple construction, mainte~
nance and operation. During the past year 310 Temple Associations and
Lodges have submitted financial statements, as required by Section 200
of the Masonic Code. These statements reveal that each year- more and
more interest is being taken in the proper efficient business and .financial
affairs of the Lodges, and as a result, with few exceptions, they are
being operated on a firm . sound financial basis. Each year more Lodges
and Temple Associations are establishing cash and depreciation reserves
which are so important and necessary for the repair, rehabilitation and
replacement of the Temples that will be required in the future.
The increasing and continuing success of the financial operations of
the Temples gives cause for the Committee to again recommend to the
Lodges (who have not done so) that they form non-profit Temple A ssociations to carry on the business and financial matters of their Temples.
During the past year the Committee acted upon approximately 77
applications relating to the purchase of property, the construction of
new Temples, the ·remodeling, repairing and other necessary matters
relating to the financial requirements and operation of Masonic Lodge
facilities. Full details of all the transactions are contained in the Grand
Lodge files. These transactions, together with other miscellaneous re.
quests, required necessary action of the Committee in approximately
110 proceedings. More than 50 visitations were made to various Lodges
to advise and counsel with the brethren concerning problems respecting
Lodge and Temple Association affairs. These visitations, made upon
invitation of the brethren, were in all instances very s uccessful and the
problems satisfactorily resolved.
The Committee again points out the importance of keeping the Temples in proper order and repair. An unpainted, neglected, rundown Tem·
pie creates a very poor image of our fraternity in the community in
which it is located. It is the obligation of the brethren not only to provide
adequate, comfortable and presentable facilities for all who have the
privilege of using the Lodges, but also the obligation to keep pace with
the growth of the community. A well-ordered Temple, indicating good
housekeeping and pride will gain and retain the respect and high regard
of all who view it.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

The Committ ee wishes to commend the various Lodges and Temple
Associat ions for their interest and cooperat ion in all matters relating to
their compliance with the requirem ents of the Internal Revenue Service
and the Franchis e Tax Board in matters concerni ng their tax status.
The Committ ee again recommends that constant review be made of
insuranc e program s of the Lodges in order to determin e that they are
properly insured in all requirem ents necessar y to protect their property
and their members.
The volume of Committ ee correspo ndence has been constant ly increasing and during the past year has been unusuall y heavy and the
cooperat ion of the officers and members of the Lodges and Temple
Associations in providin g the Committ ee sufficient and adequate information is greatly apprecia ted.
The yearly activities of the Committ ee are set forth in the following
pages of this report and will be included in the publishe d proceedi ngs.

RussIAN RrvER LoDGE No. 181
$
f $2 400
Consent granted to increase Joa
to 6,500 to provide
n
I
funds to add dd ·r
a I 10na space to Lodge building as required by
tenant.

158

FRESNO MASONIC TEMPLE COMPANY
Applicat ion approved requestin g consent to enter into change
order agreeme nt for $4,709.68 in connecti on with Temple construc tion.
NAVAL LODGE No. 87
Applicat ion approved requestin g consent to transfer $15,000
from Lodge general funds to the Temple Associat ion to pay a portion of architect 's fee in connection with the proposed construc tion
of a new Temple in Vallejo.
YOSEMITE LooG'E No. 99
Applicat ion approved requestin g consent to exchang e present
Temple site for a new and more desirable site. No financing involved.
ARCATA LoocE No. 106
Applicat ion approved requestin g consent to transfer $10,000 from
Lodge general funds to the Temple Associat ion ; said funds to purchase a new Temple site in Arcata.
TABLE MouNTAIN LoDGE No. 124
Applicat ion approved and consent granted request to purchase
property for parking purposes adjacent to the Lodge for $2.500; also
consent to transfer of said sum from Lodge general funds to the
Building Associat ion in exchang e for a regular membership in the
stated amount.
REDWOOD CITY LoDGE No. 168
Applicat ion approved granting consent to expend $12,000 (or
. less) to repair the roof on the Lodge building; also consent to transfer said amount from Lodge general funds to the Hall Associat ion for
such purpose.

159

° •

BROOKLYN LoocE No. 225
ately $9.225 for remod~~nse?t gr.anted req~es~ to expend approxim
Temple b 'Jd· . I

ng mterior and pamtmg exterior of the
mg, a so
consent to tran f $12 ·OOO f rom Lod ge general funds to u1
the B u1·1d·mg
. . n. s er
A ssoc1atro
LAUREL LoocE No. 245

wor~~:~~:te~t::i~:! :::~s/$~ 2~1ace roof and do other required

MADERA LoDGE No. 280

h C~nsent granted request to expend not to exceed $7 000 to . t II
ms a
a eatmg and cooling system in the Masonic Temple. ,
MONROVIA LoDGE No. 308
Consent granted request to transfer $4 624 ·38 f rom Lod ge gen·
eral fund t th T empIe A ssociation to pay
current property taxes
s o e
·
DELANO LoocE No. 309
A 1· ·
elevafc:: ~~a~~n ;pprolvebd ~eq.uesting consent to construc t and install
e emp e u1ldmg not to exceed a cost of $35 000 .
.
cJudmg appurten ant work: also consent to borrow $25 000. f
or e
•
purpose of completi ng the installati on.
DELANO LoDGE No. 309

:h-

$25 ~s~~t $~~~d f to indcdr:~se previous ly approved loan from
or a itlonal construc tion and imp rovement
.
.
work and to expend not to exceed $55,000.
TEMESCAL LODGE No. 314

A

l'

Maso~c I~ ton tpprove~ ~equesting consent to form the Temesca l
t'

emp e Associat ion; also consent to transfer $500 from
ge general funds to the Associat ion when formed.
PAc1Prc GROVE LoocE No. 331
h
Consent granted request to expend not to exceed $6 000 f
e
t
or
.
room.
Lodge
the
ating
rehabilit
and
purpose of remodeling
MAsoNrc TEMPLE AssocrATION OP R1cHMOND
McKINLEY LoDGE No. 347
Lod

ALPHA LoocE No. 431

· . approved requestin g consent to purchase property
App1·iMcation
d ·
for new asomc Temple 't · R· h
s1 e m ic mon in the approxim ate sum
of $130,750.

160

GRJ\ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

BUENA PARK LoDGE No. 357

Consent granted request to form new non-profit Temple Association and to transfer $100 from Lodge general funds to the new Association when formed.
HUNTINGTON BEACH LoDGE No. 380

Consent granted request to transfer $3.500 to Lodge checking
account for the purpose of expending not to exceed that amount to
install an air conditioning unit in the Lodge room.
HIGHLAND PARK LoDGE No. 382

Consent granted request to enter into contract for alterations and
other required work on the Temple building in the estimated cost of
$12,200; consent also granted request to borrow $10,000 for such
purposes.
PERRIS LoooE No. 411

Consent granted request to purchase 4.52 acres at $7,000 per
acre with the understanding that 3 acres are to be sold simultaneously at approximately $10,000 per acre, retaining 1.52 acres for Masonic Temple construction.
ExETER LooGE No. 424

Application approved granting consent to install heating and
cooling unit in the Lodge room at a cost of approximately $5,700;
consent also granted to borrow $1.500 for such purpose.
SCHOFIELD LoDGE No. 443

Consent granted to:
( 1) Transfer of title of property held by the Lodge to the
Temple Association.
{2) Transfer $50,000 from Lodge general funds to the Temple Association.
{ 3) Enter into contract for the construction of the new Masonic Temple in the estimated sum of $130,000.
{4) Borrow funds required to complete contract payments
for the construction.
MouNT DtABLO LoDGE No. 448

Application approved requesting consent to enter into a contract
for paving and improving area adjacent to the Lodge for parking
purposes at a cost not exceeding $5,000.
MonGAN HtLL LoDGE No. 463
Consent granted request to start construction (to enclose) on the
new Masonic Temple in Morgan Hill at an approximate cost of
$50.210; also consent to transfer $10.000 from Lodge general funds
to the Temple Association in the stated amount.

161

MoRGAN HtLL LODGE No. 463

Consent granted request to enter into a contract to expend
$.13.000 to construct the dining room facility along with the construction of the new Masonic Temple; consent also granted to borrow said
amount for such purposes.
EL SEGUNDO LoDGE No. 507

Consent granted request to transfer $6.500 from Lodge general
funds to the Te~ple Association; also consent to expend not to exceed $9.575 to mstall an air conditioning and heating unit in the
Lodge.
ARCADIA LODGE No. 547

Application approved requesting consent to tran sfer $3,000 from
Lod_g e general funds to the Temple Association for the purpose of
paymg the first one-half of 1968 property taxes .
SEMPER VIRENS LoocE No. 552

. Application_ approved requesting consent to form the Semper
V1rens Masonic Temple Association and to transfer $300 from
Lodge general funds to the Temple Association when formed.
LYNWOOD LoocE No. 600

. Co_n sent granted request to install new heating and air conditionmg um~ and other required facilities in the Lodge building at cost not
exceedmg $6,000.
MENLO PARK LoocE No. 651

Applica~i~n approved requesting consent not to exceed $37,000
for the repa1rmg, repainting, replacing the roof and performing other
necessary major construction work on the Masonic Temple.
RESEDA LooGE No. 666
Tr.an~fer of $3,000 from Lodge general funds to the Building
As_so~1a tion approved a s requested; said funds to be used for re'pamtmg . cleaning and other necessary work in the Lodge Room.
Los ALTos L ODGE No. 712

Co~sent granted ~pplication to purchase church property for
Masomc Temple uses m Los Altos in the estimated sum of $130,000;
also consent to enter into a loan agreement for $30,000 for the purpose of the purchase.
AVENAL LooGE No. 772

Consent granted application to purchase property for Masonic
Temple purposes in the sum of $6,000: also consent to execute a
note and deed of trust for $4,000; also consent to transfer title to
the property to the Temple Association when formed.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

162

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

WESTMINSTER LoDGE No . 787
Co nse nt gra nte d req ues t to Purc has e pro per ty for a M aso n ic
Tem ple in the sum of $14.000.
OAK PLAINS LoDGE No . 789
har es of Tem ple As~
Co nse nt gra nte d req ues t to _pu h
re ase 20 st of $50 per sha re. ociat ion reg ula r me mb ersh ip cer
tificates at a cos
OAK PLAINS LoDGE No . 789
Co nse nt gra nte d req ues t to de~ d $2 500 to sta rt con stru ctio n
~en
. add itio n to the Tem ple
on the firs t two pha ses of new
ming room
bui ldin g.
SIMI VALLEY LoDGE No . 806
.
ent to sta rt con stru ctio n of
Ap plic atio n app rov ed r~que ~ti
~gV
co
~sy
at the esti ma ted cos t of
M
in im1 a e
the new a som·c Tem ple
$33.000: also con sen t to b orr ow $30 OOO for the con trac t costs .
,
CONEJO VALLEY LoDGE No . 807
con sen t to borr ow $13 0 ·000 for
Ap plic atio n app rov e d _req ues r
mg
M
nic Tem ple in Tho usa nd
the pur pos e of con stru ctm g
a new
aso
Oa ks.

5

1

CAMARILLO LooGE No. 82 4
.
nt to form the Cam arillo
Ap plicatio n approve~ r~ques
yng
con:ent to tran sfe r $15 0 from
aso
nic
Tem
ple
Assoc1ation: a so con s
M
Lod ge gen eral f un d s to the Ass oci atio n wh en form e d .
Th e pas t yea r has bee n a mos t suc ces sfu l one in the acti viti es of the
Committ~ee and this wa s due to t~e ~:e1 d ·d coo per atio n and considera~
~re~ of the various Lod ges. We
tion received from the officers
an_
.
11
. e t 0 exp res s our sincere app rec iati on for the full sup por t
esp ec1a Y d esir
,
G
d Ma ste r Eug ene S · H opp .
and enc our age me nt ext end ed
b~ur r:~so extrem.ely gra
tefu l to
and his Gra nd Lod ge ~fficers
. d ~i::mc ient staff for the ir assi the
Gra nd Sec reta ry, Ed Siems.
stan~e,
an h C
adv ice an d coo per a f ion affo rde d t e omcm"ttee· Wi th such coo per atio n
· g
d the privilege of ser vin
and enc our age me nt from eve
ryo
on this Com mit tee has bee n insp ne con cer ne ' .
iring and rew ard ing .
Res pec tful ly sub mit ted .
MARK A. GREEN, Chairman
GEORGE
BARRETT
GEORGE W . STURM
SAMUEL RosEN
lvAN CRASE
VA NT . SHACKELFORD
BENJAMIN SUSMAN
VICTOR R. OLTMANNS
ELMER HIGBIE
11
.
Ref erre d to Com mit tee on Fin
anc e. (Bu dge t a oc.att~n )
At 12: 00 noo n Gra nd Lod ge
wa s call ed off until 1 .30 p.m
.

c.

s.

163

AF TE RN OO N SE SS IO N-

Tu esd ay, Oc tob er 15, 196
8
At 1 : 30 p.m. Gra nd Lod ge wa
s call ed on, the Gra nd Ma ste
r presid ing. Th is ses sion wa s rais ed
by Wo rsh ipful Rob ert G. Go
ar, Ma ste r of
San Jac into Lod ge No . 338.
Th e inv oca tion wa s del ive red
by Ins pec tor
Ler oy G . Con nel ly.
RE PO RT OF CO MM ITT

EE ON RE CO GN ITI ON
OF FO RE IG N GR AN D
LO DG ES
To the Mo st Wo rsh ipfu l Gra
nd Lod ge F. & A. M. of Califor
nia:
Yo ur C ommit tee on Rec ogn itio
n of For eign Gra nd Lod ges
und er con sid era tion sev era l req
has had
ues ts for rec ognition, as wel
l as hav ing
oth er info rma tion from fore ign
Gra nd Lod ges , and sub mit s the
following
rep ort and rec om me nda tion :
We lco me news comes from
R. W . Naf iz Eke nen , Gra nd Sec
of the Gra nd Lod ge of Tu rke
reta ry
y, tha t pea ce and har mo ny hav
esta blis hed wit h the Sup rem e
e bee n reCo uncil of Tur key . wh ich in reo
rga niz atio n
has am end ed its Byl aws to syn
chroni ze the ir act ivit ies wit h
tho se of the
Gra nd Lod ge, and has tak en
as a bas is reg ula rity in the Gra
nd Lod ge
as a requisite for me mb ersh ip
in the Sco ttis h Rit e.
Me mb ers of this Com mit tee hav
e had the ben efit of sev era l mee
with Bro the r Au reli ano Car cob
ting s
a, wh o wa s-u nti l his dep artu
re for the
Un ited Sta tes last Jan ua rythe Jun ior Wa rde n of Hu mil
ity Lod ge in
Gu ant ana mo Cit y, (:u ba. He
is also a me mb er of the Sco
ttis h Rit e in
Havan a. Fro m this kno wle dge
abl e and exp erie nce d Ma son
, we lea rn
tha t the Cub an Lod ges are
active and meeting reg ula rly.
Ap plic atio ns
for the deg ree s flood in and
more tha n bal anc e the num ber
of Ma son s
wh o hav e sou ght san ctu ary
abr oad . Ap plic ant s are rigo rou
sly inv esti gat ed and atte mp ts by the Com
mu nis ts to infi ltra te the Cra ft
hav e been
rep uls ed. Bec aus e of the size
of Cu ba. it is pos sibl e for the
members of
a lod ge to kno w the bac kgr oun
d, the political bel iefs and affi
liations. the
acq uai nta nce shi ps, the em plo
ym ent and all oth er per tine nt
facts con cer ning a pro spe ctiv e Ma son , and
the y hav e car efu lly refined the
ir inv estigat ive pro ces ses to ass ure onl
y the adm itta nce of the wo rth
y and well
qualified.
Th e lod ges are still per mit ted
to occ upy the pre mis es the y
form erly
ow ned , but the ir ren tal pro per
ty has bee n tran sfe rred to eith
er the ten ant s or the Sta te und er the
Cas tro Do ctri ne tha t all rea
l pro per ty belon gs to the Sta te and the
Go ver nm ent "pe rmi ts" the form
er ow ner s
to use onl y the spa ce the y form
erly occupied. Th us. the Gra
nd Lod ge
still use s and occ upi es the sam
e floo rs in its old tem ple bui
ldin g it had
bef ore the rev olu tion , but the
rem ain der of the bui ldin g has
bee n con fisc ate d.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

164

Gii.AND LODGE OF CALIF ORNI A

The lodge s are hara ssed by frequ ent visits of
inspe ctors and gove rnment agen ts. who have the powe r to levy subs
tanti al fines for the most
minor infra ction of any of the numerous regul
ations . and by the requi rement of obtai ning perm its for meetings and
other lodg e activities. We
learn of no insta nces. howe ver, of wher e gove
rnme
not members of the Craf t, conc ernin g them selve nt inspectors , who are
s with matt ers of ritua l
or lodg e proc edur e and mana geme nt.
It shou ld be a ma tter of pride to all of us that in
a coun try wher e freedom is being stifled. men turn to the Maso nic
Lodg e wher e the light of
liber ty still flames.
The leade rs of the Craf t in Cuba are revea led
as selfle ss and dedicated Maso ns, prote cting and safeg uard ing
that whic h is committed to
their care, and at this dista nce from the scen e
of actio n we can only admire and appla ud their cour age and zeal.
You r Com mitte e, there fore. is of the opinion
that there is now no
valid reason for seve ring the bond s of amit
y whic h links our Gran d
Lodg e with that of Cuba .
A reque st for recog nitio n has been received
from the Gran d Lodg e
of Goia s in Goia na, Brazil. The accep ted Test
for Recognition as adop ted by our Gran d Lodg e and formed in the 1953
Proc eedin gs. Page 216,
is being sent to their Gran d Secr etary . Answ
ers to the same Test , address ed to the Gran d Lodg e of Brazilia and
the Gran d Lodg e of Pernambuco are still awai ted.
We. there fore, recom mend that the requ ests
for recognition of these
three Brazilian Gran d Lodg es be put over for
furth er cons idera tion .
We move the adop tion of this repo rt, sugg estio
ns and recom mend ations conta ined there in.
Respectfully subm itted .
WILL IAM RHOD ES HERV EY, JR., Chai
rman
REGI NALD BUN CE
FRED ERIC K R DEBA RROW S
] o HN

M. GoRO ON

Adop ted.

REP ORT OF COM MIT TEE ON PUBLIC

SCH OOL S

To the Mos t Wor ship ful G rand Lodg e F. &
A. M. of Calif ornia :
Your Com mitte e on Publ ic Scho ols cons isted
of twen ty-tw o members and two cons ultan ts. an incre ase of seven
members and one consulta nt over last year . This has allow ed an
even great er geog raphical
repre senta tion than before.
The Gran d Mas ter. Most Wor ship ful Euge
ne S. Hopp . appo inted
the Senior Gran d War den, Righ t Wor ship ful
Ches ter R. Mac Phee , as
his liaison with the Committee. Brot her Mac
Pbee has been of great assista nce in offering timely advice on matt ers
perta ining to the Com mittee.

165

.
meetings were held durin
SanThre
.
Franecisco
on Octo ber 10
.g the Maso nic
year: The first in
the last on June 1 in San F • ~ext m Los Ange
les on Janu ary 20 and
ranc1
sco
at
the
were welcomed at these meetings a d . 1 G
/~nRd Lodge. Several guests
u~y Gran d Mast er. Edw ard H. s7e~:c PGeM
ober t A . Crigl er, DepVern e W . Hend rix, Assi stant Gran d '
•
Lehm ann, a member of Pal t" LodS ecret ary. Gran d Secre tary, and
h C
me
ge N 351 Brot her Rich ard R P
t e o~mittee , atten ded allesmeet
in s of tho. C ' a.n d a Cons ultan t· to·
were of invaluable assis tance .
g
e omm1ttee and his efforts
PUBL IC SCHOO LS WEE K APRI L 22-2
6 1968
The Gran d Mast er early in the ear h
.
Scho ol-C orne rston e of Libert .. h ~ ose
the sloga n: "The Publ ic
Maso ns and the citizenry at] y.
~ds ogan was readily accepted by
e ff ec te d t hroug hout the Statearge
. al
. Tbas ev1Ience d by the promotion
efforts
Millions of milk carto ns
. edresu ts of soi:ne of these follow :
Schools durin g the Wee k's obcarrie a pane l urgm
g a visit to the Publ ic
serva nce.
All
the majo r food ch .
publicizeofPubl
ic Scho ols Wee~~~ ~e~e conta cted reque sting
space to
spon se was enthu siast ic.
t e1r weekly food ads and their rebillboards carri ed the m
Cahf~or~
orma .than
This125
.
proje
ct
e to the high
fornia .
ways of
was spon sored by essag
the Scottish Rite of
Cali-

.f

Proc lama tions were issue d b
state legis
latur es in both CaJ1·fo ~ a gdreHat nu~ber of publi
c officials and
R cl.
•
rnia an
awau
a io and television spots wer
ous statio ns, which were gene rous :.~hr~ha~ed. .
a~d distributed to numery our Gran d M
I
e1r
air
b
aster
your Com mitte e Chtime.
.
mem er John Noca s appe,ared
on six d .
d a1rm_a~ and Committee
Al Mala ikah Tem ple of th Sh ~a io an tel~v
1s1on programs.
i' x 40' Publ ic Scho ols Wee k ~a rm~ . was
agam
responsible for the
Ange les City Hall.
nner ispla yed at the entra nce to Los
The York
Bodies of Calif ornia
.
over 1,000 posteRite
rs in buses thro
h
h made
T
fi
ug out t esta te possible the posti ng of
went y- ve thous
"offi · I"
Trad e Tech nical Colleand
ge wer;1~· t ~~ste~, ·print ed at Los Ange
les
Gran d Secr etary.
•
is r1 ute throu gh the office of the
Scho ol systems coop
d extensive! b d. . .
All of the sugg ested erate
ro rams
. y .Y istrib utmg publicity.
avail able to all Lodg es ~er~
d co~ta 1ned m the Guid eline s, and made
very successful.
•
use t roug h,1ut the jurisdiction and were
year our pamp hlet "Th M
SaluThis
te Thei
r School Adm .'. tr e
ason of Calif ornia and Haw aii
at.ors a nd sTeac
h I"
quan tity to all of the Lodg1111s
es w1"th th
ers25,00
· was
offer
in
e result that
0 copie
s ed
were

166

PROCE EDING S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

sent out, comp letely exhau sting our suppl y with some

order s left unfilled.

NEXT PUBL IC SCHO OLS WEEK APRIL 21-25

. 1969
The Depu ty Grand Maste r has annou nced the sloga
n "The Public
Scho ol-Fr eedom 's Found ation Stone " for the 1969
obser vance .
The poste r design has been appro ved and is ready
for printi ng.
COMM ITTEE PARTI CIPAT ION

A total of seven meeti ngs were held by Comm ittee
memb ers with
those repres enting conco rdant Maso nic bodie s in
an effort to better
correl ate our variou s activi ties. This was the first
time that this was
done on a wide- scale basis and prove d so succe ssful
that it is now being
plann ed again for this fall.
Your Comm ittee has worke d dilige ntly in an effort
to suppo rt education in Califo rnia and Hawa ii on a year- round basis
and has encou raged Maso ns to becom e more active in the teachi
ng profes sion, from
their local schoo ls to the variou s board s of educa tion.
Progr ess has been
made but even more must be done.
The memb ers of the Comm ittee have been assign
ed geogr aphic al
areas and respon sibilit ies. Each Inspe ctor has been
inform ed of the
names of the Comm ittee memb ers in his distric t and
your Comm ittee
is confid ent that with the help of all conce rned one of
our most impor tant
Maso nic projec ts, the protec tion of a good Publi c
Schoo l system , will
be perpe tuated .
BUDG ET

The Comm ittee reque sts a budge t for the ensui ng year
in the amou nt
of $4.135.00, detail s of which have been subm itted
to the F inanc e Committee.
Respe ctfull y submi tted,
R1cHA RD H. DuTW ILER, Chairman
GEOR GE E. HIATT
EARL VAN VoRs T
NORB ERT P. T EST ER
THOM AS SCARL ETT, JR.
ROLA ND F. ATWO OD
EoWIN N. STAN SEL
PETE B. FLORI O
JoH N R. NocA s
CLAR ENCE B. HART
LAuRE NCE C. CooK
MILTO N M. RUBIN

WILL IAM J. CAVE N
RoBER T KERR
WILL IAM R. PORTE R
CLYD E M. STINE
CHAR LES F. CHAP MAN
GEOR GE C. HoLST EIN
ELRO Y D. JOYCE
PHILI P C. REINE R
WARR EN
WILD MAN
HARO LD
FARR

w.
J.

Refer red to Comm ittee on Finan ce. (Budg et alloca tion)

167

REP ORT OF COM MIT TEE ON
CON STIT UTIO N OBS ERV ANC E
To the Most Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodge F. & A . M. of

California:

It has now been 181 years since the true birth of Amer
ican freedo m
as evide nced by the signin g of the Const itutio n of
the Unite d S tates.
In procla iming the month of Septe mber, 1968. to be
Const itutio n Obse rvance Mont h. our Grand Maste r obser ved that :
"Free maso ns and Freem asonr y exerc ised great influe
nce in the formatio n of our Const itutio n. Broth er Georg e Wash
ingto n presid ed.
Broth er Benja min Frank lin saved the flound ering
conve ntion with an
appea l for praye r, Broth er Edmu nd Rando lph propo
sed the division of
the gover nmen t into Legis lative . Execu tive and Judici
al branc hes, Broth er John Dicki nson propo sed a comp romis e of a Cong
ress of two house s,
one repres enting popul ation and the other repres enting
equal States .
"It is essen tial then, that Freem asons and Freem asonr
y contin ue to
lead the way in the public obser vance of the birthd
ay of our Cons titution signe d Septe mber 17, 1787 and of the Bill of
Right s signed Septembe r 28, 1789, to focus public attent ion on the impor
tance of the principles and ideals of those great docum ents."
In confo rmity with this Procl amati on and in respo
nse to direct ion
that every const ituent Lodge in Califo rnia and Hawa
ii partic ipate in an
appro priate obser vance progr am, your Comm ittee
on Const itutio n Observa nce active ly encou raged , advise d and assist
ed the Maste rs and
Breth ren in the disch arge of this respon sibilit y. Our
effort s, as in the
past. have met with 'varying degre es of succe ss.
Subst antial ly all of the Lod ges within the jurisd iction
have comp lied
with the edict of the Gran d Maste r, and have in fact
partic ipated in an
appro priate progr am of some nature . In the small
er comm unitie s, the
major ity of these programs were condu cted by the
indivi dual Lodge
repres enting the comm unity. In other areas, Lodge
s would comb ine one
with the other , or, in some instan ces, the Lodge s
in a Distri ct or the
Lodge s in a numb er of Distri cts would coope rate
in a joint progr am.
Many excell ent progr ams were condu cted, both by
indivi dual Lodge s
and by Lodge s acting in conce rt one with anoth er. It
is notew orthy in this
respe ct that many more progr ams were co~sponsor
ed with other communit y organ izatio ns with the result in most instan
ces that a larger
audie nce was obtain ed.
No attem pt will be made in this repor t to single out
partic ular programs for comm ent- either for praise or critic ism-b
ut, rather , to those
many Maso ns who have spent so many hours in
prepa ring progr ams
for prese ntatio n to their Breth ren and to their neigh bors,
we say. "Tha nk
you." On the other hand , to those amon g the Frate
rnity who have
avoid ed their respo nsibil ity in plann ing, partic ipatin
g in, or attending
Const itutio n obser vance progr ams, we can only remin
d you of the re-

169

PROCEEOl1'GS OF THE

GRANO LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

sponsibilities you took upon yourself in becoming a Mason. Again, as
pointed out by our Grand Master in his Proclamation:

stands ready to do everything possible to encourage even more successful programs for the Masonic Year 1969.
Respectfully submitted,
RICHARD L. RIEMER, Chairman

168

"Our American Constitutional System works only so long as, and
just to the extent that . people believe in it. Our Constitutional government is based upon the belief that future generations will be wise enough
and honest enough and courageous enough to manage their own affairs
without having to be inflexibly bound by the ideas of this or any earlier
period in history. and yet without ever being able to ignore any of the
lessons of history."
Unfortunately. as in the past, too many excellent programs were
presented to sparse audiences. An analysis of the reports submitted by
the Masters would seem to indicate that one answer to the attendance
problem is increased publicity. Another answer. it is still the Committee's thought, is to present a program to an audience already gathered
for another purpose. In connection with this concept, your Committee
contacted the various schools in the State College System. and in a
number of instances we are pleased to report that the schools indicated
a willingness to dedicate a portion of a half-time ceremony at a September football game to the theme of Constitution Observance. Through
this means and through increased attendance at a number of programs
throughout the State, your Committee hopes that it has carried the word
to a greater number of the citizens of California and Hawaii. recognizing
at the same time that we have but taken a short step on a long path. With
the philosophy that any goal worth reaching is worth working toward,
your Committee trusts that each year will see an increased effort on the
part of the Masters and Brethren of the Lodges in our jurisdiction with
the result that each year will likewise bring increased participation and
greater results.
This report would not be complete without a word of thanks to the
Grand Secretary and his staff for their fine assistance. as well as to the
Grand Master, Deputy Grand Master, Senior Grand Warden, and
Junior Grand Warden for their enthusiastic support and leadership.

If this year's efforts of the Constitution Observance Committee have
found favor with this Grand Lodge, your Committee asks for no credit
-but, rather, credit should be given for any successes to the Masters.
to their Constitution Observance Committees and to those Masons
themselves whose interest and support are so clearly illustrated by their
participation in the planning and presentation of the many programs
held throughout the jurisdiction. As before, your Committee extends
its heartiest congratulations to those Lodges who have fulfilled their
duties in actively participating in an appropriate Constitution Observance Program, and a ssures the incoming Masters that this Committee

RAYMOND A. EBBAGE
EDWARD W. WREDE, JR.
CHARLES N. CLARKSON
AI.AN B. BODLEY
JACK B. CRAWPORO
ROBERT HAGER
CHARLES BECKER
LLOYD M. COWAN, fR.
LAVERGNE A. GALLAGHER
0RLO WINKLER
RICHARD W. RYLANDER
GARETH W. HouK

WARREN L. BACON
HAROLD P. WYLIE
DONALD BRENT
TARIQ
JAMES
ARBUCKLE
EARL
ROBERT SHULTZ
CLIPPORO H. S CHWARTZMAN
CLYDE B. TYLER
WILLIAM A. DuPPUS
R ICHARD F. LoCKE, f R.
WILEY T. KILLI NG·s woRTH

c.

c.

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
At the 1967 Communication all Lodges under dispensation were
~ra~ted charters so there were no carry~overs. Palm Desert Lodge was
instituted May 29th and has applied for a charter.
The Committee met with representatives of the Lodge and examined
t~e records. M inor changes and corrections were suggested. The activities of the Lodge had been somewhat limited during the summer season
but regular meetings were held each week and two candidates received
all three degrees. The finances of the Lodge are in order and there is no
indebtedness.
It is the unanimous recommendation of the Committee that a charter
be gra~ted and number assigned to Palm Desert Lodge-No. 826--in
the unmcorporated community of Palm Desert in the County of Riverside.
During the past year the Committee has studied the membership
records of the past few years and has found that a considerable portion
of new m~mbers of California Masonry, both by degree and affiliation.
has been m Lodges newly formed during this period. We are convinced
tha.t t~ere are still many areas in the State where new Lodges are needed.
This includes new, rapidly growing areas, as well as older areas where
present Lodges have large memberships.
We mention this in our report because we feel that some members
of this Grand Lodge ~ay be aware of such areas and be willing to under~ake t~e task of startmg new Lodges. Information on the steps necessary
is available from the Grand Secretary's office. The Committee on Charters stands rea?y to assist in any manner desired by the Grand Master.
The following consolidations have been referred to this Committee :

170

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

East Bay Lodge No. 489 with Hillcrest Lodge No. 573 to be known
as East Bay Lodge No. 489.
Sunrise Lodge No. 522 with Belvedere Lodge No. 539 to be known
as Belvedere Sunrise Lodge No. 522.
Berkeley Lodge No. 363 with Charter Rock Lodge No. 410 to be
known as Berkeley Lodge No. 363.
Thousand Oaks Lodge No. 478 with Indian Rock Lodge No. 638 to
be known as Thousand Oaks Lodge No. 478.
North Butte Lodge No. 230 with Emmanuel Lodge No. 318 to be
known as North Butte Lodge No. 230.
The Committee on Charters recommends that the Grand Secretary
be authorized to endorse the respective charters to accomplish these
consolidations.
Respectfully submitted.
PHILLIP B. STONE, Chairman
ROBERT A. SMITH
KENNETH L. HEMPHILL
WAYNE E. BURK
ROBERT 0. WEST

AI.FRED T. GRUENING
FRANK HOMER
HARRY L. MAYNARD
DOUGLAS SEMMENS

JOHN L. SHAW

Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
The within report is submitted covering the stewardship of the Committee for the fiscal yearof 1967-1968.
.
There are approximately 129 Masonic Jurisdictions wh1~h ar~ r~c­
ognized by the California Grand Lodge. including 48 Masonic Junsd1c~
tions in the United States.
.
.
All reviews are submitted to the Editorial Staff of the California
Freemason for publication in its quarterly reports.
All reviews cannot be published in the California Freemason as
available space does not permit the publication of all such reviews.
your Committee is a working committee and each member has done
his part during the Masonic fiscal year 1967~1968 in reviewing the proceedings of Masonic Jurisdictions of the United States. S~ace does n~t
permit publishing reviews of proceedings outside the United St~tes m
the California Freemason. During the year Brother Ralph Merriam, a
valued member of the Committee, passed away.
We have followed the style used in our reports of recent years. as
disclosed by the reviews published in the California Freemason in its
quarterly issues.
.
. . .
Editorial comment is minimized and 1s placed m italics. All other
matter is printed without quotation marks, its source being clearly indicated.

GRA N D LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

171

The greatest problem with which we have had to deal has been to
reduce the great amount of available material as contained in the annual
proceedings of foreign jurisdictions to a usable length. So much is happening in the Masonic World that if we quoted everything of interes t.
the reviews would be too long. For this reason, much that is of interest
and truly inspirational has had to be left out.
We have at all times kept in mind the traditional function of the
Correspondence Committee. which is to inform the members of our
Grand Lodge what is being done in sister jurisdictions to further the
interests of Masonry. In this way they may be better informed and
prepared to do their part in reaching intelligent decisions. wherever
possible. for the Grand Lodge of California.
We have reviewed some forty-eight Masonic Jurisdic tions, not including California, but including the District of Columbia . The last two
sta tes admitted as states of the United States. to-wit: Hawaii and
Alaska, are members of the Grand Jurisdictions of California and Washington respectively, and their articles are a part of such jurisdictions.
Various jurisdictions are making a sincere effort to build and solidify
the members' interest in the Fraternity. particularly with newly ra ised
candidates.
California Freemason is referred to on many occasions in reports of
foreign jurisdictions and it has continued to maintain a high standard
of Masonic leadership among publications of like kind among the 48
Grand Jurisdictions of the United States.
The problems of the various jurisdictions as revealed by these reports are quite similar to those which prevail in California. It can be
safely stated that according to these jurisdictions the primary function of a Masonic Lodge, indeed, the primary function of our craft. is
to train its members to a better understanding of the truths which its
rituals and its ceremonies are calculated to inculcate, to develop its members as good citizens, to cultivate social virtues and propagate the teachings of the craft. Every lodge should be concerned with its welfare, the
happiness and development of its members.
We welcome constructive suggestions so that we can, wherever
possible, improve the reviews of other jurisdictions.
A request is hereby made that for the ensuing Masonic year. a budget
of $ 150.00 be allowed to the Committee to take care of its expenses. The
greater portion of the requested budget represents charges by the Cali~
fornia Grand Lodge for expenses entailed in mailing of proceedings
of foreign jurisdictions to the Committee.
Respectfully submitted.
GEORGE W . BURCH, JR., Chairman
WILLIAM J. MASO N
BRU CE M. BUR CH ARD
FRED
M O RRIS
DAVID A. FR!STEDT

w.

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

172

173

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CAL!PORNIA

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTE E
ON MASONIC EDUCATIO N

publications. I am certain that you will find many subjects of particular
interest to you and to the membership of your Lodge.
Your Chairman would like to share with you two interesting Masonic
educational endeavors which might well be just the type of activity
which would be ideal for your Lodge. In the far north of our jurisdiction,
this C ommittee is represented by Brother John Bowersox, Master of
Humboldt Lodge No. 79, who reports to us of a district educational
meeting which was tried for the first time in this area. The lodges of the
1OOth Masonic District assembled for a no-host dinner attended by new
Master Masons raised during the past year, the coaches and the lodge
officers. Following dinner the brethren joined in an enthusiastic discussion of:
Masonic laws and customs, including custom~ within and without
the lodge, visitations, investigations committees, balloting, Masonic offenses. and Masonic related organizations;
Introduction to the symbolism of Masonry, the proper place of interpretation, a brief review of the three degrees and their relationship
one to another, and a beginning study into the depth of Freemasonry
which leads one to a new way of life.
We are pleased to report that the District voted to continue this
educational program and to make it an annual event. We express our
thanks to all concerned . particularly to Merle Doggett, Senior Warden
of Arcata Lodge No. 106 who served as chairman for this first meeting.
We acknowledge with a thank you this fine program and extend best
wishes for an even better program in future years.
A similar program was held in Los Angeles by West Gate Lodge
No. 335 and our Committeeman , Milton Ammann. had the pleasure of
attending and participating in this orientation course or education program designed especially for the Entered Apprentices, Fellowcrafts,
new M aster Masons and their wives. There were some 125 in attendance to share a program which included:
Introduction and remarks by the District Inspector, Brother Lloyd V.
Smith:
A review of the social activities and coaching program of the Lodge;
Masonry through the years. tenets and beliefs of Masonry. and
publications of the Grand Lodge;
Question and answer period.
We can think of no better way to launch an educational program or
to reactivate a lacking one than to follow one or both of the above formats and we pass them along in the hope that other lodges will follow
suit.
Incidentally Southern California Research Lodge reports that during
the first eight months of 1968, their speakers have responded to 57 requests to speak before Lodges. Masonic clubs or Masonic- related organi-

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of California:
From the wisdom of Aristotle, we learn that:
"It is by education I learn to do by choice what other men may do
of fear."
constraint
by
It seems appropriate in the light of our long-standing program of
Masonic education that we occasionally pause to ask the questionWhat is Masonic Education?. The answe-r is set forth in your Lodge
M anual in the Masonic Education section and reads as follows:
.. In reality, this high-sounding phrase (Masonic Education) covers
a very simple idea. It is merely the gathering and sharing of knowledge
relative to the Institution of Freemasonry in its many aspects-its romantic history and beginnings, its high purpose and ideals: the meaning
of its ritualistic symbolism, its ethics and philosophy and the application
of all these aspects to everyday living and the improvement of man .
Around each of these subjects. a rich and interesting literature has developed over the past two hundred and fifty years and 'Masonic Education' is merely the process of acquaintancesh ip with others. This is
something that everyone can enjoy. no matter what his education or
background may be."
To my mind, the key word in our definition is "application." For
through Masonic education we gather and share information concerning
the history, symbolism and philosophy of our fraternity with one end
in view. Our sole purpose is to learn more so that we may the better be
enabled to apply the fundamental principles of Freemasonry to "everyday living and the improvement of man."
This is what we mean by Masonic Education.
During the past year, your Committee continued its assignment of
reviewing all Research Lodge materials intended for publication. The
officers of the Research Lodges have been cooperative and gracious in
acceptance of alteration or rejection when such was necessary. Emphasis
upon screening by qualified members of each Research Lodge has substantially improved and will ultimately benefit all concerned. The Committee commends the several Research Lodges on their publication
efforts and acknowledges this educational activity with appreciation and
recommends that every member in attendance at this Annual Communication visit the display area on the ground floor of the Temple and become familiar with the many fine papers available through the Research
Lodges. The nominal charge for these publications has been establ~shed
at or below actual cost of publication and handling . If you haven t already done so, please avail yourself of the opportunity to review these

171

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

zations. These engagements represent nearly 5,000 miles of travel and
hundreds of hours of dedicated work. All four Research Lodges carry
on similar programs of service when so requested by the constituent
Lodges.

requ.es ts that the sum of $2,000 be appropriated for its work during the
commg year.

\Vithout doubt, the finest educational endeavor of this past year was
made by our Grand Master who has most eloquently and most effectively
conveyed his theme of a "Rededication to the Fundamental Principles
of Freemasonry." He has drawn upon the trestleboard a most detailed
portfolio of how best the membership may apply our fraternity's principles to their daily lives. The results of his dedicated and inspired labors
will undoubtedly become more evident in the years to come. We join
the entire Grand Lodge in an expression of appreciation to Most Worshipful Eugene S. Hopp and assurance that we can do no less than
heed his words and his wisdom and put forth that extra effort as we
individually strive toward that perfect ashlar which exemplifies the true
Mason.
This year marks the twelfth Annual Tuesday Evening Masonic
Education Seminar and we are most appreciative of your continued
interest and support. This year's program begins at 7: 30 p.m. tonisrht
here in the California Masonic Memorial Temple. You will flnd the
schedule and complete details (as amended) for both the classroom
sessions and for the general session on pages 18 and 19 of the Annual
Communication Program . We shall not take time to review the entire
program; we would, however, take just a few moments to call your especial attention to the second part of the program which will commence
at 8: 30 p.m. and which is open to all Master Masons. their families and
friends. Our Grand Master has graciously consented to host this general session and to present a special guest speaker and also a panel of
nationally recognized Masonic scholars who will speak on the Fundamental Principles of Freemasonry. I a m certain that you will agree that
this distinguished pa nel offers each of us a n unequaled opportunity for
enlightenment together with an added inducement in that we may share
this experience with our families and our friends. Join with us in this
unique evening of ''learn ( ing) to do by choice." A copy of the seminar
program is appended to this report as a matter of record.
Each member of this Committee joins your Chairma n in a n expression of appreciation to Most Worshipful Eugene S. Hopp for the privilege of serving this past year. Our thanks. too, go to the Grand Secretary, the A ssistant Grand Secretary and the Grand Lodge Staff.
Every request for assistance has received cordial and prompt attention.
This constitutes our full and final report for 1968. To continue, sustain and amplify this program, your Committee on Masonic Education

175

Respectfully submitted,
WARREN J. BLOMSETH. Chairman
D "YID
LEE
WALTER v. DURST
WILLIAM J. WILLIAMS
MILTON AMMANN
ARTHUR DvoRJN
STEPHEN J. DEAN. JR.
JOHN M . BOWERSOX
ARTHUR N. PICULELL
JOHN
BROWN
MAURICE A. HARBAND
Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

c.

c.

PROGRAM
The Twelfth Annual Grand Lodge Education Seminar
Time: Tuesday, October 15, 1968. 7:30 to 10 P.M.
Place: ~alifornia Masonic Memorial Temple, 1111 California Street
San Francisco, California.
·
Theme: Fundamental Principles of Freemasonry.
Faculty: Dedic~ted .a.nd devoted Masons chosen for their special
~nowle~ge and their ability to communicate their knowledge in a most
mterestmg manner will conduct the classroom sessions. A special gue~t
spea.k~r an~ a panel of four nationally recognized Masonic scholars will
partJC1pate m the general session.
Part /~C.lassroom Sessions, 7 :30 p .m. to 8: 15 p.m. Master Masons
only. Admission by. Dues Card. Both Classroom Sessions will be presented at the same time and will not be repeated so it will be ec
to select either:
n essary
MAIN AU DITORIUM
. !'r~tleboard-Planning and Printing-Northern and Southern Cal1orma esear~h Lodges will present an hour-long seminar on all as ects
of t~e Maso~1c trestleboard, including planning, layout. suggestio:s on
special materials. Panel: HENRY D. OLIPHANT ( 360) M
c
(12).
, ORRIS. G USS
- or ExmsrT HALL "G" FLOOR
f ~eadership and.Administration in the Masonic Lodge-Central Calio·~r~ a~d ~l Cammo Research Lodges will present this seminar which
wi
e o va. ue for every Lodge office~ and committeeman-" ... to be
well obeyed is to be perfectly esteemed.· Panel : GEORGE E. HIATT (217)
KENNETH FEISE ( 3i6) . Ross FULLER ( 362).
•
Part //- General Session, Main Auditorium 8·30 to 9·i5
o
to all Ma t M
h
f
l
· ·
· p.m. pen
h
~ er
asons. t eir ami ies and friends. The guest speaker and
t .ell panllelistsh have g~aciously consented to answer questions and ushers
w1 co ect t e question cards.
SPECIAL GUEST SPEAKER: The Church in a Changing WorldB1SHOP HARRY A. CLINCH, D.D. Diocese of Monterey in California.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OP FREEMASONRY
PANELISTS: Truth and Justice-D R. JAMES D. CARTER, Librarian and
Historian of the Supreme Council, 33°, Washingt on , D.C.; graduate
and Ph.D. in history Univerity of Texas: active in the Grand Lodge of
Texas and editor of the Texas Grand Lodge Magazine for a number of
years; author of numerous magazine articles and books both on education
and Freemasonry.
Temperan ce, Fortitude and Prudence -ALPHONSE CERZA, Grand
Orator of the Grand Lodge of Illinois; graduate Northwes tern University; an attorney and part time instructor at John Marshall Law School:
author of several Masonic books and numerous articles and a 15-year
member of the Illinois Committe e on Masonic Education .
Brotherly Love and Relief-CONRAD HAHN, (Connecti cut), Executive Secretary, Masonic Service Associatio n, Washingt on, D.C.; graduate of Yale University and Phi Beta Kappa: M.A. Columbia University ;
served as headmaster of Suffield Academy in Connectic ut; joined Masonic Seruice Association in 1958 as editor of publications and succeeded to
Executiue Secretary in 1964.

Columbia : On May 5. 1968, two plots were sold in this cemetery
and Brother George Wishart Crichton was interred there. The other
grave was purchased by Mrs. Crichton for herself. Again this year our
committee man, Brother Marcel Baer, was successful in getting the
Future Farmers of America to spray both the Columbia and Jamestown Cemeterie s as a part of their project. This project by the group
from the Sonora High School adds to their treas ury and saves the Grand
Lodge a considerab le sum of money. The picket fence around the Columbia Cemetery was painted at a cost of $355.00. This is an expense that
will only incur about every five years. The cemetery is in a most presentable condition.
Jamestow n: Spraying for weeds and the usual cleanup is all that
has been necessary at the Jamestow n Cemetery . This area is surrounde d
by very large and beautiful oak trees. It will be necessary this year to
have some of these trimmed to preserve them and prevent future damage
to the cemetery. Several of the split rails in the fence have been broken
by falling limbs during storms and should be replaced. The necessary
funds for this work are included in our budget request.
Investigation is still continuing into the possibility and desirabilit y
of acquiring title to the Red Dog Cemetery , east of Grass Valley, and
the M ichigan City Cemetery . A complete report and recommen dation
will be made at the next Grand Lodge session. The possibility of forming these two cemeteries, along with several others, into a tax-suppo rted
district is also being investigat ed and in our opinion is to be desired.
Since the first part of this report was written several weeks ago several rather importAnt matters have come up.
No. I-Michig an Bluff.
The communit y of Michigan Bluff in Placer County has a cemetery
which is designated as the Masonic Cemetery. This cemetery dates
back to the beginning of the community. The plot is about one acre in
size. Like most of the other parcels in the communit y, it is on land that
has never been patented. The title rema ined with the Bureau of Land
Managem ent.
In 1963 the townspeop le began a survey and Trustee Township action with the Bureau of Land Managem ent through Judge Cameron of
Auburn. In September of this year the Trustee Townsite was awarded
to Judge Cameron.
At the time action on the Townsite was started, each of the parties
with a claim to land paid $50.00 into a fund for the preliminar y work.
Grand Lodge did not participat e in the study.
Final maps and metes and bounds descriptio ns are now being prepared for all parcels. When completed , they will be presented to Judge
Cameron. who will then issue grant deeds.
It is the ·r ecommend ation of this Committe e that this Grand Lodge

176

REPORT OF COMMI TTEE ON CEMETE RIES
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F . & A . M. of California:
Your Committe e on Cemeterie s respectful ly submits the following
report of their activities for the Masonic Year 1967-1968.
For the benefit of the Brethren who a re at tending Grand Lodge
for the first time, let us briefly give you a summary of the functions of
this committee . It is the duty of this committee to care for the three cemeteries which are owned by the Grand Lodge. To see that they are kept
in a condition that will reflect honor upon our fraternity. To work with
and counsel those individual lodges where cemetery care problems exist.
To see that sections set aside in public cemeteries for the exclusive use
of Masons do not deviate from our laws with respect to commercialism.
To study and inspect the plans for any monumen ts or altars to be erected
in such Masonic sections of public cemeteries, and make recommen dations to the Gra nd Master for his approval or disapprov al.
Fiddletow n Cemetery : Because of extensive work done at this cemetery throughou t the past few years very little care was required. Only
the spraying for weeds and a thorough cleanup. plus some minor repairs
that were necessary have been done. These are the only items of expense
that have been incurred. The budgted item for the installatio n of an
a dditional driveway gate has been expended at this time. The leaders
and other townspeop le of Fiddletow n have not reached full accord
among themselves and the property owners whose land adjoins our
cemetery. It is therefore suggested that the matter of the gate be held in
abeyance until some future developme nt points to the desirabilit y for
action.

177

178

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNI A

PROC EEDIN GS OF THE

and acqu ire title to the
JOm with the town speo ple of Mich igan Bluff
we do not know what
time
this
At
.
Mich igan Bluff Maso nic Cem etery
Com mittee, there This
nal.
nomi
be
ld
shou
the final costs will be but they
sum of $200 .00 to furth er
fore, reque sts that we be gran ted an addit ional
this actio n.
.
No. 2-R ose's Bar Lodg e No. 89, Smar tville
who was then a War den
is,
Cust
E.
Seve ral year s ago Brot her Harr y
es Com mitte e for help
eteri
Cem
the
upon
of Rose 's Bar Lodg e, calle d
e, the Odd Fello ws and sevwith a ceme tery owne d by Rose 's Bar Lodg
are now extin ct. Rose 's Bar
eral other frate rnal orde rs, some of whic h
is, has been work ing very
Lodg e, with the leade rship of Brot her Cust
cond ition and to come up
e
ntabl
hard to keep this ceme tery in a prese
the entir e ceme tery.
with a solut ion to their prob lem of carin g for
Cem eteri es that a study
on
e
mitte
Com
the
of
It was the sugg estio n
supp orted ceme tery distri ct.
be made with the thou ght of form ing a tax
's Bar Lodg e No. 89 quit
This was done on Sept embe r 12, 1968. Rose
in the Frate rnal Cem etery
ed,
claim deed ed all its inter ests, real or assum
ict.
Distr
etery
Cem
of Yuba Coun ty to the Smar tville
ter Harr y E. Cust is,
Mas
Past
ly
cular
parti
Rose 's Bar Lodg e, and
work and efforts to bring
are to be great ly comm ende d for their hard
ct. We believe it to be a
abou t the succe ssful form ation of this distri
very wise move on their part.
No. 3-Pe ter Lass en Grav e and Mem orial .
3rd of this year that the
It was brou ght to our atten tion on Octo ber
t, locat ed abou t six miles
Pete r Lass en Grav e and Mem orial Mon umen
from Susa nvill e, is in a very poor cond ition .
nic affiliation. nor does
The monu ment make s no ment ion of his Maso
for the area exce pt its
ction
prote
the plaqu e by the turns tile. Ther e is no
and Com pass is in a
re
Squa
the
with
remo tenes s. The origi nal stone
poor state of repai r.
to Maso nry by Brot her
Beca use of the great contr ibuti ons made
ornia Maso nry, this Com Pete r Lass en in the early day histo ry of Calif
situa tion as prese nted and
mitte e woul d like perm issio n to study the
hono rable and prese nttake the nece ssary steps to make this mem orial
the initial work .
for
year
this
able. The sum of $250 .00 is requ ested
No. 4-Fa llbro ok Lodg e No. 317.
from Fallb rook Lodg e
In Augu st of this year a reque st was recei ved
ing probl ems that
press
r
rathe
some
No. 317 for assis tance in solvi ng
itteem an, Broth er
comm
Our
.
years
of
d
perio
a
have been deve lopin g over
of this Lodg e whic h resul ted
G. Basil Gord on, met with sever al members
ems. As a resul t of this
in a satis facto ry solut ion to most of their probl
ceme tery and one that
table
meet ing, Fallb rook Lodg e shou ld have a profi
will be a credi t to our Frate rnity .
0.00 for the ensu ing year
We reque st a budg et in the amou nt of $1,72
as follows:

Colu mbia Cem etery :
contr oL_·· ····················· ...... $JOO·00
Spra ying tfor· weed
I
S pray
85 00
.ma
.00
125
.
....
plots
nd
arou
ork
grillw
iron
Re~tormg
·
········
s
ental
Incid
100.00
··----.. ·--· .. ······-········--··········-········

179

:na ··-··········-····-···········-· ·················

Jame stow n Cem etery :
Spra ying for weed contr ol -·· ------·--------·-····
100.00
Spra y mate rial
85.00
Trim ming trees::::::···-········-······--····-············
0
150.0
··
········
···-···· ·········· ······-·········
Incid en tals

-·----·-·--···----·-·------···--····--····-------·------ 100.00

Fidd letow n Cem etery :
Sp~aying for weed s, clean up and repairs
······-··············
. I~c1dental Com mitte e expe nse ..... ·-·-·--·····:"
···········-···
···-····
eter
Mich igan Bluff
······ ..··
····-···
········
····-···
·····-··
Pete r Lass en Me; :ial Y····-· ········

c .......

-----·······--- ····---··-------···- -···· -----··- ------------

w

.Tota

l reque sted

$410 .00

435.0 0
250.00
175.0 0
200.00
250.00

·········---··············-···..············-··-····-·······$] ,720.00

ne S. Hopp , Gran d Mas ter, the\'f/:~dt~~~:e~= Mos t ~orshipfuI Euge
and all e thers
e ~aff, t~e ln~pe.ctors
who have been so ver;h:rp~:11~~~~is
m its work durin g the
1ttee
omm
past year .
Resp ectfu lly subm itted ,
BASI L R. GILL ETT, Chai rman
ADRI AN TAYL OR
MAR CEL M. BA ER
G. BASI L GORD ON, JR.

RAYM OND J. BERK L!NE
LEo J. TonD

Refe rred to Com mitte e on Finan ce, (Bud get

alloc ation )

GRA ND ORA TIO N
"
"A CHA LLE NGE T O RES PON SIBI LITY
CARL H. ALLE N, Gran d Orat or
d M
Mos t Wor shipf ul Gran d Mas ter Past G ren: asters. Gran d Lodg e
Br:~~
my
a~d
ts,
Gues
Officers, Disti ngui shed
has been t bl ' h d b Y my distin guish ed
Wha t a pleas ant custo mthis
t e~ a is e
using
of
t
tha
rs,
prede cesso
0
unity to pay tribu te to the Gran d
ppor
Mast er.
h
Even thou gh this were not the cu st om.I a ff
eart full of grati tude and
a deep feeling of admi ratio n and
n woul d urge me to
ectio
.
a
ona
~~r~
other
e>'pr ess for myse lf and every
appre ciatio n to him
re
since
our
icer
1·
T
State in the ser~
the
t
ra ve mg with our Gran d Mast er throu ghou

180

PROC EEDI NGS OP THE

come to know him as one guid ed
vice of our grea t Frat erni ty, we have
umin g desire to be of serv ice to
by wisd om, unde rstan ding and a cons
his Bret hren in Free mas onry.
l sens e of humor. his frien dHis char m. his eloq uenc e, his delig htfu
join ed toge ther to form a very
lines s and over abun dant ener gy have
rega rd restr icted to his officers.
insp iring pers onal ity. Nor is this high
sions dem onst ratio ns of similar
occa
y
All of us have witn esse d on man
mem bers of our Frat erni ty.
affection by man y members and nonthe Gra nd Ora tor is to deliver
The prin cipal obli gatio n placed upon
Gra nd Lod ge an addr ess upon
at each Ann ual Com mun icati on of the
r the year s this final and supr eme
matt ers appe rtain ing to the Craf t. Ove
ed an orat ion- a Gra nd Ora tion ,
term
effort by the Ora tor has come to be
use of the polis hed rhet oric al
if you please. This is so. I supp ose, beca
loye d by mos t of the previous
style and stud ied meth ods of deliv ery emp
them I lear ned that their excelGra nd Orat ors. In goin g over mos t of
a stan ding ovation . Reflecting
lence was received by the Bret hren with
unde rstan d why I implore you to
upon my own shor tcom ings , you will
char ity and forbearance. In
exte nd you r mos t frien dly and frate rnal
ifully brief . for l reme mbe r the
retu rn. ther efor e. 1 promise to be merc
r the first twen ty minu tes."
afte
old adm onit ion: "No soul s are save d
rt arise and appl aud, I will
effo
my
of
And shou ld you at the conclusion
a grea t custom.
unde rstan d that you are only following
rtain ing to the Craf t, ther e
appe
ers
matt
to
arks
rem
In directing my
atten tion , such as thos e
our
give
are man y thin gs to whic h we shou ld
h have for their purwhic
ees
mitt
reso lutio ns received and refe rred to com
stan ding but outd ated regu lapose the liberaliza tion of som e of our long
chan ging times. Or. we could
tions in an effort to move alon g with the
decr easi ng membership. achi evdisc uss mea ns of incr easi ng our stea dily
ity. Or. we could talk abou t our
ing quan tity whil e still retai ning qual
er to them in orde r to convince
yout h orga niza tion s and how to get clos
that we are conc erne d with thei r
them that we do care abou t them and
welf are and their futu re.
e are more pres sing ones
Whi le these matt ers are impo rtan t, ther
but as citiz ens of this
ons,
Mas
as
which requ ire our atten tion not only
tion of public mor ality and the
grea t coun try. The evid ent dete riora
ed acut e and angu ishe d appr edecl ine of patr iotis m in our land has caus
that our stren gth and pow er as
hension amo ng thos e of us who !fealize
al dign ity, human righ ts and
vidu
indi
g
a free peop le come from resp ectin
equa l justice unde r the law.
imp orta nt for us to be good
At no time in histo ry has it been so
Reca ll to you r memory. if you
Ame rican s first and Mas ons second.
red App rent ice Deg ree, "As a
will, that part of the char ge in the Ente
y in the disc harg e of your civil
citizen you are enjo ined to be exem plar
ncin g any act which may have
duties. by neve r prop osin g. or coun tena
orde r of society; by payi ng
a tend ency to subv ert the peac e and good
ectio n you live; and by
prot
se
due obed ienc e to the laws unde r who

GRA ND LODGE OP CALI FORN IA

J 81

neve r losing sigh t of the a1leg·1ance d ue to your c oun tr y. .. F rom his .6rst
.
step over the Lod ge thre shol d M
taugh~ reve renc e. patriotism,
;s
a:~~
re
la;
for
ect
resp
good citizenship,
the righ ts of his fellow man
or
.
g
and toler ance for his wea kne •
an ever read ines s to assis t the
dow ntro dden and to relieve :~es,dw1tf
.e eso ate. The se lessons, by degr ees
cont inue thro ugho ut his M
er, rega rdle ss of how far he ma;
go in his ques t for light. ason ic care
d
During the ages past Free mas ons. h ave emo nstr ated their willing. and
h · f am1.hes
ness to sacrifice their worl d! Y possessio
ns their ho
, t e1r
.
. very 1ives
th e1r
. ty and the
for the esta bl·is h ment an d. pres e mes
t . o f 1iber
A meri. can way of life E h o f us can recall therva ion
cl
l
t
· ac
. on, Benjami
. par s p aye by George
n Fran klin P
W as h mgt
Revere, John Han cock, Joh n
Mar shal l and othe rs in crea tin th. aul
t n~tio.n. Wh o can doub t that
they were in fact grea tly influe~ced1~ grea prmc1pal tene ts of our Ord er
thle
-bro ther ly love relief · and tru th -asywe 1 as th
d· 1
' prud enc
e car ma virt ues- forti.
.
d
d
ce
·
tu e, temp eran ·
We
tice
Jus
an
e
are Just1y prou d of thei r
.
per f orm ance s. but this prid e sh Id
nd us that not only is
ou servhe to remi
ther e an indestructible bo n d b etwe
e t a bl·is h ment of our way of
t
en
. es
l J·f e and. Free mas onry, but that it al
te that
JS our duty to perp etua
~o
M
e
brav
e
thes
way of life. From
idea ls
our
rited
inhe
we
s
bear
forle
in gove rnm ent and religion . Afatsero01c
h und re d years man y
two
y
near
h
h b·
ch ange s ave take n plac e in th 1"£
a its. and think ing of the 200 mile..
I
Ae
.
l1'v
now
lion peop le who
·d I
e m men ca . Th
h ose I ea s are still the sa me
tod ay. The y have not alter ed
• nor can t ey chan ge. The y are timeless.
The y shaII last forever.
h Jd
Wil l the Mas ons of this
ia~t to thes e ideals ? How we
resp ond to this questi~n may v:ge oIJ ec1de the futu re of this coun try
ry we
as we know it.
h.
The se are days of grea t challen(~ dw ich cann ot be met with a
het·
apat
by
d
rate
gene
ty
mediocri
u es. In the face of chal leng e
each indi vidu al mus t cont ribu te ~~ ~t~
g est degr ee of excellence to the
enco unte r. Hist oric ally o
successes have been achieved in
the face of chaIIenge a~d ~~ great~st
ry bas alwa ys been
irem ent for victo
an abun dant disp lay .of fa 1"the• requ
· · and indu stry . If
cour age. dete
. rmm ation
we, as M ason s and citizens of a f
n, decline the challenges of a
natio
re~
1·
cl
ss
worl d whe re seiflshne , emo ra 1zat1on and G di
h . . o essn ess are increasin g.
th en we are unw orth y of the h .
; bJCh bs ours . If we build with a
stro ng. faith and determinatione~:g:,i
b E e a le to face and enga ge all
adve rsity and eme rge stro nger th
e ore. Mas ons mus t realize their
responsibility. Mas ons are b 'Id an
In the Man ual of
noht dest roye rs. "O
Cere mon ies for Gra nd Lodgeu1we e!s.d
·
un t e foll owm
pera tive craftsg:
men h ewe d, squa red and laid th t
nobl e s tructhe
ed
form
h
w~ic
~
tures of antiq uity and the beau ff els ot~e
Age s. Their
u.lca ef br~ skof the Mid dle
crea tions were more than mere' p1
· T hey were
and
s
ric
o
es
•
gra01te.
b.
.
sym bols o f man s pers isten t deSJie
to esta hsh orde r and harm ony in

182

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

the building of civilization. They were the visible and tangible evidence
of man's yearning for the infinite."
Many of us have demonstrated the allegiance to our country by
serving in its armed forces or by contributing in some other way. but
our responsibility of being exemplary in the discharge of our civil duties
does not stop there. A special duty rests upon you and me. as adults
and Masons, who still retain a belief in God and the moral order, to
influence the lives of others, particularly the alienated youth of this
tormented age. Those young people who, whether it be true or false.
feel that we, their elders, are at )e;ist in part to blame for their present
plight. If in no other way, we can do this by setting a good example for
them.
If you have visited our Home for Children at Covina, you probably
have seen posted on the bulletin board of the residence halls A Bill of
Rights and alongside it a corresponding Bill of Responsibilities. Although
each of the rights and responsibilities is worthy of remembrance and
emulation, I take time only to remind you of one right, "the right to
have a good example set by adults," and the corresponding responsibil~
ity, "to set a good example so that I may enjoy myself and influence
others."
What a splendid way to point up the double edged nature of good
citizenship. That going along hand in hand with each of our individual
rights as citizens is a corresponding responsibility to our fellow citizens.
Some of the trouble with our young people of today - and, yes, even
some of our adults - is that in their quest for freedom or liberty they
have forgotten. if they were ever told. that in our complex society there
must be some modifications and limitations upon personal freedom and
that their freedom stops where the other fellow's freedom begins.
George Washington, in a letter to Congress urging adoption of the
Constitution, wrote: "Individuals entering into society must give up a
share of liberty to preserve the rest. The magnitude of the sacrifice must
depend as well on the situation and the circumstances as on the object
to be obtained. "
In the concept of common law. freedom is a thing as native to man
as man . Coupled with freedom is a controlling moral sense that inspires
personal responsibility to fulfill man's obligations to himself. his fellow
men and to God. What disastrous results follow when the two are
divorced. The demand for freedom in the case of many of these young
men and women arises from a compulsion born. in turn, of a feeling of
personal responsibility to eliminate what they believe to be the evils of
contemporary society.
It has been said that America is fighting two wars, one in Vietnam,
the other at home. Perhaps we can afford to lose the one in Vietnam
but the one at home, that battle for the minds of our young people, must
be won at all costs. Somehow we will have to teach them that the place
to decide controversies. guilt or innocence. is in a court of law, not on

GRANO LODGE OP CA LIFORNIA

183

car ~umpers , coat lapels or in the streets. They must learn to take the
law mto their hearts and not their hands.
1· ~o say that we live in an age of change is tota lly inadequate We
1ve 1~ an a~e of revolution. in an age when, as the Council of ·Latin
American Bishops stated less than three months ago, "The alternatives
are .not the sta:~1s quo and change. Rather, they are violent change and
pacxfl.c _change. True, the changes have been so radical and so swift as
to bewilder e\~Cn those of t~e stoutest heart. Yet it should not be forgotten
that change is a law of life. For as someone remarked "In a h · h
:-'orld it is otherwise, but here below to live is to change a nd to be p:;f e~
ec
is to have changed of ten."
· to app Iy more completely to
challenge to ou r F ra term'ty is
. .
. Today's
its prmc1ples -that duty we owe to God· that loyalty
we owe to our
'
h
h"
count y· th t f II
a e ows 1p; t at brotherhood we owe to our nei 9 hb
r ·
Brot~rhood exalts soci~ty, disarms feuds and sectional hatreds, ce me~;~
repu JCS and produces international comity.
If brother~ood can and it does bring peace, harm ony and decorum to
a Lodge, can it not ~e a great factor in producing universal peace? If.
h
· ·
therefore, the Masomc Fraternity is to fulflll its high m1ss1on
as t e great
t f b h h d
ex
'. ~onen o rot er oo . every Mason must be not only a law abidin
c1t1zen but he must also cast his influence on the side of Jaw and order~
not the law a~d ~rder of a Nazi or Fascist era, but that brand of Jaw
and order which 1s coupled with justice.
h
·
When I say law and order, I mean Just
t at-the maintenance of
I ,f I b h .
av.. u e. av1~r an_d the public safety everywhere and not anti-Ne ro
as the racial bigot m~erprets it. Our future survival has a basic depe~d
ence ~pon our individual conduct. It poses for each of us: How ma
y
contribute to the perpetuation of our American way of life?
On July 4, 1894, during the dedication of the Soldiers and S ailo
M onument at Cleveland, Ohio President W1·111·am McK · I .
krs
m ey 1s spea ·
"W
·
th 0
e are the freest government on the face of the
mg :
str~ng~ rests in our patriotism. Anarchy flees before patriot~~. Pea~:
~n or_ er,h and security and liberty are- safe as long as love of country
urns_ m t e hear t of the people. It should not be forgotten however
'
I
·
that liberty does not mean lawlessness Liberty to make
own laws
does not give us license to break them . Liberty to make our own
aws
our
·
d
d
Cornman s a uty ~o .obser:'e them ourselves and enforce obedience
~mong all others within their jurisdiction. Liberty • my fellow c1·t·1zens
·
1s respons1·b·1
'
an d responsibility is duty and that dut · t
1 1ty,
Y is o preserve
'
l I"b
r
the ex
b
· ceP. 10na 1 erty we enjoy within the law, and for the Jaw and
y
the law. And then he finished with these words· "God bl
undertaking which revives patriotism and rebukes . the . d"ffess everdy
m 1 erent an
lawless."

I

. A columnist might sum it up this way: Patriotism should be a heart
stimulant and not a mouthwash.

18'4

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE O P CAUPORN;A

On a much earlier occasion, July 4, 1802, ninety-two years before
President McKinley's speech, Daniel Webster had this to say: "To
preserve the government we must also preserve a correct and energetic
tone of morals. After all that can be said, the truth is that liberty consists more in the habits of the people than in anything else. When the
public mind becomes vitiated and depraved, every attempt to preserve
it is vain. Laws are then a nullity, and constitutions waste paper. There
ace always men wicked enough to go to any length in the pursuit of
power if they can flnd others wicked enough to support them. They
regard not paper and parchment. Can you stop the progress of a usurper
by opposing to him the laws of his country? Then you may check the
careering winds or stay the lightning with a song. No. Ambitious men
must be restrained by the public morality. When they rise up to do evil.
they must flnd themselves standing alone. Morality rests on religion.
If you destroy the foundation, the superstructure must fall. In a world
of error, of temptation, of seduction; in a world where crimes often triumph. and virtue is scourged with scorpions-in such a world, certainly,
the hope of a hereafter is necessary to cheer and to animate. Leave us.
then, the consolations of religion. Leave to man. to frail and feeble man.
the comfort of knowing that when he gratifies his immortal soul with
deeds of justice, of kindness and of mercy. he is rescuing his happiness
from final dissolution and laying it up in heaven."
An age in the world's history has withered and died before our eyes
and a new age is strugHling to be born. the tone and direction of which
no man can tell and. whether we like it or not, we a re part of this new
age. To remain stationary is to lose ground. To repose is to fail. All of
us, therefore, whatever our age or station in life. must increase our
efforts so that we will not remain stationary. nor will we repose while
a world on the march passes us by. It is your duty. as it is mine, to
quicken our pace, to see that the eternally true values in our civilization .
those traditions that deserve to endure, are not swept away by the
torrent that now engulfs us all. No one of us ca n guarantee that his
efforts will be successful but eve1·y man can. at least. remove the cause
for rebuke that he did not try. And if. in trying. we expose certain
imperfections, what matter. for nothing would be done at all if a man
waited until he could do it so well that no one could flnd fault with it.
One of the most reliable standards by which our efforts may be
measured is the steadiness and persistence by which we cling to what
we believe to be right, the success we achieve in being true to ourselves.
for the familiar advice of Polonius has lost nothing of its forcefulness
for having so frequently been quoted-"To thine own self be true and
it must follow , as the night the day. thou canst not then be false to any
man."

..

•

•

•

The Grand Oration was received with a standing ovation.
The Grand Master directed the Grand Secretary to have printed
copies of the oration made available to the members of Grand Lodge.

185

REPORT OF BOARD OF LIBRARY COMMISSIO NERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . ur A . M . o f C a1·1
·
t ornra:

H Bui~ding on the foundation established by Grand Master Eugene S .
opp m I 960 and ~he development by succeeding Commissions, we
h~ve the pleasure this year of reporting to the Grand Lodge that your
Lib~ary now houses more than 4000 volumes. of which 3620 books are
av~il~ble on the shelves in the space allotted to the Library. The remamm.g volumes and papers are in storage in the vaults of the Temple
or are m process of being accessed.
During the fiscal year of 7-1 -67 to 6-30-68 your Library Commission
purchas ed twenty volu~es and received gifts of 218 volttmes-appro xi~at~ly {~~ same as dunng the preceding year. Some of the acq uisitions
0
t e 1 rary and Museum were old papers of great value. from the
18th century and later.
We have also received the entire Masonic Library of the late Arthur
J. Kahn. P.M. Paul Revere Lodge No. 462, and former Assistan t Gra nd
Lecturer of the old Division 3.
.The .Masonic books in the library of the Masonic Clubhouse at the
Un1vers1ty of California at Berkeley have been brought ·nt
1 o your L·1brary.
. We have also been presented by Brother Clayton Elliott, P .M. A lta
Vis ta Lodge No. 464, with many of the original papers bearing the signatures of many of the members of the Masonic Ambulance Corps
~og~ther wit~ pictures and other mementoes of this unique organizatio~
urmg the First World W a r overseas.
We have
a record book of G
d M
d h . ffi .recently
I f . . completed
.
can
asters
an t eu o c1a am1lie~ m pictorial form with the assistance
of the
Grand Lo~ge Office. This book is Oil display at this time in the Library
together with the volume of the Grand Masters' pictures, begun in 194 i" .
Our. Library has been successful this year in achieving the ability
to keep. its doors open seven days a week. This has been possible through
the assistance of a dedicated staff of volunteer assistant librarians wh
names follow: William H. Scott. William McMaster Arthur s·
ose
P ]H
· G
tmpson.
au
arasm, eorge Bea rd . Morris Licin, Stanley A.• Butera John
A
Mattson, Carroll Peake, Clinton Ross. A. D . Kiersch.
'
·
Our Library has re~eived a total of 1625 registered visitors during
the past fiscal year. This n~mbec does not include registrations durin g
Grand Lod?~ .W eek when 1t was generally impractical to register th e
crowds of v1s1tmg members of Grand Lodge and their friends.
We have hoped to improve the appearance and service of
L·
b
th '
0 ur
.
1rary 1s commg year on a modest scale in keeping with the available
s?ace. To that end we have requested permission to purchase two add itional cases for further display of stored Masonic memorabilia. and to

186

PRO CEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

make the Library approach more apparent to those stepping out of the
elevator on the second floor.
The Commission does not believe it necessary to request a greater
operating budget than it has used this year, having found that by prudent management all currently envisioned functions and services may
be rendered at the figures established.
The Library Commission therefore recommends to the Grand Lodge
approval of the requested budget for operation during the ensuing Masonic fiscal year. The Commision expresses its gratitude to the Most
Worshipful Eugene S. Hopp for the privilege and honor of serving the
Grand Lodge during his term of office. His guidance is a legacy dating
from his Chairmanship of this same Commission ( 1960), the year of the
renaissance of our Grand Lodge Library and Museum.
Particular credit for much of our success, present and future, is due
Most Worshipful Edward H. Siems, P.G.M., Grand Secretary and
Grand Librarian; to the assistance of Worshipful Verne W. Hendrix.
Assistant Grand Secretary; to Worshipful George D. Gavin, Manager
of our Temple, for his extraordinary cooperation; to Worshipful Newcomb Candee of the California Freemason Publication Board, and Editor, for his assistance in accelerating the frequency of gifts and bequests
to our Library and Museum; to the many Masters of this jurisdiction
who have helped advertise our desire to serve Master Masons of California and Hawaii.
It is the hope of your Commission that your Library should become
as close to you as the one in your own home; and that its growing resources may be of interest and use to every Masonic scholar and to
every interested Brother.
Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM F. POYNTE R. Chairman
DAVID R. LANE

FLOYD F . B OYE R

s. STEIN, f R.

RU SSELL G. WO RTH

HAROLD

C. JoH N BELLMAN, JR.

GEORGE N . K o REGELOS

Refer red to C ommittee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON YOUTH ORDERS
To the Mo st W orshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Youth Orders has had a busy a nd eventful year.
The members o f the Committee feel that definite progress has been made
in implementing the purposes of the Committee-that of expanding the
functions of the Committee to include D eM olay, Job's Dau ghters a nd
Rainbow for Girls .
Y our C ommittee regrets the passing of Brother G ene M a math of
Inglewood. His unfailing good humor and wise counsel a re greatly
missed.

187

£ ttcthe fi~st meeting of the Committee, guidelines for the operation
o t e omm1ttee were adopted. These guidelines are:
a. To serve as. a li~ison group between the California Grand ·L odge
and the California Masonic affiliated youth orders.
b. To pro~ose and initiate recommendations to the Grand Lodge
con.cernmg the ·r elationship between the Grand Lodge and the
various youth orders.
c,

Toefade~s

develop w~ys and means of providing assistance to the adult
.of Jobs Daughters, Rainbow, and DeMolay in all areas
o activity.

d. To dev~lop. materials to be used to increase understanding and
communication between the Grand Lodge and M
·
h
e T
. .
asonic yout .
· o promote communication and articulation among the Masonic
affiliated youth orders.
f. To .Promote communication and understanding concerning Masonic youth among all Masonic organizations.
g.
promote closer communication, cooperation, and understandmg between ~he Committee on Youth Orders and the other Grand
L odge committees.

!o

y ~ur Chairman, in putting into effect and implementing the guidemes, as conducted the following meetings:

1·

a. Tw~ meetings were held during the year with the adult administrative heads of the three youth orders 1·n Cal'£
· Th
.
1 orma.
ese meetmgs ha_ve proved to be mos t constructive and the groundwork has
~een laid for a_ continuation of the meetings over the coming years.
t these meetmgs mutual problems have been discussed. Perhaps
t~~ most valuable outcome of these meetings has been the recogniti:in t.h at the three groups are interdependent and tha t any action
which 1s helpful to one will work to the benefit of all three
d
that a condition which is harmful to one will in the l
' a~
harmful to all three.
'
ong run, e
b. Y ou.r C_h airm~n ca!led a meeting of the hea ds of the Concord ant
~odies m California to promote communication and understandmg ~bout the problems of the M asonic affilia ted youth orders. Of
spec~al concern and relevance to representati ves present were
two items:
1. Th~ th~ee M asonic affiliated youth organizations have been expe~ie~cmg a period of declining membership. This is a characteris tic, not only o~ Masonic affilia ted youth groups, but o f all
youth groups, and m fact. of all org anized groups of this character.
2. D ata g~the~ed during the past year by the special committee on
Masonic affilia ted youth orders indica ted that the e ·
·
bl
·
r 1s a serious
pro em with respect to the rental of meeting pla ces for a number of the youth groups.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

ed the
In the discuss ion the leaders of the Conco rdant Bodies indicat
most
be
would
als
propos
deflnite
that
ted
willing ness to help, but sugges
Conthe
of
s
ntative
represe
the
of
g
meetin
a
that
useful. It was agreed
Orcordan t Bodies with represe ntative s from the Comm ittee on Youth
ders would be recomm ended for the coming year.
been
Individ ual membe rs of the Comm ittee have visited and have
their
ing
increas
year.
the
during
ns
functio
receive d at many youth
the
of
parts
all
in
orders
youth
various
the
of
s
knowle dge of problem
rdant
Conco
Jurisdi ction. Many of the constit uent lodges and units of
progra ms
Bodies have excelle nt youth progra ms. Examp les of these
ction.
Jurisdi
the
hout
throug
should be made availab le and distrib uted
the
The membe rs of the Comm ittee on Youth Orders apprec iate
to
order
In
year.
past
the
during
ity
fratern
the
opport unity of serving
the
further
ent
comple te the work which has been started and to implem
ng recobjecti ves of the Comm ittee, we would like to presen t the followi
Lodge:
Grand
the
of
ommen dations for the consid eration
for
1. The progra m of providi ng brochu res concer ning Freem asonry
be
should
orders
youth
three
the
of
rs
membe
the
to
distribu tion

8. The Comm ittee on Youth Orders . compo sed of experie nced members of _th~ adult admini stratio n of the Mason ic affiliated youth
or~ers, is . m an excelle nt positio n to investi gate and mediat e any
senous d1ff erences _which may arise betwee n one 0 £ the youth
groups and a constit uent lodge. Such mediat ion can relieve fricti~n points that presen tly arise betwee n youth groups and constituen t lodges .
rsary
9. The three youth orders will be observ ing their 50th Annive
be
will
lay
DeMo
1969
In
years.
few
next
the
celebr~tion_s within
that
end
recomm
ly
strong
We
rsary.
Annive
Golden
its
obse.rvmg
spe~1al recogn ition be given to the youth orders as they observ e
their 50th Annive rsaries .
been
A.n operati ng budget reques t for a total amoun t of $1650 has
al
propos
the
in
item
largest
The
ittee.
Comm
e
~ubm1tted to the Financ
pdevelo
the
upon
ent
depend
is
which
_iture
expend
n
res-a
is for brochu
by
ment and approv al of materia l by the Comm ittee and, subseq uently,
the Grand Master .

188

continu ed.
2. During the coming year a brochu re explain ing the youth orders
to the Master Mason and to the officers of the constit uent lodges
should be develo ped and distrib uted.
of
3. The Speake r's Bureau should be continu ed for the purpos e
interning
concer
ation
inform
of
ination
dissem
the
coordin ating
esting topics and speake rs for youth groups .

4. A study of the rental charge d to youth groups by Mason ic Temple Associ ations should be undert aken by the approp riate committee of the Grand Lodge. Definit e guideli nes should be established for the inform ation of all concer ned.
youth
5. The presen t prohihi tion of the expend iture of money on
chapthe
While
d.
remove
be
should
orders by constit uent lodges
the
ally.
flnanci
ficient
self-suf
are
bethels
and
lies,
ters, assemb
sing.
prohibi tion has a psycho logical effect which is depres
6. There should he a recogn ition of the fact that the admini stration
of the youth orders require s financial suppor t and ways and means
of providi ng such suppor t to the youth orders should be developed. The role of the Gra~d Lodge in this area of concer n should
be one of provid ing leaders hip and of giving moral suppor t.
sh
7. The Comm ittee recomm ends that each constit uent lodge establi
and
tanding
unders
better
e
provid
to
orders
youth
on
a committee
commu nicatio n betwee n the local units of the youth orders and
the individ ual lodge.

189

Grand
The Comm ittee wishes to expres s its apprec iation to the
t
interes
active
his
for
Hopp,
S.
e
Eugen
ipful
Master , the Most Worsh
active
his
for
er
Huebn
A.
t
Herber
ipful
Worsh
Right
the
and .s~pp~rt, ~o
counse l,
parttc1pation m the work of the Comm ittee and his invalua ble
ce.
guidan
and
nce
assista
and to the ~rand Secret ary and his staff for
of
leaders
adult
the
to
iation
apprec
The Comm ittee also expres ses its
the
ut
Witho
level.
isory
superv
and
local
the
at
the .youth orde.rs, both
d youth
dedica ted service s .of these individ uals, the Mason ic affiliate
tive.
ineffec
orders would s hortly become
Respec tfully submit ted,
JOHN L. WrxoN , Chairm an
FRANK H. WHELA N
GARFIE LD G. LAIBLIN
HOME R RA TH BUN
LEO J. GREEN
PANCO OK
ARTHU R
}AMES B. WRIGL EY
WILLIA M G. SKILLIN G
THEOD ORE F. TOWER

J.

ROBER T A. MILLER
DoN WoRsH AM
MtCHA EL SELLIC K
EowIN F. COLLIN S
MATHE ISON
ROBER T
Roy W . TROUT MAN, JR .
WILLIA M P. WILSO N
RICHAR D SIMON

J.

Referr ed to Comm ittee on Financ e. (Budge t allocat ion)

190

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPO RT OF COM MITT EE ON PUBL IC INFO RMA TION
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. & A M. of Califo
rnia:
The follow ing is a report of the Comm ittee of Grand Lodge
Public
Inform ation. With your permission, I will make it rather
inform al in its
nature .
Our first endea vor was publicizing the list of names of
the newly
elected Grand Lodge Officers. These were releas ed immed
iately follow ing Grand Lodge Week , 1967, and appea red in a San Franci
sco paper
for the first time to my knowl edge. Our next endea vor was
coveri ng the
102nd Birthd ay of Mrs. Locke at the Mason ic Home . The
picture that
was taken of Grand Maste r Eugen e S. Hopp presen ting
Mrs. Locke
with a bouqu et of roses was releas ed not only to the local
news desks.
and appea red on Chann el 5 television, but was also release
d throug h
Unite d Press Wirep hoto. The pictur e and its captio n appea
red in many
papers throug hout the bay area. as well as going national.
This took us
into November. A state-w ide news release was sent from
G.L. as well.
In Decem ber we s ent a photog rapher and our comm itteem
an, Jack
Pettit, to the Mason ic Home at Union City to photog raph
the a nnual
Christ mas Party. These picture s . as well as ma ny others
concernin~
Const itution Obser vance Day. Mrs. Locke, etc., were sent
to the California Freem ason Editor for his consid eration .
Durin g the interim. I have been in contac t with the variou
s hostin g
Lodge s who have sponso red corner stone laying s and other
d~dication
cerem onies where ver the Grand Maste r is in attend ance.
I remmd them
to get out advan ce newsp aper publicity and to send me
clippin gs for
the scrapb ook.
Our next big endea vor was one which is not only a favorit
e of mine,
but of the Grand Maste r as well: Pusu c SCHOOLS WEEK
. Our committee started early in 1968 to set up much public ity for the
observ ance.
We worke d closely with the S.F. M asters and Ward ens Assn
.. and with
Elroy Joyce, the local chairm an. With the help of our Public
lnfon:~ia t~on
commi tteema n in City Hall. Warre n D. Hanso n. we set
up a s1gnmg
of the Mayo r's Procla mation on behalf of P ublic Schoo ls
Week , 1968.
Our committee invited the Grand M aster to attend the signin
g cerem ony
in the Mayo r's Office at S.P. City H all, and we also engag
ed the photograp her to cover the event. These pictur es were ve.ry
excell ent and
appea red in variou s news media as well as the S.F. Public
Schoo ls News paper. as well as appea ring on KPIX Televi sion News. Captio
ns accom panied all pictures.
I then set up a Press Confe rence at the San Franci sco Public
Schoo ls
Admin istrati on buildin g in Dr. Jenkin s' office. This was set
up by meeting previo usly with Dr. Jenkin s and his Public Relati ons Direct
or, Hugh
Wire, and David Mona sch III. who was the Public Schoo
ls W eek Coordina tor. The Press Confe rence was most succes sful and
well attend ed.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

191

Our Grand Master . Dr. Hopp, was in attend ance also
and addres sed
the news media. Repor ts of this confer ence appea red in
all of the local
newsp apers publicizing Public Schoo ls Week in S.F. for
the fi rst time
to this degree. A news releas e went out in the form of
a letter which I
compo sed and was sent out from Grand Lodge to all the
news media
in California and H awaii. This even appea red in the editor
ial section
of the S.F. Chron icle, which surpri sed me no end. The songfe
st which
officially opene d Public Schoo ls Week in S.F. was covere
d by KPIX
Television and appea red on the Eyewi tness News. An editori
al, releas ed
and delive red by KPIX G eneral Mana ger Richar d Harris
, was also presented on the Sunda y preced ing and the morni ng of the
openin g day.
Radio , too, was very kind, with much publici ty given by
Jack C arney
on KSFO , and radio and TV spot annou nceme nts on all
of the radio
and TV station s in the area. KPIX had a satura tion of annou
nceme nts
during the week.
In M ay we sent a photo graph er to cover the Silver Star
award by
the Marin e Corps to Hugh Herrin g, the Assist ant Super
intend ent of
the Mason ic Home in Union City. This picture was delive
red to all the
news desks and appea red in many papers . We next covere
d the 100
year centen nial of Marin Lodge No. 191 in San Rafae
l on July 27,
where the Grand Master put in an appea rance. Photo s went
to Grand
Lodge and to the Maste r of M a rin Lodge No. 191.
Public Schoo ls Week in the Los Angel es area receiv ed
more publicity than ever before , with over 1.000 newspa per items
reporting the
variou s activities and Const itution Obser vance Week receiv
ed the same
public ity. Hugh Came ron did an outsta nding job in tha t
area.
Const itution Week in Nevad a City again was a brillia nt
affair, includin g a parade and para chute activities, throug h the
efforts of Bill
Lambe rt, our comm itteem an for that area.
Mason ry in H awaii was repres ented to a larger degree
than heretofore known . Mason ic install ations , funera ls, as well as
Public Schoo ls
Week and Consti tution Week , receiv ed public ity throug
hout all of the
Island s. mainly throug h the efforts of our ma n in Hawaii.
John Pringle.
The Grand Maste r's corner stone laying and visitat ion
to the Island s
receiv ed great mentio n.
Const itution W eek was anothe r enorm ous effort by the
Comm ittee
in supporting Grand Lodge Comm ittee upon Const itution
Week , and
also in suppo rt of local Maste rs and Ward ens Assoc iation
Progra ms.
None the least was the progra m in San Francisco, where
our comm ittee
furnis hed much public ity, had slides made up and shown
on KPIX TV,
and even provid ed a photo graph er to record the evenin g
progra m. T his
progra m at the Masonic Auditorium was specta cular indeed
and featured the Youth of Ameri ca Group . a cast of 85 young
people whose
averag e age is 16 years. Grand Maste r. Dr. H opp. and S.F
. Super visor

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

192

Peter Tamaras were keynote speakers. Needless to say, when Grand
Lodge Week arrives with its annual election, we shall be there. I used
$700 of my $1000 budget during the 1967-1968 fiscal year. This was
mostly on photograp hy. I think that it was money well spent. I wish to
congratula te all of the go-getting committeemen of my committee. On
behalf of all of them. please be assured that IT WAS A PLEASU RE
TO SERVE!
Respectfu lly submitted ,
DoNALD L. BATTEN, Chairman
HAMILTON HINTZ

NILES 0 . MILLAR. JR.

WILMER G. BRILL

RALPH A. WARK, JR.

GLENDAL L W . McDERMO TT

JACK PETTIT

HUGH J. CAMERON

WILLIAM H. LAMBERT

KERN H. COPELAND

JOHN D OUGLAS PRINGLE

WILLIAM E. S. JARRETT

WARRE N D. HANSON

Referred to Committe e on Finance. (Budget allocation )

REPORT OF COMMI TTEE ON TAXAT ION
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F . 5 A. M . of California:
Since filing our report for 1967, there have been changes in the payroll tax laws which apply to our various Masonic organizati ons.
As has been our custom in past years, we present. for reference purposes, the usual schedule of tax rates and wage bases for the various
payroll taxes which will be in effect during the calendar year 1969 and
thereafter .
FEDER.l\L WITHHOL DING (I NCOME) TAX

All wages paid to employees of a Masonic Lodge are subject to
Federal income tax withholdin g. In order to determine the amount of
income tax which is to be withheld from wages paid to its employees , the
lodge should ask each employee to complete and file with the Secretary
o f the lodge a Federal Form W-4, "Employe e's Withhold ing Exemptio n
Certificate ." Reference to withholdin g tax tables furnished by the Treasury Departme nt will enable the Secretary to determine the amount to
to be withheld . New tables reflecting the 10% surtax should be in use
a t the present time.
FEDERAL IN SURANCE CONTRIBU TIONS (SOCIAL SECURITY )

As the law now stands, an employee of a Masonic Lodge is subject
to tax for each calendar quarter during which he earns $50.00 or more.
The ta x rates shown below are applicable to the first $7,800.00 of wages
paid to each employee during the calendar year. These rates are to be
paid by both the employer and the employee.

GRAND LODGE OP CALl f'ORNIA

19 3

PER CENTUM
Calendar Year
FICA
Hospital Insurance Total
1969-1970
4.2
4.8
.6
1971-1972
4.6
.6
5.2
1973-1975
5.0
.65
5.65
1976-1979
5.0
.7
5.7
1980-1986
5.0
.8
5.8
1987 and thereafter
5.0
.9
5.9
% for 1969) may be
4.8
(i.e.,
tax
As a practical matter, the total
applied to subject v.:ages as no apportion ment is required.
FEDERAL UNEMPLO YMENT TAX

M asonic lodges will be subject to this tax if they employ four or
more individual s who are paid $50.00 or more per calendar quarter, providing they have first qualified as an "employe r" by employing four or
mo~e employees on at least one day in each of twenty or more weeks
durmg the calendar year. For this purpose, all paid employees of the
lodge. including the Secretary and those who are performin g ritualistic
services (Tiler, Organist, Soloist), should be counted if they receive
$50.00 or more per calendar quarter. Federal Unemploy ment Tax at the
rates shown below will be applicable to the first $3,000.00 of wages paid
to each employee during the calendar year. However, lodges which are
subject to the California Unemploy ment Insurance Tax law, and which
meet certain requireme nts , will be entitled to a credit up to 2.7%. Only
the employer pays Federal Unemploy ment Tax.
Maximum Credit
Tax Rate
For Payment of
Tax Rate
Calendar Year
(Gross) Calif. Unemp. lns. Tax
(Net)
1969 and thereafter
3.1%
2.7 %
.4%
(as law now provides)
CALif'ORN IA U NEMPLOY MENT INSURANC E TAX

.Masonic lodges will be s ubject to this tax if the total wages paid
durmg. a calendar quarter to taxable employees are in excess of $100.00.
For this purpose a taxable employee is one who is paid $50.00 or more
per .calendar quarter. However, whether or not elected or appointed
officials of a lodge are to be counted as taxa ble employees will depend
upon whether or not the lodge is subject to the Federal Unemploy ment
Tax Act.
If the lodge is not subject to the Federal Unemploy ment Tax Act.
then the wages paid to an elected or appointed official will be exempt
from California Unemploy ment Insurance Tax unless the wages paid
to these officials exceed $100.00 per month.
If the lodge is subject to the Federal Unemploy ment Tax Act. th en
the wages paid to an elected or appointed official will be subject to Cali-

194

l'i.tOC EWIN GS Of THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIF ORNIA

fornia Unem ploym ent Insur ance Tax if the wage s paid
to these officials
amou nt to $50.00 or more per calen dar quart er.
For purpo ses of this tax, the term "elect ed or appoi nted
o~cial" .will
includ e any official of the lodge who is comp ensate
d for his serv1~es.
Thos e usual ly comp ensate d for their servic es are the
Secre tary. Tiler.
Organ ist, and Solois t.
If the lodge is subje ct to Califo rnia Unem ploym ent
lnsur~nce Tax,
the rate shown below will be applic able to a $3.800.00
base paid to each
emplo yee durin g the calen dar year 1969. In other years
this base may
fluctuate betwe en $3.800.00 and $4.100.00.
Only the emplo yer pays the tax. Rates based on emplo
ymen t experience: Gradu ated from O.O or 0.8 % (depe nding upon
which rate s.chedule is in effect) to a maximum of 2.7% . State will furnis
h notifkat1on of
rate.
CALIF ORNIA UNEM PLOY MENT INSUR ANCE

TAX -

BALA NCING ACCO UNT FUND

Wage s subje ct to the tax under the headi ng "Cali fornia
Unem ployment Insur ance Tax" will also be subjec t to this tax.
For the yea~ 1969
the rate can vary from 0.2% to 1.0% . Only the emplo
yer pays this tax.
CALIF ORNIA DISAB ILITY INSUR AN CE TAX

The rules regar ding cover age, discu ssed under the
headi ng "Cali fornia Unem ploym ent Insur ance Tax," are the same
f~r this part of. th.e
law. Only the employee pays this tax. The tax rate
1s 1.0% and 1t 1s
applie d to the first $7.400.00 paid to each employee.
Respect£ ully subm itted,
ALEX ANDE R L. CROC E, Chair man
ROBE RT R. YORK

w. STANLEY DAVIS

Adop ted.
REP ORT OF THE BOA RD OF DIRE CTO RS
OF THE MAS ONIC CLU B AT THE UNIV
ERSI TY
BERK ELEY , CAL IFOR NIA
To the Most Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodge F. 5 A. M. of
California:
The Berke ley Clubh ouse Board of Direc tors prese
nts herew ith its
repor t for the period endin g Septe mber 16, 1968. This,
in ~11 proba bility .
is the final repor t of the Board of Direc tors of the Maso
nic Club at the
Unive rsity. Berke ley. Califo rnia, for on the above date
the real prope rty
and Clubh ouse buildi ng were sold to Prope rty Devel
opme nt. Inc.
Thus ended a long and illustrious chapt er ~n the hist~r
y ?f our beloved Maso nic Club at Berke ley and its manif old
contri bution to the

195

growt h of the Unive rsity throu ghout the many 'Years
of its existence as
a friend and haven for Maso nic conne cted stude nts.
Chan ging times
and the fast pace of educa tional proce dure on the Unive
rsity Camp us
have made the Maso nic Club obsol ete in its plann ed
opera tion and usefulness to Unive rsity stude nts.
Some of the members of the Board have, for many years
, been directors of the Clubh ouse and to them it is a very impor tant
part of Maso nry.
It is antici pated that all of the proce eds from the sale
of the Clubh ouse
prope rty togeth er with the Club investment portfo lio.
and other contri bution s, will go to the newly create d Califo rnia Maso
nic Found ation.
The ferven t hope of the Direc tors is that the Found
ation will mean a
new era in furthe ring the "Ligh t" of Maso nry and, as
expre ssed in Resolution No. 33 that ordai ned the Califo rnia Maso nic Found
ation, "to aid
and assist all mank ind, to foster and promo te Americanis
m, a respec t for
law, for our flag . and our Const itutio n throu gh the mediu
m of educa tion.
convince young peopl e that freedom under law as provid
ed by our form
of gover nmen t is essen tial to a free societ y."
Most of the past year has been devot ed to prepa ring
an inven tory
of the Clubh ouse assets and facilities and makin g plans
for an order ly
closing of the Clubh ouse at the end of the June 30. 1968
semester.
Last Fall and into this Sprin g. the stude nt memb ers of
the Club held
most of their usual social functions. On Octob er 11,
1967, the Clubhouse was open and we were hosts to the Grand Lodge
Tour. Ninet een
busse s broug ht about 550 guest s who visited the Club
and were entertained at the Clubh ouse. Club memb er Dick Webe r spoke
at the " Brigh t
Side of Youth " program spons ored by the Oakla nd
Scotti sh Rite Bodies. Stude nt club members also partic ipated in the severa
l Maste r and
Ward ens Assoc iation affairs. Stude nt Club memb ers
indica ted a desire
to contin ue to meet as a separ ate indep enden t "Club
" if they are able
to locate a suitab le meeting place.
The Clubh ouse was duly and officially closed on June
30. 1968. Terminat ed. as of that date, were the services of Resid
ent Hoste ss Mrs.
Janaic e Kohl and Social Hoste ss Mrs. Mary Kierulff.
Suitab le severa nce
pay and a "than k you" letter were given to each hostes
s.
Most of the club furnis hings were given to the Maso
nic Home at
Union City. Libra ry books and the large grand fathe
r clock went to
Grand Lodge, San Franc isco. The three piano s were
sold for cash. All
funds. including the depos it on the prope rty sale, were
depos ited in the
Maso nic Club Commercial Accou nt, Bank of Amer
ica, Berkeley, and
are availa ble for transf er to the Grand Lodge .
On Septe mber 13, 1968 the Clubh ouse Board of Direc
tors adopt ed

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

a closing resolution authorizing the sale, as well as the terms and conditions for the sale. of the property to Property Development Inc.

ing to sell our UCLA clubhouse at a hoped-for price of $850,000. This
will make a total realizable figure of $I .120,000.

RespectfuUy submitted.

Resolution No. 33 being presented to this Grand Lodge offers the
establishment of the California Masonic Foundation to administer this
fund under the auspices and control of Grand Lodge with 15 trustees
to be appointed by the Grand Master, whose function according to the
resolution, "shall be to aid and assist aU mankind; the first preference
thereto to be given to all phases of education, including scientifk research, vocations and trade training for persons in California and Hawaii." No mention is made in this resolution specifically for aid to
Masons, sons and daughters of Masons, Job's Daughters, Rainbow
Girls and DeMolay boys.

196

DONALD P. HEWLETT.

President

c. M. DAVIS,

Vice-President
GENE

c. OTWELL,

Treasurer
PAUL

s. BOREN,

Secretary
WILLIS H. GILLETTE,

Assistant Secretary
Adopted.

ELTON L. TURNER
J. WALTER PROCTOR
PETER ·M. TRIPP
E. A. REINKE
ALFRED E. HOPKINS
EowARD H . REDFORD
}AMES C. BLAINE
CLAUDE M c KAY
ELBRIDGE F. RUSSELL
EDWARD H . PITCHER

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF THE MASONIC CLUB
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA AT LOS ANGELES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
This is probably the final report we will render for the Masonic <:=tub
UCLA. A club that was organized in 1925 and through the enthusiasm
and contributions of Masons in Southern California, our clubhouse was
built and dedicated in 1929. This was at no cost to Grand Lodge. The
original cost. defrayed by contributions, was $140,219.00.
This club. for 39 years. was a recreational and social center for Masons, sons and daughters of Masons, Job's Daughters, Rainbow Girls,
and DeMolay boys in attendance at the University of California at Los
Angeles. It is from this same club that hundreds have graduated from
college. gone on into the world to make their places in society and, more
important. have become Masons and members of the Order of the
Eastern Star.
In a minority report by a member of this Board of Directors. given
at the las t Annual Communication, it was mentioned "within the past
year, we have read a nd heard publicity regarding the student strikes
and riots at both the Berkeley and UCLA campuses. I am proud to say
that not one incident of this lawlessness has occurred at either club." It
is particularly gratifying to report that although the clubhouse faciliti~s
are not available to the former members, they are, nevertheless, still
meeting as a Masonic affiliate club and carrying on their activities.
At the last Annual Communication, you voted to seU both clubhouses. At this writing. the Berkeley club has been sold for $270,000.
The special committee appointed by the Grand Master is now endeavor-

197

We know that the original contributions made by those Masons of
over 40 years ago was meant to build clubhouses at Berkeley and UCLA
for all those boys and girls of Masonic background and if they are not
given first preference, then we feel that we are breaking faith with those
early Masons. They established the corporations controlling the clubs
with the provision in their articles of incorporation that in the event of
the sale of the properties. the moneys so derived were to be turned over
to the Masonic Homes of California. This provision was modified just
this year in order that the moneys could be turned over to the California
Masonic Founda tion. It is our sincere hope and recommendation that
those boys and girls who were originally intended as recipients of the
club benefits be now preferentially considered.
The member~ of this Board will be eternally grateful for having had
the opportunity of serving the cause of clean and upright youth at the
Masonic Club UCLA and extend our thanks to the many Past Grand
Masters who have appointed us to serve on this Board. It is perhaps
trite to say now that the Masonic Clubhouses deserved a better fate.
The final and closing a udit report has been submitted to the Grand
Secretary's office. Obviously there is no request for an allocation of
funds to operate the club for the coming year.
Respectfully submitted,
BATES

w. MASON.

President

S. R o Y HowELL

c. GORDON GLENN,
Vice-President
EDWIN

w. WADE

c. EARLE CRANE,
Secretary-Treasure r
THOMAS CARROLL

PAUL R. NICHOLS

MARION A. DuN CAN

ALFRED E. GRAY

A. CURTIS SMITH

FRANK JEN KINS

HERBERT

GEORGE KUSSMAN

E. DALE PECK

ELVIN

c. DRAKE

w. SMITH

Adopted.
At 4:00 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 a.m. Wednesday.

198

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION-Wednesday, October 16, 1968
At 9:30 a.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. This session was raised by Worshipful Herman R. Meyers, Jr ..
Master of Honolulu Lodge No. 409. (Also present in the East were the
Senior Wardens of the Hawaiian Lodges. ) The Grand Chaplain delivered the invocation. The minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions
of Tuesday. October 15, were read, corrected and approved.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON OLD MASONIC HALL
IN LOS ANGELES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Committee on the Old Masonic Hall in Los Angeles is pleased
to report the completion of all the work on the hall. located at 416Yi
North Main Street, Los Angeles.
A balcony, beautifully produced by artisans in wood and steel. has
been erected and an attractive rail has been installed.
Work is progressing rapidly on the other buildings in the complex.
particularly the Merced Theater and the Old Pico House, which are
adjacent to the Old Lodge Hall.
The rooms below the hall have been leased to the Security-Pacific
National Bank. They plan to decorate the interiors in the charming
decor of the style in vogue during the early days of Los Angeles. The
bank has called experts to see their quarters complement the rest of the
complex.
The budget allocated to the hall in the past will be sufficient until
the final completion of the entire State Park complex. At that time, it
will be necessary for us to have a full time guide, since all of the buildings will be open to the public five or six days a week.
Brother Wray Gibson is doing a fine job of showing the visitors
through the Old Temple and keeping its displays shining and immaculate.
The hall is open only on Friday, Saturday and Sunday. from 12
noon until 5 p.m. I urge all Masons and sojourners in the area to visit
this historic shrine which has been faithfully restored to match the .first
meeting hall of Los Angeles Lodge No. 42. now in its I 16th year of
devotion and service to the Craft.
Many lodges in and around the Los Angeles area have used the
Old Temple as a meeting place to confer degrees, but the activity should
be publicized. Plaza de Los Angeles Lodge No. 814 meets regularly
there on Thursday nights. However, the Hall is available on the other
week nights for degree work to any Lodge in California.

liRAND LODGE OP C ALIFORNIA

199

There is ample parking across the street from the Old Hall. The
streets are well lighted and patrolled. There are also many fine restaurants in the area for dining. before or after "work" in the Temple.
Your committee is deeply appreciative of the splendid support, concern and cooperation in restoring and maintaining the Old Temple.
whose hallowed halls will ever ring with the muted voices of a golden
past.
Respectfully submitted,
BENJAMIN M. WEISS, Chairman
HERBERT HARGRAVE. JR.
LLOYD E. PARKER
Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

REPORT OF INVESTMENT COMMITTEE
FoR FISCAL YEAR ENDING JuNE 30, 1968
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A . M. of California:
The Investment Committee concludes its eighteenth year of activity,
and herewith renders its report for the twelve months ended June 30.
1968. Each year's report gives a certain amount of historical background
and basic information. which should be helpful to those attending Grand
Lodge for the first time.
The Prudent Man Rule, in modified form. was adopted by and for
Grand Lodge at the 1950 Communication. For the Constituent Lodges a
Prudent Man Rule was adopted in 1951.
The Committee does not supervise the investments of Constituent
Lodges, but Grand l..A>dge makes the services of its investment ~dvisor
available to the Lodges without charge. Many Lodges are making use
of this service.
The following is Moody's report of activities for Constituent Lodges
for the year ending June 30, 1968:
Constituent Lodge Activity Report-July 1. 1967 to June 30. 1968:
Number of active Lodges at end of period ....................
89
Number of inactive Lodges............................................
210
Approximate portfolio value ........................................ $8,378,054
Approximate average value of portfolios .................... $ 28,209
Lodge letters ................................................. .................
104
Moody's letters ..............................................................
113
Telephone contacts ........................................................
37
Office visits ......................................................................
6
The Investment Committee hopes that the Lodges are making full
and continuing use of this valuable service.
We would also like to call your attention to the fact that there is
a circular issued by Grand Lodge regarding the investment of funds by
Constituent Lodges. which is available c:t the Grand Secretary's office. It
is my understanding that a copy of this circular or reprint of Section 403

200

PROCE EDING S OF THE

l~tlAND

.
t Lodge s has been insert ed in
with respe ct to inves tment s by C onst1t
uen
the New L o dge Manu al.
1
I
t C mmitt ee h as met regu 1ar y
Since its incep tion, the nvestm enl
o fngs the busin ess of the
everv three month s. Betwe en quarte
dr y mee t 1 h
1
e The Comm ittee
•
d
db
e spon ence or te ep on •
Comm ittee is con ucte
.
y corr
. 1
t'
gs be advisa ble or nee~
is availa ble at all times, shoul d spec1a
mee m
essary .
1
As stated , we have just comp

d

• hteen years of opera tions . The

et~·d e~gd marke t value of the securi ties
follow ing is a summ ary of the cons~ I
a ~th a record of dollar incom e on

owne d. plus invest able cash. tog~t erNw1
b
30 1950 and for each
t
beginn inr;i with
ovem er
•
these invest men s .
~h J
includ
ing the perce ntage
1968
succe eding fiscal year• thron g
une 30 ,
•
incom e on the marke t value o f each year:
CONSO LIDATE D MARK'ET VALUE
,' ,
ES AND INVES TABLE CASH•
OF SE<.:Ul.ITI
d D~LLAK INCOl'<lE (In Parenth..eo)
(BY GROUP S AND TOTALS> an

.....

GROUP UI
GROUP JI
GROUP l
Amoun t Percent
AJDOlll\I Percent
AmOILDt Percent
Date
364.003
6.9%
s
1.7"/o
11/S0/5 0 s 5,658,329 92.4% s ($102,140
($22,056)
4,262)
($94,280)
17.2
l,025,72
5
6.6
889.000
4,558,243 76.S
8/13/51
($63,203)
($16,652)
($74,084)
1,856,121
27.9
8.7
574.096
4,218,637
68.4
8/ 4/52
($98,61 ')
($20,832)
($85,827)
29.9
2,208,65
8
479,627
6.5
68.6
4,693,120
7/ 81/58
($112,816)
($19,394)
($102,381)
3,278,81
4 89.0
9.2
771,147
51.8
4,851.294
7/31/6'
($162.076)
($27,963)
($96,258)
3.820,092 87.8
678,610
6.7
65.5
6,630.942
7/31/55
($158,330)
($24,394 )
($126,621 )
81.5
S,606,096
14.4
1,596 ,552
64.l
6,011.460
7/ 31/56
(Uo0,69 7)
($63, 588)
($157, 122)
4,192,291
87.0
1,928
11.0
.381
46.0
5.205.9R
6
6/80/57 ..
($1 97.673)
( ~89 , 3 99)
($1 53.234)
4,878,339 38.9
2,2ii3,739 17.9
43.l
6.Sn.547
6/30/58
($225,34
0)
($96,946)
($174,662)
5,270,217 l!8.2
1,854,685 13.5
48.8
6,664,915
6/80/59
($186.85
4)
($87,858)
($242,71 8)
8,837,628 28.5
2,379,060 17 .7
7,249,780 5S.8
6/I0/60
($142,23
3)
($117.031)
($282,674)
40.6
6,589,0 ll
2,951.093 18.1
41.4
6,741.788
6/80/61
($221,22
2)
($137,967)
($246,626)
7
,973,486
50.1
19.5
a.101.ou
o
4,835,11 5 80.4
6/80/62
($323,243)
($147,489)
($169,025)
67.6
11.068
,171
J
,622,635
7
.6
34.8
7,130.966
6/ S0/63
($375.150)
($65.373)
($256,948)
9,188.969
3.4
694,478
62.2
10,830,579
1/30/64
($289,416)
($30,325 )
($418.720)
50.0
11.199,3 47
4.16
932,287
I0,289,650
45.9
6/80/66
($380. 110)
($40.202)
($404,051)
8,961.
87.4
464
1,811,90
7.5
7
56.l
ts.255.671
6/80/ 66
($364, 11 6)
($76,092)
($569.658)
11,290,678 4S.O
2,749,262 10.5
12,198,632
46.5
6/B0/67
($469,985)
(Sll5,567)
($646.922)
42.4
12,448,431
8,239,726
11.0
46.6
13.685,207
6/80/68
($474,604)
($187,190)
($686,859)
•Savln111 ho.nit deposit• with lntere•t earned thereon
are Included In Group I.
tOn market value.
.. Flac&l yeftl chang"d to June 30.
.
' f
the Mo.sonic Hom•• General Fund, and the
ttThe amount o( St.IS0,000 wn•. w1~dr:"~ :-;:; the
year ended June SO, 1960. to pay for the
un
•
ur
amount of $85•000 from the Flint
new hoapitnl at Decoto <tott.1 $l •215 ' 000 withdra wn).

"·'

201

fl'h• amount of Sl28,000 was withdra wn from the r. r .. nd

Lodge oortfoll o In the year ended June
10, 1962, to rund the unpaid bait.nee o f Grand Lodo:e
P eMiOn Fund.
UThe amount of $354,000 wao withdra wn from th~
Ge11eral Fund In the year ended June 80,
1968, for new dormito ry at Union City (Deroto ).
...The amount of $939,023.52 waa withdru wn from
the General Fund In the year ended June SO,
11164, • • pRrt PllYment for the new Charles All.ert
Adam• Hall at Union City (Decoto ).
IThe amount of S314,689 WRS withdra wn from the
General Fund and the amount or $77,700 """"
withdr11wn from the Flint F und durln<i the yenr
ended J une 30, 1955, for the new Charle•
Albert Adema Ht.II at Union City tl>ecoto).
tttThe amount of $18,992 wae withdra wn from the
M"erve Fund and the amount of $Sl,l59 wa•
withdra wn from the General Fund, during the year
expendi tures. Securlti e• In the amount of Sl31,622 ended June 30, 1968, for VRrioue eapltal
Memorial T4'mple, the funda to be used for the .29 were eold for the Californ ia Maooni c
purchas e of real e•tnte contiiru oua to the
Temple prolJ<!rty.
Note-t he withdra wals listed above total $3,210,185.81.
,Refere nce should be made to the fact thut stock dividen
d• Hre not included u current Income -they r emuin aa part of principa l. As of now, there
lo
rirclee with reo pert to oueh •tock divMen<lo, thereror no fixed or uniform thought In invelltrncnt
e
the
Commit tee contin ues to allocut.e them
to the corpus of our assete, which in the ca1e of the
Endowm ent Fund remai n inviolat e &1 part
of princip al.

Durin g

Income
Percent TOTAL S
Retum•
Amount
1.97%
• 6.124.411
($120,598)
2.58
5,972,968
($153.989)
8.09
6,648,864
($205,272)
a .21
7,381,305
($236,590)
a.28
8,401,255
($275.296)
8.05
10.129.644
($309,845)
8.14
11,118.108
($311,407)
8.92
11 ,326,608
($440,306)
3.97
12.529.626
($496.948)
8.75
18,789,767
($517 ,426)
4.02
13,466,468tt
($541,838)
16.281.892 . a.12
1$606.81')
4.02
16. 909,690i
($639.7671
8.64
19,721.661 t
($697,471)
20,714.026• .. 8.67
($738,717)
8.68
22,421.2841
($824.363)
4.20
24,029,042
(Sl,009.866)
4.27
26,238,472
($1,121.464)
29,368, 370ttt 4.25
($1,248 ,668),

LODGE OF C:A LIFO~Nll\

the

past year

secur ities

were

sold

at

$1 ,293,912.21 more than their cost, thereb y increa sing
value. Since the inaug uratio n of the Prude
nt
amou nts to $6.387.818.13. S a les alway
and are never includ ed in incom e totals
Fund, no capita l assets are ever withd

prices

yieldi ng

the total a sset

Man Rule i n 1950, this total
s remai n a part of capita l assets

. With respe ct to the Endo wmen t

rawn.

Endo wmen t Fund contri bution s made
throu gh the Lodge s amou nted
to $863,339.82 for the year ended June
30, 1968. Other contri bution s to
the Endo wmen t Fund were: $337.
100.65 from Gifts and Beque sts.
$19,776.63 from Memo rials, and $7.696.83 from Dona
tions from Orga nizatio ns and l~dividuals . Gener al Fund
Gifts and Beque sts amou nted to
$553,732.44 (whic h also includ es rea l estate and items
other than stocks
and bond s). The Maso nic Home s Board
of Trust ees determ ines how
these gifts and beques ts are alloc atedsuch alloca tions are made in
accor da nce with specif ic beque sts , or
in the absen ce of such at the direction of the Trust ees. The Endo wmen t
Fund contri bution s remai n in that
fund , and only the incom e i s used.
May we also call attent ion to the fact
that the conso lidate d portfo lio,
after taking into accou nt the severa l withd
rawal s listed above aggre gating $3.210,185.81. has increa sed since
Nove mber 1950 from $6.124,471
to $29,368,370, or about 379.5 2%. and
at the same time the incom e has
increa sed from $120,598 to $1 ,248,6 53,
or about 935.3 9%.
The follow ing is the conso lidate d inves
tment portfo lio of Gran d
Lodge , with marke t value s as of June
30, 1968, divide d into the variou s
groups , and s howin g the p e rcenta ges
of each group , togeth er with the
incom e return for each group on the marke
t value :

202

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

P IWCERDI NGS Of THE

RAND LODGE F. le A. M. OF CALIFO RNIA
;ONSOL IDATED PORTF OLIO-J UNE 30, 1968
{Market Value)
Market

GROUP I

va1..

Cash - · · · · - - - · · - · - - - - ' 500,000
Boun.dss.: Treasur y ··-···-······-----····· 3,329,102
4,002,860
Fede_r~l Agency ···-···················
69 100
Mun1c1pal ·:·············-··············-··· 4 673' 332
Transport~t~on ·····-··-··········-··· 1'110:813
Public Utility ······· ········ ·············~:i.•=.=.:.-TOTAL BONDS ........................$l3,~:n~~
TOTAL GROUP I ................$l 3, '

la

Percent

$

46.60

at••

Retarn en

JINlt•t

20,000

125,986
210,000
3,050
212,262
65,561
$ 616,859
$ 636,859

4.6

GROUP 11

Bonds:
.$ 102,000
Corpora te -··········- ··-··-··-·· -·
230,000
Financie1;l -·--······················- ·-···
934, 775
Convert ible ·-···---························
266 775
TOTAL BONDS ····-····-·········-$ l, I
Preferre d ~tocks:
$ 1 972,951
Convertible ··················-············· '
TOTAL GROUP II ............$ 3,23 9' 726

$

5,625
13,625
40,853
60,103

$

77,087

$

11.03

$ 137,190

4.2

GROUP III

Common St~~s:
$ 183,890
$ 3 842 183
Public Utility ···············-··-······· 4' 919' 391
174,621
Industri al -··-·-··-·· -······-··-· ·-··· 3' 525' 963
110,253
Finance ···-:·········-······-··········-··· '154 900
5,840
Transpo rtation ····················-···
'
3.8
$
474,604
42.37
TOTAL GROUP ill ............$l 2 • 443 ·~~i
4.2
100.00 $1,248,653
TOTAL PORTFOLIO ........$29,368,
the Masoni c Homes EndowWe have three principa l acGcounts,l F nd Grand Lodge F. &.A
. M.
.
enera u ,
ment Fund. the M asomc Homes ll
funds of the Masoni c Homes. Th e
of Californ ia, plus the sev,eral sma tertal fund thereby reducin g our cost
record is kept by Moody s ~on~ ~dge r~ords are kept separat e
as
very materia lly. Howeve r, ra~
f the Investm ent Commit tee. As a
to each fund. as are t.he recor h s o arket values of the port folios of the
matter of interest . we hst her~~ ~ mincom e and yield at market prices:
individu al funds, togethe r wit t e
l
•
Yw..•
Total VaJae•

nco••

Masonic Homes of Californ ia
__..... $20,624,949.57 $886,248 .61 4..30%
Endowm ent Fund........... --·-······ --···Fun d 6,163,205
.09 257,963.73 4.19
Masonic Homes of Californ ia G~neral
960,798.26
39,409.73 4.10
Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of ~alifomia .... -···

M=~~oef~~~tcA=~ Fund ·-····-···

Masonic Homes of C8;lifornia
Brigham Scholars hip Fund ························
Masonic Homes of Califom ia
Florenc e K.. Burt Fund ·············- ··-··---·· ·
Masonic Homes of Ca~o~a Flint Fund. ...
Masonic Homes of Califon ua
Luckenb ach Fund ··················-··-·--·-··········

277,703.88

11,901.45 4.29

28,875.00

1,475.00

327,177.06
255,024. 25

12,940.58 3.96
10,350.52 4.06

58,181.25

2,688.00

5.11

4.62

203

Masonic Homes of Caillam ia
Alida 0. Meserve Fund (a) ..........................
178,650.74
7,987.05 4.47
Masonic Homes of Californ ia Perine Fund..
13,337.50
634.00 4.75
Masonic Homes of Californ ia
Residents Reserve Fund (b) ...................-...
47,450.00
2,120.50 4.47
Masonic Homes of California
Student s Loan Fund ···········--·············· -····
333,939.06
13,630.50 4.08
Masonic Homes of Californ ia
Wadleigh Fund ·············-············-········-···8,525.00
450.00 5.28
California Masonic Memorial Temple..........·
59,062.50
3,281.25 5.55
('A• of June ao. 1968, lncludlair lnveetable cub. ln~t on uvlnp
accoun t 1, lnveatable 1:111h
only, 11 fiirul'9d at 4%. All of the above flirurea •re •• of June so.
1968, and the yield on lnve~
menta would vary during the 7ear, depending
upon the many factors which a.re Involved.)
(a) Lea US.992 withdrawn for Barn Renontlon . R.ereatlon
Area at Covina.
(b) Tranafer~ to General Fund a a of July 1, 1968.

The Masoni c Homes of Californ ia holds various Masoni c Temple
shares or certifica tes, listed as follows:
2 shs Santa Ana Masonic Temple Assn. Ltd. capital stock
3 shs Masonic Temple Assn. of Stockto n capital stock
9 shs Dunsmu ir Masonic Temple Assn. capital stock
51 shs Masonic Hall Association of Alameda capital stock
1 cert. of member ship San Gabriel Masonic Temple Assn.
I cert. for 10 member ships Rio Vista Masonic Temple Assn. Inc.
19 certs. Masonic Hall Association of Ontario
8 ahs Sebastopol Masonic Bldg. Assn.
These evidenc es of debt or certifica tes are owned by the Masoni c
Homes of Californ ia. It would be appreci ated if negotia tions were undertake n by those Lodges or Temple Associa tions which could afford
to redeem these certifica tes. The Investm ent Commi ttee would greatly
appreci ate your conside ration of this request. Just write to the Grand
Secreta ry for further informa tion.
In 1955 we received a bequest of 50 shares of Santa Rosa Savings
& Loan Associa tion Guaran tee Capital Stock. for which we were offered $25.000 by prospec tive Santa Rosa buyers. We conclud ed not
to sell. Over the years the original shares became 27.500 shares.
by
stock splits and stock dividen ds. In 1968 Santa Rosa Savings & Loan
merged with the Great Wester n Financi al Corpora tion, on the basis
of 1Yi shares for 1. and as a consequ ence we received 41,250 shares
of
Great Wester n Financi al Corpora tion. which was selling at $18 per
share-t his made the stock we received worth $742.500.00 The facts
were related to the Investm ent Commit tee, and at its meeting on June
12, 1968, the Commi ttee authoriz ed the sale of the shares at the market,
on t.h e recomm endatio n of Moody 's Investo rs Service. our Investm ent
Counse l. The shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchap ge. For
these shares we received the net sum of $777.728 .65. for which as stated
we were bid $25,000 in 1952. at which time the stock was still in the
hands of the Truste e-we did not receive possess ion until 1955.
The Great Wester n shares were not paying a cash dividen d, and we
learned from the Preside nt of the Santa Rosa Savings & Loan Associa
tion that no cash dividen ds would be paid for at least three years.
During the years we owned the shares of Sa nta Rosa Savings & Loan

PROC EEDIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

stock divid ends were paid.
we received no curre nt cash divid ends . Some
$40.000 to $45,000 per
hly
roug
of
e
Now the $777,000 is earni ng incom
e each year.
incom
lar
regu
a
uce
prod
year, and will conti nue to
Savi ngs & Loan Asso Gran d Lodg e also owns 21 share s of Ram ona
h stock regu larly pays cash
ciatio n, located in Fillm ore. Calif ornia , whic
we checked with Ram ona
divid ends . By contr ast, I might mention that
sold for and were given
be
t
migh
Savi ngs & Loan as to what the share s
we received 1Yi times
eas
wher
,
value
a figure of abou t 50% of book
Loan share s. How ever, we
book value for our Sant a Rosa Savi ngs &
s, and do not conte mpla te
are holdi ng the Ram ona Savi ngs & Loan share
sellin g them at this time.
Lemon Com pany . the
We also own 102 share s of Coro na Foot hill
tial value. Cons epoten
its
for
mark et value of whic h is much too low
whic h this prop in
ory
territ
The
held.
quen tly these share s are being
, and these share s shou ld
erty is locat ed is stead ily impr oving in value
also be an exce llent grow th situa tion.
surer 's and Audi tor's
The entir e portf olio is listed in the Gran d Trea
secur ities are held in
The
Repo rts, and there fore is not inclu ded herein.
t Depa rtme nt of
Trus
the
by
e
Lodg
safek eepin g for acco unt of Gran d
One Mon tgom ery Stree t
the Croc ker Citiz ens Nati onal Bank , at its
Office, San Fran cisco .
Inves tmen t Com mitee e
We have had exce llent atten danc e at our
case since this Com mitte e
meet ings durin g this year, as has been the
Gran d Mast er Euge ne
W.
M.
was organ ized. It was a pleas ure to have
d Mast er Robe rt A.
Gran
ty
Depu
S. Hop p at sever al of our meet ings.
G. M. Laur ence E.
P.
did
as
ings.
meet
al
Crig ler also atten ded sever
ng the Maso nic Hom es
Dayt on and P. G. M. Phil N. Mye rs repre senti
the Endo wme nt Boar d,
of
Boar d of Trus tees. Glen Glad son, Chai rman
atten ded the Augu st, 1967 meeting.
nt Com mitte e repo rt
l\gai n we come to that porti on of the Inve stme
c ial and inves tmen t
finan
the
s
word
few
in
wher e we try to summarize
outlo ok as we see it.
our sight s alwa ys tend
As state d last year, we repea t this year that
sailing very close to
are
We
very stron gly towa rd conserving assets.
in our economy. In
ents
elem
ry
tiona
shore , yet we recognize the infla
shou ld not ventu re away
the judg ment of the Inve stme nt Com mitte e we
Man Rule conti nues to be
from trust ee responsibilities. The Prud ent
an exce llent diversified inour yards tick. We have what we cons ider
ys unde r scrut iny.
alwa
are
h
vestm ent list of bond s and stocks. whic
mitte e as to its cour se
This is the feeling of your Inves tmen t Com
have been throu gh
bers
mem
its
of
Some
.
of action in these difficult times
ys prod uce plent y of reamany depre ssion perio ds, and they can alwa
sons for a cauti ous and cons ervat ive appro ach.

.
Our Inves tmen t Coun sel atten ds ev ery meetmg and has alwa ys
e.
advic
ble
valua
given us soun d and
We again repea t that our cours e f o~ctt. on can be .quite diffe rent
from that of an individual for a varieto
. d .Y 'd rleasons. This state ment is
made so as not to undu ly influen ce m
ivi ua s in their perso nal inves tment prog rams .
Our thank s to the Gran d Secr etar Y. an d h.ts s taff. and my thank s to
the mem bers of the Inve stme nt C
for their whol ehea rted and
gene rous cooperation at all t1·mes. omm1ttee
Resp ectfu lly subm itted on beha lf of th e I nves tmen t Com mittee :
PAUL A. PFLUEG~R . Chairman

204

ALFR ED F. BRES LAUE R
JA CK F. BOW LEY

205

B M
IZE
UY •
M ' RICH ARD ANDR EWS

G

Ad opted .
REP ORT OF SPE CIA L COM MIT TEE
ON COD E REV ISIO N
.
A M of Cal'f
1 ornia ·
To the M ost Wor shipf ul Gran d lodg e F · ur. · ·
T
.
.
· . C
he repor t of the Special Code Rev. 1s10n
ly
ssari
nece
is
1ttee
omm
very brie f-primari ly beca use the
during
little
very
done
has
ittee.
comm
circ
and
the past year. T ime
as relate d to the chair man of the committee have ~ms~~nc~. espec1a1Iy
oraril y the prog ress
temp
d
retar
to
om me
• •
of this project.
. d
How ever we have a ll
rev~sion of the Calif ornia
Maso nic Code is not somet~i~og~~ze that
pltsh ed over nigh t; rathe r
ccom
da
be
.
ag
to cons truct ively revise • reorg n1ze an to some ext t
.
en rewr ite, our
·11
.
f
•
.
work
cod e w1 prob ably requi re seve ra1 years
o committee
. 1
Furth er, it has becom ·
that any subs tanti ve chan ges whic h may be ro ose~mcreasmg y clear
caref ully and thou ghtfu lly
achieved consens~s ~f ma~u~ s~~m fro7 a
f GGrand Lodg e who are
~ur
and have been actively engagedr~n ~~: ~ or o
rand Lodg e. For ex.
th
ampl e, there must be
ultat ion with each
cons
full
for
ty
oppo rtuni
Gran d Lodge com mi'tt eee as
h
to any re · ·
be s ugge sted
may
at
t
'b 'J't v1s1ons
which have to do with the res
There must
ittee.
comm
that
of
y
I
I
1
be a large degre e of parti cip /)()n~ y many mem bers of Gran d Lad e
a ion
.
g .
.
It is also clear that the actua l detai. led mec h anica l work of rearr ange f
t
clari
ment , of rewr ite for
bsole te or dupli cated items
and sections. will require iheoca~:~~Voan of ?
~f a person. or perso ns.
professionally skilled in such matte rs. v~~~n
y. e that w~ have amon g
our breth ren some so qualified who can
make this contr ibuti on
w~ll
ahnd
h
to Maso nry in Calif ornia On th e ot er and it may develop that such
.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

206

Cl?AN O LODGE O F CAUPOR NIA

profession al talent will have to be employed for the purpose, in order
that we may be assured of a technically satisfacto ry completion of the
project.
We therefore recommend, assuming the continuati on of a special
committee on code revision, that a new program of procedure be developed which will have the concurren ce of the special committee and of
the elected Grand Lodge line officers. It should be recognized that a
procedure , once adopted, must then be followed through to its conclusion
and that this may require several years of study and work.
We do not wish to leave the impression that nothing has been accomplished during the three years of the life of this special committee.
A substantia l amount of work, under the leadership of Past Grand
Master Ellsworth Meyer, who chaired the committee during its first two
years, has formed the basis of approach to the task. This very work,
however, has made it completel y apparent that the revision of the California Masonic Code must be done carefully, painstakin gly. thoughtfully, and with the united concurren ce of a great many individuals.
Respectfu lly submitted,
THEODOR E MERIAM, Chairman
EDWARD H. SIEMS

HERBERT A. HUEBNER

LAURENCE E. DAYTON

WAKEFIEL D TAYLOR

ROBERT A. CRIGLER

ELBERT

w. DAVIS

A. J. Mc COURTNEY
CHESTER R. MACPHEE
(NOTE: See report of action taken by Grand Lodge on Grand
Master's Recommendation No. 6 relating to this matter.}

REPORT OF COMMI TTEE ON CREDEN TIALS
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California :
Your Committe e on Credentia ls submits the following report covering the I 19th Annua l Communication of this Grand Lodge.
May we express our appreciati on for the assistance and cooperatio n
given us by the Grand Secretary, Assistant Grand Secretary and their
staff, as well as that of the Building Manager and Grand Tiler. Without
this cooperatio n our duties would have been more difficult.
The Committe e is indebted to Brother Kirby C. Serles, Executive
Secretary of the Long Beach Masonic Board of Relief. for assisting in
the registratio n of Inspectors during the School of Instructio n. also to
Brother Jim R. Molloy. Junior Warden of Wilmingt on Lodge No. 198,
for his assistance at the Credentia l Desk.
We respectfully report that of the 706 chartered Lodges 688 are
represented.

207

The total registratio n is made up as follows:
Grand Lodge Officers................... .........................................................
Past Grand Masters
Past Senior Grand W~--d...... .. .... ..... ... ..... ......... . ..... .. . ... ...... .. .... ...... ......

27
13
··--···--·--···-- ···--·········--···--·· 21
Past Grand Lecturers...~--~::::::::: ::::···--···--···
.....................................................
Officers and -Re resentativ
1,.7.t
es....................
P
.................................. • •
P ast Mas ters, including the followin ................
g ............................................ 1258
Inspect
Commi~:se~~~-....... .............. .... ....................................... 167
149
pM
. .- ecretaries ................................. ........................... 216
Grand Masters of other Jurisdictio ns..........................
8
........................
Grand Lodge Officers of other Jurisdictions
(including 9 Past Grand Masters) ................................................ 40
Special Guests......
2
..................................................................................

s

..............................................................

2g
TOTAL ................ .........................
25
332
::::::::::::
Master Masons (including 67 Secretaries)·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
GRAND TOTAL .................................................................... 3157
Respectfu lly submitted ,
EMIL W . TREFTS, Acting Chairman
KENNETH E. DIFFEE

HARRY F. LurncKEN
JOHN

c. WHITFIELD

Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMI TTEE ON PAY OF MEMBE RS
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F. & A . M . of California:
Y ?ur Committe e on Pay of Members s ubmits the followin 9 re ort
p
covermg the I 19th Annual Communication of Grand Lodge.
Those entitled to mileage compensa tion are the Master or in his
absence the ranking Warden, or in the absence of the Master.an d Wardens, the duly elected Represent ative; each Inspector, provided he is
Morted present on the certificate filed with the C ommittee on Pay of
G embers by the G~and Lecturer; Past Grand Masters; Officers of the
hraCnd !--odg_e: Chairmen of Committe es enumerate d in Section 192 of
·
· C omm1ttees
t e aliforma Masonic Code·• members of the foll owmg
:
C ~urisprudence; Policy and General Purposes; Grievance s; Finance·
of M embers·' Charters·• By- Laws,. C orrespon d ence;'
re enttals; Pay
.
Lod p·
Je ~nancmg ; and Code Commission who are actually in attendanc e
n fLohdgCe; l~fn d ':"ho comply with all provisions as noted in See:.t lr7a6
o t e a 1 orn1a Masonic Code.
ton

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

PIWCEEDINGS Of THE

208

Mileage from the various points within the State of California t_o
San Francisco has been taken from the published reco_rds ~f the California State Automobile Association. Mileage from points m the State
of Hawaii to San Francisco has been taken from the published recor~s
of air lines. in accordance with Sections 174 and I 76. California I~aso111c
Code. No compensation is allowed to members from San Francisco ~r
the immediate vicinity. Compensation of members from the State o_f California has been computed on the basis of seven ( 7) cents per mile. the
rate fi xed by the Committee on Finance. Compensation of mem.bers from
the State of H awaii has been figured on the basis of the published first
class round trip air rate of regularly scheduled major air lines. from
Honolulu to San Francisco, plus inter-island air fare to Honolulu when
necessary.
The payroll has been checked with the registration records as s.ubmitted to us by the Committee on Credentials. and the amoun~s r~qmred
to meet the transportation costs for the 1968 Annual Communication are
as follows:
Grand Lodge Officers...................................................... $
Past Grand Masters ....................................................... .
Inspectors ..........................................................................
Committees ..................................................................... .

931.15
442.12
6.702.75
1.798.44

Representatives of Lodges ............................................. . 26.794.72

-----

TOT AL .................................................. .................... $36.669.18
Checks will be ready for distribution at the Registration. Desk on
Friday morning immediately following the election of the Junto~ Grand
Warden . Brethren. if you are the Master, or Warden representing your
Lodge. or the Elected Representative of yo~r Lodge. the Pay of Members Committee would like to urge you to pick up your check.
Arrangements have been made so that those who d~sire to cash
their checks may do so at the United California Bank.' Fa1~mo~t Hotel.
Your Grand Lodge Credentials will serve as suitable 1denttficat1on.
Respectfully submitted.
MATTHEW M. CoooN, Chairman
ARCHER R. RICHARDSON

EMIL K. BENDER

RAYMOND W . TOMBAUGH

JoHN FAULKNER

Referred to Committee on Finance. {Budget allocation)

209

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RETIREMENT PLAN
To the M ost Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M . of California:
The Masonic Homes of Califorina Retirement Plan. effective Jan uary 1. 1955. became fully implemented by instrument dated December 8.
1958. at which time the various employees of the Boards of •Relief. etc ..
were put under the Plan and it w as put into effect. Grand Lodge employees were placed under the Plan effective Janua ry 1, 1956.
The original Plan was administered by a pension committee composed of the entire Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California .
The amended Plan covering all employees of Grand Lodge. Masonic
Homes and affiliated groups is now governed by a committee, three of
whom are selected by the Homes Board and two by the Grand Master.
This committee. as stated by its then Chairman. the late Brother
Arthur M. Warren, P.G.M .. in the 1961 Report, "is charged with the
full responsibility of administering the Plan in accordance with its written terms.
Among its responsibilities are the following:
1. Approval of requests for early retirement.
2. Approval of requests for disability retirement.
3. Approval of optional retirement requests.
4. Approval of requests for continuance of employment after retirement date has been reached, and establishment of condition
of such employment."
There are other determinations which become the responsibility of
the Retirement Plan Committee, such as determining the amount of
money essential to keep the Plan fully funded . Employees under the
Plan contribute 3% of their annual salaries. The employer contributes
the balance required as determined by the actuary. These fu nds are
deposited with the Trustee. Wells Fargo Bank.
During the period under review your Committee, in accordance w ith
the duties as outlined. did pass all applications for retirement.
As of January 1. 1968. 116 Masonic Homes employees and 25 employees of Grand Lodge and component organizations participated in
the Plan. The Masonic Homes maintained eighteen employees on retirement. Grand Lodge and components had twelve retired employees.
Respectfully submitted .
ALFRED F. BRESLAU ER. Chairman
PHIL N. MYERS
LAURENCE E. DAYTON

PAUL A. PFLUEGER
PAUL F. BALCK

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

210

l'ROC B~DlN\.S

O P THE

REP OR T OF CO DE CO MM ISS ION

To the Mos t Wor ship ful Gra nd Lod ge

F. & A. M. of California:
The duti es of the Cod e Commission for
1967-1968 cons isted of prepari ng the 1967 Cum ulati ve Pock et Supp
leme nt to the Cali forn ia Masonic Cod e Ann otat ed. Beca use of the
repeals, chan ges and addi tion s,
it is incumbent on the Commission to succ
inctl y state the chan ges. For
the year 1%7 we were able to main tain
the num ber of page s of the Sup plement at the sam e num ber as the 1966
Supp leme nt.
Dur ing 1967-1968 the Commission's serv
ices were not required with
rega rd to the pend ing Cod e revision. How
ever , the members of the Cod e
Commission. indi vidu ally and collective
ly. a.re prep ared to rend er t.o
Gra nd Lod ge any serv ice nece ssar y to
assis t in the fulfillment of this
wor k.
This year you r Commission has requ
este d an appr opri ation of
$200 .00 for its norm al activities.
Resp ectfu lly subm itted ,
HARLAN P. HUEBNER, Cha irma n
ANDREW J. NoCAs
JoH N T. W1LL1AMS
JOHN B. WATTS
ALLEN B. GRESHAM
Refe rred to Com mitt ee on Fina nce. (Bu
dget alloc ation )
At 11 :20 a.m. Gra nd Lod ge was called
off until 9:30 a.m. Thu rsda y.

GRAND LODGE OP CAL.IPORNIA

211

IN GR AN D LOD GE
MO RN ING SES SIO N-T hur sda y, Oct obe

r 17, 196 8
At 9:30 a .m. Gra nd Lod ge was called on,
the Gran d Mas ter pres iding. This session was raise d by Wor ship
ful Law renc e A. Neid erho use,
Mas ter of Read ing Lod ge No. 254. Insp
ecto r Lero y G. Con nelly delivered the invocation. The minutes of
the morning session of Wed nesday. Octo ber 16. were read and appr oved
.

UN FIN ISH ED BUSINESS
LIBRARY AND MUSEUM
In acco rdan ce with Gra nd Mas ter Laur
ence E. Day ton' s sugg estio n
in his 1967 Mes sage (pp. 27. 53-- 196
7 Proc eedi ngs) , the following
resolution was pres ente d by the Boa rd
of Trus tees of the Cali forn ia
Mas onic Mem oria l Tem ple :
To the Mos t Wor ship ful Gra nd Lod ge F.
& A. M . of California:
WH ERE AS, resp onsi ve to a recomme
ndation by Gra nd Mas ter
Laur ence E. Day ton (196 7 Proc eedi ngs,
page 27) and on motion by
the Com mitt ee on Poli cy and Gen eral
Purp oses supp ortin g the recommendation ( 1967 Proc eedi ngs. page 53)
this Gra nd Lod ge at its Ann ual
Communication in 1967 adop ted as a matt
er of policy the sugg estio n of
the Gra nd Mas ter made in his message,
as follows : "I expr ess the fervent hope that the Tem ple Boa rd will expl
ore and in due cour se deve lop
way s and means of prov idin g libra ry
and museum facilities commensura te with our need s and our statu s in
the Mas onic wor ld."; and
WH ERE AS. in keeping with such adop
ted policy, this Boa rd afte r
care ful stud y has unde rtak en to impleme
nt the sam e; and
WH ERE AS. ther e is insufficient spac
e in the pres ent Cali forn ia
Mas onic Memoria l Tem ple to accommo
date the prop osed libra ry and
museum . and
WH ERE AS. such stud y has convinced
this Boa rd that to carr y out
the long rang e policy as adop ted will
require the raising of addi tion al
funds to carr y the project to its ultimate
completion;
NO W. THE FOR E. BE IT RES OLV
ED : Tha t this Boa rd of
Trustees requ ests appr oval of the Gra nd
Lod ge F. & A . M . of Cali forn ia
for an annu al per capi ta tax of fifty cent
s (so;) per member, the fund s
to be placed in a reserve for the spec
ific purp ose of developing said
libra ry and museum facility; and
BE IT FUR THE R RES OLV ED: Tha
t the Boa rd of Trus tees of
the Cali forn ia Mas onic Mem oria l Tem
ple is auth oriz ed to borr ow such
funds as may he required to complete the
purc hase of the said nece ssar y
prop erty . from such sour ces as bank s.
mor tgag e and insu ranc e com pa-

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

nies. the Grand Lodge itself, and/or any other agency or persons the
Trustees may deem proper, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: That following completion of
the intent of the policy heretofore adopted such per capita for such
purpose be discontinued.

The Finance Committee, under the able chairmanship of Past Grand
Master Guy B. Mize, d id make such a study but, as pointed out by the
Grand Master at the 1967 Annual Communication (Proc. p. 32) , a review of the assembled data brought into closer focus a number of areas
in which expenditure practices varied so much that remedial measures
to achieve more equitable and consistent practices at both Constituent
Lodge and Grand Lodge levels are desirable. Because some broad questions of policy were necessarily involved. and the need for consultation
with various officers and committees of the Grand Lodge became apparmt (which could not be accomplished in the time available before the
J967 Communication) . the Grand Master, Laurence E. Dayton, made
a recommendation as follows:

212

Respectfully submitted.
RALPH H. HEAD. President
LYLE E. PATTON
SAMUEL I. JACOBS
FRANK F . GOODMAN
ROBERT A. CRIGLER
HowARD M. M c KrNLEY
CHESTER R. MACPHEE
CARL u. ZACHRISSON
HERBERT A . HUEBNER
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
There has been referred to the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes that portion of the report of the Board of Trustees of the
· California Masonic Memorial Temple relating to the raising of funds
by a per capita tax, and the establishing of a reserve for the specific
purpose of developing library and museum facilities.
Your Committee in 1967 expressed itself in accord with the objective
as stated in the first paragraph of the resolution. We again are in accord
and believe that it is now time to move forward with the purchase of
real property for the purpose.
The amount of the per capita tax is properly the concern of the
Committee on Finance and we have no recommendation on this matter.
Except for that portion we recommend the adoption of the resolution.

I therefore move the adoption of the resolution and report that the
Committee recommends a "yes"vote.
A majority voted against the resolution .
SPECIAL FINANCE STUDY
1967 GRAND MAsTER's RECOMMENDATION No. 3
REPORT OF SPECIAL FINANCE STUDY COMMITTEE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of the State of California:
Assignment
At the 1966 Annual Communication Grand Lodge adopted the recommendation of the Grand Master, Myron E . Smith. "that the Finance
Committee of the Grand Lodge be requested to make a comprehensive
study and review of the whole subject of expenditures of Lodge Funds
and Grand Lodge Funds ... and to submit its findings and recommendations at the next Annual Communication."

213

RECOMMENDATION No. 3
That the task of formulating for presentation to the 1968
Annual Communication for action based upon the special
study and the questions raised by it to be carried out by an
interim committee to be appointed by the incoming Grand
Master.
This recommendation was adopted. ( 1967 Proc . p. 50)
The present Grand Master, Eugene S. Hopp, thereupon appointed
the following as members of the interim committee:
HERBERT A. HuEBNER................ Patent Lawyer, Former Committee
Chairman, Junior Grand Warden
PAUL A. PPLUEGl!R...................... Investments, Grand Treasurer
Guy B. MIZE, P:G.M ................. Mortgage Banker, retired.
Chairman , Finance Committee
THEODORE MERIAM, P.G.M ....... Business Executive, Chairman of
Trnstees, California State Colleges .
Chairman, Code Revision
Committee
WILLIAM H. PRICE ...................... Businessman, Assistant Grand
Lecturer (Ritual Committee)
the previous detailed studies
reviewed
The committee has carefully
made by the Finance Committee. has consulted Grand Lodge officers,
Inspectors, Committee and Board Chairmen. and has solicited viewpoints by questionnaires sent to all Inspectors and Committee and Board
Chairmen. The responses have been thoroughly considered. This committee has made further analysis of the various provisions in the California Masonic Code, and bases the present report on all the information
assembled .
The subject matter will be divided into two sections, one dealing
with Constituent Lodge expenditures . the other with Grand Lodge ex-

214

PROCEE DINGS OF THE
(j RJ\ ND l.OOGE OF CAl.IFO RNIA

penditu res. The report is intende d to provid e an express ion
of principles and policies. As to some of the recomm endatio ns, simple
approv al
will be sufficient as a directiv e to the Brethr en respon sible: in other
cases
legisla tion may be necess ary. This commi ttee is aware that re:isio
n of
the Califor nia Mason ic Code is the special progra m of a commi
ttee appointed for that purpos e. Howev er, there seems to be no need
nor justification to await revisio n of the entire code in order to legisla
te those
provisi ons relatin g to expend itures which Grand Lodge may
curren tly
approv e. If a dopted in princip le, the Jurispr udence Comm ittee
may prepare the approp riate legislat ion, where require d.
C ONSTIT UENT LODGE EXPEN DITURE S

Funds of a Lodge are derived from:
Fees
Volunt ary contrib utions to a charity box
Dues
Income from investm ents
Beques ts made withou t
Rental .
express restrict ion
Other gains
They are trust funds set apart for payme nt of the necess ary
expenses of the Lodge and for the special calls for charity . Except
ion:
funds bequea thed or donate d for any proper specific purpos
e and accepted in trust to be admini stered accord ingly.
Follow ing are most o fthe princip al expend itures expres sly permitt
ed
or prohib ited:
EXPEN DITUR E PERMI TTED

Upkeep of Masonic Library , CMC
405 d

Suitabl e place for burial, and
mainte nance CMC 409 a
Lambsk in aprons for E. A.
Trowel to candida te in the third
degree. CMC 411 (1965 Amend.)
Organ
Fu.nds for any program require d by
the Grand Lodge, or the Grand
Master. CMC 410
Expenses of officers or
represe ntative s in attendi ng
Grand Lodge. CMC 411
Testim onial for retiring Master
Floral pieces for ill or deceased
brother or his family. CMC 411.
Note: Same section allows contributions to Endow ment Fund in
lieu of floral piece for deceased
person when request ed by family.
30% of revenu e for refresh ment and
promotion of fratern al interco urse
(social purposes). CMC 412

What is and what is not revenue .
CMC 412
Small gifts of equipm ent to new
Lodges . CMC 412 p
Contrib utions to Califor nia Masonic
Memor ial Temple Fund (from the
refresh ment fund). CMC 412 t
Contrib utions to Board of Relief.
CMC 603
Some use of funds or propert y to
subsidize youth organizatlODS
using or occupying the Lodge
propert y. CMC 409, 1967 Supp.
Corner stone for a public school
used in Grand Lodge Ceremo ny.
CMC 410 c
Flag and staff for a public school in
Grand Lodge Ceremony.
CMC410
Purcha se of shares in a temple
corporation, CMC 401, when
approv ed by Commi ttee on
Lodge Financing.

215

EXPEN DITUR E PROHI BITED

Division of funds with anothe r Lodge Donatin g to Endow ment Fund.
even to assist in rebuild ing hall
CMC 410 a and 412 1
destroy ed by fire. CMC 406 a
Mainte nance of recreat ion facilities
for liquor. CMC 408
for Masonic servicemen and
DeMolays. CMC 412 m
Gift to community hospital.
Banque t for an Easter Star Chapte r.
CMC 409b
CMC 412 n
Contributions to outside charitie s
Enterta inment of coaches, officers
such as Salvati on Army.
Payme nt of hall rent for Eastern Star Useand their wives. CMC 412 o
of funds in sponsoring chapter s
Cost of a parade float or vehicle.
of DeMolay. CMC 412 u (modified
CMC 409y
by 1967 supp. 409)
.NOTE: There is no CMC provision for or against contrib utions
expens es of Inspect ors attendi ng Grand Lodge. Sendin g the Inspecttoward
ors to
the School precedi ng the Annual Communication
fall under a program
require d by Grand Lodge, CMC 410, but there ismay
no r equirem ent that the
Inspect or attend the Communication itself.
The foregoi ng outline is not exhaus tive but does list the
sevt'ra l
items most likely to be called up for attention.

Recom menda tions
1. The 1967 amend ment to Section 409 of the CMC may be inter~
preted to authori ze some use of Lodge funds or proper ty to
subsidi ze
youth organiz ations such as DeMo lay. Job's Daugh ters. and
Rainbo w
for Girls. We are in accord with this princip le. It would be
prefera ble
that any ambigu ity be remove d by clarify ing legisla tion with
some definition of limitati ons, and we recomm end accord ingly.
2. Many Lodges regular ly engage in the practic e of contrib uting
to the expens es of tile Inspec tor of their Distric t in attendi ng the
Annua l
Comm unicati on of Grand Lodge. We are of the opinion that
Grand
Lodge. rather than the Cons tituent Lodges , should sustain the
burden
of the Inspec tor's attenda nce. See Recom menda tion 8 F, later
in this
report. Conseq uently, Consti tuent Lodges should not contrib
ute to the
Inspec tors' expens es in attendi ng the Annua l Comm unicati on.
3. A custom has been followe d for some years at the Annua l Communica tion of Grand Lodge for either an Officer s Associ ation
or one of
a group of Inspec tors to host a breakf ast or lunche on where the
presen t
or past Grand Lodge officers are invited togethe r with voting
officers
or duly elected represe ntative s from the Consti tuent Lodges
as guests
of such Associ ation or lnspec toral D istrict. We approv e the
use of
Lodge refresh ment funds for this purpos e where desired but
recommend that expend iture be limited to include the above specifie
d guests
only.
4. Gifts, devises and beques ts to Lodges at presen t must be treated
as the genera l funds of the Lodge unless the donor or testato r
expres sly
provid es that they be used for a special stated purpos e. Some
Lodges
which receive proper ty or funds which are not thus limited actuall
y do
not need the same and would like to use them for a special purpos
e. We

216

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

believe considerat ion should be given to this desire but with the limitations of first securing authorizat ion by an appropria te committee of
Grand 1Lodge. We recommen d that legislation be drafted and adopted
to effect such a program.
5. A review of expenditu res now permitted brings to light no expressly authorized expenditu res which should be discontinu ed, and we
recommen d no deletions.
GRAND LODGE EXPENDIT URES

Review
This subject is limited to reimburse ment for Grand Lodge Officers ,
Inspectors . Committe emen and members of Boards for expenses in performing their respective duties, and to Past Grand Officers, Masters and
Wardens or duly elected representa tives in attending the Annual Communication. It does not extend into the realm of salaries and general
administra tive costs of the Grand Secretary 's Office, the Memorial Temple, or the Masonic Homes.
The Committe e on Finance prepares a budget which is presented to
Grand Lodge and. when adopted, this constitute s an appropriat ion of
money. CMC 193. The same Committe e presents a recommen ded per
capita contributi on to cover the budgeted expenses .
The preparatio n of the budget by the Finance Committe e is done
following consultati on with Grand Lodge officers and committee chairmen. It is finalized after action on committee reports and the Grand
Master's recommen dation at the Annual Communi cation.
The topic does not end there. however, for as the year progresses
the Grand Master's program may require more than has been allocated,
or a committee may justifiably exceed its allowance in effecting the
Grand Lodge program, and the CMC provides no express relief. In
practice, supplemen tary appropriat ion requests made by the Grand
Master are honored and such actions are approved at the following
Grand Lodge Communi cation. We hereinafte r submit a recommen dation
for legislation affirming the propriety of this practice.
Furthermo re, budgeting of funds for designated purposes does not
mean that they can or should be always spent. All invoices and expense
accounts of members entitled to reimburse ment are reviewed prior to
payment but the CMC is not uniform on the method of review. Some
accounts are required to be approved by the Grand Master, Masonic
Homes Endowme nt Board ( CMC 248). and Board of Control ( CMC
266). Others are reviewed by the Grand Secretary 's office as part of the
administra tive functions of his office. However, we find no express authority in the CMC for this pra<:tice.
After expense claims are submitted for payment by members entitled
ent. the office reviews them individual ly and payments
reimbursem
to

GnAND LODGE OP C ALIFORNIA

2 17

are made in accordanc e with Grand Lodge practice and in line with
i~structions ~r.inted on each expense form. Mechanic al errors in e xtens10n.s or additions are automatically adjusted before payment. Where
o.bv1ous misunders tanding: or allowable expenses are evident, explanat1o~s are made to the claimants prior to adjustmen ts and payment of
claims.
Although the great majority of payments are " automatic " more
specific definitions of allowable payments will help to minimize ;he gray
areas and prevent misunders tandings. Moreover , while the Grand Secretary .has cheerfully assumed the responsibilities for approval of claims
for :e~mbu~sement, your committee feels that an executive with the
admm1strat1ve and manageria l duties of the Grand Secretary should not
~ bur?ened with such a detailed task, nor should he have to assume
d1scret1onary powers in connectio n therewith.
Relate.cl to the unclear question of review, and dependen t on it, is
the ~ueshon of permissible areas of reimburse ment of Grand Lodge
elect.1ve officers at communic ations of the Grand Lodge. The CMC
spec1fie: they a~e entitled to receive payment "for the necessary expenses In attendmg Grand Lodge at any of its ·c ommunica tions" ( CMC
175) · S~ch expenses are nowhere defined nor prudent judgment specified as it relates to traditiona l practice. Reasonabl e men may differ on
what is considered necessary.
There is no CMC provision for reimbursin g Grand Lodge Officers
or lnspe.cto~s a.ttending functions where Grand Lodge is not opened,
such as mstituhon s of new Lodges, dedication s, cornerston es laid without ~pening G.rand Lodge. receptions , breakfasts , dinners, special ceremomes, speakmg engageme nts, conference s, investigati ons, visitations
to Lodges, visitations to other Grand Lodges.

~ast Grand ~asters, a~pointive Grand Lodge Officers, Inspectors ,

chairmen of standing com~1ttees, and members of Jurisprude nce, Policy
and General Purposes, Gnevances, Credentia ls, Lodge Financing . Pay
of Members. Code Commission, Charters, Correspon dence, and By~
Laws Committe es:
Shall receive payment for necessary expenditu res for transporta tion
to and from each Annual Communi cation of Grand Lodge. CMC 176.
They must, however, remain in attendanc e throl!ghou t (unless excused
by Grand Lodge); each Inspector, in addition, must produce a certificate that he has attended the Lodge of Instructio n.
In 1961 the rate of 7 cents a mile for such transporta tion was estab~
lished. by Grand Lodge as the necessary expenditu re and that figure
prevails today notwithsta nding that we are now working on a gr~atly
depreciate d dollar.

218

GRAN D LODG E OF C ALIP OR NIA

PRUC E!il)I NGS OF THE

in effect, to reim burs e the
The re is no provision, and no prac tice
ers who mus t trav el to Gra nd
new ly elec ted and new ly appo inted offic
rema in over for the Satu rday
Lod ge for the day of Insta llati on, and
the rent al of formal attir e
ring
mor ning instr uctio n, no provision cove
intiv e officers, no prov ision to
requ ired to be wor n by the one year appo
intiv e Gra nd Lod ge Officers, or
cove r the nece ssar y expe nses of appo
atten ding Gra nd Lod ge Com "fill -in" Insp ecto rs, part icipa ting in and
mun icati ons held duri ng the year.
in the CM C to the Assi stan t
No recognition for expe nses is give n
ssar ily exte nsiv e. Neit her is
nece
Gra nd Lecturers, who se trave ls are
or the Gra nd Tile r (app oint ive
ther e reco gnit ion for the Gra nd Mar shal
y open ing of Gra nd Lod ge if
officers) who are expe cted to be at ever
Gra nd Ora tor (app oint ive) who
poss ible, nor the Gra nd Cha plai n or
ut the year .
are expe cted at man y functions thro ugho
eme nt for his nece ssar y exEach Insp ecto r is entitled to reim burs
his official dutie s. CM C 161. The
pens es incu rred in the perf orm ance of
But it shou ld be note d that the
duti es are defin ed in the sam e secti on.
( 1 ) atten danc e at Division Con definition of duti es says noth ing abou t
ge Ann ual Com mun icati on; (3)
ferences; (2) atte ndan ce at Gra nd Lod
even if officially requ este d to
atten danc e at Spec ial Com mun icati ons,
llll a Gra nd Lod ge office pro tern.
are take n care of by appr oSom e of the fore goin g items of expe nse
ter's Trav el. Gra nd Lod ge Offipria tion s in the bud get for Gra nd Mas
mitt ee and Insp ecto rs' Con Com
al
cers ' Trav el, Con fere nces . and Ritu
fere nce Trav el Exp ense .
ings are with out fixed stan How ever, any claims unde r thes e head
te.
dard s and in man y insta nces are inad equa
exce ptio n of the Hom es EnTurn ing now to Committees. with the
we find noth ing in the CM C
dow men t Boa rd and Board of Con trol,
nses incu rred by committeemen
rega rdin g trav el or othe r nece ssar y expe
r the sam e may be. with the
teve
in the perf orm ance of their duties, wha
mun icati on 'r eimb ursa ble to speexce ptio n of trav el to the Ann ual Com
Pres uma bly, any othe r allowcific Com mitt eem en set forth in CM C 176.
appr opri atio n clau se CM C .193.
ance s are budg etar y items unde r the
vari ance in the oper ation s of the
Exp erien ce has dem onst rate d a wide
entin g claims for reimbursement
committees and in asce rtain ing and pres
for expe nses .
committeemen have pres ente d
For lack of rule s or regu latio ns, som e
as inter pret ed by the Gra nd Secclaim s whic h exce ed gene ral prac tice
bers have made claims for less
reta ry or Fina nce Committee, othe r mem
at all. The nece ssity for certain
than they were entit led to, or no claim
ed. The occa sion al prac tice of
mee tings has som etim es been ques tion
Ann ual Com mun icati on, when
the
hold ing a com mitt ee meeting duri ng

219

...
then h b
it was not esse ntial that it be held
1zed:. An insta nce
critic
een
as
e
mitie
com
a
for
n
of payi ng tran spor tatio
an to atten d a
~~w
.
from
lmaben
com mitt tee meeting on the mainland h as a so en crittc1zed.
h.
.
0l
The re is no purp ose ·
recit ation
~ng~ng t 1 ~ :rep~rt by deta iled
of the incidents giving
s. The y
uitie
ineq
and
es
tenc1
ns1s
mco
e
o
are numerous.

r::/t

GEN ERA L
ions
Reco mme ndat
We will outl ine first a b roa d state men t of policy, and w1'll follow
with some specifics.
·fi
1. We recommend esta blish men t of bmore spec1 c allow ance sche dules acco rdin g to cate gori es wh·tch w1·11 e reas onab ly certa in in appl ication.
h
alize r h
2. The se sche dule s shou ld liber
abn reduce, allow ance s
t
er
l~t.
.
t.
e
sam
the
at
in seve ral situa tion s and
1me e 1mmate a uses.
· .
c t
3. The sche dule s shou ld redu
mm1mum the nece ssity for the
oba
e.
t
r
pr1·o
s
claim
of
ysis
anal
iled
deta
o re1m urse men t.
modification or disa llow ance of cia·ims
h "\dAbpproval f~r paym entit or
d
mitt t b
Com
Aud
an
m
e vest ed
s ou
who may, with
te
crea
e
o
e
te
Mas
nd
Gra
the appr oval of the
, if nece ssar y.
help
nt
pete
com
oy
emp
r,
.
5
.
d
h
·
f
· The Aud it Com mitt ee shou ld b ~;:~bl; ~1th a set of 1Jle s and
regu latio ns, including a sche dule of p:r~
ly
orm ity t~e~:a~~es. adn mere
satis fy itsel f that the claims are in conf
an are cor·
wi
•
rectl y computed.
b th A d.
6. Disa llow ance or modi.6cati
;ese :tin u it C~mmittee may be
~~
mem
the
by
d
este
reviewed , if requ
d ~ the claim. by the Gra nd
dffi
Mas ter or an elective Gra nd Lod ge
cer es1gnated by him. The decision made will prevail.

f

a~~o~~~~~e~~~\fe ;;:::~~~:~a~~~~:~~n6. it should request a review
0

in

~~:~:a~~d~aust~~~~tex~~e; should not be subject to paragraph
~~e::/~~~e~y· i;~ylu~~: ~~p:tlemffiental~;:0;~i!~~~~~:~u~~ti~~:e~~ ~:~
i. Jis

r ma e o cer or any committee.
nded are as follows:
mme
The cate gori es reco
ter.
Mas
d
A. The Gran
Gra nd War den and J .
B. The Dep uty Gra nd Mas ter. Seni or
r and Gra nd Secr etar y umo r
~~a~ War den , the Gra nd Trea sure
.
Lect urer s
e rand Lect urer and Assi stan t Gra nd
C.
and
shal
Mar
nd
Gra
plain. the Gra nd Orat or, the
D. TthheGGranddT<;lha
er.
1
e ran
Officers.
E. The othe r one- year appo intiv e Gra nd

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRA NO LODGE OP CAL!PORNT A

F . The Inspectors .
G. Committe e and Board Chairmen and Members.
A budget should be prepared by the Finance Committee, and reported to the Grand Lodge for action, in sums or supplemen tal sums,
and reimburse ments made, if Grand Lodge authorizes the appropria tions, as follows:
A. For the Grand Master's expenses in dischargin g the duties and
all other functions of his office, in such amount as the Deputy Grand
Master (incoming Grand Master) shall request. For a number of years
the figure of $10.800.00 has been carried in the budget. Present and
future programs contempla ted indicate that this amount is inadequat e
and should be increased. The Grand Master need render only a general
account of expenses incurred by him.
B. For the Deputy Grand Master, Senior Grand Warden. Junior
Grand Warden. the Grand Treasurer and Grand Secretary 's expenses
in dischargin g the duties and all other functions of their offices, an appropriate sum to reimburse them, as requested by the Deputy Grand Master.
For this purpose, their duties and functions shall be construed to include
all travel and all appearanc es made as the incumben t of the respective
office they hold. The annual budget sum of $10,000.00 is no longer adequate and should be substantia lly increased. The Audit Committee
should approve for payment all expense claims presented by these officers which they certify were incurred in the discharge of their duties
and functions except that, if the Audit Committe e is uncertain as to the
propriety, it may request review as provided in General Recomme ndation 7.
C. For the Grand Lecturer and Assistant Grand Lecturers, expenses
in the discharge of their specified duties and other functions, an appropriate sum to reimburse them. For this purpose, their duties and functions shall be construed to include. in addition to attendanc e at all
Communic ations of the Grand Lodge, all travel and all appearanc es
made as the incumben t of the respective office which they hold. including
but not limited to Grand Lodge ceremonie s occurring within their respective Divisions, and otherwise upon the invitation or direction of the
Grand Master. The Audit Committe e should approve for payment all
expense claims presented by the Assistant Grand Lecturers, when the
Grand Lecturer certifies that his or the Assistants ' expenses were incurred in accordanc e with the foregoing provisions, except that if the
Audit Committe e is uncertain as to the propriety, it may request review
as provided in General Recomme ndation 7.
D. For the Grand Chaplain, the Grand Orator , the Grand Marshal
and the Grand Tiler, an appropria te sum to ,reimburse them for their
necessary expenses in dischargin g their duties as prescribed by the
CMC, and for traveling to and appearing at any Grand Lodge Communication, or elsewhere , at the direction of the Grand Master. Their

certificates of compliance with . the foregoing provisions indicatin
approval by the. Grand Master. should be deemed sufficien~ for allow~
ance by the Audit Committe e.
~· For the other one-year appointive officers, an appropria te sum
to rei~burse th~m for. their necessary expenses in dischargin g the duties
of their o~c~s, including travelling to and appearing in all Grand Lod e
Communication~ when requested to do so by the Grand Master; al;o
the cost of renting formal attire for the Annual Communi cation of the
<?rand. Lo.dge.' Their certificates of compliance with the foregoing provis~ons, mdicatmg approval by the Grand Master. shall be deemed sufficient for allowance by the Audit Committe e.
.F. For the Inspectors , an appropria te sum to reimburse them for
their ~ecessary expenses in dischargin g the duties of their office which
shall include .travel to and attendanc e at their respective Divisio~ Conference~, the~r respective schools of instruction , other conferenc es in
connection with the ritual. the Annual Communi cation of Grand Lod
Grand Lodge ceremonies held in their respective Divisions when ;:~
~ue~ed to attend by the Assistant Grand Lecturer or any higher rank1~~ rand Lodge Officer. Attendanc e at other functions is not reimbursa e, e~cept when authorized by the Grand Master. The certificate of
an As.sistant ~ran~ Lectur~r, or an elective officer of higher rank. of
complianc e with this prov1s10n. will be deemed sufficient for allowance
by the Audit Committee.
or appointed Grand Lodge Office rs an approG . For newly elected
· b
· t
p~1a ~ sum t'cre1m ur~e t.h em for their necessary expenses in attending
t e . nnua . ommirnic~tJon on the day of Installatio n and remainin
for 1.n~truc.t10~ a~ reqmred. Their certificate of complianc e with thi~
prov1~1on, md1catmg approval by the Grand Master, shall be deemed
sufficient for allowance by the Audit Committe e.
H . For Chairm~n, members and consultant s, of Committe es and
Boards , an appropna te sum to reimburse them for their necessary expenses :
<.I) In .attending the Annual Communi cation only when their duties
require their presence there. and only for the period actually needed in
the performance of such duties.
. ( 2) In attendi~g interim committee meetings. providing such meeti~gs ~re approved In advance by the Grand Master or the liaison elective line officer assigned to such committee. and only for the period
actually needed in attending such meeting.
( 3) In conductin g investigati ons.
( 4) F?r ~ssential long distance telephone calls. postage and other
necessary incidental items .
. A certificate by the Committe e or Board Chairman of complianc e
w1th. this pr?vision shall be deemed sufficient for allowance by the
A ud1t Committee.

220

221

2-22

PROCEEDINGS OF nm

J. In situations where the Gr_and. ~aster authorizes other expendiincluding. but not necessarily limited to, the expenses of wives of
~res.cl Lodge Officers accompanying their husbands when appropriate
tor:f:e occasion. the Grand Master's authorization shall be accepted by
thes Audit Committee for allowance.
J. As an overall policy wi~h respect to all budgetary items and approriations. the Finance Committee should prepare the budget in consulta~on with the Deputy Grand Master and should give due consideration
. terim requests by the Grand Master for supplemental budgetary
~:t~orizations. Suitable legislation on the latter subject should be drafted
and adopted.

Definitions
Necessary expenses as the term is used herein are defined as follows:
J. The travel must be 50 miles or more in any calendar month.

2. They include
(a) Transportati~n for the person ~!aiming. Minimum air fare,
are available,
airline. schedules
. from the closest princi. .
•
w h ere convenient
al airport to destination s c1osest prmc1pa1 airport may be claimed;
si·ne or bus service to and from the airports may be included or
P
'
1 imou
· d
k" g at the airport, and w here require , car rental charges. Travel
barp~7vate automobile is optional. to be reimbursed at I 0 cents per mile,
Y t such other ·r ate as Grand Lodge may determine, plus actual cost
0
~ :ol1s and parking. whe~ the automobile is used to transport two or
0
ersons entitled to reimbursement, or because no convenient airline
m~r~ple is available. Otherwise, anyone travelling by automobile rather
s~ e ~y airline shall claim whichever amount is less. If bus or train is
t and s an option the minimum air fare is the maximum allowable claim ·
•
use a
( b) Lodging. Allowed when an overnight stay is essential to the
h d le of event attended, or prudence suggests by reason of adverse
fl~ ~t ~r weather conditions, or when the lateness of adjournment hour
~g h event would i'esult in arrival at home after midnight. Allowance
cost consistent with the location of the
~ ft e reasonable and actual
d
. .
ts or
function where the expense 1s mcurre .
( c) Meals. Allowed when t~e norm~! periods for meals occur while
from home during the period required to complete the round trip.
aAwllay ce is for reasonable and actual cost consistent with the location
d
. .
h
owan
of the function where t e expense 1s mcurre .
( d) Long distance telephone calls essential to performance of duties,
and postage.
( ) Secretarial service and other expenses. only when previously
e ed by the Grand Master or his designated liaison officer.
approv
do not include expenses incurred by reason
3. Necessary expenses

t;HANO LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

223

of unnecessary early arrival for any event or unnecessary stay after the
event.
~- .Under special circumstances, the Grand Master may authorize
dev1at1on from the restrictions imposed by the foregoing definitions.
GENERAL AND MISCELLANEOUS
Provisions
. 1. Separ~te forms should be employed for the several categories
listed above m presenting claims for reimbursement and must be sub~
mitt_ed as soon as practicable after the close of ea~h calend~r month.
Claims must be accompanied by receipts or other written evidence as to
items for which receipts or other writings are customarily issued.
2. The mileage allowance for "pay of members" fixed by Grand
Lodge some years ago at 7 cents should be increased to IO cents to more
nearly reflect current economic conditions.
3. M~mbers of committees which have no prescribed duties to !'er;
form durm~ the Annual Communication of Grand Lodge are not entitled
to travel reimbursement as committee members
·
Hawaii
There are ten Lodges in Hawaii with a total membership of approximately 3000. and many of these Brethren reside outside of Hawaii.
It has been _customary for Grand Lodge to make reimbursement for
some expenses mcurred for instruction in the ritual and for air travel of
three ~nspectors, ten Lodge officers, and one Grand Lodge officer in
attendmg the Annual Communication of Grand Lodge.
A1! analysis has been made of revenue from our Brethren in Hawaii
~nd d1sbur~emen~s made in their behalf, including but not limited to the
items mentlo~ed m the foregoing paragraph. It is found that from a fac;
tu~l standpoint the revenue is insufficient to credit the Hawaiian Lodges
with_ equal contribution, on a pro rata basis, as is derived frorn the Californta Lodges, for the operating expenses of Grand Lodge and of the
Masonic Homes. In other words, California Lodges make up any deficit
needed for the benefit of Hawaiian Lodges.
Irrespective of this observation, it is believed that the Grand Lodge.
.
m continuing its Masonic affiliation with the Brethren in Hawaii, for the
general good of the Order, should go even further.
Your committee therefore recommends:
( 1 ) That allowance to Hawaiian Brethren for expenses incurred for
.
~nstruction in the ritual, and "pay of members" for Lodge officers attending the Annual Communication, be continued ;
( 2) That the Hawaiian Inspectors be reimbursed on the same formula as California Inspectors when attending the Annual Communication ;
( 3) That the incumbent Grand Lodge Officer from Hawaii be re-

221

PROCEEDINGS OF TI-IE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

imbursed for his necessary expenses (as previously defined) in attending the Annual Communication;
( 4) That the newly appointed Grand Lodge Officer from Hawaii
be reimbursed for his necessary expenses (as previously defined) in
attending the installation of Officers at the Annual Communication and
remaining for Instruction;
( 5) That committeemen from Hawaii be reimbursed for their necessary expenses (as previously defined) in attending committee meetings
in California when required to do so. The Chairmen of all committees
with Hawaiian members thereon shall consult with the Grand Master
in advance as to the necessity of attendance of all members of the Committee involved at that particular meeting.

the time we considered the first draft of the report, and continuing on
through the fourth and final draft, that there were provisions and implications which I could not accept-recognizing, too. that several more
onerous provisions, insofar as I. personally, was concerned. were deleted
from earlier drafts.

CoNcLus10N

This report being divisible as to subject matter and recommendations,
it is suggested that in the event Grand Lodge should not be willing to
approve the report in its entirety, separate action be taken on the several
subjects and recommendations.
It is further suggested that if the matter be not finally disposed of,
the committee be continued for another year with directions to report at
the 1969 Annual Communication.
Respectfully submitted,
HERBERT A. HUEBNER. Chairman
PAUL A. PFLUEGER
THEODORE MERIAM

WILLIAM H. PRICE

Referred to the Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Finance.

(NOTE: Guy B. Mize, a member of the Committee. did not sign
the above report but presented the following minority report in the form
of a letter of dissent to its Chairman.}
HERBERT A. HUEBNER

Junior Grand Warden
610 South Broadway
Los Angeles. Cal. 90014

August 17, 1968

Dear Herb:
It has been a pleasure to serve with you and the other members of
the Special Finance Study Committee which has been working on the
problems assigned to it at the last Annual Communication of Grand
Lodge--problems which have been of considerable concern to me in
my capacity as a member of the Grand Lodge Committee on Finance.
I am sorry that I could not accommodate you and the other members
of the committee by joining in the signing of the report. thus making
support of the report unanimous as it is presented to Grand Lodge. I
believe, however, that it was c:lear to all members of the committee. from

225

When I was asked to become a member of the Finance Committee
and to serve as its chairman, I was well aware of the provisions in the
Masonic Code relating to the powers of the Finance Committee. I was
also aware , through long years of friendship with my predecessor who
served as chairman of the Finance Committee. of his concern and desire
for the committee to be fully effective, to the greatest degree, in the interest of Grand Lodge-and our Brethren.
In assuming and pursuing my duties I made it clear that the Finance
Committee would not encroach into other areas of Masonic service-nor has it knowingly done so. Yet it has been inferred that Finance has
tried to establish policy when criticism has been offered on expenditures
not contemplated in the Budget-particularly when expenditures were
for departures from past and sensible practices and for innovations
which the Brethren might not approve.
I was encouraged in my first year of chairmanship of Finance when
Grand Master Smith was sympathetic to the idea-and desirabilityof broadening the Masonic Code to firm ly establish the powers of
Finance to represent Grand Lodge in the same fashion as would a comparable committee for a well-run business establishment. Not just a
committee which v.;ould meet, put figures in the form of requests for
appropriations together-and then present them to Grand Lodge under
the label of a Budget.
The latter, in my opinion, is what the Special Finance Study Committee Report will accomplish, if adopted by Grand Lodge.
During the Grand Lodge year ended October 13. 1967, and by
direction of Grand Lodge based upon a recommendation by Gra nd
Master Smith , a year long analysis of Grand Lodge operations relating
to finance was made by the Finance Committee, it being deemed to be
the proper committee to make such an analysis.
A fairly comprehensive report was prepared and presented to Grand
Master Dayton for his review. It was recognized that the report. with
all its recommendations, was not in complete enough form to be presented to Grand Lodge and it was agreed that the report be referred to a
new committee for additional work and study-the committee which
you have chaired this year.
The present Special Study Report, controversial as it may be in
some of its conclusions and recommendations, will. if approved, make

227

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE O P CALIPORNIA

equitable, to a considerable degree, the treatment of expenses of those
engaged in serving Masonry at the Grand Lodge level. Recognition of
gross inequities was observed by the Finance Committee and steps to
correct them were included in the prior report by the Finance Committee.

as provided for in the Report. This includes affairs to which Grand
Lodge Officers are asked to bring their wives at Grand Lodge expense.
I am concerned as to where this will lead us in years to come-as other
la~orers in the ~i~eyards seek equal benefits for their s ervices. I spell
this out because 1t 1s spelled out in the Report as new policy.

226

My dissent is based in part on the fact that there appears to be. in
the minds of some present Grand Officers and members of this Special
Study Committee, a feeling that there is a "conflict of interest" when the
Grand Secretary. or members of his staff, and/ or the Finance Committee exercise interest. in whatever manner, in the expenditure of Grand
Lodge funds-whethe r provided for in the Budget or to be covered by
supplemental appropriations .
I consider the office of the Grand Secretary and, certainly. including
its present incumbent, to be best suited and best qualified to evaluate
expense claims fairly and impartially. and I have to object to removal of
authority or control in this phase from the Grand Secretary's office.
Certainly, if the objection stems from the possible use of any signiflcant
portion of his time in the purely mechanical features of expense control,
necessary additional help could be provided the Grand Secretary just
as easily as the Report makes provision for employment of help. if needed. by the proposed new Audit Committee.
On the subject of the Audit Committee, it seems to me. reading the
sections of the Report which treat of the Audit Committee, that its
powers and functions are so circumscribed and limited, it will be just
another committee gracing the Grand Lodge roster. The real responsibilities which have been undertaken by the Grand Secretary and
the Finance Committee are not given to the Audit Committee.
All real control of expenditures will be restricted to a few Grand
Officers, committee and board chairmen, who may not at all times have
a complete grasp of the financial structure and problems of Grand Lodge.
It can be easily argued that "conflict of interest," if such a thing really
exists. might enter more easily under this proposal than under our present procedures.
As suggested earlier in this letter of dissent, I am concerned that, in
actuality, the committee preparing the annual budget is to be restricted
solely to that function and, consequently, will hardly merit the title of
Finance Committee-a misnomer under the circumstances.
In considering the Special Finance Study Committee Report, members of Grand Lodge should weigh carefully what is proposed in the
way of controls-as opposed to practices engaged in now a nd in the
past.
Although in favor of liberalized and equitable policies relating to expense claims, I still oppose the permissive and broadened base for
expense claims for ce.r tain types of nonofficial Grand Lodge aft'airs-

. In short, recognizing the powers of the Grand Master, and not seeking und.uly to abridge them, I feel that, if the Special Finance Study
Report is ~dopted as now written, shearing the Grand Secretary's office
and ~he Finance Committee .of duties which they are capable of per~ormmg, have been performmg, and are willing to perform, the best
mterests of the Fraternity are not being served.
Sincerely and fraternally,
Guv B. M1zE. P.G.M..
Member of Special Finance Study Committee:
Chairman of Grand Lodge Finance Committee

Th e C ommittee on Finance:
The Report of Special Finance Study Committee has been referred
to your Committee on Finance.
The Report recommends increased expense allowances for Grand
Lodge Officers, commit~eemen, board members and representatives , in
order to more fully reimburse them for their necessary expenses in
performing their respective duties.
There is a further recommendation as to specific allowance schedules
to more properly deflne necessary expenditures in order to liberalize
payments and at the·same time to eliminate abuses.
. The Report further recommends the establishment of an Audit Committee for the purpose of approving submitted claims for payment within
established categories.
Your Committee on Finance has conflned its consideration to the
fina.ncial effect on the budget of Grand Lodge and the resulting per
capita assessment.
Your Committee is unable to present a reliable forecast of the increase~ .cost and resulting impact upon the per capita assessment. W e
have diligently examined our present costs and, by consultation with the
Deputy Grand Master and several members of the Special Committee
'
have secured their best estimates of the possible cost increase.
The.re is ~ood reason to believe that under this recommended program there will be a substa ntial increase in the number of Grand Lodge
~embers claiming reimbursement although some will undoubtedly contmue. as at present. to absorb a portion, or all. of their expenses .
Afte: ~e necessary rules and regulations, including the schedules
of per~1ss1bl~ allowances, have been established, the task of proper
budgeting will be greatly simplified. At the moment. however, your

228

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Committee can only estimate, to the best of its ability, the increase in per
capita cost as a result of the adoption of this report. .
· Our best estimate of the increased cost of this program comes to
$82,000.00 minimum or an approximate 35 cent increase in the per capita
assessment.
In the course of our review of the Report we noted that, as the report
now stands, there may be some possibility of overlapping payments to
claimants. If the Grand Master·s Recommendation No. 3 be adopted,
we therefore suggest that the specific allowance schedules be drawn
most carefully.

The Committe.e on Policy and General Purposes:
The report of the Special Finance Study Committee and Recommendation No. 3 of the Grand Master have been referred to your Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
The Grand Master recommends that the report of this special committee "be adopted in principle and that the Special Finance Study
Committee be requested to prepare the necessary rules and regulations
to implement the recommendations of the report and that these (the
rules and regulations) shall be effective on approval by the Grand
Master."
It appears to your committee that by an adoption in principle_ must
mean an adoption of any and all policies which can be fo~nd m the
report and as to matters contained in the report but as to wh1~h ~atters
of policy are not stated or only partially stated, the determmatton of
the policy of the Grand Lodge is to be delegated to several officers on
the one hand and on the other hand to persons not designated by the
report.
It is readily apparent that as to many matters. the report contemplates substantial changes from policies and procedures which have been
established for a number of years. As to other matters, a reading of the
report indicates that perhaps changes of policy will be formulated ~nd
put into effect between the close of this Communication and the openmg
of the next Annual Communication.
The report embraces the expenditures of all constituent l~ges, both
permissible expenditures and prohibited expenditures. Sue~ is a large
field and involves substantial sums. It also embraces the reimbursement
of expenses of the 28 officers of the Grand Lodge, the more than 100 Inspectors and more than 300 members of the numerous committ~es of
the Grand Lodge. Again the number of persons and the funds directly
involved are substantial.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes does not believe
that·the policy of the Grand Lodge as to such matters should be left to a
numerically small segment of the Grand Lodge. We believe the Grand

GR!\N D LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

229

Lodge and only the Grand Lodge should determine what its policy
shall be.
To discuss all the matters within the embrace of the report would
unduly encroach upon the time available, but we shall point to a few
specifics, particularly instances in which the report states or infers that
changes should be made or are likely to be made by rules and regulations
to be formulated between this date and the opening of the next Annual
Communication.
The special committee has divided its report into two parts. The
first part is relative to expenditures by lodges and consists of pages 3,
4 and 5 of the report. A portion of page 3 lists the sources of revenue
of lodges, two-thirds of page 3 and one- half of page 4 are devoted to
a list of expenditures by lodges which are either permitted or prohibited.
the particular section of our code or annotation therein permitting or
prohibiting a given expendtiure is stated. This tabulation should be a
handy reference to Masters, Wardens and Secretaries.
The tabulation is followed by five recommendations by the special
study committee.
Recommendation No. 1 states that a recent amendment to Section
409 of the California Masonic Code "may be interpreted to authorize
some use of lodge funds or property to subsidize youth organizations. It
would be preferable," the report reads, " that any ambiguity be removed
by clarifying legislation with some definition of limitations and we so
recommend." The Committee on Policy and General Purposes is at a
loss to know whether the request that this recommendation "be adopted
in principle" is a request the Grand Lodge interpret the amendment to
mean (I ) that lodge funds may be used to subsidize youth organizations
or ( 2) that they may not be used, or ( 3) merely that an ambiguity exists.
If it is a request for a Grand Lodge declaration that funds may be so
used, it would be better policy to defer the declaration until the clarifying
legisla tion was before the Grand Lodge and no valid purpose would be
served by an approval in principle. If the request is for a declaration that
funds may be so used, it would be better to wait until the extent of the
use, one percent, five, ten or twenty percent of annual revenue or some
other measure of use has been su9gested. before the matter is approved
in principle. If the request is merely for a determination that an ambiguity exists and clarifying legislation is desirable, no valid purpose
would be served by an adoption in principle.
Recommendation 2 states : "Constituent lodges should not contribute
to the Inspector's expenses in attending the Annual Communication."
Recommendation 3 states that there is a custom at an Annual Communication for "one or a group of Inspectors to host a breakfast or luncheon
where present or past Grand Officers are invited together with voting
officers or •.. elected representatives as guests of the Inspectoral Dis-

230

231

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRANO LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

. We approve," states the report, "the use of Lodge refreshtrict.
ment funds for this purpose when desired but recommend that the expenditure be limited to include the above specified guests." At least two
questions are raised by Recommendations 3 and 4-first, if the policy
is approved that lodges should not subsidize Inspectors in attending
an Annual Communication wherein lies the desired consistency of a
policy to subsidize him as the host of a breakfast or luncheon during
that communication? The second question is: If the Grand Lodge should
approve "in principle" the use of lodge funds to pick up the tab for past
and present Grand Lodge officers and voting members of its own and
of any other lodge. why should the Grand Lodge decree that the lodge
cannot pick up the tab for its own secretary unless he is a Past Master
or for a distinguished guest from another jurisdiction? No such limitations would apply if the breakfast or luncheon we.re held in its own
temple. Why should such a policy of discrimination be started? The
Committee on Policy and General Purposes does not recommend that
you so discriminate.
The second part of the report is concerned with reimbursement of
Grand Lodge officers and committeemen. It is proposed therein to create
a new committee, to be known as the Audit Committee and create
categories, as the report calls them, seven in number.

by the Audit Committee. The report provides for chairmen to pass upon
their own expense claims.
If the Audit Committee questions any certified claim, it may present
the claim to the Grand Master for determination.
While it might be argued that the officers and chairmen who would
be authorized to certify that expenses were incurred in the discharge of
the duties of the claimant were the persons who best knew whether the
expenses were so incurred. we do not believe that it is good policy to
have a host, and they are a host, of officers and chairmen passing upon
whether staying at the Ritz Hotel or the Hotel Modest was a proper or
necessary expense.
It appears that adoption of the report in principle at this time would
inaugurate a policy to which it would be unrealistic to expect any measure of uniformity. One chairman might feel that it was necessary that he
and the members of his committee should stay and dine at Hotel De
Luxe, while another might decide that Hotel B was sufficient.
Our committee notes that as to the categories in which the Grand
Chaplain, Grand Orator, Grand Marshal and Grand Tiler are placed:
that in which certain other appointive officers are placed, the category
of Inspectors, the category of chairmen, members and consultants of
committees are placed, this report contemplates appropriations for
and allowances of necessary expenses and that the term necessary
expenses is at least in part defined; however, in the categories of the
Deputy Grand Master, Grand Wardens. Grand Treasurer, Grand Secretary, Grand Lec~urer and Assistant Grand Lecturers the report provides that the budget shall provide for their expenses. The qualifying
adjective "necessary" does not appear.
Your committee does not recommend the adoption of a policy or
the report which thus creates a double standard. We prefer a system
such as that now used in the matter of miles traveled-namely, a flat
rate. If reimbursement for hotels, meals and other items were set at a
specified sum each, innumerable headaches would be avoided, auditing
would be vastly simplified and all Brethren should be happy.
To get the report of the Special Finance Study Committee and Recommendation No. 3 before the house. I move that said report be approved in principle.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes unanimously recommends a "no" vote,

It would appear that great care has been taken to circumscribe the
power of the Audit Committee. It is expressly provided that the Audit
Committee "shall approve all expense claims presented" by the Deputy
Grand Master, Senior and Junior Grand Wardens, Grand Treasurer
and Grand Secretary, if such officer certifies that the claim was incurred in the discharge of his duty and function. It appears that each
such officer passes upon his own expense claims. It is expressly provided that the Audit Committee shall approve all expense claims of the
Grand Lecturer and Assistant Grand Lecturers if the Grand Lecturer
certifies that the expenses were incurred in the discharge of their respective duties and functions. The report requires the Grand Lecturer
to pass upon his own claim.
It is true that the Audit Committee. if it questions a certified claim
presented by an officer in either of these two categories may present the
claim to the Grand Master for determination.
As to Inspectors, it is provided that their claims, if certified by an
Assistant Grand Lecturer or an elective officer of higher rank "will be
deemed sufficient for allowance by the Audit Committee."
The report provides for reimbursement of claims by chairmen and
members of committees and boards and consultants of committees and
boards when certified by the chairman of the particular committee or
board; which certificate, it is provided, shall be sufficient for allowance

Adopted in principle. (See Grand Master's Recommendation No. 3.)
SOJOURNER RELIEP AND BOARD OP RELIEF SYSTEM
1967 GRAND MASTER'S RECOMM ENDATION No. 4

(NOTE: Refer to Grand Master's Recommendation No. 2 this year.)

2.32

PROCEEDING S Ot' THE
Euc·1s1LITY op APPLICANTS

1967 GRAND MAsTER's RECOMMEND ATION No. 5

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
In his message to the 1967 communicat ion, the Gra~~ Master sp?ke
concerning our law which prevents a Lodge from r~ce1vmg an applic.ation for the degrees from a man who has been convicted of the commission of a crime. He recommende d that the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes and the Committee on Jurispruden ce restudy the
entire subject and report to this communicat ion. He su99ested that the
two committees propose any legislation necessary .to mo:e clearly define
the policy of the Grand Lodge or to implement its policy. The Grand
Lodge approved the recommenda tion.
Each committee independent ly pursued its study. The two chai~men
communicat ed to each other the results and found the two committees
were in complete accord.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes has examined the
existing statutory law, decisions by Grand Masters, both approved and
disapproved , and committee reports. It has conc.lud~d that the Grand
Lodge has established a policy and that the policy is the correct one.
The committee believes that the policy of the Grand Lodge should be
spelled more clearly as to the effect of a pardon under t"."'o differe~t sets
of circumstanc es. The Committee on Jurispruden ce adv1.se~ that 1t does
not deem any further action is necessary to effect the ex1stmg policy but
that action is necessary as to the effect of a pardon under the different
circumstance s.
The only statutory provision is that portion of Section 511 of the
California Masonic Code which reads: "An applicant for the degrees
of Masonry must be ... of moral conduct .. . "The section was adopted
in 1947 but for all intents and purposes was merely a restatement or
rearrangeme nt of statutory language which had existed for many years.
In 1957 four resolutions were introduced by two members. Some
were presented as alternatives if others were not adopted. They were
withdrawn by the two proponents when the Committ~e on Juris~rudence
presented its own version of a short but comprehens ive resolutio~; Th.e
resolution proposed by the Committee was adopted. It reads: ~e it
further resolved that a person who has pleaded guilty or been convicted
in the courts of a crime which is morally wrong in itself is not eligible
to apply for the degrees." The committee did not propose tha_t the language be made a part of the California Masonic Code, hence.it appears
only in the annotations under Section 511 of our code and is lettered.
Let no mistake be made; although the small paragraphs which the Code
Commission has placed under many sections of the code are. not themselves sections or subsections of the code. but are merely printed there

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

233

to inform the reader how the section above has been interpreted from
time to time in the past, nevertheless the annotations disclose the policy
which the Grand Lodge has established.

It should be noted that neither Section 511 nor the resolution adopted
in 1957 uses the term felony or any words about the serving of a term
in prison or any other institution. The present policy of the Grand Lodge
is concerned with "moral conduct" and whether the "crime . . . was
morally wrong in itself." Neither the section nor the resolution is concerned with whether the crime is classified as a felony or a misdemeano r
under the law of the State of California or the jurisdiction in which it
it was committed.
In general terms, whether a guilty plea or a conviction amounts to
a felony or only a misdemeano r depends on the action taken or sentence
imposed by the trial court. On the other hand, the policy of this Grand
Lodge is to make eligibility or ineligibility depend upon the nature of
the act committed.
The fact that the availability of the automatic expulsion provisions
in our code are dependent upon whether the conviction of one of our
members was of a felony or a misdemeano r should not be confused
with our policy as to eligibility or ineligibility to apply for the degrees.
The two policies of the Grand Lodge in these two different fields are
also different.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes believes that persons who have pleaded guilty, nolo contendere or have been convicted
of a crime which is· morally wrong in itself should be ineligible to apply
for our degrees. We therefore have no motion to make in that regard.
Prior to the adoption in 1957 of the resolution to which we have
called attention, Grand Master Arthur Warren announced a decision
that a man who had been convicted of a felony but had received a commuted sentence by a presidential pardon, had not served any time in a
prison and appeared to have become rehabilitated was nevertheless
ineligible to apply for our degrees. The Committee on Jurispruden ce
recommende d tha t Grand Lodge approve the decision and it did. The
circumstanc es under which the commutatio n was issued do not appear.
It might be inferred that regardless of the circumstanc es under which a
pardon was issued, the applicant was ineligible. We are of the opinion
that our policy should be that in those very few instances in which a
pardon was signed because it was subsequentl y established that a convicted man had not committed the crime that such a man should be
eligible to apply and that in the more numerous instances in which a
pardon is issued as an act of grace, that is as an act of executive clemenc·y only, he should not be eligible because he did, indeed, commit an
act which was morally wrong in itself and he has not been "of good
moral conduct."

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

The Committee on Jurisprudence will present proposed legislation
to implement this policy and our committee ·recommends a "yes" vote
thereon.

STUDENT Am
1967 GRAND MASTER'S RECOMMENDATION No. 8

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Past Grand Master Laurence E. Dayton recommended to the 1967
Communication of Grand Lodge that the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes and the Committee on Jurisprudence reconsider and
report on the ineligibility of applicants for membership who have criminal records (Recommendation No. 5). It was requested that the report
of these committees be ready for the 1968 Grand Lodge Communication.
These two committees have now considered the subject assigned to
them and have recommended, as a matter of polky, that no person who
has pleaded guilty or nolo contendere to or been convicted of a felony,
or a misdemeanor which is morally wrong. shall be eligible for the degrees of Masonry unless for the reason that he did not commit the
crime, he either has been pardoned or had his judgment of conviction
vacated .
It should be noted that with the exception of the provision relating
to pardon or the vacation of a judgment of conviction . this general policy
determination was enacted into Masonic law by a 5/ 6 vote of Grand
Lodge in 1957 and is now contained in Section 51 lo of the Masonic
Code.
Pursuant to the above, the Committee on Jurisprudence proposes a
new section of the Masonic Code, to be numbered Section 513 (thus
taking the number of a section repealed in 1966) .
The following resolution is presented:
"RESOLVED: That a new Section 513 be added to the Callf~rnia
Masonic Code in form as follows:
'Section 513: A person who has pleaded guilty or nolo
contendere or has been convicted in the courts of a felony.
or a misdemeanor which is morally wrong in itself, is not
eligible to apply for the degrees of Masonry unless for the
reason that he did not commit the offense, he either has
been pardoned, or had his judgment of convicUon vacated.'
and that annotations 511 g, h, I. o, p and q be deleted from the California
Masonic Code."
The Committee moves the adoption of the resolution and recommends a "yes"vote.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE
ON CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION

234

SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON CODE REVISION
1967 GRAND MASTER'S RECOMMENDATION No. 7
(NOTE: Refer to Grand Master's Recommendation No. 6 this year.)

235

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Y o~r special committee to "formulate plans for the Incorporation of
a multi-purpose foundation under the auspices and control of Grand
Lodge to establish and administer a flexible program of student aid and
submit such plans for approval at the 1968 Annual Communication
... " herewith submits its report and recommendations.
The first meeting of the Committee and its advisors was held in the
Oir~ctor~· Room of the California Masonic Memorial Temple, 1111
Cal1forn1a Street, on 27 February 1968. On this occasion it was unanimously agreed the Committee's recommendations to the Grand Lodge
should be threefold and consist of the following:
1. A general statement of policy.
2. By-Jaws for a proposed California Masonic Foundation.
3. Artides of incorporation for a proposed California Masonic
Foundation.
The second -meeting of the Committee was held on 30 April 1968
in the Masonic Temple in San Francisco to review and reconsider the
material under study. Proposed By-laws and Articles of Incorporation
were discussed. A proposed general statement of policy was submitted.
No final action was taken at this meeting. Subsequently, numerous communications by telephone and mail resulted in unanimous approval by
the Committee of the By-laws, Artides of Incorporation and Policy
Statement.
Thereafter, the Committee caused a copy of the approved documents
to be forwarded to the elective line officers of Grand Lodge. In addition
thereto. our Committee forwarded copies of all material to the Chairmen
o~ the Committees on Jurisprudence, Policy and General Purposes, and
Fmance. These were mailed on June 5th and we requested their very
careful review and comments.
Subsequently. the elective line officers met on June 7th and presented
certain minor recommendations which have been incorporated into the
enclosures.
The enclosed final draft has been unanimously approved by our
Committee. At this writing, there is no known objection by any person
or committee to these documents.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

The undersig ned wish to express their apprecia tion for the privilege
of serving Masonry through your appointm ent.
Respectf ully submitte d.
CHESTER R. MACPHEE, Chairma n
JoHN S. HUNT
EDWARD H. REDPORD
EVEREIT HOUSER
FRED HACK

activities which are in conflict with the functions and general purposes
of the Masonic Homes Endowm ent Board or the Masonic Homes of
Californ ia or the Californ ia Masonic Memoria l Temple, and
WHERE AS, it is the general policy of the Foundat ion to foster and
pr~mote America nism , a respect for law, for our flag and our Constitution and through the medium of educatio n, convince young people
that freedom under law, as provided by our form of governm ent is essential to a free society.
NOW, THERE FORE. BE IT RESOL VED:
That the Grand Lodge of Californi a approves and authorize s the
establish ment of the Californ ia Masonic Foundati on.
Respectf ully submitte d,
CHESTER R. MACPHEE, P .M .. No. 445
FRED B. HACK, P.M., No. 61
JoHN HUNT, P .M., No. 445
EVERETT HousER, P.M., No. 504 EDWARD H. REDPORD, P .M .. No. 481
Referred to Committ ee on J urisprude.nce.

236

CALIF ORNIA MASON IC FOUND ATION
(33)
To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
WHERE AS, in the I 18th Annual Commun ication of the Grand
Lodge of Californi a a committe e was authori.zed to
.
"Formul ate plans for the incorpor ation of a multipur pose
foundatio n under the auspices and control of Grand Lodge
to establish and administ er a flexible program of student
aid and submit such plans for approval at the 1968 Annual
Commun ication ... "
and
WHERE AS. Grand Master Eugene S. Hopp appointe d a committee consistin g of Senior Grand Warden Chester R. MacPhe e as Chairman and Brothers Fred B. Hack. Everett Houser, John Hunt and
Edward H. Redford: and Brothers Dr. Robert Burns, Dr. Oscar Anderson and Dr. Ferd Callison as consultan ts. and
WHERE AS . this committe e has met on numerou s occasions and
now recomme nds the establish ment of a foundati on to be known as the
California Masonic Foundat ion. and
.
WHERE AS, the Californ ia Masonic Foundat ion shall at all times
operate under the supervisi on and direction of the Grand Lodge of Free
and Accepted Masons of the State of Californ ia. and
.
.
.
WHERE AS . it shall be the function of the Californ ia Masonic
Foundat ion to aid and assist all mankind ; the first preferen ce thereto
to be given to all phases of educatio n. including s~ientific resea~.ch, vocational and trade training for persons in Californ ia and Hawau .. and .
WHERE AS. the Articles of Incorpor ation shall have certain provisions to allow the Grand Lodge to broaden its activities . if the Grand
Lodge so elects. and
WHERE AS. annual reports in detail and a proposed budget shall
be filed with Grand Lodge each year for approval . and
WHERE AS. there shall be fifteen trustees of the Californ ia Masonic
Foundat ion all appointe d by the Grand Master and after the first year.
five trustees shall be appointe d annually for three-ye ar terms. and .
WHERE AS, built- in safeguar ds vest full control of all momes,
policy and operation within the Grand Lodge. and
.
WHERE AS. the Foundat ion will not undertak e or engage m any

237

The Committ ee on Jurisprudence:
This proposed resolutio n requests the approval and authoriza tion
of a Californ ia Masonic Foundati on, a nonprofi t organiza tion, to aid
~d assi~t all ma.nkind, without regard to race, color and creed, providing that m grantmg or lending aid, the first preferen ce shall be given to
all phases of educa.tion. The Foundat ion is to hold. administ er, manage
and use funds denved from the sale of the Masonic Clubhou ses, and
such other funds acquired by gift, devise, or bequest, by appropriation
from Grand Lodge, or from any other source.
Your Committ ee on Jurisprud ence has reviewed the General Statement of Policies of Californ ia Masonic Foundat ion, the Articles of
Incorpor ation of Californ ia Masonic Foundat ion, and the By-Laws of
Californ ia Masonic Foundation, which appear to be in order and would
accomplish the d esired result. subject to receiving tax exempt status.
Therefor e, we move the adoption of the resolutio n.
O~ motion made and seconded by members of Grand Lodge the
followmg amendm ent to the resolution was presente d:
"BE IT FURTH ER RESOL VED that this Foundat ion is to be
administ ered in favor of those applican ts who are of Masonic heritage
or members of Masonic related bodies."
Followin g discussion, the propone nt and second withdrew the proposed amendm ent. A vote was then taken on the original resolutio n.
Adopted . A simple majority voted for the original resolutio n as submitted.
At I 2: 15 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 1 :30 p.m.

238

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

AFTERNOON SESSION-Thursday, October 17, 1968
At 1 :30 p.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. This session was raised by Worshipful Sidney F. Clarke, Master
of Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38. The invocation was delivered by Inspector
Leroy G. Connelly.

RESOLUTIONS
The Grand Secretary presented the following resolutions which
were referred by the Grand Master to the committees noted. Committee
reports and action taken are printed below each.

MANNER OF VOTING
SUBSTITUTE VOTING MACHINE
(1)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
WHEREAS. the manner of voting prescribed by Section 39 of the
California Masonic Code is time consuming and often leads to inaccurate or mistaken conclusions,
BE IT RESOLVED that actions ·shall be taken on all proposed
changes in the California Masonic Code and on all other matters requi·r ing voting except for the election of Officers of Grand Lodge on one
ballot, preferably to be accomplished through the use of voting machines.
Respectfully submitted,
R. S. GoLDPLAM, M .. No. 792
THOMAS F. HoEY, P.M .. No. 792
ARTHUR W. BARS!, J.W.. No. 792
EDGAR R. SORENSON, S. W .. No. 792
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Finance.
The Committee on Finance:
There has been referred to the Committtee on Finance Resolution
No. 1, which provides for changes in voting procedures in Grand Lodge
and suggests the use of voting machines.
The Committee on Finance reviewed the practicality and cost of
utilizing voting machines with the office of Registrar of Voters of the
City and County of San Francisco. Such machines are available on a
rental basis whereby the rental cost is $20.00 for the first day and $5.00
per day thereafter. The machines weigh approximately 800 pounds and
occupy a space of approximately 5 feet by 3Yi feet. Cartage charges
to and from the warehouse are estimated at $75.00 per machine. It is
estimated that we would require approximately twelve machines for
our purpose. At least two technicians at approximately $10.00 per man

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

239

hour will also be required for programming and for general supervision
of the equipment during voting. It is doubtful that the trained technicians are members of the Craft and their entry into the Temple during
our working sessions would be awkward, if not impractical. Further,
we are informed that it would not be practical to attempt to train members of Grand Lodge to serve in this capacity.
Summing up the costs cited above, we estimate a total cost of
$1300.00 for the first day's operation.
While we appreciate the spirit in which the resolution was offered.
we feel the additional expense is not warranted and recommend a "no"
vote.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution number one, if adopted, would eliminate the present authorization in section thirty-nine of the California Masonic Code that
a vote may be by voice or by rising. The resolution would require that
all action on proposed amendments to the code "and on all other matters
requiring voting except the election of officers" be taken on one ballot,
preferably through the use of voting machines.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes believes that the
proposed resolution would require the impossible. For example, there
were thirty-three resolutions filed with the Grand Secretary for consideration at this communication; last year fifty-eight were presented. It
is true that these could be printed on a single ballot in advance of the
start of a communication but the voting members would be required to
keep in mind the arguments for and against each resolution until all
had been discussed and then cast one ballot on all of them. Such a procedure would cast an intolerable burden on those in attendance.
In many instances resolutions in the same general field may overlap
in some particulars and be inconsistent in other particulars, if the vote
is taken at one time on all resolutions conflicts in law may be created.
A question arises as to which resolution would control inasmuch as
each was adopted at the same moment. How many hours would it take
to tabulate 1500 or more ballots as to forty or fifty items?
There are more votes taken during any communication on matters
contained in reports of committees than the number of votes taken on
resolutions filed with the Grand Secretary: if this resolution were a dopted these w ould have to be included on the single ballot. How this could
physically be accomplished is not apparent.
The use of voting machines under this resolution would be optional
but preferred. One of our committee members recently attended a convention at which voting machines were used. Separate votes were taken
on the machines on a number of propositions, not a single vote on thirty,
forty or fifty matters as this resolution would require. The number of

241

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP C.\LIFORNIA

voting delegates was approximately one-half of the number of votes
cast here. There were eight machines being used and a crew of skilled
mechanics to operate them. He advises that the shortest period in which
a single vote was taken was eighteen minutes and the longest an hour
and a half.
We hesitate to guess how many machines would be required here
or how many hours would be required for 1500 or more men to throw
thirty. forty or fifty levers each.
In order to get the resolution before the house, I move the adoption
of resolution number one.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a no
vote.

WHEREAS, majority rule is basic in all American governmental
units both in the election of officers of these units and in the conduct of
legislative business of these units, and
WHEREAS, the conduct of Masonic business at Grand Lodge relative to changing provisions of the California Masonic Code is restricted
by rules which subject that body to minority rule in that 5/ 6 of the members voting must consent to a change before it can be made, which means
that 1 / 6 of the members voting (plus one) can prevent all proposed
changes in the C.M.C..
BE IT RESOLVED that all voting in the Grand Lodge shall be
based on majority rule, so that any proposed change in the C.M .C . shall
carry and be effective if it receives an affirmative vote of one more than
half of the members voting.
Respectfully submitted.
ARTHUR W. BARS!, J. W., No. 792
R. S. GoLDPLl\.M, M., No. 792
THOMAS F. HoEY, P.M .• No. 792 EDGAR R. SORENSON, S.W., No. 792
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence. and on Policy and General
Purposes.

240

The Committee on Jurisprudence.:
This resolution proposes that all voting in Grand Lodge. except for
the election of officers, shall be on one ballot "preferably through use
of voting machines."
. The resolution does not point out, however, what amendments are
to be made to the law, nor how the proposal shall be accomplished, nor
how or when a single ballot could be made up, nor how voting machines
could be used, nor even suggest an appropriation for their purchase.
The proposal is simply impossible of accomplishment and legislation cannot be drawn to effect it. Such a procedure is not applicable to
a parliamentary body such as the Grand Lodge. At each Annual Communication at least fifty to sixty separate votes are taken , such as upon
recommendations of the Grand Master, resolutions presented by members prior to the required ninety day period, and on recommendations
and resolutions presented by committees such as Charters, Finance and
Grievances. Many of these votes occur during and up to the very end
of the business session, after discussion or debate on each, and after
reports of the various committees. Many of these recommendations and
r·e solutions cannot be anticipated. They .' cannot possibly be voted on a
single ballot.
Accordingly, the Committee on Jurisprudence has drawn no legislation and recommends a no vote on the rsolution.
A majority voted against the resolution.

VOTE REQUIRED
(IA)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, majority rule is an important part of all democratic institutions.
WHEREAS. the Grand Lodge of California is composed of Masons
who are citizens of a democratic country,

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution 1A proposes the adoption of a rule that if a proposed
amendment to the California Masonic Code "receives an affirmative vote
of one more than half of the members voting" the proposed amendment
shall be effective. The resolution does not present the two amendments
which would be necessary to accomplish the purpose of the proponents.
At the present'time it is provided in both divisions of our code that
in order for an amendment to be adopted at the first communication at
which it is proposed it must receive a five-sixths affirmative vote. It is
further provided that if it does not receive a five-sixths vote but does
receive a majority vote, it shall be carried over to the next annual communication, at which time it shall be declared adopted if it receives a
two-thirds affirmative vote.
The thinking of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes is
reflected in the fact that twice in recent years it has recommended the
adoption of proposed amendments to reduce the required vote from
five-sixths to two-thirds; however, the committee does not believe that
the policy of the Grand Lodge should be that the five-sixths should be
reduced to a mere majority.
In order to get the resolution before the house, I move its adoption
and the Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends that
you vote "no" on it.
The Committee on Jurisprudence :
This resolution proposes to change the number of votes required to
adopt resolutions, approve changes in the law of this Grand Lodge and

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

pass other business from the affirmative vote of 5/6 of the members voting to only a majority of those voting.
To carry out the purpose of the proposers of the resolution your
Committee on Jurisprudence has prepared and presents the following:
RESOLVED. that Sections 77 and 782 C.M.C. be amended by substituting the words for "if five-sixths of the votes shall be in favor" the
words "if a majority of the votes of those present and voting shall be in
favor" and that Sections 78 and 783 C.M.C. which provide for a twothirds vote if the resolution receives a majority vote but not a five-sixths
vote be repealed.
A majority voted against the resolution.

In order to put this resolution before this Grand Lodge, we move
adoption of the resolution and strongly urge a no vote.

242

VOTING IN GRAND LODGE
(2)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the Worshipful Master and Wardens have one vote
each and the Past Masters collectively have one vote during the transaction of business in Grand Lodge,
THEFORE. BE IT RESOLVED that the Grand Master. Deputy
Grand Master, Senior Grand Warden and Junior Grand Warden have
one vote each and the other Grand Lodge Officers shall vote as Past
Masters of their Lodge. The Past Grand Masters collectively shall have
one vote.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the California Masonic Code
be a.mended to provide for these changes.
Respectfully submitted,
GEORGE A. JURGENS, P.M .. No. 491 RICHARD P. SMITH. S. W .. No. 491
VERNE VAN NATTA, P.M .. No. 491 H. D. RICHARDS. J. W .. No. 491
·w. J. JusTIN. JR .• M .. No. 491
WM. WoooALL. P.M.. No. 491
Refer.r ed to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General Purposes.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 2 proposes to eliminate the rights of certain Grand
and Past Grand Officers in voting.
A careful analysis of the effect of this resolution if adopted discloses
that it would eliminate a total of 26 votes now enjoyed by Grand Lodge
Officers, including that of the Grand T ·r easurer, Grand Secretary and
Grand Lecturer and up to, at present, a possible 17 votes by the Past
Grand Officers.
We a.re of the opinion that this small percentage of the total vote
cannot directly or indirectly amount to "control of the Grand Lodge"
and the fact that these Brethren, having served the Grand Lodge far
beyond the call of duty, are entitled to this small token of our honor
and esteem.

243

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
This resolution proposes that only the Grand Master, the Deputy
Grand Master, the Senior Grand Warden and the Junior Grand Warden be entitled to vote as Grand Lodge Officers; that the Past Grand
Masters collectively have one vote.
Its effect would be to prevent twenty-three of the twenty-seven
Grand Lodge officers from voting in that capacity, and would cause
those present of the nineteen living Past Grand Masters to cast a single
collective ballot.
To give effect to the concept of the proposed resolution, it appears
to the Committee on Jurisprudence to be necessary to amend Section
40 of the California Masonic Code. (Article VI, Voting and Representation; Section 40, Grand Officers)
An appropriate resolution would be as follows :
RESOLVED. that Section 40 of the California Masonic Code be
amended by substituting for the present Section 40 the following :
The Grand Master, the Deputy Grand Master, the Senior Grand
Warden and the Junior Grand Warden shall be entitled to one vote
each. No other Grand Lodge Officer shall be entitled to vote except as
provided in Section 41 of this Code. Past Grand Masters of the Grand
Lodge shall, collectively, be entitled to one vote.
We move the adoption of the resolution.
A majority voted against the resolution.

INCLUDE GRAND MASTER'S RECOMMENDATIONS
EXCEPT EMERGENT MATTERS
(3)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A . M. of California:
WHEREAS, the Ordinances of Grand Lodge Article II detail the
powers and duties of the Grand Master and Section 140 of California
Masonic Code covers Annual Message :
"To present, at each Annual Communication, a written message,
therein setting forth alJ his official acts during the year, exhibiting the
general conditions of Masonry within the jurisdiction, and recommending such legislation as he maiy deem necessary or expedient for the welfare of the craft," and
WHEREAS. these recommendations may be of such import to seriously change and impair the right of individual Masons in this jurisdiction even though considered by the Grand ·Master as an emergent matter;
and
WHEREAS. Lodges have not had the opportunity to consider these

244

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

recommendations and instruct their representatives how to consider them
and vote on them,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED. that C .M .C. Section
140 and other pertinent sections be revised accordingly so that the recommendations of our Most Worshipful Grand Master, except for
emergent matters, must be submitted as do normal resolutions to the
Grand Secretary at least ninety days prior to the commencement date
of the next Annual Communication and that the Grand Secretary transmit, at least sixty days prior to the next Annual Communication , a copy
of these recommendations as required in C.M.C. Section I 50-19th.
Also recommendations considered emergent matters by the Most
Worshipful Grand Master that are to be acted on without this prior
notice to the Lodges are to be referred to the Committee on J urisprudence and Committee on Policy and General Purposes and have their
concurrence that the matter is emergent before the recommendation can
be presented to Grand Lodge for consideration and vote.
Respectfully submitted.

C. M. DAVIS, P .M .• No. 541
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and Gen.
ual ~~o~.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes verbally urged the resolution be not adopted.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
This resolution provides that "the recommendation of the Grand
Master must be submitted to the Grand Secretary at least ninety days
prior to the commencement date of the next Annual Communication."
Your Committee on Jurisprudence offers the following resolution:
"RESOLVED. that Section l 04 of the California Masonic Code
be amended as follows: Insert after the words, "All such resolutions" in
the second sentence the following words. "and recommendations of the
Grand Master."
We move the adoption of the resolution without recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

PERMIT MORE THAN ONE OFFICERS' COACH
IN A LODGE
(4)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . cS A. M . of C alifornia:
WHEREAS, many Districts throughout the California jurisdiction
have been put on notice that they are in error in their interpretation of
the California Masonic Code in the required number of Officers' Coaches
they are allowed to have, per Lodge; and

245

GRAND LODGE OP CALI PORNIJI.

WHEREAS, it is in many cases advantageous to a Lodge to have
more than one Officers' coach; and
WHEREAS, many Inspectors have found reason to appoint more
than one Officers' Coach the better to implement other provisions of
Section 161-4th;
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that Section 161-4th be amended to read as follows : "To appoint in each Lodge within his district at
least one Officers' Coach, who shall be a qualified Past Master of a Lodge
of this jurisdiction, and who shall serve at the pleasure of the Inspector.
The Officers' Coach shall assist in teaching the ritual to the officers of
the Lodge, and assist in preparing them to qualify for advancement."
Respectfully submitted.
WM. H. REED. P.M., No. 669

J.W.,

No.10
RAYMOND J . LA NCASTER,
JAMES R. F ORSTER, M .. No. 362
R o BERT F. CURTIS, M .. No. 722 ·
W. EDMU ND BROWN, S. W .• No. 399
JOHN R. ADAMS. M .. No. 712 ·
No. 299
BERNARD R. S EAMANS.
JAMES C. HATCHETT, M .. No. 299
RAY W. McINTYRE, P.M .• No. 399

J.W ..

Referred to Committee on Ritual.
The above resolution was withdrawn by its proponents.

PERMIT SERVING LIQUOR AT SOCIAL AND OTHER
GATHERINGS AND MEETINGS
(5)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, there is a great deal of confusion as to whether or not
Lodges and other Masonic organizations can hold dinners, dinner
dances and other meetings and gatherings of a social nature in hotels,
restaurants, clubs, picnic grounds and similar locations, and as to whether or not Masonic groups may follow the usual and generally accepted
social customs at such aflairs; and
WHEREAS, prior to 1964 there were no restrictions on the holding
of such gathuings in the normal American way and there will be presented to this Grand Lodge at its 1968 Communication a statement by
the Grand Master that Masons cannot use liquor at a ny dinner dance
or other social gathering which they "attend in a public hotel or other
public place, which is the same as the Prohibition Amendment of the
1920's which proved to be unworkable and unenforceable and therefore
was repealed by the American people;

246

247

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

~OW, THEREFOR~. B~ IT RESOLVED: That the following
section be added to the California Masonic Code :
Section 324.2. Social and other gatherings and meetings. A Masonic
Lodge, or an organization the prerequisite of membership wherein is
that a person be a Master Mason, may hold social gatherings, dinners,
dinner dances. picnics, and other meetings of a social nature or other
social events in a hotel restaurant, dining coom, club, convention hall,
picnic area or other establishment at which liquor, wine or beer may be
used or served.
Respectfully submitted,

designed to permit the serving and use of liquor only at social functions
and events which are sponsored by Masonic Lodges or by one of the
so-called "prerequisite" bodies and which are held outside of any Masonic Temple or any building owned or operated by one or more of
the "prerequisite" bodies. We are in accord with that intent. We believe. however, that the following language will best accomplish the
purpose, without changing any of the other provisions of our Masonic
Code relating to the use and serving of liquor:

DON H. SCHWIMLEY, P.M..
No. 355
HENRY J. WoLKING. M..
No. 355
PHIL 0. SHERPING, P.M..
No. 641
SYDNEY ZAID, M ., No. 415
JAMES W. CAVE, M .. No. 513
LEE D. M1LL, P.M., No. 355
Rum F. KETTLER, JR .. M.,
No. 602
VovLE S1PHS, P.M.. No. 513
WALTER L. HOGAN, M ., No. 816
MELVIN J. ALDERSHOPP, S . W..
No. 355
G . DONALD MoDo, S. W .,
No. 513
FLOYD H. SMITH, W ., No. 602
M1LES S. McPHEE, S. W .,
No. 816
MILTON ENTWISTLE, P.M .,
No. 355
ENOS L. GAMET. P.M .. No. 355
LESLIE V. ANDA. P.M., No. 602
ALFRED SCHERZ, P.M., No. 602
EARLE. lvEY, M., No. 6H
DALE THORNTON, P.M.,
No. 355

f.

RAYL. WHITNEY, P.M ..
No. 513
C. RAY HuNT, P. M .. No. 513
MERLE A. PLUMMER. P.M ..
No. 816
THURMAN TEAGUE. P.M.,
No. 415
NORMAN SCHWARTZ. P.M..
No. 19
E. H. GEBHARDT, P.M .. No. 355
THOMAS VANDEGRIFT. ]. W.,
No. 355
RussELL OsBORN, f. W.,
No. 513
BEN L. HoLTZENDORP P, P.M ..
No. 602
PETER T. Y. Hsu,/. W., No. 816
FREDE. GREEN, P.M., No. 355
lvER M. BJORK, P.M .. No. 602
JAMES F. DAVIDSON, PM ..
No. 355
PHILLIP G. WooD, P.M..
No. 355
JoHN B. N1cKERSON. P.M..
No. 513
DoN H. LAGRANGE, P.M.,
No. 513
WALLACE H. BEAUDRY. P.M ..
No. 355

Referred to Committees on Juri!!prudence, and on Policy and General Purposes.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
We are advised by a proponent of this Resolution No. 5 that it is

"Section 324.2. Serving of liquor at social functions. A Masonic
Lodge, or an organization the prerequisite of membership wherein is th.at
a person be a Master Mason, may hold social gatherings, dinners, dinner
dances, picnics and other meetings of a social nature or other social
events at which liquor, wine or beer may be used or served, in a hotel,
restaurant. dining room, club. convention hall. picnic area or other establishment; provided, however. that, except for ritualistic purposes, no
liquor, wine or beer may be served in a Masonic Temple or in any building or structure owned or operated by a Masonic Lodge or any organization a prerequisite of membership wherein is that a person be a Master
Mason; and provided, further, that this section shall not require a
Masonic Lodge or Masonic-relate d organization to vacate leased premises prior to expiration of leases made in good faith, or to violate ]eases,
or to refuse to accept buildings so received from an estate or by gift;
but such building so received must be sold or otherwise disposed of, or
the offending use must be terminated, within a reasonable time."
In our opinion the adoption of the foregoing proposal will eliminate
any aura of uncertainty or hypocrisy about the propriety of serving
alcoholic beverages at purely social functions held outside of Masonic
premises.
We therefore move that Resolution No. 5 be amended to read as
above indicated; that if it is so amended. the resolution be adopted; and
in that case the Committee recommends a "yes" vote upon the resolution
as amended.
The Committee on Jurisprudence indicated that the amendment to the
resolution would accomplish its intent.
The amendment to the resolution was adopted.
A simple majority voted for the amended resolution. Failing a 5/6
vote. the matter was held over until the 1969 Annual Communication as
a "Proposed Amendment to the Ordinances." (Sec. 783 C .M.C. )

248

PROCEEDINGS OF TUE

MASONIC CLOTHING
(6)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
RESOLVED. that a new sentence be added to Section 328 of the
California Masonic Code. reading as fotlows:
"The wearing by Masons of Masonic clothing, including the wearing
~y officers ~nd others of aprons and regalia appropriate and representative of their rank or office, is permitted at proper Masonic ceremonial
observa~ce~ and/or ceremonies, including the laying of cornerstones,
the ded1cat1on of burial plots, the decorating of the graves of deceased
Masons and like ceremonies which .are strictly Masonic in character."
Respectfully submitted,
QUENTIN H. CUNNINGHAM,
ROBERT L. TUCKER, P.M..
P.M., No. 328
No. 328
WILSON 0. WADE, P.M.,
No. 328
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Ritual.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
.This resolution would add a sentence to Section 328 of the C.M.C.
wh~ch..would expressly permit the wearing of Masonic clothing and re~
galta at proper Masonic ceremonial observances and/or ceremonies."
1:h.e Committe~ on Jurisprudence in its report states that the existing
prov1s1ons of Section 328 already permit this to be done. We do not differ from this interpretation of Masonic law and therefore concur in
the report and recommendation of the Committee on Jurisprudence.
· The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Resolution No. 6 proposes to add language to Section 328 of the
C.M.C. to permit the wearing of Masonic clothing and regalia at "proper
Masonic ceremonial observances and/or ceremonies."
We s~bmit that the .existing. provisions of Section 328 already permit
the wearmg of Masomc clothmg at proper Masonic observances and
ceremonies. That section permits Masonic clothing to be worn at the
burial of a brother..or "fo~ the performance of some other strictly Masonic
duty or ceremony ; and 1f that were not sufficiently broad, it adds "or in
accordance with the dispensation of the Grand Master."
.. W,,e think the resolution is entirely unnecessary and we recommend
a no vote.
The Committee on Ritual indicated its concurrence in the recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

GHANO LODGE O F CALlFOnNIA

219

FORMAL PRESENTATION OF AMERICAN FLAG
AND WHEN DISPLAYED
(7)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A M. of California:
WHEREAS, never has there been a time in the history of this great
nation when the need was so urgent for us all, as true Americans, to
rededicate ourselves to the. principles of freedom upon which our country was founded; and to this end, we should most proudly pledge our
allegiance to our country and its flag at every opporunity, and
WHEREAS, in the Entered Apprentice Degree, we are enjoined to
be exemplary in the discharge of our civil duties; to pay due obedience
to the laws under whose protection we live, and to never lose sight of
the allegiance due to our country, and
WHEREAS, it is the feeling of many that this allegiance can, and
should be, reaffirmed at each meeting of our Lodge by formally presenting the flag of our country at the altar:
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: That Sections 329-A
and 554-W of the California Masonic Code be amended to read as
follows:
The flag of our country shall be formally presented at the altar a t
all communications of Grand Lodge and carried on all ceremonial occasions except at funerals. At all meetings of our Lodges , the flag shall be
formally presented at the altar by the Marshal and received in the manner prescribed by the Grand Lecturer.
Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM P. DEN NY, M..
ARTHUR R . SHUMWAY, M .,
No. 594
No. 619
RALPH E . CooPER, M .. No. 327
JAMES H. COATES, M., No. 779
ALDE'.N G . SHEETS, M .. No. 699
CLARENCE C. KLAUS, M .,
CHARLES J. WENTZ. P.M..
No. 567
No. 594
ROBERT C. BLOSSOM, S. W .,
No. 699
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes. and on Ritual.

The Committee on Ritual:
Similar resolutions regarding the formal presentation of the flag
have been presented on numerous occasions before and have been rejected.
The Committee on Ritual has always felt that each Master should
govern his Lodge within the limits set forth in our law, which permits
him to formally present the flag at any meeting he desires. We feel that
the present permissive rule is in the best interest of Masonry.

250

251

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

This Committee feels that the flag of our country should be honored
and Masters are encouraged to do so. Even when the flag is not formally
presented many Masters do and are encouraged to lead their members
in the Pledge of Allegiance upon opening the Lodge.
We move the adoption of the resolution but urge a "no" vote.

and formal presentation must be made at the annual election and at
such other meetings as the Master deems desirable. We therefore feel
the Resolution of 1927 adequately covers all reasonable requirements
for display and presentation of the flag.
However, in order to effect the purpose of the authors of the ·resolution, we offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED. that a new section be added to the C.M.C., to be
numbered Section 329.1 , to read as follows :
"The flag of our .countr y shall be formally presented at the altar at
all communications of Grand Lodge and caxried on all ceremonial occasions except at funerals. At all meetings of Lodges, the -flag shall be
formally presented at the altar and received in the manner prescribed
by the Grand Lecturer."
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that Sections 329a and 554w
C.M.C. be repealed and deleted from the Code, and that the resolution
adopted by Grand Lodge at its Annual Communication in 1927, and
appearing in the Proceedings of 1927 at page 473, be repealed, and that
the provisions of the new Section 329.1 C.M.C. be made a part of the
Monitor in lieu of the resolution adopted in 1927.
We recommend a "no" vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had referred to
it Resolution No. 7 entitled "Formal Presentation of American Flag
and When Displayed."
The preamble to this proposition recites quite properly the necessity
of all Americans and Masons in particular to rededicate themselves to
the "principles of freedom upon which our country was founded ." With
this we thoroughly agree.
The resolution itself calls for the formal presentation of the flag at
the altar at all communications of the Grand Lodge and to be carried
on all ceremonial occasions. It further calls for the formal presenation
of the flag at the altar at all meetings of all Lodges.
The formal presentation of the flag is already a part of the formal
opening of Grand Lodge. At all other ceremonial occasions the flag is
always in evidence if not actually carried in a procession such as might
precede a cornerstone laying .
The constituent Lodges have a ritual for the presentation of the flag
at the opening of the Lodge which is optional. This resolution would
make it compulsory at every opening of the Lodge.
We feel that there are many occasions when this practice should be
followed but we can envision many times when it would be impractical
and unimpressive. For example, many Lodges are opened at an early
hour with a minimum of members present in order to expedite a long
meeting, which is most commendatory.
Your Committee always hesitates to compel the Lodges to do something they are permitted to do on a voluntary basis. We feel that it is
far better for the individual Lodges to determine the proper times for the
presentation of the flag than to force the ceremony on every meeting.
when it might become an habitual and meaningless act.
While in full sympathy with the patriotic spirit which prompted the
proponents of this proposition, we move the adoption of the resolution
but urge a "no" vote.
The Committee on furisprudence:
Resolution No. 7 proposes an amendment to Sections 329a and
554w of the California Masonic Code. These two annotations state
the essence of the resolution adopted by Grand Lodge in 1927 as to the
display of the flag of our country. The presentation of the flag at all
communications of Grand Lodge is already a part of the Grand Lodge
ritual. As to Lodges, the flag is required to be displayed at all meetings

SERVING LIQUORS AT MASONIC BANQUET
(8)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. Section 408 of the California Masonic Code has
caused confusion and misunderstanding;
BE IT RESOLVED : That Section 408 of the California Masonic
Code be amended by deleting therefrom the following: "nor shall any
such liquors be used or served at any Masonic banquet or gathering."
Respectfully s ubmitted.
P HIL 0. SHERPI NG, P.M.•
LEED. M1LL, P.M .. No. 355
EARL E. lvEY, M ., No. 644
No. 641
DALE THORNTON, P.M.,
Rum F. KETTLER, }R., M.,
No. 355
No. 602
RAYL. WHITNEY, P.M.,
DoN H. ScHWIMLEY, P.M.,
No. 513
No. 355
PHILLIP G. Wooo, P.M.,
WALTER L. HOGAN, M .,
No. 355
No. 816
VoYLE H. SIPES, P.M .• No. 513
MELVIN J. ALDERSHOP, S .W .,
JoH N B. N1cKERSON, P.M.,
No. 355
No. 513
THOMAS VANDEGRIFT,/. W .,
C. RAY HU NT, P .M .. No. 513
No. 355

252

GP..AND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MERLE A. PLUMMER, P.M.,
No. 816
- NORMAN S CHWARTZ, P.M..
No.19
WALLACE H . BEAUDRY, P.M.,
No. 355
E. H. GEBHARDT, P.M.. No. 355
}OHN LAMSON, P.M., No. 816
M11.Es S. M c PIIEE. S. W ..
No. 816
HENRY J. WOLKiNG, M.,
No. 355
PETER T. Y. H su, J. W.,
No. 816
SYDNEY ZAID, M., No. 415
BEN L. HoLTZENDORFF, P.M.,
No. 602
}AMES W . CAVE, M., No. 513

s. iv.,

GEORGE STEWART.
No. 415
G. DONALD MODD, S. W.,
No. 513
Russ ELL OSBORN, J. W.,
No. 513
FLOYD H. SMITH, s. W.,
No. 602
Jus RosENBERG. J. W. , No. 602
MILTON R. ENTWISTLE. P.M.,
No. 355
FREDE. GREEN, P.M., No. 355
ALFRED ScHERZ. P.M., No. 602
ENOS L. GAMET. P.M.. No. 355
lvER M. BJORK, P.M.. No. 602
LESLIE V. ANDA, P.M., No. 602
}AMES F. DAVIDSON, P.M ..
No. 355

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General Purposes.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
This resolution would strike from Section 408 of the C.M.C. the
second clause thereof which reads as follows : "nor shall any such liquors be used or served at any Masonic banquet or gathering."
Because of the action just taken by this Communication on Resolution
No. 5, this resolution should lie over for one year, as will Resolution
No.5.
We therefore move tha t Resolution No. 8 be continued for consideration at our next Annua l C ommunication.
The Committee on Jurisprudence has considered Resolution No. 8 and
has authorized the Committee on Policy and General Purposes to report
that the resolution is approved as to form and carries out the purposes
of the proponents.
A majority voted for the above substitute motion. The matter was
held over until the 1969 Annual Communication.

(9)
A resolution designated as No. 9 was withdrawn by its proponent
a fter distribution to the constituent Lodges but prior to the opening of
Grand Lodge.

253

PERMIT USE REFRESHMENT FUND TO CONTRIBUTE
TO HOMES CHRISTMAS FUNDS
(10)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, many Lodges have in the past made annual contributions to the M asonic Homes Christmas Fund and a question has arisen
as to whether a Lodge can so contribute, and there does not appear to be
any specific resolution in connection with the same; and
WHEREAS, such a contribution is a worthy and meritorius one;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that contributions
to the Masonic Homes Christmas Fund by any Lodge from moneys allocated to its refreshment fund shall be deemed to be for the promotion
of fraternal intercourse within the meaning of Section 412 of the California Masonic Code.
Respectfully submitted,
HERBERT A. HUEBNER, P.M.,
ALFRED F. BRESLAUER. P.M..
No. 445
No. 344
LAURENCE E . DAYTON. P.M.,
ROBERT A. CRIGLER. P.M.,
No. 61
No. 636
EDWARD J. BLICKFEl.DT, P.M.,
DONALD G. CAMPBELL, P.M..
·
No. 535
No. 608
MYRON E. SMITH, P.M ..
CHESTER R. MACPHEE, P.M.,
No. 394
No. 455
PHIL N. MYERS, P.M .• No. 430
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and Gen.
eral Purposes.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 10 is proposed to clarify a question on contributions
to the Masonic Homes Christmas Fund. Your Committee on Policy and
General Purposes believes, as do the proposers of this resolution, that
these contributions promote fraternal intercourse, and as such could
come from moneys set up in the refreshment fund as in Section 412 of the
C.M.C.
The adoption of this resolution makes this possible and, if adopted,
would afford the Brethren of our constituent Lodges to share the true
spirit of Christmas with those residing in our Homes.
In order to bring this resolution before this Grand Lodge, I move the
adoption of Resolution No. 10. The committee recommends a "yes" vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
. This resolution proposes that Section 412 of the California Ma'sonic
Code be amended so as to provide that contributions to the Masonic
Homes Chris tmas Fund may be made by any Lodge from its Refreshment Fund.
Your Committee on Jurisprudence offers the following resolution:
RESOLVED that Section 412 of the California Masonic Code be

254

PROCEEDINGS OP THE.

amended as follows: lnse.r t after the words. "and the promotion of
fraternal intercourse," in the Arst sentence the following. "Contributions
to the Masonic Homes Christmas Fund by any Lodge from moneys
allocated to its Refreshment Fund shall be deemed to be for the promotion of fraternal intercourse within the meaning of this section."
We move the adoption of this resolution.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

CONTRIBUTIONS TO ENDOWMENT FUND IN UEU
OF FLOWERS TO ILL BROTHER
(11)
To the Most Worshipful Grand loclge F. 6 A. M. of California:
The California Masonic Code Section 412 Annotation 1 states"Refreshment funds may not be donated to the Endowment Fund."
We the undersigned recommend that this Section be now resolved to
read as follows:
"In lieu of flowers sent to an ill brother, a contribution in his name
may be made to the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund with the use of
Lodge funds. Such donations shall be acknowledged by the Homes Endowment Committee and the ill brother notified of its receipt."
Respectfully submitted,
ABEL TOBEY, PM.. No. 721
IRVING WAPNE.R, M.,
Je.ss R. ScHNEIER, P.M.,
No. 721
No. 628
HAROLD Z1NKOW, S. W., No. 721
FRANK GILPOUND, P.M ..
No. 721
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to which was referred
Resolution No. 11 referring to contributions to Masonic Homes for ill
Brethren, has had the same under consideration and reports as follows:
The proponents of this resolution have proposed that "Section
412 ( 1 ) of the C.M.C. be· amended to provide for contributions to the
Masonic Homes in the name of an ill Brother in lieu of flowers and that
be a proper disbursement of Lodge monies from the Refreshment Fund.
The intent and purposes of these Brethren is clearly obvious. However, it is not possible to amend Section 412 ( 1 ) since this is a decision
and cannot be 'amended.' Accordingly the Committee on Jurisprudence
is drafting, and will present, an amendment to Section 411 which will
effectuate the intent and purpose of the proponents of this resolution.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes heartily concurs in
the policy herewith presented and recommends adoption of the language
which will be offered by the Committee on Jurisprudence.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
The purpose of the proposed resolution is to allow Lodges to make
contributions to the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund in lieu of sending
flowers to a Brother who is ill.

GRAND LODGI!. 01' CALll'ORNIA

255

Your Committee on Jurisprudence believes that the language of the
original resolution should be amended as follows:
RESOLVED that the second paragraph of Section 411 of the California Masonic Code be amended to read as follows:
"In lieu of flowers to be sent to a Brother who is ill. or a floral piece
for a deceased Brother, when requested by his family. a contribution in
his name may be made to the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund. and the
ill Brother or the family of the deceased Brother notified of its receipt.''
We move the adoption of the resolution without recommendation.
A simple majority voted for the resolution as amended. Failing a
5/ 6 vote, the matter was held over until the 1969 Annual Communication
as a "Proposed Amendment to the Ordinances." (Sec. 783 C.M.C.)

PERMIT MASONIC BURIAL OF ENTERED
APPRENTICE AND FELLOW CRAFT
(12)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. a candidate is called Brother and is so designated upon
receiving his initiation into Masonry, andWHEREAS. in the funeral ritual there is no mention as to the
degree of Masonry which the deceased Brother has reached. except in
the scroll, (which can be made to designate the degree of Masonry which
he has attained )-and
WHEREAS. such Masonic services would display the image of
Masonry to the gene~al public,
THEREFORE. let it be resolved that the sentence of section number
442 of the California Masonic Code which reads, "nor are they entitled
to burial with Masonic honors.'' be changed to read, "but may be buried
with Masonic honors by permission of the Master or in his absence a
Warden."
Respectfully submitted.
CARL C. RossoN. P.M .. No. 623
SAMUEL CHADNow, W.M..
MORRIS FREEDMAN, P.M ..
No. 623
No. 623
MILTON RUBIN, S.W.. No. 623
Juuus SOLOMAN, P.M..
IRVING ABRAMSKY. ].W..
No. 623
No. 623
GEORGE GARTLER, P.M..
HARRY WARNER, P.M .. No. 623
No. 623
AARON ELMORE. P.M., No. 623
GEORGE. M . w ARNER. M ..
Ro BERT I. KRONICK, p M.,
No. 636
No. 623
ARTHUR ZEAVIN, P.M..
ARTHUR LINSK, P.M..
No. 623
No. 529
Referred to the Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and
General Purposes.

256

257

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

(.;RAND LODGE 01' CALl t'ORN IA

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes :
Resolution No. 12, as presented, proposes to amend our law to provide discretionary power by a Master or Warden, in the matter of the
burial with Masonic Honors of Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft
Masons.
Your Committee has carefully considered a number of arguments
presented on this resolution and is fully in accord with the interest and
purposes of the proponents of this resolution and we firmly believe that
every Mason in good standing should be entitled to this. the last public
act of our recognition and esteem which we can extend to one whom we
have accepted into our Fraternity and whom we have ·c alled 'Brother.'
We feel nothing is or can be gained by or for our Fraternity by denying this privilege to a bereaved widow or family of a deceased Brother
Mason while a great deal of harm and disillusionment can actually
result from such denial.
We do not. however, believe that this should be made a 'discretionary' matter, as proposed in the original resolution but that the sole test
of eligibility for such consideration should be whether or not the Brother
is in 'good standing.'
The Committee on Jurisprudence will propose language which will
establish the policy which we are recommending to you and the Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a "yes" vote on the
legislation which that Committee will present.

own country in the nineteenth century, without creating for itself a
monumental, awe-inspiring. enviable history, and
WHEREAS thousands of volumes containing this history repose in
libraries both public and Masonic, and

The Committee on /urisprudence:
The purpose of Resolution No. 12 is to allow Entered Apprentices
and Fellow Craft Masons to be buried with Masonic Honors. Therefore . in order to effect this resolution, the Jurisprudence Committee
believes Resolution No. 12 should be amended to read as follows:
RESO LVED. that the words, "nor are they entitled to burial with
Masonic honors," be deleted from Section 142 of the California Masonic
Code, and that the word "Master" in the first line of Section 604 of said
Code, also, be deleted.
A majority voted against the resolution.

APPOINT LODGE "HISTORICAL LECTURER"
(13)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . 6 A. M. of California:
WHEREAS the Masonic Order is an ancient and venerable institution with its origins in time immemorial, and
WHEREAS its very antiquity is the basis and pattern for many
other lodges, fraternities , clubs, even labor organizations, and
WHEREAS the genius of Freemasonry cannot have existed and
survived through the perilous centuries. often under hostile and tyrannical rulers; withstood the fires of anti-Masonic hatred and furore in our

WHEREAS little has been and is being done to disseminate their
profound store of knowledge among our brethren in the constituent
lodges from the youngest Entered Apprentice to the eldest Master
Mason. and
WHEREAS many of our brethren are thirsting for more light in
Masonry beyond that emanating from degree work and have demonstrated their interest and desire in at least one constituent lodge whe re
the dissemination of such knowledge has been going on for the past
several years, now therefore be it
RESOLVED that this Communication o f Grand Lodge F&AM of
California herein assembled, establish officially the post of H istorical
Lecturer in the appointive line of all constituent lodges under its jurisdiction, such station to be filled by said lodges at their option, this
resolution merely constituting authority for said office, nothing contained
herein to be construed to mandate the appointment of said officer or
limit the term of office so long as he faithfully performs his duties. but
be it
FURTHER RESOLVED that said constituent lodges be strenuously urged and encouraged to exert every elfort to seek out and appoint
as Historical Lecturers qualified and dedicated brethren whose task it
shall be to research a11d discuss Masonic history and related subjects at
least monthly or oftener as decreed by the lodges themselves.
Respectfully submitted.
FRA NK P. MYLLO, JR., M, No. 31 S
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Masonic Education.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 13 is a re-introduction of the same resolution No. 4
which was introduced in almost identical language at the 1967 Communication of this Grand Lodge. At that time the Committee on Policy
and General Purposes pointed out that the dissemination of historical
knowledge concerning Masonry should be the concern of each Master
of a Lodge, but that it should be his decision as how best to accomplish
the task. One result of this resolution might well be to limit the initiative
and the imagination of the Master in working toward a program best
fitted to his own Lodge's needs.
We point out that the Grand M aster in his Recommendation No. I
has urged a continuing study and the implementation of an educational

258

PROCEEIJING!; UP THI!

program. Pending the outcome of this we do not see benefit in this
resolution.
In order to place the: resolution before the Grand Lodge, I move the
adoption of Resolution No. 13 and your Committee on Policy and
General Purposes recommends a "no" vote.

The Committee on Masonic Education indicated its concurrence with the
recommendation of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
A majority voted against the resolution.

PRESENT ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FEBRUARY STATED MEETING
(14)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. Section 493, 2nd CMC requires the Secretary to present to the Lodge at each August and February Stated Meetings a statement of income and expenditures, assets and liabilities. for the six months
periods ending on the preceding June 30th and December 31st of each
year respectively. and
WHEREAS, the major portion of income is received by the Lodge
during the flrst several months of the year, and the expenditures during
the second half of the year far exceed the income for that period; and
WHEREAS. the report presented to the Lodge for the period ending
June 30th is therefore unrealistic;
NOW. THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED : That Section 493.
2nd, CMC be amended by deleting the words "August and" and "June
30th" and "respectively,'' and changing "six months periods" to "twelve
months period," so that this Section will read:
"To present to the Lodge at each Februa ry Stated Meeting a statement of income and expenditures, assets and liabilities, for the twelve
month period ending on the preceding December 31st of each year
respectively, and to submit a copy thereof to the Inspector of the District to which the Lodge is assigned."
Respectfully submitted,
IRVING A. BERLINER, P.M ..

No. 120
LEROY

w. JOHNSON, P.M .•

No. 393
EDISON K. QUICK, P.M ..

No. 630
Osr:AR W. No1~MAN, P.M ..

No. 545

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
JOSEPH A. STEINMETZ , P.M ..

No. 461
AsA BUTTON, P.M .. No. 470
KENNETH W . HINKLE, P.M ..

No. 360

259

EARLL. ALMQUIST, P.M ..

No. 376

WM . K. RAINES, P.M., No. 435
D. EWING MARSH , P.M.. No. l
CLAUDE J . PALMER, P.M ..

No. 212
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Polic,y and General
Purposes.

The Committee on Policy and Genera/ Purposes:
Resolution No. 14 proposes to amend Section 493-2nd to require
that only one annual statement of income and expenditures, assets and
liabilities be presented to the Lodge.
Your Committee has given careful consideration to the reasons
advanced by the proponents of this resolution, especially to the fact that
in some cases the mid-year report 'unrealistically' reflects the income
portion of the report when compared with the year-end report, however.
the income and expenditure portions of the required statements are only
a small portion of the total report.
The essential portion of these reports actually lies in the Asset and
Liability portions and, if these portions are properly and accurately completed the 'unrealism' referred to in the resolution will automatically
disappear.
We are of the opinion that the brethren of the lodge are entitled to
an accurate and factual presentation of the flnancial status of their lodge
at least twice a year: once so that it may be determined if finance-wise
the lodge is currently living within its means and that anticipated income
is being met and projected expenditures are not being exceeded and
secondly so that the year to year revenue and expenditure projections
will remain realistic.
We are authorized by the Committee on Jurisprudence to state that
the language proposed. if adopted, will accomplish the intended purpose
of the proponents.
We therefore move the adoption of the resolution but strongly urge
a "no" vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.

EUGENE B . PERSONETT, P.M.,

No. 752
Louis H . STROHECKER, P.M..
No. 570
DAVID ADAM, P.M., No. 168
KARL D. SMITH , P.M., No. 549
CLARENCE w. HOWELL, P.M ..
No. 762

HEARING AIDS-PERMISSION
(15)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M . of California:
WHEREAS: many worthy and well~qualiAed men who have been
disabled in wars in the defense of our country. and other similarly worthy
and well-qualified men who through mis-fortune have suffered partial

260

261

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

loss of hearing which necessitates the use of a hearing aid are denied an
application for the degrees of Masonry, and,
WH.EREAS: since we no longer work in operative Masonry but
speculative only. this restriction is now obsolete. and,
WHEREAS: in numerous Masonic jurisdictions around the world
with whom we are in fraternal accord, have eliminated this restriction
without detriment to the Craft and without incurring the displeasure of
the rest of the Masonic Fraternity, and,
~HEREAS: it is now one of our basic and universally accepted
teachings and precepts that the internal and not the external qualifications recommend a man to be made a Mason, and.
. WHEREAS: Sections 511 and 512 of the C.M.C. regulations "having no maim or defect in his body that may render him incapable of
learning the art, and physically able to conform substantially to what the
several degrees respectively require of him" would be conformed to if
the candidate wore a modern, improved hearing aid while taking the
degrees of Masonry.
THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED. that all reference, rules and
regulations pertaining to restriction of Masonic candidates because of
hearing aid be rescinded.
Respectfully submitted.
RAY HOPMA N, M . No. 701
DoNALD E. THOMAS, P.M..
Pmup E. REINER, P.M ..
No. 264
No. 264
JoE 0. ELLIOTT, P.M .. No. 237
GEORGE R. WEECH, P.M ..
DOUGLAS H. MARTIN, P.M..
No. 209
No. 237
DEWITT G. DEMING', S.W ..
HENRY KoRCZAK, M . No. 262
No. 264
S. J. WARD, P.M .. No. 262
M. PHILLIPS, P.M ..
JAMES
s.
JR.,
FOSTER,
R.
JAMES
No. 262
No. 262
FINNIE E. FRITTS, P.M.• No. 262
FREDERICK 0. SHERRILL, P.M..
JACK P . FRASER, P.M .. No. 264
No. 237
LoRAv C. BAIR, P.M .. No. 274
JAMES E . McGLOTHLIN, M.
ROBERT T. VEACH, J. W ..
No. 237
No. 701
PAUL NIELSEN, P.M .. No. 701
RALPH G. BAILEY, M, No. 274
DAVID W. GLEASON, P.M.,
JOHN D . W1LK1Ns, J.W.,
No. 209
No. 264
EMIT N . BmDLES, J.W.. No. 209
L. GRABIL, M. No. 264
Lows
P.M..
,
W . E. SNOWMAN
DEWITT MEREDITH, P.M.,
No. 209
No. 264
MARION A. SMITH, P.M.,
EDWARD J. PRYOR, P.M..
No. 264
No. 264
CHESTER A . DAv1s. P.M..
KIRKEBY, P.M.. No. 209
CARL
No. 264
PAULS. SwoRD. P.M .. No. 264

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence . on Policy and General
Purposes . and on Ritual.

w..

The Committee on Ritual. to which was referred Resolution No. 15,
proposing that physical qualifications "would be conformed to if the
candidate wore a modern, improved hearing aid while taking the degrees
of Masonry" has carefully considered the proposal and makes the following observations and recommendation:
Your C ommittee on R itual objects to this proposed relaxation of our
physical qualification requ irements as set forth in Sections 511 and 512,
C.M.C. Our objections are based on our expressed and stated position
set forth in our report and recommenda tions made and presented on
Resolution No. 18, which has to do with " physical qualifications."
Resolution No. 15 would single out one particular form of disability
as being acceptable in a candidate-hearing -; its acceptability over
other forms of disabilities requiring 'aids' being based, in our opinion,
merely on a matter of degree.
An identical resolution was presented at our 1966 Annual Comm unication, and received a simple majority vote. The matter was again voted
on as a 'hold-over' at our 1967 Communica tion, and was rejected overwhelmingly.
Again, we reiterate that this Grand Lodge's position on physical
qualification should not be changed without some change in the condition of the Craft which would compel it. We may properly inquire if a
change has occurred in the condition of the Craft which would now
require a change in our ancient regulation. We know of none.
We unequivocably disapprove this resolution . and strongly urge a
"no" vote.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
This resolution would remove the disqualification for our degrees
which attaches to an applicant who must rely upon the use of a hearing
aid; that disqualification was declared by the Grand Master and approved by Grand Lodge in 1949.
While during the intervening nineteen years science and a rt have
d eveloped hearing aids which are almost undiscernible from the exterior,
your Committee prefers to base our approval of this resolution upon our
opinion that the corrective device would in no way ha ndicap a candidate
in conforming to the ritual of our degrees. It is difficult for us to understand any substantial difference between an applicant who must wear a
hearing aid and one who must rely upon strong corrective glasses.
As indicated in the preliminary recitals of this resolution, this disqualification does not exist in a number of other Masonic jurisdictions,
and we know of no resulting detriment in their experience. We believe
that the time has come to eliminate the restriction in our jurisdiction.

262

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

We, therefore. move the adoption of Resolution No. 15 and recommend a "yes" vote.

The Committee on Jurisprudence has considered Resolution No. 15,
which would delete all references in the Masonic law denying eligibility
for the degrees of Masonry to those who cannot hear without hearing
aids. To effectuate this resolution, we submit the following legislation:
BE IT RESOLVED that Section 511 of the California Masonic
Code be amended by adding to the end of said Section the following:
Provided, however, that an applicant for the degrees of Masonry shall
be allowed to use a hearing aid while taking said degrees, where the
same is needed and required.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that annotation 512 ( i) be and
the same is hereby deleted from the Code.
A majority voted against the resolution.

PHYSICAL QUALIFICATION
(16)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS: the physical qualification of applicants for the degrees
of Masonry as set forth in Section 512 and its various subsections, have
barred many men of goodwill. good character and ability from receiving
the degrees and
WHEREAS: many improvements have been made in paraplegic
equipment and hearing aids and in many cases restoring almost natural
activity to several parts of the human body and
WHEREAS: many of the men thus barred were injured or maimed
while serving in the armed forces of the United States thus adding to the
penalty already inflicted on them by their injuries,
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED. that Sections 512-a, 512-c,
512-h and 512-i be repealed and leave the question of physical qualifl.cations to the sound discretion of the Lodge involved.
Respectf u!J.y submitted,
CHRIS L. ANDERSEN, P.M..
RAY HOPMAN, M, No. 701
No. 701
DALE HOPMAN, S. W., No. 701
WILLARD L. EBERHARD, P.M.,
Ro.BERT T. VEACH,]. W ..
No. 701
No. 701
GEORGE M. BovERSON, P.M.,
PAUL NIELSEN , P.M., No. 701
No. 701
C. W. JESSUP, P.M.. No. 701
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Ritual.

The Committee on Ritual. to which has been referred Resolution No. 16,
which proposes that Sections 512-a, 512- c, 512-h and 512-i be repealed
"and leave the question of physical qualifications to the sound discretion

0RANU LODGE OF CALIFORNl1\

263

of the Lodge involved," has carefully considered the proposal and reports as follows:
Your Committee on Ritual objects to the proposed change in our
physical qualification, and refer to the. basic points expressed in our
report on Resolution No. 18.
Our objections may be expressed under the two general categories
cited in our Report on Resolution No. 18: The proposed change would
be in conflict with the 18th Landmark, "qualification of candidates for
initiation"; and, the destruction of our efforts toward uniformity in the
Ritual that would be a result were this Resolution adopted.
We unequivocably object to the Resolution. and strongly urge a
" no" vote.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
This resolution purports to reverse certain decisions of the Grand
Master relating to physical sufficiency of applicants for the degrees of
Masonry. It specifically recommends the repeal of annotations 5 12a.
512c. 512h and 512i of the Masonic Code and proposes that the question
of physical qualifications be left to the sound discretion of the Lodge
involved.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes believes that Resolution No. 18 adequately and fully covers the subject.
We therefore move the adoption of Resolution No. 16 and recommend a "no" vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence has considered Resolution No. 16.
which would delete certain sections in the Masonic Code denying eligibility for the degrees of Masonry to those having certain physical handicaps. including the loss of the use of a limb or an eye or hearing. To
effectuate this resolution , we submit the following legislation:
BE IT RESOLVED that section 512 be amended to read as follows:
"The question of the physical sufficiency of the applicant shall be
left to the sound discretian of the Lodge. No particular physical impairment shall be automatically disqualifying . The Master shall state the
nature and extent of physical disabilities to the Lodge before ballot is
taken."
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED tha t sections 512(a), ( c ), (h)
and ( i) be and the same are hereby deleted from the C alifornia Masonic
Code.
We move the adoption of the resolution without recommendation. A
majority voted agains t the resolution.

261

PROCEEDING:> Ul' THE

PHYSICAL QUALIFICATIO N
(17)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS . Under Article Five, section 511 H we allow an 18 or
19 year old to plead guilty to a charge of cattle theft, receive a two....year
suspended sentence, and then become eligible for membership, and
WHEREAS, I 8, I 9, 20 and 21 year olds can be draft card burners,
hippies, and whatnot, and after a time can be found worthy of membership, and
WHEREAS, We ask our 18 to 21 year old youths to bear arms to
protect our flag and country. to lose a hand or foot or eye or hearing.
and then we bar him from membership, under Section 512 A through
J. and
WHEREAS. It would be hard for a father to tell his son "You gave
a part of yourself in the defense of our country, thereby making yourself
ineligible to become a member of Masonry."
NOW. THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED That the California
Masonic Code be amended by the addition of "512 K."
512 K "Section 512 A through 512 J shall not apply to a person
having an honorable discharge from any branch of the American Armed
Forces, when Drafted or having volunteered in the draftable age bracket,
thereby having incurred any of the conditions mentioned in Section 512
A to 512 J, and he shall be allowed to apply for membership as if whole."
Respectfully submitted,
ARTHUR E. SCHULTZ, M .,
LLEWELLYN M. ORPHAN , S.W.,
No.811
No.811
JottN S. LucAs. P.M..
RALPH G. WANLESS, P.M ..
No.81 1&No.611
No.811
MAX L. HEYMAN,]. W., No. 811
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Ritual.
The Committee on Ritual indicated that the same statements made with
respect to Resolution No. 16 also apply to this resolution.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
This resolution proposes that our present rules relating to physical
qualifications for the degrees of M asonry shall not apply to a person
having an honorable discharge from any branch of the American Armed
Forces and who sustained during his period of service an otherwise
disqualifying physical disability.
The Committee on Policy and Ge neral Purposes believes that all
persons having physical disability should be similarly treated.
Your committee on Policy and General Purposes therefore moves
the adoption of Resolution No. 17 and recommends a "no" vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence has considered Resolution No. 17,

C.RAND LOOGE O F Cl\Ll l:'ORN ll\

265

which exempts from the physical requirements of California Masonic
Code section 512 applicants who have been honorably discharged from
the Armed Services of the United States a nd have sustained physical
disabilities while so serving their country. T o effectuate this resolution .
we submit the following:
BE IT RESOLVED that section 512.l be added to the California
Masonic Code to read as follows:
"The physical disqualifica tions indicated in California Masonic Code
section 512 ( a) through (j) , shall not apply to any applicant for the
degrees of M asonry who has been honorably discharged from the Armed
Services of the United States and has sustained a disqualifying physical
impairment as a result of said service.
We move the adoption of the resolution without recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

PHYSICAL QUALIFICATIO N
(18)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the custom of refusing admission to a physically imperfect applicant came to be developed during the old days of operative
Masonry, when the work on the erection of stone edifices was both
arduous and hazardous, and a physically impaired workman constituted
a danger to himself and his fellow workers, and liable to become a
burden to his Lodge or Guild. and
WHEREAS. y;e no longer work in operative Masonry but speculative only. these requirements are now obsolete, and
WHEREAS, there are many worthy and well qualified men who
have expressed a desire to a pply for the degrees of Masonry, but have
been denied because of having been wounded, maimed. or otherwise
physically disabled in the defense of our country, or by other misfortune or tragedy. and now find it necessary to employ the aid of a
prostheses to perform their daily tasks to the livelihood . comfort. safety,
or necessity of the individual who should not be denied the privilege of
receiving the degrees of M asonry so long as he can substantially con~
form to the ritual, and
WHEREAS, it is well known that many members of our Craft have
befallen such misfortune after taking the degrees and are thereby unable
to conform to the first landmark, (The modes of recognition) and
WHEREAS. this resolution will not conflict with the spirit of the
written or unwritten laws,
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED. that Section 511 (not including sub~paragraphs a to q inclusive) of the California Masonic Code be
rescinded and the following substituted therefor:
"511 . Moral and physica l qualifications. An applicant for the degrees

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of Masonry must be a man; no woman or eunuch; free born, being
neither a slave nor the son of a bond woman; a believer in God and a
future existence; of moral conduct; capable of reading and writing; having no maim or defect in his body except the loss of limb or limbs or
other impairment which can be remedied with aid of a prostheses, thereby
rendering him capable of learning the art. and physicaJly able to conform substantially to what the several degrees respectively require of
him."
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Section 512, the last sentence
of sub-section a and all of sub-section c, h and i be rescinded and the
fo11owing substituted therefor:
"512. Sound discretion required. The question as to the physical
sufficiency of the applicant sha11 be left to the sound disc·retion of the
Lodge. When the applicant is unable to comply literally with the physical
requirements without the aid of the prostheses, the Master shall state
the nature and extent of his disabilities to the Lodge before the ballot is
taken, and any prostheses that is usually worn or used by the applicant
for the performance of his daily tasks may be used by him to qualify
himself for the physical requirements and they shall at once be considered an actual part of the physical structure of the body, and no
discrimination shall be made where this is an issue."
Respectfully submitted,
REUBIN w. COTHERN, P.M.,
M.,
PRICHETT,
BERVEL L.
No. 504
No. 504
RODNEY H. DAVIS, P.M. ,
ROBERT R. Cox, S. W ., No. 504
No. 504
ARNOLD G. BROCKSEN, f. W.,
DONALD F. SLOCOMBE, P.M ..
No. 504
No. 643
HowARD K. NoBLE, P.M.,
JOHN B. MEREDITH, P.M.,
No. 504
No. 504
OTTO A. VOGEL, P.M..
ARTHUR R. MOBERG, JR., P.M.,
No. 504
No. 504
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes. and on Ritual.
The Committee on Ritual, to which was referred Resolution No. 18
proposing the elimination of the requirements of physical qualifications
or modification of our existing requirements, has carefully considered the
proposal. We have considered it without emotion and only from the
standpoint of what in our opinion would be good for Masonry.
Masonry selects its candidates and admits them only after careful
investigation and a unanimous ballot. No one has a right to become a
Mason. It is a privilege granted to a comparatively small number.
To begin with, we exclude half of the human race. No woman can
become a Mason. Half of the remainder of the population is likewise
excluded, namely anyone under the required age of 21 years. In Califor-

nia, for more than one hundred years, we have adhered to the regulation
that no one having a maim or defect in his body that may render him incapable of learning the art and physically unable to conform to what the
several degrees respectively require of him, can become a Mason.

266

267

The physical requirements for qualification of candidates for the
degr.ees of Mason~y are probably as old as Masonry itself. They are a
survival of OperatJVe Masonry and are peculiar to the Masonic institution, just as are the regulations excluding women and minors. One of the
Ancient Landmarks stated by Dr. Mackey, and which for several
.decad~.s has been printed in the Ross Digest and our Masonic Code.
is the qualification of candidates for initiation ," as the 18th Landmark.
A natural sympathy for those unfortunate men who have suffered
severe physical injuries has caused numerous proposals to change the
old requirements, and these have been presented throughout the history
of our Grand Lodge, most recently in 1961-1962. 1963, 1964, 1966-1967.
They have been rejected except for the compromise which resulted in
the adoption of our present regulations many years ago, now contained
in Sections 511 and 512 of the C.M.C.: "having no maim or defe·c t in
his body that may render him incapable of learning the art, and physic~lly able t? confo~m .~ubstantially. to what the several degrees respectively require of him. The question as to physical sufficiency of the
applicant is left to the sound discretion of the Lodge, and it is determined
by the ritual.
. . Since the rule as to physical qualification has existed for so long that
it is at least regarqed as one of the Ancient Landmarks it should not be
changed without some change in the condition of the Craft which would
compel it. We may properly inquire what change has occurred in the
condition of the Craft which would now require a change in our ancient
regulation, We know of none. Masonry does not go out and seek candidates; we select those who apply, and they must apply of their own free
will and accord.
If these proposals were adopted , it would require a different ritual
for each case of physical defect, depending upon the nature and severity
of the particular deformity. This would completely destroy any uniformity in the ritual. Under our law, the conferring of a degree must be
in conformity with the established ritual taught by the Grand Lecturer.
and the conferring of a degree in a merely symbolic manner is out of the
question. (CMC Section 512-j.) Unless we are prepared to do away
with uniformity of the ritual. carefully built up for a century, and prescribed by Sections 551 and 555 of the CMC. we cannot change the
rule as to physical qualifications. This proposed legislation does not purport to change Sections 551 or 555 of the Code.
In our opinion, this Grand Lodge has alrea dy gone as far in meeting
physical insufficiency as it can reasonably go, making it depend upon the

269

PROCEEDING S OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

applicant's ability to conform substantiall y to what the ritual may require
of him.
We disapprove the resolution and urge a "no" vote.

remedied with the aid of a prosthesis to receive the degrees of Masonry.
To effectuate this resolution. we submit the following legislation:
BE IT RESOLVE D that section 511 of the California Masonic
Code be amended to read as follows:
"51 l. Moral and physical qualifications. An applicant for the degrees
of. Masonry must be a man: no woman or eunuch ; free born , being
neither a slave nor the son of a bond woman; a believer in God and a
fut~re existence; of moral conduct; capable of reading and writing;
havmg no maim or defect in his body except the loss of limb or limbs
or other impairment which can be remedied with aid of a prosthesis,
thereby rendering him capable of learning the art, and physically able to
conform substantially to what the several degrees respectively require of
him."
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVE D that section 512 be amended to
read as follows:
"~ 12. Sound discr~tion required. The question as to the physical
sufficiency of the applicant shall be left to the sound discretion of the
Lodge. ~hen the ~pplicant is .unable to comply literally with the physical requirement s without the aid of the prosthesis, the Master shall s tate
~he nature and extent of his disabilities to the Lodge before the ballot
is taken, and any prosthesis that is usually worn or used by the applicant
f~r the performance of his daily tasks may be used by him to qualify
himself for the physical requirement s and they shall at once be considered an actual part of the physical structure of the body, and no discrimination shall be made where this is an issue."
BE IT FURTI-lER RESOLVE D that annotations 512(a), {c), (h)
and {i) be and the same are hereby deleted.
We move the adoption of the resolution without recommenda tion.
A majority voted against the resolution.

268

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
This resolution proposes amendment of Sections 511 and 512 of the
California Masonic Code to provide for admission of applicants for
degrees who have suffered loss of limb or limbs or other impairment
which can be remedied with the aid of a prosthesis, thereby rendering
them capable of learning the art and physically able to conform substantially to the requirement s of the several degrees ..
This resolution presents a direct confrontatio n between the requirements of traditional regulations and fundamenta l Masonic principles. In
balance and stark contrast stand the tenet of Brotherly love and the
requirement s of present Masonic law.
The fact that 011r present rule has existed for a long period of time
establishes no case for its merit. Rather, the fact that almost no Mason
feels entirely comfortable with this regulation , makes timely and thorough examination of its merits highly desirable.
All men are captives of their corporeal beings. and stand in constant
risk of debilitating and humiliating injury. Accident and unfortunate
happenstanc e cast a dark enough shadow across the lives of us all. No
man or group of men should add to this burden without having serious
and compelling reasons so to do.
That our rules as they now stand add to the already frightful burden
of the maimed and injured is beyond question. With the rejected applicant. the effect is direct and immediate. But all men embraced within
the ambit of our rules are poorer as a result. Only the strongest reasons
should cause us to add the weight of disqualification to all of the uncertainties and self-doubts associated with serious injury.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes believes that such
compelling reasons do not exist. With the aid of modern prosthetic
science, seriously injured persons can perform tasks that require great
agility and dexterity. Many men who have suffered the loss of a limb or
limbs, or other physical injury. can substantiall y (and in some cases
fully) comply with the requirement s of our degrees. These men in our
opinion should be able to participate in our privileges.
These new applicants would doubtless benefit from a Masonic affiliation. Our Lodges would have a new source of interest and strength.
Most importantly. we would stand taller as men and Masons by so providing.
Your Committee moves the adoption of Resolution No. 18 and
recommends an affirmative vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence has considered Resolution No. 18.
which would permit applicants with physical defects which can be

FORM OF APPLICA TION FOR DEGREE SQUESTIO N OF ARRESTS
(19)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of California:
WHEREA S, the current applica tion for degrees does not contain
any question as to any "arrest .. of an applicant; and
WHEREAS , the current application for degrees does contain, in
question No. 12, language as to the applicant having "pleaded guilty
or nolo contendere to or been convicted of a criminal offense (other than
a minor traffic viola tion)." and
WHEREAS , laymen do not ordinarily understand the distinction
between, or the affect of. the foregoing language; and
WHEREAS , the langunge of the form of the investigator 's report on

270

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

t;~i\NIJ

T.Ot><;E OP C i\LIFO RNli\

271

.
the app 11cant
uses the qu estion of wheth er the applic ant has ever been
"arres ted" for a crime : and
t t
h. h
WHE REA S. some confu sion has existe d amon g app1'
ican s ~ w .'c
·
1
·
the foregoing app ies an d has result ed in the neces sity of Maso nic trials
B th
ho has not answe red the questi.ons e1'th er fu11y or
to expe 1 a ro er w
. d'1 1'd 1 Lodges and emba r
truthf ully causing great expen se to t h e m
v ua
d
rassm ent 'to the Lodg e and the applic ant's spons ors:.
a~
.
WHE REA S all facts pertai ning to arrest. conv1ct1on
or. oth.er dis..
candi
dly
expla
ined
in
positi
the
applic
on s hould be fully and
ation for
·
.
de rees and dispo sed of prior to his electio
n:
.
gNOW THE REFO RE. BE IT RESO LVED : That
the follov:mg
be added ~o Sectio n 527 of the Califo rnia ~asonic
Code a; ~ueslt~obs
No. 12 and No. 13 and that the prese nt questi ons No.
12 an
o.
e
elimin ated:
.
cl
1
"12 Have you ever been arrest ed. taken into
custo y . pea ded guilty
or nolo. conte ndere to, or been convicted of. a crimin
al offense ( othe;,
than a minor traffic violat ion)? Answ er yes .o r No ........
............~ii--~f-·the
"13 If our answ er to questi on No. 12 is Yes,
state fully .
.
facts, i~cluding date and place, thedc~urt ~~ other dubl~
db~~Y
~:~~~~;
of the same, the senten ce or other ispos1hon ma e.
a
ertain in theret o or which _shed light thereo n .................
......... ...............

to admit to an arrest and who was the victim of mista
ken identi ty or
other circum stance where the arrest shoul d never have
been made. The
Committee is more conce rned in enabling the Lodg e
invest igatin g committee to prope rly evalu ate the moral qua]if kation s of
the applic ant than
to avoid his possible emba rrassm ent in having to expla
in the circum stance s of an unfor tunate experience.
We believe that impor tant inform ation may be obtain
ed relativ e to
the candi date's moral qualifications by what could be
found in an arrest
report . There could be unlimited reason s for finding
that an applic ant
shoul d be reject ed even thoug h a jury of twelve did
not find him guilty
beyon d a reason able doubt . The failure of a jury to
convi ct or the expungi ng of the record of conviction now permi ts the
applic ant to subm it
his applic ation with absol ute cando r and witho ut showi
ng the Lodg e
inform ation that would, if know n. be of grave conce
rn to the breth ren.
Admission of arrest would avoid this dilemma.
The Committee on Jurisprudence has consi dered Resol
ution No. 19
and has autho rized our Comm ittee to repor t that this
resolu tion is approve d as to form and carrie s out the purpo ses of the
propo nent.
We move the adopt ion of Resolution No. 19 and recom
mend a "yes"
vote.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
(Atta ch a separ ate sheet

FOR M OF APP LICA TION FOR DEG REE S-IN CLU
DE
PRO VISI ONS IN C.M. C. SEC TION 546

0

:..............~---···································································································-·

if neces sary.)
Respe ctfull y subm itted.
LELAN D T. GREEN WALD , M .. No. 639
.
d
Refer red to Comm ittees on Junsp
ru ence, an d on Policy and Gener al
Purpo ses.
The Comm ittee on Policy and General Purposes:
.
b
. .
problem which has een
The intent of this reso1ut1on
is to .cure a
Unde r the law of
troubl ing the frater nity more and more '~ r~cen~ yea~~
nvicted of a crime
Califo rnia as it now stand s, a perso n w o ; sl ee)
ay have the record
involving moral turpit ude (misd emean or or ~ofh'sm
proce dure in effect
of conviction. ex~unlgedf ~om th~
~~c~:r~its \he person to answe r
result s in a d1sm1ssa o t e conv1c~~~rta
10
1 d
·}ty to a
.
"Hav e you ever been convi cted o f, or Pea
t he ques t ion,
gm

cri~~·~ ne~:~i:e/:~nd that many Lodges have failed to properly investigate ca:~idates for degre es with respect. to. past crimin
al ~nvol~e~:~!~t~~
the applic ations were to requir e the admis sion of arrest

. ~ en t e

gati~~~~Co:t;~t~:et~: ~~~~w::~d ~:::r~e~~r~~:~: has consid~re~
the questi on of emba rrassm ent to an applic ant who

would be requir e

Adop ted 5/ 6 vote.

(20)

To the Most Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodge F. & A. M. of
California:
WHE REA S, Sectio n 546 CMC requir es the Maste
r to declar e forfeited the unuse d portio n of the Degre e Fees and the
contri bution s of
Cand idates not completing the Work of the Three Degre
es within a five
year period , and
WHE REA S. the exten t of such forfeitures, as docum
ented in the
1967 Proce eding s within the Repo rt of the Gran d Secre
tary, has attain ed
the alarm ing propo rtion of 8% to 10% of the Fees
and Contr ibutio ns
of Cand idates annua lly, with 534 forfei tures record ed
in 1967 and 516
forfei tures projec ted for 1972, and
WHE REA S. notification to the Cand idate regar ding
the requir ements of Sectio n 546 CMC is not publis hed in the " Inform
ation to Candidate s" booklet, nor in the instru ctions to coach es
in the "Coac hes
Hand book." nor cover ed in the Inves tigatin g Comm
ittee Repor t. and
may theref ore be overlo oked in the conse quent depen
dence upon wordof-mo uth transm ittal of inform ation to the Cand idate,
and
WHE REA S, ma ny forfei tures and result ing losses
of Lodge Mem bersh ip may be avoid ed by positive notification of the
requir emen ts of
Sectio n 546 CM C,

272

l'!IOCEEOIN(~S

or THE

NOW BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED that the Application
Form No. 235 be revised to include the pertinent provisions of Section
546 CMC, thus advising the prospective Candidate at the outset of
such provisions; that the same information be imparted to the Candidate
through amendment of the "In formation to Candidates" booklet; that
it shall also be made a part of the Instructions to the Investigating Committees and the Coaches, in order that those provisions of the CMC are
thoroughly understood by each Candidate.
Respectfully submitted.
LLOYD WIGMAN, M .. No. 367
RALPH W. CuTLER. P.M.. No. 367
RICHARD W. REACH, P.M .. No. 367
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General Purposes.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Section 546 of the C.M.C. in essence provides that "if a candidate
does not present himself properly qualified for the Second and Third
Degrees within a period of five years from the date of his initiation as
an Entered Apprentice." two things shall occur. The first is that "the
Master shall direct the Secretary to forward to such candidate, by registered mail to his last known address, a notice advising him that unless
he shall present himself for advancement on or before a specified date
(at least sixty days in advance) his fees for the unconferred degrees
and all of his previous contributions will be declared forfeited." The
second thing which occurs-after the registered mail notice and the
minimum sixty day grace period-is that "on the day specified, the
Master shall declare the fees forfeited."
Resolution No. 20, citing 534 such forfeitures during fiscal 19661967, and estimating an annual forfeiture rate of 516 by the year 1972,
asserts that unless the requirements of Section 546 C.M.C. are published in the Application Form, the "Information to Candidates" booklet, and added to the instructions of Investigating Committees and
Coaches, these requirements to complete the three degrees within five
years "may therefore be overlooked in the consequent dependence upon
word-of-mouth transmittal of information to the Candidate."
First. it might be noted that current statistics from the office of the
Grand Secretary show a sharp decrease in such forfeitures-the number
having decreased from 534 last year to 318 for fiscal 1967-1968.
Second, there is no valid basis whatever upon which it can be asserted
that any or all of these forfeitures occurred because the candidates involved did not know that there was a requirement that they complete
their degrees within five years.
On the contrary, the mandatory provisions of 546 C.M.C.-which

GllAND LODGE OF CAUPORN!A

273

prevent any forfeiture until and unless direct written notice by registered
mail to the candidate concerned be given, coupled with an extens ion of
at least sixty days beyond the five year period, in which the candidate
may still be able to avoid forfeiture, leave the probability that other
causes of dissatisfaction have alienated the candidate's interest.
Certainly nothing supports the real basis for Resolution No. 20--that the requirement to complete degrees within five years. and the candidate's knowledge of that fact , involves "dependence upon word-ofmouth transmittal of information to the candidate."
In the opinion of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes,
the requirement that degrees be completed within five years is wholly
reasonable, and the existing Section 546 guarantees that no forfeitures
will occur without prior written notice to the candidate involved.
Accordingly, the Committee moves the adoption of Resolution No.
20 and urges a "no" vote thereon.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
This Resolution proposes that the Grand Lodge Form No. 235 .
which is the form for applying for the Degrees, be revised to include
the pertinent provisions of Section 546 C.M.C. relating to the forfeiture
of the fees and contributions of Candidates who do not complete the
work of the Three Degrees within a five year period and the "In formation to Candidates" booklet and the instructions to coaches in the
"Coaches Handbook" be revised to include this information.
Your committee does not feel that it is necessary to amend any Sections of the California Masonic Code to accomplish the purpose of
the proposers of this Resolution since all references are to forms and
booklets published by this Grand Lodge. We accordingly present the
following:
RESOLVED, that there be added to the Grand Lodge Application
Form No. 235 a footnote reading substantially as follows:
"Please be advised that if a candidate does not present himself.
properly qualified, for the Second and Third Degrees within a period
of five years from the date he is initiated as an Entered Apprentice, then
his fees for the Degrees which have not been conferred and his contributions will be forfeited."
FURTHER RESOLVED; that similar language be included in the
"Information to Candidates" booklet and in the instructions to coaches
in the "Coaches Handbook" published by this Grand Lodge.
A majority voted against the resolution.

274

PHO C:EEDI N G!; 01' Till(

FORM OF APPLICATION FOR DEGREES-DELETE
PORTION OF QUESTION 15
(21)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 0 A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. the Grand Lodge of California requires as a part of
Section 527 of the C.M.C. (Form of Application for Degrees) under
Question No. 15 the following:
" Do you promise that you will not apply for or receive any degree
or be initiated in any Lodge, Order or organization the prerequisite of
membership wherein is that a person be a Master Mason, until you have
given satisfactory evidence, by strict examination in open Lodge, that
you are entirely proficient and well qualified in the Candidate's Lecture
of the Degree of Master Mason and in no event within twelve months
after you have received the Degree of Master Mason?" and
WHEREAS. the portion which reads, "and in no event within twelve
months after you have received the Degree of Master Mason," was
designed for the purpose of retaining the newly raised brother's interest
and attendance in his Blue Lodge, and
WHEREAS. it has not accomplished its purpose but has in fact
allowed a period of Masonic inactivity during which time our Brethren
have turned to other interests and grown further away from their Masonic involvement, and
WHEREAS, it is believed that voluntary activity promoted by an
attractive program as well as the cooperation of all Masonic bodies one
with another will better serve our Masonic purpose,
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED. that Section 527 be amended
to delete from Question No. 15 the words "and in no event within
twelve months after you have received the Degree of Master Mason?"
and shall hereafter read:
Do you promise that you will not apply for or receive any degree
or be initiated in any Lodge, Order or organization the prerequisite of
membership wherein is that a person be a Master Mason, until you
have given satisfactory evidence, by strict examination in open Lodge,
that you are entirely proficient and well-qualified in the Candidate's
Lecture of Master Mason?
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that all other references contained in our laws, rules, regulations. edicts, decisions, or any other
matter on this subject, written or unwritten, having the force of law,
which are contrary hereto are rescinded.
Respectfully submitted,
Roy V. ANDERSON, P.M. , No. 20
PARISE VouoouR1s, P.M., No. 40
EVERETT J. G. CHAPMAN, P.M., No. 609

GRANO LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

275

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General Purposes.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 21 proposes to amend that part of Section 527 of the
C.M.C. by dispensing with the requirement that an applicant for degrees
promise that he will not petition for or accept membership in any of
the so-<:alled affiliated organizations until twelve months after he has
received his Third Degree.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes agrees with the
proponents of this resolution that the twelve month prohibition against
affiliation has not accomplished its intended purpose--that of retaining
a newly obligated Brother's interest and attendance in his Lodge. To
the contrary, it is now a widely held view that this prohibition has had
the effect of "cooling off" a Brother's interest in Masonry. thus losing
him to other involvements not Masonically connected.
The fear that affiliation with the Scottish Rite, York Rite, the Shrine,
et al., will preempt a Brother's time to devote to his Blue Lodge has
little or no foundation. This is demonstrated by the large number of
us who have many Mason ic affiliations but yet are active in the affairs
of our own Blue Lodge. This is to say nothing of the many actively participating Blue Lodge members who became active only after the flame
was kindled by activity in an affiliated body. When the reasoning upon
which an ordinance is predicated is demonstrated to be false, then the
ordinance should be repealed.
Your Committee points to the fact that this resolution does not affect
the requirement that a Master Mason must demonstrate his proficiency
in the candidates' lecture of the Third Degree before he may join other
prerequisite bodies. Your Committee expressly disapproves any attempt
to eliminate the proficiency requirement as will be reflected by the nex t
report.
We move the adoption of Resolution No. 21 and recommend a
"yes" vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
After receiving the degree of Maste.r Mason, a Brother is now required not only to give evidence of his proficiency in the candidate lecture of that degree but also to wait a period of twelve months before
joining organizations in which being a Master Mason is a prerequisite.
This resolution would eliminate the twelve month waiting period.
This resolution requires amendment of Section 527 of the California
Masonic Code and the deletion of certain of the annotations in that
section.
Effect would be given to the intent of the proponents of the resolution if the following were adopted:
"RESOLVED. that Section 527 of the California Masonic Code

276

277

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

pertaining to the form of application for degrees be amended to read
as follows:
"Do you promise that ·y ou will not apply for or receive any degree
or be initiated in any Lodge. order or organization the prerequiste of
membership wherein is that a person be a Master Mason, until you have
given satisfactory evidence, by strict examination in your Lodge. that
you are entirely proficient and well-qualified in the Candidate's Lecture
of the degree of Master Mason? and that annotations a, b. c. d and i to
Section 527 be deleted."
A majority voted against the resolution.

WHEREAS. this would encourage the DeMolays to go directly into
the Blue Lodge as soon as they reached the age of 21, and
WHEREAS. this would be directly up to the advisory council
which DeMolays would qualify. and
WHEREAS. this would make the Blue Lodge a very active Lodge
and a young Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,
DONALD R. RoBY, M .. No. 248
RALPH v. BAIRD, s.
ALFRED B. STEPHENS. P.M..
No. 248
No. 248
DONALD W. H1cKs. P.M..
EsTLE ARGABRIGHT, P.M.,
No. 248
No. 248
Referred to Committees on Juris prudence, and on Policy and General Purposes.
The above resolution was withdrawn by its proponents.

FORM OF APPLICATI ON FOR DEGREES-P RORCIENC Y
(22)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:

WHEREAS. the Candidate's Lecture of the Degree of Master Mason was compulsory starting in October 1953 and the Candidate would
not apply for or receive any degree or be initiated in any Lodge until
he has given satisfactory evidence by strict examination in open Lodge,
and
WHEREAS, this proficiency has penalized all branches of Masonry
and does not actually prove anything. The candidate should have the
option of giving the lecture or not giving it, and
WHEREAS, the proficiency in the lecture of the Degree of Master
Mason should be changed to give the candidate the option or it should
be dropped.
Respectfully submitted,
DONALD R. RoBY, M .. No. 248
RALPH v. BAIRD,
ALFRED B. STEPHENS, P.M ..
No. 248
No. 248
DoNALD w. HICKS. P.M..
ESTLE ARGABRIGHT. P.M. ,
No. 248
No. 248
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General Purposes.
The above resolution was withdrawn by its proponents.

s. w..

FEES FOR DEGREES-S ENIOR DE MOLAYS
(23)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. a senior DeMolay reaching the age of 21 years of
age should be allowed to pay an initiation fee of $35.00, and
WHEREAS, this initiation fee of $35.00 would only apply to DeMolays that had been in good standing during the term as an active
DeMolay, and

w..

REFUND DUES PAID IN ADVANCE ON AFFILIATIO N

(24)
To the Most W orshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:

WHEREAS. according to Section 557 of the California Masonic
Code, that to affiliate with a Lodge it is necesary to be paid at least one
quarter in advance. and
WHEREAS. many affiliates are paid several months in advance at
the time they become affiiliated with another Lodge,
NOW. THEREFORE . BE IT RESOLVED that the following be
added to Section 557 of the C alifornia Masonic Code:
The Lodge shall refund to a Brother on request dues paid in advance
of the current quarter when a member dimits to affiliate with another
Lodge.
Respectfully submitted .
M ICHAEL GILDEN, P.M..
ROB ERT w. MEEK. P.M ..
No. 411
No. 338
JAMES SIMPSON, P.M .. No. 615
FREDE. WAG'NER, P.M ..
EDWARD A. PAsco, P.M.,
No. 615
No. 411
R. G . GOAR, P.M. & M ..
W ENDELL M . ANDERSON. P .M..
No. 338
No. 615
RoDGER D. SIEMS, M .. No. 615
LESTER c. PATMORE, P.M..
ERNEST 0. WRIGHT. P.M..
No. 411
No. 338
EDWARD J. LONG. P.M .• No. 615
WILBUR RAYMOND, P.M..
B. H. JOHANSEN, P.M.. No. 338
No. 615
CARLL. GREGORY. P.M..
ALBERT L. HANSEN. P.M. ,
No. 615
No. 338
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence. and on Policy and Gen~
t>ral Purposes.

278

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 24 recommending the refund of dues paid in advance
when a member dimits has been referred to your Committee on Policy
and General Purposes and after a careful study we report as follows:
The title of this resolution could be misleading as it refers to "Refund
due paid in advance on affiliation." Actually the resolution proposes to
refund dues paid in advance when a member <limits, which is quite
another thing.
When a Brother is issued a <limit, that document keeps him in good
standing as a Mason at large for a period of one year. This privilege
should certainly be worth any dues paid in advance.
It is true that the wording of the resolution states "when a member
dimits to affiliate with another lodge." After a dimit is issued, however,
there is no assurance that the brother will ever affiliate and therefore
he could enjoy the benefits and privileges of Masonry for a period of
a year, after receiving a refund of any advance dues paid. We feel that
the advantage of remaining in good standing is well worth the small
sacrifice of any dues paid in advance.
To put the proposition before Grand Lodge therefore I move the
adoption of the resolution but your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes recommends a "no" vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
The purpose of the proposed resolution is to refund dues paid in
advance, if requested by a member of the Lodge seeking to dimit to another Lodge.
Your Committee on Jurisprudence thinks that the language of the
original resolution should be amended as follows:
RESOLVED: A third paragraph shall be added to Section 557
(1st) of the California Masonic Code as follows:
"Lodges within this jurisdiction shall refund to a Brother on his
request dues paid in advance of the current quarter when he dimits to
affiliate with another Lodge."
We move the adoption of the resolution without recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

MAXIMUM DUES FOR REINSTATEMENT
(25)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, there are a number of Brothers who, due to lack of
knowledge of the California Masonic Code and who were not properly
informed or advised as to proper procedure to obtain a dimit, have
been suspended for nonpayment of dues, and
WHEREAS. due to their employment, which has caused them to

G RAND

LODGE OP C:ALIFORNIJ\

279

move about with no permanent home, they were unable to reestablish
their fraternal relationship, and
WHEREAS. at a time when they were in a position to seek reinstatement they were informed that they must pay all dues previously
due had they remained a member in good standing. and
WHEREAS. they did not receive any benefits, and credit is not
given for their time of suspension, these charges are excessive and unreasonable, and
WHEREAS , at a time when there is ·c oncern over our loss in active
membership, here is a potential source of active participating members
who are willing to pay a reasonable fee to regain full membership,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT: the portion
of Section 582 of the California Masonic Code which reads as follows:
"or shall have such arrearages and dues remitted"
be eliminated, and the following line be added to Section 582 of the
California Masonic Code as follows:
"The dues for reinstatement shall not exceed the current initiation
fee of the Lodge."
Respectfully submitted,
ERNEST 0. WRIGHT, P.M..
CARLL. GREGORY, P.M.,
No. 338
No. 615
MICHAEL GILDEN. P.M.,
WILBER RAYMOND. P.M.,
No. 411
No. 615
}AMES SIMPSON, P.M., No. 615
FREDE. WAGNER, P.M.,
EDWARD A. PAsco,P.M ..
No.615
No. 411
ALBERT L. HANSEN, P.M.,
W ENDELL M. ANDERSON, P.M.,
No. 338
No. 615
B. H. JOHANSEN, P.M., No. 338
LESTER C. PATMORE, P.M ..
RoBERT W. MEEK, P.M..
No.411
No.338
RooGER D . S1EMS, M .. No. 615
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and Gen~
era] Purposes.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The preambles to this resolution clearly indicate that the proponents
of the proposition seem to feel that it is unjust to exact from an applicant
for reinstatement all of the unpaid dues from the date of suspension for
non-payment of dues. With this we wholeheartedly agree.
There is in our law now, however, an escape from such necessity
as it clearly states that in lieu of paying all arrearages, such arrearages
may be remitted.
The first portion of this resolution, however. would remove this
provision for remitting back dues thereby making mandatory the pay~

280

281

PROCEEDINGS OF 'J'IIE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ment of all arrearages which the preambles indicate is entirely unfair.
This first portion of the proposition therefore seemed to be inconsistent
with the preamble and upon pointing this out to the proponents of the
resolution they immediately withdrew this portion.
The second portion provides that a lodge may not exact for reinstatement an amount in excess of the current initiation fee of the lodge.
We agree with this in principle, but certainly it would be an unusual
case where such a demand might be made.
Your committee, however, is extremely reticent to impose any additional restrictions on the constituent lodges, and it feels that this matter
can best be determined by the lodges with proper guidance from the
officers.
I therefore move the adoption of the second portion of Resolution
No. 25 but your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a "no" vote.

men who reflect the current thinking and policies of the lodges which
they represent.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: That the following be added
to Section 603, CMC. as follows:
When a lodge shall belong to a Board of Relief, the Master and
Wardens shall constitute the authorized representatives to such Board
of Relief, and this duty may not be delegated, except by special permission of the Grand M aster in each instance.
Each lodge belonging to a Board of Relief shall be entitled to three
votes on any matter brought to the floor of a Board of Relief meeting,
and if one or more representatives be abse.nt, the ranking representative
present from that lodge shall be entitled to vote in behalf of the absent
member ( s).
Respectfully s ubmitted ,
J OHN H. PETERSEN, P.M.,
JoHN E. M rKoL, P.M.,
No. 35
No. 760
G ORDON E. PLEDGER, P.M.,
HOWARD s. FISH ER, P.M .•
No. 35
No. 620
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes. and to the Board of Control.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
The purpose of the proposed resolution is to limit the amount of
arrearages which shall be paid by a member of a Lodge who has been
suspended for non-payment of dues.
Your Committee on Jurisprudence thinks that the language of the
original ·resolution should be amended as follows:
RESOLVED: Section 582 be amended by adding at the end of the
section,
"provided, however, that in no event should a Brother desiring reinstatement be required to pay in arrearages an amount in excess of the current
initiation fee of the Lodge."
We move the adoption of the resolution without recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution as amended.

BOARDS OF RELIEF-WHO REPRESENT LODGE
(26)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the Maste·r and Wardens of a lodge are a Charity
Committee of that lodge (Section 360. CMC) and are usually men of
the highest calibre, reflecting the best judgment and confldence of the
brethren of the lodge, and
WHEREAS. to relieve the distressed is one of the most important
functions of a lodge, and not to be handled perfunctorily, nor to be considered lightly, and
WHEREAS, the present method of appointing or electing of lodge
representatives to a Board of Relief, is often made on the basis of who is
willing, rather than who is best qualified, and
WHEREAS, longevity of representatives beyond two or three years
is not always in the best interests of Masonry, and
WHEREAS, it is desirous that Boards of Relief be composed of

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
This resolution proposes to add to Section 603 C.M.C. the provision that the representative of the several lodges comprising a Board
of Relief shall consist of the Master and Wardens, and that the Master
may not delegate his or the Wardens' authority to represent the lodge.
The imposition Of such a restriction upon the Master is required by
the proponents on the assumption that it is not desirable for a representative of a lodge to serve on a Board of Relief longer than three
years. Whether or not this assumption is true, we do not choose to
debate. Rather, your committee is concerned with another effect of the
resolution.
In properly administering the alfairs of the Lodge, the Master should
have the discretion of selecting the representa tives to the board. What
may be best for one lodge will not necessarily be good for others. The
control of Lodge business should be flexible to suit the particular situation.
The second provision in this resolution would permit the ranking
representative present. in the absence of either or both other representatives, to cas t a vote in behalf of the absent member or members.
Your committee takes no position on this part of the resolution.
We are authorized to report that the Committee on furis prudence
has found the text of the resolution will accomplish its intended purpose.
A s presented, your Committee on Policy and General Purposes
moves the adoption of Resolution No. 26 and recommends a "no" vote.
A majority vo ted against the resolution.

282

Pl<UCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

FUNERAL SERVICE-PERFORMED BY
CERTIFICATED BROTHER
(27)

may be seen in full view from a distance of not less than two city blocks
by persons approaching the Temple from either direction on California
Street.
Respectfully submitted,
E. DALE PECK, P.M., No. 467
ALEXANDER H. McKIE, P.M..
RussELL W. Luz1us. P.M ..
No. 467
No. 467
GEORGE B. ELDER. P.M..
BERNARD D. SORENSON, P.M ..
No. 467
No. 467
HAROLD N. CooL, P.M..
DuKE P. WATSON. P.M..
No. 467
No. 467

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, Sections 605 and 605e of the California Masonic
Code provide that any Mason ma1y read the funeral or burial service, and
WHEREAS, the ability to read well cannot be conferred by any
a uthority below the Supreme Being, and
WHEREAS. proper delivery of the Service. even when memorized,
does not always lend credit to the Fraternity, and
WHEREAS, our Brethren and their families are deserving of the
best in deliverance of said ceremonies, and
WHEREAS, poor presentation, halting reading, faulty memory,
overwhelming emotional involvement and other reasons contribute to
an unfavorable public image.
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED. that the funeral service may
be performed by qualified. certified Masons, who shall be qualified
by their Inspectors and certificated by the Grand Master.
Respectfully submitted,
KENNETH L. NEWKIRK. P.M .. No. 374
Lours K. GoLDKIND, P.M.,
RoGER C. MASTIN, JR., P.M ..
No. 120
No. 5
W. F. POYNTER. P.M.,
JoHN F. RoBERTS, JR., P.M..
No. 346
No. 545
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and Genera]
Purposes, and on Ritual.
The above resolution was withdrawn by its proponents.

DISPLAY NATIONAL EMBLEM-MEMORIAL TEMPLE
(28)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California;
WHEREAS. the Order of Free and Accepted Masons, since the
founding of our country, has been continuously identified with patriotism and good citizenship, and
WHEREAS . the Masonic Memorial Temple of the Grand Lodge
of the State of California, located at the corner of Taylor and California
Streets in the City of San Francisco, is a symbol of patriotism and good
citizenship of the Masonic Order, and
WHEREAS, the National Emblem, the flag of the United States of
America, is at present inadequately displayed at the exterior of the Memorial Temple, now
THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED : That the flag of our beloved
country be appropriately and prominently displayed daily from a staff
a t the front of the Memorial Temple or on the roof thereof, so that it

283

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes and the
Board of Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple.

The Board of Truste.es of California Masonic Memorial Temple has
studied carefully Resolution No. 28 requiring that the flag of our country
be displayed daily from a staff at the front of the Temple, or on the
roof thereof, so that it may be seen in full view from a distance of not
less than two city blocks by persons approaching the Temple from either
direction on California Street. A similar resolution was defeated by
Grand Lodge at the 1966 communication after a "no" vote was ·r ecommended by the Finance Committee and the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes.
The Board of Trustees of the Temple desires to make the following
observations:
l. At the prese~t ti~e the flag of our country is prominently displayed at the entrance of the Temple immediately over the main entrance
door. In addition, the flag of our country is displayed daily on a staff
on the Taylor Street side of the Temple along with the flags of the States
of California and Hawaii. The three staffs are 15 feet apart to allow
adequate space for the flags to be separately flown. A visit to the site
where the flags are displayed will show that they are visible to a very
large part of the City to the east. including a view from such prominent
edifices as the Equitable Life Building, Wells Fargo Building, Sir Francis Drake Hotel. Clift Hotel and many other buildings.
2. It would be almost physically impossible for the flags to be raised
and lowered from the roof of the Temple. Without substantial structural
changes, there would be no way for the staffs to be reached each day
for raising and lowering the flags. Also, if the flags were displayed on
the roof they would not be seen for two full city blocks by persons approaching the Temple from either direction on California Street. As a
matter of fact, if the flags were displayed on the roof of the Temple
they would be seen by far ff!'Ner persons than can see the flags where
they are presently displayed.

285

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRl\ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

3. There is no place on the California Street side of the Temple
where the flags could be displayed so as to be seen from a distance of
two city blocks. Persons approaching the Temple from the west could
not possibly see such flags until they reached the intersection of California and Jones Streets. In addition, there is talk of a high rise building
being erected immediately to the west of the Temple and a full view
of the flags from the west could be cut off.
It would not be possible for persons approaching the Temple from
the east to see the flags for a distance of two city blocks. The hill on
California Street between Powell and Mason Streets would prevent
such an extended view.
The Board of Trustees admires the spirit of those who propose the
resolution, but feel that the terms of the resolution could not be complied with and feel that the national emblem is at present adequately
displayed both in the interior and exterior of the Temple and that architecturally and practically it would not be feas ible to change the location
of the staffs flying the flags of our country and states of our jurisdiction.
Your Board of Trustees therefore unanimously recommends a " no"
vote on the resolution.

members' contributions and so reported to Grand Lodge at the end of
the fiscal year.
Respectfully submitted,
HAROLD E. RowE, f. W ..
CECIL M. PRIOR. P.M.,
No. 673
No. 673

284

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes indicated its concurrence in the recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

ALLOCATE ENDOWMENT FUND MEMORIAL
CONTRIBUTIONS TO LODGE OF CHOICE
(29)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the practice of making donations to the Endowment
Fund in the form of Memorials is increasing, and
WHEREAS. such donations are not credited to the members' donation or to the lodges, and
WHEREAS, it is desirable to further the increase of Memorial donations to the Endowment Fund, and
WHEREAS, it would only necessitate adding one or two lines to
the existing donation form , BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED,
THAT donations to the Endowment Fund in the form of Memorials
shall, if so desired and stated by the donor or donors, be credited to a
lodge or lodges of their choice and selection, AND BE IT FURTHER
RESOLVED
THAT all such donations shall be added to the total amount of the

WILLIAM

c. KUNZ, P .M ..

No. 673
ROWLAND E. MASON, P.M..

No. 673
EDWARD W. QuoN. P.M..

No. 673
KAM Y. YUEN, M.,

No. 673

CHARLES L. FOSTER, P.M.,

No. 673
HARRY P . ELLIOIT, JR.,

s. w ..

No. 673
FRANCIS A. GATES, P.M ..

No. 673
}AMES

w. SPRINGER, P.M.,

No. 673

Ref erred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes, and to the
Masonic Homes Endowment Board.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 29 would require, if desired by the donor or donors,
that contributions made to the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund be
credited to a lodge or lodges of their choice and selection .
It has become a common practice for the family of a deceased Brother to ask that Endowment contributions be made in lieu of flowers.
Through this custom free-will contributions are made by many family
friends who may have no connection with the Fraternity. To ask that
these persons designate a particular lodge or lodges in order to swell
the credited contributions of the members of the lodge goes far beyond
the limits of Masonic propriety.
The contributions credited to the lodges by the Masonic Homes Endowment Board are a measure of the concern in each lodge for the care
of our brethren, their widows and orphans. We do not ask non-members
to contribute in our annual Endowment effort nor do we think we should
start now.
In order to bring the resolution before the Grand Lodge we move the
adoption of Resolution No. 29 and your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a "no" vote.
The Masonic Homes Endowment Board indicated its concurrence in the
recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

286.

CONTINUE MASONIC CLUBHOUSES-UC & UCLA
(30)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. at a time when our institutions are under attack by
extremists and the ill advised, and
WHEREAS, the Masonic Clubhouses at UC and UCLA represent
by their presence the continuing interest of Masons in our young people and are symbols of our confidence in them,
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Masonic Clubhouses
at UC and UCLA continue to serve the youth of California by being
maintained and operated in the future as they have been in the past.
Respectfully submitted,
A.G. ScuLL, P.M .• No. 528
The above resolution was ruled out of order by the Grand Master.

RE-ESTA.BLISH EMPLOYMENT SERVICES
(31)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. the great tenets of Freemasonry are brotherly love, relief and truth, and
WHEREAS, one of the greatest ways in which a distressed worthy
brother may be relieved is by helping him to help himself by assisting
him in finding a job,
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that Boards of Relief of t.his
jurisdiction may maintain and operate Employment Services for the
benefit of Masons provided that this service is rendered without cost to
Grand Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,
A. G. Seu LL, P.M.. No. 528
The above resolution was ruled out of order by the Grand Master.

FORM OF RESOLUTIONS AND REPORTS BY
COMMITTEES AS TO SECTIONS OF CODE AFFECTED
(32)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. the manner in which certain resolutions are brought to
the floor by the Grand Lodge Committees is confusing to many of the
new members of the Grand Lodge. and
WHEREAS. reports of Grand Lodge Committees often generalize
violations of the California Masonic Code and also generalize implications of violations of the Ancient Charges and Ancient Landmarks.
NOW. THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED that a function of
Grand Lodge Committees with respect to proposed resolutions shall be

287

Li RANO LOD<.;E OP CALIPURNIA

PROCEEDINGS op · THE

to state the spe<:iflc section or sections of the California Masonic Code
which are in contradiction to the proposed resolution and which Ancient
Landmark or Landmarks and which Ancient Charge or Charges the
proposed resolution would violate.
Respect£ uly submitted,
WILTON J. SMITH, SR .. P .M..
CHARLES T. SCHELL, f.
No. 204
No. 203
ER N EST R. BINSACCA,

No. 777

s. w..

CHAS . W . BAZE,

w ..

f. w ..

No. 777

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General Purposes.

The Committee. on Policy and General Purposes:
This resolution proposes that each and every Committee of this
Grand Lodge to which any proposed resolution is referred for study and
recommendation be under the specific duty, in every instance, " to state
the specific section or se<:tions of the C.M.C. which are in contradiction
to the proposed resolution, and which Ancient Landmark or Landmarks
and which Ancient Charge or Charges the proposed resolution would
violate."
While the stated purpose of the proposal is to avoid confusing many
of the new members of the Grand Lodge, and while confusion is certainly to be avoided wherever possible, it is doubted that the resolution
is needed in most cases or would be effective in others.
A large proportion of the reports made to this Grand Lodge do not
revolve about suggested violations of our Constitution, Code, Landmarks or Charges. Proposals referred to and reported upon by the
Finance Committee may not violate any Constitution, Code, Landmark
or Charge yet may endanger the financial integrity of our institution.
Proposals are frequently received-some having been reported on already- where no violation is involved but cumbersome and unnecesary
duplications of existing provisions are submitted. Other proposals may
violate nothing , yet create such ambiguities when read with other existing legislation as to require extensive redrafting by the Jurisprudence
Committee. And other proposals are made-again illustrated in reports
already made-where Policy considerations point strongly against resolutions which, if enacted, would not violate our law.
Hence there is a great body of Committee consideration and reporting which is completely outside of the area contemplated by Resolution
No.32.
In those instances where there is what the resolution calls "contradiction to the proposed resolution," your Committee on Policy and Genera l
Purposes seriously doubts whether the confusion, if any. of new members

21S8

PIWCEED1N0S Ol' THI::

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

to Grand Lodge would be lessened if every Committee Report presented
its version of an exhaustive review of all language in our Constiution.
Code and decisions thereunder, as well as pertinent extracts from all
former proceedings-not to mention Landmarks and Ancient Chargesbefore proceeding to the salient points at issue. In reality. Committee reports are sincere attempts to state issues fairly and clearly. citing our
law when and to the extent it is necessarily involved. They attempt to
simplify both the proposals being made and the committees ' recommendations in respect to them-thus opening the issues for full debate by those
who wish to be heard in respect to them. and aiding the members of
Grand Lodge in reaching their own conclusions at the time of voting.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes moves the adoption
of Resolution No. 32 and recommends a "no" vote thereon.

BUDGET COMMENTS

The. Committee on Jurisprudence:
The proposed resolution requests that a function of Grand Lodge
committees shall be to cite any and all California Masonic Code sections
and any and all Ancient Landmark or Landmarks and any and all Ancient Charge or Charges which are in contradiction to proposed resolutions.
Your Committee on Jurisprudence believes that legislation regarding
the purpose of the resolution is unnecessary. Under procedure presently
in effect. Section 191 of the California Masonic Code, all matters, including resolutions , are referred to the appropriate Grand Lodge committees for action and recommendations. Each such committee is charged
to consider any part of our Code affected by the resolution.
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has the specific job of preparing
proper legislation which includes amendments, deletions and substitutions of the applicable Code sections.
Thus no new legislation appears necessary.
W e recommend a "no" vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.
(NOTE: Se.e page No. 236 for Resolution No. 33.)
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
In accordance with requirements set out in Section 194, "Audit of
Accounts," California Masonic Code, records and financial statements
of the Grand Lodge of California, the Masonic Homes of California and
the California Masonic Memorial Temple have been examined by certified public accountants for the Grand Lodge year ended June 30, 1968.
Copies of the audit reports have been referred to the members of the
Finance Committee and it is our opinion that the reports correctly state
the financial operations of Grand Lodge nnd its agencies for the flscnl
year July I , 1967 to June 30. 1968.

289

If you will refer to Exhibit B of the audit report for Grand Lodge,
you will note a net revenue of $132,808 which is considerably higher
than has been reported in recent years. Deducting a gain of $19,812
derived from sale of securities, a non-budget operation, we have a net
gain of $112,996 from budget operations.
To begin with, we provided for a cash surplus in the 1967-1968
budget, on and above all revenue and expense operations of $23, 180.
This cash surplus was realized. Our estimates of revenues proved to be
low in tha t an additional gain of $35,093 was realized. Most of this ,
$33.220 came from revenue produced by the per capita of $3.57 established for the Grand Lodge year 1966-1967 and actually received on or
after July 1, 1967. Income from securities held for the benefit of Grand
Lodge was greater than anticipated and produced an additional $7.088
in revenue. A refund of $2.325 was received from Past Grand Master
Dayton representing the unexpended portion of his Grand Master's
travel allowance. Miscellaneous revenues of $1. 773 accounted for the
remainder of revenue gains. Offsetting these gains in part. was a total
of $9.3 13 representing reductions in anticipated revenue from sale of
supplies and publication of the California Freemason.
With respect to budgeted expenses, a substantial saving of $54,723
was realized-attributable to expenditures in several instances being less
than estimated for budget purposes. Principal savings were effected in
the following accounts: Total salaries paid were $10,049 less than
budgeted. With the labor market in a constant state of change, we have
consistently provided for possible emergencies but good management
in the Grand Secretary's office has enabled Grand Lodge to maintain a
good working force at costs less than provided for. With the closing of
the clubhouses on the campuses of the University of California at
Berkeley and Los Angeles. fifty ( 50) per cent of the appropriations for
their operation unused, resulting in a saving of $21.500 in budgeted
expenses. There were a number of accounts in which actual expenditures
were less than budgeted and savings adding up to $23,174 make up the
total savings in budgeted expenses of $54,723.
We call your attention to the fact that there were several instances
where special committees incurred expenses which were not provided for
in the budget and there were also other instances where expenditures
exceeded budgeted amounts. To cover these exceptions, the Grand
Master has approved supplemental appropriations totaling $5,525. said
appropriations being included in our financial statements and in the foregoing section of this report relating to expenses of Grand Lodge.
In accordance with our law, we present the supplemental appropriations and recommend your approval of the action of the Grand Master :

290

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Grand Lodge Officers Travel ................................................ $3,750.00
Workmen's Compensation Insurance-Agencies .................. 300.00
Endowment Board .................................................................. l, l 00.00
Lodge Financing Committee ..................................................
20.00
Special Study Committee--Sojourners Relief aod
Boards of Relief ................................................................ 300.00
Special Study Committee-Masonic Retirement Project ....
55.00
Total ..................................•.........................•..••.....$5,525.00
We summarize this section of the report with the comment that the
gain, or net revenue, for the year of $132,808 represents a per capita of
$.56 based on a 1966-1967 taxable membership of 238,302. By comparison, the per capita for 1967-1968 was based on a membership of 236,142.
Our membership this year, for purpose of the per capita to be established
for 1968-1969, will be nearer 235,000. As has been indicated, we prepare
the annual budget hoping to achieve a gain, or net revenue, of approximately $.I 0 per capita. This year we realized, in addition, on a per
capita basis, $.15 on revenue items. $.23 on expense items and $.08 on
capital items, the sale of securities. When gains are achieved they
become a part of the reserves of Grand Lodge-separate from the Endowment Fund or reserves of the Masonic Homes and the Memorial
Temple. It is necessary, of course, that Grand Lodge possess sufficient
reserves to meet contingencies which could confront it. As the Investment
Committee, under the able leadership of the Grand Treasurer, pursues
the "prudent man rule" in the investment of all funds of the Grand
Lodge. so does the Finance Committee recommend a prudent policy in
the expenditure of Grand Lodge funds.
CALIFORNIA FREEMASON

In asking for a per capita tax of $.35 last year for the editing, printing
and distribution of the California Fceemason to the members of our
Jurisdiction , we anticipated a net revenue of $4 ,000 which was not realized, the net being only $22. In the face of rising costs in the printing
and publishing indus tries, we are again accepting the recommendation of
a per capita tax of $.35. You can help Grand Lodge meet its goal if all
Lodges, through their secretaries, maintain a constant check on changes
of addresses of their members and notify Grand Lodge promptly of such
changes. Excess postage for the handling and remailing of copies of the
magazine returned for incorrect addresses runs into a large sum of money
each year and the Grand Secretary solicits your help so that the present
per capita can be maintained.
GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT

The Grand Treasurer's Report was referred to and reviewed by this
Committee. The financial items set out therein were found to be In accord

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

291

with the audit report and in recommending its approval we again speak
our appreciation of the very fine service which has been rendered by the
Gra ~d Treas~rer in his capacity as financial officer of the Grand Lodge
and its agencies and as Chairman of the Investment Committee.
GRAND SECRETARY'S REPORT

. The work of the Finance Committee is not confined to the preparation of the annual budget during the period of the Annual Communication. _During the year, information must be sought. material prepared and
meetmgs held-all climaxed during Grand Lodge Week when the
budget is put into final form. The Grand Secretary and his staff have
been most helpful to the Finance Committee and we appreciate the
cooperation and expert assistance which has been so cheerfully extended
to us. The Finance Committee concurs in the recommendation of the
Grand Secretary that Palm Desert Lodge U.D. be not required to pay
the per capita tax due from all Lodges on July 1, 1968.
SALARIES

Although. as in former years, the full appropriation for salaries was
not used during the fiscal year just ended, the Finance Committee is
recommending that the budgeted amount of last year be repeated this
year so that the Grand Secretary will be in position to maintain the competent staff which now se.rves us and not be hampered. financially, should
adjustments be required. We believe this to be prudent policy.
MASONIC HOMES

You have received _the reports of the Board of Trustees and the
Superintendents of the Masonic Homes. They are reports of accomplishments. One of the highlights of Grand Lodge Week has always
been the annual visit to the Masonic Home at Decato. The expense of
bus transportation to the Home, the lunches furnished and the rest of the
year round operations of the Endowment Board, as a matter of policy,
has been borne by the Trustees of the Masonic Homes through reimbursement to Grand Lodge.
It can be argued that items of expense of the Endowment Board
should be met by the Masonic Homes of California inasmuch as the
activities are productive of contributions to the Endowment Fund without which we would have difficulty in maintaining the Homes. However,
at the request of the Board of Trustees. and in view of its recommendation that the per capita for support of the Homes be reduced from $1.50
to $1.l 5. the Finance Committee is recommending that a change in procedure be made.
We point out that there will be income by way of the $1.50 per
capita tax levied for the Homes last year and available as of July 1, 1968
for expenses in the budget now being presented to you. Consequently,
the expenses in connection with the visit to the Home at Decato and

292

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

for the operations of the Endowment Board this year should be borne
by the Masonic Homes and these expenses for succeeding years should
be borne by Grand Lodge after the reduced per capita tax is in effect.
Keep in mind, Brethren, that the expenses of the Endowment Board
under discussion have been averaging about $.10 per capita and that the
proposed reduction in the per capita for the Masonic Homes will be $.35
-a reduction of approximately $.25 in the total per capita to be asked
of you.
GRAND MASTER'S MESSAGE

Such matters in the Grand Master's Message as were referred to the
Committee on Finance are provided for in the proposed budget which
follows:
BUDGET-1968-1969

293

Retirement Pay ................................................................... .
Ritualistic Expense:
Grand Lecturer ..............................................................
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery ..............................
Ritual Committee and Inspectors'
Conference and Travel Expense ........................... .
Veteran Buttons ..................................................................

15,100.00
6.000.00

Insurance:
Workmen's Compensation-Lodges ..........................
Grand Lodge ..............
Agencies ......................
Public Liability and Extended Coverage ....................
Miscellaneous ..............................................................

11,000.00
1,600.00
1,800.00
29,000.00
1,400.00

900.00
600.00
3,850.00

TOTAL ..................................................................$207,150.00

ADMINISTRATIVE AND 0PFICE

Salaries ···············-···························-·-·······························$ 98,000.00
Grand Lodge Office-Temple Operation ........................ 24,000.00
3,000.00
Audit ....................................................................................
250.00
Grand Treasurer ................................................................
6,500.00
Postage and Express ..........................................................
4,000.00
Telephone and Telegraph ..................................................
6,000.00
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes ........................
500.00
Investment Counsel ............................................................
9,100.00
Retirement Pension Plan-Grand Lodge Employees........
2,000.00
Medical Plan-Grand Lodge Employees ........................
Outside Clerical Services .................................................... 3,000.00
800.00
Personal Property Taxes ..................................................
6,000.00
Supplies and Maintenance ................................................
1,000.00
Maintenance and Repairs~Office Furnishings ................
TOTAL ........................................................................ $164.150.00
GENERAL EXPENSE

Annual Communication ......................................................$ 15,000.00
5,000.00
Conferences ........................................................................
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel ............................................ 15,000.00
1,000.00
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler ......................................
Grand Master's Travel ...................................................... 13,000.00
5,700.00
Grand Master's Secretarial ................................................
6.700.00
Investment Counsel for Lodges ...............:............:.............
5,000.00
Grand Lodge Regalia ........................................................
Representatives' Mileage .................................................. 37,000.00
Printing ................................................................................ 32,500.00

APPROPRIATIONS

Activities Committee ..........................................................$ 6.500.00
1,500.00
Board of Control ................................................................
500.00
Charters Committee ............................................................
1,400.00
Columbia Temple (Net of Rentals) ..................................
250.00
Commercialism Committee ................................................
1,250.00
Constitution Observance Committee ................................
100.00
Correspondence Committee ............................................... .
1,500.00
Youth Orders ......................................................................
Endowment Board ............................................................. . 12,500.00
Grand Master's Relief Fund ............................................. . 4,000.00
Retirement Pension Plan-Grand Lodge Agencies ....... . 4,750.00
1,300.00
Medical Plan-Grand Lodge Agencies ............................
300.00
History Committee ............................................................. .
500.00
.
Investment Committee .......................................................
1.500.00
Lodge Financing Committee ..............................................
1,750.00
Masonic Cemeteries Committee ........................................
Memorial Temple-Pledge Collection Expense ................
5,000.00
Public Schools Committee ..................................................
1,500.00
.
Masonic Education Committee .......................................
Boards of Relief25.00
Reimbursement of Sojourner Expense ........................
500.00
Finance Committee ........................................................... .
Public Information Committee ............................................ 2,500.00
1,450.00
Library Committtt ............................................................. .
5,000.00
.
.......
Berkeley
and
Angeles
Clubhouses-Los
University
200.00
Code Commission ................................................................

294

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Old Masonic Hall in Los Angeles (Net of Rentals) .....:..
Special Hawaiian Advisory Committee ............................
Special Committee on C.M.C. ............................................
Special Committee-Study Grand Lodge Funds ............
Special Committee-California Foundation ....................
Special Committee-Sojourners Relief Study ..................
Special Study Committee-Fifty Year Button ................

295

GRANO LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

750.00
1,000.00
1,500.00
500.00
250.00
500.00
150.00

TOTAL ........................................................................$ 60,425.00
RECAPITULATION

Administrative and Office .................................................. $164,150.00
General Expense ................................................................ 207, 150.00
Appropriations.................................................................... 60,425.00

PER CAPITA
Masonic Homes ..................................................................$
Special Per Capita-Grand Master's Recommendation
No. 3 ................................................................................
Grand Lodge Constitutional ................................................
Grand Lodge Additional ....................................................
California Freemason ..........................................................

.35
.50
1.00
.35

TOTAL ........................................................................ $

3.35

1.15

BUDGET-ONE QUARTER
JULY 1, 1969 THROUGH SEPTEMBER 30. 1969
ADMINISTRATIVE AND OFFICE

GRAND TOTAL ........................................................ $431,725.00
ESTIMATED INCOME

Dues from Lodges. Fees for Degrees, etc ......................... $366.500.00
Income from Investments and Interest .............................. 47.000.00
Payment from Masonic Homes re Endowment Board .... 12.500.00
Payment from Masonic Homes re Secretarial and
Other Services .............................................................. 24.000.00
Supplies and Miscellaneous Income ................................ 6,000.00
TOTAL ESTIMATED INCOME .......................... $456,000.00
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS AND
BUDGETED ITEMS .......................................... 431.725.00
ESTIMATED CASH SURPLUS ............................ $ 24,275.00

Salaries ................................................................................$ 27,000.00
Grand Lodge Office-Temple Operation and Maintenance ..........................
6.000.00
Audit ....................................................................................
3,000.00
Grand Treasurer ................................................................
100.00
Postage and Express ..........................................................
1,700.00
Telephone and Telegraph ..................................................
1.000.00
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes ....................... .
1.500.00
Retirement Pension Plan-Grand Lodge Employees ..... .
2,300.00
Medical Plan-Grand Lodge Employees ........................
500.00
Supplies and Miscellaneous ................................................
1,500.00
TOTAL ........................................................................ $ 44,600.00

CAPITAL ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS

Grand Lodge Miscellaneous .............................................. $ 4,500.00
1.500.00
Display Cabinets- Grand Lodge Library ........................
900.00
Columbia Temple ................................................................
TOTAL ........................................................................$ 6,900.00
ESTIMATED CASH SURPLUS AFTER
CAPITAL ADDITIONS AND
REPLACEMENTS ................................................ 17,375.00
CALIFORNIA FREEMASON

Estimated Income ................................................................ $ 83,450.00
Estimated Expenses ............................................................ 81 ,240.00
ESTIMATED RECEIPTS OVER
DISBURSEMENTS ............................................ $

2,210.00

GENERAL EXPENSE

Annual Communication ................ ~ .....................................$
Conferences ........................................................................
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel ............................................
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler ......................................
Grand Master's Secretarial ............................................... .
Printing ................................................................................
. Retirement Pay ....................................................................
Ritualistic Expense:
Grand Lecturer ..............................................................
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery ..............................
Ritual Committee and Inspectors'
Conference and Travel Expense ............................

8.000.00
1,300.00
3,800.00
200.00
1,400.00
7,500.00
225.00
150.00
900.00
3,000.00

296

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1,500.00
Vete.r an Buttons ............................................................
Insurance :
Workmen's Compensation -Lodges ......................... . 11,000.00
1,600.00
Grand Lodge ..............
1,800.00
Agencies ......................
Public Liability and Extended Coverage ..........................$ 29.000.00
500.00
Miscellaneous ......................................................................

TOTAL .....................................................................:.. $ 71,875.00
APPROPRIATION S

Activities Committee .......................................................... $ 1,700.00
400.00
Board of Control ................................................................
150.00
.
.........
Charters Committee ..................................................
350.00
.
Columbia Temple ...............................................................
100.00
Commercialism Committee .......................- ...................... .
300.00
Constitution Observance Committee ................................
25.00
Correspondenc e Committee ................................................
350.00
Youth Orders Committee ........................ ..........................
3,500.00
Endowment Board ............................................................. .
1,000.00
Grand Master's Relief Fund ...............................................
1,200.00
.
.......
Agencies
Retirement Pension Plan-Grand Lodge
325.00
..
..
........................
Agencies
Lodge
Medical Plan-Grand
75.00
History Committee ............................................................ ..
125.00
Investment Committee ...................................................... ..
375.00
Lodge Financing Committee ............................................ ..
450.00
.
...............
Masonic Cemeteries Committee ........................
1.250.00
.
........................
.........................
Public Schools Committee
375.00
Education Committee ..........................................................
625.00
·Public Information Committee ......................................... .
350.00
Library Commission ........................................................... .
.
......
Sojourners Committee .................................................
2.500.00
University Clubhouses ........................................................
50.00
Code Commission ................................................................
200.00
Old Masonic Hall-Los Angeles ..................................... .
250.00
Special Hawaiian Committee ............................................
375.00
.
Special Committee-C .M.C. .............................................
150.00
.
...........
Funds
Lodge
Grand
udy,
Special Committee-St
70.00
.
...................
Foundation
lifornia
Committee-Ca
Special
125.00
Special Committee-St udy. Sojourners Relief ............... .
50.00
Special Committee-St udy, Fifty Year Button ................
TOT AL ...................:;.............:................:....................$ 16, 795.00

297

RBCAPITULATIO N

Administrative and Office .................................................. $ H ,600.00
General Expense ................................................................ 71 ,875.00
Appropriations .................................................................... 16,795.00
GRAND TOTAL ........................................................ $133,270.00
In closing this report your Finance Committee expresses its thanks
to Grand Lodge. its officers and members, for their assistance during the
year leading to this Annual Communication.
To continue the service of Grand Lodge to its members. Lodges, and
Masonry as a whole, we offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That for the purposes of paying the expenses
of Grand Lodge, a per capita of $3.35 be levied for the fiscal year
. ending June 30, I 969, divided as follows:
Masonic Homes ......................................................................$1 .15

Special Per Capita-Grand Master's
Recommendation No. 3 .................................................... .35
Grand Lodge Constitutional .................................................... .50
Grand Lodge Additional ........................................................ 1.00
California Freemason .............................................................. .35
TOTAL PER CAPITA ...................~.............................. $3.35
Respectfully submitted ,
Guv B. MIZE, Chairman
JAMES E. HAMMOND
KERMIT A. JACOBSON
UNO E. NORDEEN

JOHN A. StCKENBERGER
WIESNER
JOHN
N . ROBERT GORRELL

c.

Each of the recommendations of the Committee on Finance was
separately adopted.
The entire report of the Committee was then adopted.
At 5:15 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:45 a.m. Friday.

298

PROCEEDING S OP THE

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNIN G SESSION -Friday, October 18, 1968
At 9:45 a.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. This session was raised by Worshipful Ernest L. MacCarthy , Master of Gemini Lodge No. 825. The invocation was delivered by Inspector
Leroy G. Connelly. The minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions
of Thursday. October 17, were read and approved.

ANNUAL ELECTIO N
The Grand Master announced that the hour had arrived for the
Annual Election and directed the Grand Secretary to read the sections
.
of the Constitution applying thereto.
Lodge No. 636, was
Marshall
The R. W. Robert A . Crigler, John
elected Grand Master.
The R. W. Chester R. MacPhee. Golden West Lodge No. 455, was
elected Deputy Grand Master.
The R. W. Herbert A. Huebner. Wilshire Lodge No. 445, was
elected Senior Grand Warden.
The W. Lester S. McElwaln, Yerba Buena Lodge No. 403, was
elected Junior Grand Warden.
The V. W. Paul A. Pflueger, Amity-Seal Rock Lodge No. 370, was
reelected Grand Treasurer.
The M. W. Edward H. Siems. Past Grand Master, Plymouth Lodge
No. 560. was reelected Grand Secretary.
The V. W. Harold N. Richards, Washington Lodge No. 20, was
reelected Grand Lecturer.
At the request of the Grand Master-elec t, Most Worshipful Ellsworth Meyer announced the names of the appointive officers as follows:
Grand Chaplain, Rev. Kenneth A. Carlson, EI Centro Lodge No.
384.
Assistant Grand Lecturers: Bertram C. vonKonsky, King Solomon's Seaport Lodge No. 260; Frank P . Lemen, Three Pillars Lodge
No. 613; Ulysses G. Patropulos, King Solomon's Seaport Lodge No.
260; Wallace H. Fiske, East Belt Lodge No. 391; Burton Meyer, Jr.,
Golden State Lodge No. 358; William H. Price, Evergreen Lodge No.
259.
Grand Orator, William J. Williams, San Marino Lodge No. 685.
Assistant Grand Treasurer, Arthur Linsk, Loyalty Lodge No. 529.
Assistant Grand Secretary, Verne W . Hendrix, Mount Diablo Lodge
No. 448.
Grand Marshal. Herman J. Geller, Los Angeles Lodge No. 42.
Grand Standard Bearer. Charles K. Oyagi. Kauai Lodge No. 589.
Grand Sword Bearer, James 0. Fourr, Boron Lodge No. 822.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

299

Grand Bible Bearer, Glenn H. Harman, John Marshall Lodge No.
636.
Senior Grand Deacon, Clifford L. Duncan, Roseville Lodge No. 222.
Junior Grand Deacon, Charles A. Lewis, Lodi Lodge No. 256.
Senior Grand Steward, Dallas V. Roose, Chula Vista Lodge No.
626.
Junior Grand Steward, John Wise, East Belt Lodge No. 391.
Grand Pursuivant, Simon F . Bolger, San Diego Lodge No. 35.
Grand Organist, Harold Mueller, California Lodge No. I.
Grand Tiler, Burton 0 . Young, Fruitvale Lodge No. 336.
Announcem ent was made of the following appointmen ts by the
Grand Master-elec t :
As Trustees of the Masonic Homes o.£ California, the reappointme nt
of Donald G. Campbell and the appointmen t of William A. Revitt to
succeed Past Grand Master Phil N. Myers, term expired.
As Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple, the reappointmen t of Ralph H. Head and the appointmen t of Alfred W. Odle
to succeed Lyle E . Patton, term expired.
At 12: 05 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 2 :00 p.m.

300

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

AFTERNOON SESSION-Friday, October 18, 1968
At 2 :00 p.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presid·
ing. This session was raised by Worshipful George W. Ruuth, Master
of Oakland Lodge No. 188. The Grand Chaplain delivered the invoca.
tion.

INSTALLATION OF OFFICERS
Most Worshipful Ellsworth Meyer, Past Grand Master. acted as
Master of Ceremonies and the officers, elected and appointed, were in~
stalled by the retiring Grand Master in accordance with the Ritual.
The new Grand Master's lapel pin, presented by the members of
Summit Lodge No. 112, was transferred from the retiring to the newly
installed Grand Master; the previous Charles Albert Adams lapel pin
having been consigned to the archives of Grand Lodge. The other chair
officers then exchanged the Arthur S. Crites lapel pins.
The Robert B. Watts lapel pin was presented to the newly installed
Grand Chaplain by his predecessor, Reverend Max L. Christensen.
The retiring Grand Master was presented with a past Grand Master
pin by Most Worshipful Laurence E. Dayton, the apron of his new
designation by Most Worshipful Theodore Meriam. and a Past Grand
Master Certificate by Most Worshipful Ellsworth Meyer.
A gift was tendered Most Worshipful Eugene S. Hopp for his wife
by Very Worshipful Paul A. Pflueger on behalf of the members of
Grand Lodge. The junior Past Grand Master expressed his apprecia·
tion for the thoughtful gift to Mrs. Hopp and for the presentations to
him designating his new status as a Past Grand Master.
Most Worshipful Eugene S. Hopp thereafter presented to the newly
installed Grand Master a traveling case and expressed the hope that he
would flnd it useful during the coming year.
Following the installation ceremony, Grand Master Robert A. Crig·
ler introduced a number of the members of his Lodge who were present
as an indication of their fraternal regard. The newly installed Grand
Master then expressed his feeling of humility at having been accorded
this high M asonic honor and his appreciation to his many friends for
their support.
At 3:05 p.m .. all business being completed. Grand Lodge closed In
due form.

;~((. ~~
Grand Master

SPECIAL

APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

301

SPECIAL APPENDIX

CONTENTS
Page

Grand Lodge Audit................................................................................ 302
Audit of Annual Returns, 1968............................................................ 313
Masonic Homes Audit.......................................................................... 315
Memorial Temple Audit........................................................................ 3'.>b
Statistical: .
Residents of Union City.................................................................. 361
Children at Covina Home................................................................ 370
Contributions to Special Reserves .................................................. 372

302

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
<.RAND LODGE OP l.ALIPORNl.I\

GRAND LODGE AUDITS
We attach the followings
LYBRAND, Ross Baos. &. MoNTGOM!RY
C£.RT1F1£0 Puau c Accou~TANTs

Exhibit A -

Statement of a11et1, liabilities, and
fund balance

Zxhibit 8

•

Statement of reserve received and expen1es
diaburaed

-

Notes to financial atatement1

sr-..r:cr

OH1r: Bus~

SAN r""Hctsco 9• •0-'
.. , • • • • , •• 3)3

Coo. .u c. f..na.JtD

OHlCU INffl'8
--~ Cll'IU 01 fl'CC

""' # q M OJ' "-- - - . .

UllfTIO ITATU

CvTlilOC. '""' ~nu

•.,_.,...

Th• Molt W\Or1hipful Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Ka1ons of the
State of California,
1111 California Street,

Schedule 1 -

Investments

Schedule 2 -

Contribution• received from Lodge•

Schedule 3 -

Adminiatrative and office expense

Schedule 4 -

General expenae

Schedule 5 -

Appropriations

San Franci1co, California 94108.
We have examined the statement of assets, llabilitiee,
and fund balance of THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE OF FR.ER AND
ACCBPTBO HASCtiS OP THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA as of JUne 30, 1968,
and the related statemen t of revenue received and expense• diaburaed for the year then ended.

our exa111ination wu made in

accordance with generally accepted auditing 1tandard1, and
accordingly included such teats ot the accounting records and auch
Other auditing procedures as we considered nece11ary in the cix-cumetance1.

we previou•ly exa111ined and reported upon the financial

etatamenta for the prior year.
In our opinion, t.b e accaopanying atatement1 pruent fairly
the a1set1, liellilitie1, and fund balance of The Moat Worahipful
Gra.n d Lodge of Pree and Accepted Maaons of the State of California
at JUne JO , 1968 and 1967, ariling primarily from cuh tranaactiona,
and the revenue received and expenses diaburaed by it for the year•
then ended, on a con1i1tent b&1ie.

Auqu1t 7, 1968

303

304

PROC:EEDINGS OF THE _

GRAND LODGE, F.

~

EXHIBIT A

A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

STATEMENT OP REVENUE RECEIVED AND EXPENSES DISBURSED
For t he years ended JUne 30, 1968 and 1967

1967

~

1\ S SET S:

$

143,669

$

3 5, 546

548 , 301

548,301

61, 311

61,311

303,842

323,916

913,454

933,528

67,433
59,741

64,562

525
936
12B,635

17,849
525
2,919
BS,855

$Ll85.756

$1,05.4. 929

1968

.lli.?.

$1,061,426

$1,195 ,0 33

502,343
45,651

504 , 534
285,324

83,406

60,04 0

S,041
636,441
235

4 964
854, 862
340, 171
320

18,239
21,955
6 894
47,088

16 ,3 00
26 , 149
4,654
47,103

24 , 000
20 , 071
44, 0 71
31 ,672
31,007
665

24 ,000
18 ,04 8
42,048
30 , 377
20,405
9,972

83 , 40 6
1,142
84 , 548
84, 526
22
2,325
702
520,093

60,040
1, 133
61 , 173
78' 342
p 7' 169)
119
422 ,564

147,855
189 , 004
70,238
4 07.097

144 ,908
140,146
104, 10 2
389,156

112, 996
19 , 812

33,408
813

42~ .9!l~

Fees for charters and dispensations
Revenue from investments:
Dividends on stocks
Interest on bonds
I nterest on bank accounts
Reimbursement from M~sonic Homes of
Califo rn ia for:
Secretarial and other services
Endowment Board expense
Sale of supplies held for resale
Les s, purcha9es and d irect costs

3, 7l4

Publication "California Freemason":
Per capita from Lodges (see abov e)
Subscription revenue

5,041
2,53B
B1 631

4,964
1,932
10,610

Less, publishing expenditures

1,044,319
132, BOB
l, 177' 127

1,010,098
34,221
1,044,319

$l,,l,!l~.2~!l

$•,~~~.2a2

l, 052

~

$

FUND ll~LANCE:
Balance, beginning of year
Net revenue for year, Exhibit B
Balance, end of year

Revenue:
Contributions received from Lodges,
Schedu le 2
Less, those received for special purpo9ess
Masonic Homes of California
California Mason ic Memor ial Temp le
Publication "Cal ifornia Freemason "
(see below)
George Washington Mason ic National
,
Memorial Associat ion
(

LIABILITIES:
Accounts payable
Contribution by initiates for the George
Washington Masonic National Memorial
Association
Payroll taxes

'l'he accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

tXHIBIT B

GRAND LODGE, P. Ct A. M, OF' CALIFORNIA

STATEMENT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1968 and 1967

Cash
Investments (at cost) Schedule l!
Bonds (market value $523,669 and $527,298)
Convertible preferred stock (market
value $62,200 and $59,963)
Common stock (market value $374,929 and
$363, 615)
Total (market value $960,798
and $950, 876)
Other assets:
Furniture and fixtures (at cost, Note 2)
Prepaid insurance (Note l)
Insurance premiums advanced for Lodges
(Note l)
Refundable deposits
Sundry

305

GRAND LODGE OF <:AUFORNIA

Refund from Past Grand Master
Other
Total revenue
Expense:
Administrative and off ice expense,
Schedule 3
General expense, Schedule 4
App ropr i at i ons, Schedule 5
Net revenue, before gain on
securities sales
Net gain on sale of securities
Net revenue, Exh ibit A

$

'l'he accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial $tatemen ts.

l,~2 1 80jl

$

~4,~2·

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

306

307

PROCEP...D!NGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE, P. & A. M. OF' CALIFORNIA
GRAND LODGE, f'. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

IHVESTKJ!NTS
J'Une 30, 1968

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
June 30, 1968

SCHEDULE l
Page 1

BONDS

Note l.

Basia of Accountings

The financial statements are 1tated on the cash basis of
accounting, Transactions generally are recorded at the time of the
receipt or payment of cash. current operating expense bills unpaid
were of a nominal amount.
The Grand LOdge previously purchased comprehensive liability insurance for participating Lodges, and was reimbursed by them.
In 1966 the Grand Lodge authorized per capita to include an amount
for in1urance premiums. The per capita was collected and the
in•urance expense was recorded during the current year. The
amount of prepaid insurance will be expensed in subsequent year•
as coverage expires .
In preparing the budget for 1968 th• Grand Lodge revised
certain expense classifications. The expenses of the prior year
have been recla.H ified in the attached financial statements to
make them canparable with the current year cla11ification.

Not• 2.

Pace Value

50,000

Atlantic coast Line Railroad Company
$ 19,933
Equipment Trust, 4-1/ 8%, 1968
Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Company
100 ,209
Equipment Trust , 4-1/ 4%, 1968
Chicago, Burlingt on & Qui ncy Rail road
49,408
Company Equipment Trust, 3-7/ 8%, 1971
Louisville & Nashvi lle Railroad company
Equipment Trust, 4", 1971
20 , 000
Norfolk & Wes t ern Railway Company
9,872
Equipment Trust, 3-7/ 8", 1972
·
Norfolk & Western Railway Company
5, 000
.·'·_·._
.• i~k
-,·:·......
Equipment Trust, 4", 1970
. ..... .~
Virginian Railway Company, Income
5 , 128
Debenture, 6%, 2008
Southern California Edison Company

40, 000
25,000
230,000
500

United States Treasury Bonds , 2-1/ 2", 1972
United States Treasury Bonds, 3-1/ 2%, 1990
United Stat es Tr easury Bonda, 4%, 1969
Wells Fargo Bank convertible Capital Notes,

$ 20,000
100,000
50,000
20,000
10,000
S,000
4,600

4-3/ 8". 1968

44 , 500
37,991
25, 688
230 , 072

3-l/4", 1989

500

Total bonda

CONVERTIBLE
PREPERRED STOCKS

Furniture and Pixturesa

Grand Ledge at the 1957 C0111111Unication approved th•
capitalization of amounts expended for furnishings and equipment
after that date. Additions during the current year &ft\OUnted to
$2,871. There ia no depreciation taken in the attached financial
statement..

.ahlu!
100
100

Continental Oil company, $2.00
Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical Corporation,
4-1/ 8"

100
100
400

owens-Illinois Glass Company, 4"
Signal Oil and Gas Company, $2.40
Union Oil Company of California, $2.50
Total convertible preferred stock

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

548 , 301

--.
6,072
10 , 352
ll,450
6,472
26,965
$ 61,311

308

PROCEEDINGS Of THE

OAAtlD LODGE , F. & A. M.

~

CALll"ORNII\

INVESTMENTS, Continued
June 30, 1968

GRA ND l.Ol>GE OF Cl\LI FOllNIA

SCHIWULI:: J
Page 2

309

N

CCMMON STOCKS <.

310
500
112
300
200
100

660
43 0
59B
110
500
200

76 3
102
235
400
200
2 00
37l
200
100
420
100
400
520
315
400
175
300

Al lied Chem.ical Corporation
American Electric Power Company, Inc.
Bank of America N.T. & S.A.
Charter New York Corporation
Chase Man.h attan Bank
C.I.T. Financial corporation
Columbia Gas System, Inc .
Consolidated Edison Company of New York , Inc.
Croc ker-Citizens National Bank
Crown Zellerbach Corporation
Duquesne Light Company
El Paso Natural Gas Company
General Public Utilities Corpo ration
Gulf Oil Corporation
I nterst ate Power Company
J ohnson Service Corporation
Me r ck & Company
Mob i l Oil corpo ration
Northe rn States Power Company of Minnesota
Ohio Edison Company
J. C. Penney
Pennsylvania Power & Light Company
Phi llips Petroleum Company
Standard Oil of New J e rsey
Union Bank, Los Angeles
Union Electric Comp any
Warner Lambert Pharmaceuticals
Wells Fargo Bank
Western nancorporation

~

11, 222

19,693
5,863
12,833

10,959
4,077
13, 562
13, 145
6,805
5,519

9,948
5,440
14, 854
3 ,888

6,082
17, 141
17,220
4 , 857

4,0 74
4,417
4,742
14,888
5,008
27' 210
14,416
9,004
18,267
7' 747

10,961

Total common stocks

303,842

Total investments

$913,4 54

The a ccompanying notes .are an integral
part o f the financial atateinenta.

:s

.

8

"'.,
.....
.,>

~1

'tl

.,"
It:
.,c

.......0

.c
...."
.....

..
c
0

u

<I>

..

....
Ir<

DI II>
Gl +.J

..... c
c.,

.... E

c ...
....
...
......
........v
Q)

o~

"'"".
....
<I>.,,.

0

~

"'
N

.....

CJ.,

CJ

... c

0 ..

....

c c

c
°'"'

.... CJ

>o.c

..c .....

go
°'"'
UV

.." ...

~

Ill

t:

311

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

110

PROC:EEOINGS OF THE
QIAlllD LOD<m, •. 6 A. M. f l CALirOUIA

8CHll)OLB'

ODl!ML BXPBISIS

•or the year• en&td J\ln• 30, 1958 anc! 1957
GRAlll> 1.000E, F. & A. M, OF CALIFORNIA

SaraI>t1L.I l

ADMINISTRATIVE AND <PPICE EXPENSE
For the years ended June 30, 1968 and 1967

~

Actual

Budget
~

$ 98,000

$ 87,951

$ 84,333

Grand Lodge of fioe • Temple
operation

24,000

24,000

24,000

Audit

3,000

3,000

3 , 000

Salad••

Grand Treasurer

Increase
(Oecreue:
$3,618

250

Postage and expreas

5,250

5, 183

3,947

1,236

Telephone and telegraph

·4,000

2,989

2, 696

293

Payroll taxes

5,000

4,962

4,474

488

500

500

500

10,500

9,739

13,113

Investment counsel
Retirement plan

6CtU!Ji

Budget

(3,374)

Ked.i cal plan

2,000

1,732

l,474

258

outside clerical services

2,000

1,617

l,335

282

Personal property taxes

1,000

817

1,017

(200)

Supplies and miscellaneous

5,500

4,544

5,019

(475)

Maintenance and repairs office furni1hinga

l,000

821

$162,000

$147,855

l2il

(~SE.1111)

Annual camaunieation
IJ 15,000
Conferences
5,000
Grand Lodge Officers• travel
10,000
Grand Organist and Grand
Tiler
1,000
Grand Master's travel,
secretarial and sundry
14,400
Investment counsel for Lodges
6,700
Grand Lodge regalia
300
Repre1entativea' mileage
37,000
Printinq
29,000
,900
Retirement pay
IUtualistic i
Grand Lecturer
600
Inspectors' aprons and
stationery
3,700
R.itual committee and
inspectors ' conference
and tr.a vel
14,450
Veteran buttons
4,500
Inaurance1
Worlcmen'a cOlllpensation for :
Lodges
l0,140
Grand Lodge
1,400
Agencies
l,260
Public liability and
extended coverage for
Lodges (Note l)
38,000
Miscellaneous
l,400
united Grand Lodge of England 250th Special communication

$ 12,764
3,722
13,717

$ 13,867
2,948
6,197

f (~,103)

194,750

$189.004

~dditional

appropriation•
authorised by Grand Master

$144.998

$~

774
7,520

1,000

850

150

14,400
6,700
139
36,539
28,891
900

11,390
4,200
395
36,883
26,735
900

3,010
2,500
(256)
(344)
2,156

600

600

3,595

3,159

436

13,173
4,426

12,658
4,485

515
(59)

8,752
1.123
1,538

10,762

(2, 010)
1,123
l, 538

36,264
761

513

36, 264
248

3,604

ll..,,§Q1l

$149,146

$~

4,0~0

$198,800

t'be aacoinpanyin9 not•• are an integral
part of the financial stat8111enta.

t'he accompanying not•• are an integral
part of the financial statements.

IncreaH

ll§!!

312

GRAND LODGE , F . ' & ii. M. OE' CALIFORNIA
APPROPRIATIONS
For the years e nded June 30, ,1968 and 1967

SCHEDULE 5
'

..

.

ANNU AL AUDIT OF RETUR NS

'

Actu al
Increase
BudgeL
(Decrease )
12.§2
-12.§.!L
lW.
5,000 $ 3,367 $ S,212 $ (1,845)
$
Ac tivities Committee
(210)
1,454
1,244
1,500
Board of c ont rol
(77)
250
173
s oo
Charters Committee
86
740
826
1,100
Columbia Temple (ne t of r entals)
9
384
393
750
commerci alism Committee
165
. . 578
413
2,750
Const itution Observanc e Commi tte e
100
Correspon denc e Committee
(159)
159
OeHolay Commi ttee
673
203
876
500
1,
Youth Orders
(10,000)
10,000
Employme nt Burea us
2 ,023
18, 048
20,0 71
19, 000
Endowment Board
(750 )
3 , 799
3,049
4,100
Gr and Master's Relief Fund
:
Grand Lodge Agencies
(3. 435)
8,423
4 , 988
S,250
Retiremen t plan
879
879
1,000
Medi cal p lan
22
52
74
200
History commi ttee
165
313
4 78
SOD
Inves t ment Committe e
2, 161
2, 018
2,000
143~
~ 819
Lodge F in anc l ng.Committ~e
1.483
1 , 750
664
Masoni c Cemeterie s Committe e
(713)
773
60
500
Memoria l Templ e - c ~mpai gn
85 0
l ,822
2, 672
5,000
Publ ic Schools.committ~e
603
163
766
2,000
Masonic Edu cation Commi ttee
379
321
700
1,000
Public Informat ion Committe e
1 70
170
17 0
Boards of Re l ief - Sojourne rs
308
308
500
Finance Committee
257
1, 094
1,351
l,450
Libra ry Commissio n
26
37
63
500
So journers Committee
Univ ersity Clubhouse s :
(10,50 0 )
21,000
10,5 00
21,000
Berkeley
(ll, 000 )
22,000
11, 000
22 ,000
Los Angeles
(20 )
20
200
Cod e Commission
Old Masoni c Ha ll - Los Angeles
129
356
485
7 50
(net o f r e ntals)
(28 1)
952
6 71
l ,000
Special Commi ttee on C. M. C.
(84)
418
334
1,000
.
Special finance study
Committee on Finance - special
51
51
study
Study of Sojourne r relief and
287
287
Board o f Relief syste m
Study of Ma s o nic Horne
(156)
206
50
.
retiremen t pro ject
Specia l Commit tee - Hulti683
683
l. 000
Purpose Foundat ion
(32,427)
102,256
69,829
105,070
Capi tal addition - Columbia
( 1 , 437)
1 , 846
409
800
Temple
105,870 $~ . $104. 102 $ (~)
Addition al appropri ations
__ l j47!>
author ized by Grand Master
HO? . 345
'l 'he accompan ying notes are a n integral
part of the financial statemen ts.

313

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

PROCEED INGS OF THE

LYBRAND, Ross BRos. c., MONTGOMERY
CcRTl,.ICD Pu•~tc ACCOUNTAN T•
ONc B u •H STJICl:T
SAN F'iJtANCISCO ..
YUKOH 1-1.).t.f

....

Coonu g, LY.iwm

,.. ..,.....,,...

" l'tlHC:IAAL C IT /I .I 01' l'M&

°"'9teC"ntS 1o11MD lfflll,....

The Mo1t Worshipf ul Grand Lod9e ot
Free and Accepted Masons of the
State of Californ ia ,
1111 Californ ia Street,
San Fran cisco , Cal ifornia 94108 ,
We have exa mined the Statemen t o f 1 968 Annual Returns of
the Constitue nt Lodges of GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA,
reporting on membersh ip and on the payments due Grand Lodge in
accordanc e with the provision s of the Constitu tion a nd Ordina nces
and the ac t i on taken by Grand Lodge at t he 1967 annu al c ommunication. our examinati on waa made in accordanc e with gen erally
accepted audit~ng standards , and according l y in cluded s uch test•
of the accountin g records and s uch other auditing procedure s a s we
c onsi dered necessary in the circumsta nces.
In ou r opinion the accompany ing statement presen ts fai rly
the summariz ation of the 1968 Annual Returns of the Constitue nt
Lodges of Grand Lodge, F . & A. H. of Californ ia, reporting on
membersh ip and on payments d ue Grand Lodge.

~ep~ember

1 2,

1 9~8

314

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

315

1;RJ\ ND 1.0DGE OF \. J\ l.I POR NIJ\

GRAND LODGE, P. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

STATEMENT OF 1968 ANNUAL RETURNS
For the year ended June JO , 1968

LYBRAND. Ross BRos. c.. MONTGOMERY
C Cllll't 1,. t ED P u •l.JC ACC O U NTAN T S
0N I

Number of Memberaa
Maater Masons in good standing

... ...-... ... TWC. ..-.•
342
.h§..21

Member• for whom per capita waived
Members aubject to per capita

$1.60
. JS
LOO

...."--

...,..."" ~ ~ ·

J.945
236.142

Payment• due Grand Lodge:

$

Total
per 1 968
Annual
Returns

Revenue Applicable
to Year Ended
June 30 ,

377, 827
82,650
14,368
474 845
!

$377 827
82 , 650
14,368
474,845
354,213

!

Maaonic Homes of California:
per capita
contributions of 5 , 847
initiates and affiliates

1 . 50

354,213

25 . 00

146 , 175
500 , 388

$123 , 225
123 , 22 5

22,950
377 . 163

California Masonic Memorial
Temple contributions of
5,099 initiate•

9.00

45,891

38.979

6,912

George Washington Maaonic
National Memorial
Aaaociation contributions
ot 5 , 099 initiates

1.00

5 . 099

4. 334

76 5

$1.026.223

$166. 53 8

$85 9. 6 8 5

Total

S Tllll~t't

240,097

Le•••
Member• of Research Lodges

Grand Lodge :
Per capita:
General support and
activities
California Freemason
Degrees conferred - 14,368

B U SH

S A~ F"AA,..CISC O ..

To t he Tru stees of Masonic
Homes of California ,
1111 California Street,
San Franc is co, Cal i fornia 94108 .
We have examined the statements of asseta, liabilitiea,
reserves , and f und balances of MASONIC HOHES OF CALIFORNIA, aa of
J une JO, 1968, and the related statements of revenue received and
expense& disbursed for the year then ended. our examination was
made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, an<S
accordingly included such tests of the accounting record.a and auch
other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the circum•
stances. We previ ously examined and reported upon the financial
statemen t s for the prior year.
In our opinion, the accompanyin9 financial stateme~ta
present fairly the as s ets , liabilities , reserves , and fund balance•
of Masonic Homes of California at J une 30, 1968 and 1967, ari sing
primarily from cash transac tions, and the revenue received and
expenses disbursed by it and the changes in reserves and in fund
balanceR du ring the years then ended on a consis tent basis.

September 6, 1968

H6

l'IWC EEUINGS OF Tiii:

"317

(jlV\ND LODGE OF CALIPO RNIA

MASONIC Hct!ES OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT A

STATEMENT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES, RESERVES, TINO FUND BALANCES
J\Jne 30, 1968 and 1967
MASONIC Het!ES OF CALIFORNIA

A S S ET S:

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Exhibit A

Statement of assets, liabilities,
and fund balances

reserves,

Exhibit B

Statement of General Fund balance

Exhibit c

Statement of General Fund revenue received
and expenses disbursed

Exhibit D

Property Fund

Exhibit E

Reserves for special purposes

Exhibit F

Endowment and trust funds

Exhibit G
Exhibit H

Permanent Endowment Fund

General Fund and Reserves:
Cash
Due from sales of securities
Investments (Note 2) Schedule 1:
Bonds (market value $2,989,830
and $2,229,069)
Convertible preferred stock (Jnarket
value $387,188 and $327,234)
Common stock (market value $2,628,337
and $2,363,327)

12§!
$ 1,091, 517
49,524

l.2§1
$

783,459

3,159,507

2,355,168

351,101

327,845

2,413,287

2,009, 114

5 1 923,895
137,701
18,992
10,652
1,652

4,692,127
189,289

Total assets - General Fund
and Reserves

Total (market value $6,005,355
and $4,919,630)
Notes receivable (Note 3)
Due fr om Alida o. Meserve Trust Fund
Un expired insurance (Note 1)
Othe r assets (Note 4)

l, 658

7,233,933

5,666,533

Exhibit I

George F. Brigham and Laura E. Brigham
Scholarship Fund

Property Fund - land, buildings, and
equipment, Exhibit D (Note 1)

6,766,328

6,716,728

Exhibit J

George H. and Florence G. Perine
Endowment Fund

Endowment and trust funds - principally
cash and securities, Exhibit F

22,972,529

21,290,481

Exhibit K

Harriet c. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity Fund

Exhibit L

C. N. Flint Trust Fund

$ ~fi .l!Z~ I Z2~

$~~.fi 1 ~.z~~

Exhibit H

Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund

John and Lena Luckenbach Fund

Exhibit N

Residents' accounts

Exhibit 0

Florence Katherine Burt Trust Fund

Exhibit p

Edmund Clement Atkinson Fund

Exhibit R

Alida 0. Meserve Trust Fund

LIABILITIES, RESERVES,
AND FUN;> BALANCES :
General Fund and Reserves:
Accrued expenses
Reserves for special purposes,
Exhibit E (Note 5)
General Fund balance, Exhibit B

Notes to Financ i al Statements
Schedule l
Schedule 2
Schedule 3

- Investments

-

Reserve s for special purposes
Expenses

Property Fund balance, Exhibit O
F.ndowment and trust funds:
Due to General Fund (Exhibit R)
Fund balances

Total. Exhibit F

64,218

$

$

47,804

5,362,633
1,807,082
7,233,933
6,766,328

4, 728,470
890,259
s,666 1 533
6,716,728

18,992
22,953,537
22,972,529

21,290,481
21, 290,481

$JR.,2Z~,72Q

$i~. §2J12~6.

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

MASONIC HCMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT B

Revenue received frOlll:
. Grand Lodge, F. & A. M , annual returns :
Membership at Sl.50 per capita
Contributions of initiates and
affiliates at $25 each

$

357,453

$

91,746
11,113
71. 529
7,693
5,457

$ 84,752
20.939
62,987
9,732
4,813

Endowment and trust funds:
Permanent Endowment Fund, Exhibit G
John and Lena Luckenbach Fund,
Exhibit H
Florence ~atherine Burt Tnist Fund,
Exhibit 0
Edmund Clement Atkinson Fund,
Exhibit P

315, 390
785,448
1,288,376

293,964
2,620
479,807

432 , 848
855 , 528

379,874
99,933

Contribution by California Masonic
Memorial Temple
Investments:
Interest on:
Bank deposits
Notes receivable
Bonds
Dividends on stocks

Transfer account balance of Decato
residents, Exhibit N

61, 295

Balance, beginning of year

890,259

790,32 6

$1.807.082

$890 .259

813,776

765,284

3,410

3,578

16,810

17,770

ll, 466
845,462

12.356
798,988

10,000

10.000

30,388
10,400
86,914
94,814
222 t 516

17,915
10,916
98,107
7 3,956
200,894

13,978
25,908
39,886
13, 577
l,633,784

14,632
25,355
39,987
20,393
l,574 , 796

1,510 , 324
405 , 402
6,205
. 144 , 701
2,066,632

l,406,487
422,428
7,662
118, 093
1,954,6 70

Other

Exceas of expense over revenue,
Exhibit B

The accanpanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statemen t s.

360,237
145,450
505,687
l,153
504,534

Payments through Lodges for :
Decato residents
Covina reaidents
Total revenue
Expenses, Schedule 3t
Operation of Masonic Home11
Deco to
Covina
Outaide relief
Administrative and general
Total expense

$

146 ' 650
504,103
1,760
502,343

Less, adjustments for previous years

Lesa, excess of expenses over revenue
for the year, Exhibit C
Net increase

Balance, end of year, Exhibit A

EXHIBIT C

STATF.MENT or GENERAL PUND REVENUE RECEIVED
AND EXPENSES DISBURSED
For the years ended June 30, 1968 and 1967

STATEMENT OF GENERAL FUND BALANCE
For the years ended June 30, 1968 and 1967

Additions made directly to the General
Fund during the year:
Transfers from reserves for special
purposes. Schedule 2:
For expenses of the Homes, from:
Covina Reserve
Decato Reserve
Unappropriated Reserve
Covina Entertainment Reserve
Decato Entertainment Reserve
From Unappropriated Reserve - an
amount equivalent to the pensions
assigned by residents of the
Decoto Home in the current year
Net gain on sales of securities

319

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF 'fill'.

$

The accompany i ng not•• are an 1nteqral
part of the finan c ial statement•.

432.848

$

379.874

320

321

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

EXHIBIT D

MASONIC HCMES CF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT E

MASONIC HCMES OP CALIFORNIA

RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES
June 30, 1968 and 1967

PROPERTY FUND
STATEMENT OP ASSETS ANO FUND BAI>.NCE
June 30, 1968 and 1967

Schedule 2,
Page

A S S ET S:
Land, buildings, and equipment
(Note 1) s
oecoto
Covina
San Francisco office

$5,639,006
1,104,818
22,504

$5,628,479
l,067, 220
21,029

Total assets

$6.766.328

$6. 716,7 28

Reserve f o r Additions and
Replacements
Cov ina Reserve
Deco to Reserve
Unappropriated Reserve
Covina Entertai nmen t Reserve
Decoto Entertainment Reserve

l
2
3

4
5
5

$

811, 599
1,574,348
1, 700 ,44 5
1,2 64,852
7,604
3 785

$ S.'362.633

Total, Exhibit A

1967

~
$

608 ,614
1, 515 ,575
1,516, 183
1, 076,849
5, 592
s,65 7

$ 4 . 728.4 70

PUND BALANCE: s
Additions:
Decoto, from:
Decoto Reserve
Reserve for Additions and
Replacements
Covina, from:
Covina Reserve
Alida o. Meserve Trust Fund
San Francisco office, from Reserve
for Additions and Replacements

11 . 077

$

$

Balance, end of year,
Exhibit A

1,927

1. 475
50,150

l

508

4, 115

550
49,600

193,070
(188,95 5)

6 ,7 16,728

6,905,683

~6.766.328

$6. 716.728

Permanent Endowment Fund
John and Lena Luckenbach Fund
George F. Brigham and Laura E.
Bri gham Scholarship Fund
George M. and Florence G. Perine
Endowmen t Fund
Harriet c. Wadl eigh Endowment
Annuity Fun d
C. N. Flin t Trust Fund
Student s' Loan and Scholarship
Fu nd
Residents' Ac counts
Florence Ka ther ine Burt Trust Fund
Edmund Clement Atkinson Fu nd
Alida 0. Meserve Trust Fund
Tota l, Exhibit }\

The ac companyl.ng notes a re an i ntegral
par t of the financial statements.

Exh ibi t

~

12§2

G
H

$21,32 5,770
77,754

$19 ,632,116
79, 770

I

41, 783

41 ,520

J

19,320

1 9,320

K

7, 891
284,251

8,422
28 3 ,760

338,358
2,232
411 , 665
288,203
175, 302

314,666
61 , 173
395 ,044
287,472
167,218

680

18,606
18,992

Le s s, retirements :
Decoto:
Per buildings, improvements and
equipme nt written off due to
obsolescence and removal
cumulative to 1968, 1967
Net increase (decrease)
Balance, beginning of year

EXHIBIT F

ENDOWMENT AND TRUST FUNDS
June 30, 1968 and 1967

L

M
N

0
p

R

$6iL 27~, ~62 $21, 22Qd!ill

Th e a ccompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

322

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

G~i\ND

MASONIC HctlES OF CALIFORNIA
PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND

EXHIBIT G

32'3

LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT H

MASONIC HOMES OP' CALIFORNIA
JOBN ANO LENA LUCKENBACH FUND

The permanent endowment fund is restricted by Ordinances of Grand
Lodge so that no portion of the principal shall be expended for any
purpose, and the income therefrom shall be used only for the main•
tenance and general operation of the Masonic Hornes.

The principal, restricted by the terms of the Will, is to be kept
intact and the income used only for the benefit of the care of orphans
or the aged in Masonic Hemes of Southern California.

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1968 and 1967
ASSETS:
Savings accoun·ts
Due from sales of securities
Investments (Note 2) Schedule 11
/Bonds (market value $10,28.5,617 and
$9,427,346}
Convertible preferred stock (market
value $1,255,240 and $1,051,478)
Conunon stock (market value $8,777 . 396
and $7,886,841)
·
Total (market value, $20,318,253
and $18,365,665)
Notes receivable (Note 3)
Other assets (Note 4)
Total assets
FUND BALANCE:
Balance, beginning of year
Contributions through Lodges
Progress payments on pledges, unallocated:
At beginning of year (deduct)
At end of year
Bequests
Net gain on sales of securit'ies
-C ontributions
Memorials
Balance, end of year, Exhibit F

~

illl

418,392
154,362

$

$

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1968 and 1967

310,310

11,112,635

10,092,994

l,228,275

1,066,872

0, 375, 294

8,146,364

20,716,204
36,801

19,306,230
15,565

11

11

$2L 325. 770

$19, 632 .116

$19,632,116
863,340

$18,451,542
855,116

(67,~86)

83,906
337,101
449, 719
7,697
.19 777

(39,!)72)
67,886
243,782
28,378
6,357
18,127

s~i.~~~1ZZS2

$~2.!i~~.U!i

'A 5 5 E T S:

Savings accO\mt
Investments (Note 2) Schedule l:
Bonds (market value $37,994 and $37,781)
COflllllOn stock (market value $20,188 and
$16, 463)
Total (market value $58,182 and
$54,244)
Total assets

The accompanyin9 notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

~

$15,451

$17, 732

44,690

44,690

17,613

17' 348

62, 303

62,038

$.zz..Jil

$~

FUND BALANCE :

Balance, beginning of year
Gain (loss) on sa~e of securities
Balance, end of year, Exhibit F

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
For the years ended June 30, 1968 and 1967
Interest on ban'k deposits
Interest on bonds
Dividends
Interest on notes receivable
Net inccce (expense) from real eatate
Revenue transferred to General
Fund inccme, Exhibit C

~

$79, 770 $79,759
(2,016) ___u
$.:z.z.lil

$~

$ 2,267

$ 2,609

...!..ill

_fil

STATEMENT <:£ REVENUE RECEIVED

For the yeara ended June 30, 1968 and 1967

9,197
410,744
392,317
1,516
2

$

ap,776

$

9,964
421,985
332,027
1,312
,4)
2!i~.us

Intere11t
Dividends
Revenue t .ransferred to General
Fund income, Exhibit C
'l'he accompanying note1 are an integral
part of the financial statements.

324

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

325

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC Ha-\l::S OF CALffOl:Ul l A

EXHIBIT l

£ lili1.Bl 1' J

GEORGE M, AND FLORBNCE G. PERINE
ENDOWMENT FUND

GEORGE F. BRIGHAM AND LAUBA E. BRIGHAM
SCHOLARSHIP FUND

The principal is held as a scholarship fund for the benefit of the
Covina Home residents, $25,000 of which may be loaned f or this
purpose. Income of this fund is restricted and may be used only for
providing scholarships.

The principal, subject to the provision included in the Will of the
t estator, shall be kept i ntact and only the i ncome therefrom shall
be used for the benefit of t he Decato Home .
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
J une 30, l 968 and 1967

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1968 and 1967
AS S ET S:
ASSETS :
Savings account
lnvestments (Note 2) Schedule 1:
Bonds (market value $7,613 and $11,865)
Common stock (market value $21,263 and
$18,400)
Total (market value $28,876
and $30,265)

1968

1967

$16,057

$1.L..ill.

8,054

12,084

17 ,672

17,924

25,726

30 ,008

$!L.Zll

$il...aQ.

Balance, begi nning of year
Net gain (loss) on sale of securities

$41,520

$41 ,537

_.ill

__JJ,2)

Balance, end of year, Exhibit F

$~

$~

Total assets
FUND BALANCE:

Total assets

STA'£EMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
f or the years ended June 30, 1968 and 196 7

ln terest
Di vidends

B32

$ l ~ 087

----1§..2

_-2£

$

Revenue transfe r red to Oeco to
Re serve, ~age 3 of Schedule 2

Revenue transferred to Students' Loan
and Scholarship Fund, Exhibit M
The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the ~inancial statements.

.!.2.§1.

$ 4 , 65 2

$ 4,652

10,000

1 0, 000

~

4 , 668

14,668

14 , 668

$~

$.!2...il.Q.

$J.2,..ll2.

$~

FUND Bl\LANCE :

Balance, beginning and end of year

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
For the years ended June 30, 1968 and 1967
Interest
Dividenas

Savings account
l nves tments (Note 2) Schedule ls
Bonds (market value $7, 863 and $8, 000)
Common s tock (market value $5 ,475 and
$5, 325 )
Total (ma rket value $13,338
a nd $13 , 325)

1968

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial s tatements .

326

PROC EEDINGS OF THE

327

GRAND LODGE OP C:A.LIPORN!A
EXHUllT K

MASONIC HOMES Of CALU'ORNII\

MASONIC

HARRII::T C. WADLEIGH ENDOWMENT
C. N.

ANNUITY FUND

This fund, in the origina l amount of $30,000, is subject to a contract
with the donor providing for the payment of certain life annuities out
of the principal and income thereof. Under the terms of the contract.
only principal of the fund expended in payment of the annuities is to
be later restored out of income to the fund when the annuities no
longer absorb the entire income. After restoration of the principal
to the original sum of $30,000, the income from the fund is to be used
for the benefit of the residents of the Covina Home.

HOMES Of' CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT L

FLINT TRUST FUND

The principal consists of gifts from c. N. Flint. The income from
this fund has been designated by the trustees for use at the
Decato Home.
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June JO, 1968 and 1967
A S S ET S:

STATEMENT OP ASSETS AND FUND BIUANCE
June JO, 1968 and 1967

A S S E T S:
Savings account
Investments (Note 2) Schedllle l:
common stock (market value $8,525
and ~8,26J)

~

1967

$1,244

$1,775

Savings account
Investments (Note 2) Schedule 1:
Bonds (market value $151,05 7 and $210,714)
Convertible preferred stock (market value
$12,850 and $13,26J)
Common stock (market value $91,117 and

Less, annuities paid as required
Net decrease
Balance, end of year Exhibit F

$

589

162,356

222,471

17,497

17,497

641614

43,203

Total (market value $255,024
and $283,810)

244,467

283,171

Total assets

sifil....lli

$l.fil...1.§Q

$283,760

$283,803

491

$8,422

$8,969

{43)

90

103

s 28~' 2:il

$283,7§2

_£2.

~

519

50)

Balance, beginning of year
Net gain (loss) on sales of securities
Balance, end of year, Exhibit F

1.050

LOSO

___ill

___ill

$.z..lil

$§....ill

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
For the years ended June 30, 1968 and 1967

Interest
Dividends

$

Revenue transferred to Decoto
Reserve, page 3 of Schedule 2
The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

1967

FUND BALANCE:

FUND BALANCE:

Add;
Interei;t
Dividends

$ 391784

$59,833)

Total assets

Balance, beginning of year

1968

8,434

$

8,979

4,067

2,863

$ l2' ~2•

$ U,8i2

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

328

.329

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HatES OF C~LIFORNIA

EXHIBIT M

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT N

l!ESIDENTS' ACCOUNTS

STUDENTS' LOAN AND SCHOLARSHIP FUND

This fund consists of amounts held in trust for the residents of
the cov ina Horoe.

The principal arises from gifts. The fund is designated by the
trustees for use for student loan and scholarship purposes.

STATEMENT OF ASSETS ANO FUND BAI.1.NCE
June 30, 1968 and 1967

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1968 and 1967

A S S E T S
~

.!ill.

$ 19,096

$ 21,838

103,271

93,532

155,629

155,628

60 , 362

43,668

Total (market value $333,940
and $296,305)

319,262

292,828

Total assets

$ J~!i!.

mi

$~U. flli~

A S S E T S:

Savings account
Investments (Note 2) Schedule 1:
Bonds (market value $98,164 and $95,231 )
Convertible preferred stock (market
va lue $172 ,788 and $161,125)
Common stock (market value $62 , 988 and
$39,949)

cash
Investments {Note 2) Schedule 1:
Bonds (market value 1967 - $9,263)
Common stock (market value 1967 - $30,800)
Total (market value 1967 - $40,063)
Total assets
FUND BALANCE:
Residents' account balances, Exhibit F

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
For the years ended June 30, 1968 and 1967

FUND BALANCE:
Balance, beginning of year
Net revenue:
Interest
Dividends
Gifts
George F. and Laura E. Brigham
Scholarship fund inccme, Exhibit I
Less , loans and grants f or educational
purposes
Net revenue
Bequests
Gain on sale of securities
Net increase
Balance, end of year, Exhibit F
The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statement~.

9,875
28,346
38, 221

$314, 666

$293,019

4,610
8,802
139

4,624
7,847
281

1, 821

2,029

15,372

14,781

BOO

700
14,081
7,566

14 ,57 2
9,120
23,692

21,647

$~~ii. ~~!ii

$ll4, §!iii

Interest
Dividends
(Loss) on sale of securities

$ 1,445
l,030
~)

Revenue transferred to Decoto
Reserve, page J of Schedule 2
~:

The balance held for residents of the Decoto Home as of
J une 30, 1968, in the amount of $61,295, was transferred
to the General Fund Balance, Exhibit B. Income for the
year is included with other investment income of the
General Fund, Exhibit C.
The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

:no

MASONIC HOMES Of" Clo.LIFORN IA

EDMUND CLEMENT ATKINSON FUND

The principal, subject to the provuion in the Will of the testator,
shall be used for renovating present premises or making permanent
additions to the Masonic Homes within a period of ten years from
January 5, 1965, the date o.f the decree of distribution. One-third
of the principal is designated for the Covina Home and t~o-thirds
for the Decoto Home.

The principal, subject to the prov1a1on in the Will of the teatatcr,
shall be used to contribute to the comfort, convenience, and
enjoyment of the residents of the Decoto Home.
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE

June 30, 1968 and 1967
A S S E T S:

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1968 and 1967

ASSETS:

Total assets

1968

1967

$ 17,546

$ 29,093

86,719

21,926

19,992

57,157

206,694

199,732

313,405
so, 714

278,8~5

$41L 665

$395.044

$395,044
16,621

$395,022
22

$~U.iiii~

$~2~.!;jH

Cash
Jnvestrnents (Note 2) Schedule 1:
Bonds (market value $87,634 and $51,024)
Convertible preferred stock (market valu8
$47,150 and $45,012)
Common stock (market value $142,867 and
$149, 656)
Total (market value $277,651 and
$245. 692)
Note receivable (Note 3)
Total assets

Balance, end of year,· Exhibit F

Balance, beginning of year
Gain on sale of secu~ities
Balance, end of year, Exhibit F

Interest
Dividends

$
Revenue transferred to General
Fund income, Exhibit C
The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the tin.ancial 1tate111ent•.

6,936
9,874

$ 16, 810

$

8,584
9,186

$ 17 1 770

12.il

9,218

$ 25,406

89,729

51,782

39,388

39, 388

145,010

165,742

274, 127
4,858

256,912
s,154

$288.203

$287,472

$287,472
731

$287,450
22

$2ilil.,Q~

$~ilZ,472

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
For the years ended June 30, 1968 and 1967
Interest
Dividends
Other

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
For the years ended June 30 , 1968 and 1967

~

$

FUND BALANCE:

87,136

FUND BALANCE:
Balance, beginning of year
Gain on sale of securities

EXHIBIT P

MASONIC HOM.t:S OF CALIEORNIA

ElOUBIT 0

FLORENCE l<ATHERlN"E BURT TRUST FUND

cash
Investments (Note 2) Schedule 1:
Bonds (market value $84,961 and $20,835)
Convertible preferred stock (market value
$24,550 and $59,325)
COIMlon stock (market value $217,666 and
$189,933)
Total (market value $327,177 and
$270, 093")
Notes receivable (Note 3)

331

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THf.

Revenue transferred to General
. pund income, Exhibit C
The accompanying notes ar8 an integral
part of the financial statement•.

$

3,856
7,385
225

$

4,752
7,554
50

$

~·.~~~ s ·~.~~§

332

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

333

GRAND LODGH 01' CALIFORNIA
EXHIBIT R

MASONIC H~ CR CALll'ORNIA

MASONIC HOMES ~ CALIFORNIA ·

ALIDA O. MESERVE TRUST PUNO

NO'I'ES TO Pl~ANCIAL STATEMENTS .

June 30, 1968
The principal is to be used for playgrounds, playground equipment
and other comparable forms of amusement for the boys at Covina.

June 30, 1968 and 1967

Savings account
Investments (Note 2) Schedule l:
Bonds (market value $49,369 and $35,225)
Convertible preferred stock (market
value $9,900)
Common stock (market value $118,444 and
$105,704)
Total (market value $177,713 and
$140,929)
Total assets

1968

1967

$ 12,346

$ 31,162

55,835

37,788

10,052
97,069

98, 268

162,956

136,056

$;1,7~.~Q2

u~ 7, n~

$ 18,992

FUND BALANCE:
Balance, beginning of year
Bequest by Alida o. Meserve
Gain on sale of securities
Interest
Dividends
Capital improvements in recreation area ,
transferred to Property Fund, Exhibit D
Balance, end of year
Total liabilities and capital,
Exhibit P
The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

t

•

:·

~

Land, buildings, and equipment are recorded at the cost
when originally purchased and no depreciation of buildings and
equipment has been provided for in the accounts. Replacements of
original itema of equipment are charged to operating expenses.
Prior to the current year, insurance premiums have been
expensed when paid. During the current year, certain policies were
paid for a three-year term. The unexpired portion of the premiums
has been recorded as an asset in the attached financial statements,
and will be charged to expense in subsequent years as coverage
expires.
Note 2.

Investments:

Investment in securities purchased are staced at cost;
securities received by gift or bequest are stated at approximate
market value at the date received, or at a nominal value of $1
if a market value at that date cannot be determined.

LIABILITIES:

Due to General Fund, Exhibit A

Basis of Accounting:

The financial statements are stated on a modified cash
basis of accounting. Transactions generally are recorded at the
time of the receipt or ?ayment of cash. Current operating expense
bills unpaid were of nominal amount.

STATEMENT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND' FUND BALANCE

ASSETS:

Note 1.

Note 3.
167,210
66
302
2 , 609
5, 107

$159,700
2,501
1,290
3,727

pa. 992J
156,310

167,218

$;j.7~,JQ2

H~Z. ~lfi!

Notes Rece i vable:

Notes receivable arise from the sale of real estate
assigned to Masonic Homes of California by residents of the Home
at Decato and from real estate received as gift& or bequests by the
Homes or the Permanent EndoW111ent Fund.
Note 4.

Other Assets:

Other assets consist of life insurance policies and real
estate assigned to Masonic Homes or received as gifts or bequestn.
The life insurance policies and parcels of real estate are each
recorded at the nominal value of $1 for accountability because
potential value is undetermined. Payment by Masonic Homes of loan•
previously obtained by the assignors on these assets are added to
the nominal value.

33-i

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

MASONIC BCMES OP CALIFORNIA
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued

335

MASONIC HOMES OF ~LIFOMlA

Sa!IDULE l
Page l

IlllV!STMB!ITS

June 30, 1968

Note S.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

June 30, 1968

Reserves for Special Purposes:

The Trustees of Masonic Hornes have established various
special reserves (see Schedule 2, pages 1 through 5) to which are
added gifts, bequests, and other amounts which generally are used
at the direction of the Trustees for purposes other than direct
operating expenses. The assets represented by these reserves are
included in the assets of the General Fund.

fa~e

$

Valu!

100,000
100,000
55,000
75, 000
450,000
255,000
275,000
53,000
100,000
100,000
100,000
10.000
40,000
50,000
100,000
100,000
50,000
15,000
100,000
100,000
10,000
35, 000
J0,000

QEgRAL FUND

American Telephone and Telegraph Co.,
5-5/8", 1995
American Telephone and Telegraph co.,
5-1/8%, 2001
Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Company Equipment
Trust , 4-1/4%, 1969
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Equipment
Trust, 3-7/8%, 1970
Federal Intermediate Credit Bank,
5.95%, 1969
Federal Intermediate Credit Bank,
s . 7 5%, 1968
Federal Land Bank, 4-1/4%, 1968
First National City Bank of New York,
4%, 1990, Convertible
FMC Corporation, 4-1/4%, 1992, Convertible
Grolier, Inc., 4-1/4%, 1987, Convertible
Gulf Mobile & Ohio Equipment Trust, ·
4-1/8", 1968
Louisville and Nashville R . R. Equipment
Trust, Series EE, 4%, 1971
Norfolk and Western Ry. Equipment
Trust, Series I, 3-7/8%, 1972
Norfolk and Western Ry. Equipment Trust,
Series J, 4%, 1970·
Norfolk and Western Ry. Equipment Trust,
5-1/8" , 1976
Northern Pacific Ry. Equipment Trust,
5%, 1973
Pacifi c Telephone and Telegraph Co.,
4-5/8%, 1999
Seaboard Air Line R.R. Equipment Trust,
Series W. 4%, 1971
Seaboard Ai r Line R. R. Equipment Trust,
4-7/8%, 1976
Seaboard Air Line R.R. Equipment Trust,
4-7/8%. 1975
southern Pacific co. Equipment Trust No.
19, 3-7/8", 1971
Southern Pacific co. Equipment Trust,
4-1/4%, 1969
Southern Ry. Company Equipment Trust,
Series zz, 4%, 1970

$

99,375
100,250
55,137
74,440
449, 718
255,167
273,798
52.125
98,250
96,250
100,106
10,000
39,SOO
50,000
99,423
99,708
45,250
14,951
98,641
98,395
9,888
34,814
30,000

336

.... , PROCEEDINGS ·op THE · .

MASOBIC HOK!S OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE l

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

337

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE l

Page 2

INVESTMENTS
June 30 1968

Face Value
S0,000
326,250
200.000
191. 000
12, 700

21.aoo

80,000

June JO, 1968

'.
Texas and Pacific Ry. Company Equipment
Trust, Series V, 4-1/ 8%, 1968
U. s. Treasury Bonds, 2-1/2%, 1972-67
U. s . · Treasury Bonds, 4%, 1969
u. s. Treasury Bonds, 3-1/2%, 1990
Virginian Ry. Company , 6%, 2008
Welle Fargo Bank , 3-1/4%. 1989
Well• Pargo Bank, 4-1/2%, Capital
·
·· ·
Notes .. 1989
One bond - nominal value
Total.Exhibit A

Pace Value
50,000
$

. 50 , 054

319 . 310
200,063
194, 850
14,031
22,612

100,000

73.400

150 . 000

1

3 , 159,507

200,000
100,000

100,000
200,000

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT F!JNt>
100,000
100,000
. 80,000
100,000
170,000
100,000
·100. 000
50,000
100,000
685,000
675,000
500,000
100,000
l,000,000
94,000
. ,' 200,000

American Telephone & Telegraph Co.,
5-5/8%. 1995
American Telephone & Telegraph co.,
5-1/.8%. 2001
Atlantic Coast Line R.R. Equipment Trust,
4-1/8%, 1968
Atlantic Coast Line R.R. Equipment Trust.
4-1/8%, 1969
Beaunit Corporation, 4-1/4%, 1990,
Convertible
Che•apeake & Ohio Ry. co. Equipment Tru1t,
4-1/4%. 1968
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R.R.
Equipment Trust, 4-3/8'(, 1969
Chicago, Burling.ton & Quincy R.R.
Equipment Trust, 4-5/8%, 1968
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R.R.
Equipment Trust, ~-7/8'(, 1976
Federal InterJDediate Credit Barut,
5.;.3/4%, 1968 '
Federal Land Bank, 4-1/4%, 1968
tederal National Mortgage As•ociation,
4-1/8". 1971
Federal National Mortgage AHociation,
5-1/8%, 1972
Federal National Mortgage Asaociation,
Certificate& of Participation, 5.45%,
.
1976
First National City Bank of New York,
'"· 1990
Power & Light Co., lat, 4-3/8",
Florida
1986

Paga l

I~STMENTS

100,000
99, 375

100,000

100,250

60 , 000

79,732

100,000

98,832

100,000

133,446
100,887
99.548
50,893
98,588
685,404
672,109
505,250
. 99, 911

100,000
100,000
50,000
15,000
100,000
100,000
200,000
100,000
50,000

1,000,000

130,000

97,200

100,000

179,000

200,000

Great Northern Ry. co. Equipment Truat,
2-5/8%, 1968
Great Northern Ry . co. Equipment Truet,
4%. 1969
Great Northern Ry. co. Equipment Tru1t,
4-1/4"· 1972
General Motors Acceptance Corporation,
4-5/8", 1982
General Telephone & Electronics Corp.,
Convertible, 4", 1990
Gulf Mobile & Ohio R.R. Co. Equipment
Trust, 4-1/8", 1969
Gulf Mobile & Ohio R.R . Co. Equipment
Trust, 4-5/8%, 1974
Kansas Gas & Electric Co . , let, 3-3/8%,
1986
Louisville & Naehville R. R. Equipment
Trust, 3-7/8%, 1971
Louisville & Nashville R.R. Equipment
Trust, 4", 1971
Louiaville & Nashville R.R. Equip1118nt
Trust, 4-1/ 8", 1968
Louisville & Nashville R.R. Equipment
Trust. 4-3/ 8", 1973
Missouri Pacific R.R. Equipment Truet,
series S, 4%, 1970
New 'York, Chicago & St. Louis R.R.
Equipment Truat, 4-3/8", 1969
Norfolk and Western Ry. Equipment Tru1t.,
3-7/8%, 1972
Norfolk and Western Ry. Equipment Truet,
4"· 1970
Norfolk and Western Ry.' Equip111ent Trust,
5-1/8%, 1977
Norfolk and Western Ry. Equipment Truat,
5-1/8%, 197 3
Northern Pacific Ry. Equipment Truat,
4-1/8%, 197 0
Northern Pacific Ry. Equipment Tru1t,
4-1/8%, 1973
Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Co., 4-S/8%,
1999
Pennsylvania R.R. Equipment Truat, S-1/4",
1975
Public Service Electric & Gas Co., let,
Refunding, 4-3/ 8", 1986
seaboard Air Lina R.R. Equipment Tru1t.
4-1 /4~. 1971

49,608
100, 261
198, 224
89 , 250
164 , 250
99,098
194 . 514
77, 750

98,828
60,000
99,665
98,838
99,119
100,360
49, 374
15 , 000
99. 787
99,010
197,622
97, 549
45 , 250
129,517
89, 250
197 . 926

338

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
MASONIC HOHES OP CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE l
Page 4

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1968

70,000
122,000
100,000
100,000
55,000
90,000
300,000
60,000
100,000
50,000
200,000
50 ,000
50.000
730,000
1,055,000
165 .000
730, 000
17.300
100,000
28, 100
100,000
100,000
135,000

339

Ml\SONIC HOMES or CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 1
Page 5

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1968

race Value

Fpce Value
$

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Seaboard Air Line R.R. Equipment Truat,
4"· 1971
Sinclair Oil Corporation, 4-3/ 8", 1986
Southern California Gaa Co., lat,
3-l/2". 1982
Southern Pacific Company Equipment Truat,
Series 23, 4%. 1968
Southern Pacific Company Equipment Truat,
4-1/4%, 1969
Southern Pacific Company Equipment Trust,
Series 19, 3-7/8%, 1971
Southern Pacific Company Equipment Trust,
Series JO, 4-1/2%, 1972
Southern Railway Company Equipment Trust,
Series ZZ, 4%, 1970
Southern Railway Company Equipment Trust,
Series AAA. 4-3/ 8%, 1969
Texas and Pacific Ry. Company Equipment
Truat, Series V, 4-1/ 8%, 1968
Toledo Edison. 1st, 6-1/ 8" , 1997
Tri Dam Project. Oakdale Irrigation
District, J.05%. 2004
Tri Dam Pro jec t , South San Joaquin
Irr igation District, 3 .0 5%, 2004
U. S. Treasury Bonds, 2-1/2", 1972
U. s. Treasury Bonds, 3-1/2%, 1990
U. S. Treasury Bonds, 3-1/2%, 1998
U. S. Treasury Bonds , 4%, 1969
Virginian Ry. Company, 6%. 1908
Virginia Electri c and Power Company,
Convert i b le, 3-5/8%. 1986
Wells Fargo Bank. 3-1 / 4%, 1989
Wells Fargo Bank, Capital Notes,
4-1/2%, 1989
Western Maryland Ry. Equipment Trust,
Series W, 4-1/ 4", 1969
Wheeling Ste el Corporation, 3-3/4%, 1975
Total, Exhibit G

$
$

69, 770
123,474

15 ,000
10,000

81,375

10,000

Beaunit Corp., Convertibl e, 4-1/ 4%, 1990
Total, Exhibit I

29Q,619

5,000

44,690

8 1 054
8,054

GEORGE M. AND FLORENCE G. Pl!:RINE
ENDOWMENT FUND

60,000
100,651

10 ,000

Total, Exhibit J

50,054
202,095
50 , 109
50,109
713,660
1,084 , 953
165, 7 53
730, 300
19.113
90.500
22,943
88,500

u. s. Treasu r y , 3-1/ 2%, 1998

30,000
25,000
10, 000
30 ,000
15,000
1 0,000

100,260
124,890

25,000
12 .000
1.600

11,112 .635

5,000

15,037
4,913

10,000
10,000

C. N. FLINT TRUST FUND
Cheasapeake & Ohio Equipment Tru•t,
4-1/ 4"· 1969
Chicago , Burling ton & Quincy R.R.
Equipment Trust , 3-7/8", 1970
Louisvi l le and Nashville, R.R . Equipment
Trus t, S e ries EE, 4%, 1971
Norfolk and Western Ry. Equipment Trust,
Series J , 4%, 1970
Seabo ard Air Line R.R. Equipment Trust,
Series W, 4%, 1971
southern Ry. Company Equ ipment Trust ,
Series zz. 4%. 1970
u. s. Treasury Bonds, 2-1/ 2%, 1972
u. s. Treasury Bonda, 3-1/ 2%. 1990
Wel ls Fargo Bank, 3-1/ 4%, 1 989,
Convertible
Wheeling Steel Corp., 3-3/ 4%, 1975
Total, Exhibit L

Chesapeake & Ohio Equipment Trust, .
4- 1 / 4%, 1969
Southern Pacific co. Equipment Trust,
4-1/ 4%, 1969

14,384
10,296

88,988

JOHN AND LENA LUCKENBACH FUNt>
15, 000

$

GEORGE F. ·BRIGHAM AND LAU AA E. BRIGHAM
SCHOLARSHIP FUND

99,336
54,708

u. s. Treasury , 3-1/ 2", 1990
Wheeling Steel Corp . , 3-3/ 4", 1975
Total , Exhibit H

30, 075
24,811
10,000
30,000
14,949
1 0,000
24,297
11,453
1,605
5,166
162,356

3i0

PROCEEDINGS 01' THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1968

Face Value
$

10,000·
30,000
15,000
25,000
25,000
5,000

SCHEDULE l
Pa9e 6

STUDENTS ' LOAN AND SCHOLARSHIP FUND
Beaunit Corp., Convertible, 4-1/4%, 1990
Federal Intermediate Credit Bank,
5.95%. 1969
Federal Intermediate Credit Bank,
5-3/4%, 1968
Pennsylvania R. R. Equipment Trust,
5-1/4%. 1975
Southern California Gas Co., lat,
Series A, 3-1/2%. 1982
Southern Pa ci fic Co. Equipment Truat,
4-1/4", 1969
Total, Exhibit M

3it

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE l
Page 7

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1968

Fas;e y:alue
f!,054

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

$

10,000
10.000

29,981
25,000
15,012
20,000
24,907
20,344

ALIJ?O Q. H!SERVS TRYST FIJNI)

Beaunit Corp., Convertible . 4-1/ 4%. 1990
Federal Intermediate Credit Bank. 5.95".
1969
Kaneaa Gas & Electric co. , lat. 3-3 / 8%.
1986
Welle Fargo Bank . 4-1/ 2%, Capital
Notee, 1989
Total, Exhibit R
Total bonds

4. 973
103,271

$

8, 054
9, 994
19, 437
18,350
55,835

$14, 832 ' 796

CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STQC!<
FLQRENCE J(}ITllERINE BURT TRUST FUND
15,000
50,000
2,000
20,000

Federal Intermediate Credit Bank.
5-3/4%. 1968
Federal Land ·Bank , 4-l/4", 1968
Firat National City Bank of New York,
4"· 1990, Convertible
Pennsylvania R.R. Equipment Trust,
5-1/4%. 1975
Total, Ex.h ibi t 0
EDMUND

30,000
10,000
1,000
2 s. 000
23.000

15,013
49,781
2,000
19.925
86.719

CLEMENT ATKINSON FUND

Federal Interme.diate Credit Bank,
5-3/4", 1968
Federal Intermedi-te Credit Bank,
s. 95%, 1969
Firs·t National City Bank of New York,
4%. 1990 , Convertible
Pennsylvania R.R. Equipment Truet,
5-1/4%. 1975
Sinclair Oil Corp., Convertible, 4-J/8",
1986
Total , Exhibit P

Shares

GENl:RAL FUND

900
125
300
700
100
500
2,400
500
200
500
500

Aloerican Water Work• Company, 4.1%
Atlantic Richfield Co., $3.00
Continental Oil Company. $2.00
Diamond Shamrock Corporation , $2.00
Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical. 4-1/ 8"
Owens-Illinois, Inc., 4"
Pu.rex Corporation, Ltd . , $1.35
Signal Companies, Inc. , $2.40
Standard ·O il Co . (Ohio) , 4"
Tenneco, Incorporated, 4.72"· 2nd
UnioD Oil Company ~f California, f2.50
Total, Exhibit A

30,023

PE!UtANENT ENDQWMENT FUND

9 , 994
l,000
24.907
23.805
89,729

28,181
9, 770
19.165
33 . 57 0
10 ,"327
35 , 706
80 , 550
32 . 513
19,953
48.618
33 , 748
351.101

600
1,900
2,000
2,JOO
5,000
1,700
305
l.300
500

BOO

1,100
500

American Water works Company, 4.1"
Atlantic JUchfield company , $3.00
Continental Oil Company, $2.00
Di111110nd Shamroc.k Corporation, $2.00
C~nwealth Edison Co., $1.425
J<aiaar Aluminum and Chemical, 4-l/ 8"
Owene-Illinoie , Inc., 4"
Pure:x Corporation, Ltd., $1. 35
Reynold• Metal• Company, 4-1/ 2", 2nd
Siqnal C'ompaniea, Inc •• $2.40
Standard Oil company . {Ohio), 4"
Tenneco. Incorporated, 4. 72", 2nd

.18,812
147,013
120,928
110,485
171, 700
157 ,427
35,141
42,841
57,953
51,314
110,066
48,618

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

3i2

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE l
Page 9

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE l
Page 8

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1968

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1968

COMMON STOCl<S

Jll.!a!
100
900
1,000

GENERAL FUND
Tenneco, Incorporated, 5.50%
Union Oil Company of California, $2.50
Weetern Union Teleqraph, 4,9°", 2nd
Total, Exhibit G

10,000
60,602
85, 375
1,228.275

$

C. N. FLINT TRYST FUND

100
100

6,046
11,451

continental Oil C0111Pany, $2.00
OWen•-lllinois, Inc., 4%
TOtal, Exhibit L
STyPENTS' LOAN AND SCHOLARSHIP FUND

soo
500
300
600
900

15.677
30,, 308
10,160
38, 882
60,602
155.629

American Water Works Company, 4.1%
Continental Oil Company, $2.00
Purex Corporation, Ltd., $1.35
Signal Companies, Inc., $2.40
Union Oil company of California, $2.50
Total, Exhibit M
FLORENCE J<ATflERINE BURT TRYST FUND

100
200

EDMUND

500
100

6,·472
13,5i0
19,992

Signal Companies, Inc., $2.40
Union Oil Company of California, $2.50
Total, EXhibit 0
CLEMENT ATJ<INSON Pt,IND

32,603
6,785
39.388

Signal .companies, Inc., $2.40
Union Oil Company of California, $2.50
Total, Exnibit P
ALIDA O. Ml'!SERYf! TRUST FUND

1.0 0

10,052
10,052

Standard ·O il company (Ohio) • 4~
Tota.I . E>thibi t R
TOtlll convertible preferred
•tock

'

1. 821. 934

1,620
1.600
450
1,500
100
1,087
1,600
1,163
800
500
580
700
450
30
100
1,160
200
578
706
400
600
102
16
1,700
500
600
332
600
357
355
209
850
20
954
200
11,400
172
300
1,800
500
250
450
1,300
1,754
l,750
300

Allied Chemical Corp.
American Cyanamid co.
American Can Co.
American Electric Power Co., Inc.
American Home Produ c ts
American Telephone & Telegraph Company
Associates Investment Company
Bank of America N.T. & S.A.
Bank of California , N.A.
Beatrice Foods Company
Charter New York Corp .
Chase Manhattan Bank
C.I.T. Financial Corporation
Cincinnati Gas & Electric Company
Cities Service Company
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company
·
Colgate-Palmolive Co.
Columbia Gas System, Inc.
Consolidated Edison Co. of New York, Inc.
Consolidated Natural Gas Company
Continental Air Lines , Inc.
corona Foothill Lemon co.
Cosmopolitan Real ty co.
Crown Zellerbach corporation
du Pont (E. I.) de Nemours
Duquesne Light Company
El Paso Natural Gas Company
Farmers New World Life Lns.
First National. city Bank of New York
General Electric Company
General Public Utilities Corporation
General Telephone & Electronics corp.
Gulf Oil corporation
I.N.A. corporation
International Business Machine•
International Reso urces Co.
Interstate Power Co.
J ohnson Service co.
Lone Star Gas Company
Merck & co., Inc.
Mobil Oil Corporation
National Biscuit co.
National Lead Co.
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation
Northern Mortgage company
Northern States Power co. (Minnesota)

$

62,843
45,732
24,354
58,450
5,244
63,901
45,480
65,620
33,ll6
35,731
24,419
38, 355
14.827
878
4 , 969
45,566
5,894
17,280
29,803
15, 297
14,359
30,600
3,840
93,339
83,153
20,567
8,203
34,418
20,919
27,853
6,433
38,825
693
43.116
61. 275
57
4,442
12,925
42,587
42,162
6,993
20,955
85,682
40,890
14,000
9, 780

3H

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALI.FOR.NIA

SCHEIXILE l
Paqe 10

MASOlfIC ROMBS f:R -CALIFOMIA

INVESTMENTS
.:rune JO, 1968

SCDDULI l
Paqe 11

lllVESTMlllTS
JUne 30, 1968

PERMANENT ENDOtlNDI' Ppl!O
817
389
620
400
129
210
840
200
200
400
1,150
21
400
400
3,642
600
1,028
1,492
600
1,166 509
206
200
556
300
520
l,700
840
573
788
1,067
700
1,228
826
85 . 411

Pacific Gas & Electric Company
Pacific Lighting corp.
Panhandle Eastern Pipeline Company
Parke, Davis & co.
J. c. Penney Co.
Pennsylvania Power and Light Company
Philadelphia Electric company
Phillips Petroleum Company
Prentice-Hall, Inc.
Procter & Gamble Company
PUblic Service Electric & Gas co.
Ramona savings and Loan Association
Scott Paper company
Sears, Roebuck & Company
security First National Bank
Sherwin-Willia ms Company
southern California Edison Company
southern Natural Gas CompillllY
southern Pacific co.
Standa·rd Oil company (Cal.i fornia)
Standard Oil company (New Jersey)
Teledyne, Inc.
Texas Utilities co.
Transamerica Corporation
Trans-World Airlines, Inc,
Union Bancorp
Union carbide corp .
union Electric company
Union Oil company of California
United States Gypsum co.
Virginia Electric and Power company .
warner-Lamber t Pharmaceutical
Wells Fargo Bank
Western Bancorporation
Wickenden company
various stock of undetermined value,
carried at a nominal value
Total, Exhibit A

$

27 ,212
10,796
23,741
12,542
6,036
7,476
25,450
10,026
7,615
J0,861
41,353
16,800
10,655
23,382
118,060
33,543
37 ,025
37,479
17,526
74,777
34,850
25,053
9,025
19,387
15,357
14,415
79,786
23,401
25,253
62,400
40,461
31,426
JS, 792
29,346
150

s
2,413,287

4,037
2,400
5,350
2,000
1,400
2,381
4,200
l,876
3,000
l , 500
4 . 800
1,900
4,080
2,642
1, 000
4,000
3,000
2,400
4,478
3,744
3 , 640
1,400
3,395
2,880
500
4 , 200
5,800
800
1, 900
1,431
1,105
2,687
l , 306
1,832
1,530
467
800
76
3,684
1,200
6,600
1,000
3,800
600

Allied Chemical Corporation
American Can COlllpany
American Cyanamid Co.
American Electric Pover Co., Inc.
American Home Products
American Telephone and Tele9raph Cailpany
Asaociates Investlllent cixnpany
Bank of America N.T . & S.A.
Bank of California, N.A.
Beatr~ce Foods Company
C.I . T. Financial Corporation
Cities Service Company
Central Illinois Li9ht Co.
Charter New York corp :
·•
Chase Manhattan Bank
Cincinnati Gas & Electric co.
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company
Col9ate-Palmo live Co .
Columbia Gas System, Inc.
Consolidated Edison Company of
New York, Inc.
Consolidated Natural Gas C0111pany
Continental Air Linee, Inc. ·
Crocker-Citize ns National Bank
Crown Zellerbach Corporation
du Pont (E. I.) de Nemours
Duquesne Liqht Company
El P••o Natural Gae COlllpany
Farmers New World Life Ins.
Piret National Bank of Hawaii·
First National City Bank ·o t New Yor>c
General Electric Company
General PUblic Utilities corp.
General Te~ephone & Electronic• Corp.
Gulf Oil corporation
Hartford Fire Insurance co.
Hy-Draft Incorporated
I.N.A. Corporation
International Business Machine•
Interstate Power co.
Johnson Service co .
Laclede Gas Company
Litton Induetriee, Inc.
Lone Star Ga• COlllpany
Merck & co., Inc.

$

166,477
130.179
173,602
78, 119
76,136
155,884
132,420
105,254
170,616
99,184
182 , 292
93,904
90,428
113,933
54,9111"
89,204
107,237
70,563
117,065
139,738
139,238
33,610
68,201
142,367
83, 153
116,672
138,951
46,758
111,101
82,636
91,723
45,762
60 , 633
73,334
48,841
1,401
21,282
23,940
98,362
50,505
175,343
88,609
92,156
48,107

3i6

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
KASOtlIC HOMES

•··. I

or CA.LIFORNIA

3i7

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
SCHl!!DULE 1

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

Page 12

INVBSTMENTS
June 30, 1968

SCHEDULE l
Pa9e l l

JNVESTMENTS
June JO, 1968

.,. , ,

•

Jb!I!.!
400
l,112
l,600
l,600
3,200
5,100
3,577
2,200
200
6
3,000
4,600
l,600
2,533
2,310
l,500
l,800
l,618
4,099
l.900
3,600
l.600
4,493
l,823
2,400
40
3,061
2,000
1,800
4

2.157
l,093
309
1.037
l,439
2, 175-l/2
2,000
700
J,986
4,300
5,460
108
l,800
2,834

Middle South Utilities, Inc.
Mobil Oil Corporation
Mor9an Guaranty Trust Company of New York
National Biscuit co.
National Lead Co.
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation
Northern States Power of Minnesota
Ohio Edison company
Pacific Gas & Electric COlllpany
Pacific Lighting corp.
Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line
Parke, Davia & Co.
J. c . Penney co.
Pennsylvania Power and Li9ht Company
Philadelphia Electric Company
Phllipa Petroleum Company
Prentice-Hall, Inc.
Procter & Gamble Company
Public Service Company of Colorado
Public Service Elec tric & Gas Co .
Scott Paper company
Seara, Roebuck & Company
Seattle First National Bank
Security First National Bank
Sherwin-Williama Co.
Sinclair Oil Corporation
Southern California Edison Company
Southern Natural Gas Company
Southern Pacific Co .
Southern Realty Company
Standard Oil Company (California)
Standard Oil Company (New J'eraey)
Teledyne , Inc.
Texaco , Inc.
Texas Utilities Company
Transamerica Corporation
Tranaierra Explo ration
Trana-World Airlines , Inc.
Union Bancorp
Union carbide corp.
Union Electric Company
Union Oil Company of California
United States Gypsum Company
Virginia Electric and Power Company

$

10.600
27,097
169,229
74,601
240,241
120 , 051
78, 246
50,859
6,950
168
105 , 847
144,448
77,602
89, 703
70 , 841
81,669
69,391
125,965
127.069
68,328
94, 785
90,639
187. 230
52,077
137 '281
3,036
110, 700
47,225
52.204
11
117,261
86,482
35,227
41,703
89 , 276
52,687
. 25
35,774
201. 549
235,543
165, 551
6,210
155,850
106 , 987

1,500
2. 075
3,960-1/2
25,000

Warner-Lambert Pharmaceutical
Well• Fargo Bank
Western Bancorporation
Weatern Empire Petroleu~ Company
Various stocks of undetermined value,
carried at a nominal value
Total, Exhibit G

$

63,952
91,810
146,259
125
2
8.375,294

JOHN AND LENA LUCKENBACH FUND
200
100
200
200

Lone Star Gas Company
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation
Ohio Edison co.
Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line
Total. Exhibit H

4,560
l,217
3,788
7,048
17.613

GEORGE F. BRIGHAM AND LAURA E. BRIGHNf
SCttOLARSHIP FUND
100
100
100
400

Allied Chemical Corp.
C.I.T. Financial Corporation
Lone Star Gas Company
Ohio Edison company
Total, Exhibit I

3' 7311
4.077
2,200
7. 577
17, 672

GEORGE M. ANP FLORENCE G. PERINE
ENPOWHENT FUND
200

Ohio Edison Company
Total, Exhibit J

HARRIET c. WADLEIGH ENDOWMENT ANNVITX
100
200

Duquesne Light Company
Ohio Edison corapany
Total, Exhibit X

4.668
4.66§

ruw
2,884

3,763
6,647

3i8

: : PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES OP CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 1

Page 14

. 304
200
100
500
300
100
2~9

253
210

478

Allied Chemical Corp.
Columbia Gas System , Inc.
Pirat National Bank of'Hawaii
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation
Panhandle ~·~tern.Pipe Line
J. c. Penney co.
Secu.rity Firat National Bank
Southern Realty and Utilitie• Corporation
Union Eleotric Company
Well• Pargo Banlt ·
Total, EXhibit L

American Can Company
C.I.T. Financial corporation
Duqueane Light C0111pany
Lone Star Gae Company
Merck & co., Inc.
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation
Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line
Total, Exhibit M

$

ll,263
5,641
6,083
ll.082
10, 572

4 , 970
l, 965

468
525
825
267
200
100
200

399
5,977

500
200
200
200
500 ·
230

Page 15

southern California Edison company
Union Electric Company
Union Oil Company of California
Virginia Electric and Power Company
Warner-Lambert Pharmaceutical
Wells Pargo Bank
Western Bancorporation
Total·, Exhibit O

$

19 , 480
16 , 260
31.555
10,097

9,134
4,240
7,426

206,694

EDMUND CLEMENT ATKINSON FU!!D
204
408

100
11,743

13,446
2,884
2,280

17 , 220

400
110
500

100
200
400

2,217
10,572

100

60,362

200
150

100

fLQRENCE KATHERINE BURT TRUST FUND
Allied Chemical Corp.
Americ·an Telephone and Telegraph Company
Associates Investment Company
Charter New York Corp.
C.I.T. Financial Corpo·riltion
Columbia Gas System, Inc . ..
Duquesne Ligqt company
El Paao Natural Gil& Company
Pirat National ·city Bank of New York
Laclede Gas Company
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation
Security Pirat National Bank

SCHEDULE l

6,662
64,614

26
200
200
200
200
200
200

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

Sharet

STUDENTS' LOAN ' AND SCHOI.1\RSHXP FUND
200
400
100
100
200
100
300

349

INVESTMENTS
June JO, 1968

.lNVBSTMElfTS
JIUle 3·0 , 1968

c. N. FLINT TRUST FyNJ)

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

200
7. 47 5

100

13,84 5
5,668
8,555
6,748
6. 571

17. 683
4,635

11. 690
5,517
ll. 082
9.033

Allied Chemical Corp.
Charter' New York Corp.
Chase Manhattan Bank
Consolidated Edison Co . of New York , Inc.
Crocker-Citizens National Bank
21 Paso Natural Gas Company
First National City Bank of New York
General Electric Company
I.N.A. Corporation
Johnson Service co.
Laclede Gas Company
Seattle Pirat National Bank
Sinclair Oil Corp.
Standard Oil Company (New Jersey)
Warner-Lambert Pharmaceutical
Welle Pargo Bank
Total, Exhibit P

7,525
17,839

5, 479
17,855
4,516

11.146
5, 745

16. 770
18, 497

4,266
5,140
6,445
2 . 015.
8,147
9 , 134

4,491
145,010

ALIJ)A O. MESERVE TRUST FUND
200
137
42

153
227
84

50
126
263

JOO

J86

102

Chase Manhattan Bank
Cincinnati Gas & Electric Company
Consolidated Edison co. of New York , Inc.
Gulf Oil Corporat.i on
Marine Midland Corporation
Pacific Lighting Corp.
Philadelphia Electric Company
Public Service Electric & G~• Co.
Standard Oil ·Company (California)
Standard Oil Company (New Jereey)
Texaco, Inc.
union Electric co. ·
.Total. Exhibit ll
~tal

c:omon atock•

9, 818

3,271
1 ,347
8,530
5,618
2,153
· l. 493
4 , 001

14.593
18 , 788
25.187
2.270
97 ,069
fll.197 . ?JO

350

351

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
MASONIC Hct!ES OP CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 2
Page 1

RESERVES POR SPECIAL PURPOSES
For the years ended J\lne JO, 1968 and 1967

SCHEDULE 2
Page 2

MASONIC Hct!ES OF CALIFORNIA
RESERVES POR SPECIAL PURPOSES
Por the years ended June JO, 1968 and 1967

COVINA RESERVE

RESERVE FOR ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS
Thia reserve ia credited with amounts to be used for the
general purposes of the Decoto and Covina Homes.

This reserve is credited with amounts to be used for the
benefit of the Covina Home.
~

Increases:
Bequests
Contributions

$196,606

$266,905

7,854

25

204,460

266,930

l, 4 75

1,506

Decreases:
Transfer to Property fund, EXhibit D,
For additions to;
San Franciaco office
Decoto Home

Net increaae
Balance, beginning of year
Balance, end of year, Exhibit B

l,927
1,475

3,435

202 , 965

285,495

606,614

323,119

$filU, ~22 $gQfild:iU

Increases:
Bequests
Contributions
Sale of livestock and equipment
Decreases:
Transfers to General Fund, Exhibit B,
to reimburse for operating expenses
of Covina Home;
Farm and grounds
Hospital and medical
Special benefits to residents
Camp maintenance
Replacements of equipm~nt
Transfer to Property Fund, Exhibit D
Net increase
Balance, beginning of year
Balance, end of year, Exhibit E

'l'he accompanying notea are an integral
part of the financial ataternente.

$

165,901
3,224

.llil
$

159,719
2,416
4,635

169,125

166,972

23,966
13,590
20,223
21 , 250
12,695
91,746
16,606
110, 352
56,773

24, 7 5 3
17, 156
19,656
22,963

1,515, 575

1. 434, 035

$J.,~H.~~~

$l,,~l,2,572

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

84,752
680
85, 432
61,540

352

GRA~O LODGE OP

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
MASONIC BQtES OP CALI.POIUUA

RESERVES POR SPECIAL Pt1RPOSBS
Por the yeara ended .nine 30, 1968 and 19!7

SCBEDULI 2
Page J

Thia reserve is credited with 81110\lnts to be used for the
benefit of the Decoto Home.

Net increase
Balance, beginning of year
Balance, end of year, Exhibit E

Page 4

RESERVES POR SPECIAL Pt1RPOSBS .
ror th• years ended .nine 30, 1968 and 1967

'l'hi• reserve is credited with amounts assigned by residen ts
of the Decoto.Bane on admission, including proceeds from pensions,
life insurance policiea, and aale of real estate. 'l'he reserve ia
used for the benefit of the reeidenta of the Decoto Herne.

.!ill.

.!.ill
$

191,227

•

306,255

12,501

11,842

803

781
2,449

1192}:
206.452

Decreases:
Transfers to General Fund, Exhibit B
to reimburse for operating expense~
of Decoto Hoine i
Special benefits to residents
Grand Lodge trips to Decoto
during annual communications
Replacements of equipment
Transfer to Property Fund, Exhibit D

SCHEDULE 2

HASOOIC lf<MES OP CALUORN IA

tlRAPPRQPRIATED RESERVE

DECOl'O RESERVB

Increaaea 1
llequeats
Net income from real eatate
c. N. Plint Trust Fund income,
Exhibit L
George M. and Florence G. Perine
Endowment Fund income, Exhibit J
Residents' accounts income, Exhibit N
Contribu tiona

353

CALIPORNIA

132

321,459

7,446

7,685

3,667

3,230
10,024
20,939

11, 113
11,077
22.190
184,262

20, 939
300,520

1,516,183

1 ,215,663

$i..zaa.~~~

H1~i~1i~~

Tbe ..ccompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial atate~enta.

Iner•••••=
A•set• ••figned by resident• of the
Decoto Hall• on admission, including
proce•da from sale of real eetate,
and frOlll life insurance policies
»ensiona aaaigned by resident• ~
the Decoto Home
Account• of deceaeed reaidente
oecreaaess
Tran1fer1 to General lund, Exhibit 8:
To rei.mburae for operating expense•
of Decoto Home;
Monthly grant• to reaidanta
runerah
lneurance and other
Of an amount equivale'ht to aHignecl
peneion• received froni res14enta,.
... above
lfet increaae
Balance, b99innin9 of year
Balance, end of year, !>Chi.bit E

..

~

$

241,4J7
315,390
18,095
574,922

.. 57,.571

$

135 ,506
293 . 964
19, 82 1
449 ,29 1

4,719
9,239
11,52g

51,986
5 ,565
5,436
62,987

315,390
3861919
188, 003
11076,849

293,964
356,951
92,340
984,509

$11 ~H1 §~~

H.S2Za1 §:12

Th• accaapanyinq note• are an integral
part ot the financial statements.

354

PROCEEDING S OP THE.

355

GRAND LODGE. OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC H(J(ES OP CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 2

RESERVES POR SPECIAL PURPOSES '
Por the yeara ended J\lna 30, 1968 and 1967

Page 5

SCHEDULE 3

MASONIC HCMES OF CALIFORNIA
EXPENSES
Por th• years ended June 30, 1968 and 1967

I ncre ase
(Decrease )

COVINA ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE
Contributio ns

$9,705

$10,189

7L693

9, 732

2,012

457

Lesa, transfer to General Fund,

Exhibit B, to reimburse for
entertaillllle nt expense of Covina
Home
Net increase

Balance, beginning of year
Balance, end of year, Exhibit E

DECOTO ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE
Contributio ns
Less, transfer to General ~un~.
Exhibit B, to reimburse for
entertainme nt expense of
Decoto Home
Net decrease
Balance, heqinn!n9 of year
Balance, end of year, Exhibit £

$3,585

$ 3,404

5,457

4,813

1,872

1,409

5,657

7,066

Decoto Home :
Residents ' maintenance
Hospital and medical
Farm and grounds
Plant and transportatio~
Allowances, etc . t o residents
Administra t ive

386,510
560,6 13
33 , 274
132 ,444
75,486
218, 160
l ,406,48 7

$ (2,095)
54,053
1, 725
(9,070)
8,945
50, 279
103,837
(629)
(3,568)
(74 0)
(ll, 507)
(l, 7 3 3)
(1,674 )
2,825

405,402

160, 4 50
17, 1 58
24,753
95,457
22 ,983
29,590
72' 037
422,428

6,205

7,662

Cl ,4 57)

24 ,000
20,071
25,014
15,313
8, 18 1
6, 074
4,250

24,000
18,048
24,687
14 ! 575
4, 512
4 , 119
5 ,2 65

2,023
327
730
3 ,669
1,955
(l, 015)

5,462
9, 084
3,667
3 ,512
1 , 200
1 0,836
0,037

229
5,623
3,230
4, 0 17
900
8,888

5 ,23 3
3,461
437
(505)
300
10 , 836
(851)

144 701

11 8,093

26,608

$2, 066 . 632

$ L954 , 670

~llL 962

$

384 , 415
614 ,666
34,999
123,374
84 ,431
268, 43 9
1 ,510,324

Covina Hane:
Residents' maintenance
Hospital and medical
.
Farm and grounds
Plant and t ransportati on
camp maintenance
Allowances , etc. t o residents
Adminis t rative
Outside relief
Administ r ative and general:
Grand Lodge - secretarial
and other s ervices
Endowment Fund expenses
Office salaries
Field investigatio ns
Investment counsel fee . .
Off ice suppli~s and pri nt i ng
.
.
Auditing services
Legal fees i n connec ti on wi t h
bequests
Pension and other payroll costs
Grand Lodge trip to Decoto
Trustees' expenses
Securities safekeeping
Survey of Decoto property
Other

$

159,821
13 ,590
24,013
83,950
21,250
27,916
74 , 862

I

Total , Exhibi t C

The acc0111panyln9 notes are an inte9ral
part of the financial atatemente.

The accompanying notes are an int e gral
part of the f inancial statements.

( 17,026)

.356

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

357

liHANO LODI.ii.:: OF LALll'O){NlA

MEMORIAL TEMPLE AUDIT

CALIFORllI.A W\SONI.C MEMORIAL TEMPLE

LYBRAND, Ross BRos.c... MONTOONBTl\"

STATEMENT OP' ~SSETS, LIABILITIES, AND FUND DALllNCE
June JO, 1968 and 1967

EXHIBIT A

Cun1,.1110 Pv•LIC AccouNTANT&
0 ... 1. Bu•H
SAH

ST1111t&T

A S S E T S:

F'AAHC••co '

YU.co.,.14UO

........ 1.r.....,...

c.oo.... g,

.,.~~

-.,ltetM"'"C'.-...~.,-

To the Truateee of
California Maaonic Memorial Temple,
~lll California Street,
San Francieco, California 94108.
We have examined the etaternent of aaaeta, liallilitiea, and
fund balance of CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TD<PLE as Of J'\Jne 30,
1968, and the related statement of revenue received and expenses
disbursed for the year then ended, our examination was made in
accordance with generally accepted auditing atandarda , and accordingly included such tests of the accounting recorda and auch other
auditing procedures as we considered neceaaary in the circumstance•.
We previoualy examined and reported upon the financial atatementa
for the prior year.
In our opinion, the accompanying statement• preaent fairly
the assets, liabilitiea, and fund balance of California Maaonic
Memorial Temple, at June 30, 1968 and 1967, arising pri111a.rily frOCll
caan transaction• , and the revenue received and expenses diaburaed
by it for the years then ended, on a conaia·tent bub except for tha
change •• outlined in Note l, with which ""' concur .
We att ach the following :
Exhibit ~ - Statement of a1aeta, liallilitiea
and fund balance
Exhibit B - Statement of revenue received and
expenses di•bureed
Notes to financial atatements
Schedule l - Summary of contribution• received.

CHh
Real e1tate tax refund due
rnveatmenta (at coat):
Bonds (market value $59,063 and $158,500)
Connon stock (market value in 1967
$101,594)
TOtal (market value $59,063
and $260,094)
Memorial Temple property (at coat):
Building and building equipment
Furnish inga

1967

~

$

112, 763
13,400

~

124' 813

67,475

164,967

67 475

260,289

5,423,746
221,979
5,645,724
640,792
5,004,932
843,303
5 1 848,235
3,477
l

5 ,219,935
215,996
5,435,931
559,792
4,876 , 149
734,3 04
5 1 610, 453

$6,045,351

~5,995.556

95,322

Leaa, accumulated depreciation
Land
unexpired insurance (Note l)
Other aaset (Note 3)

1

L.IABILITIES:

Accounts payable
Employee payroll taxes and benetita
Total liabilities

~.n3

197
1,090
r,~!!'

7,010,584
65,674
',<5,6,259

6,686,039
324,545
,,010 1 504

l,016, 315

512,364
496. 783

16, 715

17,057

r,033,030
6,043,228

(9,989)
r,016 1 315
s ,994,2 69

$6,04~,J~l

$~ ,9 9~ .~~ 6

$

656
1,467

$

FUND llALMiCE:
contribution11 ·
Received in prior years
Received during year, Schedule l
TOtal contributions
Net expense of Temple building:
Net expense of prior year s
Depreciation applicable to prior years
Net expense of the current year Exhibit B
Eliminati on of the reserve for renewals
and replacemen t s
Net expense to end of year
TOtal fund balance

The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.

358

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

BXHIBIT B

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEHPLB

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED ANO EXPl!'!NSES DISBURSED
Por the years ended J\lne 30, 1968 and 1967

Revenue :
Rent and other charges to
the public
Rent o f garage
Rent o f space to Grand Lodge
Rent o f othe r real estate
0peratinq expenses:
Salaries and payroll expense
Util i t i es and services
Maintenance
Insur ance
Property taxes
De precia t ion (Note 2)
Legal and accoun ting
Stat ioner y and postage
Expense9 of renting other
real estate (Note 2)
Miscellaneou s
Operating loss
Other income (expense):
Divide nds received on stocks
Intere s t received on:
Bank deposit•
Bonds
In t eres t expense
Gain on sales of securities

359

NOTES TO PilllANCIAL STATEHDITS
J\lne 30, l96B
Increase
(Decrease)

!lli.

1967

$103,375
73,065
24,000
28,613
229,053

$ 97,952
71, 715
24,000
193,667

28,613
35 1 386

54,374
31,178
7,625
4,247
62 , 490
63 , 018
975
1,257

52 , 912
25,014
2,290
4 , 638
53 , 194
62 , 999
4,088
l , 409

l,462
6 , 164
5,335
(391)
9,296
19
(3, 113)
(152)

Note l.
$ 5,423
l,350

. 28, 165

28, 165
2,187
25 5 , 516
26,463

1,619
208,163
14,496

---2!!

743

1,465

(72.2)

l,106
4,580
(128)
13,447
19, 748

6,744
2,187
(2,957)
7,439

(5,638)
2,393
(2,829)
13,447
12,309

47 ;353
ll,967

Net expense before contribution
contribution to Masonic Homes
of California

6, 715

7,057

(342)

lo,ooo

10 1 000

---

Net expense for year,
Exhibit A

$ ~~.zu

$ ~z.2~2

· $~

'l'he accomp anying notes are an integral part of this statement.

Basie of Accountinq:

The financial statement• are •tatad on a modified cash
basis of accounting. Transac tiona generally are r ecorded at the
time of the receipt or payment or ca•h. current operating expense
bills unpaid were of nomi nal amount.
Pri or to the current year, i nsurance premiums have been
expensed when paid. During the current y ear , certain policies were
paid f or a three-year term. The unexpi r ed portion of the premium•
has b een recorded as an asset in t he at tach ed fin anci al statement•,
and wi l l be charged t o expen•e i n s ubsequent y ear s a• covera9e
e.xpires .
Note 2 .

Deprec i ation:

Depreciat ion on Temple build ings, fu rniahinga, and equipment amount ed t o $62 ,490 and ia cl assi fied as operating expenses .
Depreciat ion on other p roper ty amount ed to $1 7 , 99 2 and is i nc l uded
in operat i ng e xpenses under t he c l ass ific ation o f expenae• or
renting other r eal estate. Al l depre c i ation i• computed on a
•traight-line bas i s.
: Note 3.

Other Assets:

Ot he r a•sets c on sists o f t wo small parcels of real estate
bequeathed to the Temp le . This ase e t i s re corded at a nominal
v alue for accou ntabili ty.

360

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNJA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE.
CALIFORNIA

AASONIC .'.\EMORIAL TEMPT.E

SCH!DULE l

Grand .Lod9e, F. & A. H.;
June jo, 1967 and 1966:

Master Masons at $1.00 each
Contribution of initiates at $9.00 each

Contribution of.initiates for years
ended June JO, 1968 and 1967,
at $9.00 each

Less, refunds and adjustments

Contributions from individuals (see note)
Total contribuc i ons received
durin9 year

Note:

$240, 158

$

....2..Lill

UNION CITY, CALIFORNIA

ANNUAL REPORT
July l, 1967 to June 30, 1968

SUM/Q\RY OF CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED
For the years ended J\lne JO, 1968 and 1967

~nnual returns -

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

.361

,,

6,039

7' 119

246,197

38,979

39,303

46,098

285, s·oo

_.ill.

176

45,651

285,324

' 20, 023 .

39,221

$~

$~~~.~2~

Pled9es for contributions unpaid at June JO, 1968 and
1967 approximated $33,900 and $57,500. Pledges are not
included in the financial statement• until collected.

The accOl'llpanying note s are an integral part ot thi~ statement.

HAMES OF MEN RESIDENTS-A VEBAGE AGE 82.83 YEARS
•Indicates admission during current year
tlndicates couples
Name
Admitt~
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Ahlborn, George ............Oct. 10, '61 Parnassus ..........388 San Francisco ......85
Allen, Arthur• ..............Aug. 25, '67 San FranciscoVictory ............360 San Francisco ......80
Anderson, Alfred ..........Oct. 9, '64 Hollywood ..........355 Hollywood ............ 82
Anderson, J . Woodson..Apr. 27, '64 Granada ..............608 Alhambra ............79
Axelson, Edwin.• .......... Aug. 4, '67 Alpha ..................431 Richmond ............77
Bacon, Herbert .............. Mar. 23, '61 Russian Riv er .... 181 Windsor ................ 88
Bailey, Rex• ..................Dec. 5, '67 Delano ................309 Delano .................. 84
Baker, Walter................June 9, '67 Fremont ............. .497 Oakland ................ 78
Banet, Jesse• ..................July 13, '67 Amity-Seal
Rock ................370 San Francisco ......83
.B arnes, William ............July 2, '59 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................85
Bates, Joseph ................Apr. 27, '67 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento .. ........87
Bean, Verd ......................Apr. 5, '63 Redwood City .... 168 Redwood City ......78
Beer, Leslie ....................Dec. 19, '60 Woodstock ......... .491 Alameda .............. 67
Bentley, Lest ................ Nov. 19, '64 Sanger ................316 Sanger ..................77
Blaess, Ernest................ Sept. 20, '63 Dimond .............. 603 Oakland ................ 87
Bothwell, Garnet ........ Sept. 7, '65 Fellowship ....... .480 Oakland ................ 86
Broadwell, Charles ......Feb. 12, '64 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ..........95
Brooks, Lawrence ........ July 15, '66 Redondo ..............328 Redondo Beach....77
Brown, Frederick ..........Oct. 17, '57 Eucalyptus .........243 Hayward .............. 89
Butler, Kenneth ............Dec. 31, '64 Park .................... 449 San Francisco ...... 81
Campbell, Chariest ......Jan. 18, '66 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ......79
Campion, Richard ........June 24, '65 South San
Francisco ........ 212 Daly City .............. 84
Carlson, Oscar ......... ~....July 12, '65 Palm Springs ....693 Palm Springs ......81
Carter , Herbert ............Aug. 31, '66 La Mesa .............. 407 La Mesa ................ 79
Collin, Leonidas ............ June 8, '67 Santa Cru.z ........ 38 Santa Cruz ............ 85
Combs, Jerome ............Sept. 2, '62 Hawthorne ........647 Hawthorne .......... 87
Covell, William ............Nov. 12, '60 Consuelo ............325 Escondido ............89
Creider, Roy .................. Oct. 25, '63 San Diequito ...... 775 Cardiff-by-theSea ....................87
Crozier, Alfred ..............June 26, '60 Semper Virens .. 552 Eureka ..................85
Crystal, David ..............Mar. 11, '64 Amity-Seal
Rock ................ 370 San Francisco ...... 81
Dalton, James• ..............Aug. 2, ' 67 Oak Grove ..... _.. .215 Alameda ..............90
Deardorff, Charles ........ Dec. 7, '59 Martinez ............ 41 Martinez .............. 86
Dierksen , William ........ Jan. 10, '66 San Clemente .... 671 San Clemente ......84
Domenigoni, Valentine Nov. 9, '64 San Jacinto ........338 San Jacinto .......... 88
Driver1 Joseph .............. June 29, '65 Mount Moriah.... 44 San Francisco ......83
Du Bois, Andrew ..........April 30, '58 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton .............. 85
Dzaroogian, Marsob ......May 19, '60 Vallejo ............... .487 Vallejo .................. 71
Eckstein, Joseph ............Feb. 21, '62 Argonaut ........... .461 San Francisco ...... 83
Ellis, Elonzo• .................. Dec. 12, '87 Lorenzo· .............. 709 San Lorenzo ........ 73
Evans, Alfred ................ June 6, '61 Howard .............. 37 Yreka ....................83
Ferraris, Natale ............Mar. 3, '65 Golden Gate
Sperenza ..... ... 30 San Francisco ...... 79
Fisher," William ............Mar.17, '64 Amity-Seal .
Rock ................ 370 San Francisco ...... 87
Foley, Eck ......................July 29, '66 Paso Robles ........286 Paso Robles ..........75
Freeman, T . Reed ........July 15, '65 Argonne .............. 514 San Francisco ........ 80
Frix, William•.:..............Apr. 25,.'68 Van Nuys ..........450 Van Nuys ..............84
Frost, Harold ···········-··.Nov. 1, '45 Utopia ................537 Los Angeles ........78

363

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Name
Lodge
Admitted
No.
Town
Age
Fullalove, Edward ........ Mar. 6, '64 Park ................._.449 San Francisco ...... 84
Gammon, Rodger ........ Sept. 9, '61 Van Nuys ............ 450 Van Nuys .............. 79
Gardner, John• ..............Dec. 1, '67 Alta Vista .......... 464 San Francisco ...... 79
Girard, Lawrence ........Aug. 15, '65 Bakersfield ........ 224 Bakersfield .......... 78
Godfrey, Henry ............July 25, '54 Oak Grove .......... 215 Alameda .............. 97
Goye tte, Frank ..............May 25, '66 Hollywood ..........355 Hollywood ............82
Haberdier, Oliver ........Sept. 25, '65 Friendship ..........210 San Jose ................84
Haley, Michael .............. Nov. 4, '61 Hawthorne ........ 647 Hawthorne ..........83
Hammond, Cuyler ........Jan. 27, '64 Golden State ...... 358 Los Angeles ........81
Hemming, Frank ..........Oct. 12, '64 Southland ..........618 Los Angeles ........88
Hendricks, George ...... Sept. 26, '59 All States ............ 593 Long Be ach ........86
Hennings, Sigurd t ........Jan. 6, '67 Riviera ................780 P acific
Palisades ..........86
Hermans, Howard ........Oct. 31, '60 Corona ................324 Pasadena .............. 78
Hillman, Otto ................July 26, '66 South Pasade.n a 367 South Pasadena .. 81
Holloway, Dee ..............Jan. 31, '66 Magnolia ............242 Santa Barbara ....77
Hooper, Frederick ........Mar. 14, '65 La Jolla ..............518 La Jolla ................88
Howard, Otto ................July 6, '62 California .......... 1 San Francisco ......83
Hume, Harry ..................July 14, '65 America .............. 475 Los Angeles ........88
Hyde, Harry ..................Feb. 6, '67 Golden State ......358 Los Angeles ........ 80
Jackson, Elwellt ..........June 7, '62 Henry Knox ......662 Los Angeles ........81
Jacobs, Walter ..............Sept. 17, '65 King Solomon's
Seaport ............260 San F rancisco ...... 86
Johnson, Russell ..........July 18, '66 Justice ·----·-········-549 San Francisco ......77
Keller, Oscar• t ..............May 20, '68 le Progres de
l'Oceanie ........ 371 Honolulu .............. 80
Kempf, William ............Dec. 1, '61 Doric .................... 216 San Francisco ...... 70
Kronberg, Arthur• ...... Nov. 11 , '67 G arvanza ............492 Los Angeles ........ 81
Langstaff, Edward ........Feb. 22, '65 · Warren G.
North
Sacramento ......76
Harding ·····-··-579
Lepetich, Steve ..............July 22, '63 Maricopa ............ 434 Maricopa ..............87
Logan, James• ............. .Aug. 7, '67 La Fayette .......... 126 Sebastopol ............88
McConnell, Riley ..........May 14, '63 Highland Par k ..382 Los Angeles ........76
McGinley, Raymond• ..May 17, '68 S. W. Hackett ....~74 San Diego ............69
McGraw, John ..............June 27, '58 South G ate..........320 Los Angeles ........88
McKinlay, Joseph ..........Oct. 6, '66 Forest Hill .......... 534 San Francisco ......67
Martin, Ernest ..............Jan. 11, '62 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................ 88
Martinsen, Thomas ......Nov. 19, '57 Tehachapi ..........313 Tehachapi ............78
Mattern, John ................Dec. 12, '66 Howard .............. 37 Yrek a ....................88
Mattson, Melbert .......... Aug. 29, '66 Concord .............. 117 Sacramento ..........84
Mendelson, Victor ........Jan. 12, '66 Pacific .................. 136 San Francisco ......82
Miller, Jamest .............. July 29, '66 Highland Park .. 382 Los Angeles ........ 80
Newark, Gray ................Oct. 9, '64 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno .................. 89
Niebling, William ........Aug. 27, '58 Capital City ......499 Sacramento .......... 90
Oakley, Charles ............ Dec. 16, '49 Nicolaus ..............129 Wheatland ............ 91
Southern
Off, John W ..................... Nov. 5, '62
California ......278 Los Angeles ........ 64
Ollson, Lester ................Aug. 24, '59 Berkeley ............ 363 Berkeley .............. 81
Pawloski, Charles t ......Feb. 16, '65 G lassell Park .... 605 Los Angeles ........ 88
Peirce, Charles•t ..........May 28, '68 Cahuenga .......... 513 Hollywood ............ 81
P ettit, Obe......................June 13, '67 East Gate ............ 290 Los Angeles ........67
Posch, Paul ..................Nov. 18, '65 Hermann ............ 127 San Francisco ......90
Potter, Jack• .......:..........Oct. 24, '67 Needles ..............326 Needles ................76
Ridley, Alvin ................Feb. 1, '62 East Bay ............489 Orinda ..................98
Roberts, Owent ............ Dec. 16, '60 Yount .................. 12 Napa ......................84
Roche, George ................Jan. 18, '57 South Pasadena 367 South Pasadena ..93
Roehm, Charlest .......... Aug. 5, '66 Kit Carson ..........734 Sacramento .......... 86
Rogers, Ellery ..............Sept. 14, '65 PeITis ................. .411 P erris ....................77
Rosenzweig, Sam ..........Jan. 6, '60 Argonaut ............ 461 San Francisco ......72
Schrock, Aaron•t ........Apr. 16, '68 Santa Maria ......580 Ramona ................ 96
Schroder, John ..............Mar. 24, '61 Mission ................169 San Francisco ......91

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
T own
Age
Scott, Harry•t ..............May 8, '68 La Cumbre ........642 Santa Barbara ....75
Scott, John ....................May 9, '63 Culver City ........467 Culver City .......... 86
Scrivner, Chester ..........Mar. 19, '65 Van Nuys ............450 Van Nuys ..............90
Short, Benjamin ............Apr. 5, '55 Sunnyside .......... 577 Los Angeles ........ 84
Slater, Frank• .............. Aug. 4, '67 Union .................. 58 Sacr amento ..........81
Specht, Frank ................May 9, '60 Crocker ..............454 Da ly City .............. 81
Steigelman, Warrent ....Mar. 19, '60 Bellilower ..........523 Bellflower ............85
Stewart, Charles .......... Apr. 5, '61 San Juan ............ 732 Fair Oaks ............87
Stewart, James ..............Feb. 20, '44 Calaveras .......... 78 San Andreas ........97
Stites, Joseph ................Sept. 17, '63 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................ 89
Street, Alvin ................Apr. 14, '55 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena ..............95
Sullivan, James ..............Oct. 2, '63 Fremont ............. .497 Oakland ................ 80
Suther land, William ....Mar. 10, '58 Redondo ..............328 Redondo Beach .. 91
Swanson, George ..........Mar. 15, '62 Needles .............. 326 Needles ................ 87
Taforo, Charlest .......... Nov. 18, '57 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................ 81
Taylor, Myr ont ............ Dec. 28, '64 South P ark ........563 Hawthorne ..........72
Townson, James ............Feb. 14, '62 Stanislaus ..........206 Modesto ··--···········93
Varnum, Raymond ........Apr. 10, '67 Alta Vista ......... .464 San Francisco ......65
Walker, William ..........May 10, '67 Menlo Park ........ 651 Menlo Park ..........90
Warden, Robert ............June 1, '56 Marin ..................191 San Rafael ............ 89
Webber, Lewis• ............July 7, '67 Atascadero ........493 Atascadero ..........86
Weinberg, Harryt ........Apr. 9, '62 Doric .................... 216 San Francisco ......82
Wilcox, George ..............July 29, '66 Guardian ............ 596 South Gate .......... 88
Wilson, Sidney ..............J an. 6, '62 Oak Grove .......... 215 Alameda ..............81
Wold, Frederick t ..........Jan. 24, '66 Benicia ................ 5 Benicia .................. 68
Woodall, J ack• ..............Nov. 8, '67 Highland Park .. 382 Los Angeles ........ 73
Wurslin, Theodore• ......May 24, '68 Elk Grove .......... 173 Elk Grove ............ 91
Yates, Eddie• ................ Feb. 14, '68 West Los
Angeles ..........373 Los Angeles ........88

362

MEN ADMITTED JULY l, 1967 TO JUNE 30, 1968
• A VERAGE AGE 80.76 YEARS

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
T own
A ge
Axelson, Edwin ............Aug. 5, '67 Alpha ..................431 Richmond ............ 76
Allen, Arthur ................Aug. 25, '67 San Fr anciscoVictory ............360 San Francisco ......79
Bailey, Rex ·····-·············Dec. 6, '67 Delano ................309 Delano ..................83
Banet, Jesse ..................July 13, '67 Amity-Seal
R ock ................ 370 San Francisco ...... 82
Cobeldick, George ......Sept. 26, '67 Madison .............. 23 Gr ass Valley ........73
Dalton, James................ Aug. 2, '67 Oak Grove .......... 215 Alameda ..............90
Ellis, Elonzo ....................Dec. 12, '67 Lorenzo ..............709 San Lorenzo ........72
Frix, William ................Apr. 25, '68 Van Nuys ..........450 Van Nuys ..............84
Gardnei:t_ John ..............Dec. 1, '67 Alta Vista ..........464 San Francisco ......78
Keller, u sca.r ..................May 20, '68 le Progres de
l'Oceanie ........371 Honolulu .............. 80
Kronber g, Arthur ........Nov. 11, ' 67 Garvanza ........... .492 Los Angeles ........80
Logan, James ................Aug. 4, '67 La F ayette .......... 126 Sebastopol ............ 87
McGinley, Raymond ....May 17, '68 S. W. Hackett ....574 San Diego ............69
Morse, Erwin ................Aug. 8, '67 Reseda ................ 666 Reseda ..................79
Pattee, McRobert ..........Apr. 5, '68 Lompoc ..............262 Lompoc ................78
Peirce, Charles ..............May 28, '68 Cahuenga •......... 513 Hollywood ............81
Potter, Jack ....................Oct. 24, '67 Needles .............. 326 Needles ................75
Schrock. Aaron ............Apr. 16, '68 Santa Maria ...... 580 Ramona ................98
Scott, Harry ..................May 8, '68 La Cumbre ........ 642 Santa Barbara ....75
Slater, Frank ................Aug. 4, '67 Union .................. 58 Sacramento ..........80
Slavin, William ............July 6, '67 Altadena ............ 678 Altadena .............. 86
Webber, Lewis ..............July 7, '67 Atascadero ....... .493 Atascadero .......... 85

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Lodge
Name
No.
Town
Admitted
Age
Woodall, Jack ................Nov. 8, '67 Highland Park ..382 Los Angeles ........ 73
Wurslin, Theodore ......May 24, '68 Elk Grove .......... 173 Elk Grove ............ 90
Yates, Eddie ..................Feb. 14, '68 West Los
Angeles ..........373 Los Angeles ........88

WITHDRAWN
Name
Date
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Nelson, Stephen ......... .Aug. 22, '67 Eden .................... 113 San Leandro ........ 59
Pattee, McRobert ........May 12, '68 Lompoc ..............262 Lompoc ................78
Slavin, William ............Aug. 16, '67 Altadena ............678 Altadena ..............86
York, Ward ....................Aug. 3, '67 Gardena ..............372 Gardena ................ 96

MEN DECEASED JULY 1. 1967 TO JUNE 30. 1968
AVERAGE AGE 86.09 YEARS
Name
Date
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Allen, William ..............July 6, '67 Mission ................ 169 San Francisco ...... 94
Bacon, Walter ..............June 29, '68 Mount Olive ...... 506 Los Angeles ........ 83
Brasington, James ........July 3, '67 Ramona .............. 457 Monter ey Park....89
Bremser, Arthur ..........Nov. 17, '67 East Gate ............290 Los Angeles ........87
Cobeldick, George ........Oct. 20, '67 Madison .............. 23 Grass Valley ........ 73
Dunn, William ..............Sept. 26, '67 East San Diego .. 561 San Diego ............ 81
Farley, E verett ..............Dec. 20, '67 Petaluma ............180 Petaluma .............. 78
Finch, Walter ................Jan. 19, '68 Cahuenga .......... 513 Hollywood ............82
Frare, Giacomo ............May 11, '68 Golden. Gate
Speranza ........ 30 San Francisco ......87
Gerhart, William ..........May 8, '68 Pentalpha .......... 202 Los Angeles ........94
Hagemann, Henry ........May 9, '68 Hermann ............127 San Francisco ......84
Hyde, Ross .......................May 4, '68 Eagle Rock ........422 Los Angeles ........82
Mason, Fred ..................Nov. 4, '67 West Gate .......... 335 Los Angeles ........84
Morse, Erwin ..................Jan. 10, '68 Reseda ................666 Reseda .................. 79
Nelson, Robert .............. Aug. 31, '67 Caledonia ..........486 Bakersfield .......... 86
Payne, John ..................Mar. 14, '68 Union .................. 58 Sacramento ..........93
Rader, Edward ..............May 16, '68 Balder .................. 393 San Francisco ...... 83
Randall, Finelle ............Feb. 1, '68 Sojourner .......... 607 Duarte ..................95
Rumfeltt. Clarence ........ Apr. 11, '68 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................92
Souter, John ..................Nov. 30, '67 Oakland .............. 188 Oakland ................87
Whittard, Ernest .......... May 10, '68 Bear Mountain.. 76 Angels Camp ......96
Wilder, William ............ Oct. 30, '67 Friendship ..........210 San Jose ................85

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

365

UNION CITY, CALIFORNIA

ANNUAL REPORT
JULY 1. 1967 TO JUNE 30, 1968
NAMES OF WOMEN RESIDENTS-AVERAGE AGE 83.35 YEARS
•Indicates admission during current year
tlndicates couples
T own
Age
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Abbott, Sarah ................Mar. 10, '60 Mizpah ................ 378 Los Angeles ........ 82
Allen, Helena ................June 29, '65 Mission ................ 169 San Francisco ......87
Allen, Maude ................ Au g. 22, '58 Lexington ..........104 El Monte .............. 85
Ames, Myra ....................May 8, '54 Delano ................ 309 Delano ..................81
Anderson, Hattie ..........May 30, '57 J ewel .................. 374 San Francisco ....94
Andrews, Lela .............. Sept. 2, '58 Friendship .......... 210 Sa n J ose ..............92
Angwin, Hilda ..............Nov. 14, '62 Berkeley ............ 363 Berkeley ..............81
Appel, Henrietta .......... Aug. 12, '60 Vermont
Square ............515 Inglewood ............82
Huntington
Baker, Winifred• ........Sept. 1, '67 Hunti ngton
Beach ................81
Beach .............. 380
Barnett, Marie ..............Mar. 21, '63 Acorn ................. .494 Oakland ................79
Barstow, E va ..................Jan. 19, '60 Willow Glen ...... 676 San J ose ..............86
Bennett, Rose ................Oct. 9, ' 61 Golden State .... 358 Los A ngeles ........86
Bentley, Mary t ............Nov. 19, '64 Sanger ................ 316 Sanger .................. 65
Bergen, Anna ................Nov. 28, '60 San FranciscoVictory ............360 San Francisco .... 93
Bielar, Grace ..................Apr. 23, '62 Santa Cruz ........ 38 Santa Cruz ..........81
Biggar, Effie ..................Apr. 13, '62 Mission ................ 169 San F rancisco ...... 77
Biggart, Ada• ..............Mar. 29, '68 Alta Vista ......... .464 San Francisco ......85
Black, Evalita ..............July 17, '59 King David's ...... 209 San Luis Obispo .. 87
Bloy, Edith ....................Nov. 2, '55 Dunsmuir ..........297 Dunsmuir ............96
Blum, Lena ....................May 14, '58 San Diego .......... 35 San Diego ............80
Brokaw, Leona ..............Apr. 17, '58 H umb old t .......... 79 Eureka ..................87
Brown, J ean .................. Apr. 23, '50 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ..........88
Browne, Rachel .......... .".June 21, '54 Las Palmas ........ 366 Fresno .................. 79
Caffrey, Marie ..............Mar. 20, '63 Abell .................. 146 Ukia h .................... 89
Campbell, Alice ............Oct. 25, '63 Lebanon ............. .495 San Francisco ......81
Campbe ll, Blanche • ....Nov. 29, '67 King Solomon's
Seaport ..........260 San Francisco ...... 87
Campbell, Norvat ........Jan. 18, '66 Pres id io ..............354 San Francisco ...... 73
Carlson, Lisa ..................Feb. 17, '61 Balder ................393 San Francisco ...... 74
Carroll, Frances ............Aug. 1, '60 Alamed a ............167 Fremont ................83
Carswell, Adella .......... Dec. 31, '58 La Fayette .......... 126 Sebastopol ............ 95
Caspare, Flora • ............Aug. 11, '67 Table Mountain ..124 Paradise ................ 77
Casterline, Mary .......... Apr. 10, '34 Oceanside ..........381 Oceanside ............ 95
Castle, Ollie .................. Nov. 26, '61 S.W. Hackett ....574 San Diego ............ 83
Cheney, H azel .............. Au g. 15, '51 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ........82
Christian, Nellie ..........Aug. 21, '64 Hawa iian ............ 21 Honolulu ..............83
Corbin, Elsa ..................May 31, '61 Clovis ................ ..417 Clovis .................... 84
Crawshaw, Della ..........Apr. 30, '64 Willow Glen ...... 676 SGtn Jose ................78
Davis, V. Mae ................J uly 10, '62 Vermont
Square ............515 I nglewood ............85
Decker, Yolande
(Wuster) ....................Aug. 2, '59 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ........77
De Ruchie, Irma ..........June 15, '66 Fellowship ........480 Oakland ................79
De Witt, Edith• ............Apr. 26, '68 Kit Carson ........734 Sacr amento .......... 88
Diefenbach, Bertha ......F eb. 20, '62 Solano ................229 Vallejo ..................80
Donaldson, J. Elaine ....Feb. 14, '58 Marin .................. 191 San Raifael .......... 87
Drysdale, Charlotte ...... July 5, ' 62 San FranciscoVictor y ............360 San Francisco ...... 84
Dul!er, Lola ..................June 2, '65 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ......77

366

367

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRANO LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Admitted
Name
No.
Lodge
Age
Town
Dunbar, EHzabeth• ......Dec. 9, '67 West Adams ...... 565 Los Angeles ........87
Dunn, Eleanor ................Feb. 9, '62 Henry S. Orme ..458 Los Angeles ........75
Eason, Eunice• ..............Dec. 30, '67 lllinoistown ...... 51 Colfax ..................86
Eastman, Leona ............Mar. 7, '63 Solano ................229 Vallejo ..................79
Edwardes, Lina ............ May 23, '50 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ......86
Elliott, Maud ................June 15, '48 Beverly Hills ....528 Beverly Hills ......90
Ely, Eva ..........................Aug. 24, '55 Buckeye .............. 195 Winters ................85
Fanning, Jennie ............ Nov. 4, '57 Oakland ..............188 Oakland ................88
Farrar, Gertrude ..........June 4, '65 Mill Valley ........ 356 Mill Valley .......... 85
Feiling, Idabel .............. Feb. 3, '59 Mountain View .. 194 Mountain View ....87
Flemming, Thora ..........J an. 3, '58 Mendocino ....... ...179 Mendocino ............86
Forgie, Helene ..............Feb. 25, '63 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton ..............84
Foster, Mary ..................Feb. 15, '63 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ... ............. 86
Freulich, Helene ..........July 11, '59 Hollywood ........355 Hollywood ............ 80
G erhart, Charlotte........ Aug. 15, '66 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ....76
Gilliam, Estelle ............Mar. 20, '46 Hemet ................615 Hemet .................. 84
Gilmore, Emma ............Feb. 26, '64 Three Pillars .... 613 Sacramento ........ 76
Green, Nina ..................May 10, '67 Soquel ................746 Soquel .................. 73
Grindell, Matilda ..........Jan. 13, '64 Eucalyptus ........243 Hayward .............. 93
Gundlach, Nancy..........June 8, '62 Bakersfield ........224 Bakersfield ..........84
Hagemann, Gladys
(Moulthrop) ................ Oct. 1, '64 Mission ................ 169 San Francisco ......79
Hammond, Rose• ........June 11, '68 Redwood City .... 168 Redwood City ....79
Hansen, Grace ..............Jan. 11, '60 Riverbank .......... 459 Riverbank ............81
Hare, Viole t ....................May 12, '60 Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco ...... 88
Harper, Laura ..............Nov. 6, '57 Yolo .................... 81 Yolo ......................85
Hawkins, Evelyn .......... Apr. 4, '61 Yerba Buena ......403 Oakland ................ 84
Hedburg, Huldah ..........Mar. 5, '58 Fresno ................247 Fresno .................. 89
Heintz, Mary ................ May 20, '66 North Star ........ 91 Fort Jones .......... 77
Helmore, Ada ................Oct. 9, '59 Mill Valley ........ 356 Mill Valley ..........92
Hennings, Mabel
(Hascall)t ....................Oct. 3, '60 Charity ................ 362 Campbell .............. 80
Hink, Loula ....................July 26 '65 Crockett ............139 San Francisco ......76
Hinze, Henrietta ............Jan. 27, '54 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton ..............83
Hoskins, Elizabeth ........May 3, '55 Lancaster ......... .437 Lancaster ............89
Howard, Nina ................June 13, '66 Amity-Seal
Rock ................ 370 San Francisco ......85
Hyde, Florence ..............Feb. 8, '62 Eagle Rock ....... .422 Los Angeles ........84
Hyland, Erle ..... - ...........Dec. 3, '56 Sun Garden ......530 Fresno ..................81
Ireland, Lillian ............ Aug. 10, '61 Parnassus .......... 388 San Francisco ......72
Jackson, Gladys
(Garrison)t ·········-·····Feb. 1, '64 Mountain View..194 Mountain View ....72
J efts, Marie
(Reasoner) ..................July 21, '48 San Jose ............ 10 San Jose .............. 86
Jones, Emma ................Nov. 9, '66 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................78
Kapantais , Edith ..........Feb. 14, '55 Ionic ....................520 Los Angeles ........84
Keller, Esther•t ............May 21, '68 le Progres de
l'Oceanie ........371 Honolulu .............. 72
Kosht, Jennie• ..............Mar. 28, '68 El Sereno ............588 Los Angeles ........89
Kreamer, Louise ..........Dec. 11, '64 R edondo ............ 328 Redondo Beach ..90
Laidlaw, Grace ............Dec. 16, '66 Carquinez ..........337 Crockett ................ 88
Larsen, Myrtle• ............ Sept. 29, '67 Berkeley ............ 363 Berkeley ..............83
Larter, Gertrude .......... Sept. 5, '49 Moneta ............... .405 Los Angeles ........80
Locke, Teresa ................Mar. 9, '62 Mill Valley ........ 356 Mill Valley ........ 102
Look, C. Maude ............Mar. 16, '59 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu ............ 86
Luscombe, Laura .......... June 29, '58 Richmond .......... 375 San Francisco ......90
Mackenzie, Marie• ........Feb. 14, '68 Hollenbeck ........ 319 Los Angeles ........73
Mackenzie, May ............June 30, '41 Bay View ........... .401 Oakland ................89
MacKinnon, Dorothy....July 29, '61 Alta Loma ........ 643 Long Beach ........ 80
Marsan, Emily• ............Dec. 7, '67 Foothill .............. 564 Oakland ................ 83
Marshall, Lucy ..............June 29, 61 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ......79

Age
Admitted
Town
No.
Name
Lodge
Matthews, Annie ..........Mar. 9, '56 Sotoyome .......... 123 Healdsburg ........103
Mayfield, Mary ............Sept. 22, '35 Alpha ..................431 Richmond .......... 95
McAdam, Emma .......... Sept. 12, '60 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento .......... 85
McCue, Mabel• ..............Dec. 29, '67 Blue Lakes ···-···714 San Bruno ............ 81
McDonald, Maude• ......July 25, '67 Temple ................ 14 Sonoma ................ 82
McDowell, Alice ..........Mar. 24, '32 Alcatraz .............. 244 Oakland ................ 92
Mettler, Stella• ............Nov. 13, '67 Utopia ................537 Los Angeles ........ 73
Miller, Bessiet ·····-·······July 29, '66 Highland Park ..382 Los Angeles ........85
Miller, Catherine ..........Apr. 20, '57 Sunset ................352 Los Angeles ........ 85
Miller, Mildred ..............Dec. 1, '64 Alisa! ..................321 Pleasanton .......... 78
Munn, Margaret ............Mar. 4, '65 San Jose ............ 10 San Jose .............. 76
Nayer, Diena ................Sept. 15, '65 Oceanside ..........381 Oceanside ............ 81
Nelson, Christina ..........July 8, '66 Caledonia ......... .486 Bakersfield .......... 85
Nussbaum, Ida ..............Feb. 23, '60 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ................ 89
Olsen, Minnie ................ May 28, '52 Humboldt .......... 79 Eureka .................. 85
Olsh, Sophia ..................Apr. 25, '60 Union .................. 58 Sacramento .......... 82
Patterson, Reine ............ May 3, '66 Cahuenga .......... 513 Hollywood .......... 86
Pawloski, Maryt ..........Feb. 16, '65 Glassell Park ....605 Los Angeles ........ 87
Peirce, Alice•t .............. May 28, '68 Cahuenga ..........513 Hollywood ..........81
Pellissier, Georgetta ....Oct. 20, '65 Mariposa ............ 24 Mariposa ..............72
Peterson, Lillie• ............Apr. 25, '68 Golden West ......455 San Francisco ......83
Pitts, Adelaide ..............Feb. 5, '54 Mendocino .......... 179 Mendocino ............88
Prestidge, Cora ............June 12, '67 Visalia ................128 Visalia ..................74
Raby, Gertrude ..............Dec. 17, '57 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ......89
Ray, Ada ........................ Aug. 18, '61 Baldwin Park .... 660 Baldwin Park ...... 83
Rehdorf, Josephine ......Apr. 25, '63 San Jose ............ 10 San Jose .............. 85
Rice, Phebe• ................Aug. 26, '67 Lorenzo ..............709 San Lorenzo ........86
Roberts, V. Myrlet ......Dec. 16, '60 Yount .................. 12 Napa ...................... 84
Ries, Gladys ..................June 10, '68 Mount Olive ...... 506 Los Angeles ........76
Robertson, Margaret.... Apr.17, '63 Hesperian ........264 Santa Maria ........86
Robinson, Erma
(Nicolaus) ....................Jan. 27, '59 Unity .................. 368 Glendale ..............75
Roehm, Olivet ..............Aug. 5, '66 Kit Carson ....... .734 Sacramento ..........86
Rogers, Isabel ................May 6, '61 Bixby Knolls .... 699 Long Beach ..........81
Ross, Jean ..................:... Apr. 16, '58 Pacific ................136 San Francisco ...... 82
VeritasJ onathan ........ 545 San Francisco ......96
Rounds, Florence ........June 12, '54
Russell, Sybil ................ Sept. 17, '60 Utopia ................ 537 Los Angeles ........87
Ryder, Bertha ................ Oct. 17, '58 West Lake ........392 Los Angeles ........84
Sargent, Inez .................. July 19, '65 Berkeley ............ 363 Berkeley ..............80
Schlueter, Louise .......... July 18, '63 Eden ....................113 San Leandro ........92
Schmidt, Marie ............May 19, '67 Arlington ..........414 Los Angeles ........83
Schro(;k, Edith*t ..........Apr. 16, '68 Santa Maria ...... 580 Ramona ................ 90
Scovel, Marie ................July 4, '58 Santa Ana .......... 241 Santa Ana ............72
Scott, Will-Tom• t ........ May 8, '68 La Cumbre ........ 642 Santa Barbara ....70
Seymour, Laura ............Feb. 1, '36 Honolulu ............409 Honolulu ..............90
Shonwald, Irene• ........June 28, '68 Presidio .............. 354 San Francisco ......66
Singler, M. Louise ......Sept. 17, '63 Benicia ................ 5 Benicia ..................84
Skeen, Emma ................Apr. 28, '65 Antioch ..............175 Antioch ................74
Smith, Hazel ..................Mar. 16, '61 Park Boulevard..568 Oakland ................82
Smith, Lillian ................ Oct. 16, '61 El Cajon ............ 576 El Cajon ................90
Snowden, J ean .............. Dec. 29, '58 Ferndale ............ 193 Ferndale .............. 94
Steigelman, Joant ......Mar. 19, '60 Bellflower .......... 523 Bellflower ............ 82
Stevenson , Teresa ........ Feb. 28, '63 Lodge Maui ........472 Kahului ................ 85
Stewar t 1 Edna May ......Dec. 15, '61 East Gate ..........290 Los Angeles ........ 79
Stitt, Hilda ....................July 31, '64 Thousand Oaks .. 478 Berkeley ..............68
Stover, Ruby ....................July 8, '65 Durant ................268 Berkeley .............. 76
Straight, Johanna ........Dec. 14, '63 Fruitvale ............ 336 Oakland ................ 75
Stromberg, Laura ........ Mar. 5, '59 Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco ......83
Swain, Sarah ..................Feb. 1, '51 Apollo ................ 396 Alameda .............. 89
Sweeney, Sada ............Sept. 12, '59 Los Angeles ...... 42 Los Angeles ........93

368

369

PROCBEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Sweet, Jennie• ..............May 6, '68 San Gabriel ........ 546 San Gabriel ........73
S w inney, Helen• ..........Mar. 14, '68 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton ..............83
Taforo, May (Pace)• ......Oct. 31, '57 Santa Cruz ........ 38 Santa Cruz ..........76
Taylor, Alma
(Sanford)t ..................Jan. 5, '64 University .......... 394 Torrance .............. 77
Taylor, Jessie ................Aug. 31 '65 El Sereno .......... 588 Los Angeles ........89
Tillman, Ruby ..............Aug. 2, '63 Mount Moriah .. 44 San Francisco ......84
Tra nmal, Ebba • ............ May 11, '68 Live Oak .......... 61 Oakland ................78
Van Harreveld,
Constance ..................June 25, '64 King David's .... 209 San Luis Obispo .. 82
Van S ickle, Josephine.. Apr. 28, ' 64 Fresno ................247 Fresno ..................90
Velsir, Vera ....................J an. 24, '64 Los Gatos ..........292 Los Gatos ............84
Weinberg, A da
(Bartrip)t .................... Feb. 7, '63 Redondo ............ 328 Redondo Beach ....79
Wells, Grace• .............. Sept. 20, '67 Moneta ............. .405 Los Angeles ........ 85
Wheat, Daisy ..................Dec. 29, '59 Meridia n ............ 667 Glendale ..............90
White, Harriette ..........Nov. 19, '62 Blackmer ......... .442 San Diego ............96
Whittaker, Ada ..............Oct. 8, '52 Bay View ......... .401 Oakland ................95
Wilhelm, J e nnie ............Dec. 30, '65 Highland Park ..382 Los Ange les ........84
Will, Della ...................... Oct. 13, '66 Sun Garden ......530 Fresno .................. 81
Williams, Winnie ........ Sept. 22, '61 Sequoia .............. 349 Oakland ................88
Wilson, Ella ..................June 5, ' 67 BelvedereSunrise ..........522 Monterey Park ....83
Wirth, B. Eileen ............Jan. 29, '65 Justice ................ 549 San Francisco ...... 83
Wold, Mattie
(Morefield)t .............. Apr. 5, ' 65 Riverside ............ 635 Riverside .............. 67
Wood , Clara ..................Aug. 24, '65 Balder ................ 393 San Francisco ...... 83
Wood, Cora .................... Jan. 27, '67 McKinley ..........347 Sa n Pablo ............ 88
Wynman, Eva ..............Sept. 2, '59 Apollo ................ 396 Alameda ..............91
Wright, Alice ................Nov. 13, '64 Tehama .............. 3 Sacramento .......... 85
Zimmerman, Edith ...... Oct. 28, '63 Naval .................. 87 Vallejo ..................88

Town
Lodge
Name
Age
No.
Admttted
Peterson, Lillie ..............Apr. 23, '08 Golden West ...... 455 San Francisco ...... 82
Rice, Phebe .................... Aug. 26, '67 Lorenzo .............. 709 San Lorenzo ........85
Ries, Gladys ..................June 10, '68 Mount Olive ...... 506 Los Angeles ........76
Scott, Will-Tom .............. May 8, '68 La Cumbre ........642 Santa Barbara ....69
Schrock, Edith ..............Apr. 16, '68 Santa Maria ...... 580 Ramona ................ 90
Shonwald, Irene ..........June 28, '68 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ......66
Sweet, J ennie ................May 6, '68 San Gabriel ......546 Sa n Gabriel ........12
Swinney, Helen ............ Mar. 14, '68 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton ..............83
Tranmal, Ebba ..............May 11, '68 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................ 78
Wells, Grace .................. Sept. 20, '67 Moneta ............... .405 Los Angeles ........ 84

WOMEN ADMITTED JULY 1, 1967 TO JUNE 30, 1968

A VE.RAGE AGE 79.44 YEARS
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
T own
Age
Ba ker, Winifred .......... Sept. 1, '67 Huntington
Huntington
Beach ............360
Beach ................81
Biggart, Ada .................. Ma r. 29, '68 Alta Vista .......... 464 San Francisco ......85
Campbell, Blanche ......Nov. 29, '67 King Solomon's
Seaport ......... .260 San Francisco ......86
Caspare, Flora ..............Aug. 11, '67 Table
Mountain ........124 Paradise ..............76
De Witt, Edith .............. Apr. 26, '68 Kit Carson ........734 Sacramento ..........88
Dunbar, Elizabeth ........Dec. 9, '67 West Adams ...... 565 Los Angeles ........86
Eason, Eunice ................ Dec. 30, '67 Illinoistown ...... 51 Colfax ..................85
Hammond., Rose ..........June 11, '68 Redwood City .... 168 Redwood City ....79
Holeman, Mary ..........Feb. 29, '68 Neptune .............. 619 Long Beach ........62
K eller, Esther ................ May 21, '68 le Progres de
l'Oceanie ........ 371 Honolulu .............. 72
Kosht, Jennie ................Mar. 28, '68 El Sereno ..........588 Los Angeles ........89
L arsen, Myrtle ............Sept. 29, '67 Berkeley ............ 363 Berkeley ·······-·····82
Marsan, Emily ..............Dec. 7, '67 Foothill ..............564 Oakland ................ 82
McDonald, Maude ........July 25, '67 Temple ................ 14 Sonoma ................81
McCue, Mabel ................Dec. 29, '67 Blue L akes ........ 714 San Bruno ..........80
Mettler, Stella ..............Nov. 13, '67 Utopia ................537 Los Angeles ........72
Mackenzie, Marie ........Feb. 14, '68 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ........ 72
Pattee, Leola ..................Apr. 5, '68 Lompoc .............. 262 Lom poc ................80
Peirce, Alice ..................May 28, '68 Cahuenga .......... 513 Hollywood ............81

WITHDRAWN
Name
Date
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Holeman, Mary ............May 26, '68 Neptune ..............619 Long Beach ........62
Pattee, Leola .................. May 12, '68 Lompoc ..............262 Lompoc ................80
WOMEN DECEASED JULY 1. 1967 TO JUNE 30, 1968
AVERAGE AGE 83.43 YEARS
T own
Lodge
Name
Age
No.
Date
Briggs, Maude ............. .Nov. 4, '67 San Joaquin ...... 19 Stockton ..............76
Brown, Eunice ..............Aug. 31, '67 Burbank ........... .406 Burbank .............. 68
Hertel, Agnes ................ May 2, '68 South Gate ........ 320 Los Angeles ........ 80
Hume, Mary ..................Jan. 13, ' 68 America ............. .475 Los Angeles ........ 78
Hyde, M. Gertrude ......Feb. 14, '68 Cupe rtino ..........510 Cupertino ............ 90
Lagomarsino,
Henrietta ....................Aug. 30, '67 Henry Clay ........ 95 Sutter Creek ...... 93
Les lie, Mary ..................Feb. 19, '68 Mount Diablo ....448 Concord ................85
Meck, Lulu ....................Apr. 28, '68 King David's .... 209 San Luis Obispo .. 85
Muller, Carolyn ..........July 29, '67 Golden West ...... 455 San Francisco ...... 86
McNairn, Verda ...... :...May 22, '68 Wasco .................. 583 Wasco ·····-···· .......85
Pease, Edith ..................Nov. 16, ' 67 San Bernardino .. 348 San Bernardino .... 82
Posch, M artha .............. Sept. 18, '67 Hermann ....... ..... 127 San Francisco ...... 85
Ruch , Ada .................... Feb. 6, '68 Progressive ........578 Los Angeles ........ 79
Schooley, Mary ............ Nov. 30, '67 East Bay ............489 Orinda ..................90
Timmer, Anne ............ J an . 14, '68 Presidio .............. 354 San Francisco .... 80
Wisewell, Evelyn .......... Dec. 24, '67 California .......... 1 San Francisco ....93

370

PROCl!.l!.DINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

CHILDREN AT COVINA HOME

CHILDREN AT CO·VINA HOME

June 30. 1968

June 30, 1968

BOYS-tO

GIRLS-26

Admitted
N o.
Name
Lodge
Age
T own
Barnes, Larry ..............June 18, '66 San Bernardino 348 San Bernardino .... 15
Bickers taff, John ..........Se pt. 21, ' 66 Lancaster ..........437 Lancas ter .............. 16
Bloed el, Kurt ................ June 16, 62 Mount Olive ... ...506 L os Angeles ........15
Boehmer, Scott........... - ...Oct. 23, '65 Sa n Marino ........685 Sa n Marino .......... 7
Cox, Dennis .................. Sept . 7, '55 Fairfax ............. ... 556 L arkspur .............. 17
Crane, Joe ....................April 22, '67 Highland Park ..382 Los Angeles ........12
Figearo, Ber t ..................May 16, '65 Covenant ......... ... 527 Hawthorne .......... 11
Foott, Timothy ............Nov. 13, '66 Meridian ............ 667 Glendale .............. 15
Gockley, Craig .............. Mar. 1, '65 Saint Elmo ........697 Oakland ................ 16
H amblin, Michael ........ Nov. 5, '66 Ashlar ................ 306 Colton ....................15
Hennessey, J . D. • ........Sept. 11, '67 Van Nuys ......... .450 Van Nuys .............. 9
Hennessey, Joe • .......... Sept. 11 , '67 Van Nuys ......... .450 Van Nuys .............. 7
Jenner, Michael .......... June 24, '67 Wilshire .............. 445 Los Angeles ........ 15
Johnson, Bob ................June 23, '67 Sotoyom e ............ 123 Healdsburg ..........12
Kausrud, Stuart..............J an . 26, '64 Burbank ..............406 Burbank ................15
Knauer, Douglas ......... .June 18, '66 Ashlar ................306 Colton ....................11
Knauer, Larry ..............June 18, '66 Ashlar ................306 Colton ....................15
Knauer, Paul ................June 18, '66 Ashlar ................ 306 Colton ....................10
Mann, George ................Jan. 1, '57 Alta Vista .......... 464 Sa n Francisco ...... 17
Mayo, Mitchen• ............Oct. 16, '68 Bear Mounta in .. 76 Angels Camp ...... 9
Mayo, Ray mond•• ........ Sept. 10, ' 67 Bear Mounta in .. 76 Angels Camp ..... .13
Meyers, Dean ................Apr. 11, '66 Sunnyside ..........577 Los Angeles ........ 7
Meyers, Gary ................Apr. 11, '66 Sunnysid e ..........577 Los Angeles ........ 9
Miles, Joseph ................Aug. 28, '66 Palos Verdes ......389 Long Beach ..........16
Miller, Richard• ............ Apr. 6, '68 Altadena ............678 Altadena ..............10
Moore, Danielt ..............Nov. 10, '62 Benton ·-············· 64 Benton, Illinois .. 11
Moore, David t ..............N ov . 10, '62 B enton ................ 64 Benton, Illinois ..13
Moore, Deant ................Nov . 10, '62 Benton ................ 64 Benton, Illinois ..10
P edretti, Andrew ..........Oct. 1, '66 Crystal Honor 1025 Crystal Honor,
Illinois .............. 12
Pedre tti, Timothy ..........Oct. I, '66 Crystal H on or 1025 Crystal Honor,
Illinois .............. 9
Perkins, Mark ..............Sept. 6, '63 Sojourner .......... 607 Duarte ..................15
Perkins, Raymond ......Sept. 6, '63 Sojourner .......... 607 Duarte ..................12
Perkins, Walter ............ Sept. 6, '63 Sojourner .......... 607 Duarte ..................16
Pet zold, Allen• ............June 18, '68 Warwick ............ 544 Warw ick, N.Y....... 13
Pr~ce, Meredith ............Apr. 2, '66 Blackmer ............ 442 San Diego ............ 7
Price, W a llace .............. Aug. 14, '66 Black mer ............ 442 Sa n Diego ............ 6
Rogers, William ............July 21, '64 Big Bear .............. 617 Big Bear Lake .... 9
Schrader. Spencer t .... Sept. 24, '66 San Diego .......... 35 San Diego ............ 13
Ta ylor, Kevin ................Oct. 24, '63 Cahuenga .......... 513 Hollywood .......... 16
Wolfe, Waylan• ............ Aug. 20, '67 Lomita ................644 Lom ita .................. 7

Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Admitted
N ame
Bick erstaff, Donna ...... Sept. 21, '66 Lancaster ·-·········437 Lancaster ·-···········14
Crane, Diane .................. Apr. 22, '67 Highland Par k ..382 Los Angeles ........10
Cra ne, N . Terry ·-···---···Mar. 16, '64 Highland P ark ..382 Los Angeles ........17
Crane, Vivian ................Mar. 16, '64 Highland Park ..382 Los Angeles ........15
Gettig, Debra ................June 16, '64 Hollywood .......... 355 Hollywood ............10
Gettig, Linda ................ June 16, '64 Hollywood .......... 355 Hollywood ............ 9
Gockley, Lori ................ Mar. 1, '65 Saint Elmo ........ 697 Oakland ................13
Gockley, Rob in ............ Mar. l , '65 Sa int Elmo ........697 Oakland ................12
Hampton, Carol ............ Nov.18, '62 Manchester ........585 Los Angeles ........ 9
Hamp ton, J ennie .......... Nov.18, '62 Manchester ........ 585 Los Angeles ........11
Hampton, Vivian ..........Nov. 18, '62 Manchester ........ 585 Los Angeles ........13
Kna uer , Na ncy ............June 18, '66 Ash lar ................306 Colton .................... 8
Modine, Leesann .......... F eb. 5, '67 El Rancho ............759 Pico Rivera .......... 13
Mohr, Janet .................... Feb. 4, '67 Westgate ............ 335 Los Angeles ---···· 6
Mohr, Sharon ............... .Feb. 4, '67 Westgate ............335 Los Angeles ........ 8
Pe dretti, Susan ..............Oct . 1, '66 Crystal Honor .. 1025 Crystal Honor
Illinois .............. 6
Rogers, Amie.....- ...........July 21, ' 64 Big Bear ·········-···617 Big Bear Lake .... 7
Rogers, Julie ·-·-···-·······July 21, '64 Big Bear .............. 617 Big Bear Lake ··- 8
Smith, Carolyn ..............Feb. 1, '63 Signal .................. 543 Long Beach ..........16
Torrance , Debra ............Aug. 4, '61 San Marino ........ 685 San Marino ..........15
Torra nce, Kathy............ Au g. 4, '61 San Marino ........ 685 San Marino ..........13
Torra nce, La urie ..........Sept. 5, '64 San Marino ........685 San Marino .......... 7
T or r ance, Pame la ........ Au g. 27, '61 San Marino ........685 San Marino .......... 11
Torrance, Sheryl ..........Aug. 27, '61 San Mar ino ........685 San Marino .......... 10
Weddell. Paulette ........June 6, '66 Pala tine .............. 31 4 Palatine, lllinois ..16
Wolfe, Nina ·············-·····Aug. 20, '67 Lomita ................ 644 Lomita .................. 8

•Indica tes admission during current year.
••Indicates re-admission.
tSummer leave of absence.

371

DEPARTED DURING THE YEAR
July l. 1967 - June 30, 1968

BOYS-5
Age
(IJt departure date)
Date Dlilcharged
Admitted
Name
Cooper, Dwight W . ....Sept. 10, '66.................Mar. 9, '68 ............. - - ······- ··-17
Cooper, William R. ...... Sept. 10, '67.................June 13, '68 ................... _.......18
Edmunds. Robert R. ....June 13, '64 .................May 28, '68 ...........-----·-·---···16
McC ormick, J ohn L.- ....Mar. 1, ' 59 .................Aug. 19, '67 .......--·-···············14
Per k ins, Wilson H . ......Sept. 6, '63 ................June 14, '68 .........----··-···········18
GIRLS-3

Age
(at departure date)
Date Discharged
A dmitted
Edmu n ds, Deborah ......June 13, '64 .............April 15, '68..- ·-··-·········- --14
Fitzgera ld, Debra ..........Jan. 19, '64 .............Sept. 1, '67 ·······················-···16
Fitzgerald, Melanie ......Jan. 19, '64 ............. Sepl 1, '67-.............- ........... 12
Name

372

MASONIC HOMES CONTRIBUTIO NS

COVINA 11.l!SERVE (Continued)

Contributiona to Re1erve1
JULY l, 1967 - J UNE JO, 1968

MISC:

(The Lodse deaignation indicate• connec tion by
intere1t but not ne.ceasarily by membership)

MI SC:

Eduard F, Bus
Frank Borduell
Augusta s. Cooper
Charles Dettlll8n
Charles W, Fenimore
Richard F, Houck
John 11.. Ledvard
11.llen A, HllcLean
Eduard L, Hann
Robert Middleton
Fred W, Hosier
Elton R. Seil~
John T"""'ingaen
William E. Whitiker
Marion Yarborough
Jack D, Bar c hy
Verne C, Hinricb1en

Avia M, Arnhart
Roscoe Bahl1UQl1
Irene Benefield
Mary Zella Bolo
Elli M, Bronaon
Ernst Otto D1111J:og

2,000,00
500,00
10,445,62
900 , 00
l,655,81
16,952.72
295.10
30. 702. 39
3,8 33.30
2 , 000 . 00
10,805 ,37
5,798 ,52
B,474 .67
97 , 027,82
5,214 . 52

David1on Lodge 1481 )
(Oak Grove Lodge 121S)

(Mt

(Palisad es Lodge 1637)
(Garvanza Lodge #492)
(Oak Grove Lodge #215)
(Washington Lal ge 620)
(Queen Beach Lodge 1540)
(N•val Lodge #87)
(Suneet Lodge ~352)
(Oriental Lodge #144)

DeC<7I'O RESERVE
ESTATES:

S. Sidney Mor ton
Mr, & Hn, F1·eemon Thorpo

$

(Starr King Lodge 1344)

J, M, Davh

A, Ehrle
0.car Fre..,,an
LorenEo H. Haekin
Fred W, Hatch
Arthur G, Hieb
Hae Jackson
Victor Kirchhoff
Arthur C, K.t'au1 e
James H. H••on
Margaret McGuire
Albert E, Newman
Lavina Ann Northrop
Madison T. Owens
Leona S, Paxton
Grae e H, PlUllb
Frank E. Quirk
Magdalene Robertson
Jonet Road
Roberta Shenefield
Ro•e Sb.ere
Aaron Ward
Jeslie Varroll
Jeaae N. Wataou

Willi•~

(South Gate Lodge 11320)
(POl!lona Lodse 1246)
( Rllmona Lodge 1457)
(John O, Spreckela Lodge #657)
(Oak>lood Lodge 1743)
(Southern California Lal ge 1278)

500 , 00
650.18
3,699.97
900,00
7,417,75
3.87
J,000,00
170.0J
7,80l ,77
132,82
90 , 727 , 44
1,000 , 00
6,887 . 00
J,584 ,31
2,500 , 00
750.00
106,95
149,90
l, 068. 57
9, 400. 00
1,000,00
5, 371,00
500,00
500.00
5,095,09
8,144, 60
500.00

(Painoo1111t Lodge #435)

Order o! DeMolay,
California Chapter
Wil liam O, Kinberg
Edward McBride
Hrs. O. B. NevcOlll
Mi•a Nettie Sulli van
Adele s. Whar ton

Mra, Elva F, Gustafaon
Dorh v. Hage
Ted H. Hill

COVINA RESERVE
ESTATES:

Mr, &Mra, J, w. Abbey
The Ambrose & Gladya
Bowyer Foundation
Hr1 • F • H. Oea.n

RESERVE FOR ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS
ESTATES :

373

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

2,333.33
2,000.00

S, 16

MISC:

(San Jose Lodge #10)
William Allison
Mary Zella Boles
Meritt L, Boone
(Callayomi Lodge 1282)
(California Lodge fl)
Carroll R, Collupy
(Golden West Lodge #455)
Hartin L. Cuthbert
(Storr King Lodge #344)
Erna t o. Daiuog
Dora S<!Vell Hallavell
(Alcatraz Lodge 1244)
John Henry Hancock
(s .w, Hackett Lodge #574 )
George J, Hun on
Victor Kirchhoff
e
l
Cornelia Hay Litt
Kary Harsh
Curtis E. McCartney
(Santa Barbara Loda• 1192)
Maude A, Fisher Hilo
Laur a L. Nordyke
Kabel E. Potts
Alice H. R.ichard•on
George W, Ri chardson (Charter Rock Lodge '410)
llaie L. Sctu.1.dt
John P, Shult~
(Paso Robles Lodge #286)
Hllbd Spencer
(Balder Lodge #393)
Heory Vavinkjtl
(Fairmount Lodge f435)
Aaron Ward
Wil lian> H, Wdch
Dorothy Herron Wickendon

Eas t Bay Past Matrons Assn

w. s. Garvin

Eunice Hollingsworth
William O, Ki nber g

Harriet H, Moore
1961 Florence Dunn
Mar tha Assn
Redwood Empire Masonic
League

$

8 ,021,06
900, 00
500,00
24,333. 68
6, 787.50
3,8 7
12,915 .83
48,61
1, 787 , 57
3, 584, 32
52, 718 .34
45,024,61
100, 00
4,000 , 00
2,050,00
1, 362,92
500 , 00
200 , 00
500 , 00
3, 902 .5 7
7, 150 , 00
77 , 90
3,333,)4
500. 00
10,924 , 74

376

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
CJlllST!iAS A!ID Ellr£RTAlNHEllT R£SERn
(Continued)
LODGES

California No .
Tehaitl& No. 3

Yount No. 12
Eureka No. 16
La Pa rfaice Union No. 1 7
San Joaquin No . 19
w..bington No. 20
Hw aiian No. 21
l!adioon No. 23
Ei Dora do No , 26
Golden Ga te No. 30
Gold Hill No. 32
San Diego No. 35
Santa Cruz No. 38
Sftc rarnento No. 40
Los Angel es No. "4 2
Mount Horiah No . 44
Santa Rosa No. 57
Union No. 58
Ente.rpris e No. 70
Humboldt Ho, 79
Navil No. 87
Yostmite Ho. 99
Clay No. 101
Orovllle 110. 103
Lex ingto n No , 1 04
Chico No. 111
Eden No. 113
Fidelity No, 120
'Lafayette No, 126
Hermann frlo. 127
Nicolaus No . 129
Poclfic No. 136
Crockett No. 139
franklin No. 143
Or iental No, 1 44
Exe elsior No, 166
Redvood City No. 168
Anti oc h No. 175
Peta luma No, 180
Ka rin No, 1 91
Moun t ain Viev Ho. 194
Sttn S i~eon No, 196
Wilmington No. 1 98
Silveyvil le No, 201
Stanislaus No, 206
King David 's No. 209
Friendship No, 210
South San Francisco No, 212
Cia k Crave l'o. 215
Monterey No , 21 7
Jios o ic No. 218
Roseville No. 222
Bakersfie ld No .. 224
Brooklyn No. 225
S•n Hateo No. 226
Athens Na. 228

Hillo Ferry No, 236
Guadal up e No. 237
Santa Ana No. 241
Laurel No, 245
Pomona No, 246
Fre•no No. 247
Re ading No , 254
Lompoc No. 262
Hespcrian No . 264
Or land No. 265

Galt No, 267
Olive Branc h No, 269
Pasadena No . 272
Arroyo No , 274
Mount Shasta No, 281
South Wut No, 283
San Mig uel No, 285
Elsinore No, 289
Eas t Cate No , 290
Liberty No . 299
R.edla n d1 No. 300
Ont e.. r io No, 301
Azu sa No. ;)05

Ashlar No. 306
Monrov ia No, 308
Temescal No. 314
Norvalk No, 315
Redondo No, 328
Fruit'1alt No, 336
Carqu t ne t. No. 337
Fullerton No , 339
S t3rr King !'fo , )44

Palo Al to No. 346
Kc lli nl ey No, 34 7
San Bernard ino No. 348
Sequoia N'o , 349
Pal .. tin e No, 351
Kill Valley No. 356
Charity No. 362
Alllity No. 3 70
Jewel No, 374
R1clu.ond No, 375
Francia Drake No , 376
Artesia No, 377
Hizpah No. 3 78
Fillmore No, 379
El Centro No . 384
Parn•saus No , 388
Balde r No , 39 3
Ri sing Light No, 397
Burl t.ngarn.e No, 4 00
Yerba Buena No. 403
lfon c t • No. 405
La Hcsa No. 407
Honolulu No, 409
Perris No . 4ll
Silver Trowel No. 415
Lindsay No. 416
Jiidllay No , 426
San Oi1Ma No. 428
Alpha No, 4 31
Mari copa No. 434
Standard No. 4 40
Blackmer Na . 442
Torrance. No. 4'7
lit Dlablo l/n, 448
Van Nuys No. 450
Hount O.o No, 460
Argona ut No, 461
P•ul Revere No. 462
Delta No . 471
Temblor No. 4 77
T houa and O&ka No. 4 78
Golden I.ult No , 479
lit Dav idaoo No. 4111
hll No , 483
Chovchill a No, 485

Caledonll No . 486
P&tter1on No . 488
Eut 'Bay No . 489
l/oodatock No. 491
Ata1cadero No. 493
Acorn No . 494
Capital City No . 499
R.ooae.v el t No. 500
Point !lo. 503
El Segundo llo. 507
Cu pertino llo. 510
C•huenga No. 513
Tof t No, 516
Orinda No, 521
George l/ashington No, 525
Bsy Clty No• 526
Covena nt No. 527
Henry Mor ae Stephens No • .541
Slgnal No . 543
San Cabrtel Ko • .546
Point l'ir.i n No, 558
t S•n Di ego No • .561
s. 11. Hacket t No. 574
ll Ca jon Vallay No. '76
P'rogresei ve No,, 578
Kaua i No . 589
COOlpUs No, 590
Iujunga No , 592
Service No , 594
Al •xander Graha111 Boll No. ~95
Guardian No . 596
Dimond No. 603
Provident No, 609
Neptune Ho. 619
Th• Cardens No, 621
Jl ive.r1 1de Noa 6 3.5
Palhadu No. 637
In dian Rock No. 6;8
A. P.E . l rJia. Ko. 6 45
M• l ta No. 661
J(aveah No . 665
S• n Co r goni o No , 668
John P. J arma n No, 669
Fa r West No, 673
llillov Clen No , 676
Carmel No. 680
Dos Palo• No . 681
Alb•ny No. 686
San Carlos Mo. 690
India n We ll• Va l1.ev No . 691
El Cerri to No. 705
San Lor enzo Valley ~Oa 7115
Estoro No . 719
llinual !ling No . 720
Saint J ohn' • No, 725
H•rc•d No. 749
Clayton Valley 110, 756
Veat Cavlna l!o. 751
Lakoa1da !lo . 760
Joaiah w. J.olhr No, 761
Coaataida No. 762
T• jon !lo, 773
Eut llhitthr No. 776
lollifta Kilb Mo. 711
C•lni No, 82)

£••

GENERAL

APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

GENERAL

377

APPENDIX

CONTENTS
Page

Standing Committees ............................................................................ 378
Special Committees ................................................................................ 381
Constitutional Boards ................................... :...................................... 384
Masonic Homes ........:........................................................................... 385
California Masonic Memorial Temple.................................................. 38?
California Masonic Foundation ............................................................ 386
Registration and Mileage Payments........................................:........... 387
List of Constituent Lodges.................................................................... 412
Extinct Lodges, Including Consolidations.......................................... 429
Elected Officers Grand Lodge Since Organization .............................. 435
List of Inspectors.................................................................................... 442
Foreign Grand Lodges .......................................................................... 4'16
Alphabetical List of Lodges .................................................................. 452
Correspondence Report Announcement.............................................. 460
Index ...................................................................................................... 461

378

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

1968-1969
STAN 'D ING

COMMITTEES

JURISPRUDENCE
Wakefield T aylor (41) .......................................... 1270 Escobar St., Martinez 94553
Leo E. Anderson (355) ............................ 500 Mobil Oil Bldg., Los Angeles 90017
Elmer W. Heald (384) ........................................898 Wensley St., El Centro 92243
Elbert W. Davis (571) ............................................2908 Russell St., Berkeley 94705
Donald R. Fretz (99) ....... _ .......................................2806 Tahoe Dr., Merced 95340
Carl H. Allen (388) ........................................350 Arballo Dr., San Francisco 94132
John S. Hunt (445) ....................................3600 Wilshire Blvd., L os Angeles 90005
Duane Martin. (439) ........................................._. ..Route 1, Box 143, Manteca 95336
F. Jose deLanos (376) ........... - ...........355 Erica Dr., South San Francisco 94080

POLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES
Ellsworth Me)'."er (677) ......... ........ ............. 1415 Linda Ridge RdAPasadena 91103
Theodore Menam (111) ................................... _....... 713 Arbutus ve., Chico 95926
Guy B . Mize (368) .............................................. 1238 Idlewood Rd., Glendale 91202
Eugene S. Hopp (260) ............................ 2000 Van Ness Ave ., San Francisco 94109
C~are B. Campb!?ll (230) .......................... :·······----······Rt. 1, Box 682, Gridley 95948
Gilb_ert A.. Benoit (260) ............ 1880 Pacific Ave. , Apt. 504 San Francisco 94109
Manon E. Pedlar (258) ... - ............. ......................1057 - 4lst St., Sacramento 95819
Thomas R. Waite (519) .......................................... 3241 Galli St., Hawthorne 90250

FINANCE
John A. Sickenberger (392L.......... Avenida Majorca 728-A, Laguna Hills 92653
Kenrut A. :Iacobson (599) ............................417 Ninita Parkway, Pasadena 91106
J ohn C. Wiesner (144) .................................... 49 Lake Forest Dr., Daly City 94015
Uno E. Nordeen (549) .................... 1750 Taylor St., Apt. 202, San Francisco 94133
Anthony J. Oliver (509) ............................2377 Castillian Dr., Los Angeles 90028
N. Robert 9orrell (758) ..... ....................................... 18878 Tudor St., Covina 91722
Oran 0. Bridges (776) .................................... 9811 Newcomb Ave., Whittier 90603

GRIEVANCES
F olger Emerson (61) .......................................... 2001 Magellan Dr., Oakland 94611
Alfred J. M cCourtney (437) ....................... - .......3080 Sparr Blvd., Glendale 91208
Harold S. Morrison (450) .. ...................... 14615 Magnolia Blvd., Van Nuys 91403
J . Warren Manuel (494) ........................... - ............. 1212 Broadway, Oakland 94612
q1arles Becker (~44) ....... - ....................... Courthouse, South San Francisco 94080
Richar d C . Robbms (566) ............................ 210 West 7th St., L os Angeles 90014
Harold E. Rowe, Jr. (673) ... ............ ............. 2559 - 39th Ave., San Francisco 94116

CREDENTIALS
J. Glen Gladson (542) ........4201 Topanga Canyon Blvd., Woodland Hills 91364
Harry F. Lutticken (166) .............................. 1611- 7th Ave., San Francisco 94122
Lyle S. Hubbard (636) .......................... 7223 Alverstone Ave., Los Angeles 90045
Edward E. Smith (587) ............3905 Via Cardelina, Palos Verdes Estates 90275
H. Austin Mahr (566) ............... - .................................3143 F ond Dr., Encino 91316
John C. Whitfield (581). ..............- ........... 1761 Las Robles Dr., Bakersfield 93306
John W. Kennerson (384L .................................... P.0. Box 1333, El Centro 92243

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

379

PAY OF MEMBERS
Matthew M. Codon (42) ...... ... .............. ..... 530 Rossmore Ave ., Los Angeles 90005
Archer R. Richardson (185) ...... .............................................. Stewart's Point 95480
Claude Black (397) ............... ................. 7109 Stafford St., Hun tingt on Park 90255
William H. Springer (636) ........................5700 Catherwood Dr., La Canada 91011
Herbert Smith (677) ................................202-D W. Chevy Chase, Glendale 91204
Jacob M. Kartzinel (520) .. ...................... 10501 Wilshire Blvd.t....Los Angeles 90024
Donald L. Wilkerson (669). .. _......................... 2164 Fairmont ur., San Jose 95122

CHARTERS
Phillip B. Stone (727). .......................... - ...........1007 Bethany Rd ., Burbank 91504
Robert A. Smith (426) ..........................5701 Indian Wells A ve., Bakersfield 93309
John L. S haw (805) ......................................8845 E. Callita St'J. San Gabriel 91775
Alfred T. Gruening (445) ............... .446 San Vicente Blvd.J .::.anta Monica 90402
Frank Homer (666) ........................................ 610 Pullman Ra., Hillsborough 94010
Harry L. Maynard (214) ........................... .....5448 Bryn Mawr Dr., Ventura 93003
Edward G . Van Pelt (778) ..............................15509 Ocaso Ave., La Mirada 90638
Harold M. Hand (492) ...................................... 1927 Canada Blvd., Glendale 91208
Lloyd D. Ha nselman (588) .............................. 6516 Camino Caseta, Goleta 93017
Robert Hilts (327) ............................................ 3704 Weston PL, Long Beach 90807
James W. Howell (633) ............................................. .........800 Arbor, Ventura 93003
John W. Paulson, Jr. (262) ...........................- ... 125 North "X" St., Lompoc 93436
Bernard Reizner (674) .............. ................6718 E. El Salvador, Long Beach 90815

BY-LAWS
Virl Bennehoff (1) ........................................3701 Divisadero, San Francisco 94123
Charles H. Grace (635) ....................................4210 Highland PL, Riverside 92506
Robert A. Wertsch (22) ........................ 90 San Benito Way, San Francisco 94127
Bertrand F . Lurie (216) .................................... 26 Rossi Ave., San Francisco 94118
Donald M. Binkerd (693) ................ 4704 Sunny Dunes Rd., Palm Springs 92262
O. Max Sloan (241) ................................................. 18171 Be neta Way, Tustin 92680
Bernard R. Seamans (299) .................................. 1192 Kent Ave., Sunnyvale 94087

CORRESPONDENCE
George W. Burch, Jr. (650) ..............................417 So. Hill St., Los Angeles 90013
C. S. Barrett (587) ................................33701,2 San Marino St., Los Angeles 90005
Fred W. Morris (394) ........................................ 1841 Garretson Ave., Corona 91720
J . Wilson Ge tsinger (518) ....................................1453 Coast Walk, La J olla 92038
Donald Thomas (264) ....................................708 E. Church St., Santa Maria 93454
David A. Fristedt (560) ....................... .........948 Hollywood Ave., Oakland 94602
Carl 0 . Harvey (656) ................................................. ... 114 E. Locust St., Brea 92621

GRAND LODGE WEEK ACTIVITIES
William Van Ornum (374) ........... ........... 748 Wisconsin St., San Francisco 94107
Bernie J . Katz (120).. ..........-................... ...... 1864 - 28th Ave., San Francisco 94122
Lowell H. Beckendorf (462) ........................3939 Ortega St., San Francisco 94122
Phil Bovero (374) .......................................... 2222 - 39th Ave., San Francisco 94116
Perry Lawson (462) ...................................... 1978 - 46th Ave., San Francisco 94116
Edwin C. Mathisen (360) ..............................337 Douglas St., San Francisco 94114
Edward W. Quon (673) .................................. 750 Grant Ave., San Francisco 94108
Roy Wieland (454) ......................................40 Lagunitas Dr., San Francisco 94132
Joseph F . Garriott (630) .............................. 3844 - 19th Ave., San Francisco 94132
Stanley Diamond (526) ............................... .l Stonecrest Dr.hSan Francisco 94132
Frederick A. Wilson (356) .......................................... 306 - 4t St., Sausalito 94965

381

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Ben A. Katz (344) .......................................... 2166 • 47th Ave., San Francisco 94116
Chester H. Newell (562) ... _.......................25 Van Ness Ave., San Francisco 94102
Raymond J. Rodriguez (166) .................:417 Teresita Blvd., San Francisco 94127
Pt:te! M. Tripp (560) ............................................ 5878 Moraga Ave., Oakl~nd 94611
William H. Osborne (449) ............................1982 · 48th Ave., San Francisco 94116
Thomas W. Evans (61) ............................................6299 Girvin Dr., Oakland 94611
Donald L. Holmes (399) ...................................... 1952 Shrader Dr., San Jose 95124

Laurence C. Cook (648) .......................... 582 Parkdale Dr.1 San Bernardino 92404
Clarence B. Hart (626) ...................................... 248 Minot ;we., Chula Vista 92010
Thomas Scarlett, Jr. (801) .......................... 407 N. Kalaheo, K aihea, Hawaii 96734
George C. Holstein (366) .................................... 203 E . Normal Ave., Fresno 93705
Elroy D. Joyce (30) .......................................... 2927 Wawona, San Francisco 94116
Philip C. Reiner (364) .......................................... 1414 S. Miller, Santa Maria 93454
Harold J. Farr (78) ............................................... .P .0. Box 122, San Andreas 95249
Robert M. E vans (516) ..............................................204 E. San Emidio, Taft 93268
Jules Chalef (639) ................................ 1791 S. Hayworth Ave., Los Angeles 90035
George Hess (684) ......................................................... .............. Box 61, Trona 93562
Milton M. Rubin (623) ............................ 2141 W. Washington, Los Angeles 90018
Richard F. Pearce (339) ................................ 1418 E . Virginia Rd., Fullerton 92631
.
Consultants:
Richard R. F . Lehmann (351) ........................ 2136 W. 77th S t., Los Angeles 90047
Virgil S. Hollis (356) ........................ 201 Tamai Vista Blvd., Corte Madera 94925

380

LODGE FINANCING
John F. Porter (677) ............................ 1630 Antigua Way, Newport Beach 92660
Ivan Crase (435)............................................ 1000 Mills Bldg., San Francisco 94104
Benjamin Susman (529) ........................ 9171 Wilshire Blvd., Beverly Hills 90210
Roy Knapp (519)...................................... ..............5851 Wellson Dr., Cypress 90630
Wesley W. Honeyman (191) ........................ 448 Fenway Dr., Walnut Creek 94598
Henry Martini (727) ................................................527 Solway St., Glendale 91206
Keith V. Johnson (655) ..................................247 East Scott St., Long Beach 90805
Victor R. Oltmanns (505) ........................................... .4282 Seton Rd., Irvine 92664
Allyn W. Barrows (809) ..........................3162 Yellowtail Rd., Los Alamitos 90720

SPECIAL

COMMITTEE S

NECROLOGY
Edward A. Underwood (636) .................. 1310 N. Fuller Ave., Los Angeles 90046
William E. Rife (736) .................................... 2040 Dayton Dr., Lemon Grove 92045
Delbert R. McDaniel (3) ............................ 7300 Stockdale St., Sacramento 95822
Hugh Sherman (403) ...................................... 9549 CasUewood St., Oakland 94605
George R. Eaton (362)........................................ 4791 Williams Rd., San Jose 95130

RITUAL
Harold N. Richards (20)...................................... ..5260 "K" St., Sacramento 95819
Bertram C. vonKonsky (260) ................................ 3498 Oakes Dr., Hayward 94542
Frank P . Lemen (613) .......................................... 932 • 42nd St., Sacramento 95819
Ulysses G. Patropulos (260) ............ 1360 Leavenworth St., San Francisco 94109
Wallace H. Fiske (391) ..............................................P .0 . Box 631, Tuolumne 95379
Burton Meyer, Jr. (358)................................ 727 Venice Blvd., Los Angeles 90015
William H. Price (259) ................................................P .0. Box 72, Riverside 92502

MASONIC HISTORY
Phillip L. <;;oldstein (42)...................... 219 S. Hamilton Dr., Beverly Hills 90211
Paul Cowgill (l)_.................... 200 Lake Dr., Portola Park West, San Bruno 94066
William W. Glidden (2) ........................................ 2777 Regal Ave., Redding 96001
Robert E. Doe (472) ............................ R.R. 1, Box 361, Kula, Maui, Hawaii 96790
Ralph E. H. Coo~r (327) .............. :................... 4616 Arbor Rd., Long Beach 90807
Darrell D. Hull (675) ......................................................328 Ruberto, Modesto 95351
Karl A. Vandebrooke (481) ........................ 1717 -17th Ave., San Francisco 94122

-

PUBLIC SCHOOLS

-

Richard H. Dutwiler (622) ........................3920 Legion Lane, Los Angeles 90039
George ;E. Hiatt (247) ....................................... ...........1364 Echo Ave., Fresno 93728
Earl Van Vorst (286) ..............................................P.O. Box 233, Paso Robles 93446
Norbert P . tester (384) ........... ..: ...............................P.O. Box 100, El Centro 92243
Roland F . Atwood (12) ... - .............................................. .P.O. Box 2004, Napa 94558
Edwin N. Stansel (421) .............................. P .O. Box 607, Lake Arrowhead 92352
Pete B. Florio (42) .............:.-.............................816 Sierra Vista, Alhambra 91801
C!lde M. Stine (560) .................................. 3501 Fillmore St., San Francisco 94123
William R. Porter (313) .............................................. Star Route, Tehachapi 93561
Robert Kerr (725) ................................................. 1816 North 6th St., Concord 94.520
William J. Gaven (111) ............................ 123 Henshaw Ave., Sp. 300, Chico 95926

MASONIC EDUCATION
David C. Lee (492) .................................... 9965 Woodruss Ave. , Temple City 91780
Arthur Dvorin (639) ......................................454 S. Detroit S t., Los Angeles 90036
John M. Bowersox (79) ............................................4242 Walnut St., Eureka 95501
John C. Brown (429) ................................................147 W. 12th St., Pittsburg 94565
Milton Ammann (600) ....................................2709 E. 220th St., Long Beach 90810
Stephen J. Dean, Jr. (260) .......................... 1643 ·27th Ave., San Francisco 94122
Arthur N. Piculell (641) .................................. 7647 Eton Ave. , Canoga Park 91304
Maurice A Harband (120) ............................ 238. 29th Ave ., San Fra ncisco 94121
Roy R. Crawford (247) ................................................ 1609 N. Arthur, Fresno 93705
R oy E. Battershill (380) ........................6731 Heil Ave., Huntington Beach 92647
M. Richard Andrews .(242) ................1000 Via Tranquila, Santa Barbara 93105
Lewis B . Meek (605) ........................................6367 Church St., Los Angeles 90042
Don H. Butt (592) .. ............................................ 10824 Strathern, Sun Valley 91352
Marvin F . Reno (586) ................................ 10392 Parliament, Garden Grove 92640
Everett Todd (527) ............................ 926 Glenhaven Dr., Pacific Palisades 90272
John R. Nocas (537) ........................ 3500 W. Manchester Blvd., Inglewood 90305
Lanning F . Spieth (412)..................................... .42 Las Flores Dr., Calexico 92231
Marcelo E. Conception (797) .................... 10622 Venice Blvd., Culver City 90230

CONSTITUTIO N O BSERVANCE
Warren Blomseth (603) .......................... 13180 Clairepointe Way, Oakland 94619
Charles N. Clarkson (757) .............................. 1602 W. Walnut St., Stockton 95203
Jack B. Crawford (528) ............................ 2404 Midwickhill Dr., Alhambra 91803
Lloyd M. Cowan, Jr. (603)....................................4861 Eggers Dr., Fremont 94536
Orlo Winkler (752) .............................................. ..619 Silv a Ave., Santa Rosa 95404
Ga reth W. Houk (128) ................................ . ..... 318 North Fairway, Visalia 93271
Warren L. Bacon (343) ............................ . ..... 13533 Branford St., Pacoim a 91332
Donald Brent (254) .................................................. .. 5701 Fagen Dr., Redding 96001
James C. Tario (552) ............................................................... .Box 767, Eureka 95501
Earl C. Arbuckle (111) .. ....................................... 384 E. Washington, Chico 95926
Robert Shultz (719) ........................................ 1170 Quintana Dr., Morro Bay 93442
Clifford H . Schwartzman (443) .................... 1451 Ahuawa Loop, Honolulu 96816
Wiley T . Killingsworth (699) ..................... .4155 Walnut Ave ., L ong Beach 90807
James E. Calhoun (422) .......................... 1455 H olbrook Ave., Los Angeles 90041
Howard Massie (671) .................................. 211 Cerito Cielo, San Clemente 92672
James T. Coulson (604) ...................................... 1325 N. Garnsey , Santa Ana 92706

382

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Norman Smith (682) ............. ............................................. P.O. Box 43, Yermo 92398
J oseph J. Fiderio (629) ...... .............. 703 W. Manchester Ave., Los Angeles 90044·
Irving Zuckennan (823) .................. .................. 1754 Athens Ct., Claremont 91711
Clyde E. Rodgers (390) ............... ....................562 Wensley Ave., El Centro 92243
Lonnie T. Childers (649) ....................... ...2064 Zoe Ave., Huntington Park 90255
Marion L . Young (787) ................................ 13191 La Para St., Westminste r 92683
Lloyd J . Patterson (616) ............................ 1220 Crestview Ave., Seal Beach 90740
Louis D. Rusconi (554) .............................. .2614 F ox Plaza, San Francisco 94102
Richard F. Locke, Jr. (761) ..... ......................23644 Arbor Ave., Los Al tos 94022

TAXATION
Alexander L. Croce (354) ................ 333 Santa Clara Ave., San Francisco 94127
Robert R. York (349) ................................................. ..P.O. Box 817, Oakland 94604
W. Stanley Davis (144) ..................................678 - 26th Ave., San Francisco 94121

GRAND LODGE OF CALIPORNIA

383

INSURANCE
Samuel C. Levin (136) .................... 288 Golden Gate Ave., San Francisco 94102
Samuel E. Harris (612) ...... ..............5044 Persimmon Ave., Temple City 91780
Harry B. Keeling (662) ................................ 616 S. Shatto PL, Los Angeles 90005
William G. Deeble (593) ........................................3420 Ma.ma, Long Beach 90808

CEMETERIES
Basil R. Gillett (124) .............................................. 530 Bille Road, Paradise 95969
Marcel M. Baer (8) ......................................... ...346 East L yons St., Sonora 95370
Raymond J. Berkline (60) ......... ...............................Rt. 1, Box 427, Quincy 95971
Leo J. Todd (23) ................................................123 Bank St., Grass Valley 95945
Vincent V. Lake (578) ....... .......................... ...... .....1507 W. Vine St., Lodi 95240

YOUTH ORDERS

OLD MASONIC HALL IN LOS ANGELES

Douglas N. Cairns (207) .......................... ..17831 Lerene Dr., Yorba Linda 92689
Arthur J . Pancook (801) ............................ 1437-3 Hunakai St., Honolulu 96816
James B. Wrigley (552) ....................................2505 Hillcrest Dr., Eureka 95501
William G. Skilling (349) ............................ 3924 Rob ley Terrace, Oakland 94611
Michael Sellick (499) ........................... ................. 6151 "H" St., Sacramento 95819
Edwin F . Collins (369) .......................... . 13330 Sunset Blvd., Los Angeles 90049
Robert J. Matheison (243 )................... ................. 24766 - 2nd St. , Hayward 94541
Roy W. Troutman, Jr. (191).. ........ ... ..... 103 Ridgewood Dr., San Rafael 94.901
Richard Simon (509)........ 1600 Ambe r.vood Dr., Apt. F, South Pasadena 91030
Gordon W a lker (567) ............. ................ ..... 2124 Za ndia Ave., Long Beach 90808
John H. Hardy (352) .......... ..3500 W. Ma nchest er Blvd., No. 29, Inglewood 90305
Eugene Harp (446) ....... .................. ...... 1052 N. Elsberry Av e., La Puente 91744
Richard F. Williams (592) ................. ...10518 Las Lunitas Ave., Tujunga 91042
Shirley E. Paddon (422) ............................... .....5216 Upton Ct., Los Angeles 9004-1
Rodney H. Dav is (504) ................ . ..... .1803 N. Poma Ave., Long Beach 90815
Fred W. S curlock (804) ..... ................ .................. P. 0 . Box 97, Sunnymead 92388
Dennis C. L awson (648) .. .....................3688 Lugo Ave., San Bernardino 92608
Lloyd A. Budwig (380) .................... 19251 Bushard St., Huntington Beach 92646
Arnold G. Brocksen, Sr. (504) ............... ...4472 Walnut Ave., Long Beach 90807
Robert B. Chambers (16) ... .......... ...3242 Hill St. , Apt. A, Huntington Park 90255

Benjamin M. Weiss (42) ........................ 1491 S. Rexford Dr., Los Angeles 90035
Herbert Hargrave, Jr. (467) ................................ 8105 Verna Dr., Van Nuys 91402
Lloyd E. Parker (666) ................................17545 Roscoe Blvd., Northridge 91324

COLUMBIA TEMPLE
Willia m D. Archer (391) ...................................... ........ .... Box 603, Tuolumne 95379
George A.. J u rgens (491) .................. ............ ...........942 P ark S t., Alamed a 94501
A. T . Kiersch (236)... ..... ...... 1959 Golden Rain Rd., No. 8, Walnut Creek 94529
Dona ld M. S tewart, Jr. (8) .............. ..................... .....................Chinese Camp 95309
John A. Kirby (76) ........... .............................................P.0. Box 10, Altaville 95221
Donald P. Pitman (651) .................................... P .0. Box 306, Ange ls Camp 95222

COMMERCIALISM
Harvey Harkness (506) ....................................210 W. 7th St., Los An.g eles 90014
James J . D alton (403) ....................................................3 Bel Air Ct ., Orinda 94563
Clarence G uffey (283) ............................................3619 S pa St., San Diego 92105

BOARD OF LIBRARY COMMISSIONERS
William F. Poynter (545) .................... 1200 Monterey Blvd., San Francisco 94127
Russell G. Worth (624) ....................... ......... .... 5278 Manila Ave., Oakland 94618
C. John Bellman, Jr. (541 ) ................................ 546 Neilson St., Berkeley 94707
Harold S. Stein, Jr. (374) .................... 1777 Eucalyptus Dr., San Francisco 94132
Charles W. Conley (503) .................... 1618 Pennsylvania Ave., Richmond 94801
George Koregelos (61) ............................... .470 Mountain Ave., Piedmont 94611
Asst. Librarian:
William H. Scott (435) ....................335 Buckingham Way, San Francisco 94127

PUBLIC INFORMATION
Donald L . Batten (22) .......... ........ ......................29 Mercury Ave., Tiburon 94920
Glendall W. McDermott (57) ........................ 1046 Vallejo St., Santa Rosa 95404
Hugh J . Cameron (650)........... .424 S. Broa dway, Rm. 410, L os Angeles 90013
K ern H. Copeland, Jr. (535)........416 South Sherboum e, Dr., Los Angeles 90048
Niles 0 . Millar, Jr. (268).......... ...................... 1141 W. Barstow Av e., F resn o 93705
William H . Lambert (13) ............................... .537 Coyote St., Nevada City 95959
Garey B. Weibel (784) ...................................................... P. 0 . Box 9, Chico 95926
Thom as H. Wright (677) ............. ........... 19007 Kil.fina n Ave., Northridge 91324
Alva C. Kirkla nd, Jr. (504)............................ 3415 Lam a Ave., Lon g Beach 90808
Leroi E. Crandall (605) ....................... .........534 N. Avenu e 67, Los Angeles 90042
Paul L . William son (389) ........................ 434 Los Altos Ave., Lon g Beach 90814
Charles J. Payn e (540) .......... ..................2405 E. Second St., L ong Beach 90803
Rober t S. Tucker (378) ..................... ........... 3037 Palmer Dr., Los Angeles 90065
James W. Dun n, Jr. (685) ................................ 7144 E. Condor , Los Angeles 90022
Donald L. S tephe ns (582)....... ............................. 163 W. Morgan St., Rialt o 92376
George E. Sutton (672)................... ........ .411 8 Bien venido, San Clemente 92672
John D. P ringle (21) .................................... 155 Kuupua St., Kailua, Oahu 96734
Warren D. Hanson (435) ........................ 519 Teresita Blvd., San Francisco 94127
David J. Sachau (746) ..........................................1745 - 42nd Ave., Capitola 95010

RETIREMENT
Alfred F. Breslauer (344) ............................ 111 Sutter St., San Fr ancisco 94104
Laur ence E. Dayton (61) ....................................5862 Moraga Ave., Oakland 94611
Donald G. Campbell (608) ............-...............2730 Lorain Rd., San Marino 91108
William H. Price (259) ......... .................. .. ...................P .O. Box 72, R iverside 92502
Arthu r Lins k (529) ......................... ...........6357 Colgate A ve., Los Angeles 90048

HAWAllAN ADVISORY
Donald G. Campbell (608) ................................2730 Lora in Rd., San Marino 91108
Elbert W. Davis (571) ............................................2908 Russell St., Ber keley 94705
William R. Hervey, Jr. (202) ..................6404 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 90048

38i

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

SPECIAL FINANCE STUDY COMMITTEE
Hc~r~ert A. Hl!ebner (445) ............................ 810 S. Broadway, Los Angeles

90014
Wilham H . Price (259) ................................................ P. 0. Box 72, Riverside 92502
Elbert y.r. Davis (571) ............................................2908 Russell St., Berkeley 94705
John Sickenberger (392) ................Avenida Majorca 728-A, Laguna Hills 92653
Arthur Linsk (529) ........................................6357 Colgate Ave., Los Angeles 90048

SPECIAL CODE REVISION COMMITTEE
Harlan P . Huebner (445) ..............................610 S . Broadway, Los Angeles 90014
Andrew J . Nocas (641) .................................... 7008 Kittyhawk, Los Angeles 90045
John B. Watts (637) ............................................358 - 20th St., Santa Monica 90402
A~lan B. Gre~ham (348) ..... .......... ... 3028 Muscupiabe Dr., San Bernardino 92405
Richard L. Riemer (778) ......... .1212 N. Broadway, Suite 204 Santa Ana 92701
Elbert W. Davis (571) ............. ...............................2908 Russell s't., Berkeley 94705

SPECIAL COMMITTEE FOR STUDY OF
FIFTY YEAR VETERAN PINS
Hugh J. Cameron (650) ................424 S. Broadway, Rm. 410, Los Angeles 90013
Merle A. Logue (612) .......................... 9544 E. Live Oak Ave., Temple City 91780
George M. Warner (636) ................ 5569 West Olympic Blvd., Los Angeles 90036

CONSTITUTIONA L

BOARDS

ENDOWMENT BOARD
Morris C. Guss (42) .............................................. c/ o United Supply Co., Inc.
3676 S. Broadway Pl., Los Angeles 90007
~ent Seymo.ur (356) ........................................525 Summit Ave., Mill Valley 94941
obert D. Lintner (169) ......... .....................2087 - 33rd Ave., San Francisco 94116
Carl A. Gree_n (670) ... .......................................13908 E. Sunset Dr., Whittier 90602
Gladstone Gillette (181) .............................. 97 Coronado Circle, Santa Rosa 95405
Henry Allcock (652)...................................................P. 0 . Box 271, Tujunga 91402
William H . Johnson (820) ................................... .472 E. 16th St., Costa Mesa 92627
Richard A . Jolly (167) .......................................... 37627 Niles Blvd. Fremont 94536
Ralph A. I:-arson (578) ... ............................. 10719 Freeman Ave., Inglewood 90304
Leroy; Ervm (3) ............................................7000 Cobalt Way, Citrus Heights 95610
Maurice J. Dungan (417) ............................ 278 Old Orchara Lane Fortuna 95540
Gaston C. Aubineau (768) .................. 10401 Havenhurst St., Granada Hills 91344
John H. Shaffer (726) ...................................... 36093 Panorama Dr., Yucaipa 92399
Conrad J. Spencer (296) ................................ 2107 Frankfort St., San Diego 92110
Jack F. Bowley (370) ............................................ 94 Melanie Lane, Atherton 94025
Raymond ~entro, Jr. (620) ............................ 2534 Greyling Dr., San Diego 92123
Joseph Wa1an (763) .............................................. 11123 Allerton St., Whittier 90606
Elwood E. A~ams (402) .......................................... 730 S. Third St.bBrawley 92227
Horace H. Mitchell (570) ........... ................... 23 Santa Elene Ave., aly City 94015
E. E. Thompson (200) ....................................................Box 304, Kings Beach 95719
~illiam S. Hornbeck (84) ..................................259 Encinal Dr., Red Bluff 96080
Richard W. Rylander (579) ................ 6233 Fair Oakes Blvd., Carmichael 95608
John F . Steiger (334) ... ........................ ..... 1918 Greenville Dr., West Covina 91790
Thomas K. H. Wong (443) ... ............................... 1318 Artesian St., Honolulu 96814
Garnet Ringsmith (603) ......... ................................... 30 Donna Way, Oakland 94605

GRANO LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

385

INVESTMENT
Paul A. Pflueger (370) ..........................................Mills Bldg., San Francisco 94104
Alfred F. Breslauer (344) ...................... .......... 111 Sutter St., San Francisco 94104
Jack F. Bc;>wley (370) ............................................ 94 Melanie Lane, Atherton 94025
John A. Stckenberger (392) ............Avenida Majorca 728-A, Laguna Hills 92653
Arthur Linsk (529) ........................................ 6357 Colgate Ave., Los Angeles 90048

BOARD OF CONTROL
James E. Wellet (608) .......................... 2604 Orange Grove Ave., Alhambra 91803
Varnum Paul (169) ............ 1170 Sacramento St., Apt. 17B, San Francisco 94108
Howard S. Fisher (620) ........................2465 Calle Almonte, Santa Barbara 93105
Warren W. Wildman (336) .......................... 2424 Harrington Ave., Oakland 94601
Ronald E. Jones (341) ........................................ 6096 Cozzens St., San Diego 92122

RECOGNITION OF FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
William R . Hervey, Jr. (202) .................... 6404 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 90048
J . Neil Hanson (761) ...................................... 619 Wildwood Lane, Palo Alto 94303
Henry F . Puthoff, Jr. (796) ..........3456 Broadmoor Blvd., San Bernardino 92404

CODE COMMISSION
Harlan P. Huebner (445) ...................... 610 South Broadway, Los Angeles 90014
Andrew J. Nocas (641) .................................... 7008 Kittyhawk, Los Angeles 90045
John B. Watts (637) ............................................ 358 - 20th St., Santa Monica 90402
A~lan B. Gre~ham (348) ..................3028 Muscupiabe Dr., San Bernardino 92405
Richard L. Riemer (778) ...... 1212 North Broadway, Suite 204, Santa Ana 92701

CALIFORNIA FREEMASON PUBLICATION BOARD
Robert A. Crigler (636) ............................ 1111 California St., San Francisco 94108
Edward H. Siems (560) ............................ 1111 California St., San Francisco 94108
Newcomb Condee, Editor-in-Chief (614)......................6304 Victoria Ave.,
·
Los Angeles 90043

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Alfred F . Breslauer, President (344) ............ 111 Sutter St., San Francisco 94104
Donald G. Campbell, Vice-President (608) ........................ 2730 Lorain Rd.,
L
San Marino 91108
aurence E. Dayton (61) .................................... 5862 Moraga Ave., Oakland 94611
Myron E. Smith (394) .................................. 461 S. Boylston St., Los Angeles 90017
Chester R. MacPhee (455) ...................................... 450 Fairway Dr., Novato 94947
Herbert A. Huebner (445) ............................ 610 S. Broadway, Los Angeles 90014
Lester S. McElwain (403) ........................................ 1419 Broadway Oakland 94612
Edward J. Blickfeldt (535) .............................. 590 Hargrave St., I'nglewood 90302
William A . Revitt (58) ................................ 595 1 Wymore Way, Sacramento 95822
MASONIC HOME AT DECOTO (ADULTS)
P. 0. Box 754, Union City 94587
Telephone 471-3434
Gail H . David, Superintendent
MASONIC HOME AT COVINA (CHILDREN)
20336 East Badillo Street, Covina 91722
Telephone 331-0541
James C. Blaine, Superintendent

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

386

CALIF ORNIA

MASO NIC
TEMPL E

MEMO RIAL

Alfred W . Odle (449) ..... ................................. 1017 Springfield Dr., Millbrae 94030
Samuel I. Jacobs (216) ...................... ............946 Mills Bldg., San Francisco 94104
Ralph H. Head (352) ............P . 0. Box 282, Terminal Annex, Los Angeles 90054
Chester R . MacPhee (455) ...... ............................... .450 Fairway Dr., Novato 94947
Herbert A. Huebne r (445) .................... ...... ..610 S. Broadway, Los Angeles 90014
Lester S. McElwain (403) ......... .................... ......... 1419 Broadway, Oakland 94612
Frank F . Goodman (531) .................... ........ 1466 - 33rd Ave. , San Francisco 94122
Howard M. McKinley (1) ..... .................... ....... 3235 - 18th St., San Francisco 94114
Carl U. Zachrisson (144) ...................... . ......... 45 - 25th Ave., San Francisco 94121
Geor~e D. Gavin, Manager
1111 California Street, San Francisco 94108
Telephone 776-4702

MASO NIC

REGIST RATION AND MILEAG E PAYME NTS
(All Brethren listed are Past Masters unless otherwise indicated.)

BOARD OF TRUSTE ES

CALIF ORNIA

387

FOUN DATIO N

BOARD OF TRUSTE ES
Eugene S . Hopp (260) .................... ....... .2000 Van Ness Ave., San Francisco 94109
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr. (529) .................... ..435 S . Curson Ave., Los Angeles 90036
Frederick Bolte (21) ................... ..............................649 Onaha St., Honolulu 96816
John M. Gordon (202) ................................ 3446 Amesbury Rd., Los Angeles 90027
Mark A. Green (320) ......................323 S . Lafayette Park Pl., Los Angeles 90057
Ralph Fenster (520) ............. .................... ... 1638 S . Bedford St., Los Angeles 90035
Everett Houser (504) ............. ........ ............... 260 Atlantic Ave., Long Beach 90802
Lyle E. Patton (22) .. .................... ........ 49 Grand View Ave., San Francisco 94114
Pete B. Florio (823) ................... ........................... 816 Sierra Vista, Alhambra 91801
Melvin A. Pixley (584) ................................ 3803 E. Slauson Ave., Maywood 90270
John S. Hunt (445) .. 1616 Travel Bldg., 3600 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 90005
Paul S. Boren (551) .................................................. 1947 Tiffin Rd., Oakland 94602
Duane Wheeler (202) ........................................ 1002 Sandpiper, Palm Desert 92260
Fred Hack (61) .................... .................... ....................160 Nova Dr., Piedmont 94611
Herbert Smith (677) ............................... ... 202-D W . Chevy Chase, Glendale 91204

Mile.
No. of
Allow.
Representative&
Lodge
l....F. A. Gyorgy, M ..................$
R. J. Antracoli, SW
L. H. Sondecker, JW
H. Mueller, GOrg
E. C. Lohmeyer, Insp
V. Bennehoff
P. Cowgill
J. Hurst
E. R. Laversin
D. E. Marsh
J. F. McKa>'.,
Ii. M. McKin ey
H. W . Orear, Jr.
S. C. Shenk
C. C. Trowbridge, Jr.
2.... P. G. Haigh. ER.................... 31.22
3....D. R. McDaniel, M................ 12.04
K. F. White, SW
A. P. Wordlow, JW
S. Dennis, Jr.
W. C. Kasmlre
5.. ..A. I. Henslin, M.................... 5.01
W . J. Youles, SW
J. A. Trent. JW
1.31
0. F. Carpenter, ln.sp............
S . 0 . K. Sorensen
8....T. E. Coleman, SW...... ·- ····· 18.31
D. M. Stewart, Jr.
9....F. J. Jaquay, M ...................... 16.80
L. H. Moline, JW ·
10....R. T . Rea, M ... ····-·················· 7.00
F. Guidon. SW
R. J. Lancaster, JW
L. B. Mark, lnsp.................... 7.00
C. W. Down
R. M . Ford
J. S. Greenley
12....C. K. Evans, M .-................... 6.58
C. A. T ibbils. SW

l,r.

~: ~~~~~· / :......................

6.58
R. F. Atwood
K. D. Kinney
13.... W. H. Lambert, ER.............. 20.72
IL.W. E. Chaty, M.................... 6.30
H. E. Whitaker, SW
C. E. Matb
16.... R. E. Harris, M...................... 16.80
E . A. Tuchsen, SW
W. B. French, JW
W. E. Marshall, IMp............ 16.80
17 ....L. Berthier, M
J. Monchatre, JW
A. L. Armand, lnsp
A. Baylacq
C . G. Gulbengay

Mile.
No. of
Allow.
Representatives
Lodge
B. Pasdennadji an
J. F. Smith
18- 'Not Represented
19....C. D. Bray, SW.............. ...... 10.92
D. A . Lipps, JW
N. W. Shaw, Jr.
20.... M. R. Wilson. M.................. 12.04
J. V . Willis, SW
A. B. Francis, JW
H. N. Richards, GL................ 12.0i
R. W. Lenau
H. T . Silvius, Jr.
R. L. Zehrbach
21....H. W . I. Wong, M ................ 285.09
J. D. Pringle, SW
F. Bolte, Insp.......................... 285.09
22-J. A . Pettit. M
W . C. G. Chandler, SW
0 . G. Voight, JW
D . L. Batten
L. R. Frichette
R. Mohr, Jr.
J. A. Mord, Jr.
L. E. Patton
R. A. \Vertsch
23....W . J. Tolle. M........................ 20.02
L. H . Pingree. SW
T. Thomas, Jr., JW
E . Farley, lnsp........................ 20.02
21....C. R. Smith. M...................... 23.IO
C. A. Lant:z:, SW
D . Kleiman, lnsp.................... 23.10
J. Jenkins
25.... J. G. Hoffacker, M.................. 19.32
E . E . Olson, SW
L.B. Butt
26.... E. E. Billigmeier, M .............. 18.18
R. H. Cain, SW
R. D . Boom, JW
J. A. Feth, lnsp...................... 18.18
R. 0 . West........... ................... 18.18
27....A. G. Smith, ER.................... 36.96
30.... F. A. Kujawa. M
F. J. Mooney, SW
D. C. Uhho ff. JW
L. L. Aslanian
R. H . Bradley
V. L. Bruno
A. W . Crumpton
J. Icardi
E. D. Joyce
N. G. Michelini
R. \V. Moore

Mlle.
No. of
Allow.
Representative.$
Lodge
32....B. H. Blake, Sr., M................ 15.96
E. L. Wildhaber, SW
J. A. Kimmel
33 ....W. Balley. SW...................... 20.58
J. Dennison, JW
35 ....J. W. Taylor, M.................... 73.08

f·J. t· ~d1t:J~..................

73.08
H. Petersen, lnsp................ 73.08
G. E. Pledger, lnsp................ 73.08
S. P. Bolger
~-- ~~~~ko~....... ................. 73.08

1:

G. k_ Smith
37....G. M. Younggren, SW........ H .38
38 .... S. P . Clarke, M...................... 10.08
L. W. Peters, SW
R. L. MayBeld

~-- \v~Tr~fts.......................... 10.08

40.... R. G. Crowdis, M..................
L. A . Lasell, Sr .. SW
B. D. Minter, JW
A. B. Collier, lnsp..................
C. E. Clause
41 .... Rr."ci=~ilrsw-M..................

12.04
12.04
4.76

J.P. Dehnert. JW

H. D. L.f.ford

4

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

PROCE.E.DINGS OP THE

388

~~v.r!{~~. .-... . . . . . . .. . 4.76
2....~: c!:~~r ~...................... 56.42
5

D. M. Baum, JW
M. M. Codon..........................
P. L. Goldstein........................
M. C Gus.s
M. Schwartzman
J. D. Weisberg
43...L. A . Russe.II, M......................
J. L. H addon, JW
44....R. G. Meyer, M
R. E. Clark. SW
F. B. Childers, JW
I. J. Robertson
G.M. Travis
G. H. Wlcrda
45.... L. Smallwood, SW................
J. Stephens. JW
46....E. G. Shields, M......-...........
A. Beck, SW
. H. Buchhelster, Insp..........
50....R. 0. Elkins. SW..................
51....C. J. Rolph, Jr.• JW................
T . Steel
55 .... K. M. Batte.Ile, M................ ...
R. P. Grindle, JW
56....J. Surryhne, JW....................

I:

56.42
56.42

18.20

51.66
12.60
90
11 .
23.80
19.04
6.72
20.02

Mlle.
No. of
Allow.
Representatives
.Lodge
57 .... L. H . Doda. M ........................ 7.56
W. H. Daniels, SW
L. G. Danskin. JW
7.56
H. P . Adams, Insp.. ................
J. L. Durnford
R. A. Miller
C . F. Minetti
12.04
58....~ ~E._Rz;:in~~~~~:..

sw . . .....

L. D. Armstrong
R.H. Hew itt
H. S. Mcintire
W. A. Revitt
59 .... J. B. Waltm. M.................... 2i.22
60.... D. M. Laurence, SW............ 31.36
R. J. Berkline, Insp................ 31.36
0. A. Myers
61....J. A. Burris, M
'T. W . Evans, SW
G. N. Koregelos. JW
L. E . Dayton, PGM
R. W. Winters, lnsp .............. . 59.36
P. Emerson
H. W. Gutte, Jr.
R. M. Mills
C. A. Severin
M .... S. A. Hines, SW.... ............. IHO

18.34
J: ~b~~':5vJ~................. 10.92

65..
68.... L. F. Van Buskirk. M............
C. A. Plecarpo, SW
B. L. Faunce
70....K. M. Hopper. ER..................
76... J. A. Kirby. ER......................
78....H. J. Farr, M..........................
79 .... J. M . Bowersox, M................
G. D . Chappelle, SW
J.W. Cunning, [ns_I'.... ............
80....C. A. Royalty. SW..............
81.. .. M. G. Pletcher, M..................
D. M. Evans. SW
8L.W. W . Widlund, SW..........
87 ....R. R. Prigge, M......................
J. R. Maloney. SW
A. L. Mecredy. JW
J. Anderson
M. C. Baker
L. B. Chambers
J. K. Cothran
M. I. Dawson
L. G. Dickinson
P. C. Hansen
R. A. Neely
J. G. Nichol
J. J. Nicholas
J. Olson
A. L. Parfet
D. L. Potter
E. D. Smith
B. Wichels

16.52
19.60
17.50
39.76
39.76
17.08
11.76
26.<>t
i .34

Mile.
No. of
Allow .
Representatives
lodge
89.... L. R. Edwards. M.................. 19.46
N. G. Kerhoulas, lnsp............ 16.52
91.. .. B. G. Youell. E R.................... 46.-18
93.... R. B. Duer. M........................ 9.24
P. D . H all, JW
95 .... K. E. Munden, SW................ 18.20
98.... F. M. Monterslno. SW.......... 28.42
R. W . Loring, JW
M. I. Smith
99 ... R. F. Clark. M........................ 17.92
H. W. Krebs. SW
E. G. Miller. JW
G. C . Barrett .......................... 17.92
D. R. F retz.................. ............ 17.92
101....R. H. Lynn. Sr.. M................ 20.86
H. W. Haberkorn
103.... H . S. \Villiams. SW............. 20.72
R. A . Johnson, JW
D. K. Baldwin, lnsp.............. 20.72
S . K. P arker
IOL.5 _t\~~Y!~J~W.............. 58.24

\V. W . Prank
106....M. A. Doggett. SW..............
J. E . Morton, Jr.
11 0...R. T . Sldllicorn. M ................
0 . A. Buob. SW
H. W. Tavlor, JW
111.... J. A. Coulter, M....................
J. W. Wright. SW
R. R. Murr, JW
T. Merlam, PGM
J.B. Smith. lnsp................. .....
•
E. C. Arbuckle
\V. C. Brouillard
W . J. Caven
W . M. Conner
112 ... Not Represented
113... M. S. Maral. SW
M. S. Hawley. JW
E. E . Ross, Insp
F.. W. Batman
117.... D. A. Franke. M....................
M. Maklary. JW
S . I. Bonn. lnsp......................
120.... M. Stone, M
B. J. Hartman. SW
M. W . Greene, JW
R. A. Klinger. lnsp
I. A. Berliner
I. Betz
H. W . Cahn
A. Farber
R. E. Gilbert
L. I. Goldkind
M. Goldstein
M. A. Harband
B. J. Katz
I. C. Mintz
A. I. Stoll
C. L. Weeks

40.88
12.60
22.68

22.68

12.<>t
12.04

389

Mlle.
No. of
Allow.
,Representative.1
Lodge
3.50
122....N. G . Alumbaugh. SW........
R. M. Hinds, lnsp.................. 3.50
123.... A. W . Robertson, M ............ 9.80
G. G. Miller, SW
G. W. Yannucci, JW
R. C. Jensen
124.... L. H. Moore, SW.................. 23.10
B. R. Gillett
126.... C. J. Macken.zle
127.... F. Guerr. M
R. T . Christians, SW
F. Deubert, JW
R. G . Brauch
A. Carstens
0 . Goebel
W. K. Haag
A. G . Matthes
M. Schredl
128.... B. P. Kellmann, M.................. 31.36
G. E. Chrlssakls. SW
J. C. P annell. JW
L. R. Trout. SGS.................... 31.36
H. C. Davis, ln.sp.................. 31.36
D. G. Creager
J. B. Lawson
129.... R. B. Keeney. ER................. 17.22
131....W. A. Peterson. M................ 13.30
J.E. Rooney. SW
J. Luce. JW
J. H. Hops
E. E. Kellar, Sr.
132....T . 0. Anderson. M................ 31.64
J. B. H atch, SW
13-1 ....E. P. Wilkes, M.................... 7.56
L D. Callison
T. F. Kirkpatrick
W . W. Wilcox, Jr.
135.... R. W. Lewallen, lnsp............ 13.02
136.... H. Vitcov. M
N. L. W axman, Jr .. SW
T . Skoll, JW
A. A. Aielrod
S. C. Levin
H. Ros..1
139.... J. B. Boutck, III. M
J. A. AIBeck, SW
D. M ellinger, JW
\V. A. H . Fleischer
W . J. Harlow, Jr.
K. A. Howard
C. S. McGlothlln
140.... B. C. G. aark, M.................. 12.32
R. K. Burger, SW
W . R. Carter
141....Not Represented
IH... D. D. ~graff. SW............ 12.46

k1?i.~u!!f':.niJ!.................. . 12.<>t

G . B. Waterworth

390

PROCEEDINGS OF THB

Mile.
No. of
Allow.
Lodge
Repre;sentative;s
I H .... E. T. Mancuso. M
P. C. Hantzsche, SW
P.F.Balck
W . S. Davis
G. D. Gavin
J. D. Hansen
C. T . Hecker
H. H. Hutchison, Jr.
T. R. Smiley
A. J. Swank
J.C. Wiesner
145....H . T. Murphy. M .................. 7.28
A. R. Barrett, Jr., SW
M. Maretti. JW
C.W.Kawa
146.... G. R. Sutherland, M.............. 16.38
J. Hannason. SvV
D. D. Thornton. JW
J. 0. Raffety. Insp................ .. 16.38
F. vV. Sandelin
147.... P. Barnwell. M ..................... . 37.24
E. Gossett, JW
A. E. Pollard, lnsp ................ 37.24
ti9.... J. E. Lewis, SW.................... 37.80
E. G. Van Tassell, lnsp ........ 37.80
J. W . Combes
150....E . D. Young. SW.................. 24.08
E. H . Ayers. JW
J. W. Nield. Sr.
156.... E. C. Still. M ......................... . 11 .34
B. G. Treat. SW
R. A. Poarch. JW
161....E. R. Jardine. JW................. . 16.10
D.R. Evick
161....A. I. Copeland. ER.............. .. 28.84
166.... H. F. Lutticken. M
D. R. Griffith. SW
K. W. Kyle. JW
J. Falconer
L. W . T. Gray
J. S. Kohlbecher
E. G. Marshall
W. Peddicord
R. J. Rodriquez
R. Taylor
4.62
167....~·J':~i~~:: ~

. . . . . . . . ..

D. Barrett, JW
W.Beck
168.... R. J. Hackenbergl'r. M......... .
W. L. Henry, SW
L. E . Wilson. JW
D. Adam
J. D. Lomax
169....W. H. Kahrau, M
R. P. Batchelor. SW
R. J. Shuman. JW

3.64

Mile.
No.of
Lodge
Allow.
Representatiue;s
J.E. Hursh
R.. D. Lintner
V. Paul
R. C. Taverner
173.... H . P. Wackman II. M ........ .. 14.00
P. K. Frame, SW
J. W. Mahon. Jr .. JW
174....A. Taylor, ER ....................... . 17.78
175... .V. W. Allen. M ....... .......... .. 6.H
L . C. Dowell. SW
P. E. Rod1Jers. JW
J. R. Ledbetter, Insp ............. . 6.H
D. M. W('ntworth
J. D. Yasser
178....G. Burbank. M ..... ................ . 63.56
R. Andrews. SW
J. F. Rich. JW
T . E. Benson
179.... C. E. Godsey. SW.............. .. 21.84
P. A. Valentine. lnsp .......... .. 21.84
180....R. D. Cochran, M .................. 5.32
W . E. Johnson. SW
J. A. Rasmussen, JW
W. B. King
H. S. Louden
E . J. Mogl'i, Sr.
S. C. Olmsted
J. C. Werner
181....B. S. Gray, M..................... .. 8.82
D. W. Winters. S\V
J. W . Wright. Insp................ 7.56
C. C. Doane
L. T. Duhose
G. A. Gillette
182 .... Not Represented
183.... B. R. Lang, ER. ................... .. 14.98
H. I. Ketterman
184.... A. M. Strang. ER.................. 30.38
185.... C. P. Dingman, SW............
18.06
A. R. Richardson.................... 14.00
186.... W . A. Krueger, lnsp............. . 48.16
187.... P. F. Harralson, SW........... . 11.20
188.... G . W. Ruuth, M
W. C. Herbert. SW
J. Weldon. JW
V . D. Arnold
L. P. Boyles
A.G. Graham
M. L. Graves
190....A. J. Baker, M...................... .. 32.20
W. G. Harris. SW
191.... R. W. Troutman. Jr.. M
C. F. Thomas. SW
H. A. Gulbransen. JW
J.C. Meagor
W. M. Vanderbilt

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

391

No. of
Mile.
No.of
Mile.
Lodge
Representative!
Allow. Lodge
Repre;sentativu
Allow.
192....J. Butera. SW........................ 47.60 210....W . W. Fox, M...................... 7.00
G. W. Neikirk. JW
W. W . Reedy, SW
R. H. Paine, lnsp.................... 47.60
R. Elliott, JW
L. A. Campbell
193.... H. Loewenthal. M.................. 38.36
C. H. Nelson
194 .. J. Cochran, M........................ 5.18
R. L. Norton
D. R. Merry. SW
P. Robinson
0 . L. Gilbert, JW
211.. .. H. Hermansen, ER................ 13.30
G. Gilliam
212 .... F. Filippo, M
W . Grubb
J. W. Price. SW
J. S. Hawks
R. Fernandez
195....R. H. Pleasants, SW............ 9.38
F. L. Holmes
196....A. W. Hardie, SW.............. 31.36
A. H. Hufnagel
198....C. T. Downey,_M.................. 59.50
C.H. Kramer
J. Martinez, SW
C. J. Palmer
J. R. Molloy, JW
A. D. Zanetti
K. E. Diffee............................ 59.50 214 ....H. L. Maynard, M................ 51.25
E. L. McLachlan
C. D. Rhoads, SW
199....M. W. Oldham, ER.............. 17.22
J. L. Callaway, JW
G. de Ghetaldl, lnsp.............. 18.48 215 .... G. Beck, M
F. B. Hartley. SW
200.... E . E . Thomp30n. JW..... ....... 26.74
t. Balch. JW
W. E. Philippi. Insp.............. 26.74
H. A. Miller. lnsp
201.. .. D. A. Tama, M...................... 9.10
T. J. Carlile
R.R . John50n, SW
P. Harris
F. T . StE>vens
W. Nankervis
J. W. Tutt
J. Lee. M
202 .... N . A. Bustrum. M.................. 56.42 216 .... H.
I. W . Coburn. PGM
K. A. Avakian. SW
S. I. Jacobs
M. L. Tillman. JW
B. P. Lurie
J. M. Gordon
217 ....R. N. Ponce, M...................... 16.38
W . R. Hervey, Jr.
G. D. Reed, SW
J. L. Nelson
E. M. Dreyer
D. W . Wheeler '
218 ....R. J. Page, JW...................... 5.60
203....C. T. Schell, JW.................... 14.70
S. L. Evans
P. Q . Jing
220 ....C. R. Hutchinson. M... ........ 58.52
204.... M. Michalec, M.................. .... 15.12
H. A. Hoskins. SW
A. Black. SW
A. J. Goldbeck, JW
J. L. Alsop. JW
C. T. Shirley. lnsp................ 58.52
W. J. Smith, Sr .. lnsp............ 15.12
W. V. Ritchie
A. Schoch
205 .... M. A. Salado, M.................... 23.52 221 ....rM~o!iflrw· M.................. 60.20
J. M. Jobe. SW
222.... J. V . Duggan. M.................... 14.56
K. K. Andersen, JW
F. R. Dowty, SW
J. S. Babb, lnsp...................... 23.52 224....A
.. P. Townsend, M.............. 40.46
L. J. Berry
P. L. Foster. SW
A. R. Kirkpatrick
G.~. Ferguson, JW
206....W . F. King. SW.................... 12.74
J. . Carpenter, lnsp.............. 40.46
W. L. Hurd. lnsp.................. 14.56
S. J. Kliewe.r
207.... D. N. Cairns. M................... 60.34
G. G. Laiblin
L. R. Campbell. SW
). C. Mitchell
H. E. Kirk
225 .... R. G. Kirk, M
208 .... R. E. Bergstrom. M................ 9.52
W. E. Baird, SW
kW. McPherson. SW
J. W. Slusser. JW
. C. Brown, lnsp.................. 9.52
E. W . Johnson
D. N. Baker
L. Sutter
209.... E . N. Biddies, SW................ 32.48 226.... R. W. Gaines. M
C. O. Blodgett. JW
J. T. l!stoll, SW
C. J. Weir, Jr.. lnsp.............. 3H8
W . W. Grush. JW

392

PROCRE.DINGS OP THE

Mlle.
No. of
Allow.
Repruetlfatille•
Lodge
A. J. Mercer
G. E. Watts
228....J. H. Snyder, SW................. . I0.08
R. R. Haussler
229 ....R. H . Nivarel. M .................. 1 .31
A. G. &pinosa. SW
F. L. Davis, Jr., 1W
P. J. Billings
H . Gee
R. 0 . Gloeckner
G. A . Heinz:man
R. C. Jones
D. H. Mad.ean
H. A . Mini, Jr.
W. D . Myska
R. H. N iva.rel
W . D. Peden
0. H . Recknagel, Jr.
E . N. Sanders
C. E . Shoaf
230....R. R. Cassady. SW................ 18.76
E. E. Wilson, JW
C. B. Campbell
E. D . Price
V.R. Wilcox
231....C. F. Cutcher, M ...... ·-····-·-··· 25.18
232 .... F . E. Reynolds. fW.............. 39.06
F . H. Gill. GBB ..................... . 38.92
E. M. Freitas
J. S. Roberts
233....A. J. Fr!edlund, SW.............. 10.36
A. E. Enderlin, JW
23i ....C. C. Pierce, M ...................... 35.70
235 ....G . M. Kober. ER.................... 53.48
236....T. A. McCoy, M.................... 11.12
A. E. Kuhlemeler, SW
A. T. Kiersch
A.H. Williams
237....W. S. Ashbrook. }W............ 33.04
H . R. Gewe
J. Jenkins
240....W . C. Stokes. M ................... . 17.36
W . G. Davison
L. R. Proctor
241....N. F. Thompson, M._.......... . 60.90
0 . M. Sloan, SW................. . 61.18
D. A. Poole, JW
H. G. Kinzer
242 ....H. A. Dunham. M .................. 17.60
J. A. Bennett. SW
G. R. Schock, JW
M. R. Andrews
A . Brotherton
3.78
243 ....R. E . Gilbert, M......... :..........
R. J. Mathieson, SW
A. C. Marsh, ]W

Mile.
No. of
Allow.
Repre$enfatives
Lodge
A . R. Fleming. Insp
H.J. Keim
W . T. Smith
A. P . Taylor
A. Woodruff
244 .... K. E . Bain, M
J. 0 . Fisk, SW
T. F. Miller. JW
L. K. Bain
A. A. Campbell
Cole
J. . Sjoberg
N. Soutar
B. C. Sutliff
245 ....W . Rehm, ER................. ...... 20.H
P. E. Bernard
L. A . Brown
D. M . Gummow
G . Wurschmldt
216 .... K. E. Himmler, M................ 61.04
C. L. Bryant. SW
P. L. Galliher, JW
E . C. Lowe. fnsp........... ....... 61.60
217 .... H . A. McCargar. Jr. , M ...... · 25.62
K. M. Emmert. SW
G . P. Cole, JW
248.... R. V . Baird, SW.................. 50.51
250....No t Represented
253.... D. 0. Aune. SW... .............. 10.92
A. L. Hayes, lnsp.................. 10.92
254.... L. A . Nelderhouse. M.......... 30.38
R. M. Perkins. SW
A. F. Ross
G. W. Sturm.......................... 30.38
255 .... A. I. Parrott, SW.................. 29.82
J. H. Card, JW
S. F. Pas,.,ley. Insp.................. 30.80
256.... H . A. Browning, SW............ 13.16
G . L. Christ.ense.n , Insp........ 13.16
C. A. Lewis
258....M . E . Pedlar, SW.................. 15.96
259.... M. I. Brewer, M.................... 64.10
M . Daniel. SW
W . H. Price, AGL................ 61.10
S . L. Channon. lnsp.............. 61.40
W . M . Copeland
B. C. Morton
260....E. D. Keller. M
G. H . Konsta nto poulos, SW
P . H . King. JW
E. S. Hopp, GM
G . A. Benoit, GMar.
M . L. Christensen, GC
U . G. Patropulos. AGL
B. C. vonKonsky, AGL........ 3.78
R. E. Soracco, Insp................ 21.14
L. P. Anderson
B. L. Canning

A.d.

393

GRAND LODGE OF CJ\LIPORNIA

Mile.
No.of
M lle.
No.of
Allow.
Repre~ntatives
Representatives
Allow. Lodge
Lodge
285.... Not Represented
S . J. Dean, Jr.
E . A. Nylund
286....J. Osborn, M......................... . 28.12
E . M . Pavlou
A. D . Mos,.,, JW
P. B. Scullin
P . L. Turner, Iosp................. . 28.12
A . vonKo nsky
K. King
J. G. W ullschleger
E. L. Van Vorst
261....W . E. Owens, M ................. . 15.96
287 ....G . D . Clarkson. SW............. . 53.90
W . W . Partridge, Insp .......... 53.90
262.... J. W. P aulson, JW ......... ...... . 40.18
288 ...A. H . English. ER. ................ . 17.22
264 ....D. G. Deming. SW............... . JJ.04
289....L. C. Beers. SW................... . 66.08
J. D . Wilkins. JW
D . Meredith
290....C. S . Strausburg, M .............. 56.12
P. C. Reiner
R. W . Meier, SW
C . C . Cadman
265.... Not Represented
J. A. Crosby
267 .... H. A. Caster, M ................... . 12.32
291....E. J. Ziehmer, M .................... 53.48
268 ....R. T . Wilson. M
J. E . Samples. SW
F. W . Newton. SW
G. W . Ashton, JW
L. A. Campbell, JW
G. A . Quick
N. 0 . Millar, Insp
7.42
292.... G. L. Hall. M ........................
0 . J. Brown
N. E. Bloor, SW
R. D. Gilmore
R. M. Neal. JW
C. Ratkovich
R. J. F isher
G. Thomson
269.... W . K. H allows, M ............... . 31.78 293....R. S . Huggins. M ................. . 60.62
E . W. Killette. SW
G. M. Lawson. SW
J. C . Seibert, JW
L. D . Phllllps, JW
M. W.Gould
271....M. E. Murphy, SW.............. 21.70
29-L .. H . L. Moser. SW.................. 28.12
C. A. Butlrr
P. P. Johnson
272....C. P . W yndham, M .............. 57.51
R. N . Rouch
J. W . Smithson. SW
295 ....D. R. Orton, M..................... . 9.66
C. H . Culp, JW
W . W . King. SW
273.... C . A. Flint, M ....................... . 58.38
D. D . Owens. JW
H . E . Corson, SW
G . F . King,
D. Inskeep. JW·
C. L. Wadlow
B. R. Mooney
R. A. Smith
296....W . C . Hargrove, M............. . 73.08
R. L. Williams
W . R. Lee. SW
W . D. Woolsey, JW
271....R. G. Balley, M ...................... 34.72
M. C . Ketcham
W . R. Troxell. SW
R. W . Tombaugh .................. 73.08
H . 0 . Pope, Jr.. lnsp.............. 34.72
R. R. Coggeshall
297... .L. E. Newton. M .................. 37.94
H. E. Davis
299 .... J. C . Hatchett, M ................... . 6.30
E . M. Lynch
P . C . May,SW
275... .J. A. Pox. SW....................... . 13.30
B. R. Seamans, JW
R. W . Dunwoody, lnsp....... . 13.30
C. J. Gra nt
C. I:... Rich
277....J. Evans, ER......................... . 27.72
6'f.40
300....R. L. Weavcr. M ....... ..
278....R. C. Schneider. M ............... . 56.42
R. T . Dillon. SW
H . F. Roggelin, SW
K. Konig
6552
279....R. H. Williams. SW............ 29.96
C . P . P atton
E. D. Faber. JW
301....C. G . Shores. SW............... . 60.76
280.... D. Bush. SW.......................... 22.51
E. P. Johnson. JW
28 1.... K. R. McMillan. SW............ 28.84
E . W . Ogden
282.... L. Simonlc. ER...................... 12.71
283 .... V . T . Shackelford. M........... . 73.64 30L.H . I. Marsland, JW-- ---·- 21.14
F. Y. Mar
R. N. Crawford, SW
34.86
303···· 1IJ: H1:r~!id. ~vi
D. W. Freeman, JW
R. H. Bettlestone
D . R. Hardaway, JW
E. E. Turntt

k.~~~~1i:·1!:.....................

k

................

394

PROCEEDING S OP THE

No. of
Mile.
Lodge
Representatives
Allow.
304 ....R. S. Howell, M.................... 28.56
D. S. Powell, InsP--------···· ---··- 28.56
305 ....J. W. Phillips. SW................ 59.50
J. T. Horton, JW
306....G. E . Carlstrom. SW............ M.68
C. W. Reeves. JW
307 .... L. C. Vaughn, M.........
56.14
E . W . Maguire. SW
R. 0. Proett. JW
R. C. Van Aken
308....R. F. Spencer, M.................. 58.52
J.E. Recd, SW
R. A. Foote
309....R. E . Opely. M...................... 36.26
L. D. Ryan, SW
A. C. Goertzen, JW
W . J. Taylor
310....H . W. Beck, SW.................. 39.20
312 ....D. M. Dyer, JW.................. .. 17.64
313....J. P. Smith, JW...................... 46.34
P. D. Marx
W . R. Porter
31 L .R. G. Smith, M ........._............ 63.00
G. N. Moore, SW
P. J. Nylander
315 ....C. C. Jackson, ER.................. 58.52
J.B. Parker
316....L. J. Green, ER..................... 27.72
W. E. Burk............................ 27.72
317.... H. L. Hope, JW.... ,............... 70.70
J. W. Belford, Insp................ 71.12
318....Consolidated with No. 230
on Oct. 8, 1968
319....J. H. Duncan, M.................... 56.42
t. Schmitz, SW
G. C. Lawson, JW
R. T. Kiele, lnsp................. ... 56.42
C.H. Hines
H. W . Noble
T . J. Owens, Jr.
320....W. F. Cominolo, M .............. 56.42
R. E. Jackson, SW
M.A. Green .........-................ 56.42
D. H. Terry
321....S. S. Burns, M...................... 5.46
H. R. Davis, SW
C. D. Tucker, JW
322....C. 0 . Dice, Jr., M................ 57.40
M. D. Romick, SW
H. E. Lutgen, JW
E. S. Higbie .......................... 57.82
J. L. Marriott
323....W . T orrence, M.................... 57.82
J. H. McCluney, SW
H.C. Cook
324-J: t.-~~~r ~...................... 57.54

5

325.... F. Schmidt, SW.................... 71.12
T. W. Eckford

No. of
Mile.
Lodge
R epresentatives
Allow.
326 .... S. G. Johnson, Jr.. SW........ 79.66
327....R. E. Cooper. M.................... 60.06
E . M. Bartlett , SW
K. P. Elliott, JW
J. H. Ferguson, Insp.............. 60.06
J. R. Armor
G. P. Calderwood
R. E. Hilts
H. G. Van Dyke
328 .... M. D. Fellows, M.................. 57.96
H. W. Moeck, Jr .. SW
F. M. Johnson, JW
D. J. Shoemaker, Insp............ 57.26
Q . H. Cunningham
G. S. Fairbrother
E. J. Mills
W . O . W ade
329....A. Ricci, JW.......................... 56.42
J. C. Bourguignon, lnsp....... 56.42
V. Ezratty
M. L. Gaul
330....C. K. Hoopai. SW................ 325.95
A . K. Bell
C.C. Tong
331....W. G. Harruff. M .................. 17.08
R. D. Nix, JW
F. W. Hellman
332....M. B. Burgess, M..............____ 60.20
P. E. Dwight, SW
R. B. Chase, JW
333.... Not Represented
334....J. F. Steiger, M...................... 59.64
t. B. Cameron. SW
D. B. Whitlock. JR
335....V. N. Roberts. M.................. 56.42
R. R. Saul. SW
R. B. Cohen. JW
336 ....\.V. W . Wildman, M
M. L. Olmsted. SW
G. K. Heininge. JW
B. 0. Young, GT
J. W. Hansford
R. C . Horstmann
H.K. Taylor
D. A. Turpin
337....J. B. McWhorter, M .............. 3.92
L. P. Martin, SW
F. H. Vernon
338.... R. G. Goar. M........................ 68.60
R. 0. Squires, JW
339....T . E. Gilland, SW................ 60.20
R. F. Pearce, JW
W. L. Currie
341.. .E. Rogers. M ...............--------- 52.64
B. Miller. SW
M. G. Goyne, JW
J. J. Ritch, lnsp....................... 52.64

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

No. of
Mile.
Lod{le
Representatives
Allow.
343 .... F. R. Hoffman, M.................. 52.92
F. V. Raga:z:zi, SW
F. Winton, JW
W. L. Bacon
L. H . Boone
344 .... H. A. Cooper, M
S. Sheff. SW
S. Koss. JW
A. F. Breslauer, PGM
L. Becker, lnsp.
C. Becker
H . Curtis
B. A. Kat:z:
A. Salomon
H. L. Wayne
7.84
345....J. A. Nelson, M ...... .
R . Wickline. Jr .. SW
0 . A. Howard
C. B. W eeks, Jr.
346 ....t,_Cj.j_Lti:~s~: ·s"\v··· .. ···--.. ···· 4.48
H . C. Green. JW
4.48
J. F. Roberts. Insp ............... .
J. W . Carl
L M. Harms
G. E. King
347 .... H . R. Moore, M
W. F. Harper, SW
W. C. Beck. JW
T . Anderson
F. R. DeBarrows
A. C. Rogers
P. Slava:z::z:a
•
348....J. H . Bulmer. M...................... 63.56
J. W . Flood, SW
D. T. Wright, lnsp............... 63.56
G. M. Cellar
349.... C. W . Barry, M
W. G. Skilling. SW
D. E . Skilling. JW
D. W. Besoain
H. S. Bigelow
G. C. Courregcs
K. H . Gardner
F. D. Gatter
H. S. Savage
56.42
351....W. B. Krebs, SW._................
W. E. Boyd, JW
G. D. Bloomfield
J. A. Boyle
B. R. Jordan
352 ....R. V. Sutton, M.................... 56.42
F. D. Power, SW
J. L. Brown, JW
J. Chackerlan
J. H. Hardy
W. Kludjian

395

N
f
M ile.
w:e
Representatives
A llow.
353.... G. Monahan. M .................... · 3.73
R. Spinney
J. Webb
354....]. F. Boltman, M
W. F. Dawson, SW
J. F. Vollers. JW
J. M. Rugg iero
W. D. Verbarg
355 ....H. J. Wolking. M.................. 55.H
M. ]. Aldershof. SW
L. c. Anderson, PGM............ 56.42
E. H. Gebhardt, lnsp............ 56.42
W. H. Beaudry
J. R. Davison
E. L Gamet
F. E. Green
356....T . p_ T rimble. 3rd. M
R. D. Jackson. SW
P. A. Born. JW
G. J. Burt
R. K. Mills
F. A. Penn
K. Seymour
B. A. Stocking
F. A. Wilson
357 ....M. McCarrell. M.................. 59.22
N. B. Jones. SW
H. Duff
J. W. Willis, Jr358....J. W. Peyton, M .................... 56.42
E. Stuart. SW
R. R. Strader, JW
B. Meyer, Jr., AGL............. ... 56.42
C. 0 . Smith, Insp................... 55. 44
H . A. McFrye
359 ....Not Represented
360....R. M. Johnson. M
W. J. Williams. SW
W.C.Bird
A. E. Enderlin
R. W . Haun
K. W. Hinkle
J. C. Jensen
E. C. Mathisen
H. D . Oliphant
M. T. Simmons
0. von Raven
361....M. F . Kannus, SW................ 23.24
H. G. Britt, JW
362 .... J. R. Forster, M......................
6.86
J. V. McDaniel. SW
G. R. Eaton, JW
F. W . Mitchell
R. L. Nelson
W. J. Raab
W. H. Scott
363... .R. Young. M
D. L. Hurt, SW
H. F. Edson, Jr.. JW

396

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

No. of
Mile.
Lodge
Representative!
Allow.
D. K. Akey
S. A. Barakos
0. H. Bradley
C. W. Crocker
0. E. McLean
L. C. Moore
R. A. Stanley
365....R. E. Simonson, SW............ 19.60
W.D. Ford
366....L. A. Gottner, M.................... 25.62
W. H. Ahlenslager. SW
E. C. Carpenter, JW
S. M. Pavlovich, Insp............ 25.62
W. P. Robinson
367....L. H. Wigman. M ................ 57.82
J. H. Hilton, SW
A. D. Bond. JW
G. W.Roche
368 ....A. S. G. Markwick, M.......... 56.00
R. Hampton, SW
C. D. Davis, JW
G. B. Mize, PGM.................. 56.00
H . Rathbun
A. F. Simmons
369....T. 0. Anderson, M.................. 56.li
V. G . Sharp. SW
W. G. Scott, JW
E. F. Collins
D. B. Hoffman
370....E. Leong, SW
A. R. John.son, JW
P. A. PBueger, GTres.
A. Balukian
E.W. Bode, Sr.
H. 0. Hammerich
J.C. Love
U. D. Mackins
N . H. Neel
D.R. Stall
371....A. N. Price, SW.................... 285.09
D. Y. S. Pang, JW
C. H. McAll!ster, lnsp........... 285.09
A. H. Strike
372....A. Rister, M............................ 58.38
C.Lewis, SW

k_TE.~;y;:,· r:................... .

58.38
G. Cunningham
373....J. Polak. M.............................. 56.12
E. H. Peterson. SW
W. C. Husted, JW
E. W. Branaum, lnsp............. 56.12
37't.... H. S. Stein, Jr., M
R. L. Elder, SW
A. C. Kna~. JW
P. Bovero
B. F. Fisher
R. H. Johnston

No. of
Lodge

Representatives

Mile.
Allow.

K. L. Newkirk

L. H. Silberman
P. C. Tudor
W. Van Ornum
375 ....R. C. Bauer, M
M. A. Pihl, SW
D . R. Lingruen, JW
E. K. Bender
J. H. Conner
M. W. Erickson
J. Halley
R. F. Johnson
C. J. MacMeckin
G. H. Pape
L. J. Schell
F. E. Wisherop
376....G . M. Henry. M
J. R. Mose, SW
F. J. De Larios, JW
E. t . Almquist
G. W. Brown
B. J. Hjerpe
E. A. Sandberg
377.... M. M. Highland. SW..........
J. L. Stead. JW
W . E. Haynie
378 .... R. B. Montgomery. SW........
A. J. Schramm, JW
G. W. Perkins, lnsp...............
379 ....E. C. King, Jr.. M..................
C. E. Myers, JW
H. J. Haase
380....R. E. Batter.shill, M................
C. A. Grossman. SW
L.A. Budwig, JW
381....J. E. Macleod, SW..............
382 ....E. W . Reid, SW....................
F. F. Boyer
383 ....R. B. Henry, SW..................
J. H . Peloian
384....R. P. White, SW..................
E.W. Heald, PGM..............
R. C. Reeder, lnsp.................
N . P. Tester
385 ....E . V. Ball, SW......................
387.... P. L. Hill, SW........................
L. P. Brown, JW
F. W. Spear
J. R. Wallace .
388 .... F. E. Lang, Jr., M
L. D. Robin.son, SW
J. B. Gore. JW
C. H. Allen, GOrt.
J. F. Finley, Jr., Insp.
P.R. Chapin
G . K. Crandall
W. A. Fager
J.E. Pinley
J<. E. Hopper

Mile.
No.of
Allow.
Ledge
Representstives
402....J. D. Hammond. M ......... ..... . 83.44
R. C. Griffith. SW
R. E. Adams. JW
J.B. Whitehead
103... .R. A. Lang, M
H. M. Sherman, SW
60.06
H. Campe, Jr.
P. M. Hayes
390....C. E. Rodgers. ER............... . 81.84
D. P. Hewlett
391....WF. Pierce, M ........................ 19.46
L. S . McElwain
. H. Piske, AGL.. .............. 19.16
404-...R. C. Odell, M........................ 59.78
W. D. Archer
D. M. Smothers. SW
J. R. Wise
S. Varga, JW
392....~.. l.eu~~t'1~i:·sw................ 56.12
. I. Lewis
405 .... J. I. McGraa, M.................... 56.42
W. R. Campbell, JW
A. T olvonen, SW
·
L. V. Smith, lnsp .................. . 58.52
G. E. Rutledge, JW
P. R. Brunner
L. B. Fender.son
N . A. Henderson
406 .... H. P. Nichols, M.................... 55:H
V. E. Mitchell
R. L. Olson, SW
J. A. Sickenberger ................ .. 63.98
G. P. Wekh.JW
393..- C. H. Mikelson, M
R. B. Carter
S. C. Gendar, SW
W . D. Hopkins
D. M. Guire, JW
407....E. H . Boardman. M .............. 74.48
H. French, Insp.
T.Owen,SW
W. Blomberg
H. M. Rodieck, JW
O. A. Swansen
39i....G. D. Atkinson. M............... . 59.22 408 .... D. C . Berkshire. M................ 58.38
T. C. Lodge, SW
R. K. Cooke, SW
T.A. Nau,JW
E. S. Cook. JW
l!. T . Knowles
M. E. Smith, PGM................ 56.12
395....C. N. Matsen, M .................... 14.56 409....H. R. Meyers, M .................... 285.09
A.C.Lum,SW
T. E. Smith, SW •
C. L. Hapal
L. A. Balter. JW
G. N. Kahapea, Sr.
396.... R. B. Slangerup, M
411....R. W. Daniels, SW.............. 66.36
J. W. Haire, SW
T. H . Braswell, JW
J. R. LaSuer, JW
R. H. Spencer. Insp............... 66.36
A. Johnson, lnsp.
412 ....W. C. Garcia, M .................... 86.94
A. W.Hanson
E. D. Simmons
C.E. Thau
397....M. L. Thompson, M. ........... 57.12 -414 .... D. E. Potter. M...................... 56.42
C. G. Wells, SW
415 .... S . Zaid, M.............................. 55.4-4
E. M. Dushane, TW
I. Shulkin, lnsp....................... 54.60
A. A. Dowers, lnsp.............. . 62.H
V. Massie
399....A. Wong. M....- .................. 7.00 116....A. E. Reeves, M.................... 33.16
W. E. Brown. SW
M. P. Leinstelner, SW
H. E. Van Arsdale
A. A. Daniells, lnsp............... 33.46
G. R. Hahnle
400....W. G. Fergiaon, M
417 ....L. Klaucke, ER...................... 26.18
I. J. McBrl~. SW
S. G. Arsenault
418 ....
~~~~:.'sw.. ............. 56.42
W . B. Taylor
C. K. Schertle, lnsp............... 56.42
101....B. F. Bryant, M
W . B. Stearns
L. T. Katz. SW
D. V. Mackay, JW
H. E . Templeton
M. C. Buckley
419....N . Weiler, SW...................... 6U6
E. C.Lamp
M.Gregg, JW
D. McFetridge
120....C. E. Lee. Sr., M.................... 24.78
A. H. Triggs

No.ol
Ledge
Re,,,.eaentstive!
L. R. Lawrence
J. F. Palmer
R. E. Petersen
H. D. Robertson
E. }. Willlg
389
tl~h~~sw

···-g: k

Mile.
Allow.

.............

.
J

58.91
56.12
51.32
51.88
62.H
68.32
56.42
29.26
86.24
86.21
86.24
29.51
29.12

397

J: ¢;.

398

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Mile.
No. of
Mile.
No. of
Allow. Uxl{le
Representatives
Lod(le
Allow.
Repre:R!ntalives
421....R. C. Harrison, M.................. 58.10 436.... ]. W. Negus. M .................... 61.46
W. E. Stansel, SW
]. R. Smith, SW
C. R. Bales, JW
R. Locke. M.................... 52.50
W.
....
437
M. B. Burke
R. Gilson, SW
B. C. Darling
J. E. Bacon, lnsp..................... 52.50
L. D. Matson
W. D . Knight
L. E. Mauon
V. D . Ward
J. L. Robertson
439 ... .R. Kidwell. JW...................... 10.50
E. N. Stansel
440 .... L. P. Benitez, M
422 ....F . G. Smythe, M.................... 56.42
E. C. Newman, SW
W. 0. Hutton, SW
I. R. Bilskey, JW
J. E. Calhoun
H. RichardS-On
423 .... E. A. Hunt, M .................... 57.12
0 . A. Capps. SW
44 L .R. W. Mansfield, SW.......... 76.72
A. W. Nelson. JW
A. H. Tipton, JW
G. C. Holbert
D. Grayson ............................ 57.96
424 ....D. W. Montgomery, SW.... 32.90 442 ....Blackmer Lodge
F. T . Wilson
(under suspemlon)
425....N ot Represented
443 ....R. Fukumoto, SW................ 285.09
426.... W. T. Jones, M .................... 41.58
R. C. Kong
F. Latimer. SW
G. LaFlemme. SW............ 48.86
414....R.
. S. Brenneman, 111.!p.......... 41.58
J. B. Canton, JW
W .E. Wahl
.... M. W . Reed, M.................... 56.42
427.... W . A. Scott. ER.................. 61.04 445 I. D . Adams, SW
J. C. Behringer, lnsp.............. 61.04
R. K. Byerts. JVI
R. W. C. Storms
H. A. Huebner, JG\V............ 56.42
60.34
428... .R. D. Martinez, SW............
F. E. Clark, Insp......... ........... 56.42
5.60
429 .... R. H. Custer, M....................
A . T . Gruening............... ....... 56.M
D. C. Sever, JW
H . P. Huebner........................ 56:42
J. C. Brown
J. S. Hunt
R. J. Malone
R. Haber. SW........................ 59.22
....
H6
430....A. Sharrah, M.- .................... 40.32
J. W . Roberts
R. E. Howarth, Jr., SW
447....C. E. Moore, JW.................. 59.22
P. N. Myers, PCM
L. D. Babcock, lnsp............... 59.22
P . W. Lindt, lnsp................. 37.94
R. 0 . Lougee
431....R. E. Winccnsten. M
4.34
4i8....~ L. Panos, M........................
F. J. Jeffus, SW
4.34
. M. Faulkner, SW..............
E. 0. Anderson. JW
. D . Trager, JW
R. McDonald, Insp
V. W . Hendrix. AGS
E. R. Brooks
G. C. Johnson
W. A. Horne
H. E. Thornsberry
F . E. Loher
.
H. J. Stoffers
449 .... J. E. Mize. M
B. Trlmeloni
A. E. Toivonen. SW
. L. Van Winkle
A. W . Odle, AAGTr.
F . L. Vogeli
R. Montgomery, Insp.
]. Ferguson
433.... C. L. Noring , SW................ 16.94
R. E. Hannan
434 .... H. S. Buck II, M.................... 42.56
G. W . Maynard
435.... W . A. McCallum, M
S. L. Solomon
W . D. Hanson. SW
R. L. Nichols. ]W
lhfjcis~'\v.................. 54.32
i50.... ~.
E. G. Freeman, lnsp.
I. Crase
W. C. Faubion, JW
P.A. DeVrics
W. W. Dickson, Jr., IMp..... 54.32
G. D. Freeman
E. C. Dunham
W.W. Kiesow
R. W. Pettes
W . K. Raines
i51....E. L. Hamson, M ................ 57.40
J. A. Teresi
D. L. Peek, SW
b . L. West
P. L. Sutliff, lnsp................... 56.i2

l

l.

¥:

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Mile.
No. of
Allow.
Representatives
Uxl(le
R.R. Beard
B. F. Kearney
M. L. Lamb
i52 ....H . M. Gough. M.................... 57.54
M . R. Webb. SW
C. W. Fawcett
R. N . Grossman
E. Kaminski. Jr.
R. C. Kettle
J. R. Miller
R. H. Rittgers
454 ....F. J. Prisco, Sr., M
L. Aronian, SW
C. M . Gardner, JW
B. Coleman
L. 0. Ginsberg
A . J. Huelse
H. S. Johnron
V. P . McMurdo
A. H . Peterson
R. W ieland
455 .... C. R. Johnson, SW
R. A. Spencer. JW
C.R. MacPhee. SG\V.......... 3.92
A . P. Bilay
E. B. Brehaut
H.H.Elin11
J. T . Farr, Jr.
W. M . Lustenberger
R. F . Nilsson
T. W . Rollinson
457 .... H. D . Dola n. M.................... 57.54
E. P. Galeria. SW.
]. W. W orman, JW
A. G . Robertson. Insp........... 57.5i
i58... .V. Enke, SW... -....... ............. 56.42
B. D'Aston. JW
W . W. Baskerville
459....C . C. Eastman. ER................ 12.74
8.68
460.... A. D. Lyons. Jr., SW............
461....G. P. Leung, M
S. S. Sato, SW
J. K. Hodge. JW
E. A. Caldwell
C. Gibbs. Jr.
R. P. Knox
J. C. Lewellen
J. A. Steinmetz
G . H . Taylor
462 ....J. M . Phillips, M
H . B. Thomlinson, SW
H . T . Dosdorlan. Jr.. JW
T. W. S. Wu, Jnsp.
L. H. Beckendorf
R. H. Deovlet
P. Lawson
J.M. Pisias
M. S . Springer
J. Warshaw

399

Mile.
No. of
Allow.
Representatives
Lod{le
463....C. A. Tinkham, SW.............. 9.66
J. Bright, JW
46i ...A . B. Becker, M
G. E. Moody. SW
W. C. Lynch. JW
S. G. Clark
D . N . Deane
W. A . Foster
F . J. Herz
A. E. Hewit
W. E. Kidd
J. R. T itsworth
465 ....W . D . Stallings. SW............ 25.62
J. G. Puma, JW
L. B. Anderson
S. E. Dollar
466...E. H . Halbrook. M ............... 40.46
R. K. Murdock. SW
T . V. Ketchem. JW
C. W. Luick
R. J. Myers
R.G. Taylor
467 ....0 . M. He!kkola. M ................ 56.42
J. A. Miller. SW
S. J. Davidson, JW
468....Z . V. Miller. M
H . Matthews. SW
M. J. Duval. JW
R. G . Colgett
H. M . Frostholm
469....P. P. Huotte, M ...................... 60.62
R. L. Charles. SW
P. W . Baldwin. lnsp.............. 60.3i
470.... D. L. Zyski, M
S. Miller. SW
J. Angel, JW
C. H. Rothblum
471....C. W. Foster. M .................... 10.92
E. E. K"ndall. SW
D. D. Kitchens. lnsp.............. I0.08
J. Reddick. Insp...................... 10.92
G. W. Graffis
F. V. Mayo
472....D. R. Gamponia, SW............ 310.25
W. E. Foster, In~ ................ 310.25
W. C . Day. Sr .. JGS ............ 310.25
473....J. C. Freeman. SW................ 88.06
i75_.H. L. Hendrex, M .................. 56.42
V . W . Alcorn. SW
R. A. Kelsey
476.... 0. P. Cox, SW...................... 74.90
E. L. Winn. JW
R. E. Carlton, Insp................ 75.32
R. K. Hager
R. F. Wilson
477....C. E. Gwin, SW.................... 40.88

400

PROC EEDINGS OP THE

No. of
Mlle.
Lodge
R.epresentatiucs
Allow.
478 ....B. M. Burchard, M
T . R. Bell. SW
R. \V. Beckwith
R. Cummings
H.F. Hexner
E. L. Kearney
E. E. Metz
G. H. Meyer
479.... H. E. Carlsen, M .................... 7.00
H. E. Carrell. SW
0 . H. Dewhurst. JW
L. E. Allen
L. G. Benjamin
J. S. Hasen
E. W.Roggy
R. W. Scott
0 . M. Swensen
E. C. Van de Mark
480....D. Simpson, M
E . Soza. SW
P. M. Porter, JW
181.... A. A. Hubner. M
H. G. McGuffin, SW
' K. A. Vandebrooke, JW
G. T . Adams
T . J. Bass
W. H. Daily
E. F. Pierce
482 .... N. L. McPherson, M ........... . 57.12
A. E.Guy.SW
R. A. Henkens
W . J. Mason .......................... 56.12
483....D. Rycraft, Jr., M ................. . 58.10
A. C. Larson, SW

~· E.HK~~~I~:;,!.~.............. 58.10

fi.
C. Comaford
J. A.

Hochwarter
484 ....J. R. Kiely, M._.......................
485....H. H. Bryant. JW..................
J.E. Willis
486.... H. 0. Hall, M ........................
A. Barnes, SW
J. F. Carl. JW
W. W. Shugart, l03p........... .

····~: k~'d1rX9.~vi ... ... ······

181

W . P.Rams.JW
E. G. Branstetter
C. B. Menge
188.... N. 0 . Dean, JW....................
R. D. Morgan, lnsp ............. .
189....J. V. McDonald. M
D. D. Fulks, SW
A.B.Ebert
C. B. Marker
C. McKay
J. A. Sobey
A. Van Nieuw

56.42
20.14
10.16
10.16
1.3-t

12.71
12.71

No. of
Mlle.
Lodge
R.eprenntatlue•
AllOtV.
i90....H . A. Mtttelstead, M............ 32.76
W . H. Franks. SW
491....W. J. Justin, Jr .. M
R. P. Smith, SW
A. A. Horwege
G. A. Jurgens
C. R. Ramsey
C. J. Rundstrom
J. B._Spehar
W. Woodall
492....C. R. Conyers, M.................. 56.12
G. E. Harrison, Imp.............. 56..t2
B. B. Bever
H. M. Hand
D. C. Lee
193....J. J. Baysdorfer, SW............ 29.96
E.T. Hansen
P. C.Hess
E . D. Small
194....L. W. Gilliam. M
H. E. Acree. SW
P. H . Wllllams. JW
E. L. Han900. Insp
R. Adams
C. D. Guthrie
R. C. Leland, Jr.
J. W. Manuel
G. P. Silliman
195.... A. B. Nadler, M
G. C. Winter. SW
W . H. Burgess, JW
R. A. Krug, Insp
F. A. Magid
197....B. G. Johnston. M
C. P. taGrange. SW
A. W. Isham, JW
498....C. N. Eichenberger, M.......... 10.92
499.... E. A. Tannt:hill, M................ 12.0i
J. W. Driskell, SW
J.E. Poindexter, JW
C . M. Cole. Jr.
L. 0 . Goodnow
A. D. Henderson
500....W. S . Grundy, JW
E. J. Armando
W. C. Zecher
501....W. H. Bowdt:n, SW............ 31.86
502 ....L. E . Gunderson, Jr., M
E. C . Poulton, SW
A. C. Johnson, JW
M. Payne
J. D. F. Smith
C. L. Stanley
J. E. Tburbon
503....B. W. Colvin, M
C W . Conley. SW
C . L. Parktr, JW

GRAND LODGE OP C J\UPOR N IA

No.of

Mile.
Allow.
504....R. R. Cox, SW ...................... 60.06
A. G. Brocksen. JW
R.H. Davis
E. Houser
A. R. Moberg. Jr.
H. K. Noble
505....C Roberuon, M.......... ......... 60.90
V . R. Oltmanns. SW............ 62.02
W. A. Hatch, JW
C. Patterson
506....N. T . Stocking, M................ 56.42
A. Ross. SW
J. T . Peterson, JW
H. Beal
H. L. Palmer
507 ....C. M. Carnes. M.................. 57.26
R. D. Robinson, SW
D. M. McMillan, JW
R. J. Lehman
H. A. Wilson
508 ... .V. L. Gordon, ER.................. 29.iO
509 .... L. Miller, ER.......................... 56.12
510....G. G. Ainsworth, M-············ 6.30
H.J. Wright, SW
H . l<. Bu'", JW
R. D. Batte
511....tA
· . Thornton, M..................
5.71
. L. Conn, SW
. S. Gonzales, JW
. R. Duke
H. L. Hom
512...~. L. Niccum, M. .. ~........... .... 56.12
C . H. Durden, SW
L. V. Shelton. JW
513 ....J. W. Cave. M................ .... .. 55.11
G. D. Modd, SW
R. Osbom,JW
J. W. Baker
A. S. Davidson
D. H. LaGrange
J. B. Nickerson
V . H. Sipes
R. W . Watts
R. L. Whitney
511....R. L. Newby. M
J. J. Pape. JW
A. W . Dafrymple
E . A. Gumbinger
H. Loo
L. B. Richards
C. J. Sly
0 . 0. Townsend
J. H. Turner
515 ... .1. J. Leminjl. M ...................... 58.10
l. A. Roe. Jr .. SW
516 ....L. K. Arndt. M..............
11.58
S. E. Underwood. SW

Lodge

f?epre~ntativc!l

401

Mlle.
Allow.
Lodge
Representnrivcs
517 ....L. S. Cronander. M
M. C. Kelly, JW
E. G. Couture
G. E. Payne
A. V. Sligar
A. Stettler
518....W . Featherstone, M .............. 72.38
Q. A. Wemple, SW
W. V . Markey
R. B. Watts............................ 72.38
519 .... J. A. Turnbull, SW ............. 56.42
T . R. Waite. JW
P. M. Bezanson
520....W. Rosenberg. M ................ 56.42
J.M. Kartzinel, SW
E . Spiegelman, JW .
Lt~~~n,GP........... ........... . 56.42

No.of

521....W. R. Hovey. M
D. C. Dudley. SW
R. H. Chamberlain
P. L. Hussey
K. A. Rice
M. D. White
522....R. B. Bormann, SW............. . 57.51
A. A. Muske
523....W. M. Marsh, M .................. 58.80
A. Krcellc, Jr.• SW
M. R. Green, JW
521....Not Represented
525 ....G. H . Baskin, M
H. L. SandkulJa. SW
A. J. Moras. JW
R. L Bowen
J. Newsham
D. M. Ratledge
526 ....J. Santisteven, M
E. I. Rose. SW
S. L. Pond, JW
S. W. Diamond
G.Goldman
C. H . Israel
M. Kaplan
527 ....W. E. McCauley. M ............ 57.96
E. S. Todd
528....B. L. Griffin. Jr.. M ............... . 56.42
A. G. Scull. SW
C. E. Crane
T . R. Hohl
56.42
529 .... ~. l.~~i;~n~:·sw ··············
S. Stein. JW
E. V. Stewart. Jr.. PGM....... . 56.i2
56.42
· A. Linsk. Insp.... . ........... .
L. P. Bass
M. Tooredman

402

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Mile.
No. of
Allow.
Representatives
Lodge
530....S. H. Nielsen, SW................ 25.62
R. E. Fargason, JW
H. R. Hargrave, lnsp............ 25.62
D. B. Brewer
L. H. Molle-r
L. R. StubbleAeld
531.... P. W. Herman, JW
F. F. Goodman
S. H. Hook
532....W. D. Bledsoe, JW..--------.. ·· 13.16
H. 0. Hoghren
53L.E. T. Gregg, SW._________________ 60.20
H. G. Garnier, JW
H. W. Wensel
534.... A. S. Marshall, M
J. W. Rae
F. Heuring
J. N. Rae
J. H. L. Wolfsohn
535 .... C. G. Puller. M...................... 56.42
W. I. Gustafson. SW
M. H . Stafford, JW
E. J. Blickfeldt
E. A. Stone
537.... W. B. Sill. M .......................... 56.42
T. P. Lewis, SW
D . H. Whitley, JW
V. V.Goode
J. H. Karr
G. W. Mettler
538.... R. G. Hewey. M ............._______ 58.38
J.E. Cox
5i0.... H . G. H aupt, SW.....---·--------- 60.06
P.L.Ray
541....J. L. Bartholomew, M
'r. C. Broyer, SW
R. D. Morse. JW
L. M. Barrett
C. J. Bellman, Jr.
P. L. Higley
A. J. Leighton
E . R.Rowe
542 .... J. S. Woodward. M ....... _______ 54.60
H. H. Cagle. SW
B. C. Smith. JW
D. Maltby. fn sp ············--··-·-- 54.60
F. E. Archer
C. W. Burch
J. G. Gladson
t. V . Price
C.H. Smith

su... J:s.s&!~~ho~';i;_:·}w·---···---·-- 60.06
H. C. Rutter
544 .... C. Cassano, M .......... --·----···-..
W. W. Danyluk. SW
L. 0 . Emmerichs

56.00

Mile.
No. of
Allow.
R.cpresentstive:J
Lodge
545.... V. H. Irons. Jr .. M
M. R. Laird, SW
J.M. Coates
l. G. Fong
W. G. Furniss
D. D. Jewell
D . Jones
T . L. Knudson
I. J. Kohnke
0. W. Norman
W. F. Poynter
W. S. H. W o ng
546.... G. H. Suppe. M .................... 57.54
C. R. Amidon. SW
L. N. Call, JW
547.... M. W. Watson, M ................ 58.38
J. J. Matthews, SW
W . E . Lindberg. JW
E. C. Murfett
T . S. Swirles
548....T. G. McKinney. M.............. 56.84
J. W. Schermerhorn, SW
S. D. Boyd, JW
R. W. Doan. lnsp.................. 56.84
X. G. Young
549 .... U. E. Nordeen. M
N . L. Adams, SW ·
J. J. Lopipero, JW
W. 'N. Barry
A. Burke
M . F . Conklin
W. R. Cruickshank
S. Fong
R.R. Herdman
G.D. Horn
R. M. Manbert
J. R. Peebles
K. D. Smith
55 1.. .. R. W . Bow ma n. M
L. S. Lehnus, SW
G. W. Adams. JW
P . S. Boren
L. B. Ferguson
L.A. Kirk
G. S. Trimble
552 .... W. A. Roberts. JW.............. 39.76
A. Duncan
J. C. Tario
J.B. Wrigley
554.... L. D . Rusconi, M
D. R. C armine. SW
R. A. Smirle. JW
F. D. DeLong
\V. M . Milligan
555.... G. X. Van Dyke. JW.......... 40.46
556....J. B. Smith. M
J.M. Schnelder. S\V
G. C. Moore, JW
R. A. Smallman, Insp

GRANU LODGE. OP CALIFORNIA

Mile.
No. of
Allow.
R.epre:1entative:1
Lodge
557.... W. E . Harrison, SW............ 57.54
A . B. Oder
558 .... R. H. Emry, SW____.. ______________ 60.20
J. J. Nash
559 ....R. Rowland. M ...................... 56.42
E. P. Page, SW
560....C . M. Stine. M
D . A. Fristedt. SW
D. E . Weisse, )W
E. H . Siems. GS
\V. H. Gillette
561. .. F. R. Barnett. SW................ 73.08
J.E. Miller. JW
H . K. Ford
562 .... T. J. Mera:t. M
R. D. Hall.SW
J. H . Ludlow, JW
C.H. Newell
56.42
563... .0. E. McMullen, M.......
C . E. Franklin, SW
W. Bottorff. Insp.................. 57.96
M . F. Vail
564 .. .. R. A. Ghent. M
R. G. Roemer, SW
J. R. Crawford, JW
565 .... J. Ansoorian, SW.................. 56.42
E. Dilworth, JW
D. Johnson
566.... L. R. Wood. M _____.._______ ........ 56.42
R. C. Robbins ---·----m........... 56.42
E. A. Johnson. JW
H. A. Mahr
L. S. Schottke
F. Thompson
567....C. C. Klaus, M .......... :........... 60.06
H. H . Harsch. SW
L. S. Wolfe, JW
568 ....L. T . Stile. M
W . P . Porter, SW
W . S. Cuneo, JW
J.E. Hammond
H. D . Hosac
L. M . Bradford
W. V. McBcth
W . H. Van Cleave
3.50
569.... E. C . Barham, M....
R. V. D askam, SW
J. L. Dill. JW
W.W. Beck, Insp
H. S. Kaulbach
C. V . Tucker
570....G . W. Hill. M
N. B. Sparks. S\V
L. E . Allton. JW
P. E. Long. Insp
A. C. Gundred
J. Kinces
l-:I. H . Mitchell. Jr.
L. H. Strohecker

403

Mile.
No. of
Allow.
Representstive:J
Lodge
571....A. \Veikert, M
R. H. McCall. SW
E. W . Davis, PGL
H. H. Hobson. Insp
P. F. Leong
W. R. Peterson
572....M. L. Lee, M .......................... 56.56
R. Smith, Insp........................ 58.38
E . J. Cumbey
574 ....W. W . Andert, M................ . 73.08
R. A. C arsten. SW
W. F. Zauss. JW
M. G. Krebs
575 .... R. G. Ingram, Insp................ 40.32
576.... 0. J. Shastid, M......... ........... 74.48
J. A. Davis, SW
J. I. Dunn, JW
L. Chambers, lnsp.................. 74.48
577....D. 0 . Bliven, M .................... 56.42
K. A. Johnson. SW
L. H. Mahler
J. S. \Valters
578.... M. R. Ingalls. M ............... .... 56.42
R. K. Simmons, SW
R. J. Miller, JW
R. A. Larson
A. V . Lundstrom
R. 0. Miller
R. E. Murphy
579....K. W. Meyser, M.................. 12.46
F. H. Moore, JW
C. E. Herrmann
580.... R. E. Diggins, SW................ 73.78
Z. Y. Coleman
581....A. D.R. Blake, M ................. 10.46
J. C. WhitAeld. SW.............. 40.16
R. A. Brierley. J\V
40.46
K. L. Morris, Insp............
L. T. Jenkins
K. P. Sward
582 ....W . R. Cantarini. SW.......... .. 63.28
R. L. Copeland, JW
J. H . W cller, Insp .... ............ .. 63.28
583 .... J. H. Bro vm. SW ................. . 38.64
T . A. Tucker. JW
584 .... E. A. Reichardt. SW ............ 56.42
M.A. Pixley
585....A. J. Munselle. M ................. . 56.42
R. Hendershot. SW
A. R. Dixon
586 ....R. Sharpness, M ................... . 60.90
D . W. De Witt. SW
N. R. Webb, JW
G. B. Honold. JGD.............. .. 60.90
B. M. Honold
W. W.Reybum
R. Tadman

404

GRJ\ND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

PROCEED INGS OF THE

Mile.
No.of
Allow.
R epresentatives
l.odne
587____Q. Bust ~ mante , M . .... _.. _....... 56.i2
L. J. Jacobson. SW
J. K. Zinn, JW
C. Barrett
E. E. Smith
588-._-J: ~- 't'ai~:t ~w···---.............. 56.12

Mile.
No. of
Allow
Repre8ent atives
l.odge
60·L.H. H. Cook, SW.................. 60.90
H. N. Morris. JW
L . G . Connelly. Insp.............. 61.18
605... M. D. Morris. SW................ 56.i2
G. M. Haley
58.9i
607... ~~~.j~.'.os\vM.......... .

l

......

R. S. Truitt. JW
M. M. McKenzie
C . H. Davis
589.... V. K. Punua, M ...................... 310.25
608 .... D. R. Krag, M ... . .............. .. .. 57.iO
C. K. Oyagi
R. I. Dickson. SW
61.0-1
--··
....
..................
590.... H. Lewis, M
D. G. Campbell. PGL
E. LeDonne, SW
J. E . \Vellet, Insp.................. 57.i()
F. Erbe, JW
609 .... R. D. Marburger. M.............. 12.(}f
R. R. Bowman
R. W . \Villiamson, SW
59LR W. Gillespie, M···········--··· I l.90
C. B. Hendricks. JW
46
C. P. Van Patten
592-...G. E. Foster, Jr .. M............. ... Si
A. B. Craft, Jr.. SW
6 10 ... R. Jacobsen. M
o0.06
J.E. Watson. SW
593 ... H. E. Perkins. M..
M. W . Awis\1$, JW
W . L G reen. SW
\.V. W . Taylor
R. L. King, JW
C. F. Kimball
611... .C. R. Wells. M. .. ...... .......... 55.02
L. J. McEldou·ncy
H. B. Cockrum. SW
K. C. Serles
R. G. Steen, JW
N.R.Quk k
59·L .. W. P. Denny. M __ .................. 60.06
M. H. McCaslin, SW
612 ....R. H. Bailey. M .................... 58.38
W. B. Ross, SW
E. McGhee, JW
C. J. W entz, lnsp .... ----·------- 60.06
58.38
R. F. Rutherford
R. C. Curtis
595 ____R. D. Spencer. SW-··········----- 56:i2
596 ....L. J. Croak, M........................ 57.-iO 613 ....H . L. Evans, M........... .......... 12.(}f
D. H. Exter. SW
A. W. Meese, SW
B. L. Ames. JW
285.09
598.__.P. H. C. Chung. SW........---·
F. P. Lemen. AGL................ 12.0t
57.Si
.
.
..
M........
599 ....W. A. Brady,
P. L. Baker
R. C. Cooper, SW
M. A. Buth
· A. L. Gerrie. Jr .. JW
614 ... C. H. Wat.son. M.................. 56.•2
57.Si
K. A. Jacobson ......................
N. K. Weaver, SW
W. G. Mohn
58.38
57.i l1
liOO....R. W. DePalma. M...
F. A. Chworows ky
R. E. Uselman, S\V
N . Cond'e
J. A. Bristol. JW
C. B. Little
M. Ammann
615 .... R. D. S iemi:, M...................... 68.60
R. C. Eulberg
R. B. Hubbs, SW
35.00
..........
ER............
60 L..W. Young,
616.... L. J. Patterson, M.................. 60.Ji
602.... R. F. Kettler, Jr., M.............. 55.·H
K. B. Conklin. ln.,p................ 60.06
F. H. Smith. JW
M. G. LaRue
56.2S
..
lnsp..........
.
McKirnson
J.
.
T
D. H. Altimus. SW..:........... 68.60
....
617
G. H. Himes
L. P. Boyle
I. M. Bjork
W . A. Tompkins
M. R. E ntwistle
618....c. E. Dudgeon. M.............. .... 56.i2
603....G. Ringsmith. M
R. S. Clark. SW
B. M. Gregg. SW
8. G. Sp_icer, JW
JW
J. R. Trindel.
C. W . W. Balley
Andl'rson
G. W.
619 ....A. R. Shwnway. _M.............. 60.06
L. C. Hasker. lnsp
D. M. Pierro, SW
. . ,- -·~
W. Blolllleth
G. P. Roberta
R. I. Ketela

~-~- ~~:~:insp. . . .. . . .

~~ ~-- <g:~~e;· l.';';;, .................

Mile.
No. of
Allow.
Representa tives
lodge
620.... H. V. Staniforth . M .............. 73.08
D. K. Kerr. Jr.. SW
R. P. Blake, JW
H. S. Fisher
J. H. Kerr
H. K. Rankin
621....T. E. Butkovich, M.............. 56.i2
G . B. Keller. SW
L. L. Sandlin
622 .... H. A. Andenon. M................ 56.12
G. Commons. SW
H. E. Weaver, JW
C. F. Chapman
F. H. Chapman
C. A. Demby
R. H. Dutwiler ...................... 56.i2
E. R. Johnson
G . H. Peterson
R. G. W armuth
623 .... S. Chadnow, M.................... 56.i2
M. M. Rubin, SW
62i.... J. B. Barbero, lnsp
R. G. Worth
625.... J. C . Kopchinsky, M.............. 57.96
H. Noguchi. SW
R. Follett. JW
H. Larsen
626.... N. F. Ntckel. SW.................. 73.92
A. Wein, JW
C. B. Hart
D. V. Roose
C. E. Smith
627.... R. Henry, M............................ 57.5i
l . E. Dixon, SW
N. K. Krikorian, JW
628....J. J. Curtis. sw.__................. s1.60
S . K. Lehman, Jr.. JW
629....L. Vollowitz. SW.................. 56.i2
S . A. Kapplinger, JW
A. W. Billings
D. G . Butts. Sr.
J. J. Fiderio
R. C. Harris
B. L. Irwin
H. C. Mudgett
630 ....W. H. Chick, M.
F. B. Sherman. SW
R. E . Webb. JW
H. C. Clausen. PGM
G. H. Beers
J. F. Garriott
E. K. Quick
631 .... S. Allen, M............................ 56.i2
J. 0 . Haden. SW
_
M. J. Norton
J. E. Schlener
P. D. Tarr

i05

Mlle.
No. of
Allow.
R epresentat ives
lodge
632 ....M. L. Coon. SW.................... 73.08
E. J. Wallace, JW
B. W. Buck
B. T . Salmon
633 .... H. S . Peek, Jr., M............. .. ... 5 l.2i
D. M. Lighter, JW
J. J. DeMoor, lnsp........... ....... 5 l.2i
C. C. Fouhse
G. S. Harts, Sr.
A. T. Mead
63i .... W. A. Peacock, SW.............. 59.08
635 .... W. J. Partridge. M................ M.10
M. C. Gove, SW
D. E. Westerling , JW
C. H. Grace .......................... 61.10
636 ....G. M. Warner, M.................. 56.i2
L. J. Gessner, SW
R. A. Crtgler, DCM.............. 56.i2
G. H. Harman
E. A. Underwoo d .................. 56.i2
H. W arner
R. S. Young
637 .... R. D. Kerr, M........................ 56.1 i
J. B. Watts. SW.................... 56.11
F. E. Crowley, JW
R. H. Atwater
M. H. Borchardt
J. T . Cuthbertso n
G. F. Johnson
P. Lanes
C. A. Weihe
D.S. Wemple
638 ....Consoltdated with No. 478
on Oct. I. 1968
639 ....L. T. Greenwald, M.............. 56.i2
M. C. Maroko, JW
A. Oritz
A. D vorin

611...t k~~cl;1i"1··--·--···----··--··----

6iL.M. M. Frincke. JW........... ...
J. G . Barnes. Jr.
b . Dockendorf
ML.W . C. Royer. M ....................
M. D. Miner, SW
L. Kenyon, JW
A. V . Shilling
ML.E. Langley, SW....................
R. H. Koch, JW
W. V. Marshall
6-45....R. W. Walker, SW..............
Walker, lnsp................
E.
M . . Furman
W. W. Garrison. Jr.
616....J. B. Christle, M ...............:....
R. V. Faulkerson, Jr.
R.R. Snyder

l

56.56
47.60
60.06

59.78
60.20
60.20
56.12

406

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

No. of
Mile.
Lodge
Representatives
Allow.
647.... H. I. Marietta, M.................. 57.96
C. R. Patterson. SW
L. R. Muller, JW
J.C. White
t. G. Williams
648 ....W . H. Pasley. M .................. 63.56
W. G. Chamberlain
H. L. Knick
J. L. Ousley
649 .... L. T. Childers, M .................. 57.26
Saraceno, SW
. A. Taylor, JW
E. A. Weirick, Insp.............. 57.12
F. A. Machner
650.... G. H. Mohr, M...................... 56.42
H. W. Baruth, SW
G. W. Burch. Jr..................... 56.42
H. J. Cameron
W .G. Lee
J. W. Swank
C. Yecsmen
651....R. V. Gregory, Jr., M............ 4.48
R. P. Peters, SW
R. Hodge
A. F. Koula
D. Wright
652....F. E. Sanger, M.................... 56.28
D. Semmens, SW.................. 56.70
R. T. Woodburn, JW.
H. AUcock
653....G. M. Philbin, SW................ 64.54
H. A. Brinegar, JW
R. W. Gesler
654....b W. Titlow, M .................... 57.26

.
J

v./s. v!':i)~~~he
0

655 ....K. V. Johnson, M..................
J.E. Forsyth, SW
C. W . Matthews, JW
J. R. Bennett
R. J. Epps
W. A. Langdon
D. C. Woizeski
656....C. 0. Harvey, JW................
P. Campbell, Insp..................
657 ....K. A. Rush, M........................
W. F. Robbins, SW
D. R. Thiel, JW
C. A. Hansen
R. J. Lelpper
G. A. McDaniel
658....E. F. White, M......................
C. A. Parle, SW
S. L.Cox, JW
C.H. Kanen
659 ....C. K. Elliott, M......................
D. A. Colman, SW
R. J. Waller, JW

60.06

59.78
59.78
73.08

15.96

59.36

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No. of
Mile.
Lodge
Representatives
Allow.
660.... D. Bernstein, SW.................. 58.66
J. Hancock, JW
661....J. A. Archer, SW.................. 56.42
R. H. Pontius, JW
662....C. S. McCune, M.................. 56.42
S. R. Howell
H. B. Keeling
P. R. Nichols
663.... C. E . Schaef, JW.................. 52.08
F. E. Stevens
665....C. H. Kuehn, M...................... 32.62
H. F. Pershica, SW
L. R. Prichard
666.... ~~~ge~f«;.................. 54.32

k

J. R. Vickers, Insp................
F. S. Barnard
667.... H. E. Scott. M......................
R. Stein, SW
R. L. Peterson, lnsp..............
F. W. Raddatz, Insp............
J. W. Catt
l<. Kinnaird
J. Swan
668 .... R. L. Hargrave, M................
G. W. Siddons. SW
J. D. Brinegar, JW
V. C. Mills
669 .... M. Dwight, M........................
W.R. Rudden. SW
W. H. Reed, Insp..................
670....W. J. Linton, M......................
S. E. Shrainer, SW
R. R. Frazier, JW
L. A. Strong. Insp..................
C. A. Green
K. E. Turner
671....R. Broaddus, JW....................
672.... G. E. Sutton, M....................
R. C . Sourwine, SW
W. H. Wayman, lnsp ..........
W . B. Sorrells
673.... K. Y. Yuen, M
H. P. Elliott.fr.. SW
H. E. Rowe, W
C. L. Poster, Insp
A. A. Bake-T, Jr.
R. E . Mason
C. M. Prior
E. W.Quon
A. S. Sandell
S. M. Tatarian
R. Van Heekeren
674....R. D. Guest, SW..................
B. Reizner, JW
A. J. Sissons
675....D. D. Hull, SW....................
H. H. Coleman

53.90
56.00
55.02
56.00

68.18

7.00
7.00
57.82
57.82
64.82
63.70
64.68

60.06
12.74

No. of
Mile.
Lodge
Representatives
Allow.
676 ....G. Brulch, M.......................... 7.00
C. R. Cruse, SW
S. Janis, JW
W. W. Eilers, Insp
C. R. Carpenter
N. L. David
S. J. Gorman
T. D. W ebster
677.... H. W. Smith, M.................... 56.42
V. Brice, SW
R. M. Foster, JW
E. Meyer , PCM.................... 57.54
E. C. Drake, GSB.............. .... 56.14
J. F. Porter, PSGW
W. A. Fishback, Insp............ 56.00
H. W. Smith
678-...E. W. Smith, M......
57.40
C. J. Salazar, SW
W. T. Dial, JW
J. L. Schwinn
679 ....Not Represented
680....C. H. Bailey, M.................... 17.36
M. E. Finch, SW
681....J. M . Eppler. M...................... 19.88
B. W. W ard, Jr .. SW
D. Eppler, JW
682.... L. A. Gallagher. M................ 58.10
E. F. Schmitt. SW
J. A Mitchell. JW
R. P. Higgins, Insp................ 58.10
V. B. Claypool
683 .... K. E. Knapp. SW.................. 29.54
684.. .. H. I. Lineback, ER................ 59.22
685 .... R. W . Kirk. M........................ 57.82
D. C. Dewey, SW
N. A Vaccarielo, JW
S. J. Collins, Insp.................... 57.82
). W . Dunn, Jr.
l<. Hooton
W . J. Williams
686....H. R. Carson. M
P. L. Noe, SW
A. Gallo.SW
J. H. Eichner, Jr.
687 .. ..W . E. Lane. SW.................. 69.58
N . E . Tanner, JW
A. H. Chung, GSB................ 69.58
L. H. Field, Insp.................... 69.58
M. F. Schuster
688 .... S. Goldman. M...................... 40.46
D. W . Buck. SW
B. L. Selbach, JW
L. E. Halbert, Sr.
689.... H. L. Odgers, M.................... 29.26
690... .M. L. Sutter, SW
E. J. Damir, JW
E. R. Baylis. Insp

407

No. of
Mlle.
Lodge
Representatives
A llow.
691....R. V. Brown, M............. ....... 56.42
R. D. Lewis, SW
E. R. Mangrum, JW
692....W. J. Moran, Jr.. M.............. 12.04
L. B. Stab!, SW
J. W. Bolen. Jr., JW
693.... D. M. Binkerd, M.................. 71.68
L. Schutter, JW
H. 0. Gordon, lrusp................ 72.10
0. G. Carlson
\V. J. Stuart, Jr.
694....R. E. Smith, SW.................... 58.10
A. Taylor, JW
K. M. Harris
695....C. E. Blair, M........................ 40.46
R. L. Hollingsworth. SW
R. W. Foxe, JW
696 .... G. Blackford, SW.................. 73.08
F. R. Stewart
697....J. S. Pursley, M
E. W.Gow,SW
K. W. Chinn, JW
R. H. Burrows, lnsp
W. McCosh
698.... G. A. Burgan. M.................... 56.42
W. W . Hamilton
699....R. C. Blossom, SW................ 60.06
A . C. Happel. JW
H. D. Lemons, lnsp................ 59.50
H. L. Chase
E. R. Eley
W. T. Killingsworth
700.... D. G. Halderman, SW.......... 25.62
F. N. Wiggs, JW
E.T. Ford
C. A. Richardson
701.. .. D. Hopman, SW.................... 42.00
R. Veach. JW
702....S. W . Klink, SW.................. 57.68
J. E. Mothersead, JW
J. F. Graham
703. ..A. A. Hulett, M.................... 56.56
G. G. See, SW
M. R. Harriman, JW
W.R. Cox
S. D. Hughes
705 ....E. B. Hulsey, M
T. W. Hansen. SW
R. M. Gorrell. JW
J. L. Wixon
706 ....P. Granberg, M
Q . N. Grout, SW
E. Newman. J\V
H . D. Seeskin, lnsp
K. W . Bonham
E. Ruffin
L. . Wells
707 .... S. Jenkins, SW...................... 26.88

I·

110

PROCEEDINGS OP THB
GRANU LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

Mile.
No. of
Allow.
Repreientatlve.s
Lodge
775....s. K. Pawloski. JW.............. 70.11
G. K. Frisbie
776.... H. M. Curts. M.................... 57.82
R. A. Thomson, SW
0 . 0 . Bridges. JW
777.... L. A. Reed. M........................ 18.18
C . W. Baze. JW
W . M. Head
A. A. Riva
118.... ~s. ~~~. ~v;·················· 59.22

lv

B. H. Hamlett
R. L. Riemer
E.G. Van Pelt

779....1: ~1~~!~$~······················ 60.06
JW
f. D. Kotis,
Heinz, Insp.................. 60.06

C. R.
780.... L D. Hart, SW....................
781....C. R. Peterien, M..................
L. T. Brow11. SW
782 ....D. R. Perry. M ...................._
R. H. Bantz
R. C. Hennesey
E. A. Madison
78.L.R. L Duke, SW....................
R. E. Moore
78L.W . E. Conley, M- ···············
J. W . Matthews. Jr., SW
G. B. We~I. SGD..............
L. D. Sine
785.... L. W. Auringer, Sr .. M........
W . D. Smith, SW
D. L. Pedersen. JW
786.... G. D. Whitlach, M................
W. B. Shepherd, SW
R. H. Rudd
787 .... ~·J.·K~:~s/~w·············..
R. L. Kennedy. JW
788 ....W . F. James, M......................
W . C. Pryor. SW
L. H. Glenn. JW
789....L. P. Rains. M........................
790....0 . H. Thurston, M................
R. A. Wrede, SW
791....B. A. McVey. M....................
C. E. Wheeler, SW
792....R. S. GoldBam, M
E. R. Sorenson, SW
T. F. Hoey
793 .... R. G. Quiroz, M....................
D. A. Manrique, JW
79L.F. A. Clarke, M ....................
G. W. Wardwell, Jr., SW
W. A. Jensen, JW
T . W. Heidner, Insp..............
L. C. Lamb. Insp....................
N. M . Otis

56.28
59.78
6.58

19.00
22.68
22.68
57.51
11.00

60.31
28.56
12.01
52.92
52.08

56.12
57.10
57.51
57 .51

Mile.
No. of
Allow.
Representative&
Lodge
795 ....J. L. Wermes. M.................... 15.10
C. G. Abbott. SW
J. A. Bryant, JW
796....R. J. Merrylleld, M................ 63.56
N . V. Ryan, SW
H. F. Puthoff, Jr.
E. E. W agner
797 .... M. E. Conception, SW........ 56.42
A. P. Mendoza. JW
798 ....E. A. Koontz. M
D. R. Ross. SW
P. G. Meier. JW
F. R. Johnson
A. R. Perryman
799....W. A . Taylor, SW................ 73.08
C . H. Anderson, Jr.. JW
T. F. McAleer, Jr.
800.... L. M. Burd, SW.................... 58.21
R . P. Parker, JW
801....R. H. Gutcher, SW.............. 285.09
R. Y. Chun. JW
802....C . C. Dalton, M.................... 68.18
803....W . H. Wong, M .................... 15.12
S. Grossman. SW
W . C. Allred. JW
801 .... I. E. McRoy, SW.................. 65.IO
W . L. Schooler
805.... J. M. Conover. M.................. 58.38
S. C . Henzel, SW
M. }. Bowd. JW
J. L. Shaw................................ 57.51
806.... B. H. Reid, M ........................ 53.90
M. W . Waite, S'\V
K. Neumann, JW
R. H. O'Brien
807 .... H . E. Shaw, M ...................... 53.90
H. I. Smith, SW
808....W . E. Denton, M.................. 11.18
M.A. Judson, JW
809....A. G. Allison, M .................... 60.31
R. E. Turner. SW
A. W . Barrows. JW
810....E. E. Stockebrand. M............ 61.10
R. L. Hirt, SW
811....A . E. Schultz. M.................... 55.02
L. M. Orphan, SW
R. G. Wanless
812....K. R. Crone, M...................... 57.10
J. F. Wolfe. SW
N. H. Lee. JW
813 ....F. A. Sands, M...................... 51.94
0. C . Heximer, SW
S. W. Rensen
811 ....R. H. Klrkman, Sr.. M.......... 56.12
F. M. Franz, SW
I. J. Clampitt, JW
E. W. Schnerlnger, ID.!1p...... 56.28
A. Dvorin.

Mlle.
No. of
Allow.
Representative&
Lodge
8 15....R. J. Steber, SW.................... 60.76
W . C. Ulery, JW
816 ....W . L. Hogan. M.................. 55.11
M. McPhee, SW
P. T. Y. Hsu, JW
S. Steelman
8 17.... H. F. Penner, M.................... 57.51
N. M . Kerger, SW
8 18.... G. A. Husong, M .................. 5.71
E. A. Dykstra, SW
J. R. Stewart. JW
E. W .Cannon
H . E. Sarqent
819 .... A. E. Fraser, M.................... 56.12
R. V . Haig, SW
R. D. Workman, JW
C. E. Glaze

111

M ile.
No. of
Allow.
Representatives
Lodge
820....A. C. Arf. M ...............---···· 6i.12
L. R. Moor. JW
821....R. E. Tilly, M ......·- ····--·-···· 16.80
R. Hopelai n. SW
82L. W. R. Hawk, M ..·-····--··-·· 53.31
S. I. Taylor, SW
J. 0 . Pourr
823.... M. Newman, SW--·-··-····· 57.68
821....I. K. Meadows. M._............... 53.90
J. L . Whaley. S\V
825 ....E. L. MacCarthy. M .....·-······ i.62
H. B. Herring. SW
J. S. Kemper, JW
G. H. David
UD....D. W. Lyons, SW................ 72.91
TOTAL ···········---·········--········$36,669.18

UST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES

-

.

With Membership, Charter Dates, Fees, Dues, Degrees conferred, Per Capita Payments. Contributions.
Column titled "G. L. Per Capita" includes $1.60 for Grand Lodge plus $1.50 for Masonic Homes. $0.35 for publication, California
..
Prttma$on. and Degree Fees.
Column titled "Members Contributions"' Includes Homes Contribution of $25.00. G. W. Memorial Contribution of $1.00 and California
Memorial Temple Contributio n of $9.00.
Me.mbership statistics apply to the year ending June 30, A.L. 5968.
For location of Lodges see Alphabetical List of Lodges.
Charter

l11ued

De11ree

Alfi!.

No.

P...

Memben

Dueo

California ··-------------------- 1
Western Star ···-·· · --·-- 2
Tehama ········-······-··--···· 3

1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1851
1851
1851
1851
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1851
1854
1854
1854
1851
1854

100
65
100
75
75
75
75
125

20

75
100
100
75
125
125
175
100
78
50
100
75
125
100
50
50
100
50
100
100
75
1SO
75

2

18
15
15
18
12
18
18
18
16
lS
18

1854

100

387
249
785
221
293
135
196
557
200
292
402
IOI
58
752
81 7
365
520
332
191
75
310
161
631
124
118
1041
275
537
783
111
1110
113
270

1854

125
50
6S
60
115
50
75
100
50
75
75
100
50
100
75
50
85
85
86
50
100

Lode•

BenJcia --------·······-···············

5

Tuolumne ·--··-·-·-··········· 8
Corinthian ·--·-······----··· 9
San Jose ----·----------------· I0
Yount ---------··-····················· 12
Nevada ···············-············· 13
Temple----------------·-········· 14
Eureka ··························-····· 16
La Parfaite Union.............. 17
Mountain Shade···--········· 18
San Joaquin ···--········-······· 19
Washing ton ·-----------·- 20
Hawaiian --··········-·--······· 21
Occidental ·········----·--··· 22
Madiso n ········----------- 23
Mariposa -----------··-···· 24
Georgetown -----····-·········· 25
El Dorado ----------·······-··· 26
Tnruty ·············------------····· 27
Golden Gate Speranza ...... 30
Gold Hill ······--------····-····· 32
Ophir .................................. 33
San Diego ···-··············-··-· 35
Howard ················-··-······-·· 37
Santa Cruz ------------------- 38
Sacramento -----···-····· 40
Martinez ··········------··--·-· 11
Los Angeles ----·-------- 12
Hiram ----·-------------- 43
Mowat Moriah -······-·- +f
ti
Crescent .......-=::::::Texas -------····--········-·- 46
Fori>estown -····-············· SO
Illinoistown - --·····-··---····· 51
Suisun -----·--·-·····-···· S5
Volcano -----·----····-······· 56
Santa Rosa -------··-···-··- 57
Union --····················-········· 58
Gravel Range ···-··············· 59
Plumas ·····-··--····----·····---·- 60
Live Oak----~·-······-···-···- 61
Natoma ·····-··-·············-··· 61
Amador ·····-·········-----········· 65
Morning Star .................... 68
Enterprise .......................... 70
Bear Mountain ···············- 76
Cafaveras ----··········-····-····· 78
Humboldt -----···············-··-- 79
lone ···········-···-·····-·········- 80
Yolo ···-···-···-···-·-·-··· 81
Vesper---············--------- 84
Naval ········---··············-····· 87
Rose's Bar .......................... 89
North Star --------·····-··········· 91
St. Helena ----·········--------·· 93
Henry Clay ........................ 95
Hornitos .............................. 98
Yosemite ............................ 99
Clay ............... .................... 101
Oroville .............................. 103
Lexington ······--·--·········----101
Arcata ····--··········--------------106
Pajaro ··-- ·----·······-----------110
Chiem -------····-·····-----·····---- 111
Summit ................................ 1 I 2
Eden ............................._..... I I 3
Concord --····-----··-············· 117
Fidelity ----------- -··-··-·······.120
Alamo .................................. 122
Sotoyome ............................123
Table Mountain --·--········.121
La Fayette ······---···-···-----.126
Hermann ---------- ----········-127
Visalia ···········-······-----·----128
Nicolaus -·-·----····-----129

1851
1851
185i
1855
1855
185S
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
1858
1858
1858
1858
18S8
1858
1859
18S9

Feu

10

2
5
5

50

90

50
50
50
50
90
90
50
100
12S
75
75
90

50

105
115
100
75
75
80
75
100
75

so

15

5

10
10
25

5
10

2
4

1

1

IO
10
10
10
10

5
5

5

10

5
10
2

1
5
5

5
3
10

5 •

215
67
155
79
328
136
641

616
101
175
791
389
100
646

375
87
131
522

lOS
10

5
5
2

10
10

5
5

5
10

15

5
1
2
20

5

100
213
1070
86
102
128
88
107
199
102

.392
637
325
389
605
76
131
353
578
193
210
365
217

146
561
146

IS
12
15
15
15
18
18
15
25
15
18
15
12
15
20
12
16
18
21
18
12

[nit.

Pa11ed

4

3
5
8
4
6
9
7
7
2
6
8
2
2
7
13

3
7
6
9
5
9
1

2
8
11
3
2
11
12
1

1
10
1

l
10

3
2
2
3
3
5

2

22

7
13
10

5
34

s

15

s

20
12
15
15
21
15
18
20
15
20
20
15
16
15
15

1

20
12
18
16
16
12
16
15
12
16
16
12
15
16
15
16
20
18
15
12
18
18
15
18
15
21
20
24
15
12

5
8

2

11

1

4
9
9
I
11
15
1
6
9
1
3
7
6
1
1

9

7

1

1

3
2
5

1
10
10
13

8
7
6
5

2
9

8

4
3
4
3
7
3

3
4

1
3
3
3
29
7
9
8
7
21

..s
..

6
9

5

11
1

Raioed

Per Capita

G. L.

M embeu
Conuib.

1

9
13
7
23
6
3

1308.65
812.90
2791.35
774.00
993.35
1471.00
1710.0S
1933.95
679.75
1023.95
1364.60
389.00
205.10
2598.70
2796.45
1239.55
1809.20
1165.50
651.70
370.75
1036.65
567.35
2163.80
118.55
381.10
3605.90
925.35
1821.55
2827.35
1165.05
3869.10
509.35
919.35

140.00
155.00
215.00
235.00
31 5.00
175.00
31S.OO
225.00
70.00
330.00
385.00
105..00
70.00
385.00
120.00
35.00
60.00
375.00
165.00
105.00
70.00
70.00
105.00
105.00
225.00
970.00
2 70.00
480.00
375.00
175.00
1340.00
200.00
175.00

'2

7'2.<t.60

l1lfitl
175.00
280.00
70.00
185.00
85.00
240.00
315.00
315.00
35.00
435.00
600.00
16 5.00
235.00
340.00
35.00
155.00
245.00
235.00
3 5.00
35.00
315.00
215.00
165.00
35.00
105.00
95.00
210.00
35.00
350.00
350.00
455.00
280.00
215.00
210.00
200.00
70.00
390.00
305.00
165.00
180.00
165.00
130.00
270.00
105.00

5
8

5
2

11

7
12
3
6
7
1
1

7

8

2
7
3
2
6
2
5
2
4
29
4

5
13
2
13
1

5

8

7
1
12
8

12
10

8

1
8
7

1

1
6
1

7
7

1

11
7
2
2

7

3

2

1

12

16
5

6
4

1
3
4
8
2
6
6
10

6
7
5
5
6
7
8
4

6
3

2
1

2
4
12
1
8
10
8
5
7
2
6

s

9
11
1
5
1

3

...

3
6

3

3

352.15
389.75
278.10
1138.15
513.10
2221.55
2176.80
52 1.80
602.30
2 772.55
1371.60
368.75
221 1.80
1275.35
300.70
390.60
2065.90
515.25
346.00
835.45
3659.50
311.70
380.00
·130.80
346.60
400.70
1729.30
355.90
1359.15
2311.10
1152.25
1385.70
1977.15
271.75
1489.15
1217.05
1991.95
1825.50
833.10
1306.00
725.60
S05.80
1984.00
509.25

"'-"
N

-

"'w"

Lod1e

No.

Woodbridge ···--····-····.131
Sincerity ···-·····- ·-······-132
Vacaville ···-·- --·--·-····· 131
Valley .......
...-.. 135
Pacific ···---···----··-····-··- 136
Crockett ·····-··--········-··-··· 139
Curtis ·········-·······--·-········ 110
Grafton ·····-···-··-·······Iii
Franklin ···········-·-········--113
Oriental ···--··········--··-····-1tt
VitruVl\15 ·········-··-········-···115
Abell ················-·--·-······ 1t6
&I River ···-·····--·-····-····· 117
Lassen ·········--·-·-··········· 119
Molino ···········----··-····-··150
Woodland -----·--······-·.156
Keystone ·····-·--·-·········-161
Harmony ·····-··-··-·········- 164
Ell.celstor ········-····--··-··-166
Alameda ···-···---·------167
Redwood City -·-·--···--· 168
Mission ·····--· - - · ········-- 169
Elk Grove ···--·-····-·173
Orytown ···-·--·---··-·· 174
Antioch ········-·-···········.175
Phoenix ---··-···-···········-- 178
Mendocino ·---·--···-··--179
Petaluma ··············-·-···-··- 180
RUS3lan River ·-··--··········181
Arbuckle ······----·--····· J82
Cle.a r Lake ········-····----····· 183
Sierra Valley ······-··············184
Claiborne ........................._. 185
Evening Star ···-··-············-186
Keith ················-·················187
Oakland --······-···· ................ 188
Northern Light ······-···-···- 190
Marin ·············-···-··--······-·191
Santa Barbara ·--··········-···192
Ferndale ···· ·······-··--·----193
Mountain View . ~
194
Bucbye -·

195

S- Simeon ---·...::..: ..__ J96
WilmJngton - --····--------198
Hartley - - - · --·-·-..... 199
Truckee - -- -·--··-----·200
Stlveyville ·--·-·-····-···- ·--201
PentaJpha ····- ·-·-·-·········202
Confidence - ··- ···········-·-203
Salinas ···-···--····--···--·--·-··201
Olivet ····----- - -··········205
StanislaU5 · · -- ··- ······ ..206
Anaheim --- -·-············-207
Rio Vista ···---············208
King David's - - -·····----209
Prtendship · - - - ···-·-····210
San Benito ·-··-···--··--·----211
South San Prandsco.......... 212
San Buenaventura ···-····-·214
Oak Grove - - ····-·-········215
Doric ····-····--··--·······----216
Monterey ··----··--·······217
Mosaic ·····- - - - · · ······218
Downey ····------------220
Inyo --·----- -- ··---221
Roseville - - - - - ·········222
- ----······-·-224
Bakenfteld__________
225
Brooklyn
San Mateo · · - - - - ·---226
Athens · · - - - - - ·-·····228
Solano ········-- -·----··229
North Butte - ··- ---·--······--230
Covelo --··-···-··-·········---·231
1a.nesvllle ···-····-------·····--232
Calistoga ·-··-·--·-·····-······..233
H.o pe ···············-·-··········--231
Sr:Jfsrise Valley ............._ 235
HI s Ferry -·-····················236
Guadalupe ..._.....................237
Colusa ···-----········--··--··-···240
Santa Ana __......................241
Magnolia ···----·······----········212
Eucalyptus - ---·····-······213
Alcatraz ···········------·······....24-i
Laurel --·-·-··--·-·-··-·--215
POlnooa ··-········-·-··-········-246
Pttsno ................................2i7

Chutu
luued

1859
1859
1859
1860
J860
1860
1860
1860
1861
1861
1861
1861
1861
1862
1862
1863
1863
1861
J864
I86t
186t
J86t
J865
1865
1865
1866
1866
1866
1866
1867
J867
J867
1867
1867
1868
1868
1868
1868
J868
1869
1869
1869

1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
J869
J869
1869
J870
1870
1870
J870
1870
J871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1872
1872
1872
1872
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
187t
J87t
1874
1874
1874
187~

1871
1875
1876
1876
1876
1877
1877
1877
J878

o.,P'ea....
50
135
115
50
100
75
75
50
75
100

75

50
50
100

50

50
50
50
100
102
JOO
100
50
50

75
75

100
80

75
50

115

50
50
50

50

75

90
100
75
50
100
llS

7S

125
65
90
90
JOO
75
105

50
75

105
100
100
115
65

95

Afrii.
Peea

-

5

12
20

5
-

5

10

-

-

-

1

2

5
5
5
I

50

10

-

5
5
5
5
1

25

s

50
75

50
50
75
75
75
50
75
100
99

75
50

115
80

20
18
20
18
16
J5
J5
12
25
15
15
2t
12
15
20
15
16
12
18
16
18
18
18
15
12
16
I8
18
20
18
2t
12
18
15
2t
18
18

9
6

85

J3J

-

101

10
JO
5
20

-

-

26
1

5

1
10

-

75

204
86
308
97
t82
371
97
102
135
272
146
3t9
261
2t3
115
311
t9
3t
3tl
358
652
52i
H9
77
378
720
100
326
124
80
159
31

~

2S

100
J25
50
75
100
100
90
75

lnit .

192
630
127
510
361

2
1
5
10

-

75

Duu

78
75

5
5

JOO
100
100

75

Memben

J
10

-

-5

10

-

-

10

-

10
5
10

5

-

5

10
1

-

JO

-

s

621
2t8
142
J50
363
J28
572
152
6i5
529
16t
to2
69t
171
212
432
492
3t5
283

301

869
138
506

705

391
567
196
482
239
63
137
110
100
J03
J69
270
155
599
539
559
439
236
428

657

15

2t
18
15

8

IS

16
15
20

15

20
18
2t
18

15

18
18
15
15
20
15
18
18
18
24
18
50
18
15
22
18
2t
15
16
18
15
18
18
12
15
12
15
18
21
18
18
15
18
18
18

7

10
2
5

-

1

-

1

I

II

3

3

2
12
3
6

7

5

6
3
I

3
3
t
2

4
1

5

5

2
2
J

2
2
2
20
I2
2
6
I
10
9
1
3
2

-

2
19
I5
t
8
2
10
II

-1

3

-

11

1
-

15

I2
t
4
1
10
11
1
4
3
1
t

8

1
-

-

4
J
3
9

2
1

5

6
12
6

10

2

2

1

l

JI
3
6
19
1
i
11
3
9
8
6
4
4
IO
27
2
17
5
J
15
2
6

JO
2
8

5
5

H

2
3
10
1
JO
6
5
7
3
6
20
2
It
t
6
9
l
3

8

5

J
2
l
3
5

l

l
I

s

17
16
16

s

2
12
19

2
1
1
l

2
6
t
12
15
12
t
2
8
15

Memben
Contrib.

937.90
513.70
1066.80
332.20
1569.85
1258.80
373.65
352.90
t67.30
888.05
514.25
997.80
963.80
96t.55
494.90
1076.60
245.05
J21.30
J 153.85
1271.85
2140.05
1839.50
507.90
242.05
1313.tO
2492.20
343.55
1125.35
533.90
277.00
561.20
106.95
289.20
251.85
655.15
2173.55
438.80

390.00
235.00
330.00
35.00
105.00
35.00
35.00

303.25
1359.90
552.95

4
2

11
3
3
I

G. L.
Per Capita

1777.05
1267.55

7
1

10
2
4
1

7
5

t

3
6

3
3

,_

1

2

2

7

8
7

-

t
5
3
J
I

J

12

Railed

-

1
3
1
1

-

Pa...d

'.HS.SS

l

9
t
3
J
3
3

8

3
6
J8
3
2
10
2
9
6
6

5
5

7
27
3
12
t
7
6
3
6
3
J
1
J
1
J
3
6
3
16
It
10
2
2

8

15

2151.75
974.25
531.95
t 99.80
1239.75
454.60
1988.60
525.50
2224.55
2003.10
561.45
1378.65
24H.60
595.95
869.20
1496.60
1641.95
1228.65
981.45
1103.85
3027.20
483. JO
J78 l.80
2456.95
1363.t5
1955. JO
7J0.30
J738.40
826.75
217.90
t68.75
372.15
275.55
348.00
573.80
938.15
5t3.30
2097.75
1886.95
1942.40
H22.90
837.95
1439.05
2309.75

-""""

-

35.00
270.00
105.00
330.00
270.00
130.00
J30.00
140.00
70.00

-

70.00
765.00
525.00
140.00
280.00
70.00
350.00
485.00

-

165.00
105.00

-

385.00
60.00

-

70.00
35.00
175.00
285.00
470.00
210.00
35.00
95.00
70.00

375.00
120.00
Jto.00
35.00
245.00
175.00
385.00
130.00
320.00
765.00
35.00
240.00
i70.00
180.00
340.00
305.00
235.00
190.00
215.00
350.00
970.00
70.00
595.00
225.00
35.00
550.00
120.00
235.00
280.00
35.00
lJ0.00
35.00
70.00
35.00
105.00
225.00
175.00
620.00
760.00
560.00
200.00
70.00
170.00
665.00

.....

VI

No.

Charrer
1..ued

Degree

Alturas ······················--------·248
Adin ....................................250
Landmark ..........................253
Reading ·······················--·-254
Welcome ............................ 255
Lodi .................................... 256
Penrhyn ..............................258
Evergreen ..........................259
King Solomon's Seaport....260
Tuscan ................................261
Lompoc ·····-···········-------262
Hesperian ·····-····-·····----·-264
Orland ·······················-- ···265
Galt ············--·--··········-·······267
Durant ···············-···············268
Olive Branch ......................269
Snow Mountain ................271
Pasadena ............................272
Anchor ·······---·····- ···············273
Arroyo ................................ 274
Oakdale ..............................275
Selma -·····-······-··············- 277
Southern California --·-··--278
Hanford ·-···-···············---279
Madera ·········-······-··--- --280
Mount Shasta ···-·-·---------281
Callayoml -----···- ··-·- ···-···282
South West ···-······-···········283
San Miguel ........................ 285
Paso Robles ......................286
Winnedumah ....................287
Maxwell ..............................288
Elsinore ·······-- ···········- ······289
East Gate ··--··-············--290
Santa Paula ·---···-··--------291
Los Gatos -----·-··--·············292
Orange Grove --·-····- -·-··293
Traver ·····----········-········-··-294
Mt. Jackson ·····-··-·······- ···295
Silver Gate ·········-··········-·296
Dunsmuir - -·-··················-·297
Liberty ---···-··········-··299
Recllanda ·····-··- -···-·····-.300

1878
1878
1879
1879
1879
1879
1880
1880
1880
1880
188 1
1882
1882
1883
1883
1883
1884
1884
1884
1884
1884
1885
1885
1885
1885
1886
1887
1887
1887
1887
1887
1888
1888
1888
1888
1888
1889
1889
1889
1889
1889
1890
1890

65
50

···-······:=::.;::; _ ....301

1890
1890
1890
1891
189 1
1891
1891
1891
1892
1892
1892
1892
1893
1893
1893
1893
1893
1894
1894
1894
1894
1895
1895
1895
1896
1896
1897
1897
1897
1897
1897
1897
1898
1899
1899
1899
1899
1900
1901
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902

Lod&e

Ontario

Santa Lucia ........................302
Porterville ..........................303
Reedley ·------···-··-···--··----·.30i
Azusa ····-----·----······-·····---·-305
Ashlar ................................306
Santa Monica ....................307
Monrovia ............................308
Delano ·--········- ·····-···········309
Sisso n ..................................310
Los Banos ···--··········-·-··- 312
Tehachapi ····--·····-·-··--···313
T emescal --··········-··-·····314
Norwalk ·······-···-···-··- ···315
Sanger - -- --················-··- ---316
Fallbrook ···········-··--·········317
Emmanuel ..........................318
Hollenbeck ........................ 319
South Gate ........................320
Alisa! .................................. 321
Alha mbra ···-·--···-··········----322
Whittier -····························323
Corona ................................324
Consuelo - ---····-·····-·······-.325
Needles ····- ·······-······--···326
Long Beach ···- ···················327
Redondo ·······················----·-328
Vallee de France................329
Kilauea -·-------··········-···········330
Pacific Grove ·········-········.331
San Pedro ..........................332
Alta ---·····- ----······-···-···--·-333
Covina ·················- ······-·····334
W est Gate ·····-··-······-·······335
Fruitvale ······-····:...............336
Carquinez - -···-·-·······-···337
San Jacinto ··-······-··-·······338
Fullerton - -··········-········- ·339
Oxnard ............................. .341
San Fernando ..................343
Starr King ···-······-···········344
Brentwood ··-······-···········345
Palo Alto ..........................346
McKinley ..........................347

Pe..

Affil.

p-

M embers

Duu

I nit.

Passed

l
2
1

173
92
103
359
193
396
141
715
520
83
363
448
174
86
318
293
42
469
552
205
225
205
353
217
272
180
64
550
74
271
233
62
125
529

18
12
16
18
25
15
12
18
18
18
15
18
15
15
20
25
12
20
20
20
18
20
18

2
1
2
12
3
5
3
18
5
3
20
JO
2
4
1
3

l

-

1

-

so

-

90
90
75
50
75
115
50
100
75
50
50
80
75
75
115
125
75
75
80
75
100
75
90
75
105
50
75
100
75
75
75
90
75
100
80
50
100
50
125
7S

-

75

';,..

75
50
75
115
75
125
120
100
50
75
75
75
115
75
55
50
100
100
100
100
100
115
90
75
125
125
100
125
105
125
53
115
165
100
75
65
125
100
125
100
65
JOO
115

3

-

5
-

-

2
5
5

--

-

l

-

5
l

-3

-

JO
-

1
I

5

-

-

10

-

15
-

2

-

2
5
5

-.
1

2S

12
5

-25
-

5

-

10

-

10

-

5

-

408

459
409
135
124
1152
224
412
488
515
162
506
148
321
323
343
284
230
98
197
174
296
375
3 12
175
79
593
399
222
589
661
416
463
319
6 16
789
125
189
305
587
152
580
1111
700
164
114
425
421
721
509
169
743
439

18

20
18
18
16
15
15
18
18
18
12
24
18
18
20

-

14

2
6
7
3
4
2
3
4
2
12

-

3
3
1
1
6
8
12
19

-

21
18
15
24
18

1
11
3
10
10

18

7
1
21
I
6
8
10
7
1

15
30
18
20
21
15
25
18
18
18
18
20

50
12
15
15
18
18
18
24
40
20
20
16
16
16
15
15
20
24
12
18
21
18
15
18
21
25
20
15
15
12
20

-

3
5

11
13
6
2
1
3
3
6
9
18
11
11
5
9
17
3
5
5
18
2
21
20
7

-

1

JO
5
20

16
2
7
7

-

11
6
7
5
13
5
2
18

Raited

11
5
6
3
10
4

-

19
JO
3
3
1
2

II

2
4
I
2

-

9
2
1
7
4
5
2
3
2

-

10

-

l

2
2

l
6
7
18
19
2
3
8

8
2
I

-

8
3
5
2
3
I
9
2
2
1

1
6
7
17
19
I

1
12

8

4
9
1
1l
8

3
2
18
I
7
7
13
3
2

8
I
14
2
9
8
9
3
1

-

4
2
11
13
3
4

J

5
5
8
8
17
10
10
9
6
17
2
3

.,

21
1
17
15
7

-

2
14
6
17
12
2
9
9

-

5
3
11
11
6
5

-

4
7
4
6
15
13
9
11
JO
13
3
1
5
17
1
16
15
6

-

1

11

10
16
7
3
10
7

G. L.
Per Capita

Membere
Contrib.

558.45
347.50
35 1.45
1266.50
672.95
1373.85
435.35
2532.75
1797.65
277.55
1267.JO
1570.55
586.60
304.25
1012.50
10 10.95
141.45
2168.35
1924.70
711.80
770.65
703.45
1176.65
807.40
940.50
617.65
21 9.35
1911.25
257.30
938.50
802.95
211.45
434.25
1864.25
1412.35
16 13.30
1415.45
454.95
457.00
3961.00
736.40
1416.<15
1692.35

70.00
35.00
70.00
470.00
105.00
175.00
130.00
680.00
175.00
105.00
875.00
400.00
70.00
140.00
35.00
105.00

18\3.35
559:'1 5
1788.35
539.25
I 101.85
1123.55
1233.10
1140.55
8 11.80
334.65
691.65
579.25
1026.60
1365.75
1087.95
432.85
295.75
2023.85
1322.55
773.55
2045.55
2345.60
1504.70
2230.45
1206.90
2 129.50
2624.1 5
450.45
654.15
1049.00
2765.45
616.50
2858.95
3779.45
2403.95
552.00
386.95
1926.25
1449.30
2512.85
169 1.00
579.70
2568.65
1527.20

°'
.c.

-

540.00
70.00
210.00
245.00
105.00
140.00
70.00
105.00
140.00
70.00
470.00

-

130.00
105.00
35.00
35.00
210.00
305.00
470.00
8 15.00

-

35.00
560.00
130.00
375.00
350.00
295.00
35.00
735.00
35.00
235.00
280.00
400.00
270.00
35.00

-

10:5.00
175.00
460.00
455.00
260.00
70.00
35.00
105.00
130.00
260.00
340.00
715.00
435.00
610.00
225.00
415.00
670.00
155.00
275.00
250.00
705.00
95.00
835.00
800.00
295.00

-

60.00
425.00
175.00
775.00
560.00
70.00
395.00
245.00

~

~

G. L.

No.

Cbarcu
luued

De1rcc
Pea

.A.Iii.

Pea

Meml>et1

0.-

Lili.

P....d

Raile<I

Per Capita

San Bernardino ................3i8
~uoia ·····-···-···-·-······3i9
a estine ···-·············-······.351
Sunset ·- ··-···-··-···---········352
Pinole ··--····--······---353
Presidl.o ···-·-·····-·······- ····351
Hollywood - -····-······----355
Mill Valley -·-··················356
Buena Park ···-······-····-··.357
Golden State ....................358
Loyalton - ···- ·-·····- ···········.359
San Franci.9CO-Victory ... .360
Port Bragg -·-·····--····.361
Charity -··---·-·-··-··-··362
Berkeley ··---··---··········.363
Wlllits ········--·-···-·········365
Las Palmas ···-··--·-··-····-366
South Pasadena -·-·······....367
Unity ·······--·-······-······-.368
Ocean Park ··-··-·-····-···369
Amity-Seal Rock -·······-···370
le Progres de l'Oceanle......371
Gardena ·····-··-····-····--··-·372
West Los Angeles...·-·-·····373
~el ·····---··················.374
chmond --·-·-·······--···375
Francis Drake -·-----·-···376
Artesia ---·--·-··-····377
Mizpah ·----····-········.378
Fillmore -·--··········-··--···379
Huntington Beach ---·-··-·380
Oceanside ·---·-·-·····-··.381
Highland Park --··-·····...382
Orosi - · · · - -··--·------383
El Centro --····---·········38i
Dinuba ·-----··-··-··.385
Coalinga - - - - · - ··-····387
Parnassus ···--·--···--······388
Palos Verdes --···-····.389
Imperial ________.390
East Belt - - - - - - 3 9 1
Wat Lake - - - -- -392
Balder -·--------..393

1902
1902
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
190-i
1904
1904
1904
1904
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1908
1908
1908
1908

75
100
100
100
75
100
125
100
125
100
50
100
75
100
75
75
75
115
100
115
100
175
125
125
100
100
100
115
100
100
120

10

1010
829
374
279
197
345
1097
422
500
473
75
388
li9
237
529
151
1064
506
i99
Hi
476
680
588
464
187

15
2i
18
20
18
18
21
18
15
18
12
18
24
18
12
24
20
16
30
18
18
15
16
17
15
12
18
18
15
20
18
15
15
20
18
12
15
18
18
18
15
JS
HI

18
7
8
3
7
3
16
5
32

19
6
7
2
7
3
13
4
30
3
1
2
5
13
5
5

17
7
7
1
5
3
13
5
36

3507.45
2807.60
1288.15
997.15
667.60
1199.75
4304.70
1463.00
1802.30
1606.80
260.75
1303.75
515.70
848.75
1799.50
530.05
3578.10
1799.20
1726.75
1520.55
1662.75
2472.55
2044.10
1617.45
619.80
1274.70
1524.75
867.35
1015.95
779.90
1455.05
1868.75
1663.00
483.00
1670.40
901.00
1185.95
2024.55
2407.35
4.3i..25
657.20
2055.SO
1566.00

Lode•

75

100
65
125
75
100
100
125
125
50
100
100

]

10

-

20

--

5
-

5
1

5

--

1

-5
-

-25

3M

5

iil
250
296
225
412
543
493
144
479
266
336
594
672
125
116

-25
I

10
5
10

582
ff6

20

3

-

i
2
10
i
5
21
7
7
3
8
9
17
12
5
i
8
10
i
4
20
8
3

-

5

10

15
6
6
25
5
6
1
6

8
15
8
i
i
8
10
i
5
27
9
1

18
7
1
i
8
9
4
5
32
6
3

20

6
6
2

-

B

-

-

I
i
8
16
1
3
6
8

18
2
2
7
6

H

13
1
i
9
16

-

7
6
9

1
i

15
2
1

10

Memben

Conttib.

755.00
245.00
280.00
105.00
245.00
105.00
585.00
200.00
1220.00
105.00

..,..

00

140.00
70.00
375.00
165.00
175.00
760.00
245.00
245.00
130.00
280.00
365.00
620.00
420.00
200.00
165.00
355.00
425.00
140.00
175.00
750.00
330.00
105.00
-

505.00
35.00
165.00
315.00
610.00

-

245.00
2J0.00
390.00

~

llmvcr•ty ·---·--···-···-····.J9i
Turlock ..............................395
Apollo ·····-·- ·················-···396
Rising Light ···········-···-····397
Fraternity ············-·-····-···399
Burlingame ··-················-··iOO
Bay View - - ···-···············iOI
Brawley ··-···-···················102
Yerba Buena ......................i03
Glendora ··--·-·······---···-i04
Mone ta ··-·-·····-·····-·······i05
Burbank ······-···············---406
La Mesa -----................i07
Sierra Madre - ·-·····--··-·408
Honolulu ----·····-····--·i09
Charter Rock ····-·-····-···ilO
.Perris ···· --····-········-i 11
Calexico - ------····--·····i 12
Arlington --············-···iii
Silver Trowel ···-····-····-··'415
Lindsay - ·-·········--·il6
Oovis -··--·--··-····-··-i 17
Elysian ····--··- -···-·--i 18
Upland · · · ---··-·····--·il9
Kerman ···-··-··········--i20
Inglewood ···-····--······-···-i21
Eagle Rock ····-···············--i22
York ····-······--········-.. ··-···423
Exeter ···-·.. ··-··-····--····--424
Holtville ···-········----.........125
M1dwav ···········-·················i26
Chino alley ·····-·······-····127
San DimM ····-··-··· ............428
Pittsburg ·········-·········-·····i29
McCloud .......................- ..430
Alpha ·········------···--HI
Hammonton ·······- - ···-.......433
Maricopa ·····-····-·········- ··-·1.3i
Fairmount .... ·-··--··-··········i35
Oaremont ···--··-··-··-·-436
Lancaster ···------····-····-···.f37
l'yrian ··- ····-- --····-···-··439
Standard ·-·-·-····-- ······--·HO
Corooado ·············--·······HI

1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1909
1909
1909
1909
1909
1909
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1911
1911
1911
1911
f912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
19 13
191 4
191-i

100

75
75
100
100
100
75
75
100
I JO
105
125
125
90
175
75

50

75
100
125
50
80
150
90
75
125
100
100
50
75
50
90
65
75
50
75

50

50
100
75
115

75

75
100

10

-

I

5

-5
25
-

10
3

-

25

5

-. 5
-10

--

5
3

25
-

10

-

--

10

-

-

-

413
419
399
858
387
584
596
234
809
219
146
858
618
182
106
193
185
126
211
395
194
589
359
285
154
709
458
289
225

154

394
219
191
327
101
167

IH
162
336
215
57i
243
306
.3i7

18

15
18
15
15
21
18
18
18
iO
12
25
20
22
15
18
18
18
18
18
24
15
26
18
12
15
18
18
18
12
18
20
18
20
18
33
16
20
18
18
18
12
20
15

7

6
4
9
8
2
11
II

7
9
3
18
13
3

11
I
5

-

5

11

2
21
5
6
i
4
9
5
l
2
2
6
9
5
3
10

9

2
3
i
11
8
8
i

s

11
7
II
7
3

3
9
6
8

5
3

9
6
7
8
3
26
13
3
12

9
3
8
7
2
22
16
I
9

5

8

-

1

1

I

6
6
6
17
t
8

3
5

3

i
6

5

3

3

3
5
6
4
3
10
7
2

2
4
12
8
8
6

5
18
1

5

3
6
6

2
6
3
3
6

5

2
3
8
6

2

l
6
14
7
5
5

\i]l}.!.5

1406.00
1355.60
2852.70
1355.15
1988.30
2057.60
813.50
2802.70
7i8.50
1515.65
2996.05
2139.60
811.90
1380.45
675.25
687.80
458.25
728.15
1368.35
675.40
2389.40
1452.40
991.90
731.30
2489.35
1559.70
960.75
779.35
602.40
1336.25
951.05
703.95
I 11 8.i5
35i.OO
1618.45
401.50
589.55
1144.50
678.85
2003.50
1082.70
1069.80
1205.25

l.t\5.00

210.00
165.00
410.00
280.00
120.00
385.00
410.00
245.00
3i0.00
130.00
7'65.00
530.00
180.00
385.00
35.00
325.00
25.00
175.00
435.00
70.00
795.00
225.00
235.00
190.00
190.00
340.00
175.00
35.00
70.00
70.00
310.00
390.00
200.00
130.00
385.00
340.00
70.00
105.00
215.00
510.00
280.00
330.00
. 190.00

....

-

IO

Charter
laautd

Decree

No.

Blackmer --------------------------4-42
Schofield
____________________H3
Carpinteria ----------------------4-H
Wilshire --------------------· 445
La Puente ···-···--------------446
Torrance ............................447
Mount Diablo ....................448
Park ................_.................. 449
V an Nuys ..........................450
Montebello ........................451
San Pasqual ..................... .452
Crocker ---···----..................454
Golden West ....................455
Ramona --·-------------------------457
Henry S. Orme ..................458
Riverbank .......................... 459
Mount Oso ....................... .460
Argonaut ----·-------··------------· 46 1
Pa ul Revere ....... -............... 462
Morgan Hill ......................463
Alta Vista ..........................46"1
Center ................................465
Libertas .............................. 466
Culver City ........................467
Rockridce .......................... 468
Y orba Inda ......................469
Lincoln ................................470
Delta ................................. .471
Maui .................................. 472
Blythe ··---····-------------------- 4 73
America ..............................475
Coachella ............................"176
T emblor .............................. 477
Thousand Oaks ................478
Golden Rule ----···-····--479
Fellowship ..........................i80
Mt. Davidson ....................481
Clarence F. Smith..............482
Bell ....................................... 483
Albert Pike ........................481
Chowchilla ........................485
Caledonia ...........--____486
Vallejo -·---·······--···----487

1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1915
1915
1915
1915
1915
1916
1916
1916
1916
1916
1916
1917
1917
1917
1918
1918
1918
1918
1919
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920

100
140
50
100
100
110

Pattrrson .................:.. :.......488
&st Bay ............................489
Corcoran ............................ 490
Woodstock ···--···-----------491
Garvanza ............................ 492
Atascadero ........................493
Acorn ..................................494
Lebanon ..............................i95
Fremont --------·-·-----··---···---497
Stockton ............................498
Capital City ......................499
Roosev elt .... ........................500
Westwood ......................... .501
Harbor ................................502
Point --···--··--------------------.. .503
Seaside ···----·······-------······.50t
Silver Cord ........................505
M ount Olive ..................... .506
El Segundo --·-······--·---··--.507
Joppa ..................................508
Benjamin Franklin ............509
Cupertino ............................510
Sunnyvale ..........................511
Palms ..................................512
Cahuenga ......................... .513
Argonne .............................51"1
Vennont Square ···-·--·-----515
Taft ................................_ .516
Mount Vernon ..................517
La Jolla ----------··--··-------518
Euclid ··--·--···-·---------·-···-·519
Ionic ....................................520
Piedmont -----·- ----····-····-.521
Sunrise .........- ...................522
Bellftower ...........................523
ca:tal.i na Island ........._ .....52'1
Geort Washington ..........525
Bay . ity ----·-····-··--·----526
Covenant ............................527
Bev erly Hills ......................528
Loyalty ............................. .529
Sun Garden ...........:..____ ___530
Alexandria ......................... .531
Smynia. ..............................532
Azure· ---------·---- -------·----------.533

1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922

7S
100
75
75
75
75
80
100
100
80
100
100
80
75
75
125
105
125
100
50
150
75
150
125
100
100
100

Lodi•

fee a

75
100
125
100
115
75
75
100
125
75
80
115
100
75
75
80
100
100
115
100
100
100
50
75
115
75
50
75
100
100
100
115
100
100
75
100
7S

50
80
115
100
215
100
75
125
135
100
100
100
125
150
80

75
75
125

Aflil.

Peca

5
-

1

--

IO
IO

-

IO

10

-

-1
10
10
1
10

-

--

-

5

5

--

-

-

5

1
10

JO
-10
-

1

-

l
to

-

10

-

10
15
30

-

-1
-

-

Memben

Dua

!nit.

Paued

Rait<d

106i
314
151

15
20
24
18
20
15
20
24
15
16
22
12
18
18
18
15
18
18
18
25
18
20
22
20
18
15
21
15
16
20
18
30
15
21
15
21
21
20
18
18

12
23
2
7
12
18
17
6
29
16
'I
7
3
12

7
24

4

4

5

3
IO
6
9
6
I
8
10
6
8
7
16
13
3
20

2
8
4
6
3
2

406

286
637
501
347
1172
675
511
484
467
506
502
141
337
320
529
154
219
"172
701
437
359
175
346
"170
179
190
365
292
122
421
706
271
338
280
749
201
173
549
372
180
307
130
383
273
150
576
267
482
192
613
180
22"1
511
3"18
498
607
846

466

-·
-5
5
15

10
25

10

--

10
10

-

10
25

5
5

--

97
266
260
-iM
443
509
289
375
275
164
339
32"1
1300

494

226
625
119
353
392
230
497
755
518
168
218
425

16
18

-

8
6
4
25
1
4
3
13

1
6
JO

16

13

18
38
18
18
18
16
2"1
2"1
18
18
15
15
18
20
15
20
20
20
18
15
18
15
36
21
18
18
15
20
18

4
1

15

22
25
24
18

1J18
21
18
15
18
15
18
15
21

-

1

22
2

5

5
10

18

19
18
6
22
16
3
2

11
11

9
25
16
3

7
5
8

3
8
9
7
6
8
10
3
17
2
8
2
1
10

-

4
3
10
1
7

9
H

4
1
1
5
3
1
5
2

5
3

5
4
3
l
4
7
4
3
3
10

7
14
11
14

..
lO
7

12
9
3
5

-

6
1

5
2
27
6

-

18

1

5
8
3
2
8
5
5
3
'I
5
12
13
3
6
8
10

5
17
3
8
2
12
I
6
'I
8
2

5
8

698.55
1041.45
449.50
1336 .85
932.60
512.70
2023.40
1280.90
1652.65
660.15
2151.65
633.00
767."15
1775.95
1213.25
1721.40
2339.80
2885.15
1625.35
467.40
1024.35
911.10
1633.30
1495.60
1712.30
1167.80
1268.15
929.70
553.00
1182.55
1161.30
4510.45
1771.95
756.10
2170.30
412.10
1198.85
1358.50
772.90
1671.00
2782.60
1780.70
574.25
755.20
1500.25

5
2
3
6
2
2
6
8
4

4
1
3

1
7

7

6
8

14
11

5
3
6

5
11

5

-

3
3
32

-

8
2
3
2
3

5

3
32

5

7

2
16
1

2
18
3

6

5

5
2
5

5
2

5

20
9
1
4 ·

20
12
I

6

11

+-

420.00
830.00
95.00
270.00
445.00
680.00
620.00
210.00
1200.00
560.00
165.00
270.00
105.00
420.00
165.00
105.00
375.00
210.00
315.00
260.00
35.00
280.00
350.00
210.00
280.00
270.00
560.00
480.00
130.00
725.00

3
1

-

7

3

3763.80
1336.30
515.60
1365.95
1019.70
2225.05
1753.75
1267.45
4057.30
2349.15
1721.20
16"17.85
1613.80
1732.30
1699.90
486.55
1185.20
1108.65
1796.25
539.85
787.20
1735.60
2420.85
1511.50
1218.60
707.40
1211.90
1637.25
685.10
727.60
1250.45
1027.95
389.50
1436.75
2475.80
923.15
1166.30
1074.10
2519.50
694.00
642.95
1907.25
1322.95

4

-

Memben
Contrib.

16

5

9
13
10
9
3
6
9
9
2
3

G. L.
Pu Capita

5
3
3
5
22

H
3
2
17

~

N

0

--

280.00
210.00
140.00
900.00
60.00
165.00
105.00
455.00
35.00
210.00
350.00
455.00

H0.00
35.00

--

200.00
105.00
175.00
1·40.00
130.00
35.00
li0.00
245.00
190.00
105.00
105.00
350.00
270.00
565.00
410.00
515.00
140.00
400.00
270.00
420.00
340.00
130.00
175.00

-

210.00
35.00
300.00
70.00
1095.00
285.00

--

630.00
35.00
235.00
175.00
70.00
225.00
775.00
3 15.00
35.00
140.00
'260.00

....

N '

Lodi•

No.

Hill ·····-··-·-·-·--·531
Pon!st
AJuander HamilllOD _____ 535
Utopia ·········-·------537

Ascot --·--···-········-·········.538
&lv~ere ·-··------·-····539

Outtn Beach ·-----·-··-5i0

Henry Morse Stephens.._.541
North Hollywood ···-·-····542
SJgnal ·····-·--···--··-·-·-·-··.513
Glendale ····-······--··- ··········.5ii
Verttas-Jonathan ····--······.545
San Gabrid -·····-·····-··-···5i6
Arcadia ·--··-·······-·····-·5i7
Triangle ·····---·--···-·..Si8
l.:ice ---·-········-··-·····--5'19
eshore ······-··-············..551
Semper Vireos ···-·-···-···- 552
Educator ------······-······-··.55i
White Pine -···············- ····.555
Fairfax ···---·----············.556
Herm03a -·····-·--·--·-···.557
Point Finnin ·-·-········- .558
Craftsmen ---·-·-····---..559
Plymouth ·-·-·-·-- ·······---·.560
East San Diego·-···-······---561
Pyramid -·--·-···········-.562
South Park --·--·-·---····-563
Foothill ··- · - -- ·········-56i
West Adams ···········-········.565
James A. GarBeld...-.... - .. -566
Searchlight ..... _________.567
Park Boulevard --····-······-.568
Chateau Thierry -·-······--···.569
Military Service ···········-··.570
Francis K. Sha ttuck............571
James Madison ···········-·····572
S. W . Hackett-- -·······- ·····.574
Fort Crook -··-··-·-···········.575
El Cajon Valley........._____576
Sunnyside -··-··················.577
Progressive ···-··················.578
Warren G. Harding .......- .579

Santa Marfa ------~·-······.530

Security - -····-·-·-·-········-·581
Rialto ···----··-····-···-582
Waxo ···- ·-·----···-·-·····-···--583
Harding ··-··- ·-······-········.584
Manchester - ---·-······-·.585
Garden Grove --- - -- ····--- .586
Valley Forge ·-··-············.587
El Sereno ----······--··········.588
Kauai ···--·----···- ·········.589
Compass ·······-·-····-·-········.590
Escalon -··--·-·-----·-···-····.591
Tujunga ----- ·················592
All States ····-··-······- ··- ··--·593
Service ···--··········-···········--.59-t
Alexande.r Graham BelL..595
Guardian ·······---············--.596
Pearl Harbor ·····-··············.598
Carmellta ···--····················599

Lynwood ······-·---··········-···-600

Grtz:zly ····-····-··-··················601
Melrose ·------·················602
Dimond ·-- ··--·----··-········603
Jubilee --·-····--·-···············604
Gla.uell Park ---···········- 605
Sojourner -··-···-······-········607
Granada -----······- -········608
Provident - - - ··-······-- -609
Elmhurst ·- -·····-··----··610
Canoga ···- - ··- ····--·····----611
Temple City -·--········- ······612
Three Pillars -··--·-·········--613
Larchmont --··-·····-····--·······61i
Hemet ·-·--·-··-····-···-······-···-615
R. E . Dolley.____ ·····- ---- - 616
Big Bear --·-··--·---·-·········617
Southland --··- ···················618
Neptune ··-·-·············- ··········619
Point Loma ··--············-····-620
The Gardea& ·······-··-·-·······621
Atwater ····-·-- -·-·-··-··----622
Menorah ··---·-··- ··-----·-623
Portltude -·--··-·······------624
Angeles Mesa ···-····-·····-···625

,_

,._
~"""

Mil.

lNuod

1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
.1923
1923
1923
1923
192i

100
100
75
100
100
100
75
125
100
100
100
125
100
115
100
100
50
80
55
100
100
125
100
90
75
100
100
100
100
125
110
100
100
100
75
100
130
100
100
125
100
125

10
5

Chatur

192i
192-t
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
192-t
192i
192i
192i
192-t
1924
192i
1924
1924
192-t
1924
192-t
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925

80

JOO
115
11 5
115
125
120
100
125
75
115
50
125
100
100
75
100
150
115
125
50
90
100
75
75
115
100
100
100
135

100

100
100
90

100
75
100
J2S
120

100
75
175
100
125

-

s

-

5

10
25

-

-

10
5

-

-

2

-5

12
5

-75

-

JO

10
5

-

-5
10

20

IO
10

--

5

5
I

-

10
5
JO
5

--

I

10
15

-10
5

-

--

5

-

25
5

s

Member•

0....

:.a.

P...d

~iaed

189
26i
507
311
175
182
268
977
526
766
293
579
626
321
360
2-f 8
332
360
97
497
421
315

20
20
20
18
20
18
16
20
18
18
18
15
50
20
18
2-t
18
15
12
18
16
12
16
18
12
20
18
18
20
22
20
18
20
21
18
18
15
15
20
15
JS
JS

1
4
4

5
4
4
4
2
4
1
1l
6
9

7
4

309

357
897
285
360
967
290
218
iOi
379
315
273
199
295
571
221
619
364
i53
658
135
403
332
315
301
296
49 1
397
387
110
346
158
359
532
879
245
936
620
340
563
117
252
240
424
388
322
727
501
252
i85
510
ii7
356
3i8
2il
167
36'f
306
69-t
504
358
1254
217
636

15
23
20
18
18

20

15
18
18
IS
18
18
18
J8
16
18
15
15
20
18
15
20
18
20
18

20

18
18
20
18
17
18
18
IS
20
20
21
20
18
18
15
16
2-t
15

I

2
5
1
16
4
8
3
10
21
11
7
2
3
2

J

9
15
6
J

5

..3

7
2
6
8

8
3
l3
3
5
7

23
5
6
8

..

12
10
8
5
12
2
10
8
6
4
9
4
9

6
3
-t
8

..
37

5
2

-

-

11
4

]

..

10
2
3
3
2
6
3

]

]

-

15

8
12
8
3
3
17
3

18
1
6
8
3
2
5
2
6
4

10

8
8
8
15
10
6
II
II
4
16

-

-

7
23
1
6

-

1
6
2
12
6
7
2
8
18
7
5
2
7
1

7
22
8
3
2
4
1

1
8
18
2
J

9
13
10
2
9
I
12
7
3

...

5
11
11
3
5
I

15
5
7
1
10
7
5
12
10
3
8
7
9
It
1
13
I
11
7
8

-t

13

-

11
5
9
5
6
3
4
3
4
6
6
3
31
3

-t

I

7
l

11
5
4
6

5
16
8
3
7
I
17
5
8

-

10
5
5
15
16
3
13
8
9
7
I
12

-

12
7
10
7
9

-

11

4
9
4
9
2

2

7
4
7

5

3
27
3
5

0 . L.
Pu Capita

Membcn

658.15
902.10
18i5.95
IO&t.70
605.30
625.65
9li.80
3318.25
1810.00
2611.50
999.60
2058.75
2200.00
1130.00
1229.iO
851.25
1119.05
1225.30
270.65
1736.20
1427.95
1078.60
1095.70
1246.65
3135.40
981.35
1213.15
3322.75
999.15
791.65
1486.20
1285.95
1094.10
1061.85
707.30
1007.10
1989.05
795.10
2225.30
1251.55
1620.60
2287.65

35.00
li0.00
li0.00
60.00
70.00
175.00
35.00
660.00
165.00
330.00
105.00
i00.00
735.00
410.00
215.00
70.00
105.00
70.00
35.00
305.00
630.00
70.00
35.00
2i5.00
855.00
35.00
210.00
375.00
140.00
140.00
245.00
70.00
210.00
280.00
35.00

18 1.30

1106.20
1164.05
1087.85
I 154.45
102-1.20
172-t. 15
1365.95
1322.10
380.50
1243.25
565.10
1225.50
1860.1 5
3051.30
846.90
3206.00
2161.55
1170.85
1962.55
-t-tl.65
847.30
812.30
1490.90
1376.90
1119.65
2548.45
17-t8.65
871.iO
1684.55
1766.15
1594.25
123i.30
1232.35
963.20
676.15
12H.20
1059.80
2373.35
1727.25
123i.75
4379.90
7-t2.i0
2156.90

..
N
N

Contrib.

--

410.00
140.00
1005.00
175.00
235.00
30S.OO

3'\0.00
455.00
385.00
70.00
340.00
35.00
470.00
245.00
105.00
25.00
305.00
280.00
305.00
525.00
500.00
210.00
385.00
410.00
190.00
660.00
35.00
575.00
li0.00
i95.00
375.00
280.00
225.00
420.00
70.00
375.00
305.00
210.00
li0.00
415.00
li0.00
390.00
285.00
105.00
.165.00
280.00
li0.00
1420.00
175.00
70.00

..

N
IN

No.

Chu.._,.
1..ued

0..1reo
l'ca

A5il.
l'ca

Chula Vista ·······-·······-·-···626
Lamanda Park ···············----627
Truth ········-···········-··-·-·--·628
Fairview ··-············------······629
Ingleside -···-·······-------····630
Benevolence ·····--····-···-···631
Normal Heights .........- .....632
Poinsettia ·········-····-········-633
Victorville ..........................634
Riverside ··············-···-······-635
John Marshall ···········--·---636
Palisades ··············-·····-···637
Indian Rock ·········-·---------638
Composite .................- .......639
tames A. Foshay.._____________641
Cumbre ........................642
Alta Loma .......................... 643
Lomita ········-···············-·---···644
A. F. E. Irwin..·-······-·-·····645
Metropolitan ......................646
Hawthorne ·········-······---·-·647
Damascus ·············---·-----···618
Florence ·····-···········-·····-·- ··649
La Brea .............................. 650
Menlo Park ........................651
Crescenta Valley ..............652
Fontana ········-·········-···--····653
~rdan ···········-·····--············651
onte Vista ......................655
Cltrol ..................................656
lohn D. Spreckels .............. 657
ivingston ..........................658
La Habra ............................ 659
Baldwin P ark ·············-··-··660
Malta ···-···-··················-··-···66 1
H enry Knox ...............- .....662
Ojai ·······-·······················----663
Kaweah ·················--·········665
Reseda ................................666
Me.ridian ............................667
San
_________669
P. Janna11.·····-··--·······668
John Gorgonlo

1925
1925
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1928
1928
1928
1928
I928
1928
1928
1928

125
115
140
100
90
100
105
100
74

I
20
10

Lodge

Grttaleaf ----··---670
.

~

San Clemente ....................671
Laguna Beach ....................672
Far West ···············-······---673
Los Cerritos ············-····-···674
Modesto ··-··········----------675
Willow Glen ·······--···----·676
Liberal Arts - -··-··-········-677
Altadena ·························-·678
Canby Cross ......................679
Carmel -·-··············-·-·-··-····680
Dos Palos ·········-------········681
Barstow -···-··········-·--------682
Redwood Empire ···-------683
Trona ···············-···············684
San Marino ·--···············-·----685
Alhany ................................686
Vista ·-·······-····-··-··-·--·····-·687
Oildale ................................688
Pohona ----············--············689
San Carlos ·········-·········-···690
Indian Wells V a lley.......... 691
Travelers ............................692
P alm Springs ......................693
San Antonio ......................694
Mcudell ..............................695
Crossroads ........................696
Saint Elmo ···-··--·---··------··697
Wm . D. Stephcns........... _.698
Bixby Knolls ......................699
Pondcrosa ···············-········700
Santa Ynez Valley........... .701
Rosemead ·--············--·····-·-.702
W est chester ·······-··---··-·-··.703
El Cerrito ..........................705
Hunters Point NavaL....-.706
Lake Tahoe -········-···-----····.707
Seafaring -·-····-···-··-··- ···708
Lorenzo ·················---·-·------709
Auacapa ···········-·····-------.7 10
Rim of the World. .............711
Los Altos ···-··········-··········.712
Castro Valley ··-·······--·····.7 13
Blue b ikes ..........................714
M agnolia Park ...__________ 715

3

--

100
100
75
175
100
75
100
125
125
100
100
75
125
75
125
125
125
100
125
90
115
90
125
115
75
125

JO
5
10

-5
-

5

-

3

--

50
I20
IOO

-

75

1928

JOO
JOO

1928
1929
1929
1929
1929
1930
1930
1930
1935
1935
1939
1940
1910
1941
1944
1945
1945
1946
1946
1946
1946
1947
1947
1947
1948
1948
1948
1948
l949
1949
1949
1949
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1951
1951
1951

100
100
75
175
75
Il5
125
115
65
75
100
100
100
75
IOO
75
75
100
50
100
115
100
100
100
115
115
100
125
100
80
75
100
125
75
100
75
IOO
100
100
75
100
100
100
125

-

::-=--.,....,,,

5

-

105

1
JO
25
-

Dues

I nit.

P•...d

iu1..d

Per C.p1'3

725
297
255
275
192
248
819

15
20
21
21
20
18
15
18
18
18
15
18
21
15
20
24
18
20
18
15
25
15
18
20
25
16
20
18
18
20
20
18
20
20
15
18
25
I8
2I
20
24
18
JS

17
6
14

16
7
16
2
I
7
15
8
8
1
9

21

2541 :45
1039.20
897.60
952.75
666.40
1018.60
2857.85
2628.80
1071.05
2258.60
1383.45
1363.95
503.20
2814.05
733.90
1080.05
1246.05
1306.85
876.60
649.75
1940.50
2475.60
1295.25
822.75
1208.65
2167.55
1333.55
1323.65
2857.15
935.25
2229.20
682.85
1115.80
1317.60
1028.30
1465.75
642.80
536.10
3188.15

755

-5

75

310
656
283
396
157
754
205
316
357
379
250
175
560
734
368
237
339
632
38i
381
822
266
649
195
323
371
256
378
189
138
910
512
255

328
876

-

-

1
10

-

-10
JO

-1
-

1

-5

10

-

-10
5

-

--

10

IO

1
-]
IO
1

-

5
5

5
-

G. L.

Mc mbcra

168
210
324
535
547
392
437
477
126
255
16 1
488
121
167
481
217
368
289
90
46-i
459
207
316
281
232
337
305
198
419
380
156
257
473
222
2 17
114
558
381
282
206
249
355
243
350

20
18
18
18
12
18
20
18
20
20
18
24
18
18
18
18
20
25
12
24
21
15
20

20
25
18
18
20
20
25
24
18
30
15
21
18
16
10
18
20
20
I8
24
21

-

I
10
22
8
Ii
6
14
6

-

9
2
4

5
7
7

5
12

JO
5

-

5

15
4
4
7
6
7
3
16
10
4

5

4
4
11
8
7
21
8
10
6
II
8
4
4
2
5
18
11
8
16
J6

15

.

.

5
3
9

Ii
I2
9

7
3
7

-

28
2
7
8
5

11
7
1
7
8
3
8
9

5

5
6
5
16
7
4
5

14
6
3
1
15
9

5

5
7

5
6
12

2
12
8
9
26
8
12
6

II

7
3
3
3
5
18
8
8

J.J

5
12
2
2
6
16
11
8

13

-

6
4

16
6
6

5

7
7
3
15
13
2
3
5
9

10
7
26

5
13

5
IO
8

5
5
3

5

23

7

921.50
1183.80
3056.85

J4

:.4

5
3

4

4
8
3
4

28
-

9
IO
4
8
7
2
6

11
4
5
7

5
5
5
6

JI
6
i
2

14

2

3
7
5

12
5

6
8
10
12

Contrib.

795.00
210.00
540.00

~

N

~

--

35.00
375.00
870.00
330.00
490.00
295.00
490.00
335.00

-

415.00
95.00
215.00
200.00
270.00
245.00
175.00
420.00
375.00
225.00
165.00
140.00
495.00
330.00
270.00
920 .00
280.00
425.00
210.00
435.00
380.00
140.00
265.00
70.00
175.00
815.00
385.00
330.00
585.00

560.00

=
'\

9
6
5
5
3
6

-

1799.80

8
12

Mcmbcra

5
3
7

-

29
I
7

II
4
6

5
1
8

II
4
6
8

5

7
8
i
12
10
4

3
12
2
2

-

8
6
10
7
6
8

9
H

551.25
79 1.60
1120.90
1810.50
1964.70
1369.95
1669.95
1753.85
548.70
1001.30
555.45
1754.80
497.35
634.15
168 1.55
754.75
1238.90
991.90
314.50
1621.80
1610.10
749.80
1102.30
941.20
875.05
1200.85
1064.35
634.65
150 2.65
1351.75
539.85
893.20
1664.95
775.90
767.65
394.30
2060.10
1335.30
709.90
762.70
754.60
1245.75
874.55
1245.50

390.00
325.00
105.00
390.00
565.00
420.00
340.00
320.00
105.00
320.00

-

980.00
70.00
245.00
305.00
200.00
510.00
245.00
35.00
295.00
330.00
l05.00
405.00
340.00
200.00
l75.00
2 10.00
200.00
585.00
245.00
165.00
175.00
515.00
210.00
130.00
35.00
575.00
340.00
225.00
175.00
270.00
175.00
235.00
445.00

~

N
Ul

Lod1c

No.

~lmont Shore ···-····--···· .7J6

ayfarer ...............- ......... 717
San Lorenzo Valley... ___.]18
~tero ···--· ..···-····- ·-..........719
H foeral Klng ···········-·········720
ome ···-················- ·-····-.721
xeorge E. Tutt...._____722
ca anes ·····-···-··-- -···--·723
~an Ramon Valley......... _.72i
y3int.John 's ·--··--······-.. 725
V uc~1pa .................- ...- .....726
er ugo Hills ·····-··-·········727
~kewood ···-····- --··-·......728
p eotennial ···-····-·· ..··-·····..729
olaris ................................730
rwo Rivers ........................731
c!n Juan ·--·------ - ........ .732
Iden Empire ............... __733
~t Carson .................. ........73"'
r..:sls of Mara................... .735
H mon Grov e ....................736
illsboroug h ......................737
t;_vin ······--··-·-·· -····-·- ·····738
O Canada ................. ......... 739
pportunlty ................. .....740
rre ..............___________,_ Ji!
O orningside Park .............. 712
akwood ................. ........... 713
San Leandro ..................... .7H
~eninsula ............................ 715

c'fi~J! i:CM~;;i~--- ......~:$
Highland ............. ___ :::::::::748
Merced ............................... .749
j1other Colony ................. .750
c:milton ............................ 751
thcr Burbank ................ 752
Lawndale ............................ 753
~n Pablo ......................... .751
Iden Bowl ............. .........755
ayton Valley -··--···-·756
Channel -·--- - ·-··-···--7 57

a

West Covina ....................758
El Rancho ................. ........ .759
Lakeside ..............................760
Josiah W . Ro ller... ............. 76 1
Coastside ............................762
Arabic ................................ 763
Herit aye .............- ............... 761
D ana R. Weller..................765
tt,m cs H . Kew....................766
rn. Rhodes Hervey ........767
Zenith oo•••••···---· ·····.. ···-····768
Palmdale ............................769
Lake Chabot ......................770
Mission Bay · · -- ............771
Avenal ·····-······- -..- ..772
Tejon ...................·-····--···n 3
Waikiki ...............- ............ 771
San D ieguito ................_ ..775
East Whittier .............._ ..776
Pinnacle ..... .........................777
La Mirada ···-·-·-··...- ......778
Five Points ........................ 779
Riviera ................................ 780
Rolling Hills ...............- ....781
Silverado ···-·········· ·-·-·.782
Mojave ···············-· ········....783
Leland Stanford ................78"'
Paramoun t .......... ·-····-···7 85
Rlo Linda ............................786
Westmins ter ......................787
Sierra ...-. ............- ..............788
Oak Plains ........................789
Granada Hills ....................790
Gen. Henry H. Amold......791
M illbrae - --........- .. - -792
Maya .. ·-·····-···-··· ···-··-···793
Mt. Wilson ·········-········...79-f
American Riv er ................795
Golden Valley ·····- ···········796
Tila Pass - ·· --······-··- -.797
Ashland -·-·-·····- -···-·.798
Claircmon t Mesa ·····-·····.... 799
Rio Hondo ···---··········- ····--800
Koolau ................................801

Charter
luued

Decree

J952
1952
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1951
1951
J951
195i
1954
J951
J951
1951
1954
1951
1951
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1956

125
100
100

1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1958
1958
1958
1958
J958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1959
1959
J959
1959
1959
J960
1960
1960
1960
1960

p~

75
75
165
100

75

,_
-1

Alfi!.

--

10

-

-

75

75
75

100
liO
125
100
100
100
90
JOO
90
Jl5
100
JOO
125
Jl5
125
115
100
100
100
80
115

75

90
105
100
75
100

--

-10

-

IO

JO
10

-

-

10

-

10

-

l
-

75

80

115
100
100
100
I 00
110
125
105
115
125
125
115
100
115
100
100
175
90
100
90
100
125
125
J25
125
75
100
125
100
100

75

100
125
90
100
125
115
100

75

115
JOO
100
125
175

lnit.

391
195
121
168
131
657
200
225
171
287
259
115
280
166
202
207
255
J78
203
137
494
202
129
178
2i5
297
189
105
232
172
195
160
205

J6
20
16
21
20
25
18
20
18
18
15
20
21
21
20
J6
15
J8
20
20
20
2i
20
21
18
25
20
20
20
18
15
18
16
15
18
30
15
20
20
15
2i
15

7
2
2
i
6
30
11
9
9
Ii
3
i
9
8
13
5
10
2
7
3
12
3
2
i
Ii
Ii
2
3
12
7
9
i
7
II
9
6
7
9
5
5
21
i

5

191
176
238
240

-

192
330
136

-

75

Duc1

1n

5

100

Membert

HJ

-

10

-

5
JO

-

5

5
10

-

10

-

JO
-

10

5

-

67
240
J96
211
216

57

10

-10
-

10
1

5

10

-

226
243
149
211
162
195
196
151
160
159
308
265
16 9
219

5
7

-

10
10
25

-

2

-

207
125
163
136
H6
85
183
119
128
133
105
283
194
152
80
103
165
172
182
139
129
116
135
109

21
21
18
18
15
15
20
16
15
15
20
20
18
18
20
18
25
20
20
20
24
20
20
15
J8
20
18
18
20
21
18
18
20
15
24
18
15
15
20
20
18
18
18
15

PUHd

~iad

8

9

-

-

7
29
6
8

3

6
23
6
6
5
10
i
3

11

11

...
5

i

5

5
9

5
6
7
i
9

6
6
5
10

5

5

8

7
i
2J
8
3
l
11
12

3

18

5
3
2
13
Ii

-2

-

3
13
6

IO

i
5
9
3
7
8
7
8
13
i

5
7

5
6
8
8
6
13

2
i

3
16

11
3

17
11
Ii
8
11
6

Ii

9
2
1
11

7

1
7
2
7
15
3
2
1
27
i

5

9
3
5
9
8
9
9
6
23
18

12
3
8
3
8

7

5

10

5
i
10

i

13
11
Ii
6
7
2
13
8
3
1
Ii
5

5
8

5

13
10
11

5

8
2
9
4
6
1
12
8
6
10

5

- 5
2
1
19
3

1
10
4

5

7
8

5

9
7
6
9
2
23
Ii
12
i
3
5
6
6
6
10

5

6
12

Membert
Contrib.

1369.50
667.85
i27.i5
758.60
i 67.50
2338.30
1098.00
795.80
608.95
1023.15
958.65
i 06.75
986.65
592.70
722.90
72 1.25
898.40
696. 10
718.90
172.30
1755.30
712.90
453.05
782.65
1216.35
1057.75
735.25
370.25
83 1.95
645 .40
688.30
572.00
715.35
634.65
683.95
671.30
842. IO
859.55
501.35
674.40
1185.60

215.00
95.00
70.00
165.00
210.00
1200.00
385.00
310.00
3 J5.00
i90.00
155.00
165.00
315.00
280.00
155.00
200.00
350.00
70.00
215.00
105.00
495.00
105.00
70.00
165.00
5 15.00
190.00
95.00
105.00
470.00
270.00
365.00
16 5.00
245.00
41 0.00
340.00
260.00
320.00
310 .00
175.00
175.00
785.00
165.00

i80.20

12
13
i

10
15

G. L.
Pu C.pit1

5

7

7
8
4
9

7
6

7
2
17
12

Ii
4

7
8
3

7
6
12
5
6
10

783.90
856.55
578.05
743.50
574.55
682.75
712.20
535.05
588.00
586.55
1096.15
930.80
591.60
880.60
213.15
1025.10
719.20
726.50
854.25
199.65
770 .15
112.25
610.90
485.30
522.70
338.80
658.35
606.05
462.60
238.85
i00.35
1035.90
713.30
597.40
287.00
369.90
585.25
603.50
732.90
489.65
442.05
111.75
4 56.75
104.60

595.00
385.00
540.00
305.00
420.00
2 10.00
5 15.00
315.00
95.00
35.00
51 0.00
270.00
16 5.00
320 .00
70.00
295.00
550.00
155.00
120 .00
85.00
970.00
165.00
200.00
315.00
105.00
175.00
315.00
280.00
390.00
315.00
235.00
830.00
705.00
120.00
105.00
280.00
105.00
280.00
295.00
175.00
100.00
200.00
140 .00
375.00

.....

N
0\

.
N

~

428
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

l Il I
I

I 11

II
II

I I

II
I I
N OO
OI
.,.., .,..,.,..,
.,..,

N

OI

~~

OI

429

EXTINCT LODGES. INCLUDING CONSOLIDA TIONS
2 Western Star, ShastaJ 1850. Consolidated with Clinton No. 119, as Westtern Star No. 2, Oct. i5, 1936.
4 Berryman, Sacramento, 1850. Name changed to Jennings No. 4.
Jennings, Sacramento, 1650. Charter surrendered, May 6, 1853.
6 Sutter, Sacramento, 1850. Charter surrendered, May 6, 1853.
7 Davy Crockett, San Francisco, 1850. Name changed to San Francisco
No. 7, Aug. 18, 1852.
San Francisco, San Francisco. Charter revoked, May 13, 1859.
8 Tuolumne, Sonora, 1850. Consolidated with MoWlt Jefferson No. 107, as
Tuolumne No. 8, December 1876.
Tuolumne, Sonora. Consolidated with Columbia No. 28, as Sonora
No. 8, Dec. 12, 1891.
Tuolumne, Sonora. Consolidated with George Washington No. 62, as
Tuolumne No. 8, Sept. 15, 1919.
9 Marysville, Marysville, 1850. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 69, as
Corinthian No. 9, Dec. 1874.
Corinthian, Marysville. Consolidated with Yuba No. 39, as Corinthian
No. 9, June 16, 1916.
11 Williamette, Portland, Ore., 1850. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Oregon,
November 1851.
Nashville, Nashville. Dispensation 1851, Charter never issued.
13 Nevada, Nevada Cityl)851. Consolidated with Quitman No. 88, and
Manzanita No. 102, as Nevada No. 13, Oct. 13, 1910.
15 La Fayette, La Fayette, Ore., 1851. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Oregon, November 1851.
16 Eureka, Auburn, 1851. Consolidated with Rising Star No. 83, as Eureka
No. 16, Sept. 2, 1919.
Pacific, Valparaiso, Chile, Dispensation 1853, Charter never issued .
25 Georgetown, Georgetown, 1853. Consolidated with Pilot Hill No. 160, as
Georgetown No. 25, December 1898.
26 El Dorado, Placerville, 1853. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 151, as
Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 16, 1902.
Palmyra, Placerville. Consolidated with Mt. Zion No. 114, as Palmyra
No. 26, Oct. 11, 1911.
Palmyra, Placerville. Consolidated with Acacia No. 92, as Palmyra
No. 26, Mar. 29, 1916.
Palmyra, Placerville. Name changed to El Dorado No. 26, Oct. 10, 1929.
28 Columbia, Columbia, 1853. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8, as Tuolumne No. 8, Dec. 12, 1891.
29 Diamond, Diamond Springs, 1853. Charter surrendered Oct. 18, 1873.
30 Golden Gate, San Francisco, 1853. Consolidated with Speranza Italiana
No. 219, as Golden Gate Speranza No. 30, July 1, 1966.
31 Mokelumne, Mokelumne Hill, 1853. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
as Calaveras No. 78, Oct. 13, 1883.
34 Santa Clara, Santa Clara, 1853. Charter revoked Oct. 15, 1887.
36 Butte, Bidwell, 1854. Charter surrendered Sept. 3, 1864.
37 St. John's, Yreka, 1854. Consolidated with Siskiyou No. 105, as St.
John's No. 37, Oct. 11, 1876.
St. John's, Yreka. Consolidated with Howard No. 96, as Howard No. 37,
Dec. 8, 1924.
39 Yuba, Marysville, 1854. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 9, as Corinthian No. 9, June 16, 1916.
47 Michigan City, Michigan Bluff, 1854. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
48 Grass Valley, Grass Valley, 1854. Charter surrendered May 6, 1856.
49 Lebanon, San Francisco, 1854. Charter revoked June 29, 1857.
50 Forbestown, Forbestown, 1854. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, as
Forbestown No. 50, July 19, 1926.

430

PROCEE DINGS OP THE

52

~~::it~/Tsileady, Rough and Ready, 1854. Charte r surrend ered No.

~~

r surrend ered May 10 1856
~r~rucyn, Sacram ento, 1854. Charte
amt ames, Jamest own, 1855. Charte r surrend e d F b '20 1S7
No5. 66 as
tonville, 1855. Consol idated 1!,ith eFore~t
g~avell RRange,NCamp
· •
·
ave ange. o. 59, Sept. 27, 1955.
g~~~~~~Vf~~~~i!\~~'.t~~epf15,P19ii~6. Consol idated with Tuolum ne
~'ra Hill, Iowa Hill, 1855. Cha~r surrend ered Oct. 29, 1857.
N~. ~~1J~~~o~~ ~~~~: Consol idated with Latrobe No. 189, as Natoma
1855. Consol idated with Gravel Range No· 59' as
~oresti RAlleghNeny,
ange o. 59, Sept. 27, 1955.
~ave
Minnes ota, Minnes ota, 1855. Charte r surrend ered May 14 1859
~~t2~1ltJ. Arch, Marysv ille, 1855. Name change d to Corinth ian

59
62

g~
66
67
69

71

~;

~:
77
78

80

1

w~ef9~

as Corin
CorintNhian9, DMarysville. Consol idated with Marysv ille No · 9'
•
thlan o. , ecembe r 1874.
Ione
as
80,
No.
Ione
with
~~~~~icfct~~hlfar Bar, 1855. Consol ida!ed
E. K. Kane, Nevada City, 1855. Charte r surrend ered Dec 1 1858 ·
~ro, Dz:yto~n, 18.55. Charte r surrend ered Dec. 27, 1859. · '
29 1B57
:1sco~m Hill, Wiscon sin Hill, 1855. Charte r surrend ered AugMay
1870
ered
surrend
r
Charte
1855.
p ~uf tam r;,or~t, Mounta in Forest,
Duma,bl855. Consol idated with Arctur as No · 180 as Peta.•
a,180e
umN
a
e
luma o.
, ecem er 1898.
Consol idated with Mokelu mne No. 31, as
~£1f:3,

lPiii

g~:;:~~·~;,n7

Consol idated with Campo Seco No· 100• as
CCaallaveras,NSan Andrea s.r 1898.
averas o. 78, Octobe
8!l!~:~=·~~ tr)1~.a2s,C i~i~lidated with Mokelu mne Hill No. 2981 as
~856. Consol idated with Nebras ka No. 71, as Ione No. 80,

g>~~· 1 J~r~87

1

7

=~ ;to~nta~n, Don P edro's Bar, 1856. Charte r surrend ered May 18 1861
85

E~~~~a r.i~·1l.s:~t r~1J.856. Consol idated with Eureka No. 16, as
s, Ikn,diaNn D8iggings, 1856. Consol idated with St· Mark's
~~dirf5 D~g~tngM
.· ar s o. 5, Oct. 17, 1874.
•,

·
St._ Marks'. F1ddlet own. Charte r revoked June 26 ' 1894
· ·
l'd
c
86 Saint Louis Rowlan d's Flat 1856ber
~i~~.1 ated with Gibson ville No.
158.' as Gibs~nville No. 158, Novem
, May 8,
88 fsi~.y, Orleans .F lat, 1856. Name change d to Quitma n No. 88
· 1~0~. ~t~~~ld. Consol idated with Nevada No. 13, as Ne-

~~~°N~

90 Polar Star, Poorma n's Creek, 1856. Charte r surrend ered
91
~:::;~~.~t ~~~~ 1e:0/856. Consol idated with Owen N~a{o:,• ~:~~rth
92
~~~~i6,·.rJ~~29~· Jr3.6. Consol idated with Palmyr a No. 26, as Palmyr a
Moved t 0 St H l
93 Caymu s, Yountv ille 1856
e ena and name change d to
·
St. Helena No. 93, o~t. 10,' 1867.
d
r sur
Charte
1856
thtown
94 Mount Hermon , Elizabe
18ard59.
cs. 2H4,ow
96 NHow3a7rdD, Yre8ka, 1856. Consol idated ~th St. Joh~~ ~~ed3~ea
· •
o. , ec. , 1924.
97
0
with Gibson ville No. 158, as

ft

1

i:~:~~~,N~~ 9~, [}~f. rn~~9o~~nsolidated

f;~~r~~· 5~~ J~};1!9.~i2~~lidated with Forbes town No. 50, as Forbes-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

431

change d to
· 98 Quartzb urg, Quartzb urg, 1856. Moved to Hornito s and name
Hornito s No. 98, May 1860.
133, as Yo99 La Grange, Merced , 1856. Consol idated with Yosem ite No.
semite No. 99, Oct. 16. 1913.
ras No. 78, as
100 Campo Seco, Campo Seco, 1856. Consoli dated with Calave
Calave ras No. 78, October 1898.
No. 13, as
102 Manzan ita, North San Juan, 1856. Consol idated with Nevada
Nevada No. 13, Oct. 13, 1910.
No. 37, as St.
105 Siskiyo u, Henley , 1856. Consol idated with St. John's
John's No. 37, Oct. 11 , 1876.
Frankl in, Meadow Valley, Dispen sation 1857, Charte r never issued.
Folsom, Folsom , Dispen sation 1857, Charte r never issued. ne No. 8, as
107 Mount J efferson , Garrott e, 1857. Consol idated with Tuolum
Tuolum ne No. 8, Decem ber 1876.
91, as North
108 Owen, Scott's Bar, 1857. Consol idated with North Star No.
1908.
15,
Oct.
Star No. 91,
27, 1879.
109 Dibble, Omega , 1857. Charte r surrend ered Sept. Palmyr
a No. 26, as Pal114 Mt. Zion, Grizzly Flat, 1857. Consol idated with
1911.
11,
myra No. 26, Oct.
Digging s No.
115 Saint Mark's, Fiddlet own, 1857. Consol idated with Indian
85, as St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
May 18, 1861.
116 Windso r, Windso r, 1857. Charte r surrend ered
1859.
118 Valleci to, Vallecito, 1858. Charte r surrend ered Jan. 5, No.
2, as Wester n
119 Clinton , Igo, 1858. Consol idated with Wester n Star
Star No. 2, Oct. 15, 1936.
8, 1905.
121 Ionic, Iowa Hill, 1858. Charte r surrend ered Oct. Oct.
14, 1870.
125 Progress, San Francisco, 1858. Charte r revoked
issued.
Napa City, Napa, Dispen sation 1859, Charte r never
May 13, 1863.
130 Unity, San Bernard ino, 1859. Charte r revoke d was
ed in 1859 as
131 Carpen ter, Wood's Ferry, Dispen sation 1858, of thecharter
Lodge having been
Woodb ridge No. 131, the name of the location
change d to Woodb ridge.
No. 249, as
132 Sinceri ty, Greenv ille, 1859. Consol idated with Greenv ille
Sinceri ty No. 132, Oct. 16, 1896.
No. 99, as
133 Yosemi te, Coulter ville, 1859. Consol idated with La Grange
Yosemi te No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.
137 Oro Fino, Oro Fino, 1860. Charte r surrend ered June 1862.
138 Violet, Spanish Flat, 1860. Charte r surrend ered Oct. 16, 1879.
as Colusa No.
142 Colusa, Colusa, 1860. Consol idated with Equalit y No. 240,
240, April 1, 1882.
Doric, North Fork, Dispen sation 1861, Charte r never issued.
ered Dec. 2,
148 San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo, 1861. Charte r surrend
1865.
No. 26, as Pal151 Palmyr a, Placerv ille, 1862. Consol idated with El Dorado
1902.
16,
Oct.
myra No. 26,
1864.
152 Joseph us, Brush Creek, 1862. Charte r surrend ered Oct. 11,
13, 1864.
153 Rising Sun, Brandy City, 1862. Charte r surrend ered Oct.
to Jurisdi c154 Carson , Carson City, Nevada Territo ry, 1862. Transfe rred
1865.
16,
Jan
,
Nevada
of
tion
16, 1872.
155 Mount Carmel, Red Dog, 1863. Charte r surrend ered Aug.
284, as Wood156 Woodla nd. Woodla nd, 1863. Consol idated with Tyrian No.
land No. 156, Oct. 11, 1911.
to Jurisdi c157 Washoe , Washoe City, Nevada Territo ry, 1863. Transfe rred
tion of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
n No. 97, as
158 Gibson ville, Gibson ville, 1863. Consol idated with Jefferso
1908.
15,
Oct.
97,
J efferson No.
159 Gilroy, Gilroy, 1863. Charter surrend ered Sept. 28, 1864.town No. 25, as
160 Pilot Hill, Pilot Hill, 1863. Consol idated with George
George town No. 25, Decem ber 1898.
Transfe rred to
162 Virgini a City, Virgini a City, Nevada Territo ry, 1863.
1865.
16,
Jan.
,
Nevada
of
ction
Jurisdi

432

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRlll.';D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

163 Sd!lvt~r CiftyN, Silver City, Nevada Territory, 1863. Transferred to Juris
ic ~on o evada, Jan. 16, 1865.
A.l pme, Markleevill~, Dispensation 1864, Charter never issued.
165
~~~~f ~;~·a~a~11a~6.~i~~~a Territory, 1864. Transferred to Jurisdic170
~;r;J;~~13;,' .ft~~T6~· ~3 ~ada Territory, 1864. Transferred to Jurisdiction
171 Etiscunf.alN, Virginia City, Nevada Territory, 1864. Transferred to Jurisdic
on o evada, Jan. 16, 1865
172
of
Jurisdiction
to
Transferred
1864.
Territory,
LNandedr, AJu stin, Nevada
eva a, an. 16, 1865.
175
Antioch, 1865. Name changed to Antioch No. 175, Oct. 12,

1 5

fJ6~~orne,

176 Merced , Snelling, 18?5. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
177 AAz~lan,
PMrescott, Anzona Territory, 1866. Transferred to Jurisdiction of
ruona, ar. 25, 1882.
180 A rctuNras, Petaluma, 1866. Consolidated with Petaluma No 77 as Peta
1uma o. 180, December 1898
· '
182
n1~dian, Arbuckle, 1867. N~me changed to Arbuckle No. 182, Oct. 16,
185
Punta Arenas, 1867. Name changed to Claiborne Oct 10 1867
189 trenas,
Natr6o4be0, Latrobe, 1868. Consolidated with Natoma No.' 64, ~s Nato~a
o. , ct 17, 188~
197 ~arad~se, Hayward, 1869. Charter surrendered July 20 1872
ockl~n, Rocklin! Dispensation 18?0, Charter never iss~ed. ·
205
Newville, 1870. Consolidated with Olivet No. 364, as Olivet
~ew2vi05lle0,
, ct. 1, 1917.
o.
213 Bodega, Bode~a, 1871. Charter revoked Oct. 12, 1889.
218
fJar~anton, Livermore, 1872. Name changed to Mosaic No. 218, Oct. 18,
219
221
222

with Golden Gate
~er3a0nza IGtaliana, San Francisco, 1872. Consolidated
o. , as olden Gate Speranza No. 30, July 1, 1966
ndJependence, 1872. Consolidated with Wauc~ba No. 413, as Inyo
WY~z1
o. 1 , an. 10, 1945.

qrllamN'te, Rocklin, 1872. Consolidated with Roseville No· 432• as Rosev1 e o. 222, May 29, 1919.
223 Maui, Wailuku, Hawaii, 1873. Charter surrendered Nov 17 1877
226 Hayward, Half Moon Bay 1873 Moved to s
·d
~
a o an name
an
cha nged to San Mateo No. 226, Oct. i3, 1905.
227 Contra Costa, So~ersville, 1873. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
230 Northrth Butte, Gridley, 1873. Consolidated with Emmanuel No 318 as
•
N o . Butte No. 230, Oct. 8, 1968.
·
235 S26u6rprisSe VaJ!ey, Cedarville, 1874. Consolidated with North East No
·
, as urpnse Valley No. 235, July l, 1962.
238 Tyre, Gold Run, 1875. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1884.
239 Pesca~ero, Pescadero, 1875. Charter surrendered Sept. 26, 1890.
240 ~lou:ktyril, Colusa , 1875. Consolidated with Colusa No. 142, as Colusa No.
p 1, 1882,
249 GS_reen~ille, Greenville, 1878. Consolidated with Sincerity No 132 a
• s
·
mcenty No. 132, Oct. 16, 1896.
251 Bro~herhoo.d, Duncan's ~ls, 1878. ~barter surrendered April 19, 1888.
252 Bodie, Bodie, 1878. Consolidated Wlth Winnedumah No 287
w·
• as mne·
dumah No. 287, Dec. 20, 1918.
254 RNeading, Reading, 1879. Consolidated with Kennett No 456 as R _,, g
eawn
•
·
o. 254, Dec. 19, 1925.
255 Welcome, Lemoore, 1879. Consolidated with Riverdale No 496 as Wei
•
·
come No. 255, May 18, 1943.
257 Arizo~a, Phoenix, Arizona Territory 1879 Transferred to J · d · ti
uns ic on
·
'
of Arizona, March 25, 1882.

M:

260
263
264
266
270
276
277
284
287
290
298
311
318
339
340
341
342
350
360
363
364
370
371
373

I

~0°f~i~d·i~W~bif~~·z~~~M!r~~rg~o171i2~ispensation. 1881, Transferred

384
386
398
410
413
414
432

433

King Solomon's, San Francisco, 1880. Consolidated with Seaport No.
550, as King Solomon's Seaport No. 260, Dec. 5, 1963.
Tucson, Tucson, Arizona 'l'erritory, 1881. Transferred to Jurisdiction of
Arizona, March 25, 1882.
Hesperian, Santa Maria, 1882. Consolidated with Santa Maria No. 340,
as Hesperian No. 264, Oct. 13, 1910.
North East, F ort Bid well, 1882. Consolidated with Surprise Valley No.
235, as Surprise Valley No. 235, July l, 1962.
Fall River, Burgettville, 1883. Charter revoked Oct. 10, 1895.
Westport, Westport, 1884. Charter surrendered May 26, 1888.
Selma, Selma, 1885. Consolidated with Fowler No. 398, as Selma No.
277, Oct. 14, 1915.
Tyrian, Dunnigan, 1887. Consolidated with Woodland No. 156, as Woodland No. 156, Oct. 11, 1911 .
Winnedumah, Bishop, 1887. Consolidated with Bodie No. 252, as Winnedumah No. 287, Dec. 20, 1918.
Sunset, Los Angeles, 1888. Name changed to East Gate No. 290, Oct. 12,
1899.
Mokelumne Hill, Mokelumne Hill, 1890. Consolidated with Calaveras
No. 78, as Caleveras No. 78, Dec. 25, 1919.
Hueneme, Hueneme, 1892. Consolidated with Oxnard No. 341, as Oxnard No. 341, Oct. 16, 1902.
Emmanuel, Biggs, 1893. Consolidated with North Butte No. 230, as
North Butte No. 230, Oct. 8, 1968.
Esperanza, Fulle rton, 1900. Name changed to Fullerton No. 339, Oct. 13 ,
1904.
Santa Maria, Santa Maria, 1900. Consolidated with Hesperian No. 264,
as Hesperian No. 264, Oct. 13, 1910.
Oxnard, Oxnard, 1901. Consolidated with Hueneme No. 311, as Oxnard
No. 341, Oct. 16, 1902.
Manila, Manila, P. I., 1901. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
Cavite, Cavite, P. I., 1903. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 19!2.
San Francisco, San Francisco, 1904. Consolida ted with VictorY No. 474,
as San Francisco-Victo ry No. 360, Nov. 29, 1961.
Berkeley, Berkeley, 1904.. Consolidated w ith Charter Rock No. 410, as
.
Berkeley No. 363, July 1, 1968.
Olivet, Corning, 1904. Consolidated with Newville No. 205, as Olivet
No. 205, Oct. 1, 1917.
Amity, San Francisco, 1905. Consolidated with Seal Rock No. 536, as
Amity-Seal Rock No. 370, March 1, 1963.
Oceanici Honolulu, Oahu , T. H., 1905. Name changed to Lodge le Progres de 'Oceanie No. 371 , Oct. 12, 1916.
Veteran, Sawtelle, 1906. Name changed to West Los Angeles No. 373,
Oct. 12, 1939.
El Centro, El Centro, 1907. Consolidated with Oasis No. 664, as El Cen.. .
. . .
tro No. 384, Aug. 30, 1937.
Corregidor, Manila, P. I., 1907. Transferred to Junsdiction of Ph1hppme
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
Fowler, Fowler, 1908. Consolidated with Selma No. 277, as Selma
No. 277, Oct. 14, 1915.
Charter Rock, Berkeley, 1910. Consolidated with Berkeley No. 363, as
Berkeley No. 363, July l, 1968.
Waucoba, Big Pir.e, 1910. Consolidated with Inyo No. 221, as Inyo
No. 221, Jan. 10, 1945.
Arlington, Los Angeles, 1910. Consolidated with Acacia No. 438, as
Arlington No. 414, Sept. 28, 1959.
Roseville, Roseville, 1912. Consolidated. with Granite No. 222, as Roseville No. 222, May 29, 1919.

434
438

453
454
456
474
478
489

496
521
522
536
539
542
545
550
553
554
573
597
611
612
616
628
638
640
664
704
799

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Germania, Los Angeles, 1913. Name changed to Acacia No. 438, Oct. 16
1918.
,
Acacia, Los Angeles. Consolidated with Arlington No. 414, as Arlington
No. 414, Sept. 28, 1959.
Bethlehem, San Francisco, 1915. Consolidated with Crocker No. 454 as
Crocker No. 454, April 1, 1961.
'
Crocker, Daly City, 1915. Consolidated with Bethlehem No. 453, as
Crocker No. 454, April 1, 1961.
Kennett, Kennett, 1915. Consolidated with Reading No. 254, as Reading
No. 254, Dec. 19, 1925.
Victory, San Francisco, 1919. Consolidated with San Francisco No. 360
as San Francisco-Victory No. 360, Nov. 29, 1961.
'
Thousand Oaks, Berkeley, 1920. Consolidated with Indian Rock No. 638,
as Thousand Oaks No. 478, Oct. 1, 1968.
East Bay, Orinda, 1920. Consolidated with Hillcrest No. 573, as East
Bay No. 489, Dec. 1, 1967.
Riverdale, Riverdale, 1921. Consolidated with Welcome No. 255, as Welcome No. 255, May 18, 1943.
Piedmont, Piedmont, 1922. Consolidated with Orinda No. 704, as Orinda
No. 521, Dec. 1, 1966.
Sunrise, Monterey Park, 1922. Consolidated with Belvedere No. 539, as
Belvedere Sunrise No. 522, July 1, 1968.
Seal Rock, San Francisco, 1922. Consolidated with Amity No. 370, as
Amity-Seal Rock No. 370, March 1, 1963.
Belvedere, Monterey Park, 1922. Consolidated with Sunrise No. 522
as Belvedere Sunrise No. 522, July 1, 1968.
'
Lankershim, North Hollywood, 1923. Name changed to North Hollywood No. 542, Oct. 12, 1950.
Jonathan, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Veritas No. 640, as
Veritas-Jonathan No. 545, Dec. 3, 1963.
Seaport, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with King Solomon's
No. 260, as King Solomon's Seaport No. 260, Dec. 5, 1963.
Golden City, San Francisco, 1923. C onsolidated with Educator No. 554,
as Educator No. 554, Feb. 16, 1940.
Educator, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Golden City No. 553,
as Educator No. 554, Feb. 16, 1940.
Hillcrest, Orinda, 1923. Consolidated with East Bay No. 489, as East
Bay No. 489, Dec. 1, 1967.
Truth, Los Angeles, 1924. Consolidated with Beacon of the West
No. 628, as Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
Owensmouth, Owensmouth, 1925. Subsequent to the name of the community being changed to Canoga Park, the name of the Lodge was
ch anged to Canoga Park No. 611, Oct. 15, 1931.
Workman , Temple City, 1925. Name changed to Temple City No. 612,
Oct. 10, 1929.
Seal Beach, Seal Beach, 1925. Name changed to R. E. Dolley No. 616,
Oct. 14, 1937.
Beacon of the West, Los Angeles, 1926. Consolidated with Truth
No. 597, as Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
Indian Rock, Berkeley, 1926. Consolidated with Thousand Oaks No.
478, as Thousand Oaks No. 478, Oct. 1, 1968.
Ve ritas, San Francisco, 1926. Consolidated with Jonathan No. 545, as
Veritas-Jonathan No. 545, Dec. 3, 1963.
Oasis, El Centro, 1928. Consolidated with El Centro No. 384, as El
Centro No. 384, Aug. 30, 1937.
Orinda, Orinda, 1950. Consolidated with Piedmont No. 521, as Orinda
No. 521, Dec. 1, 1966.
Bay Claire Vista, San Diego. Name changed to Clairemont Mesa
No. 799, October 15, 1964.

435

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Elected Officers Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.
1850

Since Us Organization, April 18. A. L. 5850
1858

Jonathan D. Stevenson ..G. M.
Callfornla No. I
lorn Jan. 1, llOO
Died Fob. 14, 1"4
John A. Tutt.............. D. G . M.
Caleb Fennar........ - ..5. G. W.
Sasha! Woods............J. G. W.
Lavi Stowell ...................... G. T.
John H. Gihon ................G. S.

1851
John A. Tutt........_ ...... G . M.
hhama No. I
lorn Feb. 4L 1111
Died May IT, 1900
Benj. D. Hyam..- ......0. G . M.
E. F. F. Ellis _________ G. w.
Benj. S. Olds..............J. G. W .
Townsend A. Thomes...... G. T.
Levi Stowell..._..........- ....G. S.

s.

1852
lanjamin D. Hyam ........ G. M.
Benicia No. I
lorn March I, 1111
Died July 12, 1n1
Chu. M. RadclifL...D. G. M.
Addison Martln................G.T.
J. R. McConnalL.•...J. G. W.
Addison Martin ......- -·--·G. T.
Levi Stowell..- ..·-··--······G. S.

1853
Charles M. Radc:liff...... G. M.
Tuolumne No. e
Born Fob. 5, Ille
Died Dec. JI, I..,
T. A. Thomas .............. D. G. M.
Jno. R. CrandalL.....S. G. W.
Richard F. Knott........J. G. W .
Addison Martin.............. G. T.
Lavi StowalL................... G. S.

1854
Willlam H. Howard .......G. M.
San Jo11 No. 10
lorn Au9. 29~ 1110
Died Sept. la, 196'
Nath. G. Curtis.-..... 0. G. M.
Rector E. Cola....._... S. G. W.
Robt. N. Wood ..........J. G. W.
Addison Martin .............. G. T.
Lavi Stowell..........- ........ G. S.

185G
Wiiiiam H. Howard......G. M.
T. A. Thomas.............. D. G. M.
Jno. A. Raymond......S. G. W.
Sam. A. Merritt........J. G. W.
Addison Mertln......._ ....6. T.
Lrrl Stowell - ·· · --····6. S.

William H. Howerd...._6, M.
John A. Raymond....D. G. M.
Lemuel Lyon.·-·-····-·S. G. W.
Peter W. Randle...... J. G. W.
Add ison Martin ..- ..........G. T.
Alex G. AbelL................ G. S.

1883

William C. Belcher........ G. M.
Gil. B. Claiborna...... D. G. M.
Louis Cohn..........._ .. S. G. W.
Wm. A. Oavias..•.......J. G. W.
James Leldley.................. G. T.
Alex G. AbelL...............6. S.

1857
Nathaniel G. Curtls...... G. M.
Washln9ton No. lO
Born Feb. 81 1115
Died July lz, 1"7
Charles Marsh............D. G. M.
Aaron 0. Park............S. G. W.
John B. Pope..............J . G. W.
Addison Martin .............. G. T.
Alex G. Abell ..........._ ..6. S.

1858
Nathanial G. Curtis......6. M.
P. W . .,hapheard ......0. G. M.
Wm. McCormicL ....S. G. W.
Jas. W. Bicknall........J . G. W.
Addison Martin .............. G. T.
Alex G. Abell ..................G. S.

1859
Nathaniel G. Curtis...... 6. M.
P. W . Shepheard...... D. G. M.
Ebenezer Lene ..........S. G. W.
Thos. P. Hawley........J. G. W.
Addison Martin ..............G. T.
Alex G. Aball..... - ........... G. S.

1860
Nathaniel G. Curtls...... G. M.
P. W. Shaphaerd...._D. G. M.
Wm. C. Belcher........S. G. W.
Alvin%a Hayward ......J. G. W.
Addison Martin .............. G. T.
Alex G. Abell .................. G. S.

1861
James l. English ............ G. M.
Sacramento No. 40
Born June 5, Ill)
Died May 29, ten
Wm. C. Belchar........D. G. M.
John W. Harville...... S. G. W.
Caleb E. Wilc:oxon ....J. G. W.
James laidlay................ G. T.
Alex G. Abell..................G. S.

1884
Willlam C. Balcher........G. M.
G il. B. Clalborne...... D. G. M.
Wm. A. Davles..........S. G. W.
Isaac S. Titus..............J. G, W.
James laidlay.................. G. T.
Alex G. AbalL............... 6 . S

1865
Gilbert B. Clalborna...... 6. M.
San Joaquin No. It
lorn 1121
Died Dec. I, 1'°9
Wm. A. Davlu._...... D. G. M.
Isaac S. Titus.............. S. G. W.
Henry H. Hartlay...... J. G. W.
James leldley ..................6. T.
Alex 6. AbalL ............... G. S.

1868
Gilbert 8. Clalborne...... G. M.
Hanry H. Hertlay......D. G. M.
Wm. H. Patarson ..- .. S. G. W.
Thomas Bec:L..- ........J. G. W.
James Leldlay..................G. T.
Alex G. Abell.................. 6. S.

1867
William A. Davles.......... G. M.
Columble No. 2tl
Born Feb. I, 1127
Died June 20, lfl6
Henry H. Hartlay.... D. G. M.
Thomes BecL........-...S. G. W.
Leonidas E. Pratt......J . G . W .
James A. Laldley ............G. T.
Alex G. Aball..................G. S.

1868

1862
William C . Belchar........G. M.
Corinthian No. 6'
Born Dec. 12, 1120
Died Sept. I, 18'S
Gil. B. Claiborne...... D. G. M.
John W. Harville......S. G. W.
John B. Hewson ........ J. G. W.
James Laidlay..................G. T.
Ale• G. Abell .......- - .... S.

w.

Cherlas Marsh......- ........6. M.
Nevada No. IJ
lorn Dec. 6 1121
Died April M, 1176
Thao. G. Cockrill......S. G. W.
Leonidas E. Pr•tt......D. G. M.
Fradk. F. Berss.......... J. G. W ,
James l•ldlay ..---········-··G. T.
Alex G. Aball .................. G. S.

436

437

\.RA ND LODGE OF C:Al.IPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS O F TH E

1869

1876

1883

1819

1895

1901

Leonid es E. PratL ......•. G. M.
Mount•ln Shade No. II
Born Au9. 29, lllJ
Died Oct. 25, 1886
Isaac S. Titus......... - ... 0. G. M.
John S. Ward .. _........ S. G. W.
Richerd Oel•·-····-···J. G. W.
James Leidley____ ._.G, T.
Alex G . Abell _________.G. S.

J ohn M. Browne ......••.... G. M.
Chu. L. Wiggin ...... D. G . M.
Wm. S. Wells ............ S. G . W.
Solon W. Cra igue ....J . G. W.
James La idley..................G. T.
Alu G. Abell..- .............G. S.

Jonathan D. Hln•s..- .. G . M.
San luenaventura No. 214
lorn Jan. I, 1125
Died Dae. JO, 1116
Wiley J . Tinnin ........ O. G . M.
Edm. C . Atkinson_.__ S. G . W.
H iram N. Rucker._..J , G . W.
Moses Heller - ··- --····G• T.
Alu G. AbelL.............. G . S.

Morris M. Estee ............G. M.
.Villiam Johnlfon .... D. G. M.
Ches. R. Gritrnan ...... S. G. W.
Henry S. Orme........J . G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding .... G. T.
Alex G . Abell .... - .......... G. S.

Edward M . Preston ........ G. M.
Nevada No. ll
l orn May 4, 1141
Died Aprll 24, 1901
Wm. T. Lucu ............O. G. M.
Thomas Flint.............. S. G . W.
F. M . Angellotti........J . G . W.
Edwa rd Colemen ......... _ G , T.
George J ohnson .......•....G . S.

William S. Wells............ G . M.
Martlnti No. 41
Born Juno 24, 1161
Died Jen. 23, 1919
0 . S. Hend erson._ .. D. G. M.
Chas. W. Nutting ....S. G. W .
Geo. W , Hunter ..... J. G. W .
Edward Colemen..... _ .... G . T.
G eorge J ohnson ............ G . S.
W m. H . Edwards ............ G . L

1884

Alveh R. Conklin............ G. M .
Inyo No. 221
lorn 1835
Died Oct. I , Im
Williem Johnston...... D. G. M.
Chas. R. Gritman ....S. G. W.
Henry S. Orme........ J . G . W.
Nathan W Spaulding .... G . T.
Georg• J ohnson ···---····G . S.

1870
Leonidas E. PratL_ ...•.•.G .M.
Isaac S. Titus ......- - .. 0. G. M.
Chea. L. Wiggin .._ ... S. G. W.
Benj. H . Freeman. ____ J , G. W.
James La idley ..-·-·-·--- ·G. T,
Aler G. AbelL_···-·····G • S.

1871

Leonidas E. Pratt_____ G . M.
Chu. L Wiggln .....•.. D. G. M.
Be n. H. Fr .. man ...... S. G. W .
G eo. C . PerkinL......J. G. W .
James Laldley........•.- -..6. T.
Alex G. AbelL. ..._ •._ G, S.

1872
Leonidat E. Pratt.......... G. M.
Benj. H . Freeman ...... O. G. M.
Geo. C, Perkins........S. G. W .
John M. Browne...- ...J. G. W .
James Laidley........... - ....G. T.
Alex G. AbeJL_........._ G. S.

1873
Isaac S. Titus.. ..............G. M.
San Joaquin No. It
lorn Oct. I~ 1127
Died Aprll a, 1192
Geo. C. Perkins........ O. G. M.
Jno. M. Browne ........ S. G. W.
Ch111. E. Mitchell ......J . G. W.
James Laldley...........- .. G. T.
Aln G. Abell... _ ____......G. S.

1874
G eorge C. Perkin1...- .G. M.
Orovllle No. IOJ
l orn Au9. 21, lllt
Died Feb. 26, rm
John M. Browne........D. G. M.
Wm. B. Parker.......... S. G. W .
Wiley J . Tinnin__ ___J. G. W .
James Laldley...... - ......G. T.
Alex G. Abell..._______ .G. S.

1875
John M. Srowne............ G. M.
Nevel No.17
lorn M•y 10, llll
Died DK. 7, llM
Chas. L W ig9in.•.... D. G. M.
Wiley J. Tlnnin..........S. G . W.
Jacob H . NefL .......J. G. W.
J emes laidle y........ .......... G . T.
Alex G . Abell ............ .... G. S.

1877
John M. Browne ............. G. M.
Chu. L Wiggin ...... 0 . G . M.
Wm. W, Traylor........ S. G. W.
Wm . t-l. Crane..........J. G. W.
Moses Heller .. _........... _,G, T.
Alex G. Abell..................G. S.

1878
John M. Browne.._ .......G. M.
Wm. W. Traylor........ O. G. M.
Wm. H. Crane ..__..S. G. W .
Robt. C . Brodet.._ ...J. G. W.
Moses Heller .................. G. T.
Alu G. AbelL ............ _.. G. S.

1879
W illiam W , Traylor........ G . M.
Cellfornla No. I
lorn March 17, 1122
Died Jan. II, llU
Samuel C . Denso n.... O. G. M.
G . W.
Clay W. Taylor...
John Q. Adam1........J . G. W .
G. T.
.....
.,
Moses Heller ____
Alex G. Abell.......- ......... G. S.

_.s.

1880
Samual C. Denson ........ G. M.
Union No. U
lorn Sept. 2J, lllt
Died July 26, 1917
Clay W. Taylor.•...... O. G. M.
J ohn Q. Adoms ........S. G. W.
0 . W , HollonbecL ..J . G. W .
MoHs Heller ····--·-···---G· T.
Alex G . Abell..._ ........... G. S.

1881

Cloy W . Taylor _______ G, M.
Western Ster No. 2
Born Sept, IOI 11144
Died May I, tt7
J ohn Q . Adems.•.- •.. 0 . G. M.
Jonathan D. Hines ....S. G . W .
Thos. J . 8owers..-.....J . G. W ,
Moses Holler ______ ____G . T.
Alex G . Abell .................. G. S.

1882
C lay W . Taylor- ...........G. M.
Jonathan D. Hines. ... O. G. M.
Edm. C . At kinson ...•..S. G . W.
George H inds............J G. W ,
Moses Heller ···············-·G • T.
Alex G . AbelL. .............. G . S.

Jonathan 0 . Hlnes ........ G. M.
Wiley J . Tlnnin........D. G . M.
Edm. C. Atkinson ...... $. G . W.
Hiram N. Rucker......J. G . W .
Moses Heller .................. G . T.
Alu G. Abell. -............. G. S.

1885
Wiley J . Tlnnln•. _..•- .... G. M.
Trinity No. '11
lorn Oct. 7J_l829
Died Nov. 14, 1910
Edm. C . Atklnson.•••.. D. G. M.
Hiram N. Ruder......S. G. W.
Henry H. Knepp......J. EJ. W .
Nathan W Spaulding ....G. T.
Alex G. Abell..................G. S.

1890

1891
W illiam Johnston_ ..... G. M.
FrHklln No. 141
lorn June 2, 1121
Died Nov. 14, 190I
Cha1 R. Gritman ...... D. G . M.
Henry S. Orme ........ S. G. W.
Ja1. B. Stavens..........J . G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....G. T.
George Johnson .._. __ G , S.

1896
William T. Luc:as............ G. M.
Guadalupe No. 2l7
lorn March II, llSO
Died March 21, 1'31
Tho~as Flint .... .......... D. G . M.
F. M. Angellotti........S. G. W .
Chas. L. Petton ........J. G. W .
Edward Colemen ............ G . T.
George John1on ···-······G S.

1897
Thomas Flint ····--·-···G• M.
Texas No. 4'
lorn May 19 1151
Dl•d No•. Ii, 191'
F. M. Angellotti........ O. G . M.
Chas L. Patton.......... S. G . W .
Jes. A. Foshay....- ....J . G. W.
Edward Colemen........... .. G. T.
George Johnson ............G. ~.

1888

1892

Edmund C. Atklnson .... G. M.
Sacram•nto No. 40
lorn Nov. 17 ltJ7
Died March 1o, 191 I
Hiram N. Ruder...... D. G. M.
Morri1 M. Est.......... S. G. W.
Alvah R. ConHin ......J . G . W.
Nethen W Spauldlng ..•.G. T.
Alex G. Abell.................. G. S.

1898

Charles R. Gritman __ c;. M.
Yount No. 12
lorn D•c. 10, ltll
Died May 14, ln4
Henry S. Orme. _ .. D. G. M.
Ju. B. Stevens .......... S. G. W.
Edw. M. Preston ........J . G. W.
Nathan W Speulding .... G. T.
George John1on ............ G. S.

Frenk M. Angellottl __ G. M.
Marin No. 191
lorn Sept. 4, 1161
Dl•d May 23, 1932
Chas. L. Patton .....•.. 0 . G. M.
Jes. A. Foshay .......... S. G . W.
Wm. S. Wells............J. G. W.
Edwftrd Cole man ............ G . T.
George Johnson ............G. S.

1887

1893

H iram N. Ruder .......... G. M.
No. "
Le &re
l orn Sept. IM4
Died Dec. h, lfOS
Morris M. Est .......... O. G . M.
Alvah R. Conklln......S. G. W
Wm. John1ton .........•J. G. W .
Nathan W Spauldlng .... G. T.
Alex G. Abell..................G. S.

Henry S. Orm•. - -.... G . M.
So. Cellfornl• No. m
lorn March 25\ llJ7
Died NoY, 29, 912
Ju. B. Steven1....•..... 0 . G. M.
Edw. M. Pre1ton ........S. G. W .
Wm. T. Lucas ......._ ..J . G. W .
Edward Coloman............ G. T.
George Johnson ............G. S.

1888

189'

Morris M. Est ..............G. M.
Cellfornla No. I
lot11 NoY. 2l, 1114
Died Oct. 7, 1'°1
Alvah It Conklin..•... D. G. M.
William Johnllon ......S. G. W.
Marc. 0 . lorucL...... J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....G . T.
S.
AIH G. Abell_ .............

Jamel 8. Steven• ·---·-G · M.
Yount No. 12
lorn March 27; 1141
Died Dec. 6, I It
Edw. M. Preston...•._ O. G. M.
Tho mas FlinL ...........J. G. W .
Wm. T. Lucn ........... S. G . W.
Edw•rd C oleman............G. T.
George John1on ............& . S.

•ca•'i

w.

1899
Charles L Patton .......... G. M.
C.llfornla No, I
l orn 18'5
Died Aprll II, 1m
Jes. A. Foshey.......... D. G. M.
Wm . S. Wells......•.....S. G. W .
0 . S. Henderson ......J. G . W .
Edward Colemen ............ G. T.
George J ohnson ............ G. S.

1900
James A. Foshay............G. M.
So. Cellfornla No. 271
lorn NOY. 2l, 1856
Died Jon. 14, 1914
Wm. S. Well1.-.........0 . G. M.
0 . S. Henderson ...... S. G. W.
Chas. W'. Nutting ....J. G . W .
Edward Coleman ........... ..G . T.
Georg e J ohnson .. - ...... G. S.
Wm. H. Edwerd1............G . L

1902
Orrin S. Henderson ...... G. M.
Morning Star No. 61
Born Jun• 2, llU
Died Jun• 25, 19«1
Chas. W . Nutting .... D. G . M.
G eo . W. Hunter......S. G . W .
Motley H . Flint ........J . G . W .
Edwa rd Coleman... _ _ G. T.
George J ohnson ·····- ····G • S.
Wm. H . Edwards...- ..... G . L

1903
Charles W. Nutting ......G . M.
Evening Ster No. 116
Born Oct. l, 1152
Died Sept. 20, 1917
Geo. W , Hunter •..... 0. G. M.
Motely H. Flint........ S. G. W .
Edw, H. Hart...... _ J . G. W.
Edwerd Colemen............ G . T.
George Johnson ·--·--···G . S.
Wm. H. Edwards............G . L

1904

G eorge W . Huntar____G, M.
Humboldt No. 7'
l orn 1854
Died Od. 14, 1'21
Motley H . Flint... ..... D. G . M.
Edw. H . Hart.......- ...S. G. W.
Geo . M. Perine ........ J . G . W .
Edward Colemen............ G . T.
George J ohnson ............ G . S.
Wm. H. Edwerds............. G. L

1905
Motley H . Flint..... - ....... G. M.
East G•te No. 290
Born Feb. 19, 11161
Died July 14, lfJO
Edward H. Hert........ D. G. M.
Geo. M. Perine ........S. G. W.
Reuben H . lloyd ......J. G . W .
Edward Coleman ............G. T.
George John1on ______G , S.
Wm. H. Edwerds............G . L

1906

Edward H. Hert ............G . M.
Liva Oak No, 61
lorn 1851
Died Sept. 26, 1917
Geo. M. Perine ....... 0. G . M.
Reu ben H . Lloyd ...... S. G. W .
O scar Lawler ····-·····J. i;. W.
Edward Colemen............G. T.
George Johnson ............ G. S.
Wm. H. Edwerds._. _____ .G . L

438
ll07

Geo.rge M. Perine.__... 6 . M.
raclflc N•. 116
lorn 1151
Died Oct. 6, ltJJ
Reuben H . Uoyd ...... D. 6. M.
Oacer Lawler_ __ S. G. W .
W. Frank Pi•rce. _.J. G . W .
Edward Coleman. _ ____ 6 ·. T.
Georg• Johnson ··-········G • S.
Thomas J. B•k•r-··---···G· L

1908

Oscar Lawler.·--··-··G • M.
EHt 5ate No. no
lor• April Z. 1171
Died J.n. 3, 196'
W. Frank Pi•rc•........ D. G . M.
Dana R. W•ll•r _......S. G. W .
A. J. Monroe.. _ _ J. G . W.
Edward Coleman. ______ 6 . T.
John Whlch•r_____ G. S.
Thom•• J. llaker...--···-·G• L

1909

W. frank Pl•rc•····-······6 • M.
O•klend Ne. la
lorn Jen. 16, 1111

Died Oct. J, 1911
Dana R. Well•r __.... D. G. M.
A. J . Monroe.... - ......S. G. W.
Wm. P. Almer ··-·-·J • G. W.
Edward Colernan ..._.__ G. T.
John Whicher_ _______ G. S.
Thom•• J. Bak•r···-···- ·G. L

1910

Dana R. Wellar.•.....- .....6. M.
So. Callfonola No. 211
lorn March 24, 1174
Died Jan. t, 1'47
A. J. Monro•--·-····D. G. M.
Wm. P. Filmer___._... S. G. W .
J . D. Murph•y ··-··-··J. G. W.
Edward Col•man .•. - ..- G. T.
John Whicher....-·-··-·G. S.
ThomH J . S.ker.•·-···-···G. L

1911

Alonso J . Monro•- ·-··G. M.
Humboldt No. 7'
lorn Oct. It, I. .
Died June 14, 1m
Wm. P. Fllmer..._ ,__D. G. M.
J . D. Murph•Y----··S. G . W.
S.nj. F. Bled10•........J. G . W.
Edward Col•man.._____ G . T.
John Whlch•r----···- 6 . S.
ThomH J. Bak•r._ _ _ .G . L

1912
Wm. P. Film•r._............. G. M.
Kln9 Solomon No. UO
lorn M•rch z. 1166
Died N.... 21, 1942
Jno. D. Murph•y._..D. G. M.
Benj. F. Bled10•--···S. G . W.
Alb. G . Burn•tt ··- - ··J . G. W.
Edward Col•man............ G. T.
John Whlch•'- - ·- - ····-6. S.
ThorHI J . lok.,._ _ _ &. L

1113

1911

John D. Murph•y.___ G. M.
All• No. lJJ
lorn Julr 7, 1163
Died Sept. 16, I Ml
Benj. F. Bledso•.- .0. G. M.
Alb. G. BurnetL_ ... S. G. W.
F. V. Keesling.___ J . G. W.
Wm. Parker Film•r......._.G. T.
John Which•r.................. G. S.
Thomas J. Bak•r·····-···-·G· L

Charlt1 Albert Adam1..G. M.
bcel1ior No.
Born No•. ll, 1167
Died M•y I , 1762
Geo. F. Rodd•n- - ...D. G. M.
S•m. E.. Burk•.·-·-- - S. G. W.
Wm. A. Sherm•n- .... J. G . W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..- ......G, T.
John Whic:her.................. G . S,
Thomas J . Bekor... - -··- ·G• L

1914

1920

Banj. F. Bledsoe ..... _ .G. M.
Su lornardhto No. Ml
lorn Feb, I, 1174
Died Oct. JO, lfll
Alb. G. Burnett........D. G. M.
F. V. K..sling....._ ....S. G. W.
W . Rh. Hervey._ ._•..J . 6. W .
Wm. Parker Film•r........_G. T.
John Whicher_ _______ G. S.
Thomas J. Bak•r ...... _ ......G. L.

1915
Albert G . Burnett ..........&. W.
S•nta llOM No. 17
lorn Aprll t llM
Died Au9. IS, ltU
F. V. KHsling_...... _.O. G. M.
Wm. Rh. Horvey ......S. G . W.
Bradford Webator....J. G. W .
Wm. Parker Filmer..... - ..G . T.
John Whicher_______...G. S.
Thomu J. Bek•r.____ G . L.

1918

Francis V. KHsling........G. M.
C.llfornt. No. I
lorn Feb. 17 1m
Died Sept. lS, lt6J
Wm. Rh. H•rvey.. - .. D. G. M.
Bradford W•bster..•. S. G . W .
Chari•• A. Adam1....J . G . W.
Wm. Parker Filmor..... _... G . T.
John Whicher......·--- ···G. S.
ThomH J. Baker ............. G . l.

1917
Wm. Rhodes H•rvey....G. M.
renhlph• No. 102
lorn March 2', 1171
Died Feb. I, 1'53
Braclforcl Webater.... D. G . M.
Charles A. Aclem1.... S. G . W.
Geo. F. Rodden........J . G. W .
Wm. Pa rker Filmer. .........G . T.
John Whicher.......... - ..G . S.
ThomH J . B•\er ............ G . l.

1911
Breclforcl Webster _ ......G . M.
live Oak NG. 61
l orn Dec. 14, 116'
Died JU11e 4, IMI
Cherle1 A. Ad•m1-.. D. G. M.
Geo. F. Rodclen...._..S. G . W .
Sam. E. Bur\e .......- ..J . G. W .
Wm. Par\er Filmtr.......... G. T.
J ohn Whicher._............. G . S.
ThomH J . Ila~~ ···-· .._G . L.

439

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

I"

Geor9• F. Roddon- ...G . M.
Marin No. ltl
lorn Doc.l4, 1167
Died M•rc~ I, lfM
Sam. E. Burke........- .. D. G . M.
Wm. A. Sherman._.$. G . W.
Arthur S. Crite1___J . G. W.
Wm. Park•r Filmer.____ G , T.
John Whkher. .......______ G. S.
ThomH J. Bek•r...·-····-·G· L

1921

Semuel E. Burke ____ G. M.
SYllMt No. HJ
lorn F.b. 13, 11711
Died Feb. 14, 1961
Wm. A. Sherman....- D. G. M.
Arthur S. Crltt1.. _.... S. G. W.
David J . RHso- ........J. G . W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.. __ ... G. T.
John Whicher.... ·---·-··G· S.
Thomes J. Bekor.•- .. - .6· L

1922
William A. Sherman......G. M.
Ptffldlo No. )54
lorn Sept. 17, lllO
Died Feb. 19, IMO
Arthur S. Crite1_ ...... D. G . M.
David J . RaH•·- ·-···S. G . W.
Alb. E. Boynton ........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer- - ...... G . T.
J ohn Whicher.·- --····-·G. S.
ThomH J. Baker..............G. L

1923
Arthur S. Critt1 ............ 6. M.
lakersfleld No. 224
lorn Feb. 4, 117'
Died Apr. 28, 1'57
David J . RHso.......... O. G. M.
Alb. E. Boynton_ ..$. G . W .
Geo. L. Jonn ...........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whlch•r- ···-- ---.C:;. S.
ThomH J. Ba\or._ ........G. L

1924

David J . RHso.............. G. M.
Sen luennontur• No. Jl4
lorn Au9. t2, 1171
Died N..,,, t , 1'34
Alb. E. Boyn+on.. _.D. G . M.
Geo. L. Jone1......._ ...S. G. W.
Will H. Asehor..........J . G . W .
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whlch•r·- ··-········6 • S.
Thomes J . llekor _ __ 6 . L

\925

Alb•rt E. Boynton._ _ ..& . M.
Orovllle No.101
lorn Oct. t, 1171
Died Feb. J2, 1941
Geo. L Jones............ D. G. M.
Will H. Fischer.....-_.$. G . W.
Gus A. HutafL._ _ ..J. G. W .
Wm. Parker Filmer. ____ G. T.
John Whichar.. ·-······--·G• S.
ThomH J . Baker ........._... G. L

1928
Georg• L. Jones.......- ...6 . M.
M•dlson No. ll
lorn M•y II, 1873
Died June 22. 1956
Will H. Fischer. ........ D. G . M.
Gus. A. Hu+efL.......S. G. W .
C. M. Wollenbor9 ....J . G . W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.._ _... G. T.
Joh~ Which•r·-······-·- G . S.
ThomH J . Beker... ____ G. L

1927
Will H . Flscher......- ......6 . M.
Wll1hlre No . ...l orn Sept. 11, 1171
Died Oct. 4, 1'53
Gus. A. Hu+•fL ....... D. G. M.
C . M. Wollenberg._$. G. W.
J. S. Ross....................J . G. W.
Wm. Pa rker Filmer..........G . T.
J ohn Whicher...•. - ...........G . S.
Thomas J . Baker...- ..- .G . L

1928
Gustav A. H uteff ..........G. M.
Dunsmuir No. m
lorn Oct. S Im
Died Oct. 17, ltlJ
C. M. Woll•nberg....O. G . M.

J. S. Ron........__

.S. G. W.

Robt. B. Gaylord ......J . G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.-....... G. T.
John Whichor.___ ...........G . S.
Thomas J . lla\er. ........ -... G . L

1929
C . M. Wollenber9........ G . M.
Starr Kln9 No. )44
lorn Much IJ, 117)
Died Oct. 22, 19&2
John S. Rou .....___ .. D. G . M.
Rob+. B. Gaylord __..S. G. W .
Frenk W . Miwter........J . 6 . W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
J ohn Whicher.•_ .. _......... G. S.
Thomas J . Baker______ G. L

1930
J ohn Stewart Ross ........G. M.
El C•ntro No. )14
lorn Moy 21 117'
Died ""9· JI, 1'52
Rob+. B. Gaylord._.D. G. M.
Frank W . Mi.ter._.,_.S. G . W .
James II. G ist...___J. G . W.
Wm . Parker Filmer.......... G . T.
John Whicher .......- ......... 6. S.
Thomas J . Bake•- ······-···G. L

1931
Robt. I . 6aylord._ _ 6. M.
O•kl•nd No. Ill
lorn Nov. 24, 1176
Died Au9. 4, 1'53
Frank W. Mixt•r...... D. G. M.
James B. G isL.._ ._ .S. 6. W.
Wm. A. Sitton ____ J. G. W.
W m. Parker Filmer.... - .. G . T.
John Whichor__ ............ G. S.
Thomu J . Beker.............. G. L.

1932
Fr•nk W . Mirter_ .....- .G• M.
E.aetor No. 424
lorn Doc. 30, 1m
Died M•J n, IM7
Jamt1 B. Gist............D. G. M.
Wm. A. Sitton ....- ...$. G . W.
R. V. Whiting_ ...._ ..J . (;. W.
Wm. Parker Filmor..... - ...G. T.
John Whicher_ _______G , S.
ThomH J. Baker .............. G. L

1937
JemH T. Freaer _ _ ........6 . M.
Humboldt NG. 7t
lorn Au9. 21, 1161
Died JuH 16, 1'53
Leon O . Whihell..._.D. G. M.
William H. Weste ....S. G. W.
William B. Ogd•n._ J . G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ___ ,G . T.
John Whicher.._....... - ......6 . S.
Leslie E. Wood .... - .. - ...... G. L

1938

Loon 0. Whihell.___6 . M.
Oren9e 4"rove No. m
lorn July 10, 1176
Died F.b. lS, 1!6'
William H. Wast•.... D. G . M.
William B. Ogd•n ....S. G . W.
Lloyd E. Wil1on_ .J . G. W.
Wm. Perk•r Filmer_ _ & . T.
John Whicher._ __ _ _ 6 . S.
L•sli• E. Wood ........- .... G. L

1933

1939

Jamtl B. Gist... .............6 . M.
r.nt•lph• No. 202
'°'"
Au9. I 1161
Died Aprll 3, 1'54
R. v. Whi+ing ____.. o. G. M.
Earl Warren.............. $. G. W .
Rollie W. Millor. .......J. G. W .
w~ . l'uker Filmor.......... G. T.
J ohn Whicher.- ·--·····-G· S.
ThomH J . Bek•r..._ .._.. G. L.

William B. Ogcl•n........ 6 . M.
Hollpood No. J5I
lorn A119. 26, 1176
Died Sopt. 12, 1'54
Lloyd E. Wilson. _____ G. M.
Frank M. Smith .._. __$, G . W .
Leslie E. Wood ........J. G. W.
W m. Perk•r Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher_ ...... - ......G . S.
Welter Leonercl .. - -..... G. L

1934
Renclolph V. Whltln9 .... G. M.
Kln9 SolGmon NG. 260
lorn Nov. JO, 1170
Died Feb. 4, I'52
Earl Warren ......__....D. G . M.
Rollie W. Miller.._. _.$. G. W.
James T. Freser........J. G . W .
Wm. Pa rker Fil..,er.._ •.. _G . T.
J ohn Whicher..................G. S.
Leslie E. Woocl ...._ .........G. L.

o.

1940

Lloyd E. Wilson .....__..... G . M.
ln9I01lde No. 6JO
lorn ""9· 16, 11'5
Died Nov. 2, 1961
Frank M. Smith.......... D. G. M.
Leslie E. Wood...._ S. G. W .
Claude H. Morrlson ..J . G. W .
Wm. Par\er Filmer._.._... G. T.
J ohn Whlch•r- ..- .........6 . S.
Walter Leonerd ...... - .•-..G. L

1935

1941

Eerl Warren ..- .. - ...·--·... G. M.
Sequole No. )~
l orn March " , lltl
Rollie W. Miller_... D. G . M.
James T. Fraser ......S. G . W .
Leon 0 . Whlnell... ...J . G. W.
Wm. Park•r Filmer......... G. T.
Joh" Whicher.. .._ ....._ .._G. S.
Leslie E. W ood ................ G. L

1938

Frank M. Smith ........ - ... G . M .
East Gate No. 2'0
lorn Aprll I , 18'4
Died Aprn 7, 1'51
Leslie E. Wood .. _._.. D. G . M.
Claude H . Morrison .. $. G . W .
G. C. DeForesL ._.J. G . W.
Wm. Pe rker Filmer. ......... G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson..__......G . S.
Chester H. Werlow........G . l.

Rollie W. Miller. ........... G . M.
Sunset NG. J52
lorn Oct. 17, 1"1
Dlod July II, 1960
James T. Fraser.-..._O. G. M.
Leon 0 . Whihell .. - ..S. G. W .
William H. w ..+• . _ J . G . W .
Wm. Parker Filmer ........G. T.
John Whlcher.................. G. S.
Lt1lle E. Wood ... - ....6 . L

Leslie E. Wood ...- ......... G. M.
Provident NG, 609
lorn April 2, Im
Cla ude H. Morrison_O, G. M.
Gilbert C . DeFore1t..S. G. W .
Wm. Par\or Filmer. ____.G . T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ...- ........G. S.
Ch ..der H . Werlow..- ... 6 . L.
Lewr•nc• C. Kell•y..J . 6 . W .

1942

110

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1943
Claude H. Morrison ..•... G . M.
San Dle90 No. l5
lorn July 10, 1887
Died No•. 2, 1953
Gilbert C . DeForest.. D. G. M.
Lawrence C. Kelley.. $. G. W.
Arthur W . Brouillat..J. G . W.
Fra ncis V. Keesling_ ...... G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ...........-_G. S.
Chester H. Warlow _ __.G, L

1944
Gilbert C. DeForest......G. M.
Readln9 No. 254
Born Sept. II, 188'
Died Jan. 2li, l'IS2
Lawrence C. Kelley .. D. G. M.
Arthur W. Broulllet.. S. G. W.
John R. Moore .......... J . G. W.
Francis V. KHsling ........G. T.
Lloyd E.• Wilson..... - ....... G . S.
ChHter H . Warlow.._.... G. L.

1945

Lawrence C . Kelley ....•.G . M.
Pentalpha No. 202
Born July 231 1819
Died Oct. 24,
1941
Arthur W . Brouillet ..... G . M.
Park No. 449
lorn Jan. 21, 1194
Died Sept. 18, 1953
John R. Moore........S. G. W.
Frencis V. KHsling._____ G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..............G . S.
Chester H . W.rlow_ .... G. L

1948
John R. Moor•.·-·-·-·· G. M.
Merldl1n No. 6'7
lorn Sept. I 9'J
Died Merch 28, 1965
Chester H . Warlow.. D. G . M.
Edward H. Siems...... S. G. W.
Ellsworth Meyer........ J. G . W.
Francis V, KHsling ........ G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilso"-....... - ... G . S.
Arthur M. Warren ..........<:;. L

1947
Chester H . Warlow...... G. M.
Fresno No. 247
lorn June 30, 119'
Died December 10, 1943
Edward H . Siems.___ O. G . M.
Ellsworth Meyer........ S. G. W.
Arthur Paulsen ____J . G. W.
Frends V. KHsling ....... G . T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ......... - ...G. S.
Arthur M. Werren ..........G. L

1948
Edwerd H . Siems ....... G . M.
Plymouth No. 560
lorn December 7, 1903
Ellsworth Meyor...- ... D. G. M.
Arthur Paulsen ........ S. G. W.
Louis C. Drepeau......J. G. W.
Frencls V. KHsling ........G. T.

Lloyd E. Wilson ................G.S.
Arthur M. Werren __ ..•.. G . L

1949
Ellsworth Moyer ............ G . M.
liberal Arts No. 6n
Born Feb. 27. 1905
Arthur Peulsen.......... D. G . M.
Louis E. Drapeau ...... S. G. W.
Arthur M. Warren ... J . G . W.
Francis V. Keesling ....... G . T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .............. G . S.
Walter H. E. von Kons\y G. L.

1950
Arthur Peulsen ···-··-···G. M.
Trinity No. Tl
Born Moy 4, 18'°
Louis C. Drepeau...... D. G. M.
Arthur M. Warren ....S. G. W.
Frank Harwell, Jr.....J . G. W.
Francis V. Keaslin9 ....- .. G. T.
Lloyd E. W ilson.....- ...... G. S.
Walter H. E. von Kons\y G .L.

1951

Louis C. DrapHu ... ____ (i. M.
Poinsettia No. 633
Born Au9. 30, IU5
Arthur M. Werren .. D. G . M
Fran\ Harwell, Jr- .•. S. G. W
Henry C. Clausen ....J. G. W .
Francis V. Keesling ........ G . T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ................G.S.
Walter H. E. von Kons\y G . L

1952
Arthur M. Warren ....G . M.
Mt. Davidson No. 481
Born O~cember 27, 1901
Died May 21, 1964
Fran\ H .. rwell . Jr.... D. G. M.
Henry C. Clausen .... S. G. W.
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr. J. G. W .
Francis V. KeesHng ........ G . T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ................G.S.
Elbert W. Oavis.............. G. L.

1953
Fran\ Harwe ll, Jr- ....... G. M.
loverly Hiiis No. 521
Born October 4. 18'8
Diod Jan. 25. 1966
Henry C. Clausen_ .. D. G. M.
Edgar V. Stewert, Jr- S. G . W.
L Herold Ande"on ..J . G . W.
Francis V. KHslin9 ______ G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ...-....... G . S.
Elbert W. Davis_..... _._(;. L

1954
Henry C. Cleusen ..........G.M.
Ingleside No. no
Born June 30. 1905
Ed9ar V. Stewart, Jr... D.G.M.I
L. Harold Anderson ... . S.G .W.
Leo E. Anderson ......._.J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems .........- ... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson •............• G . S.
Elber+ W. Davis .............. G.L

GRAND LODGB OP CALIPORNlA

1955
Edgar V. Stewert, Jr.....G.M.
Loyalty No. 52'
Born Oct. 3, l'IOI
L. Horold Anderson .. D.G.M.
Leo E. Anderson ...- ... S.G .W.
Phil N. Myers......... - ..J .G.W.
Edward H . Siem1............ G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson.____G .S.
Elbert W. Devis......... ___ G.L

1956
L Harold Ande"on ......- G.M.
Palo Alto No. 346
Born March 2,, 18"
Leo E. Anderson ........ D.G.M.
Phil N. Myers.............. S.G.W.
Joe L Shell.. ................J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems.............. G .T.
Lloyd E. Wil1on .......- .....G . S.
Elbert W, Oavls_ ____G.L

1957
Leo E. Anderson--. -G .i.C.
Hollywood No. 355
lorn February 20, 1902
Phil N. Myers... - ..- .. D.G.M.
Joo L Sholl..._______ S.G.W.
Alfred F. Breslauer..._.J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems..._ ____ G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ...•.......... G. S.
Elbert W. DaviL ________ G.L

195ll

Phil N. Myers..................G.M.
McCloud Lod9• No. 430
lorn, Jonu.ry 12, 18'7
Joo L. Shell.........-·-···O.G.M.
Alfred F. Bresleuer...... S.G.W.
Guy B. Mi10 .........- .....J.G.W.
Edwerd H. Siems.............. G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .............. G.S.
Elbert W . Davis...- ....•...... G.L

1959
Joe L ShelL ----·- ·-···G .M.
San Dlo90 No. 3S
lorn February 18, 18'2
Alfred F. Bresleuer...__ O.G.M.
Guy B. Miie______ S.G .W.
Ire W. Cobum __ •__J.G.W.
Edward H. SiemL______ G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson _ _....._G.S.
Elbert W. Devis ___ .....G.L

1960
Alfred F. Breslauer.......... G.M.
Slur Kln9 No. 344
l orn Au9ust 26, I1198
Guy B. Miie ................ D.G.M.
Ira W . Coburn ......... _.S.G.W.
Elmer W. Heald ..........J.G.W.
Arthur M. Warren ............ G.T.
Edwnd H. Siems............. .. 'G.S.
Doneld G. Cempbell ......- G.L

1881

1187

Guy I. Mlie..... ____G. M.
Unity No. J4e
lorn April 23, 1901
Ira W . Coburn._ _
G . M.
Elmer W. Heald._ $. G. W .
Theodore Merlam _.I. G. W.
Arthur M. Warren ___G. T.
Edwerd H . SiemL.•. ____.G. S.
Doneld G. Cempbell .....G . L

Eu;ene S. Hopp_ __ Q.M.
Ki119 $olomen'• SMllOrt
No. 260
lorn Aprll 25 ltlO
Robert A. Crigler_ _ D.G.M.
Chester R. MacPh ...._S.G.W.
Herbert A. Huebner....J .G.W.
Paul A.• Pflueger_ _ __ G.T.
Edward H. Siems..__ ___ G.S.
Herold N. RicherdL.--.-G.L

o.

1962
Ire W . Coburn.·-·-·-···-G.M.
Doric No. 216
Born Jan. 26, 1904
Elmer W. Heald ..........O.G.M.
Theodore Meriam ...- ..S.G.W.
Myron E. Smith......_ ...J.G.W.
Arthur M. Warren ..--..-G.T.
Edwerd H. Siems........-_.G.S.
Donald G . CampbelL._ .G.L

1983
Elmer W . Heald ___G .M.
El Centro No. 3M
Born Jan. 7, IMS
Theodore Meriam .. _.D.G.M.
Myron E. Smith -··-··-S.G.W.
Lourence E. Dayton ....J.G.W.
Arthur M. Werren _._G.T.
Edwerd H. Siems ······--G.S.
Donald G. Cempbell ._..G.L

1964
Theodore Meriem __..G.M.
Chico No. 111
Born April 18, 1910
Myron E. Smith _ __..,_D.G.M.
Lourence E. Oayton.... S.G.W.
John F. Porter..............J.G.W.
Paul A. Pflueger______ G.T.
Edward H. Siems.........- ... G.S.
Donald G. Cernpbell..._...G.L.

1985
Myron E. Smit"-._____ G .M.
Unlvet11ty No. lM
Born Dec. 2, 1906
Laurence E. DaytOIL_O.G.M.
John F. Porter__ ___ S.G.W.
Eu9ene S. Hopp _ _J.G.W.
Peul A.. Pflueger.__ _ _ G.T.
Edwerd H. Siems.__G.S.
Herold N. Richarda.....- 6.L

1966
Laurence E. Oayton..__G.M.
Live Oek No. 61
lorn Nov. 21, 1900
John F. Porter._ _ _ D.G.M.
Eu11ene S. Hopp-5.G.W.
Robert A. Crigler__ J.G.W.
Peul A. Pflueger_. _ _ _ G .T.
Edward H. SlemL. ____
Harold N. Rlchard1.... __6.L.

c;.s.

1968
Robert A. Crigler...- .6 .M.
John Met1hall No. 436
lorn June 21, 1916
Chester R. MacPhee, D.G.M.
Herbert A. Huebner S.G.W.
Lester S. Mc.Elwain ___J .G .W .
Paul A. Pflueger_ _ _.6.T.
Edward H. Siems _ __ G .S.
Harold N. Richard1.. -..G.L.

411

442

PROCE EDINGS OF THE

LIST OF INSP ECTO RS
ln1pect or1

Date a/ Cammi ssion

Inspect ors

District

Niles 0 . Millar ......................................................July, 1932............
....................146
Herbe rt R. Hargra ve .......- ..- ...............Septem ber 15, 1934......
·-··-····· ·············.418
Guido de Ghetal di... .......................................Octobe
r, 1938................................106
Freder ic E. Clark. .................................... Januar y 26,
1944.... ............ ............... 560
Ed ward C. Lohme yer ............ ............Septem ber 27,
1945 ............................... 322
Roy T. Kiele....................................................April 22, 1948
....................54·1
Elmer Glen Van Tassel l............ ........ Septem ber 11, 1948............
............ .................... 242
Ted R. S iems ....... .................................... ...........May
8. 1950................................614
Frank W. Radda tz ............ .................... Novem ber 24. 1950
................... .524
Andre L. Arm11n d .... .......... ... ........... ..J anuary 26, 1951............
....................... ......376
Wi lfred W. Partrid ge............................. .....Mar ch 31, 1952............
............ ........ 500
Edwar d Farley ... ................................ ........ ..... May
1952 ........ .. ............... 20R
Ray Earl Burdg .................................... ...Septem ber12,
5,
1953
........................ ........ 217
E. Lloyd Hanso n.......................................... Januar y I, 1954............
John H. Fergus on . ............ ........................ Januar y 1, 1954................................ 150
Ray Smith ..............................................Decem ber 15. 1954 ............ ....................622
.................... 550
Alva A. Da niells .................................... ....Janua
ry 13, 1955 ............ .... ..... .......427
Edwar d C. Will... ........................ .....................July 14, 1955
............ ....................167
Frank Leroy Sntliff...................................... Augus 9. 1955............
.................... 542
Ralph M. H inds.......................................... Octobe r t29,
1955 ................................118
Willia m Waters Shugar t... .......................Janua ry 6, 1956
............ ................... .431
Daniel Kleim an ..............................................July 16, 1~56............
E. Ross Baylis .................................... ..............July 25, 1956........................ ........411
....................365
Rewel l E. Carlto n...................................... Augus t 15. 1956...
- ........................ ...607
~enneth Dowel l .................- .....................
Augus t 20, 1956................................605
eorge W. Perkin s ............ ..................... .J a nuary 16. 1957
........................ ....... 548
Lewis Hugh Field ................... - .....................May 15,
1957............ .................... 637
James E. Bacon ......................................Decem ber 15, 1957
.................... 504
Albert A. Bryces on ............ ............ ....... .....Januar y 1, 1958............
.............................. .. 240
Charle s L. Foster........·-········- ········-········Jan uary 1, 1959............
Alfred Johnso n .......................................... Februa ry 9, 1959................................334
.................... 161
Daniel D. Rowla nds ............................. - ........ .April 6.
............ ....................340
Percy W. Lindt..................................................June 4, 1959
1959 ........................ ........236
Elmer E. Ross............ ............. ................. ..........
8, 1959................................ 166
Claudi s Thomas Shirley ...................... DecemJune
ber 1, 1959................................596
Thurla n Wm. Heidne r.............. ..........Decem ber 15,
1959 ........................ ........ 530
William Robusch ................................Decem ber
1959 ....... ......................... 582
Charle s J. Wentz ........................ .......... Decem ber 15,
1959................................626
Allred A. Penros e ............... - .....................Janua ry 15,
l , 1960................................224
Willia m Bottor ff ..........................................April 22, 1960............
Earl James Walke r........................................April 22, 1960................................ 578
Freder ick Bolte ................................................ May 3, 1960............... - ............... 621
Lee H. Buchh eister ........................ ............ Augus t 20, 1960................................385
... - ............... 390
Ray H. Paine ........................................Septem ber 20, 1960............
Larry C. Baske r.................................... ......Januar y 1, 1961 ................................ 508
....................156
Herbe rt H. Hobso n....................................Januar y 1, 1961..
Arnold G. Robert son ........................ ...... Januar y 18, 1961.................................148
........
William E. Marsh all..... -.........................Januar y 27, 1961 ............- ................... 540
............ ....... .212
A. Boyd Collier .................................... .. Februa ry 15, 1961..
.............................. 21!>
Wayne E. Philipp i... ............ .........................March 29, 1961...
.... .........................250
John Clifton Carpen ter...................... Septem ber
1961...-··········- ···············430
Ralph M. Webb........................................Janua ry 28,
1, 1962............
Mark E. Schroc k...................................... Januar y 1, 1962............ ....................158
Lloyd V. Smith..................._...................Januar y 1, 1962................................ 538
Erwin H. Gebha rdt... ...............................Januar y 1, 1962................................558
.................... 566
Irvin Shulki n ..........................................Januar y l, 1962............
....................568

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

·413

Date o} Commi ssion

District

Thoma s J. ~cKimson ............ ................ Januar
1. 1962................................~~~
Rober t E. Cnst..........................................Januar y
y 1, 1962 ................................
James D. Kelso.................................... ....J anuary
1, 1962............
Sam I. Bonn. ....................... ............ .........J anuary 13, 1962....... .................... 502
- .......................215
William Lowel l Hurd ............................... .March 14,
................................ 406
William E. Foster....................................... Ma rch 15, 1962
1962................................382
Paul Landis Turner .................................... ....
5, 1962........................ ....... .421
Lawre nce C. Lamb ..............................DecemApril
ber
1962 ................................532
Clyde E. Sincla ir ........................................Januar y 18,
1, 1963................................211
Joseph W. Wrigb t ............ ..........................Janu ary
1963................................ 107
Hazelt on French ......................................J anu ary 1,
l , 1963................................337
Robert M. Montg omery ............................Januar y 1,
1963
............ ........338
Ray L. Peters on ........................................Januar y l, 1963............
....................522
Hiram Odell Gordo n ............................... Januar y 1, 1963 ............
................................609
Denzil D. Kitche ns...................... ..........F ebrua ry 26, 1963............
Charle s H. McA!li ster ................................ Mar ch 29. 1963................................226
Wilton J . Sm ith, Jr.. ....................................... J u ne 4, 1963................................ 384
Leona rd D. Babcock .......................... Septem ber 1, 1963............ .................... 394
George F. Harris on ............ ......................Octobe r 18, 1963................................ 620
.................... 526
Donald J. Shoem aker............ ............ ......Octobe r
1963 ........................ ........ 584
Willia m Whitfi eld Eilers ..........................J anu ary 18,
1, 196-L. ............................. 374
Stephe n J. Collins....................................Janua ry 13,
............ ....................536
Robert A. Simon ......................................Janua ry 13, 1964
1964........................ ........562
Ernest M. Newto n ..................................Febru ary 17, 1964
....................64 2
Jacob Andre w Feth ............ ........................ ..March 4, 1964.............
........................ .......2 14
Sheldo n E. Morris ............ ............................March 215,
1964............
Alfred LeRoy Hayes..................................March 26, 1964.................................204
Rober t H. Burrow s .................................... March 26, 1964............ ...................210
Shelby F. Passle y..............................................May 2, 1964................................154
.................... 422
James H arvey Weller ....................................May 15,
1964................................612
Orval F. Carpen ter.. ............ ............ .............. June 17, 1964
............
Kenne th B . Conkli n ........................................July 28, 1964........................ ........ 116
James E. Wellet .............. ..: ............ .........Novem ber 1, 1964............ ....................634
Fred F. Elliott .. ......................................Novem ber 1, 1964.................................. 534
...................594
Robert W. Doan............ ..........................Novem ber 5, 1964
.................... 574
Willia m A. F ishbac k..............................Novem ber 5, 1964.......•....
............
Daniel M. Camer on .............................. Decem ber 14, 1964.................•................576
................... 218
James R obert Ledbe tter ..... - .............Decem ber 30, 1964............
............
........160
John Bursza n, Jr.....................................Janua ry 1, 1965............
Cas per J . Weir, Jr.................................... .Janu ary l, 1965................................ 364
Edwar d E. Seagle ......................................Janua ry l , 1965............ ....................420
Willia m W. Dickso n, Jr...........................J anuary 11, 1965........................ ........216
James B. Smith ........................ ........... .....Januar y 25, 1965............ ....................516
Donald T. Wrigh t....................................Janua ry 26, 1965................................246
Charle s K. Schert le ................................Februa ry 4, 1965................................602
Joseph Shelbo rne Babb..............................April 20, 1965................................564
John Duane William s ............ ...................... April 20, 1965............ ....................244
.................... 603
Roland E. Soracco.................................... ........May 4,
................................404
Donald Kenne th Baldw in............................ June 19, 1965
1965............
Willia m H. Reed ............................................June 28, 1965 ............ ............ ........247
.................... 372
Earl Clift on Lowe........................ ..................July 12, 1965............
James William Belfor d............................Augus t 27, 1965................................610
Hugh Ole n Pope, Jr................................... Augus t 27, 1965................................636
Walter H. Waym an............................ Septem ber 13, 1965....... ....................506
- .......................635
Leroy G. Conne lly............ ............ ......Septem ber 20, 1965............
Jack R. Vicke rs .................................... Septem ber 20, 1965........................ ...- ...630
Thoma s W. S. Wu..................................Decem ber 6, 1965................................518
............ ........ 336

iH
lrup«tor•

GRAND LODGE OP CALlPORN IA

PROCE.E.DINGS OP THE.

Date of Commiuio n
Diwict
Harold D. Seeskln................. ...... - .........Decemb er G, 1965...........- ................•..344
Frank A. Valentine................................December 6, 1965... - ................. .......... 102
Robert A. Klinger...... ·-····-····-· ········-····.J anuary 4, 1966............... - ...............330
Donald Maltby ···········-····-····-····-···········Janu ary 7, 1966................................520
Raymond D. Morgan. ...............................January 7,
1966................. ..............
Edward A. Weirick. ... ·-················-····-····.J anuary 7, 1966................. ................412
580
Leo S. Brennem an.... ·-····-····-····-······.Feb ruary 21, 1966... - .................
..........432
Manuel Jacobs ·····-······················-····-·········Ma rch 4, 1966................................
410
Arlie R. Fleming.............................- .............March 4, 1966................................169
Jean Fred Aeschlim ann.... ·-·········-····-····.Apr il 22, 1966................................378
Stanley L. Channon......................................June 21, 1966................................616
John F. Roberts ..............................................July 25, 1966................. ............... 388
Alfred A. Dowers.................................- .....August 3, 1966................. ...............
590
Kenneth Lawrenc e Morris........... _.........August 30, 1966................................428
Cornelius Kernan ................................ Septemb er 29, 1966.................
110
Clayton R. Heinz...................................- ... October 3, 1966................................
............... 824
Robert Alfred Smallma n................. _.......October 6, 1966 ................. ...............
114
Leo B. Mark. ...............................................October 8, 1966.................
370
William K. Derby....... _.......................Novemb er 14, 1966................................
.......... - ...239
Phil Campbel l ···············- ··-············-···Novem ber 29, 1966................. ...............628
William A. Krueger................. ...........Novembe r 29,
1966................................234
Louis Becker ................. .........................Decembe r 6, 1966................. .......... - ...333
Robert William Dunwood y................Decembe r 19, 1966.............................
....402
Lyle C. HalL ........................................... Decembe r 19, 1966................................ 618
Homer Douglas Lemons................ ...... Decembe r 19, 1966............... .................
625
Harold A. Miller.................................... Decembe r 30, 1966...............- ...............162
Willard Holmes Nutting, Jr.....................January 6, 1967....................... - .......152
Cletus 0 . Smith .................................. ........January 6, 1967.................
-...552
Robert Wilson Lewallen ........................January 18, 1967.............................
_...........228
Hershel Chester Brown- ................. .......January 18, 1967................. ...............
220
Edwin S.S. Hays.................................. .... January 23, 1967................................502
Jules J . DeMoor........................................January 25, 1967......·-··-··-······ -·······510
John C. Behringe r.....................................January 31, 1967................................606
Raymond J. Berkline ............................February 15, 1967................................248
John William Cunning............................. .Marcb 22, 1967................. ...............100
Henry Perry Adams........................................ April 7, 1967................................108
Vernon L. Gordon............................................April 7, 1967....... - .......................414
Lee Abram Strong.........................- ..............April 21, 1967.·-··-· ·········-··-·······608
Robert P. Higgins............................................July 11, 1967....... - .......................601
LeRoy Marvin Rondot... .....................Septemb er 12, 1967................................586
R. Harvey Spencer.._ .........................Septemb er 12, 1967.......- ··············-· ···-·632
John Orie Raffety .............................. Septemb er 26, 1967................. ............... 104
Edwin Wiley Branaum . .. - ....................... October 14, 1967.....................---·····570
John Elias Mikol..- ...............................Novembe r 3, 1967................................638
Jacques C. Bourguig non....................Novembe r 11 , 1967................................546
Walter W. Beck ........................................January 1, 1968................................168
Richard Abraham Krug..........................January 1, 1968................................332
Edward Gail Freeman. ...........................January 1, 1968............... - ...............342
Howard C. Davis ......................_ .............January 1, 1968................. ...............426
Edward Wayne Schnerin ger................January 1, 1968................................528
Gordon E . Pledger ..................................January 11, 1968............... .................639
John H . P etersen.............................- .......January 11, 1968................................640
Franklin W. Baldwin.. ....- ................. ......January 11, 1968................................ 629
Alfred Earl Pollard. .................................January 15, 1968........................•.......101
Jerry John Ritch ......................................January 25, 1968.......................- ....... 512
D. Stanley Powell.. ...............................February 13, 1968...-··-··-··········- ··-···424
John Reddick ............................. - .........February 21, 1968.......... ,_ .................. .227
Nick G. Kerhoula s.....-.........................February 26, 1968..............·-·-··-··-. 206

H5

DUtrid
Doi• o/ Commlulon
F bruary 29 1968..·-·········· ····- ···········222
Gerald L . ~hristensen.......................... e March 26'. 1968...- -·- ················ ···· ...392
Douglas Mlllard Kueny ................. -···········
h
..576
Ralph W. Wint~rs ........................................Marc
April 30 • 1968
1968······························
..........416
Sam M. Pavlovich . ................. ........................ Ma 26• 68... - .................
.........................238
31 • 19
Robert George ln~am... .............. .................
1968:::~:: .........................390
18
Ralph James Harringto n, Jr.. ................. .A~Ju
•
...- ...........................328
guber 54,' 1968
Ford Ellsworth Long ...................... ··········
68
Septem
.......................324
19
Finley,
Jr.............................
James E·
............. Septem ber 4, 19 5a·······.................
.............. .644
LeRoy Chamber s ················· ··
Septemb er 25, 1968................. ............... 12190
James B. Barbero................................ e
25 1968................. ...............l
Robert McDonald ..............................S Pt ember
t b
• 68
0 c 0 er 18' 19 ········-······················.554
Morton T ooredman ................. .................
Novembe
r
6,
1968................. .............. .646
Elwood E. Adams ....... ........................ .

ln1p«:tor•

?it

H6

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
R•eot,,;:z-' nd ;,, Prt11w-1 R•l41ions with th•
~.,,J Lodt• of C..Jift>fflu
Argentina:

R. H . Hector L. Andonegui, Grand Secty.,
Cangallo 1242, CR. 28), Buenos Aires, Argentina
Austria:
Erwin Fernau, Grand Secty.,
Dorotheergasse -12, Vienna 1, Austria
Belgium:
Grand Secretary,
265 Rue Royale, Brussels 3, Belgium.
BoliTla:
Roque ~bruzzese Marelli, Grand Secty.,
Casilla Correo No. 564, La Paz, Bolivia, S.A.

Brull:
The Grand Lodge of Amazon and Acre
J~qulm Gomes Loureiro, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal 162, Manaus, Arnazonas, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Minas Gerais
Se~gio Alexandre Ivanenko, _Grand S~cty. of Foreign Relatioll!I
CBIXa Postal No. ~. Belo Honzonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of Para
Ild~fonso P. Guimaraes, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 333, Belem, Para, Brazil
Grand Lodge of Parana
Antonio Andre Jansson, Gr. Secty.-Chancellor
Caixa Postal 1363, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of Piaui
Manoel Rodrigues dos Santos, Grand Secretary
Grand Secretary
Caixa Postal No. 10, Teresina, Piaui, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Santa Catarina
Br~siliano deSouza, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 247, Florianopolis, Santa Catarina, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Ceara
Wilson Achilles da Silva. Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal 76, Fortaleza, Estado do Ceara, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Guanabara
Joseph Isaac Kac, Grand Secretary Foreign Office
Rua Mariz e Barros 945, Rio de Janeiro 8, Guanabara, Brazil, S. A.
The Grand Lodge of the State of Paraiba
Ary Silva Antunes, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal No. 3, Joao Pessoa, Parahyba, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of the State of Sao Paulo
Erwin Seignemartin, Gr. Secty. Foreign Relations
Av Bri,&adeiro Luis Antonio 1195, Apt. 72, Sao Paulo, Brazil, S.A.

The Grand Oriente of the State of Rio de Janeiro
Walter Oliveira Costa, Grand Secty., Rel Ext.
Caixa Postal 122, Niteroi, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
The Grand Symbolic Lodge of Rio Grande Do Sul
Kurt Max Hauser, Grand Secty.
Caixa Postal 683, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil
The Grand Symbolic Lodge of the State of Mato Grosso
Rubens Cardoso, Gr. Secty. RRel. Int.
Caixa P ostal 130, Campo Grande, Mato Grosso, Brazil.
The United Grand Lodge of Bahia
Ivo Lopes da Silva, Grand Secty.,
Rua Carlos Gomes No. 21, Salvador, Bahia, Brazil.
Canada1

AlbertaEdward H. Rivers, Grand Secty.,
330 - 12th Ave., S.W., Calgary.
British ColumbiaJ . H. N. Morgan, Grand Secty.,
692 Seymour St., Vancouver 2, B. C.
Canada-(Province of Ontario)
Ewart G. Dixon. Grand Secty.,
P . 0. Drawer 217, Hamilton 2, Ontario.
ManitobaThomas C. Jackson, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Winnipeg 2, Manitoba.
New BrunswickA. C. Lemmon, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 430, Saint John, New Brunswick.
Nova Scot1aHarold F. Sipprell, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 522, Halifax, Nova Scotia.
Prince Edward IslandF. A. Van Iderstine, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 337, Charlottetown, P . E. I.
Quebec-W. G. P arker , Grand Secty.,
2295 St. Marks St., Montreal 25, Quebec.
SaskatchewanT. M. Spencer, Grand Secty.,
1930 Lorne St., Regina, Saskatchewan.
Chile:

Rene Court Portales, Gran d Secty.,
Casilla 2867, Santiago, Chile, S. A.
China:
Grand Secty., Lott H. T. Wei
P. 0. Box 758, Taipei, Taiwan, China

117

H8

· PROCEEDINGS OF THE.

Colombias
Gran Logia de Colombia,
Ignacio Ramirez Sanchez, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 2519, Bogota, Colombia, S. A.
Gran Logia Occidental de Colombia
Carlos Rincon C.i.5Jrand Chancellor-Foreign Relations.
Apartado Aereo .NO. 19-75, Cali, Colombia, S.A.
Gran Logia Nacional de Colombia
Moises D. Pancer, Grand Secty. Foreign Relations
Apartado Aereo 16-12, Barranquilla, Colombia, S.A.
Oriental Grand Lodge "Francisco de Paula Santander"
Serenisima Gran Logia Nacional de Colombia
Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal No. 19-69, Cartagena, Colombia, S.A.
Costa Rica:
Enrique Chaves B., Grand Secty.,
P . 0 . Box Y, San Jose, Costa Rica.

Denmark:
National Grand LodgeE. Hess Thaysen, Grand Secty.,
Blegdamsvej 23, Copenhagen, Denmark.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Germanys
United Grand Lodges
Friedrich Heller, Grand Secty.,
Emser Str. 12-13, 1 Berlin 31, Germany
Greece:
E vanghelos Macrymichalos, Grand Secty.,
Acharnon 19, Athens 109, Greece.
Guatemala:
Lauro A. Rivera, Grand Secty."
Apartado 34, Guatemala City, C. A.
Hondurass
Luis Vidal Ramos R., Grand Secty. and Chancellor,
Apartado 135, Tegucigalpa, D. C., Honduras, C. A.
Iceland:
Otto B. Amar, Grand Secty.,
Borgartun 4, (Box 44) Reykjavik, Iceland.
India:
.
P. M. Sundaram, Grand Secty.,
P.O. Box 681. New Delhi l. India.
Ireland:
J . 0 . Harte, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, Dublin 2, Ireland.

Domlnican Bepubllcs
Hugo E. de Leon, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 209, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic.

Israel:
Grand Loctge of the State of Israel,
Joseph Bar-Ner, Grand Secty.,
P. O. Box 2080, Tel-Aviv, Israel

Eeuadors
V. H . Rodriquez Roditi, Grand Secty.,
Casilla Postal 932, Guayaquil, Ecuador, S.A.

Italys
The Grand Oriente of Italy,
Giuseppe Telaro Campagna, Gra nd Secty.,
Via Giustiniani, 5, Rome.

El SalTador (Cuac:atlanh
Humberto Acosta, Grand Secty.,
Ba Avenida Sur No. 126, San Salvador, El Salvador, C. A.

Japan
Nohea 0. A. Peck, Grand Secty., .
No. 13-1, Shiba, Sakae-Cho, Mmato-Ku, Tokyo, Japan .

Englands
James W. Stubbs, Grand Sedy.
Freemasons Hall, Great Queen St., London, England.
Ftnlands
Martti V. Mustakallio, Grand Secty.,
Kasarmikatu HID, Helsinki 13, Finland.
P'ranc:e:
French National Grand Lodge,
Robert Brisson, Grand Secty.,
6& Boulevard Bineau, 92 Neuilly-sur-Seine, Paris, France.

Luxembourg:
.
Leon Ramus, Grand S ecty.,
Case Pos tale No. 260, Luxembourg-v1lle, Luxembourg.
Mexico:
York Grand Lodge of Mexico
.
R eginald E. Dobson, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal 1226, Guernavaca, Morelos, Mexico
Grand Lodge of Baja California
.
.
Pedro Lugo Gil, Grand ~ecty., .
Apartado Postal 134, TiJuana, BaJa Cahforma
Grand Lodge "Cosmos"
Rigoberto Trevino A., Grand ~ecty., .
Apartado 171, Chihuahua, Chih., Mexico.

H9

450

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

PROCEED INGS OP THE

Grand Lodge of Nuevo Leon
Mario G. Zavala, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 309, Monterre y, Nuevo Leon, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of the Paciflc
Inocencio Higuera Verdugo, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 20, Guaymas , Sonora, Me xico.
Grand Lodge of Tamaulip as
Jose E. Tovar Moreno, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal No. 419, Tampico, Tamps., Mexico.
Grand Lodge Unida Mexicana
Marcial Fernande z Vazquez, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 56, Veracruz , Ver., Mex.
Grand Lodge "Valle de Mexico"
Jorge A. Hernande z Montes, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal 10, Mexico 1, D. F.
Netherlan d11
Grootoos ten der Nederlan den (the Grand East of the Netherlan ds)
W. Veenstra , Grand Secty.,
'
22 Fluwelen Burgwal, The Hague.

Southern Africa:

New South WalHI

Tu,;key:
Nafiz EkemeJ:?-. Grsankd kseBzy.oglu Istanbul, Turkey.
25 Nuruziya o a ,
•

United Grnnd Lodge of New South Wales,
R. H. Burley, Grand Secty.,
281 Castlerea gh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
New Zealand:

P. J. Oliver, Grand Secty.,
P. 0 . Box 6439, Wellingto n C. 2, New Zealand.

451

W. G~~8~~ ~0i9~~j~~~~~burg , So. Africa.

0

South Auatralia :
J. H. R. Garde, qrHanldl,SNeoc;{h Terrace Adelaide , So. Australia .

Freemaso ns

a

'

SwedenI
.
Sigfrid V. Brinck, Actmlg grh. S~~yg~tan 6 Stockhol m, Sweden
Frimurar eorden, B as1e o
'
swi.izerla nd1
Grand Lodge Alplna,
Hans Muller3
~~~~·Swi
tzerland .
Brunngas se , 0Gr3a0n0g
,
•
Tasmania :
A J Barren. Grand Secty.,
.
'44 Harringt on St., Hobart, Tasmarua .

Venezuel a:
(Rep. of Venezuel~dez Perez Grand Secty.,
~~~~/oecfecorreos 927: Caracas, Venezuel a.

Nicaragu a:

Eli Tablada Solis, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 102, Managua , Republic of Nicaragu a.
Norway:
Rolf Nerem, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Nedre Voldgate 19, Oslo 1, Norway.
Panamas
Juan E. Urriola, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 84, Panama, Republic of Panama.
Peru1
Eduardo Mendoza Silva, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 587, Lima. Peru.
Philippin es:
Esteban Munarriz , Grand Secty.,
1440 San Marcelino , Manila, P. l
Puerto Rico:
Juan L. Matos-Ci ntron, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 8385, Santurce , Puerto Rico.
Oueensla nd1
W. P. Walker, Grand Secty.,
Box 675, K. G. P. 0., Brisbane , Australia .
Scotland :

Alexande r F. Buchan, Grand Secty.,
96 George St., Edinburg h, 2, Scotland

Victoria:

United Grand Lod1e,
. G S t
Garnett Jackson, Actmg
r. ec Y:·
25 Collins St., Melbourn e, Australia .
Western Australia :
D. K. Sawyer, GrDanld7'7Sepc!i'.fu Western Australia .
G.P.0. Box - •
•
. d by Grand Lodge of Californi a prior to the Castro regime.
•Recogru ze

-452

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL UST OF LODGES
A

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

Abell (146), Ukiah.
Acalanes (723). Lafayette.
Acorn (494), Oakland.
Adin (250), Adin.
A. F. E. Irwin (645), San Pedro.
Alameda (167), Fremont.
Alamo (122), Walnut Creek.
Albany (686), Albany.
Albert Pike (484), Hawthorne.
Alcatraz (244), Oakland.
Alexander Graham Bell (595),
Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilton (535),
Los An~eles.
Alexandrta (531), San Francisco.
Alhambra (322), Alhambra.
Alisa! (321), Pleasanton.
All States (593), Long Beach.
Alpha (431), Richmond.
Alta (333), Bridgeport.
Altadena (678), Altadena.
Alta Loma (643), Long Beach.
Alta Vista (464), San Francisco.
Alturas (248), Alturas.
Amador (65), Jackson.
America (475), Los Angeles.
American River (795), Folsom

Amity-Seal Rock (370),
San Francisco.
Anacapa (710), Oxnard.
Anaheim (207), Anaheim.
Anchor (273), Compton.
Angeles Mesa (625), Hawthorne.
Antioch (175), Antioch.
Apollo (396), Alameda.
Arabic (763), Los Angeles.
Arbuckle (182), Arbuckle.
Arcadia (547), Arcadia.
Arcata (106), Arcata.
Argonaut (461), San Francisco.
Argonne (514), San Francisco.
Arlington (414), Los Angeles.
Arroyo (274), Arroyo Grande.
Artesia (377), Artesia.
Arvin (738), Arvin.
Ascot (538), Gardena.
Ashland (798), San Lorenzo.
Ashlar (306), Colton.
Atascadero (493), Atascadero.
Athens (228), Davis.
Atwater (622), Los Angeles.
Avenal (772), Avenal.
Azure (533), Fullerton.
Azusa (305), Azusa.

B
Bakersfield (224), Bakersfield.
Balder (393), San Francisco.
Baldwin Park (660), Baldwin Park.
Barstow (682), Barstow.
Bay City (526), San Francisco.
Bay View (401), Oakland.
Bear Mountain (76), Angels Camp.
Bell (483), Bell.
Bellflower (523), Bellflower.
Belmont Shore (716), Long Beach.
Belvedere Sunrise (522),
Monterey Park.
Be.nevolence (631), Los Angeles.
Benicia (5) Benicia.
Benj. Fran~ (509), Beverly Hills.

Berkeley (363). Berkeley.
Beverly Hills (528), Beverly Hills.
Big Bear (617), Big Bear Lake.
Bixby Knolls (699), Long Beach.
Blackmer (442) , San Diego.
Blue Lakes (714), San Bruno.
Blythe (473), Blythe.
Boron (822), Boron.
Brawley (402), Brawley.
Brentwood (345), Brentwood.
Brooklyn (225), Oakland.
Buckeye (195), Winters.
Buena Park (357) , Buena Park.
Burbank (406), Burbank.
Burlingame (400), Burlingame.

c
Cahuenga (513), Hollywood.
Calaveras (78), San Andreas.
Caledonia (486), Bakersfield.
Calexico (412), Calexico.
California (1), San Francisco.
Calistoga (233), Calistoga.
Callayomi (282), Middletown.
Camarillo (824), Camarillo.
Camellia (805), Temple City.
Canby Cron (679), Tulelake.
Canoga (611), Canoga Park.
Capital City (499), Sacramento.

Carmel (680), Carmel.
Carmelita (599), Pasadena.
Carpinteria (444), Carpinteria.
Carquinez (337), Crockett.
Castro Valley (713), Castro Valley
Catalina Island (524), Avalon.
Centennial (729), Compton.
Center (465), Fresno.
Central California Research Lodge,
Fresno
Channel (757), Stockton.
Charity (362), Campbell.

-453

Chateau Thierry (569), Castro Valley. Composite (639), Los Angeles.
Concord (117), Sacramento.
Chico (111), Chico.
Conejo Valley (807), Thousand Oaks.
Chino Valley (427). Chino.
Confidence (203), Castroville.
Chowchilla (485), Chowchilla.
Consuelo (325), Escondido.
Chula Vista (626), Chula Vista.
Corcoran (490), Corcoran.
Citro! (656), Brea.
Corinthian (9), Marysville.
Claiborne (185), Point Arena.
Corona (324), Pasadena.
Clairemont Mesa (799), San Diego.
Coronado (441), Coronado.
Claremont (436), Claremont.
Clarence F. Smith (482), Los Angeles. Covelo (231), Covelo.
Covenant (527), Los Angeles.
Claude H. Morrison (747) ,
Covina (334), Covina.
Chula Vista.
Craftsmen (559), Los Angeles.
Clay (101), Dutch Flat.
Clayton Valley (756), Concord.
Crescent (45), Crescent City.
Crescenta Valley (652), La Crescenta.
Clear Lake (183), Lower Lake.
Crocker (454), Daly City.
Clovis (417), Clovis.
Crockett (139), San Francisco.
Coachella (476), Coachella.
Crossroads (696) San Diego
Coalin~a (387), Coalinga.
Culver City (467), Culver City.
Coasts1de (762), Pacifica.
Cupertino (510), Cupertino.
Colusa (240), Colusa.
Curtis (140), Cloverdale.
Compass (590), Pomona.

D
Damascus (648), San Bernardino.
Dana R. Weller (765), Gardena.
Delano (309), Delano.
Delta (471), Stockton.
Dimond (603), Oakland.
Dinuba (385), Dinuba.
Doric (216), San Francisco.

Dos Palos (681), Dos Palos.
Downey (220) Downey.
Drytown (174), Plymouth.
Dunsmuir (297) , Dunsmuir.
Durant (268), Berkeley.

E
El Rancho (759), Rico Rivera
Eagle Rock (422), Los Angeles.
El Segundo (507), El Segundo.
East Bay (489), Orinda.
EI Sereno (588). Los Angeles.
East Belt (391), Tuolumne.
Elsinore (289), Elsinore.
East Gate (290), Los Angeles.
East San Diego (561), East San Diego. Elysian (418), Los Angeles.
Enterprise (70), Yuba City.
East Whittier (776), Whittier.
Escalon (591), Escalon.
Eden (113), San Leandro.
Estero (719), Cayucos.
Educator (554), San Francisco.
Eucalyptus (243), Hayward.
Eel River (147), Fortuna.
Euclid (519), Los Angeles.
El Cajon Valley (576). El Cajon.
El Camino Research, Mountain View. Eureka (16), Aubum.
Evening Star (186), Etna.
El Centro (384), El Centro.
El Cerrito (705), El Cerrito.
Evergreen (259) , Riverside.
Excelsior (166), San Francisco.
El Dorado (26), PlacervHle·.
Exeter (424), Exeter.
Elk Grove (173), Elk Grove.
Elmhurst (610), Oakland.

F
Fairfax (556), Larkspur.
Fairmount (435), San Francisco.
Fairview (629), Los Angeles.
Fallbrook (317), Fallbrook.
Far West (673), San Francisco

Fellowship (480), Oakland.
Ferndale (193), Ferndale.
P'idelity (120), San Francisco.
Fillmore (379) , Fillmore.
Five Point• (779), Lone Beach.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

454

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

ALPHABETICA L LIST OF LODGES-Contin ued
Florence (649), Walnut Park.
Fontana (653), Fontana.
Foothill (564), Oakland.
Forhestown. (50), Forbestown.
Forest Hill (534), San F'rancisco.
Fort Bragg (361), Fort Bragg.
Fort Crook (575), Fall River Mills.
Fortitude (624), Oakland.
Francis Drake (376), South San
Francisco.

Francis IIC. Shattuck (571), El Cerrito.
Frank S. Land (819), Los Angeles.
Franklin (143) , Courtland.
Fraternity (399), San Jose.
Fremont (497 ), Oakland.
Fresno (247), Fresno.
Friendship (210), San Jose.
Fruitvale (336), Oakland.
Fullerton (339), Fullerton.

ALPHABETICA L LIST OF LODGES-Contin ued

J

John Marshall (6311). Beverly Hills
James A. Foshay (641),
·
John P. Jarman (669), San Jose.
Playa del Rey.
James A. Garfield (566), L os Angeles. Joppa (508), San Joaquin.
Jordan (654), Walnut Park.
James H. Kew (766), Inglewood.
James Madison (572), Playa de! Rey. Josiah W. Roller (761), Palo Alto
·
Jubilee (604), Santa Ana.
Janesville (232), Janesville.
Justice (549), San Francisco.
Jewel (374), San Francisco.
John D. Spreckels (657), San Diego.

K
G

Galt (267), Galt.
Garden Grove (586), Garden Grove.
Gardena (372), Gardena.
Garvanza (492), Los Angeles.
Gateway (821), Seaside.
Gemini (825), Fremont.
General Henry H. Arnold (791),
Rosamond.
Georgetown (25), Georgetown.
George E. Tutt (722), Los Gatos
George Washington (525),
San Francisco.
Glassell Park (605), Los Angeles.
Glendale (544), Glendale.
Glendora (404), Glendora.
Golden Bowl (755), South Gate.
Golden Empire (733), Sacramento.

455

Golden Gate Speranza (30),
San Francisco.
Golden Rule (479), San Jose.
Golden State (358), Los Angeles.
Golden Valley (796), San Bernardino
Golden West (455), San Francisco.
Gold Hill (32), Lincoln.
Grafton (141), Knights Landing.
Granada (608), Alhambra.
Granada Hills (790), Granada Hills.
Gravel Range {59), Carnptonville.
Great Lights (818), Sunnyvale.
Greenleaf (670), Whittier.
Grizzly (601), Portola.
Guadalupe (237), Guadalupe.
Guardian (596). South Gate.

H
Highland (748), Highland.
Hamilton (751), Novato.
Highland Park (382), Los Angeles.
Hammonton (433), Sutter.
Hillsborough (737), Burlingame.
Hanlord (279), Hanlord.
Hills F erry (236), Newman.
Harbor (502), Richmond.
Hiram (43), El Dorado.
Hardin g (584), Los Angeles.
Hollenbeck (319), Los Angeles .
Harmony (164), Sierra City.
Hollywood (355), Hollywood.
Hartley (199) Lakeport.
Holtville (425), Holtville.
Hawaiian (21). Honolulu, Hawaii.
Home (721), No. Hollywood.
Hawthorne (647), Hawthorne.
Honolulu (409), Honolulu, Hawaii.
Hemet {615), Hemet.
Hope (234), Beckwourth.
Henry Clay (95) Sutter Creek.
Hornitos (98), Hornitos.
Henry Knox (662), Los Angeles.
H enry Morse Stephens (541), Berkeley.Howard (37), Yreka .
Humboldt C'.79), Eureka.
Henry S. Orme {458), Los Angeles.
Hunters Pou~t Naval (706),
Heritage (764), North Hollywood.
San Francisco.
Hermann (127) 1 San Francisco.
Huntington Beach (380),
Hermosa (557), Manhattan Beach.
Huntington Beach.
Hesperian (264), Santa Maria.

I
Inglewood (421), Inglewood.
lllinoistown (51), Colfax.
Inyo (221), Independence.
Imperial (390), Imperial.
Indian Wells Valley (691), Ridgecrest. Ione (80), lone.
Ionic (520), Loe An&ele1.
Ingleside (630), San Francisco.

Kauai (589), Lihue, Hawaii.
Kaweah (665), Woodlake.
Keith (187) , Gilroy.
Kerman (420), Kerman.
l{~vs tonf' '161). Milton.
Kilauea {330), Hilo, Hawaii.

King David's (209), San Luis Obispo
·
King Solomon's Seaport (260),
San Francisco.
Kit Carson {734), Sacramento.
Koolau (801), Kaneohe, Hawaii

L
Lemon Grove (736), Lemon Grove
La Brea (650), Los Angeles.
·
le Progres de l'Oceanie (371),
La Canada (739), La Crescenta.
Honolulu, Hawaii.
La Cumbre (642), Santa Barbara.
Lexington (104). El Monte.
La Fayette (126), Sebastopol.
Laguna Beach (672), Laguna Beach. Liberal Arts (677), West Los Angeles
·
Libertas (466), Bakersfield.
La Habra (659), La Habra.
Liberty (299), Santa Clara.
La Jolla (518), La Jolla.
Lincoln (470) , San Francisco.
Lake Chabot (770), Castro Valley.
Lindsay (416), Lindsay.
Lakeshore (551). Oakland.
L ive Oak (61), Oakland.
Lakeside (760), El Cajon.
Livingston (658), Livingston.
Lake Tahoe ·(707), Bijou.
Lodi (256), Lodi.
Lakewood (728), Bellflower.
Lomita (644), Lomita.
Lamanda Park (627), Pasadena.
L ompoc (262), Lompoc.
La Mesa (407), La Mesa.
Long Beach (327), Long Beach.
La Mirada (778), Buena Park.
Lorenzo (709), San Lorenzo.
Lancaster (437), Lancaster.
L os Alamitos (809), Seal Beach
Landmark (253), Esparto.
La Parfaite Union (17), San Francisco. Los Altos (712). Los Altos.
Los Angeles (42), Los Angeles.
La Puente (446), La Puente.
Los Banos (312), Los Banos.
Larchmont (614), Los Angeles.
Los Cerritos {674), Long Beach.
Las Palmas (366), Fresno.
Los Gatos (292), Los Gatos.
Lassen (149), Susanville.
Loyalton {359). Loyalton.
Laurel (245). Willows.
Loyalty (529), Los Angeles.
Lawndale (753), Hawthorne.
Luther Burbank (752), Santa Rosa.
Lebanon (495), San Francisco.
Lynwood (600), Lynwood.
Leland Stanford (784), Chico.

M
Maccabee (823), Rosemead.
Madera (280), Madera.
Madison (23), Grass Valley.
Magnolia (242), Santa Ba rbara.
Magnolia Park (715), Burbank.
Malta (661), Los Angeles.
Manchest er (585), Los Angeles.
Manhattan (817), Manhattan Beach.
Maricopa (434), Maricopa .
Marin (191), San Rafael.

Mariposa (24), Mariposa.
Martinez (41), Martinez.
Mar Vista (820), Newport Beach.
Maui (472), Maui, Kahultli, Hawaii.
Maxwell (288), Maxwell
Maya (793), Los Angeles
McCloud (430), McCloud.
McKinley (347), Richmond.
Melrose (602) Hollywood.
Mendocino (179>. Mendocino.

i56

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

Menlo Park (651), Menlo Park.
Monterey (217), Monterey.
Menorah (623), Los Angeles.
Monte Vista (655), Long Beach.
Merced (749), Merced.
Moreno Valley (804), Sunnymead
Merid ian (667), Glendale.
Morgan Hill (463), Morgan Hill.
Metropolitan (646), Los Angeles.
Morningside Park (742), Inglewood.
Meudell (695), Bakersfield.
Morning Star (68), Stockton.
Midway (426) Taft.
Mosaic (218), Livermore.
.
M~itary Service ~570), San Francisco. i:i~~~~0§~icJ~7 ~~J).Ai:f:~~Je1~ille.
M~llbrae (792), Mill~rae.
Mountain View (194),
MµI Valle)'. (356), Mill Valley.
Mountain View.
Mm~ral King (720). Visalia.
Mount Baldy (815), Ontario.
M~s~on (169), San Francisco.
Mount Diablo (448), Concord.
M~ss1on Bay (771), San Diego.
Mount Jackson (295), Gucrncvillc.
Mizpah (378), Los Angeles.
Mount Moriah (44), San Francisco.
Modesto (675), M~desto.
Mount Olive (506), Los Angeles.
Moj~ve (783), Mo3ave.
Mount Oso (460), Tracy.
Molino (150), Tehama.
Mount Shasta (281), Anderson.
Moneta .<405), Los Angeles.
Mount Vernon (517). San Francisco.
Monrovia (308), Monrovia.
Mt. Davidson (481), San Francisco.
Montebello (451), Montebello.
ML Wilson (794), Altadena

N
Natoma (64), Folsom.
Naval (87), Vallejo.
Needles (326), Needles.
Neptune (619), Long Beach.
Nevada (13), Nevada City.
Nicolaus (129), Wheatland.
Normal He ights (632), San Diego.
North Butte (230), Gridley.

Northern California Resea rch
Lodge, San Francisco.
Northern Light (190), Millville.
North Hollywood (542),
North Hollywood
North Star (91), Fort J ones.
Norwalk (315), Norwalk.

0
Oakdale (275), Oa.kdale.
Oak Grove (215), Alameda.
Oakland (188), Oakland.
Oak Plaina (789), Sacramento.
Oakwood (743), La Crescenta.
Oasis of Mara (735),
Twentynine Palms.
Occidental (22), San Francisco.
Ocean Park (369), Santa Monica.
Oceanside (381), Oceanside.
Oildale (688) , Bakersfield.
Ojai (663), Ojai.
Old West (813), Newhall

Olive Branch (269), Tulare.
Olivet (205) , Corning.
Ontario (301), Ontario.
Ophir (33), Murphys.
Opportunity (740), Hawthorne.
Orange Grove (293), Orange.
Oriental (144), San Francisco.
Orinda (521), Orinda.
Orland (265), Orland.
Orosi (383), Orosi.
Oroville (103), Oroville.
Oxnard (341), Oxnard

p
Pacific (136), San Francisco.
Pacific Grove (331), Pacific Grove.
Pajaro (llO), Watsonville.
Palestine (351), Los Angeles.
Palisades (637), Santa Monica.
Palmdale (769), Palmdale.
Palm Desert (826), Palm Desert.
Palms (512), Los Angeles.
Palm Springs (693), Palm Springs.

Palo Alto (346), Palo Alto.
Palos Verdes (389). Long Beach.
Paramount (785), Hollydale.
Park (449), San Francisco.
Park Boulevard (568), Oakland.
Parnassu.s (388) , San Francisco.
Pasadena (272), Pasadena.
Paso Robles (28G), Paso Robles.

Patterson (488), Patterson.
Paul Revere (462), San Francisco.
Pearl Harbor (598),
Honolulu, Hawaii.
Peninsula (745), San Mateo.
Penrhyn (258), Penryn.
Pentalpha (202), Los Angeles.
Perris (411), Perris.
Petaluma (180), Petaluma.
Phoenix (178), San Bernardino.
Pinnacle (777), Soledad.
Pinole (353), Hercules.
Pittsburg (429), Pittsburg.
Plaza de Los Angeles (814),
Los Angeles.

i57

Plumas (60), Quincy.
Plymouth (560) Oakland.
Pohona (689), Yosemite Valley.
Poinsettia (633), Ventura.
Point (503), Richmond.
Point Finnin (558), San Pedro.
Point Loma (620), San Die.go.
Polaris (730), Sacramento
Pomona (246), Pomona.
Ponderosa (700), Fresno.
Porterville (303), Porterville.
Presidio (354), San Francisco.
Progressive (578), Los Angeles.
Provident (609), Sacramento.
Pyramid (562,), San Francisco.

Q
Queen Beach (540), Long Beach.

R
Ramona (457), Monterey Park.
Rio Linda (786), Rio Linda.
Reading (254)t Redding.
Rio Vista (208). Rio Vista.
Redlands (300J, Redlands.
Rising Light (397), H\J.ntin·g ton Park.
R. E. Dolley (616), Seal Beach.
Riverbank (459), Riverbank .
Redondo (328), Redondo Beach.
Riverside (635), Riverside.
Redwood City (168), Redwood City.
Riviera (780), Pacific Palisades.
Redwood Empire (683), Garbervllle. Rockridfi~i~!68), Oakland.
Reedley (304), Reedley.
Rolling · (781), Lomita.
Reseda (666), Reseda.
Roosevelt (500), San Francisco.
Rialto (582), Rialto.
•
Rosemead (702), Rosemead.
Richmond (375), San Francisco.
~'Rose's Bar (89) , Smartsville.
R im of the World (711), Twin Peaks. !Jlloseville (222), Roseville.
Rio Hondo (800), El Monte.
Russian River (181), Windsor.

s
Sacramento (40), Sacramento.
San Jacinto (338), San Jacinto.
Saint Elmo (697) Oakland
San Joaquin (19), Stockton.
Saint Helena (93~, St. Helena.
San Jose (10), San Jose.
Saint John's (725), Walnut Creek.
San Juan (732), Fair Oaks.
Salinas (204), Salinas.
San Leandro (744), San Leandro.
San Antonio (694), Bell.
San Lorenzo Valley (718),
San Benito (211), Hollister.
Boulder Creek.
San Bernardino (348), San Bernardino. San Marino (685), San Marino.
San Buenaventura (214), Ventura.
San Mateo (226)~ San Mateo.
San Carlos (690), San Carlos.
San Miguel (285J, San Miguel
San Clemente (671), San Clemente.
San Pablo (754), San Pablo.
San Diego (35) San Diego.
San Pasqual (452) Pasadena.
San Dieguito <775), Cardiff-by-theSea. San Pedro (332), San Pedro.
San Dimas (428), San Dimas.
San Ramon Valley (724), Danville.
San Fernando (343), San Fernando.
San Simeon (196), Cambria.
San Francisco-Victory (360),
Santa Ana (241), Santa Ana.
San Francisco.
Santa Barbara (192) , Santa Barbara.
San Gabriel (546), San Gabriel
Santa. Cruz (38), Santa Cruz.
Sanger (316), Sanf:er.
Santa Lucia (302), King City.
San Gor~nio (66 ), Banning.
Santa Maria (580), Ramona.

158

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

Santa Monica (307), Santa Monica.
Santa P aula (291), Santa Paula.
Santa Rosa (57), Santa Rosa.
Santa Ynez Valley (701), Solvang.
Scepter (808), West Sacramento.
Schofield (443), Wahiawa, Hawaii.
Seafaring (708), Newport Beach.
Searchlight (567), Long Beach.
Seaside (504). Long Beach.
Security (581), Bakersfield.
Selma (277), Selma.
Semper Virens (552), Eureka.
Sequoia (349), Oakland.
Service (594), Long Beach.
Sierra (788), Oakhurst.
Sierra Madre (408), Sierra Madre.
Sierra Valley (184), Sierraville.
Signal (543), Long Beach.
Silverado (782), Napa.
Silver Cord (505), Santa Ana.
Silver Gate (296), San Diego.
Silver Trowel (415), HoUywood.
Silveyville (201), Dixon.
Simi Valley (806), Simi.
Sincerity (132), Greenville.
Sisson (310), Mount Shasta.
Smyrna (532), Ceres.
Snow Mountain (271), Stonyford.

Sojourner (607), Duarte.
Solano (229), Vallejo.
Soquel (746), Soquel.
Sotoyome (123), Healdsburg.
Southern Ca lifornia (278),
Los Angeles.
Southern California Research
Lodge , L os Angeles.
South Gate (320), Los Angeles
Southland (618), Los Angeles.
South Park (563), Ha wthorne.
South Pasadena (367),
South Pasad en a.
South San Francisco (212), Daly City.
South West (283), National City.
Standard (440), Oakland.
Stanislaus (206), Modesto.
Starr King (344), San Francisco.
Stockton (498), Stockton.
Suisun (55). Suisun.
Summit (112), Knights Ferry.
Sun Garden (530), Fresno.
Sunnyside (577), L os Angeles.
Sunnyvale (5 11), Sunnyvale.
Sunset (352), Los Angeles.
Surprise Valle y (235), Cedarville.
S. W. H ackett (574), San Diego.

Travel ers (692), Sacramento.
Traver (294), K ingsburg.
Triad (812) , Montebello.
Triangle (548), Venice.
Trinity (27), Weaverville.
Trona (684), Trona.
Truckee (200), Truckee.
Truth (628), Los Angeles.
Tujunga (592), Tujun ga .
Tuolumne (8), Sonora.
Turlock (395) , Turlock .
Tuscan (261), Williams.
T wo Rivers (731), Bell.
Tyre (741), Downey .
Tyrian (439) , Manteca.

u
Union (58), Sacramento.
Unity (368), Glendale.
University (394), Torrance.

Upland (419), Upland.
Utopia (537), Los Angeles.

v
Vacaville (134), Vacaville.
Valle de France (329), Los Angeles.
Vallejo (487), Vallejo.

Victorville (634), Victorville.
Visalia (128), Visalia.
Vista (687), Vista.
Vitruvius (145), Bloomfield.
Volcano (56), Volcano.

w
Waikiki (774), Honolulu, Hawaii.
Warren G. Harding (579),
Sacramento
Wasco (583), Wasco.
Washington (20), Sacramento.
Wayfarer (717), Whittier.
Welcome (255), Lemoore.
West Adams (565), Los Angeles.
Westchester (703), Playa del Rey.
West Covina (758), Baldwin P ark.
Western Star (2), Shasta.
West Gate (335), Los Angele s.
West Lake (392), Los Angeles.
West Los Angeles (373),
L os Angeles.
Westminster (787), Westm ins ter.
Westwood (501), Westwood.

White Pine (555), Weed.
Whittier (323), Whittier.
William B. Ogden (816), Hollywood.
William D. Stephens (698),
Los Angeles.
William Rhodes Hervey (767),
Los Angeles.
Willits (365), Willits.
W illow Glen (676), San Jose.
Wilmington (198), Wilmington.
Wilshire (445), Los Angeles.
Winnedumah (287), Bishop.
Woodbridge (131), Woodbridge.
Woodland (156), Woodland.
Woodland Hills (811), Canoga Park.
Woodstock (491 ), Alameda.

y
T

Table Mountain (124), Paradise.
Taft (516), Taft.
Tehachapi (313), Tehachapi.
Tehama (3), Sacramento.
Tejon (773), Bakersfield.
Temblor (477), Fellows.
Temescal (314), Corona.
Temple (14), Sonoma.
Temple City (612), Temple City.
Texas (46), San Juan Bautista.
The Gabila n (803), Salinas.
The Gardens (621), Los Angeles.
Thousand Oaks (478), Berkeley.
Three Pillars (613), Sacramento.
Tila Pass (797), Los Angeles.
Torrance (447), Torrance.

Verdugo Hills (727), Glendale.
Veritas-Jonathan (545),
San Francisco.
Vermont Square (515), Inglewood
Vesper (84), Red Bluff.
Vict oria Pa lms (810), Riverside.

Valley (135), Linden.
Valley Forge (587), Los Angeles.
Van Nuys (450), Van Nuys.

459

Yerba Buena (403), Oakland.
Yolo (81), Yolo.
Yorba Linda (469), ¥orba Linda.
York (423), Walnut Park

Yosemite (99), Merced.
Yount (12), Napa.
Yucaipa (726), Yucaipa.
Yucca Valley (802), Yucca Valley.

z
Zenith (768), Van Nuys.

i60

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CAU PORN l.A

161

IND EX FO R 196 8
A

CORRESPONDENCE REPORT
ANNOUNCEMENT
nd
Reviews of the Proceedings of othe r Gra
iforLodges have app eare d quarterly in the "Cal
sent
been
nia Freemason," copi es of which have
conto each Gra nd Lodge. This prog ram will be
tinu ed.
The "California Freemason" is issued quarterfy
ce,
and each copy carries additional reviews. Hen
they do not app ear in thes e Proceedings.

Addi tions and Repl acem ents Rese rve
···································· ··········321, 350
Audi t ···-··················-·· ····-··-·························
················· ··-····· ····················82, 412
·········
·····-··
Tabu lated ··--·······-··-·
Affil iation Feeswme
ions
ribut
Cont
orial
Mem
Fund
nt
Allocate Endo
To Lodg e of Choi ce
-··· 284
··--· ---- ·-···············--······-·······-·····
Reso lutio n Pres ented ·-····- - -··- -··-···
········ 285
··················
·········
·········
·········
·········
·········
····-··
... 452
·········
.........
Legi slatio n ·········
.............................................
Alph abe tical List of Lodg es...........................
lbit B)............................................. -... 86
:d'~ecretary (Exh
AmeRe~~~ ~YbyBd';!
.............................................................. 88
.........
Com mitte e .........
Appr oved
66
·······································································
298
Anni versa ries of Lodg es -··············-···
········
·········
·········
·····--·
·········
·········
·········
ual Elec tion ···-······-····· -·-·······-·-·
Ann
Annu al R eturn s
............................................ 313
Audi t ......... ...............................................................

~~~~~~rte<l· ·::=::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::: :s2;
~~~
ndix

ll~

Appe
-··-··- ··-··-· ·-·- 377
---· -·-·· ·-··-- -··-······-·············- -·-·············
............................... 301
ral ···-·Geneial
............................................................... ..................
Spec
Appl icant s, Eligi bility of
········· ·······················-··············· 38
er's Com ment s ·······-··-··-· ·········
Gran d Mast
.................................................232, 234
Actio n by Gran d Lodg e ...........................
......................................................................... 412
Appl icati on Fees Tabu lated .........
'
urer'
Lect
Appo int Lodg e "His torical
········- ······-··················- ··-··-· ·- ··········-····· 256
··--···-Resolutio n Presented
·····--·····-·· -··············- ···························- 258
-·--··
-······
Legi slatio n - - - - · -·-Appointm ents
--·-··- ······················-· ·--··· -·- ·-·· 2984
For Year 1968-89 - ·-··-·-- ·-··-·-··--·-······
......... ......... ........................... ......... ....... 385
For Com mun icatio n .................. ..................
................. .....................110, 299, 386
Trus tees for Masonic Hom es .........
........ .......................... 146, 299,
.........
.........
ple
Tem
orial
Mem
for
tees
Trus
··········-····· ·········-··············· 378
···-····
ds
Boar
tituti onal
and Consntal
Com mitte es, Supp
leme
tions
Appr opria

90; 2~+
::::::::::::=::2311,
::::::=::::::::::=:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::........
312
~~~~~~ R···=::::
310,
epor t .................................... ....................................

Audi tor's
Aprons and Coll ars-P urch ase of
·······- ··························- ·················· --······· 51
Grand Mast er's Reco mme ndat ion ········
60
········· -··············-··········-····· -·······
··-··-·
···-··e
Lodg
d
Gran
by
n
Actio
-·-··- ······-· ····· ..······-··-·····318, 321, 331
·-·····
........
.........
.........
Fund
t
Trus
nson
Atki
Atte ndan ce
···-··-··········-·-· ·········-····· - 387
Liste d (Reg istra tion and Mile age Paym ents)
······-··- ········ -·- ·----· ·- 207
·······-·····-····-·····-·-··
--···-·
--··Repo rted ----··-··Aud its
·-··-···········-·-··-··········-·-··· ·-···- 313
1968 Retu rns · -··-··---· -·-·- ·-····-- ·-·····

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~;
~~~~~~;···::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
·······-·····-· ·--···---···- ······-·····- 358
Mem orial Tem ple -·-··- ·············--··-·······

B
nt Fund ···-······-··················- ··········--· 118
Bequ ests- Mas onic Hom es Endo wme
- - - - ······-·-··- ·-······- ··-··-· ·- -·· v
---·-··-Hopp
S.
Bioc rapb y, Euae ne

462

463

PROCE EDING S OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

Blackm er Lodge
Gra_n d Master 's Recom menda tion
···········································-··················· 47
Action by Grand Lodge
···········································-··········· 60
············
············
Blood Banks
ents
Comm
's
Grand Master
············································································ 40
Board of Contro l
143
385
·······
············
{i~~"j····
e
M.{i~"
..
nd
ru:;;··a
ee.iXt;~
s
~·-c·
issione~
Comm
~~=~~s o~f ~li!?

............................ 205
Code Revisi on, Report of Special Comm ittee ........................
............ ..... 49
............
.........
............
............
tion....
menda
Grand Master 's Recom
............ ..... 60
.......
............
............
............
............
............
Action by Grand Lodge
............ 154
............
............
............
............
Colum bia Templ e, Report of Comm ittee
............................ 155
............
............
............
ittee
Comm
of
t
Repor
sm,
erciali
Comm
Comm ittee Appoi ntmen ts
5
~
:::
..
~'.
::::::::::~
::::::::::::
::::::::::::
::::::::::::
::::::::::::
::::::::::::
n···:::::
~~r GJ;:;.~~i~!~io
378
...........
............
............
......
............
............
............
........
.......
For 1968-69 ............
Comm ittee Report s (See Report s of Comm ittees)
Confer ence of Grand Master s of North Ameri ca
................ 34
Grand Maste r-Key note Addre ss .................................... ............
Consol idation s of Lodges
......... ............ ................. 81
Report of Grand Secret ary ..... ....................... .. ...................
............ ................ 169
Report of Comm ittee on Charte rs ........................
Const ituent Lodge s Listed
...................................... 412
Alphab eticall y .................................... ........................
.................... 452
Numer ically ....................................................................................
ance
Observ
Consti tution
............ .................... 53
Grand Master 's Remar ks ................................................
.......................• 71
............
............
............
............
mation
Procla
's
Master
Grand
............ ......... 167
............
.......
............
............
............
............
ittee
Comm
R eport of
·-···············-·· 76
············
············
State Assem bly's Procla mation ·······-···············
·········-··········· 61
············
············
············
············
······-····
···········
s
Lodge
of
tution
Consti
............ ............ 384
Consti tutiona l Boards ..... .................................... ..... ........................
UCLA
&
C
Contin ue Mason ic Clubho uses-U
...... ............ .................. 286
Resolu tion Presen ted ... ............ ....................... ............
.................... 286
Action by Grand Master ........................ ....................................
Contri butions
................................ 374
Christm as and Entert ainme nt Reserv e ............ ............
.... 118, 125, 131
Endow ment Fund ................................................ ........................
··········· 309
············
············
············
·······················
············
Receiv ed from Lodges
............. 372
Specia l Reserv es ...................................................................................
Contri bution s to Endow ment Fund in Lieu of Flowe rs
•
to Ill Brothe r
.......................... 254
Resolu tion Presen ted ............................................................
...................... 255
............
............
............
............
............
............
............
Legisl ation
1
...........
............
............
............
.......
............
............
............
............
Copyr ight Notice
Corner stone Cerem onies
........................................ 55
Grand Master 's Comm ents ....................................
................................ 61
............
............
............
............
ions
Special Comm unicat
Corresponden ce Comm ittee
............ 170
Report of ............................................................ ....................................
.................... 460
Review of Proceedings Other Grand Lodge s ........................
Covina Home
.................. 116
Report of Superi ntende nt ............................................................
········ 109
·······-···
············
······-·····
············
············
············
············
es
Report of Truste ................................................ ............ .................................... 370
Reside nts Listed
................... 321, 351
Covina Reserv e Audit ............ ................................... ............
......... 321, 354
Covina Entert ainme nt Reserv e Audit ........ ...............................
············ 206
············
············
············
············
·······-···
ittee
Creden tials, Repor t of Comm

1\~~b~r~f iist·~··:::::::::::::·········· ············ ········---··················································

Board of Contro l Comm ents
··························- 143
Gra_nd Master 's Recommendatio~·················· ·········· ············
························ ·······39, 40
Action b:i( Grand Lodge .................:········································
·························· 59
Boards of R~hef-Who Repres ent Lodge························
Resolu tion Presen ted
········································· 280
. Legisl ation .................... ::::···..····································
··· ····························· ··· 281
············
············
········
······
A~dit·
Fund
rship
Schola
m
Brigha
............... ...................... ............ ....... 316, 321 324
Budge t
.............................................................. 292, 295
Burt.f!'iJ°s~P;~~J~~:...~~~ 8 - 69 ............
· ···········································-································316, 321: 330
By-La ws
Amend ments Submi tted
:::::::::::::::::::: g~
Report of Comm ittee ...... ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Califo rnia Freem ason
Financ e _Committee Comm ents

c

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~
.~~b~~!t~~ :ao~:··Repo.~t-·or······:::::::::::::::::f ............
....................................... 152

2!lli~~~:: ~=~~:;}~ ~g~~J~ti~;o de".iie.;j8io~

Grand Master 's Comm ents
············ ········4.2, 43
Gra_nd Master 's Recommenda ti.on·········································
················ 43
············
············
············
·······-····
Action by Grand Lodge

.i~t~~t~; ~ESi~::~~;;~:::~:;;:~~~:_:~~::~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::: ~!i

························ ······················· ······ 237
Califo rnia Mason ic Law- Prereq uisite Bod····
ies
. Gra~d Master 's Comments
·············· ············ ······· 53
Cahforn~a Masonic Memo rial Tempi e.·········· ··················-·····
.
............
............
............
............
Audit ............
············································........... 356
Officer s and Truste es

~§f€~~··· ········: ····~· ··;··~:~··::··: =····· . :·~;~, ill

g:;;:.!1~ 11~P~:i~~e~~~·"<·G"a~e~--~5ea··lliied..ai.5t.lrt.~!-ea~"h-sessi"oiiY···· ·······

146

Consti tution
··················· ············· 61
cemeter~es <Masoci~)";·Rei)(;~·i··0f"·c0mmitiee·····-················
1

: :::::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: }i~
~~~l~!i~~~ifui:~i:~~::::::::::::::::...........
.

Repor t by Grand Secret ary
························ ····· ··········· 87
on By-La ws ·::::::::::::::::::·····
Repor t of Co~ttee
........................ ................88, 89
Repor t of Comm ittee on Charte rs
································································ 169
Charte rs
Repor t of Comm ittee
···· 169
························-···························································
Grante d ..........
· ········ ··········· ······ · 110
clubho uses c_s~ M~-so~c-ciii.iih.o·{i~·e-.s)"·········· ··················· ··········
Code Comnu ssion, Report of
···························-··················································· 210

D
Decato Home (Union City)
.................. 114
Report of Superi ntende nt ............ ............ ....................................
······· 109
······-····
············
············
············
············
·······················
es
Truste
Report of Listed ............ .............................................................................. ...... 361
Reside nts
.............. 321, 352
Decoto Reserv e Audit ........................ ................ ........................
.......321, 354
Decoto Entert ainment Reserv e Audit ....... ....................................
············ 62
············
············
············
·········•··
·······-···
onies
Cerem
Dedica tions-- Specia l

46i

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORN IA

PROCBBDlNOS OP THIS

Degrees Conferre d

~~~a~~P~~e~ges ·······-·-··········································-·················-········· 412

g:~o::iesi~~~at~·-:::::::::::::::::~~ :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::83; 4~~

Directors of Masonic ·Cl~bh~w~~·-·-··-··-····················· ········ ································

5

~!~~ ~~ ~k~le1~·······-······ ····-··-························ ······················ ·-············ 194

Dispensa tions

··-··-··- ······-··-···· ·-··-·························· -··················· 196
N~w
Lodgesus···············-······-··-··-··-··············-··-···-·············---····
iscellaneo
·········-····· -··· 81
Approve d
·······-··-·· ····-·-·-·-·-··-··-······ -·-··········································· 85
Display Nationai"E~bi"em····M:;in·c;ri~i"'fe~·-·c·········· · ················· ··········- ··········· 86

M

~:~ra~~ ~~-~~~-.................
·······-··-··-.................
··-·-····:·~.................
·-······-······.................
··································· 282

Distingui shed Guests

................... 284

~ft~eJ'!~e GL~~!i Lodge ···········-····
·-······-··········-··············- ······· 26
Distribut ion Committ ee···············-·-·--···--·················
·····-······-··............................................. 25
Appointm ent
Report
o·f
···-·······..·- ··········-····· ·-·············· -··-··-··-··· ················ ·················· 4
Dues
···············- ·······-·-··-··- ··-······-··-···- - ···-···-································-··· 144

~~~~uoe:~y~;~~

··-· · · . · -· -··· · · · · ·-··· · -· ·· · ·· -· ·· · · - . · · · ··

87
···-··················-······-··-······-······················ -··-··- ····· 83
e9 ·······-········ -··..- --..····- ··-··"········· ·········- ..--..·· ········-·· 412

Tabulatio n by Lodg

E
Elected Officers Grand Lodge Since Organiza tion
At.pril 18 A.L.
' ················· ············-··- 435
Elec ion of Officers5850 ·······-······- ······-··-··-· ·-······-·········
Elective Grand Lodge.om·~~~~;·nii·u~;······························································-···
··· 298
Grand
Master's
ndation ···-···········Action by
GrandRecomme
Lodg
-·--··············-··-··············-··-· 47
Eligibility of Applican ts
e ···-··-············-········-··-··························- ················· 59
g~~~f'te9;~~~~~mments ....................................................................
........ 38
Action by Grand L()dji;;··:::··················-··· ...............................................232, 234
Endowm ent and Trust Fund A-·dic··--·-····························--··················--········· 234
Endowm ent Board
s u
···-·····--···-··-··············-··············-······-318, 321
Composit ion of Board

End:~~~~t ~o-nih·(·s;;·M~:::~:::~::::::::::~::~::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Entertain ment Reserve Audi~ruc
Eul

omes

n owment Board and Fund)

g~~~a
.

···················-············································-····-··-··-··············-··-·····S21, 354
0 ································ ··· ··-··

..······-···· ·· -·
..321 354
Exi>°e~~~tu;e··c;r·F~·nas·························-··
····-··········--.:.-.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::........
'. 12

Finance Study Committ ee Recomm endations
_Action
by Grand Lodge ···--··-··- ······--·.................................. ......

212
Extinct Lodges, Including Consolid ations . -··-·········· ········-··-··········- ······· 231
······-··-················..- ·.-................... 429

F
Fees for Degrees

t'ti~n~;n~r!~dB~ws ··----······-··-········· --···-·-··-·· -··-.. - ················ 88
Tabulate d by Lodg ge ···-·························-··· .. ······-·--·······················
········· 88
Fee.s tor negrees--Seruo:Sne··M~l~ys···········-··-··················-······-····
······-·······83, 412
Resolutio
WithdrawnnPresented .•·-··----· .. ··-··-······-·-··-·······--- -·-··············-·-··· 27G
····· · - · -······-·-· ··----···· -..-··-·-······- ··-··- -··········-·· -··-··· 277

465

Fifty Year Buttons (See Veteran Buttons)
Finance Committe e, Report
of ............................................................................ 288

FinaG;;~Ju:a~~~mJ~~mmendation ···-····························"·····························

40
Action by Grand Lodge ···········-····················· ················· ·················'"············ 59
Report of Committe e (Majority ) ----·- ··-··-··-····- -···········- ·····--··········· 212
Report of Committe e (Minority) ········-·-·····--·······-··-· ·-··-··········--··········· 224
Action by Grand Lodge ···············-··········----· ·····-·········· -··········..··············· 231
Un.finishe d Business from 1967 --·---····-·----·························-······ ················· 80
Flint Trust Fund Audit ·······-··-·- ······-··-··--··-··-······-··-··- ··········-·····316, 321, 327
F or eign
Gra of
nd Committe
Lodges e on Recognit
R eport
ion ....................................... - ............... 163
List of Recogniz ed Jurisdicti ons ···-·············································· ··············· 446
Form of Applicat ion for Degrees- Delete P ortion of Question 15
R esolution Presented .......................-·-··---·- ··································..············· 274
Legislatio n ·······-························· ·············..··-····················································· 276
F orm of Applicati on for Degrees -Include Provision s
in C.M.C. Section 546
.
271
~=~?~t'a~fo~ ~-~-~~~-~~~
273
F orm of Ap~lication for Degrees -Proficiency
Resolutio n Presente d ......................................._............................................. 276
Withdraw n ···································································· ······································ 276
Form of Applicati on for Degrees- Question of Arrests
Resolution Presente d ...................................·-················-··········-·· ··················· 269
Legislation ·································· ·································· ······································ 271
F orm of Resolutio ns and Reports by Committe es as t o
Sections of Code Affected
Resolution Presented ················· ····-··-····---·······················-·--···········-··········· 286
Legislatio n ················· ··················································· ······································ 288
F ormal Presentat ion of American F lag and When Displaye d
Resolutio n Presented .....................---···-······-·---········-·..···························· 249
Legislatio n ...................................................................................................... .... 251
Fundame
Principle s of Freemaso nry
Grandntal
Master's
Commen ts ............................................................................ 33
Funeral Service-Performe d by Certificat ed Brother
Resolutio n Presented ····-·-·-··..-·-····--····..-·····-········..····-··················-······ 282
Withdrawn ...................................................
.................................. ..................... 282.

...::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

G
Gavels, Used During Commun ication....................................................... ...........

5

Gen;ro;;s~~u;!~~~··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::: 3~~

Gemini Lodge U.D.

Grand Ch aplain, Devotion al Service. ................................................................... 5
Gran d Lecturer
Candidat e's Coaching -·················-··----····· -········- -··-··---····-·······- ··- ··· 105
Concerns ..................................
............................................................................ 108
Divisiona l Conferen ces ···-····················-·-··- ··········-··-················- ··-······- ··· 104
Inspector 's Manual ·--········-·····-··--·--·-·····--·-··--- -··-·-····· ·-········-·- -· 109
Report of ·····················-·································--········· -······-·························
········ 104
Schools of Instruction ·-- ·--······----·········-·····--············..·········--······ -······--·····
·· 104
Grand Lodge Audit. ....................................................................
.............. ................. 302

Graefr~~gM~ire~~sR~~~~i~:;fa~i~~~ .............................................................. 47

Action by Grand Lodge .................................. ................. ............................... 59
Grand Lodges Represen ted ·····-··-········-··········-· -···········--·············--······-···- ······· 25
Grand .Master (See Hopp, Eugene S.)

166

PROCEEDINGS OP THB
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

167

Grand Master's Lapel Pin
Grand Master's Comments ·····················-············-··-················ ··-·-··-··-·- 55
Photograph ··························································· ··········································-· 31
Presentation
Special Committee
on······················································································· · 30
Grievances,
Report of··········································· ····························· ······································ 91
Trial Records Listed (Exhibit C) .................................................................. 90
Grand Oration ····························· ······························ ··············································· 179
Grand Representatives, Appointments ............................. ................................. 57
Secretary, Report of ···················································································· 80
nd Treasurer
Grand
Gra
Grand Master's Comments ............................................................................ 58
R eport of ...................... ....... .............................. ..................... ............................ 290
Finance Committee Comments ... ······························ ····························· ······ 290
Grand Lodge-Summa ry of Receipts and Disbursements...................... 78

H
Hearing Aids-Permissio n
Resolution Presented ............................. ...................................................259, 262
..............262, 263
Legislation
Statistics .......................................................................................
Homes

~f:f~~~~t ~~t'fu~ruies··:=:::::::::::::::::::::::.·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::.·:::::~~-~· ~~g
~foi~!;h~h .:::::::::::::: : ::::::: :::: ::::::::::: : : : : : : :::::: :::: ::: : ::::::::: :::::::::::::~~-~-~~-~~-:iefil

Fund) .............................. .. ............................. .. ....... 118, 131
(Endowment
Honor ERoll
S ., Grand Master
ugene
Hopp,
0

Appointments for Communication ·············-·············- ····················-········· 4
Lodges Constituted ·······-······-- ···················-··············································· 61
Message ······················································································· ······················· 33
Proclamations ... ....................................................... ...................... 68, 69, 70, 71, 73
Receptions and Miscellaneous ...................................................................... 62
Recommendatio ns ............................................................35, 40, 41, 47, 49, 52, 54
Special Ceremonies ............................. ................... ................... ....................... 62
············ 61
Special Communication s ·· ······· ······························ ·····························
Visitations to Other Jurisdictions .......................................................... ....52, 66

I
Include Grand Master's Recommendatio ns Except
Emergent Matters
Resolution Presen ted ·····-················································································· 243
Legislation ·········································································································· 244
Index, Grand Lodge Proceedings ..........···············································-········-····· 461
Inspectors, List ot.········································-··································......................... 442
Installation of Officers ·············-··-··········································································· 300
Institution of Lodges ............................................................................................ 62, 169
·· ················· 199
Investment Committee, Report of·····················································
Interim Committee-Ex penditure of Funds (See Finance Study Committee)
Investments
Grand Lodge ········································•····························································· 307
Masonic Homes ···················•·············································································· 335

J
ce, Committee on (Reported separately on items referred
Jurispruden
to committee.)

L
Legislation Proposed

··· · · · · · · ······· ··· ·.....-···.::··: : : :::::::::::::::::: ::: ~!~
?r~~;::~ ········.............................
Sect~~:~J~~;~
Legislation d.............................
............. 241
Section 77 (Vo te required)
Amendment Proposed ......................................... ~~~~~:~~~~~~~~::~:~~~ : ............. 242
................................ 41
2
Amendment Proposed ···········································::: ................................ 242
Legislation ······· ··:·······-f···b·· ····:· ···········H: 0~-iinci".~iien presented)
........................... 240
Section 104 (Transac tion o usmessAmendment Proposed········-·-·················-······················ ........................... 240
........ 240
s t~egtl8V~~ties-· ·~·c;i-it":·;.:;;;i:ilai.Me~siiiie)················· ······

secti~~gW(Wi;1e~--i~-0~1·fu~a·5·~·0ie.may·e:·ar:r-y)".........

ec
sec.
sec.

Ers1~tii~t--~~~~-~-~=~-- :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::: : : :: : : : :........ 240
l~e1:.f1ro~~~t~:o~o?:Jn.~-~-~~-~-~-~~~---·························::::::::::···:::::::::::: ~:~

246
:::::::.........................
(J~~~i~ii-or"iiC!ilo~:· ;;t:·5·0ci.iii.!il;-;:·ii~~~L:::::::.............
~~f~~
. 247
.....
Amendment Proposed ............................ ··
1

Legislat ion ·····:············:······································· ······
.................................. 248
Section 328 (Masonic clothing)
··········::: ...... ........ ................ 248
Proposed ·····························
Amendment .......
······ ··· ··· ·· ········· ·· ··· ····················
Legislation
................................... 249
Section 329 (Decoration of altar)
Amendment Proposed ········································· ............................. .. 251
............................... 51
2
... .... .... ... ......... 252
............
~j~~ti;~ t---~~~~~-s~~--- ::::::::::::_:::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:

sect~~~8V*~ exp~i-ici"ii~-~e--~hii.t5o~~e~:·ei<::»·······:·::::

·································.·.·.·.·.·.·.·. 225554
Expenditures)
Section 411 (Discretionary
Amendment Proposed ···································· ... ................ ....... .
···························
·····························
····'·
Legislation

~a~~~~~~;~s)· ···· ······························ :::::: ....:::::: ::::: :::::::::::~g~; ~~~
Scct~~:~~~eo~
Legislation ........ ······················ ····· ········· ···········

: : : : : : : :::: : : : : : : : : : : :. . . . . . . . . .......... .

.............................. .... 255
Section 442 (Rights of E.A.s and F .C.s)
256
~j~~tioe:t.. ~~~~-~-~=~--........................................ 258
Section 493.2nd (Du ties of Secretary)
Amendment P roposed ·······················-············ ... ............ ........ ................ 259
26o 26s
S t~eg~Wtci~~ral"an;-:fj;ii;,·5·1~a"i"~iiiiii.ificat:iCinii)···
.....................
234• 262,• 2
d
ion
ec Amendments
.............234,
Propcse ·········································
69
Legislation ································:····································
......... ..... 260, 262, 264, 266
Section 512 (Sound discretion required)
262 263, 265, 269
Amendment Proposed ····························· ···········
Legislation ....................... ..................................................... '
........................ 232, 234
Section 513 (Eligibility for Degrees)
Amendment Proposed ·-··············-··························· .. ......... ............. ... 234
sectf:n~si~VF~m;·c;fiij;j;liciiiiCiri. io~"Cieg-~eeii>". ················· ... ._270 212, 214, 276
Amendment Proposed ················································.. ... 271' 273, 276, 276
'
Legislatio!1 ···· ································································ .
............................. .......... 249
Section 554 (Ritual)
251
t~i~~ti;~t-~~~-~-~~
....... 277
Section 557.lst (Affiliation)
Proposed ···~·-······················· ·············::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ....... 278
Amendment
Legislation ............................... ·································

..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::. .....................................

468

PROCEFDINGS OP THE

Section 582 (How restored after two years)
Proposed ·······-··--··········-······-·······-··························-·- 279
tm~ldt~ent
. egis a ion ....................... ........................................................................... 280
Section 603 (Boards of Relief)
tm~}dgient Proposed ·············- ··············-······-······---······- ··················· 281
Sectio~g6so: (~~riai)················································································· ..········· 281

256
. ent Proposed···················-····--······-··········-················-········· 256
Am~ldmt
Le
. g1s a ion ................................................................. ........................
........ .
Section 692.4 (Procedure if accused fails to plead not guilty)
f:~}df1ent Proposed ·-·-···-··-··- ··-··--·-··-·------·-··················-······· 92
Section~s1: c1X~s~er)····························· .. ·······--·..··············································· 92
Amendment Proposed ·-··············-··········--····-······················-··············· 92

sectti;g~~~V~~t~-req'{iiX:ecff···················································· ..······················· 92
t::'~!d~ent Proposed ·····························-······-··································-··· 24l

sectiong%iY~hei1"i~o-~i'h'iX:Ci5·v-<iie-~a;;·c:arcy)···- ....................................... 242
Proposed ·········-··-··············-··-··········································· 241
tm~ld~ent
eg1s abon .................................................................................................. 242

Allocate Endowment Fund Memorial Contributions to Lodge
of Choice

~s?luti_on Presented ·························-··--····-·- ······························-··· 284
Appomf'~~~~~ "Hisi.Cii-icii'i'ie~i·ui-·e·i-;;····························································· 285
Presented ···························-······················-··········-·········-· 256
~S?luti_on
1
Boardsg~~ R~li~r-=wi1.Ci"iiep;;;;;e-;.;i-i.o'die······················································ 258
~s?lfti_on Presented ·············-·························--······················- ··········· 280

caliior'!tl~ ~~orlic.Fo~iiCi·a·iio;:;·····-································································ 281
~s?luti_on Presented -···--········-···--······················-········-··-··········· 236

contin~~~~~~i·c-Club.h'owe~uc«f.ffcu·············································· 237
~es?lution Presented .···················-····························-··························· 286

contnb~~ro~r t~~~go~:::!~~ iu~·ci"i;;i;ie;~·o'f"Fio~-;;i--s·i'~i"iii":Broi'iler ... 286

~es?luti_on Presented ·····················-··········-··········-··-······-··············-··· 254

nisp1:.;W:Hg~ai.E'mbi·e-.m=M:em.Cii-i.iiT1'ei1:1pie············································· 255

~s?luti_on Presented .............................................................................. 282
Fees fo~ig:;:e~s=s-e·iii;;;·neMoi"a·:Y~······························································· 284

~i~:t:!~ Presented ···················-········--·..···············-········-················· 276
277

Form of Applic~tion.fo.r..De.gree5=nei.ete.Port.ion.of"Qi:le~tion..i5" ..........
Resolution Presented ·············································-··········-··················· 274
276
Section 546
Resolution Presented ............................·-··-··········································· 271
For~f~~~~~a ii;;-n·ro·i:- oeii-·e·e~firofiCiency············································ 273

Fo~~f~~~li~aiioil·i~·i-·n·e·g~e·e-~riici"liCie.firov·i~i-Cii15-iil"«:~j~i:c:······· ·····

R~solution Presented ·····························-··········································-- 276

Fon!'~~Zi~&aii-c;ii·:rc;;·oe·gr.-e-es=Q~·e-stion.of&rest5··························· 276
Resolution Presented ·················-······-··-···-·-·················· ············-······· 269
Fo~~1~!!:,~~ti·o~~-ai1d:.aeport·~·b":Y·cc;m·ffiltiee·s-as.t:Ci····························· 211
Sections of Code Affected
Resolution Presented ·············-··-··-······--······-··········-··········-··········· 286
Legislation ·················-··················-··-·-···--··- -·-··--·-··············-······-··· 288

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

469

Formal Presentation of American Flag and When Displayed
····· .. ············· 249
Resolution Presented -········-···············································
Legislation ................................................................................................. . 251
Funeral Service-Performed by Certified Brother
82
R~solution Presented .............................................................................. 282
Withdrawn ................................................................................................. . 2
259 62
Hearing Ai~s--Permission
Res?luti?n Presented ........................................................................ • 253
Legislation ......................................................·-···································262, 2
Include Grand Master's Recommendations Except
243
Emergent Matters
Res?luti?n Presented ..............................................................................
Legislation ................................................................ ·································· 244
Manner of Voting-Substitute Voting Machine
Resolution Presented .............................................................................. 2380
Legislation .................................................................................................. 24
............................................ ·-·························:::::: ~!~
Mas~n:~of~fi~~nf>cesented
Legislation ........................................................................................... .

Maximum Dues for Reinstatement
Res~luti?n Presented .............................................................................. ~~~
Legtslation ..................................................................................................
Permit Masonic Burial of Entered Apprentice and Fellow Craft
Resolution Presented .............................................................................. 255
Legislation .......................................................... ................... ···· ................. 256
Permit More Than One Officers' Coach in a Lodge
2 5
······ .. ············ 244
Resolution Presented ·············-···········································
Withdrawn .................................................................................................. 4
Meetings
and
Permit Serving Liquor at Social and Other Gatherings
···················· 2:~
Resolution Presented ·-·······················································
Legislation .................................................................................................. 2
Permit Use Refreshment Fund to Contribute to Homes

Chrit~;fu~~~dsPresented .....................................................•......................... ~~~
Legislation ....:.......................................................... ..................................

Phy~;~~~¥i~~c~~~~ented ...................................................... 259, 262, 264, 2~~

Legislation ............................................................................ 26_2, 263, 265, 2
Present Annual Financial Statement February Stated Meetmg
Resolution Presented .............................................................................. ~~~
Legislation ···························:························································-.............

Re-eA~~~h!m~~~~~~~ S-~-~~~~~---······························································ ~~g
Refu~~t\3~e~~!fJ~~dA~:~~~ c;~·Affiliaiioii···································-···· ..·····

78
Resoluti_on Presented ·········································-··································· 277
Legislation ..................................................................... ····························· 2
Serving Liquors at Masonic Banquet
Resolution Presented ·········································-··············- .. ·················· 251
Legislation .................................................................................................. 252

R~;~~fi~~

.............................
VoteLegislation Presented
.............................................

:::::·.:~:::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::: ~:g

Vot~~:~1~J~~d~~;~ted .............................................................................. ~!~
Le!islation ························-·································································..····

Librtfi'a~d ~~f:~~Comments .......................................................... .................. ~~
Grand Secretary's Comments ........................................................................
Memorial Temple Trustees' Comments ...................................................... 147
Resolution Presented ...................................................................................... ~~~
Action by Grand Lodge ···············-··-·····························································

470

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Liquor
Permit Serving Liquor at Social and Other
Gatherings and Meetings
Resolution Presented ---------·-----·······--··----·······························-·--·-··········· 245
Legislation ············································--·-··--·············································· 247
Serving Liquors at Masonic Banquet
Resolution Presented ····-·········--··-···--···-·-·······----------······-·--········-----···-·--· 251
Legislation ··········-··-···-····-········-····-·····-····-·······-·-···························---·········· 252
List of Constituent Lodges ·······-·-·········--···--·········---···-···-···-···-·······-······················ 412
Lodge Financial Reports-Dates Presented
Resolution Presented --····-····-·······-·-··················-·-······--·-----·-················-----···--- 258
Legislation --·---···------····------··------···-····---···--·--··----·-----·······--··--··--····-----·-············-- 259
Lodge Financing, Report of Committee·--·---·-·-··-··················· .. ·············-···········---· 157
Lodges

~n~~~;~l!sL~~-:..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~
Charters Authorized ----------·-------·-·--·--------·-··-·---······--·······--·--·····-·-···········-·--·--- 170
Constituted ····················-···-·····-·-·--···-·-·····-·-··············--·-··--···--······················--··- 61
Extinct and Consolidated -----------··--··---·············································-----······--·· 429
Instituted ··-·-··-······--·-····-···-·······-···-·--·-·····--······-··········· ··---·--····-········--···-·······-62, 169
Numerical List ······--·······-··-········-···-·-···-······-············-················-·····················-· 412
Los Angeles Masonic Hall (See Old Masonic Hall at Los Angeles)
Luckenbach Fund Audit ·--··························-·······-····----·--------··-----------------316, 321, 323
4

-471

Master Masons' Attendance -··················································································· 206
Maximum J:?ues for Reinstatement
278
Resc;ilub!>n Presented ·····································-······-······-··········-··········-········ 280
Legislation ······················--·····---····---···················------······--···············--·····-······
Meeting Place .
81 87
Changes Listed by Grand Secretary............................................................ '
Grand Lod~e At;:tion ........................................................................................ ~~
Members' Contributions by Lodges -··-·························--·······--···············--·····-······ 4
MemJ>;:~~i~ecretary's Report ................................................................................ ~~

4

Mem'1;,;~~1~~t~~ro~:~_:::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 126

Memorial Service
5
Devotional .................................................................---·······--·--·······-··-------·---··
Necrology ··--·--···-·-··--·-···············--······-······························--··-····-·······--···············- 12
Memorial Temple (See California Masonic Memorial Temple)
316 321 332

~:~~~~ ~1G~~:d1M1a~t~~·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::_____:.......· 33

Mileage Payments

.

207

¥!E~~t~~ncgn~~ i~~nt5·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::;:::;::_:::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 387
1

Moral Qualifications-Applicants for Degrees (See Elig1b1lity of
Applicants)
.
.
· F
d t• )
Multi-Purpose Foundation (See Califorrua Masoruc
oun a ion

M
Manner of Voting-Substitute Voting Machine
Resolution Presented ·······--------------····-··················--··········--·--····----·-·-············ 238
Legislation ···········································-·····-·············-·············---··-·····-···-······-·····- 240
Masonic Clothing
Resolution Presented -------···------··----·-------·-··-·-····--··················--········---·------··--· 248
Legislation ·····-----·····-----··----·-····----------···-·----------···---··-----------·--······················----- 248
Masonic Clubhouses
Berkeley, Report of Trustees ---------·---··········-·············-·····················--··-·----··- 194
Los Angeles, Report of Trustees ····--·--·---------···························----·------·--·-···· 196
Masonic Education, Special Committee on
Report of Committee ················-·····································································-- 172
Masonic
History, Report of Committee................................................. _______________ 153
Masonic Homes
Grand Master's Comments ·---···-···-·--···--··-···-····-·············································· 37
Assets, Liabilities, Reserves and Fund Balances.. ·--·-·-················---············ 317

i~}!~f,;;;~:; •. . . . · : · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ··· ··· ······:·~;;,iii

Report of Endowment Board ··-········-···············-·····················-······-··-··········-· 117
Report of Superintendent, Covina ·········-······-·······························-············-·· 116
Report of Superintendent, Union City·······-··············-································· 114

N
Necrology, Report of Committee.......................................................................... 12
New Lodges
Charters Authorized .................................................................---········---·····-·- 169
Constituted ................................................... _.................................................... . 61
81
0
P~R~~t:Ji .~~--:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 62

0
Officers of. Grand Lodge
298
Appointment of for 1968-69 ··------·--······················--------------····--···--·····--··----·····
Attendance from other Jurisdictions ............................................................ 25

~J~!fJ~~~~,;~. ~ · · · · · · · :· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · =· · · · · · · · ~!

Old Masonic Hall at Los Angeles, R~po:t of Committee on ..................--------·· 1 8
Ope~ng of 119th Annual Commurucatlon ·······················-··--··--······················· ~
Oration by Grand Orator------···············-·---··--··-·····························-··-··--············-··· 17

¥:~~{e~~fR~~~~i~t~a··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::110, ~g~

Masonic Homes Endowment Board and Fund

t::riJ; ~ii

~~~~sts····.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.-.·.·.·.·.·.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.·.-.·.-.-.-.-.·_·_·_·_·_·.-.·.-.-.·.·.·_·.-.-.·.·::.·.·:.-.·.-.-.-_-_-_-_._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._.t

Contributions Through Lodges -··················-····-·············· ·····················--·-118, 131
Honor Roll ··--······--······-······--·····-··--··---··---·-········--·-·······································118, 131
Members and Officers, 1967-68 ----··--·········································-···········-·-····· 384
Memorials ···············--···-············································································--········· 126
Proclamation of Grand Master··-····---·--·-···················-··--······--·····················-- 70
Report of Board ................................................................................................ 117

Mas~~;n~n~~!~~~:
R~~:;~~3;;~~~ion --------·--···········--········-········-············--········ 35
Action by Grand Lodge .................................................................................. 59

p
Palm D~sert L odge U.D.

2

~;!\~~e'},_~th~~ed··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 1~9

Past q.ran<! Masters

.

.

435

~~~~:nf~~ ~~~~~coa~i~;;_·-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::4, 207

Visitors at Communication ................................................................... .4, 25, 207
Past Masters and Wardens-Necrology Report ................... ...........................12, 21
Pay of Members
.
207
~~E~1!ti~ncgr~~~nt5··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 387

____

473

PROCEEDl?:JGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Per Capita
Payment by Lodges ········----·····---·······-····························-·-·············
81 412
p . . Ra~ fdr fiscal year ending; June, 1969.........................................:::::::::::295 '297
p erme n owment Fund Audit ............................................................ 316, 32i 325
erm~nent Endown:ient Fund ................................................................ 316, 321: 322
Permit Mas4:m1c Bunal of Entered Apprentice and Fellow Craft
~es<_illt:~:m Presented ·····-··············································································· 255

Code Revision ·······-··········............................................ ..................................... 205
Columbia Temple ···-··-······························-··········-··-··································· 154
Commercialism ············································-······-··-··-···--····························· 1115
Constitution Observance ···························-··············-···············-·····-···--········ 167
Correspondence ·························-·················-····-····················--·······-··············· 170
Credentials ··················-···········-·············-··········--········-···--···-····-··············-······ 206
Definition of Committee Responsibilities
and Code Review .................................................................................... 205
Distribution ·······································-··················-··--··-·-···-······················· 144
Finance ·····························-··············-··--···········-·-······-··········-······················· 288
Grievances ···-·······································································································90
Investment ........................................................................................................ 199
Jurisprudence (Reported separately on items referred
to Committee)
Library Commissioners ................................................................................ 186
Lodge Financing ·················-·······················-·-··········-··-································· 157
Masonic Clubhouses
Berkeley ...................................................................................................... 194
Los Angeles ·······································-·················-·-·····-·············-·············· 196
Masonic Education ··········································-································-······- ······· 172
Masonic History ................................................................................................ 153
Masonic Homes Endowment Board ............................................................ 117
Masonic Homes Trustees ·······················································-·-····················· 109
Memorial Temple Trustees ···-···························································-·········· 146
Necrology ·······················-··················································································· 12
Old Masonic Hall in Los Angeles ·········-·········-····························-·········-··· 198
207
~~tee;! ~~1G~~ra"i"PWl>oses.cliel>~;te<l..seP";;_~;;.iei"Y·;;;;······························
items referred to Committee)
Public Information ·······-······-··············-··-····················································· 190
Public Schools .................................................................................................. 164
Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges ···-··-·······-······································· 139
Retirement Plan ················································-··-········································· 209
Ritual (Reported separately on it.ems referred to Committee)
Taxation ·······························································-············································· 192
Youth Orders ····-···-·-···············-············-··········-··-········----··················-········· 186
Reports of Officers
Grand Chaplain-Devotional Service ·······························-······················· 5
Grand Lecturer ···-··········-···································-··················-··-··················· 104
Grand Master ···················-······························-··············································· 33
Grand Orator ·········-·········-··-··········-··············-······-·······-··············-··············· 179
Grand Secretary ·······················-·················-····-··············-······-······················· 80
Grand Treasurer ·······················-·······················--·-··········-······························· 77
Representatives of Lodges
A tte:ndance Reported ···············-···-··-······························································· 206
Roster of Attendance ·····················································-·························-··-· 387
Research 'L odges

':172

Permi~g~o~;T1h~;;·«5~e"<5ffic~~s;·c~~~h·i;;··;;.·:L~ctge············································· 256

{t1~g!fr~on Presented ··························-·-·-·····················-···········-·········--·····--··· 244
wn .........................................................
.
245
Permit Serv:ing. Liquor at Social and Other Gate~i~g~-a~d-Me·e·ti~gs.............

~;:?Jfa~i~~ ~~~-~-~~~-~. :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::: ~:~

Permit Use _Refreshment Fund to Contribute to Homes Christmas Funds
~es<_ilf tl?n Presented ...................................................................................... 253
Physi~:fQ~!Yftic·;;_ii~·~;···································· ······················· ······ ·· -········· ················· 254
~es<_ilf ti~ns Presented ................................................................259, 262, 264 265
. eg1s at10n ....................................................................................262, 263, 265' 269
Policy and General Purposes, Committee on (Reported
'
separately on items referred to Committee)
Present Annual Financial Statement February Stated Meeting

.

ProS}!fi~~~~ ~~~-~-~-~~-~~ :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Con~itu~ion Observance ·················-·······················-······································ 71
M
}'. tate Assembly .................................................................................. 76
"Ol~Gl H~flles Endowment Month ···················································-······· 70

~bi:~~~~~;~~~L:;::;-~;:: ~;_;; . ;.; :;. ~;~; ~l

Public0¥~for:.i~~f~nwR~kort.of"co~~iiiee·~;:;······· ········ · ·· ........ ........................... 68

Public Schools
'
P
···················································· 190
Grand Master's Comments .......................................................................... 53

~~~~~~oon~:i·if~~----: -:-:-: -:-:-: -:-: : -:-:-: -: -:-:-: ·:·:·: :-:-:-: -:-: -:-: : -:-: :-: -: -:-: :-: : : : : : : : : : ::::~~~::~~· 1~~
R

Receptions and Breakfasts Reported ······-················································-······· 62
Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges
Re-e~:acb~~z~~gl~~~~~\i~~~,;i~e~············································· ··························· 446
~es~lut~n Presented ···················-·······················---·-··--········-······················ 286

Refres'it~~nt )-~d~T~~~lst~;;_5··F~~d;· ········································ ·················· 286
~s?lf ti.on Presented ·······-··········--····-·························································· 253
254
0

Refundgirlua:; :aict·;;;··A.<l~-a-~ce·~;;··Affiliai:i;;;;························································

~es<?lyti?n Presented ·····-·············-···········-··················································· 277

Registi.~tto':iti~~d i\.iiie·a-··;;·:pa···men.is····-········---·········-·········································· 32787

Reports of Committees g
y
··········································-····-···············-· 8
Board of Control ............................................................................................ 14·3
~Yiiraws ················································-····-································-····················· 88
Ca o~a Freemason Publication Board ................................................ 152

gS1~JE:~~;i~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: H!

Listed ································-··················-·····················································428, 452

Masonic Education Committee Comments ................................ 172, 173, 175
Reserves for Special Purposes Audit ................................................316, 321, 350
Additions and Replacements.......... ·-················-··········-·························321, 350
Covina Entertainment Reserve ·······-··-······-···············-···-·-·················321, 354
Covina Reserve· --····-···----··························-··········-······-··········-···321, 351
Decoto :Entertainment Reserve ·······-··········--·····································321, 354
Deeoto Reeerve - · ··--······-··-··-·····-··-·················-···························321, 352
Unappropriated ReterVe ···············-······································-···············321, 353
!tesidents' Accounts Audit ···········-······-··········-··-····-····-······-···········3111, 321, 329
Residents at Homes
Covina ·······¥··-··-··············-·-························-···········-················-······················ 370
Union City ·······-··-··-······················-··-··-·····-··-··················--····-······-······- 361

471

PROCEE DINGS OF THE

Resolu tions (Also see Legisla tion)
Presen ted ---···-----·· ···········-·-····-··-·····-·········· ············································-······
······ 238
Grand Master' s Actions ____ ·-·-···-··-·····---·-···············--· ---···-·-·-··-·-·--······-----·-·····-··
· 286
Withdr awn ·······················-·····--------·-··-------··--·----········-----·-·····-··245, 276,
277, 282
Retirem ent Plan
Report of Commi ttee ··-------------------·------------·················--·-····------····------··-------··· 209
Ritual, Commi ttee on (Repor ted separat ely
on items referre d
to Commi ttee)
Roll Call ····················--·-----------··-----------·-·········--------------······--····----··----··----·--·-·---------· 3

s
Schola rship Fund Audit -----------------·---·······--········-·····--·--------------------·316,
321, 328
Serving Liquor s at Masoni c Banque t
Resolut ion Presen ted··················---·-------------·---- ------------·-·······-·· ···----------------· 251
Legisla tion ---------··------······--· ·····----··· ·-···········- ···--····--··- ·----··-·-·····-··········-··········252
Session s of Commu nicatio n

~~~~!~ 1t~~:~~o;;:-·:::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2g

Tuesda y Mornin g ----------------------------·--·-----·--------------·-·-··----·-------···-----------------·· 146

~e~:Ict:/~~rclgg··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~
~~~~~!~ ~[~~oil-~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~U

Friday Mornin g ------·-······--------·------·--·-··--·------------·-········--·-····--·····---········
·--- 298
Friday Afterno on ···········-- --····-···-·······----····
·-···-·····-·-·· ····-········ ··--······ 300
Sojour ner Relief and Board of R elief System···-······-···
-Study
Grand Master 's Recom mendat ion ------·-··--·-······---·----------·-------·-·········
·--39, 40
Action by Grand Lodge --··-··-····· ····------····················---····················
··--··-"···-· 59
Special Append ix ·---·····-···· ·····--·-············-·-··- ·-····-·-······-················-···················
······- 301
Special Ceremo nies Reporte d -············-············
··········· ······· ····················· 62
Special Commi ttee on Definit ion of Commi ttee·-·······-···
Structu re
and Code Revisio n (See Code Revisio n)
Special Commi ttees ········--··-----·······---------····-·· ······-··--·-----·······--- ----·-·······
······----------·- 381
Special Commu nication s Report ed ---·----------------·-·--- ----··--·-·····-------····-----·········· 61
Standin g Commi ttees --· --·······--·- ----··--·-··· ·····-······ ·········· ··················· ·············
··········· 378
Studen t Aid (See Califor nia Masoni c Founda tion)
Studen ts' Loan Fund Audit ·----····--···--·------··-----------····················--·-----·316, 321, 328
Supple mental Approp riations
Audito r's Report ----········· ····························· ············· ································311,
312
Financ e Commi ttee Report ---········-------------------·································--·
······· 289
Grand Treasu rer's Report --·----···-·· ·---·-····-·········-···-·-------·····
--··············------·· 77

T
Taxatio n, Report of Commi ttee on ···---·········-·······-----·-··-------··-··---·····
Telegra ms, Sent and Receive d ····-----·····----·····-·····--···-···· ····-··········-···-····-·----··········· 192
··-·········· 4
Testam entary Gifts ··-------·····-·-······--------········---················--··········-···-·--···-·1
Title Page ··-·······----························· ·········································-··········--·····-····· 18, 125
··-······- 1
Trial Record s
Listed .................................................................. ......................................
.......... 90
Commi ttee on Grievan ces Report ···························-··········--·-·····-------····--· 91
Trustee s of Masoni c Homes
Annual Report ·····-------····-··-·········--········
····-·····----·--·-··-·-·····-·---··········· 109
R~appointed --·- ··--·------·-··-------···--······--------······---·
-------······----------------------------110,
Listed ··································-----···--·--·-···----··········-·-·····················------········· 299, 385
········· 385
Trust Funds Audit ·························--·····------·-···-----·-···---------------·---·--···-·-----···---····· 321

475

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

u
Unappr opriate d Reserv e Audit .................................................................
...321, 353
Unfinis hed Busines s for 1969
Code Revisio n. Special Commi ttee .............. ............. ............. .............
.. .49, 60
Contrib utions to Endow ment Fund in Lieu of
Flower s to Ill Brothe r ....................................... ............. ............. ...254,
255
Fifty Year Pins ............. ..................................... .......................................
...54, 60
Financ e Study Commi ttee Report..........................................40,
212, 224, 231
Permit Serving Liquor at Social and Other
Gatheri ngs and Meetin gs .......................... ................................ ......245,
247
Serving Liquor s at Masoni c Banque t ....................................................
Sojour ner Relief and Board of Relief System -Study ...................251, 252
.40, 59
Unfinis hed Busine ss from 1967
Califor nia Masoni c Code Revisio n (See Code Revision)
Eligibil ity of Applica nts .......................................
............ ............. 38, 232, 234
Interim Comm ittee-E xpendi ture of Funds (See
Financ e Study Commi ttee) .......................... .............. 40, 59, 212, 224,
231
Library and Museum .................................................... .............
...............211, 212
Sojour ner Relief and Board of Relief Srstem -Study .............
... 39, 40, 59
Studen t Aid-M ulti-Pu rpose Founda tion................... .42, 43, 235,
236, 237

v
Vetera n Button s
Grand Master 's Recom mendat ion ····································-----·······--····-·········
54
Action by Grand Lodge ---···-······-····----·-·· ····················-·--···
·-········--60
Presen ted -···--·-············-------------·-----········------·--·----·············-········------·····--·--····
Visitati ons to Other Jurisdi ctions --·-···········--·················-···· ············· ····----·-··· 95
···-·····--·52, 66
Vote Requir ed
Resolu tion Presen ted ······--··········---········-------··········-······························-······· 240
Legisla tion .......................... ............. ........................... .......................................
. 242
Voting in Grand Lodge
Resolut ion Presen ted ---···············-···········-·······-··-···-···············-···--··-·--·-·-·-·-·· 242
Legisla tion ············--······----·-········--·-----······-·····-----········----···-----·-···············------- 243

w
Wadlei gh Fund Audit ............................................................................

316, 321, 326

y
Youth Orders
Grand Master' s Comme
·····················--·····-··--··············--·-······----······-·--·--·· 44
G-rand Master 's Proclamnts
ation .......................................
................................. 68
Report of Commi ttee on ·······---·--·····-········-··--------·-···--- ---------··-··············
····· 186
Speake rs at Grand Lodge
..............................................................................
27

