·Grand Lodge of Califi rnia.·
, G o OIE J••l!~

-, Grand l:'err~t ry of the M. •, W. ', <•[&LJ L0tlga o
or

ot th Jtlrl :lid i n of t Jifori I , do l "1'eli1 ~e ilr
ain 11 true and f•i

of that f
I II

d .fic.,,

ht ( t. t4

I T,

I. 590.i. and tt11rai1111'4!1 • 1 FriJay Ut tbirt

11

<b.y <>[

·,1 mont

~n ltstimony Whtrtof
I have hereunto appended my offi ·

George

W.

:lfunfer

Grand ...Alaster

1905

--------,

Grand Lodge of California.
I, GEORGE JOHNSON, Grand Secrete.ry of the M.·. W.'. Gra.ud Lodge of
Free and Accepted Ma.sous of the jurisdiction of California, do hereby certify
that the following pages conte.in a true e.nd faithful transcript of the proceedings of that Grand Body at its Fifty.sixth Annual Communication-commenced at the City of San Francisco on Tuesday, the tenth day of October,
A. L . 5905. e.nd terminated on Frida.y the thirteenth day of said month.

~n irstimony Whereof
I have hereunto appended my offici.I signature and have affixed the

California, nt the office

this first day of De-

Thousand Nine Hundred and Five.

W.
.9
1905

.:Nun/e,.

PROCEEDINGS
OF THE

M... W...GRAND l.10DGE
01'

ff ree and *ccepted )1ason·s
OF THB

Jurisdiction of California,
AT

IT~

FIFTY-SIXTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
llKLD AT

The Masonic Temple, in the City of San Francisco:
l'O~l!lll!NCISO

ON

Tuesday, October lOth, A. O. J905, A. L. 5905,
A,!; IJ 'l'l!l!Mf:-IAT~U O:i"

Friday, Octo~er l3th, A. D. l905, A. L. 5905.

SAN FRANCISCO :
FRANK EASTMAN

& Co., P111NTERs, 50!) CLAY Snc11111'.
l!JQ,j,

GRAND OFFICERS
OF THk!

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR·NIA
1·0R

The Year Commencing October, A. L 5905.

M. ·• W. ·.MOTLEY H. FLINT,_. .. _. .... GRAND MASTER, . : ... L.oH Angeles;
R. '. W. ·• EDWARD H. HART; ... .. . DKP. GHAND MASTER,. Berkeley;
R. ·. W. ·. GEOilGE M. PERINE,. .... SKN. GRAND WARDEN,Su11 F1·ancisco;
R.·. W.·. REUBEN H. LLOYD, .. . . .. JuN. GRAN~ WARDEN.Sim Franci~co;
V.·. W.'. EDWARD COLEMAN,. . ... G-RAND TREASURER, . .. San Fra11cisco;
v.-. IV.'. (}EORGE JOHNSON, . .. .. . GRAND SECRETARY, .. . SanFrmzcisco;
v.·. w... WILLIAM H. EDWARDS,.. GRAND LECTURER .... . San Francisco;
J' ·. R.'. JACOB NIETO... . . .. : .....GRAND CHAPLAIN, ... .. San Ji'rancisco;
·w." OSCAR LAWLOR, . ..... . .. GRA'.l'P ORATOR, •.. ... Los Angeles:
W. '. HARRY S. JOHNSON, ..•. AssT. GR. SECRETARY;. San Francisco;
W. ·.CHARLE~ D. BAB.~ETT, •. GRAND MARSHAL, • ••.•. Santa Rosa;
w.·. CHAUNCEY c. BUSH;. ; .GR. BIBLE BEARER, .. . Redding;
W. ·.ALBERT L. REED, ..... . GR. SWORD BEARER, .. 8ui. u11;
W. ·,SAMUEL PRAGER, :...... GR. STA-N~P BEARER, . . Los Angeles,·
JV.·. THOMAS J. BAKER, .. , .. SEN. GR. DEACON, .... Sacramento;
JV." ADELB'T W .DA '\· rnsoN,. JµN. GR. DEACON, .. . . Stockton;
W.'. EMIL'MAYBEl\I,. ... .. .... SEN. GR. STEWARD, .. . Chico;
JV . . JOHN T. MORRISON, .... JuN. GR. STE.WARD,. .. B erkele,11;
w.·. JOSEPH R. GARTHSID~~.. GRAND Pu!isurVANT, .. Pomona;
W. •.SAMUEL D. MAYER, .... GRAND 0RGAN.rST, ..• ,San Francisco;
W.•. GEORGE P. ADAM8, ..... GRAND TYLE~,~ ..... .. San Francisco.

GRAND LODGE
OF

FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF

THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA.
FIFTY-SIXTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the Jurisdiction of California commenced its Fifty·sixth
Annual Communication at the Masonic Temple in the City of
San Francisco on Tuesday, the tenth day of October, A. L. 5905,
at 10 o'clock, A. M.

PROCEEDINGS OF '.l'HE

[Oct. 10,

1905.J

7

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Upon calling the roll of members there were tound present the
following-

The Grand Master filled the vacant place by the appointment
pro tempore of w.·. HENRY RAMEL as Grand Sword Bearer.

ClRAND OFFICERS :

There being a sufficient . representation, the Grand Lodge was
opened in ~mplt cfarm, with music by the choir and prayer by the
Grand Chaplain.

'.l'he ftf.'.

,,
••

"

w.·. GKOKGE w. HUllTER,••••••••.•••••••• . Grand Master;

U.·. w.·. HOTLEY H. FLlKT•..... ..........•• . Dtp. Grand Masttr;
R.·. lV.·. EDWABD H. HART, . .... ... .. .... . . . . . . SeniorGrand Warden;
~.·. w.·. Gto~OBOE M. PBBtNE,. .. . ... .. .. ... . . . Junior Grar,d Warden;

v... W.·. EDWARD COLBlll.lN, . .... .. .... . . . . . . Grand Treasurer;
T'· W.'. GEORGE JOBI/BOii, •••• •.••.• •••..•••. . Grand Secretary;

v. ·. w... WILLIAll H. EDWARDS, ... . . . . . ..... Grand Lectw·er;
V. '., R.·. JACOB N1ETO,

• , ••••••••••.••. , •••• Grand Ohaplatn;

W:·. GEORGE E. CH URCH, .......... . ...... . Grand Ora!or;
W.·. BARBY 8. JosNsoN, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ABBletant Grand SeC1·eu1ry;

w... GEOUGE F. RODDEN, . ........ . ....... . Grand Marshal:
W.·. 0BA UNCEY C. BuBH, .... . . .... ... . . . . Grand BilJle Bearer;
w. ·. SAMUEL PRAGER,:.•••••. .• . •.••• •••• . Grand Standarcl Bearer;
W.·. FREDERICK L. ARBOGAST • • • .. . . • • . .. ~·entor Grand Deacon :
W.·. DELOS W. SMYTHE, ............ .. . .. Junior Grand Deacon;
W.'. JosHPH R. GARTB SIDE, . .... .. . ..... . . . Senior Grand Steward:
THOIJIAB J . ~ICHARDB, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Junior Grand Steward ;
w... JoBN G. GLASSON, . • . •• . •••• •. ••.• ••• Grand. Purauivant;
W.·. SAMUEL D. MAYER, ........ ........ ... •Graml Organist;
w... GEORGE P. ADAMB, ..... ...... . . : ••••• (}rand Tyler.

w.·.

PAST GRAND OFFICERS :

The M.·. w... WILLIAM A. DAVIES, ............ ... • Past Grand. Illas/el';
" llf.·. W.·. GEORGE C. PERKillB, .... . ............ . Past Grand Master;
" lit;·. W.·. SAMUEL c. DENSON, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • Past Gi anrl Illas/er;

"

M.·. W.•, EDMUNO 0. ATEINS0:-1 ,••• . : ... .•...• • Paa! Grand MaHter;
w.·. HIRAM N. RUOEEn, •••••• . .•..• • .•.. Past Grand Ma.~ter ;
" Ill.'. W.·. HENRY 8. ORME, .................... • Past Grand .illaster;
" M. ·. W.·. JAMES B. STEVENS ,••••• .•..•.• •••.•.• Pa.,t Grand Jt!aster ;
'' M.·. W.·. WrLLAM T. LttcAs, ...... . ........ , .... Pn1il Grand Alaster;
" M.·. w... 'l'BOMAS FLINT, ..................... • Past (}raiid Illas/er;
. ' M. ·. J.11: •• FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI, . ..... . ... .. .. Pait Gran<l Master;
" M.'. w.·. CHARLES L. PATl'Oll,.. ......... ...... . l'aet Grund Mastf.r;
·• M.'. W.'. WILLIAM 8. WELLS, • •. •• • •... •· . •••• . Past Grarid Master;
.• M.'. w... ORKIN 8. HENDERSON, . . . . • ••• • • • . .•• . Past 'Grand Mas/er ;
"

"

llf.'.

M.'. W.'. CHARLES w. NuTTnw ..... ~ .......... PastG..anrlllfast1r ;

" R.'. W.·. JOHN Q, ADAMS, •• . .•••.... .•• •. . .• . . Past Dep. Grand Mal!Jl.er;
" R .., W. ·, CHARL!iS E. MITCHELL, .• •••• . •. ..• .• l'ast Junior Grand Warden;
" R.·. '!¥.·. JACOB H. NEFF , ...... , .......:, ••• .. Past Junior Grand Warfien;
" R.'. w... FREDERICK F. DARSB,. . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. Past Juniol' Grand Warden;

And the representatives of two hundred and thirty-four chartered Lodges and delegates from eight Lodges under dispensation,

The Grand Master announced the appointment of the following
committeesHarry S. Johnson,
William Robbie,
On Credentials: . ....... ...... . . .. ...• . .. · -( Theo. Milliken,
I Albert E. Clark,
John Flagg.

r
l

On Charters : ...........•..... . .•••......

Willarcl l<'. Williamson,
Sidney Espey,
Carlton C. Ca.se,
Julien ~~. Pardee,
}<'rank W. Robinson.

j
l

Henry M. Owens,
Curtis J. Monroe,
Arthur S. Moore,
On By·Laws of Lodgw: .. . ...... .. . . .... .
Rodolph W. Meek;
I.. George H. Rurcba.rd.

l

The Grand Lodge was then called off until one·thirty o'clock
this afternoon.

~n

®tnnd ~odge.
AFTERNOON SESSION,

}

Tuesda)', October rofh, A. L 5905.
The Grand Lodge was called on at one-thirty o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.

8

PROOEEDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 10,

The Grand Master then delivered his Annual Address to the
Grand Lodge, as follows : -

I 005.)

GHANO LvDGE OF CALIFOHNlA.
KANSAS.

George S. Green, P. G. M.
LOUISIAN.A.

BRETHREN OF THE GRAND LoDGE:

As we grow older, time seems to go more swiftly, and the past
twelve months have gone so rapidly that I can hardly realize that
a year has passed since we were assembled here as Masons and
members of the Grand Lodge.
No doubt some who were here last year have since passed away;
others are perhaps unable to attend by reason of illness, and of the
older members who are with us again we can observe in a few the
changes wrought by time, and see that their step is a little less
steady, and th.at they are not quite so vigorous as they were one
year ago. The great majority of those present are, as a matter of
course, new men, and it is their first appearance as members of
the Grand Lodge. It is a pleasure to see so many old familiar faces,
and also to greet those who are with us for the first time.
To me the recollections of our Annual Communications are of
the most pleasant nature, and the friendships formed here. will be
dearly treasured by me all through life. Coming, as we do, from
every portion of this g.reat State, belonging to this noble Fraternity,
and bound together by . the most ·sacred ties, we do not meet . as
strangers, but as ·brothers, and as lmch I extend to you all a Fra·
ternal greeting and cordial welcome, and I hope tl~at this meeting
wlll be so pleasant and profitable to each of you that it may !Ong
dwell in your memory.

· Samuel Manning Todd, P. G. M.
MAINE.

Marquis Fayette King, P. G. J. W.
MICHIGAN.

Charles Washington Pick, P. G. M.
William Dunham, P. G. M.
)IONTANA.

James Edmond Callaway, P. G. J . \V
Wilbur Fisk Sanders, P . G. M.
:MINNESOTA.

James Armel Kiester, P. G. M.
MISSOURI.

John D. Vincil •. G. Sec.
~EBRASKA.

Robert Wilkinson Furnas, P. G. M.
NEW JERSEY.

We have been sing_ularly blessed. during the year. There has not
been a death of any Grand Officer or Past Grand Officer in this
Jurisdiction, for which we are exceedingly thankful.

Thomas M. Tilden, P. G. M.

Deaths of prominent Masons in other Grand Jurisdictions have
been reported to me as follows :

Jesse B. Anthony, P .. G. M.

COLORADO.
Oli~er

NEW YORK.

OREGON.
Theodor~

Wygant, P. G. T .

Augustus Whittemore, P . D, G. M.
PENNS YLVANIA •
. FLORIDA.

Angus Patterson, P. G. M.

Charles M. Swain, J .° G. W.
George E. Wagner, P. G. M.

IOWA.

Almon R. Dewey, P. G. M.
John Newton Mcclanahan, P. G. M..

RHODE ISLAND.

James Elisha Tillinghast, G. M.

9

10

P.ROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

[Oot. 10,

SOUTH DAKOTA.

Albert Wells Coe, P. G. M.
VERM ONT.

Ozro Meacham, P. G. M.
WISCON SIN.

Emmons Elijah Chapin, P. G. M.
Oliver Libbey, P. G. M.
MEMBERSH IP.

For several years past each successive Grand Master in his
Annual Address has alluded to the general prosperity of this Institution and its phenomenal growth in numerical strength, each ·one
showing a marked increase over the other, but the year just closed
has witnessed a gain not quite as large as was made last year.
llllght cllapensatlons to form new Lodges have been granted, and
there hns been 11 net gain of two thou.s and one hundred and five
memller11, maklnK the total number of Lodges within this Jurisdiction two l111111l n•il 1111<1 ninety-nine, with a membership at the present
t I11111 of thirty 011<1 I houaand, slx hundred and nineteen.
Thia 1·11plc1 h11·rc1U1e Is worthy of reflection. We trust that it was
not <•au1ecl by a desire to make Masonry popular, and a resort to
methods that are not sanctioned by the best usages of the Fraternity.
It may be attributed in a large· measure, I believe, to the general
prosperity which continues to prevail in our State; by the attractions it has in the way o~ natural resources, climatic ~onditions,
educational advantages, business opportunities, and generally as a
State most suitable for homes, all of which has drawn the attention
of the people 9f the East in our direction and resulted in a large
immigration to California.
We must rememl.i er also that the na.tural Increase in population
is considerable, and it will be observed that of those who are now
becoming identified with this Fraternity, the great majority of them
are young men. They are young men of promise, a credit to the
Lodge to which they belong, and no doubt will be greatly benefited
by their Masonic associations.

1905.]

GRAND LODGE OF 0ALIFOHNIA.

u

There is something in Masonry which attracts men; it should be
left to them, however, to say whether they wish to join or not.
There should be 110 solicitation whatever. Let them come in of their
own free will. No man, however humble, should be kept out whose
life is clean, and no man should be admitted whose character will
not bear the closest scrutiny.
There is a feeling among some of the older heads that Masonry
is becomiqg too common, and that sufficient care is not exercised in
the selection of material. Our constant aim should be to have
within our ranks good and true men, and none of questionable
standing.
In every community Masons should be easily recognized by all
as men of character and honor, and this high standard can only
be maintained by caution as to the admission of applicants. No
member of a Lodge should be actuated by bad motives In the use of
the ballot. Petty spite, personal jealousy, and little business diffl·
culties should not be permitted to influence a Brother in considering the fitness of an appllcant for membership. There are seasons in some Lodges when, because of some disagreement or disturbance, it becomes impossible for even the best men In the community to gain admission thereto. This ls all wrong, but It is
unavoidable. It has always been so. My belief is that conditions In
this respect are constantly improving, and there is no reason to be
discouraged if once in a great while an epidemic of that nature
breaks out in certain locallties.
Very few dispensations to re-ballot have been requested this year.
Most, if not all, were from Lodges In the cities, and In several cases
they were occasioned by reason of a similarity of names and a mistake as to the identity of the person. On the whole I believe the
affairs of the subordinate Lodges have worked smoothly, and the
Inspectors, as a general rule, speak only in terms of praise of tli.e
conditions prevalllng in their respective districts.
·This has been a year of material growth; cornerstones have been
laid, several Temples are now fo course of construction, some have
been dedicated and others are being planned. Generally speaking,
the financial condition of the Lodges is all that could be desired.
MASONIC HOME.

In the month of April I visited the Masonic Home and spent a
night there. The Brothers and Sisters and the children were Invited
to the assembly hall during the evening and we all passed a couple
of hours very pleasantly. We had some very good playing by the
band, some selections upon the piano, songs by the little ones, and

12

'

I

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 10,

there was a short talk by myself, in an· endeavor to speak a few
words of comfort and cheer to the older ones, and of advice and encouragement to the children.
I was struck most forcibly by the advanced age of the grown
people. It seemed to me that nine out of ten were over seventy and a
number of them over eighty years of age. There are to be seen the
two extremes ·of childhood and old age, and it is hard to tell what infiuence association with the very old will have upon the very young,
under such circumstances, but it is evident that if it were ~ot for the
presence of the children the Home would be cheerless indeed, and
the discontent of the older people much more manifest than it is
now. Some allowance must be made for the misfortunes and infirmities of old age. No complaints were made to me, and I made it
a point to visit most of the Brothers there. They are feeble and not
a.ble to work. Some of the founders of the Home, in their enthusiasm, declared that in time it would become mainly self-supporting. I do not believe that time will ever come. If it were to do over
again, it may be that it would have been better not to have built the
Home but to have created a fund of some sort which could have been
used to help subordinate Lodges when necessary to support their
aged and unfortunate members, their widows .and orphans, they to
remain· among their friends in the places where the Lodges were
located, and the associations were dear to them.
But.the Home has been established; it is splendidly located, it
will have to be maintained and it should be the pride of the Masons
of California. It is too much to expect the men who are there, owing
to their enfeebled condition, to labor upon the farm or in -the orchard
or vineyard, and it will not pay to employ help to carry on such
work with the expectation that any profit will come from il:. While
there is more ground than is ac.t ually needed, it is good property,
with a prospect of large increase 'in value, and in my judgment it
would not be wise to dispose of any considerable ;iortion of it now
but to endeavor to preserve it as it is for some years hence and leave
it for those who compose some fut.ure Grand Lodge to determine
what shall be done with the surplus land, if any, or whether it shall
be extensively cultivated or not. The cost of maintaining the Home
is quite a tax upon the Lodges and to some of them an actual
burden. Wherever it can be .don-a to advantage the expense should
be reduced. In purchasing supplies, quality considered, the very
best bargains should be obtained; While it is the desire of every one
that everything reasonably required for the support and comfort of
the inmates should be furnished, we have a right to expect and exact
caution in the expenditures and economy in the management of its

l!:J05. J

GRAND l;ODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

affairs. In my judgment the Superintendent, Dr. Rucker and his
~stimable wife, are just the right persons to be in charge of the
Home, and they feel the responsibility and are endeavoring to conduct it as they would if it were a private institution of which they
were the owners. It does not take one who has a household of his·
own very long to see that Mrs. Rucker is not only a. good manager
but a superior woman in every respect. It is indeed fortunate for
us that w~ were able to induce. them to accept the position, and although there are many things to try their patience ln 'the discharg~
of their duties, I hope they will be content to remain and administer affairs for a Jong time to come.
While in the south last May visiting Lodges, the Southern California Masonic Home Association had just purchased the old San
Gabriel Hotel for a Masonic Home, and I was taken out to see the
property. It comprises ten acres, is situated in the beautiful San
Gabri.el Valley, with a fine view of the surrounding country, is only
eleven miles· from the City of Los Angeles, upon the line of an
electric road, and i doubt if a more desirable location for the purpose
could have been found in that section anywhere, and I am sure such
a property could not have been purchased elsewhere for eighteen
thousand dollars, the price paid for it, or for anything like that
sum. It had been used as a hotel in boom times, but larger and
more expensive ones had been constructed in towns near it and this
one had to close for want of patronage. The grounds are nicely
laid out and well shaded. When I was there the building was being
renovated and would soon be ready for occupancy. It is sightly,
large and commodious, with .s pacious rooms, which were partly furnished, broad corridors and wide porches, and although it was built
for a hotel, it could not have been much better planned had it been
designed for a Masonic Home, intended to accommodate from one
.hundred
one hundred and fitty people; and I am confident if one
should begin now to undertake to duplicate this or to buy a site and
construct a building in every respect suitable for a Home, but not
more so than this, It could not be done for Jess than three or four
times the purchase price of this property.

.to

SPECIAL COMMUNIOATIONS.

During the year Special Coniinunications of the Grand Lodge
have been held for the following purposes:
DEDIOATION OF MASONIC HALLS.

Pasadena Aug. 19, 1905, Masonic Temple, Motley H. Flint D. G. M.
Covelo, April 25, 1905, Masonic Temple, Edward H. Hart S. G. W.

14

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 10,

Fon LAYING CORNERSTONES.
Fresll'O, Oct. 26, 1904, Cumberland Pres. Ch., Wiley J . 1.'innin P .G.M.
Colma, Oct. 29, 1904, Masonic Chapel, Edward H. Hart s. G. w.
Hollywood, Nov. 23, 1904, Union H'h Sch'l, Motley H. Flint D.G.M.
Eureka, Nov. 26, rno4, City Hall, Geo. W. Hunter G. M.
Berkeley, Dec. 23, 1904, M. E. Church South, Geo. W. Hunter, G.M.
San Jgse, Jan. 3, 1905, Hall of Justice, Edward H. Hart S. G. w.
Watsonvqle, Feb. 11, 1905, Library Bldg., Edw. H. Ha.rt s. G. w.
Alhambra, April 29, 1905, Hh. Sch'! Bldg., Motley H. Flint D.G.M.
Santa Clara, June 10, 1905, Hh. Sch'! Bldg., Edw. H. Hart s. G. w.
Ocean Park, June 10, 1905, Masonic Temple, Motley H. Flint D.G.M.
Santa Rosa, June 24, 1905, Masonic Temple, Geo. M. Perine J.G.W.
Los Angeles, July 29, 1905, Masonic Temple, Motley H. Flint D.G.M.
Santa Maria, Sept. 23, 1905, Masonic Temple, Edw. H. Hart s. G. w.
Los Angeles, Sept. 25, 1905, Masonic Temple, Motley H. Flint D.G.M.
Lakeport, Sept. 30, 1905, Masonic Temple, Edw. H. Hart, S.G.W.
Susanville, Sept. 23, 1905, High School, Julien· E. Pardee.
Cedarville, August 19, l!J05, High School, Ernest C. Bonner,
Upon examining the report of the Grand Secretary, statements
will be found as to the following subjects: Dispensations for new
~odges, New Charters granted, Lodges constituted, Special dispensations, Amendments to the By-Laws of Lodges, Unfinished business.
MlSCELLANEO"GS MAT'l'ERS.

On the 12th of May the furniture, regalia, charter and seal of
"Russian River" Lodge, No. 181, were destroyed by fire, and on the
9th of July, "North Butte" Lodge, No. 230 was burned out everything being a total loss,
.
'
May 31st Bro. Thomas Morton tendered his resignation as Trustee
of the Masonic Widows and Orphans Home; the same. was accepted
and Past Grand Master Orrin S. ·Henderson appointed to succeed
him.
In February, as usual, Inspectors were appointed, and they are to
be commended for the good work they are doil'lg.
· I had the pleasure of the company of the Grand Lecturer for ten
days on my trip South, and I can say that he ls untiring in his
eft'orts to secure uniformity i.'q the work, and that he and the Inspectors are bringing the work up to a' high state of perfection to
all of which may be attributed much . of the interest and zeai' of
officers a~d members for several years past.
Some correspondence has been had during the year with the
Grand Master of Nevada in relation to a matter concerning- the in-

1905.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

15

yaslon of the Jurisdiction of one of the Nevada Lodges by one of
our -Lodges; and also with the Grand Master of Connecticut as to a
claim made by one of the Lodges of that State against one of ours;
and also with the Grand Master of Oregon with relation to a claim
made by one of our Lodges against one within his Jurisdiction, but
I am pleased to state that all of such matters have been satisfactorily settled or are in a fair way of adjustment.
.
PHILIPPINES.

The Master of " Manila" Lodge sent me a copy of Section 62 or
the new Penal Code being prepared by the Commission for the government of the Philippine Islands, which Section was as follows:
"Section 62: All persons who shall meet together for the purpose of forming, or who have formed any society whose meetings
~re held in secret, or whose purposes and operations are not openly
published, or whose members are required not to disclose any of the
details of Its organization or operation, not authorized in writing
by the government of the Philippine Islands, or who shall after the
passage of this Act continue membership in any such society not so
authorized, sha,ll be punished by a fine of not more than two
thousand pesos or by Imprisonment for not more than one year or
both;. providing that any such persons who shall after a complete
disclosure of all the details of the organization and operation of such
society prove that the objects and ends of the society are legal, shall
be relieved of the penalty herelnabove provided.'' .
While It was evident that It was not the Intention of the lawmakers to have the provisions of this Section apply to worthy fraternal or benevolent societies, still they would come within its
letter, and It was thought and feared that if In the course of time
its enforcement should fall into the hands of prejudiced persons, it
might work a hardship on those of the Masonic Fraternity belonging
to Lodges In those Islands under charter from this Jurisdiction.
Accordingly a communication was addressed by me to the War
Department calling attention to the provisions of this law and the
trouble that might come from It, and within the last month I received
a reply stating that the original Section bad been struck out and the
following substituted:
" Section 62: All persons who shall meet together for the purpose of forming or who shall form any secret society, or who shall
after the passage of this Act continue membership In a society
already formed, havi ng for its object In whole or In part the promotion of treason, rebellion or sedition, or the promulgation of any
political opinion or policy, shall be punished" by fine not exceeding

16

PROCEEDINGS m' THE

[Oct. 10,

two thousand pesos, or by imprisonment not exceeding one year or
b<ith."
To this law there could be no objection whatever.
PRINTING.

A plan will be recommended by the committee appointed for that
purpose, relative to eliminating from the printed proceedings much
of the matter that now finds place therein, with the object of effecting a great saving thereby. If the plan or plans proposed do not
meet with the approval of the Grand Lodge in their entirety, they
should be modified in some respects, or some other suggested,
whereby the cost of printing could be mat~rlally reduced if It can
be done without detriment to the Fraternity. If it be a fact that it·
is unnecessary to publish the names of the members of the Lodges
and some other things that appear each year, at great expense, a
change should be made, and the money thus paid out applied to a
more useful purpose, or if not needed at all; and a saving could be
made in other respects, it might be in time there could be a reduction
in the Grand Lodge tax.
DECISIONS.

With about three hundred Lodges and more than thirty thousand
Masons in this Jurisdiction, it is to be expected that in the course
of a year a good many questions will be submlttted to the Grand
Master. Of the .many presented to me, it is li~ely that some· In
principle had been previously decided, but at least a few were new,
and I have selected and herewith submit for the considel'ation of the
Grand Lodge, the following decisions:
1. The Constitution provides that no Lodge shall admit a visitor
without due inquiry or examination. The term, " due inquiry," is
not satisfied by the consideration of letters ~r written statements
only, given by the Master or Secretary of the Lodge of which he
claims to be a member, to the effect that he is a Master Mason in
good standing. Documentary e.vidence alone, no matter of . what
character, is not sufficient to admit him, but he must prove himself
by a personal examination. Where, however, he has a statement
from the Secretary of a Lodge, under seal, that he is a Master Mason
in good standing, and is unable fo pass a rigid test, very slight
evidence by examination should be sufficient to admit him.
2. The Master of a: Lodge asked the following question: "Where
there are nine candidates to be voted for at the same meeting, can
:Ne have them all voted for at the same time, and then if the first
ballot is unfavorable, order a separate ballot as to each?"

1905. l

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

17

MY. answer was "No." Such a procedure would hardly be a fair
expression of the will of the Lodge, and it would give an objectionable applicant a better opportunity to come in.· In speaking of balloting for a candidate, the Constitution uses the singular number.
There is no provision for grouping candidates, and there can be no
reb;lloting when two or more bl.ack balls appear.
3. Charges may be brought against a Fellow Craft Mason for a
Ma3o::iic o:!l'ense, just as if he were a Master Mason. The procedure
ie the same In all cases and like penalties may be imposed.
4. . A. B., a Master Mason, was charged with unmasonlc conduct;
the charges being presented by the Master of his Lodge. By ~equest
the case was transferred by the Grand Master to another Lodge for
trial. The accused was found guilty and sentenced by the Lodge
which tried him, to be suspended. He some time later petitioned
the Lodge of which he was a member to be'reinstated and restored
to all his rights and privileges, and the question for decision is,
which Lodge should act in the matter-his own Lodge or the Lodge
which tried him. I held that It should be the Lodge that pronounced the judgment of suspension, which sentence was for an
indefinite period. Section 3 of Article V of Part VI of the Constitution, provides that a Lodge may annul any such sentence of suspension promulgated by itself; and In Section 5 It is declared that
when any suspended Mason desires to petition thf Grand Lodge for
restoration, he shall first make application to the Lvdge by which he
was suspended, and there is no provision by which a sentence pronounced by one Lodge may be annulled by another. It cannot be
maintained that the applicant was In fact tried and sentenced by his
own Lodge, and that the other was merely the instrument to carry
out its will 11.nd purposes. The Lodge to which the case was trans·
ferred obtained complete jurisdiction to try it, and either to acquit
or convict, according to the evidence; and if found guilty to impose
a penalty, and it alone can wipe out the sentence if so disposed.
5. On March 5th, 1883, C. D. was suspended from member::Jhlp by
his Lodge for non-payment of dues. He was then owing ~36. On
November 7th, 1904, at a stated meeting, It was reported t<;> his
Lodge that he wished to be restored to membership ul!on paying
$36 and having his dues since suspension remitted, and on motion 1t
was unanimously accepted, but no ballot was had thereon. At the
stated meeting on December 5th, 1904, the minutes of the meeting
ot November 7th were read and approved, and upon discussion as to.
the validity of the restoration it was resolved to have C. D. sign a
petition for restoration and to have it Ile over for one month, which
was done. At the stated meeting or. January 2d, 1905, the petition

2

18

PnocEEDINGS OF '!'HE

[Oct. 10,

for restoration was rejected by ballot, it failing to receive the support of three-fourths of the members present and on motion the resolution of November 7th, restoring him to membership and accepting
the $36 was rescinded. Upon this state of facts it was decided that
the vote taken on November 7th, restoring him to membership, was
void for two reasons mainly: First, because the application was not
!ala over for one month; and second, because a vote thereon was
not taken by ball-ballot, and that the approval of the minutes of
November 7th, at the meeting held on December 5th, 1904, did not
affect the matter.
6. The daughter of a Master Mason in good standing when he
died, married to a man who has been a Mason, but dimitted, and who
has been out of standing for many years, and who has attempted
suicide and is sick in a hospital, the wife Being destitute, is entitled to consideration at the hands of the Lodge to which her father
belonged at the time of his de_a th. The right to relief depends upon
the fact that she is the daughter of a Master Mason, and if worthy
herself she did not forfeit any right by reason of an unfortunate
marriage or the misfortunes of matrimony.
7. Th~ minutes of a Lodge show that E. F. received the E. A.
Degree therein, September 9th, 1862, petitioned for advancement
J'!ovember 26th, 1887, was balloted for on December 24th, 1887, and
declared rejected. At the stated meeting in May, 1905_, he sent to the
Lodge $15, and requested, without presenting a written petition, that
he be advanced, and filed an affidavit to the effect that he did not
petition the Lodge for advancement on November 26th, 1887, nor
authorize any one to present his name a t that time, nor give his
consent thereto. The question asked by the Lodge was, should it
be governed by its own record of the matter, or should it receive and
act upon evidence from the. outside. The ruling was that the Lodge
should be governed by its own record; the ballot taken on December
24th, 1887, should be treated as a denial of advancement by the
Lodge, and that he could only proceed now by petition, reference and
clean ballot the same as if he had not received the first Degree.
8. While Masonry i s not a religious institution and should not
mix up with religious matters, or favor any creed or sect, yet if the
members of a Lodge or any considerable number of them, see fit
to assemble in the hall, and walk together to church, and attend
service there in a body on Easter Sunday, I do not see that any harm
to ' Masonry can come from It, and know of nothing to prevent it.
No dlspensation could be granted to wear regalia on such an occasion.

1905.J

GRAND LODGE Ol!' CALIFORNIA.

19

9. · There can be no valid objection to the appointment of a committee to draught resolutions of respect to the memory of a deceased
Brother, who upon the request of his widow was buried by the Commandery of which he was a member, although his Lodr;e took no
part in the funeral.
10. A Lodge does not have the right to bury a man presumed to
be a non-affiliated Mason, whose dimit was granted in 1886 but had
never been signed by him, and who resided In the immediate vicinity
of two Lodges in this State for eighteen years, and never visited
either of them, or made himself known as a Mason, although just
before his death he requested, through his son and daughter, that he
be buried by the Masons.
11. A Lodge with a membership of thirty-five and which owns its
own hall, has an annual income of about $330, Its yearly expenditures being about $304, with $250 in the treasury January 1st, 1905,
out of which certain bills were to be paid, may if It sees fit to do so
purchase a pianola at a cost of $250, $50 to be paid down and there:
after $10 a month until paid for, and the payments may be made
from the general fund or as funds accumulate, where the Instrument
is to be used by the Lodge in conferring the Degrees and can be so
used to advantage, although the Lodge does not own, but leases from
the local Eastern Star Chapter the piano to which the pianola is
attached.
·
12. In August, 1904, a petition for the Degrees was flied, and at
the time the petitioner was a resident within the jurisdiction of the
Lodge, and In every respect eligible to membership. Before the committee could interview him and because of unforeseen circumstances
be was obliged to remove and change his residence to an Eastern
State. No report was made by the committee and nearly a year
after the matter was referred to them, the petitioner asked to withdraw his petition and have the money refunded. It seems like a
hardship to deny the request under the circumstances, but I felt
constrained to hold that the application could not be withdrawn.
Section 3 of Article III of Part III of the Constitution provides
that, "No application shall be withdrawn after reference to committee except as hereinafter provided in this Section." The only
exceptions are that " If the committee find the applicant disqualified
in consequence of insufficient residence or physical disablllty and
find no other objection to him, they shall make a special report
thereupon In which case the Master may direct the withdrawal of
the application without further action."
This applicant had been a r esident within the Jurisdiction of the
Lodge during six months next preceding the date of his application

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 10,

and was such at the time of applying; therefore his request for
w.ithdrawal did not come within either of the· exceptions provided
by the Constitution.
13. After a petition was received and referred to a committee,
but the day before the stated meeting at which it was to report, a
member of the Lodge went to the Master and made a verbal objection
to the candidate. The committee reported favorably, but Its report
was not permitted to come before the Lodge.
The Master inquires: "Whether he should order a ballot, or
should the objection hold good, and if no ballot is taken, how long a
time should e_lapse before he should declare the petition rejected? "
The Constitution gives a member an undoubted right to object,
and a fair construction of the .provision Is, that the objection may
be made at any time after the petition has been received and referred, provided it be interposed before his Initiation. Its language ·
is: "No Lodge shall have m'o re than one ballot for the Degrees;
but, though an applicant may be elected to teceive them, if, at any
time before his initiation, objection be made by any member, he
shall not receive the Degree until such objection shall have been
withdrawn," etc. If a member may object and prevent initiation
after election, certainly he should have the right and power to do so
before election, and it should be treated in ·an respects as one interposed afterwards, and unless withdrawn would hold good for sixty
days from the time it was made, and finally result in a rejection. ·
14. On June 10th, 1904, G. H. was elected to receive the Degrees,
and on the 21st of the same month the Entered Apprentice Degree was
conferred upon him. In December, 1904, he was indicted for steal-'
ing mail matter, and on being arraigned confessed his guilt. The
Federal Judge before whom he was tried found from the evidence
that he was insane at the time of the trial, and that he had been
insane for fourteen months, which period would not only cover the
period when the offense was committed, but would go back to a time
prior to his presenting his petition for membership in the Lodge.
He was committed to a hospital for the insane and is now confined
therein. The question submitted to me was: "Was not the action
of the Lodge in accepting the petition of G. H. irregular and its
proceedings null and ·void, for the reason that he was found to be
insane?"
My answer was in the negative. In the first place neither he nor
the ·Lodge is bound by the finding of the Court as to his being
insane at the time he joined the Lodge, or the commission of the
offense, in any action by the Lodge to cancel his membership because

1905.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

21

of his insanity or to try him for a Masonic offense. His petition was
presumably presented in the regular way; a committee appointed to
investigate his fitness to be a member; .the committee reported
favorably; he was elected and rec~lved the First Degree, before any
discovery was made. It does not appear that he made any fraudulent
representations either in his petition or to the committee, or did anything to deceive them or the Lodge. While every man seeking to
join. a Masonic Lodge should be of sound mind, if the Lodge was
deceived as to his mental condition and desires to get rid of him or
cancel his membership because of his insanity, and this can be
done, he has a right to be heard upon the question, and of course
it cannot be tried and determined while he remains insane.
15. A circular just received, enclosed as part of a communication, asking for a decision, states that the five Masonic Lodges of Sacramento, naming them, have formed a corporation under the State
laws under the name of the Masonic Lawn Company, for the purpose of providing for the perpetual care of the lots in the Masonic
Lawn Cemetery.
That cemetery probably belongs to those Lodges. The circular
offers lots for sale to any member of the Masonic Order, or to the
family of any deceased member, giving the size of the lots and
prices, agreeing to give a perfect title and a contract for petpetual·
care, offering to enter into contracts with those owning lots In the
west part of the Masonic Cemetery to take perpetual care of those
lots, stating that three-fourths of the purchase price of each lot wlll
be Invested as a perpetual fund, only the Income to be used ·for thecare of the lots, and also stating that the Masonic Lodges named have
not taken hold of the matter to make money, but to provide a place of
burial and the perpetual care of the same for all members of the
Order at as low a cost as possible.
It has been decided repeatedly by our Grand Lodge that it is lmpro))er and unlawful for a Masonic Lodge to incorporate under the
laws of th1s State, and those that have done so have been required to
dislncorporate. It has been held, however, that a Lodge may acquire
and hold stock in any Incorporated company. I do not exactly
understand how these five Lodges managed to incorporate, but as the
quest~on presented is new and very important, without being able to
give it much consideration, I shall, for the purpose of getting an
early decision from the Committee on Jurisprudence, decide that it
would be improper for the Lodges named to thus incorporate, to be
bound by contract in that manner, to obligate the membership of the
future, to become subject to State laws and the civil courts, and pos-

22

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 10,

a1bly be tempted to draw upon the funds of the Lodge to meet their
J111bllltlea.
RY.AUINO NAMES OF COMMITTEE.

,\ t tho hu1t Annual Communication there was adopted a resolu-

t Ion whl<•h 1.J1wema 1oneral re1ulailon No. 81, and which has been the
or 111111•h mlHunderatandlng upon the part of officers of Lodges
111111 irlvun r11e to R goocl deal of correspondence. It is as follows:
" Ue.11olve<l, That the reading o! the names of Brethren appointed
on committees of Investigation when reporting is deemed injudicious
and calculated to produce a state of inharmony in the Lodge and is
therefore expressly prohibited except in those cases wherein, in the
judgment of the Lodge, such disclosure is necessary."
For quite a while many of the Masters construed the language of
that resolution to mean that they not only had the power ·but it was
their duty to select and appoint a committee, not in open Lodge,
but secretly, without letting the members generally know anything
about it, or even one member of the committee, know who the others
were.
Upon inquiry I invaria]?ly ruled that the committee should be
appointed in open Lodge as before. I considered it important that
·it should be so done, that the members might know who composed
the committee, and then if anyone had any objectio-n to the candi·
date, or had heard anything detrimental to Mm, It could be made
known and Investigated.
The_ resolution was made necessary because some members had
violated their duty by disclosing the secrets of the Lodge-room to
those who were not entitled to the same, and to make the committee
more inde~endent in the performance of their duty. The committee
may confer together, report together, or separately in writing, and
their names should be affixed thereto but not read. Then if they,
and the Master and Secretary keep the names secret, and the Lodge
Is simply advised of the nature of the report, it cannot be known in
case of an adverse report whether one or more reported unfavorably
and the responsibility would be shared by all. If wrong in my construction of the resolution in question, the Committee on Jurisprudence will set me right. If right, and the members of this Grand
Body believe there should be greater secrecy in such matters, the
resolution can be changed so as to cover the ground.
1•1111111•

HAWAII AND MAUI LODGES.

In his address last year, Grand Master Nutting stated that
"Hawaiian" Lodge, No. 21, which was incorporated under the lawl5
of that Kingdom in 1858, asked him for advice as to what they

1905.]

GuAND LoDGE OF CALIFORNIA.

23

should do in the matter, and he advised them to take steps to dislncorporate, but had not learned whether they had done so or not.
The Master of " Hawaiian" Lodge has informed me that in pursuance of the wish of the Grand Lodge of California, the disincor·
porat!on of ''Hawaiian" Lodge had been effected, and that the
offidal declaration of dissolution of the incorporation by the
Territorial Government of Hawaii was duly made under date of
July 27th, 1905.
Near the beginning of the year a communication was received
. from Bro. John G. Rothwell, Master of "Hawaiian" Lodge, No. 21,
asking me as a personal favor to Bro. J . J. Smiddy who had obtained
the First Degree in " Hawaiian" Lodge, that the other two should
be conferred upon him by "Maui" Lodge at Wailuku. This broµght
up the subject of the standing of " Maui " Lodge, the right of the
Grand Lodge of Scotland to establish it upon the Islands at the time
it did, and its relation to the Masonic Grand Bodies within th~
United states, and more particularly to the Grand Lodge of Call·
fornia.
Believing that my reply to Bro. E,othwell's communication fully
and fairly presents the ma.tter, it is set forth herein as follows:
"EUREKA, Cal., January 20, 1905.
"Ma. J. G. ROTHWELL,
"Master of Hawaiian Lodge, No. 21, F. & A. M., Honolulu, T. H.
"DEAR Sm AND BROTHER:

Your communication of January 7th, together with the note.
from Bro. J. J. Smiddy who has been elected to receive the Degrees
of Masonry in •Hawaiian' Lodge, No. 21, and who has received the
first therein, but for convenience, is desirous of receiving the other
two in •Maui' Lodge at Wailuku, and still retain his membership
in• Hawaiian,' No 21, is at baud and has been carefully considered.
lf both Lodges were under this Jurisdiction there would be no
question but upon the request of •Hawaiian' Lodge, No. 21, 'Maui'
Lodge, if it saw flt, could confer the other two Degrees as requested;
and possibly this would be so even if the two Lodges were in separate Jurisdictions and t he relations and circumstances were such as
usually prevail between Lodges of different Jurisdictions.
These communications bring up the question as to the right of
the Grand Lodge of Scotland to grant a charter or dispensation to
Masons in Hawaii to form a Lodge within that Territory at the
time It issued a charter to •Maui ' Lodge.
In this connection, I desire to quote from your letter, as in a
measure expressing your views on the situation and the local sent!·
ment of the Craft in regard to the _matter, the following:

2!

PnoCEEDINGB OF THE

(Oct. 10,

"Past Master Lewis bas turned this matter over to me as part of
the unfinished business of ' Hawaiian ' Lodge from last year, and
informs me that he has replied to the letter of Bro. Smiddy to the
effect that "a decision on bis applicatio~ for the Degrees to be conferred by 'Maui' Lodge would be deferred until instructions had
been received from the Grand Master of tbe Grand Lodge of California."
" Hence I beg to submit the matter for your ruling, and retrain
from offering any opinion of my own, other than to say that I should
appreciate an early response to the following question: • Do you
rule that "Maui" Lodge ·is regular and legitimate?' and 'is there
any reason why "Hawaiian" Lodge or any other Lodge under the
Jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California may not hold full
Masonic intercourse with "Maul" Lodge, or, otherwise?•
"Feeling that in the interests of harmony among the Fraternity
throughout this Territory, ft would be a greater mistake to offer
affront to 'Maui ' Lodge and thereby to 'Pacific' Lodge, which is
unquestioned as to its standing, by refusing to recognize •Maui '
Lodge, than to treat the latter. cordially and as regular and legitimate as ourselves, so far as ordinary courtesies are concerned, pending your Instructions, I have therefore determined to adopt the latter
course until advised otherwise by you."
" ' Maui ' Lodge is in all respects doing California work ~nd r
cannot see that any damage can be done in the meantime, by, follciw~ng the course above outlined, as I am convinced that by refusing
intercourse with them pending your decision, even in the event that
it ls decided that they are in every way •regular,' I shall have
succeeded in dividing the Masonic Fratern!.tY in this Territory into
two Very hostile camps, Which, in View Of the present cordial retations that exist, I should regard as deplorable.
.
" This seems to me to be · a matter in which judgment fs called
for, rather than the rule, and I trust you will so view i1;.
"The matter of requesting •Maui ' Lodge to confer Degrees on
behalf of 'Hawaiian ' Lodge wili of course be held in abeyance
pending your reply.
Your disposition to preserve harmony and good feeling among
the Craft on the Islands, I fully appreciate.
In looking up the law applicable to the case, I disc~vered that
away back in the seventies the Masons at Wailuku applied to the
Grand Lodge of California for dispensation to fnstitue a Lodge
there, which was granted, and the Lodge was organized and named

1905.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

25

• Maui ' Lodge. It was in existence for several years, having rather
a hard struggle, as had your own Lodge during that time, because of
the many demands made upon it, and finally it deemed it best to
surrender its charter, which was done, and the same accepted by our
Grand Lodge on the 17th of November, 1877. Before doing this, it
met all its liabilities, paid its Grand Lodge dues and turned over to
it the sum of $427.59, which in turn was given to "Hawaiian"
Lodge, No. 21.
In view of this discovery on my part, I could hardly understand
why the Masons at the same place, desirous of forming another
Lodge, twenty-seven years later, should not come to the Grand Lodge
of California for a charter, with which their predecessors and the
locality had once been identified, which was more accessible and
under whose Jurisdiction were men who had always entertained the
most kindly feelings toward the Brethren of Hawaii in a business,
social and fraternal way.
You have enclosed a communication from Bro. Lewis of your
Lodge, dated August 16, 1904, written while Master, to Grand Master
Nutting, in relation to this matter, and the latter's reply thereto.

.
Bro. Lewis gave it as his opinion that it was the sentiment of
the members of ' Hawaiian ' Lodge that, since the annexation of
the Territory to the United States, if any new Masonic Lodge was to
be formed there, It should be done under some one of the Grand
Lodges within the United States and not under authority emanating from any foreign country; and also he believed that to be the
sentiment of many prominent members of ' Pacific' Lodge, No.
822, under charter from the Grand Lodge of Scotland, and also of
Lodge •Le Progres de L'Oceanie,' No. 124, under charter from
the Supreme Council of France. lt will be remembered that at our
last Annual Communication, •Le Progres' Lodge petitioned our
Grand Lodge to come under its Jurisdiction, and the matter was referred back for the present, because, mainly as I remember, of the
allegiance it owed to the Supreme Council of France, which had
not been ·relinquished, but, with a hope I am quite sure, that the
matter could be so adjusted to the satisfaction of all parties, that the
prayer of Its petition could at some future time be granted. The
main object of Bro. Lewis' letter seemed to be to urge that the
Hawaiian Territory be annexed to the Jurisdiction of . the Grand
Lodge of California and be made a part of it, but as the reply of
the Grand Master touched both points and is very brief, I take the
liberty of inserting it herein in full. It is as follows:

2G

p HOC.1£EDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 10,

"'A. LEw1s, JR., Master 'Hawaiian' Lodge, No. 21,
"DEAR SIR AND BRO. :
"'Yours of the 16th ult. at hand. In my opinion California cannot annex the Territory of Hawaii as a part of Its Jurisdiction, all
Grand Lodges In the United States having concurrent Jurisdiction
there. I agree with you that neither Scotland nor any other foreign
Grand Lodge has any Jurisdiction whatever.
" ' If a Grand Lodge were formed in Hawaii, you at once a ssume
and have exclusive Jurisdiction, but in no other way.
"' Yours truly and fraternally,
" ' C. W. NUTTING,
" 'Grand Master.'"

This letter was dated September 2d, 1904, and the Masons who
were then contemplating the formation of ' Maui ' Lodge and obtaining a charter therefor from the Grand Lodge of Scotland, must,
in the nature of things, have known of its contents very soon thereafter. So if any unpleasantness should grow out of this matter, it
may be said that these Brothers went in with their eyes open, and if
trouble ensues it is their own fault.
•
The sovereignty of the Hawaiian Islands was transferred t<;> tl:)e
United States on the 12th day of August," 1898..
On September 22d, 1904, there was established the organization
named " Maul " Lodge, and which obtained Its charter or dispensation from the Grand Lodge of Scotiand long after Hawaii became
American territory. Our Grand Lodge has never claimed exclusive
Jurisdiction anywhere, except within the boundaries of the StatE\ of
California, and it has always recognized the fact that prior to the
annexation of Hawaii Its Jurisdiction over the Lodges it established
there was but temp.o rary, and as to territory exercised· In common with other Grand Lodges of the world, and liable to be lost
whenever three ar more Lodges were established there and they saw
fit to organize a Grand Lodge of their own, which they could now do,
and if done, their Lodges would become immediately released from
all obligations to any other Grand Body. So long as Hawaii remained a Republic, or while it was a Kingdom, it was recognized as
common ground, and all Masonic Grand Bodies had concurrent Jurisdiction therein. When it became a part of the United States, then,
under Masonic law of this country, the subordinate Lodges that were
there, still belonged to the Jurisdictions where they obtained their
charters, respectively, but when it came to the formation of new
Lodges, no Grand Lodge, except those within the United States had
the right to grant a dispensation for such a purpose. Prior to the

1905.J

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA..

27

Revolution the Grand Lodges of England, Ireland, Scotland, France
and Hamburg, issued charters for Lodges within the Colonies.
Since that time they have undertaken to do so but seldom, and
whenever any of them bas at tempted it, It has been resented by the
Grand BOdies of America. So far as I know no Grand Lodge within
t he United States has ever sought to establish a subordinate within
the dominion of the Kingdom of Great Britain or any of her de·
pendencles, and we believe that whenever any country comes under
the American fiag and becomes American soil, that thereafter no
foreign Grand Body should grant dispensations or seek t o establish
Lodges therein. If the Grand Lodge of Scotland can charter a J,odge
on the Island of Maui, which belongs to the United St ates, It can
charter other Lodges in Honolulu and elsewhere in the Haw~iian
Islands, and with equal propriety, it could be done in t he Terntory
of Alaska.
This has never been allowed or attempted without protest.
While the facts were not exactly the same and probably no .case can
be found exactly similar to this, as the Territory of Hawaii, owing
to Its sit uation in mid-ocean, is, in many respects unique, still it is
American territory, and the Masonic law which would apply to any
other American territory wi!J apply to it; and in reference to a case
which arose in New York in the early fifties, where the Grand Lodge
of Hamburg was seeking to invade the rights of the Grand Lodge of
New York by establishing Lodges there, our own Grand Lodge In
1851 at its second Communication in sympathy with the Grand
Lod~e of New York, expressed itself by resolution on this subject as
follows :
"•Resolv ed, That this Grand Lodge can give no countenance or
support to the pret ention of the Grand Lodge of Hamburg or any
other foreign Grand Lodge, to a right to grant charter~ for Lodges
in any of the territory of the United St ates of America.

So far as I can find this resolution has never been changed
or modified, and Its language Is just as applicable to territory sub·
sequently ac:,1ulred, as that which then existed.
With the law thus declared, or at least the sentiment of our
Grand Lodge thus expressed in its ear ly h istory and never altered,
I feel it t o be my duty to hold that •Hawaiian ' Lodge, No. 21,
should n ot request • Maul • Lodge to confer the Degrees, or eit her ot
them on Bro. Smiddy, nor should it render a similar service tor
•Maul ' Lodge at its request.
It Is not necessary for me to go full length in deciding your
questions. r have no desire to interrupt the pleasant personal rela·

28

PROCEEDINGS OF 'rHE

[Oct. 10,

tions now existing among the Brethren of Hawaii, as disclosed by
your letter, nor to prevent them from making Fraternal visits back
and forth between the Lodges under this Jurisdiction and tho~
under any other. I confine myself at present to prohibiting the
interchange of courtesies as to conferring degrees between the two
Lodges under our Jurisdiction on the one hand and • Maui ' Lodge
on the other, and leave it to our Grand Lodge at its next Annual
Communication to·say whether I have done right in this respect and
also to say what the relations shall be between the members of this
Jurisdiction and the members of 'Maui ' Lodge, and to pass upon
the regularity and legitimacy of ' Maui ' Lodge if it sees fit to do so.
"Yours truly and fraternally,
"GEORGE W. HUNTER,
"Grand Master of Masons in the State of California."
A few months later there came to me a letter from Bro. Turker
in which he said: "A communication has been addressed to the
Masters of the three Blue Lodges of th.is city by one Jose G. Faria,
by name, acting for the Grand Orient of Portugal, claiming the right
to erect a Blue Lodge in the Jurisdiction of this Territory, citing..
as a precedent the erection of " Maui " Lodge by the Grand Lodge or'
Scotland, which he says gives all Grand Bodies equal rights In this
Territory."
Not meeting with any encouragement, but on the contrary ei:i·
countering much opposition, Mr. Faria abandoned his intention of
organizing a Lodge, and In a communication to Bro. Rothwell upon
the subject expressed himself as follows:
" In reply I have to say that it is not and never was my intention
to establish any Portuguese Lodge in this Territory without the
knowledge and frank and cordial asSistance of the Lodges already In
existence In the Islands. As I have tol1l you it is not my aim to play
any mischief or disloyalty, and since your support and recognJtion
cannot be gained, I will not make any attempt to start a clandestine
Lodge. I did not know of the resolution of the Grand Lodge of California. In view of it I will abstain from going any further than the
mere exchange of views we have hao . Will you kindly let me know
when the resolution was passed, so as to enable me to report to the
Grand United Luzltanian Orient?"
It will be seen by the foregoing correspondence that this is a
question of considerable importance, and the matter In relation to
" Maui " Lodge is respectfully submitted to this Grand Lodge, trusting that some action may be taken to define our position, either s.p
proving or disapproving what I have done, but hoping that nothing

1905.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI&.

29

may be done to provoke controversy or cause trouble between the
Brethren in the Islands belonging to Lodges under charter from
California and those under charter from Foreign Grand Bodies.
LODGE " LE PBOGRES."

At the last Annual Communication, Lodge "Le Progres de
L'Oceanle," No. 124, A. and A. S. R. of Honolulu, . petitioned this
Grand Lodge for a charter or dispensation. It was chartered in
1842 by the Supreme Council of France. The reasons for making
this request are given very fully in the petition which Is found on
page 872 of the proceedings of last year. It had the recommendation
of "Hawaiian" Lodge, No. 21, and also of the Inspector of the 49th
Masonic District. It was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence,
their report is found on page 1080, and I quote from it the following:
" We are of the _opinion that it would be inexpedient to finally act
upon this pe~n at this Communication of the Grand Lodge. • • •
Were w~tlsfled as to the legality of the method suggested, we are
of t!J..e' opinion that no dispensation or charter should be ordered
wlille this Lodge ls a subordinate of another Grand Body, and
further that no such action should be taken until after full I»·
vestlgatlon as to the origin of the Lodge, Its history, work and
membership. If twelve or more Masons in Honolulu wish to organize a new Lodge therein under our Jurisdiction, they may proceed under Section 2. of Article I, P~rt III, of our Constitution, and
apply at any time to the Grand Master for a dispensation. We
recommend that final action upon this petition be defe,rred until the
next Annual Communication; that In the meantime such Investigation as the Grani:l. Master deems advisable to make as to the merits
of the case (be made), and that the incoming Committee on Juris·
prudence report at such Communication as to the legality of the
method proposed."
Several months after adjournment it was again called t o my
attention and since that time I have had a good deal of cor·
respondence In relation to It, mostly with Bro. Joshua D. Tucker of
Honolulu, who Is the present Inspector of the 49th Masonic District.
In May, replying to a letter received from the Master of "Le
Progres " Lodge upon the subject, I expressed myself as follows:
" Let me assure you that It Is a mistake for any of the members
of • Le Progres ' to think for a moment that there was any opposition in our Grand Lodge to ' Le Progres ' comtng under our Juris·
diction. If there was I have not heard of it. It Is plain to be seen
that we are in a delicate position and we do not desire to have it
berome embarrassing and be regarded as treating the Supreme Coun-

30

PHOOEEDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 10,

cil of France in a way similar to what we have been treated by the
Grand Lodge of Scotland in the 'Maui• Lodge matter. We want
you to be free to deal with the Supreme Council as you deem best
for your own interests. If the relation should be severed we would
not be compromised in any manner and ' Le Progres ' could act as
it thinks best. My individual opinion is that it would be best for all
concerned to favor California, but I have no desire to influence the
Masons of Hawaii, and my disposition is to let our Gri>,nd Lodge express itself upon this subject.
Asking Bro. Tucker for information as to the origin, history,
work and membership of " Le Progres " Lodge as suggE>sted by the
report of the Committee, he wrote me as follows: ·
" This Lodge was erected under a dispensation from the Supreme
Council of France 33d in the year 1843 by one Capt. Le Tellier, who
held a roving commission from that Body. Their charter was received in the year 1850. In the year 1852 a number of its m~rnbers
dimitted and formed -''Hawaiian" Lodge, No. 21, under charter from
the Grand Lodge of California. 'Le Progres ' has had many ups
and downs during its existence and now numbers about 130 members. They are a progressive body of men, most of them being young ·
men, and they would be a credit to any Body. The second section
of the Third Degree is the same as the old work in the California
Jurisdiction, with a few additions as to admonitjon and ~xplana­
tlon, but it rather adds to the impressiveness of the Degree. "Le
Progres" uses in the Entered Apprentice and Fellow Craft Degrees
the California work as it was before it was changed by the present
Grand Lecturer, Bro. Edwards, but the second section of the Master's
Deg-ree is very different in some particulars, and It is In this part
that they desire to retain. In fact the ceremony is very Impressive
and in no way detracts from the beauty of the work."
In one of his letters Bro. Tucker says; "The members of the
Lodge want to come under the Jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of ·
California and so expressed themselves at their last meeting, not by
vote, but to me individually."
Still later be said: " The members of • Le Progres' inform me
that they have received a communication from their Representative
in Paris, who informed them that their request for a severance of
relations is about to be consummated."
After this and a like assurance from the Master of "Le Progres "
Lodge not being disposed to take any steps until fully assured that
their relations with France were in a fair way of amicable adjust·
ment, and believing that their reiease was reasonably certain; I advised Bro. Tucker that in my judgment the best plan to pursue

1905.J

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA .

3L

would be for a sufficient number of the members of "Le Progres "
to form a new Lodge, to withdraw, take their dimits, organize and
ask for a dispensation and come under our Jurisdiction if it was
their desire to do so. Such a course would be a compliance with our
Constitutional provision, and I believe in accordance with the spirit
of the suggestion contained in the report of the CoJI!mittee on Juris·
prudence and for the best interests of Masonry in the Hawaiaian
Islands.
Twelve members did withdraw, they organized a new Lodge, were
granted a dispensation, and if the law in all respects has been com·
plied with, they hope to obtain a charter from this Grand Lodge at
this Communication.
Its origin and birth are the same as "Hawaiian" Lodge which is
~ow strong and progressive, and a credit to this Grand Jurisd_iction,
and there is no reason why this new Lodge just formed should not
meet with equal favor. In all probab!llty "Le Progres " will soon
be granted a release from the Supreme Council of France, ·and when
that time comes, if this new Lodge obtains a charter, its members in
the very nature of things being desirous of coming under our Juris·
diction, will take the necessary steps to become identifie d with the
new Lodge now working under dispensation.
If jl charter is denied it is altogether likely that application wlll
be made to some other Grand Jurisdiction. If perchance the release
of " Le Pr ogres " shot\ Id be long deferred then its members will
necessarily be left to work out their own destiny, but with the cordial relations, fraternal, business and social, existing between
Hawaii and California by reason of location, there is every reason to
believe that when the matter is fully considered the Supreme Council in the Interest of harmony, good will and the welfare of Masonry
in the Hawaiian Islands, will not hesitate to grant their request.
HALL STOCK AND TE]l[PLE.

Without desiring to Infringe upon the privileges of the committee
appointed last year "to confer and act in conjunction with other
bodies and committees with a view of acquiring a site for the
erection of a new Masonic Temple in San Francisco, adequate to the
requirements of the Fraternity and to sell the stock of the Masonic
Hall Association now owned by the Grand Lodge, if deemed proper
and best to do so " I wish to say a few words in regard to thlA
matter.
The committee will undoubtedly make a full report. None of the
stock has been sold. '!'her~ are twenty-five thousand shares of the
Masonic Hall association; the par value is ten dollars per share, but

32

[Oct. 10,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

the present market value is $2:5 per share or more.
list shows how the stock is held at present:

The following ,,

Shares.
Grand Lodge, F. and A. M................ 5,881
Grand Chapter, R. A. M .................. 1,700
Grand Commandery, K. T ................ 1,403
California Council, R. and S. M . . . . . . . . 7:5
California Chapter, R. A. M .............. 1,571
S. F. Chapter, R. A. M................... 502
California Lodge No. 1. ................. 2,80i
Parfaite Union Lodge, No. 17............. 80
Occidental Lodge, No. 22 . . ............... 1,262
Golden Gate, No. 30 ...................... 300
Mt. Moriah Lodge, No. 44 .. .............. 990
Crockett Lodge, No. 139. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
priental Lodge, No. 144. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 324
Excelsior Lodge, No. 166. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300
Doric Lodge, No. 216 ..................... 194
California Commandery K. T . . . . . . . . . . . . 940
Y. B. Lodge of Perfection............. .. . 50
Grand Consistory ......... . ............... 20
California· Chapter 0. E. S. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
Private individuals
.. .. ................ 6,477
RECAPITULATION.

Stock ·held by Masonic bodies . . ......... 18,523
Stock held by private individuals . ....... 6,477
Total .............................. 25,000
The leases will all expire in June, 1909. The rental per month
last year was $3,170. This year it is $3,780, or more than $600 per
month more than it was a year ago.
There is a feeling quite prevalent, as shown by the debate wben.
this question was being considered at the last session, that this
building is no longer adequate or adapted to the purposes for which
it was designed. The corner-stone of this Temple was laid by Grand
Master Curtis in the presence of a vast assemblage of representative
Masons on the 24th of June, 1860, and this Hall was first occupied
by the Grand Lodge at its Annual Communication in May, 1863.
The building was not then finished, and it took several years to
complete it. In his address to the Grand Lodge on the occasion of
first occupying it, Grand Master Belcher said: " This is the finest

1905.J

GRAXD LODGE OF UALlFORNIA.

33

and most perfect building upon the Pacific Coast, and when finished
will be the most beautiful, if not the most expensive Masonic Temple
in America."
And Grand Secretary Abell, who was also secretary of the H11ll
Association, in making his report, and an appeal for funds to complete the structure, made at the same session, uses this language:
"When finished it will be by far the most imposing, most commodious and most convenient edifice for Masonic purposes in the world."
There may be a few here to-day who were present on both occasions, but if so they are but few indeed.
It is more than forty-five years since the corner-stone was laid,
and more than forty-two years since the Grand Lodge held its first
Communication in this Hall.
Evidently it was thought then that this building would stand for
ages. It was built during the most trying years of the great Civil
Wat', when times were hard and money scarce, even in the Golden
State of California. It cost in the neighborhood of $.250,000, and
there was an indebtedness upon it of $100,000, bearing interest at the
rate of one and one-eighth per cent. per month. It was built mainly
by the efforts and energy and the capital of the Masons of San Francisco. But things have changed since that time. In 1860 California.
had a population of less than four hundred thousand, to-day It has
nearly two millions. In 1860 San Francisco had less than sixty thousand population, while to-day it has nearly five hundred thousand,
or more than· as many as were in the entire State of California at the.
former period. In 1860 there were only one hundred and thirty·
Masonic Lodges in California, with a membership of five thousand'.
and fifty-five, while to-day there are 299 lodges with a membership of:
31,619.
At that time there were only eleven Lodges in San Francisco-,_
with a total membership of eight hundred and forty-seven, while at
the present time there are nineteen chartered Lodges and one Lodge
under dispensation, with a total membership of six thousand tw()
hundred and sixty-one.
Comparatively speaking, San Francisco was then a village-now
it is a great city with a magniftcent future. The old landmarks are
disappearing, splendid buildings are being erected· to take the place
of those that have outlived their usefulnf'ts. While we venerate age
and appreciate what our predecessors ha'\-.! done for us, yet If th&.
present Temple is no longer suitable for the purposes for which it
was intended, it is not sacreligious to tear it down, and the Masons
of San Francisco, with a little help, perhaps, from others within the
Jurisdiction, are able to build one that is suitable.

3

34

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 10,

It would not be wise, however, in my judgment, to dispose of this
property and seek to acquire another site.
To the average man from the country or city it would seem that
the present location is most admirable. It is centrally located, readily accessible, easily found by strangers, surrounded by magnificent
structures, and more likely to increase than depreciate in value. If
this property were sold the purchasers would be apt to remove the
building and erect another, as this could not be worked over or used
to advantage for business purposes. And where in San Francisco
can be found a lot seventy-five by one hundred and sixty feet with
light on three sides, in every way ·a s desirable as this?
And if such a lot can be found, what would have to be paid for
it. It rests largely with the Masons of San Francisco to say what shall
be· done. We should deal fairly with the private individuals who are
the owners of stock, but the Masons will have to do what is for the
best interests of all concerned.· The stock could be increased and
the increase sold, or if a debt is to be incurred instead of paying one
and one-eighth per cent. per month, as was done forty-five years ago,
money could now probably be obtained at four per cent. per annum,
on such security as could be · given, if a new building were constructed, and it would probably yield an income of more than six per
cent. per annum on the investment.
If this building is not suitable it seems to me the best thing to do
would be to begin to plan now to erect on this lot a modern Temple
twelve to fourteen stories high, for bll"\liness and lodge purposes, and
be ready to begin operations when the present leases expire, and let
it again be said that "when finished it will be far the most imposing,
most commodious and most convenient edifice for Masonic purposes
in the world."
MASONRY.

We, the representatives of the various Lodges in this Jurisdiction,
certainly take pride in such an assemblage as this. We know something of what has been accomplished by Masonry in California; a few
have watched its growth from the beginning, and many are familiar
with its history.
Without effort it has steadily advanced, and it has placed its impress upon the civilization and institutions of our commonwealth.
Its teachings are salutary and ennobling. No man can long be identified with it without having high.er aspirations and a nicer conception of his duties to his fellow-man. It awakens noble impulses and
incites and encourages an ambition to be helpful and to do good.
Every one of us can bear testimony to the benefits we have derived
from it, and we -have- ·frequently witnessed the blessings it has

1905.]

GnA!\D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

3.5

showered upon others. Its charities are unbounded and yet without
ostentation. It inculcates morality, improves citizenship, and uplifts
humanity. As a character-builder it has no superior; it makes men
more considerate of the rights of others, more affectionate toward
their families, and more fraternal in their intercourse with their
fellow-men.
· By the profane, Masonry is usually judged by the acts of its indi·
vidual members. This being so, let us strive to so llve that we will
not bring disgrace upon it; let us bear in mind the lessons taught
in the lodge-room, -and may our thoughts and aims raise us to a still
higher standard of manhood. Masonry develops the best traits in
man's character. It · tends to make him benevolent, kind hearted,
sympathetic, charitable. We should remember that in the practice
of charity we should not confine it simply to financial aid to one in
need, but we should have charity in the broader sense, of looking
with compassion ·upon the frallties of our brother, of speaking kindly
of his infirmities, if he has them, and of using1our best endeavors to
reclaim him if going astray.
It ls a pleasure as well as a duty to speak a word of cheer and
lend a helping hand to those in sickness or distress, and to do what
can be done to better the condition of mankind, and the thousands
of men belonging to this institution and practicing these principles,
cannot but command the respect and admiration of the world.
CONCLUSION.

At the last Communication there was appropriated " For the con·
tingent expenses of the Grand Master, and for actual expenses incurred,'' the sum of $1,200, and as is customary a draft for the same
was given me at the beginning of the term. While I have kept no
itemized account of expenditures, the expenses of myself and others
a:cting for me, such a's I have been permitted to repay; have been met,
and I have found that the sum appropriated was more than sufficient
for the purpose, and of the amount I have turned over to the Masonic
ttome Fund the sum of $400.
·
Situated as I have been, it was not possible for me to spare the
time, make the visits and look after the welfare of the Craft as many
of my predecessors have done.
Residing as I do in the City of Eureka, with the most available
means of reaching San Francisco by steamer, . it was fortunate for
me, and as much so for others, that the home of the Deputy Grand
Master was in Los Angeles, and that of the Senior Grand Warden in
Berkeley, and I am under lasting obligations to those officers for their
_assistance during my term.
In December I attended the banquet given by "Durant" Lodge in
Berkeley, installed the officers of the several Lodges in the city of

36

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 10,

Sacramento, took part in the observance of the fiftieth anniversary
of "Morning Star" Lodge of Stockton, and was present at the installa·
tion of officers and banquet gjven by "Fidelity" Lodge of this city. In
the spring I made a flying trip through the State, visiting Lodges in
the principal towns and cities, from San Diego to Yreka, but it was
hurriedly done, and the smaller places and those not upon the main
lines of travel by rail were overlooked, and In the performance of my
duty in this respect I feel like offering an apology, and am sure I
have not done what was reasonably expected of me.
Wherever I have been I have met with generous treatment, and
the meetings were a source of pleasure to me and I trust of profit to
the Fraternity. My only regret is that I have not been able to do
more for Masonry, which I regard as not only the most ancient, but
as the noblest fraternal organization in existence.
With the conclusion of this session my official duties terminate •.
I am profoundly grateful for the honor which has been conferyed
upon me, and highly appreciate the uniform courtesy and open·
hearted hospitality received by me at the hands of the Brethren.
Whatever credit, if any, is due to my administration ls to be
shared by all the Grand Officers, and I wish to express my thanks to
the Grand Secretary for favors bestowed, and to our Deputy Grand
Master, Bro. Flint, and our Senior Grand Warden, Bro. Hart, for thel-r
many acts of kindness and valuable assistance In aiding and representing me on many occasions during my term.
May we all be deeply Impressed with the responsibility resting
upon us; and may all our ·deliberations be conducted in a spirit of
harmony and brotherly love. May the legislation to be enacted at
this session be inspired by wisdom, and prove to be beneficial In its
results; may our lives become better by reason of our association,
a_n d may the Influences for good which are certain to be manifested
here not be confined to ourselves individually, but reach out and be
felt in every community in the great State of California, of which
we are all so justly proud.
GEORGE W. HUNTER,
Grand Master.

Which was referred to a Special Committee of five, and the
Deputy Grand Master named the following brethren to constitute
such committeeOn Addt'e.1s o/ Grancl Masttr: ....•. ; ....•

James W. Ander~on,
Byron Nordyk~,
Harvey D. Lovele.nd,
Benj. M. Hague, Jr.,
Henry Sherry.

r
~
l

1905.J

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

37

B,.. Harry S. Johnson, from the Committee on Credentials
reported the following Officers and Representatives of chartered
Lodges, Delegates from Lodges under dispensation, and Past
Masters by service within this jurisdiction, as being present and
entitled to seats, viz., from (WIT.LIAM CROCKER, 1\Iaster;
HENl\Y A. CtrNK, Senior Warden;
WILLJA)f .J. Got.CHER, Junior Warden;
H. AstJRmT,
1
R. H. BARCLAY,
F. H. DAY,
California, . ....... No. 1, .. ~ G. JOHNSON,
H. M. 0WllNS,
p t ,..,. t
C. L. PATTON,
as mas ers.
.It Pli:ABOUY,
C. M. PLUM,
W. A. Sc01'T,
LR. H. WILLCOX,

I
I

I

I

Western Sta1', ... . . No. 2, .. j UHARLES E. BROWN, Master;
I E. SWl!ll:NEY, Past Master.

RIOHAllD J. CARPKNTKR, Mastel';
c. T. BARTON,
I
T. M. Bn·rANoou&·r,
2'ehamrt, ... . . . .. .. No. 3,. . T. ,J. MILLIKEN,
W. W. Sm,
PaHt Masters.
. F. J,. '.l'H!RKI11:Ln,
lJ. E. THOMPSON,

l

J
l

Benicia,. . . ........ No. 5
'..

.

J

'{DANIEL l\f. w A'rSON, Master;
E. M. BILLINGS,
J. R. B. Ce1sHour, Past Masters.
0. G. TRAUTZ,

f

Tuolumne,. . . . ... . No. 8, .... \.Vn.I.IAM L. Hoon, Junior Warden.
Om·frithian.,. ...... No. !l, .. j CHARf,KS F . AARON, Master;

I J, G. MACLELLAN, Past Master.

( WILLIAM RUSSELi., Master;

San

I JOHN P. JARMAN, SeniorWarden and Past Master;
J oae, •••••...• No.10, ..
j CURTIS M. BARn:n, Junior Warden;
A. B. HAMii.TON, l
R. LOWE,
f Past Masters.

l

J

UARL B.•ToHNSON, Master;
Yount,. ... . . ... .... No. 12, . . ( J. B. STEVENS,
I Past Master•.
F. W. WtLLTAMS, I

38

[Oct. 10,

PBOOEEDINGS OF THE

1905.J

'

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
WILLIAM G. WRIGHT, Master ;
RoBKIIT J. AIREY, Senior Warden;
CHA!ILE!! ],A SAi.Liil PAUKS, Junior Warden:
W . A. AGARD,
s. A. CLARKE,
J.
DOANK,
J. H. HUMPHRKYS,
Past Masters.
E. L. MEYER,
W. s. l\IoSES,
J. PATTERSON,
A. H. PHELPS,

s.

ATHERTON
LORD, Master ;
Neva.da, .• , •...... No. 13; .. { ~'. L. ARBOGAST,
} Past Masters.
W. E. MESERVEY,
\ JOSEPH H •. POT1'ER, Master and Past Master ;
Temple,. .. ······· .No. 14, ··· 1 WILLIAM F. CLEWE, Senior Warden;
·
( R. A. POPPE, Past Master.

Ew·eka, •.......•. • No. 16, . .

~

•

!

( WILLIAM I. REDDING, Master ;

lfountainShade, ... No.18, . . ~ ELIPHALETL. CASE,
( S. A. SMITH,
.

~

Uokl Hill,..· .... . . No. 32, . . { J. GERB1':R,
W. JANSEN,
Sein D iego, . . . ..... No. 35, ..

Santa C1•u2, ... .... No .. 38, ... . EnWARI> S. WEST, .Pa•t Master and Representative.

Yuba, . . .. ...... . No. 3!l,..

(p

t M

1A. W. DAVIDSON, ) as

t
as e~s.

Hmoaiian, .... , . .. No. 21, .... JOSHUA D. Tue.KER, Representative.

(BYRON G. MANTLR, Master;

.

•

I WILLIAM V. BRYAN, Senior Warden;

Mm·tinez, ........ . No. 41, ..

!

i

Georgetown, ...... . No. 25, . _(I. G. Swu.·T, PllSt M•ster and Repres~ntative ;
\ G. W. SrnPRRS, Pust Mas ter.

\ SETH G. BE.\CH, Mast e1·;
Palmyra,··.· .. · .. . No. 26, · ·) FnEDERIC'K W. G1m, Senior \Varden;
{ F. F. BARBS, Past Mast~r.

~

ALVIN B. WILSON, Mast~r and Past Mnste r;
BrTTNEI\ }
· ·
'
' Past Masters.
W. 8. W1n.r.s,

J., N

THOMA~ C. CoN~IY, Master;
HERBERT F. WARD, Senior Warden ;
\VILLIAM H. DOLLING, Junior Warden;

M uw1t Mo1·ial1, •• • . No. 44, ..

Past Masters.

Ma1-iposa, ....... .. No. 24, . . 1JOHNS. LARRW, Mai;ter and Past Master;
f E. P. WASON, Pa•t i\laster.

DAVID POWELL,. Master and Past Master;
J B FuLLKR t
· ·
' I Past Masters.
E. E. STONE,

Lus Angeles, ...... . No. 42, .. j AU'Rlm G . MAEDER, MRRter;
I S. l:'l\AGER, Past Master.

,THOMAS INGRA~!, Master;
Madison ...... . . .. No. 23 . . JF. AVER,
J ·. C. COLEMAN,
E. COLEMAN,
LJ. GLASSON,

{

Sacramento, ... .. . No. 40, .. .. WM. M . PJITRIK, Pust Master and Representativi>.

Occidental, · ······ .N6. 22,. · ~.JAMES M. GtEAVES, Junior Warden;
I E. c. LANDIS, I p t M te
J. A. SNOOK, f as •. as rs.

l

I E. T. BLACKM.K.n, Past Master.

St. John's, ...... .. No. 37, ... . CLU'i'OR!l E. BurL1'R, Senior Warden.

j FREI: A. POLLARD, Master ;
W. A. DAVIES,

l Past Ma8ter•.
f

J AL~'RED H . GILBERT, Master;

Past Masters.

F. R. WEHR,
SanJoaquin, ...... No.19, ..

o.

Golden Gate, ... . . . . No. 30, ..

ARTHUR R. GREEN, Junior Warden;
J. G. BISBRE, p t M t
J. H. NEFF,
as
as er~.

ADOLPH HUGUENIN, Maste1· and Past Master;
l:a Pai:faite Union, No. 17, .. MICHEL E. DIEBOLD, Sen. Warden & Past Master;
{ THOMAS SCHADKAOUE, Junior \Varden;
o. M. GOLDARACENA, Past Master.

39

W. G. DooLITTLE,
A . EBERHART,
T. FROLICH,
W. C. HACKE,
J.C. JENb,
D. M. RrcH.a.n11s,
J. F. SCHROTH,

I

l
!

Past Masters.

Crescent, . .. •... . . . No. 45, .. .. P . L. ELWELI., Junior Warden.

s.

1'exa1, .. . . .. ... .. No. 46,. .

Moo1u.:, MastPr;
ARTHl:ll
\Vrr.LTAll R. Fr.INT, Senior Warden;
{
1'. FLINT, Past Master.

F orhestnwn, ..... . No. 50, ., .• A. Jt ANDEHSON, Pust Master and Representative .
Illirioistnwn,. .. , . • ,No. 51, .. .• A. STEVENS, P,u;t Master and Representative.

40

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 10,

1905.]

GRAND LODG.f:ia OF CALIFOllNIA.
}'RANK HENll!UCK~, Master and Past Master ;

Sui8un, . .......... No. 55, .... ALBER·r L . Ri.:1m, Master.
Volcano, .... . . . ... No. 56, .... AUGl'ST GRILLO, Representative.

Vesper, . . .. .. . .. .. No. 84,..

Santa, Rosa, ...... . No. 57, .. j ARTHUn V. M cNAB, !\faster;

1 CARLTON A. LANE, Senior Warden.

Unum, ........... No. 58,..

{'f. J. BAKER, Past Master ;
CHARLES A. Rom, Junior Warden.

Pluma-8, ... .•..... No. 00, .... JAME8 0 . MONCUR, Master and Past Master.
CHARLES F. GULICK, Master; .
WAGNER S. SM!'rH, Senior Warden;
ARRAHAM J,. Lt;AcH, Junior Warden;

K H. HAR1',
R. W . MEEK,

Live Oak, .... . •... No. Gl, ..

}

F. K. ·MOTT,
F. R. THOMPSON,

.
Past Masters.

J. J .. tVARNER,
A . B. WEB8TER.
Geo. Wa.shington, .. No. 62, • . 5 GEORGE N . PoRn:R, Master;( S. MORRIS, Past Master.
Nawma,. .. . • ..... No. 64, . . j C. L. E c noN, Past Master;
.
I WILLIAM A. Srnr.roNs, Junior Warden.

.Amadm., . ... ••. . . . No. 65, .. \ Ro1n:RT C. BOLE, Master;
I J.E. Dn:, PMt Master.

Morning S ta1-, . .. .. No. 68,. .

J!.'nter]>1'ise, .... .. . No. 70,. .

GEORGE H. BUTI'RI.CJK, Master;
E. W. BuTTER8,
l
0.
HENDERSON, jlPast Masters.
G. F . HUDSON,

!

s.

}'RANK S. \VAJ,TON, MnstPr ;
J. W. ASHLf:Y,
Past Masters.
A . H . H EWJT1',

l

f

B eai· Mounmin, . . .. No. 76, .. .. FREl>ERICK \V. CLOUGH, Master.
Calai•ei•as, ... . . . . .. No. 78, . . .. JOHN WATERS, Madter.

H.F. THOUPf!ON, Past Master and Representative·
Humboldt,. .. .. . .. . No. 79, . . G W HUNTER Ip
'
·
" •
ast Masters.
{ ·
A. J, MONllOK, f

Cone, .• . . .. •....•• No. 80, .. J EUGENE G. Wo0Ls1n-, Master and Past Master;

I J. MERCHANT, Past Master.

Y ow, ... .... .. ... . . No. 81, .... C. H. BORK, Past Master and Representative.
Rising Star, . ... . . . No. 83, .... JACOB L. \VELKER, Representative.

41

!

W. P. JOHNSON, }
H. P . STICE,
Paiit Masters.
H. F. STIVERS,

Naval, ... . .. .•. . . . No. 87, . . I ALEXANDER McDAm, Master;

1 ALEXA!llllER GRE!O, Junior Warden.

Quitm'tn . .... . ..••. No. 88, .... JOHIAH GLAilSON, Representative.
A cacia, . .... . . . . .. No. 92, .... LKONARI> THOMPSON, Master.
Hen'•"!/ Clay, .... . . No. 95, .. I I.. KAT~, Past Master;
. I FRRD WKRNER, Senior Warden.

H owanl .... .. ..... No. !l6, . .. . GEORQ ~; \V. BHOOKS, Master.
J{ffersun, . .... . . , .No. ()7, . ... DAVID W. CORBETT, Master and Past Master.
H orriitos, . ... . .. . . No. -98,. ·

i

WILLIAM P: BRANSON, Master and Past Master
W, ADAMS, Past Master.

La Gmnge, . . . . . • No. 99, .... H . N. RucKKR, Past ~aster.
01,ay, ••. .• . • .• ••• No. 101, ..

j J.BKRNAllD
H . LAKAMP, P ast Master;
H. H UYSINK, Senior Warden.

Manzanita .... . .. . No. 102, . , .. •JoHN S . McBRIDE, Master an<l l'ast Master.

Oroville, .. ... . .. . . No. 103, .. . . HENllY C. H1L1.s, Master.
Lexington, ... . ... . No. 104, .... ISAAC F . BAKER, ·Master and Past MaHter .
A1·cata, ..... . . .. . No. 106, . ... GEOllGK H. B URCHARD, Master.

Pa;ja1•0 ,. • • • •• • ••• No. 110, ... . lowA H. 'l'liTTLE, Master and Past J\fa1:1ter.
Chico, .... ... . . . . No. 111,..

~
~ w.

\Vrtu.ur RoBUIE, Master and Paet Master.
t p t M t

E. MEYmm,

w·~ 'l'"OMAS,

f

as

as ers.

WILUAM GRH' ~' I N. Master;

Summit,. ... .. .. . No. 112,..

.J. L. HoCKER, l P ast Masters.

D. LOGAN, f

W . F. LYNCH, Past Master;

Eden,. ... ..•... . No. 113, . .

GEOllGK H. OHEA, Senior Warden;

{ liERlJ.\!ll F. W. HEUIS, Junior \ Varden.

Concim.l, . . . . . . . . No. 117, . . J A. D. M ..JoHNsox, Past Master;
1.TAllES F. LYON, Junior Warden.
Clinton,. . . . . .. . . . No. ll!J, . ... HKllllKRT H. KESTER, Junior Warden.

J/ICOB NIETO, Master;
IJHARLES l"cHLKS~ING&R, Senior \Varden;
JOHN P. AI.BHO, Junior \Varden
Fidelity,. . . .. .... No. 120, . . P. DAVIS,
J.M. ELLii;,
I Pe.st :1-fasterA•
. M. GOLDMAN,

I

I

P. J ACOBOVICS,
W.A. WniE,

I

)

42
.Ala11w,.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1905. J

[Oct. 10,

GRAND LODGJt~ OF CALltlllRNIA.

. ..... . . No. 122, .... CECIL J. BOOTH, Master.

(RWHARD C. JEWELL, Master;

I CLAnENCE W. Donn:, Junior Warr!en;

Sof,Qyome, •• •• . ..• No. 123, .. J EDWIN D. EDI', Master and Past Master;
_
? J. H. GuNN, Past Master.

OrWita/., · · · • • • · · · N

°· Ht, · · 1C. BONE,

I Past Masters.
l W.R. L. CAMPBELL, f

!l'able Mountain,. . No. 124, .... HENRY F. BADER, Master and Past Master.

Vitruvius,. . . . . . . :N'o. 145, . . .. OSQAR CoLLrSTER, Master and PMt MaHter.

L!.i Fayette, .... . . No. 126, .... SIDNEY ESPEY, Master and PMt Master.

Abell, . . .. ., . . . . :. No. 146, .. J J. Mci"!URRY, Past Master;
.
I ARTHUR J. THA1'CHER, Senior Warden.

(S. JOSEPH THEISEN, Master;

j AUGUST Bue.BE, Senior Warden;

Herman 11

:X

127
' • • • • • • • - o.. - ' · '

43

Eel Rive-i-, . . ..... . No. 147, ... • W ,1LTEll T. FISHER, MastE"r.

i F.OTTOGERCKE,
LKNICKE, Junior Warden;
I L. SCHUMACHKR, l Past Masters.
l R. Sn;RNI'.CZKY, l

LasBe11, .... . . ... . Xo. 149, .. .. JULIEN E. PAllDICE, Past Master and Rep've.
Molino, . . ... .. . .. No. 150,. . . . JOHN Sm PSON, Master and Past Master.

Vi~alia, . .... .... . No. 128, .... HARRY LEVINSON, 8enior Warden.

Woodland, .. ..... No. 156, . . J HAYES H . 'GABLE, Master;
1 B. BALL, Past Master.

NicolauB, ....... .. :N'o. 129, .... JAMES M. HICKS, Master.

"f{ey1tone, .. . . .. .. :N'o. 161, .. . . STEVEN D. HlLDEDRAND, Sen.\Vard. & Pas t Master.
( }{ooi;:nrcK G. GUYETT, Master;
EDWIN L. Fo1u1sTER, Senior Worden;
JOHN w: CAMERON, J11nior Warden;

Woodbridge, . ... . . No. l:n, ... .GEORGK FAV ING EU, Representative.

I

Yosemite,. ....... . :N'o. 13::!,, . J THOMAS H. MOTT JN, Master and Past Master;
I THOM.~S B. McCAtl'rHY, Junior Warden.
1

Vacaviltc,. .'. .. . ... Nn. 134 .. JVICTOR W. HARTf,F.Y, Master;
I Woooncnr McC. Gooowrn, Senior Warden.
Valley,. .. . ....... No. 135,, , J ,Joffl1 L. PECK, Master;
I C. C. CASE, Past Master.
FREL>ER!(JK L. HANSEN, Master;
ANDllEW W. TunPIN, Senior Warden;
I. J. AscHH1mr,
I
G. L . DARLING,
Pacific, . ........ . No. 131i, .. 1 \Y. H . EDWARDS,
C. J&LUNEK,
I- Past Masters.
E. LUTZ,
G. PENLINGTON,
I T. P1rntrnGTON,
l G. l\f. PRRl.NE,
J

r
I

I

I

I

w.

(GRORGE W. G&AUQUE, Master;
I WILLIAM KAHN, Senior \Varden;
JOHN P. COURT, Junio)r Warden;
Crocket,t, ......•. . No. 139, . · 1 E. S. CIPRrco, (

I

I

J. B. UOllli:RTS,
I T. ROWLANDS,
lH. NEWHOl'F,

Past Masters.
.

' Jc.W. H.N. BRYAN,
I
BRUNT,
I

Excelswr, . . ·· · · · ·:No. 166, · ·

F. C. HENBJ.EY,

ID. ,A.
I\ H.

L C. HUNTER,
HARK,
L.A. MURCH,
J. OWEN,

·'

1

,

.Alameda, . ..... .. :No. 1U7, · ·

~Past Masters.
. .,

J

CHARLES Ev1rns, Senior Warden;
B. F. GJUNGER, Jn.,
K W.t1IPPLE,
Past Masters.

f

f

LA. NORRIS,

San ilfateo, ,. , . . ,. No. 1G8, . , .. THOMAS 0. HEYDEN~ELDT, Master.

(GEOKGE W. LUNT, Master;
JOHN THOMPSON, Senior \Varden;
EDWARD F. 0ROSETT, Junior Warden;
.R
ALLEN,
I

I s.

I c.
I v.
Il E.W. C.
H.

BUNKl':R,

/11iB8Wn, ' .. . ' .. ' 'No. 169,. .1 J. R. HILLMAN,

l

W.W. MOORE,
. P&11t Masters.
M.
B. TAYLOR,
W. TUCKER,
Ono11·Av, )

I

Elk<J1·ove,. ...... No.173 .... Hur. H B. BRADrn1m, Master.

Curtia,. . ..... .. .. No. 140, .... En NEST B. THOMPSO!'I, Master and Past Mas~r.

I>rytown, . ....... No. 174, ... FRED B. L,.;MotN, Miister and Past Master.

Franklin, ... . . .. No. 143, .. \JOSEPH H. HruE, Master; ·

.Antioch, . . .. , ... . No. 175, .. JL . ,V, MOORE, Past Master and Representative;
f C. l\J. BELSHAW, PaBt Master.

I H . D . K&RCHEVAL, ·Past Master.

44

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 10,

1905.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

45

Phrenix, ....... .. No. 178, .... JORN W. BAllTON, Master and Past Master.

Truckee, .....•.. No. 200, .... HOWARD W. Wu.MOTH, Master.

Mend-Ocino, ...... No. 179, .. I JOHN A. CRAMBKllS, Master;
t T. J. RICHARDS, Past Master.

Silvcy'l:i?le, ....... No. 201, .... J. E. At•PERSON, Past Master and Representative.

Petaluma, . ...... No. 180,. ·

l

W. S. DETURK, Past Master and Representative
B. F. TUTTLE, Past Master,

RWJ!tian River, • . No. 181, .. j LA WRRNOE H. WILSOS, Master and Past Master;
·1 GRANT A. I,AUGHLIN, Junior Warden.
Meridian, ....... No. 182, .... SA~JUEL A. PENDLETON, Master.

Claib<Yrrte, . . : .... . No. 185, .... J. C. LANE, Pust Master.

~

CHARLES ,V. KIST, Past Master and Jun. Warden

}
,. N
Pnst Masters.
C • ,.v ,
UTTING,
'
(CHARLES N.
ALTER, Master ;

w

I

ROBERT B. GAYLORD, Senior Warden-;
A. K. CLARK,
I
0 kla d
I G. B. DANIELS,
II
a n ., ......... No.188, .. ) F' H M
I .•. . ORGAN,
G.
PERKISS,
Past Masters.
H. A. POWELL,
W. F. Wn.LJAMSON,
lJ. B. MEURITT,

c.

I

Ir

J

Salina.a ,········ · .No. 204, · ·

WILLIAM .T. HAMii.TON, l\faster;
JOHN ll. BEllNKTl', Senior Warden;
J F. A. ABBOTT, Past Master.

Anaheim, . . . ... .. No. 207, . ... PHILIP H. KRICK, Master aud Past Master.
JOHN <"HRil>TENSEN, Master;
Rio Vista, ·· ··· ··No. 208, · · { T. P. EMIGH, I Past Masters.
M. STEWART, I

Sierra Valley, ... No 184, .... H. S. Caow, Representative.

0. V.GREEN,

1W. R.

.NetlJ'IJil/e, ......... No: 205 • . ... WILLIAM H. MARKHAM, Uepresentative.

Clewr Lake, .... .. No. 183, .... H. LEVY, Past M1tster and Representative.

EioeningStar, . . ... No.186, ..

(J.rn11s B. G1sT, Ma•ter;
HE11 i·n, ). Past Masters.
\ G. Q. STEWART, j

Pentalpha,. . . .. . . No. 202, ..

.

King JJcivura, .. .. No. 20!1, . . I ALBERT NELSON, Master;
t J. WHICHER, Put Master.
ROBERT A. LEE, Master;
F111mERICK L. CAUCH, Junior Ward1m;
FriendBhip, .. . . . .. No. 210, .. D. W. SMYTHE,
~
G. W. WOR·rHKN,
Past Master•.
l H. D. MATHE WI>,

J

·'

!

San Benito• . . .. . . No. 211, . .. . Aue HIE D. McKINNON, Master.
So. San Fran'co, . . No. 212, .. \ J<'REllElllCK C. MAYER, Master;
l W. J. R W ARNKll, Pest Master.
San Buenaventut·a, No. 214, .. . . M11:11r.11: J. RoGEHB, Master.

Ncrrthern Light, . . . No. 100, .... HAROLD M. Ro!:!S, Master and Past Master.
(RUSSELL H. WARDEN, Master;
! DAVID DUNCAN, Senior Warden;
Marin, ... . ...... No. 191, .. ~ HENRY E. GR&EN, Junior Warden;
W, N. ANDERSON, }
.
F. M. ANGELLO'ITI,
Past Masters.
l G. F. Ronnxs,

I

Santa Barbara, .•. No. 192, .... EUGENE ,V. SQUIER, Master.
:EDWARD A. PIERSON, Master;
Ferndale •. ······ .No. 193,. • G.EORGE P. SMITH, Senior Warden
{
.
C. H. \VrLLIAMS, Past Master.
Buc~e, ....•..• , No. 19.5,.. j .ToHN E. SACKETT, Master;

MnsoN ,V, SIMPl\ON, Master ;
Oak (Jro'<'t, .. , .

No 2u;
' · '· ·

Cruus B. McCnosK&Y, Master;
FREDERICK L. WIGHT, Senior Warden ;
(
Mos11s M. GETZ, .Tunior 'Varden;
.
N
Do1•ic, .... ........ o. 216, ..
llAUEll,
L. Goom>AY,
[Past M11.11ter•.
HxNRY C. ScttAXllTZKR, J

(A. C.

San Simeon, ..... . No. 196, .... PLINY H. MURPHY, Master.

Hartley, .. . ...... No. 199, .. J J AREZ BANKS, MastPr;
1 C. J. MONROE, Past Mast>!\'.

l

Monterey, ........ No. 217, .. \ CHAil. G. VAN Hon:, Uepresentativ.e ;
I W. KAY, Past Master.

1J. L. HAnLAN, Past Master.

Wilmington, ... ... No. 198, ...• VICTOR W. HAYF:S, Master.

HEN.RY M. HAllMONll, Seniol' Warden:
Em10Nll D. HUE, Junior Warden;
\ E. E. JOHNSON, Past Master.

Spt'I·. ItalUfna, · ~ ·

N

PHii.iP DEMARTINI, Ma•ter ;
ANTONIO H. ScAUIANINI, Senior Warden;
J,uw1 VALSANGIACOMO, Junior Warden;
C. RAI.ZARINI, }
G. B. CORDANO, Past Ma•tt>rs.
G.
SALA,

i

.
o. 2 1!1, ·

c.

46

[Oot. 10,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1905.J

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA..

rALFRED PEACOCK, Master;
! WILLIAM G. DAVISON, Senior Warden;

Downey, ........ . No. 220, .... ALDEltT · P. HENRY, Master.
.

{PKTER \V. FORBES, Master;
Inyo, ....... .. ... No. 221, · · AARON W. EIBESHUTZ, Senior Wa~den;
.
,J. SHEPHKRD, Past Master.
B k . fie/,d

a ei s

' ... ' . . .

N~ 224

.

\WILLIAM W. KAYE, Master;

1

JOHN A. SOULE, Master;
Haywai·d, ........ No. 226, .. . F. B. FILLMO.RE,} Past Masters.

Athena, ......... . No. 228, .... B. B. TUT'rLR. Representative.

ano, · · · · · ··· · · ·

o.

1

N01·t

h

Butte,''....

N

o.

lJ. Q. ADAMS,
(
'· · J. H. Coop1m,
Past Ma~ters.
W.GKE,
A. S. HALLIDAI",
{SEWELL J. You=-G, Master;
M. J. BIGELOW,
' . . J. MARSHALL,
Past Masters.
·C. A. Moomi,
·

23-0

tf

.

.

{ BEl\~Y ~· HAGUE, .JR., Ma•ter ;

Freano ... . .... .. No. 247 , .. ) G. E. uHuRoH,
G . CO:>GHAVK,
.A.B. SMITH,

.

i

f

Past Masters.

Adin, ... ......... No. 250 .... EDWIN S. PICKARD, MaRter and Past Master.

JOHN RAMS1'Y, Master;
( ROBERT L. RoBEllTSON, Senior Warden

229

Pomona, ....... , . No. 246 .. { EVKRET'r H WtlLCH, Master and Past Master.
·J. R GARTH!'!IDE, Past 1\-faster.

Alturas, ....... ... No. 2~~. :·.;j S1m:o~ T. BALLARD, Senior.Warden;
i E. C. BONNER, Past Master.

H. Lm·F,

N

l

Laurel, .. ... :....• ,No. 245, .... J Eb'b'ERSOl'l D. D ANNER, Master and Past Master.

CHA).iLES H. s~uTH, Master and Past Master ;
JOHN A. PETTY, Senior Warden;
Brooklyn, ...... · .No. 225,. · HERBERT P. Brnas, Junior Warden;
{
T. C. It. fJRANDELL, Past Master.

SI
0

Alcati·az, ....... .. No. 244, .. { WILLIMI J. LAWRY, Junior Warden;
·
I W. G. MOBLEY,
l Past Masters.
W. K. SANBORN, f
0

' .. 1 .[. W. ROBINSON, Past Master.

·

.

001Jelo, ......... .. No. 231,.. l'Witr.rAM S; VAN DYKli:, JR., Master;
CONRAD II. GOLDBERG, Junior WaJden.

Bodie, . ........• No. 252, ...• HARVEY:H. BOONE, Senior Warden.
Landmai·k, ...... No. 253, .... JOHN G. FREDRRrcKs, Master and Past Master.
Reading,. ....... . No, 254,., _I BYRON A. NORDYKE, Master nnd Past Master;
I 0, C. BusH, Past Master.
Welcome, . . . . . . .. No. 255, .... MARCUS C. CARTER, Ma•ter and Paet Master.

Lodi,. .......... .. No. 256 .... G. W. LE:VCOIN, Past Master.
\ WILLIAM E. LININGER, MnRter and Past Master;

Penrhyn,. .... .... No. 258, ..

f CHATILF.8 CARLSON, Junior Warden;
J. P. M. PHILLIPS, Past Master.

Everu1·een, ...... .. No. 259, . ... RTANUY J. CASTLEMAN, Master and Past Master.

Janeaville, ... ..... No. 232, .... GEORGE P. YoN GERICH TEN, Senior Warden.
(CLARENCE T. CLEVE, Master.

Calistoga,. ....... N '?• 233.. , .. C!'!ARl.ES A, .!J.ARROLL, Master.
Hope, ........... . No. 23t, .... HoGJm ]). MATHEWS, Master.

i:iurprise Valley .. . No. 235, .... RANSOM H. STANL1'Y, Master and Past Master.
Hill's Fei'1"J!, ... .. No. 236, .. . . \VILLIAM E. BUNKER, Senior Warden.
Gwu.liilupe, . . ... No. 237 .. J STEPHEX CAMPCJNICO, Mast0r ;
W. 'l'. LUCAS, Past Master.
Colusa, ....... .'.No. 240,., . . J: B. D'JARNATT, Representative.
.
{JAMES H. HALL, Master;
Santa Ana, .... .. No. 241,.. M. A. MENGES,
t Past Masters
0. M. ROBBINS, f
.

:Magnolia, ...... No. 24'2... j JAMES ST. C. MORTON, Senior Warden;
/. J. W. SMITH, Past Master.
Euc '.tlyptus, . . ... No. 243, ... , CHARLES F. THOMAS, Master.

47

''

1 SAMUEi, B. STEVENSON,· Senior 'Varden.

GEORGE M. DAVIS, Junior \Varden.
F. H . GOULD,
w. P. FILMER,
Kin11 Solomon's, .. No. 260, .. ~ G. GuNZENDO~'ER,
R. E. HARTf,EY,
,T. A . B Ol:!MER,
Past l\fosters.
B. F. JELLISON,
F. B. Woou,
1
LG.
WITTMAN,
1

I

'
I

I w.

Tuscan, .... , ... .. No. 261, .. J HIRAM C. STOVALr,, Master;
,
I. HOl\ACK H. RATHBUN, Junior Warden.
Lompoc, ....... ... No. 262, .... ARlllAND LEHMANN, Master.
Hesperian, . ...... No. 264, .. j FREMON'r c. TWITCHELL, Master ;
1WILLIAM H. TUNNRLL, Senior 'Varden.

[Oct." 10,

PHOCEEDINOS OF TH.E

48
N

Orange Grow, . ..• No. 293, .... HOWARD 0. WILLIAMS, Master.

CHARLll:!! L. BIKDllNBAOH, Master ;
( CHAllLK.'1 H. BLOHM, Senior W'arden.
WM. H. H. GRN1'RY, ,Jnnio1· Warden.
Du1·ant, ... . ..... No. 2G8, .• W. \V, ANllEll'ION,
Ga11:IG,
\Past Masters.
·
\ W. A. GoMPF.RTz,

l

Traver....• . . . • ,. No. 294, .... G. W. CURLll:, Past Master.
Silver Gate, ..... • No. 2()6, ... . JAMES H. CASSIDY, Master.
Mokelumne Hill, I .. No. 298 .... T~OlllAS C. PETERS, Ma!!ter and Past Master.

.
Liberty . . . .. . .•.• . No. 299 ..

Olive Bmnch., . .. .. No. 269, .... WosTER H. CARTMILL, Ma~ter.

Snow Mountain, .. No. 271. .. .'l'HO}IM! W. Moams,· Representative.

•3

Redlands, . ... . . . No. 300, .• ~ JEFFRY J. PRENDERGAST, Master;
Ontmrio, .. . • . , . . . . No. 301, .. . . CHARLES B. Ford, Master and Past Master.
Por~ille, .. . •••• No. 303, .• {ROBERT Ho11BAOK, Senior Warden ;
FREDb:RIOK E . BEARSS, Junior Warden.

j HAR}IAN .J. M.uo, Master ;

.Anclwr, ..... . ... -~ o. 2 I ' .. 1J. W. HANSELMAN, PaAt Master.
N
•
I (}i;:oaGE P. IDE, Master ;
2 4
Arroyo,······ · · · ·' 0 • ' '· · 1 A. BROWN, Past Master.

Reedley, ... .. .... • No. 304, .. .. GEORGE A . HAWKINS, Master and Pas t Master.

Azuaa, .. .. . .. .... No. 305, . .. . WILLIAM A. SHELDON, Master.

Oakdale, ....... .. . "'-'To ""'5
.,, ,. , . . J. HASLAOHER, Past Master and Representative.
j JAME:! H. WAGllKR, Master;
&lm't, . .. . . ..... , No. 2i7 .. ( l\JANUEL VINCEN1', Senior \Varden.
1

Sauth.lll'll Calif'a, No. 278, · ·
{

H

f 1d

an

°

N 0 0-9
' "'' · • • •

' ' • · •• · • ••

.

Paet Ma~ters.

Sa.nta Monica,. .. . No. 307, .. . . Enw.rnn V. DALK:!, Master and Past Master.

Delano, .. ....... , No. 309,. ·
·
SiBwn,. ... , ... . . . No. 310,. ·

l

HENRY D. ZIMMERMAN, Master nnd Past Master ;

D. THOMAS, Past Master.

j J:B. SOLLN&R, Past Master and Representative;
J. J. WILSON, Past Master.

Teh. oc3api,, . .. . .. No. 313 . •.. FRANK C, ·CHORM!OLE, Master.

\JAYE~ L. HALL, Senior Warden ;

I J. :K ENSIGN, Past Master.

A1h.lar, ... , ., . .• • No. 306, . .. . JOHN E. MATOT, Ma~ter 1rnd Past Master.

Monrovia, . . . ... . . No. 308, ... . JosEPH FowLKR, Master and PMt Master.

~~N;. ~~~:~~:u, Mn}ster ;
J. W. LONG,
H. S. ORME,
H. z. OSBORNE,
W. E. Howu:r,
\V. B. SCARBOROUGH,

j JOSEPH MoC. PARK ER, Ma.ster and Past , Master ;
G!i:ORGE L. DOWNING, Semor Warden;
1PEROY s. REGNART, Junior Warden.
. A. J. STONE, Past Master.

J JAMF.S E1nroNJ>80S, Master;
272
PaBadena, · · · · · · "'" '" . "· 1 H. R.UIEL, Past JI faster.
N

N

.

Temescal,. ... . . . .. No. 314, .... FHANK A. PERKINS, Master.
NO'l'W:Zlk,. , .. . , . . No. 315, . . { CHARLKS E. SEBASTIAN, Ma~ter and Pastmas ter;

Mount Sh.a8ta, . . .. No. 281, .. .. JOHN D. Dozum, Master.

J. HAY, Past Master.

Callayomi, . . ... No. 282, .... P. NELSON, Past Master and Representative. ..

Sanger,.,., ••.• , .No. 316, .•.. GEORG II: S. COBBENTZ, Representative.

South Weat, . .... . No. 283, .. .. CHAllLES C. VAND&RIPE, Master and Past Mas t er

FaUbrook, . .... . No. 317 ...• PEROY A. JOHNSON, Master and Past Master.

San Miguel, . ... . . No. 28!i, .... Lo11KNZO D. MURPHY, Master and Past Master.
Pa.an Robles, ..... .. No. 286, .. .. MYRON H. BnooKs, Master.

Emmanud,. .... . .. No. 318, .. {FRANKLIN H, WATSON, Master and Pastmaster;
M. LAPOINT, Past Master.

Winnedumah, .. . . No. 287, .... GUY P . Doyu:, Master and Past Master.

HoUenbeck, .. . , . .. No. 319,. ·

Maxwell, .... . .. . . No. 288, .. .. H. J. COOK, Past Master and Representative.
Elsinore, . ... ,, . . . No. 289, . . .. JAMES STF:WART, Master and Past Master.

E~t <Jate, · · · · · · · ·

N

0

•

29 J, · ·

FREDERICK W. Hocs1.:a, Master ;.
F. P. F1.IST, 1
M. H. FLINT, .°j Past Masters.
0. LAWLER, J

l

49

Los Gatos, •...... No. 292, ...• A. BERRYllAN, Past Master and Representative.

j L&WI>! G. BALDWIN, Master ;
2()7
' ' · · 1Jo~KPN L. ORVIS, Junior W'arden.

n.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Santa Paula, . . .. :No. 291, .... James H. SLO.~N, Master.

North. Eiut, . ... . • No. 2GG, .. . • R. F. MoCONNACGHY, Representative.
Galt, · · ·· ······· · o.

1905.J

l

LEO V. YouNGWORTH, M aster;

1!'. LI11x, Past Master.

South. Gate, • . . .. . . No. 320, ... . FREDERICK W. DUNN, Master

Ali1al, ..... ...... No. 321, ..•• E . E. HALL, Past Master a~d Representaiive.
Alh.~mbra,, . . .••• No. 322, ...• Bll:NJAMIN B. C.UTWRIGHT, Master.

4

,

•
50

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 10,

Whittier, ..... . .. No. 323, .... FRANK C. Ow&NS, Junior 'Varden.

IOOlt I

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

1'1 11.,µ. , , , , •• .•.• No. 3'i3, ... . ABRAHAM G1tKl!i."lb'!&LD, Master.

Om·o_na, .... . .. . . ..No. 32!, . . .. HKNRY SHKRRY, Master.

/'" """'•·,, , ..... N'o. 3iit, .... .FRANK G. WAl'!ION, Master.

Consuelo,. ... . ... • No. 325, .. .. 'VILl,IAM W. CARPENTllR, Jn., Master and P. M

#ullp11101xl, ••• .••.

Nn. 3i).\ . . j ]'Rlm. S. BYNON, Master;

I G. STEVENSON, Past Master.

Long Beach, .. ... . No. 327, .. 1' RICHARD LoYNELS, i\-faster;
·
I C. E . MITOHELL, Pa.st Master .
Redondo, .. . . . . • .. No. 328, .... RIOHARll D. SMITH, l\las.t er.

Lours L. JANEi!, Master;

'

fJAMES NEWLANDS, JR., Senior Warden;
&"', · ·I SurnEJ. M. BURT, ,Junior Warden.

x 0 ·. ·~

II II/ I <11/ey,. • · • • · '

·

lH. 0. KLYOE, .Past Maetflr.

Vallee de Fmnce, .. No. 329, .. \ CHARLES DEU':'SCK, Ma.ster;
l A. CARllAUX, Past Ma•ter.

Pacilic Gi·uve.... . . No. 331. . j C. K. TUTTLE, Pa•t Master and Representative;
t 0 . S. TRDIMER, Past Ma~tiir.
San Pedil'O, •• ... . No. 332, . . .. DANili:L C. 'l'HOllNTON, Master.
.A.lt<I., . • . • . • . ...• N 0 , 333, . . j Eunm A. KIRKwoon, Ju.nior \VKrden ;

I J. D. MURPHEY, Past Master.

Covina, ...... .. .. No. 334, .... GEORGE N. ATWOOD, M•ster and Past Master.

West Gate, .. ... . .. No. 335, . ... G. N. BL,\CK, Master and Past Master.
W,\LTKR H. FRASER, Master ;
WILLIA11 G. THORNALl.l!Y, Ja., Senior Warden ;
.,
Fruitvale,· ··· · ·· .No. 331l. · ) COBNELlUS CAREW, Junior 'Varden ;
J. C. HAllMl':L, }:'ast Master.

Oarqu-inez . •. ••.. • No. 337,. . . . ARTHUR W. BRAM, Master and Past Maste1·.

IJUftlllt Ptwk, .. ... No. 3!)j, .•

l

JOHNS. PKHRY, Moster;
JAlfl'~<; H . Wtt!TAKEll, Seni<1r \Varden.

floldc" Sttite, ..•. No; aax, ... .JOHN H . BEAN, l\Ia.ster and Past Master.
,
·. ,
,
.
\ ~AllliY S.•JOHNSON, S~nior Warden ;
H1&11 I< i•anr:uwo, . .. No. 360, .. · JOHN R. A ITKEN_, J nmor Warden ;
M. T. Wn.wN, Past Master.
f '/1,11rUu, .. . . . .. .• No. 3Gt, . ... FRANCIS M. RIGHTl!.R, Master and Past ]\faster.

1

j .TottN T. Momm10N, Maste1•and Past Master ;
/lerMey, .. .. . ... No. 363., . . 1 JAMES J,, ROBISON, Senior Wnrden.

Oliwt, ........ .. . . No. :ili4 . ... faAAC l<', Mqb'~'!'M', Maste1· and Past ~[aster.
,JAMES A . Jo\'OR, Master ;
Willits, . .... ...... u. n.... { ALFRtm c. llART<>N, Senior Wa.rden ;
Wu.LIA)! I. RrcE, Junior Warden.

San Jaeinto, .. • . .. No. 338, ... , WILLIAl! G. VOSBURG, Master.

IMS Pal11w.a, ......• U. D., . ....JAME>< C. PoTTLK, MastAr and Past Maijtel'.

FuU.ei•f(m., . . .... . •No. 389,. ... MAT'fHRW M. Goon, Master.

,'{outltPasaden1r, . ..• U. D., .. . . SA!O'Oltn S. Sa!I'rtt, Delegate.

Santa /lfai-ia, . .. . No. lHO, . . . . JOHN H. MARTIN, Junior \Varden.

Unity, ...... .. .. .. U. D., .. .. G1i:onGK U. MOY8K, M11Skr.

Manila, . .. . . .. •. No. 3!2, .~ j HEMA:..'! G. SQurna, Master and Past Master ;
1 B1rn.1. F. RrcHARDS, Senior 'Varden.

(Jr,w.n }'m·k, •. . • .•. U . D ., , . j Ar.Jex. R FRA!!ER, Master;

San Fenwndn . . . .. No.3l3, . . . . JoHN MUNRO, Master.

A.niity, ...• , .... ... U. D., .. .\ W1tr.!All J. LovEt.aN.I), Senior Warden ;
I J<:nwARD STEPH.RlllilON, .Tnnior Warden.

Stai~· King,. . .. .. No. 344, .. \ DAvm .S. Ht~SHHllG, Senior Warden ;

t A . COHN, Past Master.

Brentwood, . .. .... No. 345, .... RoBEHT w ALLACE, Master.
McKinley, ...... No. 3t7, . . . . RAWLE\" N . BARNE\', Master.
San Bm·na.i•dillo, . . No. 348, .. {WILLIAM W. BRISON, JR., Master.
J. B. FRITH, Past Master.
Sequoia., • .. •• .. ••. No.349, .. j Ctt.t.BLES HUSBAND, Sen-ior Warrlen;
1 W. J. CHESNE\', Past Master.
Palestine, .. . •... • No. 351, . . ·I ARTHUR J . WHEELER, Senior Warden;
l E. E. SELPH, Pa.•t Master.
Sunset, . . ... . ... -. . No. 352, . . J JOHN :B. CLARK, Master.
· 1 RAMU El. E. BURKE, Junior \Varden.

51

t FRANK LAW'l'ON, Senior Warden.

tk.·1-dena, . • • . .... .• lJ . D., ... . JOHN F. SPKNOY.11, Mlllltfr.

o.,ea11ic, ... .. . ••.. . u. D., .. . . J. D. TliUKER, Delegate.

Which report was concurred in, and the brethren therein named
were admitted to seats.
The Grand Secretary presented his Annual Report to the Grand
Lodge, as follows : 'l 'o .the M. '. W. '. GJ·and Lodge of Oalijoi·Ria :-The undersigned submits this his fifteenth annual report, presen$ing, in
ac.c ord,a,ncs with a direction in our Constitution, such tranuctions of his office
d.uring the year as should necessitate action by the Gran.d Lodge, or as may
he of interest to its officers and members.

52

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 10,

At the earliest day possible after the close of the last Annual Communica·
tion, seventeen hundred copies of the Proceedings were distributed,. or
reserved for future binding, in the customary manner, viz: one copy to each
of the present Grand Officers; one copy to each of the elective Past Grand
Officers; three copies to each of the Grand Bodies, Amel'ican and Foreign,
with which we are in correspondence; one copy to each Inspector, and two
copies to each of the Lodges of our jurisdiction.
In accordance with.a standing direction of the Grand Lo<i~e, three hun·
.dred copies each of the Proceedings of 1903 and 1904 have been bound
·. together in the uniform style adopted from the commencement; the two
~·ears' transactions form the twenty-sixth volume of the series which consti· .
·. tutes the history of the Grand Lodge of California.

A new edition of Anderson's Manual, embodying all decisions up to :rnd
including the Annual Communication of 1904, has been issued, as have also
editions of the Installation Service, Dedication of Halls, Constituting Lodges
and the ceremony of Laying Corner Stones, all which had become exhausted.
The Proceedin2s of all the Grand Lodges of the United States, for the
year, have been received and placed in the hands of the Chairman of the
Committee on Correspondence, with the exception of Nebraska and South
Carolina, as have also those of Canada, England, Scotland, New Brunswick,
New South Wales, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island, Quebec, Western
Australia, British Columbia and New. Zealand.
The seven Lodges to which charters were granted at the last Annua_l
Communication were, in due season, properly constitutetl ; five by deputies
specially appointed for that 'purpose, as follows :Golden State Lodge,· No. 358, at Loa A,ngeles, by the R. '. W." Motley H.
Flint, Deputy Grand Master;
Loyalton Lodge, No. 359, at Loyalton, by the W. '. Gains L. Coats,
Inspector of the eleventh District ;
Fort Bragg Lodge, No. 361, at Fort Bragg, by the W. '. Thomas 'J.
Richards, Inspector of the second District;
.
· Charity Lodge, No. 362, a..t Campbell, by the W. '. Ralph Lowe, Inspector
of the twenty-third District;
Olivet Lodge, No. 364, at Corning, by the W. ·• William P. Johnson,
Inspector of the sixth District.
The letters of authorization to the five officers named, with their reports,
are herewith submitted.

Nb.

San Francisco Lodge, No. 360, at .San Francisco, and Berkeley Lodge;
363, at Berkeley, were each constituted during the last -Annual Comm\1nica·
·tion by the M. '. W." Charles W. Nutting, then Grand Master.
Since the last Annual Communication, dispensations for the formation: of
eight new Lodges have, by direction of the Grand Master, been issued fro'm
this office, as follows :-

1905.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

53

November 18, 1904, to Willits Lodge, at Willits, Mendocino County;
January 5, 1905, to.Las Palmas Lodge, at Fresno, Fresno County;
March 24, 1905, to South Pasadena Lodge, at South Pasadena, Los ~ngelea
Oounty;
April 14, 1905, to Unity Lodge, at (}lendale, Los Angeles County;
May 15, 1905, to Ocean Park Lodge, at Santa Monica, Los Angeles
llounty;
June 24, 1905, to Amity Lodge, at San Francisco, San Francisco County;
August 28, 1905, to Gardena Lodge, at Gardena, Los Angeles County;
September 18, 1905, to Lodge Le Progres de !'Oceania, Oahu County, H. T.
The petitions for the foregoing dispensations, with the certificates of with·
clrawal of the several petitioners from the Lodges of which they had last been
members, the recommendation of the proper chartered Lodges, and the necesllll.ry certificates as to the qualifications of the Masters and 'Wardens proposed,
were all correctly prepared and presented; and they arc herewith submitted,
together with the returned dispensations and books of record and the petitions
of the new Lodges to be perpetuated by charter_.
A new charter (duplicate) was, by order of the Grand Master, iss11ed to
Hussian River Lodge, No. 181, on the ninth day of June, 1905, in lieu of the
original, which had been destroyed by fire.
At the date of last report there were two hundred and ninety-one .Lodges
bcitne upon the roll of the Grand Lodge, with a membership of twenty-nine
thousand, four hundred and sixty-eight. Since that time eight dispensations
to form new Lodges have been granted, being a gain of eight Lodglla, and
:i.dded to above, makes total number of Lodges now in existence in this juris·
diction two hnndred and · ninety-nine, with a membership of thirty-one
thousand five hundred and sixty-one ; being a net gain for the year of eight
Lodges and iwo thousand one hundred and fifty-one members.
The transcripts of trial records, unaccompanied by notices of appeal, which
have been received. at this office since the last Annual Communication-all
which have been placed in the hands of the Chairman of the Uommittee on
Grievances-a.re as follows : From
Santa Monica Lodge, No. a07; JOHN CORBETT S'l'EELI!, expelled December
8, 1904;
Vacaville Lodge, No 134, WM. HARDISON SCHANK, expelled December 16,
l!lO!;

Carquinez Lodge, No. aa7, ERASTUS Pl.:RKINH LASELLE, expelled January

7, 1905;
Emmanuel Lodge, No. a18, Jami LEANDER HICKR, suspended February 6,
1905;
Mokelumne Hill Lodge, No. 298, CKARLKS MvRON BURLESON, expelled
March 25, 1905 ;
Bear Mount_ain Lodge, No. 76, THOMAS DE LANO FonARTY, suspended
April 19, 1oor.;

54

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 10,

Nicolaus Lodge, No. 129, THOMAS HIRAM THOMAS, expelled July 14, 1905;
Santa. Cruz Lodge, No. 38, Hr.NRY ADAMS CLARK, expelled Augn!lt 12,
1905;
Tehachapi Lodge, No. am, ROBERT ATCHISON, expelled September :iO,
1905.
Transcripts of simiiar record, e.ccompanieci by notices of appeal, have been
received and transmitted to that committee from
Bear Mountain Lodge, No. 76, CHARLES R.ICHAIW HAWLEY, suspended
April 19, 1905;
Anchor Lodge, No. 2n, ARTHtJR JAMES CAMP, suspended July JO, 1905;
Oak Grove Lodge, No. 215, FRA!"Jt ELMER GRAHAM, suspended September 1, 1905;
Pacific Lodge, No. 136, ARTHUR LEROY PIPER, expelled September l,
1905.
The following has also been received and transmitted to that committee:
A petition for restoration from MICHAEL JOHN SULLIVAN, expelled by
Oakland Lodge, No. 188, April 1, 1893.
Of the proposed amendments to the "liy·Le.ws of Lodges which have been
received, the approval of the Grand Master in twenty-eight cases bas been
filed in this office. Of these, eleven being from · Lodges Nos. 113, 149, _i82,
187, 243, 292, 310, 324, 336, 355, 361, proposed changes in the time for ~tated
meetings; eight, being from Lodges Nos. 22, 62, 166, 234, 240, 245, 26~. 308,
proposed to increase the fee for the degrees; one being from Lodge No 292,
proposed to reduce that fee; two being from Lodges Nos. 123, 278, proposed
ere.ii.ting an affiliation fee, where heretofore none had existed; one, being
from Lodge No. 268, proposed to increase that fee; four being from Lodges
Nos. 20, 22, 240, 281, proposed to reduce the dues of members; one, being
from Lodge No. 234, proposed to increase those dues.
'
Proposed amendments to the By·Laws, relative to the rednction of dnes of
members, from Lodges Nos. 14, 292, were disapproved by the Grand Master,
for the reason that the rate proposed wo.s thought to be too low for the
J..odges to maintain a. healthful and useful exista.nce.
A proposed amenrl.ment to the By-Laws of Lodge No. 259, relative to the
election of a charity committee, was disapproved by the Grand Master, as "not
coming within the category of amendments mentioned in Art. XllI, of the
Uniform Code.

11100. J

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

55

Hh1oe the last Annual Communication. seventeen specie.I dispensations for
t•nclry purposes have, by order of the llrand Master, been issued from this
otllu1, as follows :
April 15, 1905, to Parfaite Union Lodge, No. 17, to elect officers at a time
olhur than that provided in our law; .
.ranuary 25, 1905, to Magnolia Lodge, No. :!42;
l"ebruary 24, 1905, to Mt. Zion Lodge, No. 114, to till vacancies;
l>ecember 5, 1905, to Oriental Lodge, No. 144;
December 5, 1905, to Doric Lodge, No. 216;
.January IO, 1905, to Molino Lodge, No. 150 ;
~'ebrua.ry 23, 1905, to Doric Lodge, No. 216;
~'ebruary 24, 190;), to Occidental Lodge, No. 22, two ;
March I 0, 1905, to Parfa.ite Union Lodge, No. 17 ;
March 30, 1905, to San Francisco Lodge, No. :!60;
April 13, 1905, to Herma.nu Lodge, No. 127;
April 27, 1905, to Santa Cruz Lodge, No. 3~;
May 11, 1905, to Speranza Italiana. Lodge, N 0. 2l!J ;
,July 20, 1905, to Elsinore Lodge, No. 289;
August 21, 1905, to Friendship Lodge, No. 210, to re-ballot upon the petitions of rejected candidates for the degrees;
September 18, llX)5, to East Gate Lodge, No. 290;
February 28, 1905, to Silver Gate Lodge, No. 296, to receive and act upon
the petition of a non-resident, belonging to the Army of the U. S.
At the last Annual Communicatiot> (see pages 1085, !086 ancl 1112), Proucediugs of 1904, it was ordered that the action~ of Sisson Lodge, No. 310,
111 expelling Charles ·watson Cogi:ins, of Truckee Lodge, No. 200, in expelli~g
Ua.rton Willard Johnson, of Redlan1ls Loclge, No. 300, in expelling George
'l'hayer Ureenleaf, o.nd Hartley Lodge. No. 199, in expelling Frank Ridgeway
'l'orlrl, he set aside and new trials had in each case. The undersigned regrets
to say that, although the printed Proeeedings, which is not only official notice
of all transactions in Grand Lodge, but is also authority upon which Subordinate Lodges may act (See Anderson's Manual, Sec. 680), were furnished to
each of the above named Lodges, no information has been received at this
ollice that action he.s been had by any or either of them.

Section 2, Art. Ill, Part I, of the Constitution gives the Grand Lodge
only the power to approve such au amendment.

A claim has age.in been presented by Liberty Lodge, No. 299, against
Hose's Bar Lodge, No. 89, for $15 relief fumished to Hro. Reuben De.vis, a.
member of Rose's Ba.r Lodge; also a claim by Sisson Lodge, No. :no, for relief
furnished by Bro. C. I~. Whedon, of Hirnm Lodp;e, No. I, New Haven, Oonu.;
both which have been referred to the Committee on Finance.

The approval or disappro\'al of the Grand Master being but temporary,
the foregoing amendments, as required by our laws, have been placed in the
hands of the Chairman of the Committee on By-Laws of Lodges, and will be
submitted to the Grand Lodge for final action, as ho.ve the books of By-Laws
of the eight Lodges now working under dispensation.

The various registers a.pd a.cc:ount books of this office, the vouchers for the
orders drawn upon the Grand Treasurer, the several letter books for the year,
the files of letters received, and all other papers concerning the bnsiness of
the Grand Lodge, not hereinbefore mentioned, a.re herewith presented for
Inspection ; as is also an account of the reyenues for the year ending on the

56

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 10,

thirty.first day of July last, with the receipts of the Grand Treasurer for the
moneys collected by the undersigned, as follows :
The Grand Sm•etai'1J in account with the Grand Lodge of California,
for the fecal yeai· ending on the 31st day of July, 1905.

1904.
Home Fund.
Gen. Fund.
Oct. 8, From sundry sources from August lst, 1904,
to this date......................... $29,468 00 $36,018 50
Oct. 15, " Golden State, No. 358, fee for charter.
50 00
15, " Loyalton, No. 359, fee for charter ....
50 00
15, " San Francisco, No. 360, fee for charter
50 00
15, " Fort Bragg, No. 361, fee for charter ..
50 00
15, '' Uharity, No. 362, fee for charter .... .
50 00
15, " Berkeley, No. 363, fee for charter ... .
50 00
lf;, " Olivet, No. 364, fee for charter . ..... .
50 00
Nov. 18, " \Villit's Lodge, U. D., diepensa.tion
to form Lodge . ...... , . • . .•.••.
75 00
Dec. 5, " Doric, No. 216, disp. to re·ba.llot ..... .
10 00
5, " Oriental, No. 144, disp. to re-biillot .. .
10 00 .
1905.
Jan.
5, " Las Palmas, U. D., <lisp. to form Lodge
i5 00
10, " Molino, No. 150, disp. to re-ballot- ...
IO 00
25, " Magnolia, No. 242, disp. to fill vacancy
10 00
Feb, 23, " Doric, No. 216, disp. to re-ballot ... , .
10 00
10 00
" 24, " Mt. Zion, No. 114, disp. to fill vacancy
24, " Occidental, No. 22, two, dis. to re-ballot
20 00
28; " Silver Ch.ta, No. 296, disp. to non-resident . . ........ ............... . ..... .
10 00
Mar. 16, " Pa.rfaite Union, No. 17, disp. to re-ballot
10 00
24, " So. Pasadena, U. D., disp. form Lodge
75 00
30, " San Francisco, No. 360, disp. to re· ballot
10 00
Apr. 13, " Hermann, No. 127, disp. to re-ballot ..
10 00
14, " Unity, U. D.. <lisp. to form Lodge ..••
i5 00
" 15, " Pa.rfaite Union, No. 17, diep. to elect
officers .. ... ..... .. ........ .. .. ..
10 00
10 00
" 27, " Santa. Cruz, No. as, diep. to re-ballot . .
May 11, " Speranza Italiano., No. 219, disp. to re·
ballot ......................... ..
10 00
15, " Ocean Park, U. D., <lisp. to form Lodge
75 00
June 24, " Amity, U. D., <lisp. to form Lodge ... .
75 00
July 20, " Elsinore, No. 289, disp. to re-ballot .: .
10 00
31, " Masonic Hall Association, dividends
Nos. 108, 109, llO and lll. .... ..
5,464 50
31, " Diplomas, fees for year. ... , . . ... , ... .
315 00

..

..

1905.J

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

1110!.
July 31, From Bound Volumes, sales for year....... .
" 31, " Proceedings, sales for year .......... ..
" 31, " Constitution, sales for year . .. .
" 31, " Monitors, sales for year .••..........•
31, " Funeral Service, sales for year •....•••
" :n, " Manuals, sales for year ..... •.•.•••• .
Amounting collectively to the sum of.. . . . . . . ..

57

$ 10 00
7 00
5 70
253 75
2 50
242 00

$29,468 00 $43,278 95
$72, 746 95

RECAPITULATION.
1004-1905.
Received for dues on account of General Fund to 31st July, 1905 . .. $35,923 50
"
Home
"
"
29,468 00
dispensation to form new Lodges . . . . . . . . . • .. . . . . . . . . . .
525 00
charters ordered in 1904...... . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . • . . . .
350 00
dividends on Ma.sonic Hall Stock ............•....... .. 5,464 50
180 00
dispensations for sundry purposes ...•..•.••.. ... . . .•. ..
835 95
bound vols. Proceedings, diplomas, Monitors, Manuals, etc
Making a. total amount as above of •.... , ..........••.. $72, 746 95
1904.

CONTRA.

Home Fund. Gen. Fund.
Aug. 4; !'a.id Grand Tre!l.llnrer this dnte ... . .... , .• $ 6,281 00 $ 7,464 95
8,408 15
.. 10,
" . . . . . . . • . . • 7,055 00
S,963 35
"
" .. .. .. .. .. . 7,349 00
" 13,
ti,939 30
,,
,,
,,
'' ,, . . . . . . . . . . . 5,514 00
" 18,
4,218 05
"
"
.. .. . • . . . . . . . . . 3,243 00
Oct. 8,
1905.
2,969 00
Jan. 6,
"
1,081 20•
Apr. 3,
"
"
"
2,500 00
June 30,
734 95
26 00
July 31,
"
Total payments to Grand Treasurer .... . ... . .. $29,468 00 $43,278 95
Making an aggregate a.mount as a.hove of. .
$72, 746 95
Since my last report the sum of $33,663.59 has been paid to the Treasurer
of the Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home,, as per his receipts.
The returns from a.II the Lodges in the jurisdiction (with the exception of
Ca.vita, No. 350, and Oceanic, U. D.,) have been received and their dues have
been paid in full.
Respectfully s11bD1itted,
GEO. ,JOHNSON,
G1·and SeC?·etary.

Which was ordered to be referred to the same special committee
as that upon the Address of the Grand Master.

58

[Oct. 10,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The Grand Treasurer presented his Annual Report to the Grand
Lodge, as follows : To the M.'. W.-. f}rand Lodge of California:The undersigned herewith submits his account of' the receipts an.d expenditures
of the Grand Lodge during the past year.

The Grand 7reaau1·er in account with the G1·and Lodge of Califol'11ia,
for the fiscal year ending July 31st, 1905.
1004.

RECEIPTS.
Aug. B. Heceived from Grand Ser.retary ................... $ 7 ,46t 95
Aug.12.
.. .. ..... .. .. . .. . . . 8,JOS 15
Aug. 12.
8,963 35
Ang. 20.
6,939 so
Oct, 8.
4,218 05
1905.
J1rn.

G,

April 30.
July a.
Aug. 3.

"

2,!l69 00
1,081 20
2,500 00
734 !15

$43,278 95

1904.
Sept. 21. Received interest on $7,000 Dluo Lake G% bonds, .•
1005.

$210 00

6. Received intere~t on $7,000 Blue Lake 6~ bonds . . .

210 00

Mar.

Received interest on doposit with A. Borel & Co .. .
Overdraft at bank.............................. .

420 00
201 3~
l08 26

'fotal receipt~, including overdraft, for year ending July 31,
1905............ ..... .......... ..... .. ......... ... .

$U,008 S3

•

DISBURSEMENTS.
For Account of Salari~• of (}mnd Ojfice1·a:
Cr.
Paid Grand Treasurer as per voucher No. 134.. ....... ... .•. $ 200 00
Paid Grand Secretary as per vouchers Noj, 9, 18, H, 48, 61,
76, 84, 9,, 96, 115, 123 and 136 .. .. • • .. .. .. .. .. . . .. . • .. 3,000 00
Paid Grand Lecturer as per vouchers Nos. 6, U, 38, 4(1 53,
70, BS, 91, 95, 112 and 120 .. . ............. . , ............· 1,166 66
Paid Assistant Grand Becretar.v as per vouchers Nos. 8, 16,
40, 46, 60, 72, 85, 93, 97, 114, 122 and 135 ............. .. 1,4.jO ,00
P11id nrnnd Organist as per voucher No . 28 ................ .
50 00
Paid Grand Tyler as per voucher No. 24. . .. ... .... .... ... .. .
12.; CO
- - $5,991 66

1905.]

GRAND LODGE OF 0ALIFOBNIA.

For Account of Geueml Dlsuuroemenls:
1'11!11 overdraft at bank ...................................... U,14' ~9
P11ld approprilltion to Masonlo Board of Relier of I.os Angeles,
ns per voucher No. 19. .... ... . . • •. • • • .... .. • .. . .. • .. . • . 4,000 00
P11id 11ppropriatlon or Grand Lodge expenses of Grantl Master
~00 00
Nutting, ns per voucher No. 20..... •.• . . . ... . • .. .. • • .. ..
Paid nppropriation of Gnnd Lodge to Bo" rd of Relief of San
Francisco, as per voucher No. 21 .. .. . .•... . . . ...•. ,.... 6,450 00
Pel iii appropriation of Gr11nd Lodge to Liberty Lodge No. 22
ns per voucher No. 22.......... .... ....................
15 00
~ l'aicl Wm. A. Davie&, Chairman of Com mitten on Oorrespond ·
250 00
ence, as per voucher No. 25........ . . . • .. . . . . .. • . . . . • ..
l'a1d George W. Hunter, contingent expenses as Grand Mastnr, as per ·v~ucher No. 2G . .. .... .. . .. .. .. ... .. .... . • • • l,2CO 00
!'aid !,. W11dham, experting books of Grand Treasurer and
Grand Secretary, as per voucher No. 27.... . ..... . .....
50 00
Pllid for 410 sharee or Masonic Hall Association a~ per vouchers Nos. 28 and 116..................................... 11, 750 00
Paid Radke ,'Y, Co., silver fo r Past Grand Mnster Nutting, as
300 00
per voacher No. 34 ... . ........................ . ...... .
Paid Samuel Mayer for choir 11t laying or corner·stone at
20 00
Colma, per voucher No. 50 . .•• ..... . ....•••..... ... ....
Puid H. A. Wagner, premiums on bonds of Grand Treasurer
12.'i 00
aud Grand Secretary, as per voucher No. 67 .. ......... .
P11id F. Eastman, printing and binding Grand Lodge Proceed·
ings, as per voucher No. 62 . . . . .. . . . . ... • • ... . . . • • • • • • . l,9H 60
Paid Wells, Fllrgo & Oo. expressage on .Proceedings of
Grand Lodge as per voucher No. 67 . . .................... 154 39
Paid George P. Adams, shipping Proceedings of Grand Lodge,
12 00
a• per voucher No. 75 . .•. , . .. .......... .... ........ ..
Paid C. W. Brown,App'nGrl'nd Lodge as per voucher Notoi2,
lil 50
P~tl Welle, Fargo &'Co.. ex1>reesage on bound volumes of
Proceedings to 1'11Rt G1 and Master, as per voucher No. 87,
6 28
Paid John B. lllclatyre, binding volnmes XXYI, Grand Lodge
249 60
Proceedings, as per voucher No. 102...... •. . . • . • . . . . . .
Paid F. Eastman & Oo. for 1500 Manuals and sundry printing,
as per voncher No. 109.. .... .. .... ... . •• .. . • • .. • . .. • .. • l,H8 00
Paid H. Moller, portrait of Past Grand Master Nutting, as per
voucher No. 124.... ... .. • ..... .. ..... .... • • .. .. • ... . ..
126 50
Paid S. & G. Gump, frame for portrait of Past Grand Master
35 00
Nutting, as per voucher No. 120........ • • • •. . . . . • . . . .
Paid F. E11struan, 500 Monitors and sundry printing, as per
voucher No. 118..... ... .. .. ... .. . .. .. . . . .. .. .. .. .. . ..
96 00
Paid e:i:pen~es of Grand Lecturer, as per vouchers Nos. 6,
538 .55
37, 45, 69, 82, 105, 111and131.... .................. .... .

59

60

[Oct. · 10,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Paid Masonic Hall AssoclaUon, for rent, as per vouchers No~.
li, 73, 106, and 133..................................... $ 1,500 00
Paid for printint as per vouchers Nos. 4, 30, 48, 64, 79, 89,
104 and 1:08 ..................... , •• . .. •• . . .. .... . .... .
774 00
Paid for care of office as per vouchere Nos. 7, .15, 39, 47, 59,
71, SB, 92, 08, 118, 121 and 135.............. . .... . .......
120 00
Paid for sundry stationery, roll call, pay roll, telephone, post
office box and incidental expense~, as per vouchers
Noe. l, 2, 3, 10, 11, 12, 13, 29, SI, a2, 35, 96, 49, 51, 52, 53,
54, 55, 56, 63, 63!, 6>, 66, 68, 74, 7i' 78. 80, 81, 88, 90, 99,
100, 101, 103, 107, 108, 110, 117, 119, 125, 127, 129 and
130.. ... ....... .. ... . .. .......... . .. ..•. ... ... .. . .

493 06
----

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

61

In view of the fact that many of the brethren who have died had requested
that they be buried with Masonic Honors ; but this has been impossible, as
the nearest Lodge is located at Santa Monica, some miles distant; conse·
quently the Masonic brethren interested have, at great personal sacrifice,
raised sufficient funds to properly furnish a safe and suitable Lodge-room in
Sawtelle, and have purchased a full and complete equipment of regalia,
aprons, Lodge-room equipment and furniture ; and

$33,023 17

Fur Account of Payment of Representatives:

Paid Repreoentatives of Lodge•, as per pay roll .............. $4,275 40
293 80
Paid Grand Officers and Chairmen of Committees ...... . . . .
425 00
Paid Inspectors ......................................... .
$ 4,993 'j()

Total disbursements for the year ending Jnly Sl, l90j . ... . .. .
Receipts for the year ending July 31, 1905, including overdraft
at bank ........ . .......................... . ........ . .

1905.]

$44,008 53
H,008 SS

The vouchers for all the foregoing, with the Grand Treasurer's books, are herewith presented. He reports that he has in bis keeping 5,536 sha1 cs or the capital
stock of the Masonic Hall Assocfotion of the City of Ban Francisco, the par value of
which is $55,860 and the actual valne $160,544; also seven 6 per cent. $1000 tirBt
mortgage bonds of the Blue Lake Water Co., the par value of which is $7,000, the
actual value $7910.
All'wbich is respectfully submitted by
EDWARD COLEMAN,
Grand Treasut'er.

Which was referred to the Committee on Finance.
BRo. EDWARD PEABOD'i presented the report of the Trustees of
the Masonic Widows and Orphans Home.

Which was referred to tne Committee on Finance.
The R. '. W.-. MOTLEY H. FLINT, Deputy Grand Master, presented the following : WHEREAS, The Masonic brethren residing near Sawtelle, Los Angeles
County, California-among the twenty-three hundred "Boys in Blue of 186165," assigned to the National Military Home for disabled volunteer soldiers
in this State-have long felt the necessity for a Masonic Lodge, particularly

WHEREAS, Thirty;nine Master Masons have presented a petition for a
dispensation for said Lodge, all of said thirty-nine Master Masons having pre·
sented certificates of withdrawal from the Lodges of which they were last a
member-less than six months ago-together with a recommendation from
"Santa Monica" Lodge, No. 307, the nearest or most convenient Lodge; and
WHEREAS, Deputy Grand Master FLYNT, accompanied by Bro. GEORGE
N. BLACK, Inspector of the Forty.second Masonic District, visited Sawtelle
on the evening of September twenty-seventh, and met with the ·brethren of
the proposed new Masonic Lodge, and which is to be known as "Veteran's"
Lodge, and at their request the work was exemplified, and it can be safely
stated that the brethren are enthusiastic and look forward with much pleasure to the fact that a portion of their last days may be spent in true Masonic
jntercoure!", u.nd in a Lodge-room furnished by them at a sacrifice, .but for their
love of the Fraternity. The work was almost letter-perfect, and there is no
good reason why a charter should not be granted ;
BE TT THEREFORE RESOLVED, That so much as may be necessary of Part
III. Article I·, ~ections 1, 2 and 3, of the Constitution of this Grand Lodge
be suspended, and that the books and records of proposed ' ' Veterans ''
Lodge be brought up to the requirements of a Lodge under dispensation ; that
said Lodge be not required to work under dispensation, but simply to submit copy of By·laws, prope1-ly signed, and record books, and; when so sub.
mitted, the Grand Master is hereby authorized to issue a charter · to said
L odge, and that the fee for a dispensation and charter be waived by this Grand
Lodge; and
B& l'l' FURTHER RESOLVED, That, provided the records required are sub.
mitted to the Grand Lodge within thirty days after the close of this Grand
Lodge, that the Grand Secret.u y be, and he is hereby authorized, to include
in his annual report, the membership of the proposed " Veteran's" Lodge,
without expense to that Locl11e. It ia the intention and desire of the mem·
hers of proposed "Veteran's" Lodge that, provided a charter be granted, to
hereafter p1<y all Grand Lodge dues, per capita tax, etc., the same as any
other chartered Lodge in this Grand Jurisdiction.

Which was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence,
Bro. JosHUA D. Tl'CKER, prest:nted the following:WHBREAll, On the l:Jth day of August, 1898, the ,sovereignty oi the
Hawaiian I.lands was transferred, and by such transfer tqis . territo.ry has

62

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 11,

become permanently ~d completely a. part of the United States of Ameri«a;
and
WHKREA!l, It has for many years been the established policy of the G1and
Lodges of the United States "that no foreign Grand Lodges should have the
right to g"'nt charters for Lodges in any of the territory of the United 8·tates
Qf America ; "
ANO WKERKAs, Since such transfer of sovereignty there has beeu established in this territory at least one Masonic Lodge by a Foreign Grand Jurisdiction ; and
Efforts have been made by another Foreign · Gran<l Jurisdiction to foran and establish Mai1onic Lodges in this terri:tory;
WH&.REA.l!,

TttERllFO&B, In loyal support of tb.e doctrine and position pto.uiulgated
by the Grand Lodge of Califo.raia, an4 o.t her Grii.nd Lodges o.f the Uo.i ted
Stat!lll of Ame•ica, and for the ma.inteoance of harmony among the C.ra.ft
within this territory;
BK IT RESOLVED, That it is the sense of "Hawaiian" Lodge, No. 21, }';
& A. M., that the Grand Lodge of California. be o.nd is hereby petitioned to

use its utmoPt iutiuence, in such manner as it may deem proper, to the end
that no further Masonic l.odges be hereafter established in . the territery -Of
Hawaii& under authority of any F-0reign, Supreme or Grand Jurisdietion, a.nd ·
our duly elected Representative to the next Communi<'.atio.n of the Grand
Lodge of California be and is hereby insiructed :to nee his beet endea•·ors to
promote and secure thli! ad.option of the provi&ions of this resolutWit,

Which was also referred to the Committee oil JurisprOdence.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until ten o'clock to-morrow
morning.

- --- - ~n

--

GRAND LODGE OF 0ALIFORNIA.

63

Past Masters by service within this jurisdiction, as being present and
entitled to seats, viz : from
Yount, .. , .... ,. , , N<>. 12, .... HAR.nr J,, JoHN~'l'ON, Senior W1mlen.
'"'"nJoaquin,.,, .. . No. 19, .. .. C. M. K&NIHTON, Pa8tMa11ter.
Nan ta Cruz,.,,, .. , No. 38.,.,, H . J. Gom·RicY, Past !\faster.
HuifUn, . . ...... , .. No. M, •. . , .J. B , RICK ARI >SON, Past Master.
.'•/<1nta Jlo11a, • .• ,,, .No.

57 ... , .A.G. BuRN~:t'T, Past Master.

/,&ve Oak,, ,, ., ... ,No. tJl. ,, , .C. E. HAV&N, Past Master.

....t. Helena,,., ... .•:'fo. 9:~., .. ,\\'ttUAM \V. J,YllAN, Master and Past 1.[aster,
La (.Ji·a11ge,, .•. , .• No. !l'J, .. .. JoKN OzER!ff. '.Master.
Ot'OciJU, ... . •.. , .. No. 163, . . . ,J. GINDLl!RY, Pa.it Master.
Concord, . , . •. ..• . No. 117, . .. . JOH!.'1 W. WYLIE, Ma•ter.
Orient.at, .... .... . . No. 144, .... R. If, LLCH'D, Pa.st Mast+>r.
A.btll ... .• , • , •••• No. 146,., .. G. MoOoWEN, P11st Ml\ster.
Alame<la,,, .... .•• No. 167,, ... 0 . L. So~rHRWK, Past Ma•tn.
Olailm••e,.,,, ... .. No. 185,., .. Hl!NR1' How"- Seni11r Warden.
Hl'Oflklyn, ., .••• .• . No. 225,, .. . G. D, WARRl'1N, Pa•t M11.1Jter,
Hill's Fen·y, . . , . , , No, 28'i,.,,. U4BL P. PAUl.f:IKN, Master aml l'a"t Master.
South. Wtst, • , , , , .. No. 283,, . . , M. L. WA'Rfl, Pa~t MW!ter.
'l'raver, . .. ., , ..... No. 294,, ...•To!OKPH D. PILW!IJUJO'., Ma<ter and Pust Master.
Mt. Jack11011, ., •••• No. 211:-;•. . ,. H. L. BAGT,EY, l'al!t MM-t<or.
Duns11iuit·,.,, .... . No, 2117, ... , Au:XANl>ER IMtVY, Maste1· and PMt M&11ter,
W~t Gate,,., .... . No. 33fi, ., .. J,unwrn &lHifi., Mal!ter.
Palo Alto, .,, ... • . No. 3·tf;,.., , J.ICWI S H. BARKRI\, Sonior \Vard~n.
Preaid.io, ......... . No. 354, . ... JnH!'I H, BoYn, Pnt<t Ma11ter.
San F1-ancisco, .. .. N1.>. 360• .. .. ff Al\VJ!\" D. L<Wl'1T.AND, Master.
Amity,, . ..... , ... U. D .... . ... RICHARD CAIN, )faster.

Which report was concurred in, ·and the brethren therein named
were admitted to seats.

«)rand ~odgt.
MORNING SESSlON,

11*05.]

}

Wed11esdt1y, October I Ilh, A. L. 5905.

The Grand Lodge was called on at ten o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding.
The minutes of the sessions of yesterday were read and approved.
BRo. HARRY S. JOHNSON, from the Committee on Credestials,
reported the following additional officers of chartered Lodges, and

The Grand Secretary, on behalf of the vario1.1s Masonic Boards
of Relief of the jurisdiction, presented their annual reports to the
Grand Lodge, a&, follows : SAN FRANUISCO.
J.'o the M. ·. W. '. Grand Lodge of Califo1'nia., and the Offict1'8 and Jlfe1nbt1·1 of tht
.'l'1oenty Lodges of San Ft•anciaco, pcwtiea to the c1Jmpact :-

The undersigned beg leave to preeent their annual report of the .M88011io Board
of Relief of San Francisco for the year commenolQg on ·the first day of (Jotob~r, 190i,
and entilog on the thirtieth day of September, 1905,
·
Since the first Saturday in January, 1906, the Lodges of the City of San · Francisco have been represented in the Board of Relief by their Masters or delegates, as
follows:-

PROOEEDINGS OF THE

64

[Oct. 11,

From January 1.st to June 3~th, 1nclu1ive.
California, No. 1, by WM. CROCKRR.
E.we!Bior .... No. 166, by R. E. GUYETT.
Par/. Union," .17," L. J. GERHARDT,
Misslo11,
"169," G. W. LUNT.
Occl.dental, " 22," B. G. MANTLE.
S.SunFran., "il2," W. MoDoNALD.
Gold~n (}ate,.. 30, .. WM. G. WRIGHT.
])oric,
.. 216, " c. B. MOUROSKY.
Mt. Moriah, .. 44... Taos. c. CONMY.
Spe,.•a Ital'a, .. 21.9 , .. F. DEMARTINI.
Fidelity,
" 120," JAOOB N1KTO.
K'g.So!'mon's," 260," c. P. CLBI E.
Hermann, " 127," s. J, THKISE!ll.
Starr King, "34'," G.C.WOOLFENDEN.
Pacifio,
.. 136, .. F. [,,HANSEN.
Presidio,
"354, .. F. G. WATSON.
Orookett,
" 139," G. W. G11AUQUE.
Sr.n Fran.,
"360," H. D. LOVELAND.
Oriental,
" 144," B. E. PENN&LL.
~ml!y,
U. D." R. CAIN.
And from July 1st to September 30th.
E.welBior, No.166, by E. L. FOSTKB.
California, No. 1, by WM. CROOKER.
'' 169, " JOHN THOMPSON.
Mission,
Par(. Union, " 17," M. D. DIEBOLD.
S.SanFran.," 212," W • .McDONALD.
22, " W. V. BRYAN.
Oocidental,
u 216, ,, F. L. WIGHT,
Do1·ic,
(}oltler1 (}ate, '' 30, " R. J. AIRY.
Sp~r'a ltal'a," 219, " A. B. SOALlllANINI,
.U,
"
Taos.
c.
CONMY
•
Mt. Moriah,
K'g801'mon'1," 260, " S. B. STEVENSON.
1
• 120, .. JACOB NtBTO.
Fidelity,
Starr King, u 844:, " D. S. HrnsHBKRG.
Hermann, "127, " 8. J, THRISKN.
,, 354, " F. G. WATSON.
Presidio,
.. 136, .. F. L. HANSEN .
Pacific,
.. 360, " H. D. Lov&LUID:.
San
Fran.,
..
WM.
KAHN.
"139,
Oroclcett,
U.D." R. <JAIN.
Amity,
"U!, " H. E. PENNELL.
Oriental,
J.B. RUKBEN, Sec'y . .
F.
L.
HANSBN,
Treasurer;
H. E. PENNELL, CU.airman j

..
.

The receipts for the year were a'll follows, viz.:-

From .Assessments upon the Oily _Lodge• :
No. 1,. . . . ... U5.1 70
Amonnt brought. forward •..•. $2,727 26
Oalifornia,
ParfaiU Union,
17,.......
96 30 .WUelBior,
"No. 166,.......
299 50
Ovaic.lenlal,
22,.......
371 00 Mi88ion,
" 169,....... 674 74
<Jolde11 Gate,
30,.......
294 05 So. San Fr'aco,
21\1,.......
116 · 15
Mount Mod.ah, "
(4,....... 228 60 Doric,
·
216,.... . . . 295 76
FiM-lil!f,

Hermann,
Pacilio,
Oroalcett,
Oriental,

" 120,.......
" 127,. . .....
'' 186,.......
" 189,.......
" 144,.......

330 60
124 05
3fi6 46
2:14 36
236 25

Sper'a ltaliana, "

219,.......

King Solomor.'s, " 260,.......
Start' King,
u 344.,.......
Presidio ,
" 354,.......
San Francisco, " S60.,.... ..
Amity,
U.D.,.. . ...

104 16
3:.1 60
95 20
65 12
49 46
1 90

Amount carried forward •••• . $2, 727 26
Doing amount of receipts from city Lodges-Total, .. ••• .. . .. .••. . .... . ••• $4,G80 83
From amount refnnde.d by sundry Lodges and brethren of Celiforoia, ...•• 3,285 68
" other Jurisdictions in the United States, ..••.• • • 4,372 56
••
''
" foreign Jurisdictions, ... .'....... .. ......... .. 876 60

"

" sundry unclttssed,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

"

received dividend• German's Savings and Loau Society,.. ..
Johnson's Bequest Fund,...... . • . • .. • . •

8 10
142 08
370 72

" donation received, St. Marrin Lodge No. i9, Paisley, Scotland, t
24 25
·•
5 ponndY Sterling @ $4.85.
I · ·' ''
From amount
"
appropriation Grand Lodge,.............. . ..... 6,450 00
Surplus last Report, .................................... . .. . ........... l,55R 17
Befog " tote! of rec~ipts from all sources or................. : .. sn, 7ti9 .88

1905.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

65

The disbursements for the year were as follows, viz. : lur the relief of sick and needy brethren, their wives, widows and orphans
withi~ t~e Jnrisdictlon ol Oalifornla,. ..••••.••••.••••• $3,308 23
"11
other Jonsd1ction• In th., United States,. ................. 6 318 80
foreign Jurisdictions, ................................... , 2:4~9 60
"
11
sundry unclassed, ................... ,,,.......... . . .. • • • .
123 65
Being a total disbursement for charities of, •• , •.•• , .... , , •••• , .$12,WO 28
P11.ld ~or salary of Secretary, Stenographer, fnrnlture, rent and sundry in·
c1dental expenses ' • ........................... . ...................... 2,98115
Making the total expenditures fur the year,. ................... $15 221 43
Leaving a surplus September 30' 1905 I of' " " " " " " ' " ' " ' " " ' " " " " 6 1 548 40
$21,769 88
The following Brethren ha\•e been buried with Masonic honor~, under
the direction of the Board, since the date of last report : 190!.
Oct.
1, .... M. T. Adams, ........ Escorlal,
No.
7,. ... Nevada.
Nov. IO, .... John T. ff olden,. .••• Olevel£nd,
" 211, .... Illinois.
Dec. 1, . ... W. s. Perkins,. . ..... lllinois rown
' ' 61, .... O&lifornia.
1905,
I
Jan.
1, .... Edward M. Brown, .... Calavera~ •
"
78, .... c a1·r
J
1 ,,rn (a.
an. 18, .... C. J. llurton, ........ A.scenslon,
" 251, .... Loolsl11na.
Jan. 15,. ... Arlolph Bolomoo, . ... Unioo,
" 10~, .... Penosylvanla,
Feb. 12, .... 0ltas. L.PreBton, ..... KiDlf&ton,
"
10, .... New York.
Feb. 14, •••• Augustus .M.ierson,... 1'11lmyra1
26,., • . California,
"
Feb. 26, .... William .Lowrie, .... Gardeu City,
"
'1, . ... lllinois.
Ma-. 10, .... H. W. Holmstrom, ... Franklin,
51 . . . . Wa•hlngton,
. :::: 21, . •.. Julius Adolph, •.••••• Truokee,
200, . , •• O.ilifornla..
21, ..•. Sergius Lo~ky, . •• , •• Alillnza,
"
2!,. •• . Ouatemala.
Mar. 2:i, .... James E. Milb,. ..... Uolon,
"
68,. ... California.
April 13, .... Chas. F. Phillips,. ... Orient,
" 389, .... C'anada.
April 21, .... Frank E. Foes, ... .•• Ancient Landmark 1 "
.... China.
A1m.·1 22, .... Alfred J. Mason, .... Stevenson,
218 ,. .•• Canada.
"
Apt ii 2), · ••. Olareoce E. Fi•ke ,.... A. ncient Landmark "
•. , . Ohina.
April 2~, .••. Micbael Burk,...... , Deming,
'
12,.. .. N 6\V ,\ ( PX'· CO.
May 16, .•.• Peter J. 011rsten100,. lonlo,
••
90•. • • • W llBh fogton.
M
ay 18, .... Adrian M. Jones, ... Federal,
"
1; .... o. c.
May SO,. ... William B. Olys, .. , .. Polar Star,
" 114, ... , Malue.
Jone 8, .... Charles Bimn, ... . .... Zetland,
H, .. , . Canada,
Jone 14,. ... R. H. Ttlylor,........ Escorial,
"
7, .... Nevada.
June 27, .••• William A. Jones, .... .M:~nzanita,
" 102,.,, . Cdifornla,
Joly
I, . ... John P. Mar•an,..... Mendocino,
" 179, . .. .Ca.lifornla.
Jnly 5, •••• Frank Fitzsimmons, .. Diamond Jubilee 1
"
23,., •• W•t'rnAustralia,
July 8, ... Joun Nelson, ..... ·... Sir Wm. Wallaoe ,
869, . .. • w" t' rn Aus t ra1·1a,
"
July 9, .... F. E. N~lson,.: ...... El Paso,
" 130, .... Texas.
Aug. 16, .... O. L. 11hst, ...... . ... Yosemit~,
" 133,. ... California.
Aug. Sl, .... Thomas L. Petrie, .... Vacavilie,
" 134, .... California.
.,
.,.,, .... N ata.I
Sept. 22, .... Donald G. Ross, ..... Unit•,
" 20"'

5

66

Pnoo~EDINos OF THE

[Oct. 11,

Upon investigating the foreioing, it will be 1hown · that this M aaonic
Board of Relief can be operated under ordinary conditions with a much
smallH appropriation from the Grand Lodge than it has heretofore 1·eceived.
In Pll:l>t years, under different circumetances. the fonds of the Bonrd were
not adequate to the demands made upon them and in consequence it. was
deemecl necessary to fix the per capita tax of the subordinate Lodges for the
Masonic Board of Relief, at eight cents per month per member, and a resolu·
tion wo.s pas11ed by the Grand Lodge (which we believe to be still in force)
tnaking it compulsory for the Lodges of this Jul'isdiction to pay that sum
into the Board of Relief.
We believe, however, that this resolution should be expunged autl subordinate Lodges called upon to pay only such sum as will be sufficient to
meet the operating expenses of the Board, and the Board given to understand
that the funds of the Grand Lodge are at all times available for the making
good of shortages consequent upon all subordinllte Lodges within this Jurisdiction, being unable to meet demands which may be made upon them for
the p1·oper carrying out of the Masonia obligation•, and also for relief furnished to sojcrurniog dimitted Brethren who have dimitted from this or
outside jurisdilltleins, but who have kept themselves in standing with the
Fraternity.
The matter of reimbursement has, during the past year, been well canvaased throughout the United States and foreign jurisdiction• and the
Fraternity generally concede our position that a Board of Relief .acta in the
capacity as the agent of Lodges, whithersoever located, and that Charity
disbursed to the individual ha.s been so disbursed for the account of the
Lodge, which Lodge, if financially unable to meet its just.obligations, should
be cared for by the Grand Lodge of the Jurisdiction under which it is chartered .
The foregoing tends in no way to withhold proper relief to the worthy, a11
the preceding statement will indicate. Notwithstanding that the Board this
year presents its report ebowing a surplus of funds on hand pr&ctically equal
to the full amount the Grand Lodge intrusted it with a year ago, it will be
noted that fully as much money has been disbursed for Charity and the
-burial of the dea.d as has beeu done in prior years.
·
We trust tha.t thi11 yer.r~s report will be ea.tiafactory and the mode of pro·
cedure which ha.a governed the Board during the pa.et year, will meet with
the approval of the Grand Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,
H . E. PKNNBLL, Chairman.
J. B. RUF.BEi' , Secretlxry.
LO.S ANGKLER
'l'o the M. •• W." (J/•ancl Lodge of Calif01·11ia and
Subordinate Lodges of the Oity oj Lo8 Angel~ :­
DEAR SIR.'! AND BRK'l'HREN-The Masonic Board of Relief of the City of
Loe Angeles herewith presents the following report of ite labors from Octob.r
1st, 190~, to September 30th, 1905:
0

HK>o.J

GRAND LoDGE OF CALIFORNIA.

67

'l'he membership of the Boa.rd as at present constituted is :OJ'J'ICl!Rii:
l'reaideut .. . .. ....... .... Bro. SAHU KL PRAGKH.
Vice-President . . ....... _. " JOHN HILL BKAN.
Treasurer ..... . .... ...... " Mo·rr.F.Y HBWES FLIN'I'.
8ecretary.. ... . . . . . . . . • . • .. DR.•JOHN MARCUS DUNSllOOJI.
Alfred Gottlob Maeder,
/,o~ Angeles Lodge, No. 42, .. · · · · • • Oscar Georgen William Burg.
{
Samuel Prager.
James Black Gist,
Pe11talpl•a Lodge, No. 202, ••• •. , . . Charles Henry Brown,
{
Orville Devere Stone.
Dana Ueid Weller,
81mthen1 Oalifornia Lodge, No. 278, { George Irwin Kyte,
George Atkins Fitch.
Catesby Charles Thom,
llkr•t Gate Lodge, No. 290, · · · · · · · · William Andrew Spalding,
{
Motley Hewes Flint.
Leo Voltus Youngworth,
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, . .. . ... . 1'~dward Alonso Talbot,
{
John Marcus Dunsmoor.
J<'rederick William Dunn,
8011tli Gate Lodge, No. :-120, ... _... John William MuHelmrrn,
{
George Alanson Hart.
Charles Deutsch,
Vallee de .F'rance Lodge, No. :l29,.. Leon Curtet,
{
Armand Caseau:x.
Ludwig Schiff,
·
West Gate L~dge, No. 336, · · · · · · · · Ellsworth Francis Richarde,
Felix Joseph Zeebandelaar.
Leroy Harvey Ceville,
Pttleatine Lo.dge, No. :l51, ... . .. ... Arthur James Wheeler,
Edgar Eugene Selph.
J oho Beaver Clark,
Sunset Lodge, No. 358,... .. . . . . . . . Sedgwick Ziba Oimun,
{
Samuel Edgerton Burke.
John Hill Bean,
Goltlen State Lodge, No. ::158.. ..... Peter W. Garn,
.
Willis Charles Mareh.

~
~

~

The work of this Board of Relief for the year ending September 30,h,
J905, has practically been a repetition of the work of the pniviou yeara,
only in an ioteneitied degree by rea.&on of the increa1ed prosperity of our oity-

68

[Oct. 11,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

bringing many brethren here with only their hands as their oapital, and
requiring as1istance until situations could be 11ecured. Further comment is
unnecessary.
FU!\"ERAL8.

This Board of Relief has been oalled upon to proYide for the burial of the
following deceased Masons, or members of their families, nearly one.half of
whom have been buried at the expense of this Board of Relief.
Those who have joined the Highest and Eternal Lodge, are : Name.

Member of Lodge.

Loo&tion.

D&to.

1005.J

GRAND LoDGE OF CALIFORNIA.

69

Barry 0. L. Trowbridge ... West Gate, No.128..... Seattle, Wash• •••. • . June 80, 1905
John D. Bratton ........... Hazen, No, SGl. . ..... Hazen, Ark . .. ...... July s, 1905
Rev. Nath'! O. Bradley..... Evening Shr, No. 6'-.Darllng&oo, Wis..... Joly 17, 190!>
William Masser ........... New York C!ty.... ... New York Oity .. .. . Jnly 19, 1905
JC?hn Theophilus Tanoer••• Wlnnebago, No, 745•• Winnebago, lll . . ..•. Aug, 27, 1905
Joseph ff. Paulas .. . ...... Tyrfan, No. 333 ...... Bpring6eld, Jll....... Aug. 20, 19050arl Johnson, son of J,
M. Johnson, deceased .. .. Fort Dodge .... .. ..... Fort Dodge, Iowa .... Bept. 7, 1906Nelson D. Edmonds, M.D. Garden Oily, No. Hl..Chlcago, Ill .... ... .. Sept. 1, 190/i. .

Jamee L. Davey.. · • · · .. · ..Janesville, No. 45 .• .. Janesville, Wis. .. ... Sept. 13, 1905·
Henry Augarde . .•. . ..•• .• Franklin, No. '47.. . .. New York, .. . . . .. . .. Sept. 15, l90o

"Marks Mend.l~on •• • • •..•. Santa Ana, N~. 2H .... l:!anta Ana, Oal .. . . .. Oot. 6, 1904
Ethan W. Allen .... ... .... Willamette , No. 2 .. .. Portland, Or .. ...... Nov. 6, 1904
Malcolm D. McKinnon ...... Bulawaya .• •• ••••.• . Bulawaya, S. Africa.Nov. 16, 1904
Oharles H. Williams, Jr.... Ar•, N u. 48 . .. .. ...•. Coxsackie, N. Y .. . . . Nov. 23, l ~Oi

HTATE::lfENT l:JHOWING DISBUkBE.MENTS ON A CCOUNT Oi' VARIOUS JUJUl!DJC-

Robert w. D1Lvies ... .. .... Mt. Pi~gah, No. ~G .. .. Cripple Creek, Colo .. Nov. 28, 1904
George 1,, Barson... . ... ..St. Jobn, No. 75 .. ... Rocky Ford, Oolo.... Nov. 26, l!lO~

Al·

Rev. Victor Cb as. Rocho.:. south Pllrk, No. 662 ... Chicago, Ill....... ... Dec. 16 1904
1
Frdk. H. Hartwickden......Silvor Gate, No. 290 ... Ban Di rgo, Cal. . • ••. Dec. 18, 190i
Wm. Berbert Wright. .... Aurora .. .. .. ..... . .. Fitchburg, Mass ..... Dec. 22. 1U04
0

Jacob c. Joralemon, M. D.Toledo, No. 118....... Toledo, Iowa ........ Jan.
Mabel, wife ore. F. Dock..Gardon City, No. l<ll..Uhicag·., Ill........ Jan.

G, 1905

6, 1905

Daniel Henry Wbi&e .• • , ... Potomac, No. 782• •• •P otomac , I.l. .. . .. . . . Jan. 10. 1905
Son or William A. Eogle., .. Bharron, No.136 •.• • . Sharron, Ohio .. .. .. . Jan. 12, 1~05
las,McKenzieMcNeilage .. Neptune, No. 419 .. . .. Ghi.sgow, Scotla nd...Jan. 17, 1U05
Waldron Abernathy • • , .... Monntain View, No. 65.Mouataln View, Oka.Jan. 17, 1905
Michael Whaling. .. . ·...... Te bo, No. 68.......... Clinton, Mo..... . ... Jan, 24, 1905
George H. Sullivan .. . .. . .. Fenwood, No. 543 . • • . Pbiladelphia, Pa .. .. Jan, 11. 1905
Welford IJ. Dridwell.. .. ... Wilcox, No. 10.. .. . . .. Wilcox, Ariz ........ Feb, 1, 1!105
Frank H. Hoffman .. .. . .... 0. C. Cregier, No. 048..Chicago, Ill ...... , •. Feb, 23, 1905
Richard P. Willett ... .. .... Rising Bun, No. 8 .. .. . Fort Scott, Kas . .. : .. Mch, 8, 1905
Arthur G. Ter:nplar.. . ..... Key•tone, No. 243 ..• •St. Loni~, Mo... . ... . Mch, Ia, 1905
Daviu S. Barmore •••••• . ••Clark, No. 40• . ... . .•• J effersonv ille, Ind .... Moh, 16. i9U5
Oersham Jackson .. . , . .... Augosta, No. 141..... Augusta, Me .. . .... Aprll 19, 1905
Herman P. Wilcox .. .... .. North Bend, No. 119... Nortb Bend, Neb .. .. April 24. 1905
Robert Rowley.. .... .. .... Plum River, No. 554... Stuckton, Ill.. . .. . . . April is, 1906
Edgar Rosett. ............ Dnnsmuir, No. 297 ... . Daoemulr, Cal ..... .. April ~6, 1005
Olive c. Watkin•, daugb·
terof E. H. Watkins ..... Valley Falh, No. 21 ... Va!ley Falls, Kas .• . May

4, 1905
7, 1!105
J . B. Kruse ..... .. ........ Lincoln Park, No, 611.Chicago, Ill ..... .. ... May 13, 1905
Wili»rd A. Rossman ....... Mancos, No. 100 .. .... Mancos, Colo........ May 24, 1905
Gordon McLean... . . .. ....Coronado, No, 8 . ..... Clifton, Ariz .... .. .. June 6, 1905
Wm, Henry Dillingham..... Pent•lpha, Nu. 202.... Loe Angeles, Cal .. .. May

Robert Martin. · ..••. •.. • Anchor, No. 273 . ••.•. Compton, Cal.... . ... Sept. 24, 11106

'l'IO!fR, TOGETHER WITH AMOUNT RECEIVED FROM EACH.

Paid.

r1ca .... . . ... ., ... . .. . ... . ... . ......... .. , ...... S 13 60
Alabama ................ ,..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .• . 518 92
Arizona.. .......... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . .
19 00
Arkansas . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
47 85
Australia
73 00
Aus tria . .'. '.'.'.'. '.'.'. .... ·.·.'.'.'.'. '.'. ·.·.·.'. '. '. '. '.'. ·.·.·.'.'.'.: :·.:: : :
.5 06
Belgium •• •..• • . . .• .•. .• . . . . . . ... .... • .• •• .•. . , • ,
5 00
Oalifornia.
Canada . . ... : : : : : : : ' • .. . . . •.. . .. . . ' . . . . · · · · ' · · · · ' 1579 80
Chili

.. .. ····· ··· .... ····· ··· ·· · ....

Reoeivecf.

$ 578 25

12 lie)

496 90
17 50

China: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : .': : : .' : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :
Colorado
Connecti~~t '.'.'.'.' ......... . . . . ·... . . .. ..... .. .. ... .

li 00

40'1 15

···· ·· .. .... ···· ··· ··· ·· ······· ··

4 50

..... . ···· ·· .......... . .

Iii 00

Egypt •. .. .... , . ... • , , . . . ... , .... . . . ... . . ... . . . •
England . . . . .. . ..... .. ...• ... ..•... . . ... ... . . . . . .
Finland
,.
·········· .... . .
Florida

li 00
50 50

Delaware
Denmark. : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ...... .. . ... .... .... . . . .

242 0()

18 50

······ ... .... ········ ···
4 00
... .... . ···· ··.. ................ ...... .. .. 135 00

France .•• . .. . , . .•.•.. . . •• . •. •• • . , •••.. • . . • . . . . ..•
7 liO
Georgia... . .. .. ......... .. ............. .. . . .. '. .. . .
15 00
Germany..... . . ... .....•. . .. . . .. . .. . .. .... .... , . . 122 50
Holland •.. . . .. .. . .... . .. .. . . ... . ..• .. ... ... . . .... . 23 00
Idaho, . .. . .. . , . • ..•. ..... , . .. . . . . . • , .... ... .. .
21 50
Illinois . . ........ . . . . . . . ... .... ... . ...... .. . , . • .. . . 565 50
Indiana
335 00
Iowa . . : :'.:·.'.''.''.'. : '. '. : :·. ·. :'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.' :: .' .':.' 119 50
lreland . . . . . . . ..• . . . ... . .. . .. . ... . •....•• , • , . •. •.
« 35
Jamaica Islanrl , . ...... , . ... ... . • . ...... .. ........•
2 50

10 00

313 25
184 50

10 0()
41 5()

70

[Oct. 11.

PBOOEEDINGS OF THE
Paid.

Kansas ............... . ................ .. ... . .... $ 139 30
Kentucky •.............. . . ......... ..... . ... ..... 103 25
Louisiana .......................•.. . ... . .. .. .....
77 50
Maine .............•.... .. ...... . .................
69 00
Massachusetts ......•.....•.............. : . . ..... . 248 85
Mexico. .. .. ....•.... ......... . ..... ........ .. ... . 20 00
Michigan ..•............... . ... .... ............... :~55 30
Minnesota. . ..•..... . , •.........••.... : . . .... ... .• 69 50
Miasissippi ............... .. ... . ............. . ... . 201 50
Missouri ...••••..................... . . ........ . .. .. 430 55
Montana ......................................... . 46 50
Nebraska . . . .. . . ... .. .. . ..... . ... .. .. . . ... .. . . .. . 148 00
18 00
Nevada ................ . ...... . . : ...... ···· ... ··.
New J eraey ......... .. . . .... . .. . . .... . .... ..... . . 55 00
41 50
New Mexico... . .. ...... . .. . .. ... . . .. . . . ... . . ... .
New Hampshire .......... . . . .. . ...... .... ...... . .
16 50
New York ... .......... . . ........... ..... ..... . (;92 50
New Zealand... .......... , .............. . ........ . 66 00
North Carolina .... . . ............•....... . .......
5 50
24 00
North Dakota.. . . . . . . . . . . ... •. ......... .. .......
Norway..•..•. ..... ... .. .. . . . . .... . ... ...........
7'50
Nova Scotia.. ... .. . . ......... . . ..... ... ......... . 47 85
-Ohio .. .... . . .. . ........ ..• . .. .. ... . ........ .. .... ti69 40
3 ()(I
Oklahoma .•............... . ....... . ..... .. . . ... . .
-0Hgon•. ... . .. . . . ..... . ... ... . .... . . . . .. . . .. .. . . 47 ()()
PenneyI vania. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . ..... ..... . 403 75
li 00
Peru. .• ..•.•.. ....... .. . ......... . .... . . ... . .. . . .
2 50
Philippine Islands. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . .. .
13 50
Prince Edward Island ... .. . ....... . .... .. ... . . ... .
Pru8$ia.. . .... , . .. ... .. ....... ... ....... ... .. .. . . . 34' 50
15 25
Rhode bland. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . ..... . .. .. .. .
Scotland ........ . .. . .. . .. . .. ... . . . . ...... . .... . . . 205 50
Shetland Island . ................................ .
7 50
31 50
South Carolina . ... ... ......... . ... . .. . ..... ... . . .
South Dakota .... ... ...........•• ... . .. . . ........•
25 00
23 50
Sweden .. ... ... .. .. . .. •.. . .. ... .••••...... . .....
Switzerland .. : ................. . . . ......... .. ... . 28 00
Tennessee ......•... . . .. ••. . .. .. . . ...... .. ..•. . . . 138 20
Texas ....... . ..... . . .·.. . .................... .... . 133 JO
Utah .. .. . . ....... . . .. . . .... . . .. . ... . . .. . ..... . . .
"'00
!Vermont . .... . ........ ... . .........• •. .•.........
4S 00
13 00
Virginia.. .. . . .. ••••• . . .... ... ..... . .... . .. ... .. ..
Wales. . ................ .. .... . ..... ... ........... . 22 60
Washington .. . . . .. ....... . . .. . .•• . . ... ...... .... . . 43 00
Washington, D, C ............ . . .... . · .. -. .. . . ..... . 273 Oll

1006.)

necelv~

$ 60 00.
66 00

36 50
15 00
14!-I 75

Total .... . ....• . .• . . .. .. . .. ... .........• .. tI0,071 4i

25 00

135 00

26 50

461 96.

212 00

114 50

R~ceipts.

Ii.lance, o~tober l, l 90L . .. . .... . ............ . . .. ' 176 16
Orand Lod~e of California . . . • . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . 4,000 00
Los Angeles City Lodges.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . • . . . 2,544 25
Kister Jurisdictions.... . ..... .. ... . . . .... . ... .. .... 4,394 74
Interest on Deposit........ . . . . . . . . .. . . . • . . . . . . .. .
13 17
Other sou rces ..... ... ... , . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
32 14

.• 37 50

420 50

Received.

Paid.

Weat Virginia.................. . ......... . . . . . . . $ 5 00
Wisconsin .. . . : ... ... ...... .... . . . ... . ........... . 2!l9 60
\Yyoming.. . .............. . ........ . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
14 00

231 20
90 50

71

GnAN]) LoooE oF- CALIFORNIA.

·

$11, mo 46

Disbursements.

Ula.ssified by Jurisdiction . ..... . ...... ... .......... $10,071 47
Unclassified.. . .......... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
297 2"2
J<~xpense Account . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . . • • . . . . . . •
l, 126 57 $11,555 26
Total Disbursements . . . ... . . ... . . .. . .... . .. .
Total Receipts ..• , ...••.......... . .•. , , . , .

$11,GM $

Overdraft ....... . ... . .. ........ , ...• , , •....

J

11,160 46
3!14 RO

All which is respectfully submitbed.

.J. M. DuNsMoo&, Secretarv.
OAKLAND.

12· 711
!llJ 79'

26 00

110 20
38 51)

'J'o the Al.'. W. ·. Grand Lodge of (Ja/ifon1iii:The Masonic Board of R elief of 0.lkland heNwith re3peotfully presenta
its Annual Report from Ootobar 5, 190!, to o ~tober 4, 1905, inclusive.

Until January 1905 the Board's memberahip is shown in our report for
1904. 1''rom January I, 1905, the following herewith have composed the
Hoard:Charles J<'rancie Gulick, Master;
JAve Oa~ Lodge, No. tll, by · ···.· Wagner Swayne Smith, S. W.;
Abraham Powell Leach, J. W.
Charles Nelson Walter, Master;
Oakland Lodge, No. 188, by . .. .. . Robert Brainard Gaylord, S. W. ;
{
·
Charles Edwin Keyes, J , W.

l

·1 Charles Horn Smith, Maater.;

Rrookly11 Lodge, No. 225, liy .. · .. • John Arthur Petty, S. W.;

115 Ott,

Herbert P118ha Brigga, .T. W.

72

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
.

..dlcafraz Lodge, No. 244, by......

(Oct. 11,

{ Alfred Peacock, Master;
William Gardner Davidson, S. W.;
William John Lawry, J, W.

John "''illiam Gwilt, Master;
Sequoia Lodge, No. 349, by...... Charles Husband, S. W.;
{
Jamila Cairns Cole, J. W.
The present·offi.cers have been elected to serve until the first Wednesday
in January, 1906, and they are: JOHN W. GWILT, Chairman; ABRAHAM P.
LBACH, Treasurer; J, J. WARNER, Secretary.
The receipts and disbursements of the Board from October 5, 1904, to
Ootober 4, 1905, inclusive, are as follows:RECEIPTs.
Live Oak Lodge, No. 61. .. ..... .. ... ... . ... . . .......... $434 00
Oakland Lodge, No. 188 •.... , ..... .. ......•......... . .. 265 95
Brooklyn Lodge, No. 225 . ........... .. ... . ........... 144 65
Alcatraz Lodge, No. 244 ... . . . .. . . .. ......... , . .... , . .. 250 85
Sequoia Lodge, No. 349 . ..... .. ......... .. ............ , 127 50
.
- - - $1,222 95
Interest on money deposited in bank. . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . .
47 39
Refunded by Lodges in California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
192 75
Refunded by Lodges in other Jurisdictious..... . . . . . . . . . .
365 45
Add balance in treasury October 6, 1904. ... . ... .. .. .. . , ,

Sl,826 54
1,637 52

Total available funds during the year . ...... . ..... .

$3,466 06

DISBURSEMENTS.
For the relief of needy and sick brethren and l.mria.l. .. . . . .
l<'or the relief of needy a.nd sick widows a.nd orphans ... .. .
Expense for Secretary, stationery, postage, tele!(raphing,
i>tc .. .. .•..•. . . . .. .. . . .. , •••.•....•........•. . . .
Care· for buria.l plot .• ...•.............. . .. . .......... ..

$ 525 60

Total disbursements ..... . ... . .. . .......... .,• ....
Ba.lance in treasury October 5, 1905 .••... . ... . ..........

$1,488 30
1,977 76

773 70
169 00
20 00

$3,466 06
The sum of $192. 75 reported a.s refunded by Lodges in California. was
received as follows Hiram Lodge, No. 43, El Dorado .......... . , ... . .......... $25 00
Ionic Lodge, No. 121, Iowa Hill ... ... . .. .. .. .. .... ·.. . . .. . . . 10 00
Friendship I.odge, No. 210, San Jose ..... . .... . . . ... . . .. ... 70 00
McKinley Lodge, No. 347, Richmond . . . .. . .. ........ . .. , • 85 00
Ma.sonic Hall and Relier° Committee, San Jose.. .. .. . .. . . . .. . 2 75
_ . - $192 75

1905.}

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

73

The sum of $365.45 reported a.a refunded by Lodges of other Jurisdictions
·

wae received as follows :-

Weber Lod5e, No 6, Ogden, Uta.h ............... , .......... $45 00
Oarden City Lodge, No. 141, Chica.go, Ill................... 75 20
Ca.pit.al City Lodge, No. 312, Indianapolis, Ind .............. 72 00
11:aatern Sta.r Lodge, No. 227, New York City. , .. ... .. , •. ,, . 98 25
Aurora. Lodge l<'. a.nd A. M., Fitchburg, Mass •.•..•.. .. . .. .. 25 00
Denver Lodge, No. 5, Denver, Colo. .............. . . , .. , . • .. IO 00
P~rtland Lodge, No. 55, Portland, Ore ..... .' . . .. . .•..••.•• • 20 00
Harmonic Lodge, No. 699, lluffalo . .. '. ..... . ...... . .. . .. . .. 20 00
- - - $365 45
The sum of $1/i.99.30 reported as dispersed for charity to brethren, their
widows a.nd orphans, was distributed as follows:14 cases from Ca.lifornia ...... , .... . ........... $ 387 25
I ca.se from Arizona. . • • • • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . .
20 15
I ca.se from Austra.lia . . .. . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . •
7 50
2 cases from Colorado, . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . • . . . . . .
45 65
2 cases from Illinois .. .. , . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . • . . . .
85 20
84 00
1 case from Indiana ...•.......... . .......•.. .
15 00
I case from Jamaica. ........ . . . .... . ....... . . .
2 c11ses from Massa.chusctt9 . .. .. ...... , •. , . , .. 127 30
60 00
I ca.se from Maine ... , , ..... . , . . .. .... , , . .. . .
55 00
2 cases from Missouri . .. . . . . . . . .... . . . . , . , ..
82 00
2 ca.sea from Neva.da ••..•• • , ...•• , , ..••. . .• . •
1 case from Nebraska ... , . . . . . ... .. .. . ... • ..
80 00
7 cases from New York . . , .. . . . .. . . . ..... . . . . 159 25
1 case from Oregon .. . ... . ... . , .... . .. . .•. . ..
20 00
20 00
l case from Quebec . . . ... .. • , .. .. . .•.•• . . • .. •
I case from U ta.h •.... . ......... . .. . . . .. . . . . .
35 00
6 00
4 cases unidentified . . . . ..•..........•..•.....
I case from Wisconsin . . . . . .. . ...... . . . . . . ". . .
10 00
- - - $1, 299 30 .
During the yea.r covered by this report the following na.med brethren were
buried with Ma.sonic Honore, under the a.uspices of this Board :-

190'1.
Oct. 21. , HENRY STEMPLE, Ionic Lodge, No. 121, Iowa Hill, Ca.I.
Dec. 5 .. EDWARD W. MITCHELL, Ionic Lodge, No. 121, Iowa Hill, Cal.
Dec, 11 .. N. D. CHAMBERLAIN, Carson City Lodge, Ca.rson City, Nev.
Dec. 2_2 .. GEo, W. SMITH, McKinley Lodge, No 347, Richmond, Cal.
1905.
.. . . . . . . . JAMES McCORMICK, Reading Lodge, No. 254, Redding, Cal.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
!OHN \V, GWILT, Chairman.

J. J. WARNER, Secretary.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 11~

75

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,

This report was examined by the Boar,l in regular session 0Jtober I, 1905,
and a.pproved.
·

SAN DIEGO.

To the JI.·. W. '. Um11d Lodge of California.
The San Diego Board of Relief herewith submits its Annual Report for' .
the year endin,v; September ao, 1905.
The prt>eeot Board is constituted as follows:-·
CHARLl!:I! CmusTOl'HER VA:-i D1rnIPE, \V. M .... . South \Ve•t Lodge, No. 28:J
JAMES HENRY CASi!IDl", W. M•.. . . , •..•. . .•.• , ,Silver Gate Lodge, No. 29fi
ALFRED HYDE GILBERT, W, M ................... Sa.n Diego Lodge, No. 35
The following officers were elected in January, 1905 :0. C. VAN DERIPE, President; A. H. 0rLBER1', Treasurer; :K T. Bi.ACll·
Secretary.

MER,

RECEIPTS.

On hand October 1, 1904 ... .... .... .... .. ...... .......... $404 95
From other Jurisdictions .•.. , . . .... ... . . ....... .. .... . ... 175 75
" California Lodges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . • .. .. .. . . 10 00
" Lodges in Relief District ................... ,.... . ... 24 00

All which is respectfully submitted.
ALFRED HYDE GILBKRT,
W. '.
S1n Diego l..otlge, No. 35.
CHARI.KS 0KRISTuPH"R VAIN DERIPK,
W. •, M. •,South West Lodge, No. 28:l

M>.

JAlllI'..S. liBllRY CASSIDY,

W .', M. ·, Silver Gate Lodge, No. 296.
Attest :
ELI TUOKKR BLACK.MICK, Secutary.
SACRAMENTO.
To the /I!.·. W. ·. Grand Lodge of Oalifornia :The Sacramento Boa.rd of R~lief presents the following report for the year
ending September SO, 1905 .
RKCIU):'T8 .

- - - $614 70

Drsev1ts1m.
For other Jurisdictious . .. ... .... .. .... . ........ . .. ..... .. $210 00
" California Lodges. . .. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . .. . . . . IO 00
" Secretary's office . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81 00
'' Telegrams . . . .. . . ..•.... . .. . . . ,.,. . . . . . . . . . . .
7 79
--$308 79
On hand 8eptemher 30, 1905 .. ....•...

}905.]

$305 91

RKCEIPTS FROM OTIU:R JURI~ DWTIONll.
Micliigan ...........•...........•.......... , . . .. . . ,, .... $ 95 7r;.
New York..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 00
Colorado ... , .. .. . ... .......•.... .. , .. ... . . . .. . ... , . . . . . 20 00
Indiana ....... . .... .. ............... . ...... , .. . , .. ... . , 50 00
- - $175 71).
DISBURllED FOR O'l'HRR JURISDICTIONS.

Michigan . ....... . , . .. . . . . ...... . . . ...... . .. .. , . . . . ... . . S 95 00
New York. . .. ..... . .... .. ........ .... .... .......... . ... 10 00
Colorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 00
Scotland...... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . 10 00
England . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 25 00
Indiana. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50 00
- - - t210 00
BlTRIKfl.
JAOuB L. ~fu·n1. of Detroit Lodge, No. 2, Oet.roit, Michigan.

Bala.nee ll/ollt report .................. ... ............... $510 82
From Tehama Lodge, No. 3 .. . . ................ .. .... .. 177 00
" Washington Lodge, No. 20. .... .... ... ..... ... .. .. 84 20
" Sacramento Lodge, No. 40. . .. . . . . .. • .. • . . . . . . . . . . I 94 .25
" Union Lodge, No. 58 .. . .... . .. . ....... .. ......... 186 00
" Concor:l Lodge, No. 117 ......... . . . ..... ... .. ... 108 00
Repaid by Ll)dges and individuals . . . .. .....•.•.. , , .. . . .. :~53 41
$1,613 68;
J>J/IBUlU!ltJl,

.Au~t.ralia.,.
l case . ..................... ·. • • . • . .. . .. . • •. :S 2 95
California,
7 cases . .•..•.... .... .... .. .. . . .. ....... 573 lO
Kansas,
2 cases. . . . • . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 00
Indiana,
3 cases . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68 50
lllinoie,
3 cases. .... , . . .......... . ..... , . . . . . . . . 435 00
Massaclulsetts, 1 case, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100 00
I 00
Maine,
l case. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . .
1 ca.se . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
:~ 50
Minnesota,
Montana,
1 case·. . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . .
4 00
l 00
Nebraaka.,
l case. ... .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
New York,
1 case. ..... ... . .... .... .... .... ........ 68 50
1 case... .• . .. ......... . ........... : . . . . 10 00
Texaa,
Washington,
2 cases..... .. .. . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
li 75
Expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66 25
--···- $1,358 1)5

B11lauce, cash on liand . .•......... , ...•.. . ........• , .. .. .. $ 255 13
Fraternally submitted,
J. B. G IFrLI!, 8t cnl2ry.

76

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 11,

MANILA LODGE.

To the M. •. W. •• Grand Lodge qf California:This is to certify that the following resolution was unanimously passed on
motion of Bro. Alfred B. Jones at the Stated Communication of "Manila"
Lodge, No. 342, F. & A. M, held August 1, 1905: "Resolved, That "Manila" Lodge, No. 342, F. & A. M., petition the
Grand Lodge of the State of California to appropriate the sum of $350.00 to
the Masonic Board of Relief of the Philippine Islands for the year beginning
January 1, 1906. Said Board of Relief is composed of representatives of the
two Lodges, "Manila" and "Cavit.e," under charter of the Grand Lodge of
California."

All which were referred to the Committee on Finance.
The Grand Secretary also preiiented the following:--

1905.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

77

And the following from "Ionic" Lodge, No. 121 : We have found that by death and members moving away from it~ juriediction, the Lodi:e has become so reduced in its membership that it is
almost impossible, and has been for some time, to obtain a quorum for the
transaction of ordinary business, and we believe that the interests of Masonry
will be better subserved by the surrender of its Charter.

Th-.rejore be it ReiioltJed, That "Ionic" Lodge, No. 121, F. & A. M., voluntarily surrender its Charter to the Grand Lodge and that the members
apply for their dimits to the Grand Secretary.

Both which were referred to the Committee on Charters.
Bro. C. B. JOHNSON, Master of "Yount" Lodge, No.
sented the following:--

12, pre-

'l'o the M. ·. W. •• G1·and Lodge of California:Your petitioner, "San Mateo" Lodge, No. 168, F. & A. M., doth show:That at a stated meeting of "San Mateo" Lodge, No. 168, held on Sat·
urday evening, March 18, 1905, notice was given by a member of this Lodge
~hat at the next stated meeting to be held on April 15, 1905, a resolution
would be presented relative to changing the name of this Lodge from "San
Mateo" Lodge, No. 168, to "Redwood City" Lodge, No. 168.

To the M. '. W. '. Grand Lodge of California:WHEREAA, "Yount" Lodge, No. 12, F. & A. M. has, during the past
year3, advanced for the care, nuraing and burial of distressed worthy Brother
Master Masons of Eastern Lodges, and their widows, the sum of $317.00;
and,

Tliat a notice was sent to each member of "San Mateo" Lodge, No. 168,
stating that such a resolution would be presented at the stated meeting of
April 15, 1905, and requesting attendance.

TherPfore, be it Resolved, That the Grand Lodge of California. reimburse
"Yount" Lodge, No. 12, F. & A. M., in the sum of $317 .00.

That at a stated meeting of "San Mateo" Lodge, No. 168, held on Saturday evening, April 15, 1905, th" following resoluti6n was duly passed and
adopted by unanimous vote :-

"Resolved, That this Lodge petition the Most Worshipful·Grand Lodge of.
Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California. to change the name of
this Lodge from that of "San Mateo" L~dge, No. 168, to that of "Red·
wood City" Lodge, No. 168, for the following reasons, viz. :"That the present title of this Lodge is misleading as to its location.
"That communications intended for this Lodge are frequently directed to
the Town of San Mateo.''.
We do now humbly ask that our request be granted and your petitioners
will e\•er pray.
Fraternally submitted,
San Mateo Lodge, No. 168, F. &: A. M.,
THo~. 0. H.l!:YDENFELDT, Master.
Attest:
F. K. TowN.I!:, Secretary.

WHEREAS, "Yount" Lodge, No. I 2, has endeavored and been unsuccessful
in recovering said sum from the Lodges of which said brethren were memben;

Bro. LAWRENCE H. WILSON, Master of "Russian River" Lodge,
No. 181, presented the following:To the lll. '. If'.'. Gmnd Lodge of Oa/ifornia :"Russian River" Lodge, No. 181, F. & A. M., of Windsor, California,
respectfully submits that its furniture, regalia and properties were totally
destroyed by fire on the twenty-first day of May, 1905, anrl that the insurance
upon the same was not of sufficient amount to adequately replace it for the
carrying on of the work of Masonry to the best advantage in that juri~diction .
Wherefore, "Russian River" Lodge, No. 181, respectfully petitions that
its dues may be remitted for the year 1905.

Bro. CHARLES A. MOORE, P. M. of North Butte Lodge, No. 230,
presented the following :
On July 9, 1905, " North Butte" Lodge, No. 230, sustained a total loss of
its Lodge-room and contents. The said Lodge had just expended about nine
hundred dollars in fitting up their hall, and " N 01·th Butte" Lodge has no
funds on hand, but is in debt, an1i will have to assess themselve& to purchase
new furuiture and regalia.. Therefore, be it

78

PROOEEDINOS OF THE

[Oot. 11,

Resolved, That this Urand Lodge refund the Grand Lodge dues of" North
~ntte" Lodge, No. 230.

All which were referred tQ the Committee on Finance.
Pa3t Grand Master, ORRIN S. HENDERSON, presented the following:7'o tllR. AJ .'. IV.'. Grand Ludg-, of California:-

Your committee, to whom was referred the following resolution :
"WHKREAs, The publication of the Proceedings of this Grand Lodge is
growing in size and expense; therefore, be it
"Resolved, That the publication of said report be changed in form so that
the Proceedings proper be published separately and as early as possible after
the closing of the Grand Lodge, and that the usual number printed be cut &11
close as possible and as are necessary for use of the Grand Lodge after allowing two copies only to each subordinate Lodge; and l>e it farther
"Resolved, That the full Roster of the Returns of Lodges be published tri·
ennially, and at and after the time of the installation of officers in subordinate
Lodges, showing correct list of officers and members at the date of pubiica.
tion, and that enough oopies be ordered printed by the Grand Secretary as
will servo the uses of this Grand Lodge so that each Grand Officer, Past
Grand Officer and each constituent Lodge shall have one copy; and that
annually during interim of publication of triennial report a supplement he
published showing the changes in officers and membership in Lodges of this
jurisdiction at the time said supplement is published, " which resolution was
introduced at the last session of the Grand Lodge; beg leave t o report antl
recommend as follows :
It i11 obvious that the proceedings are cumbersome, late in issuance and
costly to the Grand Lodge. We have carefolly examined into this matter
and find-

lst. That the proceedings of the Grand Body should be published separately from the returns or roster of subordinate Lodges, printed and distrib·
uted within 60 days after the clase of the Grand Lodge Session and that time
be made the essence of the contract with publishers thereof.
2d. That publication of prooeedings shall be printe.-1 in its pre~ent form
with the following exceptions :
No part of the Trustees' Report of the Widows' and Orphans' Home should
l>e published, except that part down to the itemized disbursements, for the
reason that the report is now pll blished at the Home and sh011ld be <listributed from there.
3d. That the Report on Correepondence should be ordel'ed confined to no
more than 50 pages of matter consisting of digested facts regarding onr sister
jnrisdictlons.

J!J05.J

79

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

4th. That that part of the Committee on Returns which gives tabulated
tlnancial statement.a of dues to General Fund and Home Fund, and that part
of Committee on Pay of Members which gives a.mount allowed, should be
llOnsolidated and published in form of a financial statement substantially as
follows :
Name.
C,.1.

N .>.

G•neral Fund.

Home Fund.

T ota l.

Amount Allowed
Representatives.

This saves a.bout 150 pages 011 Proceedings proper.
5th. Regarding Roster of Lodges, :u published in 190!, Proc.eeding from
page 1142 to 1531,-399, we recommend that immediately after the Grand Secretary receives the reports of installing offioers he shall issue to each Gra.n<l
Officer, Past Grand Officer and each oonstituent Lodge of this jurisdiction,
one copy showing the name and number and address of Lodge, name and
address of Master, and name and address of Secretary and the time of
Stated Meeting. This saves about 300 pages.
6th. All matter following roster of Lodges, statistical .,.nd indexed,
should be publiahed with the proceedings 1111d not with the roster.
7th. We further recommend that the Grand Secretary follow these lines
in all other matters looking to economy of space; which cost, in the publication
of the proceedings combining ma tter not horein touched 11pon to t he sm11.llest
compass poBBible.
8th. We further recommend that this report, if adopted, shall effeot the
printing of the proceedings of 1905.
Respectfully Ru b1nitted,

Oium'I S. Hi,;irns~soN,
H. M. OwitNS,

Referred to the Finance Comm~Thl- FtLM&R.

l
fCommittee.

Bro. ORRIN S. HENDERSON, P. G. M., presented the following :--Resolved, That the entire subject matter and action of this Grand Lodge
at its session of 1904, whereby the appointing or receiving Representatives to
and from other Grand Bodies was abrogated, be and is hereby referred to the
Committee on Jurisprudence as to the legality thereof. Also that dnch pol'·
tions of the Committee on Correspondence report as refers to suoh subject be
referred to such committee.

Bro. HIRAM N. RUCKER, P. G. M., presented the following:+
WHEREAS, It has been determined by the Grand Lodge that " ." Masonic
burial can be oonducted only by a regular Lodge, duly opened for that purpose, " and
\.VHER.EAs, All Masons, in standing, should be a.ocorde<l a proper Masonic
bu rial; therefore be it

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

80

[Oct. 11,

Resolved, That the actual expenses incurred ~y a Lodge in_ the burial of
deceased brethren at the Masonic Home, except m the case of its own members, shall be refunded by the Grand Lodge.

1005.]

•ppreolatlon. of the eflicien t manner in which he ha.s discharged his trust and
tt.rnod his salary.
Re•pectfolly and fraternally submitted,

J, W. ANDERSON,
B. M. HAGU·E, Ja.,

Both which were re(erred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
Bro. JAMES W. ANDERSON, from the Committee on the Grand
Master's Address and Grand Secretary's report, presented the following reports : To the M. •, W." Grand Lodge of Calijornia;
Your committee to whom was referred the Address of the. M. '. W.'.
Grand Master, George W. Hunter, have discharged the duty assigned to us.
It is not a. function of this conmittee to set in judgment u~o~ the decisions
of the Grand Master; nor are we a.t liberty to criticise any oprn1ons expr~ssed
by him. We a.re at liberty, however, to give expression os to our estimate
f the character of the document; and it is with the utmost pleasure aud sat·
~sfactiou that we pronounce the Address au honor t~ this Vrand Body, and ~
d't to the character that conceived and framed 1t. The Grand Lodp;e
~li~ornia ma.de no mistake when, by its suffrap;es, it placed the top;a. of duty
and responsibility upon the shoulders of our able an~ beloved Brot~er. . He
has shown by his fidelity to your interests, to the mterests of this Gr.and
J 1· diction a.nd of Masonry in llenera.l, that he has hewn to the str~1~ht
:f duty: a.nd has fully appreciated the distinct~ou which, in recog01t1on
f hill character and ability, you conferred upon him. He has a.bundent~y
~arned the honors by the expenditure of time and tal11nt in the great work rn
which he and you alike delight.
We respectfully recommend that so much of the Address a.s apper.tains to
, · ·
endered by the Grand Master b• referred to the Committee on
nec1s1ons r
..
d M · Lod
am
gee,
Jurisprudence. Also, that so much as refers to the Hawana an
be r.,ferred to the same committee.
We recommend that so much as appertains to the Hall Stock and Temple
be referred to the Committee on New Temple.
In conclusion we congratulate Grand Master Hun~er upon the p_roud
record that he has made in. every position he has occupied, whether private
or official, in this Grand Body; and we congratulate you, breth~en of the
Grand Lodge, that you have had the benefit of his prudent cou~c1l, and the
blessing (•f his splendid character. May this benefit and blessrng be yours
long to enjoy; and may he feel.that he en~oys the love and esteem of those
among whom he has so faithfully and efficiently labored.

0

li::

As usual the Grand Secretary, Bro. J ohneon, has made such a concise, yet
comprehensive, report as leaves nothing for us to do, except to express our

81

GRAND J.JODGE ·oF CALIFORNIA.

~

Committee.

HARVEY D. LoVELAND,

Both which were adopted.
BRo. REUBEN H. LLOYD, from the Special Committee on New
Temple, presented the following report:To the M.·. W.'. Grand Lodge ofCalif11rnia:Your Special Committee, appointed at the last Communication of this
Grand Body for the purpose of in,·estigating the question as to whether or
not it would be well to sell the present Ma.sonic Temple and purchase a lot
elsewhere and construct a new temple, or whether it would be advisable to
erect a new temple upon the present site, or retain the old temple in its
preeen t condition, respectfully report :
They met with the Representatives from other Grand and Subordinate
Bodies of this Order, who represent some lS,000 out of the 25,000 sharea of
the capital stock of the Masonic Hall Association, the remaining 7,000 shares
being held by outsiders. After full consideration, the consensus of opinion of
the Committee was that the present site, which has a frontage of 75 feet on
Montgomery street, 160 feet on Post street, and 75 feet on Lick etre.,t, is the
moat available, and perhaps the best, which could be selected in San Francisco,
and it would be very bad policy indeed to dispose of it.
The present· Temple, constructed half a century ago, was designed when
a large portion of the population was not yet certain about the growth or
future of 8a.n Francisco-then more than sufficient to supply all the lodge and
other room required. Now the Order ha.s outgrown its capacity, and many
of the bodies have been compelled to seek quarters elsewhere. The elevator
• and steel construction systems have made it possible to replace our ·present
Temple with a magnificent landmark of our Order, amply sufficient to supply
all our wants for the next century, and bring a handsome income besidee.
Your Committee, for the purpose of ascertaining the feasibility of erecting
a new Temple on the old site, sought the advice of D. H. BuRNHA~, Esq.,
who desip;ned and superintended the construction of the famous Masonic
Temple of Chicago, and also a number of large modern steel buildings of San
Francisco, and who has just finished an elaborate plan to beautify this city.
After giving the matter a full consideration, he said he was heartily in
accord with the opinion of the Committee that the present site should not be
changed, and it would be a, wise thing for the Association to erect a modern
twelve-story Clase "A" Building in place of the present Temple. At our

6

82

UJOlS. J

[Oct. 11,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ANNUAL EXPENSK,

· t f the coRt and the p.robablc re,·cnue thererequest, he furuished an est1ma e o
from, which report is as follows :
SAN FRANCISCO, February 23, 1905.

15,000 00
110,000 00

Total expense, . .......... .. .... .. ... . ..... ... . . $

45,000 00

flETUllN!S.
(~rOijS .. . ............. , ..... , . .. , • , ..... , . . .. , , .. , . .. ... , . ·i!ii

r,.,88 expenses.. . ... ..... .. ..................... .... . . .... . .
Net income ... .. ........ . ...... . . .. ............ $

11,200
HEIGHT oF Bun.mNG"
20 feet
Basement .... ·. . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ' · · · · · ' · · ' · ' ' · · · · · ' . . .. 18 "
. ......... ......... ···· ··
First story . . ·· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
143 "
Eleven stories at 13 feet each······ ···· ········ · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 17 "
Height in addition to above for Masonic quarters · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
"
12
Attic . ....... ········ · · · · · · ·· · · · · · · · ' ·'' ''. '' .. ' .... . . ' ....... .

94,500 00

l<'INANO E~.

Income on $800,000 stock ... .. , .... . . . . . ......... . . . .. .. .. .. $
54,500 00·
or .068 per cent on investment

2 352 000 cubic fee\
· h · ht
11 200 square feet by 210 feet Ill eig · · · · · · · · ·: · · · · · · '
'
Add for light court space in first story and for sidewalk

We thought it would be well to have the advice of some real estate man
as to the probable rental vmlue of s11ch a structure, and selected A. J. Rich &.
Co. They, having charge of the Union Trust Building, 011 the opposite side
of Montgomery street, were peculiarly qualified to give us valuable ideas on
the subject. They went carefully over the matter, aud then gave us the
following opinion :

s~ace in basement ... • . .. ·· ··· · ····•········ · · · ··· ~·~---Total cubical contents of building . .. . . ... . 2,400,000 ~ubic feet

2,400,000 cubic feet at 40 cents .. . ... · · · · · · .......... · · · · · · "$ 960,000 OO
40,000 00
Add for carrying charges. · · · • · · · · · · · · · · · • · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · •
50,000 00
Add for architects' fees . . .. . · · · · · · · • · • · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·.· · · - - - · - -

SAN FRANCISCO, CAL. Feb. 21, 1905.

$1,050,000 00

Mr. R. H. LLOYD,

.,"'

DEAR SIR:

Nevada Block, San Francisco, Cal.
2,500

:~7,000 00

·· ···· ············ ······· ··········

139,500 00
45.000 00

Cost of land and bui~ding ... . .. . ... . ... . ................... . $ 800,000 00
Loan ....................... . .. . ..................... .. ..... l,000,000 00
8tock . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 800,000 00
Net returns (above). .. .. ...... .... ...... ... .... .
94,500 00
~·onr per ceut on $1,000,000........ . .............• ,. . ...... ..
40,000 00

'l'otal. ..•..•.......• • .. .. ....... .. ......•. . ..... , .. 210 feet

First Story :
12,000
Corner store ..... .. .. · . . . · .. · · · · · · • · · · · · · · · · · $
12,000
Two Montgomery street stores ... . · · · · • • · • · · · · ·
12,000
'fh ree Post street stores. • · · · · · · · · · · · · · • " · · · · ·
1,000
Privileges.

:$

!tunning expenses . ..................... .. ..... .. ...•. . ... ..

l'ax ... . . . .................... · · · · ······ · ·· ·· · · ·· · · · · · . ..

SIR :-In conformity with your request, we herewith submit app1·0~.
0
.
~.AR•· t of cost and income for proposed buildin~ for the Ma.some
imate ea.1ma e
Order in San Francisco, as follows : .. .. .. 12,000 square feet
Size of lot., 75 feet by 160 feet.. . . .. .......... ... .
800
Deduct for li"ht court ..... · · · · · · · · · · · · .. · · · · · ·.· · · · · · · · · · - - -

&sement. .. ... ....... ... · · · ·· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·

83

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

7 000 square feet of renting space per floor, at $10,000
' per floor, by 11 ............. · · .. · · • .... · · · · · .$110,000
.
10 000
•
Ded\lct for vacancies ............ · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·

$

100,000 00

Hross returns . ..... .... .... · · .. · .. · · · · · .... · · · .$

IS9,500 00

•

We have carefully gone over the prospect of oonstructing a building on
the present Masonic Temple site, northwest corner of Montgomery and Post
streets, and can consistently sa,v that a twelve story steel Class " A" structure
on this property would yield a re\•enue approximately of $200,000 per annum.
Deduction for maintenance would show a net revenue of about $175,000,
which, valuing the land at $1,000,000 and a building at $600,000, or $1,600000 in all, providing the building were fully occupied, over a ten per cent net
revenue per annum upon said amount.
We arrh-e at this revenue in the following method:
The ground floor, including the basement, whir.h can be utilized for Safe
Deposit Vaults, also shops, the rental of same about ~6,000 per month;

[Oet. !11,

PBOCEEDINGS OF THE

Five floors of offices above said ground floor will contain
&t least 30 offices per floor ; 20 offices will rent for
$35 each, or $700 per month; and 10 offices at $45
{at leaet), $450 per month; making a total of $1, 150
;per Boor, or .............. . .....................$ 57,500 per annum
The upper 6 floors should pay a revenue of nt lea.st same
amount from the Masonic Lodges, or .. ........ .. .. 69,000 "
"
.Add the ren1Jal of the gronnd floor and basement. .. • • • • . 72, 000 "
"
Which would make a grand total of very close to$00,000.$198,000 "
"
Even if ten per cent allowance were made for vacancies, in the five floors
.of offices, still, on the amount of capital employed, we can readily see an
..eight per cent net investment in the ·propoaition.
Respectfully submitted,
A. J. RICH & Co.

It will be seen that Mr. Burnham figured on a building costing $1,000·
000. and Mr. Rich on one for $600,000; but Mr. Burnham estimated the
value of the lot at $800,000,.and Rich at $1,000,000; so the real difference
between them on total value is $200,000, which still leaves a large net revenue
<10 the undertaking.
The Temple stores are under leases running for four years from last June.
The present rent, $3, 772 per month, is quite inadequate to the value of the
property. The ooostruction of the lower floor making it undesirable for corn·
mercial purposes, a larger rent cannot be had. With a proper building, the
first 11.oor and basement would yield enough to pay the interest on the ontlay.
• We believe the best interests of the Order would be subserved by the
erection of a new modern Temple; and steps should be taken looking to the
()omraencement of the work four yenrs hence on the expiration of the present
leases.
Respectfully submitted,
R. H. LLOYD,
CHAS. M. PLUM,
Committee.
H. D. LOVELAND,

!

Which was adopted, and on motion of Past Grand Master
L. PAl'TON, the matter was re-referred to same committee
and the incoming Grand Master, with thanks of Grand Lodge for
tabor already performed.
CHARLES

The Grand Oration was made the special order for Thursday
afternoon at two o'clock.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until one thirty o'clock
this afternoon.

ltoG.]

GRAND LoooE OF CALIFORNIA.

85

~n ~rand ~odgc.
AFTERNOON SESSION,

}

U'ednesday, October llth, A. L. 6905.
fhe Grand Lodge was called on at one thirty o'clock the Grand
Master presiding.
'
The Grand Lecturer presented his Annual Report to the Grand
I.odge as follows :
'J'o tli.e M . '. W. ·• Gra11d Lodge of California:-

It is with mu<!h pleasure and satisfaction that I beg to submit this my
eighth annutl repOl't.
'
In n? pre~·ious Ytlar have I ha<l such complete and gratifying reports from
the var10us msp~ctors as to the membflT!lhip, average attendance, degrees
conferred, \•aluation.of Lod~e ~1~perty, receipts and disbursements of money,
and the amounts which the mdff1dual Lodges, with liberal hands and without
ostentation, have given to those whose misfortunes have made them needy.

The following Inapectors have reported :Alonzo J. Monroe. . ..... ... . . . .. .. .... ... . .. lat Di$trict
Thomas J. Richards ....•. . ...... . .. .. .. .. .. 2d District
0. W. Nutting .... . .. .... .... .. .... . .. .•.. 3d District
Edward Sweeny. .. ... ....• • . .. . .. .. ...••.• . 4th District
l<~rnest O. Bonner.. .........•... . ... . ... .. .. 5th District
William P. Johnson . .. . . . . .. ...... ..... ... . tith District
.Julien K Pardee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7th

86

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 11,.

Max Meyerson ........ • •• ... • . ...••....... . 24th District
James E. Dye.... . ......... .. .... . . ...... 25th District
Saul Morris. • • • . . . • . . . . . . • . • . . . . . ... .. .... 26th District
Carlton C. Case .... . ....... .. : ........ .. ... 27th District
Lonis N. Buttner . .... ................ ..... 28th District
J. R. Chisholm .. ; ... , . . .• . .... . .. . ..... .. . . 29th Distdct
Rudolph W. Meek..... . .. . ...... . .......... 30th District
Richard S. Allen ............ . ... ... . : .. . . .. 31st District
Max Goldman . ..... ......•.• . ..... . .. .... . 32·i District
Ralph I"owe ............. . . . ..... .. .. . ..... 33d District
Frank A. Abbott; ................... .. ..... 34th District
John S. Larew....... .. ... ... .......... .. .. 35th Pistrict
. W. D. Logan ... . ... .. .. . ..... . .. . . ....... .. 36th District
Guy P. Doyle.................. .. .... . . . .. . 37th District
James C. Pottle .. ....... .. ....... . ......... 38th District
Frank W . Robinson ......... . ...•. . .. .. .. . . 39th District
Adam Brown .. . . . ...... . . . . . .. . . . ......... 40th District
J. W. Smith ... .. .. . .... . ........ .. ...... . 4lst District
George N. Black .. . .... . .. . . . .. . ....... .. . .42d District
Warren E. Rowley... : ..... • • . .... .. . .. ... .43d District
Harry llamel ..••.. . ....... . . .. . . ... .. . . ... 44th District
Charles K Mitchell.. . .. ... . .. . .. . . . . ... . ... 45th District
Osmund M. Ilobbins . . . . .. . . . .. ....... .. ... . 46th District
J. B. J:t'rith . .. . ..•..... . .. . .... .... . ... . ... . 47th District
Eli 1'. Bhckmer . . ... . . . . .. .. . .... ... ....... 48th District
J oshna I>. Tucker. . . . . .... .. . ...... . ...... 49th District
W. F . Williamson ...... .. .. ......... .... ... 5lst District
Daniel Cave ..... . . . ........................ Vallee de France.
The only reports not receh-ed are those from the followin g :Joseph 1\IcChesney .. ... . . ....... . . .. ..... . . 8th District
.Tohn M. M ussev . ...... . .. . .... .. ........ . .. 9th District
Harry E. Staff~rd . .. .. .... ........ . ..... . .. 50th District
Orel M. Goldaraceua ... .. ... . .. .... . ..... . .. La Parfaite Union
Richard Stermitsky. . ... . .. . ... .. ..• ••...... Hermann Lodge
Fiorenzo Cavagnaro. ....... ... ....... . .. . ... Speranza Italiano
I wish to thank these Inspectora who have given so much care and labor
in the preparation of these most complete reports, and. I also wish to acknowledge my thanks to the Secretaries of the Lodges who have furnished the
necessary data.
The pern3al of these Inspectors' reports fills rue with renewed de,·otion to
this greatest of all fraternal societies and makes me rejoice to feel that year
by year the good it has done, and will do, is ever increasing in infinite and
accelerating ratio.

1005.J

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

87 ·'

'l'his Urand Lodge has been exceedingly fortunate in securing, as it has,
1uuh able brethren to fill the office of Im1pector in the various districts in this
Jurl1diction. Through their untiring zeal and proficiency, they have succeeded
In rendering the California Ritual, in all its splendor and beauty, in a style
llDd impressiveness that rivets the attention and challenges the admiration of
all who come within its hearing.
lu every District the majority of the Lo<lges are nearing perfection in the
given in a manner that
luaves a lasting impression upou those who are being inducted into the mys•
tcries and solemnities of this venerable institution.
I itual and minutiae of the work , and the degrees are

We are .moving-,onr hosts are rapidly growing-and the iof!uence that
Masonry is exerting for the betterment of our moral and social surroundings
!a spreading like the dawn of a beautiful sunrise, and warming hearts into
tenderness and sympathy for our fellow beings.
During the year now closed I have made official visits to many of the
Masonic districts of this State, and everywhere have been received with that
uordiality and brother's affection so signilicant of this institution,
I a m grateful indeed for t he many courtesies extended to me on my visits
to the various districts, and, without egotism in saying so, feel that these
visits have been of benefit to the Craft in general.
Lodges of Instructions have been held 011 the following ;dates and at the
places named :Fresno .. .. ... . ....... . ..... . ...... .... . . November 4- 6, Hl04
Santa Rosa . ...... . ... .. .. .. ...... . .. . . . . November 12-13
.Jackson (Hart) representing me ..... .. . . .. . November 1()....12
Placerville ...... . •..•..•••• , ...••• , •...• November 23-27
Ha\inas .. ..•... . . .. .....• . . .. . . . . .... .. . December 2-3-4
St. Helena . .. . .. . ... .. . .. . ... ... .. .. ... . December 10-ll
Los Angeles .... . . ... . .. ...... .. .. . .. . . .. December 17-19
Pasadena . ... . . ............... . .... . ... .. December 19- 20
San Bernardino . ..•.. . .... ... ... . .. . . .. .. December 20- 21
Hiver~ide .... . •. ...• .....•....... ... . .. .. December ?2
Santa Ana ........................ . . • ... December 23- 24
San Diego . .... . ... . ..... . ........ .. ... .. December 24-28
Los Angeles .. . . ........... ... ........ . .. December 28- 29
Centerville ......... .. ............. .. .... January 14-15, J!l05
Santa Cruz ... ..... ... .•..•..••......•... Febru11ry 3-4-5
\Vatsonville. .... . . . ................. ... . . February ll- 12
Willows .... .. . . . . ...... ....... .. ... . .. .. Feb'y li-18-19
Stockton .... ... ... . ... . ................. Feb'y 24 2ii- 2G
Mill Valley .. . . .• ...... . ..••....... . •..• , March
Ii
Brentwood.. . .. . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . . . . . April
1- 2
Healdsburg .. .. . ... .. . ... . ....... . . . .. . . April
8- 9

88

P:SOOElIDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 11,

15-16
San Jose .............•.••.••.....•..••.• April
Salinae •••• , ••• , ...•.•.•................. April 16-17-18
18-19
San Luis Obispo ......................... April
19-20
S,.nta Barbara ........... , ............... April
20-21
0..cnard •••. ,,, •.... , ...• . ...• .• ... . .... April
21-23
Loe Angeles ••...•. . •...•.. . ....•. ; . . .... April
IJovelo (Hart) ••••..... , .... .. ........... April 25-26-27
11
Woodland ...•... , .• , .•...........•....• May
25-28
Bakenfield . . •.••.......••.•..••.•.•.. . .. May
24
Saeta Rosa •...•. . .. . .......•.. . ..•.. . ... June
Ukiah ............ .. ................ , ... July
5-7
7-9
\Villetta., .. . ................. . , .........July
10-'ll
Fort Bragg .. . ........................... July
11-12
Mendocino ......... .. .... . ........ . . . ... July
14-16
Auburn ............................... July
18
Nevada City ...... . . . . . .... . . . ..... .. ... :July
18-22
Truckee .......... . ..... .. .. . ............ July
27- 2!l
Loyalton . .. . . .. . . .... . . ...... . ... . ......July
Susanville .............. . ......... . ..... July 2!1, Aug. 3
26- 27
Eureka (Heart) representing me . ........ . July
28
Arcata
"
" .... . . . .. . July
Rhonerville"
"
., ......... . July
29
In all these districts Masonry has been found to be in a most flourishing
condition, and the keenest interest hae been shown in getting the work to a
fair perfection.
In aoco1·dauce with the expresseJ wishes of the Grand· Lodge I am
pleased to say that with the assistance of Bro. Max Goldman and R. S. Allen
I have prepared and will submit to the Grand Lodge a uniform lecture for
the coaching of candidates in the lectures of the First and Second Degrees,
which I hope will meet with the approval of this Grand Lodge.

But, brethren, iu my journeyings as Grand Lecturer, it has been my
experience t111~t ma11y who apply for examination in order to visit are so
poorly prepared that it is only by the exercise of the greatest latitude on the
part of the committee that the visitor can gain admission. Many would.be
visitors know absolutely nothing of what took place during their initiation,
passing and rising, and I am more than ever convinced that this Grand
Lodge should m11ke it obliga.tory upon all candidates to pa.ss a satisfactory
examina.tion in the Lecture of the Third Degree before being permitted tO go
forth as full.fledged Master Masons. It would reflect more credit upon the
Lodges in which they received their degrees, and it would he of great benefit
to the individual brother who might wish to visit where he is not known.
I wish here to emphasize the great importance of being exceedingly careful
to select for the various officers of the Lodge those whose reputation for
unswerving honesty of purpose, for square dealing between man Rnd man, for

1006.J

89

GRAND LoDGE OF 0ALIFOBNIA.

kladneaa, for benevolence, for cha.rity in ita broadest sense, and for intelliir•noe, ie known and a.cknowledged, not only by the members of the Lodge,
hut at1 well _by the communities in which they li\'e,

By auch care in stlection, not only will the Lodges be benefited by these
living models of what Ma.sons should be, but the outside world will be inspired
to bow with a.dmiration and approvai to an organiza.tion whose standard bearul'I furnish such living palpable proofs of the genuineness of our professions,
for the cultivation of those great fundamental principles of Masonry-Broth•rly Love, Relief and Truth.
The institution of Masonry in California has attained a most exalted position among the fraternal organizations of the world. Situated, as we are, in
" l'ltate of s118h broad dimensions, such wonderful resources, euch varied
mdustries, such exhilirating climate, such inviting ha.rbors, with a population
tha.t is ever· increasing and alive to progress, and ever seeking the highest
idea.le, the most advanced possibilities, does it not behoove this Grand Loclge,
more even than it does the subordinate Lodges, to exert its utmost caution in
the selection of those who shall stand forth to the world·as the representatiYes
of the thirty-two thousands of Masons in this Commonwealth? Should they
uot be men who bear unsullied, spotless reputations in the communities
whence they hail ; shall they not be men whoso hearts· are filled with gentle
tLnd generous sympathy for those whom fortune 's frowns have driven to penury
1111d dispair, and should they not be men who have shown their associations
At home and a.broad that they are willing and c:i.pable to portray in public and
111 private the great underlying principles of this greatest of all fraternal
1ocieties ?
\Ve cannot take chances. Those whom we select should be those whum
wo know, those whose pa.st life bears uo blemish, those who, upon the floor of
t.he Grand Lodge, ha,ve demonstrateJ the fact that they have ideas and can
voice them in a manner that will reflect credit upon themselves and the great
fraternity that they, as officers, will represent when they wear the toga of
this Grand Lodge.
And now , in closing this repOl·t, I wish tn thank S. W. Gr. ,V, for the
11rea.t assistance he has rendered me in the discharge of my duties as Grand
J,ecturer by his visits ancl instruction to those districts that it was impossible
for me to visit in person. I wish to acknowledge most gratefully the uniform
courtesy extended to me wherever I ha.ve been, and I wish to promise that
those pla.<Jes that I have missed in my visits this year will in the coming year
(If I am again honored with my present position) be the first to receive the
henefits of my labor.
lleapectfully submitted.
'VlLLIAM HARVEY EnwARDS,

Gmnd L ect1we1·.

90'

PnoCEEDlNGS OF THE

[Oct. 11,'

Which report was ordered to be referred to a Special Committee
of three Inspectors, and the Grand Master named the followi~g .
brethren to constitute such co.mmittee·
On Urond Le.ctui·ei·'s Re11ort:,.. .• . . . .

{

RICHAllD ALLEN,
ELI T. BLACKMER,
WM. E. MESERY\' ,

Bro. JOHN T. MORRISON presented the following:To tlie M. '. · JI'.·. Grand Lodge of Oalifvmia :WHEREAS, It is eminently fitting and proper that each and every subordinate Lodge in this Grand Lodge Jurisdiction should take especial pride in
the character and quality of the work performed therein, and

Candidates for the Second and Third Degrees are required to ·
commit to memory and pass a satisfactory examination in open Lodge, in the
lecture of the preeeding degree, before they can be advanced to the next, and
WHEREAS,

1!)05. J
California,
We1ttrn Star,
Tthama,
llentcia.
7'u1Jlumne,

Corinthian,
San Jose,
Yount,
Neca1a,
Temple,

Ji)ureka,
La Par(. Union,

San Joaqujn,

Resolved, l"urther that the necessary catechism required by this resolution
be formulated by the Grand Lecturer and promulgated through the several..
District Inspectors, and that the Grand Lecturer formulate such change or
modification in the W<•rk of the Third Degree as shall be rendered necessary
by this resolution.

Which was referred .to the Committee qn Jurisprudence.
Bro.WILLIAM P. JEFFRIES, Chairman of the Committee on Returns,
presented the following report:'.lb the M. ·. W. ·. Grand Lodge of Oalifornia : Your committee, to whom was referred the examination of the returns of the
Lodges for tbe current year, with the assistance of the Grand Secretary, perrormed
that duty, and take pleasure in reporting that the returns of all the Lodges, except'· Oavile" Lodge, No. 360, have been received by that omcer; that a very large
majority of them were prepared oorreotly; that those which were in the first instance
erroneous have since been corrected by the Secret~ries, upon notice thereof (in some
cases more than once repeated) by the Grand Secretary; that the dues have, io
nearly every Instance, accompanied the reports; and that nil the dues have now
been paid, except •• Cavite " Lodge, No. S50.
The classification which follows will show the respective credits due to the Beere·
tl\ries of the several Lodges:- .
The reports of the following two hundred and fifty Lodges were transmitted
within the period of time prescribed by the Ooustltntioo; were accompanied by
dues; were in all respects correct; and were hand1omely prepared:-

5,
6.
0,

Be. Helena,

Henry O/a!J,

Hou:a<rd,

10, Jejfe,,.son,
12, Hoo nitoB,
" 13, La Giange,
.. a, !Janzanito,
.. 16, Oroti}lle,
" 17, Lexington,
"
"

•• 19, Arcot~.
" 20, Owen,
" 21, Pajaro,

22,

'

1

Mariposa,

'

Cl

28,
24,
25,

"

30,

cc

32,

cc

33,

Gotd. llill,
Ophir.
San Dlego,
Saint John's,
Santa Oruz,

l\'ava!,

No'rlh Stai·
8, Acacia,
2,

"

Resolved, That all Master Masons, made subsequent to the adoption of

be

"
"

1,

Marlie.on,
Geo,,.gstown,
Golden Gate,

this resolution, shall
required to commit to memory (as in the first and
eecond degrees) a catechism covering the various salient points in the work of
that degree.

No.

Wathington,
Hawaiian,
OccidR.nta!,

No regulation now exists requiring a newly made Master
Mason to perfect himself in the work of that degree. Now, therefore, be it
'VHEREAS,

GRAND LoDGE OF CALIFORNIA.

1

Ohico,
Summit,

F.den,
Mount Zion,
Ooncord,
Clinton.
Fidelit.•J,

'' SS, Ionic,
.,
II

87,

88,
30,

Alamo,
'J(rl)le Mowdrr1n,

La Fayette,
"
" 40, llermann,
" 41, V11alia,
II
42, Nlcola•i•
,, 4:3, WQod/Jridge,
.. 44, Sinon·lty,
Mount Moriah,
45, Yo1emile.
Crescent,
,, 40. Vacaville,
Texn.$,
" 50. l'aJley.
Forbestown,
cc 51, Pacific,
Jlllnoistoum.,
u
66, Crockett,
Volcano,
u
57, Grafton,
8anta Bosa.,
Union,
" 58, Franklin,
Live Oak,
" 61, Oriental,
George Washington " 02, V(lruvius,
Natoma,
" 64, Abell,
An1ador,
'' 65, EP.l Ilive1·,
A!orrting Star,
" 68, J,aB1en,
11
E1ite1pri.Be,
70, illolino,
B ear Mountain,
•• 76, Woodland,
.. 78, GibaonviUe,
Oa.'averas,
" 79, Keystone,
Humboldt,
]OM,
" 80, l!l.tcelsior,
II
Bl, 8rm Mateo,
Yolo,
.. 68, MilBion,
Rising Star,

Yuba,

Sacramento,
Martinez,
Los Angeles,
llirani,

v~sper,

u

84,

Elk Grove,

No. A7, Antioch,
" 91, Phaml.x.

Mendocino,
Petaluma,
,, 95, Russian River,
,, 96, Me'rldian,
'' D7, Clear Lake,
"

92,

"

9S,

u

08,

,,

90,

Sttri-a Valley,
Eve11lng Star,

No. 175,
" 178,
'' J.'l'.O;
... 180•
" l&l,'
ci 1811>'·
" 183;·
" 184,
" 186,

Oakland,

"18~.

.. 10~ • Northern Light,
"104, .Mann,

" 100,

" 102,

.. 106, Santa Bat·bara,
.. 106, Ferndale,

" 191,
" 192,
" 193,

110, Mountain View,
" 194.,
•• 111, Wilmington,
" 198,
II 112,
Ilarlley,
" 199,
.. 113, Sllveyville,
" 201,
" 202,
••JU, Pentalpha,
" 203,
" 117, Oor1fidence,
" 20!,
" un, Salinas,
.. 120, Stani1lau1.
" 206,
" 207,
"121, Anaheim,
•· 208,
" 122. TU" Vi11ta,
II 124,
San Benito,
" 211,
" 126, 80.SanFt·ancisoo, " 212,
" 127, San Buenaventut·a, " . 214,;
II

11 215,
cc 128, Oak (}rove,
.. 129, JJorlc,
" 216,
" 217·
" 181, .Montet·ey,
,. 132, MoAaia.
" 218,
.. 138, Speranza ltaltana, .. 219,
"221,
" 134, Inyo,
.. 222,
" 185, Graniw,

" 136. Baker(fteld,
.. 189, Brooklyn,
.'' 141, Jlayward,
• 143, No1·lh Butte,
" 144, .Tanesvllle,
,, 1411, Oalistogo ,
" 146, !lope,

Surprise VaUev,
.. 149, 11111~ Ferry,
" 147,

" 224,

.. 225,
fC

226,

" 280,

" 232,
.. 233,

" 234.,
" 235,
" 286,

,, 150,

Guadalupe,

" 287,

" 156,

Colusa,

" 240,
"2H,
"242,

.. 158,
" 161,

Santa Ana,
Magnolia,
.. 166, Euoolyptu11,
" 168, Awatraz,
,, 169, Laurel,
" 178, Ponwna,

" 243,
•• 244,
.. 245,
I I 2(6,

9,2
BQili.e,
J;,lllflbnark,

&adiag.
W6lcome,

Lodi,
P11Al1r~,

Bpergreen,
J!JRg 811lomon'1,

Tuaoan,
Lompoc,
O~land,

Norl.h East,
GaU,
Snow Mountain,
Pasadena,
Arroyo,
Selma,
So. Oalifornia,
Harl{ord,
Marlera,
Oallayomi,
Tyt·ian,
.Qo1i Miguel,
Pa.~o Robles,
IVmnedumah,
McnweU,

El4irwre,
fo:011 Gate,
Santa Paula,
L-011 (}aJ,o1,
Orange Grove,

Tr:a11et"
Mount Jar,kson.

PsooEJWINGs OF THE

(Oot. 11~

No. 26.Z,;fSilvw Gale,
No. 2!!6, Wut Gate,
No. S.'14.
"{2611, .lJtlABmuir,
.. 386.
" 297, Fruit'oaltJ,
,, 254.. Mokelllmne Hill,
.. 2.98, Oarquinez,
.. 3117,
.. 299, San Jacinto,
" 255, l.ibm·ty,
.. 33S.
" 256, lUdland.8,
" 300, F .. llerton,
" 339,
" 258, Ontario,
.. 301, farita Marla,
Cf 84.0,
II 259,
.. 302, ban Ft-rnando ,
Santa Lucia,
" 343,
" 260, PorteroiUe,
" sos, Storr King,
"SU,
II 261,
Reedley,
" 304, Bnmbaood,
" 345,
" 262, ABhlar,
II 306,
... 346,.
Palo Alto,
" 265, Santa Monica,
.. 347.
" 307, Mo Kinley,
.. 266, Monrovia.,
" 308, San Bernardino,
" 34S,
.. 267, Delanp,
" 300, Stquoia,
"· 34~•.
•• 271, Tehachapi,
" 319, PultBt/ne,
" 351,
" 272, Teme1aal,
.. 358,
" 814, Pinole,
.. 915, Pr.sidio,
,, 954,
" 274, Noncalk,
277, ~·aR(/Pr,
.. 316, Miu Valley,
.. 366
4
'
278, Fallbrook,
" 317, Biuna Pork,
" 35 7,
.. 279, Emmanuel,
" 31&, Golden State,
'' 35.~,
.. 2&0, II11Uenbeck,
" 319, LQ1JaUon.
'' aso.
" 282, South Gate,
" 320, San F1·anci1co,
" 360.
" 284, Alhambra,
.. 322, Furt Bragg,
" 361 ;
" 28;, Whittler,
" 323, Ohairtg,
" 362,
" :isa. 011·0.. a,
.. 363,
"S24, Btrk•l1iy,
" 2117, OonBuelo,
.. 364,
" 32;), Oli-vel,
" 288, Long Beach,
" 327, Willit,9,
u. o.
.. 283, lledondo,
.. 328, lasPalmas,
U. D.
.. 290, Vallee de Frano~. .. 329, South Pasade1.a,
U.D,
" 291 , Kila'Ufla,
" 930, Unity,
U.D.
.. 292, Poolfi,c G1'00P,
" 831, Ocean Park,
U.D.
" 299, AUo,.
" 383, Amity,
u. lJ.
.. 334, Gardena,
" 294, Covina,
u. fl.
" · 295,
II

The reports of the following nineteen Lodges were col'rect, and were Aecom11anied by the dues, but were not transmitted within the proper &imc : -

Suisun,

No. 55,

Pli4maJ,

" 60,
" es,

Q"Uman,
HQteS Bar,
<Jtrr(il,
Harmony,

lJi·ywwn,

Keith,
Buokeye,
t'ara 8i1neon,
" 89, King David'.~
.. 140, l>owney,
" 164, Gavel>,
.. 174,

No. 187, AUuras,
,, 195, Olive Branch,
.. 196, Mo1ml ShaBl.a,
,, 209, 8 ouCh West,
" 220, Allaa.l,
" 231,

Manih,

No. 24S
.. 269,
" 281,
" 283,
" 321 ,
342

II

The reports of tbe following twenty-three Lodges were transmitted within theproper time, and were accompa11led by the dues ; but each required corrections.
which were duly made bJ the Secretaries upon b eing netitled (sometimes more thn~
once} by the Grand Secretary:-

1905.]

GRA?m LoDGE OF 0ALIF-ORNIA.

....

_t/ounlain Shade, No. 18, F'riendBh.ip,
Trinity,
27, Solano,
66, Fredno,
Fvrest,
8oloyome,
" 123, Ht11perian,
.. 167, Durant,
Alametlo,
u 185, Aftl'hor,
Olaibo1·ne,
'l'ruckee,
" 1!00, OakdaltJ,
Netcville,
.. 205. Azusa,

SiBlon,
LOI Banos,
Needle1,
San Pedi·11,
Oa:narcl,
Sunut,
, , 275. Hvilyto0od,
" 305,

No. 210,
.. 229,
"2!7,
.. 26-l,
.. 26i,
.. 273,

93
No. 310,
.. 31~.
.. 326,
" 832,

" 341,
" 352,
" 351i,

The reports of the following five Lodges were accompanied by the dues, ·but
were not transmitted within the proper time, and required corrections, which have
since been made : No. 250 •
No.101, A din,
No. 26, Ola>J,
Pdlmr11a,
69, A then~ •
" 228,
Grav~l Range,

..

Tbe returns from Caolte Lodgo, No. 350 and Ooeanio, U, D., have not been
received .
Tbe amounts for dues for which the several Lodges of this juristliction were
indebted, and which have all been paid, with the exception of Oavite Lodge, No•
350, and amounts allowed Representatives, are as follows:Allowed
Total.
Gen. Fund. Home Fund.
Name and No,
llep'tvo
$ . .. .. .
$601 00
$1,250 95
No. 1, . . . •••. $649 95
<Jallfornia.,
20 00
249 10
118 00
2, .... .. 131 10
We~lern Star,
6 60
375 30
s, .. ..... 201 90
lH. 00
Tehama,
2 00
222 20
96 00
126 20
Bentoia,
" 5,,
13 20
312 66
8, ....... 165 65
147 00
Taolumne,
9 20
284 85
lOJ 00
9, , .... " 131 8;
Oorinthian,
554 10
2 50
258 00
&ln Joie,
" 10, . ... . . . 296 10
8 00
252 05
U, ....... 133 o;
119 00
Yount,
14 60
303 55
149 00
Nevada,
" 13, ...... ' 154 55
122 20
2 00
56 00
14, ....... 66 20
Temple,
8 20
139 65
61 00
16,.' . • • •• 72 65
Eureka,
286 55
120 00
La Parfalte Unton,
" 17, ....... 157 55
40 00
82 00
30 00
lllountaln Shade,
" 18, ....... 42 OJ
421 55
5 00
189 00
/San Joaquin,
" 19, ....... 232 55
211 o;
99 00
20, .. .... 118 05
Wnahingt,,n,
261 00
491 75
Hawaiian,
21 •. ..... 230 75
1,1'3 70
506 00
22,, ...... 637 70
Oooidental,
265 95
rn 60
23, .. ..... 132 35
133 00
Madi Bon,
10'! ..LO
16 50
52 00
24, .... ... 56 40
M11rip0Ra,
109 40
12 20
52 00
Georg~tor.on,
" 25, . ...... 57 40
346 15
13 40
157 00
26,, ...... 189 15
Palmyra,
181 95
70 95
61 00
27,.
Trinity,
!WT 05
399 00
30, ..... .. 408 05
Golden Gate,
122 10
58 00
Gold hiU,
" S2, ....... 64 10
118 05
61 00
Ophit',
" SS, ....... 57 9fi
455 65
45 00
227 00
96, •. ·..... 228 65
San .Diego,
101 00
216 95
90 60
S7, ....... 1H Oo
Saint John'B,
39a 95
5 60
161 00
Santa Cruz,
" SB, ....... 172 95
9 2(1
175 80
39, .. .. ... 91 80
84 00
Yub1,

.....

..

..

.....

......

"
,,

94

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Geo. Fwid. Home Fund.

Name and No.

No. 40, ....... $213 61)
·Sacramento,
Maritnez,
" 41,. ...... 107 30
42,. .. . .. 277 00
Los Angeles,
43, ....... 20 55
Hiram,
44........ 363 50
Mount Moriah,
46,. ...... 73 10
Crescent,
46,. .. .... 31i 5fl
Te7.as,
50., •..... 47 75
Forbeatown,
51,. ...... 47 00
lllinoiBtown,
55,. .•...• 91 3.5
Suisun,
56, ....... 31 40
Volcano,
57, ....... 268 20
.Santa Rosa,
Union,
" 68........ 199 40
69, .. ..... 27 70
Gravel Range,
60,. ...... 22 90
Plumas,
Gl, ....... 677 00
T..ive Oak,
62,. ...... 53 80
George Washington,
64, ....... 71 75
Natoma,
66,. . .••• . 70 30
Amador,
66,. ...... 39 46
Fvrest,
68, ....... 187 10
Morning Star,
70, ....... HO 75
Enterpri8e,
76,. ...... 108 30
Bear Mountain,
78,. ...... 72 25
Oala'Veras,
79 ........ 310 15
Humhuldt,
80, ....... liS 80
Ione,
81, ....... so 50
Yolo,
SS, ....... 6l 20
Rising f:tar,
A4,. ...... 128 70
Vesper,
87,. ...... 270 so
Naval,
88, ...... . 34 40
Qutlman,
89,.. ..... 24 70
Rose's Bar,
91, .. ..... 42 95
North Star,
92,. ...... 20 00
Acacia,
93,. . ...•. 88 80
Saint Helena,
05, . ...... 62 90
Henry Olay,
96, ....... 84 10
Hotoard,
97,. ...... 44 20
Jefferson,
98, ....... 47 50
HornUos,
99, ....... 109 60
TA GraT19e,
101,. ...... 59 10
Olay,
102,. ...... as 25
Manz11nita,
OrovUle,
" 103,. ..... 159 90
64' 70
Lirxl11!7ton,
" 10,,..
106,. ...... 106 85
Arcata,
108, ....... 14 25
Owen,
no, .. .... . 180 oo
Pajaro,
CJhico,
" 111, ....... 160 00
112, ....... 29 55
S'ummit,

..

..

..
....

......

....
..

..

....

UBS 00
94 00
260 ()()
29 00
3LO 00
58 00
30 ()()
45 OD
40 00
73 00
32 00
256 00
192 00
26 00
22 00
580 00
44 00
65 00
74 00
31 00
178 00
145 00
9.J. 00
75 00
2iJ7 00
44 00
30 00
fi6 00
126 00
224 00
32 00
26 00
41 00
i2 00
84 00
62 00
;8 oo
36 00
~o oo
88 00
68 ()()
35 00
122 00
46 00
103 00
15 00
120 00
140 00
29:00

.

[Oct. 11,

1005.J

Allowed
Rep'tva.
$ 6 60
2 0(}
35 00

Name

Total.

$401 60
201 30
537 01)
58 55
673 50
131 10
65 50
92 75
87 00
164 3/i
63 40
524 20
391 40
53 70
44 00
1,257 00
97 80
136 75
lU 30
70 46
36j 10
285 75
202 30
147 2fi
567 15
97 80
60 50
117 20
254 70
40~ 80
66 40
50 70
83 95
42 90
172 80
124 90
162 10
80 20
77 50
197 60
117 10
fi8 25
281 00
110 70
209 85
29 2.)
250 00
290 00
58 511

57 30
5 70
17 20
LO 10
=~ 40
u 70
:I 00
6 60
~6 00

20
12 70
9 0(1
10 00

......

5 00
9 2u
15 20
12 10
20 00
8 70
G 40
t:J 10
12 90
2 00
18 GO

13 00
' 10
12 70
30 60
21 20
13 50
9 20
11 80
16 50
12 20
:1;; 60
21} !lO
5 60
ll 80
!) 20

Kden,
Mount Zto11 ,

(Joncord,
CJlinton,
Fidelity,
l011tc,
Alamo,
Sotoyome,
Table Mountain,
T..a Fayette,
Hermann,
Visalia,
Nicolaus ,
Woodbridge ,
Sincet·iiy,
Yosemite,
Vaca'ViUe,
Valley,
Pacific,
Crockett,
Ourti.8,
ara.rton ,
Franklin,
Orierdal,
Vitru'Vius,
Abell,

Eel River,
T..assen,
Molino,
Woodland,
Gibsonvi,//e,
Keystone,
Harmony,
li}r.ce/slor,
Alameda,
San Mateo,
Mission,
El.k Grove,
Drytown,
Antioch,
Phmnix,
Mendocino,
Petaluma,
Russian Rl"Vet".
Mtri.di.an,
Clear Lake,
Sierra Valley,
Glairbone,
Eoenfng Stnr,

95

. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
Gen, Fund. Home Fund.
No. 113, ...... $119 65
114, .. .. ... 21 85
117, ....... 11 l 4.'i
" 119,. .. . . . . 28 50
" 120, ....... 477 05
" 121,.. .. ..• 24 70
" 122,. ... . .. 57 2;
123, ....... 149 40
" 124, ....... 53 55
126,. . ..... 102 50
127, ...... 226 4r,
" 128, ....... 146 70
" 129,. . ..... 77 70
" 131, ....... 100 95
" 132,. .....• 34 40
133,. ..... . 24 ()()
134,. .. .... 107 10
" 135,. ...... 49 70
" 136, ....... 545 20
" 139,. .....• 396 25
140,. ...... 50 55
" 141,. . ... . . 36 50
143, ... ... . 67 00
" 144, .. . . .. . 390 o;
" 146, ...... 51 60
146, ....... 12! 40
" 147, ....... 122 90
149, ..... . . 98 5.'i
" 160,. ..•••• 55 55
" 156, ....... 132 !)j
" 158, . . .. ... 21 90
101,. ..... . 47 30
" 164,. . . .. . . 16 20
" 106, ....... 436 85
167, ....... 114 10
168,. ... . .. 120 3/i
" 169,. ...... !ll8 20
" 173,. ...... 06 OU
" 174., ....... l7 10
" 175, ....... 74 55
" 178,... . ... ~65 90
179,. .. .... 152 4,5
" 180, ....... 214 ao
181, .. ... .. 86 4,5
" 182,. ..... . ,;o so
" 183, ....... 36 65
" 184,. .•.... 47 20
185,. .••••• 63 70
" 186,. .•.... 34 80

..

"

..

..

.."

..

..

..

..

..
....

..

"

..

$107 00
23 00
91 00
30 ()()
439 00
26 00
55 00
132 00
49 00
90 00
171 00
126 00
66 ()()
81 00
32 00
20 00
98 00
46 00
476 01)
:H5 00
49 00
:JO 00
GO 00
319 00
48 00
112 00
102 00
80 00
49 00
12l 00
22 00
34 00
16 00
403 00
98 00
ns oo
776 00
HO 00
18 00
69 00
182 ()()
Ill 00
21' 00
7l 00
44 ()()
29 00
36 00
46 00
34 00

Total.

$ 226 65
44 s;
202 4.5
6B 50
!116 05
50 70
112 2;;
281 40
102 55
192 50
397 45
272 70
143 70
l~l 9.;
66 40
44. 00
205 10
\1.5 70
1,021 20
7ll 2>
99 55
66 .50
127 OU
709 05
99 GO
236 40
224 no
187 55
10! 55
2ii3 9,5
43 90
81 30
a2 ~o
839 85
212 10
213 35
1,694 20
126 00
35 10
H3 55
447 90
263 41i
428 30
157 • .;
9.l 80
65 55
R~ 20
109 70
68 30

Allowed
Rep'tvo •
$ 50

a 60
20 30
:1 30
4 50
14 70
3 60
17 50
8 40
5 90
36 00
13 70
·i 60
6 90

fl 00

4 00
3 60
8 00
22 10
:19 00
12 20
0 10
'i 40
27 00

1 70
1 GO
6 60
12 70
3 00
38 50
15 00
2 00
~ ol()

8 30
10 00
2.'.> 40
12 00
H6 60

96

[Oot. n:,

PROOEEDINGB OF THE
Gen. Fnnd. HomeFnnd.

Name and No.

......

Keith,
No.187,. ..... $ 98 60
Oakland,
188, ....... 426 05
Nc,rthem Lighl,
190, ....... 49 60
Marin,
191, ....... 164 GO
Santa Barbara,
192,. ...... 118 45
Ferndale,
19S,. ...... 98 40
.Mountain Vier.o,
" 194, •...... 68 45
Buckeye,
195, ....... 66 80
Sim Simeon,
" 196, ....... 26 60
'Wilmington,
108, ....... 33 25
Bartky,
" 199, .•...•. Bl 95
Truckee,
200, ....... 110 211
201, ....... 67 00
Sthieyville,
Pentalpha,
202,. ...... 530 50
Oonftdenoe,
'·' 203, ....... 21 85
....... 155 40
Salina.a,
" 20!,
205, ....... 44 90
Newville,
206,. ...... 64 00
Stanislaus,
Anaheim,
" 207, ...•••• es 45
....... 66 10
Rio Vista,
" 208,
209, .. . ... . 118 50
King Da'llid'B,
"
F'r iendship,
" 210, . • ••••• 261 00
&in Benito,
" 211,. ...... 87 60
South San ~anol1co,
212, ....... 171 5~
214, . ..... 105 40
f!an Buenaventura,
" 215,
....... 456 10
Oak Urulle,
216, ... . ... 437 4.0
D"ric,
" 217,. ...... 65 31)
Monterey,
Mosaic.
" 218,. . •••• ' 92 05
219,. . . .. .. 162 90
Esperanza Italiana,
220,. .••••• 58 45
Downey,
221,. ....... 60 75
Inyo,
222,. ...... 60 95
Granite,
Bakersfield,
" 224, .. ..... 198 IO
Brooldyn,
" 225,. .••... 218 50
Hayward,
" 226,. . ..... 93 15
.Athens,
" 228,. ... ... 56 30
229,. .. .. • • 149 65
Solano,
230, ......• 70 90
Norfh Butte,
231, . . ..... 57 55
Oavelo,
232, •. . .•.. 39 80
•JanesviUe,
233, ....... 60 20
Ca!istoga,
Rope,
" 284,. ..... . 63 00
235, . . ..... 4.1 30
Surprise VaUey,
236, ....... 48 60
Hill's Ferry,
"
237, ....... 55 25
Guadalupe,
240, •...... 77 50
Colusa,
Bal'lla Aria,
" 241, ....... 294 75
Magnolia,
" 242,. ...... 89 S5

....
..

..
....
..

....

..
..
..
....
....
..

......
..
..

....

$Bi 00
399 00
50 00
128 00
111 00
92 00
51 00
64 00
28 00
35 00
~1 00
95 00
62 00
510 00
23 00
· 132 00
42 00
60 00
51 00
58 00
110 00
220 00
BR 00
149 00
9i 00
378 00
392 00
54 00
79 00
142 00
51 00
45 00
61 OU
158 00
190 00
77 00
54 00
129 00
62 00
49 00
34 00
56 00
60 00
34 00
48 00
36 00
70 ()()
205 00
73 00

Total.

• 186 60
825 05
99 50
292 60
224 45
190 40
114 45
130 80
5i 60
68 25
162 95
205 25
lio 90
1,040 60
44 85
287 40
86 90
12·~ 00
119 45
123 10
228 50
481 00
175 60
320 05
197 4.0
834 10
829 40
119 30
171 05
304 90
109 .lo
105 75
121 95
856 10
408 50
170 15
110 30
278 65
132 90
106 55
73 30
116 20
123 00
75 30
96 60
90 25
147 50
429 75
162 85

Allowed
Rep'tvs.

• 4

'°
20

21 'oo
'10
31 80
22 50
2 80
6 60
20 3Q
85 70
10 00
19 60
.4 90
36 00
6 60
13 90
36 60
( 00
IS 30
2 50
5 80
83 50
20
6 00

85 70
66 60
23 20
20
l 00
5 50
2 00
10 20
21 00
41 50
4 60
25 40
52 40
B 00
17 70
8 80
37 ·()()
31 eo

1905.]
Name and No.

Gen. Fund. HomeFnnd.
No. 248, ....... S 82 65
• 69 0
286 00
" 244, ....... 335 70
85 00
" 245, ....... 86 711
138 00
" 246,. ...... 172 10
247, ....... i91 30
254 00
248, ......• 54 05
39 00
Jtdln,
250, ....... 4.5 25
85 00
Bodle,
252, ....... 44 80
44 00
T..andmark,
29 00
" 2113, ....... 42 65
Rea<li11g,
" 264, ..••••• 119 60
108 00
Welcome,
265, •••.••• 107 00
BO 00
Lodi,
75 00
" 266,. ...... 103 25
Pmhryn,
258,....... 50 76
45 00
"
Eoeryreen,
259, ....... 228 75
205 00
King Solo1non's,
470 00
" 260,. ...... 579 50
7'uscan,
261, ... . ... 56 50
60 00
Lompoo,
03 00 ·
" !162, ....... 71 85
Hesper Ian,
264., ....... lt6 70
1!6 00
Orland,
2611, ... . ... 74 26
65 00
North Ea1t,
37 00
",, 266, ....... 85 15
Gau,
ll67, ....... 29 45
81 00
D•irant,
294 00
" 268, ....... 342 30
Olive Branoh,
269,. ...... 101 25
95 00
Snow Mountain,
271 ........ 26 60
28 00
J'asad.imfl,
272, ....... 801 70.
246 00
.Anoho1"
278, ...... ' 6i 96
61 00
.Arroyo,
46 00
" !174, ....... 51 70
Oakdale,
276,, ...... 64 45
51 00
Selma,
82 00
" 277, ....... 91 90
Bout/terr; Oalifornia, " 278, ....... 6211 20
b96 00
Hai.ford,
279, ....... 184 90
1~2 00
Madera,
76 00
" l!SO,. ..... SB 20
No11nt Shasta,
281,. •..••• 37 10
38 00
Oallayomi,
Sl 00
" 282, ....... 82 ~
So·uth West,
28:!,. ...... 64 30
54 00
Tyrian,
10 00
" 284,. ...... 34 60
San Miguel,
285, ... .. .. 114 8.5
4.S 00
Paso Robles,
" 286,. ...... 72 9IS
61 00
Winnedumah,
46 00
287, •. ••.• •• 66 75
Ma:vJJeU,
288,. . •. ••. 23 75
%5 00
"
Elsinore,
S7 00
" 289, . ...... 42 15
East (}ate,
290, ••.•••• S66 40
292 00
811nta Paula,
291, ....... 108 00
100 00
Los Gatos,
49 00
" 292, ... . ... 74 66
Ornnge Gr01Je,
298, .. . ... BO 90
62 00
Traoer,
294, ....... 26 75
26 00
Mount J acka()n,
295, ....... 68 06
59 00
Silver Gate,
296, ....... 1•7 06
139 00

lfuoalyptus,
dlcatrai,
Laurel,
Pomona,
1'-un(),
,.lturaa,

..

.."

..

..

..

..
....

..

"
"

..

"

"

..
..
..

..

..

..
......

..

7

97

GRAND LODGE OF 0ALIFOBNIA.

Total.
$ 1111 55
621 70
171 711
810 10
5i5 30
93 05
80 25
88 80
71 56
227 60
187 00
178 25
95 75
4.83 75
1,049 50
106 50
184 85
212 7
12U 25
72 15
60 (lj
638 30
IV6 25
54 60
54.7 70
128 95
97 70
115 45
173 90
1,221 20
256 90
164. 20
75 10
63 45
118 30
64 50
n 85
133 95
111 75
48 76
79 15
858 40
20R 00
123 55
142 90
61 75
127 OS
286 05

Allowed
llep'tn.
$ 1 00
20
10 00
87 00
11 80
6110
51 10
61 10
6 40
18 00
18 10

7 70
SB 60
8 50
ll5 40
21 50
57 60
ti 50

w

17 50
14 80
!6 60
35 70
19 90
7 70
15 10
116 00
16 80
17 80
B 00

'°

00

l l 90
12 4.o
66 00
9 00
4.2 4.0
35 00
31 00
8 so
86 90
16 so
4~ 00

9S

PapaBBD.ING&
oF THE
·.: ....
.,
Oen. Fund. Home Fund.

-.!,>- .Name and No

if<;ftmiuir,
.
'Mok«umne Jlµi,
L~&JJ,

Redland11,
O~a.riot
Luc111,

sa11ta

'PurteroiUe,
Jl!tidley,
..!tu8ll,

Ashlar,
Santa Monica,

Monronla.,
Delano,
Billion,
T.oa Bano11,

Tehachapl,
Tenie1roal,

Norwalk,

No. 2117, ....... $102 SO
,, 2981•·· . . • • . 6'1 00
.. 299, ......• 127 00
.• 300, ....... 162 50
u 301, ....... 101 &5
,, 302,.. •. . . . 42 76
u
303,... .• . . 9,; 65
'" SO!,. . . . . . . 39 0.5
.. 305, ....... 77 50
" 306,. •..••• 100 ()0
" 307,. . ..... 100 85
•• 308,. . " . • . 89 05
" 309,... . • • 37 50

$ 74 00
62 ()()

310,. '. . . . . .82 00
312,....... 80 25
" 313,. ...... 7935
" 31,,:'' ' ... 78 65
" 315, .. ~ ".. 71 20

HO Oll
31S 00
73 00
67 00
:;tj 00
Gu 00
26 00
!9 00

..

..

Sa11ger,

"

Fallbrook,

'' 317,. •• .. . . 2G iO
" Sl8,. . .... 55 65
.. 319,.. • . • .. 313 80
" a2o,. ...•.• 366 10

Emmanuel ,
HQUenbeok,
SQulh (}atl',

Ali.al,
,41han1"1'a,

WhUliPr,
Oorona,
00nli1Blo,

[Oct. · 11 ~

'

\'

316,.,.. . ..

Si 10

11!2 00
L50 00

312 60

• 3:> 10
3T -l9

39 00

78 OIS

70 00
68 00

HT 50

103 00
07 00
:~o

oo

·iu oo
298 00

321,. " " . . u 00
322,..... • 70 10
923, ....... 130 46

111 00

"

82,,. ' ..... 2'~ 9C

202 00

"

82i,.. • . • ..

47 00
56 00
178 00

40 00
5S 00

2a .·~

~

189 M
87 75
18' M

97 00 '

Allowed
Rep't,..,

Sl76 30
129 90
~'9 90

4.5 00
89 00

"
"
"

4.!l 65

·rot&J.

168 60
208 85
156 6'>
67 60

142 00
H 25
162 35
U5 65
127 20
15, 70
52 70
l°' 55
,;57 80
r.04 10
8! 00
137 10
24.l 45
450 90
96 6.5
116 20
404 10
1'1 70
LUI 90

12 tb

. , • • .r.

2!l ()(,I
17 .00
37, 00
' :18 60
35 711

M 00

HJ 30

u sci

21 Jo
3,; 00
:!11 90
lG s0

4.3 80
10 40
SS OU
35 00
:.J 20
3,; 50
:J5 so
:J5 50
'~ ~o

Ne<'dle11,

"

326,... .. ..

Long Beach,

..

327,. ...... 226 10

Redondo,

..

328,. .. '...

Vallee de France,
Kilau~a,

" 329,... ... . 5:J 90
.. 330,. " .... 113 25

Pacific <Jro ue,

"

331,. ' .. . . .

46 05

39 00

San Petlro,

"
..

a32,. ...... 116 20
333,....... (1 00

!)6 00

42 00

88 90

48 10

" 331,. . . ..• ' ii8 55
.. 335,. ...... 299 00
" 336,. ...... 105 06
"39l, . . ..... 8216
" 338,....... 64 50
" 330,....... 97 56
" 340, ....... 62 55

49 00
~20 00
79 00
57 00
50 00

lOt 56
iilO 00
184 05

36 4.0

139 15

1 80
43 00

89 00
4.9 00
145 00
257 00
46 00

186 55
111 65
335 75

Alla,

qoolna,
West Gale,

FruUoale,
Qarquinet,

San Jacinto,
)!'ullfrtcn,
Santa Maria,
0Zna1·'1,
4fan(l<I,

tl4~ ftrnando,
Stan' King,
BtetlttDood,

Palo' Allo,

GO 20
75 70

"

341, ....... 100 75

"
"

3,2, ....... 830 7,5
943,....... 71 70
s,4., ....... i92 40
34li........ 45 06
3•6,.' .•.•• 133 b5

"
"
.•

fl6 00
-'2 00
116 00

:15 70
36 00

3.5 00

~2~ 25

85 05
212 20

11' 50

s ao
35 70

35 00
~u

36 40
21 60
~o 80

587 71\

117 70
324 40

:15 00

rn2 oo
S!l 00

84 05

a ,5<>

8a oo

222 55

I !lO

1005.]

GRAND LoDOE OF CALIFORNIA.
Geu. Fund. Homel!'uud.

1 ·lfa!ll& and No.

No. 3'7 , .... "' .$ 99 40

Rep'tn
t 80

9'8,.. • • • • • 200 GO

168 00
118 00

368 60

38 60

811 IO

20

36 00
36 00
I 40

II

8equota,

II

Palestine,
Bur.ut,
PittoU>,
Presidio,
Hollyw{)()IJ,

Jfill ValleJ.1,

Buena Park,
Golden State,
Lo'j/alton,
San FrancilOO.
Fort Bragg,

Oha1·Uy,
BtrkelPy,
Oline!,
Willits,

Laa P<1l111aa,

South P11•11d1na ,
Urtit71,

3,9,, • .. • • • 193 10
" 350, . ...... ...•..
351, ....... 1.;o· oo

J02 ()()

" 362, ••••••• 12G 90
" 363,....... 63 66
" .36i, ••••• . • 212 JO
" 3M,....... 81 15
" 366, ....... 83 20
" 967,....... io 15

82 00

252 90
208 90

47 00

110 65

"

"
..

958, ....... 145 60
369, •. .. •
4.0 60

360,..... ... 276 95
361,........ 9~ 60
I• 362,. '' • ' . ' ' 61 GO
'·' 368, ... . . . . . 155 00

..
"

"

364, ...... '
U. D., ... .. .

45 80 '
6S 60

u.o., ...... 911/i
U. D.,..... 39 76

98 00

:no 10

67 00

138 li
139 20
87 15

:i6 00

37 00
88 00
30 00 '
JOl 00
lO 00
28 Ofl
~o

oo

34 00
30 ()()
57 00
26 00

U. D., ......

70 35

aa oo

U. D........

63 75
,55 05
~ 00

2.5 00
21 00
I:.! 00
12 00

Ma.king the total amounts of dnes, •. $37,42!i 35

$31,661 00

Ocean Pa•'/1·,
Amity,

Oarcln1a,
0Ctantd,

Allowed

$171 40

8aA B,r11ardlno,

oa1'li.,

•rotol.

$ 72 00

McKinl.6JI,

LT. D.,......

U. I>.,...... 11 40

u. t•., ......

233 60
70 tlO
371) 95

36 60
60
36 20
36 00

J42 liO
79 60
236 00

78 so
95 50
148 15
64. 76
103 S5
78 7:,
76 95

3 00

20
11 70
10 00

11 80
86 60
36 00
36 liO

23 40
21 00

8.5 60

•oS,OSH 3:i

$4 ,600 10

Your committee again congratulates this GrlUld Body Oil the work being
done and the progress being made by its subordinate Lodges ; and while the
gain of 2, 151 members for the year 1905 is :i;ot as great as in 1903, which was
2,343, or in 1904, which was 2,!!90, it has been sufficiently large to convince
us all that we are experiencing a wonderful gro,vth.
The returns this year show marked improvEment over those of 1903 and
1904; the rating of Lotlges for the last three years is as follows: The numbei:
of Lodges marked perfect in WO!! and 1904 were 224; , while those marked
p11rfeot in 1905 are 250, showing an increase of 26 Lodges with perfeot reports.
The number of Lodges whose returns were sent back for correction were,
in 1003, !13; in 1904, :n ; and in W05 only 2:t The number of Lodges whose
returns were transmitted later than the time required by the Constitution
was, in 1903, 20 ; 1904, 17, and 1905, l!J. 'l'he number of Lodges whose
returns were not transmitted within the proper time, and which had to be
returned for correction w:i.s i in l !JU!{ and 1904, and 5 in 1905.
From the above showing. it wiU be seen that t~~ returns .have come ~at;~
the Grand Secretary's office 10 much better cond1t10n than m any prev1om1
year, and your committee believes that the Secretaries of the various Lodges
are subject to congratulation for this excellent ehowing.

100

[Oot. 11, .

PROOEEDINGS OF THE

"Cavite"Lodge, No. 350, located at Cavite, P. I., so far has failed to
aend any returns for the year 1905. The proper blanks were transmitted to
the SecretMy of the Lodge, and there appe&r3 no valid reason why the retunis
ba\·e not been made. The Lodge is, however, located so far from this Grand
Jurisdiction it seems difficult to find a remedy for this defect. We wolild
recommend that the Grand Secretary write the Lodge at an early date, sen_d·
ina new blanks for returns, and if the same is received in time, to be printed
in the Annual Report.
For the information of those brethren who take an interest in the growth.
' Ol onr Fraternity your committee submits the following, which shows the
membership of the ten largest Lodges:"Mission" Lodge, No. 169 .. ,,,, ... , .. ,, ..... , 776 members.
"California" Lodge, No. I., ... , ......... , , . . . . 601
" 80. California" Lodge, No. 278. . . . . • • . . • .. . • • 596
"
" Live Oak " Lodge, No. 61 . • . .. • . . . . . • . . .. . . . . 580
"Pentalpha" Lodge, No. 202 ..• , .. . . . • . • . . . . . • 510
"Occidenta,l" Lodge, No. 22... , •...•..•.• . .. .. • 506
"Pacilio" Lodge, No. 136 .. ·•• , .•. , .. .•. , . ....•. 476
"King Solomon's" Lodge, No. 260 ............. 470
"Fidelity" Lodge, No. 120. . . .. .. . • .. . . . . . .. . . 439
".
" Excelsior " Lodge, No. 166 , . . • . . . . . . . . . . .. . . • 403

..

Making a total membership in the ten largest
Lodges of ..••...•............ . ......•.... 5357

."

Your committee is also desirous to call the attention of this Grand Body
to the faot that 26 Lodges, each of a membership of less than 40, have either
made no gains or have actually lost during the past year ; a condition which
· should guide us in the future in granting dispensations in sparsely settled
communities.
Your committee finds that the returns and reports are properly preserved,
and that their contents are conveniently and handsomely tabulated and
recorded in the books of the Grand Secretary.
The Grand Secretary and his assistant have earned the thanks and appreciation of this committee for their efforts in presenting in a concise and available manner the facts and statistics for this report.
Respectfully submitted.

w.

P. JEFl!'BIES, I
EMIL MAYBKM, . ~
E. C. BuNNER,
}- Committee.
0. M. ROBBINSON,
J, E. ENSIGN,

J

1905.J

GRAND LoDGE OF 0ALIFORNIA.

101

~n ~rand ~odgr.
MORNING SESSION,

}

Tl1111sday, October I21h, A. L. 5905.
The Grand Lodge was called on at nine·thirty o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
The minutes of the session of yesterday were read and approved.
BRo. HAR.RY S. JOHNSON, from the Committee on Credentials,
reported the following additional officers of chartered Lodges, and
Past Masters by servke within this jurisdiction, as being present and
t:ntitled to seats, viz. : from

'l'exas, ........ . .. No. 46, .... R. G. No11-roN, Past Master.
Suisun, ......•... No. 55, .. . . J. H. PRATHER, Pa~t Master.
l.1ive Oak,. .... .. . No. Iii,. .. . J. A . BECKWITH, Past Master.
Howai·d,. ........ No. 96, .....J. n. TAPAco·rr, Past Master.
Oroville, . ... . . . . . No. 103, .... I. TJ PIIAM, Past Master.
Woodb1•idge,. •..• No. 131, .... J. O. THOMPSON, Past Maste1·.
8incei·ity, . ... ... . No. 132, . ... "\V. P. Bovuir.:-r, M11ster and Past Master.
Valley, . ..... .. . . No. 135, .... JosEPH M. CuRAoN, Junior Warden.
<>t·ie11t.tl, •.•.... . No. 144, , ... J. TONNJNGBEN, Past Master.
Woodland, . . ... No. 156, .... W. Y. BRow SINO, Past Master.
Harmony, . .. ... . No. l 64, .... WJLUAM A. LAVERY, Maater and Paet Master.
Keitli., .......... . No. 187, ... . CLARll:NCE R. WEAVER, Master.
Ferndak, ...•. •. No. 193, ... ,J, H. TROST, Past Master.
Mountain View, .. No. 194..... Ru DOLPH Mu ENDER, Senior Warden.
San Benito, ...... Ne. 211,. ... N. C. BRIGGS, JR., Past Ma.•ter.
Brooklyn, ...... .. No. 225, .... C. D. HAYES, Past Master.
Mount Shasta,. . . . No. 281, .. .. C. MuN'l'ER, Past Master.
Maxwell,.···· .... No. 288, .... H. J, CooK, Past M:aster and Representative.
Oxnard, ......... No. 341, .... EARLE CARR, Master.
Palo Alto,. ..... •No. 346,. .. ·.CHARLE~ W. DECKER, Master.

Which report was concurred in and the brethren therein nained!
were admitted to seats.

Which was adopted.
The Grand Master announced the appointment of Bro. JULIAN
E. PARDEE to fill a vacancy in the Committee on Charters..

Bro. WILLARD F. W1LL1AMSON, Chairman of the Committee Olb
Charters, presented the following report : -

The Grand Lodge was then called off until nine·thirty to-morrow
morning.

Your committee has considered the ''arious mattird referred to it~ and 0111
those matter• respectfully report:-

'J'o Jhe 31. •, lV. '. Grm1d Lodge of Cali/01'11ia :-

102
:i '_:·

"'

,
[ Oct. ,..:11°
_ ·-·

, ..015. l

GRAND :·nobaii 6¥ Cx:L1rriliN1A.

Since the last Communication of this Grand Lod&e, dispemations nave
been granted to the follo~i~g: Lodges :~,...
Willits Lodge, Novllfub:e't 18th, 190~ i ·
Las Palmas Lodge, January 5th,_ J905;
South Pasadena Loqge, Mu~h 24th, l fl05;
Unity · L'lilge, .April 14th, 1905 ;
Ocean .Pa~k .Lodge, May 15th, 1905;
Amity Lodge, June 24th, 1905 j
·
Gardena Lodge, August 28th, l!J05 ;
Le Progress de Oceania Lodge, September 18th, 1905.

ll(ht voted for it, urtfess·nequest thereffir b~ '<li~e~tly nrn:~e, and!'it aii{~ffi;&•
tlv•ly nppear th~t .iwtice of the '·pr:Oposed actilin was .seht to ' a11 the memheriJ'
,,f the Lodge.
· ' "' .-'! ·I

All of those Lodges ha,·e sought charters. " 7 e have made a careful ex,amination of the reoords, books and papers accompanying the several petitibns,
and repommend that charters be granted, as follows :,...c
Willits Lodge, No. 365;
Las Palmas Lodge, No. 366,;
.. ···-' ,
South Pasadena Lodge, No. 367;
Unity Lodge, No. 368;
Ocean Park Lodge, No. :l6!J ;
Amity Lodge, No. 370.

While genera.Uy con:unending the neatness and ex~ctnese -of the .book~ ~uh: ,;
mitted by the Lodges whose records have come before this committee, 're..
d~em it our duty to suggest to the otlicers of these Lodge~ ·a stricter adherence,
t.q the language and ~orms laid down in the printed records of the J•~x"&mple .
l.<ldge. 'ivhich may be obtained from the Y." W. '. Gre.nd Secretary.

"o \

We belie\·e a charter should be grant~d to " J.e .Progress de Ocea~_ia1~
1.odge, U. D . ._ in the City of Honolulu:, Hawaiian ,l slands, ·but the name u~der
which the Lodge is ·now working has been us'ed for some time past in the same .
ult) by a Lodge, which we are informed, is still in existence. Wheth~. the
1hl Lodge be in exietence <ir not, we think the continuance of its ,~lurie is
dlllad vantageous. We therefore· recommend granting a ·charter to the Lodge'
now tm<ler<lispetisationas ''Oceanic" Lodge; Xo._ :n1.
·
.' ··'. ' .

!

Since dispensation was granted it, "Gardena " Lodge has held no meet"
ing, and while fully appreciating the fact that this is not necessarily a reason
for denying a charter to a -Lodge under dispensation, your committee feels
that the interests of the Order will be best served by continuing ''Gardena"
Lodge under dispensation until the next Communication of this Grand Lodge, ··
and we so recommend.
•
"San Mateo " .Lodge, No. 168, reque5ts permission to change its name to
" Red wood City " Lodge. We find that this Lodge meets at Redwood City,·
and that its present name causes much confusion and inconvenience. · We "
therefore recommend that the request be grant~d and the name changed'· to .
"Redwood City " Lodge, No. 168.
"Ionic" Longe, No. 121. On the day of the opening of this Communi~ .
cation, the V.". vV. '. Grand Secretary received from the Secretary . o(
''Ionic " Lodge, a notice t.hat ''Ionic" Lodge had voted 'two days before .
to surrender its charter. There was no reque~t, however, that this Grand
Lodge take action. Whilf' we are forced to admit a deplorable lack of Ma·
sQnicJnterest. in a. Lodge which would permit such action, at the same time
the papers which have come before us do not show that the brethren··of·.·
•'Ionic" Lodge recei ,·ed notice ~f the proposed resolution.
The Secretary r'e ports that such a resolution was passed on the eighth day .
of the current month, a.nd that only eight members were present. The Grliitd ·
Lodge records show an apparent active membership of twenty-eight. Under ..
all the circumstances, your committee does not feel warranted in favoring the
sm'reiider of the charter where o.nly eight out of a membership of twenty·_.
.
.
. ·: ...
-~

Respectfully submitted.
F. W!LLIAl\l ~ON, _ l

\VILLARD

i:5YI>NEY ESPEY,

c.

CARLTON
CASE,
I<'RANK \V, l!ODINSON,
JULIAN K ·l'ARDE•;,

~

.

..

Oum~ittee.

)

Which was concurred in and the recommendation adopted.
. _Bro, JAMES B. STEVENS, P .. G. M., from the Committee on J nrisp~u<lence, presented the following report ; 'l'o the N. '. W. '. Grai1d Lodge of Oalifornia,
Your committee, to whom was referred .t hat portion.of. the Gn.iid Mastet''"' ··
Address relative to dispensations granted during th~ year, have h~d the same
11~der considcratio!l, and respectfully report as follows :-,\Ve tincl one dispensation was for permission to elect officers to fill ve.can: ·
eiiis; two to eleot Masters; one to receive and aot upon the petition of a
person belonging to the U. S. Army; and thirteen to reballot.
' " We also find that in all cases the _G rand Master has acted in ac~?rd~rid~~:
with the Constitution, and in strict conformity with our usage,,
-·· · · .. · • ,,
Respectfully submitted.
:!<'RANK M. ANUKLLO'l"l'I,
WILLIAM S. WELL.~,
TH<JS. FLINT,

u. ·w. NuTTINo,

J . Il. 8TEYENS,

Wbic.h was adopted.

.·· · .

1
J

Committee.

; . .;

104

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 12,

Bro. WILLIAM S. WJr.LLS, P. G. M., from the Special Com.mittee on Southern California Home or Hospital, presented the
following report : To the M. '. W. •• Gt·and Lodg~ of l'alifo1·nia :Your committee on Southern California Home or Hospital submits the fol~
lowing report : Upon receipt of a communication from the Seoretlll'y of the Southern Cale
ifornia Ma.sonic Home Association, stating that organi2l&tion had been effected;
and a definite plan agreed upon, with a request that we visit them and investigate, we went to Los Angeles, carefully examined into all matters pertaining
to such home, aud found that a corporation known as the "Southern California. Masonic Home Asaocia.tion," has been duly organized and incorporated
under the laws of the State of California for the purpose of establishing and
maintaining a home for widows and orphans of Masons, and for decrepit 011d
indigent Masons.
That a suitable property hos been acquired and fully paid for, consisti11g
of ten acres of land, with a large and commodious building of one hundred
rooms, furnished and ready for occupancy, with a number of out-builClirlgs
and improvements of a substa11tial nature.
That all moneys paid out for the purchase, repair and re11ovating of this
property, amounting to about the sum of $25,000, has been contributed and
raised by the I..odges of Masons, and Eastern Star, and the brethren {If
Southern California.
The management has done, a.nu is doing, all in its power to make this
Home a success. It is intended and expected that it will be of great assist-·
l\nce and aid to the Board of Relief in that section of our jurisdiction. We
think it a worthy institution and in full accord with the management, the
aims and objects of the corporation.
The Board of Trustees want some assistance from the Grand Lodge. They
need encouragement, and we believe their work and efforts warrant and justify extending aid and relief to them.
We therefore recommend that a donation to the Southern Califomia
Home Association be made by this Grand Lodge ; that euch donation be not
considered a precedent, a promise of any future aid or the aeeumption by thid
Grand Lo:ige of any reaponeibility whatsoever, bnt simply a donation to a
well merited and worthy canse.
All which is fraternally s11bmitted.
W. S. WELLS,
F. M. ANGELLO'j"rl, l'ammittet.
JAs. A. FosHAY,

f

Which was adopted, and the matter of the donation was referred
to the Finance Committee.

lUOo.J

GRAND LODG'tii OF CALIFORNIA.

105

Bro. JAMES w. ANDERSON presented the following:Re&olv~d, That the reports of Committees of lnveatigation appointeJ. on
petitions of applicants for the degrees of Masonry, or for affiliation, shall
not be read in the Lodges except so far a.s the announcement of the character
of the report is concerned ; nor shall the names of the brethren appointed on
1uch committees be announced in the Lodge.

Bro. CARLTON C. CASE presente~ the following:Resolved, That the followin~ be adopted by the Grand J..odge of Califomia,
to be known as General Regulation, No. 82 :No. 82. No Junior Warden of a Lodge shall be installed until he shall
have produced to the installing officer the certificate of the Grand Le~tu.rer
or of the Inspector of the District in which his Lodge is situated, certifyrn.g
that be has personally examined such Junior Warden-elect, and that he 18
IJUalified to give the work and lecture of the first degree'. and n.o Senior
Warden shall be installecl until he shall have produced a hke certificate of
hie qualification to give the work and lectnres of the first and sec~nd .degree~.
Ruch certificates shall be sent to the Grand Secretary, and filed ID hie office.

Both which were refer~ed to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

Bro. HJ.O;NRY M. OwENS, Chaim1an of the Committee on
By-Laws o,f Lodges, presented the following reports:
'J·o the M.'.

w:. (}rand Lodge of California :

Your committee beg to report as follows :
We have carefully. scrutinized the By-laws of "Amity" Lodge,
"Unity" Lodge, " Las Palmas 11 Lodge," Ocean Park" Lodge, " Lodge
L'Progress de L'Oceanla," and " Southern Pasadena" Lodge, all
under dispensation, and find that " Amity" Lodge has adopted a
Code of By-laws .in conformity with that prescribed by the Grand
Lodge, with the exception of stating the hour of meeting, and leaving sufficient space to add any new amendments between the By-laws
and where the members hav.e signed.
"Unity 11 Lodge has adopted a Uniform Code of ·By-laws, but no
hour of meeting has been Inserted In them, nor have the By-laws
been properly copied in the book of By-laws In this, that Article XIII
is inserted In the back part of the book when it should have followed
Article XII, followed by the signatures of the members. This can be ,
remedied by rewriting the By-laws and having the members re-sign.
" Las Palmas" Lodge has adopted the Uniform Code of By-laws,
(lxcepting Sec. 1 of Art. VIII, which should be enlarged and made
to r.omply fully with the Uniform Code; also the words "Grand

106

.PROCEEi>INOS· OF THB

[Oct. ·12;!

Lodge " after the .~orp " tile," ,at,th.e en.cL of li;ne .3 f~QJl1 , )}pt1ow; of
page 5 of By-laws, should be Inserted; nor was any room left to add
a,i1y new amendments ·betweeA the By-Jaws aI'ld signatU~e~ ot Jembers:
·
;·:·: .. ;; ,.
.. "· 01)ean Park" Lodge adopted the Unifor~ C~de, b~t· it, dl.d .n~~!:
insert the hour of meeting, _nor did. It leave any . space· for Jl~w .,
amendments.
"Oceanic" Lodge has adopted the Uniform Code of By-laws ;ith
tP,e following exceptlons:Sec. 3, Art. IX, does not comply with the Uniform Code I and'
should be changed •to conform with said code. The ·word "shall "
it1 place Of "iilay" should be inserted hi Sec. 1, Art. IV, and the
"'ord "or'l in place of .th~ word _".of," in Sec. ·1; Art. XI. With these' "
e:xcel)Uons ,the By-laws are all right. ·This Lodge, we are lnfol-med; 1
h'li.s
copied the
By-laws In . the
' By-law Book which' was n9t presetite(F
1 .. . .
..
,
'
.
~
1
t~ tis, I).Or have we beEm able to see l,t , having been info_rmed. tbat.'~t ,
was not sent from Honolulu. The By-laws we have scrutinized w~re·,:
copied in full in the minute-book and showed that they were pro~e'.rly.
adopted, and we have no doubt that the Book of By-laws can be
l•roperly examined by the Inspector of that District and If found to
be correct by him, would In our opinion be sufficient.
·
"Southern Pasadena" Lodge has adopted a Uniform Code of By~
laws, except the words, "9r a brot.h,er _repriip.an·ded,'.' are left out of .
Sec. 1, Art. II.
.
•
With the above noted exceptions, we therefore propose the follow~
·
in,g resolution :
;...Resolved, That when the above a nd foregoing named Lodg~·e ·
have adopted the Uniform Code of By-laws, or have made amendments to their By-laws to make them comply with the foregoing
repoFt._ th_at th~y be approved.

We have examined a communication from "Hollywood" Lodge.,
~o. 3_55, wherein they amended their By-laws so as to change the

date . of the stated meeting; from "Fort Bragg," No. 361, amending .
the By:laws .s.o as to change the meeting night; from " George Washington" Lodge, No. 62, raising the initiation fee to $50; f~om "Ex- .
cel~ior " Lodge, ,No. 166, raising i~itiation fee from $75 to $100 ; ,
from "Lompoc " Lodge,. No. 262, raising the initiation fee from $30 ·
to J ·o_
'<i·;- i'r'om" "Colusa'' Lodge, No. ~40, fixing t he dues at $6 per
annum; from " Eden" Lo_d ge, No. 113, . changi_n g the tlme of' the
stated. meetint: from <• Hope" Lodge, No. 234, r a isfng the iriitiation ·
i'ee ..from $30 to $50 and changing the dues from 50 cents to $1 r>er'

10.'l
1l'l!l~tb·; from " Oc:c:id_
ental " Lodg~. No. ..22, raising. the initiation fee
t.Q ;$100·nnd changing the dues to 75c, per month; · from " :Wasbh1·g~1

tpn ;, Lodge, ~o. 20, changing dues to 50c:; from "Mt. ShaiJtn:" ·
l;J()dge, No. 281, decreasing initiation fee from $75 to $50; · from'
'"Southern California'' Lodge, No. 278, fixing the affi!iatlori fee 'in
the sum of .$15; from " Los Gatos " Lodge, No. 292, decreasing .the·
initiation fee from $50 to $30; from "Sisson" Lodge, No. 310, chang•
iug the meeting night; from "Monrovia" Lodge, No. 308, raising·
the Initiation tee from $30 to $50; from "Fruitvale" Lodge, No.3.36, changing the stated meeting night; from "Lassen" Lodge, No.
l:i9, changing the stated meeting night; from " Meridian" Lodge,
No. 182, changing the stated meeting night; from " Eucalypt1,1s"
Lodge, No. 243, changing the stated meeting night; from " Los G.a.tos.,;• Lodge, No. 292, changing the stated meeting night; from "Colusa" Lodge, No. 240, fixing the initiation fee at _$50; from,'.'. Laul'el"
Lodge, No. 245, raising initiation fee from $30 to $50; all of which
have been approved by. the Grand Master, and that the communication-from "Los Gatos" Lodge, No. 292, whereby they attempt to amend
the By-laws to reduce. the annual dues from $9 to $6 per annum,
which was disapproved, and the communlc;ation from " Evergreen"
Lodge, No. 259, whereby the Lodge attempted to amend the By-laws
so that they might elect at the Annual Meeting a committee of
three on charity, which was also disapproved by the Grand Master.
After going over the above and foregoing . communications you·r
committee proposes the following resolution and rec~mmencis its
a.doptlon:-· Resolved, That the action of the Grand Master on the above
ancl foregoing communications be and the same are hereby approved, ·
·
.
1·atlfted and affirmed.
Your committee reports furthe r that they ha ve examined the fol- ·
lowing communications and find that they do not contain the necessary statem-e nts of jurlsdictionai facts: from "Keith" Lodge, No.
187, amending the By-laws as to stated meeting nights; from "Corona " Lodge, No. 324, changing the stated meeting nights; from
" Sotoyome" I...odge, No. 123, fixing the affiliation fee at $5; from
" Durant " Lodge, No. :Jll8, raising the affiliation fee from $1 to $5.
All of the above amendments fail to show that the notice was
given at the stated meeting previous to the adoption of the. resolutions in conformity with Sec. 1, Art. XIII, of the Uniform Code of
By-laws, which provides that notice of · such amendments shall have l
bilen given at the stated meeting next preceding. These amendments
were approved by the Grand Master on the presumption that th~ '

1()8

[Oct. 12t

PaocEEDINas oF THE

Lodges had complied with the law. We do not question the right or
the Grand Master to extend to these Lodges the benefit of the presumption that they had complied with the law, but we recommend
that the approval of the amendments of the By-laws of the above
named Lodges be withheld until the Secretary of such Lodges shall
have furnished the Grand Secretary with a sufficient statement
showing that the law was complied with and that the amendments
were adopted In conformity with the By-laws; and we therefore
propose the following resolution and recommend its adoption:Resolved, That the action of the Grand Master in approving the
amendments of the above-named Lodges be and the same is hereby
approved, to take effect upon said Lodges providing the Grand Sec-·
retary or the incoming Grand Master with a copy of their proceed·'.
ings, showing that Sec. 1 of Art XIII has been complied with.
Respectfully submitted.
H. M. OWENS,
0. J, MONROE,

1

(. Cornmitlee.
A. S. MooRB,
GEORGE W. BURCHARD, _I

Both which were concurred in, and the resolutions accomJ.ianying them were adopted.
M.'. W.'. WM.S.WELLS, from the Committee on Jurisprudence, presented the following reports:
:l'o the M.'. W.'_. Grnncl Lodge of California:
'four committee to whom was referred the resolution relative to
proposed Masonic Lodge at Sawtelle, Los Angeles County, to be
knowns as "Veteran" Lodge, and the suspension of the Constltu·
tion in certain particulars in relation thereto, have had the same
under consideration and report as follows:We are of the opinion that It would be unwise to make any
exceptions in favor of this Lodge so far as the requirements of the
Constitution are concerned, and that the Constitution should not be
suspended for any such purpose.
A petition for dispensation together with certain dimits, is
now In the hands of the Grand Secretary, and it seems advisable
that the same be granted if In proper form. Under the circumstances of this case we believe it would be just and fair that the fee
for dispensation and charter to this Lodge be remitted.
We therefore recommend that the resolution be not adopted, anli
ofter the following resolution and recommend its adoption.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

JOU

Resolved, That the Grand Master Issue a dispensation to
"Veteran" Lodge, located at Sawtelle, Los Angeles County, California, if upon examination he finds that all the provisions of our
Masonic law have been complied with; that no fee be charged for
such dispensation, and the same be remitted by this Grand Lodge;
that when such Lodge shall have complied with our law and this
Grand Lodge orders a charter Issued to It, that no charge be made
for such Charter, and ail fees therefor be remitted.

Your committee to whom was referred the resolutions in relation to the action of this Grand Lodge at its Annual Communication
of 1904, relative to representatives have had the same under consideration ana report as follows:- ,
The Grand Master ever since the adoption of the Constitution in
1859 has been vested with the authority and power "•ro appoint
Representatives near other recognized Grand Lodges, and to receive
and accredit Representatives from them," and such Is now the provision of our Constitution.
Should this Grand Lodge desire to abolish this custom and wlthclrnw this power from the Grand Master It can only do so by an
amendment to the Constitution properly presented and adopted by
the Grand Lodge. The recommendation of the Committee on Grand
Master's Address as adopted at the Annual Communication of 1904
did not accomplish such purpose and was an Illegal attempt to
amend the Constitution.
To the end that this matter may be properly submitted to this
Grand Lodge by an amendment to the Constitution, if so desired, and
that this attempted legislation no longer encumber the record, we
offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That thE) action of this Grand Lodge at its Annual
Communication of 1904 In adopting the following report and recommendations"It will be patent to 11:nyone who will give the matter of the
appointment of Representatives to and from other Grand Bodies
proper consideration, that this custom is as useless as the 'appendix
vermiformis' Is to the human body. It seems to us that the custom
must have originated in the desire to decorate members with a mere
title. The only proper way for one Grand Lodge to communicate
with another Is through the Grand Masters. Your committee can see
no necessity for the continuance of the custom, and therefore recommend that It be abolished. Many of the Grand Lodges are dispensing

HO

. . PBOOEEDlXGS OF THE

[Oct. 12,

therewith, and we think the Orand Lodge of California should do
likewise "
be and the same ls hereby declared to be lllegal and the same is
l'eversed and set aside and our Grand Secretary ls hereby instructed
t.o notify all Grand Bodies of this action of our Grand Lodge.
Your committee to whom was referred the resolution relative to
expenses Incurred by Lodges In the burial of deceased brethren at
the Masonic Home have had the same under consideration and report .
as follows:
It Is the duty of Masonic Lodges to pay the expenses of their
deceased members and the widows and orphans who are dependent
upon them. It would be inequitable and unjust to require one Lodge
in the vicinity of the Masonic Home to bury all who may die there,
at an expense to them. Such expenses as are necessary In performing
t~ls duty should be paid by the Lodge to whom the deceased belonged
or under whose care he or she may have been.
The Lodge incurring the expense should send its claim to the
Lodge of the deceased and It should be settled by such Lodge.
The Grand Lodge should not be required to pay these amounts;
the burden ls on the Lodge and should be met by it.
We therefore recommend that the resolution be not adopted.

.. RBllpectfully euhmitte11.

M. ANGKLLO'l'TI,
WM.
WELLS,
JAllES B. STEVENR,
THOMAS FLI:ilT,

FICA:SK

s.

CHARLES W. Nunnm,

All which were concurred in and the resolutions accompanying them were adopted.
M.'. W.'. FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI, Chairman of the Com·
mittee on Jurisprudence, presented the following reports :
To the M.'. w:. Grana Lodge of Oalifornta :

Your committee has had under consideration the decisions rendered by the M.'. W.'. Grand Master during the year upon a question
of Masonic Law. We are pleased to be able to state that the report
of the Grand Master upon this matter shows that he has given to this
branch of his duties the same careful and conscientious attention that
has characterized all of his Masonic Work, and that his decisions
upon many somewhat novel and difficult questions are generally cor:
rect expositions of our law.

,lt~o. ]

GRAND LoDGE OF CALIFORNIA.

lll

The first decision or the Gran_d Master was as follows, viz:
1. . The Constitution provides that no Lodge shall admit a visitor
without due Inquiry or examination. · The term •due Inquiry t ls
not satisfied by the consideration of letters or written statements
·only, given by the Master or Secretary of the Lodge of which he
claims to be a member, to the etrect that he Is a Master Mason in
good standing. Documentary evidence alone, no matter .of what
character, Is not sufficient to admit him, but he must prove himself
by a personal examination. Where, however, he has a statement
from the Secretary of a Lodge, under seal, that he is a Master Mason
In good ·standing, and ls unable to pass a rigid test, Very sllght
evidence by examination should be sufficient to admit him.

The _gist of this decision Is that documentary evidence alone is
not sufficient to entitle a visitor to admission without examination.
This appears to be the settled law of the jurisdiction. It was said
some years ago when Bno. BELCHER was chairman of this committee
that one on asking to be received as a visitor must, unless vouched
for by some one present, prove himself to be a Mason, to the satisfaction of the Master of the Lodge, on a personal examination, and a Grand Lodge diploma or certificate or other documentary evidence can never be received as sufficient to entitle the appllcant to admission without examination. The present decision Is but
a re-affirmation of this. It is of course necessary that the Master
should, in all cases, be satisfied that the visitor ls a Mason.
We recommend that the decision be approved.
2. The Master of a Lodge asked the following quesuon: " Where
there are nine candidates to be voted for at the same meeting, can
we have them all voted for at the same time, and then if the first
ballot ls unfavorable, order a separate ballot as to each?"
The Grand Master answered "No," and In this we entirely concur. Our regulations provide an orderly and dignified method ot
voting upon the appllcatlon of one who desires admission to our
mysteries, and this method must be followed.
We recommend that the decision be approved.
The Grand Master decided that3. .Charges may be brought against a Fellow Craft Mason for a
Masonic offense, just as if he were a Master Mason. The procedure
is the same in all cases and llke penalties may be Imposed.
This decision Is In strict accord with our law (See Vol. XXI, proc.
l'P· 11 , 218). We recommend that It be approved.

112

PROOEEDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 121

The Grand Master reported the following decision:4. A. B., a Master Mason, was charged with unmasonic conduct,
the charges being presented by the Master of his Lodge. By request
the case was transferred by the Grand Master to another Lodge fol'
trial. The accused was found guilty and sentenced by the Lodge
which tried him, to be suspended. He some time later petitioned
the Lodge of which he was a member to be reinstated and restored
to all his . rights and privileges, and the question for decision is,
which Lodge should act in the matter-his own Lodge or the. Lodge
which tried him. I held that it should be the Lodge that pronounced
the judgment of suspension, which sentence was for an lndefl.nlte
period. Section 3, Article V of Part VI of the Constitution, provides
that a Lodge may annul any such sentence of suspension pronounced
by Itself; and in Section 5 it is declared that when any suspended
Mason desires to petition the Grand Lodge for restoration he shall
first make application to the Lodge by which he wa~ suspe~ded, and
there Is no provision by which a sentence pronounced by one Lodge
may be annulled by another. It cannot be maintained that· the
applicant was in fact tried and sentenced by his own Lodge, and that
the o_ther was merely the Instrument to carry out Its will and
purposes. The Lodge to which the case was transferred 6btalne<1
complete jurisdiction to try It, and either to acquit or convict, according to the evidence; and if found guilty to impose a penalty, and It
alone can wipe out the sentence If so disposed.
·
Although we have grave doubts as to whether the framers of our
Constitution ever contemplated the result here reached, viz: that a
subordinate Lodge of which ~he suspended Mason was never a member should have tl).e right to restore him to his Masonic rights simply by reason of the fact that it had adjudged his suspension upon a
transfer of the case from the Lodge to which he belonged. We are
satisfied that under the law as it Is written, there can be no escape
from the conclusion reached by the Grand Master. The framers
of the constitutional provisions in this behalf probably had In mind
only cases of suspension by a Lodge of its own members, and overlooked the contingencies of an absolute transfer of the case from
one Lodge to another, or a proceeding Instituted in some other Lodge
than that of the membership of the accused, by reason ot his residence within the te~ritorial jurisdiction of another Lodge. We,
however, must take the law as it is written, where, as in this case,
it Is plain and unambiguous.
We recommend that the decision be approved.
The Grand Master reported as follows:-

1905.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

113

6. On Mai'ch 5th, 1883, C. D. was suspended from member.ship by
his Lodge for non-payment of dues, He was then owing $36. · On
November 7th, 1904, at a stated meeting, It was reported to his
Lodge that he wished to be restored to membership upon paying
$36 and having his dues since suspension remitted, and on motion it
was unanimously accepted, but no ballot was had thereon. At the
stated meeting on December 'iith, 1904, the minutes of the meeting of
November 7th were read and approved, and upon discussion as to the
validity of the restoration it was resolved to have C. D. sign a
petition tor restoration and to have it lie over for one month, which
was. done. At tlle stated meeting on January 2nd, 1905, the petition
for restoration was rejected by ballot, it failing to receive the support of three-fourths of the members present and on motion the resolution of November 7th, restoring him to membership and accepting
the $36 was rescinded. Upon 'this state of facts it was decided that
the vote taken on .November 7th, restoring him to membership, was
void for two reasohs mainly: First, because the application was not
laid over for one month; and second, because a vote thereon was
not taken by ball-ballot, and that the approval of the minu_tes of
November 7th, at the meeting held on December 6th, 1904, did ·not
affect the matter.
This decision Is in accord with the provisions of Sec. 11, Art. III,
Part III of our Constitution, which requires with the laying over of
the application for one month, and the approval of the application
by a three-fourths vote "by ballot." We recommend that the decision be approved.
The Grand Master decided as follows, viz:6. The daughter of a MasteT Mason 1n good standing when he
died, married to a man who has been a Mason, but dimitted, and who
has been out of standing for many years, and who has attempted
suicide and is sick in a hospital, the wife being destitute, is entitled to consideration at the hands of the Lodge to which her father
belonged at the time of his death. The right to relief depends upon
the fact that she is the daughter of a Master Ma.son, and if worthy
herself she did not forfeit any right by reason of an unfortunate
marriage or the misfortunes of matrimony.
This decision was correct, and should be approved, and we recammend accordingly,
The Grand Master reported as follows:
7. The minutes of a Lodge show that E. F. received the E. A.
Degree therein, September 9th, 1862, petitioned for advancement

8

114

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

[Oct .. 12,

November 26th, 1887, was balloted for on December 24th, 1887 and
declared rejected. At the stated meeting in May, 1905, he sent to the
J.,odge $15, and requested, without presenting a written petition, that
he be advauced, and filed an affidavit to the effect that he did not
petition the Lodge for advancement on November 26, 1887, nor
authorize any one to present his name at that time, nor give his
consent thereto. 'l'he question asked by the Lodge was, should
it be governed by Its own record of the matter, or should it receive
and act upon evidence from the outside. The ruling was that the
Lodge should be governed by its own record; the ballot taken on
December 24th, 1887, should be treated as a denial of advancement
by the Lodge, and that he could only proceed now by petition, reference -and clean ballot, the same as if he had not received the First
Degree.
Upon the only question asked by the Lodge of the Grand Master
viz : as to whether in the determination of a question as to the
Entered Apprentice having been denied ad:vancement some eighteen
years before, at a meeting of the Lodge, it should be governed ·by
what appeared in its approved minutes of the meeting, or should
receive other evidence, there can be no doubt of the correctness of
the decision that the record of the Lodge must control. The denial
of advancement was equivalent to a rejection for the remaining
degrees, and it therefore followed as stated by the Grand Master,
that the applicant could obtain the remaining degrees only by petition, reference and ballot in the ordinary way,
We recommend that the decision be approved.
The tallowing decision was rendered:
8. While Masonry is not a religious institution and should not
mix up with religious matters, or favor any creed or sect, yet if the
memb'ers of a Lodge or any considerable number of them, see flt
to assemble in the hall, and walk together to church, and attend
service there in a body on Easter Sunday, I do not see that any
h a rm to Masonry can come from It, and know of nothing to prevent
it. No dispensation could be granted to wear regalia on s uch an
occasion.
Of course this decision is correct. We know of no l~w or reguJa'.
tion· of Masonry that precludes two or more Masons from going to
church together, even if they go directly from the hall of the Lodge,
instead of from the house of one of them.
'l'he Grand Master made the following decision:
There can be no valid objection to the appointment of a committee to draft resolutions of respect to c.1e memory of a deceased
9:

1110~.]

.

GRAND LoDGE Ol!' CALJFORNIA.

115

lln.1lber, who upon the request of his widow was buried by the Com111antlery of which he was a m~mber, although his Lodge took no
Jllll't In the funeral.
It is somewhat difficult to understand what objection to the
appointment of such a committee could have occurred to the mind of
tho Brother who proposed the question that called forth this dellllton.
We recommend the approval of the decision.
The Urand Master decided as follows:10. a Lodge does not have the right to bury a man presumed to
116 a non-affiliated Mason, whose dimit was granted in 1886 but had
never been signed-by him, and who resided in the immediate vicinity
of two Lodges In this state for eighteen years, and never visited
11lther of them or made himself known as a Mason, although just
hefore his death he requested, through his son and daughter, that he
he buried by the Masons.
We take it for granted that by the statement in the decision that
the non-affiliate never made himself known as a Mason, is included
the statement that he never made application to any Lodge In this
Ht.ate for membership. So construed the decision was right under Sec.
I, Art. II, Part V of our Constitution, which provides that every nonnfflllated Mason who having resided six months within the state.
Hhall refuse or neglect to make application for membership to some
Lodge therein, shall be deemed unworthy of Masonic consideration
and shall not be entitled to nor be the recipient of any of the rights.
privileges or eharities of the Order.
We recommend that the decision be approved.
The Grand Master made the following decision :11. A Lodge with a membership of thirty-five and which owns its
own hall, has an annual income of about $330, its yearly expenditures being about $304, with $250 in the treasury January 1st, HJ05,
out of which certain bills were to be paid, may if it sees flt to do so
purchase a pianola at a cost of $250, $50 to be paid down and ther&after $10 a month until paid for, and the payments may be madefrom the general fun d or as funds a ccumulate, where the instrument
Is to be used by the Lodge in conferring the Degrees and can be S()nsed to advant.,~e. although the Lodge does not own, but leases from.
the local Eastern Star Chapter the piano to which the pianola is
attached.
While we might have some doubt as to the wisdom of the expe1;1diture
authorized
under the circumstances above set fort&,
the Grand '.
ti
'
.r

116

· PBOOEEDINGS ' OF THE

[Oct. 12,·

Master was undoubtedly compelled to hold that the proposed expend·
iture came under the head of such necessary expenses as the Lodge,
in its discretion, had the right to incur.
We recommend that the deCision be approved.
. The Grand Master reported as follows_:12. In August, 1904, a petition for the Degrees was tiled, and at.
the time the petitioner was a resident withm the jurisdiction of the
,Lodge, and in every res~ct eligible to membership. Before the com:mittee could interview him and because of unforeseen circumstances
1le was obliged to remove and change his residence to an Eastern
;State. No report was made by the committee and nearly a year
:after the matter was referred to them, the pet.itioner asked to withdraw his petition and have the money refunded. It seems like a
hardship to deny the request under the circumstances, but I felt
constrained to hold that the application could not be withdrawn.
Section 3 of Article III of Part III of the Constitution provides
that,· "No application shall be withdrawn after reference to committee except as hereinafter provided in this Section." The only
exceptions are that " If the committee find the applicant disqualified
in consequence of insufficient residence or physical disability and
find no other objection to him, they shall make a special report
thereupon in which case the Master may direct the withdrawal of
the application without further action."
This applicant had been a resident within the Jurisdiction of the
Lodge durinf? six months next preceding the date of his application
and was such at the time of applying; therefore his request for
withdrawal did not come within either of the exceptions provided
by the Constitution.
The decision of the Grand Master was correct for the reason
stated by him. The Lodge should, however, proceed to consider the
application just as if the applicant had not left the state. The residence of the applicant at the time of the making of the application
gave the Lodge jurisdiction to proceed. The applicant is entitled to
a determination of the matter. If he be finally rejected, his money
can be returned to him, and if he be elected, the Degree can be conferred upon him by some Lodge in the state to which he bas gone,
at the request of the Lodge electing him.
We recommend that the decision be approved.
The Grand Master reported as follows:
After a petition was received and referred to a committee,
but the day before the stated meeting at which it was to report, a
13.

IU05.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOilNIA.

117

member of the Lodge went to the Master and made a verbal objection
to the candidate. The committee reported favorably, but its report
w11s not permitted to come berore the Lodge.
The Master inquires: "Whether he should order a ballot, or
tihould the objection hold good, and if no oallot is taken, how long a
time should elapse before he should declare the petition rejected?"
The Constitution gives a member an undoubted right to object,
and a fair construction of the provision is, that the objection may
be made at any time after the petition has been received and referrect , provided it be interposed before his initiation. Its language
ls: "No Lodge shall have more than one b;1Jlot for the Degrees;
but, though ari applicant may be elected to receiye them, if, at any
t i me before his initiation, objection be made by any member, he shall
not receive the Degree until such objection shall have been withdrawn," etc. If a member may object and prevent initlatlon after
ele ction, certainly he should have the right and power to do so before
election, and it should be treated in all respects as one interposed afterward, and unless withdrawn would hold good for sixty days from
the time it was made, and finally result in a rejection.
The main point decided by the above is that the objection to
initiation that may be made by a member to the Master, may be made
before as well as after election, and when made before should be
treated as if made subsequent to the election, and unless withdrawn
within sixty days shall constitute a rejection of the candidate. In
this we are disposed to agree with the Grand Master. It may
often happen that one having good and · Jegal reason to prevent the
admission of an applicant may know in advance that he will be
unable to be present at the election and unable to acquaint the
Master with his objection after election and before initiation, and a liberal construction of the Constitutional provision in the interests of Masonry and for the protection of the
craft against unworthy material, would warrant the conclusion that
he should be aHowed to make his objection in advance, so that the
same would assist in the event of a subsequent election of the candi·
date. But when so made we are satisfied, that the objection ought
to be treated solely as one made subsequent to election. The Constitutional provision was plainly intended solely to enable a member
to prevent the initiation of an applicant who had been elected to
receive the Degrees. Its language is "though an applicant may be
elected to receive them, (the Degrees), if, at any ttme before his
initiation, objection be made by any member" etc. It was never intended to interfere with the orderly course prescribed by the Consti- .

118

•

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 12,

1005. J

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

119

tution up to and including the election. The Constitution provides
for the reference <!f an application for the degrees to a committee,
requires that committee to report, and further provides in terms that
"If the report be favorable, a ballot shall be had" (Sec. 3, Art. III,
Part II I). The objectiou to be made by a member to the Master is
available for any purpose only in the event of an election, and cannot ·
bar the report of the committee or the ballot.
We therefore are of the opinion that notwithstanding the objection, the report of the committee should have been received, and a
ballot thereupon had, and if the ballot was favorable, the candidate
should have been declared elected. The objection made by the member should have been treated as effectual only in the event of the
election of the candidate and as dating therefrom, and if the same
was not withdrawn within sixty days thereafter, it would constitute
a rejection.

Investigate his fitness to be a member; the committee reported
1avorably; he was elected and received the First Degree before any
<llscovery was made. It does not appear that he made any fraudulent
1·epresentations either in his petition or to the committee, or did anything to deceive them or the Lodge. While every man seeking to
join a Masonic Lodge should be of sound mind, if the Lodge was
deceived as to his mental condition and desires to get rid of him or
nancel his membership because of his insanity, and this can be done,
he has a right to be heard upon the question, and of course it cannot be tried and determined while he remains insane.
This decision was undoubtedly correct for the reasons stated.
therein, and we recommend that it be approved.

We recommend that the decision of the Grand Master be approved
except in so far as it intimates that the objection made would constitute a rejection if not withdrawn within sixty days from the time
it was actual1y made, and that in so far as it thus intimates it be
modified by making the sixty days commence to run only at the date
of the election.

At the last Annual Communication there was adopted a resolutio~
which became general regulation No. 81, and which has been the
c.:ause of much misunderstanding upon the part of officers of Lodges
and given rise to a good deal of correspondence. It is as follows:

The Grand Master reported as follows:14. On June 10th, 1904, G. H. was elected to receive the Degrees,
and on the 21st of the ·same month the Entered Apprentice Degree
was conferred upon him. In December, 1904, he was Indicted for stealing mail matter, and on being arraigned confessed his guilt. The
Federal Judge before whom he was tried found from tile evidence
that he was insane at the time of the 'trial, and that he had been
insane for fourteen months, which period would not only cover the
period when the offense was committed, but would go back to a time
prior to his presenting his petition for membership in the Lodge.
He was committed to a hospital for the insane and is now confined
therein. The question submitted to me was: "Was not the action
of the Lodge in accepting the petition of G. H. irregular and its
proceedings null and void, for the reason that he was found to be
insane?"
My answer was In the negative. In the first place neither he nor
the Lodge is bound by the finding of the Court as to his being
insane at the time he joined the Lodge, or the commission of the
offense, in any .action by the Lodge to cancel his membership because
of his insanity or to try him for a Masonic offense. His petition was
presumably presented in the regular way; a committee appointed to

The Grand Master reporte.d as follows:
READING NAMES OF COJ\Il\IIT'l'EE.

"Resolved, That the reading of the names of Brethren appointed
on committees of investigation when reporting is deemed injudicious
and calc.ulated to produce a state of inhar!Jlony in the Lodge and is
therefore expressly prohibited except in uwse cases wherein, in the
judgment of the Lodge, such disclosure ls necessary."
For quite a while many of the Masters construed the language of
that resolution. to mean that they not only natl the power but it was
their duty to select and appoint a committee, not in open Lodge,
hut secretly, without letting c.1e members generally know anything
about it, cir even one member of the committee, know who the others
were.
Upon inquiry I invariably ruled that the committee should be
a11pointel in open Lodge as before. I considered it important that
it shou1u be so done, that the members might know who composed
the committee, and then if anyone had any objection to the candidate
or had heard anything detrimental to him, it could be made known
and investigated.
The resolution was made necessary because some members had
violated their duty by disclosing the secrets of the Lodge-room to
those who were not entitled to the same, and to make the committee
more independent in the performance of their duty. The committee
may confer together,, report together, or separately in writing, and
their names should be affixed thereto but not read.

120

(Oct. 12,

PnocEEDINos OF THE .

The Grand Master's construction of the above regulation is clearly
correct. The regulation does nothing more than prohibit the .reading of the nanies of Brethren on Investigating committees when the
Lodge is notified as to their report. In all other respects the law
remains as It was before the adoption of the regulation.
We recomm'e nd that the ruling of the Grand Master be approved ..
Respectfully submitted.
FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI, I
WM. s. WELLS,
I
JAMES B. STEVENS,
r Com111itlee.
THOllAS ~'LINT,
CHARLE~ W.

NuTTil<G,

J

All which were concurred in and the recommendations accompanying them were adopted.
The resolution presented by Bro. J. T. MORRISON, relative
to instructing candidates in the lecture of the· Third Degree,
and ref erred to the Committee on Jurisprudence, was referred
back by that committee without recommendation, and after
ci:msiderable-discussion, the following sub,;titute was presented
by Bro. RomtRICK G, GuvE'i'T:
Resolved : That there Is no objection on .the part of this Grand
Lodge to the Grand Lecturer preparing a set of questions and
answers in the lecture in the Third Degree to be learned. by Master
Masons desiring to learn the same.

Which was adopted. ·
Bro. JAMES \V. ANDERSON presented the following:
Resolved, That the attention of the Lodges, and particularly of
the Masters of Lodges, is hereby directed to Subdivision IV of Section 3 of Art. IV of Part Ill of the Constitution of the Grand Lodge,
which reads as follows: "The Charter of a Lodge may be forfeited4th "By receiving aIIJ'licants known to be unworthy, or refusing
or neglecting to discipline unworthy members."

Wliich was adopted.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until one-thirty o'clock
this afternoon.

1905.l

G RAND L ODGE OF CALIFORNIA..

121

~n ~raml ~odgr.
AFTERNOON SESSION,·

Tl11vsdar, October I21h, A. L 5905. }

The Grand Lodge was called on at one-thirty o'clock, t'l1e
Grand Master presiding.
Bro. JOHN A. HosMER, from the Committee on Grievances,
pres·e nted the following reports :
'l'o the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:

Your committee, to whom were referred the following trials by
, Subordinate Lodges, wherein no appeals have been taken, have had
the same under consideration and report : We find the trials t o have
been substantially in accordance with the provisions of our law and
that in every case the findings are fully warranted by th.e evid,ence,
to wit:
WILLIAIII HAmnsoN SmrANK, expelled by "Vacaville " Lodge, No.
134, December 16th, 1904;
CHARLES MYRON BURLESON, expelled by "Mokelumne H111 " Lodge,
No. 298, March 25th, 1905;
TIIOIIIAS DE LANO FOGARTY, suspended by "Bear Mountain" Lodge,
. · .
No. 76, April 19th, 1905; and
THO!lfAS HmA111 THO!lfAS, expelled by "Nicolaus" Lodge, No. 129,
July 14th, 1905.
We therefore offer the following resolution, and recommend
its adoption:
Resolved, That the action of the several Lodges upon the cases
herein particularly specified be and the same Is hereby affirmed.
Your committee, to whom was referred the trial of JOHN COBBETT
STEELE,· expelled by "Santa Monica" Lodge, No. 307, December 4th,
1904, and from which an appeal was taken by the accused, have had
tl:e same under consideration and report:
We find the trial to have been sub.stantially In accordance with the
the provisions of our Jaw and findings are warranted by the evidence.

122

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

[.Oct. i'2,

We therefore offer the following resolution, and recommend
its adoption:
Resolved, That the. action of " Santa Monica " Lodge, No. 307, in
expelling JOHN CORBETT STEELE, be and the same is hereby affirmed.

Your committee, to whom was referred the case of CHARLES
RrcHJ\.RD H;1..WLEY, suspended by " Bear Mountain " Lodge, No. 76,
April 19th, 19"05, and from which judgment an appeal was taken by
the accused, ha·ve had the same under consideration and report:
we find the trial to have been conducted in acordance with the
provisions of our laws.
The accused was charged with habitual drunkenness, and appeared before· the commission elected to try him and pleaded guilty
to the charge. · As this is a recognized Masonic offense, we find nothing in the appeal that would warrant a disturbance of the action of
the Lodge.
We therefore ofl'er the following resolution, and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the action of " Bear Mountain " Lodge, No. 76,
suspending cui.nu:s R1c11Anll HAWLEY from all the rights and pdvlleges of Masonry, be, and the same is hereby, affirmed.

Your committee, to whom was referred the case of JoHN LEANDER
HICKS, suspended by "Emmanuel " Lodge, No. 318, February 6th,
1905, wherein no appeal has been taken, have h a d the same under
consideration, and report:
We are not satisfied with the manner in which this trlal record
has been prepared, and had an appeal been taken, there are many
technical points upon which a reversal could have been had. In Its
preparation there has been ·little attention paid to plain forms prescribed by our laws. The accused, however, admitted the cha~ge
made against him, and there is sufficient in the absence of specific
objection to sustain the action of the Lodge.
we therefore offer• the fol19wing resolution, and recommend its 1
adoption:
R esolved, That the action of " Emmanuel " Lodge, No. 318, in suspending JoHN LEANDER HICKS from all the rights and privileges of
Masonry be, and the same is hereby affirmed.

'. Your committee, to whom was referred the case of Annn:n J;1..MES
C;1..MP, suspended by " Anchor" Lodge, No. 273, July 10th, 1905, and

1905.J

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR?iIA.

123

appealed to this Grand Lodge, have had the same under consirteratio11, and report:
The accused was charged in three speclfic!ltions with unmasonic
conduct. Upon two of them, the commissioners elected to try him
found in his favor. Upon the third specification they found hi~
guilty, and affixed suspension as punishment. This charge was that
the accused had left his wife and was living with another woman.
In . support of the charge, the only testimony that was introduced
that was not hearsay was a certificate of the Master and Secretary
of " Hill's Ferry " Lodge, No. 236, under the seal of the Lodge, that
the accused had lived in t.he neighborhood of Newman, California,
for several months, and while there he was accompanied by a woman
whom he represented to be his wife. Objection w·as made at the
trial to this document. While it was made by Masons, the accused
had no opportunity to ask any questions regarding its contents, and
upon Its admission was concluded by its terms. An ex parte affidavit
is not admissible as evidence. (Anderson's Manual, Decisions 684,
748.) And an ex parte certificate of the Master and Secretary as t<>
facts within their knowledge can have no greater weight, especially
when objection is made to its introduction. If the presence of a witness is not obtainable before a commission, authority is given for
taking his testimony upon giving notice to the accused, which wm
enable him to attend in person, or by counsel, and question the wltr,ess as to his testimony. (Constitution, Part VI, Art. IV, Sec. 5.)
The accused has appealed from the judgment of suspension rendered against him, and we are of the opinion that the action of the
I .odge should be reversed.
We therefore offer the following resolution, and recommend its
adoption:
·
Resolved, That the action of "Anchor " Lodge, No. 273, suspendpending ARTHUR JAMES CAMP be s·e t aside, and that a new trial be
had upon the charges preferred.

Your committee, to whom was referred the cases of ERASTUS PERKINS LASELLE, expelled by "Carquinez" Lodge, No. 337, January 7th,
1905, and HENRY ADAMS CLARK, expelled by " Santa Cruz " Lodge, No.
38, August 12th, 1905, wherein no appeals have been taken, have had
the same under consideration, and report:
In both of these cases the ch~rges were preferred by Junior War~
dens, under direction of Masters, and the Masters thereafter presided at the trials. This ·course has been decided by the Grand
Lodge to be Improper, and that notice of this provision may be taken

124

Pnou~EDINOS

OF 'J'IiE

LOct. l2,

by Subordinate Lodges we make special mention of it at this time.
No objection was made in either case by the accused to the Master
presiding,
In other respects the trials were had substantially In accordance
wlth the provisions of our law, and there is nothing in the records
cf the trials that show that any of the rights of the accused Brethren were impaired by the presiding Master. The judgments of the
J,odges were fully warranted by the evidence in both cases.. In ~he
first mentioned case the accused was charged with an atrocious, immoral act, displaying a perverted sexual nature, and bis guilt was
fully proved.
We therefore offer the following resolution, and recomm,end its
adoption:
Resolved, That the action of '.' Carquinez" Lodge, No. 337, expelling 'ERaSTUS PERKINS LASELLE, and the action of "Santa Cruz."
Lodge, No. 38, expelling HENRY ADAMS CLARK, be and the same is

hereby affirmed.
At 'the last regular Communication of this Grand Lodge, the
action of several Lodges of this Jurisdiction in trials of Brethren
for unmasonic conduct was set aside, and the cases returned to the
respective Lodges for new trials. The particular cases so returned
were as follows:
CHARLES WATSON COGGINS, expelled by "Sisson" Lodge, No. 310;
"'·'BARTON WILLARD JOHNSON, expelled by "'lruckee" Lodge, No. 200;
GEORGE THAYER GREENLEAF, expelled by "Redlands" Lodge, No.
300; and
FRANK RmGWAY TODD, expelled by "Hartley" Lodge, No. 199.
The reasons for the reversals of the action of these LodgM in the
several specified cases, were fully set forth in the reports of the Committee on Grievances, which were approveu by the Grand Lodge, as
will appear by reference to the printed proceedings of the Grand
Lodge for the year 1904, at pages 1085, 1086 and 1112. .
In every instance the charge made was considered ot' sufllclent
importance to require a new trial. If capable of proof of guilt, the
offending Brother should be punished, and if not capable of proof,
the Brother should have been acquitted.
No return has been made to the Grand Lodge in any of these
cases. All of the above-mentioned Lodges were advised through the
printed proceedings of the Grand Lodge of the action that had b~en
taken In the respective cases, and of their return to the respective

HJ05.] '

125

GRAND LODGE . OF CALIFORNIA.

Lodges from which they originated for new trials. Authority for
action by Subordinate Lodges attaches the moment the action is had
by the Grand Lodge', and the printed proceedings of the G~and Lodge
furnish ample ·authority upon whfoh the Subordinate Lodges can act.
(See Anderson's Manual. Decision 680.)
Action by Subordinate Lodges is mandatory, as will appear from
the following ·l anguage of General Regulations, No. 40:
"When the Grand Lodge has reversed a judgment of one of its
Subordinates and ordered a new trial, a new trial must be had; and
the Lodge has no power to dismiss the charges or to take any action
In the matter except to elect a new commission."
The failure of these Lodges to retry these causes has been explained by the Representatives of the said Lodges to this Grand .
Lodge, and your committee is satisfied that the delay of action by the
Lodges has been occasioned in some instances by a misconception of
their authority, and in others from not being able to readily locate
witnesses.
Your committee therefore offer the fcillowlng resolution, nnd recommend its adoption:
Resolved, '1·nat the several Lodges named proceed to the trial of
the cases respectively returned to them for new trial, and make report of tneir proceedings in said cases at the next Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge,
Your committee have received from the Grand Secretary trial
records in the following cases now on file in his office:
Ro11ERT ATcHisoN, expelled by "Tehachapi" Lodge, No. 313, on
September 30th, 1905; and
·
ALEXANDER ISAAC GRAY, expelled by "Elk Grove " Lodge, No. 173,
on September 30th, 1905.
Your committee have made no report In either of these cases for
the reason that the judgments in both cases were rendered on September 30th, 1905, and the time within which the accused may appeal
to the Grand Lodge has not yet expired.
Respectfully submitted.
JoHN

A. Hosll!ER, I

J, D. MURPHY,

L0

ALBER'r NORRIS,

i

A. J, MONROE,

)

.

ommittee.

All which were concurred in, and the resolutions accompanying them were adopted.

126

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 12,

Bro. ]AME:s 'vV. ANDE:RSON, from the special Committee on
Life Membership, presented the following report:
To the M:. w:. GrWN.d Lodge of Oalifornia:
Your committee appointed to consider the matter of the establishment in Lodges of this Jurisdiction of a system of life membership respectfully rePQrt that they have considered the same, and recommend the adoption o! the following General Regulation:
Any Lodge having a Board of Trustees may avail itself of the
benefits of life membership upon the following conditions:
First-At the annual meeting of the Lodge there shall be elected
three Trustees-one to hold office for one year, one to hold office tor
two years, and one to hold office for three years. At each annual
election thereafter one Trustee shall be elected to take the place of
the one whose term ls about to expire. The Trustees first elected,
and every Trustees subsequently elected, before entering upon the
rlischarge of his duties shall execute a bond for the faithful performance of said duties, in such sum and in such security company as the
Lodge may designate. Said bond shall be made payable to the Master of the Lodge, and all expenses incident to the execution of the
bond shall be paid by the Lodge.
Second-'l'he Trustees shall take charge of the Life Membership
Fund, and of all bonds, stocks and permanently invested moneys belonging to the Life Fund. They shall keep said moneys safely invested as directed by the Lodge. They shall from time to time pay
to the Secretary of the Lodge the earnings of all bonds, stocks and
o~her investments, to be paid by the Secretary to the Treasurer of
the Lodge. The Treasurer shall place said earnings to the credit of
the General Fund of the Lodge.
Third- The Trustees shall keep a correct record of tile Life Membership Fund, and of all bonds, stocks, investments and moneys
placed in their charge. They shall keep all invested moneys under
their charge deposited in such reputable savings banks as may be
directed by the Lodge. They shall at the stated meetings in June
and December of each year make a full report in writing of all business transacted by them during the intervening period, together with
ri particular statement of all bonds, stocks, investments and deposits
in their charge belonging to the Lodge.
Fourth-All moneys belonging to the Life Fund and all moneys
received for life memberships shall constitute the principal of said
Life Fund, and shall in no case be withdrawn from said fund except
ty consent of the Grand Lodge, upon a recommendation adopted by

1905.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

. 1~7

a three-fourths vote of the members of the Lodge present at any
stated meeting of the Lodge after notice of said intended recommendation shall have been given to the members ot the Lodge at least
one stated meeting prior to aetlon thereon.
. Fifth-Any member of a Lodge which may have decided ·to avail
itself of Lite Membership may obtain a Life Membership by the payment of $150.()0, if the dues of said Lodge are $12.00 per year, or upon
the payment of a sum proportionately less when the <tues are less
tuan $12.00 per annum.
Sixth-The possession of a Life Membership shall forever exempt
the life member from the payment ot dues to the L~dge.
Fraternally submitted,
.

·

J. W. ANDt:RSO~, }
0acA R LA.WLJtR,
.R. H. \VILLCOJ!:,
Committee.
G1to. T. RADDEN

Which was referred to the Committee on Juri~pruderice.

.. This being the hour for the special order, as ordered by the
brand Lodge Tuesday, the Grand Orator, the W. ·.Bro. GEORGE
E. CHURCH delivered the Annual Oration before the Grand
Lodge.
On motion of the M. ·. W. ·. Bro. HENRY S. ORME, it was
~rdered that the thanks of the Grand Lodge be tendered to the
Grand Orator for his interesting and eloquent address and that
~1e be requested to furnish a copy thereof for public;tion with
its proceedings ; but this would seem to be all but impossible
The following is the reply to a request for a copy:
.
HON. GEo. JOHNSON-My Dear Sir and Bro:

I find I cannot pre-

1-~re that pa~er for you. In the first place, I have been ov~rwhelmed
with work smce my return from the Grand Lodge, and am still way
behind, and, in the next place, It is about impossible for me to reproduc; my words now that the Inspiration of the occasion has passed.
ou will, therefore; please uave me excused, and r shall be your
i!ebtor forever, as well as, with the highest esteem,
Yours sincerely and fraternally,
Gxo. E. Cnuucu.

It goes without saying that the above will be read with

dee~ regret by all who listened to that impre~sive and eloquent

oration.

128

[Oct. 12;

PROCEEDINGS OF THE -

!005.]

GRAND r~oDOE .OF CALIFORNIA.

129

W. ·. Bro. ALBERT NoRRrs, from 'the Committee on Gtiev- "
C\nces, presen'ted the following report:
~':
To the M. '. W. ·. Grand Lodge of California:

'

'

I

Your committee to whom was referred the petition of MICHAEL
JoHN SULLIVAN, late a member of "Crockett" Lodge, No. 139, and
expelled by "Oakland" Lodge, No. 188, on April 1st, 1893, for restoration to all the rights and privileges of Masonry, have had the same
under consideration, and report as follows:
The expelled Brother had been prior to the commission of the
S(iries of acts which resulted in his expulsion, an active and valued .
member of "Crockett" Lodge, No. 139, having served industriously
for several terms as its Master, and would not probably have forgotten himself. as he did if it had not been for an excessive indulgence in intoxicating liquor. While the action of " Oakland " Lodge in
expelling the Broiher was fully justified, and the offense charged
merited severe punishment, your committee is advised that for more
than five years the expelled Brother has p.bstained from the use ot
intoxicating liquor, and has lived an upright and useful life in the
community in which he now resides. He is advanced in years, and
is desirous of being reinstated in the Order of Masonry, from his
appreciation of its teachings, and to become a true and faithful member therein. In our consideration of this case we have had before us
a request of Oakland Lodge, given by a unanimous vote of the members present at the meetin~ at which it was voted, to this Grand
Lodge that he be reinstated, and a request of like import from the
Brother who was the principal witness against him at his trial, who
urges in his behalf that we extend the helping hand of encouragement to his demonstration ot sincere repentance.
We therefore offer the followihg resolution, and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the petition of MICHAEL JOHN SULLIVAN to be restored to all the rights and privileges of Masonry be, and the same is
hereby, approved, and the· said MICHAEL JOHN SULLIVAN ls hereby
restored to all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
JOHN A. HOSMER,
J. D. MURPHY,

1

A. J. MoNROI!,

)

Respectfully submitted,

.
Committee.

ALBERT NoRRIS,

Which was unanimously adopted.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until nine-thirty
o'clock to-morrow morning.

MORNING SESSION

l

Friday, Ocluber IJlh, A. i. 5905, f
The Gra~~ Lodge was called on at nine-thirty o'clock, the Grand
Master pres1dmg.
. After music by the choir, and prayer by the Grand Chaplain, the
minutes of the sessions of yesterday were read and approved.
<?n motion, ~eneral Regulation No. 20 was suspen<led, a~d the

t!~ec t1okn oh~ Grand Officers was made the special order for one thirty

1

o c oc t 1s afternoon.

·

·

The V. ·. W. " Grand Secretary presented the following;To tlte M. " W. ·• Grand Lodge qf California:-

OCTOBER 12,

1905.

The following resolution was this day paased by "Hayward" Lodge, No.
226, by over two-thirds majority:-

Resolved, That the name of this Lodge be changed from "Hayward "
Lodge, No, 226, to "San Mateo" Lodge, No. 226. •

Which was referred to the Committee on Charters.
Bro HOWARD D. KERCHEVAL, Chairman of the Committee on
Pay of l\Icmbers, presented the following report;-

committe~, charged with the duty of ascertainmg the cost of t ransporta· Your
f
t wn .or one person from the location of each Lodge in the State to the place of
meeting of the Grand L~ge and return, and of reportinl{ Huch COijt of transportation
as the sum c1ue to the Officers or Reoresentatives in attendance from eacl1 Lod
well. as the Grand Officers,
Chairmen of Standing Committees, and 1nspec tors,
ge,fas
.
or
the1r
necessary ex penditure for transportation to and from th4 Gr d L d
h
h
.
~
an
o ge, report
t at t ey have carefully discharged that duty, and submit the following statement:
Ga.t.ND 0FFIOll:KB.
GEORGE w. HUNTER .........Grand Master...... ..... Eureka ...... .
MOTLEY H. FLINT.' . . . . ..... Depaty Grand lll&Mt1·r ' . • . Los Angeles•.. . ...
O:r:oao ··: E, Ouuaon .... ... ... Grand Orator............ Fre 8 no
GEORGB F. RODDF.1' .. ....... Graod Marsbal. ......... San Rafa
CluuNOEY C. Busn.... ..... Grand Bible Bearer .. ... . Redding ..... .... ..
EARNKBT fl.
9 ·MAY,•. · .. .... .. Grand Sword Bearer. . .. . Pasadet1fl.......... ..

ei:::::.::::

0

$20 00
85 00
11 so

70
l S 00
3.l 50

130

[Oct. 13,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

l:!AMUEL PBAGEB ..••.• .• •.•. Grand Standard Bearer .•• Los Angeles . .• ... ..
J!'B&DEBICK L. ARBOGABT . ... Senior Grand Deacon .••• Nevada City . ... . .. .
DELOS W. SMYTHE ....... . .. Junior Grand Deacon .... San Jose ..... .. . . . ..
JosKPR R. GARTRB!DE., ..... Senior Grand Steward..... Pomona ........ .. .. . .
THOMAS J. HrcHARDB . .. . .... Junior Grand Steward .... Mendocino ...... .. . .
JOHN G. GLASBO~.... .. . .. . Grand Pursuivant ..... . .. Grass Valley .. ... ..

35 00
14 60
2 50
87 00
15 00
13 60

Total . . .. . .. ... ..... ... . ...... ... ... . .. .. .... ...... ... . . .. ... .... . . $238 70
CRAIRMEN OF STANDING COMMITTEES.
$
70
J!'RANK M. ANUSLLOTTI. ••••. Jurisprudence ... . ... . .. . San Rafael
2 00
FRANK K. LIPPITT ...... .. . . Grievances ....... .. ... .. Petaluma ... .. .. .. . . .
4 00
HOWARD D. KEROREVAL .. . . . Pay of Members ...... . .. Courtland ..... . . . . .
WILLIAM P. JEFFBIEll •...••. Retnrns ............. ... .. Los Angeles.... . ... . 35 00

1905.J

131

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

JAMES c. POTTLE... . ....... 33th District . .. ........... Sanger........... . . .
FRANK w. ROBINSON ... . .... 89111
... . .. . . ...... Bakersfield . ... .... .
ADAM BBOWN •.• ••••• • •.•.. .40th
...... .. ...... Arroyo Grande .. . . . .
JAMES W. SMITH ..... ..... . . 41st
.... . . ........ Santa Barbara . .. .. .
U. N. DLACK ...... . .... ... .. 42d
•. •• • ; ... . .... Los Angeles .. ..... .
WARREN E . ROWLEY... . . ... 43d
. .. ........... Los Angeles .. . ... .
HENRY RA MEL . . .. .. ... . .. .. 44th
.. . . .... .. .. ... Pasadena.. ... .. .. . .
CHARLES ·E. AhTOBELL..... .. 45th "
. .... .. ..... . .. Clearwater... . .... .
OSMOND M. ROBBINS ......... 46th .. • . ............. Santa Ana ... .. .. .. .
J. B. FRITH .... • •••••.•.•.. 47th •'
............. .• San Bernardino .. . .
)<}LIT. BLACKMER .......... 48th
... .... . .......San Diego ..... . .. ..

16 30
23 20
19 90
31 60

s; oo

36 00
35 60
35 70
87 00
38 60
45 00

Total . . . • • .. . • .. • .. . .. •• • • • .. .. • • • .. • .. .. .. . .. . .. • . • • • • • • • • .. .. • .. . $780 40
RECAPITULATION.

Total . ....... .. • ... .. · · .. · · · .. · · ...... • .. .. · · · · · · .... .... • · • .. .. · .. $41 70
INSPECTORS.
ALONZO J. MONROE .. ... .... 1st District.......... . ... Eureka ...... .. .. .. $20 00
'l'UOMAS J. ll!CHARDS ..... . .. 2d
.. .. ........ . ... Mendocino . ..... . .. 15 00
c. w. NUTTINlol .. . ..... .. .... 3d
......... ... .. Etna Mills ...... . .. 36 60
EDWARD SWEENEY ...... .. .. 4th
.... .. .. .. . .. . Redding ...... .. ... . 18 Oo
ERNEST c. BoNNER ........ .. 5th
"
...... .. ...... Alturas ....... . .... . 51 10
WILLIAM p, JOHNSON ........6th
........ . ... . . Red Bluff' .... . .... . . 12 90
JULIAN E. PARDEE .. •••••• • . 7th

''

... . . . ... . ... . Susanville . .. . . .. . . .

J, O. MONCUR .. . .. ...... • .. . 8th
JORN M. MUSSEY . . .. ... ... . 9th
E. L. CABE . . .... .... . . .......10th
GAINES L. c o.1.Ts ....... . .. .. lllh
JORN D. MURPHEY... ..... . ..,12,h
WILLIAM II. MESERVEY......13th
MICHAEL D. LININGER. ... . .. Uth
J. MARSHALL....... . . . ...... 15th

..... . . .. .....Quincy..... . .... • •.•
.. . . .... .. .. . . I.a Porte .... .. . .. .. .
"
... . ~ ... .. .. .. Downieville...... .. .
....... . ...... Sierraville ........ . .
. . . .. ... .. ... . Bridgeport .... .. .. .
. . . ...... .... Nevada City .... .. ..
.. . .. .. ... . ... Auburn .. . ... .. . ... .
... . .......... Gridley .. . . . .... . .. .
JAY w. ABHL'&Y . . .... . . . .... 16th
"
.. . ... ... . .... Yuba Oity . ..
WILLIAM M. FINCR .. .... • • •.17th
.. .. . . . ....... Willows . • ... . .. .. ..
RoB&BT L. HUTCHINSON . • ••.. 18th
.. • . • . . •.. . .. . Ukiah . .... . ... . . .. .
CuBTIS J . MoNRO.&.... . . . ... , 19tll
..... ..... .... Lakeport ......... . .
J. H. GUNN • . . • .••• . . . .. .. . 20th ·••
.. .... .. ... . . . Healdsburg .... ... .
CRABL&S WARREN . . .. . . ... ... 21st
. • · · • • .. · ·· · ··Vallejo.. ·•••• .. ·• .. ·
TREo. J . .MILLIKEN .. . .. .. .. . 22d
. ............. Sacramento....... .. .
BYRON BALL.. ....... . . ... . . 2SJ
..... .. .. .. ... Woodland ... . ..... . .
M. MIERSON., .... . .• . .....•• 24th ' "
. ... . ....... Placerville ... . . . ... . .
WALL.A.Ott KAY ..... . . . .. .... 25th
'' ... .. . . ...... . Jackson ..... . .. . . .. .
S. MORRIS .... . ......... .. .. .26th
. ... ...... ... . Chinese Camp ..... .
CABLTON C. CABE ...... . . . . . . 27th
.............. Stockton ...... . . .. . .
Louis N. BUTTNER • •••• •• • • 28th '' . . .. ... .. ... . . Port Uoeta ..... .. . . .
J. R. B. CmsHoLM .. . . .... . .. 29th
. ...... .. .. . .. Benicia ......... . . . .
RALPH Low .E . •• ...... ,-. ••••• . 38d
,,
......... .. . . . San Jose.. . .... ... .
F. A. ABBOTT ..... . ..... .... 34th
.............. Salinas ............ ..
Jon:N s. LABEW ..•..•...•.• . 3.5th "
.... .. .. . ... Mariposa ........... .
w. o. LOGAN . . . .............. 36th " ........ . ... .Knights Ferry .... ..
GUY P. DOYLE . .. .......... . 87th
.... .......... Bishop ... •• .. ... ... ·
H

.... .

24 20
30 00
25 40
48 10
14 60
10 20
9 20
10 00
8 00
10 00
4 50
2 00
6 60
6 10
13 40
10 00
12 70
G 90
1 80
2 00
2 50
6 50
9 20

• For Representatives of Lodges.. . ... • . • • • • • .. . . . • .. • • • . • • . . ... ........ . $4,600 l O
. For Grand Officers... . . . .. • • . • •. . . • • .. . • • • •• • • .. • • • • .. • • • . .. • • . • • . . . • • . • . 238 70
For Chairmen of St~nd i ng Oommittees .... .. ..... . ............ .... .... : .. • 41 70
F or Inspectors . . • . . .. . . • . . • . . . . . • . • . . . . . . .. • • .. .. • • . • .. • • .. .. . • .. • • • .. • . 780 40
To reimburse Assistant Grand Secretary HARRY H. JOHNSON.. . . . • • . . • . . • • • 10 00
Grand Total . . . .. .............. . ......... .. ... . , ...... , •• , • , . .. .... $5670 90
•For item• see pages 98-99.
Your committee offer the following resolution aud recommend its adop·
tion:

Resolved, That there be levied upon the subordinate Lodges of this juris·
d iction for the current fiscal year, in addit ion to the dues prescribed by the
Constitution, the s um of twenty cents for each member borne upon the
r espective rolls at the date of the annual r ep orts. Said lev y shall be for the
payment of Representatives, and shall be paid at the same time and in the
manner prescribed for the payment of the annual dues.
Your committee desire to express their appreciation of valuable assistance
r endered by Representatives and Inspectors, in enabling it to arrive at the
a~tual facts regarding the cost of transportation of the Representatives to and
from the Grand Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,

H. D. KERCHEVAL,
T HEO. J. MILLIKEN,
E. L. CASE,
AMOS STEVENS
ROLAND E. HARTLEY,

1
J

Oommitlee,

Which was concurred in and the resolution adopted.

Bro. ELI T. BLACKM~R, from the Committee on the Grand
Lecturer's Report, presented the following :

132

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 13,

To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of Oa1ifornia:

Your committee, to whom was referred tbe report of the Grand
Lecturer, submits the followlng:We most heartily commend him for the zeal and faithfulness in
the arduous labors attendant upon the very Important ofllce of
Grand Lecturer.
It will, we believe, be acknowledged by all that are conversant
with the work performed by him during his incumbency of that
ofl!ce, that he has been the most important factor in bringing the
ritualistic work, as promulgated by this Grand Lodge, to a condition
as near ·perfection as it was possible to reach during the time since
the work was changed, and we believe that the gratitude of every
Mason in this jurisdiction is but his just due.
Nothing but time and continued labor along the way marked out
by the Grand Lecturer can bring the work of our splendid Ritual to
perfection.
Your committee is in hearty accord with the suggestion made in
the Grand Lecturer's report, that there should be some form of
examination provided for the Master's Degree.
All which is respectfully submitted.
RICHARD 8. ALLEN,
}
ELI T. 'BLACKMER,
Committee.
WILLIAM E. MESERVEY,

Which was concurred in.
Bro. JoHN D. MURPHY, from the Committee on Grievances,
presented the following report:
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:

Your committee, to whom was referred the case of FRANK ELMER
GRAHAM, suspended by " Oak Grove" Lodge, No. 215, September 1st,
1905, and from which judgment an appeal was taken by the accused,
have had the same under consideration, and report:
The record shows that the accused, in June, 1899, applied to
Brother L. SIMON for a loan of a considerable sum of money; and,
it appears from the record and the admissions of the accused before
this committee, that the Joan was consummated upon the direct
understanding that the parties were Masons, and that the obligor
pledged his Masonic honor to the liquidation of the indebtedness.
A note was given, payable in ten years, but no payment of either
principal or interest has ever been made. There is some dispute as

1905.J

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

133

to the terms of the agreement, the accused claiming that in consideration of certain services to be performed for a member of the
accuser's family no interest was to be charged. This is denied, and
it is admitted that no such services were performed; and on this
point it is sufficient to say that the contention of the accused was
determmed adversely to him both by the Trial Commission and also
by a judgment of the Superior Court of this State, which the accused
permitted to be entered by default against him for the full amount
of principal and interest claimed.
The case is not without its difficulties, being on the border line
of that class of legal transactions between brothers regarding their
business aft'.airs, concerning which it has been repeatedly and firmly
beld that Masonic Bodies will not take cognizance unless there is
present the element of fraud, breach of trust, misrepresentation or
bad faith.
In this case, notwithstanding his solemn promises, the record
shows that the accused failed to make any payment whatever during
the life of the note, originally given, or since the obligation has
assumed the sanctity of a judgment. One five dollar payment was
·offered on condition that the accused's theory that no Interest be
charged was agreed to. It ls admitted that the accused has worked
the greater part of the time since the note was given at a rate of
wages which, in the opinion of your committee, was sufficient to
have enabled him to have made substantial payments on his obligation, had he entertained any honest desire to do so.
The record Is bristling with fair promises and good intentions,
but nothing more substantial has materialized; and when, in order
to defeat the running of the Statute of Limitations against his
claim, the accuser was compelled to apply to the courts for a judgment, the accused neglected to offer any defense to the action, but
promptly protected himself by filing a petition in bankruptcy, and in
the opinion of this committee, for the sole purpose of defeating the
possible collection of tbls very claim, to the payment of which he
had pledged his Masonic honor.
Out of liabilities aggregating over $500 less than $101) was represented by claims other than the one under consideration.
We deem it unnecessary to further discuss the facts of the case,
being of the opinion that from all the facts and circumstances the
Subordinate Lodge properly took cognizance of the oft'.ense, and that
the Inhibition of this Grand Lodge against the sentiment of pecuni·
·ary controversies of Its members In the tribunal of the Lodge should
not be used as a shield to avoid the just consequences of dis-

134

[Oct. 13,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

honest acUI. We are of the opinion that the action of the Lodge
should be affirmed, and therefore offer the following resolution, and
recommend its adoption:
Resoived, That the action of "Oak Grove" Lodge, No. 215, suspending FRANK ELMER GRAHAM from all the rights and pr! vlleges of
Masonry be and the same Is hereby approved.
All which is respectfully submitted.
JOHN A. HosMER,}
J. D. MURPHY,
Committee.
ALBERT NORRIS,

H. J. MONROE,

'

Which was concurred in and the resolution adopted.
Bro. ALONZO J. MONROE, from the Committee on Grievances, presented the following report:
To the M.'.

w:. Grand Lodge of CaU.fornta:

Your committee, to whom was referred the appealed case of
ARTHUR LEROY PIPER, a Master Mason of "Pacific" Lodge, No. 130,
who was expelled from that Lodge September 1, 1905, for unmasonic
conduct, viz.: deserting his wife and child and refusing to maintain
or support them when in a destitute condition, although importuned
so to do by the Master and other members of his Lodge, have duly
considered the same and report as follows:
We find the proceedings at the trial and the record to be in all
respects regular. No objections were or are now made to the same·
or any part thereof. From the record It appears that the decision
of the Commissioners and vote of expulsion were concurred in by all.
A hearing was had in the matter before the Grievance Committee,
at which time the accused appeared in person, as well as by his.
attorney. "Pacific" Lodge wa~ represented by Bro. F. L. HANSEN,
its Master. The accused was given the fullest opportunity to present his appeal and statements, and argument on his behalf were·
then made by himself and his counsel, and also a · statement by
Bro. HANSEN on behalf of the prosecution .
The record shows some conflict of evidence, but in the main the
facts are admitted.
The principal contentions of the accused were that the punishment was unduly severe; that he had not willfully refused to support his wife and offspring, and that he should be given a chance.
His able couµsel urged with great earnestness that the door of hope

1905. J

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOUNI.~.

135

should not be closed against him, that he was trying to redeem his
past, and quoted that "there is a future left for all men ·who have
the virtue to repent and the energy to atone."
It was claimed that accused was out of work and earning nothing,
and for that reason could not provide for his family. And on these
considerations we were asked to recommend in our report the granting of a new trial in this case.
The matter being submitted and duly considered, two questions
on appeal arise, viz.:
Did the evidence justify the conviction of the accused?
2. Was the penalty imposed unduly severe under the circumstances of this case?
1.

As to t he first point, we believe the decision of a Lodge on questions of fact should be affirmed, unless it is very clear that such
decision is not wa.rranted by the evidence.
We find that .the evidence in the record and that taken by this
committee entirely sustain the decision of guilt. Indeed, most of
the facts are undisputed. The accused claims he left his wife a few
minutes after marriage and has not since lived with her.
The marriage occurred about four years ago. She testified that
he lived with her a few months after marriage. He admitted that
when his relations with her commenced she was undeflled, and no
claim is made that there is any shadow on her character, except
through her relations with him. He testifies that the marriage was
to give the child, born four months after his marriage, a name, and
they agreed that they would never live together. This she denies.
She appealed to the Superior Court and obtained an order requiring
him to pay $100 ·per month for her maintenance. Refusing to do
this, he was adjudged guilty of contempt and Imprisoned. Thus
the question of his ability to provide for his wife and offspring was
found against him by the court. While he has paid a comparatively
small sum, his wife and child have been left destitute. She was for
a time In the hospital, and during the year past received the
necessaries of life In part from the Master of " P.aclfic " Lodge. The
accused utterly fail ed to show a good or sufficient excuse for his
neglect.
The desertion and neglect of wife and child is a Masonic offense.
The law imposes the legal duty of providing for wife and offspring. On the threshold of Masonry the novitiate Is taught that
justice Is a cardinal virtue and demands that we render unto every
man his just due.

136

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 13,

The Entered Apprentice is charged to be obedient to his country's
laws and to practice the domestic virtues. The offense here, having
its beginning in an Immoral act which destroyed a young woman's
virtue, and culminating in desertion of her as his wife, allowing her
and their child to live In destitution and bringing himself to be
found guilty of disobedience to the court and lmprlsone.d for contempt, has made him unworthy to sit with Masons and invites the
severest penalty. Nor Is i.t true that the door of hope is closed by
his expulsion.
One of the objects of punishment is to make the accused and
convicted brother see the error of his ways and truly have the
virtue to repent and the energy to atone. The Lodge is ever open
for his reinstatement when he comes back and walks In the path
of truth and honor.
We therefore offer the following resolution, and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the action of " Pacific" Lodge, No. 136, in expelling ARTHUR LEROY PIPER from all the rights and privileges of Masonry be and the same is hereby affirmed.
Respectfully submitted.
JOHN A. HOSMER,}
J . D. MuRPHF.Y,
C mmittee.
ALBERT NORRIS,
o
H. J, MoNROE.

Which was con<;urred in, and the resolution adopted.
On motion of W. ·. Bro. JuLIEN E. ·PARDEE it was ordered
that the concluding portion of the report of the Committee on
Corr<:spondence, relative to Representatives to and from Grand
Lodges, be not published with' the Proceedings.
M:'. W. '. FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI chairman of the Committee on Jurisprudence, presented the following reports :
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:

Your committee has had under consideration the report of the
Grand Master as to his correspondence with the Master of our
"Hawaiian" Lodge, No. 21, of Honolulu, Territory of Hawaii, relative to the Masonic standing of " Maui " Lodge at Wailuku, H . T.,
a Subordinate Lodge of the Grand Lodge of Scotland. The question
arose because of the desire of a candidate who had been elected to
receive the Degrees In our "Hawallan" Lodge, and who had there

1905.J

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOllNIA.

137

received his First Degree, to have the other tw·o Degrees conferred
by "Maul" LodS"e, at the request of and for "Hawaiian" · Lodge.
This, of course, could only be done . In the event that "Maui " Lodge
was a regularly constituted Lodge, lawfully existing in the Hawaiian
Islands.
The sovereignty of the Hawaiian Islands was transferred to the
United States of America on August 12th, 1898, and they have ever
since constituted territory of this country, ·At the time of such
transfer, no Masonic Grand Lodge ever having been organized
therein, there were in such territory two Subordinate Lodges holding charters from our own Grand Lodge: One, "Pacific," holding
a charter from the Grand Lodge of Scotland, and one " La Progress,"
holding a charter from the Supreme Council of France. All of these
Lodges continue to exist therein, holding their allegiance to their
respective Grand Lodges, and no Grand Lodge has ever been organized therein ..
On September 22d, 1904, "Maul" Lodge was granted a charter
or dispensation by the Grand Lodge of Scotland, and has continued
to act thereunder. No question appears to be made as to Its legitimacy and regularity other than the single one raised by the contention that by reason of the fact that the Hawaiian Islands constitute
American territory, nci foreign Grand Lodge, and by " foreign Grand
Lodge" Is meant any Grand Lodge outside of the United States of
America, has now the right to charter any Lodge therein, that we
must regard the establishment of any new Lodge therein by any foreign Grand Lodge as an invasion of the jurisdiction of each of our
American Grand Lodges, and, regarding the Lodge so established as
illegitimate, not allow any Masonic intercourse on the part of the
members of our Lodges with those of the Lodge so established.
It will readily be seen that the question thus pi;esented is a most
important one, but fortunately, in view of the interests involved,
it is not, in our judgment, difficult to determinne.

The Hawaiian Islands have always, by reason or the fact that no
Grand Lodge was ever organized therein, constituted, Masonically,
open territory. By open territory, we mean territory not within the
exclusive territorial jurisdiction of any existing Grand Lodge, and
therefore territory. within which any Grand Lodge may charter
Subordinate Lodges.
It Is elementary Masonic law that a Grand Lodge has not only
an exclusive territorial jurisdiction over the State or country within
which it may ·exist, but also jurisdiction to constitute and maintain

138

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

LOct. 13~

Lodges in any State or country not included in the territory of any
other Grand Lodge.
We ourselves recognized and enforced this right more than fifty
years ago by chartering" Hawaiian" Lodge, No. 21, in the Hawaiian
Islands, then foreign territory, and more recently, but prfor to the·
acquisition of that territory by the United States, by chartering
"Kilauea" Lodge, No. 330, in the same territory, and have maintained said Lodges ever since they were so chartered.
Our Constitution to-day provides that the executive powers of
this Grand Lodge include the granting of dispensations and charters
to establish and perpetuate Lodges within this State "and in other
territory where no Grand Lodge exists." (Sec. 3, Art. III, Part I.)
In so providing, we but assert a right always recognized to exist
in any Grand Lodge. It is only when a Grand Lodge attempts to
establish a Lodge within the territorial jurisdiction of another
Grand Lodge, that the establishment of such Lodge constitutes an
invasion of the jurisdiction of any Grand Lodge.
It is not claimed that the Hawaiian Islands were not open Masonic·
territory up to the time of the transfer thereof to the United States·
of America. The only question then, Is as to whether that transfer
brought them within the territorial jurisdiction of any Grand Lodge.
It is plain that it did not. We have no Grand Lodge of the United.
States of America-no body exercising Masonic control over all
territory of the United States. Each State and each Territory with
the exception of one or two, has its own Grand Lodge, exercising
supreme control and having exclusive territorial jur~sdiction within
the limits of said State or Territory. The Hawaiian Islands are
not within the territorial jurisdiction of any Grand Lodge of any of
our States or Territories, and no such Grand Lodge claims exclusive
territorial jurisdiction over them. How, then, can it be contei;i.ded
that the establishment of a Lodge therein by any foreign Grand
Lodge is an Invasion of the jurisdiction of any American Grand
Lodge.
It is suggested that such an act would be an invasion of the jurisdiction of each of the American Grand Lodges, which alone should
have power to charter Lodges on American soil. We have not been
able to ascertain that such a doctrine has ever been asserted by any
American Grand Lodge, and so long as we ma'\ntaln our system of
separate and independent State and Territorial Grand Lodges, such
a doctrine would not appear to be In consonance with well established Masonic principles. Our American Grand Lodges have no
collective territorial jurisdiction.

1905. J

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

139

The regu~ation adopted by the Grand Lodge in 1851, referred to
by the Grand Master, had reference solely to an invasion of the territorial jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of New York by the Grand
Lodge of Hamburg, by the establishment of a Lodge within the State
of New York, and cannot be properly construed as having reference
to any territory not within the territorial jurisdiction of some
Grand Lodge. The somewhat broad language there used wa~ modified in May, 1854 (Vol. I, Proc. p, 318), by a resolution stating the
doctrine as follows, viz: "It is the sense of this Grand Lodge that
all persons claiming to hold Masonic Lodges In the United States or
Its Territories, within the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of any
State or Territory, without authority from such Grand Lodge, are
Illegal and clandestine."
According to our decision, what Is known as the American doctrine goes no further than this, viz: Only one Grand Lodge shall be
established In any State or Territory. Whenever one ls established
It has the absolute control and government of all Masons and of all
Lodges of the first three Degrees, and no other Grand Lodge or
Grand Body can in any way Interfere with Its jurisdiction by estab11shing new Lodges therein, or even by maintaining those already
established. The territory Is absolutely, exclusively and perpetually
the territ<?rY of the Grand Lodge established over It. From the moment of the organization of the new Grand Lodge, Its jurisdiction
becomes absolute over the entire territory, and all Lodges and all
Masons there must acknowledge it and yield obedience to It and
their allegiance elsewhere ceases. (Vol. X, Proc. pp. 547, 553: 579.
Vol. XII, Proc. p. 112.)
This Is the American doctrine, declared by Mackay, and many if
not all of our Grand Lodges and Is the only American doctrine as
we understand, and It has no application to the case in hand for' the
reason that no Grand Lodge has ever been organized in Hawaiian
Territory.
We are therefore of the opinion that the action of the Grand
Lodge of Scotland In chartering " Maui " Lodge In the Hawaiian
Islands cannot be regarded by us as such an Invasion of the jurisdiction of an.y American Grand Lodge as would warrant us In holding the Lodge to be an Illegal body. If we are correct In this conclusion, there would appear to be no reason why said Lodge could
not under our Constitutional provision, at the request of our Hawaiian Lodge, confer Degrees for " Hawaiian " Lodge upon persons
elected therein to receive such Degrees, provided that the work of
said Lodge in conferring the Degrees is In all material respects the
same as ours.

140

[Oct. 13,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1905.)

GRAND LoDGE OF CALIFORNIA.

141

We regret that this matter was not brought to our attention in
time to enable us to make a more careful presentation of our view
in regard thereto.
It is so important for the interests of Masonry In the Hawaiian
Islands that a speedy determination of the question be had, that we
have cho.sen to thus hastily express our conclusions, rather than to
let the matter lie over for another- year.
We recommend that this report be adopted as embodying the
view of this Grand Lodge upon the subject under discussion.

The resolution as offered, we are confident, does not cover the
entire subject as contemplated; it is defective; no method is provided for the appointment of the committee, the notification, or the
receipt of and action on the report. If it Is the desire of the Grand
J,odge to adopt a plan whereby the names of the committee shall be
kept secret, then a careful examination of the Constitution and
IJnlform Code of By-Laws should be first made, and all necessary
legislation had to accomplish the purpose. We recommend that the
resolution be 'not adopted, and would propose, without recommendation, the following resolution:

The petition of our "Hawaiian" Lodge, No. 21, _to the effect that
our Grand Lodge use its utmost influence to the end that no . further Masonic Lodges be hereafter established in the Territory of
Hawaii under authority of any foreign jurisdiction, has received our
consideration.
In view of what we have said in our report upon the general subject, just adopted by the Grand Lodge, it is apparent that there is
no way in which we can properly act in the direction desired.

Resolved, That this Grand Lodge is in favor of some action by
which the names of the Committee of Investigation on petition for
<legrees or membership shall be kept secret, and the matter is
referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence to report at the next
Annual Communication some legislation on the subject.

In regard to Decision No. 15 of the Grand Master, relative to the
action of the Lodges of Sacramento in the matter of forming a corporation for the management and sale, under contract for perpetual
care, of their cemetery property, your Committee on Jurisprudence has
been unable in the brief time allowed to ascertain the real facts and
give proper consideration to the question presented.
We therefore recommend that consideration of the matter be deferred until the next Annual Communication.
Respectfully submitted.
FRANK

f

M. ANGRLLOTTI, I

WILLIAM 8, ""ELLS,
JAMES B. STEVENS,
THOMAS FLINT,
·
CHARLES W. NUTl'ING,

Committee.

All which were concurred in and the recommendations accompanying them were adopted.
M.'. W.'. WM . .S. WELLS, from the Committee on Jurisprudence, presented the following reports :
To the M.'.

w:. Grand Lodge of California:

Your committee have had under consideration the resolution rela"tlve to reports of Committees on Investigation, and report as follows:

Your committee, to whom was referred the report of the Special
Committee on Life Membership, have had the same under consideration, and report as follows:
The report of the committee provides for a scheme for life
membership In the form of a General Regulation. This cannot be
done, as has been heretofore held, the only means of accomplishing
such purpose being by amendment to Section 1 of Article IX of the
Uniform Code of By-Lawe. The plan suggested is, we think, too
complicated, many of the provisions being unnecessary and matters
of policy to be left largely with the individual Lodges.
We therefore recommend that the report of the Special Committee be not adopted.
As has been said before, "the question of life membership has
been before this Grand Lodge many times, and appears to be a
difficult . one to arrange in any satisfactory manner."
·
At the Annual Communication of 1903 a full and exhaustive
report, together with a proposed plan, was presented by this committee. The same was discussed at great length In this Grand
Lodge, with the result that the following resolution was almost
unanimously adopted:
"Resolved, That this Grand Lodge does not approve of life membership in Subordinate Lodges."

It would seem that such action would have settled the question
for some time to come; but at the Annual Communication of 1904

142

[Oct. 13,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

11106. J

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

143

I

the Special ComJ:l!.ittee on Address or Grand Master reported the
following recommendation, which was adopted:
"We recommend that the consideration of the matter of formulating a plan of life membership be referred to a special committee
of five, or which committee the Incoming Grand Master shall be
chairman."
That committee has now reported and their report Is now under
eonsideration.
If this action indicates that it is the wish and desire of the
Grand Lodge to set aside and reverse its action taken at the Annual
Communication of 1903, and to adopt a plan of lite membership,
we then submit without recommendation a proposed amendment to
Section 1 of Article IX of the Uniform Code of By-Laws which ·will
permit and allow life memberships upon certain terms and conditions.
The proposed amendment is as follows, viz. :
Resolved, That Section 1 of Article IX of the Uniform Code or
By-Laws be a~d hereby ls amended to read as follows, viz.:
SEOrION 1. The dues of ea.ch member of this Lodge shall be . ...•.• .. ..
pe.yable que.rterly in ad\'ance : Provided, thllt this Lodge, by t/1e adoption of a
standing reaolution to that effect, which 1·esolution shall not be acted upon at the
atated meeting at which it is introduced, nor until notice in wl'iting lliereof shall
have beenforwarded by mail to every member, may providefo1• a s,11stem of life.
membership, which shall forever exempt the lije member from the pa,11ment of dues
therein, Said resolution shall provide that no life membership shall be granted
.except upon payment of a sum of money named therein, which sum shall, in case
the annual dues m·e $12.00, be not leBB than the sum of $200 and the minimum
amount to be proportionately gr~aler or less as the dues are qreater or less, and
shalljurther provide that all amounts paidfor life membership shall be invested
.only in such reputable b11nks of deposit or in such bonds oj the United 8tate8,
State of California,
snme County, city and County, city 01· town thereof, or in
such other ftrst-class stocks, bonds or 1ecu1·ities as may be directed by the Loage,
.and approved by the Master, and that only the income thereof shall be Wied by
.the Lodge, the original amounts to btforever. kept and maintained 11s and for a
permanent Life Membership Fund. Said resolution shall require the Secretary m
.milking his annual report to the Gi·and Lodge, to report the number of Fje mem·
-Oer11 borne on the roll, the amount of th~ fund thus created, and the manner in
which aaid fund i8 invested. Said resolution shall take effect only upon ita
.approval by the Grand Master.
Fraterne.lly submitted,
FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI, \

or

s.

WILLIAM
WELLS,
JAMES B. STEVENS,
THOMAS FLIST,
CHARLES W. Nu-rrING,

I

rCommittee.

I

J

IJoth which were concurred in· and the resolutions accompanying them were adopted. The vote on the last resolution
I1t?ing unanimous.
W. ·. Bro. ELMER E. STONE, from the Committee on Finance, presented the following reports:
To the M.'.

w:. Grand Lodge of California:

Your committee beg leave to report as follows:
We have received and carefully considered the reports of the
Boards of Relief from the cities ot San Francisco, Oakland, Los
Angeles, Sacramento and San Diego.
The Board of Relief of the City of San Francisco Is e11titled to
special comrp.endatlon on account of the manner in which it has
administered its affairs during the preceding year, which has resulted in the saving of a. very considerable amount or money lo the
Grand Lodge of the State, and the accumulating of a surplus, on the
1st day of October of the current year, amounting to the sum or
$6,548.45, and we believe that through a continuance of its present
methods it will be enabled to carry on its work during the current
year without assistance from the Grand Lodge.
We offer the following resolution, and recommend Its adoption:
R esolved, That the sum of $3;000 be appropriated from the funds

of this Grand . LodgEl, and that the same be paid to the Board or
Relief of the City of Los Angeles.
Relative to the resolution of "Manila" Lodge, No. 342, petitioning this Grand Lodge to appropriate to the use of the Masonic
Board of Relier or the Philippine Islands the ~um of $350 for the
year commencing January 1, 1906, said Board of Relief to be com.
posed of the Lodge above named and "Cavlte" Lodge, we have to
report that no '.Board or Relier has yet been organized in the Philip·
pine Islands; that there are now two Lodges under the jurisdiction
of this Grand Body and three under the jurisdiction of the Grand
Council of France; and while the brethren of "Manna" Lodge have
been subjected . to no little hardship by reason of the demands made
upon them tor assistance to stranded Masons, we feel that until
Masonic affairs in the Philippines become more settled, and a
Board of Reiter is actually organized, and Its plans or operation
submitted to this Grand Lodge and meets with its approval, no
appropriation ~hould be made, and therefore recommend that said
application be flied.

144

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 13,

In the matter of the application of "Liberty" Lodge, No. 299,
for reimbursement in the sum of $15, advanced on behalf of Brother
REUBEN DAVIS, of "Rose's Bar" Lodge,. No. 89, we report the following resolution, and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $15 be 'and the same is hereby appropriated from the General Fund of this Grand Lodge, and that the
same be paid to "Liberty" Lodge, No. 299, for relief furnished
Brother REUBEN DAVIS, of "Rose's Bar" Lodge, No. 89.
Relative to the application of "Sisson" Lodge, No. 310, for reimbursement in the sum of $180.85, on account of cash advanced in behalf of Brother C. R. WHEDON, of "Hiram" Lodge, No. 1, New Haven,
Connecticut, we have to state that through our inability to ascertain
whether any effort has been made by the Lodge namfild to secure
.reimbursement through the Lodge of which Brother WHEDON was a
member, we are not in a position to make any recommendation,
except that the said application be filed, and ,we do recommend
accordingly.
"Russian River" Lodge, No. 181, and "North Butte" Lodge, No.
230, have both suffered loss of their entire effects by fire during the
preceding year, and each of said bodies has requested remission of
its Grand Lodge dues.
We are of t.he opinion that both requests should be granted, and
therefore offer the following resolutions, and recommend their
adoption:
Resolved, That the dues of "Russian River" Lodge,. No. 181, of
Windsor, California, for the year 1905, be and the same are hereby
remitted.
•
Resolved, That the dues of the "North Butte" Lodge, No. 230, of
Gridley, California, for the year 1905, be and the same are hereby
remitted.
Concerning the application of "Yount" Lodge No. 12, for reimbursement in the sum of $317.01, on account of moneys expended for
medical attendance, nursing and funeral expenses of two brethren
of Lodges from Eastern. Jurisdictions, we find that said moneys were
advanced in good faith on account of brethren in good standing, and
that the bodies of which they were members have been unable to
refund the same.
We find, also, however, that insufficient care was exercised in
communicating with the Eastern Lodges concerning said brethren. ,

1905.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

145

We are of the opinion that the sum of $1 per member o!
"Yount" Lodge should be deducted from the gross amount asked,
and that as to the balance, to-wit: the sum of $197, the request should
be granted.
·
We therefore offer the following resolution, and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That there be and is hereby appropriated from the
General Fund of this Grand Lodge the sum of $197, to be paid to
"Yount" Lodge, No. 12, on account of moneys advanced in defraying expenses ·of medical attendance and funerals of distressed
Masons of Eastern Jurisdictions.

We have had under consideration the salaries of the Grand
Officers of the Grand Lodge, and report thereon as follows, and
recommend its adoption:
For the salary of the Gr"a.nd Treasurer ....... $ 200 ·oo
For the salary of the Grand Secretary. . . . . . . 3,000 00
For the salary of the Asst. Grand Secretary.. 1,500 00
For the salary of the Grand Organist. . . . . . . .
50 00
For the services of the Grand Tyler. . . . . . . . . . 125 00
For the services of the chairman of the Committee on Correspondence ...•.....• , , , • , , 200 00
For contingent expenses of the' Grand Master,
to be used in defraying of actual expenses Incurred, and to be paid In equal
quarterly installments If required .....•.. 1,200 00
For salary of the Grand Lecturer. . . . . • . . . . . . 1,200 00
For contingent expenses of the Grand Lectu~er,
to be used In defraying actual expenses incurred, and to be paid in equal quarterly
installments if required. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600 00
For expert accountant of Finance Committee.. 100 00

We respectfully recomme~d that our retiring Grand Master,
GEORGE W. HUNTER, be and he Is hereby requested to sit for his
portrait, and that the Grand Secretary be and he is hereby instructed to have said portrait, when finished, suitably framed and
placed with the portraits of Past Grand Masters in the gallery of
the Grand Lodge.
We offer the following resolution, and recommend its adoption·:

10

PROOEEDINGS OF THE

146

[Oct. 13,

Resolved, That there be and is hereby allowed to the elective

offi.cers of this Grand Lodge, on account of its expenses incurred .in
attending the present Communication, the following sums, to wit :

:M:.

To the
w:. GEORGE w. HUNTER .............. $20 00
To the R.'. w:. MOTLEY H. FLINT ............ .- .. 35 00

The recommendation of the Special Committee appointed to investigate and report concerning the Southern California Masonic
Home Association, that a sum be appropriated as a donation to said
association, has been caref.u lly considered, and after conference with
the chairman of said Special Committee, we offer the following resolution, and recommend its adoption:
ResolVed ·That there be and is hereby appropriated from the
General Fu~d of this Grand Lodge the sum of $5;000, to be paid to
the Southern California Masonic Home Association, to be used by·
said association in the care and maintenance of sick and distressed
Brotller and :Master Masons, their widows and orphans; and be it
Further resolved, That the Southern California Masonic Home
Association be ·and it is hereby directed to report to the next Communication of this Grand Lodge its financial condition, and the
work performed by it and under its supervision, including a detailed statement of the cost of the operation and conduct of the
Institution maintained by It.
Further res.olved, That there be and Is hereby appropriated out
of the General Fund of the Grand Lodge the sum of $50, to be
paid to Past Grand Master WILLIAM S. WELLS in reimbursement of
expense Incurred In traveling to Los Angeles In pursuit of bis duties
as a member of said Special Committee.
Re~pectfully submitted.

l

JACOB H. NEl'F,
F.Lll!KR E. STONE,
OREL M. GOLDARACKNA,
Committee.
0MCAR L~WLER,
I
RALPH LoWE,
)

t

All which were concurred in and the resolutions accompanying same were adopted.
W. ·. Bro. OscAR LAWLER, from the Committee on Finance,
.presented the following reports:

1905.]

GnAND LonGE OF CALIFORNIA.

147

To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California :

We have carefully considered the recommendatory report of the
Special Committee appointed to confer with the Grand Secretary and
recommend a plan for a reduction in bulk and cost of the report of
the Proceedings of the Grand Lodge, and find, after conference with
the chairman of said committee and the Grand Secretary, tha~ a
substantial saving can be accomplished without interfering with
the utility of _said report, and therefore offer the following resolution
and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That the Grand Secretary be and he is hereby instructed, in the publication of the Report of the Proceedings of this
Grand Lodge, to adopt the following 'recommendations:
1st. Omit therefrom the rosters of the various Lodges, and
insert in lieu thereof a tabulated statement showing the number
and name of each Lodge, together with the names of the Master and
Secretary thereof, and date and place of meeting.
2d. That the report of the Trustees of the Widows' and Orphans'
Home be omitted, said report being now published and circulated
by the Widows' and Orphans' Home.
·3d. That the Committee on Correspondence limit the extent of
its report so "that the same shall not exceed fifty pages; and that
the same be confined to a digest of facts concerning other Jurisdicdictions which may be of special Interest to California Masons.
4th. That that portion of the report of the Committee on
Returns containing tabulated statement of dues to the General and
Home Funds, and that portion of the report of the committee on
pay of members, showing the amounts allowed each Individual, be
consolidated and published in tabulated form, showing the name
and number of the Lodge, amount of dues to the General Fund,
amount of dues to the Home Fund, total dues and amount allowed
representatives.
5th. That the Grand Secretary adopt such further means looking to economy in the cost of publishing of Proceedings of the Grand
Lodge as may be practical and consistent with the purposes for
which said Report is available.
In the matter of the communication, and resolution accompanying the same, from the Board of Relief of San Francisco, said resolution being as· follows:
Resolved, That the following regulation be and the same is
hereby adopted, to be added to the General Regulations and numbered---:

148

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

[Oo~.

13,

BOARD OF RELIEF.
(a) In all cities where two or more Lodges have concurrent
jurisdiction, there may be a Board of Relief, to be composed of the
Masters of all such Lbdges, or in case of their inability, absence or
declination to serve, then one of the Wardens, or a Representative
to be elected by the members of the Lodge in such manner and at
such times as may be provided by the compact.
( b) Such Boards of Relief shall make such provision as may
be necessary for the temporary care of worthy Masons, members of
Lodges or Jurisdictions outside of the jurisdiction of the Lodges
composing such Board of Relief, as may be in need or distress, and
may be then ·in their respective Jurisdictions, and also afford such
members in need or in distress such permanent care as the Lodge
to which such member may belong may provide for; and shall also
provide such temporary relief for dimitted Masons in good standing
within their respective Jurisdictions, and in need or In distress, as
they may deem necessary, and shall also make provision for the
relief of widows or orphans of such Masons In distress under like
conditions as would be given to the brothers themselves.
Said Boards of Relief shall also provide for proper funeral
services and interment or cremation ·of Masons, members of Lodges
outside of their respective Jurisdictions, and of dlmitted Masons,
and of the deceased widows and orphans of such members, any of
whom may die in their respective Jurisdictions.
( c) The expenses incurre\l by any such Boards of Relief in any
of the matters. provided for in the preceding section shall, except
as to dimitted Masons, be charged against the Lodge to which the
member belongs; and in the event of the inability of any such Lodge
to pay the same, the Grand Lodge under whose jurisdiction su ch
Lodge is chartered shall be r equested to assist such Lodge in the
reimbursement of any such expenses.
( d) For the purposes of defraying the expenses of conducting
such Boards of Relief, said Boards shall have the power to levy upon
the Lodges within their respective Jurisdictions such per capita tax
as may be necessary to pay such expenses and carry out their objects; but such tax shall not exceed in any Masonic year the r ate
or sum of 10 ·cents per month per capita of the members comprising
such Lodges, except by the consent of two-thirds of the Lodges comprising any such Board of Relief, such consent to be given by
majority· vote of the members present at a stated meeting, or a
special meeting called for such purpose.

1905.J

GHAND LODGE OF . 0ALIFORNIA.

149

(e) The Lodges composing such Boards of Relief shall enter
Into and cause to be signed by their respective Masters and Secr etaries a compact whereby they shall bind themselves to carry out
the objects hereinbefore provided, and such compact may contain
1uch further provisiOn for the carrying out of such objects as the
J.. odges composing the same may deem necessary.
(f) To such Boards of Relief as will afford relief for those in
need or in distress, In accordance with the provisions herein suggested, this Grand Lodge will, from time to time, cont ri bute for the
purposes aforesaid such sum as may be necessary to r eimburse
them for amounts expended for relief furnishe d by such Boards of
Relief to members of Lodges in this Jurisdiction, and out of their
respective jurisdictions, which are unable to reimburs e such Boards
of Relief, and also for the amount disbursed for relief furnished to
<limitted Masons, and to the widows and orphans of such Masons,
and for funeral expenses to such Masons and such widows and
orphans, and also such amount as may be nec~ssary to r eimburse
any such Board of Relief for any unusual or ext raordinary amoun ts
necessarily expended by them, or for amounts expended by them
beyond a reasonably fair and ratable pr oportion of their obligations
in" properly providing relief in accordance with the foregoing provisions.
We have carefully considered the same, and believing that the
plan therein outlined Is Inexpedient and inadvisable, recommend
that the same be not adopted.

We have conferred with the chairman of the Board of Trustees
of the .M.a sonic Widows' and Orphans' Home, and have given the
affairs of said i~stitution thorough consideration; as a r esult of
which we offer the following resolution, and recommend its adoption:
R esol ved, ·That a per capita tax of $1 per year be levied upon the
Subor dinate Lodges of this Jur isdiction; said tax t o be due and payable to this Grand Lodge in the sa me manner and at the same time
as the annual Grand Lodge dues; and that said per capit a tax
when received. by the Grand Lodge, be placed in the fun d designated
"Widows' and Orphans' Home Fund," subject to the order of the
Board of Tr ustees of said Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home,
and to be used for the support and maintenance of said Home.

In this connection, we would r espectfully suggest that i n futu re
a schedule of supplies and material required at the Home for the

150

P110CREDHWS OF THE

f Oct. 13,

year be prepared and submitted by the Board of Trustees, upon
proper advertisement, to competitive bldd.lng.
We ofter the following resolution, and recommend Its adoption :
Resolved, That the chairman of the Committee on Fina·nce be
and he Is hereby authorized to employ two stenographers during
the sessions of the Grand Lodge, for t he use of the various committees in formulating their reports.

We herewith submit reports of our expert accountant as the
reports of this committee upon the books of account and vouchers
of the Grand Secretary, Gr and Treasurer and Board of Trustees of
the Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home, respectively. Said reports
are as follows:
To the F i nance Committee of the M." .W.".
Grand Lodge of California:

Srns A~ ll BRETHREN: Herewith please find report of my examina- ·
tion of the books and vouchers of Grand Secretary, GEORGE JOHNSON,
and Grand Treasurer, EDWARD COLEMAN.
Have checked all returns from Lodges in this Jurisdiction for the
Masonic year ending July 31, 1905; compared stubs of receipts sent
to the Secretaries for moneys received from them for account of this
Grand Lodge; also checked the books and vouchers for money paid
by Grand Secretary GEORGE JOHNSON to Gr and Treasurer EDWARD
COLEMAN, compared the warrants drawn for payments, and I find
vou chers properly numbered and filed for every dollar disbursed,
as per books just examined.
The Grand Treasurer i n account with the Grand L odge, F. and A . M.

151

GRAND !JODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

DISBURSEMENTS.
As per warrants drawn on the Grand Treasurer, viz.:
lundry expenditures, as per vouchers on file
with Grand Secretary JOHNSON .......... $37,869 94
llepresentatives, as per pay roll . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,275 40
1 ppointed Grand Officers and Chairmen Stand·
Ing Committees, as per pay roll . . . . . . . . . .
293 30
Inspectors, as per pay roll . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
425 00
Jlald overdraft at bank:.... . ...... . .. . .. . .. . 1,144 89
Total disbursements ... ..... . . ... .. .. .

$44,008 53

I have examined the Grand Treasurer's accounts, and certify the
1mme correct .
After closing my examination o·f the books and vouchers of
Grand Secretary JOHNSON and Grand Treasurer COLEMAN for the
Masonic fiscal year ending July 31st, 1905, I tabulated the returns
tor the ensuing Masonic year, received by the Grand Secretary, from
the Lodges subordinate to this Judlsdictlon, and find ret urns from
all Lodges but t w o In this Jurisdiction. Total amount received,
sixty-eight tno"usand nin e hundred eight y six 3'ii-100 dollars, distributed as follows, viz.:
Passed to the credit of the Gen eral F und ..... . $37,425 35
Passed to the credit of the Home Fund .•... . 31,561 00
Total .......... .. ....... .. .. . ... .. .. .
1905.
Aug.

$68,986 35

SUMMARY OF CASH IN TREASURY.
RECEIPTS.
To cash from this year's receipts ..... . $37,425 35
To cash from six months' Interest from
Blue Lake Water Company . . ... . . .
210 00
60 18
To cash, Interest from Borel & Co . . .. .
Total receipts.................. .

RECEIPTS.

$37,695 53

DISBURSEMENTS.
Aug. To cash paid overdraft at bank ...... $ 108 26
. To cash paid, Incidentals.. . . . . . . . . . . . .
36 35
To cash paid, 345 shares Hall stock . .•. 10,080 04
To cash paid Grand Secretary, Assist·
ant, Grand Lecturer, etc. . ........ . 1,326 80
279 75
To cash paid printing and diplomas ... .

To .cas h received fr om Grand Secretary, General Fund ... . . .. .......... . : .. . $36,978 50
from dividend Hall stock.. ... . .... 5,464 50
" sale of books, diplomas, et c . . ...
835 95
" div'ds Blue Lake Water Bonds ..
420 00
" A. Borel, interest on deposits . . .
.201 32
" overdraft at bank .. ... ... .. ... .
108 26
Total receipts .... . ... . . . ..... . ..... . .

llH)o.]

$44,008 53

Total disbursements .. .. . . . . . .. . . . .
To balance cash on hand (see bank
book A. Borel & Co.) ... . .... . . .. .

$11,831 20
f25,864 33

152

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 13,

ASSETS.
Belonging to the M.". W.". Grand Lodge, F. and A. M., and in the
possession of °Grand Treasurer EDWARD COLEMAN, October 12th, l'il05,
are as follows:
Par Value. Actual Value.
5881 shares Masonic Hall stock ............. $58,810 00 $17'0,549 00
7000 shares 6 per cent first mortgage bonds
7,000 00
Blue Lake Water Company............. 7,000 00
25,864 33
Cash in bank .•.............•............. -. 2·0,864 33
Grand total •....•.................... $91,674 33 $203,413 33
Grand Treasurer EDWARD COLEMAN, together with the Finance
Committee and the Expert, visited the Trust Company's vaults, the
banks and the Safe Deposit Company's vaults, where we found all ·
moneys, stock and bonds safely deposited, agreeing in every particular with the books just examined.
It gives me much pleasure to report that I find your books in
"Al" condition and correct; vouchers properly numbered and filed.
To the Board of Trustees of the
Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home:
Srns AND BRETHREN: It is my pleasure to again report to you

that I have carefully checked and examined the books and vouchers
kept by Grand Secretary, GEORGE JOHNSON, and Grand Treasurer,
EDWARD COLEMAN. Together with Bro. Peabody we have examined
and checked each and every bill purchased for the Home for the
past Masonic year, and we find vouchers properly filed and numbered
for every dollar disbursed, with a summary of each month's expenditures; have checked all warrants drawn on the Treasurer,
checked all postings from cash and journal to ledger, taken trial
balance (a copy of same is herewith submitted). I find the books
in perfect order and correct.
1904.
Oct. 8.
l'il05.
Oct. 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
RECEIPTS.
To cash balance on hand ............ $30,146 70
To cash, per capita tax, 1905 ........ 31,561 00
To cash received, interest, A. Borel. .
313 62
To cash received, Union Trust Co ....
21 16
To cash received, S. F. Savings Union
88 72
To cash received, sundry collections,
legacies, etc.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,221 59
Grand total. ........................- - - - $66,352 79

I OOIS.J

153:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

DISBURSEMENTS.
per vouchers on file, see itemized bill,&!
with Grand Secretary JOHNSON acounting
for every dollar disbursed .............•.

\H

$30,065 80>

$36,286 99
Net balance ........................ .
Distributed as follows:
To cash In A. Borel's Bank .................. $32,676 53
To cash in S. F. Savings Union Bank......... 2,952 32
'l'o cash in Union Trust Company's Bank.....
658 14
$36,286 99
Total ..........•..•...••................
The bills of the Home are paid monthly by warrants drawn on_
the Treasurer. ·I am pleased to report everything correct and in
order.
L. WADHAM, Expert Accountant.
Respectfully submitted,
JACOB H. NEFF,
RALPH LOWE,
ELMRU E. S•rosE,
0RKL

M. GoLDARACENA,

}

. Committee.

OoCAR LA WLEH,

All which were concurred in and the resolutions accompanying .>ame were adopted.

w:. Bro. CARU:TON C. CASE:, from the Committee on
Charters, presented the following report:
To the M. •• W. •. G;rand Lodge of California:

Your committee, to whom was referred the request of "Hayward" Lodge, No. 226, to change its name to ~hat of "San Mateo"
Lodge, No. 226, have had the same under consideration, and report:
The communication from "Hayward" Lodge to the Grand Lodge
Is as follows: (See letter.)
The printed proceedings of the last Communication of the Grand
Lodge show that " Hayward " Lodge meets on Thursday of or
next succeeding the full moon. The weather bureau department
of San Francisco Informs your committee that the full moon for
October came at 6 o'clock and 3 minutes this morning, hence "Hayward" Lodge could not have legally met In stated meeting last
night, the date of their communication and request to the Grand
Lodge. The communication does not state that the vote to change
the name was taken at a stated meeting, and we are unable to find
the representative of "Hayward" Lodge.

154

[Oct. 13,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

111015.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

155

We therefore recommend that upon satisfactory proof being
presented to the incoll,!ing Grand Master that " Hayward " Lodge at
a stated meeilng has voted to make such change in name, that the
same be permitted, and that the name of " Hayward" Lodge, No.
226, be changed to "San Mateo" Lodge, No. 226.
Respectfully submitted.
CARLTON

c. CASE, ~

SYDNEY EsPEY,

J CJLIAN p AR DEE,

f'nmmittee.
•

Which was concurred in.
M.". W.". FRANK M. ANGE:LLoTTI, chair111an of the Committee, presented the following report:
Tp the M.°.

w:. Grand Lodge of Oalifornia:

Your committee reports as follows :
The following proposed General Regulation was referred to us:
Resolved, That the following be adopted by the Grand Lodge of
California, to be known as General Regulation No. 82:
No. 82. No Junior Warden of a Lodge shall be installed until he
shall have produced to the installing officer the certificate of the .
Grand Lecturer or of the Inspector of the district in which his
Lodge is situated, certifying that he has personally examined such
Junior Warden-elect and that he is qualified to give the work and
lecture of the First Degree; and no Senior Warden shall be installed
until he shall have produced a like certificate of his qualification to
give the work and lectures of the First and Second Degrees. Such
certificates shall be sent to the Grand Secretary and filed in his
office.
We find that the pronosed Regulation in no way confiicts with
any constitutional l>rovision, and report it back to the Grand Lodge
without any recommendation as to whether it be adopted or rejected.
As it involves quite a radical change in existing methods, we however, are of the opinion that consideration of the same be deferred to
the next Annual Communication, and recommend accordingly.
Respectfully submitted.
FRANK M. ANGELLOTI'I, )
WM. S. WELLS,
·
.
JAMES B. STEVENS,
Committee.
THOMAS FLINT,
CHARLES
NUTTING,

r

w.

AFTERNOON SESSION,
}
Friday Odober IJlh, A. L. 5905.

I
J

Which was concurred in and the recommendation adopted.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until one-thirty o'clock
this afternoon.

The Grand Lodge was called on at ~ne-thirty o'clock, the Grand
Masti:r presiding.
The hour having arrived for the election of the Grand Officers
for the ensuing year, the Grand Master named as tellers, Bros. Louis
L. JANES, JULIAN E. PARDEE and JOHN H. BEAN, and the election
proceeded with the following results :--,.
The R. ·. W. ·. MOTLEY H FLINT, of Los Angeles, was unanimously elected Grand Master;
The R.·. W:. EDWARD H. HART, of Berkeley, was unanimously
elected Deputy Grand Master;
The R. ·. W. ·. GEORGE M. PERINE, of San Francisco, was unanimously elected Senior Grand Warden;
The W.·. REUBEN H. LLOYD, of San Fiancisco, was elected
Junior Grand Warden;
The V.·. W, '. EDWARD COLEMAN, of San Francisco, was unanimously re.elected Grand Treasurer; ·
The V.·. W:. GEORGE JOHNSON, of San Francisco, was· unanimously re-elected Grand Secretary; and
The V.·. W. ·. WILLIAM H. EDWARDS, of San Francisc·o, was unanimously re-elected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand Lodge then proceeded to the installation a~d investment of the Grand Officers elected and to be appointed. At the
request of the Grand Master-elect his appointments for the ensuing
year were read by the Grand Secretary, as follows: For

156

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Grand Chaplain, ............. JACOB NIETO,.. . . . . . . . . . .
Grand Orator, .............•• OSCAR LAWLER,... .. .....
Asst. Grand Secretary, ....•.. HARRY S. Jl)H!ISON,......
Grand Marshal, .....•....... CHARLES D. BARNETT,....
Grand Bible Bearer, ......... CHAUNCEY C. BusH,......
Grand Sword Bearer, ........ ALBERT L. RERD,........
Gr!!nd Standard Bearer, ...... SAMUEL PRAGER,.........
Senior Grand Deacon •..... ... THOMAS J. BAKER,. . .....
Junior Grand Deacon, ........ ADELBERT W. DAVIDSON,.
Senior Grand Steward, ....... EMIL MEYBEM,..... . . . . . .
Junior Grand Steward, ....... JOHN 1'. MORRISON,......
Grand Pu~suivant, ........... JOSEPH R. GARTHSIDE,...
Grand Organist,. . . .••..... SAMoX:L D. MAYER, . . . . .
Grand Tyler, .. . .. ... .... .... GEORGE P. ADAMS,. ......

[Oct. 13,
of San Frandsco;
" Los Angeles;
" San Francisco;
•· Santa Rosa;
" Redding;
" Suisun;
" Los Angeles;
" Sacramento;
" Stockton;
" Chico;
" Berkeley;
" Pomona;
" San Francisco;
" San Francisco.

The Grand Officers present were then duly installed in their
several stations and places by Grand Master GEORGE W. HUNTER,
assisted by Past Grand Master JAMES B. STEVENS as Master of
Ceremonies.
The R.·. W.·. EDWARD H. HART, Deputy Grand Master, was
authorized to install the Junior Grand Warden-elect and the Grand
Chaplain, who were absent.
Past Grand Master, the M:. W.-. CHARLES L. PAT roN, presented
the following : WHEREAS, It is the sense of this Grand Lodge that the intimate relationship which has always existed between it and the entire Masonic world· should
continue in its fullest vigor;
AND WHEREAS, The present system of exchanging Representati\'es with
other Grand Lodges, while accomplishing nothing towards this purpose, seems
by the report of the Committee on Correspondence to commit the Grand
Lodge to views as to Masonic Law and other matters :without the direct action
of the body itself, because many Masons suppose that the report of the Com·
mittee on Correspondence ha~ been adopted by this Grand Lodge
THEREFORE RESOLVED, That the incoming Committee on Jurisprudence·
is requested during the ensuing year to examine into the system of representa.
tion between Grand Lodges, consider the matter carefully, and if any change
be desira~le, the committee is requested to formulate a plan by which the
appointment of Representatives by this Grand Lodge shall be discontinued, and
report the same to the next session of the Grand Lodge for its action.

Which was referred to the incoming Committee on Jurisprudence.

1905.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

157

On behalf of the Grand Lodge, the W. ·. OscAR LAWLER pre·
sented our retiring Grand Master with a beautiful chest of silver;
and, on motion of M. •. W .. ORRIN S. HENDERSON, the thanks of
the Grand Lodge were unanimously tendered to our M:. W. ·.
brother.
The Grand Master announced the appointment of the Standing
Committees for tbe ensuing year, as follows :On Jurisprudence:
Bro. Frank M. Angellotti,
" James B. Stevens,
·' William 8. Welle,
" Thoma.a Flint,
" Charles W. Nutting.

On Finance
Bro Jacob H. Neff,
" Orel M. Goldaracena,
" Elmer E. Stone,
" Thomas 0 . Heydenfeldt,
" Leo V. Y oungworth.

On Grievances :

On Pny of Members:

Bro. John A. Hosmer,
" John D. Murphey,
•· Alonzo J . Monroe,
" Albert Norris,
" Edgar E. Selph.

Bro. William P. Filmer,
" Howard D. Kercheval,
" Amoe Stevens,
" Theodore J. Milliken,
" Roland E. Hartley.

On Returns:
Bro. William P. Jeffries,
" Henry C. Schaertzer,
" George F. Rodden,
" Ernest C. Bonner,
" Henry Sherry.

Bro. William A. Davies,
" George N. Black,
" Jeremiah J. Wilson,
.Ta.mes A. Stone,
William S. DeTurk.

On Correspondence:

On Account':
Bro. Henry M. Owens,
" Walter A. Scott,
" ·Theodore Frolich,
" Henry Ascroft,
" Henry Burner.

He also announced the appointment of Bros. W. FRANK PIERCE,
ORRIN S. HENDERSON and RAYMOND H . W1Ltcox, as Trustees of
the Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home.
The Grand Secretary reported that the Lodges to whom char·
ters had been granted at this Communication, had been numbered,
and are located as follows:

158

PROOEEDINGS OF THE

[Oct. 13.

"Willits,"
No. 366, at Willits, Mendocino County ;
" Laa Pa.lmaa,"
366, at Fresno, Fresno County;
" Sou th P&aadena,"
367, at South. Pasadena., Loa Angeles County;
"Unity,"
368, at Glendale, Loa Angeles County;
" Ocean Park,"
369, at Santa Monica, Loa Angeles County;
"Amity,"
" 370, at San Francisco, San Francisco County ;
"Oceanic,"
371, at Honolulu, Oahu County.

No other business appearing, the Grand Lodge of California was
closed in ~mple Jann.
MOTLEY H. FLINT,
Grand Master.

GEORGE JOHNSON,
Grand Secretary.

1 IOG. I

GRAND LoDGE OF CALIFORNIA.

15()

STATEMENT
{II

/ttoelpla UI/ the Gl'a11d Seoreta1·y, for account of the (}rand L odge, from
.Au911Rt Isl, up to at11l' inc/1.1dir.g thP. Gtli day October, 1905.

Gen.Fund. Home Fund.
N o. 92, dues In full to 31July,1905, $ 20 90 $ 22 00
I, I/ill'.~ Ferry,
236, " "
48 60
48 00
134,
I, Vacaville,
107 10
118 00
I, Tehama,
a.
201 30
lti 00
1, La (;}range,
99,
109 GO
88 00
·"
97,
1, Jeff~rso"
44 io
36 00
1, l lli .. i<Mtown,
51,
47 00
40 00
21!1,
1, :Speranza ltaliana,
162 ~o
142 00
293,
l, 0 ange GroTJe,
FO 90
62 00
" "
1, Woouli ··ldge,
UI,
100 95
Bl 00
1, Pom,1>1ta,
2~6.
172 10
138 00
1, 1'edla nrl.s,
300.
162 50
150 00
1, Excelsi<Jr,
436 85
403 00
" 166, " "
136,
1. Pacific,
545 io
476 00
1n,
1. Jlerma111i.
226 45
171 00
"
1, Chico,
150 00
140 00
" 111,
"
I, Tr ver,
26 75
26 00
" 29J, " "
I, A'1n1na1tut l,
318,
65 55
49 00
SOJ,
1, 1~eeuley,
39 05
89 00
8J3,
1. Purter1Jille,
95 65
89 00
1, Liberty,
127 90
122 00
" 299,
1, Mount Jackaon,
6R 06
59 00
" '.l95, " "
1, l'aH<J RolilBll,
72 95
61 00
" 286, " "
1, Lompoo,
2G2,
71 8ii
63 00
"
l, Tuscan,
56 50
50 00
" 2GI,
"
1, Pem·hyn,
50 76
45 00
~·
" iss,
1, Silveyvitl8.
67 90
62 00
" 201,
80,
1, la••e,
53 80
44 00
1, Wll.!lhington,
20,
118 05
99 00
13,
1. Neoada,
154 Ii.>
149 00
1, Benfoia,
5,
126 20
96 00
"
1, J)orlo,
216,
437 40
392 00
22,
1, Occidental,
637 70
500 00
"
12,
2, Yount,
133 05
119 00
"
2, Phmniz,
178,
265 90
182 00
,,
2, San Francisoo,
860, "
27ii 96
101 00
2, Tehachapi,
SIS,
79 35
78 00
"
2, Selma,
277,
91 90
82 00
"
2, San B .enUo,
211,
87 t,0
88 00
2, Clear Lake,
183,
86 55
29 00
2, Mend?cint>,
" 179, " "
"
" 152 4'5 111 00
2, Ehl.erprise,
70,
HO 75
145 00
2, Los Gato.,,
74 55
49 00
"
",, 292,
"
2, Anaheim,
207,
6.~ 45
51 00
"
"
2, Petal•«ma,
180,
2H 30
214 00
"
2, Pajaro,
110,
130 00
120 00

IUOft,
,l.11~

II

",,
II

l, .Acacia,

.. ..

..

1

"
"

...."
"
"..

"

..

....

..

..
..

..

"

..

..

"

..

.. ..

....

.. ..

..

"

..

.. ....
..

160

[Oct. 6,

PROOEEDINGB OF THE

1905.

.Aug. 2, Georgelown,

...

Gen.Fund. Home Fund
No.

2.; , dues in fu:J to 31July,1905, $ 57 40
2, Sutoy.;me.
123, .. " " "
u 9 40
H
H
2 0 Lon'} Beaoh,
327,
226 10
2, Fidelity,
120,
477 o.;
2, R•tBsirrn Rive1·,
181,
8> 45
2, Pe1.talpha.,
530 50
" 202, Cc u
H
U
2, B · ooklyn,
22;,
21q 50
S, MonrCJoia,
8 ,l GS
" 308,
"
S, 4rrJ')lo,
2H,
51 70
a. 1llari11,
191,
lu4 uO
u
le
S, Yosemile,
133,
24 00
3, Natoma,
G4,
il 75
3, Cuncord,
Ill 4,>;
117,
,,
·16,
3, E1i,.eka,
65
3, ,IJill Valley,
3.16,
83 20
3, WinnBilum11h,
" 287,
66 75
,, "
S, Ha1·tley,
199,
81 95
,, "
S, Union,
58,
199 40
,, ., cc u
3, Santa Paula,
" 291,
108 00
.• 289,
3, Elsinme,
42 15
224,
3, Bakeref/,eld,
198 10
S, North Star,
91, ,, "
42 9;
3, Forbestown,
47 ?.>;
.50,
3, Los Angeles,
42, " "
277 00
" ,,"
,,
3, MiSlibn,
169,
918 io
3, Vesper,
84,
118 70
S, Gold. !Till,
32, " ,,
64 10
3 , San Jacinto,
64 50
" 388,
3, HoUenbeck,
313 80
" 319,
3, Mountain Shade,
18, " "
42 00
3, San Joaqu(n,
19, " "
232 55
4, Humboldt,
79,
310 15
" " "
4, Hiram,
43,
w 65
4, Santa Marla,
62 55
,340,
,.
"
u
4, Aahlar,
.. 306,
100 GO
4, Hariford,
13! 90
" 279,
4, Surprise Valley,
235,
41 30
i , Salinas,
204,
1>5 40
i, E/.k Grove,
173,
66 00
126,
'· La Fayetle,
·" 1m so
4, Clinton,
119,
28 50
,,
,, ,,
91 80
'· Yuba,
'' 39,
4, San Bwmaventura, " 214,
105 40
5, California,
1, " "
649 95
u
5, Live Oak,
61,
677 00
5, .llorning Star,
68, " ,,
187 10
5, Ionic,
121,
24 70
21 · 90
6, Gibsonville,
168,
5, Rw Vista,
208,
65 10
,,
5, Olivet,
364,
45 30

"

...

"

....

"

.,

n

"

"

...

"

..

..

_

"

"

,,

.. "

..

"
,

..

..

"

"

"

"

$ 52 U(I
132 00
171l 00
4:19 00
7l 00
5l0 00
l90 00
Gi 00
46 00
12~ 00
20 00
H5 00

9l OU
ll7 OU
56 00
45 0()
81 00
1ni oo
100 00
37 00
158 00
41 00
4.; 00
260 00
776 00
126 00
58 oci
50 00
22i 00
40 00
l R!) 00
257 00
w 00
49 00
OR 00
122 00
34 00
l:l2 00
GO 00
90 00
30 ro
8! 00
92 00
6111 00
580 00
li8 00
26 00
22 00
58 00
3! 00

1905.]

GRAND LoDGJ!< OF 0AIJIFORNIA.

1006, . •

Gen.Fund. Home Fnud.

Aur. 5, Alta,
"
11

"
"

"

"

"

"
ic

"

"

i61

No. 333, due~ in full to 3.1 July,190J, .~ 41 .. 90
5, JJelano,
309, .. "
87 50
7, Visalia,
" 128, .. "
i46 70
7, .Santa Luoia,
302,
"
. 42 75
7, e11ergreen,
259,
"
228 75
7, Santa lhn,
88, ,, "
17,2 95
7, Fri/ilvale,
336, " "
"
105 05
7, Corona,
248 90
324, " .. "
7, Whittier,
323,
,,
130. 46
7, San Miguel,
" 285, " "
"
"
o4. 8;
7, Granite,
222,
60 95
7, Woodland,
.. ' 156,
..
132 95
7, Abell,
146,
"
124 40
7, Vltruv fas,
145, " 11
51 GO
7, Summit,
112,
.29 65
7, Yolo,
"
81,
"
"
so 50
7, Crescent,
73 10
45,
7, Trinity,
27,
" .. " "
70, .95
8, Vi1lcano,
,,
56,
"
31 40
8, Franldin,
143, " "
"
"
U7 00
8, Culusa,
" 240'
" "
"
77 50
8, .Aleatraz,
244 , .. ..
' ~35 70
8, J,aurel,
"
~G 75
245, " " '' " "
8, M:izwell,
2~8.
" "
••
23 75
8, Onrquinez,
82 15
" 837,
••
8, Palo Alto,
" 346, " ..
"
..
133 55
8, Sunset,
" 852,
" " "
l 2G 90
8, Pa,rfaite Union,
17,
157 65
8, Naval,
87, " "
"
'270 80
104,
,,
64 70
8, Lexington,
8, Oakl11nil,
1s8,
426 o.;
8, Buena Pttrk,
" 85 7, " "
..
50 15
8, Seq,,oia,
" 349,
193 10
9, San 1Jericardi1'IO,
348, " "
200 GO
, , 334,
53 Q5
9, Covina,
9, Mokel·u mne Ilill,
298, " U ,
G7 90
9, Bodie,
252,
44 80
9, Confidence,
203, " ..
"
"
21 85
9,· San Mateo ,
168,
"
12Q S5
9, Hurnitos ,
Iii!, " ..
47 50
9, Howard,
96,
"
84 10
9, Amador,
65, " "
"
70 30
O, Ophir,
"
38,
·"
"
.57 95
9, Coririthian,
,,
9,
"
1,31 85
9, Vallee de F rance, " 329, " " "
''. I
5V ' 90
10, Oriental,
144,
" " "
"
30U 05
10, Eas! GatP,
" 290, " "
" "
..
"
366 40
10, King Svlomon'.,,
260,
"
" ' ,., 579 50,
10, E'Oening 6~ar,
34' 30
" 18G, " "
10, Wilmington,
" 198,
•. " " "
"
88 .25

11

$ 42 00
30 00
126 00
45 00
20j 00
161 00
79 00
202 00
111 00
43 oo
Gl 00
121 00
112 00
48 00
29 uo
30 00
68 00
61 00
32 00
GO 00
70 00
286 00
85 00
25 00
57 00
89 00
82 00
129 00
221 00
41i 00
390 oo
37 00
11 8 00
168 00
.J9 00
. 6~ O.P.,.
44 00
23 00
93 00
30 00
78 00
74 110
Gl 00
103 00
42 00
819 00
292 00
4 70 00
3( 00
35 00

L62

[Oct. 6,

pgOCEEDINGS OF THE

Gen.Fu.id. Home Fllnd.

1905.

Alig. 10, KeystO'fte,

No. 161, dues in full to 31 July, 1905, $ 47 30

ISO.

" to. J!Oliflb,

lO, E'tt Jh'Ver,
10, Golden Gate,

10, Alani.'o,

'. 1b ot.Den,
10, south. Ga~,

"

1

"

147,
30,
12'2,
108,

3211,

.. 2il6,
" 1\J, Noi·t;1 Eaat,
JO, Fernf.!Bte,
193,
95,
" 10, Henry O/,ay,
10, Be1fr"}Iountain,
16,
10, George Washington, " .s·2,
57,
10, S'anta Roaa,

"

"

"

.. 3~~.
3Sl,

11, Ortaitd.

"

14, A%uaa,

''

15, Ox\\ard,

i.5, M(Jsaio.
"

lG, Hawaiian,

"

16, Te:Ws ,
16, Ala'ruat&ita,
16, A1·bata;
16, MerU!lan ,
16, So. SanFraticisco,

"

16, Gua~lupe,
16, Santa 4na,
16, L9ai,
16, Galt,

"

" is, Ohaiit:J,
16, Mou.Ii Moriah,
16, Rising Star,

"

"

11, temeliia l,

55 55
122 90
498 05
57 I!.;

u

)4, 25

" "
u

,,

"

..

,," "

.. .. ..
Cl

,,

"

4G 05

~li5.

256,

107 00

232,
IS4,

39 36
47 20
74, 55

..

49 00
102 00
39D 00
55 00
15 00
298 00

37 IJo
92 00

62 00
94 00

u 00
2.;6 00
107 00
98 00
39 00
294 00

55 00
tO 00
3! 00
36 00
()9 00
122 00
147 00

4.6,

159 90
165 65
72 25
39 45
77 60
190 71
92 05
230 76
35 l>O

70 OD
146 OD
97 00
261 00
30 00

102,

33 25

35 '(o

106 85

103 00

50 80
171 D5

149 00

103,
8,
78,

218,
21,

"

182,
212,

"

226,
237,

"

241,
256,
267,
815 ,
328,
358,

"

3~2,

"

U,
SS,

CC

H

..

"

"

"

93 15

65 25

"

" "
"

..

..

..

141,

"

3S9,

"

" !Rs,
~li,

...

"

305,

l\J6,

"

366 10
35 15
98 tci
62 90
103 30
.58 go
268 20
110 6'5
212 10
342 30
74 25

3'1,

ts, rfl'aflbn,
17, Jhy<ifon,
17, Slin.Fert1ando,

..

66,

lG, Norwalk,

16, B e'rlondo,
16, Goirien State,

,,

175,

rn, Hay'i»ard,
"
"

"

H

268,

" u, .FOi-est,
"

., "

U3,

11, Elfen,
11, .Phisldio,
11, Pilci;/i:c G,.011e,
11, .l)imht,
11, Welcome,
11, Ja';.(ilf'lliUe,
11, sierra Valley,
11, Antlo01i,
11, Oi'O'IJflle,
11, ruotumne,
12, Olla~tras,

" ••

s 34 00

U

II

IC

"

u

224 75
103 25
29 45
71 20
75 70
145 ao
51 60

363 50
61 20

at 60

40 56

71 70
1s a5

75 00
31 00

H 00
77 00
3,; 00
205 00
75 00
31 co

56 co
66
88 00
28 00
310 1)0
56 00

30 OJ
30 00
46 00
67 00

l~Oo.]

LobnE or CALIFORNIA.

GBAND

lllOft.

163

Gen.Fund. HomeFttnd,

A11r. 17, o+ita.-io,
No. SOI, dues in full to 31July,1905, $102 65
296, ,, d
•• 17 Silber Gate,
147 1)5
'' 17, South'n Oalifoniia, " 1!78,
621> 20
11
~72,
" ,,
17, P'1badena,
sOt 70
" 234, ,, ,,
H
171 htlpe,
83 00
" 17, Oak Grove,
2i5,
456 ro
.. 17, VtiueY,
l:i5,
49 70
1

"

"

17, Slin:l)iego,
17, Western Star,

17, Mtigiiolia,
17, Norin BuUB,
17, J1dritet1y,
" 17, Motii1tttin View,
" 17, 1\ricalaus,
11, ,lfoJ.n.t Zion,
17, Sacramento,
1
•
17, St. John's,
" 17, Temple,
17, A11ohor,
17, In'yo,
17, Friendship,
17,
ioRe,
17, Saint' Helena,
17, NorlMrn Light,
17, C'aHstoga,
17, Eu'oaz,11ptus,
17, Landmark,
17, Reading,
17, Respilrian,
" 17, CaUayomi,
17, 'lYrldn,
17, Dun•muir,
17. Sant.a Mo1tloa,
17, Alhambra,
17, Pale~tine,
11

35,
"

"

Slln

17, Madison,

..

1
'

221,
.. 1!10,

"

11

"

"

11, s·1niiN-tty,
17, S.J,,gP,r,
17, Madera,
17, Sn~w Mountain,
17, Siaiiislaua,
17, Santa Barbara,
17, laaien,
17, JJ'attlirl)Ok,
17. ocn;1ite1o.
17, 1il'tti Ga~.

11, Pmoie,

..
"

..
U

..

2 l3 60
115 ~i
66 20

188 00

10,
93,

8S R!J

"

190,
233,
243,

49 50
60 20

"

.. 263,

"

60 00

378 00
i6 00
227 00
118 00
• 73 00

62 95
60 75
261 00
296 10

II

246 00

228 sl;
131 10
S9 35
70 90
GS 30
63 45
7t 70
21 85

,,

8~ 5~

42 65

62 00
54 00
61 00
~6 00

23 00

io1 oo

56 00
61 00

45 co
22Q 00
1!58 00
84° 00
50 00
56 00
69 00
1!9 00

261,

119 60

1d~ 00

264,
,, 282:

126 70
32 45

86 00
si 00
so 00
74 00
103 00

ff

..

" 284,
.. 297,
ti
807,

"

..

300

"

,

.. 322,
35l,
23,

..

u,

17, Mariposa,
17, Mart'inez,

17, Oroc1ieu,

2,
242,
230,
217,
194,
129,
114,
40,
37,
14,
273,

• 87 00
' 139 00
~96 00

"

"

41,
13ft,
132.
316,

,,

Cl

"

"

..

280,

27'l,
"

206,
192,
149,

" 31? t , .
,, 329, "

"

11~ 45

u

"

"

ss oo
102 00
183 00

52 00
9i 00
315 00
31! 00
66 00
76 00
28 00

60 00

111 00

t~ 70

80 00
26 00

2u~ db

2J) 00

98 M

"

,,

386,

358,

"

! Oil 30
100 85
79 10
150 00
182 35
56 4tl
107 30
896 2.;
34 to
88 70
8~ 20
26 61:>
64 00

!9 ~6
6s fl~

it 00

47 00

164
1905.

Aug.17, Fo1·t Bragg,
" 17, Fwllerton,
17, Brentwood,
17, McKinley,
" 17, Berkeley,
" 17, Quitman,
17, D .·ytown,
17, Keith,
17, Ovvelo,
19, San Simeon,
21, Suisun,
21, Altura.~.
21, Olive Branch,
" 21, Mount Shaata,
" 22, Solano,
23, Neicville,
" 23, Oiirtis,
23, Los Banoa,

"

[Oct. 6,

. PROCEEDINGS OF THE

24, Si.~son,

U, Table Mountain,
2~. Olay,
" U , Alameda,
25, Downey,
25, King David'•·
25, Oakdale,
" 25, Alis,il,
" 28, Gardena,
Sept. 1, Harmony,
1, Buckeye,
1. Athens,
l, South West,
1, San Pedro,
1, Starr Ktng,
1, Hollywood,
5, P luma s,
" 5, Rose'~ Bar,
5, Adin,
5, Kilauea,
7, Fresno,
" 11 , Friendship ,
" 18, East Gate,
" 18, OcPardc,
19, Needles,
" 211, Truckee,
" 26. Claiborne,
27, Gravel Range,
" 28, Manila,
" 28, Palmyra,
" 28, WtUtts,
" 28, So, Paladena,

Gen."Fund. HomeFund.
No. 361, dues in full to 31July,1905, $ 92 50
$ 50 00
399,
97 55
89 00
945, " " "
45 o.;
39 00
,,
SH, "
99 40
72 00
363, " " "
155 00
80 00
34 40
32 00
" 88,
174,
17 10
18 00
187,
98 60
88 00
281,
57 55
49 00
196,
26 60
28 00
55,
91 35
73 00
54 o.;
39 00
" 248,
" " "
"
lQl 25
95 00
" 269,
281,
37 10
38 00
"
229,
149 55
129 00
"
205,
44 90
42 00
"
140,
50 65
49 00
Cl
312,
39 25
35 00
II
310,
82 00
GO 00
124,
53 55
49 00
101.
59 10
58 00
114 JO
98 00
" 167,
58 45
61 Oil
" 220,
"
209, " "
" 118 50 110 00
64 45
51 00
" 275,
"
"
,,
44 00
40 00
" 321, "
U. 0., d:spen iation to open Lodge, 75 00
No. 164, dues in foll to Bl July, 1905,
16 20
16 00
195,
G6 80
G4 00
"
228,
56 30
5i 00
2~3.
Gt BO
54 00
332,
96 00
"
" 116 20
,,
II
192 40
132 00
" 3H, " "
81 15
57 00
" "
,, 855,
co,
22 90
22 00
89,
2'1 70
2G 00
250,
45 25
35 00
"
830,
113 2 ;
115 00
"
"
~47,
291 30
254 00
" "
10 00
" 210, dispensation to re-ballot,
Cl
290,
10 00
U. D., dispensation to open Lodge, 75 00
II
326, dues in full to 31 July, i 9U5,
60 20
.56 00
200,
110 25
9.5 00
185,
63 70
46 00
59,
27 70
26 00
"
,,
330 75
257 00
"
" 9!2,
26,
" " 18G 15 157 00
U. D.,
65 50
30 00
U. D.,
39 75
25 00

"

....

.

.

..

..

.

.. ...

..

..

.

,,

.
.

..

.

.

..

"

"'

"

1905.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

1903.

Sept. 2R, Los Palmaa,
28, Amity,
Oot. 3, Unity,
11
4, Gardtna,
11
5, Ocean Park,
6, .Montere'!/,
6, OcPanic,

165

Gen.Fund. Homel"unq.
U. D., dnes in fu 1 to 81 July, 1905,
$ 91 15
$ 57 Oo
U. D.,
" " "
"
55 n5
21
11
u. D.,
"
"
10 35
33 do
D., " " 11 " "
11 40
12
D., "
" "
"
53 75
25
No. 217, special Dlsp. for mem. or Army 10 00
U. D., dues in full to 81 July, 1905,
9 00
12 qo

qo

u.

qo

u.

qo

---r

__,..

Total amounts receh•ed to October Gth, 1905 ......... $37,444 85 SSl,573

qo

Making a n aggregate su m of. ....... . . . ...... . .. $69,017 ~5

AMENDMENT
TO THE

1
I

I

Uniform Code of By-Laws of Lodges~
I

Adopted October, 1905.

ARTIULE IX.-OF DuEs.
SECTI ON I. The dues of each member of this Lodge shall be ..... .• .. .' .
payable quarterly in advance: Provided, that this Lodge, by the adoption ofb

standing resolution to th11.t effect, which resolution shall not be acted upon at the
stated meeting at which it is introduced, nor until notice in writing thereof slta/l
have beenforward~d by mail to every member, may providefoi· a syotem of life
membership, which shallforevtr exempt the /ije membe1· from the payment of du'es
therein. Said resolution sltaU provide that no life membership shall be granf~d
except upon payment of a Rum of money named the1·ein, which sum shall, in case
the annual dues are $te.OO, be not less than the .sum of $200 and the minimum
amount t-0 be proportionately greater or less as the dues are qreate1· or ltw~. a~d
shalljurther provide that all amounts paiclfor life member8liip shall be invest~d
only in Ruch reputable brmka of .deposit or in such bonds of the United Stat~,
State of California, 01· .~nme County, city and County, city or town the1·eof, or ~n
such other ftrRt· class stocks, bonds or secw·itics as may be directed by the Loa@,
and ap,,roved by the Master, and that only tlte income thereof shall be used by
the LodgP, the original amounts to be fo1·eve1· kept and maintained as and for Ia
permanent Life Membership Fund. Said resolution shall require the Secretary i11
milking his annual report to the G1·and Lodge, to 1·eport the number of lje mei\i·
ber" borne on the 1·oll, the amount of thP. fund thus created, and the mannei· in
which said fund is invested. Said resolution shall take effect only upon its
approval by the Grand Master.

lG6

J'tfoURNING p AGES OF THE

GnAND L ODGE OF C ALIFORNIA.

~n ~entoriam.

~lt l$lemorictm.

167

--~--

--~--

WILLIAM EDWARD SMITH, P. M.
CALIFORNIA Lol>OE, No. 1 ...... . . .... .. ...•.. Died .October 8, 1904

CHA,Ml."ION IV SMITH, P. M.
TarNITI' LooGe:, No. 27 ....•• . .. .. • ... .•.• . Died Novem\:>er 22, 1904

MORRIS MEHON, P. M.
WESTERN STAR LopGE, No. 2 .. ... . ........... Died Much 19, 11)05

JACOB DAUBENSPECK RUSH, P. M.
SAN DIEGO LODGE, No. 35., ... , .. .. , • .... , , , Died October 26, 1904

WILLIAM ANDREW LOWERY, P. M.
C•>RINTHIAN LOD<l&; No. 9 ...... .. . . . ...... .... . Died July 28, 1905

SAMUEL JOSIAH :SMITH ROGERS, P. M.
YuBA LorGE, No. 39. .... , • . . . .••. . ..•• .. . . Died November 7, 1904

FREDERICK N GILES, P. M.
YOUNT LoDGE, No. 12 ...•.. ...... . ..... ... . . .. .. . Died May 2," 1905

CHESTER WALTER ELDRED, P. M.
SACRAMENTO LODGE, No. 40 ..... , .• . . . . ... ...• Died August 27, 1904

VICTOR GARDET, P. M.
LA PARFA!Tll, UNION LooJ£, No. 17... .. . . • • Died December 23, 190t

JAY ROSHELL BROWN, P. M.
SACRAMENTO LODGE, No. 40 . .. .. .•.... . . .... . Died September 8, 1904

E.DWI N GLOVER, P. M.
vVASHI!'GTON LoDOE, No. 20 ..... . ... ....... . Died January 26, 1905

SEELEY JAMES BENNETT, P. M.
MARTI Nl!Z LoD<lE, No. 41. .... ... .. .. ... . . . ..... Died May 14, 1905

HARHl:SOI\ ALEXAN"DER JONES, P. M.
OcCIDKNTAL LODGE, No. 22 .... . ........ . . ... Died Felm1ary 21, 1905

LEWIS CASS WITTENMYER, P. M.
MAHTINt<:R LODGE, No. 41 .. . ..•. . . .. : .... . • Died November 13, 1904

DAVID MORGAN, JR., P. M.
OCCIDENTAL LODGE, No. 2:2 . . . . . . . . ...... . ... . .. Died April 13, I 90.i

PETER BUCK NAGLE, P. M.
Mou NT Mo~IAH Lo DOE, No. 44.. . . . . . ... • Died Sep~ember Hl, 1904

HENRY JOH~ JACOB VAN MARLE, P. M
0CCIOEN;1'AL L ')DOE, No. 22 ... . . .. .. .. . .. .... Died January 10, lfl05

ELIBEUS NELSON MAGRUDER, P. M.
CRESCENT LODGE, No. 45 .... . . .... ... ........ Died February 1, 1905

JOHN WILLIAM FELBROOK, P. M.
TRINITY LoDGK, No. 27 .. . ..... .... .. . ...•• JJied September 5, 190-l

SGI~l'N LODGE, Ko. u5 .... ' . .. . ' . . ........ .. . ... Died April 25, 1905

ABRAHAM. FARR JUTCHCOCK, P. M.

168

- MOURNING PAGES .OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

~ n ~ emorta m.

~n ~emoriam.

--~---

-~-

~TEPHEN KIRBY

NURSE, P. M.
Su1suN LODGE, No. 51" __ .... _. .. . . _....... ........ Died July 7, IOOu

169

LEWIS MELTON, P. M.
NrcoLAUS Lot>GE, No. 129 . . .. ....... .... .. . . .. Died August 9, 1904

CYlWS LYMAN MOBLEY, P. M.

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN LANGFORD, P. M.

SASTA RosA LoDOE, No. b7 ............ _... . Died December 29, 1904

WooDllRIDG E LODGE, No. I 31...... .. . .... Died Sept'ember 24, 1904

CHARLES ADHIAN ROUSSAN, P. M.

PHILIP D CODE, P. M.

FORES'!' LODGE, No. 66 . .... . ... _ .... _... _. _... Died August 22, 1004

PACIFIC LoDGK, No. 1::!6 . .. ............ .. . . .... DiedJune21, 1905

WILLIAM BRUCE HARRISON, P. M.

DANIEL MORGAN W AM ROLD, P. M.

MORNING STAR LODGE, No. 68 ..............•.... Died April 2, I 905

CORTIS LODGE, No. 140 . .. . . . ... . .. ........ Died November 4, 1904

HENRY COFFIN SHAW, P, M.

EDWARD BENTLEY CHURCH, P. M.

MORNING STAR LODGE, No. 68. . ...•.... . . . ... Died October 14, 1904

ORIENTAL LoDGE, No. 144..••...•.•••......... Died August 26, 1904

SAMUEL HA WES ROSS, · P. M. -

JWGAR FRANK PRESTON, P. M.

ENTERPRISE LODGE, No. 70...... .... ... . ........ Died July 14, 1905

ORIENTAL LODGE, No. 144 _. _.. . .. . .. . ........ __Die,l April 16, 190,j

FRANCIS NICHOLLS, P. M.

PJ<~TER STERLING ROBERTSON, P. M.

ACACIA LoDOF., No. 92 ... ... ····· ·· - -·· · .... Died December I, 1904

KEYSTONE LODGE, No. 161 . .......... .. .. .... .... Dieo] June 4, 1905

WILLIAM SMITH THOMAS, P. M.

AUGUST CHRISTOPHER. BUSCH, P. M.

HoRNITOS LODGE, No. 98 .......... ... ......... Died March 12, 1905

HARMONY LoT.>G~, No. 164...... ..... ....... .. . ... Died July 3, 1905

THOMAS DEVLIN, P. M.

WILLIAM IRWIN, P. M.

ARCATA LonGe:, No. 186 . . .. __ ..... ..... .. .• . ... _Died July 2:2, 1905

Mrs:;rnN LouGE, No. 169 . .. ..... . . .... ... .. ... Died October 19, 1!104

JOSEPH MISCAL CARRINGTON JASPER, P. M.

ROBERT McCLELLAND FORREST, P. M.

NICOLAIIS LODGE, No. 12\1 ......... - .. . - . . . . .... . Died July 28, 100+

MISSION LODGE, No. 169 . . ... . . . ..... . .. ... ..... Died June 16, 1905

170

MOURNING PAGES OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF C~LlfORNI/..

lln memoriam.

1Jn memoriam.

•

171

~

NATHANIEL \'i'OODHULL SMITH, P. M.
ANTIOCH L 1noE, No. 175 ...................... Died August 3, 1904

ETTORE BAH.TOLOMEO ZAMBELLI, P. M.
SuRANZA ITALIANA LoDGE, No. 219.. ... ...... Died Ja.nu!U"y 14, 1905

JEREMIAH DRAKE OUSTERHOUT, P. M.
P HCENJX LODG 11:, No. li8 ......... . .•.... . .. . Died December 2, 1904

WILLIAM HARRISON MARDEN, P. M.
ATHENS LODGE, No. 228 .. .... .... .. ............ Died May 29, 1905

THOMAS McQUISTON, P. M.
RussIAN RIVER LODGE, No. ISi .... . ......... ... Died April 17, 1905

PATRICK HALEY, P. M.
So LANO LODG1£, No. 229. . . . . . . . .. . .. ...... Died December 23, 1904

LABAN HARDING GRUWELL, P. M.
·CLEAR LAKE Loom:, No. 183........... ...... Died January 14, 1905

JOHN HEATH BONNER, P. M.
SrJRPRIHE VALLEY Loomi:, No. 235 . ......... Died Novemucr 19, 1904

ZACHARY TAYLOR GILPIN, P. M.
OAKLAND Lon<u:, No. 188 ........ ... • . . ... .. Died Decemuer 4, 1904

ALLEN PAGE SANBOHN, P. M.
ALCAT.RA7. LODGE, No. 2i4 ........ .. ..... .... Died December 9, 1904

FRED HERBERT CARROLL, P. M.
MARIN LODGE, No. 191 . .. . .. . .. .... . ....... Died November 7, 1904

CHARLES HEN}:{Y ROBINSON, P. M.
FRl!:SNO LODGE, No 247 . . . .......... .. . . .. . .. .,. Died, July 28, 1905

WILLIAM DEXTER CAPWELL, P. M.
F1mNDALE LoDG&, No. 193 ..... ........ . .... Died February 11, 1901}

WILLIAM HENRY OSBORNE, P. M.
HoDrn LODGE, No. 252 .......... ...•........... . Dien June 18, 1905

SAMUEL GUTHRIE, P. M.
SAN SIMEON LODGE, No. 196 ... . . . . . ..... .. . . Died January 31, 1905

E:11Ell.SON HENRY GRUWELL, P. M.
EVERGREEN LODGE, No. 259 ........ .. . . . . . . ... Died January 9, 1905

CHARLES WILSON BU~H. P. M.
PESTALPHA LoDG11, Do. 202 ... . ........... ... .. .. Died June 8, 1905

GEORU.E WILLIAM LAKE, P. M.
KING SoLJMON'8 J,.ooo~: , No. !260........... .. Died l<'ebrnary 2(), 1905

STEPHEN SMITH GILMAN, P. M.
NEWVILLE LODGE, No. 205 ..•..• . .. . ... . . . . . ... . Died July-, 1904

FIH.NK HOWARD PAYNE, P. M.
Du RANT LODGE, No. 268 .....•...........• , .... Died August 8, 190-i

172

MOURNING PAGES OF THE

173

G1tAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

ltt memoriam.
~
OMl:U BULLIS, P. M.
ANcHQR LODGE, No. 273 ........ . : .... .. . .... . Died August 10, 1904

l·. XPULSIONS, SUSPENSIONS AND RESTORATIONS.

ROBERT WILKINSON BOLLEN, P. M.
ELSINORE LODGE, No; 289 ... ,., .......... , .. , Died January 14, 1905
WILLIAM ORAWFORD RICHMOND, P. M.
SANTA PAULA LODGE, No. 291 ..... . .... . ...... .. Died April 12, 1905
WILLIAM DELOS WINSLOW, P . M.
LIBERTY LODGE, No. 299,,,,,., .. , ........ , .. Died January 24, 1905

WILLIAM FOWLER, P. M.

EXPULSIONS BY LODGES AFFIRMED :

\\ llli/.lm Hardison . . .. . .. by Vvcaville Lodge,

No. 134, Dec. 16, 1904;

l1h11orles Myron Burleson .. by Mokelumne Hill Lodge,

" 298, Mar. 25, 1905 ;

l'homas Hiram Thomas ... by Nicolaus Lodge,

" 129, July 14, 190,i;

I :l'lutns Perkins Laselle .. by Carquillez Lodge,
llonry Adams Clark .. .. . . by Santa Cruz Lodge,
,\ rthur Leroy Piper . . . .. by Pacific Lodge,

"

" 331, Jan.

7, 1905:

38, Auii. 12, 1905

" 136, Sept.

1, 1905.

SUSPENSIONS BY LODGES Al!'FIHMED :

REDLANDS LODGE, No. 300 . . ... . .... ... ... . .. ... Died May 24, 1905
EDWlN CLARK SOUT HWORTH, P. M .•
SA~GER

LODOF., No. 316.......... . . . . . ...... , Died March 4, 1905

Thomas De Lane Fogarty, by B ear Mountam Lodge, No. 76, April 19, l!JO:J ;
llharles Richard Hawley.. by Bear Mountaill Lodge, "
76, April 19, 1905;
.John Leander Hicks ...... by Emmanuel Lodge,

"

318, Feb.

6, 1905;

1''rank Elmer Graham ..... by Oak Grove Lodge,

'• 215, Sept.

1, 1905.

ELIJAH ALPREUS RICKER, P. M,
EMMANUEL LODGE, No. 318 ................. . Died December 5, 1904
GEORGE WILLIAM SIMONTON, P. M.
HOLLENBECK LODGE, No. 319... .. . . .. . . . .... . . Died August 16, 1904
RO HERT HENRY FONTLEROY V ARIEL, P. M.
HOLLENBECK LODG E, No. 319. . . . .. , .. ..... ..... ..Died March 3, 1905
ORRIN WHITCOMB HOLLENBECK, P. J . G. W.
SAN FRANCI~CO LODGE, ·No. 360 .. . . .. .. . ....... Died March 31, 1905

RESTORED BY GRAND LODGE:
Michael John Sullivan, .. Expelled by Oakland Lodge, No. 188, April 1, 1S!J3.

. ... ....
........

·Joseph F . Stenge r .... William E. · Meeervey . Sec. Wed. in each month
13 Neva d a ............. Nevada City . . .. Neva.fla.
Joseph H. Potter . . .. s. A. Ringstrom ... . .. Tues. of or next prec. f . m .
Sonoma
Sonoma
14 'l'emple
16 Eureka ............. Auburn . ....... Placer ········· Charles N. Shane ..... John G. Bisbee ....... Mon. of or next prec. f. m .
17 La Parfaite Union .. San Francisco .. san Francisco .. Thomas Sehabiaque .. Paul de St. JulUe n ... i,~trst Friday in each month
18 M ountain Shade .... Downieville .... Sie rra ......... Willia m I . Redding ... HenFy E. Quigley ..... Tues. of or next prec. f. m.
19 San Joaquin ......... Stockton ······· San Joaquin .... Noel H. Garrison .... Isaac· H.· Robinson .. .. Mon. of or next prec. f . m.
Sacramento .... George Bock ....•..... John Scott. .. ... .. .... 1st Thurs. in each month
20 Washington ........ Sacramento
Hawaiian Ter ... Charles S . Hall .... ... ' K. R. G. Wallace ..... First Mon. in each month
21 llawalian ·········· Honolulu
22 Occidental .......... San Francisco .. San Francisco .. William V. Bryan .. . . Walter G. Anderson .. First Mon. in each month
23 Madison .....•...... Grass V a lley . . . N~vada ........ Thomas Ingram ....... '\Villiam D. Harris .... First Tues. in each month
John s. Larew .. ..... John H. Lind ...... . . . 80.t. of or next prec. f. m .
Mariposa ···· ·· Mariposa
24 Mariposa
Georgetown . .. El Dorado .. .... Coiumbus S . Hersey ... . Isaac G. Swift. ....... Sat. of or next prec. f . m .
25 Georgetown
26 Palmyra ... .. ....... Placerville . .... El Dorado ...... Frederick w . Gee .... Jawes M. 1.icLaughl!n 2nd Thurs. in each month
William I . Hupp, Jr ..' Detlef Hansen ........ Last Sat. in each month
Weaverville ... Trinity
27 Trinity
30 Golde n Gate ••..... • San Francisco .. San Francisco .. Robert J ._ Airey .... . , Edwin L. M!>yer ...... First Tues. in each month

.. .. ....

·· ····· ·· ····

....
·· ····

...........
... .. ...

......

·· ··· ········

........

- _.,,. l H_l.
• ....... I 1:>
··-·-··· I
................. t .. P . J ...... · ... ..
--.:- t
I · - ---="'~ --1~ .----~ ! ::::.
J3 OplUr ...... . ........ Murphy·s . . .... Calaveras ...... Frank A. Mitchler .... Frank W. Fisk ........ Thinl Hat. i:
..,
35 San Diego .......... San Diego .... . . San Diego ..... . Herbert A. Croghan .. Eli T. Blackmer ...... First Sat. in each month
37. St. J ohn's ... ....... Yreka ..... .. . . Siskiyou ....... Clifford E . B utler .... 1 George J . Walton .... . First Sat. in each month
38 Santa Cruz ....... . . ' Santa C ru z . .... Santa Cruz .. ... George H . Rostron ... ' Edward S. West. ..... · Sat. of or next prec. t. m.
39 Yuba ..... ......... .-Marysville ..... Yuba .......... David Pow e ll ... ... ... James F . Eas tman ... First Wed. in each month
40 Sa-cramento ........ ' Sacrame nto .. . Sacramento .... Frank Tade . ... .' . ... . . Richard C. Irvine . .. .. · First Friday in each month
41 :Martinez ........... ·Martinez . . .... Contra Costa ... William A. Hale ...... Orville E. Hayward .. ' Thurs. of or next prec. f.m.
_42 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles . . ... Los Angeles .... Oscar J. W. Burg .... M~r~is Kl';in . .. ......• First Mon. in each month
4S Hiram .. ............ 1 El Dorado ...... El Dorado ...... John A. Fisher ....... >\1lham Yeadon . ... .. ·Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
44" Mt. M-0riah ......... San Francisco .. San Francis.,o .. Herbert F. Ward . .... Theodore Frolich .. : .. First Wed. in each month
~5 Crescent . ...... ... Crescent City ... Del Nort_e ...... Dr_u~y W. Rice ... .. ._.. ,. Greenleaf Curtis ... ... . Sec. Mon. _in each month
46 Texas . .. .......
San Juan . . ..... San Bemto . .... 1 W'.11'.am R. Flint. .... ·Arthur S. Moore . . ... , S ec. Sat. m each month
60 Forbestown ... . .. . . . Forbes town .... B utte . ... .. .... Wilham J . Schultz ... Alex. E. And erson ... · etat. of or next prec. f. m.
5f ntlnolstown . ._ ...... . Colfax . . . . . . . . . Placer . . . . . . . . . Robert A . Peers . . . . . . Morris Lobner . ..... . . ; Fri. of or next prec. r . m .
56 Suis un .............. · Suisun . . . . . . . . . Solano .. . .... .. Ralph M . Sheldon. . . . James U . Spence . . . . · Sat. of or next prec. t . m .
56 V olcano .. ...... ..... Volcano .. . . .... Amador ........ Herman M. Ubben ... Alexander Adams . .... Thurs. or or next prec f. m .
51 Ss.nta Rosa ..... . ... Santa R osa ..... Sonoma . . .-..... Carl~on A. Lane . .. ... ;"'illiam H . ·pool. ... .. ·First Thurs-_ in each month
58 U"rtlo n .. . .........•. · Sacramen t o .... Sacramento .... Edwm H. Harvey .. . . rhomas J. Baker ..... •First Wed. m each month
59: Gravel Range .....• Camptonville .. Yuba . . . . . . . . . .
Third Sat. in each month
60 Plumas . . . . . . . . . . . . . Quincy . . . . . . . . . Plumas . . . . . . . .
' Sat. of or next sue. r. m .
61 Live Oak ........... Oakland ... . .. . Alameda ....... Wager S. Smith ...... Junia J. Warner ...... First Friday in each month
62 George Washington. Chinese Camp .. Tuolumne ..... John A. Smith ........ Saul Morris ........ ... ' Sat. or or next prec. t. m .
64 Natoma ............. Folsom ....... . . ' Sacramento .... John E. Blanchard ... Ray D. McFarland .. .. 'Thurs. or or next prec. f . m .
65 Amador ..........•.. Jackson ....... ·Amador ........ -Rlchard C. Rust. . ... . Robert I. K err ....... . 'l'ues. or or next prec. f. m.
66 F"oi:est ••............ Alleghany . . .. . · Sierra . ....... . Henderson L. J ohnson Frederick A. Locey ... ·Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
68 :M{)rDlng. Star ...... . Stockton .. ..... San Joaquin .... George W. Grupe ..... John 0. Derr .. . ...... 'Sec. Thurs. in each month.
7<1 Enterprise .......... Yuba City ...... Sutter .. .... .... Arthur G. WoodWorth Dallas D. Green ...... ~ Sat. of or next prec. !. m .
76 B ear Mountain .. .... Ange ls' Camp .. Calaveras ... . .. ·Frederick W . Cfougti. John Cooley . ....... ... Wed. or or next prec. f. m .
78 Calaveras .......... San AndFe:i.s ... Calaveras ...... John J . Halley ... . ... Enos F. Floyd . . . .. . . . . Thur. of,.or· ne"X~prec. f . m .
79 -Humboldt ...... .... Eureka . ..•.... Humboldt ..... . Charles H. Falor ..... James B. Brown ...... · First Thur. in each month
80 lone ................ Ione . .. . ....... Amador . .. . . . .. Eugene G . Woolsey ... Jacob Surface ......... Sat. of or next prec. ! . m .
81 Yolo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1Yolo ...... .. . . . Yolo . . ...... . . :, ~rd A . Myers ..... 1 Bernard Btirac h ....... Sa.t. of or next prec. f. m .

i

·I
····f

~

0
;..'"3
.....

0

~':d

t;:.J

"i
~

t"'
....

~
0

>.i

t".4

·1

0

·1

8
JJ.

I

t-4

g
?-"'!
....
0

~

t;:.J

"i

ri

..
-'1
0-.

101 CJ:i.:Y ·................ Dutch Flat. .... Pla cer ........ . Solon M. Curtis . ... .. John Nicholls ......... Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
102 M;,,pzan lta ...........North San Ji:. · " N eva da ...... .. George M. Harris . . ·... Patrick H . B utler ..... Sat. of or next prec. f . ·m.
lh3 Oroville. ...... . ... . . . Orovill e . .. ... .. Butte .. . ... . .. .. Rogers S. Kitrick . . . .. Joseph Marks .. .. .. . . . Las t Tues. in each month
104 :Lexington ......... . El Monte . ... .. . Los Angeles ... . William R . P earson . . . Charles Soward . .. . ... Sat. of or next prec . f. m.
106 Arcata .. . . • . . ....... . Arcata ........ Humboldt .. . .. . George H. Burchard .. Thomas R. Emerson .. First Mon. in each month
108 Owen . . ............ Scotts' Bar.... Siskiyou ....... Charles H. Simon . .... Elisha Jacobs . ........ Vi.'ed . of or next prec . f. m
liO '.Pajaro . . ............ Watsonville .... Sa nta Cruz ..... J. E. Gardner ... . .... John H. McEwen ..... Sec. Wed. in each month
1.11 Chico . ............. Chico .......... B utte ........ . . William H. Nunn .. . .. August L. Neubarth .. Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
112 Summit ............ Knights Ferry .. St.a nislaus ..... Thomas H. Prow5e . . . George W . Watson ... Sa t. of or. next prec. f. m.
ll3 Ede~ .· ....... . ... . . . Sa n Leandro . ... Alameda . . . ... . H e rma n F. W. Helms Chas. W . McLaughlin Firs£ Sat. in each mo~th
llA Mt. Zion .. . . .. ... . . Grizzly Flat . ... El Dorado . .. ... Ga briel Werntz . . . . _. .. William C. Cole ...... Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
117 Concord .... .. . .. .. . Sacramento ... S~cramento ... . Carl W . Beaton ... .. . William H . Hevener .. First Tues. in each month
li9 Clinton.... . .. ......... Igo . . . ......... Shasta ........ . James W. George ..... Chas. N. Kingsbury .. Sat. of or next prec. ·f. m.
120 Fidelity . .. ......... Sa n Francisco .. ila n Francisco .. Ch a s. Schlessinger . ... 1 Frederick Ba rry ....... First Thur. in each month,

&-&

J~

I

"'>-3"
.....
0

_z
t_rj

...;;;

a

•....• . .••..... Iowa Hill ....... Placer . ........ Thom as W. James ... . Richard Edwa rds ..... Sat. of or next prec. f. m.

Alamo .... ........ :. Walnut Creek .. Con tra Costa ... Cecil J. Booth ... .... . Eugene B . Anderson .. Sa t. of or next sue. f. m.

·1211 Sotofoine .... ....... H ealdsburg ... . .Son oma ....... . Willi a m W. Fergus on. John L. Bates ........ Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
:i2'4 'l'able M ountain . .'... Cherokee . ..... Butte . . . . ..... . Richard H. Jones ....• William S. Wllllams .. Sat. of or next prec. f. ffi·.
:12ii :.La: Fayette .. . .. . . .. Se bas topol ... ·. . ·sonoma .. ... ... Frank M. Martin ..... Valentine Watson .. . .. Sat. of or next prec. f. m .

:n7 Herma nn . ..... . : . . .- San Francisco .. San Francisco .. August Busse . ........ Ludwig Schuma cher .. First Mon. in each month

128 :Visalia . .. ......... ·.· Visa lia ......... Tulare ......... Frederick W. Ward . .. George D. Smith . .... Third Sat. in each month
:t39 NicolaU-s . . .... ·.. ·... Wheatland .... Yuba .......... J a m es M. Hicks ...... Stephen D. Hicks ..... Fri. of or next prec. f. m.
131 Woodbridge .......• Woodbridge .... San Joaquin .... Frank Perrott. ..... .. . Blakely R. Woods ..... Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
-132 Si"n~erity . .......... Greenville ...... Plumas ........ Thomas H. Frezise .. . Robert W. Young ..... Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
133 Yoseriiffe . . . : . ....•. Coulterville .... Mariposa ..... . Samuel D. Hobron . ... John J. Quick ......... Sat. of or next prec. f. m .
l:i4 'Vacavme .... . . . .... Vacaville .. . ... Sola no .... .. . . . Woodbury M. Goodwin Samuel F. Ellison . .... Fri. of or next prec. f. m.
-l ~i5 :Valley .·... .. . ....... Linden ... . .. . . Sa n J oaquin .. . . Charles W. Thoma s .. Elon A. Ormsby . . . ... 'l'ues. of or next prec. f. m .
-:f3t ·Pacific .. . ...... : . .• Sari Francisco . . San Francisco. . Andrew W. Turpin . .. George Penlington .... First Friday in each month
m C~oc~eti: ..........._ Sa n Francisco .. San Francisco.. William Kahn ........ Richard H. McPherson First Wed. in each month
-l<tO Curtis................ Cloverdale ..... Sonoma ........ Edward A. Cooley .... Thomas B. Wilson .... Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
141 Graftori . . ........... Grafton ........ Yolo . . ......... 1 P et er Goettsch ..... . .. Quintus V. Eakle ..... Sat. of or next sue. f . · m.
143 Franklin . ......... ~ Courtland ...... Sacramento .... Joseph H. Hyde .... . . Arn'l.stead Runyon.... Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
·y44 Oi'ilenta_I ........ ·: .1 San Francisco . . J San Francisco . . Cla rence
Dobie . .. Adolphus S. _Hubbard. First Tues. in each month
145 Vitruvius . ....... . . ; Bloomfield ..... Sonora ..... . .. . Os car Collister ..... . .. W. N. Cunnmgham ... Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
146 ·.A:bell . : ... . ......... -i Ukiah . . . . . . . . . Mendocino .... . Arthur J . Thatcher . .. Clinton E. Ganter ..... Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
'.l.47 -Eebltiver . , ........; RohnerYille .... Humboldt ...... John M. Connick .. .. . Joseph Hull ........... Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
'149 Las.sen . . . ......... J Susanville ..... Lassen ........ Gilbert E. DeForest. . . Louis D. Hall ......... First Sat. in each month
'.150 Molino · : ....... : ....: T ehama ....... Tehama ........ John Simpson ..... ... . John J. Worthington. Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
1{}'6 WoOdland .... : .. ·.. !Woodland ..... Yolo .......... . Ira A. Morris ...... . .. William H. Curson ... Fri. of or next prec. f. m.
·15'8 -'Gibsonville ... : . : . . ; Gibsonville ... . Sie rra ..... . .. . J a mes Waterworth ... Elias G. Squier ....... Sat. of ·o r next prec. f . rri.
·161 ·Keystone ......... . ; Milton .... .. . .. Calave ras . .. . . William C. Shipley .... Charles W. Rhodes ... Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
16'4 -' Harnrt>hy . .... .". ···' Sierra City . • ... Sierra .. . ...... . Willia m A. Lavery .... William Cox . ... ... ... Sat. of or next sue. f. m.
166 ·Ex-celsior .......... ; San Francisco . . Sa n Francisco .. Edwin L. Forster ..... Hugh J. Owen . ...... First Wed. in each month
167 Alameda · . ......... : Centreville ..... Alameda ....... Cha rles Evans .... .. .. John R. Bla cow ....... Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
·ms Redw~od City ..... ~ Redwood City .. San Mateo ...... T . 0 . Heyden!eldt. ... Edwin B. Fox ......... Sat. of or next prec . f. m.
·i69'-'Mission ..........-.. San Francisco .. San Francisco .. John Thompson .... . .. Robert E. Allan . ...... First Wed. ln each month
173 Elk Grove .......... Elk Grove .. ·. . . ·. Sacramento ... . J esse L. Reith .• • ...•.. _George S. Williamson. Sat. of or next prec. f. m.

V:·

t4

!ll

>-:I

0
'>:!

t-1

0

t;
Q

1':l

_w

~

~
...;;;

....

0

_z
t'.r:1

>-3

r.i

.....
-'I
-'I

rs-s 0akland ............ 'oakland ....... Alameda ....... Robert B. Gaylord ... Alvah K. Clark ....... First Sat. in each month
mo Northern Light. .... 'Millville ....... Shasta ......... Samuel G, Smith ..... Henry L. Martin ...... Sec. Sat. in each month

mi Marin , ............. San. Rafael. .... Marin .......... David Duncan ........ George G. Vanderlip .. Sec. Wed. in each month

192 Santa Barb:l.ra ...... Santa Barbara. Santa Barbara.. E. W. Squier ......... C. 0. Garretson ....... Thurs. of or next sue. f. m.
Hl!I' Ferndrule' ........... Ferndale ...... Humboldt ...... George P. Smith ..... Robert H. Smith ...... Sat. of or next sue. f. m.
19+ Mburttain View ..•.. Mounta.jn View. Santa Clara .... Alvin P. Rogers ...... Cyrus P. Berry....... Tues. of or next prec. f. m.
190 Buckeye ............ Winters ....... Yolo •....•..••. John E. Sackett. ..... ·wmiam S: Baker ..... Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
196 S!Ln Simeon ......... ·cambria ....... San Luis Obispo Pliny H. Murphy ..... James F. Stewart ..... Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
198 Wilmington .....•.• Wilmington .... Los Angeles .... Harry E. Gannaway .. Ftederick W. Morris . Tues. of or next prec. f. m.
199 Hartley ............. Iwkeport ...... Lake .......... Charles W. Haycock .. Heber B. Churchill .... Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
200 Tl:'llckee .........•.. Truckee ....... Nevada ......• ·• Howard W. Wilmoth. Jacob F. Adolph ...... Thur. of or next prec. f. m.
20'1:' Sllveyville .......... I E>ixon .......... Solano : ..... "·I Harry M.cFadyen ...... George Ulsteen ....... Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
20ll J?entalpha ..... , .... Los Angeles. . . . Los Angeles .... Charles H. Brown. . . . 'Villiam W. Robinson. First Tues. in each month
1
203 Conftdtmce ....•...• 1Castroville· ..... Monterey ...... John E. Miller ........ Robert H. Martin ..... Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
2.'!)4' SMinas .............. 1 S'alinas ........ Monterey ...... William J. Hamilton. Francis A. Abbott .... Third Fri. In each month

, ..;; N~ ••••••.•• :Xe........me ••••••• Glenn ••....•••. O. 'W". Houghton ..... S. S. Jfarl<ham • • • • . 8aL ~ • • - r
'"' stanlslaus ......... Modesto ....... Stanislaus ..... Benj. F. Surrhyne .... ::s'ewton E. Leek ...... Sat. of or next c·~· f.. :r.
07 Anaheim ........... A,naheim ...... Orange ........ Philip H. Krick ...... Joseph Helmsen...... Mon. of or next prec. f. m.
08 Rio Vtsta .......... Rio Vista.· ...... Solano ......... Horace Perry ......... Frederick C. Johnson. Tues. of or next prec. f. m.
09 King David's ........ San Luis Obispo San Luis Obispo Phillip F. Ready ...... Francis H. Throop .... First Wed. in each month
10 Frlend'shlp ......... San Jose ...... Santa Clara .... Franklin B. Warring. Perley l". Gosbey ..... First Thur. in each month
:11 San Benito .......•. Hollister ....... San Benito ..... William Chaney ...... Roderick Shaw....... Fri. of or next prec. f. m.
:12 S. San Francisco ... San Franc!Sco .. San Francisco .. C. Alvin Muller ....... Wm. J. B. Warner ... First Thur. in each month
:14 San Buenaventura .. Ventura •...... Ventura ....... Merle J. Rogers ...... Jacob L. Argabrit~ ... Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
:15 Oak Grove ......... Alameda ....... Alameda : .. : ... Henry M. Hammond .. Oswald Lubbock...... Sec. Thur. in each month
:16 Doric ............... San Francisca .. San Francisco.. Frederick L. Wight.. Julius R. Goldsmith ... First Thur. in each month
:17 Monterey ........... Monterey •..... Monterey ....... Ernest A. Scholze .... Charles G. Van Hove. Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
:llt Mosaic ............. 'Livermore ..... Alameda ....... August Hagemann .... William Schluter ...... Sat. of or next sue. f. m.
:HI Speranza Italiana ... San Francisco .. San Francisco.. A. B. Scalmanini ..... Giovanni Scalmaninl .. First Fri. in each month
:20 Downey ............ Downey ........ Los Angeles .. .'. Atticus G. Haygood .. Lenord· R. Parton ..... Sat. of or ne"'t prec. f. m.
:21 Inyo ................ Inclependerice . : Inyo ........ ·.•. Peter W. Forbes ...... Benjamin H. Yandell. Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
:22 Granite ............. Rocklin ........ Placer ......... Ralph L. Stafford ..... 1 ,Villiam Hutr......... Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
:24- Bakersfield ......... Bakersfield .... Kern ........... Ira H. Glenn ......... A. D. Whittemore .... Thur. of or next prec. f. m.
:25 Brooklyn ........... 'East Oakland .. Alameda ....... John A. Petty ........ Charles D. Hayes ..... First Tues. in each month
i26 San Matoo ......... San Mateo ...... San Mateo ...•. John A. Soule ......... Fred G. Sanderson .... Thur. of or next prec. f. m.
i28 Athens ............. Da.vlsville· : •• : . Yolo .... .' ...... Patrick H. Brady ..... Arthur C. Hillman.... Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
:29 Solano .............. 'Vallejo . . . . . . . . Solano ......... Robert L. Robertson .. A. S. Halliday. . . . . . . . First Mon. in each month
:30 North Butte ........ Gridley ........ Butte .......... Sewell J. Young ...... Homer A. Woodworth Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
:31 Covelo .............. ·covelo ......... Mendocino· ..... William S. Van Dyke Judson Liftchild ....... Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
i32 Janesville ........... Janesville ..... Lassen ........ James I. Christie ..... Ira E. Bailey ......... Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
:33 Calistoga ......•.... Cli.listoga ...... Napa .......... Joseph C. Wright. .... Elbert L. Armstrong .. Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
:34 Hope ............... Beckwith ...... Plumas ... : .... Roger D. Mathews .... Putnam M. Cate ...... Sat. of or next sue. f. /Jl.
135 Sm'fll'ise Valley. . . . . Cedarville ..... , Modoc ......... Ransom H. Stanley. . . Thomas H. Johnstone Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
!36 Hill's F-erry ........ Newman ....... Stanislaus ..... Jules G. S. Cain...... Howell V. Armistead. Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
:37 Guadalupe .......... Guadalupe .... Santa Barbara. Paul B. Carter ........ William Rosenblum ... Mon. of or next prec. f. m.
:4-0 Colusa ............. Colusa ......... Colusa ......... James D. McNary .... William T. Beville .... Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
:41~ Santa Ana .......... Santa Ana .•... Orange ..•.•.•.• Frederick W. Mansur George A. Whidden ... Fri. of or next prec. f. m.
:42 Magnolia .........•. Santa Barbara .. Santa B~- William P. Butcher ••. Philip Crother .•.•.... Fri. of or next prec. f. m.

~

0

>
~

s

~z

t=r:I
~

r->

I

t'-1
....
~

0

b;j

t"

0
ti

Q

J
t"

0
0

>
>-3

....0

~z

t=r:I

>-3

r->

.f

~

-:i

CJ:>

259 Eve rgreen ..... . . . . . Riverside ..... . Riverside . .... . Harry W. Hammond. Robert P. Cundlfl' ... .. First Fri. in each month
260 King Solomon's .... . San Francisco .. Sa n Francisco . . Samuel B . Stevenson. Harry Baehr .. ........ First Mon. in each month
Williams .. ... .. Colusa ... .. .... Austin A. Entrican ... John F . Fouch ..... ... Fri. of or next prec. f. m .
261' Tuscan
262 Lompoc . . .. .. ... .. • Lompoc ........ Santa Barbara. Edwin C. Wilkins .... Edward B . Starr ...... :F'ri. of or next prec. f. m.
264" Hesperian . ........ . Santa Marla .... Santa Barbara. Wi!llam H. Tunnell ... Robert Travers ... ..... Sat. of or n ext prec. f. m .
265 Orland .......... . . . Orland ......... Glenn ..... ... .. Geotge E. Wright .... Louis M. Reager ..... . Fri. of or next prec. f. m.
266 North East .... . ... . Fort Bidwell .... Modoc .. . ..... . Ch arles H. Fee ....... Irving C. Raymond ... Sec. Sat. in each month
267 Galt .. .. ........... . Galt ... ... ..... Sacramento .... Lewis G. Baldwin ... . . Frederick W. Harms .. Sat. of or next sue. f. m .
268 Durant ... .. . ...... . Berkeley ...... Alameda ....... Charles H. Blohm .... Clarence S. Merrill . . . First Fri. i n each month
269 Olive Branch ....... . '£ulare ......... Tulare ......... Worster B. Cartmill . . John A . Goble . .... ... Sec. Sat. in each m o n th
Rufus G. Stites ....... Arthur T. Welton .... . Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
271 Snow Mountain .... . Stony !i'ord ... . . Colusa ... ....•.
272 Pasadeba. .......... . Pasadena ... . , . Los Angeles.. . . Albert Mercer . .... ... . H e nry Ramel. ........ First Mon. In each month
Mon. of or next prec. f. m.
Compton ..... . Los Angeles.. . . Harmon J . Mayo ..... Preston R . Mercer.
273 Anchor
Arroyo Grande. San Luis Obispo George P. Ide. . . . . . . . . John W. Gilliam ... .,. . Tues. of or next prec. f. m.
_214 Arroyo

a

~

s

_z

tzj
>-3

r-i

i·.

:-;; • ' •I·· •.••..•••... Oakdale ....... Stanislaus ..... Charles C. Wood ..... Henry c. Barton ...... Tues. of or next • ••
r r._77 Selma .............• Selma ......... Fresno ......... Manuel Vincent ....... John L. Mitchell ...... Sat. of or next prec. f. m .
2i8 Southern California. Los Angeles ... . Los Angeles .... George I. Kyte . ...... Warr en E. Rowley .... First Wed. In each month
279 Hanford ............ Hanford ....... Kings ...... .... Fra nk R. Hight. ..... A. G. Dollenmayer .... Sat. of or next sue. f. m.
280 Madera . ......... ... Madera ....... . Madera ... ..... John B. High . . . ...... George A. Cla rk ... ... Sat. of or n ext prec. f. m.
281 Mt. Shasta ........ : Anderson ...... I Shasta ......... John D. Dozier.: ..... Alvin Dozie r . .. ....... Sat. of or next prec. f . m.
282 Callayomi .......... Middletown .... Lake ........... j Thqmas A. Read ...... John B. Preble ....... Fri. of or n ext prec. f. m.
283 South W est ......... Nationa l City ... San Diego . . . .. . Warren B. Vaughan .. Frank A. Kimball .... Wed. of or next prec. f. m.
284 Tyrian ..... ..... ... Dunnigan ...... Yolo ...... .... . Charles 0. Fish .. ... .. Norris E. Hughes . .. .. Sat. of or next sue. f. m.
285 San Miguel ....... .. San Luis Obispo! San Luis Obispo Gerald N . Douglas . ... Lorenzo D . Murphy ... Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
~86 Paso Robles ...... . . . Paso Robles .... San Luis Obispo Myron H. Brooks ..... Clifl' o. Bickell . ..... . Wed. of or n ext s ue. f. m .
287 Winnedumah ...... Bishop ......... Inyo .. ...... ... Guy P . Doyle ......... Will A. Chalfant ..... . Sat. of or next prec. f. m .
288 Maxwell . . . ...... . .. l\1axwell ....... Colusa .. . . ..... Charles Prentice Duncan Arthur John Pouch .. . . .. Fri. of or next sue. f . m.
289 Elsinore ............ Elsinore ....... Riverside . .. . .. James Stewart. ...... . Peter Wall............ Fri. of or next prec. f. m.
290 East Gate .......... Los Angeles .... Los Angeles .... Catesby C. Thom .... . Edward L. Stephens .. Sec. Friday in each month
2n Santa Paula . ....... Santa Paula .... Ventura ... .... Frank E . Davis ....... Edwin Virden ...•..... Thur. of or next prec. f. m.
292 Los Gatos ........... Los Gatos ...... Santa Clara .. .. Hugh R. Robert s ..... John E. Ellis ......... Third Thur. in each month
293 Orange Grove ....... Orange ....... . Orange ..... ... Warner B. Wllliams .. Walter S. Gregg .. ... . Tues. of or next prec. f . m.
!94 Traver······:······ Traver:········ Tulare ····· ····!Cha rles H .. nm ....... D. Bunn Rea . ........ Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
.95 Mt. Jackson ......... Guernev11le --·· Sonoma .. . .... . Isaac McGri!fin ...... . John J . Keaton ....... Wed. of or next prec. f. m.
296 Silver Gate . . ... .. . . San Diego ...... 1 San Diego . . .. .. Archibald Taylor ...... Jose ph H. Francis . ... First Friday In each m onth
297 Dunsmuir .. ........ Dunsmuir .... .. Siskiyou ....... Byron F. Dunn ....... George W . McCoy .... T hird Thur. in each month
298 Mokelumne Hill .. .. Mokelumne Hill Calaveras . . . . ..
Fourth Sat. in each month
299 Liberty ....... .... .. Santa Clara .. .. Santa Clara .... George L. Downing ... 1 Edward Chase .... . ... Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
300 Redlands ........... Redlands ...... San Bernardino Walter M . Campbell.. Otto G. Suess......... First Mon. In each month
301 Ontario ... ........ . Ontario ........ San Berna rdino Charles B. Ford ...... R. 0. Brackenridge ... First Friday in each month
302 Santa Lucia ........ Kings City ... .. IMonterey . ..... George P. Henry .... . Joseph Rice ........... Thur. of or next prec. f. m.
303 Porterville . . . . . . . . . Porterville ..... Tulare ... . ..... Robert Horbach ....... Fred W. Velie. ....... Thur. of or next prec. f. m.
304 Reedley ............ Reedley .. ...... Fresno ......... George A. Hawkins ... William W. Green.... Sec. Sat. in each m onth
305 Azusa . . . . • . . . . . . . . . Azusa ...•...... Los Angeles. . . . Don Dewit Morgan ... William 0. Streshly . . Fri. of or next prec. f. m.
306 Ashlar ... : .. ..... . .. Colton ....
San Bernardino Irwin W. Brink ..... . . John B. Hanna . ...... Th~r. of ~r ~ext prec. f. m.
307 Santa Monica .. . ... Santa Momca .. Los Angeles .... Oliver G. Tullis ....... James H. J ackson .... Third Fri. m each month
308 Monrovia . . . . . . . . . . . Monrovia . . . . . . Los Angeles.. . . Richard B. Cowan.... James W. Harvey. . . . Sec. Thur. in each month

:-·"1

~
~

0
"'1l

t-1

0

ti

i:;:i
t.<t

~rn

t"'

0

~

.....
0

~z

tzj
>-3

!:=l

......

00
~

322 Alhambra .......... Alhambra ...... Los Angeles .... Ralph B. Clapp ....... Henry E. Laurence .. .
Sec. Mon. in each month
3~3 Whittier ....... .. .. Whittier ....... Los Angeles ... . James H. Stewart .... Edwin H. Payne .. . .. . Thur. of or next prec. f. m.
324 Corona ............. Pasadena ... ... LO'! Angeles ... . Charles T. Sutton .... ·Wallace K. Gaylord ..
First Thur. in each month
325 Consuelo .......... . Escondido ..... San Diego ...... Alvin D. Dunn ........ J. N . Turrentine . . .. . .
Mon. of or next prec. f. m.
326 Needles ...... ...... Needles ...... .. I San Bernardino Leroy V. Root ........ W. H. Rickenbacher ..
Sec. Mon. in each month
1
~27 Long Beach· ......... Long Bea ch ... Los Angeles .... Edwin P . Dewey ..... Evan :Mosher .... .. .. . First 'l'hur. in each month
u28 Redondo ............ Redondo ....... Los Angeles ... .
Thur. of or next prec. f. m.
329 Vallee de France ... Los Angeles .... Los Angeles . ... Leon Curtet ......... Arnaud Cazeaux ..... . First Friday in each month
330 Kil~uea ............ Hil~ ........... Hawaiian Ter ... William _'1'·. Balding .. George H. Vicars .... . Saturday nearest the f. m.
331 Pacific Grove ...... . . Pacific Grove ... Monterey ...... R. M . Fitzsimmons ... Charles K. Tuttle .... .
First Thur. in each month
332 San Pedro . ......... . San Pedro ...... Los Angeles .... William C. Hill ...... .
William Davis .. .. . .. Sec. Friday in each month
333 Alta . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . Bridgeport ..... I Mono ......... . Hiram B. Patterson ..
Joshua W. Towle ..... First Wed. In each month
334 Covina . . . . . . . . . . . . . Covina ........ . Los Angeles ... · / F. E. Duqderar ...... .
W. H. Collins. . . . . . . . . Third Tues. in each month
335 West Gate ......... Los Angeles ... . Los Angeles.. . . E. F. Richards .... . .. .
August Wackerbarth .. , First Thur. in each month
336 Fruitvale ........... Fruitvale
Alameda ....... / Wm. G. Thornalley,Jr. Henry Tyack ......... First Sat. in each month

·1

·1

t"'
0
ap...
~

0

~z

t;j
>-3

a

·1

337 Carquinez .......... Crockett ....... Contra Costa ... George Jones ......... Hertert G. Powers ... F!
~
338 San Jacinto ......... San Jacinto .... Riverside ...... Jay Swezea ........... Gustave l\latthews . ... Wed. ,f ·r ·., ·,
~
339 Fullerton ........... Fullerton ...... Orange ....... . Ralph E. Halloway ... James FJ . Ford... .... . Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
340 Santa Maria ....... . Santa Maria .... Santa Maria ... . Egbert E. Blosser .. . . Lewis L. Colvin ...... First Sat. sue. f . m.
341 Oxnard . ...... ..... . Oxnard ........ Ventura ..... .. Earle Carr ............ Thomas E . Walker ... Sat. of or next prec. f. m.
342 Manila ............. Manila ........ P. I.............
Manuel C. Roxas . . ... First Tues. in each month
343 San Fernando ....... Fernando ... . .. Los Angeles .... William T. Burr ...... Fred E. Strader ...... First Sat. in each month
344 Starr King ......... San Francisco.. San Francisco.. David S. Hirshberg .. . Hiram F. Wright ..... First Thur. in each month
345 Brentwood ......... Brentwood ..... Contra Costa ... Robert Wallace ....... Sherman E. Harley... Sat. of or next prec. f. m .
346 Palo Alto .......... Palo Alto ....... Santa Clara . •. . , Lewis H . Barker ..• . . William C. Werry ... . Last Sat. in each month
347 McKinley .......... Richmond ..... Contra Costa ..• John M. Morrison ... . Edward B. Willets .... Thur. of or next prec. f. m.
348 San Bernardino ..... San Bernardino San Bernardino Marion L. Aldridge •.. John Flagg ........... First Thur. in each month
349 Sequoia ............ Oakland ........ Alameda ....... Charles Husband ..... John W. Gwilt ......•. First Mon. in eaci1 month
350 Cavite ... .. ........ . Cavite ......... P. I............
Sec. Mon. in each month
351 Palestine ........... Los Angeles .. .. Los Angeles .... Arthur J. Wheeler .. . Elmer E. Bradley .. ... First Tues. in each month
352 Sunset ......... .. .. Los Angeles .... Los Angeles .... Sedgewick Z. Osmun. Elliott S. Roger.a ..... First Mon. in each month
353 Pinole .............. Pinole ......... Contra Costa .. . J. C. Paterson ..•..•.. C. Van Prooyen ...... First Tu9s. in each month
354 Presidio . .. ......... San Francisco .. San Francisco .. Robert A. Grier ...... Benj. L. Hesseltine: .. First Thur. in each month
355 Hollywood .......... Hollywood ..... Los Angeles .. .. Theodore Heinig ...... Henry W. Whipple .. . First Thurs. in each month
356 Mill Valley .......... Mill Valley ..... Marin ........ · 1 James Newlands, Jr .. Charles J . Brockhoff .. Third Mon. in each month
357 Buena Park ......... Buena Park .... Orange ........ James H. Whitaker . . Charles H. Mann .... . Thur. o! or next prec. f. m.
358 Golden State ....•... Los Angele s .... Los Angeles ... . Peter W. Garn .•..... Wm. H. Ledgerwood. First Fri. in each month
359 Loyalton .........•• Loyalton ...... Sierra ...•.. . .. 1 Winston D. Coats .... Robert W. Thorne ..•• Third Sat. in each month
360 San Francisco....... San Francisco.. San Francisco .. 1 Harry S. Johnson.... Charles S. Sherman. . . First Tues. in each month
361 Fort Bragg ......... Fort Bragg ..... Mendocino ..... John E. Weller ...••.. George Golden .. ... ... Tues. of or next prec. !. m.
362 Charity ..•.....•..• Campbell ...... Santa Clara ...• Jesse J. Cornell ....... George S. Robson ..... Sec. Mon. in each month
363 Berkeley .....•....• Berkeley •..... Alameda .... ... James L . Robison .•.. William E. Loy ....... First Sat. in each month
364 Olivet .............. Corning ........ •.rehama ....... William H. Samson .. Richard B. Fripp ..... Third Tues. in each month
365 Willits ...... . ....•. Wiliits ......... Mendocino ... .. Alfred C. Burton .... Leroy K . Auten . ....• Wed. of or next prec. !. m .
366 Las Palmas ........ Fresno ........ Fresno . . . . . . . ..
Third 'lnur. in each month
367 South Pasadena ..... South Pasadena Los Angeles .... Benjamin V. Garwood William L. Cox ....... First Tues. in each month
368 Unity .........•..••• Glendale ....... Los Angeles .... George U. Moyse ..... William Malcom .....• First Tues. in each month
369 Ocean Park ........ Santa Monica .. Los Angeles....
First Tues. in each month

t

00

1--3
0
"'!l

ti

0
1:::1

0

t;<J

yi

.ot"'

~

~
.....

0
~z

t;j
>-3
~

......
(1)
~

184

Lisi' OF LODGES. LocATION,

ETC

LIST OF MASTERS OF LODGES.

LIST OF MASTERS OF LODGES
Elected 1904.

LODOI!.

: .!<I

....."
•

;:I

: "1

: 0

.·..:<"

0

z

No.
California,
Western Star,
Tehama,
Beuich
Tuolumne,
Corinthian,
"
San Jo!e,
Yount,
Nevada.,
Temple,
Eureka,
Parfaite Union,
Mountain Shade, "
San .Joaquin,
Washington,
Hawaiian,
Occidental,
Madison,
Mariposa,
Georgetown,
"
Palmyra,
"
Trinity,
Golden Gate,
Gold Hill,
Ophir,
"
San Diego,
St. ,John's
Santa Cruz,
Yuba
Sacramento,
"
Martinez,
Los Angeles,
"
Hiram,
Mt. Moriah,
Crescent ,
"
Texas,
"
Forbestown,

MASTER

l .... , ..... William Crocker
2 ... .• .. ... . Charles E. Brown
3 .......... Richard J. Carpenter
5 .. .. .. . .• Daniel M. \Va ts on
8 . .. . ...... Richard Inch
(; .. . .. .. . .. Charles F. Aaron
10 . . . .. , .... William Russell
12 . .... .. .. . Carl B. Johnson
13 . .. ... .... Atherton 8. Lord
14 . . ........ Joseph H. Potter
Hl .........• Preston W. Smith
17 .. ... .. . .. Atlolph Huguenin
18 ..••••... , William I. Hedding
19 .......... Fred A. Pollard
20 .. ........ Johu H. Dolan
21 . ..•. .. . . John G. Rothwell
22 .......... Byron G. Mantle
23 . . . .. . .... Thomas Ingram
2'1o .. , .. , .... Johu S. Larew
25 . .... , .... Alviu M. PL"eeby
26 ... . .... . . Seth G. Beach
27 .. ..... . . ,William I. Hupp, Jr.
30 .. . . .. . .. . Willi;i.m G. Wright
32 . ... ... . .. Chas. H. Bulson
33 ....... .. ,Frank A. Mitchler
35., ••• • . . . . Albert H. Gilbert
37 . . .. , . , . • . William B. Shearer
38 ... . ... . .. Herbert C. Still
39 . .... . . .. . David Powell
40 .......... H . H . Stephenson
41 . .. . .... , ,Alvin B. Wilson
42 . .... .. . .. Alfred G. Maeder
43 .. . .... ... John A. Fisher
44 .......... Thomae C. Conmy
45 . .. .. . ... . Drury W. Rice
46 ..... , . .. . Arthur S. Moore
50 .... . .. . .. Wm. J. Schultz

185

186

LIST OF MASTERS OF LODGES.
LODGE

LIST OF MASTERS OF LODGES.

MASTER

Illinoistown,
No. 51 .......... Robert A. Peers
Suisun,
55 . ...... . .. Albert L. Reed
Volcano,
56 . ......... Hairy N. Freiman
Santa Rosa,
57 .......... Arthur V. McNab
Union,
" 58 .......... Daniel W. Hoffmau
59 .......... William B. Meek
Gravel Range,
Plumas,
60 ....... : . . James 0. Moncur
61 ......... . Charles F. Uulick
Live Oak,
Geo. Washington
62 .......... George N. Porter
64 .......... John E. Blancharu
Natoma,
65 . ..... . .. . Robert C. Bole
Amador,
Forest,
66 .....•.... H . L. Johnson
68 .......... George H. Buttrick
Morning Star,
70 ...... . ...·Frank S. \V alton
Enterprise,
76 .....•.... Frederick W. Clough.
Bear Mountain,
Calaveras,
78 ....•....• John Waters
Humboldt,
79 .......... !!'red Robinson
lone,
80 .... . ..... Eugene G. Woolsey
81 .......... Edward A. Myers
Yolo,
Ri&ing Star,
83 ..... . ... . Kennetn Chisholm
Vesper,
84 .......... Frank Hendricks
Naval,
87 ....••.•. . Alexander McDaid
Quitman,
8'L .. .... . .. Christan Jorgensen
Rose's Bar,
89 .......... Allan G. Wheaton
North Star,
91 .......... Fred S. Henderson
Acacia
92 ....... ... Leonard Thoma~
8t. Helena,
93 .... ... ... William W. Lyman
Henry Cl1y,
'' 95 . .. ...... . Charlee E. Richards
Howard,
96 . . ... . .. . . George \V. Brooks
Jefferson,
97 ..•.•..... David W. Corbett
Hornitos
'' 98, ......... 'Villiam P. Branson
La Grange,
99 ... . • ..... John Czerny
Clay,
'' JOI .......... Solon M. Curtis
Manzanita,
" 102 .... ,. , .. John S. McBride
Oroville,
103 . .. . . . .... Henry C. Hills
Lexington,
104 ... ....... Isaac F. Baker
Arcata,
" 106 .......... George H. Bure har<l
Owen,
" 108 . . . . . .. .. Charles H. Simon
Pajaro,
" 110 ......... . Iowa H. Tuttle
Chico,
111 ...... ... . William Robbie
Summit,
" 112 . . .. . . .. . . William Griffin
Eden,
" l U1 .... ~· .... Kirby B. Smith
Mt. Zion,
" 114 .. . ...... . G. Wentz
Concord,
" 117 : . . ...... John W. Wylie
Clinton,
" 119 ... ... .... Alex. Leiter, Jr.

LODGE

Fidelity,
Ioni~,

Alamo,
Sotoyome,
Table Mountain,
La Fayette,
Hermann,
Visalia,
Nicolaus,
Woodbridge,
Sincerity,
Yosemite,
Vacaville;
Valley;
Pacific,
Crockett,
Cnrtis,
Grafton,
Franklin,
Oriental,
Vitruvius,
Abell,
Eel River,
Lassen,
Molino,
\Voodland,
Gibsonville,
Keystone,
Harmony,
Excelsior,
Alameda,
Redwood _C ity,
Mission,
Elk Grove,
Dry town,
Antioch,
Phrnnix,
Mendocino,
Petaluma,
Russian River,
Meridian,
Clear Lake,
Sierra Valley,
Claiborne,
Evening Star,

MASTER

No. 120 ...... . ... Jacob Nieto
121 ... . . . .... Thomas W. James
122 .......... Uecil J. Booth
123 .......... Edwin D. Eby
" 124 .......•.. Henry F. Hader
" 126 .••......• Sydney Espey
" 127 ... , . ...•. S. Joseph Theisen
" 128 .......... Lemuel C. Hyde
" 129 .. ...... ... James M. Hicks
" 131 .......•. . Samuel R. Arthur
" 132 .......... William P. Boyden
" 13a .....• . ... Thomas H. Mutton
" J:l4 . . . . .. . . . . Victor W. Hartley
135 . ..... . ... John L. Peck
' ' 136 .....•.... Frederick L. Hausen
" 139 .......... George W. Gel\uque
" 140 .......... .Ernest B. Thompson
" 141 .......... Thomas H. Dixon
" 148 ...•..•.•. Joseph H. Hyde
" 144 . . ......• . Ricnard C. Jewell
" 145 .... ...... Oscar Collister
" 146 ••........ Thomas M . Cleland
" 147 ....•..•..• Walter T. Fisher
" 149 . ... , ..... George L. Tomb
150 .......... John Simpson
156 . . ..... ... Hayes H. Gable
" 158 . .... .. .. James Waterworth
" 161 .......... William C. Shipley
" 16i .......... William A LaYery
" 166 .......... R. G. Guyett
167 ...... . ... John B. Terrill
" 168 .. ... .. .. T. 0. Heydenfel<lt
" 169 .. . .. .... George \Villiam Lunt
" 17'1 . ..... .•.. Hugh B. Bradford
" li4 .. ... ..... Fred B. Lemoin
" 175 ....... . .. Walter 8. Moore
" i'i8 .. ... ; ... . John W. Barton
" 179 .......... John A. Chambcra
" 180 ...... ... . Peter J. Rlim
·• 181 ........ , . Lawrence H. Wilson
182 .......... Samuel A. Pendleton
" 183 . ........ Leon H. Frank
" 184 .......... Gaines L. Coates
" 185 ..... . . ... Sorren Iversen
" 186 .. . ....... Henry F. Geney

187

188

LisT oF MASTERS OF LoDGEs.

LIST OF MASTERS OF LODGES.

LODGE
l\Li.sTER
Keith,
No. 187 .....•.... Clarence R. Weaver
Oakland,
" 188 ...... , .•• Charles N. Walter
Northern Light,
" 190 ....••.... Harold M. Ross
Marin,
" 191. ..•..••.. Russel H. Warden
Santa Barbara,
" 192 ......•••. Eugene W. Squier
Ferndale,
" 193 . . . . . .... . Edward A. Pierson
Mountain View'
" 194 ••..... ... Alvin P. Rogers
Buckeye,
" 195 .... .'.... . John E. Sackett
San Simeon,
" 196 ... , •..... Pliny H. Murphy
Wilmington,
" 198 •••••.... Victor W. Haye;
Hartley,
" 199 .......... JaLez Banks
Truckee, .
'' 200.' •.• .• ... . Howard W. Wilmoth.
Silvey ville,
" 201. .......• Oscar C. Schulze
Pentalpha,
" 202 . ......... James B. Gist
Confidence,
" 203 . ..... . . .. John E. Miller
Salinas,
" 204 .......... William J. Hamilton
Newville,
" 205 .....•...• William P. Rupert
Stanislaus,
" 206 .....•.•.• Benjamin F. Surrhyne
Anaheim,
" 207 .......... Philip H. Krick
Rio Vista,
" 208 ...•...•.. John Christensen
King DaviJ's,
" 209 .... . •. . .. Albert Nels on
Friendship,
" 2!0 ......... Robert A. Lee
San Benito,
211 .. .. .. ... . Archie D. McKinnon
So. San Francisco, " 212...... . . . Frederick C. Mayer
San Buenaventura " 214 .......•. Merle S. Rogers
Oak Grove,
" 215 .. . ... . ... Milton W. Simpson
Doric,
" 216 ..•....•.. Oyrue B. McCroskey
Monterey,
" 217. . ....... Tom Lee
Mosaic,
" 218 ....... . . . Joseph 0. McKown
Speranza Itnliana, " 219 . .. : . . . ... Philip. Demartni
Downey,
" 220 . . ......•. Albert P. Henry
Inyo,
" 221 .••• .. .••. Peter W". Forbes
Granite,
" 222 .... ..•.. . Ralph L. Stafford
Bakersfield,
" 224 ... . . . .... William W. Kaye
Brooklyn,
'' 225 . •.. •. . . .. Charles H. Smith
Sal' Mateo,
· " 226 .. . . . . . .. . John A. Soule
228 .. . ...... . Patrick H. Brady
Athens,
Solano,
" 229 ...•....•• John Ramaey
North Butte,
"230 .......... Sewel!J. Young
Covelo,
" 231 ... . ...... William S. Van Dyke
Jaiiesville,
" 232 . .. . .. .• . . Jt1J11es I. Christie
Calistoga,
" 233 .. . •. : . .• . Charles A. Carroll
Hope,
" 234 .. .. . . . .• . Roger D. Mathews
Surprise Valley,
235 . ... .... .• Ransom H. Sta!.llP.~
Hill's Ferry
" 236.. .. . .... Carl P. Paulsen

LOIJGE
MASTER
Guadalupe,
Ko. ·237 ..•.. ... .. S. Campodonico
Colusa,
" 240 .......... James D. McNary
Santa Ana,
" 241 ... . . ... . Ja1nes H. Hall
Magnolia,
'' 242 .. . •. .•.• • William P . Butcher
Eucalyptus,
" 2·i:i ..... . .... Charles F. Thomas ·
Alcatraz,
'' 244 ... ..• .•. . Alfred Peacock
Laurel,
" 245 .......... Jefferson D. Danner
Pomona,
" 246 .••••...•. Everett H . Welch
l<'resno,
" 24 7 ..... .... . Berry M. Hague, Jr.
Alturas,
" 248 .... . ... .. Jolin C. Rach ford
Ad in,
" 250 .... ...... Eqwin S. Pickard
" 252 .......... ' Villiam J. Crawford
Bodie,
Landmark,
" 253 ...... .. ..•f. G. F redericks
254 . •.•. .• ... B. A. Nordyke
Reading,
\Velcome,,
" 255 ....•. .••• Marcus C. Carter
256 .•.•.. .... William A. Spooner
Lodi,
Penrhyn,
" 258 ........•. William E. Lininger
Evergreen,
" 259 ....... . . . Stanley J. Castleman
King Solomon's
" 260 ..••... .. . Clarence T. Cleve •
h '261 .. . . . : . . . . Hiram C. Stovall ·
Tuscan,
'· 262 . . • . • . .. Armand Lehmann
Lompoc,
2G4 . . . . . . . . . F. C. Twitchell
Hesperian,
'' 265 . •.. . .... . Thomas Brown
Orland,
North East,
" 266 ..•• . ..... K C. McConnaughy
267 . .. . ... . .. Lewis G. Bald win
Galt,
Durant.
'' 268 .. . . ... . .. Charles L. Biedenbach
'' 269 ..... . .... 'Voster B. Cartmill
Olive Branch,
Snow Mo'untain,
271 . ... ... , . . William J. Lovelady
" 272 ....... . . . James Edmondson
Pasadena,
" _2 73 ......... . Harmen J . Mayo
Anchor,
" 274 ... . ... . . . George P. Ide
Arroyo,
27~ ... . ...... Charl es C. Wood
Oakdale,
" 277, .. ...... . Jap.1es H. \Vagner
Selma,
" 278 ..... . . ... Dana R. \Veller
So. California,
'' 279 ... ....... Fr~ncis Cunriingham
Hanford,
" 280 . . • . . .... . Alfretl H . Byars
Madera,
" 281 ..•.. . ... . J ohn D. Dozier
Mt. Shasta,
" 282 ......... Walter L. Blodgett
Callnyomi,
South West,
" 283 .... .. . . .. Charles C. VanDeripe
" 284 . ..•. , .... Charles 0. Fish
Tyrian,
' · .285; ...... . .. Lo~en zo D. Mur"phy
San Miguel
' ' .2 86 ...••...••.My~on H. B~ooks · ·
Paso Robles,
" · 287 ...••.... .'Guy P. Doule
'Vinnedumah,
288 ... .. . . ... G~o. vV. Desrosier '
Maxwell,
Elsinbl'e, .
,, '' 289 . . . . . . . .. ;Ja;mes Stewart

189

190

LIST OF MASTERS OF LODGES.
LODGE

MASTER

East Gate,
No. 290 .......... Frederick W. Houser
Santa Paula,
" 291 •......... James H. Sloan
Los Gatos,
" 292 .. ... ..... Jesse A. Tudor
Orange Grove,
'' 293 . . . . . . . . .. Howard 0. Williams
Traver,
294 .......... Joseph D. Pillsbury
Mt. Jackson,
" 295 .• . ....... Isaac McGnffin
Silver Gate,
296 . •••. . .... James H . Cassidy
Dunsmuir,
" 297 ... . . .. . .. Alexander Levy
Mokelumne Hill, " 298 ... , . , . ... Thomas C. Peters
Liberty,
" 299 . .•••..... Joseph M. Parker
Redlands,
" 300 .•..••.... Jeffry J. Pendergast
Ontario
" 301 ......... . Charles B. Ford
Santa Lucia,
" 302 . .••.•.••• Heorge P. Henry
Porterville,
" 303 . ... ...... Robert G. Williams
Reedley,
" 30! ....••.... George A. Hawkins
Azusa,
" 305 .......... William A. Sheldon
Ashlar,
" 306 .......... John E. Matot
Santa Monica,
" 307 .... .•.... Edward V. Dales
Monrovia
" 308 .. ... . ... . Joseph Fowler
Delano,
" 309 ......... Henry D. Zimmerman
Sisson,
" 310 ... : .•. . .. Charles E. Glidden
Los Banos,
" 312 .... ..... . Adolphuo H. Salan
Tehachapi,
" 313 ... .... .. . Frank C. Chormicle
Te mescal,
" 314 .......... Frank A. Perkins
Norwalk,
" 315 ...... . . . Charles E. Sebastine
Sanger,
"' 316 . .. ... . .. . Nelson Dennis
Fallbri>ok,
" 317 .. . .. . . .. . PercyA. Johnson
Emmanuel,
" 318 ......... . 1<'. H. Watson
Hollenbeck,
" 319 ........•. Leo V. Youngworth
South Gate,
" 320 . ......... Frederick W. Dunn
Alisa!,
" 321 .......... Henry P. Mohr
Alhambra,
'' 322 .. .. ... : . . Benj. B. Cartwright
Whittier,
" 323 .. ....... . E. C. Butterfield
Corona,
" 324 . ..... .. . . Henry Sherry
Consuelo,
" 325 . . . .. ..... William W. Carpenter, Jr.
Needles,
" 326 .... .... .. George E. Butler
Long Beach,
" 327 . .•.. ..••• Richard Lyons
Redondo,
" :-128 ••• ••• . • •• Hichard D. Smith
Vallee de France, " 329 ... ... . . . . Charles Deutsch
Kilauea,
" 330.: . ........ Tho1na.s C. Ridgway
l"aciftc Grove,
331 ... .. .. ... R. M. J<'itzsimmon1
San Pedro,
" 332» ..• •...•. Daniel C. Thornton
Alta,
" ·333 .. .•...••• Edward L. Brandon
Covina,
334 .. .. ...•.• George N. Atwood
West Gate,
•• 335 . . . . ...... .. Ludwig Schiff

LIST OF MASTERS OF LODGES.

Ltrnn:it
Fruitvale,
Carqnine.1,
San Jacinto,
Fullerton,
Santa Maria,
Oxnard,
Manila,
San F~rnando,
Starr King,
Brentwood,
Palo Alto,
McKinley,
San Bernardino,
Sequoia,
Cavite,
Palestine,
Sunset,
Pinole,
Presidio,
Hollywood,
Mill Valley,
Buena Park,
Gulden State,
Loyalton,
San F-rancisco,
Fort Bragg,
Charity,
Berkeley,
Olivet,

MAM'r.e:A

No. 336 ......... , Walter F. Fta.ser
337 .......... Arthur W. Beam
:~38 ....... . .. William G. Voabuqi
" 339 .... ...... Matthew M. Oood
" 340 ....... . .. Louis J. Morris
" 341 .. . . .. , ... Earle Carr
" 342 .......... Heman G. Squier
" 343 ....... . John Munro
344 ... . , , .... George C. Wolfenden
" 345 . ... . ... . . Robert Wallace
" 346 . . .. .. .... Charles W. Decker
" 34i ......... . Hawley N. Barney
348 . ...... .. . William W. Brison, Jr.
" 349 .. ..... . .. John W. Gwilt
" 350 . . ... , . ... Burton Whitcomb
" 351 .. .. .. . .. . Leroy H . Geville
" 352 .... .. ... . John B. Clark
" 353..... .. •. A. Greenfield
" 354 ... .... ... Frank G. Wataon
" :~55 .... ... ... Fred S. Bynon
" 3.56 .. ..... . .. Louis L. Janee
" 357 .......... John S. Perry
" 358 . .. . . ..... John H . Bean
" 359 ......... . James J. 0. Miller
360 . .. . ...... Harvey D. Lovela.nd
" 361 . . ........ \Villiam A. McCornack
362 . . ... •. • , . Francis M. Righter
363 . .. ....... John T. Morrison
" 364 ..... . .... Isaac F . Moffitt

191

j LA FAYETTE, ...••...••.•.
lJ EUREKA, ..................

12 PARFAITE UNION, ...•......
13 MOUNTAIN SHADE, ... : ...•.
14 SAN JOAQUIN, .............
lii WASHINGTON, ...•..•......
]fi HAWAIIAN, ...............
17 OCCIDENTAL, ..............
18 MADISON, .................

15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23

La Fayette, .•••...
Auburn, ......•...
San Francisco,....
Downieville, ......
Stockton, .........
Sacramento, .....
Honolulu, B. T., ..
San Francisco, ...
Grass Valley, .....

Oregon Territory, .. "
9, "
Placer, ......••.... Nov. 7, "
50 . . 6
San Francisco, .•... ~~y 5, 1852. 75 5 12
Sierra,. •...........
30 .. 6
"
San Joaquin, ...... "
50 .. 6
"
Sacramento, .••....
75 10 6
Hawaiian Territory, "
50 5 12
San Francisco, ..... "
20, "
100 .. 9
Nevada., .....•..... "
5, 1853. 53 .. 8

...

. .. ..

3
10
2
19
8
14
51
2

... ... ... .. ... , ... ... . ... ... . ..
0
3 ...
... .... ... ... 67
12 13
I ..
...
4 ... ... 129

I ...

II I I ·-i--····
19 15
. ... 2

1381 88
56 50
2i 2

2

1

. i ~. ·2

9..

3 2
Ii- .....

I 7 18940

.. 1
.. 5 2
.. 2
1 3 10
.. 9 6
1

1 9'
6 261
9 506
133

NOTE. Those Lodges in the present list marked thus* have surrendered their charters-those marked thus t have had their charters revoked-those marked
thus 1: are now under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Oregon-thoRe marked thus§ are now under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lod,z:e of Nevada-those
marked thus I are now under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Arizona-and those marked thus 'If have consolidated as follows' MarysmUe, No. 9, and
Corinthian, No. 69, under the designation of Corinthian, No. 9; Saint John's, No. 37, and Siskiyou, 'No. 105, under the designation of Saint John's, No. 37 ;
Tuolumne, No. 8, Mnunt .Te.jfl'!l"son, No. 107, anil Columbia. No. 28, 1mt1P.r the desirnation of Tuolumne, No. 8; Colusa, No. 142, and Equality, No. 240, under the
designation of Colusa, No. 240; Saint Louis, No. 86, and Gibsonvit~. No. 158, under the designation of Gibson'Dille, No. 158; .Mokilumm, No. 31, and Calaveras,
No. 78, under the designation of Calavera!, No. 78; .i_Vatoma, No. 64, and Latrob~, No. 189, under the designation of Natoma, No. 64; Nel>raska, No. 71, and Ione, No.
80, uncter the designation of Ione, No. 80; Sincerity, No. 132, and Grll1&'1Jille, No. 249, under the designation. of Sincerity, No. 132; Calaneras, No. 78, and Cam.po Seer+
No. 100, nnder the designation of Calavera:J, No. 78; Georgetown, No. 25, and Pilot Hill, No. 160, under the de'signa.tion of Georgetown, No. 25; and Petaluma,
No. 77, and .Arcturus, No. 180, under the designation of Petaluma, No. 180; Hu.t!neme., No. 311, and Oznard, No. 341, under the designation of Oznard, No. 3.Jl, and
Palmyra, No. U1l. and Eldorado, No. 26, under the del-.ignation of Palmyra, N.f;>. 26.
.
GEORGE JOHNSON, Grand Secretary.

l9jllARIPOSA,............... 24 Maripo,;a, ....... · 1Maripo>a, . . . . . . . . . lllay 5, 1853. 50 5 G 3 2 2 . . . . . . . .
' . . • • . 5 :: I -20 GEORGETOWN,.............. 25 IGeorgetmvn, ..... El Dorado,.........
"
"
"
33! .. 61 2 :1 311 2 ... .•. ... .. 3 l 1 52
21 PALMYRA................ 26 Placervil!e, ....... El _D_orado,.........
"
6, "
301 5 61 14 13 13 1.. .. . . .. . . . . • 2 I. .. 157
22 TRINITY, .................. 27. Weavery1lle,...... 1Trimty,............
"
"
"
30 .. 121 4 4 5 ... 5 . . . . . . . .. • . 2 2... 61
COLUMBIA,................ 28 Columbia, ........ Tuolumne,......... "
5
"
.. .
. ................................. .
~ * DIAMOND, ............•.... 29 Diamond Springs,. El Dorado,......... "
,/ "
.. .
23 GOLDEN GATE, ..•.....•.... 30 San Francisco, .... San Francisco,..... "
"
"
75 1012 41 40 38 7 1 2 'l
4 ti 6 899
~ MOKELUMNE,. ..••••••••.... 31 Mokelumne Hill, .. Calaveras,.........
"
"
"
. .
. . . .. . . .. .
. ..
2"' GoLD HILL, ...........•.. 32 Lincoln, ......... Placer,............
"
"
"
50 .1 6 3 a 3
.. I
2
58
25 OPHIR, ................... 33 Murphy's, ........ Calaveras,......... "
"
"
50 'l 6 . . . .• . . . . . • . . • •. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . 61
t SANTA CLARA, . . . . . . • . . • . . 34 Santa _Clara, ...... Santa _Clara,....... "
"
"
. ..
26 SAN DIEGO,... . . . • . • • . . . . . 35 ISan Diego,........ San Diego,......... "
7 ..
50 • • 6 4 4 5 13 2 3 2
. . 4 6 2 227
2'" BUTTE,....... . • . . . . . . . . • . 36 Bidwell, .......•.. Butte,............. May 3', 1854. • . .
...
. ....•..
27 SAINT JOHN'S, ...••.....•. 37 Yreka, ............ Siskiyou,.......... "
"
"
30 1 6 7 7 6
.. 2 6
6 3 !01
28 SANTA Cxuz,.............. 38 Santa Cruz, ....... Santa Crnz,........ "
"
"
30 1 6 8 5 7 4 1 2 I . . . • . 2 9 3 161
39 YUBA,................... 39 Marysville, ....... Yuba,............. "
"
"
50 . . 6 'l 4 4 . . . I 2 . . . . . . . . :t • • • • . • ~4
30 SACRAMENTO,.............. 40 Sacramento,...... Sacramento,....... "
"
"
75 10 8 12 12 11 l . . 3 . . . . . . • . 6 4 3 Jt,8
31 MARTINEZ,. . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . 41 Martinez, ........ Contra Costa, .. •.... "
"
"
30 . . 6 6 5 7 . . . .
. . . . . . . . 4 8 2 94
32 Los ANGELES,............. 42 Los Angeles, ..... Los Angeles,....... "
fi, "
50 . . 6 12 11 7 4 • • 1
6 6 5 260
33 HrR.ui:, ................... 43 El Dorado, ....... El Dorado,......... "
3, "
SO . . 6 . . . I 1,...
. .• . . .
~ . •.
29
34 MOUNT MORIAH, ........... 44 San Francisco,.... San Francisco,..... "
"
"
75 10 9 23 28 23 1 4 6
. . 4 3 I 310
35 CRESCENT,. .......•....... 45 Crescent City, .... Del Norte,......... "
"
"
35 .. 6 6 6 6
I . . . . . . • . I 7. .. 58
36 TEXAS, ................... 46 San Juan, ........ San Benito,........ "
4, "
30 1 6 3 2 2 . . . 1 . .. . . . . . . • . • . . I . . . 30
'" MrcHIOAN CITY,•..••••...• 47 Michigan BlwT, .... Placer,............ "
3, "
. •• . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . • . .. . . . . • . • ••. .
• GRASS VALLEY, .•••..•.... 48 Grass Valley, ..... Nevada,........... "
"
"
.•. . .
. . . . .. .•. . .. . . . .. •. . . .. . . . . . ... • .• ••. .
t ILRBANON, •..••.•.•••••..•• 49 SanFrancisco, .... San Francisco,...•. "
"
..
... .. .. ..• ... .•. ... .. ... ... ... •. ..• ... ..• ••..
371 FORBESTOWN,. ..••.•.•.••• 50 Forbestown,. ..... Butte,............. ..
"
..
so . . 6 I 2 2 I
. . . . . . • . I .. . . .. 45
38 ILLINOISTOWN,. ..•.•••..•. 51 Colfax, ...•...... Placer,............ "
.. ..
30 . . 6 s 3 2 . . . I 1
2 I . . . 40
• RouGH & READY, ..••.•.•.. 52 Rough & Ready, .. Nevada,........... "
"
"
. . . . . . . • •• . •. . • . . .•
. .. . . . . .. • • • . . . . . . . • •• . .
• FRANKLIN, ......••••••.... 53 Sacramento, ...... Sacramento,....... "
"
"
. . . . . . . . . . • •. . .. . .. • . . . . . .. . .. . . . .. . . . •.• •.•.
• SAINT JAMES', ..••••...... 54 Jamestown, •..... Tuolumne,......... May 2, 1855. . . . . . . . . . . . •. . . . . .. . . .. . • . • . . . .. . . . . . . • . . •• . .
89 SUISUN,................... 55 Suisun,. .......... Solano,............ "
"
"
30 5 ti 10 6 6 • •. . . 2 2 ... · . . 3 9 I 73
40 VOLCANO, .. : ...•••..••.••. 56 Volcano, ......... Amador,........... "
"
"
50 516 1... .•. .. 2 ... 1 ... •. 1 l ... 32
41 SANTA RosA, ....•...•..... 57 Santa Rosa, ...... Sonoma, . . . . . .• • . . "
"
"
60 1 II 10 ~ 7 9 . . 2 2 • . . . . E< 8 1 266
42 UNION, ...•••...•..•...... 58 Sacramento, ...... Sacramento,....... "
"
"
75 JO 6 6 G 5 I 1 1 .. . . . . •. G 1 1 19~
43 GRAVEL RANGE,.........
59 Camptonville, .... Yuba,............. "
"
"
30 •• 8 1 I I ....•........••• , . . 3 l 26
44 PLUMAS, .................. 60 Quincy,........... Plumas,........... "
"
"
50 .. 6 1 I
... .
• .. ••• ..•. 4 2 22
45 LIVE OAK, ...•••....••.•.• 61 Oakland, .......•. Alameda, .•.•.••. · 1 ..
.. "
50 . . 6 4ti 42 38 8 2 3 3
• • 7 7 Iii 580
46 GEORGE WASHINGTON,. .•.• 62 Chinese Camp, .... Tuolumne,......... "
3, "
50 . . 6 4 4 4 ....... -. , • • • .. • • I 1.
44
• low A HILL, ............... 63 ,Iowa Hill, ..•..•.. Placer,............ "
"
"
. . . . . .. . .. . . . . • . . . . .• . . • ••. •• • .. . . . . . . •••.

,_. ,r

.....

zt>--

1-:]
l,zj

t:-t

0

ti

i:;:i
l,zj

r:n

>
i;:::

~

........

c:

c

Ot
L......J

O
.,,,

1-:l

III
t<l

0
t:::1
~
ti

t'1
0
8
t<l

'I

0
~

a
po.

t"

::;;!

g
z

....,

!""

......
~

'IT PETALUMA, . . . • •• . • • • • . . . . 77 Petaluma, ....... · 1Sonoma, .. .•'. •.••.
4,
5~ CALAVERAS, . . . • • • • • • • . • • • 78 San Andreas .. . .•. Calaveras, . . ..... .
54 HUMBOLDT,............... , 79 Eureka, .......... 1Humboldt,. ...... . July l,
55 loNE,. .• •••·... ... •. . ••• • 80 lone,. . .••••.•.• . • Amador, .. ...... . May ~, 1~6.
56 YOLO, ..•• ••. .••••..•.•••. 81 Yolo, ............ Yolo,. •... .• ••••.•. "
* MOUNTAIN, .• , • • • . . . • • . . . . 82 Don Pcdro·s Bar,. Tuolumne,. ....•..
fi71RISINO STAR, . • • • • . . . • . • . • 83 Forest Hill,. ••••• 1Placer, . .. ....... .
9,
58 VESPEH,.. . • . • . • • • . . . • . • • • 84 Red Blulf, •.....• ·[Tehama,. .. .....•.
8,
t SAINT MARK'S, • • • . . • . . . . . 85 Plymouth,. . . ..... Amador, . ....... .
'IT SAINT Lours,... . • .. • • • . • • 86 Howland Flat, ..• Sierra,. ..•.....•..
"
59 NAVAL,. .•••• • ..•.••••.••• 87 IVallejo, . . .•.••.•• Solano, . • . ... • ..•.
1
iO QUITMAN, •....••.•••.•.. . 88 INorth Bl_oomfield, Nevada, .•...•..•.
61 ROSE'S BAR,............... 89 Smartsv11le , . ..•• 'Yuba,. . .. .. • . ..• : .
'°POLAR STAR,. ........... , • 90 Poor Man's Creek,. Plumas,. .• •.. . ..••
62 NORTH STAR,. ..•••.•••.... 91 Fort Jones, . ..... \Siskiyou, •. .. • .•••
631 A.CACIA,. ............ , , • • . 92 11Coloma,. ..•••..• ·\El Dorado, .•....••
6( SAIN'r HELENA, . . . • .. • . . . 1 93 1St. Helena,. ...... Napa,. ......•..•.

21·3: :3:" 257
·75

·~g ::i( ~i1:~i ·2i · L · 2l
30 . . 6
30 . . 6

e
1

2 7
2 3
.. 1

l

4 2 1. .• 1
1 ...... . .

u

30

·~1-~ · ·~ ·;i:

:~~ :~ : ~ J::~ ::~ ::~ ;~

sci ·5 ·s ·is ·iii ·2i1.. 2 :: 21 .. .
2 .. .
50 6 6 111 2 ...
30 5 12 •• . ... . ..

·21·31· ·4 ·224

1
301 1 9

I .. ...
1 3 . ..

1

1·· ....

3

3

3

.

'.!

3 ..

:12

11·4j: :~ ·-~~22

••

.~g .~ f :~I: :~,: :~I: :~I:~

0

1
1

l

. 1• . . • • • • . • • • •. • . • • • • • • • . • . • • • • • • • •
.. MOC:NT HERMON,. ....•• ; ... 94 . Elizabethtown, .. · 1Plumas, • • ...•.... May 8, 185~·
..
"
40 6 3 2 l
1 . . . • • 1 ........ 11 1 • . . 62
651HENRY CLAY,. .••...•. . .•. 95 1Sutter Creek,. .... Amador, . . . . . .. . "
"
30
.
.
(j
2
4 4 . . . . . ••.
l
2 5 11 78
661HOWAJtD, •....••.....•..•. 96 IYreka, ••••.. .. . • . Siskiyou, ... . .... .
30 6
3 4 :i . . . . . . . . .
.. .
I 36
67 JEFFEMON,. ..• • •• • ••. . ••• 97 La Porte, .. • • ..••. Plumas,. . •. ••••.•.
50 5 6 7 'j 5 . • • . • • • . . . . . • . • . 2 31 2 30
tiSIHoitNITos,. .............. . 98 1Hornitos,. . .•.. • •. Mariposa,. ••..•••.
50
.
.
6
8
10
Ii
3
.
.
L
..
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
5
2
88
69 LA GRANGE,. ...•••.••.•••. 99 l' Merced,. . .• ...•.. Merced, ... . •••••
'IT CAMPO SBCo,•.•••..•••..• . 100 Campo Seco,. .•.. Calaveras,. .•.•.•.
1
70 0LAT, ••••••••• • •••• •• •• • 101 Dutch Flat,. . ..... '"Placer, •.••.•....
.
58
1 3·1·.•...·1111
3 ...•. ..
35
71 MANZANITA,. .•••..••.•.••. 102 North San Juan,.. Nevada, .••.....•.
35 10 6 1.> 1.> 14
11 2 1 . ....... 2 2 3 122
7:.! OitOVILLE,. •••••..••••..•. 103 Oroville,. . .. .. . ... Butte,. ••••.•.••.
31 2 46
3 0 1 6 8 .7 6 5
73 LRXINOTON,. ............. . 10( El Monte, ....•••• ,Los Angeles,. ••••.
14~'
'IT SISKIYOU,. .•.•••.•••.•.••. 105 Henley,. ....••.•• Siskiyou,. . •••.••..
.
..
. ... 103
•.
4
3
3
75
5
12
3
14 AitCATA, . . .••••••••.••.• • . 106 IArcata, . • • •.••••• Humboldt,. • • .•••• ~~y
lf!:i7·
.
..
.
'IT MOUNT J&FFERSON, .•••.••. 107 Garrote,. . ••..•••. Tuolumne,. ...•...
15
•.
1
30 .. 6 ..•
75 Ows.~, ....••...........•. 108 Scott's Bar,. ...•.• Siskiyou,. . ..• . ....
...
.. DIBBLB, ••.•••..••.•.•. • •. 109 ,Omega,. .......•• Nevada, ••••••••..
1 .. . 120
3 .• 1
39 •. 6 6 5 5
76 PAJARO,. •..••••••.... : • •. 110 IWatsonville,. ..••• 1Santa Cruz, .•••••.
l 140
•. 2
7 2 1 •. •
50 l 6 0 6 5
77 CHICO,•.••••••.•....•..••• 111 Chico,. ....••••••. Butte, ••••••••••..
.•....•.
1
1 1 1 29
1 1
78 SUMlllT,. ...••••••••••.••• 112 Knight's Ferry, •.. !Stanislaus,. •..••..
50 6 6 1 1
.
.....•.
3
•...
.
. 107
6
2
•
.
2
6
50
6
2i 6
79 EDEN,. •.•••.••••......••. 113 San Leandro,. .••. ' Alameda,. • • .. • •••
. . . . . . . • . 1 .. . 23
JO . . 6
AO MOUNT ZION, •.... . •..•..•• 114 1Grizzly Flat,.. ..••. ,El Dorado,. ...••. .
. .. .
'I SAINT M.ull('S, . ••.••..•••• ll5 Fiddletown ,. . . ... Amador,. ••••••.. .
• WINDsoit,. .•.•.•...••••••. 116 Windsor,. .. • .... . Sierra,. .......... .
75
10
.
i;
8 9
.. 1 2
8
·~ l l ~l
Sacramento,
•.
•
...
1
Sacramento,
•.....
15
"
117
81 CONCOBD,. •••••••.•.•••• • .
....
. ...
* VALLECITO,. .•.••••.•••••. ll8 Vallecito,. . . ..... Calaveras, •••..••. ~~j I,~: l~?S·
•
.
1
l
...... 30
.
.
1
.••
..
30 •• 6 ..•... ...
82 CLINTON' •••••••••••••.• •• 119 Igo, ••... ... ..•..• Shasta,. •••••••...
'j
4
2 439
1
2
I
2
16
19
25
100
10
12
83 FIDELITY,. ..•.•••••••...•. 120 iSan Francisco,•... San Francisco, ••..
26
50 [, 6 . . . . • . . . . . .
l
84 foNIC, ..•••••••••••••.•••• 121 Iowa Hill,. .• . .... Placer, ..••••••••.
30 .• 6 1 2 2 .•. 1 1 • . •...•••..... . • 55
85 ALAMO, ..••••••••• . ••..••• 122 : Walnut Creek,. •.• Contra Costa,. •••.
132
•
.
4
1
...•.
~
2
..•
6
lJ
7
8
2
30 5
86 SOTOYOME, •••••.••••.• • . 123 ,Healdsburg, ...... Sonoma,. • •••••...
50 • . 6 2 2 3 .. . 1 l . . . . . . . . . • 1 . . • 49
~TABLE MOUNTilN,. ••••.. • , 124 Cherokee, .. ..... Butte, ...• • •••••• •
t P1t00 RESS,. •••••••••••.••• 125 San Francisco,. ••. San Francisco,. ..•
1 .• 4 .• . •. .
90
3 1 2 ' 'i
30
5 5 6 6
ll8 LA FAYE'l"I'll,•.•••••••••• •• 126 !Sebastopol,. .. .... Sonoma,. . •...••.•
2 .. .. 2 . . . • . 3 2! 1 171
75 10 12 ·21 22 21
8~ HEitMANN,. •••••.••••••• • • 127,San Francisco,. ... San Francisco,. •.•
2 s 126
3 I ~
90 VISALIA, •.••••••••.•••..•• 128 Visalia,. .••....•.. Tulare,. .•••••••.. May 14, 1859.150 8 6 9 10 8
.i . 21..
.
13, "
30 l 4 4 · 5 6 1 . . s 3 .
91 NICOLAUS,. •••..• ,, •••.••• 129 Wheatland , ....•. Yuba, ...••••••••. u
• UNITY,••••••.•••••••••.••. 130 San Bernardino, , . San Bernardino,. ••
" "
30 .. 6 9 8 7 ... I ... '
92 WoooBmDGE, .•••••••• .•.. 131 Woodbridge,. ..•. San Joaquin, .••••
l •..
32
93 SINCEJtlTY, , .••••••••• . ••. 132 ITaylorsville, ..... Plumas,. •.••..••••
130 5 6 2 1 1 2 . . 2
2:.. .
20
"
30 •• 9 1 2 2 1 . . 1 6
94 .YOS)';l!ITE,.,,., ,, •••• , . , •. 133 Coulterville, •..•.. Mariposa, .••.••••.

l ....

61

~z1.~1·:1::~1::~1: -~

I

JI ..

··r·

·1

.. . .. .. . .. . ...
.. ...
... ... .. . ... ... ..
..
.. . . ..
.. 2
. ..
...

It,

I

.. ...

.. ... . ....
.. .

.. .

...

..·I

.... . ....... ·12 . .

.

.... ... ... ......

..

5

::i:~
.. ..

66
··31.. i ··si

~

...:!

l:tj

t'I

0
I::!

Q
l:tj
00

,..,
>

=

~

.!""'

Q

0

01

'-'

0
>tj

...,
~

l:tj

0

~I::!
~

I::!
Q
t'.l

0

lo;!

ap..
~
loj
0

~
....
?"

<:.D

0•

1 6 4 C 4 ... 2
106 LASSEN,.. ... • •••••• • , • • . 149 Susanville, ... .• . . Lassen, .......... . May 16, 1862.
"
"
• 30 1 6 3 3 3, .. . . .
107 Mo1.rno,. . . . . .... . .. ..... 150 Tehama, ...... ... Tehama, .... ... . . "
16,
'IT PALXYBA , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 151 Placerville, .... .. El Dorado, ...... .
15,
* JOSEPHUS, ... , ••••••••••• . 162 Brush Creek, ..... Butte, .... ... : .• • .
'" RISING SUN,..... . . . ..... • • 153 Bra ndy City, . .... ~:Herra, .......... .
§ CARSON,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 154 Carson City,..... !Nevada Territory, .
.. MOUNT CAR:llEL, ...... ..... 155 Red Dog,. ........ Nevada, .... .. ... .
1 3
lOR WOODLAND,........... .. .. 156 Woodland, .. . .... . Yolo, . ..... .... .. ~~y ~~· ~? ·
6 W ASHOI!:, .. • • • • .. • • • • .. • • • 157 Washoe City,. .... Nevada Territory,.
501. . I· 61"
I• •• ' .. .
109 GIBSONVILLE, . ... • • • • • • • • • 158 Gibsonville, •..... Sierra, . . ... .... .
.. GILROY,.............. .... 159 Gilroy, ..... ...... Santa Clara,. .... .
'IT PILOT HILL,. • • • • .. • • • . • • 160 Pilot Hill, .. ...... El Dorado, .. .. . ..
3ol2~1"al·
110 KEYSTONE, . . . • . • • • • • • • • • . 161 Milton ,. ••••••. ... Calaveras, ....... .
§ VIRGINIA CITY, ....... .. ... 162 Virginia City, . .. . Nevada Territory,.
§ SILVER CITY,. ... ..... .. . .. 163 Silver City,. ... .. . Nevada Territory,.
15,.
111 HAR:llONY" . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • 164 Sierra City, .... ... Sierra,. . .... .. .. . Oct. 13, 1864. 301.. I 61.
I . ..
. . . . . . . . . . . 1. ..
§ !Sn.VER STAR, . .... . ... .... I 165 Gold Rill , . ....•.. 1Neva da Territory,. "
"

1
~

1 . .. . .
i 1. . . . .

1 •.
I ...

2
1

89
49

l:rj

I

t't

,

ih ::: .. 2:i

lC

·5r '61' ·51:::

3(

"l""I

112 EJ:CELSIOR,. .. .. ...... • •• • 166 San Francisco, ... San Francisco, . . . . Oct. 13, 186(.
113 ALAMEDA, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 167 Centreville, .. ... . Alameda, . . . . . . . . "
"
"

0

.. 3.,...
... ....
121

1·301·il'61""6l""61'"61'"21::1""21:::
•ii:::

•••I • •I•

0

•I ••

ii::.- 16

IO(TO 12 17 17 20 T2 ••• . 1l 1 •..• • 2 .••

. r. ··. . . .. .................
..... l.. .... "l""
.... . .. .. ..... .

.... ...
... ....... ... . ·· 1·.... ..

::'.I

... ... ....... ... ..... ...

"2 " 2

I

"l"' ... ··I

: : . : :::. : : : :
~l~! ~

·:is :: ·

I::: I..

~

ti
0

l:rj

00

;--

c>

C!t:l

.!""'

c::

5026~86

114 S AN M ATEO , .... ........ .. 168 Redwood City,. .. San Mateo, ...... .
50 . . 6 11 10 11 .. . . . . . . . .......... 2 1 93
115 ~llSSION, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , 169 San Francisco, ... San Francisco,. .. .
75 1 12 63 6(J 58 6 s 5 12 • . . . • 5 11 817i6
§ E:SllKRALDA, .. ..... ..... . 170 Aurora, .. . ..... . . Nevada Territory,.
.. .. ... ... ..
§ i!:dCURIAL,. •••• , . .... .... , 171 Virginfa City, . .•. . Nevada Territory,.
.. . .. .. . ... .. ... ..
q LANDER . . ..... . .. .... •·••• 172 Au•tin,".......... Nevada Territory,. Oct. 14,
60
116 ELK GROVE, • • . • . • • • .•.. . 173 Elk Grove, .. ... .. Sacramento,. . • . .. " rn, 1865. 305 6 3 3 3 .. i :: ..i ::: ::: :: ::· .. i
117 DBYTOWN, ••••••••••• • • •• • 174 Drytown, ........ Amador, . ...... ..
-lO 5 9 ..... ... .
18
Jl8 ANTIOCH,. •..• . •••• ..•• • .. 175 Antioch,...... . . . Contra Costa, ... . .
30 .. 12 s 3 3
12, "
1 3 ... 6\1
,, MERCED,. . . ............ .. . 176 Snelling,. ..... . . •. Merced , ....... .• .
.. .. .... .. .
" "
h AZTLAN,. . . . ....... . ..... . 177 Prescott, .. .. ..... . Arizona Terri tory, Oct. 11, 1866.
1"i 182
·50:: ·6 ·a2 'iii ·30 "iii: : · ·11 :: : ::: : :
119 PH<ENIX,••• .• • ••• ••• •••••• l78 San Bernardino, .. San Be rnardino,... "
"
"
120 MENDOCINO, . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 179 Mendocino, ... ... . Mendocino,.. .... . 1 "
30 . . 6 16 15 16 I . . 11 1 ... , . 1 4 • • • 111
121 PKTALU.llA,• .• •.•.••••••••. °180 Petaluma,. ....... Sonoma, . ... . . ..• .
4 0 1 6 4 4 3 7 . . ,. . . .. . .. . . . . . . 6 1 214
122 RUSSIAN RIVKR, ... . . . . . . . 181 Windsor, ........ . Sonoma,. .... .... .
3 0 1 6 5 7 7 .. • .. 3 .. . ..... I 1 ... 71
123 MKRIDIAN, . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1112 College City .... . . Colusa, .... .. ..... Oct. 10, 1867. 30 •. 6 4 3 2 l .. s 2 . • . • • • . . 6 1 • 44
124 C LEAR LAKE, .. . . ... . .... .. 183 Lower Lake, ... . . Lake, .. .... . .... .
30 .. 6 3 3 3 1 . .
2 I... 2\1
12a SIERRA VALLEY, •••• • • • ••• 184 Sierra ville ,. . . . . . Sierra, .... . ...•.
3 0 2 6 4 6 4 . . .1. .... . . . , I . . I '6
126 C LAIBORNE , . . ......... . 185 Point Arena, . ... . Mendocino, . ..•... , ...
"
50 .. 12 . 7 7 6
127 EVENING STAR,. . ......... . 186 Etna .Mills, ...... .. Siskiyou,... . . . . . . • "
45 .. 6 ... 1 l
"
.
128 KEITH, .. ..... .... . . .... .. 1117 Gilroy, ....... .... Santa Clara ,. ..... Oct. 15, 18G8. 3 0 1 9 5 6 6 1 .. 21 1 . ...• 2 . .. i sq
129 OAKLAND, . .. ... ... ..... . . 188 Oaklaud, •.... ... . Alameda, . . . . .. . . "
"
50 112 16 16 15 6 . . 6 6 . . . • . 8 8 2 399
'IT LATBOBK, .. ... .. .. ... . .. .. 189 Latrobe, ... .. . ... El Dorado,... .... .
6 ··i ..1 : : : : : : : :
i : :: : : · ·i : :: .. i ..
130 NORTHERN LmnT, .... .. .. . 190 Millville, ......... Sbastu.,. . ... . .. .. .
l:ll MARIN, .. ... .. .. ... . ... . . . 191 San Rafae l, .... . . . Marin,. .. ...... .. .
50 .• 12 16 l~ H . . . . . 2 . . • . . . . • I 4 J 128
132 SANTA BARBARA, •• • •••.•• • 192 Santa Barbara, ... Santa Barbara, .. .
50 . . 6 2 3 3 7 21 6\ 1 . .. • . 1 2 1 111
1:13 FERNDALE, .. .. . ... ....... . 193 Ferndale, ...... Humboldt, .. .. .. . . Oct. 1-l, 1869. 40 • • 9 6 3 3 1 . . . . . . . • . . • 3 6 . • • 92
l:i4 MOUNTAIN VIEW,. ........ . 194 Mountain View, . . Santa Clara,.... . . "
"
"
30 5 6 6 5 4 I . . 21' 1 . . . . . • • • 5 1 61
135 B UCKEYE, • •••• ••.••• •••••• 195 Winters, .. ..... . . Yolo, ...... ..... .
30 1 6 2 2 2 1 .. 3 . . . . . . . . • •. 3 . . • 64
136 S AN SlllKON, ...... .. . . ... . 196 Cambria, . . .... . . . San Luis Obispo, .
* p ARADlSK,_ ........... .. . . . 197 HBywa rd•,. . . . . .. Alameda, .... . .. .
1
..
137 WILMINGTON,. . . . ... ..... . 198 Wilmington, . . ... Los.Angeles,. . •..
30 . . 6 ......... 2 .• 1 .. . .... . 1 .... ... 35
138 HARTLEY, .... ... ...... . . . 199 Lakeport,. ... ... . Lake, ... .....• .. .
30 . . 6 I 2 2 . . . . • i> • • • • • • • 2 1 I 81
139 TRUCKEE, • • •••• •••• • •••••• 200 Truckee,. .. ...•.. Nevada,. . ... .. .. .
60 5 6 8 6 6 2 .. . . . 1. .. . . 1 2. •• 95
140 SILVEYVILLE,. .••••••• • •• 201 Dixon , . ..... .. ... Solano, .. . . .... . .
60 .. 9 3 3 3 • . . . . 1 . . . . . . • . . . . . . I ~2
141 PENT ALPHA • ••••••••• ••• 202 Los Angeles,. . . . . Los Angeles, .... .
75 . . 6 15 15 16 2' 5 13 1 • • . . • G 6 4 510
142 CONFIDENCE,......... .. • • 203 Castroville, . .. ... Monterey,. .... .. .
363 6 ... . .. . .. ... 1 1 1 .... .. .. .. . . . . 2~
40 . . 61 8 11 11 2 . • 3 .. . . . . . • I 1 . . . 132
143 SALINAS, ••• •• •••••••••• • • • 204 Salinas,. ......... Monterey, ..•• ....
144. NEWYILLE,. ••••••. • •••.• . 205 Newville, . ... . .. . Glenn, .. .... • ....• , Oct. 14, 1870. 35 1 6 1. 2 2 . . . . . . . • • • • . . . . . 1 .. . • • . 42

..

~-

~~

fio

0

?

..........

0lo;j
>"!

r:i:

lzj

Cl
!:ll

I>

z

ti

~

0

ti
0

l:rj

0

lo;j

0

I>
t"
.....
lo;j

0

z
-~~ :: -~ :.. ::: ::: ::: :: --~1::: ::: :: ..~ .. -·~ :~ =

F
'<Cl
""'
-::i

158 DOWNEY, ... .• ..•.. ... . ·: 220 Downey,. ..• ..... Los .Angeles,. •...
lj!J INYO, .. .. . .... . ........ . 221 Independence, ... Inyo,. . .••••.• • ...
160 GRANITE, ... . . ....••..... 222 Rocklin, ....• .... Placer,. . .. •.• ••. .
* &fAu1, ••• .•..•• •.•..... • 223 Wailuku, •..•..•.. Hawaiian Islands,. Oct. 18, 1873.
lGl BAKERSFHJLD,. . ...••...• . 224 Hakersfield, ....• . Kern, ...•...••••• .
H
tC
U
162 BROOKLYN, .•... ..•• . •••. n5 East Oakland ,•... Alame da, •.••• . . •.
163 HAYWARD, .•.••. .••. : ••. 226 San Mateo,. .•••.. San Mateo, . .••.. .
$
CONTRA COSTA, . ... . .... . 227 Somersville,. • . .. . Contra Costa, .. ...
164 ATHl!NS, .... •. ........... 228 Davisville, .. .•... Yolo, ....• •.. ....
165 SOLAKO, •••••••.. . ••..... 229 Vallejo, . • ..... . . . Solano,. . ..... .
166 N°ORTB BUTTE, • .. .• ... ... 230 Gridley,.:..... . . . Batte, . ....•
lll7 CO\'ELO, • . ... . . ... .. ..•• • 231 Covelo, . ...... . .. Mendocino, ..•• • •. Oct. 16, 1874.
168 JANESVILLE, .. ••. .•. . .. .. 232 Janesville, •.• . . . . Lassen,. .. . .. . . . ..
IU9 CALISTOGA,...... . . • . . . 233 Cali•toga,. •.•.... N'apa, ... ••. •••• .
170 HOPE, •••.. .•... •..•..... 234 Beckwith, ••.•.. •. Plumas, .•••.•••••
171 SURPRISE VALLEY, •..•••. 235 Cedarville, .••••• . Modoc, ....••••••••
li2 HILL'S FERRY, •••••••••. ~36 Newman, .••. . .. . Stanislaus,. •.••••.

30 ...6
50 l G
50 2! 6

4
7
l

3
7
I

3 . . . . ... ..•.
4 I 2
1. ..

4 ...
2 ~

1 ...

51
45
61

.H·H1··~ :: . ~: :~i::: ···1··· ..... .
·30 :: '6 "2.. i .. 21::: i1.. 3 :.:1::· . .~II .. ~ ..~ .. '.'.
~
·I·.. . ...
~g:: I ~ ·1~

6 0 5 6 7 7 6 .• .

2 7 4 1.58
1 . ...... l!lO

J •• •

0

50 5 6 10 ts
.1
l 2 .. .
35 . . G 4 4 4 1 •
30 . . 9 4 4 3 J • ·1 · .. .. .. . .
30 1 6 2 2 3 . . .
3 0 1 6 4 2 : .•..•• .. . . ... .
60 . . 12 2 2
I •. 2 2 . . .
30 1 G 3 3 3 J • • 1 .. . . •.
50 . . 6 1 1 l
~ .• . .• . .. ' . .

··1·... ... .

3 . . . 54
3 . 6 .... 129
3 2 l 62
l .•.•

2 . 49
34
56
: 2 ... llO
2 1 l . 34
2 .1..
48
4 •• • ..

1

5

2

li3 Gu;.DALUrE, •..••••••.••. 237 Guadalupe,...... . Santa Barbara, .. • Oct. 16, 1874.1 35 . . 6 9 7 6 ••. .••. •
• TYRE, .. ...• . . . . • .••• • ••• 238 ,GoldRun,. ....••• Placer,. . .. . •.... · 1 0~t. a, 1876... . • . . . . ... .. 1. . . . . . . . . ..
(I
tC
• PESCADERO ,... ... ......• . 239 Pescadero,...... San Mateo,........
"
'i . . .
70
l/,\ COLUSA, .•....•.....•.•. 240 iColusa, •....•.•. Colusa,...........
"
~
2 2 2hi>
175 SANTA ANA,. ..........•. 241 18anta Ana •.•••••. Orange,. •..•••.•• Oct. I~, 1~!6.
aO.. · ti I 7 6 • . . . . . 1 . . .
73
176 MAGNOLIA, ........••.•.. 242 !Santa Barbara, .• Santa Barbara, ••. , "
3056 6 5 6 1 .. 2 .. . . ..
177 EUCALYPTUS, ............ 243 Haywards, . .••..• Alameda,.... .. ...
..
69
i .. 286
178 ALCATRAZ, . . ..• . •••• . • •. 244 IWe•t Oakland , •.• Alameda, . . .•. • • • . Oct. 1.~· · 1~y1. 50i .. 12 19 21 24 6 1· ·
~ 3 · .. .
~(i
179 LAUREL, • • . • . . . . . . . . . • . • 245 , Willows,. . . . . . • • • Glenn, •• .. ..•. . ..
50 . . 61 2 2 2 • . . . . . 2 ... . ..
I
2 ••• 138
30' .. 6 12 u 15 5 11 2 1
l 80 PoMONA, . ... .. . .... .. ... 246 IPomona, . ••....• Los Angeles, .•.•• .
3 4 4 254
11 2o j 2 .. .
181 ~'RESNO,. . ... .... .. . . . • . • 247 IFresno,.... .. . . . . Fresno, •••...•••. Oct. 10, 1878. sol.. s is l!! u
4 •.•
30 1 12 ti 5 6 . . ... . . .
182 ALTURAS,. .. ..••• . ....... 248 AltarM, .. . . ... .. Modoc,. .••••• . •..
39
'If GR&SNnLLF., •• • •...• •••• 249 Greenville , • • • • • Plumas, .• ... .• •••
183 ADIN, ••.• • •••.. .• . . . • . •.. 250 I Arlin,. ..• . ..•. •• • Modoc,. .•.•• • . .. .
30 1 6 4 4 4 • • • • . . . • 1 . .. .. ... •. · 1' . . . .
55
'" BROTHERHOOD, ...•..... . :!51 Duncan's Mills, .•• Sonoma,. •..• ·. ••• .
184 Bo DIE,. ..••••••..••..•••. 252 : Bodie,.•.••• . •••.• Mono,........... Oct. 16, 1879.160 : : i2 .;i .. i .. i ::: :: "iJ ::.: ::: :: "i "i .. i ··44
..
..
30 1 ti' 5 .. 5 5 1 . , ... . . . . . . . . . . . 4 . . .
2!•
18;; LANDMARK, ............. . 253 ' Madison,........ Yolo, ..•••••••••..
50 . . ti 5 6 ti l . . 3 1. . . . . . . .
l 8 1 108
186 READING, •.•••••••••..... 254 ,Redding,. •••••••• Shasta,. ••••.••••.
187 WELCOME, ..•••..••...... 255 Lemoore, .••• . •.. Tulare,. ••......• .
30 .. 6 ,. 9 9 13 . . . 1
31... . . . . . a l
RO
188 Loor, .•.•••••••..••••.••. 25G ILodi,:········ · · · Sa~ Joaqnin,......
••
: : : ••
II ARIZONA, ....••••.••••••. '\!5 7 Phremx,.... . .. . • Arizona Territory,
lt(9 PENKHYN, ••.•..••...•••. 258 IPenryn ........... Placer,.• ••••••• . . !Oct. 15, 1880. j 30 .. 6 2 3 .3 ·'· .. z . . . . . . .. . . .
l. .. 4!i
"
"
50 . . 6 11 ll 12 21 .
t . . . . . . . . 8 2 I 205
190 EVERGREEN,. ••• .•• ••.•• . 259 IRiverside, .. . . .••. River•ide, . .•... .•
191 KING SoLOllON's, • •• •.••• 260 San Francisco, . .• San Francisco, • . .
7615 1~ 39
l 7 4 15, . . •.. 4 ti 6 470
30 .• 6 3 3 3 ~ . . 1 .... . ... , •. • ; 2 I 50
192 TUSCAN, • • • . • • . • • . • • • • • • 26 l Williams, .. . • . • • • Colusa, .•. .... ..• .
1931Lo>1Poc,. .• • • ••. ••••• •• .• 262 ILompoc, . ••.• .•• . Santa Barbara, • •• ,Oct. 15, 1881. 60 1 6 7 3 2 . • . .•. . . . 1 . . . . . . . . .... ol s 63
II 'TucsoN, •••••••••••••••• 263 Tucson, ••.•••••• . Arizona Territory, "
·is ·ij
1V4 BESP.&Rr.lN, ••••••••••••• 264 ,Santa Maria, . • .•• Santa Barbara, .•. Oct.
195 ORLAND, •.••••• . •••••.•.• 265 Orland,. .••••... Glenn, ••.•... •. ..
"
'.'
40 1 6 7 7 8 . . . 1 1, . . · 1· .. . . . . . . . . .•• •
55
"
"
30 IO ti . • . . . . • • • . . ••• . . 2 . . • • . ••• . . . . 1 37
196 NORTH EAST,. • •••• • • •••• 266 Fon Bidwell, . .. • Modoc,. •..••...• .
197 GALT,. .••.••.•.•...•.•• _ 267 Galt,. . ••.•.••.•• . Sacramento,. • • ••. jOet. 11, 1883. 30 . . 6 . . . . . . . ..
l •..
1
31
"
"
75 6 6 20 20 23 17 ~.. 2 I . . . . .
2 . . • 2 294
198 DURANT, ..• ••• .• .• • • .••. 268 1I Berkeley,..... . . Alameda,. . .......
..
"
"
30 . . 6 i
5 . 4 2 .;; 1 4 . . . . . . 4 2 3 95
199 OLI>E BRANCH,. .•••...• . 269 1Tnlare, ..•.••. .•• Tulare,. ... .
t FAJ.L R1v&K,. ..•. .• ...•• 270 !Glenburn,. •....• • Shasta,.. .. ...... . ••
200 Sxow MOUNTAIN,. . •..•.• 271 Stony Ford, .• .• •• Colusa,. ...•• ••• .. Oct.
20l jPABADEN.t., .. . . . ........ . ~72 Pasadena,. •..•..• Los Angeles... .. .
"
"
"
30 . . 6 l 2 2 2 1 1. . . . . . . . 2 1. . .
61
202', ANCHOR, . .•••••• • .•.••. 273 Compton, . •• . .••. Los Angeles, ..•••
203 ARllOYo, : •••.•••.•.•••• • 274 IArroyo Grnnde, . . San Luis Obispo,..
"
6 3 3 2 . 2 •. • . . . . . . . • . . . . 1 .. · 1 l . 46
204 OAKDALE, ..•• . ••••..•••• 275 ,0a.kdale, . . .. . • •• . Stanislaus, ••••••
. . .
..
'" !WESTPORT, .••.•• . •••••••• 276 Westport, ... . •.•. Mendocino,. .• • .•.

~~l:i1 ·~1 .. t· ·~ ·~~ -~~ : :-: :~ ··~ 1:::

~l

.

~

t. .~}

..

81

21

. ~~I :: -~.~~.~~.~~ .. ~ . ~ .. ~ : :: :::: : ...~t ~

'.5

'614U

I

;~. 1;2. ·35 :: ·6 ·i7

······1 .

11...... .. . 1,....

l:~. l~, ·~g :~ ·~ :~~ :~~ :~~ :~~ ::~ ::~1: :~

·I " " " 301. .
·1

··i ·2 ::: ::: ::: ::r::'. ..5]'· ·2 .. 86

:: ::

:::::::~ : :~1: :~ ·~~~

~~ ~ ~ ..~ ..~ .. ~ ::: :: ::: ~ ::: :: .. ~ .. '. ::: .. ~~

!2l
>
>-3

t'l

t"'

0

t;:j

u

l'7

00

~
~

cr-i
,.......

c

;:;.
L......J

0

..,"!l
~

t'l

0

~

t;:j

t"'

0

t;:j

Q
t>;I

0

ltj

a

~

0

z~
....

!"'"

....
~

<:O

290 East Los Angeles, Los Angeles, •. . . . "
"
"
219 SANTA PAUi.A,. ..•.. . 291 Santa Paula,. .... Ventura,..... .. ...
"
"
"
220 LosGATos, .. .• : . •. .. . 292 Los Gatos, .. . .. . Santa Clara, .. . . • . "
"
"
221 0BANOR GROVE, . ••••. 293 Orange, ... ..... Orange, ......... Oct. 10,
222 TRAVER, .. ........ . .. 29i Traver, ...... .. .. Tulare ,............
"
"
"
223 MO UNT JACKSON .•••. . 295 f:uerneville ... ... Sonoma. .. • ••. ••. · / "
"
"
224 SILVEB GATE ...••• . • 296 San Diego ........ 1'an Diego....... . "
"
"
225 DUNSMUIR, ........... . 297 Dunsmuir .... . ... S'skiyou ......... 1 "
"
"
226 Mou:LUMNE HILL, •..• 298 Mokelumne Hill,. Calavern~,; ....... IOct. Ir., 18tl0.
227 LIB~RTY, ........... . ~99 Santa Cfara, ..... Santa Ola.ra.. .....
"
"
"
228 REDLANDS, .•.••..... . 300 Redlands,. ....... San Bernardino, ..
"
"
"
229 0NTABIO, .... . ...... . . 301 Ontario ,. .... . ... ,'!';an Bernardino,. .
'·
"
"
230 SANTA LUCIA, ...•. . .. 302 Kings City ..... .. Monterey,....... . "
"
"
2SJ PORTERVILLE, •. •••••. 303 Porterville,. ..••. Tnlare,........ . ..
"
"
"
232 REEDLEY,. •.. : ..•••.. 304 Reedley., ••• • . . • . Fresno,. .... .. .... Oct. I.t, 18nl.
233 AZUSA,. ............. . 305 Azusa., ......... . .. ILosAngeles, ••. • •• . "
"
''
234 ASIILAR, ........ . .. .. 306 Colton,. ......•.•. 1San Bernardino, •• , "
"
"
~35 BANTA MONICA, •... . .• 307 1Santa Monica,. ••. 1Lo• Angeles,.....
"
"
"

18~9.

·16 276 SO4 323...7 • •1. 102...
. . . . . . . . 1 12 6 292
... • .
3 4 4

50 .
30 .. 6
30 . . 9
30 1 12
:10 .. I 6
30 .. J 6

9
7
I
4
6
11
S
3

u

I .. . .. .

1 .•.••.
2 2 2

41... 1 .. . . . .. . .. . .. :

·I

"

so

.

I
4
4

3 l ... ..
l • • . .. . .

31... .. . .. .. .

16

.

10 . • . . . •
7

4 • .. . •.
3 2 .. ......... .. .
5 5
l
I I... .. • ..
5, ti 2
30 .. 6
11 10 2 ... ... 3 .. . .. 1.. .. 1
50 .. 6
S
3 . .. . • .. 2 ... l ......
:10 . U
4
.5
2 .. • 1 . .. . · • ..
3
11•.•
.; o .. U
H
8
6 7 .. • 5 6 .. .. 4 1 ~
.10 .. 6
6
7
7 12 .. .
1 .. .
.;o .. 6 .. . .. ......... , ...
1 • .. . •• .. .. • 1 .. .
;15 .. 6
4
4
3 2 . . . 2 l . •. • • .. . l
2
:Jo .. 1 tt
I .. •.
1 ... ... !1 • .. ... • ... 5 .. .
:10 •. I 6
S
3
.) 6 1..
1, .. . ... .. ... 2 .. .
.:o.• G 14 12 10 4 l 5 I ••...•• · j R S
501 .. 6
1
·l
I 8 1 . . 18 ~ .. . 1 3 , 3 . .•
50 ••

10
236 Mm•ROTIA,..... ...... 308 IMonrovia,. ... ... .. Los Angeles , ••.•• • Oct. 14, 1891. 150 ..
i
237 DELANO, .•.••••• •• .. . 309 Delano, ....... ... Kern,. ..... ...... . Oct. 12, 1892. 351 .. 6
,,
"
u
50
.
.
6
1
7
238 StsSON, ............. 310 l::lisson,. ..... ..... Siskiyou, ....... ..
'IT HuKNEME, ...•.....•. 311 , llneneme,.. . . . • Ventura, ........ .
50 .. 6
2
239 Los BANOll, .. . ... .. . . Sl2 ,Los Ba nos ,. . .. ••. Merced, .• •• ••• •••
.so 1 6 2
240 TEHACHAPI, . .. ...... . 313 Tehachapi, .••• • •. Kera, ... .. ... . ... .
'rn
..
9
/;
241 TF.MESCAL, ••.••.• . .•• 314 .South Riverside, •. :ttiverside, . • •.. ••• I Oct. 11, 1893.
30 .. 6
7
242 NORWALK, ••..•••••••• 815 INorwalk, •...•.••. Los Angeles, •.• •• •
30 .. Ii 111
243 SA.NOER, .............. . 316 Sanger, •••••. , .•• F'resno, ... ..... .. .
30
.•
6
1
214 FALLBBOOK, .......... 317 Fallbrook, .. ..••. San Diego, ••••••••
301012
3
245 EMMANUEL,. ..... .. ... 318 Bigg•, .... ........ Butte, ......... ..
24u HoLLKNBKCK, ... ...... !119 ILos Augeles, •• ••• Los Angeles, •••• ·/ Oct. 11, 1894. 511 • • 6 32
:\0 .. 6 28
247 oOUTH GATK,. •..••••• 320 11,os Angeles, •.• .• Los Angeles,. .... ..
••
..
35 . . 6
2
218 ALISAL,. ........... 321 Plea•anton, ••••• . Alameda,. ..•.•••
35 •. G
8
249 ALHAllBRA,. ......... . 322 Alhambra, .... .. . . Los Angeles •••••.
Oct. 11, 1895.
3 6
!J
250 WBITTIRR, •.•• . •••••. 323 !Whittier, . ..... ... Los Angeles, • .
50 .. 6
}!I
251 CORONA,. •••••.•••••. 324 1 P•aadena, ..... . .. Los Angeles, •.•••
30 3 6
2
252 CONSUELO, .......... . 325 IEHcondido,. ...... San lliego ....... .
3
25:! NEEDLES,. ••••••••••• 326 INeedles ...... .... ,;an Bernardino•. , Oct. Iii, 18'.l6. 60 I 6
50 .• 6 Iii
254 LONG liEACH,. •.••••• • 327 Long Beach .. .... Los Angeles,.....
"
''
"
4
2:>5 REDONDO,. ••••••. •• •• 328 JRedondo,. . . . • • . Los Angeles .••• •• Oct. 15, I8n. 30 •• 6
50 •. 12
a
256 VALLEE DE FRANCE,.. 329 Los Angeles, ..... Lo• Angeles, •.•••
50 •. 12
b
~iii KILAUEA, ~ ·· · ... ... . ~:!O jH1!0,,. ... .. .. .... H. !., .... . ..... .
40 .. 6
2
25k PAOtFIC hHOVE, •• .••• 3.ll Pac1Hc Giove, . ... Monterey,. •• ••••.
so •• l'.l
u
25!1 ,;AN PEDRO, ......... .. 332 :San Pedro, .. • . ... Los Angeles,. •••.
53 .. !I ....
260 ALTA, • . • . . • . . . • • . . . • 333 Bridgeport, ....... Mono, . . ...... . . .
3
261 COVINA,. ............. 331 1cov111a,. •.•• •.. . . f,os Angele11, • .••. Oct. 14, 1898. 30 .. 6
262 WEST GATE ....... .... S:l5 ll,os Angeles, ..... Los; Angeles, •.••• o~ t. 1.~· 1 ~~9. 50 .• 6 2!1
50 .. 6 I:J
263 FBUITVALR, ..... .. .. . 336 Fruitvale,. ... ... . Alameda, . •• • •.••
30 •. 6
I<
264 C1.BQUIN£Z,.... .. ... 337 Crockett, . •• • •••. Contra CClsta, ••••
30 •• 6
7
265 SAN JACINTO , .•• ..••• 338 lt>•n Jacinto ,. •. . . River•lde,.. • •• .
4
266 F11LLERTON, • . •••..•• • 339 Fullerton,. .. ..... Oran~e, ..••••••• Oct. 11, 1900• .'iO •. 6
35 . . I;
5
"
"
267 8Al(TA M.&Bu, ••••• · - 340 ::ianta Maria, . •••. -'an ta Barb&r&,... "
268 OxN.LBD,........ ... .. Ml Oxnard,. . ........ Ventura,.. ...... Oct. 10, 1901. 30 . • 6 16
5C a 12 45
269 MANILA, • . •.•.•..•••• 342 Manila, ......... Philippine l•Lmds "
"
•·
8
i10 BAN FERNANDO,....... 3i3 Fernando,. •. • ..• . Los Augeles, . .... Oct. 15, 1902. 50 .. 6
75 •. 9 2.5
271 .:STARR KING, .......... 34:4: San Francisco, . . . Sa.n Francisco, . ...
"
"'
"
30 .. 6
3
272 BRENTWOOD, •. •••. .. • 345 Brentwood , •••••. Contra Coda, . • : .
"
50 •• 6 14
273 jPALO ALTO .......... , 346 /Palo Alto,. ....... ,Santa Clara, .•••. , "
50 .. 6 10
274 McKINLEY, .• •••• .•• . 347 Richmond, .. ..•.. Contra Cost11.,. • . . "

. ..

~

9

8

8

2

3. ..

1 •...

2 . ....
I
I

~ I 15h11· ·i1 ~
1 .••

2

2

1 .. .

4

4 .... ....... .

5
4 1 1 5 1 .. .
6
(j . . . •••
1 .. .... ..
9
7 1 .•. 2 ... ; .. ..
1 . ............ . ......
1 .
3
3 ... ... ... ... 1
252:,• ... 6 1 .. .
w 26 12 . •• 8 10 .. .
2
2 2 . . ......... .
7
9 3 .• . 5 1

8

8

9. . •

1 ... , .. .

19
I

19 13 .. •
2 5 ...

• ... .. .
2 .. .

3

1 . ..

1

1

• ...

19
4
ll

5

4 ...

9
:1

20 14 .. .
5
3 ...
7 4 ...
iO 2 1
• 1. . .

11

~ .. ~ ::.1 .. ~ .. ~, : ::

8
5

3 1 1.. .
I .

··I···

2 ..... .
2 .. .

2... . ..

1 . ..

31

:1\...

2 •••

..

.8

2 ...... ... .. .

1~ "i ::: .. ~ .::,:::
1

s ..... .
• 65 . .....
I... .. .. 1 .. .
7 .•• 7 111:::
1 .. ... .

5
18
47
10
20

2
1i
I

19 8 .••
46
10 1 •••
22 1 ...
3 ...
18 6, .. .
11, :! .. .

8

1

74
62
122

~

t!'J

~

ti

o .
f:rj

1:ll

150
87
45

89
39
70

GS
103

..

30

1

60

"1 :::

35
73
68
56
66
26
49
2H
2!18
40

21 13

1

I
1

1
l

I
l
2
1

2

9

(j

2

8

6

. .... .

I

'.! I
6 .. .
2 l
4 ...
2 2

2

li8

2
1

1 .. .
:1 3

G6

2

1 s .. .
1 .... . .
3 '.! 3
1 ... . ..
1 1 1
3

9 ...

•

(j

2

1

1

l

2 I
1 ...

5

1

111 154 18

···1···1 .. ,...2 ~,: ..
2 ..•

2 . .. . .

5~

•
2
2
1

1 . ..

I... ... ..
1

6~

2.)
59
139

z

>c:

~

~

--

co
0
!"

L...J

2

2
30
9

100
49

2

:.& • •• i

111
202
47

51l

•2
115
a9
96
42
49
220
79
57
50
89
'49
145
2.'i7
i6
132
39
89
72

0l:rj
>-3
~

ltj

0

~

z

ti

t'

0

0

0

f:rj

0

bj

0
·>
t<

:;;
0

~
.....
>

t>:i

c,....

288 FORT BRAGG. . . . .... 3()1 Fort Brall'.g • ..• . !M e ndoci no. ......
28~ CHARITY .••.•• .•. . • . 362 Campbell . . . . . . S anta Clara .. . .. .
290 REUKELEY . ... . .••• 363 Rerkeley . . . ...... Alameda ... . ... . .
2!!1 OLIVET ............ . aH4 Corr.ing • . .... . . .. Te hama .........
292 WILLITS ••...•. . · .. U.D. Willits ....... . ... Mendocino • . ....
293 LAS PALMAB ....
U.D. F'resno ..... .. ... . Fresno..... . .... .
20~ "OUTH PASADENA . . •. . U . O. South P•sadc na .. L os Ang des......
UNITY
..
......
........
U . O. Glendale ...... ••. Los Angeles .... ..
295
,;anta Monica ... . Los Angeles .. .. ..
296 OCEAN PA.RI!: .... . .... . .
297 AMITY..... . ..... .....
San ~·rancisco ..• . San Franc isco .•. .
29810CEANIC ............. U.D. Ronolulu ... .. .. .. Hawaiian T e r ....

....

u.o.
u.o.

..
"

30 .. 6 H
17
8
9
:iO .. 6
50 .. (j 27 2u
5
4
30 .. G
12, 1905. 5(1 I G 13 12
l~
50 .. 6 14
7
50 .. 6
G
35 3 G 15 12
50 5 Ii 19 Ii
50 5 12 19 13
"
50 .5 12 . •• ... .
"
..
"

"
"

.. " ....
.."" "" ..
" " "
" " "
" " ..
"
"

.."

14
2 3
8 2
.. .
1
26 7 ...
.. . 3 1
f
l
4
2
I ..
. ..
12 7 .. .
..
1
10 321. .. .. . ...
1 3
3
... 1 3
12 571...
...
3 ..
4 u ...
12 3
4 :J[.. .
1 ...
6 9

... .. . ...
'1··· ...
... .....
... ... . .. ..

. .. ...
.... .... I .. ... .. . .. . .. ... ... . .

57
2fi
33
25
21
12

-- -- --

- - 1 --

-- -

t-t

0

t;j
Q

trJ

r.o

- - - -- ----4 -7 500
756 356 31561

~

.....

0

::r

~

.;·

:>
t"'

::r
"'

0

.;·

"'>i

::::

:

"-<

:

:
rr.

t:I

I

....,tli

:

:

:

::r

I i:..:
....,t:d .....

"-<

...

.,..."'t:! -><t;i:j 't:l" ct:~ t:! .. Sl> .....t:! -<
-;c"
g
i
::r ~ -gs ::r
p
...
" "' ..... .. .,... c;·~ "'
~

0

p

"

"'

XO

~

p..
1-3
t<:l

..a
..
z .....

~

"'c;"
!3

0

28

.

1
2503 2~ G!l 1 2419 778. 126"'irn 2:J.5

~
::;

50
80
34

't:l

z..

~

U>

OQ

U>

<D
<D

p.

~·

0
p
!"

..s·

~·

U>

.. ~
0

p

~

i:t
0

c;·
p

"

~

txJ

0

I :.>

0

t-:3

1-3

~

c

~I -""...
0

co

......

C>

q

t'

t""'

t-:3
I-<
0

~

1-3
....
0

z

... 00

p..

'"d
.....

Ii"

:.>

0
"'
... ..."""" ;; I ..."" "" ...
0
$"
...
""""
""
"'

~

trJ

~

!"'

~

<:<;

00

""
""

""
-""'
00

~

0

~

204

ALP!IABETICAL LIST OF LODGES.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES.
Lodge.

No.

Post om..ie.

County.

Mendocino.
Abell ......... , •• , ..•.••••• 146 Ukiah..............
Acacia.-........... . • .. . • • • 92 Coloma ........ , ......... El Dorado.
Adin . . ................... , 250 Adln •.•••••...•••..••...• Modoc.
Alamo ..................... 122 W!\lnut Creek .... ......... Conte. Costa..
Alameda ..... : .............. 167 Centerville ............... Ala.med a..
Alcatraz................... 24~ West Oakland .. . • . • • • . . . Alameda.
Alhambra .................. 322 Alhambra. ....... • ....... f,os Angeles.
Alisa! .......... , . ••. . ...•• 321 Pleasanton .............. Alameda.
Alta ........................ 333 Bridgeport ..••• . : .•...••• Mono.
Alturas........... . . . ....... 2H Alturas .. ............ . ... ~Iodoc.
Amity .. ................. , 3i0 Si\n Fra.ncisco ........... Ban Francisco.
Amador........ . .. . • . . • . • 65 Ja.okson .. . .............. Aml\dor.
Anaheim ................... 207 Anaheim .... ........... Orange.
Anahor •.• , ................ 273 Compton ................ Los Angele•.
Antioch ....... : ........... 175 Antioch ................. Contra Cost.1.
Arcata.: ... . ............... 106 Arca.ta. ..••••.•••••...•.• Humboldt
Arroyo ............... , .... 2H Arroyo Grande .......... 8an Lui• Obispo.
Ashlar ..................... 306 Oolton ................... San Bernardino.
Athens .................... 223 Davisville ... .. ......... Yolo.
Azu>a....... , ............. 305 Azusa....... " .......... Los Angeles.
Bakersfield ................. 22-1 BBkersReld .............. Kern.
Bear Mountain.............. 76 A'lgels Camp • . ..•.••• .• •• C11.laveras.
Benicia.................... 5 llenicia .................. Solano.
Berkeley ........ .. ........ 363 Derkeley ................ Alameda.
Bodie.......... .. .. .. . .. • 252 Bodie....... . ............ Mono.
Brentwood ................ 315 BrentwooL ............. Contrn Costa.
Brooklyn .................. 225 East 0dkland........... , Alameda.
Buckeye ................... 195 Winters ................. Yolo.
Buena Park .... . ........... 357 Buena Park ... ........... Orange.
C~lifornia... . • • . . • • • • . . . . • •
1 San Francisco .....•••...• San Francisco.
Calaveras...... .. .. • .. . • • • 78 San Andreas .............. Calaveras.
Calla.yoml. ................. 282 Middletow11 ............. Lake.
Calistoga ................... 233 Calistoga ................. Napa.
Carquinez .................. 337 <Jrockett ................. Oontra Costa..
Ca.vile .................... 3.50 0 wite .................. . Philippine Islands.
Charity . ..•.........•.....• 362 Campbell ................ Sant.i Olara.
Chico ....... . .............. 111 Chico .. ............ . ..... !Jutte.
Claiborne .................. 185 Point Arena ............ ~[endooioo.
Clay...................... IOI Dutch Flat ............... Placer.
Clear Lake ................. 183 Lower Lake ...... . ....... Lake.
Clinton ..................... 119 Igo ........ . .............. Shasta.
Concord ................... 117 Sacramento ............. Sacrame11to.
Confidence,. ............... 203 Castroville ............... Mo11terey.
Consuelo •..••..••... , ..•••• 325 Eicoodido ................ San Diego.
Colusa ................ , •••• 240 Colusa ................... Colusa.
Corinthiao,.................
9 Marysville •. .•. .••••..••• Yuba.
Corona ..................... 32! Pasadeoa ................ Los Angeles.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LoDGES.
Lo411e.
No.
Post Olli.co.
County.
l)ovelo .................... 231 Vovelo ............. . ..... Me11docino.
Oovlna ..................... 3'!4. Coviaa .................. Los Aogdes.
Or11oe11t .......... , . • .. . • .. 4.5 Crescent City ............ Del Norte.
IJrookett .................... 139 San Franoi•co ............ San Francisco.
(Jurtls...................... 140 Oloverdale ..........••• B~noma.
l>olano ..................... 30l Ddl.rno ................. Kern.
l)orlo....................... 210 Sln Fraaci•co........... S.rn Francisco.
Downey....... . ........... 220 DJwney ......... ; ....... Los Angel~~.
Dryto1vn ................ : .• 17' Drytowa . . ............... Amador.
Dunsmuir ......•.•.•••.••.•• 297 Dunsmuir ••. . .•. . .......• . Siskiyou.
Durant ....... . ............. 268 Berkeley ............... Alameda.
IOa~tGate .................. 290 L•Js Angeles ............. L~s Angeles.
mdun ..................... ll3 - San Leandro ........... Alameda.
Dul River .................. 147 Robnerville .............. Humboldt.
IOI Dorado.. . • • .. . • • • • . . . 26 Plaoerville .. ............ El Dorado.
!Olk Grove .•• , ............. I7S E·k Grove ....••••...•.•.• Sacramento.
l!l1lnore .................... 289 Elsinore ................. River~ide.
IDmmanuel ....•••.. , ....... 318 Bigg• .. . ................. Butte.
l!lnterprise.................. 70 Yuba City ............... Sutter.
l'ull er ton .................. 339 1''ullerton ..•.•.•..••...• Orange.
flucalyptus ••... , •...••...• 2t3 Haywardi •......••••...• Alameda,
!Oureka...... •. . . .... . • • .• . . 16 Auburn ................. Placer.
Eveoiag Star ............... 186 Etna Mills .. .. ........... , Siskiyou.
Evergreen ................. , 259 River•hle • . ..••• . ..•.•... ltiver8ide.
~}xcel sio r .......•• . .•. . ..• 166 S.m Francisco . . .....•.••• San Franoisco.
F11llbrook . ... ... • • • • • .. • . 317 ~'all brook ... . . . .. .. .... .. San Diego.
Ferndale ...•• .. ••...•....• 193 Ferndale ........ . ........ Humboldt.
Fidelity . .................. 120 Saa Francisco............ San Franc isco:
Forbestuwa . ............... 50 Porbestow11 .•••......•••• Butte.
Forest.. . ..... . ............. 66 A!leghouy ......... . ..... Sieru.
1"ort Bragg ................ 861 Fu rt Bragg . .............. Mendocino.
Fra11k!i11 .....•••.••.•• , .•• , ll3 Courtl11.nd .• .••..••....•• Sicramento.
l•'resn o ... , • . • .. . • • . ...... 2!7 Fresno ................... Fresno.
Friend•hip ................ 210 Ban Jose ................ Santa Clara.
Fruitvale............... , •• , 336 Fruitvale ............... Alamed11..
Galt .•...•...•..••..•.•.•.. 207 Galt .. . •.•.... . ..... . ..... Sacramento.
Oardena .................. U. D. Gardena .. ............... l.os Angeles.
Georgetown.......... . ..... 2; Georgetowa ...... •. . ••••. El Dorado.
George W11.sbington . • • • . . . . 62 Chine•e Camp .. ... ...... Tuolumne.
Gibsonville .... .... ... ... ... 158 Gibsonville .. .. . . .... . ... Sic rm.
Oolden Gato.. . ... . ..... . • 30 S11.n fraucisco ... .••.•.. .. San Funcisco.
Golden State . .. • . ..• . •..•. 3.18 Los Aageles.. . . . . . . . . • • • Los Angfles.
Oold Hill . • • . .. . .. .. . .. . . . . 32 Lincoln .................. Placer.
Clrafton ................... Ul Grafton ................. Yolo.
Graaite ....... .. ........... 222 Rocklin ................. Placer.
Gravel Range ...... , ..• ,.... 60 Camptonville •..•...•.••. Yuba.
Guadalupe ••.•••••..•.•....• 237 Guadalupe ............... Santa Barbara
Hanford .. ................... .279 Ha11forJ ....•....•...•..• Kings.
Harmo11y....... .. ........... lo.! Sierra. City .••.•...•••••• Sierra.
Hartley ............ . . , ..... 199 Lakoport ............... Lake.

205

206

ALPHABETIOAL LIST OF LODGES.

Lodgo.
No.
Poat OJlloo.
County.
Hawaiian.. . . . . • . . . . • . .
21 Honolulu .••...•...• ... • H~waiie.n Islands.
Henry O'. ay .... • • • . • • • • • . . • . 95 Sutter Creek ..... .. ..... Amador.
Hermann .. .•• . ........• . .. . 127 San Francisco .. .. •••. ... San Francisco.
Hesperlan ... . ............ 26! Santa Maria . ............. Santa Barbara.
Hills Ferry .... . ..••.•. . . •• 236 Newman ........•• . ... . • Ste.nislans.
Kiram. . . .. . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . • • 43 El Dore.do.. . . . . .... ..... El Dore.do.
Hollenbeck ................ H9 Los Angeles .. .. .......... Los Angeles
Hollywood •. ......• . .•....• 355 Hollywood •.. . ........•• Loa Angeles.
Hope ...... .. ......... .. .. 23! Beckwith .... . ......... :. Plumas,
Hornitos... . ... . ..... . . . • • 98 Hornitos.... .. . . • . . . . . •.. . . Mariposa.
Howard................... . 96 Yreka ...•• . ......•. . .. • . Siskiyou.
Humboldt ... ... . ... . ....... 79 Eureka .... . ............. Humboldt.
lllinoi3town... .... ......... 51 Colfax.. . .... .. ... , .... ... Placer.
Inyo .. ....... . .. ..... . .... 2U Independence .. .. . ....... Inyo.
Ione...... .................. 80 Ione..................... Amador.
Ionic . . .................... 121 low11 Hill ...........• .... Placer.
Jetferson .. .... . ............ 97 Laporte ............. .... . Plumas.
Janesville .. ............. .. . 23~ Janesville ....•..• ... • . . . . Lassen.
Jewel. .. . . . .......... .... U. D. San Francisco . ... ...... .. San Francisco.
Keith .•.. ..• ...•...• . ... .. . 197 G ilroy .. . ...... . ... .. .. .. Sar.~a Olara.
Keystone . . .. .. .... ... .. . . . 161 Milton .. .... .. ........ .. Oalaveras.
Kilauea, • . ..•• •.. .•. • • •. . .. 330 Hilo .. . ... . ...... . ........ Hawaiian Islands.
King David 's ...... . . ••• ... 209 San Luis Obispo •.. ... ...• San Luis Obispo.
King S Jlomon's........ . .... 260 B~n Francisco .. .. ......•• San Francisco,
La Fayette .... . . ........... 126 Sebastopol ........... . ... Sonoma.
La Grange.................. 99 Merced .......... ........ Merced.
Landmark . . .... . .......... 253 Madison ........ ......... Yolo.
Las Plilmas ... ....... .... .. 366 Fresno ..... . ..... . .. .. . .. Fresno.
Lassen . . . .... ....... ... . .. H9 Susanville .. ... •.. . . . •. .•• Lassen.
Laurel ........ .. ............ 215 Willows. .... . ........... Glenn.
Lexington .. ........... .. .. 10! El Monte . .. ......... .. ... Los Angeles.
Liberty ...... .. ............ 299 Santa Clara .. ............ Santa Clara.
Live O~k............... . .. Gl Oakland ... . . . .. .. ........ Alameda.
Lodi . ......... .... . .. .... .. 2.51\ Lodi. . . ...... ... . .... .. San Joaqulu,
L~mpoc ... ... . . .. ...... .. 262 L~mp oc .............. .. . Santa Barbara.
Long Beach .......... .. .. 327 Long Beach .. ...... ...... Los Angeles.
Los An11eles............ . ... 42 [,os Angeles ... .. ... . .. ... Los Angeles.
Los Banos . . ... ... . .. . ..... 312 I.os Danos ........ . .. . .... Merced.
[,os G11tos . ..... . .... . .. . . . . 292 Los natos .... ...... . .... Santa Clara.
Loyalton .. .. . . . ... .. . ..... 359 Loyalton . .. ... .. ... . .. ... Sierra.
Madera ... .......... .. . . ... 280 Madera •.. .... •.....•.. . . . ~faders.
Madison...... . .. . . • •. .. . • . 23 Grass Valley............. Nevada.
Magnolia ...••.•••....••.•. 242 Santa Barbara .... . . .. .... S,rnta Barbara.
Manila .... .. ... ........ . .. 3t2 Manila . . . ... ... ... . ...... Philippine Islands.
Manzanita ......... . . ..... . . 102 No1·th San Juan .. . . ... .... Nevada.
Marin ....... ... ..... . .. . .. 191 San R11rael. ..•...... . .•••. Mario.
Mariposa... ... . .. .. .. • . • • • 24 Mariposa....... . . ... . ... , Ml\riposa,
Martinez.. .. ... .... . ...... . 4'1 Martinez . . .. . •.•.• ,...... Oontra Costa.
Maxwell.••.•.... • •......• • 283 Maxwell .............. . ... Colnsa.
McKinley . .... . ........... 347 Richmond ...... ...... .. Oontra Costa.

ALPBABETIOAL LIST OF LODGES.
Lod1e.
No.
Poat Oflk~.
County.
Mendocino .... . . . . ........ . 179 MenJoclno ............... Mendocino.
Meridian ............. . ..... 182 Oollege City.. .. .... . . , •• , Oolusa,
Mill Valley .. ......... ... . 356 Mill Valley..... .. . ....... Marin.
Mlulon . ..... ......... . .... 10\1 8110 Fre.nciAco •...••.. ..• . !:Ian Francisco.
M11kolumne Hill ... .. ... ... . 2(19 Alokelumne Hill•• . ....••. Oalaveras.
Molino ..... . .. ....... . ..... 160 Tehama .. . .•••.. . . •. •..•• Tehama.
Monrovia ..... .. , ...... .... 309 Monrovia ..... .... ..... . Los Angeles.
Monterey. ·........ . ... . ... 217 Monterey ...... ... .... ... Monterey.
Morning Star......... . ... .. GS Stockton . . .. .. . . .... .. ... San Joaquin .
Moeaic ... ............ . ... .. 21g Livermore ... .. .. ... ... . Alameda.
Mount Jackson •.. ....•. . .•. 2~5 Guerneville •.. .. . . ......•• 8onoma.
Mount Moriah .. • • • • . . • • . . . • 44 San Francisco .. . ... . .. •.• B.rn Francisco.
Mountain Shade . . . . . • . . . . • • B Downieville. . . ... ... .. .. Sierra.
Mount Shasta . .... . . . . .. .... 281 Anderson .. . •... ... .. . ... 8hasta.
Mountain View .... ... . ..... ID! Mountain View . . ......... Santa Clara.
Mount Zion .... . . .......... 114 Urlzzly Flat . .. ... ... . , . . . El Dorado.
Natoma........ . ........... Gi Folsom . ..... .. . ........ . Sac ramento.
Naval.... .............. . ... 87 Vullejo ... ..... . .... ...... Sol11no.
Needles .................... 32G Needles .. ............... San Bernardino.
Nevada. ... .. . ....... . . . .. 1:1 Nevada City. .. .. . . .. ..... Nevada.
Newvil le . . . . . . ..... ........ 205 Newville . .... ... ......... Gleoo.
Nicolaus . . ...... . .. ........ lW Wheatland •.. . . . ....• . . .. Yuba. , .
North Butte .• ... . . . . ..•.... 2:10 Gridley .... . . , .. .. ... ... , Butte.
North East ............ .. ... 2GG Fort Bidwell ........ . .... Modoc.
Northern Light . ..•. . .... . • 190 Millville .. .... ......•... . . Shasta.
North Star.. .. .. . . . . . ....... 91 Fort Jones ..... . .... ... Siskiyou.
Norwalk . . ..... . ........... 31.> Norwalk .......... . .. ... Los Angeles.
Oakdale ..... .. ... .. ... ..... 275 Oakdale •........ • •. ..••• Stanislaus.
Oak Orove . . ....... ... .... 2l5 Ale.medtl .. . .. ........... Alnmeda.
Oakland ......... . .. ...... . 188 Oaklnnd .. . ......... .. .... Alameda.
Occidental. . .......... . . . . 22 Sau ~'rancisco ... . ........ . San Francisco.
Ocean Park .... . . .... .. .. . . 369 Sa nt~ Monica .. .. .. . .. . Los Angel es.
Oceanic .... . . ..... .... . . ... 371 Honolulu . ..... . . . .. . .... Oahu.
Olive Branch .. ....••..•.• 269 Tulare ........ .. .......... Tulare.
Olivet ......... .. ........ ... 36.j. Oorning . .. ... ... ... . .. ... Tehama.
Ontal"io ..... ... ........... 301 Ontario............. . . .. . . San Bernardino.
Ophir...... .. ........ . ... . . 33 Murphy'd ..... .. . .. ... .. .. Calaveras.
Orange Grove . .. . .. . ... .. . 293 Orange . ..... , .... . .. . ..• Orange.
Oriental ... . . . . . .... . ... .... lH San Francisco.... .... . .... Sim Francisco.
Orland . . ...•...•. . . ... . ..•• 265 Orland .... . ..... .... . .. .•. Glenn.
Oroville.. . ... .............. 103 Oroville .. ... . . ........... Butte.
Owen . ........ ... ... ... . . .. lOS Scott's Bar... ... .... .. ... !:llsklyou.
Oxnard .... .. ....... .. ..... 3-ll Oxnnrd .... . .... ........ . Ventura.
Pacific . . . . . . . • . . • . . . ...... 136 S:1n Frilncisco ..• . . ...... •• San Francisco.
Pacific Grove, .. ............ 831 Paciftc Grove . . . .... .. ... l\lonterey,
P11jaro •... .•• ... .. ..... .. • • 110 Watsonville •• . . . •.,•.....• Santa Crnz.
P • lestine .. . ....... .. ... . .. 3j l Los Angeles ........ . .... Los Angeles.
Palmyra ............. ... ... 151 Plncerville . . ........•.••. El Dorado.
Palo AIto ....... . .... . . .... 3iG Palo Alto, .... . ... ...... .. Santa Ulara.
Parfa.ite Union .. . ..·.. ...... 17 San Francisco . ..... .. .... San Fr11nclsco.
Pasadena . ........... . .... 272 Pasatlena ......... . . . .... . Los .Angeles.

207

208

ALPHADETICAL LIST OF LODGES.

Lodge.
No.
Pod Omoe,
County.
Pi1so Robles ................ 286 P11so Robles ...... . .. .. .. San Luis O\Jispo.
Penrhyo ....... ... .......... 258 Peoryo ................... Placer,
Peotalpha .................. 202 Los Angeles .............. Los Angeles.
Petaluma .................. 180 Petaluma ................. Soooma.
Phoooix .. ... .............. 178 Sao Bernardino .......... San Bernardino.
Pinole ..................... 858 Pinole...... . ............. Oootra Om ta.
Plumas ............. ,...... 60 Quincy.................... Plnmas.
Pomona •... •...•.••.......• 246 Pomona., ... ............. Los Angeles.
Portervillo ................. 303 Porterville... . . • • . • • . .... Tola re.
rresidio, .................. 354 Sao Franci~co . ....... . ... Sao Francisco.
Quitman .................... 88 North Dloomf!eld ......... Nevada.
Reading ................... 25.i Redding .................. Shasta.
Redlands .................. 300 Redlands. ............. ... Ban !lem11rdlno.
Uedondo ................... 328 Iledoodo ................ Los Angeles.
Redwood City ... . .......•.. 168 Redwood City •.•....... Sao Mateo.
Reedley . .................. 30' Hoedlcy .................. Fresno.
Rio Vista ............... , ... 209 Rio Vista . .. ......... , .... Solano,
Rising Star................. 83 Forest Bill ............. :. Placer.
Rose's Dar................. 89 Smarts ville............... Yuba,
Ilussiao River .............. 181 Windsor .................. Sonoma.
Sacrnmento ............... . 40 Sacramento .............. Sacrnmento.
Saint Ilelena. : ............ . 93 Raiot Helena .. . . .••....•. Napa.
Saint John's ............. .. 37 Yreka...... .. ... .. ....... Siokiyou.
Salinas , ................... 204 13alioas................... Monterey.
Ban Benito ................. 2ll llollister.. ............... San Benito,
Bao !luenavcnture ........... 21' Ventura ... .......... ... . Ventura.
Santa Ana .......... . ... .. .. 2!1 Saot11. Ana ................ Orange.
Santa Bar barn . . . .. , ......... t9i Sant11 Barbara ...........• Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz ... .............. 38 Santa C1·uz .............. Santa Cruz.
Ban Diego........... . . . . .. 35 San Dieuo ................ San Diego.
Banger . .... .............. 316 Sanger . ." ........... . ..... Fresoo,
sa 11 Bernardino .....•...... 818 San D~rodruino ...•..... San Bernardino.
San ~·ernando ............ ,. 313 Fernando ................ J,os Angeles.
Ban Francisco ............. 360 San Francisco ..........• San ~'rancisco.
San Jacinto . ............... 338 Ban Jacinto ............. Riverside.
San Joaquin................ 19 Stockton ................. San Joaquin.
San Jose. . ................. 10 Sa.a Jose .................. Santa Clara.
ban !Jateo ..... ............ 226 Sau M•teo ............... Srn Mateo.
San Miiruel. ... .. .. ......... 285 San Miguel .. .. .......... San Luis Obispo.
San Pedro.... .. . ........... 332 San l'edro .. . ............. [,os Angeles.
Santa Lucia ................ 302 Kings City... ..... . ...... Monterey.
Santa Maria . ............... 34.0 Santa Maria ............. Santa Barbara.
Santa Monica •. ..•.• , ....••• 307 Santa Monioa ..••.•••.••• Los Angeles.
Santa Paula ................ 291 Banta Paula .............. Ventura.
Sao Simeon ................ 196 Cambri11 .................. San Luis Obispo.
Banta Rosa .. . • • .. • . • • . . . • • 5i Santa Rosa .. ............ 13onoma.
Selma... .. • • .............. 277 Bel ma .................... Fresno,
Sequoia ................. , ... 349 Oakland ................. Alameda.
Sierra V111ley............... 18i Sierra ville ................ Blorra.
8ilveyvllle ........... .... .. . 201 Dixon ....... , ............ Solano.
Silver Gate ... : ............ 2!)(1 Sin Dibgo................ Ban Diego.

ALPHABETIOAL LIST OF LODGES.
lo4111.
No.
llfn0trlty ................... 1311
11111011 .................. .. 310
l11nw Mountain ............ ~71
lnlano .......... ........... ~~
lloloyomo .................. 12,
lnuthern Oalifornia ..•• , .••• 2i8
lu11tb Gate ................. 320
ll1111th P~~adena . ........... 367
lnuth San Francisco .. . .•••• 212
lloutb West . ............... 283
lptranza Italian it • •• , • . •••• 219
Mlanlslaus ............. .. ... 206
ll"rr King ... ......... ... ... 844.
Mnlaun..... .. .. ... .. . .. . .. 55
Mumm It ............ ... ..... 1111
llunset .. .................. 3511
l'urprlse Valley •..••......•• 285
T~ble Mo11ntain ............ 12'
Tehachapi .................. 318
'l'ehama ... • .. . . . . . . . • • • .. .. 8
Temescal .................. 314
Temple . • • • • .. • . . . • . • . . .. • . 14
Tuas.. .. .. • .. . .. . .. .. .. .. '6
Traver ..................... 29\l
Trinity ..................... 27
1'ruckee...... .. ............ 200
Tuolumne.. . . . . . . . . .. . . .. • . 8
Tusoan .................... 2Gl
Tyrlan .... ................ 284.
Union. ..... ................ 58
Unity ...................... SGS
Vacaville .................. 13'
V111lee de France ........... 329
Vall•y ...................... 185
Vesper..................... 84
Veteran . ....... .......... U. D.
Vl•alia ..................... 128
Vitruvi us ........ . .. . ....... 1"'5
Voloane...... .. . . . . . . . .. . . 66
Washington.... ... • • • • . . . • 20
Welcome ................... 255
Western Star............... 2
West Gate . .................. S:i5
Whittler ........ : .......... 823
Willits .................... 365
Wilmington ................. 198
Winoedumab ............... 287
Woodbridge ............... 131
Woodland .................. 156
Yolo . ...... ; ............... bl
Yosemite ...... . .......... lS:J
Yount............ • .. .. • .. 12
Yuba................... .. 89

14

Poot omoe.
OountF.
Greenville ................ Plumas.
Bl1son .................... Siskiyou.
Stony Ford .............. Colusa.
Vallejo................... Solano.
Heald1burg.............. Bouoma.
Los Angeles •....•.•••••• Los Angeles.
Lo• Angeles .............. Los Angeles.
S•>n h !'du.Jena .......... Lo~ Angeles
8an Francisco •.......•••. San Francisco.
National City ............ San Diego.
s~n Fr11.nclsco ............ San Francisco.
Modesto ...... ...... ...... Stanislau~.
Ban Francisco ............ San Franci,co.
Suisun .................... Solano.
Knights Ferry ............ Stan Man•.
Los Angeles ............. Los Angeles.
Cedarville................ Modoc.
Cherokee ................. Butte.
Tehachapi ............. ! . Kern.
Sacramento .............. Sacramento.
Oorona .................. River~ide.
Sonoma ............ . ...... Sonoma.
San Juan ................ San Benito.
T1·aver ................... Tulare.
Weaverville .............. Tl'lnity.
Truckee................. Nevada.
Bonou ................... Tuolamne.
W1lllams ................ Ooluss,
Dunnigan ................ Yolo.
Sacr11mento ............. Sacrimento.
Glendale ................. Los Angeles.
Vacaville ................ Solano.
Los Angele~.............. Los Angeles.
Linden ................... San Joaquin .
Red Bl ult ................ Tehama.
Sawtelle ................. Los Angeles._
Visalia ... ...... .......... Tulare.
Bloomfield ................ Sonoma.
Volcano ................ . . Amador.
Sacramento ............... Sacramento.
Lemoore., .............. Kings .
Shasta .................... Shasta.
Los Angele1.............. Los Angeles.
Whittier ................ Los Angeles.
Willits ................... Mendocino.
Wilmington ... ............ Los Angeles.
Rishop ............... , •.• Inyo.
Woodbridge .............. San Joaquin.
Woodland................ Yolo.
Yolo ..................... Yolo.
Coulterville .............. Mariposa .
N·apa ..................... Napa.
Marysville................ Yuba.

209

210

LOCATION OF LODGES.
l 'o1t Oflloe.

LOCATION OF LODGES
Alphe.betlce.lly Arre.nged.

Poat Ofllce.

Lodge.

211

LOCATION OF LODGES.

No

Adin . ... . ....•••••.. , ..... Adin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • • • . . . . • . .. . 250
Alhambra,.·, ...........•.•. Alhambra .... .... .•••............ 322
Alameda . , . . . • • . . . . . . ..... Oak Grove .......•... . . , .. . ...... 215 Alleghany ••........•....... Forest...............•..... . . . ... 66
Alturas................. .. .. Alturas ................••••••.... 248
Anaheim ........ .. ......... Anaheim .................••..... 207
Anderson.. : .. .. . . .••...... Mount Shasta ................... . 281
Angels. Camp ............... Bear Mountain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 6
Antioch ...... , .. ,, •••...... Antioch ........ .. ...•.... .. ...... 175
Arroyo Grande ..... . ....... Arroyo .. ..... .......... ..... .... 274
Auburn •. , ••• , .•••..• , ••..• Eureka ..........•.......••...... 16
Arcata .••...•.••• , .... ..... Arcata.................•..•...... 106
Azusa .........•.•.....•.••. Azusa. • . . . . . . . . . . . . • • • • • . . . . . 305
Bakersfield.. . . . . . . . . ...... Bakersfield... . ...•••.... . .•....•. 224
Beckwith. . .... . .•.• , • .• .... Hope .. . .....•........•.••....... 234
Benicia . . . . . . . • . . .......•. Benicia. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . • . . • 5
Berkeley ..................• Durant ................ , ......... 268
Berkeley •....... . .......... Berkeley ..........•............. 363
Biggs .... .. , •......•..... . Emmanuel.. .................. , ... 318
Bishop .••.•.•.... , •••...... Winnedumah . .......... , ..•..... 287
Bloomfield ................. Vitr111•ius ....................... . 145
Bodie ..............•.•.•... Bodie . . ...•....•...••..... . .... 252
Brentwood ....••...... .. .... Brentwood ....................... 345
Bridgeport . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alta. . . . . . ...•......... .': ....... 333
Buena Park ..••.. ·.•...•.... Buena Park ............. . ........ 357
Calistoga ........•••....•••. Calistoga............... . . . ...... , 233
Cambria.....••...•• ••... ... San Simeon ....•..• . ....•....• ••• 196
Campbell..•. • ......•....•••. Charity ..•••.•....•.•......... ; .•. 362
Camptonville.. . ........ , ... Gravel Range . . . . . . .••. : . . . . .. .. 59
Castroville .. ............... Confidence ................... . ... 203

Lodge.

No.

Oavite, P. I ................. Cal'ite. . .. .... . . .. .......•..••••. 3o0
Cedarville ...... •. ...... .. .. Surprise Valley................... 235
l 'enterville..... , ........... . Alame.da.. •.•.. . . .......•••...... 167
Cherokee ..•••••........ . •.. Table Mountain ..•. , ......••••••. 124
Chinese Camp. •.•••. , ....... George Washington. • . • . • . • . . . . . • . 62
Chico ....................... Chico ...••.....• , .. , ....... .... ·.. 111
Cloverdale .................. Curtis ........................... 140
Coulterville . ... .... .. . .. . .. . Yosemite .................... .... 133
College City ...... ... ...•... Meridian..............•..• : ••.... 182
Colfax ..•••••... , ...•.. . ... Illinoistown. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Corona .... ........ ..... . .. . Temescal. •...... . ..... . .••• , .•. . 314
Courtland . . ................ Franklin.................... .. . .. 143
Covelo•...••••....••••..•••. Covelo. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 231
Colusa .. .................... Colusa.•.•••.••. .. •...........•.. 240
Colton....••••• , ..••••...... Ashlar.........••• , ....•••....... 306
Covina. . . . . . . . . • . . . . . • •... Covina ...•.. •..• .••.•••.• .. •.. .. 33(
Compton .•••........••.•... Anchor ....... .. ...•• , , ..•....... 273
Coloma.: ...••.•........ . ... Acacia . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • • . . . . . . . . . . 92
Corning . . ....... ...... . .... Olivet .. . .... . .. . .......... . . .. .. 364
Crescent City .... • ......•••. Crescent........................• 45
Crockett .................... Carquinez .. . .. . . ................ 337
Davisville ••• , ...• . ..... , ... Athens . ..... , .......... . ... . .... 228
Del11no .. •.• ..••. . , •......•• Delano .. . ...•• • ••.•••..... •..•. .. 309
Dixon ........... , .... . ..... Silveyville ......•.....•• • ........ 201
Downey .......•. . .......... Downey .. ...................•.... 220
Downieville. . • • • • .. . . . .. .. Mountain Shade ............... . ; : 18
Drytown.. . •..•.. • ..• ..... . Drytown ... ................•••.. 174
Dutch Flat ........... . ..... Clay ........: .••.........•...... 101
Dunsmuir .......... .... .... Dunsmuir .......... , ........ . .... 297
Dunnigan ...... , •.•••...... Tyrian . .. . . • • . . . • • . • . • . . . . . . . . 284
East Oakland .... . ..•..•.... Brooklyn, ..... , .... , .•... , , . , .... 225
East Los Angeles ........ ,, . . Sunset .. •...... .....•....... , ••. 290
Elk Grove ..........••.. . ... Elk Grove .............. . ........ 173
Elsinore., ....... . , .....•... Elsinore.....•.• . .....••...•...... 289
El Dorado.: . ; ; • ; ; .•...• : ... Hiram •.• ; ; .. : : : . : ; : ..•• : • . • . • • . 43
EI Monte..••.•• . ........... Lexington ...... , .• , •• , •.••..... . 104
Escondido .... .. . •.... ..• ••. Consuelo . . ,, ....... , •..•... , , •.. 325

212

LOOATIOY OF LODGES.
Poat Ollloe,

Lodge.

213

.LOCATION OF LODGES.
No.

Etna Mill •.......••. , ....•. Evening Star •.••....••.......... 186
Eureka...... , .•.• , ••••..... Humboldt.... . .......••...•.••... 79
Fallbrook ....••...•••• , . .. . Fall brook ........................ 317
Fernando . . . . ..•.••• . .•... San Fernando ..... , .........•..... 343
Ferndale ...•.•......•.•.... Ferndale .•.•.......••............ 193
Forbestown ......•......•• .. Forbestown . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Folsom..... . .............. Natoma. ... . ... . .............•... 64
Fort Bidwell.. .............. North East ...... ................ 266
Fort Bragg .... . . . ........•• Fort Bragg. . ; . .. . . .. . ....... ..... 361
Fort Jones .................. North Star ............... .... •... 91

l'o1t Olllce.

Lodge.

No.

1110 . .. .•.. . ... . •.••. , ...... Clinton ......•••..•...•.•....•.•. 119
Independence . . .. •... ... . . .. Inyo . . . ........ ..• .•..... . .. . . . 221
Ione...... : .... , ......... . .. Jone............ . ..•........ . .••• 80
Iowa Hill ....... . ........ .. Ionic ............................ 121
Jackson . ....... ... .... ... . . Amador ..•...•.. .. ..••....... . . . 65
J unesville ..... , .. . . , ... .. . , J anesvilh ...... , ••.•••••• , , ..... 232
Kings City ............•... . Santa Lucia.... , • ......• . ........ 302
Knights Ferry .............. Summit ..•... , ....•... . ...••.... 112
Lakeport ................. .. Hartley.. ...... . .. ............... 199
La Porte, ......•... .... .. . . Jefferson .. . . . .... • .•••• . ........ . 97

Forest Hill ........... . ..... Rising Star ..... . ................ 83
Fresno ..................... Fresno ....................... . .. 24 7
Fresno .•...•. ..•. . . ........ Las Palmas .................. . .. 366

Lemoore . .....•.. , ...... , .. Welcome ....••............•...•. 255
Lincoln .. .... ....••••. .... . Gold Hill. . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . • • • • • • 32
Livermore ...... .. .. . . .... . Mosaic ........ ..... . ............. 218

Fruitvale. . . ......••...... Fruitvale ... . ........ .. .......... 336
Fullerton .................. Fullerton ............•........... 339
Galt.. ...................... Galt............... . ............. 267

Linden ..............•.... , . Valley., .. ,, ...... : •. • ••.•••....• 135
Lodi . . , •• , ..• ... ...•• , •.... Lodi ••••...•.•••. . •.•••..•...... 256

Gardena .......•. . .••..•.... Gardena ... . .. . •••. .... ...... .. U. D.
Georgetown ................ Georgetown . ."•........ ._ ..... : . . . . 25
Gibsonville ......•••••.•••.. Gibsonville . ..... ... , . ........... 158
Gilroy ... ... .... ... ........ Keith .. ........ .. . ... ........... 187
Glendale ................... Unity ....... , ...•............ . .. :{68
Grafton .... ....... ...•.•.... Grafton ..•...................... 141
Grass Valley ...... ......... . Madison ... ..... ...... ...... ... ·.• 23
Greenville .................. Sincerity ..... .. ........... ..... . 132
Grizzly Flat ..... , . .. ... , , .. Mount Zion .... ... , ...... , ..... . . 114

Lompo'°c . ......•........ • . , .Lompoc ..... ..•.. . .... . •... .. ... 262
Lower Lake .......• , . . .••.. Clear Lake..... . .. .. ............ 183
Long Beach.... . .... : . , . , .'Long Beach ...................... 327
Los Angeles ....• , ...... . . .. Los Angeles . • • . • . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . 42
•..•••.. . . , . , . . . Pentalpha.. •.• , , . . .••.• •.. .. . .... 202
................ Southern California ............... 2i8
"

"

.... . .•... ..• , . . East Gate ............ ....... . .... 290
.. . , , ... , .. .... . Hollenbeck... . ..... . ...••••. .. .. . 319
... , . , , ...•.•.•• South Gate , . ~,., ......... . ...... 320
• ...• , • , . , .... .. . Vallee de France ... . .•........... 329

Gridley....... . .. .. ....... .. North Butte, ...... .. .... . .. ... .. 230
Guadalupe .... .... . ......... Guadalupe ... .................... 237

••. , ..... , . . .. . . West Gate. . . . . . . . • . . . . • . . . . . . . . 335
. , , • , , , •.. , .... . Palestine . . , .••...•. .. ..... . ..... 351

Guerneville ................. Mount Jackson .............. .. ... 295.
Hanford .... . .. ........•.... Hanford .... .. .....••.•.•........ 279
Haywards . .... . ..• .. . ... ... Eucalyptus , •• . ...•. . .... ,' ..•.... 243
Healdsburg .....• , ........ ... Sotoyome .....••............ . •.. , 123

• ....... , ... , ... Golden State . , ...... .• ••.....•.. 358
Los Banos ..... . ..... , , . . . .. Los Banos . .... . ........... .'.••.. 312

Hilo, H. I ..... : ..... .. ..... Kilauea. . . . . . . .... .. ............ 330
Hornitoa ...•••••••••....... Horn1tos.. • . • . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
Hollister ................... San Benito. .. . , ........... , , •• , , . 211

Loylllton ................. . . Loyalton ... ........ .. .. ..•...... 359
Marysville.. .. .. • • ... ..... . Corinthian............. . . . . . . . . . . 9
,,
...••• .. ..•....... Yuba.................. . ..... .. ... 39

Hollywood. .....••••••.•.•.. Hollywood ................. , ... ; . 355
Honolulu, H. I. .. , ........ , , Hawaiian ........................ 21

Madison .... , . : .... , ...••... Landmark ...... • •...••••••.• • ... 253
Manila ...••.... . ..•..... .. . Manila, P. I. ............ .. ...... :142

Honolulu, H. I. .. . .... , ... . Oceanic . ....•.........•.... , .• , .371

Maxwell. . • . • • • • . .... : • ..•. Maxwell ...... . ....•••••••••. . ... 288

. . . . . . . . . . . . ... Sunset .......................... 352

"

Los Gatos .. . ........•. , •. , . Los Gatos . , .•••... . .. ... .•...... 292

214

LOOATION OF LODGES.
Poat Office.

Lodge.

215

LOOATION OF LODGES.
:So.

Po1t Oflloe.

Lodge.

No.

Madera . . . . . . . ..••...••.• • Madera ...•.. . .... , ..•........ . .. 280

Pasadena .. ••.....•••...... . Corona .. , .••.•.......•.. ... .. .. . 324

Mariposa ..... ... ......••••• Mariposa. ...... . ..•......•••.. . .. 24
1vfartinez .............. • ... , Martinez . • . . . . . . • . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . 41

Penryo ............... .. .... Penrhyn. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..• 258
Petaluma.................. , Petaluma ............... . .... . ... 180
Pinole ..... ... . ...•. ... .... Pinole ..•..... . : . ... ....•. .. ..... 353

Merced.. .. ................. La Grange . .... .. ....... . ........ 99
Mendocino ........••..•.... Mendocino....•.........•........ 179
Middletown ................ Callayomi.. . . . • . . . . . . .. . . .. . .... 282
Milton ....... .. ............ KP.ystone ..........•....•..... . .. 161
Mill Valley ................. Mill Valley.. ................ .. .. 356
.Millville............ . ....... Northern Light. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .... 190

Pleasanton ......... . .... . .. Alisa!.. ..•. .. •• .. . . ..... . ......• . 321
Placerville........••.. . ... . . El Dorado.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . • . . 26
''
...... . ....... .... Palmym . ............. .. . . . ..... . 151
Point. Arena ..... .. ......... Claiborne...••••......•...... , • , . 185
Pomona ................. ... Pomona ...... . .... ...•...•. .. ... 246

Mokelumne Hill ••.....•.... Mokelumne Hill ....••..•........ 298

Porterville ..... . ....... ... .. Porterville ....•.•................ 303

Monrovia.......•........ .. . Monrovia . .•..•.••.......... ... .. 308
Monterey ..........••.•••.• Monterey ...... .. ................ 217
Mounts.in View ........... . . Mountain View . .. . ..•..•.... . ... 194

Quincy .. ... ............... . Plumas .. ............ ......... .. . 60
Redondo ....... , ...•........ l:l edondo...... . ...... : ........... 328

Modesto .....• , .. , ....... .. Stanislaus . ..... ..... . ...... .. ... 206
Murphy's . .. .... ·: .•........ Ophir........................ .. .. 33
No.tiooal City ............... South West .... . .......... .' ...... 283

Redding .• . .. .. .....•....... Reading .............. . .... .. .... 254
R edla.nds ................... Redlands ..... .. .......... .. ..... 300
Reedlt1y •.•...••••..... .. ... Reedley ........... . ...... . .. •.•. 304
Redwood City .............. Redwood City.................... 168

Napa . . ...• •••............ . Yount . . .... . .. . . . ..... . ..... . .. 12
Newman . .... .. ....•....... Hill's Ferry ..... . ................ 236
Needles .......• •••......... Needles . : . . .... : .... . ......... . . 326

Red Bluff .. . . .... . .... . . . .. Vesper . . . . .. ...... ....•..•...... 84
Richmond . ....... ,, ........ McKinley ...•.•....••... ..• ..... 347
Rio Vista. . .... . ..... . .. . .. Rio Vista..... . .....•............ 208

Nevada City .••.••..•.•..... Nevada..... .... ...... . ..•• .. .... 13 •
Newville ................... Newville .......... . ............. 205
North Bloomfield ............ Quitman......................... 88

Riverside . . ... . . . ....... . . .. Evergreen.. ...................... 259
Rocklin ...... , . . .... .. . ... . . Granite..... . .. •. ...... .... ...... 222
Rohnerville... . ... ...... . . .. Eel River ........ .. ..... . . . ...... 147

North San Juan.. . .•......•• Maoza.ni ta. ... .. ... . . , , , ... , ...... 102
Nor_walk .............. .. •.. Norwalk......................... 315

Sacramento . .•.•.. .........• Tehama ... ..... . ... :. . . . . . . • . . . . 3
''
............ .. ... Washington ........ .. .. .... . ..... 20
''
.....••...... .... S11cramento ..••...•.•............ 40

Oakla.nd .................... Live Oak ..........•• ·····' . .. . .. 61
.• • • • • • ..•.. . . . . .... Oakland . .. ...••.•......... , . . . . . 188

"

... . .. ........... Union.,...... . .•. ; .....•....•.... 58

.• • • · . . . . . . . . ....... Sequoia....... .... ..•..•.... . ..... 349
Oakdale .................... Oakdale.. . . . . . . . . . . .. . • • . . . .. . • . 275
Ontario .. ...... .. .. , .... ... Ontarfo ... .. .. , . .. . .. .. . .. ....... 301
Oraoge • . ..... . .. . .....•.... Orange Grove . ...•..• . ... . . ..... . 293
Orlaod •.. . ....•.•.... . ..... Orland ........... , ... . .......... 265

''

. . . . . . . . . . . . .... Concord ...................... . .. 117

Oroville . .... .. ; ...... . .. . . Oroville .. ... ... . .....• ._. ..• , ••• _.103.
Oxnard .......• .. .•.... . ... Oxoard. .. ... . .. , ........• . ..... , 341
Pacific Grove ....... ... ..... Pacific Grove.. ...•.•.••...... .... 331

San Andreas.. .. .

.. ..... . .. Calaveras ..................... .. . 78

San Bernardino.............. Phoonix • . . . . . . . . . . . ...•....•... 178
''
...... , ..... . San Bernardino .... .. , ........... 348
San Diego . . . . . ......... . ... San Diego.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • • . 35
•..•••••.... .. .... Silver Ge.te ...... . ..... . ........ . . 296
San Francisco". .............. California........................ 1
"
..... .. .... , • , , Pa.rfaite Union . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • • • 17

Palo Alto ..... . .. . . ..... .. ..Palo Alto ....•••.•... .. •..•.•. . .• 346

.• •.•...•.. . ... Occidental. . • . • . • . . . . . . . . • • . . • • • • 22

Paso Robles . .• • ••••.•..... . Paso Robles. . .............. . ..... 286
Pasadena. ................. .. Pt111adena. ...................... . . 272

•.. .......•..•. Golden Gate.. . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . • • • • • 30
''

..•............ Mou11t Moriah . .................. 44
. .. . .. . ... . . ... Fidelity . ......................... 120

216

LOCATION OF LODGES.
Po•t Of!lce.

Lodg~.

No.

San Francisco .............. Hermann .............. ;.•••....... 127
''
............... Pacific. . . . . . . . .................. 136
''
..... .. : . .... .. <Jrockett ...................... ... 139
''

217

LOCATION OF LODGES.

.............. . Oriental .. . ....................... 144

•.............. Excelsior ...•.•.................. 166
......••....... Mission •.......••••....•......... 169
............... South San Francisco ............... 212
............... Doric............ , ....•.••....... 216
•.............. Speranza Italiana ......•......• , .. 219
..........•.... King Solomon's .......•••..... : . . 260
......•...•...• Starr King ...••. , .•••..•. , •.••... 344
............... Presidio . . ........•••.. : ... . .... . 354
............... San Francisco .................... 360
..· ............. Amity ........................... 370
............... Jewel ......................... U. D.
San Jacinto ...•.•......•... San Jacinto ....................... 338
San Jose ..........••.••.... San Jose ........................ 10
•.....••..........•. Friendship ...............•...... 210
San Juan . . . . . . ..•........ Texas ........................... 46
San Leandro ....••......•••• Eden ...... . ..................... 113
San Luis Obispo ............ King David's ••••................ 209
S:i.n Mateo . . ••• , .........• San Mateo .............••••...... 226
San Miguel. .............. .. San Miguel. ..................... 285
San Pedro ..••.............. San l'edro....... . ... . ..... : . ..... 332
San Rafael .................. Marin ........... , ........... , ... 191
Santa Ana .................. Santa Ana.. ...............•...... 241
Santa Barbara .............. Santa Barbara ................... 192
....•.....•••. Magnolia .. -.••••.... , . , •........ 242
Santa Cruz ..•....•.•...•..• Santa Cruz .......•.............. 38
Santa Clara...... , ........•. Liberty ......•.... , ....•. , ...... 299
Santa Maria ..... , . ". . , ...... Hesperio.n ..... , ................. 264
................ San ta Maria.............•........ 340
Santa Monica ..•••....•..•. S:mta Monica .................... 307
Santa Monica ............... Ocean Park ...................... 369
Santa Paula ................. Santa Paula ................ . .... 291
Santa Rosa •.•.•............ Santa Rosa ...........•.......... 57
Salinas ...........•..•...... Salinas ..................•.••.... 204
Sanger .........•••.•••....... Sanger .......................... 316
Sawtelle ...• , ...•.......... Veteran : . , ................. U. D.
Scott's Bar .....••...•...... Owen .......• , , , , • , . , , .......... 108
Sebastopol.. . . . . . . • . . • • • • • • La Fayette. . . . . .... , ....• , ...... 126
Selma ......••......•....•.. Selma .................... , • , , .. 2i9
Saint Helena ... , •••.•..•••. Saint Helena,.,.,, ....•.. ,,,, .. ,, 93
Shasta ...................... "res tern Star . . . . . ........ . , . . . . 2
Sierra City ..•... , ••••...... Harmony .•. , ...........•...•.... 164

l'o1t Otllce.

Lodge.

No.

Sierraville .... , ............ Sierra Valley .................... 184
l'liseon ...................... Sisson .......................... 310
8ma.rtsville ....•• , ........... Rose's Bar. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . . . 89
South Pasadena ............. South Pasadena ................... 367
Son om a . . . . . . . ........ , ••.. Tern pie. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Sonora .....••• , ............ Tuolumne................. . . . . . . 8
Stockton ................... San Joaquin ..................... 19
Stockton .. • .. • . .. .. .. . . . . . Morning Star .................... 68
Stony Ford ................. Snow Mountain ......•.•.•....... 271
Susam·ille. . . . • . . . • • . .... . . Lassen ............. . ............ 149
Sutter Creek . .. . ... , .• , ..•. Henry Clay ..................... 95
Suisun ................... . . Suisun . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Tehama ........... ,· ........ Molino ...................•. , .... 150
Tehachapi. ................. Tehachapi. ...................... . 313
Traver ..•.•............... Traver .....•.•......•........... 291
Truckee ..... , .............. Truckee ......................... 200
Tulare.. ,,,, .......••• , ..... Olive Branch .......•..•..... . .... 269
Ukiah .......•..••. , ••••••.. Abell ....•••................... 146
Vallejo. . . . . ............... Na val •...... '. . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . • . . • 87
............... , .... Solano ....•••..............•..•. 229
Vacaville .....•....... , ...• Vacaville ••.•.......•• , .....•.... 134
Ventura..........•......... San Buenaventura ..•............. 214
Visalia ••••.•............... Visalia .......•••••••..•......•.. 128
Volcano ••.•........... , .... Volcano • . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Walnut Creek .............. Alamo ................ , ........• , 122
\Vatsonville ...•.•. , ........ Pajaro .• , •••.............•.•.... . 110
West Oakland.'............. Alcatraz ........................ . 2i4
vVeaverville ............. . •. Trinity ... " ...........•......•... 27
Wheatland. , .. , , , ......... , Nicolaus •..........•...• , ....•... 129
Whittier .........••. , ..•... Whittier ...................... . 323
Winters •..............•.... Buckeye . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . • ·••..... 1!J5
Willits..................... Willits ... : , .................... 365
'Villows ...•• , ..•..•........ Laurel. .........•••.....•........ 245
Windsor.... ,.,, ......•••... Russian River...... , ..........•.. 181
\Villiams ..... , .•....•...... Tuscan .• , , , •.................... 261
Wilmington ................ Wilmington ........... . ... : ..... 198
Woodbridge ................ Woodbridge......... , ............ l:H
'Voodland ........... , ....•• \Voodland .........•........•.... 156
Yolo., ..... , ............... Yolo ....••....••••.............. 81
Yreka...................... St. John's ....................... . 37
''

..................... . Howard ....... , ..... ........... , 96

Y ubn City ..••... , ..••...•.. Enterprise. . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . 70

218

219

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES.

GRAND LODGES IN CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGES OF THE UNITED STATES
AND BRITISH AMERICA
In Oorrespondenoe with the Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.
GRAND LODGES.

GRAND SECRETARIES.

RESIDENCES.

ORGANIZ~D.

ALABAMA, .....•...... George A. Beauchamp, ... Muntgomery,. .... .June 15, 1821.
AmzoN A . . . . . . . . . . . . . George J. Roskroge, •• ••• Tucson, ...•..... Mar. 25, 1882.
ARKANSAS ............. Fav Hempstead,. ........ ·. Ditt/e Rock,. ..... Mar. 25, 1882.
BRITISH COLUMBIA, . ... ' R. 'E. Brett,. ......•.•....• Victoi·ia, ........ Feb. 22, 1832.
CANADA, ...... .... ... I Hugh Murrtty,. ..... ...... Hamilton, ........ Oct. 10, 18.55.
CoLORAl>O, .... ... . ... , Charles H. Jacobsoa ...... Denvel',. .. . ...... Aug. 2, 1861.
CONNECTICUT, ........ John H. Barlow,. ...•... Hartford,. ....... July ~. 1789.
DELAWARE, . .......... Beujamin F. Bartram,. .... Wilmington, .. .. .. Juue 6, 1806.
DIST. OF COLUllBIA,. .. Arvino w. Johnston,. . .••. Wa•hington, .... . Feb. 19, 1811.
FLORIDA, •. ........... Wilber P. Webster, . . .... •Jacksonville, .... July 5, 1830.
GEORGIA, ............. W. A. Wolihin, ........... Macon,. ......... Dec. 16, 1786.
IDAHO,. ... ... ....... Theophilus W. Randall, ... Boise,. .......... Dec.17, 1867.
ILLINOIS, . ............ Joseph H. c. Dill,. .. ...... Bloomington, .... April 6, 1840.
INDIANA,. ............ Calvin W. Prather, ....... AndP.rBon, . .... .fan. 12, 1818.
INDIAN TEHRITORY, ... Joseph Samuel Murrow, ... Atoka, ........•. Oct. 5, 1874.
low A,. ..•.••.•....... Newton R. Parvin,. ....... Cedai· Rapids, .. .Jan. ~. 1844.
KANSAS ,. ... .......... AllJe1·t K. Wilson, ........ Topeka,. •....•... Mar.17, 185G.
KENTUCKY,. .......... Henry Bannister Grant, •. Louisville, ....... Oct. 8, lROO.
LOUISIANA,. ...... .... Richaru Lambert, . ........ New Orleans, .... Junc·W, 1812.
MAINE,. .. ............ Stephen Berry,. .......... Portland,. ....... June 1, 1820.
MANITOBA, ..... , .. • James A. Ovas,. .......... Winnepeg, . ...... May 12, J875 .
MARYLAND,. .. ........ W.l'.iam M. Isaac,. . ... .... Baltimore,. ....... Apri117, 1887.
MASSACHUSETTS, .. ... . Rereno D. Nickerson,. ..... Boston, . ......... Mar. 8, li77.
MIOHIOAN,. ..•.•...•.. l.ou B. WlnRor, ... ....•... ll_.d City . ...•... Sept.17, 1844.
MINNRSOTA,. .. ........ ThomaR Montgomery., .. .• Saint Paul ,. ..... Feb . 23, 1863.
MISSISSIPPI,. ..... .•• . Fr•uerick Speed, . .. .. . .. . Vicksburg, . . .. . . July 2i, 1818.
MISSOURI, .. •......... John R. Paf"on • ... . ' . . .. .. St . L-Ouis,. ...•... May 4, 1821.
MONTANA, ........... . Cornelius Hedges,........ Helena,. ......... .Jan. U, 1866.
NEBRASKA, . ....... ... Francis E. White,. .•...•. Omaha,. ........ Sept.2:l, 1857.
NEVADA,...... . . . . . Chauncey N. Noteware, .. Carson,. ......... Jan. 16, 1865.
NEW BRUNSWICK, ...•. J. Twining Hartt •......... Saint John,. ..... Oct. 10, 1807.
NEW HAMPSHIRE,. .... Frank D. Woodbury, ...... Concord, ........ .July 8, 1i89.
NEW JERSEY,. ........ Thos. H. R. Redway, . ... . 1\·enton, ...•..... Dec. lA, 1786.
NEW MEXICO, ......•. Alpheus A. Keen,. . . .. .. .. Albuquerque, ..•. Aug. 7, 1~77.
NEW YORJ[,. ... ....... Edward M. L. Ehlers, ..... New York,. ...... Sept. 5, 1781.
NORTH CAROLINA, ... John
Drewry, ' .. ....... Raleigh, .......•. [)ec. 12, 1777.
NORTH DAKOTA,. ..... Frank J, Thompson,. .•... Far'l,o, •. ........ June 13, 1889.
Nov A SCOTIA ,. ... .... Thomas Mowbra.y .......... Halifax,. ........ .Jan. 21, 1RG6.
Omo,. ............... John H. Bromwell,. ...... Cincinnati, ....... .Jan. 7, 1808.
OKLAliOllA,. .......... James S. Hunt, . . . . ...... . Gt1thriP, .... ... .. Nov.10, 189'l,
OREGON,. ............. J11mes F. Robin~on,. ...... Eugene, .......... Sept.•15, 1851.
PENNSYLVANIA,. ...... William A. Sinn, .......... Philadelphia,. . ... Sept.25, 1786.
PBINOE EDW'D ISLAND, N~il Mac Kelvie,. •..• .•. . . Summer11ide ...... June 24, 1875,
QUEBEC,. ............ Will 11. W11yt~':"' " ..... . llfont~·eal, .. ...... Oct. 20, 1~69,
RHODE ISLAND,........ S . Penrose W1lhams, ..... Providence ,. ..... .June 27, 1191.
SOUTH CAROLINA,. ... . Charles Inglesby, .•..... Oliarlestun,. ... ... Mar . 24, 1787.
SOUTH DA&OTA, ...... Heo. A. Pettil!rew, .....•. 'iioux Falls . , •... July 21, 1775,
TENNESSEE, . . . . • . . . . . . John U. Garrett, ... . .•.... Nashville, .... .... Dec. 27, 1813.
TEXAS, ..•.••......... John Watson,. ...... .. ..... Houston,. ........ Dec. 20, 1837,
UTAH, ............... , Christopher Diehl, ........ Sall LakeOity, .•. .Jan. 17, 1872.
VERMONT,. ........... Henry H. Ross ........... Burlington,. ..... Oct. 14, 1794.
VIRGINIA, .....••...•. Geo. W. Carrinitton,. ..... Riclimond, ...•.•• Oct. 13, 1778.
WASHINGTON,. ........ Horace
Taylor, ....... Olympia,. ....... [)ec. 8, 1858.
WEST VIRGINIA,. ...... Hiram R. IlO\Hrd,. ..... ()/ini·/eaton,..... Mny 11, 18G5.
WISCONSIN,. ••••..... William
Perry, ........ Milwaukee, ....•• Dec.18, 1843.
WYOMING, . ......... . William L. Ko~keodall,. .. · ISal'atoga,. ·=Dec. 15, 1874.

c.

w.
w.

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES.
In Oorrespondenoe with the Grand Lodge of California.
With Names and Residences of Grand Secretaries.

CUBA, Grand Lodgo of. .. , ...•••• . . ... . A. Miranua, .................. llavana..
ENci1,AsD, Grand (,odge of •...• . ..•• , .. E. Letchworth, F. 8. A., ...... London.
!BELAND, Grand Lodge of•.• ••.••.• . .. .• Rie;ht Hon. Lord Oastletown, .. Dublin.
N Ew SOUTH WALES, United Grand l , , .. Arthur H, Brey, . . , .......••. Sydney.
Lodge of .................... f
NEW ZEALAND,. .• ,,., ................ . Malcolm Niccol,. ............ , . Auckland.
SCOTLAND, Grand Lodge of. , ..•...•••• Dave Reid, .. •.•.....•......•• • Edinburgh .
SouTa AusTBALIA, Granu Lodge of ..... James H. Cunningham,

•. .... Adelaide.

VICTORIA, Grand Lodge of .. , ....... ... . John Braim,. ..... , .......... • Mtlbo1<rne.

220

Y~rt

[1905.

LIST OF ELECTIVE GRAND OFFICERS.

IU05.]

221

l.iIST OF ELECTIVE GRA~D OFFICERS.

LIST OF ELECTED OFFiCERS OF THB

M. ·. W. ·. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE

18TH DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 5851.·

GRAND MASTER

1850 *Jonathan D. Stevenson
1851 *John A. Tutt,
1852 *Benjamin D. Hyam
1853 *Chai les M. H adcliff
1854 *\Villiam H. Howad
1855 *William H . Howard
1856 *William H. Howard
1857 *Nathaniel G. Cul'tis
1S58 ~Nathaniel n. Curtis
1859 *Nathaniel G. Cur.tis
1860 *Nathaniel G. Curtis
1861 *James L. English
1862 *William C. Belcher
1863 *William C. Belcher
1864 *William U. Belcher
Gilbert B. Claiborne
1865
Gilbert B. Claiborne
1866
William A. Davies
1867
1868 *Charles Marsh
1869 *Leonidas E. Pratt
1870 *Leonidas E. Pratt
1871 *Leonidas E. Pratt
1872 *Leonidas E. Pratt
1873 *Isaac S. Titus
George C. Perkins
1874
1875 *John M. Browne
1876 *John M. Browne
18ii *John M. Browne
1878 *John M. Browne
1879 *William W . Traylor
1-lamuel C. Denson
1880
1881 *Clay\\', Taylor
1882 "Clay W, Taylor
1833 *Jonathan D. Hines
1884 *Jonathan D.Hines
1885
Wiley J. Tinnin
1886
E<lmund C. Atkinson
Hiram N. Rucker
1887
1888 ~Morris M. Estee
1889 *Morris M. Estee
1890 • Ah-ah R . Couklin
1891 •William Johnston
1892 *Charles R. Gritman
1893
Henry S. Orme
1894
James B. Stevens

I

DEPUTY
GRAND MASTER

A. Tutt
I *John
*Benjamin D. Hyam
I

*Charles M. H.a.dcliff
•Nathan id G. CurtiR
*Townsend A. Thomas
*John A. Raymond
*Charles Ma1·sh
*Philip W. Shepheard
*Philip W, Shepheard
*Philip W. Shepheard
*Wm . C. Belcher
Gilbert B. Claiborne
Gilbert B. Claiborne
Gilbert li. Claiborne
Gilbert B. Claiborne
William A. Davies
"Henry H. Hartley
*Henry H. Hartley
*Leonidas E. Pratt
*Isaac S. Titus
"Isaac 8. Titus
*Charles L. Wiggin
*Benjamin H. Freeman
George C. Perkins
*John M . Browne
*Charles L. Wiggin
*Charles L. Wiggin
*Cha.rles L . Wiggin
"William W . Traylor
Samuel C. Denson
' Clay W. Taylor
John Q. Adams
*Jonathan D. Hines
Wiley ,J. Tinnin
Wiley J. Tinnin
Edmund U.. Atkinson
Hira.m N. Hucker
*Morris M. Estee
* Alvah R. Conklin
•william Johnston
*William Johnston
*Charles Ray Gritman
Henry S. Orme
James B. Stevens
*Edward M. Preston
•Deceased.

SENIOR
GRANI> \VARDEN

JUNIOR
OHAN ll WARDEN

*Caleb Fenner
*E. F. " " Ellis
•Adolphus Ho. lub
*John R . Cranllall
•Rector .K Cole
*John A. Raymond
*Lemuel Lyon
*Aaron D. Pa.1·k
*William McCormick
*Ebenezer Lane
*William C. Belcher
*John W. Harville
*John W . Harville
*Louis Cohn
William A. Davies
*Isaac S. Titus
*William H. Peterson
Thomas Beck
*Theodore G. Cockrill
*John S. Ward
*Cha1les L. Wiggin
*Benj. H. ~'reeman
George C. Perkins
*John M. Browne
*William H. Parker
Wiley J, Tinnin
\V illiam H. Wells
*William W. Traylor
William H . Crane
*Clay W. Taylor
John Q. Ad.ms
•Jonathan D. Hiaes
Edmund C. Atkinson
Edmund C. Atkinson
Edmund CJ. Atkinson
Hiram N. Rucker
•Morris M. Estee
*Alvah R. Conklin
*William Johnston
*Charles R Gritman
*Charles It. Gritman
Henry S. Orme
James B. Stevens
*Edward M. Preston
William T. Lucas

Haehel "'oods
Kenj. S. Olds
.John R. McConnell
"Hichard F. Knott
Hobert N . Wood
"Samuel A. Merritt
Peter W. Randle
•.John B. Bo,ie
•.Tames W. Bicknell
Thomas P. Hawley
• Alvinza Haywa.rd
Caleb E. Wilcoxon
John B. Hewson
Wm. A . Davies
Isaac S. Titus
Henry H Hartley
Thomas Beck
*Leonidas E. Pratt
F. F. Barss
*Richard Dale
*Benj. H. Freeman
Geo. C. Perkins
"John M. Browne
Chas. E. Mitchell
Wiley J. Tinnin
Jacob H . Neff
·•::;olon W, Craigue
" ' m. H . Crane
*Robert C. Broder
John Q. Adams
*Orrin W. Hollenbeck
*Thomas J . Bowers
*George Hinds
Hiram N, Rucker
Hiram N. Rucker
*Henry H. Knapp
·• Alvah R. Conklin
*Wm. Johnston
"Marcus D. Boruck
Henry S. Orme
Henry S. Orme
James B. Stevens
*Edward M . Preston
Wm. T. Lucas
Thomas Flint

.

GRAND

Ga.urn

GRAND

TREA~--u-R_E_R~:----~8-E·C--R-E~_·A_R~Y~,..-~-L-E_c_T_o_R_E~
R~

I

*Levi Stowell
*Towusend A. Thomas
Addison Martin
Addison Ma.rtiu
Addison Martin
Addison Martin
Addison Martin
Addison Martin
Addison Martin
Addison Martin
Addison Martin
*James Laidley
.James Laidley
*James Laidley
*Ja.mes Laidley
*James Laidley
*James Laidley
*James Laidley
•James Laidlty
•Jam11s Laidley
~James Laidley
*James La.idlt'y
•James Laidley
*James Laidley
•James Laidley
•James Laidley
*James Laidley
*Moses Heller
*Moses Heller
•Moses Heller
*Moses Heller
•Moses Heller
•Moses Hellel'
*Moses Heller
*Moses Heller
*Nathan W. Spaulding
*Nathan W, Spaulding
*Nathan W. Spaulding
*Nathan W . Spaulding
*Nathan W. Spaulding
*Nathan W. Spaulding
*Nathan W. Spaulding
*Nathan W. Spaulding
Edward Coleman
Edward Coleman

"John H . Gihon
•Levi Stowell
*Levi Stowell
*Levi Stowell
*Levi Stowell
*Levi Stowell
•Alex. G. Abell
*Alex. G. Abell
•Alex. G. Abell
•Alex . G. Abell
• Alex. G. Abell
*Alex. G. Abell
• A:ex. G. Abell \
*Alex. G. Abell
*Alex. G. Abell
*Alex. G. Abell
"Alex. G. Abell
*Alex. G. Abell
*Alex. G. Abell
•Alex. G. Abell
*Alex. G. Ahell
*Alex. U. Abell
*Alex. G. Abell
*Alex. G. Abell
*Alex. G. Abell
*Alex. G. Abell
*Alex. G. Abell
*Alex. G. Abell
*Alex. G. Abell
*Alex. G. Abell
*Alex. G. Abell
*Alex. G. Abell
*Alex. G. Abell
•Alex. G . .Abell
*A ex. G . Abell
*Alex. G. Abell
*Alex. G, Ahell
•Alex. G. Abell
•Alex. G. Abell
*Alex. G. Abell
George Johnson
George Johnson
George Johnson
George ,Johnson
George Johnson

• Dec• aeed.

I

222

Year

1895
1896
1897
1898
1899
1900
1901
1902
1903
1904
1905

LIST OF ELECTIVE GRAND 0FFIOERS.

[1905.

190.5.J

223

LIST OF ELECTIVE GRAND OFFICERS.

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE

M. ·. W. ·. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE

18TH DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 5851.

URA~D

MASTER

*Edward M. Preston
William T. Lucas
Thomas Flint, Jr.
Frank M. Angellotti
Charles L. Patton
Jam es A . Fosha:y
William S. Wells
Orrin S. Henderson
Charles W. Nutting
George W. Hunter
Motley H. Flint

DEPUTY
GRAND MASTER

SENIOR
GRAND \VARDEN

JUNIOR
GRAXD \VARDEN

William T. Lucas
Thomas Flint, Jr.
Frank M. Angellotti
Charle3 L. Patton
James A. Foshay
William S. Wells
Orrin S. Henderson
Charles W. Nutting
George W. Hunter
Motley H. Flint
Edward H. Hart

Thomas Flint, Jr.
Frank M. Angellotti
Charles L. Patton
James A. Foshay
William S. Wells
Orrin S. Henderson
Charles W. Nutting
George ·w. Hunter·
Motley H. Flint
Ed ward H. Hart
George M. Perine

Frank M. Angell·itti
Uharles L . Patton
James A. Foshay
William S. Wells
Orrin S. Henderson
Charles ·w. Nutting
George W. Hunter
Motley H . Flint
Edward H. Hart
George M. Perine .
Reuben H. Lloyd

•I>eceeood.

GRAND TREASURER

Eclward Coleman
Edward Coleman
Edward Coleman
Eclward Coleman
l<:dward Coleman
Edward Coleman
Ed ward Caleman
Edward Coleman
Edward Coleman
.l!:dward Coleman
Edward Coleman

GRAND

GRAND

SECRETARY

LEO'l"U l\ER

George J ohnsonl
George Johnson
George Johnson
George Johnson
George Johnson
George Johnson Wm. H . E dwards
George Johnson \Vm. H. Ed wards
George Johnson Wm. H. Ed wards
George Johnson ·wm. R . Edwards
George Johnson Wm. H. Edwards
George Johnson Wm. H. Edwards

APPENDIX
Report' on Cor ·responder\ce

la.

REPORT
OF THE

@:ommittee on

~orrespondence

OCTOBER, 1905.

To THEM.'. W.'. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA:
Your Committee on Correspondence submits herewith a report of
the condition of the Masonic World in 1905, as presented to them in
the Journals of Proceedings of more than sixty Grand .Jurisdictions
reviewed, with their conclusions.
For the convenience of those looking for a particular Jurisdiction
we have arranged the Grand Lodges reviewed in alphabetical order.
WM. A. DAVIES,

Committee.
Alabama .................. 1904
Arizona ................... 1904
Arkansas ................... 1904
British Columbia .......... 1905
Canada .................... 1904
Colorado .................. 1904
Connecticut ............... 1905
Costa Rica ................ 1905

Cuba ..................... . 1905
Delaware ............ . .... 1904
District of Columbia ....... 1904
England .................. 1905
Florida .................... 1905
Georgia .................•. 1904
Idaho ..................... 1904
Illinois ................... 1904

4

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Indiana ................... 1905
Indian Territory ........... 1904
Iowa ...................... 1905
Kansas ................... 1905
Kentucky ...... . .......... lil04
Louisiana ................. 1905
Manitoba ............... . .. 1904
Maryland ........ . ........ 1904
Massachusetts .... .. ....... 1904
Michigan .................. 1905
Minnesota ................. 1905
Mississippi ................ 1905
Missouri .......... . ....... 1904
Montana .................. 1904
Nevada .................... 1905
New Brunswick ........... 1904
New Hampshire ........... H04
New Jersey ..... ........ ... 1905
New Mexico ............... 1904
New South Wales .......... 1904
New York ................. 1905
New Zealand .............. 1904.

North Carolina . , .......... 1905
North Dakota .............. 1904
Nova Scotia ............... 1904
Ohio ...................... 1904
Oklahoma ............. . ... 1905
Oregon .................... 1905
Pennsylvania .............. 1904
Quebec .................... 1905
Rhode Island ....... . ...... 1904
Scotland .............. . ... 1904
Tennessee ... ... ..... . ... . . 1905
Texas ............ . ........ 1904
Utah ................. . .... 1905
Valle De Mexico ........... 1904
Vermont ................ .. 1905
Virginia ................... 1905
Washington ............... 1904
Western Australia ......... 1905
VVest Virginia ............. 1go4
WiEconsin ................. 190ii
Wyoming ................. 1904

The motto of Alabama is "Here VVe Rest": but for the purposes
of this Committee we will say to the Fraternity in California, "Here
we go."
ALABAMA.
413 Lodges.

15,393 Members.
The Grand Lodge of Alabama held its Eighty.fourth Annual Communication In Masonic Temple, Montgomery, commencing December
6, 1904, at 7:30 P. M.,-M.". W." . Robert J . Redden, Grand Master;
R.". VV:. George A. Beauchamp, Grand Secretary. Three hundred
thirty-three Lodges were represented, together with thirty-six other
Grand Jurisdictions. Four Past Grand Masters were in attendance.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form with prayer by the
Grand Chaplain.
The Grand Master then proceeded to deliver his Annual Address.
He alluded to the passage of time and its changes. From the
organization of the Grand Lodge, in 1821, with its seven weak but
hopeful petitioners for a charter, to the more than three hundred
Lo4ges whose representatives were assembled to-day in its E!ghtyfourth Annual Communication.

REPORT ON CORRE~PONDENCE.

5

He had granted dispensations for the forming and opening of
seventeen new Lodges and the reorganization of two old Lodges
during the year.
He placed five corner·stones with the usual Masonic ceremonies,
and dedicated the new Masonic Hall of. "Greeno" Lodge, No. 598.
He had the satisfaction of reporting that no Grand or Paet Grand ·
Officer had been stricken from their official roll during the year
now closing, and he E\Xtended the fraternal sympathy of the Grand
Lodge of Alabama to sister Jurisdictions who were clothed in mourn·
ing for brethren who had been summoned to the Great Beyond.
We note nothing in the decisions of the Grand Master to question,
although the Committee on Jurisprudence object, in one instance, to
his evasion of the local law.
The election of officers being in order, the following Brethren
were choEen to serve for the ensuing year, and with the appointed
Grand Officers were installed by Past Grand Master Russell M. Cunningham, R. ·. VV. ·. Bro. David VV. Mc!ver acting as Master of the
Ceremonies:
M.". w:. Bro. Henry H. Matthews, Grand Master; Ben M. Jacobs,
Deputy Grand Master; Hugh S. D. Mallory, Senior Grand VVarden;
Lawrence H . Lee, Junior Grand Warden; VVilliam H. Dingley, Grand
Treasurer; George A. Beauchamp, Grand Secretary; Charles A.
Allen, Grand Tyler.
The time of Grand Lodge was occupied in the transaction of its
regular routine of business, until the reception of the R epresentatives of other Grand Jurisdictions. The roll was called, and among
the responses we note that of Hon. VVilliam Y. Titcomb, of Anniston,
Representative of California, and Alabama's distinguished Chairman
of Correspondence.
HONORS TO THE MEMORY OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN.
The following Preamble and Resolutions were submitted by
"Franklin" Lodge, No. 587, and adopted:
" WHEUEAS, The two·hundredth anniversary of Benjamin Franklin's birth occurs on ·the 17th of January, 1906; and
"VVHEREAS, Benjamin Franklin immortalized his name in the
history of the early days of our American colonies as well as in
the advent of Free Masonry therein; and
" WHEREAS, Benjamin Franklin, as a. Brother of the Craft and
as Grand Master, was an honor to the Masonic Fraternity during
his life; therefore, be it
"Resolved, 'l' hat we, the VV. M., VVardens and Brethren of" Franklin" Lodge, No. 587, A. F . & A. M. of Alabama, in regular communl-

6

7

RKPORT oN CoRRESPuNDENCE.

REPO.R'r ON CORRESPONDENCE.

cation assembled, do hereby most respectfully and fraternally petition the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Ancient Free and
Accepted Masons of Alabama to take such action as will assure the
observance of Benjamin Franklin's two-hundredth anniversary of
birth by the Masonic Lodges of Alabama; and be it further
"Resolved, That the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Alabama
enlist the co-operation of all regular and recognized Masonic Grand
Lodges in the United States by making the observance of Benjamin
Franklin's two-hundredth natal day a National Masonic Memorial
Day."
The Grand Master appointed the standing committees, and the
Grand Lodge closed in Ample Form.

11ystem has been most effective for promoting harmony between the
Masonic Jurisdictions of the world by directing the attention of lead·
Ing active Masons to their different construction of fundamental
laws governing the usage and customs of the Craft, controlled, primarily, by a genuine desire, above all else, for a united Masonic sentiment among all Masonic Jurisdictions; and we know, further, from
observation ancl experience, that "!nharmony" has, perhaps, been
caused by the neglect of Representatives who have accepted the
honorable position only to discredit it by neglecting its duties and,
in some cases within our knowledge, by belittling the importance of
the appointment.
We hardly think Grand Master Henderson meant to say that the
Representative system was promotive of "inharmony " ; yet the
action of the Committee on Grand Master's Address, at the ensuing
session, might warrant the assertion; for, in that, although the
subject was not mentiop.ed by the Grand Master, the committee
appointed to segregate and r efer matters mentioned in the address
to the appropriate committees, "volunteered " the following:
" It will be patent to any one who will gfve the matter of the
appointment of Representatives to and from other Grand Bodies
proper consideration, that this custom Is as useless as the " appendix
vermi form!s" is to the human body. It seems to us that the custom
must have originated In the desire to decorate members with a mere
title. The only proper way for one Grand Lodge to communicate
with another is through the Grand Masters. Your committee can
see no necessity for the continuance of the custom, and therefore
r ecommend that it be abolished. Many of the Grand Lodges are dispensing therewith, and we think the Grand Lodge of California
should do likewise."
The report was approved, as the committee supposed, and thus
was wiped out the Representative system of this Grand Lodge ; in
other wor ds, it was doing by indirection that which probably could
not have been done directly-a bad kind of legislation. Of course,
t here was a colored gentleman around somewhere, but where was he
housed? We shall probably learn more of the matter at the ensuing
session.
M." . W." . Bro. Henry H . Matthews, Grand Master; R .". W.".
George A. Beauchamp, Grand Secretary. Chairman of Correspond·
ence, R.". W ." . William Y. 'l'!tcomb, Anniston.
The next Annual Communication will be held in Masonic Temple, Montgomery, December 6, 1906.

REPORT ON CORRESPON DENCE.

The present report is by Chairman Titcomb, our representative,
and like all his work, is " good and square." He gives us a review
of sixty-one Grand Masonic Bodies, in a great part constituting our
Masonic world.
In his notice of the Grand Lodge of California he quotes from the
address of Grand Master Henderson his recommendation in the
matter of Grand Representatives in the following words :
" T hat the matter of appointing Representatives of the Grand
Lodge residing at or near other Grand Lodges, be abolished, as
all business is transacted between the. Grand Masters or other
Gr and Officers in t hese days. It is a useless, cumbersome custom,
and promotive of inharmony."
And Comp. Titcomb requests us to enlighten him, as set forth in
the following enquiry :
"How the custom is ' promotive of inha rmony,' we signally fail
to discover. Brother Davies, please enlighten us on that point. Is
it to be expected that other Grand Lodges will contin'ue to accredit
Representa tives to the Gra nd Lodge of California after being informed that the latter has abolished the system so far as she is
concerned ? This matter touches us in a t ender spot, for, doubtless,
it will be inc:umbent on us to sur render a commission we have
been proud to hold, as emanating from so great and influential a
Jurisdiction as that of California. For the recommendation was
concurred in."
As to wherein the appointment of Representatives is "promotive
of inharmony,'' Bro. Titcomb, we can only give you the dull schoolboy's answer-" Please, sir, we don't know." On the contrary, we
do believe and have the experience of mor e tha n ha lf a century of
active Masoni c life to back up the assertion, that the Representative

8

9

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPOHT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

ARIZONA.

of the J urisdiction represented by him, the earnest wishes of the
Grand Lodge of Arizona for the continuance of the present healthy
and prosperous condition of Freemasonry at home and abroad.

19 Lodges.

1,191 Members.
The Grand Lodge of Arizona held its Twenty-third Annual Communication in Tucson, commencing on the 15th day of November,
1904, at 10 o'clock A. M.,-the M.'. W.'. James Sommerville Cromb,
Grand Master; the V. ·. W. ·. George James Roskruge, Grand Secretary. Sixteen Lodges were represented, together with twenty-seven
other Grand Jurisdictions.
Ten Past Grand Masters were in attendance. An excellent portrait
of the retiring Grand Master appears on the opening page.
The Grand Master named the regular and filled the vacancies in
the standing committees, and proceeded to deliver his Annual
Address. He opened with thanks to the Great Creator for the
privilege ·of the present meeting, and a cordial welcome to the
assembled Representatives of the Craft in Arizona.
Referring to roll call he noted the absence of familiar names
of Brethren who had served with them during the early years of
their organization, but whose kindly faces would greet them no
more in Grand Lodge. He reported the names of twenty of their
own tribes and families who had passed to rest, and he recommended that the necessary pages in the journal of the year be devoted to their remembrance in connection ·With the · many eminent
Brethren of sister Jurisdictions who had been stricken from the
rolls of the living during the past year.
In mentioning their relations with other Jurisdictions, he reported all apprehended difficulty with the Grand Lodge "vane de
Mexico," as settled to the satisfaction of all parties. Of the condition of their own organization, he said:
"Nearly all the Lodges are in a strong, healthy condition-our
net gain for the year being sixty-eight."
Among his recommendations was the prohibition by Grand Lodge
of the use of intoxicants at Lodge banquets. He closed with good
words for Bro. Roskruge whom he earnestly recommended to the
mercy of the Grand Lodge.
The report of the Grand Secretary was, as usual, full and comprehensive.
A charter was granted " Mount Moriah " Lodge, U. D., and numbered 19 upon the Grand Lodge· registry.
The Representatives of other Grand Jurisdictions were introduced by W. ·. Frederick G. Brecht, Representative of Colorado, and
greeted by the Grand Master who extended to them a hearty welcome with the request that each would convey to the Grand Master

Appropriate response was made. by Bro. Fletcher M. Doan, the
Representative of the Grand Lodge of Egypt.
Bro. Francis A. Shaw, P. G. M. and Chairman of the Committee
on Necrology, made an eloquent and feeling report devoted to the
loss of Friends and Brethren, which was adopted.
Chairman Goldwater, of the Committee on Jurisprudence, re·
ported on the recommendation of the Grand Master concerning the
use of intoxicants at banquets, as follows:
"Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to whom was referred that
portion of the Grand Master's Address, recommending 'that action
be taken prohibiting the use of intoxicating liquors at Lodge banquets,' begs to report that it has given the matter careful consideration. It can find no ·indication that the Masons of Arizona
are unable to control their appetites, and does not bel!eve that the
use of intoxicants by the Brethren ls of an alarming nature.
" It is the duty of each Master to guard his Lodge, and if any
member thereof conducts himself in such a manner as to reflect un·
favorably upon the Fraternity, the Master should admonish him of
his errors, and, if unable to bring about a reformation, the offend·
ing Brother should be disciplined by the Lodge.
"Masonry is not a prohibition society, nor is it its province to
reform the world. Temperance is defined by us as a domestic and
public virtue, whereby we are taught to avoid excess; but one may
be intemperate in his views on the 'liquor question ' as well as in
other ~ays.
"Your committee commends th~ motives of the Most Worshipful
Grand Master, but finds no reason at this time for any action by
this Grand Lodge."
The report was adopted.
The Finance Committee recommended the discontinuance of the
appropriation for the publication of the Report on Correspondence,
which was concurred in.
The election of officers being in order, tellers were appointed,
and the M.·. W. ·. George Shand, of Tucson, was chosen Grand
Master, and the V.'. W.'. George James Roskruge was re·elected
Grand Secretary.
The Grand Master, having made his appointments, all were installed by the Grand Master, Past Grand Master Martin W. Kales
acting as Master of the Ceremonies.

10

11

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

.REPORT ON ConRE.SPONDESCE .

Thanks were extended to the members of Tucson Lodge and the
citizens generally for their courtesy and hospitality, to the officers
and members of "Tucson " Lodge, No. 4, for their excellent exemplification of the work before Grand Lodge, and to the several railroad
companies for excellent service and kind attention.
Th.:i ritiring Grand Master was presented with a Past Grand
Master's gavel, which brought from· him a few eloquent and ·appreciative remarks.
The Grand Master appointed the standing committees, and the
Grand Lodge was closed in Ample Form.

in accordance with Ancient Masonic Usage, including a stirring
oration by Bro. Hugh A. Dinsmore, Grand Orator.
The Grand Master named the committees and then proceeded to
deliver his Annual Address. After a few words of cordial greeting,
he gave the Grand Commandery the following elP.gant salutation:
"The year now fast drawing to a close is one of unusual historic
Importance. While the spirit of thanksgiving and praise has been
manifest throughout that vast portion of our national domain over
which, a century age, waved the flag of the Castilian, and has found
expression in the most magnificent display of art, science and industrial development ever conceived by mortal mind, our own Grand
Jurisdiction has kept pace with the times, and the Year of Light
5904 has become the first of a new period when Arkansas Masons
enter new fields of labor, and strive for higher achievements. It is
in this good year 5904 that the Grand Lodge of Arkansas is lifted
from the thralldom of debt. It has been reserved for you, my
Brethren, constituting the Sixty-second Grand Lodge of Arkansas,
to look with mingled feelings of pride and praise upon this magnificent Temple, and realize that it is your very own. With what
measure of wisdom and success it shall be utilized, let the deliberations and decisions of your present meeting bear witness."
He reported the placing of thirteen corner-stones of public school,
church and county buildings.
The decisions of the Grand Master were approved by the Committee on Law and Usage, most of them being determined by the
iocal law.
Past Grand Master George A. Donnelly, being prevented by age
and infirmity from meeting his Brethren at the present session,
Grand Lodge, by telegraph expressed sincere regret at his enforced
absence, and extended its profound sympathy with him in his
affliction.
Grand Secretary Hempstead submitted his usual full and comprehensive report-in fact, a complete history of the finan cial condition
ancl prospects of the Grand Lodge. He says, speaking for the Board
of Control, that as a result of the heroic plan for the improvement of
Grand Lodge finances: "The wisdom of the biennial sessions ls
manifest, and demonstrated by the fact that we are to-day free of
debt, with a surplus in hand for the first time since the erection
of the Temple, and the prospect for the future seems very bright
indeed to your Board."
The Grand Orator. R.". W.'. Bro. F. 0. Butt, delivered an impressive oration for which he received the thanks of Grand
Lodge, and it was ordered published in the journal of proceedings.

REPORT O.N COURESPO:'<DENCE.

Bro. Charles D. Belden, Chairman, submits an elaborate report
in which he r eviews the proceedings of sixty-two Grand Jurisdic-.
tions in a paper 'o f 254 pages, but through some combination of
circumstances, the California journal failed to reach his temporary
workshop in Pittsburg. We think Bro. Belden was fortunate in
being denied the privilege of extending his report another page.
George Shand, Grand Master; George James Roskruge, Grand
Secretary.
Next Annual at Flagstaft', November 14, 1905.
ARKANSAS.
16,155 Members.
Died, 318.
The Grand Lodge of Arkansas held its Sixty-second Annual Communi cation in Masonic Temple, Little Rock, November 15, 19~4. commencing at 10 o'clock A . M.,-M.". W." . John T . Hicks, Grand Master;
R.". W.". Fay Hempstead, Grand Secretary. Three hundred and
ninety-one Lodges were represented, together with thirty-eight other
Grand Jurisdictions. Six Past Grand Masters were in attenda~ce.
Portraits of M.". W.". Styles T. Rowe, Grand Master; Jno. T.
Hicks, retiring Grand Master; R.". W.". J. M. Oathout, Grand Lecturer; Grand Secretary Fay Hempstead at his desk in the Grand
Secretary's office; the Grand Lodge Hall, and of Past Grand Master
Gecirge E. Dodge, who was Grand Master in 1881-82, and who passed
to rest in 1904.
The roll of deceased Past Grand Masters was calle9, and the
Funeral Grand Honors given in memory of the Illustrious Dead.
This Grand Lodge held a special Communatls on the 1st of
October, 1904 for the purpose of placing the corner-stone of the
new Washington County Courthouse, which services were perfo rmed
477 Lodges.

12

REPOI~T ON CORRESPOSDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The major part of the two days' session of the Grand Lodge was
occupied in the transaction of its regular routine of business and
the devising of some feasible plan of providing fbr the establishment of a home for the weary widows and children of the Masons
of Arkansas.
Bro. R. H. McCulloch, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign
Correspondence, submitted the following resolution for the committee, which was adopted:
" Resolved, That the Most Worshipful Grand Lodga of Arkansas
hereby extends fraternal recognition to the Grand Orient of Brazil,
and to the Grand Lodge, Ancient and Accepted Free Masons of
Costa Rica, and to the Grand Lodge, Ancient, Free and Accepted
Mas ons, Valley of Mexico, as requested by those Grand Bodies, respective ly, and that the Grand Master take the necessary steps to
carry into effect an exchange of fraternal Representatives."
The Representatives of other Grand Jurisdictions were greeted
by tile Grand Master in the name of the Grand Lodge of Ark ansas.
Sixteen charters were granted for the perpetuation of sixteen new
Lodges at the time under dispensation, making the total number of
Lodges borne on the roll four hundred and sixty-eight.
The election of officers being in order, the followi ng named
Brethren were chosen to serve !or the ensuing Masonic year, and,
with the appointed Grand Officers, including the District Deputy
Gra nd Masters, were installed by Past Grand Mast er Thornburg,
Past Grand Master Sorrels acting as Master of Ceremonies. The
standing committees were named by the Grand Master.
Bro. S. T. Rowe, Grand Master; Bro. A. B. Grace, Deputy Grand
Mast er; Br o. John M. Oathout, Grand Lecturer; Bro. F . G. Lindsey,
Grand Orator; Bro. J acob Trieber, Grand Senior Warden; Bro. F. 0.
Butt, Grand Junior Warden; Bro. P. K. Roots, Grand Treasurer;
Bro. Fay Hempstead, Grand Secretary.
Thanks were exteuded to P a st Grand Master John T. H icks for
the very able discharge of his duties as Grand Master, to the several
railroad companies, and to Mrs. Madeline S. Conkling, Grand
Ma tron of the Order of Eastern Star, for her g enerous contribution
to~ard the establishment of a Masonic Home.
Grand Lecturer Oathout exemplified the Third Degree, and the
Grand Lodge closed after praye r and benediction by the Grand
Cha plain a nd the singing of the Doxology by the Craft.
There was no Report on Correspondence.
M.'. W.' . S. T. Rowe, Grand Master; R.'. W.' . Fay Hempstead,
Grand Secretary ; Chairman of Correspondence, Bro. George T.
Lyman, Fort Smith.
The next-Sixty-third-regular Communication will be held In
Little Rock, November 21, 1905 . .

BRITISH COLUMBIA.
39 Lodges.
2,860 Members.
'Ihe Grand Lodge of British Columbia held its Thirty-fourth Annual Communication in Masonic Temple, New Westminster, June
22, 1905, commencing at 11 o'clock A. M.,-M.'. W.'. William J. Bowser, Grand Master ; V.'. W.'. Robert E . Brett, Grand Secretary.
Thirty-three Lodges were represented, together with twenty other
Grand Jurisdictions. Six Past Grand Officers were in a t tendance.
Portraits of the M.'. W .'. Simeon Duck, Grand Master in 1874·5;
the Most Worshipful Frederick Williams, who was Grand Master
in 1876-77, and William J . Bowser, L. L. B., K. C., M. P. P., Grand
:\laster in 1904.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form.
The Grand Master proceeded to deliver his Annual Address. With
an expression of gr atitude to the Grea t Architect or the Universe
for His continued goodness in permitting them to assemble in this
t he Thirty-fourth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge, he
p roceeded to report the official acts of his stewardship during the
recess; first, however, pausing "to drop the sprig of acacia " in
remembrance of the Brethren who went with them Into the vineyard
but returned not again.
He extended· also the sympathy of the Grand Lodge of British
Columbia to sister Jurisdictions who are in mourning for eminent
Sons and Workmen.
In his decisions reported, we note a strict observance of the local
law and regulations, and we are pleased to see in his report, under
t he h ead of "Foreign Relations," the following sensible t reatment
of an irritable subject and a cause of much ill-feeling in the F rat ernity:
" On the 19th of August, 1904, I ca used a communication to be
sent to the Grand Secretary of Scotland asking the m to kindly take
t his matter up with our Grand Lodge from the standpoint of jurisdict ion. On the 10th of September I received a communication from
the Grand Secretary of Scotland stating t hat our letter would be laid
before the Foreign and Colonial Committee at the first opportunity,
but since that time we have had no further reply.
" However, I may say or, taking office I foun d t hat one of my predecessors in office had notified " Cumberla nd " Lodge, No. 26, not in
any way to recognize Bro. Walker until this question of jurisdiction
was settled with t he Grand Lodge of Scotland. I foun d that this
order was, through illadvertence, never revoked, and I at once notifi ed " Cumberland " Lodge that although we might have differences
with the Grand Lodge of Scotland over this matter, st!ll Bro. Walker

13

14

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

was a well made Mason, and as such had cel'tain rights, and if he
wished he could ask to be admitted as a visitor to their Lodge, and
they could admit or not as they saw flt, and if two Brothers wished
to bring in his application for affiliation to their Lodge it must be
received and they could deal with it, either accepting or rejecting it.
I was glad to hear afterward that the appl!cation was received,.
balloted on favorably, and the Brother is now a member of "Cumberland " Lodge."
He granted three dispensations for the forming and opening
of new Lodges, he made visitations to thirty-five of the thirty-six
chartered Lodges, the work involving the travel of 4,400 miles, and
the Grand Master says he was amply repaid by the enthusiastic welcome he everywhere received.
He reported the finances of the Grand Lodge in fine condition,
for which he gives the Grand Treasurer a large share of the credit.
The Deputy Grand Master made his report, and the Grand Lodge
,ms "called off " for the purpose of i;eceiving the Mayor of New
Westminster, who desired to welcome the Grand Lodge to the city
of New Westminster, which duty he performed in a few eloquent
words and received an appropriate response from the Grand Maste1·.
The Grand Lodge was called on, and resumed business. 'l'he
reports of the District Deputy Grand Master were received and
referred to a special committee.
The Committees on the Addresses of the Grand Master and the
Deputy Grand Master reported, and their reports were considered
and approved.
The election of officers for the ensuing year being in order,
Scrutineers were appointed who reported the following chosen to
fill the sta~ions for the ensuing Masonic year :
M. '. W.'. Bro. Thos. J . Armstrong, Grand Master; R.'. W.' . Bro.
Jas. H . Schofield, Deputy Grand Master; R.'. W.'. Bro. Francis
Bowser, Senior Grand Warden; R.'. W.'. Bro. Wm. K. Houston,
Junior Grand Warden; V.'. W.' . Bro. H . G. Fiennes-Clinton, Grand
Chaplain; M.'. W.' . Bro. H . H . Watson, Grand Treasurer; V.'. W.'.
Bro. R. E. Brett, Grand Secretary; Bro. A. Gothard, Grand Tyler.
fhe Grand Master made his appointments, and all were installed by
the Past Grand Master, Eden Walker, assisted by W .'. F . J. Burd, as
Grand Director of Ceremonies.
The thanks of the Grand Lodge were tendered the Bretliren of
·'Union" Lodge No. 9, and "King Solomon's" Lodge, No. 17, !or
courtesies extended during the session.
· After a benediction by the Grand Chaplain, the Grand Lodge
closed in Ample Form and the Grand Marshal made proclamation.
thereof.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
R!!:PORT ON

15

CORRESPONDENCE.

This Report is a more than usually interesting one from the
i;>en of the R.' . W.'. Bro. W. A. DeWolf Smith, Chairman of Correspondence. Sixty Grand Masonic Jurisdictions are reviewed in a
paper of 204 pages. Callfornia is noticed for the administration
of Grand Master Nutting. His review of the Grand Master's Address
111 full and exceedingly complimentary. He quotes and comments
on the application of a Lodge warranted by the Supreme Council of
!•'ranee, and the disposition thereof with which our Committee on
.Jurisprudence are now wrestling. The report is an excellent one.
M.'. W.'. T. J. Armstrong, Grand Master; V.'. W.'. R. E. Brett,
Grand Secretary. Correspondent, R.'. W.'. W. A. DeWolf Smith,
New Westminster.
Th!l Thirty-fifth Annual Communication will be held in the city
of Victoria, June 21, 1906.
CANADA.
32,708 Members.
386 Lodges.
The Grand Lodge of Canada held an Especial Communication in
the village of Auburn, May 30, 1904, for the purpose of placing the
corner-stone of the Knox Presbyterian Church in that village.-The
M.'. W.'. Bro. J. E . Harding, Grand Master, presiding ; the M.' . W.'.
Bro. Hugh Murray, Grand Secretary.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form.
The ceremonies were performed in accordance with ancient
usage and ceremony. The stone was inscribed:
'l'his Corner-stone of Knox Presbyterian Church was
laid by M. ·. W. ·. Bro. J. E. Harding, K. C., Grand Master,
assisted by the Grand Officers, in the presence of a large
t·oncourse of inhabitants of the Village of Auburn.
Thos. Straughan, W. T. Ridell, John Fingland-Trustees.
The Acting Grand Secretary then deposited the scroll in the
cavity of the stone, t ogether with a box containing certain newspapers, records a nd coins.
The Grand Wardens and the Deputy Grand Master applied the
implements of their office to t he stone after it had been placed in
position, and announced that the Craftsmen had done their duty.
The Grand Master then consecrated the stone with corn, wine and
oil, and pronounced it well made, truly laid, well proved, t rue and
trusty.
The Grand Master then gave a short address, and the procession
was reformed, the Brethren returned to the Hall, and Grand Lodge
was closed in Ample Form.

17

RI<:PORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON Co1mEBPONDENCE.

An Especial Communication was also held at the village of Port
Dover, July 1, 1904, pursuant to an invitation from " Erie" Lodge,
No. 149, for the placing of the corner-stone of the new courthouse
in that village. The Grand Lodge was .opened and the corner-stone
duly laid, the same officers officiating as in the Communication of
May 30th.
The Forty-ninth 'Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of
Canada, in the Province of Ontario, was held in the town of Rockville, commencing on the 20th day of July, 1904,-the M.". W.". J. E .
. Harding, Grand Master, on the Throne; R.". W.". Bro. Benjamin
Allen, Deputy Grand Master; M.". W.". Bro. Hugh Murray, Grand
Secretary. Three hundred thirty-five Lodges were represented, together with thirty other Grand Jurisdictions-California by V.". W.".
G. S. Rynerson, M. D.
Nine Past Grand Masters, twenty District Deputy Grand Masters,
and a large number of Past Grand Wardens, Chaplains, Registrars,
Organists and Stewards, with many visitors, were in attendance.
Many letters and telegrams of regret for non-attendance were
received and read by the Grand Secretary.
The Mayor and officers of the Town Council were introduced
and welcomed the Grand Lodge to Brockvllle, as did also a deputation from the Masters and Past Masters of the Brockville Lodges.
A fine steel-engraved portrait of the Grand Master-elect, M...". W.".
Benjamin Allen, ornaments the present number of the Journal.
The Grand Lodge was then opened in Ample Form with prayer
by the Grand Chaplain. The Committee on Credentials reported,
and the Grand Master proceeded to deliver his Address. We excerpt
the opening lines of his Address because the admonition is applicable
to every Grand Lodge on our National Roster. He said:
" I greet you and welcome you to the good town of Brockville,
and to the Forty-ninth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge
of Canada, in the Province of Ontario. Let each Brother present
feel the full responsibility of his position as a Representative, and
whilst he is renewing old associations and making new acquaintances,' let him not forget the claims of duty, but attend the sessions
of Grand Lodge and assist in the management of the Craft and in
legislating for the 32,000 Craftsmen of this Grand Lodge. It is essential for him to remember that the Brethren of his Lodge expect
him to give his attention to this, rather than to spend the term of
Grand Lodge in having what is popularly termed " the time of his
life."
The Grand Master reported the placing of the corner-stones
already referred to, his 'visitations, dispensations issued, and the

ftnancial condition of the Grand Lodge. Of the Fraternal Dead,
he said:
"The Craft in this and the sister Grand Lodges have been called
upon to mourn the removal of many useful and eminent Brethren
whose loss will long be felt. Full particulars will be found in the
Report of the Committee on the Fraternal Dead."
The Deputy Grand Master, in reporting the condition of the Jurisoliction in connection with an account of his visitations, refers to his
Neighbors on the other side of the river-the Grand Lodge of New
York-in these words:
"In conjunction with the Most Worshipful Grand Master and
Senator Gibson, I had the honor of being the guest of M. ·. W. ·. Bro.
W. A. Sntherland, P. G. M. of the Grand Lodge of New York, and
Hon. P. G. Master, of this Grand Lodge, in the city of Rochester, on
November 6th, when the ceremony of dedicating the Masonic Temple was conducted by the Most Worshipful the Grand Master of the
Grand Lodge of New York, and his officers. I desire to express my
thanks to M. ·. W. ·. Bro. Sutherland for his princely hospitality,
and also to the Brethren of Rochester for their kind reception of ns,
as well as to the quartette for their beautiful rendition of our
National anthem, ' The Maple Leaf.' And by no means the least
interesting part of the Deputy Grand Master's Report Is the following: "By no means the least pleasant visit made by me outside
the Jurisdiction was that to 'Holland' Lodge, No. 8, in the city of
New York, on May 10th, when I was received and welcomed by ·w:.
Bro. Freeman and his officers and members. The work of the Second
Degree was the best I have ever seen in any Lodge in the United
States. The toast of the Grand Lodge of Canada and its Deputy
Grand Master was enthusiastically received, and what pleased me
most was the honor done to our Most Gracious Sovereign, His Imperial Majesty Edward VII, the Brethren of 'Holland' Lodge singing 'God Save the King' twice. I trust the spirit of brotherhood
which has done so much to bind together the two great nations
on this continent may be still more in evidence as the years roll
by, and that peace and harmony may reign until time shall be
no more.''
The foregoing interests us and for another reason: We
think it was in May; at any rate It was at the annual meeting of the Grand Lodge of New York in 1850, at
which the M.". W.". Oscar Coles was chosen Grand Master, we were a
delegate looking for a charter for "Little Falls" Lodge, numbered,
we think, 386, under the old dispensation " before the war.'' Doctor
James W. Powell, Grand Secretary, took us in charge and in his

16

2a

18

REPOHT ON ConnEBl'ONDENCE.

company we visited "Holland" No. 8. It was our first vision of a
Masonic Lodge in full dress. That 'vision is engraved upon out·
memory, and we see it to-day as it appeared to us fifty-five years
gone by. We will only add here that we returned home with a
charter for "Little Falls" Lodge, No. 181, in lieu of the old one
of 356 or 336-we don't remember which: however, it was a visit
full of " landmarks" which will be . always with us.
The usual routine of business was transacted, reports from the
District Deputies of Nineteen Distrirts were received and referred
to the Committee on the Condition of Masonry, whose report was
adopted by the Grand Lodge.
Bro. J. C .. Morgan, Chairman of the Committee on Fraternal
Dead, made a mournfully eloquent report which was unanimously
approved by the Grand Lodge.
Among the distinguished visitors announced and received by the
Grand Lodge were Hon. Wm. Ross, P. G. M. of Nova Scotia, and M. ·.
W." . Bro. Jno. B. Tressider, and Bro. Will H . Whyte, Grand Master
and Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Quebec.
The election of officers being in order, Scrutineers were appointed
who reported the following Brethren chosen to serve in the respective offices for the ensuing year:
M.". W.". Bro. Benjamin Allen, 'l'oronto, Grand Master; R." . W." .
Bro. J. H. Burrett, K. C., Pembroke, Deputy Grand Master ; R.". W.".
Brei. W. H . Harrison, Brockv!lle, Grand Senior Warden; R." . W.".
Bro. J. D. H. Brown, Sault Ste. Marie, Grand .Junior Warden; R.".
W.". Bro. Rev. Baynes-Reed, Toronto. Grand Chaplain; M.". w:. Bro.
E. T. Malone. K . C., Toronto, Grand Treasurer; R.". W." . Bro. Lud
K . Cameron, Toronto, Grand Registrar; M." . W.". Bro. Hugh Murray,
Hamilton, Grand Secretary; and by open vote of Grand Lodge, Bro.
William Tocher, Hamilton, Grand Tyler. The Grand Master-elect
made his appointments, the officers were installed by Past Grand
Master A. A. Stevenson, and saluted with the customary Masonic
honors.
A committee was appointed to procure a suitable testimonial for
presentation to Past Grand Master J. E. Harding.
The Grand Lodge was closed at 4: 45 r. lll. in Ample Form.
REPORT ON ConnESPOND1':Xt'E.

Past Grand Master Henry Robertson submits h<is· twenty-second
report. in which he reviews the transactions of sixty-four Grand
Ma.sonic .Jurisdictions, with his conclusions, in a paper of ninety-four
pages. His review of California is of the administration of Grano
Master Henderson. The routine of the business of the session is
noted, freely quoted and with general approval.
M.". W.". Benjamin Allen, Grand Master; M." . W.". Hugh Murray,
Hamilton, Grand Secretary.

•

REPonT oN ConnESPO.SDENCE.

19

COLORADO.
107 Lodges.

10,559 Members.

The Grand Lodge of Colorado held its Forty-fourth Annual Communication In Masonic Temple, Denver, September 20th, 1904, commencing at 10 o'clock A. M.,-M." . W.". James R. Killian, Grand
Master R.". W.". William D. Dodd, Grand Secretary. One hundred
Lodges were represented, together with forty-six other Grand Jurisctictions.- All the Grand Officers and twenty-five Past Grand Masters
were in attendance,
Portraits of the Grand Master, Benjamin Lloyd James, Past
Grand Master Robert A. Quillan, who was Grand Master in 1881-2,
(and "In Memoriam") George T. Cooper, Deputy Grand Master in
1903, appear in the present number of the Journal.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form with prayer by the
Grand Chaplain.
The Grand Master received and welcomed the Representatives
of other Grand Jurisdictions. The Grand Representative of the
Grand Lodge of England responding to the greeting for nil the
Representatives present.
The Grand Master then named the committees, and after receiving a very interesting report from the "Custodians of the Work"
proceeded to deliver his Annual Address.
He opened with a glowing tribute to Freemasonry and the pleasure and satisfaction of its votaries derived from the observance of
its anniversaries, and h e ornamented his tribute with a glowing
eulogy of the land of all lands, Fair Virgin Colorado, than which,
the Grand Master says: "No fairer land lifts its faC'e to kindly
skies."
Under Necrology, he paid affectionate tribute to his late friend
a nd co-worker, Deputy Grand Master Cooper. He also reported the
passing to rest of the late Grand Chaplain, R .". W.". Bro. Andrew
Armstrong.
He also extended the Fraternal sympathy of the Grand Lodge ot
Colorado to sister Jurisdictions in mourning for the unusual number
of Frlencts and Brethren called home during the year.
He reported the Constitution of three new Lodges during the
year, and issued his Dispensations for the forming and opening of
four new L&dges at Steamboat Springs, at Fort Lupton, at Fruita
and at Lyons.
His reported decisions refer only to the construction of the law
of Colorado, and were approved by the Committee on Jurisprudence.

20

21

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The Grand Master made a general visitation of the constituent
Lodges generally accompanied by the Grand Lecturer or Grand Secretary and often by both of those officers. He placed the Cornerstones of a County Court House, the Carnegie public Library, and
the assembly room of the Siate Industrial School.
Upon the recommendation of the Committee on Correspondence,
Past Grand Master Lawrence N. Greenleaf, Chairman Grand Lodge.
Resolved : "That we extend to the Grand Lodge Valle de Mexico,
our fraternal recognition, and recommended an interchange of
Grand Representatives for the promotion of chosen reciprocal relations."
We excerpt from the Grand Secretary's report the following
table showing the growth of Masonry in Colorado by decades until
the year 1900 and annually thereafter:
Number Of
Lodge
Lodges
Year
Members
Average
3
67
22
1861 .. . .. ... ................
854
1870 .... . ... .. .... .. . ... . .. 15
56
1,857
66
1880 .. . ... . .... .. ......... .. 28
5,852
78
1890 .. . .. .... .... .. ......... 75
8,392
1900 ......... .. ... ... ... .... 94
89
8,895
90
1901 .. ... ..... ... .. .... .. ... 98
9,432
94
1902 . .. .. ... . .. .... ... .. . ... 100
10,001
99
1903 . ... .. ... ...... ....... .. 101
10,559
101
1904 ..... .. .... ... . .. .. .... . 104

Jul>or at 10 o'clock, A. u. Grand Master Killian invited Past Grand
Master Henry M. 'l'eller to address the Grand Lodge in behalf of
the Past Grand Masters, to which invitation he responded and
entertained the Grand Lodge with an instructive address, delivered
In his usually impressive manner, and which we should very much
like to have listened to. Past Grand Master Lawrence N. Greenleaf,
Chail'man of the Committee on Necrology, made one of his best
eloquent and feeling reports.

An eloquent oration was delivered by the R.". w: . Brother John
Humphreys, Grand Orator, which was ordered published In the
Journal of the year.
The election of Officers being in order the following Brethren
were chosen to serve for the ensuing year:
Benjamin L. James, Denver ... . . . ..... ... . .... . . ... . G. M.
Chas. F. Painter, Telluride . . ... ... . . ... ... . . .... D. G. M.
Arthur E. Jones, Denver . ..... ... . .. ..... .. . .... S. G. W.
John Humphreys, Trinidad .... ... .. . ........ . .... J . G. W.
Darius A. Barton, Denver ... .. .... . . . . .......... . G. Treas.
Chas. H. Jacobson, Denver .. . .. .. ....... ... . .. .... G. Sec'y
The Grand Lodge was then called from labor to refreshment
until . 8 o'clock P . M. The object of the evening session being to
exemplify the Worlc of the Third Degree before the 'officers and
members of the Grand Lodge under the direction of the Grand
Lecturer, Ernest Le Neve Foster.
The Third Degree was exemplified before Grand Lodge in a most
Impressive manner. On Wednesday morning Grand Lodge resumed

Th ree of the Lodges under Dispensation Were granted Charters
numbered 118, 119 aud 120. The Grand Master-elect made his appointments. Grand Master Killian then installed the Grand Masterelect, M.". W.". Benjamin Lloyd James, who in turn installed all the
elected and appointed officers.
Past Grand Master Harper M. Orahood then presented the retiring Grand Muster, Past Grand Master Killian, a Past Grand Master's
Jewel, in a few appropriate and eloquent words.
A Committe~ was appointed to procure a suitable testimonial for
presentation to the retiring Grand Secretary R." . W,'. Bro. W m. D.
Todd. The Grand Lodge was then closed In Ample Form.
RF:l'OJl'I' oN ConttESPONDExcr:.
P ast Grand Master Lawrence N. Greenleaf, who holds the Correspondence pen for the Grand Lodge of Colorado, submits his Report for 1904, in which he reviews the transactions of sixty-three Grand
Jurisdictions, with bis conclusions upon the condition of the Cra ft,
in a paper of 185 pages. It goes without saying that like all Bro.
Green leaf's wol'k it is Instructive and entertaining. M." . w:. Ben.
jamin Lloyd James, Grand Master; R ." . W.". Charles H. Jacobson,
Grand Secretary-both of Denver. Correspondent, Past Grand
Master Lawrence N. Greenleaf, Denver. The next, the Thi rtieth
Annual Communication, will be held in Denver, September 22, 1905.
CONNECTICUT.
110 Lodges.
19,346 Members
The Grand Lodge h eld an Emergent Communication in the Masonic Hall, Monroe. May 23, .1904, for the purpose of dedicating the
new hall to the purposes of Masonry in a ccordance with ancient
usage.
The Grand Master George E . P arsons, presided, and besides the
Grand Officers there were present five Past Grand Masters and four
District Deputy Grand Masters.
The Grand Lodge was opened in t he Old Hall from whence it
proceeded to the New Hall and dedi cated the same to the uses and

22

23

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON ConnEsPONDENCE.

purposes of Freemasonry, and subsequently returned to the Old
Hall and closed in Ample Form.

In ten years of 2,832." At an evening session of Grand Lodge the
li.:utered Apprentice Degree was conferred upon candidate who had
been elected to receive It by Wooster Lodge, No. 79. The Officers
C'onferring the Degree being all Past Grand Ma.liters. The M. ·. W. ·.
John H. Barlow, Grand Secretary, presiding as W.". M." ..
The business of the session was mostly routine and. a general
<'onsideratlon of the Ritual. The election of Officers being In order
the following Brethren were chosen to serve for the ensuing year:
Asa P . Fitch, No. 88, Grand Master; Benjamin F. Turner, No. 2,
Deputy Grand Master; Andrew J. Hallock, No. 83, Grand Senior
Warden; Edward E. Fuller, No. 69, Grand Junior Warden; Miles W.
Graves, No. 88, Grand Treasurer; John H. Barlow, No. 12, Grand
Serretary; Weston G. Grannlss, No. 11, Grand Senior Deacon; Frederick A. Verplanck, No. 73, Grand Junior Deacon; Nelson G. Hinckley, No. 4, Willis L. Mix, No. 22, Charles

The One Hundred and Seventieth Annual Communication was held
in Masonic Hall, New Haven, on the 18th of January, .Hl05, commencing at 11 o'clock, A. 111.,-M.". W.". George E. Parsons, Grand
Master; M.". w:. John. H. Barlow, Grand Secretary. All the Grand
Officers,' fourteen Past Grand Masters, with two Past Grand Deputies,
were present at roll call. One hundred and eight Lodges were
represented, together with thirty-two other Grand Jurisdictions.
Portraits of George E. Parsons, Grand Master, and Past Grand
Master David E. Bostnick, who was Grand Master in 1865 and died
In 1872, with a photogravure of the new Masonic Hall, recently
dedicated at Monroe. appeared in this number of the Journal.
The Grand Master announced the Committees and proceeded to
deliver his Annual Address.
He opened his address with a hearty welcome to the Brethren in
attendance and congratulated them upon the happy conditions
under which they commenced the rluties anrl labors inseparably connected with the Annual Comunication of Grand Lodge.
After an acknowledgement of the Gracious Kindness of the Great
Creator in permitting them to assemble on.ce more to review the
past and devise additional plans for the future, he directed their
attention to the honored dead.
He announced the name s inscribed on the death roll of sister
Jurisdictions of whirh he had recelverl official information and said:
" The grim reaper .has been busy among the Brethren of this
and other Jurisdirtions. but with devout thankfulness I am able
to announce that none of the Officers or permanent members or the
Grand Lodge have been taken. In sister Jurisdictions many bright
lights have been extinguished by death; we extend our most sincere
sympathies."
His visitations hac1 "'.leen limited on account of the condition of
his health. He was enthusiastic in his praise of the successful
working of the Home and gave to the good women of the · Eastern
Star their share of credit for its success. He reported · the healthy
condition of the Grand Jurisdiction based on the reports to him by
the several District Deputy, Grand Masters. In his interesting
report Grand Secretary Barlow says: "Ten years ago. when I submitted my first report as Grand Secretary, there were 111 Lodges
and 16,514 mem.b ers. Two of the then feeble Lodges have surrendered· their Charters, and one, "Blazing Star," No. 74, bas been
constituted. There are now 110 Lodges and 19,346 members; a gain

The Grand Master-elect having made his appointments, all were
installed by Past Grand Master Henry 0 . Warner assisted by Past
Grand Masters James McCormick and John H. Barlow.
The retiring Grand Master was presented with a Past Grand
Mastter's Jewel and Apron. The Committees were appointed and
Grand Lodge was closed in Ample Form with prayer by the Grand
Chaplain.
Rta'OHT ON ConRESPONDEl\CE.
The veteran Past Grand Master submits in this number of the
Journal his Eleventh Annual Report in whi<'h he reviews the
transactions of 73 Grand Masonic Jurisdictions, 25 of which are
foreign and 48 of our own country. His conclusions are as applicable to California as Connecticut, although he says it was written
hurriedly and as we are under the shadow of "pressing duties "
ourself we will borrow Bro. Barlow's words for this occasion :
" From overy Jurisdiction we receive the glad tidings that
peace, harmony and prosperity prevall, and that our time-honored
institution was never so prosperous as at present; but, like all
things of value, it has its base counterfeits. Clandestine Lodges
seem to spring up in almost every Jurisdiction, and it behooves us
all to guard against being imposed upon by them. We have enrleavored to make our report as brief as possible, but there is a
large field to go over. \Ve have been compelled to write a large
portion of it hurriedly, amid other pressing duties, as many of the
Proceedings ar.e received in the latter part of the year. The Angel
of Death has been active the past yaer, and we miss the company of
many rlistinguished Masons who have gone before. Among them are

24

R~;PORT o..'I CouRESPONDENOE.

two of our associates in the reportorial corps, John D. Vincil of
Missouri and Charles Belcher of New Jersey. It needs no words
from us to add tribute to tlJ.eir memory. It is safely lodged in faithful breasts. They· rest from their labors, and their work follows
them."
Grand.Master M.'. W.'. Asa P. Fitch, Hartford; M.'. W.'. John
H. Barlow, Grand Secretary and Correspondent, Hartford.
The next Annual Communication will be held in the Masonic
Temple, Hartford, January 17th, 1906.
COSTA RICA.
190 Members.
6 Lodges.
Our latest return from the Grand Lodge of ·costa Rica is of the
special Communications of January and February, 1904,-John l\'L
-Keith, M. ·. W. ·. Grand Master.
The most interesting event of the year was the effecting of a
reconciliation between the Grand Lodge and the Supreme Council
of Central America (Guatemala). This is the body from which the
Charters of the Lodges which organized the Grand Lodge of Costa
Rica were originally received. We have reported before the protest
of the Supreme Council.
Matters were brought to a crisis by the chartering by the Supreme Council of another Lodge in Costa Rica. The Grand Lodge
of Costa Rica promptly declared this Lodge and its members "clandestine." Negotiations were at once opened between the Grand
Lodge and the Supreme Council resulting in the recognition by the
Supreme Council of the Grand Lodge of Costa Rica and the interchange of Grand Representatives. This removes all apparent local
antagonism and cause of friction. The newly chartered Lodge will
probably apply for a new Charter from Costa Rica.
During the year the Grand Lodges of Alabama and the District
of Columbia extended fraternal recognition. At one of the Quarterlies our Grand Representative, Bro. Cipriano Soto, presented his
credentials and was cordially received. At the Annual he was
elected Grand Senior Warden, although he was not present. We
noticed that he was also absent at the adjourned meeting when the
Grand Officers were installed, whereupon the office was declared
vacant.
Next Annual at San Jose, January 27, 1905.
Gustavo Pradilla H., elected Grand Master; Edmund A. Osborne,
P. 0. Box 429, San Jose, re-elected Grand Secretary.

REPorn ON CoRHESPONDENOE.

25

CUBA.
2,452· Members.
59 Lodges.
We have received the "Anuario" for 1903-04. Quarterly sessions
of the Gra.nd Lodge were held June 28, 1903, September 27, 1903, December 27, 1903, and April 9, 1904. On the last-mentioned occasion
the Grand Lodge Officers were installed. The Annual session was
held March 27 and 29, 1904, in the Lodge " Rijos de la Patria," in
Havana. There are fifty-nine Lodges in the Jurisdiction, with 2,452
Brethren, a 'gain of 204 over last year.
·
By a circular of April 20, 1904, the Grand Lodge of Cuba an- .
nounced to the Masonic World that, at the instigation of the Grand
Lodge of Louisiana, it had its Annual session in the preceding
month resolved to suspend relations with the Grand Orient de
France for the reason that this body had violated the Ancient
Landmarks of the Craft in not demanding a profession of faith in a
Supreme Being from its candidates.
The Grand Master's address at the Annual Communication foreshauowed this action. He told the Cuban Craft in substance either
to eultivate the friendship of America and English Grand Lodges
which are as bodies opposed to the Grand Orient de France, or to give
up relations with these bodies and seek closer connection with France
and the Franco-Spanish Masonic influences. At that time !<'ranee
and Cuba still exchanged mutual Representatives. He clteu the
action of a deputy in the Cortes of Spain, Grand Master of a French
Grand Orient in Sp::iin, who participated in a debate on the conflicts
between Masons ~.nd the Catholic Church. In closing this portion
of his remarks Bro. Pellon said:
"If as is done in Cuba in Anglo:saxon countries and in others
that i~itate them, Mason~ would limit their efforts to the attainment of ideal morality and human perfection, we should not see
the strange spectacle of a minister, who years ago proposed reforms
for the colonies, declaring in the Cortes of Spain that the Masons
and not the friars were the cause of the insurrection in the Philippines."
Among the decisions made by the Grand Master the following are
of interest:
A person having only one hand cannot be initiated.
No Lodge can refuse admission to a visiting Brother in good
standing.
The son of a Mason cannot become a candidate for initiation
until he has reached the age of twenty-one years.
Twelve Lodges were either constituted by dispensation, l:lrected
by warrant, or reorganized during the year. An exchange of Repre-

26

IlEPOm' ON ConuEsroNDENCE.

REPORT oN Co1mEBPONDENCE.

sentatives was had with the Grand Lodges of Texas, West Australia,
West Virginia, Montana, Arizona, British Columbia, Missouri, Brazil,
Union of Grand Lodges of Germany and Nebraska.
M.·. w:. Grand Master, Bro. Jose Fernandez Pellon, Cienfuegos;
R." . W." . Grand Secretary, Bro. Aurelio Miranda, Havana.

the late recess. Forty-four of their own kindred and Brethren had
been railed home while other Jurisdictions were mourning the loss
of an unusual number of leading members of the fraternity, among
whom were seventeen Past Grand Masters, a number of Past Grand
Wardens and Grand Secretaries.
We do not note anything in the routine of the business of the
session requiring comment. His decisions were confined to matters
of local interest only and were approved by the special committee
who considered the address.
The Grand Lodge was called off at 1: 30 P. 111., when the Brethren
entertained their visitors at an excellent dinner seasoned with good
wishes and a desire for a closer union bet~een all Jurisdictions of
legitimate Masons.

DELAWARE.
2,~02 Members.
22 Lodges.
The Grand Lodge of Delaware held its Ninety-eighth Annual
Communication in the Masonic Temple, Wilmington, on the 5th of
October, 1904.,-M.". W.". Churles H. Maull, Grand Master; R.". W.".
Benjamin F. Bartram, Grand Secretary. Eighteen Lodges were
represented, together with twenty-eight other Grand· Jurisdictions.
Nine Past Grand Masters were in attendance.
A portrait of Grand Master Maull ornaments the opening page
of the Journal.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form with prayer by
R everend and W . Lewis H. Jackson, Grand Chaplain,
The death of Past Grand Master Geo. E. Wagner of the Grand
Lodge of Pennsylvania was announced, and .Grand Lodge ordered its
sympathy al once telegraphed to the Grand Lodge.
An Alarm was reported and the response given that the Grand
Master and Staff of the Grand Lodge of New Jersey were in waiting
and desired to visit the Grand Lodge of Delaware. Grand Master ·
John H. Wilkins and Staff were admitted, received with all the
honors and welcomed by the Grand Master.
The Grand Master commenced the delivery of his Annual Address. Speaking of the passage of the years with their joys and
sorrows and after giving the assembled brethren a cordial welcome
to the present 98th Annual Comm uni cation, he added:
"Most ot you have for years attended the Annual Communications of this Most Worshipful Grand Lodge to gather around this
sacred altar and here as Brethren offer devotions to our Heavenly
Father; to rededicate ourselves to his service and the uplifting of
huma nity.
" The blessings of peace and prosperity whiC'h the Great Architect
of the Universe has been pleased to bestow upon us during the past
year should make us deeply grateful for the many mercies we have
received at his hands, giving us reasons for lifting up our hearts in
thankfulness and praise to the giver of all good."
Un Q.er Necrology he gave his first attention to the Brethren of
Delaware and sister Jurisdictions who had passed to rest during

27

The Grand Lodge was called on at 3 o'clock r. 11r.
Reports were received from the Committee on Work, on Centennial Anniversary and also Committee to formulate a plan for a
State Board of Relief.
The Grand Lodge was addressed by Past Grand Master Joseph W.
Ewan of New Jersey.
The Grand Lodge proceeded with its routine business. The Committee on the death of Past Grand Master Daniel McC!intock made a
feelin g and eloquent report which was ordered sent to the family of
the departed Brother, and published in the Journal.
The election of officers being in order, tellers were appointed and
the election proceeded. The M." . W." . R . Henry Young was chosen
Grand Master, and the R." . W.". Benjamin F. Bartram was re-elected
Grand Secretary.
The Grand Master-elect was installed by the retiring Grand
Master and made his appointments and installed all who had been
elected and appointed to serve for the ensuing Masonic year.
The retiring Grand Master was presented with a Past Grand
Master's J ewel in token of the appreciation of his faithful service
in the Grand East.
The Committees were appointed and Grand Lodge was closed
in Ample Form with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
R E POHT ON ConnESPONl>ENCE.

Brother Lewis H ..Jackson again responds for the Grand Lodge
of Delaware in a report of eighty pages In which he gives an intelligent review of the Masonic world, its progress and present condition. H e noti ces our Jurisdiction for the administration of Grand
Master Orrin S. H enderson. H e credits California with good square

28

REPORT · ON COHRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

work, and says we improve upon acquaintance. Good for Delaware!
Tbe "Blue Hen" is an old-time favorite of this .writer, and we
salute you, Bro. Jackson, as one of the chickens.
M.'. W.'. R. Henry Young, Wilmington, Grand Master; R.' . W.'.
Benjamin F. Bartram, Wilmington, Grand Secretary.
The next, Ninety-ninth Annual Communication will be held in
Masonic Hall, Wilmington, on the first Wednesday in October, 1905.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
30 Lodges.

17,941 Members.

Nine Communications were held by this Grand Lodge during the
year.
The first for the exemplification of the Work, March 12, 1904.
The second for placi ng the stone of Memorial Continental Hall,
April 19.
The third or second Special to receive the reports of Committees
on Jurisprudence Work and Lectures, By-Laws and 011 ·Larner
Memorial, May 11th.
The fourth, a Special for the purpose of placing the cornerstone
of the Mount Pleasant M. E . Church on July 30th, 1904.
The fifth, a Special for the paying of the last sad tribute to the
remains of Bro. Claudius Buchanan Smith; Grand Chaplain, Augus~
20th.
The sixth, for the same sad purpose in the burial of Past Grand
Master Malcolm Sealou, on September 9th.
The seventh on September 24th to honor reports of the several
Committees on By-Laws and Committees to prepare appropriate
memorials devoted to the memories of the Rev'd and Worshipful
Claudius B. Smith and Past Grand Master Malcolm Seaton, and an
Amendment to the Constitution.
The eighth, the placing of the cornerstone of the Presbyterian
Church South, on Novllm~er 26th and
The ninth, the Annual of December 21st.
This Grand Lodge held its Ninety-fourth Annual Communication
in Masonic Temple, Washington, December 21st, 1904,-M. ·. W. ·.
James A. Wetmore, Grand Master, presiding; the R.'. W.'. Arvlne
W. Johnston · being Grand Secretary. Twenty-five Lodges were
represented, together with thirty-five other Grand Jurisdictions.
Twelve P ast Grand Masters, one Past Grand Deputy and a Past
Grand Junior Warden were in attendance.

A portait of Grand Master Wetmore appeared on the opening
p11ge,

The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form with prayer by the
Urand Chaplain and the Grand Master commenced the delivery of
his Annual Address.
With an expression of gratitude to the Supreme Grand Master for
•he manifold blessings enjoyed by the Fraternity as ind! vi duals and
t or the progress and prosperity of the constituent Lodges composing
the Grand Lodge of the District. As also for the privilege they
were now enjoying in coming together for a review of the past and
providing for the future needs of their branch of the Masonic
family, he passed to say a few words in rememberance of the
Brethren who had been called from labor since the last Annual Communication. In presenting the death roll, he said:
"So many times during the.year our ranks have been broken;
so many times a heart has been stilled, a voice hushed and fond ties
~evered forever; so many times the Messenger of Death has come
and gone, always bearing away, never bringing back our loved ones,
and having not only all seasons for his own, but claiming young
man and old,
" He reaps the bearded grain at a breath
And the flowers that grow between."
Aft.er reporting the many names inscribed on the rolls of their
own an d sister Jurisdictions, and paying to their memories the
tribute of fraternal atfectlon, he recommended that the necessary
pages be set apart In the Journal devoted to the remembrance of
their good works. His decisions were sustained by the Committee
on Jurisprudence as being In accordance " with Masonic law and
usage " and the recommendation of the Committee were approved
and adopted by the Grand Lodge. On the recommendation of the
Committee of Jurisprudence Grand Lodge recognized the Grand
Lodge Valle de Mexico as a legitimate and legal Grand Lodge.
Grand Lodge concluded its business routine and closed In Ample
Form to be again convened on St. John's day for the election of its
Officers for the ensuing year and their Installation.
St. John's day December 27th, H04. Grand Lodge convened in
Masonic Temple at seven o'clock P. 11r. All the Grand Officers with
nine Past Grand Masters were present and twenty-six Lodges were
represented.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form with prayer by the
Grand Chaplain.
Letters of regret for enforced absence were received from Past
Grand Masters George W. Baird and ~orge H. Walker.

31

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT o:-< ConnEsPuNDENCE.

The Grand Master reported that, at his request, Masonic burial
had be€n given to the remains of Bro. Harry C. Jordan, a member
of Seaboard L<>dge, No. 56, of Portsmouth, Va., by Naval Lodge, No.
4, December 26, 1904.
·
The retiring Grand Master was presented with a Past Grand
Master's Jewel, by Past Grand Master James A. Sample on behalf
of the Grand Lodge.
The Grand Master delivered his Inaugural Address, named the
standing committe€s, wished the Brethren all a happy New Year
and closed the Grand Lodge in Ample Form, prayer being offerecl bj'
the Grand Chaplain.
In the Appendix we note a biographical sketch of the life of the
Past Grand Master James A. Wetmore. A report of the Masonic
Board of Relief of the District. A statement of the work, membership and dues of the Grand Lodge Jurisdiction, with the returns of
the Constituent Lod.ges.

The Grand L odge was opened wlth Solemn Prayer . The minutes
of previous meetings were read and approved.
The report of· the Board of Benevolence for the months of June,
,July and August, 1904, was, on the motion of V.'. W.'. Bro. James
lienry Matthews, President, seconded by V.' . W.'. Bro. Frank Rich11rdson, Past Deputy Grand Registrar, Grand Director of Ceremonies,
laken as read and ordered to be entered on the minutes, and the
rt•t·ommendations contained therein were confirmed.

30

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

This report is a fine paper prepared by Past Grand Master George
W. Baird, a rE:view of the transactions of seventy-six Grand Masonic Jurisdictions. He reviews California for its Fifty-fourth
Annual the administration of Grand Master Orrin S. Henderson,
whose ~dd;·ess and rulings he approves with emphasis. His notice
of the business routine of the Grand Lodge ls complimentary to the
Grand Lodge of California, and really we are not surprised, as
Bro. Baird tells us he once " hung up his hat" in Vallejo, and in
the ante-room of old "Naval," 87. Then how could he help saying a
good word for c;;Jifornia?
M.'. W.'. Luther R. Ginn, Grand Master; R.'. W.'. Arvine W.
Johnston, Grand Secretary. Correspondent, Past Grand Master
George W. Baird, Masonic Temple, Washington, D. C.
The next Annual Communication will be held in Masonic Temple,
Washington, in Murch, 1905.
ENGLAND.
The United Grand Lodge of England held a Quarterly Communication, September 7, 1904, in Freemasons' Hall, London. Presept,
Sir Aug. Fred'k Webster, Pro Grand Master, as Grand Master; W.'.
William Lake, Assistant Grand Secretary. There was a full attendance of Officers, Past Officers and visitors, the Grand Stewards
of the year, Masters, Past Masters and Wardens of many private
Lodges.

Further reports of the Board of Benevolence and the Boat·d of
Ueneral Purposes were presented, read and adopted.
The following interesting record of recent events in Queensland
was submitted by the V.' . W.'. John Strachan, Grand Registrar:
V.'. W.'. Bro. John Strachan. K. C., Grand Registra r , said : Most
Worshipful Grand Master i n the Chair, by command of His Royal
Highness, the Grand Master, I have the honor to report to Grand
Lodge with reference to certain Masonic events in the State of
Queensland. As is probably known to all here, the Grand Lodges
of England, Ireland unrl Scotland have equal, though independent,
Masoni.c jurisdiction in certain colonies of the Empire, and in other
territories, including India; and it having been represented to the
Grand Mastet of England that some uniformity of practice with regard to certain matters should prevail, His Royal Highness some
months ago communicated with the Grand Masters of Ireland and
Sr otland, in order that joint a ction might be taken respecting- .
(1) The recognition in each jurisdiction of the decrees of
suspension, exclusion, or expulsion, pronounced respectively by
the Masonic authorities of the other Jurisdictions when acting
judicially;
( 2) The status in each such Jurisdiction of Worshipful
Masters and Past Masters of the ot her Jurisdi ctions or Constitutions, and their eligibility in certain events to take t he Chair;
( 3) The recognition of new Grand Lodges, where there are
Lodges under the several Constitutions in the colony or territory
of the proposed new Grand Lodge.
Before any joint understanding coulcl be arrived at, events had
moved with singular rapidity in Queens land, where there has been
for many years a number of Lodges, formed respectively into a
District Grand Lodge under the Grand Lodge of England, a Provincial Grand Lodge under the Grand Lodge of Ireland, and a Dl,strict
Oran<! Lodge under the Grand Lodge of Scotland. About a year ago,
th e Provincial Grand Master under the Irish Constitution addressed

32

REPORT ON ConHESPONDENCE.

HEPORT oN CoRRESPONDEr;cE.

a letter to the M.'. W.'. Grand Master of Ireland, announcing that
·' there is a determination to establish a Sovereign Grand Lodge of
Queensland, no matter at what cost," and, forthwith, overtures were
made to the English and Scottish Lodges to join the movement.
Our District Grand Master (the Hon. Augustus C. Gregory, C. M. G.)
thereupon caused a circular to be issued to all Lodges under his
l·are, pointing out what steps were necessary, under Rule 218A, for
obtaining a dispensation to hold a meeting at which the question
l'Ould be considered. But so far, I believe, there has been no desire
expressed on the part of the English Lodges to join in the movement or even to discuss the question. In April, of this year, however,
certain Brethren of the other Constitutions met and resolved to
form a Grand Lodge of Queensland; but the value of such a resolution may be properly estimated when we find that out of the 152
Lodges in Queensland, only thirty-nine identified themselves with
the movement, leaving 113 which decline to do so. Of the twentysix Irish Lodges, twenty-five were in favor, and one against; of the
sixty-four Scottish Lodges, fourteen were in favor, and fifty against;
while, of the sixty-two English Lodges, not one was in favor. Thus,
the English District Gi·and Lodge remains intact, with its sixty-two
Lodges; the Scottish District Grand Lodge remains with fifty Lodges,
while fourteen have apparently allied themselves with the twentyfive Irish Lodges, to constitute an irregular assembly of about onefourth of the total Lodges in the State. This minority has sent out
to the several Granil Lodges of the world a circular letter claiming
recognition rn the following words: "The action taken by the
Brethren in this State will, ·it is trusted, be approved by your Most
Worshipful Grand Lodge, and I am instructed to respectfully request
Fraternal recognition and co-operation for the Grand Lodge of
Queensland, in the full hope and confidence that such recognition
wlll be cordially and promptly given, thus tending to insure to this
Grand Lodge sole jurisdiction within the territory." The application
having been carefully considered by the Most Worshipful Grand Master of England and his Masonic Advisers, I am commanded to Intimate that His Royal Highness does not propose to ask Grand Lodge
to acknowledge the so-called Grand Lodge of Queensland. It only
remains, therefore, for me to move the following resolution :
The Most Worshipful Grand Master, having received a communication from the secretary of a body in Brisbane styling
itself "The Grand Lodge of Queensland," requesting recognition
of such body as having sole Masonic jurisdiction within that
territory, and His Royal Highness having intimated that he
does not propose to ask Grand Lodge to accord such recognition,

33

it is hereby RESOLVED, That the United Grand Lodge of England
refuses to acknowledge the aforesaid body in Brisbane as a
Grand Lod~e, or as having any Masonic jurisdiction in the State
of Queensland.
V.'. W.' . Bro. the Rev. Sir Borradaile Savory, Bart., Past Grand
l~aplain, and Acting Deputy Gra~d Master, seconded the resolution,
which was carried unanimously.
V.' . W.'. Bro. John Strachan, K. C., Most Worshipful Grand
Muster in the Chair, following upon that motion, inasmuch as certain
c;rand Lodges are awaiting the action of the Grand Lodge of England, and have requested to be informed of it, I beg to move, " That
the Grand Secretary be instructed to send a copy of the Report and
Resolution to all the Grand Lodges with which we are in Fraternal
rPlationship."
V .' . W.'. Bro. Frank Richardson, seconded the motion, and it
was carried unanimously.
Grand Lodge was then closed in Form, and with Solemn Prayer.
This Grand Lodge held another Quarterly in Freemasons' Hall,
London, on the 1st day of March, 1905-M. ·. W. ·. the Rt. Hon. The
Earl of Amherst on the Throne; the V.' . W.'. Sir Edward Letchworth, F . S. A., Grand Secretary. There was a full attendance of
Officers, Past Officers, Masters, Past Masters, Wardens and other
members of the Gran.d Lodge.
The Grand_Lodge was opened in Solem n Forn: with prayer . The
minutes were read and confirmed.
The. present being the session for the choice of a M.'. W.' . Grand
Master and a Grand Treasurer, Scrutineers were appointed and
obligated to give a true and faithful account of the matters committed to their charge.
After nomination and elaborate eulogy, H. R. H ., the Duke of
Connau ght was elected Grand Master by acclamation and, with his
many titles, proclaimed as such. Bro. Stanley James Attenborough,
P. M., P . Z. and P. A. G. D. C., was elected Grand Treasurer.
The Pro Grand Master called the attention of Grand Lodge to the
recent announcement of the betrothal of the eldest daughter of the
M.'. W.' . Grand Master to the grandson of the King of Sweden, a,
Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of England, and he moved
that, in token of our appreciation of ·the services rendered the Craft
by the Grand Master, and the bridegroom being the grandson of the
reigning King of Sweden, who is a Past Grand Master of the Grand
J,oclge of England, by whom our ' late Grand Master was initiated

3a

34

HEPOIIT ON Co1mESPONDENCE.

rnto our Craft, an appropriation of 250 guineas be made for the
purchase of a wedding present to Her Royal Highness. The resolution being seconded, was put and carried unanimously.
The Board of General Purposes reported that, in view of the expiration of the lease of the Freemasons' Tavern, the board had
invited bids for a future lease of the premises.
Among other c:onditions proposed by the Board was one that the
lease should eontain a provision enabling a limited number of
Lodges dining at Freemasons' Tavern, to provide th eir own wines,
paying a corkage in respect of what was consumed. The Board
has received from Spiers and Pond an intimation that the company
preferred not to offer for a new lease. Letters to a similar effect
have also been received from the proprietors of the Cafe Royal. and
the Holborn and Frascati.
Both .J. Lyons & Co. and Bro. Oddenino have expressed a desire
to become tenants of the property, and have intimated their readiness to meet the wishes of the Board in regard to the purchase of
wines and the payment of corkage.
It ls estimated that in order to meet the reasonable requirements
of the Craft an expenditure of probably not less than £30,000 would
be necessary on the reconstruction and decoration of the Tavern ;
and, in view of that expenditure by Grand Lodge, Lyons & Co., Ltd.,
are prepared to take a lease of the property for fourteen years from
Michaelmas. 190G. at t he rental of £3,000 a year.
The Board. in vjew of the fact that the rent offered by Lyons &
Co. is very largely in excess of that offered by Bro. Oddenino, recommend Grand Lodge to accept the ofl'er of the company, subject to the
execution of a formal agreement eontaining such provisions as may
be mutually agreed on. and that the Board of General Purposes be
authorized to expend on the reconstruction and decoration of the
Tavern, a snm not exceeding £30,000, and to enter Into such agreements with Lrons & Co. and other necessary parties as may be
required to give effect to the arrangement.
After considerable discu.s i,ion. the M.'. W.'. Pro Grand Master:
The motion moved was, " That the Report of the General Purposes.'
Committee be adopted." To that, the following amendment has been
moved, "That the question of leasing the Tavern be referred, back
for further consideration as to its general desirability, but especlallr
in connection with the question of re-housing Grand Lodge."
The amendment was lost a nd the motion carried by a vote of 327
to 286.
The M.'. W.'. Pro Gi·and l_\'l:aster declared the original motion carried.
Grand Lodge was closed in Ample Form with Solemn Prayer.

RErORT ON ComtESPONDENCE.

35

FLORIDA.
lfi3 Lodges.

6,019 Members.
The Grand Lodge of Florida hela' three Special Communications
oluring the year.

The first, February 22, 1904, at Masonic Hall, Crescent City, for
the purpose of placing the corner-stone of the Southfield Bible Conft> rence Building.
The second, at the Masonic Hall, Live Oak, to place the curneri;tone of the Suwanne County Courthouse, February 29, 1904, thirty
I JOdges participating.
And again at Live Oak, May 1 2, 1904, to perform the last sad
1·1tes of burial over the remains of Past Grand Master ·William Forsyth Bynum.
The Seventy-sixth Annual Communication was held in Masonic
Temple, Jacksonville, January 17, 1905, commencing at "high
twelve,"-M.'. W.'. Thomas M. Puleston, Grand Master; R.' . W.'.
Wilber P. Webster, Grand Secretary. One hundred and thirty-four
Lodges we re represented, together with forty other Grand Jurlsdic1ions, California being represented by Past Grand Master Henry w.
Long. Eight Past Grand Masters and the District· Deputy Grand
Masters of fourteen districts were in attendance.
A portrait of Past Grand Master Samuel Paseo, who was Grand
Master in 1870-71-72. appears on the opening page.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form with prayer by the
t;rand Chaplain.
·
The Grand Master named the committees and proceeded to deliver
his Annual Address.
He spoke of the unending march of Time which, absorbing the
old, had brought them to the commencement of a new year with
its duties and responsibilities; in speaking for them, he would urge
thankfulness to the Great Ruler or all for His protecting care-for
thei r freedom from disasters of the past, from t he ravages of storms,
from the scourge of pestilence and from the remorseless fury of the
llames; a ll these blessinga should inspi re them with firmer reliance
on the guiding hand of the Almighty Father.
After a brief, but eloquent, dissertation on the principles of the
p;reat Fraternity, he directed their attention to the cleath roll or
the year, and said: "Let us pau se for a moment in silent tribute to
th e memory of the dead-to those Brethren, both of our own and
other .Jurisdictions, who have felt the hand of the grim messenger
lulrl upon them, and have erossed the dark river never to return."

36

REPORT ON CORRE~PONDENCF.

REPORT ON CoRREBPOND£NOE.

He extended the sympathy of the Grand Lodge of Florida to all bereaved Jurisdictions, and added:
"In our own Jmisdictlon In addition to our Grand Tyler, ninetyfour of our Brethren have been called from earth's labors and
trials, their remains placed in the bosom of our Mother Earth, and
their souls gone to their eternal abiding place. Over their graves
Jet us keep the acacia green and, while we treasure their memory in
our hearts, let us hope that we may all meet again and partake of
a blessed Immortality that will never end.
"What is the existence of man's l!fe
But open war or slumbered strife?
Where sickness to his sense presents
The combat of the elements;
And never feels a perfect peace
Till Death's cold hand signs his release."
Charters were granted to "Perry," " Doric," " Sarasta " and
"Otter Creek" Lodges to be numbered In accordance with the dates
of the several dispensations.
Anniversary exercises were held on the evening of January 18th,
with a large ni.1mber of visitors in attendance. The Grand Master
presided.
At the session of January 19th, the Grand Orator delivered a
forcible and interesting oration, but a.s it was extemporaneous, and
dealt with the esoteric work, was not for publication.
The election of officers for the ensuing year being in order, Tellers
were appointed and the election proceeded. M. ·. W. ·. Bro. Charles
W. Johnson was elected Grand Master, and R.". w:. Wilber P. Webster was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The Grand Master-elect made his appointments, and all were installed by the retiring Grand Master, Past Deputy Grand Master
Granville Beal acting as Master of the Ceremonies.
The Committee on Memorials, Bro. J. H . Weddell, Chairman',
made a feeling and appropriate report devoted to the memory of the
Brethren who had passed to rest, which was adopted by the Grand
Lodge.
The remainder of the session was occupied in the transaction
of the business routine, when the standing committees and the District Deputies were appointed, and the Grand Lodge was closed In
Ample Form with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
REPOR'r ON CORRESPONDENCE.

This report Is the handiwork of Past Grand Master Silas B.
Wright, who presents a paper of :!35 pages, in which he reviews

37

the Masonic world, its condition and future prospects: He noti ces
California during the administration of Grand Master Henderson,
.follows the business routine of the session, compliments Grand
Orator Hart's effort a& a "gem worthy of reproduction," and commends generally the Grand Lodge, its methods and Its work.

M:. W:. Charles W. Johnson, Grand Master ; R." . w:. Wilber P.
Webster, Grand Secretary. Correspondent, Past Grand Master Silas
B. Wright, Jacksonville.
The next Annual Communication will be held in the city of
Jacksonville on the third Tuesday in January, 1904.
GEORGIA.
471 Lodges

24,120 Members.
The. Grand Lodge of Georgia held its One Hundred Eighteenth
Annual Communication in Masonic Temple, Macon, October 25,
commencing at 10 o'clock A.11r.,-M.". w:. Max Meyerhardt, Grand
Master; R. '. w:. W. A. Wolihim, Grand Secretary. Four hundred
fifty-five Lodges were rep1·esented, together with fifty-six other
Grand Jurisdictions, California being represented by Past Grand
Master James W. Taylor. All the Grand Officers, two Past Grand
Masters, three Past Grand Deputies and eleven District Deputy
Grand Masters were in attendance.
A handsome photogravure of the Georgia Masonic Home, located,
we presume, at Macon, is noticed on the opening page.
The Grand Master proceeded to deliver his Annual Address.
No reporter can do justice to the eloquent words of the Grand
Master of Georgia, but by excerpting his sentences as he uttered
them. We. therefore, devote a page to the opening of his Annual
Address, that his well-chosen words may be preserved in our Hbrarv
to be drawn upon when " living words a r e needed ":
" MY BHE'l'IInEN : In far off Eastern lands, where the crescent or
Mahomet is the emblem of his followers, It is the custom, at stated
intervals, to call the faithful to prayer.
" From the time when th e sun in splendor rises in the East, to the
hour when it sinks to rest behind a sea of gold, the Muezzin calls five
times to the followers of the prophet to lift up their hearts In prayer.
And whenever that sonnd Is heard, the faithful believer, wherever he
may be, in mosque or mart, with his face toward the East, prostrates
himself upon the ground , and exclaims: •Great Is Allah! Great is
Allah! ' Followers of a false prophet they are; but the custom is a
noble and an Inspiring one.

0

38

R.t:PORT ON CoJlRESPONI>ENCE.

HEPORT 0N CORRESPONDENCE.

"In the Talmud is found a beautiful legend, relating how God
selected an angel-Sandalphon-to stand at the outermost gates of
the Celestial City, listening to the prayers that ascend t.o the Throne
of Grace. And as he stood thus, he gathered the prayers and changed
them into beautiful flowers, ancl the fragrance they shed was wafted
through the streets of the City Immortal, until It reached the very
throne of God.
"Masonry, founded, as it Is, upon the Book of books, the Holy
Bible, inculcates and enforces the duty of prayer. On bended knee,
with our faces turned toward the East-the source of light and glory
-we are taught to hold communion with Him, the Architect Supreme; who holds the universe in the hollow of His hand.
"Pr~yer is indeed the golden link that binds the creature to his
Creator; that rolls away the bu.rdens of the soul; that uplifts the
spirit; that changes the gloom and darkness of despair into the glory .
and splendor of an uudying faith.
" Men may revile us, tyrants may persecute us, bnt while Masonry
stands upon the mighty rock of prayer, neither powers nor principalities nor the hosts of darkness shall prevail against her.
"And so to·day, "with prayer and praise upon onr lips, with deep
t)lanksgivlng in our hearts, we enter upon the duties of this, our One
Hundred and Eighteenth Annual Communication. Never before in
all her splendid history has Masonry enjoyed snch abounding prosperity as during the year just past. A substantial inC'rease in numbers; peace and harmony prevailing; the moral standard raised
high; a full treasury; many new Lodges instituted; and, above all,
the Home. for which we have labored so long and so earnestly, fully
completeu, and soon to open its hospitable doors to the worthy wards
of Georgia Masoury. Surely our hearts shonld glow with fervent
gratitude to the God of our fathers who has showered so bonntifully
npon us His rlrhest blessings and His choicest benedictions."
. Directing their attention to absent Brethren who had long been
wlth them in the goou work of re-bulllling the city and house of the
Lord, he paid a most eloquent tribute to the lives and characters
of Comp. Wm. A. Graham and Charles Wessolowsky, Past Grand
High Priests of the Grand Chapter of Georgia, and to the many
"bright lights" which have been extinguished in other Jurisdictions.
He said : "We can but offer the consolation of our deepest and
sincerest sympathy."
At the close of his presentation of the financial condition of the
Jurisdi ction, he says : "Once more I must congratulate the Grand
Lodge upon the splendid condition of its finances, and at the same

time again urge that at the pr.esent Communication we shoul{l be
very careful with our appropriations, in view of the maintenance
of the Masonic Home, which we all regard as the pride an·d glory
of Georgia Masonry."

39

The Grand Master had a busy year. Besides the three dispensations for the forming and opening of new Lodges, he issued one hundred and fifty for the placing of corner-stones and all other purposes.
£Tnder the bead of Decisions, he said:
"During the past year I have received not less than two thousand
letters containing inquiries as to Masonk law and usage. I have endeavored to reply to this vast correspondence promptly and in detail,
a lthough with but very few exceptions, the questions propounded
were fully covered by the Masonic Code."
As his decisions were approved by the able Committee on Jurispruden ce, we have no romment to make. He made many visitations• in fa,ct, all that time and his other duties would permit. Before
closing his address " under personal," he said:
"Standing within this sacred temple and In this august presence,
I here consecrate myself anew to the cause of Masonry and humanity, to the service of God, to the welfare and happiness of my beloved Brethren. In the words of the sweet Moabitess of old, I declare
to you with all my heart and all my strength,.' Entreat me not to
leave thee or to return from following after thee ; for whither thou
goest I will go, and where thou lodgest I will lodge. Thy people
shall be my people, and thy God my God. Where thou dlest will I
die. and there will I be burled. The Lord do so to me, and more
also, if aught but death part thee and me'."
The Grand Master appointed the committees, and Grand Lodge
was " called off " to prepare for the dedication of the Home.
At the appointed. hour Grand Lodge assembled in front of the
Temple,, where conveyances were in waiting to convey officers and
members to the building site. It goes without saying that on this
occasion "there was music in the air," and eloquence was at a discount. With Grand Master Meyerhardt, Past Grand Masters w. A.
Davis, James W . Taylor, Grand Wardens Henry Banks and George
M. Napier, and Deputy Grand Master Thomas H. Jeff~ies on the
rostrum, there was certainly no room for ordinary talk.
The Gra.nd Lodge was "called on " for the •resumption of its
routine business at 7:30 I'. M., when matters concerning the Home,
the reports of the several committees a nd the introduction of new
hnsiness was considered.

40

.

..

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

On the following day, October 26, at il o'clock A. M., the following resolution was presented by Bro. R. E. Edwards, and unanimously adopted:
"';\'IrnREAS, There have recently appeared certain articles iu a
Masonic journal, published in this State, reflecting upon and impugning the motives of Grand Master Meyerhardt, relative to committee appointments in this Grand Body; Therefore,. be it
" Resolvecl, By the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of
Georgia, that said articles are infamous and deserve the stamp ot
disapproval of every true Mason within this Grand Jurisdiction.
"Resolved, 2d, That this Grand Body desires to express to Grand
Master Meyerhardt its utmost confidence and respect for the manner
·i n which he has conducted the duties of his office, and that the
articles referred to do not in anywise represent the sentiments of the
Masons of Georgia."
The election of officers for the ensuing year being in o_rder, the
following Brethren were chosen to serve in the respective stations:
Max Meyerhardt, Grand Master; Thomas H. Jeffries, Deputy
Grand Master; Henry Banks, Senior Grand Warden; George M. Napier, Junior Grand Warden; J ames M. Rushin, Grand Treasu\'er ;
W. A. Wolihln, Grand Secretary.
The report of the Committee on Memorials, Bro. H. H. McLaws,
Chairman, devoted to the remembrance of the Brethren who have
been called home during the year, was an affectionate and Fraternal
tribute to the Brethren who had " gone before."
The Grand Master announced the re-appointment of all the appointed Grand Officers, he appointed the permanent and special committees, and the Grand Lodge was closed in due and Ample Form
with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
REPOHT o:-; Com1f:S1•0:-;nENCE.
Bro. A . . Q. Moody submits a report wherein fifty-two Grand
Jurisdictions are reviewed. His notice of California is of the Fiftytourth Annual, the administration of Grand Master Henderson. His
comments on the business of the Grand Lodge, the address of the
Grand Master and the oration of Grand Orator Hart are all mentioned in complimentary terms. He says that in his journey throngb.
the various Jurisdictions, harmony, peace and prosperity were the
. prevailing conditions. We respond, so mote it be.
M. '. \V.' . Max Meyerhardt was re-elected Grand Master, and H.'.
W.'. Wm. A. Wolihin was re-eleeted· Grand Secretary. Correspondrnt,
Bro. A. Q. Moody, Boston.
The next Annual Communication will he heir! in th e clt.r of
Macon, October 31, 1905.

REPQU'i' 0:-i CORRESPONDENCE.

4l

IDAHO.
37 Lodges.

1,954 Members.

The Grand Lodge of Idaho held an Emergent Communication at
Cambridge, February 10, 1904, for the purpose of dedicating the new
Masonic Hall erected by " Salubria" Lodge, No. 31,-the M. ·. W . ·.
Joshua M. Cowen, Grand Master; R.' . W.'. Riel E. Wilson, Acting
Grand Secretary.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form and the hall of
"Salubria" Lodge, No. 31, was dedicated to the uses and purposes
of Mason~·y in accordance with ancient Masonic usage.
After the ceremonies all repaired to the banquet room where an
elegant banquet, which had been prepared by "Salubria" Lodge, No.
31, A. I<'. & A. M., was participated in by upwards of one hundred
Masons, their wives and daughters, and many invited guests.
The Grand Lodge then returned to the new Hall and · closed in
Ample Form. '
The Thirty-seventh Annual Communication was held in Masonic
Hall, Boise, September< 13th, commencing at 10 o'clock A, ~r.,-M.'.
W.' . Joshua M. Cowen, Grand Master; R.' . W.'. Theophilus W. Randall, Grand Secretary. Thirty-four Lodges were represented, together with fifteen other Grand Jurisdictions. The Grand Officers,
seven Past Grand Masters, six Grand Wardens and four Past Grand
Lecturers were in attendance.
A photogravure of the Grand Lodge of Idaho, in which · is delineated the features of fifty-three of its stalwart members, is the
.. feature of this number of the journal, and ornaments its opening
page. We were naturally more interested in the features of the old
California Mason, Past Grand Master Jonas W. Brown, than in the
other fifty-two good-looking Idaho Masons, but it is a splendid representation of the boys who, taking Horace Greeley's advice, at the
commencement of the half-century just passed turned their faces
to the West.
The Grand Lodge was opened, on the Third Degree, in Ample
Form. The Grand Master named the committees and proceeded to
deliver his Annual Address. He delivered a most interesting dissertation on the uses and purposes of Masonry, with an acknowledgement to the Supreme Ruler of his kindness and protection during
the years of the growth of the Grand Lodge of Idaho.
Then, directi ng the attention of the Brethren to the names of
absent Brethren inscribed on the death roll of the year, h e said :

42

REPORT ON 00RRESPONDE!WE.

Bi ro11'1' oN Conn1HONDENct.

"But before going further with my report I think it would be
well to pause for a moment and note those of our Brotherh.ood. who
have been called by the Supreme Ruler to assemble m that great
temple not made by hands, to receive their just rewards for the
deeds performed and words of kindness given.
" In our own Jurisdiction we should feel justly thankful that
not a single member
the Grand Lodge has been summoned to
answer to that last great roll call. While toward our less fortunate
sister Jurisdicti~ns our hearts go out in sympathy and prayer.

of

" • Leaves have their time to fall,
And flowers to wither at the north wind's breath,
And stars to set-but all,
Thou hast all seasons for thine own, Oh Death.' "
He gave a plcai!ant account of his visitation of many of tlie
constituent Lodges of the Jurisdiction, and his appreciation of the
cordial and Fraternal reception in every Lodge visited.
His decisions were confined to constructions of the law, as it
exists, concerning dealers in intoxicating liquor and an amendment
recommending the striking out of the requirement, "that to be
eligible for the Mastership, one must have served previously ~s a
Warden." The amendment did not meet the views of the Committee
on Jurisprudence, who suggested the following, in lieu thereof,
which was adopted:
"Resolred. That Section 1, Article XII. be amended bY adding
tb.ereto the worde, 'The proposed Master shall file w.ith the petition
for a dispensation, a certificate from the R. '. W .". Grand Lecturer,
or his deputy, that the proposed Worshipful Master is competent to
properly confer the three degrees of Masonry, and to deliver the
lectures thereunto, in strict acrordanre to the work adopted by
this Grand Lodge."
In the evening the Third Degree was exemplified by " Boise"
Lodge, No. 2, by conferring that degree upon a candidate elected in
that Lodge.
Grand Lodge appropriated five hundred dollars for the erection
of a monument to Past Grand Master Edward A. Stevenson and his
family.
Charters were granted to "Rathdrum," "Lakeside," and "Bonner's Ferry " Lodges, and they were numbered .respectively 41, 42,
and 43.
At the conclusion of the usual routine of business, the election
of officers being in order, M.'. W .". Bro. Albert W. Gordon was
chosen Grand Master, and R.". W.". Bro. Theophilus vV. Rand::-Jl was

48

re-elected Grand Secretary. The Grand Master-elect made his ap·
pointments, among whom we note Past Grand Master Jonas W.
Brown as Grand Chaplain, and if experience is a qualification, he
eertainly ought to make a good one. All we're installed by Grand
Master Cowen, '.V. ·. Bro: Percy Jones acting as Master of the Ceremonies.
The officers-elect were proclaimed by the Grand Marshal. The
" signet ring•: was tmnsferred to his successur by the retiring Grand
Master, and the Grand Lodge of Idaho was closed in Peace and
Harmony 'Xith prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
R~:PORT ON CORHESPONDENl'E.

This report is by Bro. George E. Knepper. He reviews fifty
Grand Bodies in a report of one hundred pages. The report is a
faithful index of the conditions of the Masonic Jurisdictions reviewed. Our W. · ..Bro. Ralph Lowe of San Jose, represents Idaho in
uur Grand Lodge, and no Grand Lodge on the Roll of Grand Lodges
is better served in that respect. Bro. Knepper notices California
for the administration of Grand Master Henderson. He follows
the doings of our business routine, without objection, which is,
perhaps, eviden<'e of his approval.
The M.". W.". Albert W. Gordon, Grand Master; R.'. W.". Theophilm: W. Randall, Grand Secretary. Chairman of Correspondence,
Bro. George E. Knepper, Moscow.
The next Atrnnal Comm•mlcatlon will be held in Boise, Septem1.Jer
12. 1905.

ILLINOIS.
732 Lodges,

70,921 Membe1·s.

The Grand Lodge of Illinois held its Sixty-fifth Annual Communr
cation at Studebaker Hall, October 4th, commencing at 10 o'clock
.\. M.,-M.". W.'. William B. Wright, Grand Master; R.". W.". J. H. C.
Dill, Grand Secretary. Seven hundred and nirte Lodges were represented, together with forty-three other Grand Jurisdictions. Seven
Pa8t Orand Masters, two Past Grand Deputies, one Past Grand Warden, and the Distri<?t Deputy Grand Masters of thirty districts were
in attenda11.ce.
Portraits of Past Grapd Masters J. H. Hibbard, who was Grand
Master in 1856; Harrison Dills, of 1857; Ira A. W. Buck, of
l 858-59-60; F. M. Blair, of 1861-62, and Thomas J. Turner, of
1863-64, are published in this number of the journal.
Among the Representatives present we do not ·find the name of
Bro. Johu McLaren, the Representative of California.

·44

REl'Of\T ON CORRESPO~DENCE.
REPORT ON 00BREBPONDENOE.

'I'be Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by
Worshipful Rabbi A. Trangott, Master of "Springfield" Lodge, No.
4, The Lexington Quartette favored the assembled brethren with
pleasing selections, the Committee on Credentials reported a constitutional number of Lodges represented and present, and the
Grand Master proceeded to delive; his Annual Address.
The text for his opening was the passing year, now rapidly drawing to a close, with its successes and its failures; " and yo-q," he said,
addressing the Representatives, "the chosen Representatives of the
seventy thousand five hundred Masons of this Grand Jurisdiction,
have assembled to review and pass judgment upon the legislation of
the past and make the necessary provisions for the future." And,
after a cordial welcome to the members, personally, and as the
Grand Lodge of .Illinois, he directed the attention of the Grand Lodge
to the "Army of the Dead" who had gone from among them during
the year now cloeing-1083 brethren of their own tribes and families
had passed to tile Great Beyond; their names were inscribed on the
death roll of the year for deposit among the archives of Grand
Lodge. He added:
".These constant reminders of our mortality are well calculated
to cause us to Jay more count upon the yea.rs to come; to strengthen
our resolutions of better Ji\·ing and higher achievement; and while
we cherish the memory of the departM whose spiriis are in the
hands of Him who doeth all things well, they should and do bring
us to a higher appreciation of the value of the friends and brethren
with whom we are yet permitted to mingle, and inspire us with ·an
earnest desire to more securely weld the frlendsliips left to us."
He also paid atTectionate tribute to the departed Sons of Sister
Jurisdictions who had been called home. He reported the placing of
sixteen corner-stones of public buildings, viz.: four Masonic Temples,
four churches, three school buildings, three libraries and three courthouses and seven Masonic Halls and Temples were dedicated to the
uses and purposes of Masonry. r'n addition, "Lostant" Lodge, No.
870; "Cornell" Lodge, No. 868, and " Maywood" Lodge, No. 869,
were duly constituted. No important decisions were reported. The
Grand Mastei· issued a circular concerning clandestine Masonry,
He issued eight dispensations for the forming and opening
of eight new - Lodges. He reported the -relations with all Grand
Lodges, with whom they were in communication, to be harmonious
and Fraternal in the fullest sense of the word. His decisions were
good common sense interpretations of the law and Masonic usage.
His advice, under the head of Clandestine Masonry, is timely
and prudent. We don't think it best to enlarge upon the subject,

45

and content ourselves with the publication of the roster of Clandestine Lodges In the present number of the journal.
With thanks to Grand Secretary Dill for "aid and assistance"
when needed, the Grand Master closed his address.
Next in order we find the reports of the District Deputy Grand
Masters of the thirty districts into which the J u risdiction is
divided.
•
The Committee on Grand Master's address wished to add to the
Grand Masters good words by "seeing him " and contributing more
light on the doings of Grand Secret.ary Dlll. We quote:
"Your committee also desire to emphasize that the M.". w: .
Grand Master's pra!ee of our R.". W.'. Grand Secretary. That the
latter "was able as early as the ninth day of September to close
his books and with pardonable pride record the fact that every
Lodge had made report and remitted !ts M.". W.'. Grand Lodge dues
ls unprecedented, and his vigorous and etTective work in bringing
the late, Incompetent and careless secretaries of many of the Lodges
to their present efficiency should not go unrewarded. But as a M. ·.
W. '. Grand Lodge of A. F . and A. Masons has no degrees of science
and philosophy to confer by which a few more initials of honor
might be added to the few in his honored name, your committee
recommend that M.'. W.'. Bro. Scott admit our R.' . W,' . Grand
Secretary to the association of M.' . W .'. Graybeards.
"Committee."
Hon. Wm. A. Northcott, R.'. W.' . Grand Orator, deli vered a brief
but eloquent and stirring oration at the commencement of which he
told this good story:
" Down in 'Egypt' where I live and where our most Worshipful
Grand Master lives, we know him well and have learned to lo\·e
and honor him:
" ' He is a man whom the spolls of office cannot buy,
A man of honor, a man who will not lie.'
"The obedience rendered to the laws and mandates of our great
Fraternity and to its officers is of the strictest kind, but it Is voluntary and not compulsory; It comes from love and not from fear · it
is not the obedience of a slave to his master; it !s not the ser~lle
homage of a subject to a tyrant; but it is like the cheerful loyalty
to the free republic which we love.
"Away otT in the kingdom of Denmark is the beautiful city o~
Copenhagen, and there ls a winding carriage way to a tower more
than one hundred and fifty feet high. Once the Czar of .a ll the

4G

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

HEPOH1' ON OonnEsl'oNDENCE.

Russias visited the good old King of Denmark and was driven to the
top of this tower and shown the beautiful country around and about
the city of Copenhagen. While standing there, the Czar drew himself up proudly and said: 'I can dci something you can't do. J can
command the haughtiest noble in all the Russias to throw himself
from this tower, and he would obey me instantly and dash out his
brains on the rocks beneath, and you can't do thi!>.'

Number initiated .. .. . .. .. . .. . .. .. .. .. .. . . .. .. .. .. .
6,207
Number passed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,707
Heceiverl from dues year ending June 30, 1904 . . ...... . ... $63.280 95

"No," said the good old king, " I can't do that, but I will tell you
what I can do; I can lay my head down in the lap of my humblest
subject and sleep in peace and security, and you can't do that."
We were pleased to note the introduction of the following resolution by Past Grand Master .Joseph Robbins:
"WHEHEA8, M.'. W.'. Bro. John C. Smith has at his own expeni:ie,
as a labor of love, unearthed and published the history of the first
M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of Illinois, which became defunct some
thirteen years before the organization of this M. ·. W. ·. Grand Lodge·,
and has achieved success in a direction where others have made
costly failu1·es, therefore
"Resolved, That the Committee on Finance be directed to consider
the expediency of appropriating a sum sufficient to purchase 500
copies of the work for the use of the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge."

We excerpt the foilowing from the report of the Committee on
Chartered Bodies:
Number raised.· ................................. ." ........... ·ii,662
Number reinstated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 416
Number admitted ........................................... 1,331
Number added for error . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Total increase ......... .... .. . .......... . ................ 7,455
Number suspended ..................................... 722
Number expelled ... ... . .. ................... . ....... : . . . l 8
Number dimitted . ............................... .. . .. . . 1,355
Number died ....... .. .. . ... . ................ .. . . .. . .. . 1,083
Number deducted for error . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Total increase . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3,201

Net gain in membership : .................................. 4,254
Total membership June 30, 1904 ........ . ...... . .. . ......... 70,921
Number of Chartered Lodges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
732
Members residing in Ill1nois ............................... 63,88!1
Non-resident members . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . 7,032

• 47

And the following contributions to charity:
Contributed to members, their widows and orphans . .. ... . $38,117 08
Contributed to those not members. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,217 60
Contributed to Illinois Masonic Orpha1is' Home...... .. ..
657 10
'l'otal contributed by Lodges to charity.'..' ........... $41,991 78
A magniffoent repo1't on obituaries by Bro. E. D. Brothers, Chairman, closing with the following soul-stirring words was unanimously
adopted by a rising vote:
To those llelovt>d dead we owe a debt of everlasting gratitude for
the example of their noble, courageous, helpful and generous lives.
They have shown that not all the good, the true Is burled in the
tomb of Lhe misty past. Their lives prove that the living present
has its duties aTid responslbi1Jt1es, its rewards and hopes,
Jess
renowned than any that ever fell. to the lot of hero dead; that
afte1· all. life is worth the living if only worthily lived. They left
the world better than they found it. It remains for us to improve
npon their worthy example, if manl<inrl is ultimately to attain perfedion.

no

" We may eling to this world of time and sense;
We may think of another rarely;
We may sigh, 'Ah, whither?· and ask •Ah. whence?'
And find Ii fe .puzzling f1tirly;
Yet. life Is sweet,
We still repeat,
Ou this dear old earth we were born in;
Good bettered to best,
Best changed in to bl est,
When we wake to God 's cloudless next morning."
The Grand Lodge of Western Australia was recoguized and welcomed into the Sisterhood of Grand Lodges and an exchange of
Representatives invited. The recognition of the Grand Lodge Valle
de Mexico and Queensland were deferred for future consideration.
The Grand Master held an informal Jove feast at which the introcludion of Eminent Visiting Masons was the -<>rder of business and
it is needless to say that it passed off to the satisfaction of toastmaster and toastee.
The election of Officers being in order M. ·. W. ·. Bro. William B.
Wright was re-elected Grand Master and the R.'. W.'. J . H. c. Dill
was re-elected Grand Secretary.

48

REPORT ON ConnESPONDE~CE .

The Grand Master made his appointments and all were installed
by Past Grand Master Crawford, Past Grand Master George M.
Moulton acting as Master of the ceremonies.
The Grand Master named the standing committees and then
closed Grand Lodge in Ample Form.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Past Grand Master Joseph Robbins submits another of his
brilliant reports furnlsJ:iing to the enquiring Masons the condition
of the Ma.sonic World in a paper ·of three hundred and twenty-five
pages. It goes without saying that Bro. Robbins Is to-day easily at
the head of the class whose bu.slness it is to gather In and comment
upon the transaction of Masonic bodies, " wheresoever dispersed
around the globe." His knowledge of the organization of the Ancient
Craft and from " whence they came." In short he Is a correspondent
fit to represent the great big Jurisdiction he honors with his pen.
He notices California during the administration of Grand Master
Henderson; he followed closely ~he business transacted at the session and never hesitates .to notice a departure from ancient usage
and customs. He notes the suggestion of our Grand Lecturer concerning " The Sprig of Acacia " In connection with the burial service
and comments as follows:
"And as to the Sprig of Acacia, when the Master t3,kes it in his
hand, and after the Master has recited that portion of the service
already prescribed, let him say, placing the evergreen upon his left
breast, • we cherish· his memory here,' then raising it upwards, 'we
commend his spirit to God,' and then dropping the sprig into the
grave, •and his body to the earth.' The Brethren should follow
the Master In these movements, except that when he deposits the
evergreen into the grave they should simply let their hand fall by
their side. Then let the Marshal form the Brethren in procession
and march slowly one by one past the head of the grave, and when
there arrived, let each in depositing bis evergreen first press it to
bis left breast, then point it upward and lastly deposit it in the
grave. The adoption of these suggestions would in my opinion
add much to the solemnity and impressiveness of the occasion.
And Bro. Robbins comments :
"This is very pretty, and it caught the favor of the Grand Lodge
and was adopted. To our mind, however, it is open to the fatal
objection that it merges into one two distinct ·ceremonies each of
which bas existed by its own right ever since the Masonic burial service had an existence. If the grand honors are to be retained as a
feature of the· ceremonies, they should not be anticipated on the one

REPOUT ON Comu;;sPoNDEKCE.

4·9

hand, or diluted by repetition on the other. It is true that the
burial servlc_e as a whole, as It is variously given to different Juris(1ictions, is a thing of shreds and patches-bearing too often the
impress of minds ambitious of Immortality for their gushing rhetoric, getting further with each addition from the terse simplicity of
:Masonry, but through all these mutations has survived a framework
of distinct! ve features which cannot be spared without destroying
its Identity.''
·
M.'. W.'. William B. Wright, Grand Master; R.'. W.'. J. H. C~
Dill, Grand Secretary. CoI'respondent, Past Grand Master Joseph
Robbins, Quincy.
The next, Sixty-sixth Annual Comn:mnicatlon, will · be held in
Chicago on the· first Tuesday In October, 1905.
INDIANA.
531 Lodges.

42,627 Members.
The Grand Lodge of Indiana held Its Eighty-fourth Annual Communication in the City of Indianapolis, May 23d, 1905, commencing
at 10 o'clock A. M.,-M.'. W.'. George E. Grimes, Grand Master; R.'.
W.'. Calvin W. Prather, Grand Secretary. Five hundred and seventeen Lodges were represented.
Past Grand Master Henry S. Orme of Los Angeles represents the
Grand Lodge of Indiana near the Grand Lodge of California. Our
Representative near Indiana, Past Grand Frank S. Devol, was not
present. Fifteen Past Grand Masters were In attendance.
A fine portrait of Grand Master Alfred W. Emery graces this
number of the Journal.
Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form with prayer by foe
W. ·. Henry C. Weston, Grand Chaplain.
The Grand Master named the committees and pr0ceeded t,o deliver his Annual Address.
He commenceci· his Address by congratulating the Brethren upon
the full representation present to honor the eighty-fourth Anniversary of the Grand Lodge of Indiana, he said: "One needs but
to glance at your beaming countenances and witness the hearty
greetings of the Brethren as they meet each other face to face, hand
to hand, heart to heart, hearts that beat In unison In a common
cause and a Brother's welfare to know that Brotherly love prevails.''
He said the past year had been a busy one,-" prosperity, peace and
harmony pr!\vaillng." But amid the sunshine and rejoicing there

4a

50

REPORT ON 00RRESPONDESCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

had been disappointments and sorrows as the f-:>llowlng extract will
show:
"The grim ferryman has crossed the dark rive.r of deat.h with six
hundred and eighty-two of our own beloved Brethren. The arm of
Fraternal Love could not avert his coming. (We can only sympathize with the various Lodges and the families of those that have
gone before and with other Grand Lodges that have come to our
notice.) Sympathy in the hour of distress is water from the deepest
fountain of God, the fairest flower tha_!; blooms in Paradise, the
richest gem in the diadem of deity. We do most earnestly sympathize with the friends of our own Jurisdiction .and deplore the
loss other Grand Lodges have sustained."
Among the many duties of the past strenuous year among the
Craft In Indiana, he dedicated eleven Halls and Temples to the uses
and purposes of Masonry and placed the cornerstones of fourteen
new Masonic Temples and other public buildings.
He declined an invitation from the Secretary of a Water Works
building to perform the same ceremonial for the reason that it was
a private corporation formed for the purpose of gain and neither
for public or holy purposes.
His decisions were in ac·c ordance with good common sense and in ·
support of the Independence and dignity of tbe Lodge and with one
exception were approved by Grand Lodge; He closed his address
with a graceful acknowledgement of the usefulness of the Grand
Secretary, expressing a fervent wish for his continuation at the
desk for the benefit of future Grand Masters.
We excerpt the following statistical information from the report
of 'Grand Secretary Prather :

Grand I nspector Edward H. Wolfe made an interesting r eport
pointing out many of the irregularities he had discovered in his
visitations and been able t~ correct.

40,199
Membership, January 1, 1904 ...................... ..
Initiated duriJ?-g year 1904 . ... ............. .. . .. ... . 3,360
Passed ......... , . .. . ..... · . .. .. · · · · · · · ··· · · · · · ·· · · ·· 3,215
Raised . . ...... .. . ................................. . 3,366
Reinstated . .... . .. .. .... . ...... . ..... ... ....... ". .. . 230
Affiliated ...... ... .... .. .. .. . .... .. ... .. ........... . 734
Died .............................................. . 682
Dimitted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 845
Suspended for non-payment of dues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
11
Suspended for other causes ...... . . . . ... ........ . ... .
17
Expelled ........ . ......... . ..... ........ ... .. . . .. . . .
42,627
Total membership January 1, 1905 . ..... .... .... .

Net increase in membership in 1904 . ........... .

2,428

51

Charters were granted to " Akron," " Harrison" and "Milltown"
" Deputy," " Burnettsville " and "Advance " Lodges and numbered
respectively 659 to 664 on Grand Lodge Register.
In the matter of the request for recognition by the Grand Lodge
of Queensland the Committee on Correspondence recommended, and
Grand Lodge resolved that recognition be postponed until the next
Annual Communication.
1'he W.'. Brother, Thomas W. Sliick, chairman of the Committee
on " Distinguished Dead of Other Jurisdictions," made a feeling and
eloquent report which was unanimously concurred in by Grand
Lodge with a rising vote:
The committees having disposed of the business before them and
the routine i:natters before Grand Lodge concluded, the election of
Officers for the ensuing year was held and the following Brethren
chosen to fill the several stations :
M.'. W.'. Alfred W. Emery, of Evansville, Grand Master; R.-.
W.'. Lincoln V. Cravens, of Madison, Deputy Grand Master; R.'.
W.' . Walter 0. Bragg, of Greenfield, Senior Grand Warden; R.'. W.'.
Charles N. Mikels, of New Castle, Junior Grand Warden; R.'. W.'.
Martin H. Ri ce, of Indianapolis, Grant.I Treasurer; R.'. W.'. Calvin
W. Prather, of Indianapolis, Grand Secretary.
The Junior Grand Warden-elect on behalf of the Grand Lodge
presented to the retiring Grand Master a Past Grand Master's
Jewel, accompanying the Jewel with a most eloquent and impressive
s peech to which the Past Grand Master made appropriate response.
The Grand Master·elect having made his appointments they were
all installed by Past Grand Master Geo rge E. Grimes assisted by
Past Grand Mas.ter Gavin as Master of the Ceremonies.
The Grand Lodge was then closed in Ample form at 12 o'clock M .,
to mee; again In Indianapolis on the fourth Tuesday in May, 1906,
at 10 o clock .A. ~r.
Rr, PonT ON Com1ESPONDE,'<CE.
Past Grand Master Daniel McDonald submits the report for the
present Annual, the material for its make-up has been gathered
from the transactions of sixty .Grand .Jurisdictions and he has
amused himself with t hem during a serious siege of la grippe. In
his notice of California under the administration of Grand Master

53

UEPOUT ON OoRRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON ConRE8PONDENCE.

Nutting, the 55tl:: Annual, he quotes the Grand Master in his address
as defining Lodges under Dispensation. We only r efer the matter
to say that he defines Lodges under Dispensation in Indiana, Ca.Jifornia, or anywhere else exactly as we would creatures of the Grand
Lodge, or to quote Bro. McDonald we excerpt:
He said: " Lodges under Dispensation are Masonic Lodges for
all purposes and under the same l&ws, r1iles and regulations go;vern:
ing chart-ered Lodges." That, perhaps, is in. conformity to the law
in California, but in l111diana and other States we know of, a Lodge
under Dispensation is simply the creature of the Grand Lodge dur.ing the continuance of the dlspensat:ion without po.w ar to transact'
ani}' . business except that expressly set forth In the Dispensation.
ThllY cannot elect or install officers, nor are they entitled to representation in the communication of the Grand Lodge. They may
make By-Laws, but thiiy do .not take effect until they are approved
.by the Grand Lodge, a charter granted and under it the Lodge
regularly con!'>tituted."
We think such is the universal law of Masonry.
M.·. w:. Alfred W. Emery, Grand Master; R.". vi:. Calvin W.
Prather, Grand Secretary; Corr.espondent, Past Grand ~aster Daniel
McDonald, Plymouth.
The next Annual Communication will be held in the City of
Indianapolis, May 22d, 1906.

After a general greeting of the assembled Brethren and expressing his congratulations upon the prosperous condition of the Juris·
diction he referred to the sad news of the death, sudden and entirely unexpected, of the Grand Lecturer Bro. B. G. Martin, and after
paying affectionate tribute to his memory be recommended that a
page in .the Journal be devoted to his memory and that the Grand
Lodge In some appropriate manner express its sorrow for his untimely death.
Hfl also expressed the sympathy of the Grand Lodge with sister
Jurisdictions in their loss of leading workers in the · Vineyard of
Masonry.
He reported the Constitution of twelve new Lodges and issued
fifteen Dispensations for the forming and opening of " still newer
ones." He reported no important decisions.
Grand Lodge was called off for a brief period for the purpose of
giving ·. the citizens, Masons and others an opportunity to welcome
the Grand Lodge to Claremore which was done in eloquent words by
Bros. Joseph M. LaHay and .James M. Brown of "Claremore " Lodge
to which the Grand Master responded, after which Grand Lodge
was called on and the routine of business resumed.
An address was delivered by the Grand Orator S. C. Fullerton
of Miami, his subject being Masonic Light:
"In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth and the
earth was without form and void; and darkness. was upon the face
of the deep; arid God said, let there be light, and there was light.
"And God saw the light that it was good and God divided the
light from the ·darkness."
M:. w:. W. L. Egleton, Past Grand Master of Okla homa, was introduced to the Grand Lodge. He was greeted with the Public
Grand Honors and made a very appropriate and acceptable address
to the Grand Lodge.
·
'l'he Committee on Necrology, Bro. J. G. Ralls, Chairman, made
an excellent report which was adopted and the Funeral Grand
Honors given in memory of the Fraternal Dead.
The Representatives of other Grand Jurisdictions present were
introduced and received with the public Grand Honors.
The business routine being concluded a nd the election of Officers
for the ensuing year being in order the following Brethren were
chosen to fill the several stations:
R.". w: . Wilson Otho Bruton, Grand Master; R.' . w:. Richard
Wilison Choate, Deputy Grand Master; R." . w:. Joseph Samuel
Murrow, Grand Secretary.

TNDIAN TERRITORY.
152 Lodges.

5,669 Members.

The Grand Lodge of Indian Territory held sevEOn Emergent Communications during the year ending August 9th, 1904, all for the
placing of cornerstones of public buildings, three churches, two
Masonic halls and two public schools.
The Thirty-Jirat Annual was held at Claremore, Cherokee Nation,
August 9th, 1904, commenci n g at 10 o'clock A . · M.,- M: . w: . Philip
Doddridge Brewer, Grand Master; R.". w:. Joseph S. Murrow,
Grand Secretary. 130 Lodges were represented, together with 30
other Grand Jurisdictions. Nine Past Grand Masters were in attendance. A portrait of Past Grand Master Royall J . Allen, Grand
Master in 1903; appears on the opening page.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form. The Grand Mastetr
filled the vacancies on the standing committees and proceeded to deliver bis :Annual Address. ·

54

REPOR'I ON CoRRESPONDESOE.

REPOR'r ON ComtlSPONDENOE.

The Grand Master-elect made his appointments and all were
installed, but according to Bro. Murrow the work was not finished
in "Ample Form." We quote:
" The installation ceremonies were a farce. The business of the
body was over. The election was over. It was late. Many Brethren
were anxious to catch a train soon due. The Grand Secretary was
requested to perform the Installation Service in "short order." No
book was furnished. Brethren were constantly leaving the hall.
Ther e was confusion, noise, haste and entire lack of interest.
" The Grand Secretary did the best he could under the circumstances. He will never do the like again. The installation of the
new officers of a Grand Lodge should be made impressive. This requires sufficient time. It should have the earnest attention and
interest of all the Brethren."
The Grand Lodge closed with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
R EronT ON

ConnESPONDEN CE.

The present report is by Past Grand Master Thomas C. Humphrey, who was Grand Master of Arkansas in 1886, now of South
McAllister, Indiana, Indian Territory,-a review of fifty Jurisdictions in a paper of 100 pages. · Bro. H. reviews California for the
Administration of Grand Master Henderson-quotes from his address and follows the routine of business transacted closely, without
adver se comment.
M.". W.". Wilson Otho Bruton. Grand Master ; R.". W.". Joseph
Samuel "Murrow, Grand Sec retary. Correspondent, Pas t Gra nd
Master Thomas C. Humphrey, South McAll!ster.
IOWA.
525 Lodges.

35,729 Members.

The introduction of the Sixty-second Anniversary of the Grand
Lodge of Iowa was a ccompanied with the following cer emonies.
The members assembled at and we re formed in front of the Masonic
Temple in the City of Davenport by Grand Marshal Bro. K. T. Lamb,
June 6th, 1905. The procession was escorted then ce to Turner 's
Grand Opera House by St. Simon of Cyrene Commandery, No. 9,
Knights Templar.
The Grand Marshal presented the Grand Master, M. ·. W. ·. Sumner Miller, who wa s received with the Publlc Grand Honors.
The Senior Grand Warden and a cting Master of Ceremonies, R. ·.
W." . Bro. W. F. Fidlar, directed the followed exercises:

1st.

55

Music by Peterson's Band.

2d. Presentation of the Mayor of Davenport, Hon. H enry
Phillips, who gave a cordial welcome to the Grand Lodge.
3rd. Response by Past Grand Master W. L. Eaton.
At the conclusi~n of the public exercises the Grand Master invited the ladies and all not members of the Order to retire, during
whi ch the band rendererl another selection.
The Grand Lodge then convened in !ts Sixty-second Annual Communi cation and was opened in Ample Form. The M.". W.". Sumner
Miller, Grand Master, presiding; R.". W.". Newton R. Parvin being
the Grand Secretary.
The Rev'd Bro. Dr. J. C. W. Coxe, the Grand Chaplain invoked
the divine blessing.
The Grand Master directed the calling of the Roll, where it appeared that four hundred and fifty Lodges were represented. All of
the Grand Officers and thirty permanent members of which number
nine were Past Grand Masters, were In attendance.
Many fin e portraits ser ve to bring out and add to the beauties of
this beautiful book. The portrait of the Grand Mast!l!" by Bather of
Brooklyn, ls a superb steel engraving. The (In Memoriam) portraits of Past Grand Masters Van Sann, McClanahan and Dewey are
all good and ornament the Journal, while those of the lamented
Vlncll, of Missouri, Todd, of Louisiana and Oliver A. Whittemore,
of Colorado, are deserved tributes to leaders in the great Fraternity
who have passed from labor to eternal r est.
The Grand Master appointed the necessary committees and proceeded to dellver his Annual Address.
After a cordial welcome to the assembled brethren he at once
presented and dropped his Sprig of Acacia in memory of Iowa's
" T hree Grand Masters " who during the recess received from the
Winged Messenger the invitation to come up and rest from earthly
labor.
P ast Grand Masters McClanahan, Van Saren and Dewey r eceived
from Grand Master Sumner a tribute of sincere and Fraternal affection. The death roll of the year with its 459 names Inscribed on it s
pa ges he placed with the Committee on the Fraternal Dead. H e
placed the cornerstones of three public libraries, dedicated the H all
of "Toledo" Lodge, No. 118, and constituted "Fountain City"
Lodge, No. 58il, at Goldfield and "Walnut" Lodge, No. 588 at Mystic.
Of the proposed Bi-Centennary Introduced by Iowa's correspondent,
he says :

56

57

REPORT ON COHRES:POND.l!:NCE;

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

"Some time sin<:e Brother Joseph E. Morcombe, Committee on
Correspondence of this Grand Lodge, proposed through the Masonic
press that the Craft of the entire world should take steps toward
properly celebrating its bl-centennary. The present Grand Lodge
system had its beginning In London, June 24, 1717. It Is thus proposed that in the English metropolis In 1917 the Masons of the
world shall gather to review the two centuries of history, to estimate
present tendencies, and judge of the future. It is with pleasure
I endorse the suggestion, believing that as an Iowa Brother has
been first to propose the same, the Iowa Grand Lodge should also
be first to accord such endorsement. It may appear that this is looking far into the future, but twelve years wl!l be necessary to properly bring out and perfect the details of such a meeting."
The committee on the address said of Brother Morcombe:
" In like manner the committee would especially commend the
action of your Grand Master in the matter of the appointment of the
skillful Masonic writer, Brother Morcombe, to the position of Grand
Lodge Historian, a position provided for by this Grand Body at its
last annual communication."

Bro. J. R. Lindsay, Chairman, presented the report of the Committee on Fraternal Dead In a fraternal and feeling report devoted to
the remembran ce of the lives and .characters of the 459 Brethren
named on the pages of Iowa's death roll, and t he eight-page report
was adopted by a rising vote.

We excerpt the following abstract of Work from the report of the
Committee on Chartered Lodges:
Initiated .. . .. . ....... .. .. .... .... ... ... . ...... 2,146
Passed .. . .. .... . .. .... . .. . . ... .. . ... ...... . . . . 2,132
Raised ....................................... .
Admitted .................................... .
Reinstated ........ . . ..... ... ......... ....... . . .

2,200
691
238

Total increase : ...... . ........ ..... ....... .
Demitted .... ... ...... . . .................... . .. .
Died . ... . ...... ... . .. .... .. . ..... ... . . ....... . . .
Suspended for unmasonlc conduct ........... . . .
Suspended for non-payment of dues .. . . . ... . ... .
Expelled .... . ........... . . .. ... .. .. . ... .. ... . .
Withdrawn .. . .. . .. .............. .. .. .. ... ... . .

3,129-3,129
1,044
459

Total decrease ........ . .. ....... .. .. .. .... .

1,983-1,983

9

455
11
5

Net increase . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .
1,146
Total number members per returns January 1, 1905 . .... .. ... 35, 729
Total net members per returns January 1, 1904 ........... ; . . 34,583
Increase

......... ..... ... . .. .........................

1.146

The business routine of the session having been generally considered, the election of Officers for the ensuing year was taken up
and the following brethren were chosen to fill t he several stations;
William Henry Norris, Most Worshipful Grand Master; Louis
Block, Right Worshipful Senior Grand Warden; Charles Emerson,
Right Worshipful Junior Grand Warden; Milo Delavan Gibbs, Right
Worshipful Grand Treasurer; Newton Ray Parvin, Right Worshipful Grand Secretary.
The Grand Master made his appointments and all were installed
by Past Grand Master Thomas Lambert, the R.'. W.'. Bro. K. T.
Lamb, acting as Master of the ceremonies.
The retiring Grand Master M.' . W.' . Sumner Miller was presented
with a Past Grand Master's apron.
The Grand Lodge closed at 11: 30 P . M., peace and harmony prevailing.
RF.l'OJIT ON CORRESPONUENCE.

Bro. Joseph E . Morcombe sends us with t his beautiful number of
the Iowa Proceedings his Fourth Annual Review of t he Masonic
World. His summing up and conclusions after his Invest igation of
the reports gives the condition, the growth, progress and prosperity
of the great Fraternity as not only. In keeping with the prosperity
of every branch of t he government of t he country in which we live
but is marvelously leading in the directions of Order and the eleYating of American citizenship.
His notice of California is of the administration of Grand Master
Nutting whose address he commends as a plain, concise paper, wasting no words in introducing what he had to say. He quotes freely
from the address and gives a detailed review of the business routine
of the session.
l\IC. w:. William Henry Norris, Grand Master ; R .'. W.'. Newton
R. Parvin, Grand Secretary, Cedar Rapids, Correspondent, Bro.
.Joseph E . Morcombe, Cedar Rapids.
KANSAS.
373 Lodges.
29,956 Members.
The Grand Lodge of Kansas held Its Forty-ninth Annual Com·
munic·ation in Wichita, February 15th, 190-o,-M.'. w: . Thomas L.
Fitch, Grand Master; R .'. w:. Albert K . Wilson,, Grand Secretary.

58

59

REPOR'l' ON OomtESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

'l'wo hundred and twenty-seven Lodges were represented, together
with twenty-nine Representatives of other Grand Jurisdictions.
There were present at the opening nine Past Grand Masters twentythree District Deputy Grand Masters and twenty-nine Representatives of other Grand Lodges. The W. ·. William Easton Hutchison
representing the Grand Lodge of California.
A portrait of M.'. W.'. Thomas G. Fitch, Grand Master, appears
on the opening page and In Memoriam, that of Joseph D. McCleverty, Grand Master in 1879-80, and Jacob D. Rush, Grand Master
in 1875. Two hundred and twenty-seven Lodges were represented, together with twenty-nine other Grand Jurisdictions.

\Ve excerpt the following abstract of Work from the report of
Grand Secretary Wilso1] :

The Grand Master named the commltttees and then proceeded to
deliver his Annual Address. He commenced by congratulating
the members of the Grand Lodge on the prevailing harmony existing
in the Fraternity, considered either as individuals, as Lodges, or as a
Grand Jurisdiction, he said: "Peace and prosperity prevail among
us as Masons, and we dwell as a happy family united in spirit as iri
action."
ln noting the vacant places in Grand Lodge Circle he paid affectionate tribute to Past Grand Masters Joseph D. McCleverty and
Jacob D. Rush. M.'. W.'. Bro. Rush finished his life with us on the
Pacific Coast and was buried in the beautiful cemetery at Mount
Hope in San Diego, other Grand Jurisdictions have reported death
rolls of unusual length which will be noticed by the Committee on
Necrology,
He granted five Dispensations for the forming and opening of
new Lodges. Seven cornerstones were placed with the customs and
usages of the Fraternity.
The Grand Master made a limited number of visitations and was
much gratified at his reception by the Brethren.
The Grand Lodge through its Council of Administration ls
wrestling with the "Webb Work; " it also consumed considerable
time in determining the vote required on a petition for Restoration
to restore the petitioner.
The matter of providing means for the safety and security of the
growing library of the Grand Lodge is interesting the Craft in
Kansas from Grand Master to Grand Tyler.
Jn his closing words he complimented the Grand Secretary as a
" painstaking and methodical official whose chief aim is to always
keep ahead of his work." The Deputy Grand Master, Grand War-'
dens and the Council of Administration.

The following ls a list of the seven largest Lodges in this Jurisdiction:
Wichita Lodge No. 99, Wichita ......... . .................... 404
Albert Pike Lodge No. 303, Wichita . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 386
Orient Lodge No. 51, Topeka . . .......... .. ................ . . 347
Wyandotte Lodge No. 3, Kansas City ..... . .. . .. .. .. . . . ... : . . .. 344
Newton Lodge No. 142, Newton .. . ...... . ....._... .. . .. ... .. . . 344
Topeka Lodge No. 17, Topeka .......... . ............ .. ... .. .. 334
Siloam Lodge No. 225, Topeka ......... ... . . .......... . ........ 303
SUMMARY FOR 1904.
Number of members December 31, 1903 ...... . ............... 24,742

Increase.
Number initiated .... . . .. ... ... . ....... .. . 2,097
Number passed .... ............... . ........ 1,904
Number raised ..... .. .......... .. . . .... .. ..... 1,852
Number admitted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
Number restored .... . ...... . ... .,. .. ...... .... . 188
86-2,744
Number members Lodges U. D.... . ............ .

Decrease.
Number dimitted ............................... 835
Number died . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 357
Number suspended . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 270
Number expelled . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .
7
Surrender Blooming Grove Lodge No 41 . . . . . . . . . . 17
Wheaton Lodge U. D . ....... ..... . .. . ...... ... . . . 14-1,500
Net gain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1,244

Number of members December 31, 1904 ... . .. ......... . .... 25,944
The Jurisdiction of Kansas ls divided into thirty-two Districts
with a District Deputy Grand Master in charge of each.
The Committee on " Lodges under Dispensation reported of the
Lodges whose records were before them, viz.: " McKinley," " Maple
Hill," " Macksville," " Denison" and " Morrill " Lodges, as follows
closing with the recommendation that Charters be granted:
"All of the above five Lodges have sent in transcripts that are
a credit to their officers and members, and we doubt if this M.'.. W.'.
Grand Lodge has ever received at one time so many returns of

60

61

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Lodges U. D., and all so nearly perfect. Your committee also believe that much credit is due to the efforts of our R.'. W.'. Grand
Secretary in making his instructions to Secretaries of Lodges so
plain that little or no difficulty is experienced in attaining the
above result."

The retiring Gi:and Master was presented with a Past Grand
Jewel on behalf of the Brethren of Wichita and personal
friends by Past Grand Master Bestor G. Brown.
The Grand Master named the standing committees and closed the
Grand Lodge in Ample Form with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
Bro. Erasmus Theodore Carr, another veteran Grand Secretary,
~erved the Grand Lodge or Kansas from 1861 to 1871 and is still in
the land of the living.
Our Brother, W1lllam M. Shaver, Past Grand Master, adds another
splendid report to his volume ct good ones In the Masonic library of
Kansas. In his notice of California· he reviews the administration
of Gra·nd Master Henderson, he quotes f.rom the address and says of
his recommendations:
A number of recommendations were offered by the Grand Master;
among them, that a regulation be framed regarding the duty of attendance at Masonic funerals; that Master Masons be required to
learn the work lecture; that provision be made for life memqershlp
of those who had been members of their Lodge for fifty years; that
i:he appointment of Grand Representatives be abolished as q. "useless, cumbersome custom and promotive of lnharmony." We failed
to discover that any of these were practically adopted.
A large amount of business was transacted during the fi.ve days'
session.
Bro. Shaver takes much Interest ·in the work of Masonry and the
particular Ritual used In its exemplification in his opinion should
be that known to the Craft as the "Webb Work," and he wants it
"
undiluted by any "tinkering committee."
M.'. W.'. Samuel R. Peters, Grand Master; R.'. W.'. Albert K.
Wilson, Grand Secretary; Past Grand Master William M. Shaver,
Correspondent, Topeka.
The next, 50th Annual Communication, will be held in the City
of Topeka, February 21st, 1906.

The M.'. W .'. Grand Master announced that the special report
of the Committee on Finance and Mileage, relative to office building.
would b~ made a special order for 2 o'clock to-morrow, and the
resolution presented by M.'. W.'. William M. Shaver, relative to
ritual, at 3 o'clock, or immediately following the special report of
the Committee on Finance and Mileage.
The Grand Orator, Hon. Fred Washburn, delivered a fine oration
from the Text " What, then, does Masonry mean to us as llvln11,
breathing human beings," and with thanks to the Grand Orator it
was ordered published In the Journal.
The Committee on Necrology made a fraternal and feeling report
in remembrance of the dead Brethren of our own and sister Jurisdictions, and in closing their finished report said: "We re commend
that in accordance with custom, the names of th.e se honored dealt
be placed upon the Memorial pages of the report of the proceedings
of this Communication."
The Grand Secretary read a historical document, prepared by
R.'. W. ". Erasmus T. Carr, which, on motion, was received and
ordered to be preserved for use at the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of Kansas, and then to be
made a part of the records of that Communication.
The resolution presented by M. ·. W. ·. William M. Shaver, whkh
was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence and made a special
order for 3: 00 o'clock, or immediately following the special report
of the Committee on Finance and Mileage, and which was deferred
until this time .awaiting the report of the Comittee on Jurisprudence,
was now taken up, and, on motion of M.': W.'. William M. Shaver,
the original resolution, as presented, was withdrawn, and the following motion substituted, which was adopted:
That it ls me sense of this Grand Lodge that the suggested
changes in the Ritual, offered QY the Special Committee on Ritual
at the last Annual. Communication of the Grand Lodge, changed the
Ritual and destroyed the identity of the Webb Work, specified in
Section 7, Article IV, of the Constitution.
The Grand Master made his appointments and all were Installed
by Past Grand Master Perry M. Hoisington, M.'. W.'. Wm. M. ShaYer
acting as Master of the Ceremonies.

~laster

KENTUCKY.
-186 Lodges.
25,416 Members.
The Grand Lodge of Freemasons of Kentucky held Its One Hundred and Fourth Annual Communication in " The Masonic," Louisville, October 18th, 1il04, commencing at 10 o'clock A. M.,-'M.'. W.'.
Owen D. Thomas, Grand Master; R.'. W.'. Henry B. Grant, Grand
Secretary. Four hundred and seventy-five Lodges were represented.
Sixteen Past Grand Masters were In attendance and forty-three Past
Masters, not otherwise reported.

62

63

REPORT ON OoBn_ESPONDENCE.

REPORT oN ConRESPuNDENCE.

A portrait of Grand Master Thomas appears on the opening
page.

And here is·a "White Plume" in the already well filled chapeaux
of General Grant:
"On January lo, in Daylight Lodge U. D., Louisville, Ky., I installed ·capt. H. B. Grant as Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of
Kentucky. This was indeed a pleasant duty, knowing that I installed one who had adorned, and would continue to adorn, the
position he holds."
He recommended and Grand Lodge recognized the Grand Lodges
of Western Australia, Costa Rica and Queensland. The recognition
of the "Grand Orient of Brazil" was deferred for a year.
We have been amused at a report of the Committee on Work by
Past Grand Master Hopper, wherein the duties of said committee
are set forth. We excerpt from Paragraph 8:
"8. ·The members of the Board of Work' and the holders of
• Certifj.cates of Proficiency ' shall diligently hunt up arid report· to
t.he Grand Lodge all Lodges or Masons who have in their possession
or are using any unauthorized book, lecture or work."
The annual election of Officers being in order the following
named brethren were chosen to serve in the several stations:
R. H. C. Rhea, of Morganfield, to be Grand Master; James Garnett, Jr., of Columbia, to be Deputy Grand Master; Samuel K. Veach,
of Carlisle, to be Grand Senior Warden; Henry P. Barrett, of Henderson, was elected Grand Junior Warden; John H. Leathers, of
I,oulsvllle, was elected Grand ·Treasurer; Henry B. Grant, of Louisville, was re-elected Grand Secretary.
'l'he Grand Master made his appointments and all were installed
by Past Grand Master F. C. Gerard.
'l'he retiring Grand Master was presented with a Past Grand
Master's Jewel and in addition thereto he was presented with a
Templars' Cross by "Lebanon" Lodge, No. 87.
The Grand Master in his address submitted his views on the old,
old question of" How Ought Masons to Wear Their Aprons?" which
was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence, and that committee reported:
" There seems to be a conflict between the action of the Grand
Lodge in 1896 and that in 1898.
"Your committee understands the decision of the present Grand
Master is in accord wit.h the action of the Grand Lodge In 1896.
- .. Your committee therefore recommends that the manner of wearing aprons, as declared In 1896, be the rule of this Grand Jurisdietion, and that rule is as follows:

The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form and the Grand
Master proceeded to deliver his Annual Address. He commenced by
tendering, for Grand Lodge,· its thankfulness to God for the prosperity and harmony with which they had been blessed for the preceding years. and after a brief reference to the principles of Freemasonry he closed his introduction in the following words:
"In this, the One Hundred and Fourth Annual Communication
of the Grand Lodge_ of Kentucky, may our deliberations be conducted
with a mind to the responsibility that is upon us. May they be consonant with the high ethical purposes of our noble Order. May the
glory of an honored past be an effectual inspiration to us, so that
we may turn, from a brilliant retrospect, to see, with a prophetic
eye, a no less brilliant prospect."
And then referring to the "vacant places" in Grand Lodge he
mentioned among the workers who were missed among the brethren
the names of Past Grand Master J. Soule Smith and James Andrew
McKenzie and Grand Pursuivant Charles M. Hobson.
In speaking of Constitutional Amendments to recognize the fitness of things as they are at present, he remarked: Which we "second the motion."
" In regard to the " Reporter of Foreign Affairs," the affairs of
other Grand Lodges in the United States can hardly, in my opinion,
be styled "Foreign" with propriety. I submit that a more appropriate title would be "Reporter of the Doings of Other Grand
Lodges."
Among his reported Decisions, we note but one that may be
of practical value in the present run of current events. We quote
question and answer:
"Question 7. One, who was once a member of a clandestine Lodge,
but states when he joined this Lodge he was under the impression
that he was joining a regular Masonic Lodge, and as soon as he discovered that it was not he withdrew, and has never had anything
to do with it since, petitions. Can we confer the degree?
" Held. If the Lodge is more than ordinarily careful in the investigation, and finds that the petitioner is in every way worthy
and sincere in his statement his petition can be received, referred to
a committee and balloted on as in other cases of petition for degrees; but, of course, the degrees must be conferred as they would
be on any other profane."

6!

REPORT ON ConnEi;PoNDENCE.

"The apron is worn: First degree, bib up; second degree, bit
down, apron ftowing freely; third degree, bib down, ftowing freelyexcept when worn as a mark of distinction the left lower corner is
tucked up. This is in conformity with the teachings of the oldest
charts, and is consistent with the progressiveness of our degrees and
the analogy of the operative Craft. It is also the teachings of the
oldest Jurisdictions of the United States. And (the wearing as
stated) is to be obeyed by subordinate Lodges."
The following resolution was unanimously adopted by a rising
YOte:

"The Grand Lodge of Kentucky purposing to publicly tesU.fy to
· retiring Grand Master Owen D. Thomas, its high appreciation of the
efficient and conscientious manner in which he has discharged the
difficult duties of Grand Master, hereby 'tenders him assurance of its
high consideration, and expresses its hope that he may be spared
many years to assist with his wise counsel in the direction · of the
affairs of the Order he loves and in perfecting the important designs
laid down upon Its trestleboard."
The Grand Master named the standing committees and closed the
Grand Lodge in Ample Form.
·
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The report on Correspondence is by Past Grand Master William
W. Clarke, who submits a review of the doings In the Masonic
World in a paper of 80 pages, his notice of California is of the administration of Grand Master Henderson and is a fair review .o f the
routine of business transacted at the Fifty-fourth CQmmunication.
The last forty pages are added for reasons submitted herewith. We
quote:
" These pages were commenced with the purpose of making a
'history,' but to have done so would have · necessitated the publication of volumes. Therefore it was condensed to a chronological
index.
"An Analytical Index may be prepared later on. A few copies of
the ' Doings' will be bound by themselves.
"H. B. GRANT."
These pages consist of proceedings of the Grand Lodge of Kentucky with a portrait of successive Grand Masters from 1874 to
date; followed by views in about the Old Temple of the Masonic
Widows and Orphans' Home, its teachers, physicians, good looking
ladies, homely men, etc.

R1:Pom• oN ComtESPONDENOE.

65

M. ·. W. . Roland H. C. Rhea, Grand Master; R. ·. W. ·. Henry B.
Grant, Grand Secretary; Correspondent, Past Grand Master William
W. Clarke, Owensboro.
The next Annual Communication will be held in Louisville,
October 17th, 1905.
LOUISIANA.
8,960 Members.
The Grand Lodge of Louisiana held its Ninety-third Annual Communication in Masonic Temple, New Orleans, February 6th, 1'905,M.". w:. Louis P. Delahoussaye, Grand Master; R.". w:. Richard
Lambert, Grand Secretary. One hundred and eight Lodges were
Fepreeented, together with twenty-five other Grand Jurisdictions.
• Seven Past Grand Masters were in attendance. ·
The Grand Lodge was opened on the Third Degree in Ample
Form with prayer by the Rev'd Bro. Herman Cope Duncan, Grand
Chaplain.
The report of the Committee on Credentials was received and
adopted and the Grand Master proceeded to deliver his Annual Address.
A brief opening referring to the rapid flight of time with Its
joys and sorrows and the thanks due the Afmlgbty Father for the
manifold evidence of Hts power and love In bringing them safeiy to
the ohening of the Ninety-third Annual Communication. He spoke
of the past year as "an era of prosperity and commercial advancement. for the State and for Uie Craft one of unparalleled growth
and success."
In mentioning the visits of the Silent Messenger, the visits that
are inseparable from all association of men, be alluded to the death
of that veteran of Veteran Masons, Past Grand Master Samuel Man:ning Todd, who had been at the head of every Masonic department
In Louisiana.
He made several visits to the constituent Lodges and in reporting
them added:
"I would that it had been permitted me to accept each and every
one, but the demands of a commercial position and the obligations
attendant compelled me often to say: ·'No,' when my heart .said
'Yes.'
In reporting the financial condition of the Grand Lodge under
the head of "The Temple Debt,'' he proclaimed the following good
news to the Craft in Louisiana:
169 Lodges.

. 5a

66

HEPORT ON

Co 1luEsPONDENCE.

REPORT ON QonHEBPONDENCE;..

"F<Yr the first time in the history of our· Grand .Lodge we•' are
al'lsoh1t'ely· free ·rrom debt. Every other outstanding obligation, such
as insurance on Temple property, city and State taxes, have bei:n1.
paid.

" The extinction of the ' Temple Debt ' will enable this Gra11.1l
Lodge to devote the revenues arising therefrom, after deduction of
necessary expenses of operation to ·the: purposes of the Craft. It
''"b~ife~;·~d· that under the terms of the original 'Act of Ineorporal
ttoh' 1 'of""this ·~ Gl'ii.nd: .. Lodge, the "Grand : Lodge HaH , will·· theu·: be
exe'ri.(iit .fr<im- ll~sessment .for State and. city taxes. I suggest that
tli'i's'"is·'·an fmportant ·i'tem· and recommend 'that the,• Committee dn
Masbnir··Law a·rid -Jurisprudence.' be requested tO' ascertain · if suclt
0'.ll'e'ni:ptfori ·results;" ·
· · · · · .,..
. " · : · ·· . '"' : · .·r
In addition to llis ·acknowledgements t<» the ·veteran G-vand Sec:•
reW,11y for his · airl and::assistance wherevev .needei:L In .his col).cluSit'l.~:·he says:;· '· · '
.. '
,,. .
. ... •"I
" My thanks are due, in highest measure to my brethren thro~:g;h:
ou~.oLtll.Ls. G.ranctJurisdiction foi; tl;leir in.numerable. acts. of .kindness
anft Wt~r~esy .when Vif?iting . their. L~dges. It h~s been. a pleas:ur,~
to witness their earnestness and zeal in the labors of their respeCtfy~
··. :'
:wid&e~ . ,a!J9' t,he.ir obse.rvance of the . moral teachings of our Craft.
'.l~ll.eY bav;~< ~~n faithful; ob~dient a,hd . loyal, and for this 1;eason I
slJ.all _go down to po~terity a~ a Grand Master .that never made . ~
deci.s ion."
,.
From the report of th e Grand Secretary we learn that seven
Dispensations were issued during the year for the forming arid
opening of n ew Lodges, and from the Journal we learn that five re- ·
ceived Charters. The Dispensation of another was continued and
the seventh was on the anxious seat.
From the same report we excerpt the following summary of
Work:
Raised . . .. .. ........... .. . . . ... .... .. ..... . . . ... . . . . .. . . 974
Affiliated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181
56
Reinstated

is

-

- 1,211

IJJWU l "l'JONS . .

Dimitted
214
Died ... ..... . .. . .......... ... . . . ...... . ... ......... .. .. 158
Dropped . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Suspended. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
Expelled . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3

Net gain, chartered Lodges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

O'nr Lodges now. under Dispensation, have a .membership. of 178.
In• these Lodges were con·fened 191 Degrees. Considering these.
items it would· make th-e total number of Degrees conferred; 3;196,
:ind our present membership, 8,960, a net gain . during t11e year. of·
841.

... The · Grand Lecturer.. also added his.. quota to the.. general. congratulations and closed his report with the following cheering:
words:
" I have thought ever since I· have been. on · the: worH;, Utat. eacb
Ye?-r was ihe. '· Ba11ner YelU'.' of. Masonry in our St!ll!J, .l;\:ut. the
amount:. Of work .h.a s b~.Il greater and far. ei,::ce.eds any. p~·eViOIJ,S
year's work in the histoqr of o,ur Grand Lodge, but f~,r. better tJJA~;;,;
thls; I am•. h~ppy to i;eJlort, .so; far a.s .I haye. been 'enabl~d ·to !ear~,'
th1tt Pe.a ce, P..aqnonY, good-f!Jllovship and, ·br.otherl~" love : prevaiis,
throughout. our Grand, Jurisdiction, an<l most .1,>f our brethren ~re:.
rarrying out practically the specia,l advice given me" to be delive~El~.
to them fro_m our Most Wors).Iiptul Grand. Master in Living Ma~
sonfy."
~
·
· '

oi,·

. ~ pleasing feature of the evening'.s . session was. the. presenc.e. ·
M.· .. w:. Bro. Henry M. Furman, Past Grand Master of the Grari';1
Lodge,, F-, and A. M., of the . Indian Nation, who· enter~d · i~~:
mediately after the address of the Grand Master, and was cordially'
welcomed, to which the distinguished visitor made a most rraternai'
and eloquent response. He was then saluted with the " Prlv~te
Grand Honors" and escorted , to a s'e at in the Grand East.
· ·'
Past Grand Master Edwin Marks, Chairman of the Special Com-·
mittee to draft a memorial on the death of Past Grand Master
Samuel Manning Todd, submitted the report of said committee
which was adopted by a unanimous rising vote .. "Alas Poor Hiram."
A very tull and comprehensive r eport by the Chairman of the
Committee on " Plan of Masonic Reli ef," W . · . Bro. J . C. Wickliffe is
an exhaustive papet· of fifteen pages embodying reports of the ;ost
of maintaining Homes for Widows and Orphans and Old Masons of
the differ ent Jurisdictions. the report would seem to favor the Iowa:
plan but final action was deferred to the Annual Communication of
1906.

484

The following p1·eamble and r esolution was presented by the.
veteran Grand Secretary and adopted, which does not surprise us
when we consider the "reported " action of our Grand Lodge at its
last session in adopting the report of a committee without understanding a ll its provisions and recommendations:

727

"R.'. W.'. Bro. Ri chard Lambert, Grand Secretary, ,submitte.d.
the following resolution:
·' ·
·: l

68

REPORT ON CORBESPONDENOE.

" WHEREAS, The Grand Lodge of California. has found that Representatives near its Grand East are in serious danger, and having.
due regard for the health of him who has so faithfully represented
us in the past; therefore be it
"Resolved, That the commission of R.". w:. Bro. William F.
Pierce, our Representative near the Grand Lodge of California, be
and is hereby withdrawn without prejudice to our fraternal relations with said Grand Lodge.
"On motion, the resolution was adopted."
In the reception of the Representatives of other Jurisdictions we
notice California was left out, but the Grand Master addressed the
:Representatives present, thirty Grand Jurisdictions, they were
saluted with the "private Grand Honors" and addressed by Past
Grand Master Edwin Marks, Reprej\entatlve of New Brunswick, who
after a feeling address was succeeded by Past Grand Master Buck
who In the course of his remarks said:
"But an incident has transpired which arouses my interest and
stimulates my devoted energies to a defense of the system of Grand
Lodge representation. Several Grand Jurisdictions have discol'I·
tinued and much has lately been said about it, ofticially and unoft\.eially, it ls referred to by many in terms of ridicule and derisionas useless, purposeless, unmeaning.
" I beg to take issue with our esteemed sister Grand Jurisdiction
on the subject:-not directly, for it is her own atrair throughout,
and I do not venture to criticize-merely as a member of the gFeat
Brotherhood. I use the incident to express my views on the custom
of Grand representation with such reasons as I may be able to suggest on my feet, without special preparation, why it should be continued and preserved.
" I concede that it serves no practical purpose as a rule-al·
though I have at least one case of practical experience in my mind
when the Representatives of two foreign Grand Jurisdictions had
important work to present to this Grand Lodge in the interest of
their respective principals, who were Involved in a very serious
controversy. I admit they serve no business purpose, and If any
such arise the respective Grand Masters are the persons to transact
them.
,
"The Grand Representative is not appointed for business purposes;-he· merely rises, if you will, as an evidence, a tangible
symbol expressive of the friendship and fraternal relations which
exist between the bodies-a link in the chain of unity- <meness,tdentlty of being and purpose of all the Masonic Bodies on earth.

flEPOnT o.s CoRRESPONDEN.C E.

69

" Every Masonic Grand Lodge has its own specific affairs of administration, of discipline, of finan ce, of property, as a business
concern, so to speak, that is its own exclusive province, In which
no one can properly interfere by criticism or comment.
"But as a Representative-an exponent of the Body of Freemasonry--every Grand Lodge Is the distinct co-worker of every
other Grand Lodge-all equal and all supreme-yet all bound by
the same obligations and ties to guard the landmarks of Masonry
and transflts them unimpaired to posterity. Each sitting In judgment on all the others--each subject to that judgment-to see that
Masonry remains the one-immutable-universal unity which
nothing can change or destroy. A universality in fact and in
philosophy;-going around all the earth with the rays of the sun,
holding the heart-beats of humanity in the unison of brotherhood of
man.
" Each Grand Lodge is the keeper-the custQdian-in its domain
--<>f indivisible a part of this ideal unity and to strike ~t the system
of Interchange of Grand Lodge representation-ls to deny the existence of common sympathy, the ideal of universal aspiration.
"In this Mo~t Worshipful and historic Grand Lodge the Representatives of other Jurisdictions have always been received In the
spirit of true brotherhood, and we are glad to be able to testify that
the present occasion Is bnt a new chord in the woof and web or
fraternal concourse and collaboration which should hold together all
the Masonic Bodies of the World, that we may truly cherish the very
cllmax of our being-the universality, in fact and in spirit of 1',reemasonry."
The election of Officers being in order the following named
brethren were chosen t o fill the several stations:
The M.'. w:. Louis P. Delahoussaye was re-elected Grand Master.
The R:. w:. Richard Lambert was r e-elected Grand Secretary.
The Grand MaEter made his appointments and they were all installed by Past Grand Master Robert H. Cage, with Past Grand
Master Robert R. Reid acting as Master of the ceremonies.
The Grand Lodge was closed in Ample Form with prayer by
Rev'd H. C. Duncan, Grand Chaplain.
Ri;;PORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence in this Jurisdiction Is Rev'd Bro. Herman C. Duncan, and of course a report of
more than. a.verage Importance is expected. It is sufficient to say
that " none went away disappointed."

'70

71

REPORT ON COllRESPONlJENCE .

HEPOR'l' ON CORRESPOND.ENCE.

His review of California ie of the administration of Past Grand
Master Henderson. After a dose observation of the routine of bus!·
ness at our Fifty-fifth Annual he gives us his .clearance for a year.
M.'. w.·. Louis P. Delahoussaye, Grand Master; R.'. W.'. Richard
Lambert, Grand Secretary. Correspondent, R,'. W,' . and Rev'd
Herman Cope Duncan, Alexandria.
The next Annual Communication will be held on February 5th,
1906. We won't forget it for it will be our 79th birthday.

The District Deputy Grand Masters reported the condition of t he
Lodges in their respective districts and the several reports were referred to the committee on the condition of Masonry.
We excerpt the following summary of work from the full and conelse report of the Grand Secretary :

MANITOBA.
4,274 Members.
79 Lodgas.
A Special Communication of the Grand Lodge of Manitoba was
held at Macgregor, June 24, 1903, for the purpose of laying the
cornerstone of Macgregor Public School, and at Elkhorn, September
10th, to lay the cornerstone of the Elkhorn Methodist Church, both
of which evants were performed in accordance with the usages and
customs of the Masonic Fraternity.
The Twenty-ninth Annual Communication was held in the town
Edmonton, Alberta District, June 18th, 1904,-M.'. W.'. E. A. Braithwaite, Grand Master; R.' . W.'. James A. Ovas, Grand Secretary.
Sixty-eight Lodges were represented, together with sixteen other
Grand Jurisdictions. All the Grand Officers and four Past Grand
Masters were in attendance.
The Grand Lodge was openell in Ample Form with prayer by R,'.
W . '. and Rev 'cl George H. Webb, Grand Chaplain.
Grand Lodge was welcomed by the Mayor of Edmonton.
The Grand Master delivered his Annual Address. He commenced
by offering his profound gratitude to the Giver of all good for the
privilege of meeting again aronnd the altar of Freemasonry In the
Grand Lodge of Manitoba.
He congratulated t hem upon the abundant evidence in the past
year's record of progress and prospe rity. H e had visited as many
of the constituent Lodges as was possible and observed everywhere
signs of enthusiasm and Masonic advancement.
During the session the new Lodgeroom of "Edmonton " Lodge,
No. 53, was dedicated to the uses and purposes of Masonry.
R. ·. W. ·. Bro. W. C. Copeland, on behalf of Ionic Lodge, No. 25,
presented R ,'. W .'. Bro .. J. J. Dunlop with a beautiful diamond
studded bar, ·for his Past Master's Jewel, as a token of the esteem in
which he is held by the member s of his mother Lodge.

No. of Members Dec. 27th, 1902 .. .. . ... . . . .
I nitiated . . ................... .. ..... . . . . .
Passed .................................. 382
Raised ................ . ........ . ........ 405
Joined . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Resto1·ed . ........ .. ..... ......... .... ... .

3,811
454

210
22

686
4,497

Deml.tt!Jd ............ . . ......... . .... . . . .
Suspended U. M. C . . ......... ...... ..... .
Suspended N. P. D .. .......... .. ... .. . . .. .
Died ... .... ................ ·· ·· ·· · · ·· ·· ·
No. of Members Dec. 27th, 1903 ....... ... .
Increase . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 463

132
3

48
40

223
4,274

We do not obsP-rve anything unusual In t he general routine of
business or in the reports of committees r equiring comment..
Four Charters were granted for the establishment of Lodges
under Dispensation and numbered 85, 86, 87 and 88, and one Dispensation was continued for a year.
The Grand Representatives present were received and welcomed
by the Grand Master.
The election of Officers being in order the following brethren
were chosen to fill the several stations for the ensuing Masonic year :
R.'. W.'. Bro. Rev. A. Chisholm, Grand Master ; R .'. W.'.
Bro. Wm. G. Scott, Deputy Grand Master; R.'. W ,'. Bro. H. H.
Campkin, Grand Senior Warden; R,'. W,' . Bro. James Scroggie,
Grand Junior Warden; R.'. W.'. Bro. John McKechnie, reelected Grand Treasurer; M.'. W.'. Bro. James A. Ovas, r eelected Grand Secretary; R.'. W.'. Bro. 0. E. S. Whiteside,
Grand Registrar; R.'. W.'. Bro. Rev. John Wells, Grand Chaplain. And by open vote or Grand Lodge, Bro ,rohn McBride, Grand
Tyler.
The Grand Master made his appointments and all were installed ·
by Past Grand Master R. Hill Myers, assisted by Past Grand Masters
Thomas Tweed and R. S. Thornton as Masters of the cer emonies.

72

73

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPOlt'l' ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The Grand Lodge closed at 5:45 P. M. iil Ample Form with prayer
by the Grand Chaplain.

R. ·. W. ·. Bro. Hedges, Grand Secretary, reported in detail the
affairs of Grand Lodge and the condition of Masonry in Montana-'
a pleasant feature of which is Bro. Hedges' letter accompanying the
transmission of the Grand Lodge testimonial to Its youngest Past
Grand Master, and the Past Grand Master's response.
We observe nothing of special importance to other Jurisdictions
in the routine of business.
In the evening of the first day's session the Work was exemplified before Grand Lodge by " Helena " Lodge, No. 3.
Before calling off, the Grand Secretary requested permission of
Grand Lodge to send a telegram of condolence to Grand Secretary
Thomas M. Reed at Olympia, Washington, and Bro. Hedges transmitted the following:
" Thomas M. Reed,
" Olympia, Washington,
" The Grand Lodge of Montana in session to-day by unanimous
vote instructed me to send you Its greetings with prayers for your
continued health and ~trength as the Nestor of the Craft on the
Pacific Coast and the oldest Grand Secretary in the world.

M.". W.". A. Chisholm, Grand Master; R." . W." . James A. Ovas,
Grand Secretary, Winnipeg, Manitoba.
MONTANA.
51 Lodges.

4,013 Members.
The Grand Lodge of Montana held four Special Communications
during the recess and each and all for the purpose of paying the last
sad tribute of respect and affection to a Past Grand Master, viz., at
Helena, Sept. 26, '03, for the burial of Past Grand Master Samuel
·word, Grand Master in 1886-7; at Townsend, August 17, '04, for
the burial of James R. Weston, Grand Master in 1871-2; at Helena,
Sept 2, '04, for the burial of James W. Hathaway, Grand Master in
1887-8; and at Deer Lodge, Sept. 6, '04, for the burial of James
Hamilton Mills, Grand Master in 1895.
The Annual Communication was held in Masonic Temple,
Helena, October 5th, 1904, commencing at 9:30 A. M.,-M:. w:. H.
S. Hepner, Grand Master; R.". W.". Cornelius Hedges, Grand Secretary. Fifty Lodges were represented, together with thirty-three
other Grand Jurisdictions. All the Officers and eleven Pa.st Grand
Masters were In attendance.
A nice photogravure of Grand Master Hepner appears on the
opening page.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with accompanying
prayer by the Grand Chaplain, Rev'd A. B. Martin.
The Committee on Credentials reported. The Grand Master appointed the committees for the session and proceeded to deliver hh;
Annual Address.
After a cordial welcome to the assembled brethren, he directed
the attention of the Grand Lodge to the vacancies that had a"ccurred
in their official Circle during the late recess-the Winged Messenger
had summoned four of the Past Grand Masters of the Jurisdlctlon
and the Altar and Jewels were in mourning therefor. Four Past
:Masters had also been called, with Past. Grand Chaplain Allan
Rodger of Cascade Lodge, No 34.
No important decisions were reported.
He failed, as most Grand Masters do, to make as many visitations as he intended.
The Deputy Grand Master reported the condition of Lodges
visited by him.

..

" CORNELIUS REDOES.

"Grand Secretary."
RESl'()NSE.

Before the close of the afternoon session the following reply was
received :
"Cornelius Hedges,
" Grand Secretary Masons, Helena, Mont.
"Your telegram received. The loving words of greeting and
fraternal expressions of good will from the congregated Masons of
Montana fill my heart to overflowing with deepest sense of gratitude
and appreciation. May our Father In Heaven ever have you in His
holy keeping.
" THOMAS M. REEi>,

"Grand Secretary."
The Representatives of other Grand Jurisdictions were called up
and welcomed by the Grand Master who requested each to convey,
on behalf of the Grand Lodge of Montana, his best wishes for their
progress and prospeTity.
The election of Officers being In order the M. ·. W. ·. Lew L. Callaway was chosen Grand Master, and R." . W." . Cornelius Hedges was
re·elected Grand Secretary.
Grand Lodge resolved, That it is the sense of this Grand Lodge
that it is unwise for any Lodge or collection of Lodges to use

74

75

IlEPORT ON ConnESPONDENUE.

REPORT ON ComrnsPONDE~CE.

spiritous, malt or vinous liquors as a part of the refreshments pro'vided at any banquet or other Masonic function, and the use of the
same is hereby prohibited.

"Wicomico" Lodge, No. 91, and in August the corner-stone of
" Howard " Lodge, No. 101; on September 5, to place the cornerstone of the Chamber of Commerce, under the escort of" Concordia"
Lodge, No. 13, with a company of the National Guard and Band.
The Semi-Annual Communication was held May 10, 1904, in Masonic Temple, Baltimore, commencing at 8 o'clock P. i.r. One hundred
Lodges were represented.
The Grand Lodge was opened In Ample Form by M.'. W.'. Thomas
J. Shryock, Grand Master; all the Grand Officers were present.
The Grand Master appointed the Committees on Conference, on
Grievance, Correspondence, A~ounts, and Unfinished Business. He
then delivered his address, stating his pleasure at the privilege of
extending a welcome to so many active and enthusiastic gentlemen
in the great cause of Masonry.
He referred to the great conflagration of February 7th, and what
seemed a dispensation of Providence, the saving of the Temple
in the midst of the great disaster. He reported the particulars of
the several ceremonial observances in the placing of the cornerstones of public buildings In course of erection, and that the monument authorized to be erected by the Grand Lodge to the memory
of the Grand Secretary Emeritus R.'. w:. Bro. Jacob H. Meda!ry,
was in course of construction.
The Committee on Accounts presented its report, which was
accepted.
The Committee on By-Laws reported amendments as having been
examined and approved.
The Board of Grand Inspectors of the City of Baltimore reported visitations of Lodges and relief granted.
. ']'he Grand Master submitted the thanks of the Chamber of Commerce to the Grand Lodge for the Impressive ceremonies in the
placing of the corner-stone of their new building on November 5th.
'l'he Committee on the Grand Master's Address, Bro. H enry
Branch (Grand Chaplain), Chairman, In their report referred to
matters mentioned therein as follows:
" The death of Bro. Arnold reminds us that as the waters fail
from the sea, and the flood drieth up, so man lleth down, and raiseth
not up till the heavens shall be no more. Yet, 0 Lord, have compassion on the children of Thy creation, administer them comfort in
time of trouble, and save them with an everlasting salvation. Let
a page be se't apart in memory of Bro. Wm. E. Arnold ..
" The Complete Record of the Civil War, presented by Bro. George
L. \Vellington, makes a most valuable addition to our Library, and as

The roll of elective Grand Officers was called and the following
responded:
R.'. W.~. Grand Master, Lew L. Calla·way ; R.'. W.'. Dep'u ty Grand
Master, H. L. Frank; R.'. w:. Senior Grand Warden, A. D. Macdonald; R.'. w:. Junior Grand Warden, G. S. E. Wisner; R.'. w:.
Grand Treasurer, Henry M. Parchen; R.'. w:. Grand Secretary,
Cornelius Hedges.
· The Grand Master announced his appointments, and all were installed by the Grand Master. Due proclamation therof was made
and they were saluted with the Private Grand Honors.
The retiring Grand Master then presented the Signet Ring to the
Grand Master-elect. The usual testimonial was ordered procured
for Past Grand Master Hepner.
The Grand Lodge was then closed in Ample Form with prayer
by the Grand Chaplain, Peace and Harmony prevailing.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

There is but one Cornelius Hedges, and the present report assures
us that he will "tarry with us yet awhile," if there's anything in
signs. We feel from bis cheerful expressions in the present report
that he is well again, and will be present or accounted for at roll
call. He reviews California under the administration of Grand Master· Henderson. He compliments the Grand Master on his activity
in the discharge of official duty, praises and quotes from Grand Orator Hart's oration, speaks of the unusual gain In membership, and
gives us an all-around good clearance.

M:. W.'. Lew L. Callaway. Grand Master; R.'. w:. Cornelius
Hedges, Grand Secretary. Correspondent, Past Grand Master Cornelius Hedges, Helena.
The next annual Communication will be held in the city of Helena
in October. 1905.
MARYLAND.
108 Lodges.

10,293 Members.
The Grand Lodge of Maryland held a Special Communication for
the purpose of paying the last sad tribute of respect to the remains
of the late Emeritus Grand Secretary Bro. Jacob H. Medalry, February 7, 1904.
And three Specials in May, August and September, for the placing
of comer-stones of i:iublic buildings. In May the corner-stonfl of

76

REPORT ON ConRESPO.:-iDENCE.

it could not be purchased with money, .we are more than .grateful,
and hereby return to Bro. Wellington our heartiest thanks, and thll
Grand Secretary is hereby instructed to convey this resolution to
Bro. Wellington, with our best wishes for his usefulness and hap·
piness in life.
"In reference to the monum1mt for the grave of our late R.". W ." .
Grand Secretary Emeritus, we would suggest that appropriate action
be taken for its formal dedication, on some day associated with his
memory, either as a man or a Mason."
The annual election of officers being in order, the M." . W." .
Thomas J . Shryock was unanimously re-elected Grand Master of
Masons in Maryland, and was installed by Past Deputy Grand
Master Larrabee. The election proceeded, and the following Eminent Brethren were chosen, and with the appointed Grand Officers
were insta lled by Grand Master Shryock: Bro. James R. Brewer;
re-elected Deputy Grand Master; Bro. Robert D. Grier, elected Senior
Grand Warden; Bro. George E . Taylor, elected Junior Grand Warden; Bro. Wiiliam M. Isaac, re-elected Grand Secretary; Bro. Peter
E. Tome, re-elected Grand Treasurer.
The Grand Master appointed the Grand Inspectors for the city of
Baltimore and th e several distri cts and the standing committees,
whereupon the Grand Lodge closed in Ample Form with prayer by
the Grand Chaplain.
REP ORT ON CORRES PON DENCE.

We are favored with another excellent report from Brother Ed- ·
ward T. Schultz, even if California " is not in it." Although, as Bro.
Schultz says, why California and Tennessee should stay away is
unaccountable; but then we may console ourselves with the fine
report we have received which gives us a review of Fifty-seven of
the Grand Masonic .Jurisdictions 9f the world with the satisfaction
of knowing that the good, stalwart representative of " My Maryland " and her Masonry is yet able to lend a listening ear while
enjoying his chosen work at the round table.
M." . W.". Thomas J. Shryock, Grarid Master; R." . W." . William
M. Isaac, Grand Secretary. Correspondent, R.". W ." . Edward T.
Schultz, Masonic Temple, Baltimore.
The next Annual Communication will be held in Masonic Temple,
Baltimore, November 21, 1905.
MASSACHUSETTS.
239 Lodges.
46,7°90 Members.
A Quarterly Communication of the Grand Lodge of MassachuRetts was held in Masonic Temple, Boston, D~cember 14, 1904.-M:.

REPORT ON CoRRESPONDENOE.

77

W.'. Baalis S~nford, Grand Master; R .". W.". Sereno D. Nickerson,
Grand Secretary. Two hundred and fourteen Lodges were represented. Four Past Grand Masters, five Past Grand Deputies, and
thirty-one Past Grand Wardens were in attendance.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form at 2 o'clock i•. ¥.,
prayer being offered by W. ·. and Rev. Charles A. Skinner, Grand
Chaplain.
The Grand Master delivered his Annual Address.
He gave all a hearty welcome and called upon the Brethren "as a
first duty to offer to the Giver of every blessing appreciative thanks
for the peace, existlug harmony and prosperity so generously be·
stowed upon the Fraternity Individually and in its organizations.
He presented the death roll for the closing year, with its 695
names inscribed w ithin its mourning pages; but one of the Grand
Lodge's permanent members had been taken-R.'. W.". Henry God·
dard passed to rest January 12th, respected and loved by all of the
Brethren of hfs district. He leaves behind him the remembrauce
of his Christian character, his loving Fraternal spirit and his genu·
ine honesty of soul.
" From the dust of the weary highway,
From the smart of sorrow's rod;
Into the Royal presence ·
They are bidden, as guests of God.
The veil from their eyes is taken,
Sweet mysteries they are shown:
Their doubts and fears are over,
For t hey know as they are known."
Among his official acts he reported many interesting visitations,
and the performance of official duties in the dedication of halls, the
placing of corner-stones and attendance upon the anniversaries of
several Lodges.
On lookfog through the journal, we noted a portrait in full
regalia of the Earl of Dartmouth, Provincial Grand Master for Staf·
fordshlre, England, and later on foµnd t he explanation under the
head of Distinguished Visitors. We quote:
" On October 24th I was honored by a visit from the Earl of
Dartmouth, accompanied by his wife the Countess and their daughter, and enjoyed with them a very pleasant social hour in conducting
them through the ·several apartments of the Temple, in company with
R." . W.". Charles T. Gallagher and his wife. The Earl is visiting
America In response to an invitation extended to him by the President of Dartmouth College, to assist in the ceremonies of laying (he

7g,

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

HEPOH1' O.N ConnE:s1'0NDENcE:

corner-stone df the new Dartmouth Hall', to. be· erected on the. site of'
the'"cild haH whfoh ·was recently destroyed by · fire, and· to whicf1 •
ahd'· the college· the Earl's great grandfather contributed a liberal'.
sum at its inception, for which he rece.lved the honor of having the•
college bear his name; and w:hich· will go. do.wn through the. ag!'.s as
his'. memorial. .
"The Earl expressed great pleasure in his present visit to• tMs•
country, and especially to Bostpn and its . M;asqnic· '.J;'empje, of which
h.e IJ.afl, heard so.. much.
· ;i)'.A.s; he· is a ·member 'O.f qur Fratei:nity, lj.nd an . active memb,er o.~;
the- Gra11q Lodge of Eng·l and; R. ·. W ·:·_.. Br0.tl,ler Gallagher. and myself,
escor:te£b.him· to· the Gr.and ..l!Jast. of our. qrand Lodge, and seated h.i~ .
in: th.e, Oni.ei).,1:al Chair,. which he deemed a ~i:eat. honor .., . R. ·. w. ·.
Bro. Gailagher. w:as also .an Invited. guest, and took a. promln~nt
pa~t: in. th~;. . ·exercises.·.·of·· laying
the.
..
. corner~stone
..
. . of Dartmouth .Hall.;'.
.
·.The Audjiing Gom.mJttee, .BJ'o. James F.. Be_ard, reported;, the re:!
port .was: approve:<l and: ordereq spread upon the. records.
'The · time .named' in the Organic Law for the election of officers;
having arrived, the Grand Master resigned the Chair to the R.'. W.''
William H. Emerson and.retired from the Hall. The Grand Lodge,
however, soon demanded his· return by a unanimous re-election as
Grand Master of Masons in Massachusetts. The other officers chosen
were: W.'. William F. Davis,, of Woburn, Senior Grand Wartlen;
W.'. Horace E. Marion, of Brighton, Junior Grand Warden; R.'. w::
Charles H. Ramsay, of Weymouth, Grand Treasurer; R.'. W .' . Sereno
D. Nickerson, of Cambridge, Recording Grand Secretary.
The Grand Master made his appointments. The reports of the
several committees were considered a.nd determined, and the r'outlne
of business being concluded, the Grand Lodge closed in Ample Form,
prayer being offered by W. ·. Rev. Edward A. Horton, Grand Chaplain,_
at 6: 30 o'clock l'. :ir.
A Stated Communication of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge
of Ancient, Free and Accepted 'M asons of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts was held in the Masonic Temple in the city of Boston,
on Tuesday, the 27th day of December, A. L. 5904, A. D. 1904, for th-3
purpose of installing the Grand Officers and celebrating the Feast
of St. John the Evangelist.
The R.'. W.'. William H. Emerson, Deputy Grauel. Master, presiding. The Grand Officers and twenty Past Grand Officers and perma•
J!ent members were present.
By order of the M.'. W.'. Grand Master, the Grand Marshal made
proclamation that the M.' . W.' . Grand Lodge of Massachusetts was

duly organized for the ensuing year, and ready for the transaction of
such business as might regularly come before it.
·'
·'"·
· •The Grand Lodge was opened In · Due Form at.:four o'clock P.'. M.,
prayer being offered by W.'. Edward· A. Horton, Grand Chaplain;
with singing by the Harvard Quartette, the Great Light being
opened at the Gospel of St. · John the Evangelist.
:;
The Deputy Grand Milster announced the purpose fo1' which
Communication had beeir convened, and invited' to the chair · the
Junior Past Grand Master, R.'. W.'. CharJ'es T. Ga!Hfgheri ' who ai:>'·
pointed as ·a committee.: to. wait upon the· Grand Master,eHict; · and
escort him· to: the East for installation, R.'. W ..". Bi:;other.s.· S'erell'Q
D. Nickerson, Samuel C. Lawrence, Fredel'ick D. Ely, Charles·I{arris
an.d J, Gilm.a n. Waite.
. ·•·
...... : . ,
•1
The order having been duly executed, Brother Sartford:.: was
co11dncted· to. the altar ancl.-.tb.e.. !nstalHn.g praye1'. was ofl'!lJ:~d hX'. ·JV. ·.
Rev. Charles A. Skinner, D. D., Grand ·Chaplain. The, offiGial. og~i;
gation. h.aving .b.een admlnia.tered, the ce.remony; was continued substantially ·1n acc.o rdance. with· t:ti.e ~1tµal ~sed at t he · 1~st:~i1:;i.tioµ

7S:

..

the

m.

1902.

All the Brethren p~~.eut th.en. joined i~ prooession and s~l.ute~
the Grand ..Ma.s ter in Du~ and .Ancient F:'orm. The Grand Marshal
proclaim~d M.'. W.' .• Baalls Sanfor~ Grand Master of Mason$ in
Massachusetts, and. invoked the blessing o.f Almighty God upon his
government of the Craft.
'I'he M.'. W.'. Grand Master installed the following-named Brethren in the respective offices to which they had been elected : R. ·. W. ·.
William F. Davis, Seuior Grand Warden; R.'. W.'. Horace E. Marion,
Junior Grand Warden; H.'. W.'. Charles H. Ramsay, Grand Treaslll'er; R .'. W.'. Sereno D. Nickerson, R ecordin g Grand Secretary.
The Grand Marshal duly proclaimed the Grand Wardens to have
been insta lled in Ample Form.
"At six o'clock P . 11r.. the Craft were called from labor to refresh·
ment an<.l proceeded to the Banquet Hall, where the Feast of Saint
.John the Evangelist was celebrated in Due and Ancient Form.
At fifteen minutes before ten o'clock r. 11!., the Brethren were
ca lled from refreshment to labor again, and the Grand Lodge was
dosed in Ample Form.
T here was no Report on Corresporidence.
M.'. W.'. Baalis Sanford, Grand Master; R.'. W .'. Sereno D. Nick;
erson, Grand Secretary, Masonic Temple, Boston.
.. The .next Semi-Annual Communication will be held In Masonic
Temple, Boston, on the se<'ond Wednesday in December, 1905.
.

81

RKPoBT oN CoBBESPONDENOE.

REPORT oN ConnESPONDENCE.

MICHIGAN.
51,871 Mem~rs.
388 Lodges.
The Grand Lodge of Michigan held its Sixty-first Annual Communication in Masonic Temple, Detroit, May 23, 1905, commencing
at high twelve,-M.'. W:. Fletcher E. Turrell, Grand Master; R.' ·
w:. Lou B. Winsor, Grand Secretary. Three hundred and eighty-six
Lodges were represented, together with thirty-eight other Grand
Jurisdictions. Eighteen Past Grand Masters were in attendance,
and all the Grand omcers answered roll call.
Handsome portraits of the retiring Grand Master, and also of
the Grand Master-elect, are noted in the opening pages of this
number of the journal.
We note the presence among the Past Grand Masters of the
veteran, Hugh Mccurdy.
The Grand Lodge of Michigan was opened in Ample Form with
prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
Hon. George P . Codd, Mayor of the city of Detroit, delivered an
eloquent and cordial address of welcome to the Grand Lodge, which,
by request of Grand Master Turrell, was responded to on behalf of
the Grand Lodge, by Past Grand Master Lou B. Winsor.
Grand Lodge "called o!T" until 2: 30, when it re-assembled, the
Grand Master presiding. The Grand Secretary called the "roll
of honor," to which there had been no additions during the late

has caused to be inscribed upon the death roll the names of 783
members of the Masonic family of the Grand Lodge of Michigan.
He also reported the death of many eminent Masons of other
Jurisdictions, and extended the sympathy of the Grand Lodge of
Michigan to the mourners.
He reported the issuance of dispensations for the forming and
opening of new Lodges, the dedication of twenty-two Halls and
Temples to the uses and purposes of Masonry, and the placing of
t:even corner-stones of public buildings.
He reported his visitations and the enthusiasm with which he
was greeted. We excerpt the following as the correct practice
which should be followed by all Secretaries in the discharge of their
important duties:
" The Secretary of ' Crystal • Lodge has also been very lax in
the performance of his duties. He should have been sure that the
fee accompanied the petition, for no petition should be presented to
the Lodge which ie: not accompanied by the fee. When the fee is
received by the Secretary, he should charge himself with it upon
his financial record, and the same should in all cases be turned over
to the Treasurer and become a part of the Lodge funds. Should
the petition be rejected, a warrant should be drawn upon the Treasurer for the return of the fee, and all the details of the entire t ransaction will thereby be permanently recorded. The Secretary was
unable to find the petition when I requested it. This should in all
rases be permanently preserved."
The Grand Secretary reports the following communication, received from Grand Secretary George Johnson of the Grand Lodge
of California:
"R.'. W.'. Sm AND DEAR BHOTHER:
"At the Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of California,
1904, the following recommendation was unanimously adopted:
" ' It will be patent to any one who will give the matter of the
appointment of Representatives to and from other Grand Lodges
proper consideration, that this custom is as useless as the appendix
vermi formis in the human body. It seems to us that the custom
must have originated in a desire to decorate members with a mere
title. The only proper way for one Grand Lodge to communicate
with another is through the Grand Masters. Your committee can see
no necessity for the continuance of the custom, and therefore recommend that it be abolished.'
"Truly and Fraternally,

80

recess.
The Grand Master proceeded to deliver the Annual Address.
A change In the time of assembling the Grand Lodge from January to May so lengthened the term of the Grand Master, as he says,
as to give him the privilege of reporting to the Grand Lodge the
" busiest Masonic year the Grand Lodge of Michigan has ever experienced." He commenced his report by giving a Fraternal greeting
to the Representatives of more than 50,000 Free and Accepted
Masons, assembled for the purpose of reviewing the past and legislating for the future welfare of the Fraternity.
"But," he said, "before considering the business of the session,
let us invoke the Divine blessing upon our labors and · then devote
a brief period to the ·remembrance of the Brethren and friends who
have passed to rest within the year."
He called up the Grand Lodge, and the R.'. W.'. Grand Chapla~n
invoked the blessing of the Deity.
He was pleased to report that, although their official circle remained unbroken, yet the repeated visit of the Winged Messenger

" GEORGE JOHNSON, Grand Secretary."

6a

82

REPORT ON COHRESl'ONDE~CE.

But for the certificate of Grand Secretary Johnson, we should
have believed it impossible for a radical change to have been made
in the usages and customs of the Grand Lodge of California, without
our knowledge, we being present when the report referred to was
made.
We were present in the Grand Lodge during the reading of the
report of the Committee on Grand Master's Address-a committee
of division and reference of the several matters presented and recommendations made by the Grand Master.
The Grand Master made no reference to the subject of Representatives to and from Grand Lodges, and no one seated on the opposite
side of the hall from the reader of the report had the remotest idea
of the voluntary recommendation of that committee, or the response
would have made a different record. Our first knowledge of the
matter was the publication of the circular under date of about
February 1st, three and a half months after the close of the session.
Legislation °bY indirection is bad policy. In the present attempt to
amend the Constitution by resolution, there can be but one resultfailure.
From the reports of the officers of the Michigan Masonic Home,
we learn the Home Is caring for fifty-two inmates-forty-four males,
and eight females, the average age of the Brethren being 71 years,
and of the women 76 years.
Bro. Frank H. Williams, Chairman of · the Committee on Obituaries, made an eloquent and feeling report, which was adopted, and
the Funeral Grand Honors given.
· The Committees on Charities and on Appeals reported, and their
reports were approved. The general routine of business having been
completed, and the election of officers for the ensuing year being
in order, the following-named Brethren were chosen to fill the stations for the ensuing year: John Rowson, Grand Master ; Charles
L. Stevens; Deputy Grand Master, Charles E. Sweet, Senior Grand
Warden; Erastus E. Stone, Junior Grand Warden; William Wente,
Grand Treasurer; Lou B. Winsor, P. G. M., Grand Secretary; Frank
T. Lodge, P. G. M., Grand Lecturer; Rev. A. A. Knappen, Grand
Chaplain; Thomas Reardon, Senior Grand Deacon; Arthur M.
Hume, Junior Grand Deacon ; G. Roscoe Swift, Grand Marshal;
James F. McGregor, Grand Tyler.
The Grand Master made his appointments, and all were installed
by Past Grand Master Lou B. Winsor, Past Grand Master John J.
Carton acting as Master of tli.e· Ceremonies.
·:m: Den~more o{ Bellaire, -on behalf of the Grand Lodge,
. B~o~

c:

REPORT ON

00RRESPONDENC~.

83

then presented M.'. W.'. Grand Master Fletcher E. Turrell with a
Past Grand Master's Jewel.
The address of Bro. Densmore was feelingly responded to by
Grand Master Turrell.
The Grand Master named the standing committees, and the Grand
Lodge closed in Ample Form.
·
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

This report is by Past Grand Master Lou B. Winsor, and is a
good one. This declaration we make without any expectation of Its
reproduction by our M.'. W .'. Bro. Winsor in viola ti on of the edicts
of the Grand Lodge of Michigan.
M.'. W.'. John Rowson, Grand Master; R.'. W.'. Lou B. Winsor,
Grand Secretary, Reed City. Correspondent Past Grand Master
Lou B. Winsor, Reed City.
'
The next Communication will be held in Grand Rapids, May 22.
1906.
MINNESOTA.
242 Lodges.

20,290 Members_
The Grand Lodge of Minnesota held its Fifty-second Annual Comin the city of St. Paul, January 18, 1905, commencing
·
at
"munication
.
high twelve,''-M.'. W.'. William A. McGonagle Grand Master·
R.'. W:. Thomas Montgomery, Grand Secretary. ;wo hundred an~
twenty-one Lodges were represented, together with forty-two other
Grand Jurisdictions. All the Grand Officers and seventeen permanent members were in attendance.
A handsome portrait of Grand Master McGonagle appears on the
opening page.
The Grand Lodge was opened In Ample Form with prayer by the
Grand Chaplain.
. The Grand Master named the committees and proceeded to deliver
his Annual Address.
. ".With feelings of profound gratitude to Almighty God for the
Privilege of being permitted to assemble to-day In the Fifty-second
Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Minnesota," he gave
the Brethren a cordial greeting and welcomed them as the Representatives of more than 20,000 Free !J,nd Accepted Masons of Minnesota.
He congratulated them on the existing harmony, progress and
prosperity of th.i: Jurisdiction.

84

REPORT ON 00RREBPONDF.NC~'..

He reported the constitution of three new Lodges, one being
"Montgomery," No. 258, and issued three dispensations for the
forming and opening of three new ones.
He reported no decisions requiring comment.
He placed three corner-stones of public buildings, with the usages
and ceremonies of the Craft.
He announced in feeling words the death of Past Grand Master
M. ', w. ', Jacob Armel Kiester, and paid a most affectionate tribute
.to his sterling worth as a Mason, a Christian and a citizen of Minnesota.
He also extended the sympathy of the Grand Lodge of Minnesota
to sister Jurisdictions bereaved by the loss of friends and Brethren.
Bro. Thomas Montgomery, Grand Secretary, makes his usual interesting and valuable report, the closing words of which we quote
as a deserved tribute to a veteran Mason:
" 1 have assisted in laying corner-stones at Windom, Duluth and
Anoka, and last month attended the funeral of Past Grand ~aste~
Kiester, at Blue Earth. I was particularly attached to . Bro. Kiester,
as to him I was indebted for the appointment of Grand Secretary in
November, 1889, to succeed Bro. Pierson. I might note here that
I have been present at the burial of all of our eleven deceased Past
Grand Masters, except that of Bro. Sherburne, the first to die, in 1868
and of ten other Past Grand Officers.
" 1 also was privileged to constitute " Montgomery " Lodge, No.
258, February 22d last, to install one of my sons Master of "Midway"
Lodge, No. 185, for the third time, and to visit quite a number of
Lodges. during the year.
"As a Grand Lodge we continue in terms of amity with every
other English-speaking Grand Lodge in the world, sixty-five in number and exchange our proceedings with theirs., We also receive circul~rs and periodicals from Grand Lodge officials of Cuba, Porto Rico,
Mexico, Brazil, Belgium, Switzerland and several other Foreign
Jurisdictions, and send them our proceedings when requested.
1

"In closing my report I am happy to say that my relations with
the Grand Master and other Grand Officers, as well as with all other
Brethren with whom I have come into official or personal contact,
have been of the most cordial character. Profoundly thankful to one
and all for the confidence reposed in me in the past, and actuated by
one great object, the honor and glory of Minnesota Free Masonry, I
hope to continue to maintain that confidence and to earnestly work
with my co-laborers for the growth and prosperity Of Our beloved
Fraternity as long as life shall last."

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

85

A fine oration was delivered by Bro. Luis G. Hoffman, of St. Paul,
Grand Orator.
The annual election of officers being in order, the following Brethren were chosen to fill the several stations for the ensuing Masonic
year: Henry M. Tussl•~r. St. Paul, M. '. W.'. Grand Master; Thomas
Morris, Crookston, R. ·. W. ·. Deputy Grand Master; Gustaf Widell,
Mankato, R.'. W.'. Senior Grand Warden; William P. Roberts, )iinneapolis, R. '. W. '. Junior Grand Warden; David W. Knowlton, Minneapolis, R .'. W.'. Grand Treasurer ; Thomas Montgomery, St. Paul,
R. ·. W. ·. Grand Secretary.
The Grand Master made his appointments, and all were installed
by M. ·. W. ·. William ~· McGonagle, Past Grand Master A. D. Cmrntryman acti11g as Master of the Ceremonies.
The Grand Master-elect appointed the standing committees, and
closed the Grand Lodge at 6: 30 P. l\I.
R~;l'Ol!1' ON CORlll!:SPONDENCE.

The report, as usual of late years, is by the Eminent Brother
Irving Todd, of Hastings. He reviews fifty-five Grand Jurisdictions
and presents his conclusions in a paper of eighty pages, whic~
proves him to be a powerful condenser.
California is investigated while in its Fifty-fourth Annual, under
the guidance of Grand Master Henderson. He mentions the death
of Past Grand Master Preston, and notices the oration of Grand
Orator Hart, but as he don't mention any apparent irregularities,
we w111 not comment further.
M.' . W.'. Henry M. Tuslor, Grand Master; R.'. W.'. Thomas
Montgomery, Grand Secretary. Correspondent, Bro. Irving Todd,
Hastings.
The next, the 53d, Annual Communication will be held in SL
Paul, .January 17, 1906.

306 Lodges.

MISSISSIPPI.

12,244 Members_
Five Emergent Communications were held by the Grand Lodge
of Mississippi-May 9, 1904, to place the corner-stone of the First
Presbyterian Church at Greenwood; May 26, to place the cornerstone of the new Court House at Tupelo; October 29, for the burial
of Past Grand Master William A. Howard; at Meriden, November
23, 1904, to place the corner-stone of the new Court House at Boone•
ville, and January 5, lil05, to place the corner-stone of the Public
School building at Lexington, all of which was done in accordance
with the ceremonies, usages and purposes of Masonry.

86

REPOR'I ON CORRESPONDENCE.

'fhe Eighty-seventh Annual Communication was held in the city
of Jackson, February 23, 1905,-M. ·. W. ·. Thomas Upton Sisson,
Grand Master; M.'. W.'. Frederick Speed, Grand Secretary.
In addition to the Grand Officers, twenty Past Grand Officers
and permanent members were in attendance. Two hundred and
fifty-six Lodges were represented, together with twenty-six other
Grand Jurisdictions.
The portrait of Grand Master Sisson appears on the opening page;
that of Past Grand Master H. H. Folk, who died in Paxton, Florida;
that of Senior Grand Warden W. H. Howard, who was buried
October 29, 1904, at Meriden, and of Henry Strauss, Grand Tyler
from 1887 to 1900, at intervals in different ·parts of the journal.
The Grand Lodge was welcomed to Jackson by the Hon. Garland
C, Syle on behalf of the citizens, and the welcome was responded to
by the Grand Master. The Grand Lodge was opei;ied in Ample Form
with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
·
The Grand Secretary announced that a great sorrow had come
upon M.'. W.'. Bro. Phineas M. Savery, Past Grand Master, on the
previous Thursday night, when death took from him the partner of
his joys and sorrows for more than fifty years, and that he, himself,
was prostrate upon a bed of sickness. On motion it was ordered
that the Grand Secretary should immediately telegraph to Bro.
Saver:y its warmest sympathy and heartfelt condolence, and the
following telegram was sent at once:
·
"CAPT. P. M. SAVERY, Past Grand Master of Masons, Tupelo, Miss." The Grand Lodge sends loving sympathy in your illness, and
condolence in your affliction, and it earnestly prays for your restoration to health ·and strength.
"FREDERICK SPEED, Grand Secretary."
'l'he Grand Master then proceeded to deliver his Address. The
unique opening of the addres::; is our warrant for its excerpt. He
said:
"You will pardon your Grand Master for a moment's digression
from the ordinary address of this occasion, because it is with specially great pride and pleasure that he calls this Grand Lodge to
order. On April the 17th, 1834, a dispensation was granted to
"Pearl" Lodge, No. 23, of Jackson, Hinds County, Mississippi, and
the first Master of that Lodge was Upton Miller; and now, after
nearly seventy-one stormy, eventful and historic nineteenth-century
years have passed, his grandson, as Grand Master, calls the Grand
Lodge to order, being entertained by "Pearl" Lodge, No. 23. Breth·
ren, I am not only your brother, but I am your grandson, and permit

Il:EPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

87

tne to say to you in the language of the Psalmist of Old, ' If I forget
thee, 0 Jerusalem, let my right hand forget her cunning; if I do not
remember thee, let my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth.'"
He continued his eloquent dissertation, illustrated by reference
to the " Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of Man," " King
John and Magna Charter," "Joseph Warren and Bunker Hill,"
"George Washington," "Thomas Jetrerson," and "The Declaration of
Independence," until apparently impressed with the duties of the
hour. Under the head of Necrology:
"The sweetest of all the Canticles is ' Nunc dimittis,' or t he ' Song
of Simeon.' When he beld the infant Jesus in the Temple, he took
the child in his arms and burst forth into a song of thanksgiving,
commencing: 'Lord, now lettest Thou Thy servant depart in peace,
according to Thy word. For mine eyes have seen Thy salvation.'
This is the outburst of a heart that is filled with peace and contentment. One upon whose soul this great flood of light is shed, faces the
Doleful Messenger, Death, with calm resignation and
" ' Sustain'd and sooth'd
By an unfaltering trust,' approaches his grave,
' Like one that wraps the drapery of his couch
About him, and lies down to pleasant dreams.'"
And then, in most eloquent words, he pays affectionate tribute
to the late Senior Grand Warden Howard, James M. Hitt, W. F.
Stephens, H. H. Folk and Mississippi's death roll of 1904.
He reported the constitution of seven Lodges and reported the
issuance of three dispensations for the forming and opening of three
still newer ones.
He did not make a general visitation of his constituent Lodges,
but says he would like to have visited but for the pressure of business.
The District Deputies reported the condition of the Lodges in
their several districts, and the Grand Lecturer made a full report
of his work.
Grand Secretary Speed's report is an exhaustive statement of the
financial condition and prospects of the Grand Lodge ot Mississippi.
The Grand Lodge resolved, on motion of the Committee on Correspondence, "That the Grand Lodge of Mississippi welcome the
Grand Lodge of Queensland into the sisterhood of Grand Lodges,
which she enters of right by virtue of the regularity of her formation, and wm· gladly cultivate closer relationship with that Grand
Body by an exchange of Grand Representatives."

88

REPORT ON COHRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The election of officers being in order, the following Brethren
were chosen to fill the several stations for the ensuing Masonic year:
M.'. W.'. Thomas B. Franklin, Grand Master; R.'. W.'. Frederick
Speed, Grand Secretary.
The Grand Master made his appointments, and all were installed
by Past Grand Master Frederic Speed, who was subsequently installed as Grand Secretary by the Grand Master.
The Grand Master named the standing committees, and the Grand
Lodge closed in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.

Brethren with a magnificent diamond-studded Past Grand Master's
Jewel, a gold-lined sliver loving cup, and a purse of shining gold coin,
accompanied with such eloquent words as only come from the voluntary tribute of sincere affection.

REPORT ON CORRESPOXDENCE.

Past Grand Master Andrew H. Barkley writes the correspondence
for Mississippi. Bro. Barkley tells us that he was " under orders" to
report to General Speed, and could but mention that he had received our advance report, but the journal had not come to hand.
All right, Bro. Barkley, " will see you later."
MISSOURI.
39,080 Members.
569 Lodges.
The opening page of the journal presents to us a faithful likeness
of M.'. W.'. Bro. John Davis Vinci!, Past Grand Master and Grand
Secretary of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Andent, Free and
Accepted Masons of Missouri, who died at his home in St. Louis,
October i2, 1904, and whose remains were interred with Fraternal
honors in his family burial Jot In the cemetery at Columbia, Mo.,
October lo, 1904.
Doctor Vinci!, as he was lovingly called, was born in Tazewell
County, Virginia, August 24, 1830, and from a record of his Masonic
history published in the Biographies of the Grand Lodge Officers in
1901, first appeared in the Grand Lodge of Missouri at the Annual
Communication, May 23, 1859, as the Representative from " Spring
Hill " Lodge, No. 155, of Livingston County, Missouri. He served as
Grand Chaplain until 1863, when he was elected Senior Grand Warden. In 1864 and 1865 he was elected Deputy Grand Master, and in
1866 was chosen as Most Worshipful Grand Master, serving what
was then known as the " long term," lasting nearly eighteen months,
which was on account of the change made in holding the Annual
Sessions from May to October. At the close of his term he retired,
but for one year only, as in 1868 he was again called to the
Grand East.
The Golden J ubilee of this veteran Mason was celebrated August
13, 1904, on which anniversary he was presented by his, Masonic

b9

This number also presents us with a fine portrait of Grand Master
William Frederick Kuhn, with a biographic sketch of this eloquent
expounder of Masonry. The M.'. W.'. Brother's residence Is in
Kansas City.
The Grand Lodge of Missouri held its Eighty-fourth Annual
Communication In Scottish Rite Cathedral, St. Louis, September
27, 1904,-M.'. W.'. Wiiliam F. Kuhn, Grand Master; R.'. W.'. F. W.
Mott, Grand Secretary. Three hundred and eighty-nine Lodges were
represented. All the Grand Officers, forty District Deputies, and one
hundred and forty Past Masters were In attendanct..
The Grand Master expressed the appreciation of the Grand Lodge
o! the courtesies .of the Brethren of the Scottish Rite in placing at
their disposal, without cost, their beautiful cathedral.
The R. ·. W. •. Bro. A. C. Stewart, executive head anu spokesman
for the Cathedral Association, addressed the Grand Lodge in a most
eloquent Address of Welcome, to which the Grand Master responded.
The Committee on Credentials reported, and the Grand Master
proceeded to deliver his Annual Address.
It goes without' saying that the address was an eloquent dissertation in Its opening upon the aims and purposes of Masonry, under
the head of Necrology, he paid affectionate tribute to the Brethren
who had been called home during the recess of the Grand Lodge.
He reported the issuance of dispensations for the forming and
opening of ten new Lodges, and the placing of eleven corner-stones
of public buildings.

He appointed a number of Representatives of Missouri near other
Grand Jurisdictions.
He reported· a number of decisions, nearly all of which were
governed by the local law of Missouri, and were approved by the
Committee on Jurisprudence.
He spoke earnestly In approval of the management of the Home,
and of the abiding interest In Its success by the good women of the
Eastern Star.
He appointed a committee of Past Grand Masters to determine
and report to the Grand Lodge " The Foreign Grand Bodies not in
Fraternal relations with the Grand Lodge of Missouri, that should
have recognition."

91

REPOU'l' ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

His report of the condition of Masonry in Missouri was enthusiastic. He said: "In my visitations I have come in contact with the
best, the truest, the noblest men in Missouri-men who stand for the
ideals of life that humanity may be better."
M.". W.". Grand Master Kuhn reported that the growth of the
Grand Lodge during the past year had been very saUsfactory, as well
as prosperous. There were over 3,000 Entered Apprentices, 2,000
Master Masons, and 1,000 Affiliated, while 700 have joined the silent
throng during the year. This brings our total membership to nearly
40,000, the increase during the year, so far as be could ascertain,
beginning back seven or eight years, was the largest in our Jurisdiction that he was able to discover.
To enliven the usual dull routine of business, consisting of the
reports of several committees, the business of the Home, etc., the
following bit of refreshment was indulged in. The report says:
"The Grand Master entrapped R.".
Bro. Allan McDowell by
calling him to the platform, ostensibly to make a report. Bro. McDowell innocently started to say that the report of his committee
was not quite ready, whereupon the Grand Master suddenly · presented him with a very handsome gold-headed cane, suitably inscribed, and spoke touchingly of the life-long and faithful services
that Bro. McDowell had rendered to the Grand Lodge.
" Bro. McDowell was overwhelmed with surprise, and as soon
as he could overcome bis emotion, responded in his usual happy
manner, and gave a brief review of his work as Grand Lecturer."
The R ." . W." . Grand Orator, Bro. Will jam R. Gentry, delivered a
fine oration, and Bro. Allan McDowell made his report as Grand
Lecturer.

Every member of the Grand Lodge present arose to his feet
without a moment's hesitation, thus manifesting their great love
and sympathy for him.
R.". W.". Bro. J. C. W. Coxe, the Grand Chaplain of the Grand
Lodge of Iowa, was introduced and received with the Grand Honors.
Past Grand Master Bestor G. Brown of Kansas, was also received
with the Grand Honors, and made an interesting address to the
Grand Lodge.
Grand Master Kiihn presented and placed on the coat of the
Grand Master-elect, a beautiful Grand Master's Jewel, made of pure
gold, and inscribed "Grand Master's Jewel, presented to the Grand
Lodge of Missouri by William F. Kuhn, Grand Master. Sept. 21,
1904." A half-tone cut of this beautiful jewel is published in the
journal.

90

w:·.

HONORS FOR TENNESSEE.

M.". W.". Bro. Henry H. Ingersoll, Past Grand Master of Tennessee, was introduced and received with the Grand Honors. He made a
masterly address to the great pleasure of the Gr~nd Lodge, and
was warmly welcomed by the Grand Master.
The election of officers being in order, the following Brethren
were chosen to fill the several stations for the ensuing Masonic year:
Bro. Leroy B. Valliant was elected Grand Master. After the Wardens
bad been chosen, the Grand Master announced that the next office
to be filled was that of Grand Secretary, and in that connection he
said that he would ask something of the Brethren that perhaps had
never been done .in a Grand Lodge of Masons before-thereupon be
requested all the Brethren who were in favor of the election of Bro.
John D. Vinci!, who is now seriously ill at his home, as Grand Secretary by acclamation, to rise to their feet.

REPOR'f ON CORRESPONDENCE.

This report. is the last work of the lamented Vincil-a review of
196 pages in which he reviews the doings of forty-three American
and thirteen Foreign Grand Bodies. He reviews California unue1·
the administration of Grand Master Henderson. The report is a
pleasant one, impressing one, as he always did, with his kind feeling
and good wishes for California. In Fraternal remembrance of good
Bro. Vinci!, we excer.pt his last notice of our work:
"The report of the committee on this important branch of Masonic work covers 175 pages, embracing notices of forty-seven American and eleven Foreign Grand Lodges, making a total of fifty-eight
proceedings reviewed. The work was performed 'by M. ·. W. ·. Bro.
William A. Davies, Chairman of the Committee. It is, as heretofore,
a strong and practical review of Grand' Lodge transactions. The
Missouri proceedings for 1902 received courteous attention, covering
three pages, embracing a review of all the business done .at our
Kans11;s City session. Brief attention was paid to the report of this
Committee on Correspondence. Carrying out a purpose formed before this r eport was commenced, I must make my review of California brief, as will be the case with all others."
And this last cheering message proved to be, in truth, as in fact,
the conclusion of his work on earth. God give him rest.
CONCLUSION.

" Closing my annual report, and looking back over the field of Masonic labor, I note with interest the steady advance Of· Masonry in
all Jurisdictions. The general prosperity obtaining in all ·o f our
sister Grand Lodges is most gratifying. In our own Jurisdiction

92

REPOR'l' ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON COiutESPONDENCE.

prospects have never been better or more encouraging along moral
lines as well as material prosperity. With a hearty appreciation of
the kindness shown to me by members of the Guild, as well as my
Brethren of Missouri, I close my Twenty-seventh Annual Report
with kind and Fraternal greetings to all.
" JOHN D. VINCIL."
M.". W." . Lei·oy B. Valliant, Grand Master; R.". W.". John R. Parson, Grand Secretary. Correspondent, Past Grand Master R. E. Anderson.

A portrait of Grand Master Glllson appears on the opening page
of this number of the journal.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the
Grand Chaplain.
After appointing the committees, the Grand Master proceeded to
deliver his Address.

NEVADA.
22 Lodges.

1,030 Members.
A Special Communication of the Grand Lodge of Nevada was held
in the Hall of "Carson " Lodge, No. 1, in Carson City, August 28,
1904, for the purpose of performing the last sad rites over the
remains of Past Grand Master Trenmor Coffin, who passed to rest Ol!l
the 26th instant,-the M." . W." . George Gillson, Grand Master ; the
V." . W.". Chauncey N. Noteware, Grand Secretary.
There was a large attendance at the funeral ceremonies. All the
Grand Officers, nine Past Grand Masters, a Past G:and Warden and
a Past Grand Secretary were in attendance.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form with prayer by
the Very Rev. Thomas S. Bellam, Grand Chaplain.
A procession was formed by the Grand Marshal, and, under the
escort of De Witt Clinton Commandery, No. 1, of Knights Templar;
accompanied the remains to the cemetery where they were de- ·
posited in accordance with Ancient Usage and the ceremonials of the'
Craft. The Grand Lodge returned, and, after voicing thanks to De
Witt Clinton Commandery for Fraternal courtesy in their affliction ,
the Grand Lodge closed In Ample Form.
A second Special was held in the town of Tonopah, June 3, 1905,
for the purpose of placing the corner-stone of the Nye County Court
House in the course of erection in the town of Tonopah,-The M. ·.
W." . George Gillson, Grand Master; Bro. E. E. Knapp as V.". ·vi'." .
Grand Secretary.
The Forty-first Annual Communication was held in the hall of
" Carson " Lodge, Carson City, June 13, 1905, -M. ·. W. ·. George Gillson, Grand Master; V.". W.". Chauncey N. Noteware, Grand Secretary.
Nineteen Lodges were represented, together with twenty-one other
Grand Jurisdictions. Seven Past Grand Masters and a Past Grand
Ward!!n were in attendance.

With a brief, but interesting, dissertation upon the principles
and tenets of Freemasonry, the Most Worshipful Brother passed to a
report of his official acts during the recess of the Grand Lodge.
First, however, to examine the rolls and ascertain those among the
Brethren of the Jurisdiction who had commenced with them the
duties of the Forty-first Annual, yet whose voices were no longer
hea1•d in council. The names inscribed upon the death roll, led by
Past Grand Master Coffin, tell them of the passing to rest of nineteen
Brethren, members of the s everal constituent Lodges of Nevada. He
also referred in words of Fraternal sympathy, with sister Jurisdiction upon the loss of distinguished Brethren, and recommended that
pages in the journal of the year be set apart and. devoted to the
remembrance of the departed Brethren.
He referred to a case of the invasion of the Jurisdiction of the
Grand Lodge of Nevada by our "La Parfaite Union," No. 17, more
generall y known as the French Lodge-the Brothers receiving th e
degrees in that Lodge being claimed as a resident of Reno, Nevada.
Comment is unnecessary, as the Grand Masters of California and
Nevada are fully advised in the matter, and' neither desire nor will
imbmit to sharp practice in considering Jurisdictional rights.
No important decisions were reported.
He recommended the increase of the salary of the Grand Secr.et.ary to five hundred dollars a year.
Fraternal recognition was extended to the Grand Lodge of Brazil,
and an Interchange of Representatives invited. The Grand Lodge,
including sojourning Brethren, were invited to banquet with "Carson" Lodge, No. 1, and Lewis R. A. Chapter, No. 1, in "Carson"
Lodge Hall, at 8 o'clock of the present evening-June 13th.
The Grand Lodge was called at 9 o'clock A. lll., of the 14th-the
Grand Master presiding.
'Telegraphic congratulations were exchanged with the Grand
Lodge of Wisconsin.
The recommendation of the Grand Master was concurred in, and
the salary of the Grand Secretary placed at $500.00 per annum.
The Committee on Jurisprudence, having investigated the invasion of Jurisdiction, heretofore referred to, reported as follows:

94

REPORT ON ConnEBPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

"We also commend the prompt action of Grand Master Hunter
in ordering such investigation. From the report of the Committee
of Investigation, we are satisfied that "La Parfaite Union " Lodge
acted under a misapprehension of the facts, and that no intentional
invasion was committed.
"We, therefore, approve the finding of Grand Master Hunter and
its approval by the Grand Master."
The Grand Lodge recognized the Grand Lodge of " Benito Juarez,"
located at Porftro, Coahulla, Mexico, as a just and legal Grand Lodge,
and Invited an exchange · of Representatives.
The routine order of business having been concluded, the election
of otncers for the ensuing year was called up, and the followingnamed Brethren were chosen to fill the several stations for the
ensuing year: M.'. W.'. Charles A. Beemer, Grand Master; R.'. W.'.
Walter J. Harris, Deputy Grand Master; R.'. W.'. H. C. McTerney,
Senior Grand Warden; R.'. W.'. C. L. Fulstone, Junior Grand Warden; V.'. W.' . George A. Morgan, Grand Treasurer; V.'. W.'. C. N.
Noteware, Gran~ Secretary.
The Grand Master-elect having made his appointments, all were
installed by M.'. W.' . A. L. Fitzgerald, assisted by Past Grand
Master M. A. Murphy as Master of the Ceremonies.
·
The Grand Master named the standing committees, and the Grand
Lodge closed in Ample Form, with prayer by the V.'. R.'. Grand
Chaplain.

attendance of Grand Lodge upon public service in Saint Stephen's
Presbyterian Church, on Sunday, June 26th, that being the Sunday
nearest the Festival of the St. John. The call was for 2: 30 o'clock,
and there were present,-M.'. W.' . Arthur L. Trueman, K. C., Grand
Master, and the R.'. W.'. John V. Ellis, and Thomas Walker, Past
Grand Masters; the V.'. W.'. J. Twining Hartt, Grand Secretary, and
a large attendance of Officers and Past Grand Officers. Eight Lodges
were in attendance.
·

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Bro. Edward D. Vanderlieth, Chairman of the committee, or, to
write correctly, "the correspondent" of the Grand Lodge of Nevada,
submits an excellent report, measuring two hundred pages, which
is only in line with the general prosperity of our nearest sister
Jurisdiction. His review of California Is of the administration of
Grand Master Nutting, whose address and decisions he generally
approves. The reports and routine business c;>f the session are
commended as being in the line of " good, square work."
M.'. W.' . Charles A. Beemer, Grand Master ; V.' . W.'. Chauncey
N. Noteware, Grand Secretary, Carson City. Correspondent, E. D.
Vanderlieth, Carson City.
The Forty-second Annual Communication will be held in Reno,
June 12, 1906.
NEW BRUNSWICK.
r:.
2,145 Members.
35 Lodges.
:' An:· Emerge_n t Communication of this Grand Lodge was held
pursuant. to a summons from the M.'. -W.'. Grand Master issued for

!l5

The Grand Lodge was opened, with prayer, in Solemn Form, at
2: 30 P. M., the Grand Chaplain reciting the twenty-fourth Psalm.
The Grand Director of Ceremonies formed the procession and
proceeded to the church under the escort of the 62d St. John Fusileers, led by the Carleton Cornet Band.
After service the procession returned to Masonic Hall, where it.
was moved by R .'. W.'. Bro. Thomas Walker, M. D., P: G. M., seconded by W.'. Bro. Alexander M. Rowan, G.. Std. B.:
" That the Grand Secretary transmit to the Trustees of Saint
Stephen's Church the thanks of· the Grand Lodge for having granted
the use of the church for to-day's special service."
Carried.
The Grand Master commended the officers of Grand Lodge in that
so many of them were in their stations, and also alluded to the
welcome presence of M.'. W.'. Bro. William Downie, Past Grand
Master of British Columbia, and of R.'. W.'. Bro. Alexander Burchill, P. D. G. M. Both these Brethren acknowledged the remarks
made by the Grand Master.
The Grand Lodge was then closed in Ample Form.
The Grand Lodge held Its Thirty-seventh Annual Communication
in Masonic Hall, St. John, August 23d, 1904,-the M.'. W.'. Arthur
L. Truman, Grand Master; V.': W.'. J . Twining Hartt, being Grand
Secretary. Twenty-five Lodges were represented, together with
thirty-one other Grand Jurisdlctioris, California among them, represented by the R .'. W.'. W. A. D. Steven, Past Deputy Grand Master.
Besides the Grand Oftl.cers, a large number of Past Grand Officers
and distinguished visitors were in attendance.
Elegant portraits of the M.'. W.'. Robert Thompson Clinch, who
was Grand Master in 1875-77, and the M.'. W.'. Robert Marshall
who was Grand Master in 1878-80, appear on the opening pages o~
this number of .t he journal.
R.' - W.'. Brother Will. H. Whyte, Grand · Secretary of the Grand
Lodge .of Quebec, was also present, seated in the East.

96

REPOIIT ON 00RHESPONDENC1E.

B.EPORT ON ConnE:;PONDENCE.

The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form at the hour of 3
o'clock in the afternoon with prayer by the Grand Chaplain, the
Brethren joining with him in the reading of the Twenty-fourth
Psalm.
The Grand Master of Quebec, Most Worshipful Brother John B.
Tresslder, accompanied by Past Grand Masters Walker and Forbes,
was admitted, conducted to the East and saluted with the Grand
Honors.
The Grand Master cordially welcomed M. ·. W. ·.Brother Tressider,
and expressed his great personal pleasure in meeting him and the
gratification which his presence occasioned Grand Lodge.
The Grand Master then proceeded to deliver his Annual Address.
After a cordial welcome to the brethren who had come up to the
Annual Communication to aid and assist in any of the work that
might be assigned them he referred to the many reasons for the
expression of their gratitude to the Supreme Grand Master fo~ the
progress and prosperity of the Craft in the ·Jurisdiction.
He referred to the many calls upon the fraternity by the Winged
Messenger to strike from the rolls the names of useful and beloved
associates, and he said:•
" I recommend Memorial pages in our proceedjngs in respect and
honor of these departed brethren.
" Sorrow has . not come to us alone, for our sister Jurisdictions
have also been called upon to mourn the loss of many Brethren of
eminence and ability, and to such Grand Lodges we extend our sym:
pathy. Official notification has reached me of the death of the followi.ng Eminent Masons; and the · Brethren rose to their feet and
heard In silence the lengthy death roll read."
The condition of this Grand Jurisdiction is best given in the
closing words of his Address:
" When I accepted the office to which you kindly elected me three
years ago, I did so with a full appreciation of the duties and great
responsibilities that fall upon one who presides over this Grand
Lodge, and also with a feeling of diffidence when I considered how
many well-tried and prominent Masons had been my predecessors,
who, when building the edifice of Freemasonry In this Providence,
tiad well laid its foundations. I felt, however, that the very success
of the former Grand Masters was a guarantee to me that the true
Masonic spirit prevailed, and that I would receive the co-operation
of every member in the discharge of those duties and in meeting
those responsibilities. In this I made no mistake, for at the end of

97

a term of three years I have to make acknowledgement of a genuine
and loyal support from nearly every officer and Individual of this
body. The position has been one of pleasant associations and
memories. Let us then, Brethren, cultivate and cherish a spirit of
devotion to those principles of religion and morality which our institution teaches, and let us hand over to those who follow us not
only our robes of office pure and untarnished, but an institution free
from the promotion of ends personal to ourselves, and Inspired by
but a single purpose, the promotion throughout the world of the
essential qualities of true manhood.
We excerpt the following abstract of Work from Grand Secret ary's report;
Initiated ......................................... 144
Passed ........................................... 148
Raised .... .. .................... . .................. 150
Joined ........ .. . .. ........... . .................. 18
13
· Reinstated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawn .... . ...... . ............ . .............. 57
Suspended .... . ............... . .. . . .' :. . . . . .. . . . . . . 18
Died .. . .... ... .... . . ~ .... . .. . . . .. ~ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
The general routine of business proceeded, reports were received
from the Board of General Purposes, the Grand Treasurer and the
District Deputy Grand Masters. ·Nothing startling was developed
to mar the general evidence of progress and prosperity in the Jurisdiction of New Brunswick.
The Grand Master made his appointments and all were Installed
by the Grand Master. The Grand Director of Ceremonies ~aking
proclamation thereof.
The Grand Lodge was then closed in Ample Form.
There was no report on Correspondence.
The M.'. W.'. Edwin J. Everett, Grand Master; the R.' . W.'. J.
Twining Hartt, Grand Secretary.

NEW HAMPSHIRE.
19 Lodges.
9,291 Members.
The Grand Lodge of New Hampshire held two Special Communications during the recess. The first at 'Rochester for the dedication of the Hall of " Humane " Lodge, No. 21, and the other at
Concord, March 11th, 1904, for the burial of Charles Carroll Danforth, Grand Marshall of the Grand Lodge from 1894.

7n

98

REPORT ON CounESPONDENCE.

The Semi-Annual was held at Maucheste r, December 29, 1903.
Harry M. Cheney, Grand Master ; Frank D. Woodbury, Past Grand
Master, Grand Secretary. Sixty-six Lodges were represented, to·
gether with thirty-four other Grand Jurisdictions. Eleven Past
Grand Masters were in attendance.
The Grand Lodge was open in Ample Form with prayer by Rev'd
Bro. Josiah L. Seaward.
A distinguished visitor, the Grand Master of Vermont, M.'. W.'.
Bro. Olin W. Daley, was received with the Grand Honors and
warmly greeted by the Grand Master.
The Grand Master announced the serious illness of the Junior
Grand Warden and a telegram of condolence was ordered sent to
him by the Grand Secretary, which brought from the absent Brother
'
the following response:
"GREENLAND. N. H ., January 1, 1904.
"To the M.'. W.' . Harry M. Cheney, Grand Master.
"The Junior Warden of the G.rand Lodge of New Hampshire de·
sires to acknowledge· the kindly sympathy of the officers and mem·
bers of the Grand Lodge at their Semi-Annual Communication, December 2il, 1903, as expressed in their message of regret at his
absence :i.nd hopes of speedy recovery to good health, and assures
them that they each and all are ever in most grateful remembrance
for thi s and many other a cts of brotherly regard.
"JOHN HATCH."
And on March 16th, 1904, the· R .'. W.'. Brother passed to rest" The · Workman dies, 1Jut the .work goes on."
The First Degree was exemplified at the afternoon session by
conferring the Degree upon a duly elected candidate who subsequently received the other Degrees in the same manner.
The Grand Master r eturned thanks to the . Officers of " Doric,"
"Blazing Star" and "Lafayette " Lodges, and to the Schubert Quar·
tette, of Boston, whose excellent singing had added greatly to the
~nteres t of the Communication.
Past Grand Master, Charles C. Hayes, on behalf of the District
Deputy Grand Masters and the Grand Lecturers of the several districts from 1894 to 1903 inclusive, presented a Past Master's .Jewel to
·s tate Grand LeCturer, .Herbert E . Richardson.
T'h.e Grand .Lodge was closed in Ample Form..
:rhe Annual Communication , the One Hundred and Fifteenth of
the Grand Lodge ..of New Hampshire, was held in Freemasons' H a ll,
Concord, May is, 1904,-:M:·. w:. Harry M. Cheney, Grand Master ;

REronT

oN ConnEsPONDENCE.

V,'. W.'. Frank J . Woodbury, Grand Secretary. Fifty-five Lodges
were represented, together with thirty-four other Grand Jurlsdlc-·
lions. Twelve Past Grand Masters were in attendance, with t wenty,
District Deputy Grand Masters.
A portrait of Grand Master Cheney appears on the opening page.
and " In Memoriam " of Charles Carroll Danforth, Grand Marshal
from 1894. R.'. W.'. John Hatch, Junior Grand Warden, and George
0 . Dickerman, District Deputy Grand Master.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample F orm with prayer by the
R.'. W.'. and Rev'd Joseph E. Robins, District Deputy Gran'd Chaplain.
The Grand Master named the standing committees and proceeded
to deliver his Annual Address.
He referred to the occas ion of the coming together of the brethren
of the faternity, of their responsibilities and duty, not only to preserve inviolate the heritage entrusted to them but in turn to pass it
over to their successors. He gave them a cordial greeting and congratulated them on the present condition of the Jurisdiction.
" As our first business," he said : " Let us hear who among our
brethren have died during the year, with a brief summary of the
record." The death roll was read and tribute rendered to the names
inscribed thereon.
He reported the placing of the corner-stone of the new Masonic
Temple in Laconia.
We find nothing requiring comment in the r eported Decisions of
the Grand Master ; but he makes a fe w remarks concerning "Per-petual J urisdiction over rejected applicants" that we would "keep
standing " before the members of the fraternity, that all Masons
may be informed of the injustice of this wicked requirement.
When two years ago, I assumed the duties of the office of Grand
Master, I counted myself a firm believer in tl;le principle of perpetual Jurisdiction over rejected mat erial. I was satisfied with the
reasonableuess of the theory for such perpetuity, and confess that I
was prejudiced in that direction. It was almost a tenet of my Masonic profession. But during the Incumbency of the offi ce of Grand
Master I have had to deal with the theory and with the practice.
as held here and as held elsewhere, in an official capacity, and my
faith in it has been transformed into a personal belief that it is unreasonable, and sooner or la ter is destined to be discarded by this
Grand Jurisdiction, as being unreasonable, and because it is - not in.
conformity with the law .and -J;Jracti ce ..of the majority of other Grand

ioo

REPORT ON ConREBPONDBNCE.

Jurisdictions, with whom, without surrendering too much, we
should strenuously endeavor to be in happy concord. My ex·
perience as Grand Master has been that the matter of Jurisdictiondisputes concerning it, and the requests for waivers of Jurisdiction
-is the most perplexing and annoying of any that are presented for
()fficial consideration and direction. Take an example, for .instance,
that has come within my knowledge : Twenty-five years ago a New
Hampshire Lodge_rejected the petition of· an applicant. Many years
since, he removed to another Grand Jurisdiction, whNe, I understand, the principle of perpetuity is not recognized. He still desires
to be a member of our fraternity; but notwitstanding his long ab:
sence from our State, a request for a waiver of Jurisdiction, presented here in full compliance with our requirements, is .refused,
and the Grand Master is compelled so to report. There is embarrassment, there is injustice, there is great unreasonableness in
such an instance of the length to which our position leads. Still
other requests for waivers come to your Grand Master from Jurisdictions which assert in plain terms to him that they do not believe
in the theory of perpetuity, do not practice it, but go through
the formaUty of . making the request to comply with our requirements, so that they may live in peace with us. The resulting em·
barrassments are unpleasant, not alone to us of New Hampshire,
but to others. We are holding to that which is certainly becoming
obsolete when we strive to maintain perpetual Jurisdiction. Some
day we shall cease to insist that we, almost alone, are right and
that the great majority is wrong. The time limit in this particular
is sure to bl' adopted by our Grand Body before many years elapse,
and the men ll\'ho accomplish this reform will wonder how and why
it was persistP-d in so many years. It may not be in my time-yet
I hope to see t!:at day-but I desire to be on record in our proceed·
ings as advocating a recession from our present position, that w:
may be in accord, as I understand it, with the greater part of the
Masonic world. I endeavor to suppress the zeal of the convert, but
speak plainly and feelingly with every confidence of · ultimate approval. I recommend that this matter referred to the Committee
on Jurisprudence.
The Committee on Address of 'the Grand Master recommended
the reference of his comments on Perpetual Jurisdiction to the
_C ommittee on Jurisprudence, and it was so' ordered.
The Grand Master gave notice that dinner had been provided and
invited all to attend.
Grand Lodge was called off until 2 o'clock, when it was called
<>n and business proceeded.

.BEPORT ON 00RRE8PONDENCE.

101

The election of officers being in order, the following Brethren
were chosen to serve for the ensuing year:
M." . W.". Henry I. Hazleston, Grand Master ; R ." . W.". Ira Arthur
Chase, Deputy Grand Master; R .". W.". William Alberto Plummer
Senior Grand Warden; R.". W." . Frederick Will!s Saw;er, Junior
Grand Warden; R.". W.". Frederick Johnson Shepard, Grand Treasurer; R." . W.". Frank Dana Woodbury, Grand Secretary.
Past Grand Master, George I. McAlllster installed the Grand
Master-elect and he made his appointments, when all were installed
by Past Grand Master George I. McAllister, assisted by M.". w:.
Bro. John McLane as Master of the Ceremonies.
The Grand Master named the standing committees and Grand
Lodge was closed in Ample Form with prayer by R.". W.". and Re~'d
Bro. Daniel C. Roberts, District Deputy Grand Chaplain.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

R.". W.". Bro. Albert S. Walt submits another of his reports, 17:!.
pages, in which he reviews the doings of 61 Grand Lodge Jurisdictions. His notice of California is of the administration of Grand
Master Henderson. H e drops his sprig of Acacia in remembrance of
Past Gran~ Master Preston, and thinks Grand Master Henderson an
expert at placing corner-stones. Bro. Walt never writes a poor report-guess he don't know how.
M." . W." . Henry I. Hazleton, Grand Master; R". W.". Frank D.
Woodbury, Grand Secretary. Correspondent, R.". W." . Albert S.
Wait, Newport.
NEW JERSEY.
175 Lodges.

23,487 Members.
Four Emergent Communications were held duri ng the recess:
Two for the Constitution of " Durand " and "Belcher " Lodges, Nos.
179 and 180; one at Benlington to place the corner-stone of the
Orphanage Building, and one for the dedication of the Hall of
" Acacia " Lodge, No. 20.
The Grand Lodge held its One Hundred and Eighteenth Annual
Communication in Masonic Hall, Trenton, March 22d and 23rd, 1905,
commencing at 11 o'clock A . :M.,-M.". W.". John H. Wilkins, Grand
Master ; R.". W.". Thomas H. R . Redway, Grand Secret ary. One
hundred and seventy-three Lodges were represented, together wit h
forty-one other Grand Jurisdictions. Eight Past Grand Masters
fifteen District Deputy Grand Masters and a Past Grand Warde~
were in attendance.

102

103

HEPORT ON" Co1rnEBPONJJENCE.

REPO.lilT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

A steel engraved portrait of Grand Master John H . Wilkins appears on the opening page, and also a portrait " In Memoriam " of
·Past Grand Master William Silas Whitehead, who was Grand Master
in the years 1864, 1865, 1866 and 1867, appears In the body of the
Journal.
The Grand Lodge was opened In Ample Form with prayer by the
Grand Chaplain Rev'd Wm. H. Morgan, District Deputy and music
by the choir led by the Grand Organist.
It being announced that some d!stl.nguished brethren were in
waiting, Most Worshipful Brother Ewen was appointed to escort
them into the Grand Lodge-room, and, after a short absence, he retu.rned and presented to the Grand Master and to the Grand Lodge
·Most Worshipful Brother R. Henry Young, Grand Master of Masons
of the State of Delaware; Most Worshipful Brother Henry J. Guthrie, Past Grand Mas.ter, and Right Worshipful Brother Lewis B.
Morrow, Past Grand Treasurer of the Grand Lodge of Delaware.
The distinguished visitors were escorted to the Grand East and were
a ccorded the Grand Honors of Masonry. The M.'. W .' . Grand Master
.extended a warm welcome to the brethren to which appropriate
responses were made.
The Grand Master then delivered his Annual Address.
With a brief opening upon the passage of time and Its accompanying changes, he direeted the attention of the brethren to the
unusual number of deaths in their Officia l Circle; in every direction
·were seen °in evidence . the visits of the Winged Messenger. Three
hundred and ninety-two members of the constituent Lodges of New
Jersey had received the summons to pass the Vails, of whom fortysix were Past Masters. At the head of the silent procession the
·~mi~ent Past Grana Master, William Silas Whitehead, full of years
and of honors, Jed the way. The Grand Master paid affectionate
tribute to the Jives and characters of these beloved brethren who
·had passed to rest, as also the distinguished dead of sister Juris.di ctions. He made more than a hundred visitations during the recess. He made an earnest appeal for the Masonic Home and Orphan·a ge, and he said the following encouraging words for· those who hope,
.to live to see that Masonir: Abomination Perpetual Jurisdlctiov.
buried beyond the hope of resurrection.
This Is a subject that has attracted considerable attention throughout the several .Jurisdictions, and one that I feel should be brought
to your attention to-day. At the present time we claim Perpetual
Jurisdiction, and while it may be proper, yet I believe that Inasmuch as a number of Grand Jurisdictions have a time limit, that the
Grand Lodge should take this matter under consideration.

We excerpt the following abstract of work from Grand Secret.a ry
Redway's report:
Membership January 1st, 1904 . .. .. . . .. .... ... .. ........ . .
Add-Raised . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,941
Affiliated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 207
Restored
70

22,102

2,218
Deduct-Deceased
392
Dlmitted
236
Suspended, N. P. D ... . . ... ... ". . . . . . . . . 201
Suspended, U. M. C.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1
Expelled . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .
2
Error in No. 104, (1903).......... . .............
1
833
1,358
Membership January 1st, 1905..... ... .. . . . . . . . . . .

23,487

The Chairman of the Committee on Masonic Home gives 74 as
the present number of 1n·mates being cared for at the Home.
Right Worshipful Brother Haines moved that the Grand Lodge
exp1·ess its gratification at the improvement in the health of the
Right Worshipful Grand Treasurer, and express recognition of his
long services and loyalty to the Craft, and to the hope that he will
again be restored to health t o meet his breth!'en, and that a communication to that effect be sent to him. The motion prevailed.
Thi'\ Reprl')sentatives from sister Grand Lodges were Introduced
and received a very cordial and fraternal welcome from t he W.'.
M. ·. Grand Master, and, on being escorted to the Grand East, were
received with the Grand Honors.
IV'e do not notice anything in the routine of business requiring
comment. The election of Officers for the ensuing year being in
order the following brethren were ch osen t o ftll t he several st ations:
Benjamin F . Wakefield, M.'. W.' . Grand Master; Walter Chandler,
R .'. W.'. Deputy Grand Master; Austen H. McGregor, R.'. W.' .
Senior Grand Warden; Joseph H . Hough, R.'. W.'. Junior Grand
Warden; Char.les Bechtel, R.'. W .'. Grand Treasurer; Thomas H.
R. Redway, R .'. W.'. Grand Secretary ; William D. Rutan, R.'. W.'.
Deputy Grand Secretary.
The Grand Master made his appointments and all were Installed
by the retiring Grand Master; at the conclusion proclamation was

'104

Hi5 .

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

made by the Grand Marshal and the Grand Honors given by the
brethren.
The following beautiful "old-time" ode was sung:
Softly now the light of day
Fades upon our sight away,
Free from care, from labor free,
Lord, we would commune with Thee.
Soon for us the light of day
Shall forever pass away,
Then, from care and sorrow free,
Take us, Lord, to dwell with Thee.

The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form with prayer by the
Grand Chaplain.

The Grand Lodge was then closed in Ample Fform to meet again in
Trenton, March 21st, 1906, unless sooner convened by the Grand
Master.
REP ORT 0::-<' C ORRESPONDENCE.

Past Grand Master W. Holt Apgar, Chairman of Correspondence,
makes a wonderful hit in his first report, wherein is reviewed 65
Grand Jurisdictions, with his conclusion making a paper of 173
pages. He notices California for the administration of Grand Mast~r
Henderson. He speaks of the oration of Bro. Hart as " not only
eloquent but instructive." He gives Grand Master Henderson the
credit of being an excellent traveler. Bro. Preston's death is noticed
and the Sprig ·of Acacia, in spirit, dropped in his memory.
M.'. W.' . Benjamin F . Wakefield, Grand Master ; R .' . W.' . Thomas
H. R. Redway, Grand Secretary. Correspondent, W.' . Robert A.
Shirrefs.
The next Annual, the 119th, will be held at Trenton, March 21st,
1906.
NEW MEXICO.
23 Lodges.
1,431 Member s.
The Grand Lodge of New Mexico held three Emergent Communications during the recess: One for the dedication of "Kingston " Lodge, No. 16, at Hillsboro, and two for the placing of cornerstones of churches. The M. · E. Church at Silver City and the
Baptist Church at Clayton.
The 27th Annual Communication was held in· the Hall of
" Temple " Lodge, Albuquerque, October 17th, 1904, commencing at
10 o'clock A. M.,-M.' . W.'. J. C. Slack, Grand Master; R.'. W.'.
Alpheus A. Keen, Grand Secr etary. Fourteen Lodges were repr esented, together with t welve other Grand Jurisdictions. Six Past
Grand Master s and six Past Grand Wardens were in attendance.

The Committee on Credentials made a partial report. The Grand
Master named the committees and proceeded to deli ver his Annual
Address.
His opening words were an expression of gratitude for being permitted to take part in the 27th Annual Communication of the Grand
Lodge of New Mexico, and he extended a cordial welcome to the
brethren who had come up with him to consider the past and legislate for the future of the Great Fraternity.
He directed theil' attention to the lengthy death rolls of their own
and sister Jurisdictions and referred the reports to the Committee
on Obituaries for appropriate action. He reported no decisions of
importance to Masons without the confines of New Mexico. He reported the placing of corner-stones mentioned in the 'report of
Emergent Lodges. He was stricken with sickness just In time to
prevent his carrying out of his plans of visitations.
We quote the following exhibit of Work from the r epor t of the
Grand Secretary:
Total membership returned August 31, 1903 . . .. ...... . . . . . . . 1,231
Raised .. . ..... . ............ . ............ .. ...... 127
Admitted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Reinstated ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .
5
213
1,444
Dimitted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Died . ....... . ... ,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Suspended account non-payment dues .. ... .. .... .. 20
Suspended a ccount unmasonic conduct. . . . . . . . . . . .
1

Portales Lodge No. 26 (not repor t ed, 1903) ...... . .. ... .

92
92
1,352
23
1,375

Tucumcari Lodge, U. D.. ..... .. . : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Artesia Lodge, U. D.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clayton Lodge (not reported).. .. . . . ... .... . . .. ... .. .. .

27
18
50
. 95

Total enrollment ...... ... ................ ...... ... . 1,470
Total Increase .. .. .... ... .. . . . .. . . . ..... .. ......... .
239

106

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Reports for the Committees on Accounts on Chartered Bodies on
Lodges under Dispensation, on Grand Masters Address and on the
decisions were considered arid disposed of.
'fhe Committee on Obituaries made a very brief report.
The election of Officers being in order the following brethren
were chosen to fill the several stations:
Geo. W. Ward, Grand Master; James G. Fitch, Deputy Grand
Master; A. N. Pratt, Senior Grand Warden; W. E. Dame, Junior
Grand Warden; A. J. Maloy, Grand Treasurer; A. A. Keen, Grand
Secretary.
The Grand Master made his appointments and all were installed
by the Grand Master, assisted by Past Grand Master Cahoon as
Master of the Ceremonies.
The Grand Master appointed committees, and District Deputy'
Grand Masters, and Grand Lodge was closed in Ample Form with
prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Bro. W. H. Seaman submits his eighth, and we regret to write,
his last report. He writes a very able report, one that requires a
fund of information to draw from and although we have not been in
harmony with his views of Mexican Masonry, we have always conceded that with his opportunities he ought to have known better
than us.. His present review of California is of the administration
'of.. Grand Master Henderson-is full, fair and even complimentary,
especially in the impartial distribution of Masonic rel!ef. We are
confident we shall hear from Bro. W. H. Seaman later on.
M.'. w:. George W. Ward, Grand Master; R.'. W.'. Alpheus A.
Kee.n, Grand Secretary. Chairman of Correspondence, Dr. J. H.
Wroth, Albuquerque.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
10,044 Members.
198 Lodges.
A Special Communication of this Grand Lodge was held in the
· Town Hall, Sydney, July 20th, 1903, in honor of the celebration of
the Centennary of the dawn of Freemasonry in Australia.
Grand Master Remington presided and more than 3,500 brethren
were present.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form at 7:'o0 P. M., - and
after prayer by the Grand Chaplain and an Anthem by the Choir.
The minutes of the Quarterly of June 10th were r ead and the
following distinguished visitors announced aJ;J.d received with due
honors-:

HEPORT ON CutmESPONDE!iCE

107

V.'. W.' . Bro. Millican, District Grand Inspector, I. C., Queenslllncl; M.' . W.'. Bro. the Hon. C. E. Davies, Grand Master of Tasmania; M:. W.'. Bro. A. B. Templeman, Past Grand Master of Vic·
torla; V.'. W.'. Bro. J. H. Cunningham, Grand Secretary of South
\ nstralia.
His Excellency, the Governor of New South Wales, Vice-Admiral
~Ir Harry Rawson, K. C. B., Past Grand Warden of England, was

then announced and received, accompanied ·by Bro. Finn, BrigadierOeueral commanding the Military Forces of New South Wales the
whole assemblage standing and singing two verses of the Nat;onal
Anthem.
Many eminent and distinguished Masons sent regrets.
The Grand Master made an eloquent and interesting address from
the text "One Hundred Years Ago," and at its close the following
verses were beautifully rendered by Bro. A. R. Richa_rd, accompanied
on the organ by Bro. Arthur Massey:
"A HUNDRED YEARS AGO.
" Where now a radiant city stands,
The dark oak used to wave,
The elfin harp of lonely lands,
AboYe the wild man's grave.
And through the woods one clear, sweet stream
(Sing soft and very low)
Stole like the river of a dream,
A hundred years ago.
" Upon the H1 lls that blaze tojlay,
With splendid dome and spire,
The naked hunter tracked his prey,
And slumbered by his fire.
Within the sound of ship}ess seas,.
The wild rose used to blow
About the feet of royal trees,
A hundred years ago.
" Ah! haply on some mossy slope,
Against the shining springs,
In these old days the angel Hope
Sat down with folded wings.
Perhaps she touched in dreams sublime ·
Its glory and in glow,
The skirts of this resplendent time,
A hundred years ago."

108

HEroR'i' oN ConRESi>OND'ENCE.

Grand Master Remington was then installed, and as his first
act reappointed his "dear and R.". w:. Bro. Arthur John Scott,
Deputy Grand Master, and he was invested, proclaimed and saluted.
An Anthem was sung and the other Grand Officers were addressed
by the Grand Master and invested with their Pratents and Jewels
of office.
The Grand Lodge held a Quartetrly, September 9th, 1903. Grand
at the conclusion of which "Rule Britannia" was sung and many
eloquent speeches made by the distinguished visitors.
The closing Anthem was sung and Grand Lodge closed at 10 P. M.
The Grand Master welcomed the visitors in an eloquent address,
Master Remington presiding.
The Address of the Grand Master was largely devoted to the case
Jn Re. the Grand Lodge of New South Wales vs. "Cambrian" Lodge
of Australia, No. 656, a matter in which we have no possible interest.
The business of the session was almost entirely routine.
Grand Lodge closed at 8: 45 P. M.
A Special was held October 9th, 1903. The Grand Lodge was
opened by Grand Master Remington who presided at the ses3ion.
The session was devoted to the further consideration of the Grand
Lodge vs. Cambrian Lodge, No. 656, and as we don't believe we can
interest our readers in the case at Bar we will say:
A second Quarterly was held December 9th, 1903, in Masonic
Hall, Castlewaugh Street, Sydney, commencing at 7: 40 P. M. Grand
Master Remington presiding,
The Grand Master closed a fine business address . with the following" Postscript:"
"Publication of Reports.-Very early in my tenure of office as
your Grand Master, I revised the somewhat obsolete custom by which
the issue of our printed Procetidings had been restricted to a favored
few and extended it to all Past Masters on the Register. If they do
not' receive them, it is the ·fault of their Lodges."
Reports were received from the Board of General Purposes, the
Grand Inspectors of Workings, the Grand Secretary and Treasurer
and the Board of Ben~volence.
Before closing Grand Lodge the Grand Master congratulated
Grand Lodge upon the successful condition of Grand Lodge affairs,
after one of the shortest sessions held by .Grand Lodge.
A Third Quarterly was held March 9th, 1904, at the same place
and Grand Lodge was opened at 7:40 P. M. Grand Master Reming-

REPORT ON CoRRESPONDkNCE.

ton presiding. In his address referring to relations with other
Grand Bodies he says what we are glad to learn:
"Our relations with all sister Grand Lodges continue to be most
harmonious and pleasant, as you will fully gather from the Report
of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence at the end of our
Masonic year.
"Meantime, however, you will doubtless be interested in hearing
what answer has come from the Grand Lodge of England to the
letter written to them by our Grand Secretary, in accordance with
the Recommendation of the Board of General Purposes, adopted at
our Special Communication in October last, as to the Lodge styled
"Cambrian, No. 656 E. C."
And subsequently adds:
"Meantime it is obvious that to absolutely refrain from discussing the matter is our proper course, pending further communication
thereon from the Grand Lodge of England."
Reports were received from Grand Secretary, Treasurer and
Board of Benovolence.
A Special was held June 7th, 1904, in the usual place, and Grand
Lodge was opened in Due Form,-the R.". w:. Arthur J. Scott,
Deputy Grand Master, presiding.
Nominations for Grand Lodge Officers being in order, were made,
and Grand Lod.ge closed at 8: 15 P. M.
The Fourth Quarterly of the Grand Lodge of New South Wales
was held in Masonic Hall, Castlewagh Street, Sydney, June 8th, 1904.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form,-M.'. w:. J. C.
Remington, Grand Master, presiding.
·
The Grand Master reported fo his Address that 90 of the constituent Lodges had recel ved visitations, viz.: 46 city, 28 suburban
and 16 country, and from the reports of visiting officials gave a good
report of the condition of the Jurisdiction.
The election of Grand Officers being in order, ballot paper for the
elections were distributed, collected and handed to the Scrutineers,
who subsequently handed in their report to the Grand Master who
declared the following to be elected:
'
M.'. w:. Grand Master, J. C. Remington; R,'. w:. Senior Grand
Warden, C. A. Y. Simpson; R,'. w:. Junior Grand Warden, J. S.
Fitzmaurice. ·
The list of Grand Officers is too lengthy to publish. It will suffice
to say that the officers-elect were Invested and installed, proclaimed
and seated.

uo

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The Reports were all in good form presented and approved. The
Grand Master delivered a brief address, though not his last, for he
was re-elected, and the Grand Lodge closed at 9: 15 P. :M.
R EI'OP.T ON CORRESPONDENCE.

· repor t is
· a fine one, wherein 65 Grand Masonic JurisTh1s
dictions are r eviewed in a paper of a few more than 100 pages.
His notice of California is fair and complimentary to the Gra~d
Master Henderson, and Grand Orator Hart. He is evidently displeased at our lack of interest in the matter of " The. Grand Lodgll of
New South Wales" vs. "Cambrian" Lodge, No. 656, but he wiLl get
over that.
M.'. W.'. J. c. Remington, Grand Master ; R.'. W.'. Arthur H .
Bray, Grand Secretary, Sydney.
This report is for the year ending June, 1904.
NEW YORK.
132,687 Members.•
767 Lodges.
The Grand Lodge of New York held its One Hundred and Twent~­
fourth Annual Communication in the Grand Lodge-room, Masonic
Hall, New York, May 2d, 1900, commencing at 2 o'clo:k P .. M.,the M.' . W.'. Frank H. Robinson, Grand Master the M. · "W_· · E~hlers Grand Secretary. Seven hundred and s1xty-s1x
war d M· L · E
,
G
d J i
Lodges were represented, together with sixty-six other ran
ur sdictions. All the Grand Officers and fourteen Past Grand Officers
were in attendance.
Magnificent steel engraved portraits by Bather, Brooklyn, appear
on the opening pages of the Most Worshipful Frank H. Robinson,
Grand Master, and Past Grand Master Horace S . Taylor, who was
Grand Master in 1881.
A constitutional number of Lodges being repres~nted. the Grand
LC'dge was opened in Ample Form with prayer by R . . W . · James W .
Ashton Grand Chaplain.
.
A ~umber of the R epresentatives of other Grand Jurisdictions
were excused from attendance at the present session.
Grand Master Robinson then proceeded to deliver his Annual
Address.
He referred to the year as an eventful one. Masonry has prospered as never before in its history, the outer door has been well
guarded but our membership has grown without sacrificing quality or
character In his enthusiasm he said: " 1 am proud of you and
may a ki~d Providence ever keep you united in the good and noble

REPOHT ON Comrns1•0NDENCE.

111

work to which yon have devoted so much of your time, talents and
1111hstance. When referring to the Fraternal Dead he said:
"Death casts its dark shadows across every pathway, across
every life and ove r every living thing. It ls a melancholy truth that
the strong and the weak must fall alike before the remorseless
scythe of Time. Neither fame nor fortune, neither rank nor power,
can avert the swift Messenger that calls all men to account. When
his touch is laid upon man, the sunshine of day is changed to the
darkness of night, the stars disappear in the firmament, dust returns
to dust, and the spirit departs to the realm of Eternal day."
And after quoting the beautiful poem, " Oh, a wonderful stream
is the river of time," he added: "Recalling the lives of those who
met with us a year ago, have passed on to the higher life, let us,
at the very threshold of our Assembly, pay a tribute to their
memory."
After presenting the lengthy death roll and paying a tribute of
respect and affection to the names inscribed thereon under Necrology,
he nnmeu the dead of sister Jurisdictions and of Eminent Masons
wher esoever dispersed, and extended the sympathy of the Masons of
New York to the bereaved Jurisdictions.
Six Especial Communications were held during the recess. One
Lodge was constituted, " Buffalo," No. 846. Three cornerstones were
placed, "Alden" Lodge, No. 594 was dedicated, and a grand In·
spectlon of the Home was held at Utica. Five Dispensations were
issued for the formation 'of new Lodges.
Under Questions and Decisions, his r eported opinion concerning
r.n election would not be good law in California, as our Constitution
ueclares that " Blanks shall not be counted as votes." We have always considered the opinion quoted as sound, believing that the voter
has the right to cast a blank and that it should be counted as a vote.
•
" My attention has been called to the difference of opinion with
referen ce to blank ballots at an annual election for the officers of a
Lodge. In some localities blank ballots are not counted in the
whole numbe r of ballots cast. To the end that there niay be no
further misunderstanding in this matter, I desire to call the attention of the Masters of the several Lodges here represented, that
a Brother to be legally elected must have a majority of all the bal·
lots cast, notwithstanding the fact that some of the ballots so cast
may be blanks."
He expressed his grateful thanks to the Knights Templar of New
York for their "practical" aid and assistance in support of the
Home. and of two eminent Brethren one of whom has since taid
himself down to rest. He says these-good, kind and .c pe_e ring words :

112

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

" I think I know M:. W:. Bros. Ehlers and Anthony and know
something of their worth to the Craft. I have always thought both
their hearts and heads were in our work, and I found only confirmation of my previous opinions. They have each remarkable ability
for their respective places. They have honesty of purpose, and are
painstal_cing, courteous and industrious. What more can you .a sk?"
We excerpt from the Grand Secretary's report his abstract of the
year's work in this great Masonic Jurisdiction:
Number of Lodges in this Jurisdiction .. . ...... : . . . . . . . . . . . .
767
Number of Lodges that have made returns......... .. .. .... .
767
Number of Lodges that have paid dues to date......
766
Number of Master Masons per last report ... ... . • ... .. .. .... 126,1 i7
Number initiated . . ................................ 9,890
Number passed .......... , ......................... ... ..... 9,840
9,759
Number raised
1,080
Number restored ...................................... .
Total ............................................ . 138,105
Total
•••••• VCR,VJE
Number unaffiliated ..... . ....... : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,876
Number died ...................................... 2,185
Number dimitted .. : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,1,30
Number dropped . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
21)2
Number expelled
25
5,418
Number of Master Masons December 31st, 1904 ............. 132,687
A visit was received from a band of twenty children from the
Home at Utica; the children had been. enjoying a vacation tour
under charge or a guardian. The Grand Lodge having been called
off for. the purpose, the delegation was received •musically. The
Grand L<>dge, led by a quartette, with full organ accompaniment,
united in singing the Doxology,
" Praise God, from Whom all blessings flow."
Past Grand Master John Stewart, on behalf of the committee,
·introduced the children in a feeling speech. The Grand Master welcomed them. The R. ·. W. ·. Oren Root, Grand Chaplain-we wish we
could give the address entire--dellvered a most eloquent ·address,
recalling vividly to the writer the day of his youth a_n d the familiar
beauties of the Valley of the Mohawk. We can but give his closing
words:
" I am glad, ·oh, Brethren, that the Lodge takes hold of the Home.
I wish you could get ne.ar enough to touch it, every one of you-it- Is

REPORT ON ComrnsPONDENOE.

113

very beautiful. On these May mornings, to the eastward, the hills of
Herkimer, whence the sunrise; on the westward, the valleys of the
Oriskany, the Sauquoit o! the Mohawk, the swift running streams
that were the beginning of the industrial life in that vicinity; to the
north the swift lines of continental travel, the river gathering its
force to break the hill barrier beyond, the Trenton hills, the Adirondacks, Polaris and the Aurora,. and the silence. Our Home, oh,
Brethren, is in the south; a call from labor to refreshment, a · call
of rest for the aged whose eyes can kindle but a little while at the
beauties disclosed by the sunrise; of rest for little ones who would
else be wandering weary and alone, without gathering the strength
they will now have and use for the good of humanity.
" I am glad that I am here. I am glad that I can speak this one
word for the Home, which you know lies in two counties. I am glad
we can say It is a Masonic Home made by the Grand Lodge of New
York; more and better than that, a Home of the loyal hearts and
loyal hands of all of us."
The children entertained the Grand Lodge with singing and recitations.

R:: W.' . Joseph Silverman, Grand Chaplain, made the closing address. The children and their attendants retired to enjoy the amusements provided tor them, and the Grand Lodge was "called on."
'l'he R. ·. W. ·. Edwin A. Quick, Grand Historian, presented his
report, which was received and ordered printed with the proceedings. The present chapter of the Historian's report covers sixty
pages, taking up and continuing his work from the organization of
·• Phoobus" Lodge, No. 82, at New Bei:lln, under warrant dated September 2, 1802, to that of "Scipio" Lodge, No. 110, organize.a as
No. 58, March 22, 1797-Robert R. Livingston being Grand Master.
The r.oll of members contains names Illustrious in New York's civil
and political history. Of "Scipio" the Historian says:
." For a time the Lodge occupied rooms in the village academy,
which was partially destroyed by fire in October, 1805, when most of
its property was destroyed. This misfortune seriously crippled it,
but in 1806 the Lodge erected a building and occupied it until, in
1819, w_ith the assistance of Aurora Chapter, No. 64, a building was
erected, which is still occupied by the Lodge.
"The corner-stone of this building was laid by Dewitt Clinton,
Grand Master, and who at the time was Governor of the State of New
York."
By way of variety, we note the forming and opening of "Rising
Sun," No. 103, organized under a warrant September 6, 1809, at

8a

115

Ri!:POW!' ON 00liliE8PONUENCE.

REPOUT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Northumberland; removed to Saratoga Springs in 1821 ; like the roll
of " Scipio," this Lodge roll contains many names of prominence in
the early history of the Empire State. We quote:
"One m eeting was held in 1828, one in 1829, and but two in 1830.
In 1831 it was compelled to cease work, and in common with many
others during that period of bitter persecution forfeited its charter.
" The old records of the Lodge contain some curious items. The
Brethren of this Lodge were of a convivial nature and indulged
freely in refreshments ·at their meetings. Among the items of expense recorded in the minutes are the following :
" •July 5, 1808, fifty pounds of crackers, one cheese, eight gale

Wl!.ij elected Grand Secretary.
All of the foregofng were chosen by
ILcclamation. They were installed by M. '. w:. William A. Suthe11land, assisted by R: . w:. William H . Prangen as Master of the
Ceremonies.

114

lons of beer.'
" • June 26, 1810, two gallons of rum 1. L, one and one-half gallons
of wine 1. L, 1. S.'
" ' Dec. ·4, 1810, two gallons cider .'
" In one case the items of expense at a funeral were :
" • Cash for music .. ..... . .. . . ... . . ... · ... · · · · · · · · 2. L. 8. s.
15. s.
" ' Five quarts rum . .. ..... ... .... .. · · . . · · · · · · · · ·
15. s.
" ' Three quarts brandy .. . ... . ... . . · . · .. · · · · · · · · ·
"'One tumbler broke . . ...... .. . . ...... . . .. ... ·..
2. s.'
" On March 21, 1815, a Constitution was adopted, and the Secretary evidently thought it necessary to emphasize the action of the
Lodge as he recorded the vote as follows : ' Constitution was adopted
by the Lodge by a unanimous majority.' "
The routine of busine~s included amendments to the organic law,
r eport of Gra nd Lectu r ers, C_o,m mlttee on Jurisprudence, and Commission of Appeals .
'l'he R. '. w: . Alexander C. Mackenzie, chairman, submitted the
report of the Committee on Deceased Brethren, an eloquent paper
devoted to the memory of beloved brethren who had passed to rest
during the recess. They r ecommend the appropriation of pages in
the journal devoted to the remembrance of the twenty-one Brethren
whose names were mentioned in the report.
The r eport of th e Committee on Antiquities was presented
and a pproved.
The election of officers being· in order the following Brethren were
chosen:

M:. W. '. Frank H . Robinson was elected Grand Master, R: . W,'.
Townsend Scudder was elected Deputy Grand Maste r, R .'. W,'. S.
Nelson Sawyer was elected Senior Grand Warden, R .'. w:. Charles
Simi th was elect ed .Junior Gr and Warden, R. '. W,' . John R. Gar dner
was elected Gr and Treasurer , a nd the R .'. W.' . Edward M. L. Ehlers

The Committee on Jurisprudence in their final report administer
the following well-deserved " kick " at this "close Masonic corporation humbug " : perpetual jurisdiction.
P),]Rl'ETU AL J U Rl SDlC'l'ION .

" Your committee find several requests for action relative to cases
of candidates rejected in other Jurisdictions who, removing to ours,
and elected to membership in our Lodges, find their pathway oi>etructed by the refusal of the foreign Jurisdiction to waive its
"1aim.
" Your committee is not prepared, at the present time, to a<lvis~
nggressive action on this subject. We believe it better to a cquiesce,
for the present, in what seems unjust to us than to reopen this
mooted question.''
The Grand Lodge was closed in Ample Form, ·with prayer by t he
R.' . W.' . Joseph Silverman, Grand Chaplain.
REPORT ON CORBSEPON DENCE.

At the close of the present report Of 166 pages we find the following note:
" Our present report comprehends the re view of sixty-four Grand
Jurisdictions.
" The transla tion of the proceedings of Grand Bodies in foreign
countries have bee n prepared and are submitted as the work of
R.'. W.'. Emil Frenkel. Signed, Jesse B. Anthony, Chairman.''
Again we are reminded ol the uncertainty of human life" The workman dies, but the work goes on.''
We have not learned the particulars, but we are informed that
since the publication of the above brief note Jesse B. Anthony has
passed to rest , and that consequently t he present was his " good
night m essage." We drop our sprig of acacia in m emory of a good
Mason. H e was Gr<tnd Master of Masons in New York in 1880, and
has been of eminent service to the Fraternity in New York to the
time of his death as Superintendent of the magnificent charity-the
Masonic H ome a t Utica. God give him rest.
Brief referen ce to the present ·report under the sad circumstances
will be sufficient. California ls noticed fo r the administration or
Grand Master Nut ting, whose address is quoted as dese rving of
thoughtful atten tion . The Home matte r s are noticed as well as t he

111

REPOR'l' ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE,

application of the"' Honolulu" Lodge for service under California's
-coat of arms. Farewell, Bro. Anthony.
M.". W.". Frank H. Robinson, Grand Master; R .". W.". Edward M.
L. Ehlers, Grand Secretary. Chairman of Correspondence, M.". W.".
William Sherer, Brooklyn.
The next Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of New York,
1.be 125th, will. be held in Masonic Hall in New York City on the first
Tuesday in May, 1906.

In the great volume of business reported by the Board of Genera.I
Purposes there is little of direct interest to our readers. We excerpt
the committee's report concerning t he Grand Lodge of Costa Rica,
and pass the bulk of matters considered to the choice of the officera
for the ensuing year. The committee said :
"That the Craft Lodges that united to form the so-called Grand
Lodge of Costa Rica were undoubtedly irregular in their origin; but
that they .have fulfilled all the purposes of Craft Masonry in that
territory for many years, and the er~ction of a Grand Lodge seelillJ
to be the best way to bring them into line with more regular Lodges.
and to institute the best and most regular method of Masonic government. The committee, therefore, begs leave to recommend that the
Grand Lodge of Costa Rica be recognized by this Grand Lodge as
the sovereign Masonic body of Costa Rica."
R. '. W.". Alfred Henry Burton having been chosen the Grand
Master, the hour of 7: 30 was fixed for installation and investiture at
Garrison Hall, and the M.". W.". Herbert J. Williams appointed installing officer.
The Grand Lodge reassembled at the appointed
hour.
The Grand Director of Ceremonies announced that the M.". w.·.
the Grand Master with the other Grand Lodge officers was present.
and called the Brethren to upstand and observe silence; lines were
formed, and at sound of trumpet call the Grand Master passect
through the lines to the throne. After prayer by the Grand Chaplain the Installing Grand Master directed a deputation of eight Worshipful Masters and four Stewards t o withdraw for the purpose of
introducing R.". W .". Bro. Alfred Henry Burton, M.". W ." . Gran.t
Master-elect, who was announced by the Grand Director of Ceremonies, and after much ceremony the M.". W.". Bro. was invested and
installed, and anthem was sung and proclamation made in the East.
West, and South.
The Grand Honors were given, an ode sung, the Grand Master
announced his appointments, t hey were installed, presented their
greetings to the Grand Master, and after more business routine the
Grand Master delivered his address, which was followed by the reports of the G}'.and Superintendents of Districts.
The Grand Lodge closed with a benediction by the Grand Chaplain at 5: 15 P. 111.
Address of the Grana Secretary, Maicolm Nlccol, Lower High
Stree.t, Dunedin, New Zealand.

116

NEW ZEALAND.
J.29 Lodges.
6,659 Members.
·The Grand Lodge of New Zealand held its Annual Communication
in Masonic Hall, M01·ay Place, Dunedin, May 'i i, 1904,-M.". W." · Bro,Herbert James .Villiams, Grand Master; M.". W." . Bro. Malcolm
Nichol, Grand Secretary. There was a large attendance of officers,
Past Grand officers, members of Craft Lodges and visitors from all
parts of the territory, besides the representatives of twenty-thi:ee
Grand Masonic Bodies in various Jurisdictions of the world. The
Grand Lodge of California being represented by R .". W.". Bro. C. J .
Ronald son.
The Grand Lodge was opened· in Ample Form at 2: 30 P. M., the
Rev. F. P. Fendall officiating as Grand Chaplain.
The Grand Master gave the Brethren a 'hearty welcome and. stated
the outline of the business to be transacted and called first for thE:
annual statement of accounts and balance·sheet. The Acting-PresiKirk)
.dent of the Board of General Purposes (V.". W.". Bro. R.
having referred with regret to the absence of R.". W.". Bro. Hamerton, and also that of the Grand Treasurer (R.". W.". Bro. Lyon),
submitted the annual statement of accounts for the year ending
March 31, 1904, duly audited, together with the usual tables and
schedules giving full particulars of the year's transactions:
This brought up a general discussion regarding finan ces, resulting finally in the adoption of the balance-sheet as submitted.
.
The Board of Management of the Widows' and Orphans' and Aged
Masons' Fund reported and the report, after a brief discussion, was
ad.opted.
The Board of Benevolence reported, V." . W .". Bro. H.J. Freeman,
president, moved the adoption of the report, and briefly reviewed the
work that has ·b een done during the year. As usually occurs, the
bulk of the applications for relief came from those who had no legal
claim u'p on our funds, but no deserving case of want had been turned
away.

c:

HS

REPOR'I ON CORRESPONDENCE.

NORTH CAROLINA.
3-43 Lodges.

119

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

14,578 Members.

The Grand Lodge of North Carolina held its one hundred and
eighteenth Annual Communication in Raleigh, January 10, 1905,
commencing at 7: 30.
"' Tl1ls Grand Lodge held twelve Special Communications during
tfie· recess, ten of which were for the placing of corner-stones of
pbl:\Iic buildings, one for the installation of the officers of several
Lodges, and one for the ol.Jserva.nce of St. .John's Day at the Orphans
Home in Oxford.
M:. w:. W. ·s. Liddell, Grand Master; R:. w:. John C. Drewry,
Grand Secretary. Two hundred and twenty-seven Lodges were represented at the Annual, together with forty other Grand Jurisdictions. Fourteen Past Grand officers were in attendance.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, and the Grand Master proceeded to deliver his annual address.
.He greeted the Grand Lodge with a hearty welcome to the duties
and pleasures of the Annual Communication, which had brought
them together to review the past and under the guidance of the
Supreme Ruler to legislate for the upbuilding of Free Masonry.
He had issued eight dispensations for the forming and opening of
n~w Lodges.
I
He referred with affectionate and loving tribute to the Brethren
who had passed to rest during the year. In sympathy also with Sister Jurisdictions stricken by the visits of the Grim Reaper, he ex·
tended the condolence of the Brethren bound together by the ties of
friendship and brotherly affection. He commended to the care of the
Grand Lodge their kind attention to the needs of the Oxford Asylum.
. The Grand Lodge restored the Charter of "Eno" Lodge, No. 210,
at Durham, Durham County.
Number Lodges in jurisdiction
333
Number Lodges in jurisdiction under dispensation...
10
Number Lodges that have made returns ... ·. ..... . . . . 310
Number Master Masons at date of last report . . . . . . . . . . . . .
13,663
Number initiated . . ... . . ..................... . 1,268
Number passed .. ...... ... ... .... .... ..... .. .. 1,163
Number raised ....... . ...................... .. .... 1,i95
Number admitted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299
Number reinstated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 143
Ten Lodges under dispensation (estimated) . . . . . . . . . 150
1,781
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

15,450

Number suspended ............ : .................. .
Number expelled ................ . ...... .. : . . ..... .
Number excluded . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Number withdrawn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Number died . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

40

8
225
345
254

872
14,5'.78

'l'he Board of Directors of the Oxford Orphan Asylum submitted
their annual report of a successful year's management of a great
charity.
They ask for the continued appropriation of three thousand dollars.
We quote the abstract of the Superintendent's report to give our
readers an idea of the great work of this Asylum:
Prllsent statement showing movement of Boys and Girls 1s given:
Girls.
Children on roll December 1, 1903 .. ... .... 125
Admitted during eleven months ............ 27
Readmitted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
156

From roll during eleven months ........... 16
On roll November 1, 1904 ................. 140
Girls.
Went to own people ....... . , . ... . . . . . . . . .. 9
Went to approved homes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Went to positions on salary. . ... ... . . . . . . . . . 3
Went to school (past age of discharge) . . . . 1
Ran away ........... : . ............ . . . ... .
Died ... ... ..... ...... ...... .... · · ·. · · · · · ·
16

Boys.

Total.

129
31
2

254
58
6

162
36

318

·52

126

266

Boys.

Total.

13
9
3

22
12
6

10
1

1
10
1

36

52

(Note.-Three girls, under th.e age of discharge, now at the Oxford Seminary and the Norma l, are still counted on our roll and considered under our care and control.)
Grand Orator Bro. T. C. Sime delivered an excellent address,
taking for his subject " The Battle of Life," for which he received
t he thanks of the Grand Lodge.
'l'he Standing Committees were announced by the Grand Master.
Bro. R: N. Hackett stated that Governor-elect R. B. Gleim was·
made a Master Mason only a few weeks ago, which was one of the

120

121

REPORT ON UouRESPO.ND.l!:NCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

greatest honors which can be conferred on any man, and, as our
Brother is to be inaugurated Governor to-day he moved, as a testimony of our love and confidence in him, that the Grand Lodge attend
the inauguration ceremonies in a body. Adopted.
Past Grand Master F. M. Moye moved and Grand Lodge resolved
that a vote of thanks be extended to Bro. John A. Collins for the very.
able, inte_resting and instructive reports which for a number of years
he has annually presented to the Grand Lodge as Chairman of the
Committee on Foreign Correspondence, the same being the result of
much labor and fearful research and study on his part.
The " always-with-us" liquor question presented itself by resolution, but was quieted by an appeal to the rules.
After the disposition of the usual routine of business, the election
of ofHcers being in order, the following Brethren were chosen to fill
the several stations for the ensuing Masonic year:
Walter S. Liddell, Grand Master; Francis D. Winston, Deputy
Grand Master; S. M. Gattis, Senior Grand Warden; R. N. Hackett,
Junior Grand Warden; Leo D. Heartt, Grand Treasurer; John C.
Drewry, Grand Secretary. The Grand Master made his appointments and all were installed by Past Grand Master John Nichols.
Past Grand Master T. C. Linn acting as Master of the Ceremonies.
The Grand Master named the Standing Committees and the Graud
Lodge was closed in Ample Form after prayer by the Grand Chaplain.

ments California for its many acts of charity through its several
boards of relief. The Home, and· an item that is not generally noticed, although by no means a small one-each cit;" Lodge although
paying its per capita for the support of the Board of Relief, cares
for its own members, their widows and orphans. "Faith, Hope and
Charity, but the greatest of these Is charity."
M.". W.". W. S. Liddell, Grand Master ; R.". W.". John C. Drewry,
Grand Secretary, Charlotte. Correspondent, Bro. John A. Collins,
Enfield.
The next, the 119th Annual Communication, will be held in Raleigh, January 9, 1906.

R EPORT ON CORUESPONDENCE.

The report for the " Old North State" is the work of Bro. John A.
Collins of Enfield, and is a good, fair review of the Masonic world
"as it is to-day," but his introduction speaks for itself so fully and
yet so briefly that we will let him tell it himself:
"Your Committee on Correspondence begs leave to present. its
ninth annual report upon the condition of the Craft as disclosed by
the transactions of English-speaking-Grand Lodges which have come
to hand. An inspection of the proceeding of fifty-nine Grand Jurisdictions gives evidence of unparalleled prosperity, complete harmony and a noble emulation In good works.
"It Is believed that an occasional glance at this report, brief and
incomplete as it is, will be a revelation and inspiration to the North
Carolina Mason, for whose service it Is prepared."
California · Is noticed under the administration of Grand Master
Henderson. He compliments the Address of the Grand Master, commends his activity and the discharge of his many duties, he compli-

NORTH DAKO'I'A.
72 Lodges.
4,847 Members.
The Grand Lodge of North Dakota held its Fifteenth Annual
Communication in Masonic Temple, Fargo, June 28 and 29, 1904,
commencing at High Twelve,-M.". W.". J~mes T. Blacklock, Grand
·Ma:;ter ; R.". W." . Frank J. Thompson, Grand Secretary. Sixty-five
Lodges were represented, together with thirty-seven other Grand
Jurisdictions. Thirteen Past Grand OfHcers were in attendance.
A portrait of Grand Master Blacklock appears on the opening
page.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, and the Grand
Master proceeded to deliver his Annual Address.
With a cordial greeting to the assembled Brethren, he referred
to the history of Grand Lodge, its organization, growth and present
coudition, during the fifteen years of its existence its original roll
had increased from thirty to seventy-two Lodges, and its membership from 1,322 to 4,847 Master Masons, among whom "there is no
contention," save only as Lodges, "as to who can be·s t work -and best
agree."
He made at!ectionate mention of the " Fraternal Dead" of other
sister Jurisdictions, as well as the bereaved of their own "tribes and
families" of North Dakota.
Among his ofH·cial acts, he dedicated a Masonic 1'emple to the
uses and purposes of Masonry at Bottineau, and constituted " Leeds "
Lodge, No. 67. During the recess he had granted dispensations for
the forming and opening of five new Lodges, and another coming
so late that he thought best to· refer it to the Grand Body now In
session.
· No important decisions were reported; at least, none not fully
governed by the local law and regulations.

122

REI>ont· oN OonRESPON.DENCE.

"\Ve excerpt the following abstract of work from the report of the
Grand Secretary:
"On April 30, 1904, the membership of chartered Lodges was
4,705, and the membership of Lodges under dispensation at the
expiration of their dispensations was 142, making a total membership of 4,847. Our membership last year was 4,398, a gain of 449.
"The income for dues and fees for 1902-03 was $4,766.00. 'l'his
year the amo·unt received for the same Is $5,204.75, a gain of
$438.75.''
He also paid the following tribute to the lamented Bro. Jacob H.
Medairy, Grand Secretary Emeritus, of Maryland:
"But one Grand Secretary has passed away during the year, and
it was with regret that the Guild learned of the death of Bro. Jacob
H. Medalry, which occurred at his home In Baltimore, February 3,
1904. Bro. Medairy had served his Grand Lodge as Grand Secretary for forty years. The infirmities of age coming upon him, the
Grand Lodge of Marylan.d, a few short months before his death,
created him Grand Secretary Emeritus, with full rank and pay.
for life. The Grim Reaper, however, came before the brother could
reap much of the enjoyment from relief from official duty, and took
him hence.''
The Grand Secretary read a nice note of thanks received from
R.'. W.'. Bro. Thomas Klelnogel, in which he acknowledged receipt
of a Past Junior Grand Warden's apron, presented to him by this
Grand Lodge, at the hands of Chris Diehl, Grand Secretary of the
Grand Lodge A. F. & A. M. of Utah.
The Grand Master announced the appointment of the committees.
'l'hc routine of business included amendments to By-Laws and the
.incorporation of Lodges.
The Committee on Necrology made a feeling report. In referring
to the distinguished dead of other Jurisdictions, the committee said:
" Early in our Masonic career we are taught that the best and
wisest men of all ages have· been promoters and encouragers of our.
noble art. We, therefore, find among our Illustrious Fraternal Dead
those who were great not only in Masonry in their particular Jurisdiction, but, also, were great in the affairs of the throbbing world,
who were truly beacon lights during their lives, and who will continue to be such in the years and centuries to come. The Grim
Tyrant, Death, has visited many of our sister Grand Masonic Jurisdictions, and the list of his victims is dire and long."
They closed their report with the beautiful and appropriate words
of Albert Pike :

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

123

"Life ts a count of losses,
Every year,
For the weak are heavier crosses,
Every year,
Last spring with sobs replying
Unto weary autumn's sighing,
While those we love are dying
Every year.
To the past go more dead faces,
Every year.
As the loved ones leave vacant places
Every year,
Everywhere the sad eyes meet us,
In the evening's dusk they greet us
And to come to them entreat us,
Every year.''
The routine of business disposed of, was the reports of committees, amendments to Code, report on clandestine Lodges, and reports on By-laws and Jurisprudence.
M.". W.'. Bro. Walter L. Stockwell, Grand Orator, delivered his
Address. We find the following note In the journal u.nder the head
of " Events.''
" During the recess of the Grand Lodge on Tuesday evening,
June 28, 1904, 'Shiloh' Lodge, No. 1, Fargo, was called to order in
the auditorium of the Masonic 'femple. The officers of 'Ashlar'
Lodge U. D., at Granville, N. D., then assumed the various stations,
and Bro. J. F. Paul Gross, a candidate of • Shiloh ' Lodge, was
raised to the sublime degree of a Master Mason, the officers and
members of the Grand Lodge being in attendance.
" The officers of 'Ashlar ' Lodge, U. D., who participated in the
work, were C. 0 . Piatt, W.'. M.'.; W. H. Nelson, S. W.; R. L. Richardson, J. W.; U. G. Morrison, Secretary; W.W. Horton, S. D.; Roy
Cornathah, J. D. ; C. A. Stubbins, Edward T. Pierson, Albert E. Lecy,
J. Robert Nelson, John C. Ross of •Shiloh' Lodge assisting In the
work.
"On Wednesday evening, in the auditorium of the temple, an entertainment was furnished the delegates of the Grand Lodge ahd the
Grand Chapter R. A. M., consisting of moveo·electro-stereoptlcoanimo illu.s tratlons, w:. Bro. Sylvester J. Hill, Senior Grand Dea·
con, operating the machine."
The election of officers ·for the ensuing year being in order,
the M.'. w:. Bro. James W. Foley, of Bismarck, was chosen to be

124

125

REPORT oN Co1tREBPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Grand Master of Masons in North Dakota, and the R.". W.". Frank
J. Thompson was re-elected Grand Secretary.
'fhe Grand Master-elect made his appointments, and all were
installed by the retiring Grand Master, Past Grand Master James
McDonald acting as Master of the Ceremonies.
The Grand Master named the standing committtees and the
Grand Lodge closed in Ample Form at ·5 :30 P. M., peace and harmony
prevailing.
M.". W.". James W. Foley, Grand Master; R.". W.". Frank J.
Thompson, Grand Secretary. Correspondent, M.". W." . Robert M.
Carothers, Grand Forks.

"Resolved, That this Grand Lodge deeply sympathizes with the
disappointment of the Brethren at Sydney, and regret the circumstances which prevented them from meeting the Brethren there
and partaking of that hospitality and kindness which they have
ever manifested toward the Brethren of Grand Lodge."

NOVA SCOTIA.
4,171 Members.
65 Lodges.
Two Emergent Communications were held by this Grand Lodge
during the recess-the first, September 7, 1903, to place the cornerstone of the Macdonald Consolidated School at Middletown, and the
second to pay the last sad tribute to the remains of Past Grand
Master Charles John Macdonald, at Halifax, October 12, 1903.
The Thirty-ninth Annual Communication was held in Freemasons'
Hall, Halifax, June 8, 1904, commencing at 10 o'clock A. M.,-the M. ·•
W.". Hon. William Ross, Grand Master; R.". W.". Thomas Mowbray,
Grand Secretary. Fifty-four Lodges were represented, together with
thirty-five other Grand Jurisdictions. Besides the Grand Officers, ·
twenty-six Past Grand Officers were in attendance.
Fine portraits of Grand Master Ross and Grand Secretary Thomas
Mowbray are noted on the opening pages of this number of the
journal.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by
R.". w:. Bro. Henry D. de Blois, Grand Chaplain.
The Grand Lodge voted this preamble and resolutions:
"WHEREAS, This Grand Lodge at its last meeting directed Its
next to be held In Sydney, Cape Breton, and the Right Worshipful
the Deputy Grand Master, while acting as Grand Master (for good .
and sufficient reasons), did order and direct the same to be held
in the city of Halifax, and in compliance with such order this Grand
Lodge is now in session; therefore,
"Resolved, That this Grand Lodge now in session legalizes and
confirms said order of the Acting Grand Master and declares this
Grand Lodge now in_ session to be legally held and properly constituted for the transaction of any business that may properly come
before it; further

The Grand Master commenced the delivery of bis Annual Address, expressing his gratitude to the all wise Great Architect for the
privilege of meeting bis Brethren &.gain in Annual Communication. In
brief words he proceeded to report bis official acts during the recess,
. first directing their attention to the vacant seats of the Brethren
within the Veil who had, since the last annual .meeting, passed to
rest. To one of the number, Past Grand Master Ch~rles John Macuonald, he paid the following tribute:
"With the formation of our Grand Lodge and restoring peace,
order and good-will out of the discordant elements at wo_rk, he
took a very active and successful part. He was the first Grand
Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Nova Scotia. Our hearts were
chilled when we were so suddenly informed that our beloved P .. G.
M. was called from us on the twelfth of October last, in the
midst of his useful and active life. Ever regular in his attendance
on our Grand Lodge Communications, cheerful, patient, happy and
hopeful of greater Masonic usefulness. The letter referred to wlll
appear in our Proceedings with a proper memorial page devoted to
him whose death has created such a blank in our Order. · Brethren,
no words of mine can adequately represent my sense of tl;J.e greatness
of the loss sustained by the death of P. G. M. Macdonald ."
Nothing new or out of the usual routine was developed in the
address.
'fhe R.". W.'. Deputy Grand Master made a detailed report of bis
official acts, while acting during the temporary absence of the
Grand Master, and of visitations made by him during the recess.
Grand Secretary Mowbray made a full and exceedingly interesting report, from which we excerpt his abstract of work:
Chartered Lodges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Under dispensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Initiated ................................... 333
Passed ..................................... 311
Raised .... .. .................. ... .... .. .... 336
Affiliated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Reinstated ................. .-. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . 36
Demitted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
Died ............................ .. ...... .... 47

126

127

REPORT oN ConrtESPONDENCE.

IlEPOtt'l' ON ConnEsPuNDENCE.

Missing ........................ . .... ....... 24
Suspended for non-payment of dues . . . . . . . . . 40
Suspended for unmasonic conduct . . . . . . . . . . . 0
4171
Subscribing members 31st March, 1904 .. .
3882
Subscribing members 31st March, 1903 .. .

Impressed. He also says bright complimentary words of Bro. Hartt's
oration. The report is a good one, for which our blue-nosetl Brethren will please accept our thanks.
M:. w:. Charles Reynolds Smith, K. C., Grand Master; R: . w:.
Thomas Mowbray, Amherst, Grand Secretary. Correspondent, R. ·.
w: . Thomas Mowbray, Halifax.

Gain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
289
Reports were received from the Committee on Charity and from
the Trustees of the Fund of Benevolence.
The Grand Lodge received a visit from the officers of the Grand
Lodge of Prince Edward's Island, and gave them a cordial and
hearty welcome.
The reports of the District Deputy Grand Masters were full and
complete and very complimentary to the Grand Jurisdiction of Nova.
Scotia.
The three degrees were exemplified before the Grand Lodge, the .
Grand Master presiding.
·The Grand Lodge exchanged congratulations with the Grand
Lodge of Iowa through Grand Secretary Parvin.
The Brethren of Nova Scotia are " waking up " to the necessity or
establishing a " Home for Aged Masons."
The election of officers for the ensuing year being in order, M. ·.
W. ·. Charles Reynolds Smith was chosen Grand Master of Masons
in Nova Scqtia, and R.'. w:. Thomas Mowbray was re-elected Grand
Secretary.
The Grand Master-elect made his appointments, and the elective
and appointed Grand Officers were installed by Past Grand Master ·
T. A. Cassmann, Past Grand Master J. W. Ruhland acting as Master
of the Ceremonies.
The Grand Lodge ordered Regallas procured for the Grand
Treasurer and the Permanent Grand Chaplain.
The National Anthem was sung and, after Solemn Prayer, the
Grand Lodge was closed, to meet in June, 1905, in Sydney, at 10
o'clock A. M .
REl'UR'l' ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The R:. w:. Thomas Mowbray, Past Deputy Grand Master,
Grand Secretary and Correspondent, submits a splendid report for
the year 1904, in which he reviews the transactions of sixty-five
Grand Jurisdictions in the Masonic world in a paper of one hundred
and ninety pages. It is a review of the administration of Grand
Master Henderson, of which the correspondent is very favorably

OtlIO.
503 Lodges.
58,243 Members.
The Grand Lodge of Ohio held its Ninety-fifth Annual Communication in the Valentine Theater, Toledo, October 19, 1904, commencing at 10 o'clock A . :M:.,-M:. W:. 0. P . Sperra, Grand Master;
R : . w:. J. H. Bromwell, Grand Secretary. Four hundred and
eighty-nine Lodges were represented, ,together with forty other Grand
.Jurisdictions. Fourteen Past Grand Masters and two Past Deputy
Gri.ind Masters were in attendance, with twenty-three District Lecturers.

Portraits of the Grand Master and the lamented veteran Grand
Master S. Stacker Williams appear on the opening pages of this number of the journal.
·
In conformity with Ohio usage, the Grand Master opened a Lodge
of Master Masons in Due Form and appointed the Committee on
Credentials, and upon the report of that committee of a proper
representation, he declared the Grand Lodge of Ohio open in its
Ninety-fifth Annual Communication, the Grand Chaplain invoking
the Divine favor upon the session.
The Grand Master introduced His Honor, the Mayor o.f the city,
who gave the Grand Lodge a cordial welcome to the city of Toledo.
The several departments of Legitimate Masonry were represented by
their officers, and were invited to seats in the Grand East.
The Grand Master then proceeded to deliver his Annual Address.
With a cordial welcome he extended his greetings to the Representatives of. the Masonic family of Ohio, with its sixty thousand
members. He congratulated them upon the condition of the Craft,
and invoked the spirit of harmony in all their deliberations. After
reporting the names of many Eminent Masons, members of sister
Jurisdictions, who had been " called home," and of whose departure
he had been officially informed during the recess, he said:
" While at this time we rejoice in our strength and are buoyant
with hope of future greatness, let us pause in memory of the
eight hundred and seventy Masons of this Jurisdiction, tried and

128

REPORT ON CoRR:t:SPONDENCE.

true,. who have crossed the dark river to serve their better Master,
paying loving tribute to their memory. This large number of deaths
from our ranks is almost appalling, being the greatest in our
history. And thus, my Brethren, while the sun will continue to
shine as bright, and the birds will s!ng as sweetly, anticipated joy
is turned to sadness by the absence of familiar forms and faces
we had expected to meet.
" Darker, darker, and more wan,
In my breast the shadows fall;
Upwards steals the life of man,
As the sunshine from the wall.
From the wall into the sky,
From the ;roof along the spire;
Ah, the souls of those that die,
Are but sunbeams lifted higher."
His announcement of the death of that Exemplar of Freemasonry,
S. Stacker Williams, was an eloquent tribute to a " Mason of force
and power that was almost a: necessity in the Masonic history of
Ohio."
He issued dispensations for the forming and opening of four new
Lodges, and made a large number of visitations.
The Deputy Grand Master reported his acts and, in his brief
report, paid the following tribute to one of Ohio's most Illustrious
Masons:
" If I were inclined to amplify my report on any of the numerous
occasions at which I have been present, it would be the occasion.
of performing · the last sad offices to our Illustrious Brother and
esteemed ,Past Grand Master, S. Stacker Williams. Indeed, the
occasion seemed to me to be particularly impressive, because, as a
young man, I entered the Grand Lodge when S. Stacker Williams, as
Grand Master, was guiding the Craft over the tempestuous sea of
troubles of Cerneauism. The picture of Stacker Williams as Grand
Master, presiding over that body of men, was stamped indelibly upon.
my mind, and from that day to this I have always admired this
man whom we all have delighted to honor."
We excerpt the following summary of work from the report of
Grand Secretary Bromwell:
Number of members, August 31, 1903 ... ...... ...... ..... 55,065
. Gains: Raised . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,511
Affiliated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 773
Reinstated
751
6,il35

Total ............................. .

129

IlEPOUT ON 00RHESPONDENCE.

61,100

Losses: Died .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 870
Withdrawn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 848
Suspended non-payment dues ......... .. 1,103
Suspended unmasonic conduct . . . . . . . . . .
16
Expelled. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
20
2,857

Tot. number of members, Aug. 31, 1904

58,243

Bro. Hugo C. Eisenlohr, Chairman of the Committee on Necrology,
11resented a feeling and eloquent report devoted to the memory of the
names inscribed on the death roll of Ohio, as also of the Eminent
Dead of sister Jurisdictions.
M. '. W.' . Bro. Nelson Williams introduced M.'. W.' . Bro. William
B. Melish as the Grand Generalissimo of the Grand Encampment of
Knights Templar of the United States. The distinguished Brother
lll'knowledged, in suitable terms, the courtesy shown him in a
speech, full, as usual, of wit and eloquence.
The Committees on Grievance, on By-Laws, on Ritual and Floor
Work, on Jurisprudence, on Charity and on Accounts, having reported, and the general routine of business disposed of, the election
of officers for the ensuing year was held and the following Brethren
were chosen to fill the several stations: M. ·. W. ·. Grand Master,
C'. G. Ballou, Toledo; R.'. W.'. Deputy Grand Mast.e r, L. P. Schaus,
Newark; R.'. W.'. Senior Grand Warden, Horace A. Irvin, Dayton;
R.'. W.'. Junior Grand Warden, George D. Copeland, Marion; R.' .
\V.' . Grand Treasurer, R. R. Rickly, Columbus; R.'. W.'. Grand
Secretary, J. H. Bromwell, Cincinnati.
The Grand Master-elect having made his appointments, all were
Installed by Past Grand Master Lemmon, Past, Grand Master Cunningham acting as Master of the Ceremonies.
A committee was appointed to procure and present to the retiring
Grand Master, M. ·. W. ·. Bro. 0. P. Sperra, a Past Grand Master's
Jewel.
The thanks of the Grand Lodge were voted to the several committees and Brethren of Toledo for courtesies and entertaillment
to members of the Grand Lodge during the present session.
The Grand Master named the standing committees, the Brethren,
alJ standing, recited the Lord's Prayer, and the Grand Lodge closed
In Ample Form, and subsequently closed the Master's Lodge heretofore opened.

9a

130

HEPon'l' ON OonnESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The Report on Correspondence is the feature of the Proceedings
of the Grand Lodge of Ohio, and in the present number consists of
the review of sixty-four Grand ·Jurisdictions of the Masonic world,
of which thirty-nine are American, and sixteen foreign, making a
book of 323 pages. The author is Bro. William M. Cunningham, who
was Grand Master of Ohio In 1877, and of whom Ohio's Masonic
poet, M.". W:. Nelson Williams, wrote, in 1895:
... For forty long, success! ve years,
Upon our Grand Lodge roll,
Your name has had an honored place,
And honored well the scroll.
For forty years, almost the length
Of life's uncertain span,
No name has been more honored
Than the name of Cunningham."
.
And in 1905 he is yet with us at the head of the roll of Past Grand
Masters in attendance at the session of 1904, and " long may he
wave." Bro. Cunningham reviews California for the administration
of Gra:nd Master Henderson, and notices approvingly the routine
business of the session.
M.". w:. Clifford G. Ballou, Grand Master; R.'. w: . J. H. Bromwell, Grand Secretary. Correspondent, Past Grand Master William
M. ~unningham, Newark.
OKLAHOMA.
5,976 Members.
130 Lodges.
The Grand Lod-ge of Oklahoma held its Thirteenth Annual Com-·
munication in Masonic Temple, Guthrie, February 14, 1905,-M." ·
w:. J. Frank Matthews, Grand Master; R.". w:. James S. Hunt,
Grand Secretary.
The Grand Master was not present at the opening, and the Grand
Lodge .was opened by the Deputy Grand Master. One hundred and
two Lodges were represented; six Past Grand Masters and one
Past Grand Deputy were present. Perhaps we should have mentioned that:
The Deputy Grand Master informed the members of the Grand
Lodge that M.'. w: . Grand Master J. Frank Mathews was ill at
his hotel, and had requested him to preside in the Grand East, until
the afternoon session of the M.'. W.' . Grand Lodge, and also to
deliver to the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge the Annual Address of the
Grand Master.

RErORT ON ConnESPONDENCE.

131

The Grand Master's Address was read by the Deputy Grand
Master. Perhaps we hadn't ought to say it but, when we re-read
the results of his administration, we feel strong enough to say that
we are not surprised that It made Grand Master Matthews sick to
think of facing the Grand Lodge of Oklahoma, where, if anywhere
in organized Masonry, a firm a·n d strong administration of the law,
in the interest of the uses and purposes of Masonry, was needed.
His weak apology shows it to have been the Jurisdiction committed
to his charge as Grand Master.
We note in his report of the discharge of his arduous duties as
Grand Master, twenty-two Lodges were constituted, and every one by
the Grand Master's proxy, and he issued dispensations for the forming and opening of fourteen (14) new ones.
What an opportunity for an active Grand Master to inscribe his
name at or near the head of the Grand Masters' column in Oklahoma.
Among his " duties in other fields " his time was so occupied
that t~e Grand Lodge Treasury got Itself mixed up in sundry business speculations, and the funds gathered in with much enthusiasm
for "lo! these many years," took to themselves wings and are no
more counted among the assets of the .G rand Lodge of Oklahoma.
But amid all his explanations, we think the following "presses the
button" and establishes his · reputation as the Grand Master that
didn't know what he was made for. We excerpt the following from
the closing llnes of his address:
" I have made no official visitations, but have always, when
convenient, called at the Lodge Hall and met witli the Brethren,
when I happened to be in town on their meeting night, and have in
every Instance been received with the honor which the high office
of Grand Master entitled me to; and at this time I wish to call
special attention to the condition in which I found some of the
Lodges. While most of them were kept in a very tidy, presentable
condition, showing that the Brethren believe that the meeting place
of Masonry should be something more t han a place where all may
gat her together indiscriminately, yet I am sorry to say that l found
many others in an unkept, unswept condition, the doors without lock
and key, the furniture broken and dilapidated, the paraphernalia
rarelessly laid around for the public inspection, and the Lodge room
open to all at all hours, and used for every conceivable kind of
meeting."
We note the following report of the Grand Secretary concerning
"Work by the Grand Lodge." Query- Whence came he and wb.ere is
his home ?

132

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The Grand Senior Deacon announced that Bro. C. L. Newton .was
in waiting to receive the third degree of Masonry, and there being
no objections, the ;J3rqtber was prepared, introduced, and raised to
the Sublime Degree of a Master Mason in due form, receiving all the
lectures and charge.
The Grand Lecturer delivered an address before the Grand
Lodge.
The routine of business consisted of amendments to the Constitution and concerning the Masonic Home Fund.
The election of officers being in order, the R.". w:. George H .
Phillips was chosen Grand . Master, and R.". w:. James S. Hunt,
Grand Secretary.
The Grand Master-elect made bis appointments,. and all were installed by Past Grand Master W. L. Eagleton, assisted. by Bro. J. E.
Farber, Grand Marshal. ·
The Grand Master appointed the committees, and the Grand.
Lodge was .c losed in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand. Chaplain.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
The Report on Correspondence ls by the Assistant Grand Secr etary, w:. Bro. F. C. Hunt. He submits a report of 100 pages, a fair
review of the condition of the Masonic world in the year 1904.
M:. w:. George H. Phillips, Grand Master; R .". w:. James S.
Hunt, Grand Secretary. Correspondent, W. ·. Bro. F. C. Hunt, Stillwater.
The next, the Fourteenth, Annual Communication wlll be held
in Masonic Temple, Guthrie, in February, 1906.
OREGON.
7,322 Members.
106 Lodges.
The Grand Lodge of Oregon held its Fifty-fifth Annual Communication in Masonic Temple, Portland, June 14, 1905, commencing at
10:30 o'clock. A. M.,-M:. w:. Thomas Gray, Grand Master; R.".
w:. James F. Robinson, Grand Secretary. One hundred and three
Lodges were represented, together with thirty-three other Grand
Jurisdictions.
Eighteen Past Grand Masters, a Past Grand Warden and a Past
Grand Secretary were in attendance.
11
· A portrait of Grand Master Gray appears in this number of the
journal.

.REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

133

The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, prayer being
offered by the W. ·. and Rev. J. R. N. Bell, Grand Chaplain.
The Grand Master proceeded to deliver bis Address. He gave the
Brethren a cordial greeting and spoke of the pleasure it gave him
to be the messenger of the good tidings of existing prosperity, of
union and harmonious action throughout the Jurisdiction. After excusing himself for bis failure to visit his constituents during the
recess, he referred with sorrow to the Brethren who bad passed
to rest since the close of the last annual session, among whom were
past elective officers of the Grand Lodge, two having served as
Grand Treasurers, and the other as Junior Grand Warden; these,
with the other Faithful and Eminent Brethren, making up the
one hundred and five names inscribed on the year's death roll, received from him a tribute of brotherly regard and Frat ernal affection,
and he submitted the sad record to the Committee on Fraternal
Dead.
In his report of the issuance and receipt of commissions of Representatives to and from the G!;'and Lodge of Oregon with other Grand
Jurisdictions, he submits what is certainly
most discreditable
paper-the following- with the remark that It ls for t he Information
of the brethren, without comment" :

a

"Grand Lodge A. F. & A. M. of Callfornla.
"Office of the Grand Secretary, Masonic Temple,
" San Francisco, Jan. 30, 1905.
"To James F. Robinson, Grana Secretary, Eugene, Ore.
" R:. w:. Srn AND DEAR BROTHER: At the Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California, the following
recommendation was unanimously adopted:
" 'It wlll be patent to any one who wlll give the appointment
of Representatives to and from other Grand Lodges proper consideration, that the custom ls as useless as the " appendix vermi formls"
in t he human body. It seems to us that the custom must have
originated in a desire to decorate members with a mere title. The
only proper way for one Grand Lodge· to communicate with another
is through the Grand Master. Your committee can see no necessity
for the continuance of the custom, and therefore recommends that
It be abollshed.
Truly and Fraternally,
"' GEo. JOHNSON, Grand Secretary.'"
Certainly a most extraordinary document, and when we- think
that we were present when that committee reported, with not the
remotest idea of what the report was loaded with, and learned f or

134

UEPOilT ON CO!lRESPONJJENCE.

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE,

the first ti me, nearly four months thereafter, what the Grand Secretary certifies to as the unanimous action of the Grand LoLlge was a
matter of record and already published. We give it up, with the
hint, however, that when another committee of division and reference attempts to "wipe out" a time-honored usage of Masonry by
" indirection." it would be well for the said committee to refer to
the Constitution of Grand Lodge, which in Subdivision eleven of Section 1 of Article I, Part II, In reciting the powers and duties of the
Grand Master, names, "This duty" " To appoint Representatives near
other recognized Grand Lodges and to receive and accredit Representatives from them." Further comment upon this matter will be r eserved for our conclusion.
No Important decisions were reported.
After the conclusion of the r eport of his official acts, he concluded,
invoking the blessing of the Great Father upon the business of the
session.
· Grand Secr etary Robinson m ade his usual comprehensive r eport,
from which we excerpt the following, abstract of the work of the
year :
Number of Lodges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
Number making returns ..... ... . . .. . . ...... .... .. 106
Number of members in good sta nding . . . . . . .. .. . 7322
Number initiated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 493
Number passe~ . . . ... . . . ...... . . . . ...... . ....... 470
Number raised . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455
Number affiliated ... .. . .... . . . . . ... . ............ . 188
Number reinstated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
44
Number of contributing non-affiliates . . . . . . . . . . . .
7
Number dimitted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 156
Number suspended ... ... . ..... . .
5
Number struck from roll . ...... . ..... ... ...... . . . 76
Number expelled . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2
Number died . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
Number rejected . ...... . . ..... . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .. . . 114
Number relieved from dues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 466
Net gain during the year ...... .. ..... .. ..... .. .. 342

The Committee on Fraternal Dead, Bro. J. R. N. Bell, Chairman,
made an eloquent and feeling report devoted t o the memory of the
Fraternal Dead of 1904.
The regular and special committees having i:eported, and the
routine ~f the business of the session concluded, the following
Brethren were ·chosen to fill the several stations during the ensuing
Masonic year : Bro. William H. Flannagan, Grand Master; Bro.
W. T. Williamson, Deputy Grand Mast er; Bro. Lot L. Pearce, Senior
Grand Warden ; Bro. Edward Kiddle, Junior Grand Warden ; Bro.
William A. Cleland, Grand Treasure r; Bro. James F. Robinson,
re-elected Grand Secretary.
The Grand Master-elect made his appointments, and all were installed by the retiring Grand Master, the Senior Grand Deacon, Bro.
Worrls R. Cox, acting as Master of t he Ceremonies.
The Grand Master appointed the standing committees, and the
Giand Lodge 'closed at 4 o'clock P . M.

A t elegram of congratulation was received from the Gra nd
Lodge of Washington, which was r esponded to with words both
affectionate and eloquent.
Grand Orator Bro. George Wall delivered the oration, which was
publishe d in the present number of the journal.
Congratulations by telegram were exchanged with the Grand
Lodge of Wisconsin.

REPORT ON CoRRESPONDENCE.

,,

Past Grand Master John M. Hodson wields the quill for the
Grand Lodge of Oregon, and under his control we know it has to do
Its full share of the work. In the present number he reviews Grand
Master Nutting's adminiatration. In his notice of the Grand Master's
comments on " Political Methods in Masonry," he expresses himself
to the point. we quote :
" The natural instinct of an American seems to be 'political
methods.' We know of one Grand Lodge where, to head off that
way of doing business, severe laws were enacted, yet the very next
year it was just as bad as ever. The 'consultations ' bore fruit the
same size, color and fiavor of the ward caucl~s. "
Br o. Hodson submits an excellent review of fifty-eight Grand
Jurisdictions in a report of 156 pages.
The Past Grand Masters' Association of Oregon is composed of
twenty-two members, of which Past Gra nd Master David P . Mason
is Venerable President, and Past Grand Master James F. Robinson
ls Worshipful Secretary.
Bro. John M. Hodson is always looking out for a square meal,
and so t hey made him the Worshipful Steward.
M.'. W.'. William H . Flanagan, Grand Master; R.'. W.'. James F.
Robinson, Grand Secretary.
The next Annual Communication will be held in the city of
Portland on the second Wednesday in June, 1906.

136

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

PENNSYLVANIA.
447 Lodges.
67,706 Members.
Under the lead, as usual, of the handsome steel engraving of the
Philadelphia Masonic Temple, we have this beautiful number of the
Pennsylvania Journal of Proceedings for 1904.
·
The Grand Lodge held a Special Communication January 14, 190<l,
"In Memoriam," to pay the last sad tribute to the remains of Past
Grand Master Conrad B. Day. Addresses were delivered by Past
Grand Masters William J. Kelley, George E. Wagner, and Edgar A.
Tennis. Grand Master James W. Brown presided, and thirty-nine
Lodges were represented.
A Quarterly Communication was held in Masonic Temple, Philadelphia, March 2d. One hundred and sixty-three Lodges were represented, and the Grand Master presided.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form at 7 o'clock P. 111.
Reports from the Committees on By-Laws, Appeals, and Printing
and Publishing were made and considered.
Several Eminent Brethren delivered eulogies upon the life and.
character of Past Grand Master Conrad B. Day.
A second Quarterly was held June 1st, at which one hundred
and thirty-nine Lodges were represented, the Grand Master presiding.
The principal business before the Grand Lodge was the consideration of the incorporation of the Masonic Home, and at the
conclusion of its consideration the Grand Lodge closed at 8 o'clock
i>. M.

A Special was held in Masonic Temple, Philadelphia, July 26th,
at which thirty-two Lodges were represented. The R . ·. W. ·. George
w. Kindrick for Deputy Grand Master and Acting Grand Master,
presided.
The Grand Lodge was addressed by Past Grand Masters Edgar A.
Tennis, George E. Wagner, and several other Brethren, and at the
conclusion of the ceremonies, the Grand Lodge closed in harmony at
1:20 P. M .
A Quarterly was held September 7th, at which one hundred and
thirty-seven Lo<j.ges were represented, and the Grand Master presided.
Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form at 7 o'clock P. M. The
Committees on By-Laws, and Appeals, reported.
The Grand Secretary made his Annual Report, from which we
excerpt the following abstract of work:

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

137

Number of Lodges December 27, 1903 . .... . . . .... 447
Lodges constituted during the year 1903. . ........
7
Membership of Lodges December 27, 1902.... .. .. . .
Admitted during the year 1903 ... .. ........... .. .. 747
Initiated during the· year 1903 ... ... ........... .. . 5,841

63,097

6,588
69,685
Suspended and expelled during 1903 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 449
Resigned during H03 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447
Deceased during 1903 ......... . .. . ........... . .. . 1,083
Number of Lodges December, 1903 ... ...... . . . . .. . 447
1,979
Membership December 27, 1903 . • . . . . ...... · · · · · ·.
Membership December 27, 1902 .. . ............ .. .

67,706
63,097

Net increase during the year. 1903 . . . . . . . . . . .
4,609
The Gr~nd Master addressed the Grand Lodge, referring to its
great loss in the death of the late Junior Grand Warden, Bro. Charles
M. Swain, and he presented an " In Memoriam," prepared by Bro.
Alex H . Morgan, Past Master of the Lodge of which Bro. Swain was
a valued member. The memorial was r ead, and one thousand copies
ordered printed and sent to the Lodges of the Jurisdiction.
The Grand Lodge closed in harmony at 8: 30 o'clock P . M.
A Special Communication was held in Masonic Temple, Philadelphia, October 5th, at which fifty-six Lodges were represented, the
Grand Master presiding.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form at 12 o'clock M .
The Grand Lodge assembled "once again " to pay the last sad
tribute to a Past Grand Master.
R. ·. w. ·. Grand Master Brother James W. Brown addressed the
Grand Lodge as follows:
"We are assembled once more
the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania to pay the last sad tribute to a Past Grand Master.
" Death has laid a heavy hand upon the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania during the past two years. In that time we have mourned
for Past Grand Master Bro. Michael Arnold, Past Grand Master Bro.
Samuel C. Perkins, Past Grand Master Bro. Conrad B. Day, and
Junior Grand Warden Bro. Charles M. Swain, and to-day we mourn
Past Grand Master Bro. George E. Wagner.

as

138

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

" Succeeding Grand Master Bro. Henry W. Williams upon his
death, he acted as Grand Master for the remainder of the year,
eleven months. The two succeeding years he was elected and served
as Grand Master of Masons in Pennsylvania.
" It was my privilege to serve as an officer of the Grand Lodge
during those three years, and to be brought into close contact and
relationship with Bro. Wagner during that period, when my feelings
for him ripened from Fraternal regard to personal affection and
admiration. I was deeply impressed with his courtesy and kindness and consideration for every one with whom his duties as
Grand Master brought him in contact. Wise and just, lenient and
considerate, he never forgot the dignity and· responsibility of his
office.
"Could I as ably fulfil the duties of the office during my term,
I would be satisfied.
"He died Saturday, September 30, 1904, at low twelve. He leaves
only a memory, but it is the memory of a just and upright man, a
conscientious citizen, a brave soldier, and a loyal and faithful servant of Freemasonry."
Addresses were made devoted to the memory of the beloved late
Past Grand Master, by Past Grand Master William J. Kelly, Edgar
A. Tennis, and several Brethren.
The Grand Lodge closed in harmony at 1: 15 o'clock P. M .
A Quarterly was held December 7th, in Masonic •remple, Phila·
delphia, at which there was a full attendance. · Four hundred and
nine Lodges were represented. The Grand Officers, four Past Grand
Masters, forty District Deputy Grand Masters, and nine Grand
Chaplains were in attendance.
Elegant steel-engraved portraits of Grand Master James W.
Brown, and the late Junior Grand Warden R.". W.". Bro. Charles
M. Swain, appear in this number of the journal.
The Grand Lodge was opened In Ample Form at 10 o'clock A. M.
The M.". W.". Grand Master of the District of Columbia was present ,
as a visitor and was received with usual honors.
The Trustees of the Grand Lodge Charity Fund reported. The
Trustees of the Girard Bequest reported. The Trustees of the Tnos.
R Patton Memorial Fund reported, and the Finance Committee
closed the finance reports. Pennsylvania fs a wealthy Jurisdiction.
It has a princely income, and disburses it for charity, as becomes a
royal household.
Among the additions to the Library reported by the committee
the present year is the following letter from and signed by Bro.
George Washington under date of 179.2, which reads as follows:

HEPOHT ON CunHESPONDE~CE .

139

"7'o the Ancient York Masons of the Jurisdiction of Pennsylvania:
" GENTLEMEN AND BROTHERS,-! received your kind congi:atulatlons with · the purest sensations of fraternal affection-and from a
heart deeply impressed with your generous wishes for my present
1tnd future happiness, I beg you to accept my thanks.
" At the same time I request you will be assured of my best
wishes and earnest prayers of your happiness while you remain in
this terrestrial Mansion, and that we may hereafter meet as brethren
in the Eternal Temple of the Supreme Architect.
(Signed)
.. G. WASHINGTON."
The Committee on the Sesqui-Centennial Anniversary of 1902
made their fiscal reports and were discharged after several addresses on different subjects.
The Grand Lodge closed in harmony at 11: 20 P. M •.
The Grand Lodge held its Annual Grand Communication in .Masonic Temple, Philadelphia, December 27th, 1904. Eighty-three
Lodges were represented and the Grand Master presided.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form at 10: 10 o'clock
A. M. The M.". W.". Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Delaware
was received with the usual honors.
The committees having reported and the usual routine of business
concluded, the Grand Master proceeded to deliver his Annual Ad·
dress. In reporting his official acts he referred to the past year as
one of sorrow and bereavement to the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania.
Two Past Grand Masters and a Junior Grand Warden was the quota
required of the Craft. The Winged Messenger had many visits to
the Jurisdiction as the 1,083 names inscribed on !he death roll attest. He reported many decisions, but as the matters considered are
almost entirely dependent upon the local law, the usages and customs of the Craft in Pennsylvania, comment is unnecessary.
The following would seem to us In California just a trifle "arbitrary " and we think a Grand Master that would issue that or a
slmila~ order "on this side of the river," would hear " music in the
air " during the rest of his Masonic life:
"OFFICE OF THE RIGH'l' WORSHIPFUL GRAND MASTER,
" MASONIC TEMPLE, PHILADELPHIA, August 22, 1904.
"To the Worshipful Master:

" My attention has been called to an Innovation in some of the
Lodges of this Jurisdiction, by the introduction of music during the
ceremonies..

140

141

REPORT ON COURESPO.SDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

" In former years it was not found necessary to have anything
but the plain work of the Lodge, beautiful in its simplicity and teachings, and nothing can be added to make it more effective,
" I therefore dlrect that the use of vocal and instrumental music
shall cease in the Lodges during the Work of the Degrees.
"If the brethren of the Lodge desire music, they can have it
when no Work is being done, and provided it does not delay the
business, or the conferring of the Degrees.
" This Edict must be audibly read in your Lodge, at its next
stated meeting, and copied in full in the Minutes.
"Yours fraternally,

M.". w:. James W. Brown, Grand Master; R.". w:, William "A.
Sinn, Grand Secretary, Masonic Temple, Philadelphia.
Correspondent, Bro. James M. Lamberton, Chairman.

JAMES W. BROWN, Grand Master.

The M:. w:. Grand Master made bis appointments, and there
are several hundred of them, and the record says they were all duly
installed in their respective stations for the. ensuing Masonic year
in ancient and Solemn Form, were thrice proclaimed as such, and _
received the salutations of the Craft:
Bro. James W. Brown, R:. w:. Grand Master; Bro. George W.
Kendrick, Jr., R. ·. W. ·. Deputy Grand Master; Bro. George B. Or lay,
R." . w:. Senior Grand Warden; Bro. George W. Guthrie, R:. w:.
Junior Grand Warden ; Bro. Thomas R. Patton, R.". W." . Grand
Treasurer ; Bro. William A. Sinn, R .". w:. Grand Secretary.
The Brethren elected were installed, after which the M.". w:. Bro.
Josiah W. Ewan, Past Grand Master of Masons in New Jersey, was
received with the usual honors and addressed Grand Lodge. Th~
Grand Lodge closed in harmony at 12 o'clock and 40 minutes P. M.
REPOR'.l' ON CORRESPO NDENCE.

The present report, as usual in · Pennsylvania, is made by a
syndicate of writers, of whom Bro. James M. Lamberton is Chairman, and we guess does all the work. The report, it goes without
saying, is a very able one, the only name on the committee that bas
familiar sound to us is the first, Bro. Lee S. Smith of " Franklin "
Lodge, No. 221, which we suppose to be located in Pittsburg.
The review is of the administration of Grand Master Henderson.
Of his address Bro. Lamberton, or the Committee say :
The Annual Address .of the Grand Master is quite long, and in
poetic quotations is up to the Iowa standard; it shows a zealous and
faithful officer, fruitful in suggestions looking to the advancement
of the Craft."
The death of Past Grand Master Preston is noted and the
Oration of Bro. Hart, after suggesting the connection that Bro. G.
W. was born on the 4th instead of the first of·the aforesaid month.

QUEBEC.
4,709 Members.
57 Lodges.
The Grand Lodge of Quebec held its Thirty-fifth Annual Communication in Masonic Hall, City of Montreal and Province of
Quebec, January 25th, 1905,-M: . w:. John B. Tresidder , Grand
Master; R.". w:. Will H. Whyte, Grand Secretary. Every Lodge in
t he Jurisdiction was represe11ted, together with thirty other Grand
Jurisdictions. Six Past Grand Masters, two Past Grand Deputies
and t hirty-six other Past Grand Officers were in attendance.
A fine portrait of the M:. w:. David A. Manson appear s on the
opening page of this number of the Journal.
'fhe· Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form and the Grand
Master proceeded to deliver his Annual Address.
•
He gave a cordial welcome to the assembled brethren, expressing
the hope that with the· help of the Supreme. Ruler they would, by
their united efforts obtain the best results from the legislation of
the 35th Annual Session of the Grand Lodge of Quebec.
He spoke feelingly of the Fraternal Dead, and of those r eported
from otlier JurisdiCUons, he said: " To t h ose who are left to mourn
the death of these esteemed Craftsmen and more particularly t h e
r elatives, we extend our profound sympathy."
We excerpt the following abstract of Work from the r eport of
Grand Secretary Whyte:
Number of members on the roll Dec. 31, 1903 .. . . ..... .. 4,433
A DD.

......... ... ..... .
...
... .. .. ... ... ..... ... .... ...... ... .....

·: .. . ..
····· ...... . 446
Initiations
79
Affiliations
Restorations . ... .. . .. . . . . . .. .. . · · · · · · · ·. · · · · · · · · · · 23

548
4,981

D EDUCT.

Deaths .. . . . . ...... .... .. . . . ... . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 56
Withdrawals . . . .......... . .. . . . . · · · · · · . · · · · · · · · · · · 135
Suspensions ...... . .. . ....... . . . . · · · · · ...... . . . · · · 82
273

Total . . ................................... , ....... . 4,708
A net gain of 275 over last year.

142

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON ConnESl'ONDENCE.

R.'. W.'. -Bro. Rev. E. H. Croly, Grand Chaplain, delivered an
eloquent discourse before Grand Lodge.

RHODE ISLAND.
6,091 Members.
37 Lodges.
"The Grand Lodge of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations"
held its Semi-Annual Communication in Freemasons Hall, Prov!·
dence, November 16th, 1903, commencing at 10. o'cloek A. M.,-the
M.'. W.'. Howard Walker, Grand Master; R.'. W.'. S. Penrose W1ll·
lams, Grand Secretary. Twenty-nine Lodges were represented. Six
Past Grand Masters and two Past Grand Wardens were in attend·
ance.
A portrait of Grand Master Walker appears on the opening page.
The Grand Secretary made his Semi-Annual Report.
The M.'. W.'. W!lliam H. Scott was called to the East and presented with a Past Grand Master's Jewel, ordered at the last Annual
Communication.
An Amendment to the Constitution was offered concerning the
manner of 'casting the Ballot.
No further business appearing, the Grand Lodge closed at "high
twelve."
A Special Communication was held in the New Masonic Building,
Wakefield, April 20, 1904, commencing at 4 o'clock P . M., for the
pur'pose of dedicaUng the new hall of " Hope " Lodge to the uses and
purposes of Freemasonry. After the dedicatory exercises an E legy
on M~sonry was delivered by the R.' . W.'. Henry W. Rugg, who per·
formed a similar service at the dedication of the first Hall In 1872.
A photogravure of the New Hall and Lodge-room appears in t his
number of the Journal.
The Granr. Lodge closed at 5: 10 P. M.
The One Hundred and Fourteenth Annual Communication was
held in Freemasons' Hall, Providence, May 16th, 1904, commencing
at 10 o'clock A. M.,-M.'. W.'. W!lliam Howard Walker, Grand
Master; R.'. W.'. S. Penrose Wllliams, Grand Secretary. Thirty-one
Lodges were represented. Six Past Grand Masters and two Past
Grand Wardens were present.
The Grand Lodge was opened ·i n Ample Form with prayer by the
Grand Chaplain, and the Grand Master proceeded to deliver his
address. He congratulated the brethren upon the assembling of
Grand Lodge under conditions so favorable. Peace and harmony
was the rule and the condition of Grand Lodge finances better than
heretofore. There was a handsome balance in the Treasury and the
returns presented a healthy increase In membership.
During the year 112 names. have been Inscribed on the death roll
brethren members of the .constituent Lodges "who have been called

The Grand Master reported at least one visitation to each of his
constituent Lodges-well done Grand Master Tressider.
The committees having reported in the general routine of busi·
ness, the election of officers was taken up and the Scrutineers having
been appointed, the following Brethren were chosen to fill theseveral
stations for the ensuing Masonic year:
M.'. W.'. Gro. David A. Manson, Mansonville, Grand Master; R.'.
W.'. Bro. Geo. 0. Stanton, Montreal, Deputy Grand Master; R.''.
W.'. Bro. Caleb Rose, Richmond, Senior Grand Warden; R.'. W.'.
Bro. Thomas G. Hawthorn, Three Rivers, Junior Grand Warden; M.'.
W.'. Bro. I. H. Stearns, Montreal, Grand Treasurer; R.' . W.'. Bro.
Will H. Whyte, Montreal, Grand Secretary; R.'. W.' . Bro. Charles
W. Hagar, Montreal, Grand Re~!strar.
, The Grand Master-elect then made his appointments an·d w!,th
the elective Grand Officers all were installed and invested into office.

ot

R .'. W.'. Bro. the Rev. Frank Charters drew the attentio~
Grand Lodge to this belng the twenty-fifth year that M.'. W .'. Bro. I.
H. Stearns had occupied the position of Grand Treasurer of Grand
Lodge, and referred to the many great and faithful services the
M.'. W.'. Bro. had rendered to Grand Lodge, and mo".ed that
the Grand Master appoint a small committee to procure a testimonial
in commemoration of that event. Seconded by M.'. W.'. Bro. A. A;
Stevenson and unanimously carried.
The Grand Lodge was closed at 11: 15 P. 111. in Ample Form, with
Benediction by Rev. E. H. Croly, Grand Chaplain.
REPORT ON COllRESPONDENCE.

This report as of former years is the Work of Past Grand Master
E. T. D. Chambers, a leader along the borders on the other side of
the river, always in touch with the main Body concerning its principles and policy. The present review is of the administration of
Grand Master Nutting, whose address he commends as an admirable
paper, and from which he quotes freely. Bro. Chambers reviews
the Masonic World in his report of 107 pages and concludes with
everybody else that we are passing through an era of progress and
prosperity as members of the Masonic Fraternity.
M.'. W.'. David A. Manson, Grand Master; R.'. W.'. Bro. Will H.
Whyte, Montreal, Grand Secretary. Correspondent, Past Grand
Master E. T. D. Chambers.
'l'he next, the 36th Annual Communication, will be held in Montreal~ January 31st, 1906.

144

REPOHT ON Co1mEBPONDENC,E.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

from the turmoil and strife of mortal life to receive the merited rewards that awaited them in the life eternal."
The few Dedsions reported refer entirely to construction of the
local law and need no comment.
Reports were made by the District Deputy Grand Masters of the
five Districts and by the Grand Treasurer and Grand Secretary.
We excerpt the following abstract of Work from the report of the
Grand Secretary:
Number initiated ...................................... 369
Number passed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 359
Number raised . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..................... 370
Number admitted ..................................... 364
Number re-instated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7
Number rejections .................. •.................. 243
Number dimitted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Number died . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108
Number dropped from 'the roll . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
34
Membership April 30, 1903................................. 5,883
Membership April 30, 1904. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . 5,981
Upon the recommendation of the Committee on Correspondence
(Bro. Henry W. Rugg), Grand Lodge resolved, That Fraternal
recognition be accorded to the Grand Lodge of Western Australia,
that Body having regularly organized in the territory over which it
exercises jurisdiction.
The Commissioners on trials reported.
The Committee on the 'Vebb Monument and Grounds reported as
follows:
"The undersigned Committee on the Webb Monument and
Grounds in the North Burial Ground, beg leave to state that there
is nothing new to state in regard to their condition.
"The ground is kept in perfect order, and the monument to that
illustrious Mason, Thomas Smith Webb, being constructed of marble,
shows some signs of deterioration, which is only natural, after having been exposed to the elements for so many years·; but it is looking
well, nevertheless, and will probably continue to do so for many
years, or until the 'Webb Monument Fund' amounts to a sufficient
sum to provide a new monument of the more durable granite."
The election of officers for the ensuing year being in order, the
following Brethren were chosen to fill the several stations: The
M. '. W.'. James Elisha 'l'illinghast, Grand Master; Joseph W. Free-·
man, Deputy Grand Master; Walter A. Presbrey, Senior Grand War·

145

den; Arthur H. Armington, Junior Grand Warden; William R.
Greene, Grand Treasurer; S. Penrose Williams, Grand Secretary.
The Grand Master-elect announced his appointments, and all
were obligated and installed by the retiring Grand Master.
The Grand Secretary was instructed to procure a Past Grand
Master's jewel and apron for presentation to Past Grand Master
William Howard Walker.
The Grand Master named the standing committees and the Grand
Lodge closed in Ample Form at 4: 30 P. M.
There was no R_e port on Correspondence.
M.'. W.'. James Elisha Tillinghast, Grand Master; R.'. W.'. S.
Penrose Williams, Grand Secretary.
SCOTLAND.
We have the proceedings of this Grand Lodge for the year ending
November, 1904.
Upo1;1 due application the Lodges located in Hong Kong and South
China were authorized to form a District Grand Lodge,
Lodges were warranted in Western Australia, and apparently the
Grand Lodge proposes to suspend and expel the brethren who have
taken part in the organization of the Grand Lodge of Queensland.
The records denominate it as the pretended, etc.
The Grand Officers were duly instailed at the Annual Communication, held November 30; 1904. Bro. A. J. Kruger, Grand Expert,
Grand Orient of Belgium, was formally introduced and welcomed.
The Festival of St. Andrew was celebrated, aboi;t three hundred
brethren participating in the feast. Among the addresses made
upon that occasion, that of the Grand Master embodied interesting
features relative to the pa.st year. The Work had been prosperous,
10,438 intrants having been added. The Constitution and By-Laws
of the Grand Lodge had been revised and published. Charters for
twenty-one new Lodges had been issued. From a financial standpoint the condition of the Grand Lodge would appear most satisfactory:
General Fund ............................... . £31,163
8,573
Benevolent Fund ............................ .
Annuity Fund .............................. . 39,002
Heritable and movable property .......•....... 25,400
A total of ...................•......... £104,138·
The Hon. M.'. W.'. Charles M. Ramsay, Grand Master, and R.'.
W.'. David Reid, Edinburgh, Grand Secretary.

lOa

146

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

TENNESSEE.
19,420 Members.
430 Lodges.
The Grand Lodge of Tennessee held its Ninety-first Annual Communication in Freemasons' Hall, Nashville, January 25, 1905, commencing at 10 o;clock A. M.,-M. ". W.'. James Lloyd Sloan, Grand
Master; R.'. W.'. John Berry Garrett, Grand Secretary. Four hundred and fifteen Lodges were represented. Twenty-one Past Grand
Masters, one hundred and eight Past Masters and five District Lee•
turers were in attendance.
A portrait of M.'. W.'. James W. Irwin, Grand Master-elect, appears on the opening page of this number of the Journal.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form after prayer by the
Grand Chaplain.
The Grand Master named the standing corµmittees and proceeded
to deliver his Annual Address.
He expressed thanks to God for His goodness in permitting them
to meet again in Annual Comunication. A year has passed since our
last meeting. Did It bring you joy or sadness? Perhaps both; but
it has gone forever, we cannot recall it but may draw wisdom from
the errors and mistakes we have learned later.
He mentioned his observations made while visiting Lodges and
called attention to the lack of business methods he found in many
of them. He referred to and paid affectionate tribute to the fraternal
dead of the year, one of whom we remember as California's Representative in the Grand Chapter, Brother Angel S. Myers. He also
expressed the sympathy of the Grand Lodge of 'l'ennessee with sister
Jurisdictions in mourning for Eminent Sons and Brethren.
Four cornerstones were placed in accordance with the usages and
customs of the fraternity.
In matters of visitation, although prevented from carrying out
his plans in full by sickness in the family, he made the following
splendid record. He says:
"I attended the meetings of my home Lodge many times during
the year, but I did not do so officially, and therefore do not enumerate them as Tisits.
"To 'summarize what the visits mean, and to make them, let me
state that I met over 6,000 Masons in the Lodge rooms, not counting those met at public addresses. I traveled 1,670 miles by private
conveyances. I delivered forty-eight public addresses on Masonry,
all these at the request of the several Lodges asking it. I made 182
visits. I visited every Lodge in twenty-one counties and some in
twenty-four other counties."

Most of the Rulings and Decisions reported by him grew out of
or were dependent upon the local law upon the liquor question, the
following declaration, made by him, which answering many of the
questions, is a good indication of his purposes and rulings upon all
matters affecting the integrity of the Grand Lodge of Tennessee:
, " It became known tci me that some other Orders had rented a
Masonic hall in which to hold their meetings, and that some members of said orders met in the hall on Sundays and played cards,
using the altar as a table. I Immediately ordered the Masonic
Lodge to cancel the contracts as soon as possible, and forbid the
renting to those Orders again which desecrated, or permitted the
desecration of the Masonic altar.
"In my ruling on the liquor question I have endeavored to carry
out the clear meaning of edict 61 and the purpose of this Grand
Lodge as I understand It. I feel certain that this Grand Lodge
will never take any backward steps on this question."
Among the incidents remembered by Grand Master Sloan connected with the record of his administration, the following excerpt
is abundant proof that he was the examplar of one of the cardinal vlr·
tues and one seldom met with in this wicked world, or there would
have been more funerals in Tennessee last year:
" Notice was mailed to 'Friendship' Lodge, No. 229, of the pro·
posed visit of the Grand Master. After a drive of twenty miles
through rain and over muddy roads, I arrived at the Lodge building
and found no one to greet me. I finally found the Secretary of the
Lodge and ascertained he had not received any notice of my coming.
Upon investigation at the post-office the letter was found where it
had beeri two weeks. The Secretary said that he remembered seeing
the letter, but as It was addressed to him as Secretary of the Lodge,
he supposed It was a call for aid to some Lodge or somebody and he
had put it In the Lodge box to await the Lodge meeting. It had not
been opened.
"Notice was malled to the Secretary of 'Flatwoods' Lodge, No.
428. After a ride of fourteen miles, I found no one informed of the
visit. The Secretary's excuse was that the notice said the vislt
would be in the evening or night-he did not know which it would
be, and hence did nothing toward notifying the Brethren. He did
not know the difference, It seems, between afternoon and evening.
" Notice was malled to the Master of ' Hohenwal.d' Lodge, No. 607,
and after a ride of sixteen miles by buggy and ten miles by rail,)
found on arrival that no one knew of the visit. · Next day I accidentally met the Master who c.a ndldly said he got the notice and put
tt in his pocket and forgot it afterwards."

148

REPORT oN OoRRESPONDRNCP..
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

He couldn't help saying some good words for Bro. Garrett before
'Closing his address.
The Grand Secretary made his usual concise and interesting re_port. ·we quote his report of Charters granted at the former session:
" Charters have been issued to 'Watauga' Lodge, No. 622 ; 'La
Follette' Lodge, No. 623, and Dispensations to ' Monterey ' Lodge, No.
626; ' Cross Plains' Lodge, No. 627; ' Bell Buckle ' Lodge, No. 628;
'Tennessee River' Lodge, No. 629; 'Ripley' Lodge, No. !i30, and
• Warrensburg' Lodge, No. 631."
The afternoon session of January 26th was devoted to the memory
of Past Deputy Grand Master R. ·. W. ·. Angel S. Myers, and Past
Junior Grand Warden Bro. John E. Pyott.
The Board of Control of the Widows and Orphans Home reported
the condition, financially and otherwise, of the Home. From the
report we learn the Home is caring for 25 widows and 50 girls and
47 boys-122 ·persons. An altar collection for the Home was taken
up at the present session which yielded $150.12. An exemplification
of Work was held before the Grand Lodge by conferring the Degrees
upon candidates elected to receive them in the constituent Lodges.
The committees having reported and the general routine of business considered, the election of Officers for the ensuing year was proceeded with and the following brethren chosen to fill the several
stations:
Brother James W. Irwin, Most Worshipful Grand Master; Robert
Burrow, Right Worshipful Deputy Grand Master; George E. Seay,
Right Worshi}lful Senior Grand Warden; Milton H. Price, Right
Worshipfl\l Junior Grand Warden; Nathan S. Woodward, Right
Worshipful Grand Treasurer; John B. Garrett, Right Worshipful
Grand Secretary.
The Grand Master made his appointments and all were installed
by Past Grand Master Henry H. Ingersoll; Past Grand Master Foster
acting as Master of the ceremonies.
The Grand Master appointed the standing committees and Boards
of Control and· Custodians, and after prayer by the R.". W.". Grand
Chat>lain the Grand Lodge was closed in Ample Form.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Past Grand Master Henry A. Chambers contributed an exceptionally fine report wherein he gives a review of the Masonic World
with his conclusions In a paper of 116 pages.
His review of California is brief, necessarily so, as he had only
cne advance report before him, the annual proceedings not having

149

reached him. We note, in looking over our work, that we have
omitted Grand Secretary Garrett's abstract of the Work of the year,
so we " stop the press " to give It here:
Total Master Masons January 1, 1904. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18,555
Initiated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,601
Passed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,468.
Raised ................................. . ........ .
1,418
Admitted ................. . ..... .. . .. . .. . ........ .
620
Restored ...... .. ......... ...... ... .... ........ ...
211
20,804
Withdrawn ..... .. . ... . .. .. . ...... . .. .... . ..... ·.. .
646
Suspended U. C. .... . . ·..... .. : . .... ..... .. .. .. ... .
26
Suspended N. P. D . ... .. .. .•. •. .. . ... ..... . .. . . . ...
274
Expelled ....................... .. .... .. . . .. .. ... .
21
Died ........ ... ........ ..........................
367
Surrendered charters .. . .... . ..• . .. . .... ... .... ...
50
1,384.
Total Master Masons January 1, 1905 . . . ........... . 19,42()
Net increase . .. ........... . . . .. .. ....... . .. . .. . .. . . .
915
M:. w:. James W. Irwin, Grand Master; R.". w:. John B. Garrett, Grand Secretary. Correspondent, Past Grand Master Henry
A. Chambers, Chattanooga.
The next, the Ninety-second Annual Communication will be h eld
at Nashville, January 31, 1906.
TEXAS.
705 Lodges.
36,436 Members.
A Special Comniunlcation of the Grand Lodge of Texas was h eld
at the City of Waco, May 11th, 1904, for the purpose of placing the
corner-stone of the new Masonic Temple. Nine Past Grand Masters
and the Representatives of more than three hundred Lodges were
present.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form by the M.'. W.'.
William James, Grand Master.
Portraits of Past Grand Masters Marcas F . Mott, who was Grand
Master in 1876, William James of 1903, and the present Grand
Master, A. W. Campbell, with an "In Memoriam" of the first Grand
Master who was the last President of the Republic of Texas, the Hon.
and M.'. W.' . Anson Jones.
The Sixty-ninth Annual Communication was held in the City of
Waco, December 6th, 1904, commencing at 10 o'clock A, M.,- M .'. W.'.
William James, Grand Master; R .'. W.' . John Watson, Grand Secre-

l50

151

REPOR'I ON 00HRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

tary. Four hundred arid seventy Lodges were represented, together
with twenty-one other Grand Jurisdictions. Eighteen Past Grand
Masters and three Past Grand 'l'reasurers were in attendance.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form with prayer by the
W.". J. W. Caldwell, Grand Chaplain;
The Grand Master proceeded to deliver his Annual Address.
A cordial greeting to the brethren and a glad welcome to the
new Temple added an increased warmth to the impressive ceremonies of opening the 69th Annual Communication of the Grand
Lodge of Texas, but after a few brief words of congratulation, he
said:
"Before proceeding with a report of my official a cts for the past
year, may I not ask that you all join with me for a litle while in
paying a loving tribute to the memory of those of our brethren who
have ' answered the last roll call,' presented their work for inspection to the Supreme Grand Master, and await our coming in tha:t
Grand Lodge above, leaving behind them the results of a well spent
life, the good effects of which can never die."
With profound sorrow he announced the death of Past Grand
Master A. J. Rose and Brothers J . C. Wooters, George R. Hines and
Rufus Osgood Rounsavall, leading brethren representing the Texas
contingent of the " Army of the Dead " whose 528 names were inscribed in the death roll of the year.
His reported Decisions are governed by the law of Texas, and
although many in number, we do not notice any of his rulings in a
conflict with the usages of Masonry.
The general routine of the business of the session was local in
character and of interest only to the Masons of Texas-the concerns
of the new Temple and the Widow and Orphans Home.
We excerpt the following abstract from the report of the Grand
Secretary:
Master Masons now on rolls ......... .. .......... . .. 36,436
Past Masters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,566
Initiations .... . ........... .. .... . .... . ........• _. . . 3,009
Passings .. . .... .. .. ... . .......... . ....... . .... .. ... 2,700
Raisings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,6.97
Affiliations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,400
Reinstatements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 292
Dimissions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..... . . . . . ... 1,766
Expelled . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
33
Suspended for unmasonic conduct... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
37
Suspended for non-payment of dues... . ......... . .. : 385
Deaths . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 528
Rejected . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . • . . . 810

The R.". W.". William Poindexter, Grand Orator, delivered an
address, there was music galore, an Oration by the Rt. Rev. Alexander C. Garrett, and the final Proclamation of the Grand Marshal;
The ceremonies closed with an Anthem by the Choir and an invocation by the Grand Chaplain.
During the ceremonies of dedication the M.". w: . Grand Master
Introduced R.". W.'. Bro. Allen, Grand Senior Warden of the M.".
w:. Grand Lodge of Louisiana, who in well chosen remarks felicitated the Grand Lodge on its great progress since its establishment,
In 1837, through charters gra.nted by the M." . w:. Grand Lodge of
Louisiana.
T he Grand Lodge of Costa Rica was recognized as a Sovereign
and Independent Grand Lodge.
Past Grand Master William Bramlette, Chairman of the Committee on Masonic History, submitted a most interesting report.
The history of Knob Creek Lodge, No. 401, is full of interest arid facidents which we shall refer to later.
Past Grand Master, George W. Tyler, presented an "In MElmoriam " devoted to the memory of the late Past Grand Master A.
J. Rose and Bro. Joe Adams, a memorial on the death of Bro.
Wooters.
From the report of the Superintendent of the Home we learn
that that great Charity is caring for 69 girls, 60 boys and 9 aged
widows.
The reports .of the several committees were submitted and c'on":
sirlered, Amended form of By-Laws approved and the general routine
of business concluded.
The Officers for the ensuing year were chosen, to-wit :
M." . w:. A. W. Campbell, Dallas, Grand Master; R .. w:. S. M.
Bradley, Denton, Deputy Grand Master; R: '. W.". John P. Bell, Bellville, Grand Senior Warden; R.". W." . W. Lee Moore, Wichita Falls,
Grand Junior Warden; R.". w: . B. F . Frymier, Waco, Grand Treasurer; R .". w:. John ·watson, Waco, Grand Secretary.
The Grand Master made his appointments and all were installed.
The Grand Lodge closed in Ample Form with prayer by the
Grand Chaplain.

.I

REPORT ON CORRSEPONDENCE.

Past Grand Master Thomas M. Matthews of Athens, ought to
be classed as a veteran, for he was Grand Master in 1881. Veteran
or not, he is the present Representative Correspondent for that Big
State. Bro. Matthews submits a report in the present number of the

152

153

RF:PORT ON CORRESPOND.ENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Journal in which he reviews about sixty Grand Jurisdictions of the
Masonic World and submits a report of ·90 pages. One report had
not reached him when he closed his paper for 1904. He had only
received one advance report whi·c h we try to send off as soon after
the session closes, with any papers of interest that we may find in
print, such as Grand Master's Address, Report of Trustees of Home,
or others. And so Bro. Matthews may expect to hear from us
whether he gets the Journal or not:
The M.". W.". A. W. Campbell, Grand Master; the R.". W.". John
Watson, Grand Secretary, Waco. Correspondent, Past Grand Master
Thomas M. Matthews, Athens.
The Grand Lodge of Texas will hold its Seventieth Annual Communication at Waco, November 8, 1905.

He visited some of his constituent Lodges and pleaded " stress of
business" for not making the acquaintance of the others at their
respective homes.

UTAH.
11 Lodges.
1,213 Members.
The Grand Lodge of Utah held its Thirty-fourth Annual Communication in Masonic Hall, Ogden, January 17, 1905, comm,mcing
at 10 <?'clock A. M.,-M .. W.". Richard Louis Conely, Grand Master;
R. ·. W. ·. Christopher Diehl, Grand Secretary. Every Lodge was
represented, together with thirty-nine other Grand Jurisdictions.
Seven Past Grand Masters, four Past qrand Wardens, and twenty
Past Masters were in attendance.
A portrait of Grand Master-elect Varian appears on the opening
page.
The Grand Lodge was opened In Ample Form with solemn prayer
by the Grand Chaplain, and proclamation by the Grand Marshal.
The W. ·. Herbert R. MacMillan, Master or'" Weber" Lodge, No.
6, welcomed the Grand Lodge to Ogden, extending to the members
the freedom and hospitality o! the city.
The Grand Master named the Committee on Credentials, and the
Grand Lodge was "called oft" until 2 o'clock P . M.
The Grand Lodge was "called on," pursuant to adjournment.
The Committee on Credentials reported. The Grand Master named
the other committees and proceeded to deliver his Annual Address.
He referred to history of the Grand Lodge, its progress and present prosperity; he gave a cordial welcome to the Representatives
of the Lodges who had come up to review the past and devise means
for the future advancement of Freemasonry in Utah.
He mentioned the names inscribed on the death roll of the year,
and tend~red to the affiicted ones, the widows and the fatherless,
the sincere sympathy of the Grand Lodge.

He constituted, by prdxy, " Hiram " Lodge, No. 12, and installed
Its officers duiing the recess.
No decisions were reported because none had been asked forcertainly a good reason.
We ·sincerely regret to learn of the misfortune conveyed in the
following brief extract, and shall hope to hear In the very near future of Bro. Dlehl's complete recovery. Meanwhile may the good
Lord comfort and console . him.
"While 'most of us have been enjoying the best of health during
the past year, there has been one who has not been so fortunate. I
refer to our Grand Secretary, .Bro. Christopher Diehl. Shortly
after the last session of the Grand Lodge he was taken down with
la grippe, which confined him to his home for several weeks. A
short time ago he had the misfortune to break his ankle. It is not
necessary to say that he has had the sympathy of all the Brethren,
and the officers and members of the Grand Lodge rejoice that he
has so far recovered as to be able to meet with us on this occasion."
Bro. Diehl's report Is, as usual, a complete record, In brief, of
the working and financial condition of the Grand Lodge of Utah.
The Grand Master received and addressed the Representatives
of other Grand Jurisdictions present, and the Grand Lodge welcomed
them with the Grand Honors.
R.". W.". Senior Grand Warden and Past Master of "Weber"
Lodge, Bro. Sidney Watson Badcon, reminded the assembled Brethren of the reception tendered by "Weber" Lodge this evening, and
cordially requested them and their ladles to be present and participate
in' the festivities.
The Grand Master called the Brethren to their feet to listen to
the report of 'the Committee on Obituaries, Bro. Henry Simon,
chairman. The report was a mournfully eloquent paper devoted to
the remembrance of the good Brethren who had passed to rest.
After the reading, the Grand Honors were given and the report
adopted. The Grand Lodge, upon the recommendation of the Committee on Jurispru.,dence, declined to amend the laws concerning the
vote of Past Masters, giving each a single vote, in lieu of the present
collective vote. That simple question came near destroying the
New York Grand Lodge Oorganlzation some sixty years ago, h ence
we say the Grand Lodge acted wisely.

154

155

IlEPOR'r ON Co1t'HESPONDENCE.

REPORT ·ON Comn.SPONDE1\CE.

The usual rout ine of business, reports of committees, etc., having
been disposed of, the election of officers was . in order, and the
following Brethren were chosen to fill the several stations for the
ensuing year: Bro. Charles Stetson Varian, Grand Master; Bro. Sid·
ney Watson Badcon, Deputy Grand Master; Bro. William James
Barrette, Senior Grand Warden ; Bro. James Henry Brown, Junior
Grand Warden; Bro. John Shaw Scott, Grand Treasurer; Bro. Chris·
topher Diehl, Grand Secretary.

" The ever-to;be-remembered' feast was closed with singing
•America ' and 'Auld Lang Syne' and with an all-around hand·
shake, the Brethren sought their homes as happy as larks in the
early morning." ·

The Grand Mastel'.-elect made his appointments, and all were in·
stalled by the retiring Grand Master who, at the .c,lose, transferred.
to his successor the signet ring of the Grand Master.
The retiring Grand Master, M. ·. W. ·. Bro. Ri chard Louis Conely,
was presented with a Past Grand Master's Jewel.
In these closing duties W.' . Bro. Henry Simon acted as Master of
the Ceremonies.
The Grand Master appointed the standing committees.

w.·. Bro. Herbert R. MacMillan, Master of " Weber" Lodge, on
behalf of said Lodge, invited the Grand Lodge to partake of the
hospitalities of " Weber" Lodge at a banquet to be served after the
close pf the present session.
The Grand Lodge was closed !n Ample Form, with prayer by the
Grand Chaplain.
Note.-We are of the unsolicited opinion, formed from the closing
notes of the aforesaid banquet, that it was a success. We quote the
closing notes :
"After enjoying for a couple of hours the viands, the Havanas
were lighted, and the 'flow of reason and feast of soul' was on top
till two o'clock A. 111. Our own gifted and ever-ready toastmaster,
Bro. Abbot R. Heywood, was, as usual on such occasions, at his very
best. The responses to the following toasts were all happy and
eloquent, the response to the last one excepted :
" ' The President of the United States' . . ...... Bro. Charles B. Jack
" 'Freemasonry ' . . .... . . .. .. . ...... . .. . .. . Bro. Charles S. Varian
"'Irrigation' . .. . ..... ...... .. . .. ...... ....... Bro. Dwight Meteer
'"Utah' . .... ... . ... . .. . . . ... . .... . .. .. . . . . Bro. T. W. Pinkerton
"'Masonic Reminiscences' ... . . .. . . ... , . .. .... . Bro. R . L. Conely
" ' In this 20th century can anything be novel and at the same
time moral?' ...... . ............ . ....... Bro. F. C. Schramm
" 'What Does. the Horizon Reveal' ......... . .... Bro. Geo. A. Eaton
"'Education' ·................ . ...... . .. . . Bro. Peter A. ·Simpkin
" ' The Brook,' ' Men may come and men may go, but I go on
forever.' . . ........ . ....... ... . .. .... .. ... Bro. Chris. Diehl

R EPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

In spite of his afflictions, Bro. Christopher Diehl comes, as usual,
with his report wherein is reviewed fifty-five Grand Jurisdictions
In a paper of 110 pages. His notice of California Is of the adminis·
tration of Grand Master Henderson, and shows a careful following
of the details of the business before the Grand Lodge.
We sincerely trust Bro. Diehl will recover his health and strength
before we hear from him again.
M.'. W.'. Charles Stetson Varian, Grand Master; R.' . W.'. Chris·
topher Diehl, Grand Secretary. Correspondent, R. ·. W. ·. Christopher Diehl, Salt Lake City.
The next, the Thirty-fifth, Annual Communication will be held
in Masonic Hall, Salt Lake City; Jan. 16, 1906.
VALLE DE MEXICO.
For some unknown reason· we have failed to receive the proceed·
!ngs of the Grand Lodge of "Valle De Mexico," but having the
New York report at hand, we borrow from Bro. Anthony his notice
of this Grand Lodge:
"At the Annual Communicatiou, held in the City of Mexico,
January 8, 1904, twenty-three Lodges were represented ..
" The Grand Master reported that 'with each year which passes,
the stability of the Grand Lodge Valle de Mexico becomes more and
more marked, in, spite of the many obstacles which impede the
growth of true Masonry here.' Regret was expressed that ·this
Grand Lodge had been represented at the Masonic Congress, which
met in Genoa, September, 1902, and we infer that with a clearer
knowledge of the component parts assembled at those meetings, this
Grand Lodge will not furth~r give its countenance thereto.
" In the consideration of several complaints for invasion of
jurisdiction, by the acceptance of material belonging to sister Grand
Jurisdictions, there was evinced a disposition to make amplP. amends.
The Grand Master also recommended :
" ' That the border Lodges exercise the greatest care when receiving applications from those who have come from the Un.i ted
States to fully assure themselves of the actual residence and previ·
ous good character of such applicants.'

156

REPORT oN CoitRESPONDENCE.

"During the past year four Lodges had resumed official relations
with the Grand Lodge, and three new Lodges had been created.
"The Grand Secretary reported that the Grand Lodge Is composed
of forty-one Lodges, of which twenty work in Spanish, twenty in
English, and oiie in German, with a membership of 1,222.
"M.". w:. Manuel Levi, Grand Master; R. ·. W.". F. M. Iglesias,
Grand Secretary."
VERMONT.
The One Hundred and Twelfth Annual Communication of the
Grand Lodge of Vermont was held in the Masonic Temple, Burlington, June 14, 1905, commencing at 10 o'clock A. M.,-M:. W.". Olin
W. Daley, Grand Master; R ." . W.". Henry H. Ross, Grand Secretary.
Eighty-six Lodges were represented, together with thirty-two other
Grand Jurisdictions. Twenty-seven permanent members were in
attendance, of ·whom nine were Past Grand Masters.
A fine portrait of Grand Master Daley appears on the opening
page, and in the body of the present number the entire official st.all',
clothed as "The Grand Lodge of Vermont."
Past Grand Master George W. Wing represents the Grand Lodge
of California, near the Grand Lodge of Vermont.
Past Grand Mast(;Jr George 0. Tyler, of the Grand Lodge of Quebec, a distinguished visitor, was welcomed by the Grand Master
and received with the Grand Honors.
The Grand Secretary announced the illness of Past Grand Master
Nicholson, and he was instructed to extend the sympathy of the
Grand Lodga to the M.". W.". Bro. in his affliction.
The. Grand Master then proceeded to deliver his Annual Address.
With an acknowledgement of the Divine goodness in pemiltUng
the members of the Grand Lodge to come together in this the One
Hundred and Twelfth Annual Assembly to consider the pi.st and
plan on the trestleboard designs for the future gover11ment and wel·
fare of the Fraternity, he reviewed briefly . the history of the Organization; but before reporting his official acts during the recess,
he directed the attention of the Brethren to the lengthy death roll,
having inscribed on its pages 'the names of one hundred and ninety
members of the Ledges of Vermolit. In reporting this great loss,
h e said:
"In referring to the rolls of membership of our Subordlnat.i
Lodges, we find that many threshholds have been crossed by the
' Silent Messenger.' The returns made to the Grand Secretary show

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

157

the number of deaths to have been one hundred and ninety during
the year. While death has deprived us of some of the brightest and
best of our Brethren, official notices have been received announcing
the bereavements of our sister Grand Jurisdictions, .many of whom
have suffered the loss of distinguished and honorable Craftsmen."
He paid a feeling and eloquent tribute to the lives and charaders of the two Past Grand Masters who had passed to rest with
this "army of the dead "-M. ·. W. ·. Brothers Ozro Meacham and
Nathan B. Haswell. He closed his reference to the Fraternal Dead
with these words:
"The Committee on Necrology will, in their report, make special
mention of our own deceased Brethren and those of our sister Juris·
dictions who have died during the year. I recommend that memorial
pages be set apart to their memory in our printed proceedings."
He reported no important decisions. He earnestly advocated the
importance of the Past Masters' Degree, and deprecated its too-frequent omission as part of ·the installation ceremonies. There is a
touch of warmth in his closing words. We quote:
"We are told by travelers that amidst the Arabian hills is a
valley given up t o the culture of odorous shrubs and spices, where
the air is redolent with fragrance. Going away, the visitor finds
that the perfume clings to the hair and garments for days. May
this Annual ·communication of the Grand Lodge of Vermont be so
harmonious, uplifting and soul-inspiring that we · shall go away
charmed with, and strengthened by, the spirit of brotherly love,
and our lives made fragrant with nobler and more earnest desires
to bless and uplift mankind."
·
We excerpt the following abstract of work from the report of
Grand Secretary Ross:
Number of Lodges chartered . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
103
Number having made returns and paid amounts due..
103
Number of Members April 30, 1904.......... . .... . . .
11,303
Number raised ... . . ....... .... .... . . .......... . ... 512
Number admitted .. ... ...... ... ...... ........ . . .. . . 86
Number reinstated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .. 38
Number omitted last year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Number dimltted ... . .. ... . ......... ... ............. 150
Number died . ..... ... .... ... .... . ........ . ...... . . 190
Number suspended .. . ...... . ....................... 51
Number expelled . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Number erroneously reported in 1904 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Number of members April 30, 1905.. .. ....... .. .... .
11.,535
Net gain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
232

158

REPORT ON ConnESPONDENCE.

Telegraphic congratulations were exchanged with the Grand
Lodge of Wisconsin.
Past Grand Master Kittredge Haskins, Chairman of Committee
on Grievances,. reported none in sight.
Referring to the Grand Master's mention of the Past Masters'
Degree, the Committee on Jurisprudence reported in accordance
with the usage and custom of legitimate Masonry, as follows: .
"From information which your committee has received, as well
as from personal knowledge, we believe that practically all, if not all,
Masters in this Jurisdiction have had the Past Master's Degree either
conferred upon or communicated to them, and to infer that such
is not the case from the mere. fact that no report has been made to
the Grand Secretary, would, we think, be hardly warranted; and, if
a Master who had not had the Past Master's Degree were to preside
in a Lodge and confer degrees, Masons so made would not be, in our
opinion, clandestine, but such a course should never be permitted or
tolerated by the Grand Lodge.
" Our law upon this subject is plain, and any violation of it in
the future by a Subordinate Lodge, should be considered cause for
citing such Lodge to show cause why its charter should not be forfeited."
T UE R ECOUD OF A VETERAN.

The annual election of officers being in order, the Grand Master
called to the East, with the request that he would preside during
the election, Past Grand Master Nathan P. Bowman, which request
drew from the M. ·. W. ·. Past Grand Master the following remarkable
record. Bro. Bowman, addressing the Grand Lodge, said:
" I appreciate the honor of having been called upon once more to
preside at the e lection of officers of the Grand Lodge, and I wish to
make a few remarks.
"There have been since I was made a Mason, fifty-five executive
session s of this Grand Body, fifty-one of which I have attended, my
a bsence during the other four being caused one year by reason of
serving as a soldier in the Civil War, and three years by sickness and
death in my family.
"A large number of years I have presided at t he. election of t he
officers of this Gra nd Lodge, but with the weight of eighty-three
years resting upon me, with poor eye-sight and rather feeble health,
I feel my inabiUty to participate in the a ctive duties of this Grand
Lodge, and must r espectfully ask to be excused from presiding at
this election.

IlEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

159

" I thank you, Sir, for the honor of being invited, but must respectfully decline.
"As I realize that the infirmities of age are creeping on, and that
life at all times is uncertain, and that it is possible I may not meet
with you again in Grand Lodge, it would be, and is, my reques t that
when the time of earthly dissolution comes, the Grand Lodge may
perform for me the last sad rites.
"Most Worshipful Grand Master and Bret hren, I thank you for
your innumerable Fraternal courtesies."
Bro. Bowman was excused, and Pas t Grand Master Alfred A.
Hall called to preside. The election proceeded and the following
Brethren were chosen to fill the stations for the ensuiJ1g year:
M." . W.". Walter E . Ranger, Montpelier, Grand Master; R ." . w:.
Charles · A. Calderwood, St. Johnsbury, Deputy Grand Master ; R .".
W.". Lee S. Tillotson, St. Albans, Grand Senior Warden; R.". w:.
Everett C. Benton, Guildhall, Grand Junior Warden; R.". w:.
Charles W. Whitcomb, Proctorsville, Grand Treasurer ; R .'. w: .
Henry H. Ross, Burlington, Grand Secr etary; W. Henry Poole, Williamstown, Grand Senior Deacon; W. Hiram H. Howe, Rutland,
Grand Junior Deacon.
The Grand Master-elect made 'his appoint ments and all were installed by Past Grand Master Marsh O. Perkins, the W." . Daniel s.
Danforth acting as Master of the Ceremonies, and proclamation was
duly made thereof.
The Grand Master appointed the sta nding committees, and after
prayer by the W.". and Rev. Charles F. Partridge, Assistant Grand
Chaplain, the Grand Lodge was closed. ·
R EP ORT ON C ORRE S P ON DENCE.

A fine r eport is submitted by Past Grand Master Marsh O. Perkins, Chairman of Correspondence. His review of the condition of
the Masonic world-a fact or in his reports-is the determination
to hold fast to that which is good and holding in distrust all improvements of the original plan. He reviews California under the
administration of Grand Master Nutting and commends his rulings
and opinions. His comment concerning "Political Methods in Grand
Lodge " are fully endorsed and concurred in.
M.". W.". Walter E. Ranger, Grand Master; R .". w: . Henry H .
Ross, Grand Secretary. Correspondent, Pas t Grand Master Marsh
0. Perkins, Windsor.
The next, the !13th, Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge
of Vermont will be h.e ld in Burlington, June 13 and 14, 1906.

161

REPORT oN CoRHEl:IPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

VIRGINIA.
15,846 Members.
287 Lodges.
The Grand Lodge of Virginia held its One Hundred and Twentyseventh Annual Communication in the Masonic Temple, Richmond,
February 14, 1905,-M.'. w:. Thomas N. Davis, Grand Master; R.'.
w:. George w. Carrington, Grand Secretary. One hundred and
seventy-three Lodges were represented, together with twenty-nine
other Grand Jurisdictions. Four P~st Grand Masters and twenty·
three District Deputy Grand Masters were in attendance.
A portrait " In Memoriam " of Past Grand Master Mann Page,
who was Grand Master in 1893-94, appears on the opening page,.

tlon and cordial voice of good-will and good wishes for my successful
administration of the responsible duties of the Grand East. And
now, the finger of God touched him and he is dead!

160

The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form.
Prior to the AO.dress of the Grand Master, the following. courtesies ~ere made of record:
"R.'. w:. Cort. R. Hincken, the Grand Representative of the
Grand Lodge of Virginia near the Grand Lodge of New York, was
presented in the East, introduced by the Grand Master as a faithful
and efficient Representative, and saluted.
Bro. Hincken responded gracefully, bringing cordial Fraternal ·
greetings from his Grand Lodge a.n d Grand Master, and expressed
the great pleasure ;:i.nd gratification it gave him to be prese~t at
our Grand Annual Communication. His visit was much appreciated
and enjoyed.
The Grand Master stated that he had a gratifying and pleasing
duty to perform. He therefore called to the East R.'. W.'. William
T Rea Grand Lecturer, and called on Past Grand Master R. T. W.
D~ke, 'Jr., who, on behalf of the Brethren of Division No. 3, el.o·
quently and feelingly presented Bro. Rea a magnificent je';el, suitably engraved; as a testimonial of their Jove and affection, a~d
their recognition of his Jong and faithful services to the Craft m
that Division.
Bro. Rea accepted the jewel with expressions of the deepest
thankfulness and gratification.
Th e Grand Master then proceeded to deliver his Annual Address.
.
After a brief introduction reverting to the early days of his
forty years' active experience in the Fraternity, he reported the
routine of business transacted during the ~ecess; first, however,
referring to the Brethren who had passed to rest since the last
Annual Communication. He referred with much feeling to his
friend and brother Past Grand Master Mann Page, of whom he said:
"How well do I remember during the closing hours uf the last
Communication of this Grand Body, his hearty hand of congratula-

" His last rites were attended with Masonic honors by the Grand
Lodge under charge of Bros. K. Kemper and J. W. Eggleston, respectively Deputy Grand Master and Grand Junior Warden, as it was almost impossible for me to attend personally.''
He made several visitations, placed several corner-stones of
public buildings and monuments.
Among his rulings under the head of "Decisions," we note one
that would put an end to some of the radical legislation on the
liquor question; for instance,
" That a By-Law stating that no petition for initiation can be
entertained from a person engaged in the liquor business, either as
proprietor, manager, or salesman, is illegal."
He expresses himself decidedly on the question of the duty of
the Grand Master to keep in touch with the Craft by visiting his
constituent Lodges, in the following:
" I believe in personal visitation in response to invitations from
the Craft. Each response takes time and money. The first . item is
mine, and for which I make no charge, and the second is yours.
Kindly accept this in explanation of my expense account, which I
have been informed is, comparatively, largely in excess of th,e aggregate expenditures of the two preceding Grand Masters."
His address was referred to the Past Grand Masters present for
division and reference.
Past Grand Master R. T. W. Duke, Jr., on behalf of W.'. John
W. Richardson, registrar of the land office of Virginia, presented to
the Grand Lodge a gavel made from the original timbers of the
Capitol of Virginia-which was also for four years the Capitol of
the Confederate States of America-now undergoing alterations
and repairs. In doing so he delivered an eloquent and patriotic
address.
Nine charters were ordered issued to Lodges under dispensations,
and one dispensation was continued.
The District Deputy Grand Masters reported their visitations
and the condition of the Lodges in their respective districts. The
Grand Lecturers reported, and the routine of business considered.
The following . officers having been elected and installed, it was
ordered that this Grand Lodge be now closed and remain closed

lle.

163

REPORT ON CouuESl'ONDENCE

RErORT ON CoRRESl'ONDi'.NCE.

until the second Tuesday in February, 1906, unless sooner convened
by the M.". W." . Grand Master.

An 'Address of Welcome to Grand Lodge was made by W. ·. Bro.
Ralph C. McAllaster, on behalf of the Freemasons of Seattle, which
was responded to by the R. ·. W. ·. Junior Grand Warden.

162

R EPORT ON CoRRESPO~DEl\CE.

Bro. J . ·w. Eggleston reviews California, in this number, for the
years 1903 and 1904, the administrations of Grand Masters Henderson and Nutting. In noticing the address of Grand Master Henderson, he says, speaking of the address:
" He recom.m ended abolishing the Grand R epresentative system for the reason, among others, that it smacks of royalty. We
like it for that same reason. We should never forget that ours
is the royal Order , once presided over by the greatest of all kings."
We have and do now believe that the Representative system is a factor in drawing closer together the several Masonic
Jurisdictions by interesting members of one and all others, and the
greatest aid in the accomplishment' of the end for which we are all
striving, vi:i:., the universality of Masonry.
We had a pleasant call a few weeks since from the R . '. W,'.
Geo~ge W. Carrington while on his trip to this Western world in
search of additional health and vigor. Our br other found friend sand old friends, toe>-in this wild and wooly country, and was enjoying himself at the time of our "good bye," with the expectation
of returning to "Old Virginia " improved in health, in which we
trust he was not disappointed.
M.". W,' . Thomas N. Davis, Grand Master ; R ." . W.". George W.
Carri ngton, Grand Secretary . Corres pondent, R ." . W,'. Joseph W.
Eggleston, Rir.hmond.
The next Annual Communication will be held in Richmond,
Tuesday, Feb. 2, ' lil06.
WASHING TON.
7,961 Members.
129 Lodges.
T he Grand Lodge of Washington held it s F orty-seventh Annual
Communication in Seattle, June 14, 1904, commencing at 10 o'clock
A. M.,- the M.". W,'. Charles Duncan Atkins, Grand Master; R.".
w :. Thomas Milburne Reed, Grand Secretary. One hundred and
fourteen chartered Lodges and eight under dispensation, together
with t wenty-seven other Grand Jurisdictions wer e represented.
EleYen Past Grand Masters, a Past Grand Deputy, a Past Grand
Warden and seventy-six Past Masters were in attendance.
A portrait ~f Grand Mast er At kins a ppear s on the opening page.

The Grand Master named the Committee on Credentials, and
proceeded to deliver his Annual Address.
He gave a cordial welcome to the Representatives of the eight
thousand Masons of Washington who had come up to the annual
feast for the purpose of reviewing the past and devising methods
for the future welfare of Freemasonry in the Jurisdiction. He referred to munificent blessings of Providence upon the people and
the Fraternity in Washington.
Under Necrology, he paid affectionate tribute to the one hundred
of their own dead, and the unusual number of Eminent Brethren
of sister Jurisdictions who had passed to rest during the year
now closing.
He issued eight dispensations for the forming and opening of
new Lodges. He opened the Grand Lodge in special session and
placed the corner-stone of the Universalist Church in the city of
Spokane.
He dedicated .to the uses and purposes of Masonry the Masonic
Temple at Tacoma, and the Lodges in the cities of Bretnerton and
Everett. He visited thirty of the constituent Lodges and Inst alled
the officers of a number.
No important decisions wer e reported, the ones mentioned being
clearly dependent upon the law of Washington for decision.
He devotes a few closing lines to a well-deserved tribute to that
" Exemplar" of a good Grand Secretary, Bro. Thomas M. Reed, and
here in California we respond: So say we all.
We excerpt the following abstract of work from the report of the
a foresaid Grand Secret ary: '
Number members in roll December 31, 1902 .. . .. . .... . . .
7,056
Number raised during year (including Lodges U. D., with
exception of two unre ported) . . . . ... . .. . ..... . .. . .. 802
Number. affiliated during the year . . ... .... . . ...... .. . . 422
Number reinstated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
Numbe r plus errors ... ......... . ....... , • . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Number petitione rs of new Lodges . .. .. ...... .. . . .. . ... 135
1,465
Total, Including gain

8,521

164

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

D:

Loss deducted (including U.
Lodges, with exception of two
unreported) :
Number died .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Number dimitted .. ..... ................................ 271
Number dropped from roll for non-payment of dues .... 159
Number suspended for unmasonic conduct . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4
Number expelled . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1
Number petitioners for new Lodges (membership in abeyance) . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Number minus errors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
8
564

Present membership
Net gain ....................................... .

7,957
901

A good, practical report was made by Bro. D. S. Prescott, Grand
Lecturer, and he subsequently exemplified the Third Degree before
the Grand Lodge.
Fraternal greetings were exchanged by wire with the Grand
Lodge of Wisconsin at the time in its Sixtieth Annual Session.
An eloquent oration was delivered before the Grand Lodge by the
W.'. Bro. Arthur J. Craven, Grand Orator, which was ordered and
was printed in the journal.
The Committees on Grievances and Appeals, on Unfinished Busi·
ness, on Special Order of Business, on Work and Returns, on Jurisprudence, on Charity, reported, and the reports were considered and
disposed of. The reports of the Committees on Finance and on
Obituaries were presented and adopted.
The Grand Representatives of other Grand Lodges near the
Grand Lodge of Washington, were introduced, received with Grand
Honors, and cordially welcomed by the M.'. W.'. Grand Master, a
fitting response being made by M. ·. W. ·. Bro. John Arthur, Grand
Representative of the Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia.
A DESERVED TRIBUTE.
M.' . W.'. Bro. Joseph Kuhn presented the following resolution,
which, on motion, was referred to the Committee on Finance:
" WHEREAS: Our Venerable Brother, Thomas M. Reed, having
served this Grand Lodge faithfully since its organization in 1858,
and as its Grand Secretary for forty·two years; and,
"WHEREAS:. Owing to his physical condition and the growing In·
firmities of age he finds it almost impossible, not only to perform the
requisite labor· of his office, but to endure the mental strain con·

165

nected therewith; and, having expressed a desire to be relieved in
some way by this Grand Lodge from its heavy responsibilities; and,
"WHEREAS: The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Washington
recognizes his unusual ability and untiring service· in its behalf
during the past half-century, feels that it is not only due him, but
that the Grand Lodge is honoring itself by continuing him as a
permaneni officer of this Grand Body; therefore, be it
"Resolved, That the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of Washington hereby
elects and appoints M.'. W.'. Bro. Thomas Milburne Reed as its
Emeritus 'Grand Secretary, with a salary of one hundred dollars a
month during the remainder of his natural life."
The following resolution was presented by M.'. W.' . Bro. Y. C.
Blalock, and, on motion, adopted:
"WHEREAS: Our W.'. and Rev. Bro. William Pelan, Grand Chaplain, unable to be present at this Annual Communication owing to
his enfeebled condition and advanced age; therefore, be it
"Resolved, That the R. ·. w. ·. Grand Secretary extend the sympathies of this Grand Lodge to our Venerable Brother under the seal
of the Grand Lodge."
The Committee on Finance submitted the following report, which,
on motion, was adopted:
"We, your Finance Committee, to whom was referred the resolution introduced by P. G. M. Joseph A. Kuhn, in regard to electing
P. G. M. Thomas M. Reed as Grand Secretary Emeritus, respectfully
report as follows :
"We have consulted with Bro. Reed a11d have gone over the
entire matter and we believe that it would be to the best interst of
the Grand L~dge that he be continued as Grand Secretary; and we,
therefore, recommend that the resolution be not adopted."
Although it was thought best at this time not to adopt the preamble and resolution, yet the tribute remains "of record."
GREETINGS COME FROM OREGON.
" The Grand Lodge of Oregon, your devoted mother, sends maternal greetings to her honored oiTspring, and points with pride to
the exalted position her illustrious child occupies in the brilliant
galaxy of Grand Lodges of our country.
"To the <Yrand Lodge of Washington:
"JAMES F. ROBINSON, Grand Secretary.

The election of ~fficers being in order, the M.'. W.'. Edwin Hugh
Van Patten was chosen Grand Master of Masons in Washington, and
R.'. W.'. Thomas Milburne Reed was re-elected Grand Secretary, and

166

HEPORT ON ConREBPONDENCE.

were installed by Grand Master Charles D. Atkins, assisted by W. ·.
Bro. W. C. Wilcox as Master of Ceremonies.
The Grand Master appointed the standing comn1ittees, and the
Grand Lodge closed In Ample Form at 5: 30 P. M.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The present is an elegant report of one hundred and eighty pages
by Past Grand Master William H. Upton, and from its quality we
can hardly understand that) as he says In a note at the conclusion,
"we have been most of the year In poor health and burdened by
serious anxieties." We wish you a speedy return to good health, Bro.
Upton. He notices the transactions of the Grand Lodge of California
for the administration of Grand Master Henderson, and goes through
the details of the session: The action of Boards of Relief, business
of the Home, the oration of Bro. Hart, and .the general routine of
matters mentioned by the Grand Master.
M.'. W.'. Edwin Hugh Van Patten, Gran~ Master; R.'. w. -.
Thomas Milburne Reed, Grand Secretary. Correspondent, Past
Grand Master William H. Upton, Walla Walla.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
69 Lodges.

3,348 Members.
The Grand Lodge of Western Australia held a Quarterly Communication at Fi:e-emasons' Hall, Perth, January 27, 1905-M.'. W.'.
the Rt. Rev. C. 0 . L. Riley, D. D., Grand Master; the V.'. W.'. Bro.
J. D. Stevenson, Gra~d Secretary. Twenty Lodges were represented,
and there was a full attendance of Grand Officers, Past Grand Offlcers
and Past Masters.
Beautiful portraits of the M.'. W.'. Michael Sanson Pro Grand
Master, and the R.'. W.'. Arthur McMullen, Past Deputy Grand Master, in full ceremonial dress, appear In this number of the journal.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form.
The proceeuings of this meeting are almost wholly devoted to a
special report on the correspondence which had passed between the
Grand Secretaries of the Grand Lodges of England and Scotland re·
garding the sovereign rights of Scotland In the province of Western
Australia, and other matters relating thereto.
The concensus of testimony is In favor of the Grand Lodge of
Wester-n Australia, and its position in refusing to recognize Lodges
instituted within its territory by the Grand Lodge of Scotland,
subsequent to the organization of this Grand Lodge, is fully warranted. This Grand Lodge is also to be commended for the course

IlEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

167

adopted with reference to the old Lodges of the Scottish Constitution and their members.
"When the Grand Lodge of Western Australia was inaugurated
In February, 1900, thirty-three private· Lodges acknowledged allegiance. There are to-day sixty-nine Lodges owing fealty to the
Sovereign Grand Lodge of Western Australia, being an increase of
thirty-six-more than doubling the original body. The increase is
made up by twenty-five new Lodges consecra~ed, and eleven Lodges
that have sJnce affiliated from the other Constitutions. Last year
the numi:Jer of financial members on the books amounted to 2,980,
while this year the number is 3,348, showing an increase of 368. No
less a number than 411 have been initiated during the twelve months
ending December 31st last. Owing to the large number of Free·
masons that have made Western Australia their place of residence
during the last few years, I have prepared a return of affiliating
members, showing the Constitutions they have joined from. During
the last four years our ranks have been increased by no less than
734 joining members."
The Grand Lodge of Costa Rica was recognized as a just and legal
Grand Lodge.
The Grand Officers were installed and the Grand Anniversary
Festival held on thP- evening of April 28th.
The first toast, " Our King and Patron," was proposed by the
Grand Master, and the "Tyler's Toast" and "Auld Lang Syne," followed by "God Save the King," closed the ceremonies of the Communication.
WEST VIRGINIA.
9,400 Members.
128 Lodges.
Seventeen Special Communications were held by the Grand Lodge
of West Virginia during the Masonic year ending November 16,
1904. Of these, thirteen were for the placing of corner-stones of
public buildings, among which were four Masonic Halls and Temples and four churches of different denominations. One, held at Martinsburg, June 9, 1904, being held by "Robert White" Lodge, No.
67, to pay the last sad tribute of love ·and affection to the remains
of Past Grand Master William Henry Harrison Flick, who passed to
r est at the age sixty-three years; two for t he constitution of new
Lodges, and one for the dedication of the new Masonic Temple of
"Coal Valley" Lodge, No. 74.
The Fortieth Annual Communication was held in the city of
Clarksburg, November 16, 1904, commencing ·at 7: 30 o'clock P. :af.. , -

168

169

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

M.'. W.'. George Hatch, Grand Master; R.'. W.'. George W. Atkinson,
Grand Secretary. One hundred and thirteen Lodges were represented, together with twenty-two other Grand Jurisdictions. Twelve
Past Grand Masters, nine District Deputy Grand Masters and ten District Grand Lecturers were in attendance.
The Grand Lodge was opened In Ample Form, prayer being
offered by the Grand Chaplain, the Rev. P. C. White.
The Grand Master, after hearing the report of the Grand Secretary, announced that a constitutional number of the Subordinate
Lodges being duly represented, the M. ·. W. ·. Grand Lodge was duly
opened and was ready for business.
The Representatives of other Grand Lodges near the Grand
Lodge of West Virginia, were heartily and cordially welcomed to
seats in the Grand Lodge by M.'. W.'. Grand Master Hatch, and the
hope was expressed that the relations between the M.'. W.'. Grand
Lodge of West Virginia and the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge which each
of them represented would, in the future, as in the past, remain in
the closest bonds of Fraternal relationship. The Brethren were
received with Grand Honors and took their seats in the Grancl
Lodge.
A portrait of Dr. Luther H. Clarke, Grand Ma~ter-elect, appears
on the opening page.
The M.'. W:. Bro. Grand Master George Hatch then proceeded to
deliver his Annual Address. After a brief but cordial welcome, directing the attention of the Brethren to the death roll of the year,
he said:.
"Death is indeed the doom of all! .
" ' The dead are everywhereThe mountain side, the sea, the woods profound,
All the wide earth-the fertile and the fairIs one vast burial ground.'

the names of those of whose death he had received official notice,
and among the names on the roll we note those of our dead Brethren,
Past Grand Master Preston and Past Junior Grand Warden Hayward.
He granted dispensations for the forming and opening of four
new Lodges.
The District Deputy Grand Masters reported their visitations
and the conditions of the several Lodges. The District Lecturers
also each reported the condition of the Lodges, so far as the work
and correctness of the Ritual used was concerned.
R.'. W.'. Walter Chandler, Senior Grand Warden of the Grana
Lodge of New Jersey, was Introduced and received with the Grand
Honors.
Bro. W. Burns McGregor, W. M. of "Hermon" Lodge, No. 6, of
Clarksburg, announced that a banquet would be spread at the commodious· Waldo Hotel at 11 : 30 to-night, ancJ. extended a cordial invitation to all of the officers, delegates and visitors of the Grand
Lodge to be present and participate in the same.
We excerpt the following abstract of work from the report of the
Committee on Returns of Chartered Lodges.
Whole number of chartered Lodges ........ : . . . . . . . . . . 124
Whole number of Lodges under dispensation. . . . . . . . . .
4
Number Lodges making returns .... ...... ... . . .. . ... 121
Number Lodges represented ............ ..... ......... 117
Number initiated ................................... 853
Number passed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ................ ... 830
Number raised . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 855
Number admitted ................. . ............... .. 200
Number reinstated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Number omitted last report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
8
Number expelled ....................... _.. . . . . . . . . . . .
7
Number suspended for non-payment of dues... ... ..... 85
Number suspended for unmasonic conduct . . . . . • . . . . . .
9
Number died • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
Number dimitted .................................... 218
Number Error in last report. . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . 21
Error in last report. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Number rejected . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 272
Whole number of members last report ............... 8,710
Whole number of members 1904, including number of
members last year, in Lodges not reporting this
year .......................................... : 9,399
Gain in membership over last year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 689

"And no matter which way we turn our eyes we are continually
reminded that we are born to die, and that it comes alike to us in
youth and manhood as well as to him who lives on borrowed time,
and at a time when we least expect it, proving to us that
"'Leaves have their time to fall,
And flowers to wither at the north wind's breath;
And stars to set-but
Thou hast all seasons for thine own, O Death.' "
He paid affectionate tribute to the last Past Grand Master W. H.
H. Flick. He also, in sympathy with sister Jurisdictions, mentioned

170

REPORT ON CORUESPONDE~CE .

REPORT ON CoBREBPONDENOE.

The several committees reported-Committee on Work, on Charters and Dispensations, on Finance and Grievances and Appeals, and
on Jurisprudence. The several reports were considered and the
general routine of business concluded.
The following Brethren were chosen to fill the stations for the
ensuing Masonic year:
M.'. W.'. Luther H. Clarke, M. D., Grand Master; R;', W.'.
George W. McClintic, Deputy Grand Master; R .'. W.'. Tom. G.
Strickler, Senior Grand Warden; R : .. w:. James A. Bryan, Junior
Grand Warden; R.'. w:. Samuel N. Myers, Grand Treasurer; R.'.
W. ·. George W. Atkinson, Grand Secretary.
'

171

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Past Grand Master George W. Atkinson, Chairman of Correspondence, in addition to the dµties of Grand Secretary, finds time to re·
view sixty-nine Grand Jurisdictions in search of more light in Ma·
sonry and submits his conclusions in a paper of 324 pages and the
present ls his 19th Annual. In his notice of California he reviews
the administration of Grand Master Henderson---quotes from his
Address and follows him through his travels in his visitation of the
Lodges and comments his energetic discharge of the many duties of
his office. He commends Grand Orator Hart as Intelligent, thoughtful and eloquent In his treatment of the subject of his Oration, viz.:
Liberty, Equality, Fraternity,.

The Grand Master made his appointments and all, both elected '
and appointed, were respectively proclaimed, saluted and installed
by the retiring Grand Master, Bro. George Hatch.

M.'. W.'. Luther H. Clarke, Grand Master; R.'. W.'. George W.
Atkinson, Grand Secretary. Correspondent, Past Grand Master
George W. Atkinson, Charleston.

The Committee on the Purchase of Jewels for all of the Past
Grand Masters reported the duty performed and their work finished,
we quote from the fiscal report:

The next Annual Communication of Grand Lodge will be held in
the City of Charleston the first 1:Jednesday after the second Monday
in November, ,1905.

"All of the Past Grand Masters have now been furnished with
Jewels, and the Grand Lodge ls to be congratulated upon its action
in thus showing its appreciation of the work of these Worthy
Brethren, and we are glad to report that the Work has met with
universal approval."

254 Lodges. ·

The question that w!ll not down:
" Brother J. D. Baines, District Deputy Grand Master, offered
the following resolution, which was adopted, after a considerable
amount of discussion thereon. Those participating in the debate
were Brothers J. D. Baines, H. R. Howard, L. N. Tavenner, E. M.
Showalter, John H. Riley and G. W. Atkinson :
"Resolved, That the question of the expediting of legislation by
this Grand Lodge, looking to making the sale of intoxicating liquors
a disqualification for the mysteries of Freemasonry, be referred to a
special committee of three to be appointed by the Grand Master,
with Instructions to report at the next Annual Communication of
this M.'. W. ·. Grand Lodge."
The Grand Lodge expressed its thanks to the Brethren and cit!·
zens of Clarksburg for courtesies and entertainment during the
late session of Grand Lodge.
The Grand Lodge closed in Ample Form until the first Wednes·
day after the second Monday in November, 1905, in the' City of
Charleston.

WISCONSIN.
Zl,261 Members.
The Grand Lodge of Wisconsin held its Sixty-first Annual Communication in the Masonic Building, M!lwaukee, June 13th, ll}06,
commencing at 2 o'clock P. M.,-the M.'. W.'. David H. Wright,
Grand Master; R.'. W.'. William W. Perry, Grand Secretary. Two
hundred and thirty-nine Lodges were represented, together with
forty-two other Grand Jurisdictions. Fourteen Past Grand Masters,
two Past Grand Deputies and twelve Past Grand Wardens were in
attendance.
" In Memoriam " portraits of Past Grand Master E. E. Chapin,
who was Grand Master in 1880-81, and Past Grand Master Oliver
Libbey, who was Grand Master in 1884-85, appear in this number
of the Journal.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form. The Grand
Master named the Committee on Credentials and proceeded to de·
liver his Annual Address. He gave the Brethren a cordial welcome
and said ."The . Grand Chaplain has Invoked the Divine Blessing"
and we are ready for the Work before us.
Before reporting his official Acts he directed the attention of the
Brethrlln to the death roll of the year, closing with the assembling
of the present Annual Communication with the names of 338

172

173

REPORT ON ConRESPONDl!.NOE.

REl'OI\T ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Brethren inscribed on its pages, two Past Grand Masters had been
summoned to fill the quota required . of the Grand Jurisdiction of
Wisconsin.
He also reported the deaths in sister Jurisdictions so far as he
had been officially no titled, he added :
"I have asked our Illustrious Brother, Past Grand Master C. C.
Rogers, and he has consented to present a Memorial to the memory
of Brother Chapin.
"Brother Harvey being prellent, we will now listen to his tribute
to Brother Libbey.
" Past Grand Master C. C. Rogers being also present, an oppor- .
tunity is now given for him to present his Memorial."
He reported the Constitution of Lodges Nos. 287 and 288 during
the recess, and he had granted Dispensations for the forming and
opening of two newer ones, one at Itasca and the second in the growing city of Milwaukee. Two corner-stones of public buildings had
been placed and four Temples dedicated to the uses and purposes of
Masonry.
A Memorial devoted to the memory of Past Grand Master Oliver
Libbey with an account of his burial among his kindred in Maine
was read by the Grand Master.
The following few lines at the close of his Address will prove
him to be a veteran:
"I have attended forty-eight sessions of this Grand Lodge.
flrs t came to this Grand Lodge in 1857, as Secretary of "Madison "
Lodge, No. 5, and in 1859 I came as the Senior Warden of "Madison"
Lodge, No. 5, and have not missed a session since. I have met Jn
Lodge with every Grand Master except Brother Kavanaugh, ·and
with every Grand Secretary except Brother Ben C. Eastman."
"DAVID H. WRIGHT, Grand Master."
We excerpt the following Abstract of Work from the report of
Grand Secretary Perry:
20,671
Number of members last report, 1903 ...
Number rejected . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . 263
Number initiated . .. . ......... . .. . .... 1,294
Number passed . ... . . .... . ..... . ...... 1,233
1,236
Number raised .. .. ....... . . . . .. ..... . .
492
Number admitted ................ . ... .
90
Number reinstated . .................. .
13
Number otherwiEe gained ...... .. .... .
1,831
22,4G2

LOSS.

Number died ................ . .. . .... .
Number dimitted .. ......... . .. .. . . . .
Number suspended ..... . . .. .. . ....... .
Number excluded · .................... .
Number expelled ..................... .
"Spring Prairie" Lodge, No. 136, charter
surrendered ........ . .. ... .. .. . . . .
" Corinthian " Lodge, No. 156, charter surrendered . ... . ................... .

338

506
3
'212
1

39
52
1,151

Number
1904

of

members

December

31,
21,251

The reports of several committees having been considered and
disposed of the motion of Past Grand Master Aldro Jenks, Grand
Lodge adopted the following:
"WHEREAS, Brother David H . Wright having for many years
endeared himself to the Craft in Wisconsin, by reason of his loving
service and manly qualities, and having during the past year discharged the arduous duties pertaining to the office of Grand Master
of Masons of. this Grand Jurisdiction, with marked ability, zeal and
fldelity; therefore, be it
"Resolved, That in token of our veneration and fraternal regard
for him, he be presented with a suitable Past Grand Master's Jewel."
The election of officers for the ensuing year was held and the
following Brethren were chosen:
Jesse C. Bradley, Milwaukee, Grand Master; Edwin J. Farr, Eau
Claire, Deputy Grand Master; Spencer M. Marsh, Neillsville, Senior
Grand Warden; Wesley J. Cochrane, Fox Lake, Junior Grand
Warden ; James M. Pereles, Milwaukee, Grand Treasurer; William
W. Perry, Milwaukee, Grand Secretary,
The Grand Master-elect having made his appointments, all were
installed by Past Grand Master Nathan C. Giffin, Past Grand Master
Aldro Jenks acting as Master of the ceremonies.
The Grand Secretary in his report says:
" It has been the custom from time immemorial, of the Grand
Lodge of Wisconsin, to wait one year after the Brother is out of
office before presenting a Past Grand Master's Jewel. It is a custom
which the dignified Grand Body has not departed from, and it can
be safely said that only such an occasion as the present one, perhaps, w!ll ever cause the Brethren to change the custom, but owing

175

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

HEPOR'l' ON CORRESPONDENCE.

to the advanced age of Brother David H. Wright, and for his
especial services as Grand Master, it was thought best not to withhold the Jewel longer than necessary."
And the retiring Grand Master being called to the East, Past
Junior Grand Warden Ainsworth presented him, on behalf of the
Grand Lodge of Wisconsin, with the Jewel of a Past Grand Master.
Bro. Ainsworth's remarks most eloquently suited the Masonic history of the recipient with his services rendered at all times to the
Grand Lodge. Bro. Wright's response was feelingly appropriate.

he had failed in carrying out many of the designs he had drawn upon
the Trestleboard of one year since.

174

The routine business of the session was concluded and Grand
Lodge closed in Ample Form, peace and harmony prevailing.
REPOHT ON COHRE SPON DENCE.

This report is by Past Grand Master Aldro Jenks-a review of
the Masonic World as it is in the year 1905 and is full of interesting
information for the searcher for more light in Masonry. His notice
of California is of the administration of Grand Master Nutting,
whose opinions and rulings he commends,-M.'. W.'. Jesse C. Bradley, Grand Master; R.' . W.' . William W. Perry, Grand Secretary.
Correspondent, ·Past Grand Master Aldro Jenks, Dodgeville.
The next, the Sixty-second Annual Communication will be held
in Milwaukee, June 12th, 1906.
WYOMING.
1,649 Members.
23 Lodges.
The Grand Lodge of Wyoming held its Thirtieth Annual Communication in Evanston, August 17th, 1904,-M.'. W.'. T. S. Taliaferro, Grand Master; R.'. W.'. W. L. Kuy Kendall, Grand Secretary.
Sixteen Lodges were represented. Five Past Grand Masters and
twenty-five Past Masters were present.
A portrait of the Grand Master-elect, F. A. Luckfield, appears on
the opening page.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form with prayer by the
Grand Chaplain.
The Grand _Master named the Committee on Credentials and then ~
presented to Grand Lodge a welcome visitor in the person of the
R.'. W .'. Bro. Christopher Diehl, the Veteran Grand Secretary of the
Grand Lodge of Utah. Needless to say he was welcomed and saluted
with the Grand Honors.
The Grand Master delivered his Annual Address. He said the
rapid flight of time had so absorbed the recess of Grand Lodge that

He had visited many of the Lodges and was everywhere received
with the kindness and coutesy universal among Masons. He paid
affectionate tribute to the Brethren who had passed to rest during
the recess, as also to those of other Jurisdictions who had been
called Home.
No important decisions were reported. He issued Dispensations
for the forming and opening of two new Lodges, one at Glenrock
and the second at Chugwater.
The Deputy Grand Master submitted his report of his duties during the absence of the Grand Master from the Jurisdiction.
The Grand Secretary made his report, from which we excerpt the
following abstract of Work:
Comparative statement of members for 1903
Ma.ster Masons . . . .......... .. ............ . 1,488
Fellow Crafts . .. . .... · . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Entered Apprentices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Initiated . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . 185
Raised .... .... , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 166
Affiliated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Reinstated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Dimitted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . 44
Died . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . 17
Suspended for non-payment of dues..... . ... .
4
Suspended for cause . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
O
Expelled . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . .
1
Rejections for Initiation and affiliation....... 28
Increase in membership ...... .. ... . ... . ... .

1904
1,649
28
44

189
184
47
7
71

17
17
0

1
35
161
Reports of various committees were considered and acted on;
said reports being of no Interest out of the Jurisdiction of Wyoming.
The election of Officers being in order the following Brethren
were chosen to fill the several stations:
·
1

Brother Frank A. Luckfield, Grand Master; Brother M. R. Johnson, Deputy Grand Master ; Brother John H. Lott, Senior Grand
Warden ; Brother F . S. King, Junior Grand Warden.
The Grand Master made his appointments and with the assistance
of Past Grand Master Frank M. Foote as Master of Ceremonies, installed both elected and appointed Officers.
On motion Grand Lodge

176

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

"Resolved, That the hearty thanks of the Grand Lodge be tendered to the members of "Evanston " Lodge, No. 4 and t_heir ladies
for the many courtesies extended and the splendid manner in which
the visitors to · this Annual Communication have been entertained."
The Grand Master named the standing committees and the Grand
Lodge was closed in Ample Form with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

A most excellent report Is the present, being his nineteenth, by
Brother W. L. Kuy Kendall. To say that simply it Is a good review
does not do justice to the author of this excellent review of the Masonic world. He notices California for the administration of Grand
Master Henderson, and gives It the benefit of his good opinion as he
do.is also the Oration of Grand Orator Hart. He pronounces· Bro.
Hart's application of Liberty, Equality and Fraternity to Masonry
to be "very good." In his conclusion he refers to a paper of Bro.
Speeds that we hope to find room for somewhere:
" In concluding this, our Nineteenth Report, we Incorporate the
following from the pen of that able Masonic jurist, Brother Frederick Speed of Mississippi, as the same was printed in the Shibboleth, with the statement that it is in accord with our contention
for years past regarding every point treated therein. It Is time that
the cloak of mystery claims, having no foundation in fact, and so·
called Masonic histories, based upon assumed theories for which
there is not the slightest foundation, should be ignored and completely discarded."
M.'. W.'. Frank A. Luckfleld, Grand Master ; R.'. W.'. William L.
Kuy Kendall, Grand Secretary. Correspondent, Bro. Wm. L. Kuy
Kendall, Saratoga.

REPORT oN ConRESPONDENCE.

neau Grand Lodge of Ohio." At the same time we remind our
Brethren and call their attention to the difference between "clandestine" and "Irregular Masons" ~ "A clandestine Mason Is one
who received the degrees In a lodge unlawfully existing." "An Irregular Mason is one who 'received the degrees In an irregular manner in a lawfully constituted Lodge."
A clandestine Mason has no Masonic standing, and cannot be
healed.
An irregular Mason has Masonic standing, and It is only necessary to correct the irregularlt.y in his making to enable him to enter
himself on the Tyler's register as a just and upright Mason.
LIST OF CLANDESTINE LODGES.
ILLINOIS.

Amalia,, No. 127 .................. .. .. .. Chicago
Immanuel, No. 357 ...... . ..... . ..... . ... Chicago
'Lafayette, No. 214 ....... .. ............. :Chicago
'. Justin, No. 204 .................... .. .... Chicago
York, No.
. ......................... Chicago
KENTUCKY,

King Solomon, No. 1 ............. . ..... Covington
Washington, No. 2 ............ . ... .. ... Covington
Jefferson, No. 3 ........................ Covington
MASSACHUSETTS.

AnClent Landmark, No. 1 ..... .. .......... Boston
NEW YORK.

CONCLUSION.
Before closing this report, in which Is chronicled the wonderful
progress and prosperity of a great Fraternity during the preceding
decade, It may be well to attach as a quieting sedative to its possibly
"too rapid pulse," and for tbe information of our Lodges whoee
officers are called upon to examine and pass upon dlmits and diplomas from the infected districts, we publish a roster of clandestine
lodges, with their location, a majority of them being chickens
hatched In the Incubator of that nest of Masonic vlllanies, " The Cer-

177

Banner, No. 1 ... : ....... .. ... .. ....... New York
.~cR'.lnley (not Wm. McKinley) ........ New York
Excelsior ............................. New York
International .................. . ....... New York
'Benjamin Franklin ....... .. ....... .. .. New York
Progressive ............ : . ...... . .....·.-New York
Triune . .................. . ......... . .. New York
Atlantide (by Grand Orient of France) .. New York
NEW HAMPSHIRE.

Gentile, U. D ...... .. ............ East •Manchester

12a

178

REPOIIT UN CORRESl'O~DE!SCE.

REPORT ON 00RREBPONDENCE,

ORE GON.

PENNSYLVANIA,

Baker, No. 55 (mixed negroes and whites) Marshfield

Acacia Lodge, No. 44 . . ... ....... . .. . •. McKeesport
Acacia Lodge, No. 252 •••••• • ••••••••• Philadelphia
Agora Lodge, No. 6 ................ . ... Bethlehem
Abraham Lincoln Lodge, No. 210 . • .. . . Philadelphia
Christopher Columbus Lodge, No. 188.Philadelphia
F:"ederal Lodge ................ East Mauch Chunk
Harmony Lodge ...... . .. . ...... . .... ... Pittsburg
Hiram Lodge, No. 250 .. .. .......... . Philadelphia
Jupiter Lodge, No. 249 .. . .. . .. .. .. . .. Philadelphia
Jerusalem .Lodge, No. 247 ... • ........ Philadelphia
Liberal Lodge, No. 9 ................ ... . Siegfried
Mount Carmel Lodge, No. 256 .... . ... Philadelphia
Mount Lebanon Lodge, No. 251 ... .... Philadelphia
Pennsylvania Lodge ..... . ....... . . Alleghany City
Pilgrim Lodge ..... . .............. . .. . Allentown
St. Johns Lodge .. ... ... ... . . ....... .. . Weissport
William McKinley Lodge, No. 264 .... Philadelphia
Washington Lodge, No. 264 .. . ........... Hazleton
Evergreen Chapter (Rbse Croix) ... . . Philadelphia

OHIO.

Aliman . . ... . .. . ... ..... .... . : . , . . .... ... Newark
Alliance .. . .. . .. .......... .. . .... ........ Alliance
Alpha ...... .. ................ . ..... . .. Cleveland
Bismark .. .. .... .. ...... . ............ . Cincinnati
Brighton ............ . . . ............ .. . Cincinnati
Columbia ......... .... ... . ............. Columbus
Durnah ...... , .... .... ..... . .......... Springfield
Denmark . . . .. .. ... ........... . .. .. .. . Springfield
Eureka .. . ... .... .. .... ..... .. ........ Cincinnati
Franklin .. . .. .......... . .............. . Columbus
Gem City .......... . ... . ................ . . Dayton
Globe • .............. .. ................... Toledo
Hiram ..... , ........ ... ................. . Canton
Independence ... . .... . .... .. ....... .. Youngstown
Lessing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..... . . .. .. . . . ... Toledo
...... . . . . . ........ Toledo
Lincoln
Lincoln . • ..... . ............ . ..... . .... Cleveland
Lincoln Goodale ...... . .... . ........... Columbus
Linton ............. .. . . . . ............. Cincinnati
Massillon ............. . . . .............. Massillon •
Mt. Tabon ..... . .. . ... . . . ..... . . . .. .. . Chillicothe
Myrtle .......... . ... . ............ . .. .. Mt. Vernon
New England .. .. ... .............. . .. Worthington
Olentangy . . ........ . .................. Columbus
Pains ville ....... . ..... . ... . ........... Pains ville
Progress ................. ... ............ Cleveland
Salem ............... . .... . ............New Salem
Scioto Valley ....... .. ............... Portsmouth
Surprise ............. .. ......... .. Olmstead Falls
Summit ............ . . . ........ . . .... . .. . .. Akron
Victor ............ . .. . . ................. Cleveland
Vinton .............. . ... . .............. Galloway
W ashlngton ....... : .... ... ............ Cincinnati
West Mansfield ................... West Mansfield

179

WILLIAM A. D4VIES, Chairman.
SAN FRANCISCO, October 1st, 1905.

IND EX.

--A

ACCOO!ITS-Of the Grand Secretary and llrand Treasurer-Relative to,. 56-60, 150-153
ADDRE86-0f the Grand Master-Report on-Rebtive to, ..••.•••••...••.••• 7-S6, 80
ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES, ........................ . ..... ,' ••• , •••.•. 204-209
ALPSABETIO.&l. LIST OF LOC.lTION OF LODGES, •...•. . .. . . , .. , ••..•. ,,, .. ,.,., 210-217
ALLOWANCES-To Representatives of Lodges-Relative to, ........ ... ..... 98-99, 131
All&NDllENTs-To By-Law• of sundry Lodges- Relative to, ........... . .. . 54, 105-108
AMENDMENTS TO CON8TlT!JTION-Relative to, ... . ...... ... :.'.' .. .... . . ............. Gl
AMENDMENT TO UNIFORM CODB,, .••.....• . ....•• .. ... . .•..•.... , ............•.. 142
APPOINTMENTS-Of Grand Officers ................. . ... . . ..... . ........ . 7, 155, 156
Of Committees and to fill vacancies,., .••• . • ; •.•...•.. 7, 36, 100, 157
APPROPRIATIONS-For aundry purposes-Relative to, ... . ................... 143-146
ATTB!IDANCB-Of delegates at this Communication-Reio live to, .•..••.•••• ." ..• 6, 7
AUDI TINO COIUUTTBB,. ... ... . , . • ........... . . , • • . • . • . • . . . . . . • .. . • . . .. .. .... 157

B
BOARDS OF RELIEF - Maaonlo-Reporte or-Relative to-lteporta on,., .63-76, 76, 143
BtJRJAL-.Ma•onfo- Relative to, .. . ..... . . . ...... .......... .... , • .. ..•• , 79, 80, 110
BURLESON, CBAl\LER MYllON -Expulsion affirmed, ......••....• • ••••. . .• •.•• •• . 121
BY· LAWS OF LODOBB-A111endmentB to-Report vf Gcmm.ittee on,. . ... .. .. 54, 105-108

c
0All.P, A11TBUR JAMBS -New trial ordered, ..... . ....... .. ... ..... . .. . ... . .. 122, 123
CHARTERED LODOEB- Number of, ., . . . . . .............................. , , ........ 53
OsABTE11s-Repo1·t of Committee on-Relative to, .. . .... 14, 52, 53, 101-103, 153, 154
CL.I.Bl', HENRY ADAMS-Expulsion affirmed, ...... •• . .......•• •..........•. 123, 124
00ll.MITTB~;8 APPOINTE!l-Regular, Stnnding and Special, . . •.• • ..•. . ..• 7, 36, 90, 157
Com111TTEES RBPOKTEn-Regulnr anll Standing. S~e na mes of Committees,
Special-On Annual Addre~s of Grand Master, ... ....... . ..... .... .. . .. SO
On Annual Heport of Grand Secretary, ...................... .... 80, 81
On Annual Report of Grand Lecturer, .... ... .... . .... . ... ... .... . 132
On Widows nn1t Orphans' Home,........... .... .................... 149
On Petitions and Applications-Reports on,. •...•. 22, 119, 120, 140, 141
COOOINB, CHARLES W.-New trial ordered, .......... .............. .. ... . ... 124, 125
Co::sTJTOTING LovoEs, .. ... .. ...... .......... .. ... ...... ...... . .... . .. ... . . .... 62
OORNER STONES-Laying or,. . . • • . • . . • . . . . . . . . . • • . • • • • • • • . •. ..•. ••.•••• . ••• . . ... 14
L\1HUEBPOND~Nos-Report of Uommillee on- Bee Appendix .. .. . . .. ........... 1-179
CoRBEBPONDENCB- Relative to report ol Committee on,. . , .. . . . . . . . . .•• . . . . .. . . 136
<J1uil'KNTIALB·-Reporls of Oommitte1e on, , . . .. . . . . . . . ... .... .. ... . . 87....Sl,..63, 101

ii

INDEX.

INDEX

D

GRA.."<D OI!'FICERs-Election, appointment and i"stallutiuu ot,, ... .. .... . . .. . . 15.5, l!i6

iii

DBCISIONS-Relative to,.: ................................ . .. 16-21, 110-120, 130-140

List of elected Miu cc the org1111iza~iun r:f G1 an cl l.odg.1, ...• . •. . ... 220-223

DEDICATIONS . . . , .............. , .... . ...... ... · ..• · ·· •• · .. · .. .. ·· .. .. ···· .. ···· . IS
U:. rEllSATIOlls-For new Lodges issued-J!elative to, .......... ... ........ 10, 52, 53
Speoial-Isaned ror sundry purposes-Relative to,. . .•... . ......... 55, 103

}'or the year commenciug October, A. L. fi!li'li .•••• . •.. •• ••. .• •.. •••• 4
· <lBAND 0RATOH-Annual Oration of-Helative t.,,,............

VrES OF MEJlt:DRRS-Relative to, ........... ... .... ... ............... . 126, 127, 142
DUES TO GRAND LODGE-Relative to, ......... .. . .... ............. .. ... .... .... 131

l.JRAND TBl!IASUBEK-Ile1. to-Annual Repcrt ol-fh1p,1 t of Oom. on, .. 58-60, 150-152
GR~EllLliAF, G~o. T.-New trial ordered, . , . ..• . ....• . •.•....•... . .. . . . . . .. 124, 125

E

. ... .. ..... 84, 127

GHAND SKCRK'l'ABY-Annu11l RepOt't of-Report of Oom. on,. ..... . ... ... 51-57, BU, 81

G111KVANOEs-lleporl1 of Oommitlee on, .. ... .. .. •. •..•••• . .... 121-125, 128, 132-130

ELRci•:olls-Of G1·a11d Officerl-Relative to,.......... . . , .......... . ....... . 129,_155

H

F.r.F.CTIVE GRAND OFPICEBS-~elative to-Expenses for attendi\nce, .. ... 129, lSO, 146

HA IV AllAN LODGES -Helative to, .. . .... .. .. ... ... ..... . . . .... 22-28, 61 , 62, 136, 140

i.;xAMlNATIOll TarnD D&GRE&-Ilclative to, .. .. .. . ............... ... ..... . ... 90, 120

HAWLEY, CllARr.ES RIOHARD-Hu<pansion affirmed,. . . . . . ....... ... ......... . .. 122

J•:xrKNSES-OfGrand Lecturer ·-Uclative to, .: ..... .. . : .... . ........ ........ ... 115
F.xr1mr-On books of Grand Secretary and Grnnd Trea•nrer-Report of, .150, 151, 152

llAYWABI> LODIJE-Relative t o, ... . . . . .... . .. .. .... . . .. ............. 129, 153, 154
HICKS, JOII!I LEANDl11-Suspension amrmed,., ..... , .... ,, .. , , .. .. . . . . . . ...... 122

On books of Home-Report or, ... .. . ........ . ... .. .. . ........... 152, 153

Hollt:K-For widows and orphans of M11Sous-. flc'n ti1n ro, •.. .. 11- 13, 57, 60, 149, 150

Exrur.s10Ns-Relative to-LIRt affirmed .. . ..... ; ........•. , . . 53, 54, 121-125, 134-IS6

HoHe:, Sourue:ss CALlFORSI.l-Reh1t!ve to, . ....... .. .............. .. .. 13, 104, 1!6

F

I

I•'1l1A'1C£B-Reporl1 of OommiUee1 on-On books, etc., Grand Secretory
and Gr11nd Treasurer,, ..· ............ . ... . . ... . .. .. .... .. . ..... 150-153

lNBPIWross-Of Masr.nlc Dl•tricts-Relativ ! t •,....... ... ... . . .... 8.5, 86, ISO, 131
INSTALLATION, .... ., ........................ ,. .. ......... . .... . ... . . , 15,5, 166

On appropriations for solaries of Grand Officers and expenses of
Grand Lecturer, .. . .. . .. .... .. .. ... ...................... .. .. ... 145

lNvKSTIGATlNG CmUllTTEES-Relative to reports of, .... .. .. 22, 105, 119, 120, UO, lH

On approprilltions for the several Boards of Ilelier, ... .... .... . • .. .. .. 143

loNIC Looo11:-Rclative to,. ........................................ . ... 77, 10~, 103

On appropriations for attendance of the elective Grand Officers, . . ..... 146
On appropriation !or Past Grand Master's portrait,. ..... , ............ 14:;
On Masonic Widows and Orphans' Home, .................. 149, 152, 153
On claim of Liberty Lodge v~. Ro•e's Oar Lodge, . . . • .• . .. . . .• . . . .. . • 144
On Board of Retef at !1hniL1, ..... .. .... . ........... . ............. HS
On claim of Bisson Lodge,. .. . ......... .. ...... ... .... . ............. lU
On clitlm or Russian River Lodge, .................................. 144
On claim of North Buttes Lodge,....... . ...... ... ...... .. .......... IU
On claim of Yount Lodge, ............. . . . .......... . .......... 144, H5
On Southern California Home, .... .. ..................... . ... ... .... 14G
On pnblicution ofproceedingP, ...... . .... ... ..... . ............... 146, 147
On resolution S.ln Francisco Board of R el ief,. .... . ... , .••. ... .• . • 147- 149
~'O G ABTY, THOMAS DE LANO-

Suspension affirmed, .. . .............. ... ......... . 121

Fo11EIGN Ga.um LoDGEB, .............. . ...................................... 219

J
JOBMSON, BARTON W.-New trial ordered, ..................... .. ........... 124, 125
JumsPHUD~NOB-Repol'U of Oommlltee on

Reh1tive to dispensations issued, . : ...... . ... . ........... . ......... 103
Relative to amendments to Condi'n'.io11, .. ............. . ... . . . ... . .... 109
Relative to examination in third degree, ............ . .......... .. ..... 120
Relative to Wardens of Lodges, .. . . ... .. ...... .. ... . ..... . .. ; .. . .... 154
Relative to decisions of Grand Master, .. . •.• , ... . .. . ... 111-120, 136-140
Relative to Hawaiian Lodge and Territory, ................ . .. . . . .. 136-1·10
Relative to Lodge at Sawtelle, . . . ... . . . . ... ............. .. .. . .. 108, 109
Reliltive to Grand Representatives, ...... . ....................... 109, 110
Relative to Committees of Investigation, •. .. , . . ........•....• . ... 140, 141
Relative to Life Membership,............ ... ........ ....... ...... 141, 142
Relative to Fanerals, ." . .... .. .. . .. ..... .... .. ........... ............. 110

G
GllAllAK, ~'HANK b:LllKR-Suspeosion affirmed, ...... . ..... . ..... . ......... .. 132-134
GRAND L&CTORER-Annu11l Report of-Report ol \ ;.m:. •JU,. •• . • • • ••• . 85- 89, 131, 132
GRAND Looo~s-Oft/1e United Stales and BritiEh A11:e1ic11 --l.iet of,. . .. .... .... 218
GRAND MASTER-Annual Address uf-R.eport of Com. on,. . . .•... .... .. . . .• 8-36, 80

L
LAZE'LLB, ERASTUS PKRKINB-Expulsion affirmed, . . . •• . .. .•• • ...•. •.... .. . •. 123, 124
LKOTURE TumD DE<JKEe:-Relative to,. . .... . . , ...... ,, .............. . . . .... 90 , 120
L1BEB'l'Y LODGE, No. 299-Relatlve to,. .... ., ,, , ,;,, ,, ................... . ...,.144

ls DEX.

INDEX.

LIFE MEMBERsmr,. .............................................. 12601.n, Hl, .l42

s

LODGES CONSTITUTED,. . .. . ... ...... " ..... . . ..... .............. ........... .. ·•. 52

BALARl&S-0/ (}rand Officera-Relative to,. ..... ......... , ....••.•........•.•. 145

iv

v

LODGES-Chartered this year-Statistical 1'ables, Alphabetic~! List of,. ..... 157, 158

BAii MATEO LODGE, No. 168-Relative fo, .............. .. .. . .. . . ... . .. . ... 76, 102

LODGES-Number of in jurisdiction ....... .. . .......... . .. ....... . .. ..... ...... . . 53

SCHANK, WILLIAM HARDISON-Expulsion affirmed, . .••• . ........ . .. •. . . .. . ...•• . 121

LoDGE LE PROGRES DE L'0CEANIA,. • . .•...•...... , ......................... 53, 103

M
MANILA LODGE-Relative to B, of R., . . .•.. ••...•.•.• ... • •. . .. . • . •.•.... 76, H3

BISSOi! LODGE-Relative to claim of,,., . ... .. .. .. .. ... , , , .... , ................. 144
SOUTHKBN CALIFORNIA HOME-Relative to, .•...• .. . . •.........••.•...•. 13, 104, 146
SPECIAL COMMUlllOATIONS,. ........... . ......... .......... .. .. . . .... .. .. ..... 13, 14
SPECIAL DISPENBATIOSS-Issued by the Granrl Master-Helative to, •...•. 14, 65, 103

MEMBERSHIP-Total in jurisdiction-Relative to,. . . ........ . .. . .. . . .. .. . . . . JO, 11, 53

STATISTICAL TABLES-Of returns of [,odges for the year, etc., ... . ........ . ... 192-202

MoURllillG PAGES-lo memory of Past Masters of jnri•diction, deceased, ....• 166-172

STEELE, JOHN CORBETT-Expulsion affirmed .•.... . ..••. ... ...•••.........• 121, 122

N

SULLIVAN, M. J.-Relative to,. ... ............... . ...................... .. . ..... . 128

NECROLOGY,. .................. ...... ... . .... ... . ...... ... .. ..... . .... . . . .. .. 8, 10

T

NORTH BUTTE Lonas - Relative to,. .......... . . . .... ... ... . ... . .. ... .... 77, 78, 144

TEMPLE-New Masonic- Relative to,,, .•. , •...... . ..• . ••....•........ 31- 34, 81- 84

0
ORATION-Relative to,. ....•....••. .. • . ... .... •...... , ..... . ....... . ... . ... 84, 127

p
PAST MASTBBB-Deoeased-Mourning page~,. . ............... ... . . . . .. .... 166-li2
PAY OF MEMBERS-Report of Committee on-Allowances by Oom., .... 93-99, 129-131
PER CAPITA 1'Ax-Relative to, ................... . ......... . .. . .... ..... . . . . ... lli9

1'KBTIMONTAL-To Past Grand Master-Relative to,. .•........•.•......••..•...• 157
THANKS-Of Grand Lodge, ... . . . . . ......... .. .. .... ...... . ..................... 157
THOMAS, HIRAM 1'HOIUS-Expnlsion affirmed, . •...•....•••. . ..•••...•...• . . • . 121
TODD, FRANK R.-New trial ordered,. . ..... ..... . . .... . .. . ..... . .. . ..... . .. . l2i, 125
TRIAL REOORDS-Tra111cnpl8 of- Relative to .. ... .. . ... .. .. .. ........ . ....... 53, 54
1'HUSTEE8 MA80NIO WIDOWS AND ORPHANS' HOME-Appointment of-Rela·
tive to,. ..... . ...... ... .. .. ... .... ... .... .. . .. .. .. . . ......... . ..... 157

PET!TIOlllS AND APPLIOATIONS-Reports of Oommit.lee on,. . • . .. . . . .. 22, 119, 120, 141

u

PHILIPPillBS,. . . .... .. . ... ... .......... . . .......... . ... .. . . . . . .... . . ....... . 15, 16

UNWORTHY MEMBERs- RelaUve to, ............. . ... ...... , .. .... ... .. ... . ... ... 120

PIPER, ARTHUR LEROY-Expulsion affirmed . . . ............ ..... ... . ...... . 134-136
PO-Bl'RAIT OF RET!BlllG GRASD MASTER-Relative to, •........ ....... .... .. •..... 145

v

PRBBEllTATION-Of testimonia 1 to retiring Grand Master, .•... . .....••... ..... ... 157

v ACANC!EB-Appoiutrnents to fill, ......................................... 7, 100

PROCKEDINGs-Relative Lo publication of, .... . ...... .. ... . ... . ... 16, 78, 79, 140, U7

VETERAN L<>DGE-Relative to, . . ..................... .. ............. 60. 61, 108, 109

R
REOEIPTB-By the Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer-Relative to, ... . 56, 60, 159
REPORTS-Of R egular, Standing and Special Ooms.-See "Com's Reported."

wARDENS O•' LODGRB - Refative to, ......... ... .. . ... ..... : . ................ 105, lH
y

Of the Grand Secre tary- Report of Committee on, ... .. . . . .. . . . 51- 57, 80, 81
Of the Grand Treasurer, . . . ... .. ... .. . ......... ......... .......... . 58, 60
Of the Grand Lecturer-Report of Committee on ................. 85-89, 132
Of the Home Trustees, • . . .• . . •••.. . . .'.. . . . .. ·.· ..•. ....••••• ...... .•.. 60
REPRESE!ITATION-ln the Grand Lorlge-Relalive to,. ... . .. . .... . .. ....• . . . . . . . .6, 7
REPllBSENTATIVE FUND-Relative to dues for acc ount of',. .. .. .. ........... . . .•. .. 131
REPRESENTATIVES- To and from Grand Lodges-Relative to, .. ... ... 79, 10~. 110, 156

RBTURNS-Repvrt of Committee on, ... .,. ... . ... .......... . ... . ..... . .. ...... 90-100
ROSE'S BAB L<>DGE, No. 89- Relative to .. .... .. ................ . ... .. .... . . ..... 144
RusS1A11 R1vsB LoooE-Relative to ,. ........ . .......... ... ...... . . . " .•••• 77, lU

YOUNT LODGE, No. 12 -Relatlve t o, .. .. ...... . . . .. ..... .. ......... . .. 77, H4, 145

Or and Lodge of California.
I,

J

, ( rand Secreta

Frt
certify
thE pre

)!

of

JI

L. W.·. Gran!

ic

Calif<

in

ht followi
Hugs 01

rnunication-cou

t at

ninth lay

. I

Oct<

HI

day < said m01 th.

llu Wrsttuumy

1

1

rruf

I hav hereunto appt
official signatun
affi

the

~al

Lodge of the St
t ti

MOTLEY H. FLINT
~rnnb maatrr
1 906

(

and

1

of tht Gran<
of ( life

Orand Lodge of California.
I, GEORGE J OHNSON, Grand Secretary of the M. '. W. '. Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons of the jurisdiction of California, do hereby
certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful transcript of
the proceedings of that Grand Body at its Fifty-seventh Annual Communication-commenced at the City of San Francisco on Tuesday, the
ninth day of October, A. L. 5906, and terminated on Friday the twelfth
day of said month.

1111 w.e.attmn11y llq.er.eof
I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have
affixed the Seal of the Grand
Lodge of the State of California,
at the office of the Grand Secretary in the City of San Francisco, this first day of N ovember, in the year of Light, Five
Thousand Nine Hundred ancl
Six.

l\I '

I 1.

l'LINT
. rr

I{

PRO C EEDING S
OF THE

M:. W:. GRAND LODGE
OF

OF THE

Jurisdiction of California,
AT ITS

FIFTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION,
HELD AT

Calvary Church, in the City of San Francisco:
COMMENCING ON

Tuesday, October 9th, A. D. 1906, A. L. 5906,
AND TERMINATED ON

Friday, October 12th, A. D. 1906, A. L 5906.

SAN FRANCISCO:
S H ANNON- CoNMY P RINTING Co.,

1906.

509 C I.AV STRE£T.

GRAND OFFICERS
OF THE

Grand Lodge of California
FOR

The Year Commencing October, A. L. 5906.

M:.w:.Edward H . Hart ..... . Grand Master .. . .... .. . ... Berkeley;
R:.w:.George M. Perine ...... .Dep. Grand Master .. .. San Francisco;
R:.w:.Reuben H. Lloyd .. .... Sen. Grand Warden ... San Francisco;
R: .w: .oscar Lawler . . ... . ... Jun. Grand Warden . ... . Los Angeles;
v:.w:.Edward Coleman ...... G1and Treasurer . . .... San Fra.nc~co;
v:.w: .George Johnson : . . .... Grand Secretary .. . . ... San Francisco;
v:.w: .William H. Edwards ... G1and L ecturer . ...... San F rancisco;
v:. R: .Ernest E. Baker .... .... Grand Chapla in ............. Oakland ;
w: .Jacob Nieto ........... Grand Orator .... ... : San Francisco;
w:.Harry S. Johnson .. .....Asst. Grand Secretary. San Francisco;
w: .Delos W . Smythe ....... Grand Marshal. ........... . San Jose;
w. ·.Chauncey C. Bush ...... Grand Bible Bearer ........ . Redding;
w: .Arthur J. Thatcher ..... Grand Sword B earer .......... Ukiah;
W. ·.Samuel Prager . . . . ..... Grand Standard Bearer .. Los Angeles;
w:.Thomas J . Baker .. .... Senior Grand Deacon .... Sacramento;
.Albert'B. Webster ...... Junior Grand beacon . .. . . .. O akland;
w: .John T. Morrison .. . .. . Senior Grand Steward ... ... Berkeley;
w: .Albert L. Reed ..... .... Junior Grand Steward . .. . . . .. Suisun;
w:.Louis L. Janes ........ . Grand Pursuivant .. . .. . . . Mill Valley ;
w. ·.Samuel D. Mayer .. .. . .. Grand Organist ....... San F ra ncisco;
W . ·.George P. Adams ....... Grand Tyler .......... San F rancisco.

w:

GRAND LODGE
OF

FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA,

FIFTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the Jurisdiction of California commenced
its Fifty-seventh Annual Communication at the Calvary ·
Church, in the City of San Francisco, on Tuesday, the 9th
day of October, A. L. 59o6, at 10 o'clock a. m.

186

187

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Upon calling the roll of members there were found pres~
ent the following:

And the Representatives of two hundred and forty chartered Lodges and Delegates from seven Lodges under dispensation.

GRAND OFFICERS.
The M.".W.".Motley H . Flint. ....... Grand Master;
" R.".W.".Edward H . Hart ........ Deputy Grand Master;
" R.".W.".Georgc M. Perine ....... Senior Grand Warden;
" R:.w:.Reuben H. Lloyd ....... Junior Grand Warden;
" v:.w.".Edward Coleman ....... Grand Treasurer;
" v:.w:.George Johnson ....... . Grand Secretary;
" v:.w:.wm. H. Edwards ....... Grand Lecturer;
" V.".R.".Jacob Nieto ............. Grand Chaplain;
" W." .Oscar Lawler .......•..... Grand Orator; ·
" W.".Harry S. Johnson ...•...... Assistant Grand Secretary;
" w. ·.Charles D. Barnett ......... Grand Marshal;
" w. ·.Chauncey C. Bush .......... Grand Bible Bearer;
" W. ·.Albert A. Reed ............ Grand Sword Bearer.;
" W.".Samuel Prager ............ Grand Standard Bearer;
" W.".Thomas J. Baker ...... ..... Senior Grand Deacon;
" W.".A. W. Davidson ............ Junior Grand Deacon;
" W.".John T. Morrison .......... Junior Grand Steward;
" W.".Jos. R. Garthside .... :: ..... Grand Pursuivant;
" W.".Samuel D. Mayer . ......... Grand Organist;
" W.".George P. Adams .......... Grand Tyler.

The Grand Master filled the vacant place by the appointmel}.t pro tempore of W."·J. D. Danner as Senior Grand
Steward.
There being a sufficient representation, the Grand Lodge
was opened in Ample Form, with music by the choir and
prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
The Grand Master announced the appointment of the
following committees:
On Credentials.
Carlton A. Lane,
Frederick W . Clough,
Arthur J. Wheeler.

Harry S. Johnson,
Joshua D. Tucker,

On Charters.
Ellsworth F. Richards,
Henry A. Cline,

PAST GRAND OFFICERS.
The M.".W.".William A. Davies ...... Past Grand Master;
" M:.w:.George C. Perkins ...... Past Grand Master;
" M: .W.".Henry S. Orme . ... ... . Past Grand Master;
" M: .w:.James B. Stevens . ..... . Past Grand Master;
" M.".w:.William T. Lucas ........ Past Grand. Master;
" M:.W.\Thomas Flint . ......... Past Grand Master;
" M ~ ·. W. ·.Frank M. Angellotti. .. .. Past Grand Master;
" M.".w:.charles L. Patton ...... . Past Grand Master;
" M.".W.".James A . Foshay ....... Past Grand Master;
" M.".W.".Williarn' S. Wells ....... Past Grand Master;
" M.".w:.orrin S. Henderson ... . Past Grand Master;
" M:.w.".Charles W. Nutting· .... . Past Grand Master;
" .. M.·.w:.George W. Hunter ..... Past Grand Master;
" R.".W:.John Q. Adams ......... Past Dep. Grand Master;
" R.'.W:.Jacob H. Neff . .. .. ..... . Past Junior Grand Warden.

William R. Flint,
William G. Thornally, Jr.,
John C. Lane.

On By-Laws of Lodges.
Julian E. Pardee,
William W. Ferguson,

William V. Bryan,
Herbert A. Croghan,
George U. Moyse.

The Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 o'clock this
afternoon.

188

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

189

additional Report covering each and every item of this work, which
Report .will be read immediately following this Address.
Deaths.

Afternoon Session,
Tuesday, October 9th, A. L. 5906.
The Grand Lodge was called on at two o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
The Grand Master then delivered his Annual Address to
the Grand Lodge, as follows:Brethren of the Grand Lodge:
One year ago, as we gathered together in this b eautiful city, the
metropolis of the Pacific Coast, teeming with industry and prosperity, we little thought of the change which would be effected in so
short a time; but we can all give thanks to Him who does all things
well, that in our hour of need the Grand Jurisdictions of the world
poured forth their relief quickly and generously, and that in our
State we had the necessary men of courage, honesty and ability to
handle the relief matters in a most satisfactory manner, but, better
still, they had the tenacity and unity of purpose to determine to
rebuild our demolished and burned sections of the State better and
more substantial than before.
Brethren, you who have not visited the stricken sections of our
State prior to the convening of our Grand Lodge can have no conception of the bravery of our citizens, when, immediately following the
disaster and fire of April 18th, last, the men of California, with the
pioneer spirit of '49, determined that the California of the future
should be far better, more solid and substantial than before. What
has been accomplished to date speaks volumes for these men of courage, a nd from my observations I believe, and I am sure you will agree
with me that in a short period of time our metropolis and other
injured ~ities near by will soon be a credit and joy to all Californians.
The r elief work incident to the disaster of April 18th last having
been such an important matter, and involving so many different
points, I have deemed it best to submit to the Grand Lodge an

Our Grand Jurisdiction has suffered severely during the past year
in the loss of two of our Past Grand Masters: M. :. W. :. William
Johnston, who was Grand Master in 1891, entered into rest November
14, 1905. The Grand Lodge was specially convened at Sacramento,
November 18th, and the last and solemn duties to our dead Brother
were performed by the Grand Lodge, with Past Grand Master Edmund C. Atkinson in charge of the ceremonies.

M:. w:. Hiram N. Rucker, who was Grand Master in 1887,
passed to the Great Beyond December 13, 1905. The Grand Lodge
was specially convened at Merced, December 16th, a nd before the
largest concourse of citizens ever gathered in that city the beautiful
ceremonies of our Order were conducted by R. :. W. '.. Edward H. Hart,
Deputy Grand Master.
Both of t hese Brethren will be greatly missed at our Grand Lodge,
but their kindly faces, their genial words of greeting and their able
advice on all important questions will live in our memories until time
shall be no more. The very sudden and unfortunate accident which
befell Brother Past Grand Master Rucker and caused his untimely
death was a decided loss to our Widows 1 and Orphans 1 Home, over
which institution he was Superintendent, and the able and entirely
satisfactory manner i.n which our Brother performed his duties
makes the loss to our Fraternity doubly hard.
·
I have take:fl. the liberty to appoint as a Special Memorial Committee on the death of Past Grand Masters Johnston and Rucker
Brothers Past Grand Masters E dmund C. Atkinson, }'rank M. Angellotti and James A. Foshay, and recommend that a s.l'ecial hour be set
apart for the r eading of the Report of this Committee.
Owing to the destruction of our entire Grand Lodge records, and,
in fact, all papers connected with the Grand Secretary's office, it is
not possible to give t he full list of deaths of t,he Grand Officers o.f
other Grand Jurisdictions, except those received subsequent to April
18th last. It is greatly to be regretted that proper tribute and respect
cannot be shown in this Address to the honored dead of other Grand
Jurisdictions, but probably that can be corrected next year, when
notifications from our other bodies have been received. We mourn
with our Sister Jurisdictions the loss of the following Brethren:

190

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Henry H. Matthews, Grand Master of Alabama;
John Humphreys, Senior Grand Warden of Colorado;
George S. Hallmark, Past Grand Master of Florida;
. Thomas Emmet Dewey, Past Grand Master of Kansas;
John Guthrie, Past Grand Master of Kansas;
Bradley T. Kimbrough, Past Grand Master of Mississippi;
John W. Finch, Past Grand Master of Michigan;
Charles Inglesby, Grand Secretary of South Carolina;
Thomas Milburne Reed, Grand Secretary of Washington;
Thomas Tweed, Past Grand Master of Manitoba;
Richard Thomas Walken, Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge
of Canada, in the Province of Ontario.

New Lodges.

Condition of Our Jurisdiction.
It is with pleasure that I am able to report to you that, notwithstanding the unfortunate casualties of a few months since, ·the
general condition of Masonry within our Jurisdiction is most satisfactory in every respect. The returns for last year show a member·
ship, on July 31, 1905, o"f 31,561; the returns for this year show a
· membership of 33,769, a net gain of 2,208.
Lodges located at points most seriously injured have undoubtedly
felt the effect of the disaster, and I have in a number of caseB
authorized Lodges to return the fees of petitioners where the appli·
cants had presented their petitions for degrees prior to April 18th,
last, and which petitions were to be acted upon at the meeting subsequent to April 18th, and where it further appeared that the petitioners
or applicants required the amount of the fees for the support of
themselves or their families, and were in no financial condition to
lose the cost of the fees or to take tlle degrees. While ,I acted without
legal authority in these cases, it was in the interest of charity and
humanity.

Lodges Constituted.
Lodges for which charters were issued at the last Annual Communication wer e regularly constituted as follows:
"Willits" Lodge, No. 365, by Worshipful Thomas J. Richards;
"Las Palmas" Lodge, No. 366, by Right Worshipful Edward H.
Hart, Deputy Grand Master;
"Oceanic" Lodge, No. 371, by Worshipful Joshua D. Tucker;
"South Pasadena" Lodge, No. 367, "Unity" Lodge, No. 368, and
"Ocean Park" Lodge, No. 369, by the Grand Master in person;
" Amity" Lodge, No. 370, by Right Worshipful Edward H. Hart,
Deputy Grand Master.

191

Dispensations for the organization of nine new Lodges have been
issued, as follows:
"Veteran" Lodge, Sawtelle, Los Angeles county;
"Jewel" Lodge, San l<'rancisco;
"Richmond" Lodge, San Francisco;
"Francis Drake " Lodge, Sou th San Francisco.
"Artesia" Lodge, Artesia, Los Angeles county;
"Mizpah" Lodge, Los Angeles;
"Fillmore" Lodge, Fillmore, ·V entura county;
"Huntington Beach" Lodge, Huntington Beach, Ora:nge county;
''Oceanside'' Lodge, Oceanside, San Diego county.
' ' Ga!'dena'' Lodge, at Gardena, Los Angeles county, was continued under dispensation by action at t he last Annual Communication, thus making at this time ten Lodges working under dispensation.
Under the Resolution, · adopted at the last Annual Communication, reading as follows:
"Resolved, That the Grand Master issue a Dispensation to 'Veteran' Lodge, located at Sawtelle, Los Angeles county, California, if
upon examination he finds that all the provisions of our Masonic law
have been complied with; that no fee be charged for such Dispensation, and t he same be remitted by this Grand Lodge; that when
such Lodge shall have complied with our law and this Grand Lodge
orders a Charter issued to it, that no charge be made for such Charter,
and all fees therefor be remitted,"
Dispensation was issued to "Veteran" Lodge, at Sawt.elle, Los An·
geles county. It is with pleasure that I report that the old soldiers
deeply and sincerely appreciate the action of this Grand Body, and
I find from personal visits that the L odge is doing a great and noble
work. They have at this time seventy members on the roll, and I
trust that, in accordance with the Resolution of the Grand Lodge, a
Charter will be issued, and no charge be made for t he same.
Special Communications.
December 1st, corner-stone, Carnegie Library, Colusa, Grand Master officiating.

192

193

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

December 2d, corner-stone, Masonic Temple, Berkeley, California,
Grand Master officiating_

Immediately following the disaster of April 18th last I called upon
the Master of each Lodge in the district which suffered on that fateful morning, asking for full and complete reports of their condition.
I found that in ·a large number of instances Masonic Temples and
places of meeting had been badly injured to such an extent that meetings could not be held therein. I issued instructions for the Masters
to make the best po,ssible arrangements under the circumstances, following as closely as possible to our Constitution and General Regulations, and if necessary temporarily change the meeting nights until
such time as the normal conditions would be resumed. It was a matter
that required immediate action; hence I acted promptly in every case
and was naturally compelled in a large extent to rely upon the wisdom
and the judgment o~ the Masters of the various Lodges.

December 7th, dedication Hollenbeck Masonic Temple, Los Angeles, Grand Master officiating.
December 9th, corner-stone Los Nietos Valley Union High School,
Downey, California, Grand Master officiating.
January 20th, corner-stone, Moneta Union High School, Gardena,
Los Angeles county, Grand Master officiating.
February let, dedication Ocean Park Masonic Temple, Ocean Park
Grand Master officiating.
'
February 22d, corner-stone, City Hall, Sonoma, Grand Master offidating.
April 30th, dedication South Gate Masonic Temple, Los Angeles,
Most Worshipful James A. Foshay, Past Grand Master, officiating.
August 6th, corner-stone Whittier Masonic Temple, Whittier, Grand
Master officiating.
September let, corner-stone, Golden Gate Commandery Asylum,
San Francisco, Grand Master officiating.
October 5, corner-stone, High School Building, Bakersfield, Deputy
Grand Master officiating.
·

Amendments to By-Laws.
Amendments to By-Laws have been presented in a number of cases
for approval, and of such amendments which have been approved by
me I presume have been lost with the records of the Grand Secretary's
office, but no amendment has been approved until said amendment
conformed in every respect to the uniform Code of By-Laws. It is
certainly to be regretted that many of our Secretaries are not familiar
with our regulations. It has been necessary for me to return, sometimes two and three times, these proposed amendments for correction.
Charters.

October 8th, corner-stone, Masonic Temple, Santa Rosa, Grand
Master officiating.
Special Dispensations.
During the year quite a large number of requests have been made
upon me for special dispensations to reballot on petitions of rejected
candidates. I presume the major portion of these records were
burned; hence I can only state that no dispensation has been granted
by me to reballot on rejected candidates without the fullest investigation, and in practically every case it has been shown that the
rejection was caused by mistaken identity. I have kept a record of
the reballoting on all rejected candidates for which dispensations
were issued, and am pleased to state that in each and every case the
candidate was elected. In several cases I have refused dispensations
to reballot on rejected candidates for the reason that I did not believe
that the facts as stated justified the issuing or granting of such dispensations.

Many Charters were burned or destroyed in April last, and it has
not been possible as yet to renew them. I have therefore authorized
all Lodges which did not have charters at this time to continue to act
and work as if the charters were in their possession. Just as soon as
the Lithographing company can renew our Charters duplicates should
be issued to all the Lodges requiring the same.
Regalia.
I will state for the benefit of the m'e mbers of the Grand Lodge
that this body owned two sets of regalia; one of which was used for
ceremonies taking place outside of San Francisco and the other being
the new regalia recently purchased for use at our Annuil.l Communications. Both of these magnificent sets of regalia were consumed in
the :fire of April last, but fortunately the Grand Secretary in his wisdom had one thousand dollars insurance on the same and by my direction he has undertaken to replace one of the sets which the manufacturer has promised for use at this Annual Communication.

194

195

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Masonic Board of Relief of Los Angeles.

tions arrive here without funds, and frequently with families entirely
dependent, but with the hope of securing employment; and in hun·
dreds of cases worthy Brethren have visited this State and positively
refused to accept financial assistance, and, in fact, declined charity.
All they desired was an opportunity to secure honest employment.

Brother C. W. Bush, a member of the Fraternity residing in Los
Angeles, California, died some eighteen months since, leaving a portion of his estate h> the Masonic Board of Relief of Los Angeles.
Owing to the peculiar laws of. this State, it was thought at one time
that the Board of Relief of Los Angeles would not be able to secure
this property, but by the active and energetic efforts of Brother
Samuel Prager, President of the Board, and Brother August Wackerbarth, executor of the estate, said Masonic Board of Relief, to thoroughly protect itself and to protect the interests of the l!'raternity,
duly incorporated under the laws of the State of California, and on
August 1st came into possession of the property, consisting of. a
two-story brick building at the corner of Los Angeles and Market
streets, in Los Angeles City, of the appraised value of $33,000.00;
also, two unimproved pieces of property in Los Angeles City of the
appraised value of $12,196.99, making the total appraised value of
the estate turned over to the Masonic Board of Relief of Los Angeles
$45,196.99.
The present income of this property is two hundred and twenty
dollars per month. Unfortunately, a few days after the Board came
into possession of the property a fire occurred in the building at Los
Angeles and Market streets, causing a damage of several hundred
dollars. This, however, was covered by insurance, which will probably
fully protect the Board. In order that the Fraternity will be pro·
tected in years to come, it will be necessary for this Board to place
the property on an income basis, which will undoubtedly necessitate
the selling of the unimproved property and the making of further
improvements in the building at Los Angeles and Market streets, the
balance to be invested in other income-bearing property or securities.
Consequently, this Grand Body will probably be called upon to make
its usual contribution to the Masonic Board of Relief of Los Angeles
for the coming year, and after that, when their property is placed
upon an income-producing basis, or within one year, the necessary
contribution to said Masonic Board of Relief can be materially reduced.
Masonic Employment Bureau of Los Angeles.
After a connection of nearly ten years with the Masonic Board of
Relief of Los Angeles, and a thorough study of the situation, I felt
that, as California is the Mecca of thousands of people from the
East, who visit our Golden State by reason of its mild climate or in
search of health, many of our Brethren from the Eastern Jurisdic-

Believing that our Fraternity could set a good example in this
way, I prevailed upon the Scottish Rite Bodies, Chapters and Com·
mandery of Los Angeles to make monthly donations for one year to
open a Masonic Employment Bureau. This Bureau was opened for
business November 15, 1905. A regular office is maintained in the
Masonic Temple in Los Angeles, which is open from 9 · a. m. to 12,
noon, and is in charge of a competent Secretary, whose duty it is to
secure written applications from worthy Masons and their dependent s
desiring employment, and then each afternoon to visit all employers
and endeavor to place our deserving Brethren in positions. The
results have been more than satisfactory, and I am pleased to state
that the Masonic Employment Bureau of Los Angeles, during the te~
~onths of its operation, has made a most magnificent showing, as the
following Report from the Secretary of said Bureau will show:
Supported by and under supervision of
Scottish Rite Bodies;
George H. Aydelotte,
Los Angeles Commandery, No. 9, K. T.;
Secretary.
Los Angeles Chapter, No. 33, R. A. M.;
Signet Chapter, No. 57, R. A. M.;
Masonic Board of Relief.
Masonic Employment Bureau
Office, Masonic Temple
Hill Street, between Fourth and Fifth
Los Angeles, Cal., September 151 1906.
Motley Hewes Flint,
Most Worshipful Grand Master of Masons of California
and Trustee of Los Angeles Masonic Employment Bureau,
Los Angeles, Cal.Dear Sir and Brother: It is with much gratification that I submit
to you the Report of the first Masonic Employment Bureau of Cali·
fornia, and I believe the showing made for the first ten months of
the Los Angeles Masonic Employment Bureau will demonstrate that
Charity, the foundation ·of all fraternal orders, has been fully exempli·
fied by the Masons of this city in the way they have assisted your
Secretary to place our unemployed Craftsmen in positions whereby
they can 1mpport themselves and families, and thereby be indepen·

196

•

197

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

dent of that financial charity which otherwise in many cases they
would have been compelled to ask.

place some other unemployed Brother for this Bureau. There have ·
been seventy-one (71) lady applicants, of which twenty-nine (29)
have secured employment.

Since the opening of the Los Angeles Masonic Employment Bureau
November 15, 1905, to the present date, there have been five hundred
and eighty-eight applications filed, representing the following Jurisdictions: Arkansas, 4; Arizona, 9; Alabama, 2; British Columbia, 4;
Colorado, 17; California, 103; Connecticut, 11; Canada, 12; Delaware,
1; District of Columbia, 3; England, 8; Florida, 2; France, l; Georgia,
2; Hawaiian Islands, 4; Indiana, 19; Indian Territory, l; Illinois,
55; Iowa, 22; Idaho, 2; Ireland, 4; India, 1; Japan, 1; Kansas, 28;
Kentucky, 6; Louisiana, 3; Lower California, 1; Maine, 6; Mississippi,
1; Massachusetts, 17; Maryland, 4; Missouri, 17; Michigan, 21;
Montana, 2; Minnesota, 5; Mexico, 1; New Hampshire, 5; New York,
48; New Jersey, 5; Nebraska, 8; Nevada, l; North Dakota, 1; New
South Wales, 3; Ohio, 35; Oklahoma, 3; Oregon, l; Pennsylvania, 16;
Philippine Islam.ls, 1; Prussia, 1; Peru, S. A., 1; Rhode Island, 5;
South Dakota, 5; Scotland, 6; Texas, 5; Tennessee, 5; Turkey, 2;
Utah, 4; Virginia, 2; Vermont, 3; Washington, 8; Wisconsin, 8; West
Virginia, 3; Wyoming, 3-from which three hundred and ninety-three
(393) positions have been filled, either temporarily or permanently,
from the following Jurisdictions: Alabama, l; Arkansas, 2; Arizona,
9; British Columbia, 4; Colorado, 11; California, 65; Connecticut, 14;
Canada, 4; Delaware, 1; District of Columbia, 1; E!lgland, 5; France,
l; Georgia, 3; Hawaiian Islands, 3; Indiana, 11; Indian Territory, l;
Illinois, 28; Iowa, 9; Idaho, 1; Ireland, 4; Kansas, 19; Kentucky, 4;
Maine, 4; Massachusetts, 8; Maryland, 3; Missouri, 3; Michigan, 16;
Minnesota, 3; Mexico, 2; New Hampshire, 3; New York, 45; New
Jersey, 6; Nebraska, 8; New South Wales, 2; Ohio, 15; Oregon, l;
Pennsylvania, 17; Rhode Island, 6; South Dakota, 2; Scotland, 5;
Texas, 5; Tennessee, 4; Turkey, 2; Utah, 5; Virginia, 2; Vermont, l;
Wisconsin, 6; West Virginia, 1; Wyoming, l;
A number of applicants have had more than one temporary position, and maiiy of the Craft making application with this Bureau
never again reported or notified of any change of address, and either
found positions themselves or left the city, and cannot be found
when wanted; otherwise, at least a hundred or more places would
be recorded as having been filled, as I have notifie.d more than that
number to report for work, and :find they had either left the city,
moved or were working, and I make no record of ·Brethren securing
employment other than through this Bureau. At the same time it is
with pleasure that I note the fact that many who have secured employment through this Bureau have been ever zealous in trying to

There are now on file forty-one live applications, and mostly from
men past middle age, and it seems too ·bad, but nevertheless it is a
fact, that it is almost impossible to secure positions for what are
known as old men, although many of these are bright, capable men
in their line of work. Hardly a day but that some one finds employment through this Bureau's assistance, and it is with the greatest
pleasure I note the extreme courtesy always shown me when making
personal solicitation for the unemployed, and seldom have I been
turned away when there was the least opportunity to place one of the
Craft on the pay roll, and but for these courtesies could any Secretary
accomplish but little.
Considering how this city has been :flooded with unemployed
through the misfortune of the San Francisco disaster, and the demands made on the employer from every source for the employment
of same, as well as the many coming from the East, I believe the .
showing made herein will reflect due credit on the Los Angeles
Masons and the Masonic Bodies under whose support and control it is.
"We live for those who love us,
Whose hearts are kind and true;
For the Heaven that smiles above us,
And awaits our spirits, too.
For all human ties that bind us,
lfor all tasks our God assigned us,
For the bright hopes yet to find us,
And the good that we can do."
Respectfully submitted by yours truly and fraternally,
(Signed:)

GEO. H. AYLEDOTTE,
Secretary.

•
Masonic Temple, San Francisco.
At our last Annual Communication R.:. W.:. Reuben H. Lloyd
presented an able and exhaustive Report on the erection of a magnificent Masonic Temple on the site at Post and Montgomery streets,
in this city; this building to be erected as soon as the leases on the
property ·expired, said leases running for a period of four years
from June, 1905.
2

198

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

By Resolution of the Grand Lodge the matter was r e-referred to
the Co=ittee and incoming Grand Master. Of course you fully
realize that the fire of April 18th consumed our Masonic Temple;
and, while in San Francisco engaged in relief work, I looked into the
situation as carefully as possible, and deemed it best to call into
consultation as many of the Past Grand Masters and elective officers
of this ·Body as could be secured to talk over the situation and
protect the Grand Lodge in every way.
The following Brethren were present at the meeting called by
me May 19th last: E. H. Hart, Deputy Grand Master; George M.
Perine,' Senior Grand Warden; R. H. Lloyd, Junior Grand Warden;
E. Coleman, Grand Treasurer; George Johnson, Grand Secretary;
F. M . Angellotti, E . C. Atkinson, C. L. Patton, Thomas Flint, 0. S.
Henderson, J. B. Stevens, Past Grand Masters; J. H. Neff, Past
Junioi· Grand Warden; J. W. Anderson, Past Grand Lecturer; W.
Frank Pierce, B. P. Flint, Henry L. Davis, F. W. Van Sicklen and J.
Tonningsen ; and, after careful, thorough and exhaustive discussion,
it was decided by more than a majority present that it was for the
best interest of the Grand Lodge that the property at Post and Montgomery streets of this city be sold at a price not less than seven
hundred and fifty thousand dollars . .
Wit.bin the past sixty days Brother Reuben H. Lloyd secured a
buyer for this property at the figure of seven hundred and :fifty thousand dollars, and on behalf of the Grand Lodge I signed the necessary
papers to dispose of the Grand Lodge stock of 5,881 shares, out of a
total of 25,000 shares, which action has been concurred in by everybody holding stock in the corporation.
There can be no question but that for many reasons it would have
been a splendid and magnificent monument to Masonry to erect a
first-class steel-frame building on the old site; but conditions after
the fire changed the situation very materially ·in San Francisco, and
it is my judgment that the action in selling the property at the price
W.ven was a decided advantage to the Fraternity. The Committee in
charge, representing the stockholders of this corporation, have been
requested by me to hold the money intact as long as possible, or until
after this Grand Body should meet, in order that i =ediate action
could be taken whereby a Temple, a credit to Masonry and to this
Grand Body, should be erected.
· In my judgment, it is of vital importance that our funds should
be invested at an early date, and I submit herewith the Grand Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

199

assets as reported to me as being on hand September 1 1906
Grand Secretary:
'
• by the
5,881 shares Masonic Temple stock at $30
.
'
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .$176,430.00
7 bonds Bl L k W
. , ue a es ater Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . • . . . .
7 OOO.OO
Cash in hands of Treasurer
'
...... . ........... '.......... 58,247.00
$241,677.00
:ast .Grand Master Hunter, in his Annual Address, gave the following list, showing how the stock in the Masonic Temple at Post
and Montgomery streets, this city, was held:
Grand Lodge, l!'. and A. M ........ . .... .
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 5,881
Grand Cha ter R A M
p • . . ....................
1 700
Grand Commandery K T
·
.... · ........ · · · · · '
.., .
. .
' . . ............... . ................... 1403
\,ahfornia Council R. and S M
'
California Chapte; R A M.
· · · · · ·.· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 75
S. l!'. Cha ter R ' . • ..• .. ....•• . .. ..• .... .• . . ......... 1,571
C l"f
. P L 'd ·A. M. · ·· · · · · · · · · · · · ·· ··· ...... ..•. ......... 502
a i o.rnia _o ge, No. 1. .... .... ·........... : ................. 2 801
Parfaite Union L odge No 17
'
0 .d t 1 L d
'
.
. . .. . ............. ' .. ' . · · · · · · · · · · 80
cci en a
o ge, No. 22...............
Golden Gate Lodge, No. 30
· ..... · .... · · · .. · · · .. · · 1262
'
Mt. Moriah Lodge, No. 44 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300
Crockett Lodge, No. 139 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 990
............... . ......... . ......... ,, . 30
Oriental Lodge, No. 144
Excelsior Lodge, No. 16~ · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 324
... .. . .. . ...... . ... .. .... . ....... .. .. 300
Doric Lodge, No. 216. . ... ... . .. ........ .....
California Commandery, K. T
...... · · · · · · · · · · · 194
................ . ...... .. ..... ... 940
Y. B. Lodge of Perfection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Gr and Consistory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
20
. · ·· · · ·
California Chapter, 0. E. S
Private individuals
...... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · lOO
................. . ...... . ..... . .......... 6,477
Recapitulation.
Stock held by Masonic bodies ..... . .................... .. ... ls,52 3
Stock held by private individuals ....... . .............. .. .... 6 477

•

'

25,000

It is therefore essentially necessary that if a Masonic Temple is

to be erected in this city that prompt action be taken by this Grai;id
Lodg~ for .the reason that a distribution of the funds from the sale of
the site will soon be made and the Masonic bodies holding stock will
undoubtedly seek investment for their funds.

200

201

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

For your information, I would state that the Masonic Temple was
insured for $110,000, of which something over $84,000 has been collected, and a dividend of $3 per share ($75,000) has been paid to the
stockholders.

good of our Fraternity that a roster of members be published with
the officers of each Lodge early in January of each year.

Printing List of Members.

As the membership of this Grand Jurisdiction increases the work
of the Grand Master necessarily increases in proportion; consequently
it is a serious question as to the amount of time the Grand ]\faster
can devote to the correspondence and questions brought up for decision, which time might be saved had the Masters and Secretaries
followed the plain rules and instructions laid down by our Constitution and in Anderson's Manual.

At our last Annual Communication a Special Committee on the
publication of the proceedings of this Grand Body recommended that
the rosters of Lodges formerly published in the proceedings of this
Grand Body be so modified that only the name, number and address
of the Lodge, name and address of the Master, name and address of
the Secretary, and the time of the stated meeting be published. The
Committee on Finance in their Report, which was adopted by the
Grand Lodge, recommended as follows:
''Omit therefrom the rosters of the various Lodges, and insert in
lieu thereof tabulated statement showing the number and name of each
Lodge, together with the names of the Master and Secretary thereof
and the date and place· of meeting.''
In my judgment, after careful and mature deliberation and_ after
investigation of the work of the various Relief Boards incident to the
disaster of April 18th last, it is a serious mistake not to publish the
names of the members of our Grand Jurisdiction in good standing. I
do not maintain that it is necessary that the same should be in the
proceedings of the Grand Lodge, but it is my idea that at the annual
meetings of the various Lodges of this Jurisdiction held during December of each year there is a general overhauling of the records and
delinquent members are suspended; hence, on January 1st of each year
practically all of the Lodges of this Jurisdiction have accurate and
complete rolls of their members, and as the election takes place in all
Lodges during December it is my judgment that it is wise and expedient to publish early in January a complete roster of each and every
Lodge of this Grand Jurisdiction showing newly elected and appointive officers and members in good standing, and have the same properly
distributed to each constituent Lodge of this Grand Jurisdiction.
During our relief work of last April hun~reds of applications were
made by Masons of this jurisdiction and. we had no data to work
upon except the proceedings of 1904, the last published that gave the
list of members, and it was a real necessity that a later and more
correct list of members be secured. I am sure that any member of
this Grand Body who was in active participation in the relief work
will coincide with my views and agree that it is essential for the

Decisions.

I find from experience that many questions are asked which could
have bee'n readily detetmined by a little thought or perhaps a careful
study of the books which should be in every Lodge room. However,
there have been more or less important questions which I deemed
best to present to you for determination as to whether they involved
points which should be finally decided by this Grand Body. Perhaps I
may be criticised for making my explanations too lengthy, but I find
on reviewing my correspondence that a lengthy answer fully explaining all points is better understood than a short decision; hence all of
my questions and my decisions are given herewith in detail.
Written complaint having been made to me by three Past Masters
of "Hermann" Lodge, No. 127, that one Brother M. S., a member
of said Lodge, forwarded a letter under date of May 1, 1905, to
''Hermann'' Lodge, requesting a dimit, and at the stated. meeting,
held on the same day, said dimit was granted to him by resolution of the
Lodge, his dues having been paid in full at that time. The same
brother, in a communication dated June 30, 1905, forwarded his dues
for the months of May, June and July, and requested to be placed in
good standing in "Hermann" Lodge, advising that his actfon was
hasty on his part and that he desired to be reinstated in said Lodge
after a membership of twenty-three years.
At the stated meeting of said Lodge, held July 3, 1905, said communication was read, and, on motion, it was unanimously resolved to
grant the prayer of Brother S., take back his dimit and regard him as
a member of said "Hermann" Lodge in good standing.
The three Past Masters before referred to made objections to this
procedure, claiming it was contrary to the regulations of the Grand
Lodge, but no action was taken and the matter was, in due course of
time, referred to me :in a communication dated September 20, 1905.

202

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

After carefully studying the facts in the case, I deemed it necessary
to advise the Master and members of "Hermann" Lodge that their
action in the case of Brother M. S. was irregular and that said
Brother could not be considered a member of said Lodge, for the reason that a similar case had been fully decided by the Grand Lodge
at the Session of 1864, set forth in Section 91 of Anderson's Manual,
reading as follows:

diction and joins another Lodge in this ·Jurisdiction he carries with
him the title and privileges of a Past Master.

''When a member of a Lodge has paid his dues, and at a stated
meeting announces his intention to withdraw, his membership ceases,
and he can become a member again of that Lodge only by petition
and ballot, as in the case of any other non-affiliated Mason. It is not
competent for the Lodge by vote to reinstate him.''
''Union'' Lodge, No. 58, of Sacramento submitted the following
questions:
"First-A Past Master of a Lodge in a foreign Jurisdiction,
(Iowa) affiliates with a Lodge in California. Does h e carry the title
of Past Master into the Lodge with which he affiliatesf"
In an11wering this question I advised that, in my judgment, a Past
Master of a Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons, under any Jurisdiction recognized by our Jurisdiction, is a Past Master for life and
carries with him that title and recognition at all times. That he
. should be carried on the rolls as a Past Master.
''Second-A Past Master of a Lodge in the Jurisdiction of California dimits from the Lodge in which he presided and joins another
Lodge in the same Jurisdiction. Does he carry the title of Past
Master into the Lodge with which he affiliates'# In either case wo.uld
he be entitled to a vote in the Grand Lodge as a Past Mastert"
In answering this question I called the attention of "Union"
Lodge to the concluding portion of Section 1, Article I, paragraph I,
of the Constitution of the Grand Lodge, reading as follows:
''Together with all Past Grand Officers and Past Masters of this
Jurisdiction and Masters and Wardens of the several chartered and
duly constituted Lodges or the Representatives thereof duly elected. 14
Advising that said extract is the concluding portion of the paragraph
showing of whom the Grand Lodge of California is composed, and that
any Past Master ·o f this Jurisdiction is a member of the Grand Lodge,
and in my judgment, that if he dimitted from a Lodge in this Juris-

203

"Eucalyptus" Lodge, No. 243, submitted the following question:
"Your favor of January 12th, in answer to my question of J anu·
ary 11th, referring to the question of wine an\! other liquors at a
Masonic banquet, is received and contents noted.
Regulation tlfty-seven and Section 802, Anderson's Manual, pointed
out by you, do not exactly cover the point, We understand that wine,
etc., cannot be paid for by Lodge funds, also that i t is contrary to
Masonic teaching and usage to serve same at Masonic banquets in
Masonic halls. We cannot have a banquet in the hall because there
is no place for it. We must go to the dining-room of some of the
hotels in town. Question: Can we serve wine at a Masonic banquet
held in the dining-room of one of our hotels in town, subject however
to Section 802 and Regulation 5H
"Question: If the candidate pays for a banquet held in one of
the hotel dining-rooms can we serve wine at the same if we have a
banquet on the occasion of installation can we have wine if paid for
by the Master-elect or by a subscription taken up among the members
if held in a hotel 'i I think a ruling on the above question will settl~
the case.''
In answer to which I advised that there was nothing in the General Regulations or decisions approved by the Grand Lodge which
prevented. The question as to whether it is advisable for a Lodge to
have wine at a banquet is one that the Lodge has a right, in the
absence of written law prohibiting its use, to determine for itself.
"Stanislaus" Lodge, No. 206, submitted the following ·questions
for decision:
"1. Stanislaus Lodge rents a hall, paying the rent of course from
our Lodge receipts (dues), and sub-lets to the local Order of 0. E. S.,
charging them a monthly rental. The 0. E. S. has furnished several
banquets which have been paid for by subscription and warrants on
the Banquet Fund, which, according to Section 915 of Anderson's
Manual, consists of 5 per cent of the income of the Lodge. The
Banquet ~'und is exhausted and it is sought to pay for the last banquet by remitting the rent of the 0. E. S. for a sufficient number of
months to balance the account. Can t his be done¥ I contend that the
rent they pay is merely dues returned, and as such is 'income of the
Lodge' of which we could not use more than 5 per cent."

204

205

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

In answering said question, I called the attention of "Stanislaus"
Lodge to Section 57 of. the General Regulations of the Grand Lodge,
reading as follows:

"Ts an J<Jntered Apprentice who has been refused advancement entitled to the return of the fee accompanying his application for the
degrees, or any part thereof i

Sec. 57. The Subordinate Lodges of this Jurisdiction are hereby
authorized to expend, ~n each Masonic year, a sum not exceeding five
per cent of their total revenue for the preceding Masonic year, for
the purposes of refreshment and the promotion of fraternal intercourse; provided, no expenditures whatever shall be made for spiritous,
malt or fermented liquors. ''

"Answer: The fee should be returned, less the amount charged
by the Lodge for the Entered Apprentice degree.''
Which, to my mind, answered the question propounded, and that was
that the entered Apprentice is still an Entered Apprentice and should
be carried on the Rolls as such, unless he has committed some act, or
in the future commits some act which requires that charges be preferred against him in the regular manner. The approval of the Grand
Lodge showing that the fee should be returned, less the amount
charged by the Lodge for the Entered Apprentice degrees shows
clearly that the applicant continues in the Lodge as an Entered Apprentice, even if denied advancement.

And also instructed them to note that the wording of the regulation
is ''total r evenue for the preceding Masonic year,'' consequently the
rental derived from the local Order of the Eastern Star was in that
case part of the revenue of their Lodge, and said funds could not be
diverted for the purpose of refreshments.
'' 2. For the purpose of meeting the expenses of banquets the following amendment has been introduced to our By-Laws: Art. IX of
the By-L aws of this Lodge shall be amended by the addi tion of a
n ew .sect ion numbered Sec. 5, a nd which shall read a s follows: 'Sec.
5.- Each memb er of this Lodge shall pay to the Secr etary of the Lodge
25 cents per month, payable quarterly in advance, which shall constitute a special Banquet Fund for the use of this Lodge.' Will the fund
thus raised b e available for banquet purposes, or will Sec. 915 of
Anderson 's Masonic Manual operate in such a way as to permit the
use of only 5 per cent of the same to be used for banquet purposes i''
In answering said question I advised that the Grand Lodge has
adopted a uniform Code of By-Laws and the same could not be
amended by a new section such as suggested, for the reason that the
same would simply increase their dues and the fund must be a part
of the revenues of said Lodge, and such action would be in violation
of General Regulation No. 57 above quoted.

"Corona" Lodge, No. 324, propounded the following question:
"Will you kindly define the position of an affiliating Brother in
the circumstance below stated f
"He applies for membership and is elected before withdrawing
from his old Lodge. H e then applies for and receives from his old
Lodge a•dimit which he files with his application for affiliation in the
new Lodge. Does his membership in the latter Lodge date from his
election to membership therein, or from the date of filing his dimitf
Under some conditions the interim may amount to a month, or even
two. Of which Lodge is he a member during that time i Should_ the
second Lodge collect dues from the date of his election or from the
filing of his dimi tf "
In this case, I h eld that, under Section 8, Article I, P art V, of the
Constitution, reading ;.is follows:

"What is his present standingi Is he a regular Entered Apprentice, or does this action act as expulsion from the Lodge 'i ''

"A member of a Lodge, who is in good standing and whose dues
are paid, who desires to affiliate with another Lodge, may apply for
and r eceive from the Secretary of the Lodge of which h e is a member, a duly attested certificate of his st anding in the Lodge. By
presenting such a certificate with his petition, a member may apply
for affi liation with anot her Lodge in the manner prescribed i~ Sec. 2,
Art . III, Part III. If such applicant be elected to affiliate with a
Lodge he can become a member thereof, only, by filing with its Secretary, at a stated meeting, the certificate of his withdrawal from the
Lodge of which he was last a member. ''

In this connection I advised that the matter had been taken up
in the Grand Lodge Session of 1888 in the following way:

The Brother may present a certificate• of membershi p, which certificate
of membership as shown in Anderson 's Manual is as follows :

"South P as adena" L odge, No. 367, submitted the following question for a decision:
''An Entered Apprentice is denied adv ancement on recommend,a·
tion of Committee, unanimously sustained by vote of the Lodge-

206

207

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Certificate of Membership.

"Has a Lodge, or the Worshipful Master thereof, the right to
create a salaried office not mentioned or enumerated in the By-Laws of
the Lodgef Is such an appointment lawfulf"
This question was brought out by a resolution adopted by "Doric"
Lodge as follows:
''That the Master be empowered to appoint an instructor, said in·
structor must be a member of ''Doric'' Lodge, for the purpose of
assisting candidates in the lectures of the first and second degrees.
Said instructor to ·receive a compensation of five dollars for each
candidate instructed by him.''
In the Uniform Code of By-Laws adopted by this Grand Lodge
there is no provision for the appointment of such an officer as an
Inst:i:uctor. Under our Constitution it is provided that no Lodge shall
advance an Entered Apprentice or a Fellow Craft to a higher degree
until after a strict examination in open Lodge he shall have given
satisfactory evidence that he is entirely proficient and well qualified
in that or those he has already taken; thus being clearly noted that it
is the duty of the candidate to be properly prepared. There is no
doubt as to the right of the Master, without the consent of the Lodge,
to appoint a brother to instruct a candidate; the real question is as
to the right to pay for such service from the Lodge funds. It appears
that when the resolution was adopted by "Doric" Lodge many can·
didates were appearing for examination, and hardly two had the same
work. It is undoubtedly at times a hardship on the Master of a
Lodge and on the Brethren to be required to teach a candidate the
lectures of the Entered Apprentice and Fellow Craft degrees. After
a thorough and mature deliberation it is my opinion, as our laws now
exist, that Lodge funds cannot be used for the purpose of paying an
instructor, but the question as to whether or not it would be a ma·
terial advantage to our Fraternity if all candidates were taught the
work uniformly and might not materially reduce the work imposed
upon some of our Brethren in Lodges which are increasing rapidly in
membership by having a paid instructor should be given careful con·
sideration. Hence, I have not decided the question, but refer it to the
Grand Lodge for a decision as to the expediency of creating such an
office and having it paid by the Lodge if deemed best by any Lodge
of this Jurisdiction to do so, or to amend our uniform Code of B.y·
Laws to cover all points involved in the question presented.

" ............... Lodge No ....... . ,~·. and . A. M.
"To the Master, Wardens and Brethren of .......... Lodge No ...... :
''This is to certify that Brother ............... , a member in
good standing of this Lodge, having made application for a Dimit,
and notice having been received that said brother has petitioned
your Lodge for affiliation therein, a Dimit will be granted, upon the
condition that said Brother shall consummate said affiliation. Of
which action you will give this Lodge timely notice; and in the event
of fai'lure to consummate such affiliation, this certificate of member·
ship is to be returned to this Lodge.
"Giv en under. my hand and the seal of the Lodge at ............ ..
this . .. ...... . . . day of ......... . .. . .. . .. , A. L. 59 ... .
[Seal]
" . .......... , . , ........... .
' 'Secretary. ''
And may be elected to membership on such certificate, but he does
not actually b ecome a member of the Lodge until a dimit is granted;
and that if there is a lapse of time between the issuance .o f the cer·
tificate of membership and when the dimit should be issued, which
lapse of time will cau3e the •Brother to be indebted to the Lodge for
dues, he must pay to the Lodge from which he is <limiting the amount
he is indebted to said Lodge prior to the issuing of the dimit.
Complaint was made to me by a member of "Palo Alto" Lodge,
No. 346, that on March 1st he preferred charges against a member of
that Lodge. On March 31st, at 9:30 p. m., the :first stated meeting
following the trial, the Master announced the result of the trial, the
penalty being found to be a reprimand.
On April 30th, at 4:30 p. m., complainant alleges that he personally
gave the Master written notice of appeal, the Master, however, noti·
fied him that his notice of appeal did not come within the limit
specified by the Constitution. I advised the Master of the Lodge and
the complainant that according to the Constitution an appeal may be
taken to the Grand Lodge by either party at its next succeeding
annual communication, but not unless notice of such intended appeal
shall be- given to the Master in writing within thirty days after his
announcement of the result of the trial, and it was my judgment that
this appeal should have been received any time on April 30th up to
midnight of that day, the first of the thirty days being April 1st,
and the last day being April 30th.
A Past Master of "Doric" Lodge, No. 216, presented the followin~
question for decision:

Life Memberships.
From the large amount of correspondence received by me relative to
life memberships, it is apparently quite clear that many of the Lodges
do not thoroughly understand the regulations of the Grand Lodge in

209

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

respect to this important matter. In order that the case may be
properly and thoroughly understood, attention is invited to the fol·
lowing copies of letters and my answers to same, the name of the
Lodge being intentionally omitted. The first communication was
dated December 4, 1905, and reads as follows:
''At our annual meeting, held on above date, one of the Brethren
contended that it would be necessary for our Lodge to pass a resolution empowering the Lodge to receive life members for a stated sum
of money, which was not to be less than one hundred and fifty dol·
lars ($150) anci that the resolution should embody the restrictions as
to the investment of the money thus received as laid down by the
Grand Lodge at their last annual meeting.
''This contention was insisted upon, although it was called to the
attention of the Brother that Sec. 3, Article VIII of our By-Laws
reads:
" 'Any member may be constituted a life member thereof upon the
payment of the sum of One Hundred and Fifty Dollars, and shall receive a certificate of life membership over the seal of the Lodge,
signed by the Worshipful Master and countersigned by the Secretary,
by which the recipient shall be exempt from the payment of dues as
provided by Article IX, Sec. 1.'
''Again in our By-Laws appears an amendment to Article VIII
to be known as Sec. 4, under the head of Article XV and is as follows, viz.:
.
'' 'All moneys received in payment of life memberships in this
Lodge shall be paid into an account to be known as ''The Life Membership Fund,'' which said fund shall be invested as t.he Lodge may
direct and the income from said fund shall be placed m the General
Fund of the Lodge.'
"Both these Articles relating to life memberships are part of our
By-Laws and have never been repealed.
''During the year of Nineteen Hundred· and Four we refused to
issue life memberships owing to a ruling of the then M. :. W. :. Grand
Master 'that it could not legally be done.'
''A~ the Lodge deriires to conform both in letter and spirit with
all rulings of the Grand Lodge, I have been directed by the Lodge
to request if it be your pleasure, a decision from you as to whether
or not it is necessary for us to pass any amendment or resolution to
our By-Laws.
"Under separate cover, I mail you one of our books of By-Laws
that you may have a clearer understanding of the matter.
"I would add that the Grand Lodge requires a fee of Two Hundred Dollars when the dues are Twelve Dollars a year and propor·

tionately less when the dues are less, and as our dues ·are but Nine
Dollars a year (one quarter less than Twelve Dollars), therefore our
life membership fee should be that proportion less, viz.: One Hundred
and Fifty Dollars.''

208

My answer to this letter was dated December 9th, and was as
follows:
''Referring to your favor of the 4th regarding life membership in
your Lodge, also referring to the copy of By-Laws of your Lodge and
calling m;y attention to Article VIII, Sec. 3, which provides how life
memberships may be established in your Lodge, permit me to call
your attention to the fact that the copy of By-Laws as submitted was
apparently revised November 12, 1903. If that be a fact, I can not
understand why this Section regarding life memberships should be
in your by-Laws. Please note Section 928, Anderson's Manual, reading as follows:
" 'Sec. 928. No Lodge under the Jurisdiction of the Grand
Lodge of California can establish life memberships by resolution or
in any other manner.'
''This was approved by the Grand Lodge in Session of 1901. Same
was not apparently understood by all Lodges, as you will note by
reading Sections 936 and 937, which are as follows:
" 'Sec. 936. Several Lodges in the Jurisdiction have contended
that the decision of the Grand Lodge at the Annual Communication of
1900, relative to Life Membership, did not prevent them from issuing life memberships where a standing resolution or by-law passed
prior to and in force at the time of the decision so provided. I have
decided that a life membership is not established by the mere passing
of a resolution providing for it, but that the act of receiving the
money and issuing the certificate constitutes or establishes the life
membership, and that, since said decision, it is improper and illegal
to issue or grant any life membersb,ip or receive any money therefor,
and any and all resolutions or by-laws providing therefor should be
immediately repealed by the Lodge.
" 'Sec. 937. Where a Lodge, prior ta the decision of 1900, has,
by resolution or otherwise, granted a life membership, agreed that
a Brother should be a life member, and enrolled him as such in
accordance with the·agreement, or in any manner created and granted
such life membership, it is then an executed contract between him
and the Lodge, and ~an not be set aside or rescinded without the
consent of both, and ~uch life memberships must stand.'
''This was adopted and approved by the Grand Lodge in Session
of 1902, consequently why should the revised copy of your By-Laws

210

211

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

·GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

of November 12, 1903, contain any section regarding life memberships
when the Grand Lodge decided that all resolutions or by-laws providing therefor should be immediately repealed by the Lodgef
''If life memberships are desired by the members of the Lodge, it
must be strictly in accordance with the resolution adopted at the session of the Grand Lodge of October, 1905. All Lodges should follow
the uniform Code of By-Laws, copies of which can be secured from
the Grand Secretary.

and if life memberships are desired, follow the Uniform Code of ByLaws or the resolution adopted at the last meeting of the Grand
Lodge. ''
In order that Brethren of the Grand Lodge may thoroughly understand the case, I quote from the Uniform Code of By-Laws that
portion of the same relating to life memberships:

"If this is not clearly understood, please advise me further."

Under date of December 12th, the case was again brought up for
further review by the Lodge interested in the following communication:
"In reply to your valued favor of the 9th, I avail myself of the
privilege granted me of again writing you if, as you say, your letter
is not clearly understood.

"I note Sec. 928, 936 and 937, which you quote, and have had
knowledge of them, except that portion of Sec. 936 as follows, viz:
'' . . . 'and any and all r esolutions or by-laws providing therefor
would be immediately repealed by the Lodge.'
''This part I must confess I was not aware of or .being so, it must
have escaped my memory or I would assuredly have brought it to the
attention of the Worshipful Master, who would undoubtedly have
had proper steps taken for th e repealing · of that portion of our ByLaws relating to life ~emberships.
"Neyertheless the ruling of the Grand Lodge has been strictly
observed by us and no life memberships have been granted since that
decision.
''But the question remains, now that our By-Laws relating to life
membership has never been repealed and we trust meets with all the
requirements of the Grand Lodge, is it necessary for us to pass any
resolution or amendment or take any further action 9
"As I do not und 3rstand that you have decided this question in
your letter before mentioned, I have taken the liberty of again
troubling you that you may so enlighten us that we may proceed without further errors. "
My final decision, dated December 15th, was as follows:
"Replying to your favor of the 12th, I hold that no life memberships can be authorized except as provided by the resolution adopted
by the Grand Lodge during its meeting of October, 1905, and in
accordance with the Uniform Code of By-Laws hereto attached and
made part of this communication. All resolutions and amendments
to your By-Laws in conflict therewith should be immediately repealed,
0

''Section I. The dues of each member of this Lodge shall be
. . . .. ....... . .. . ........... . , payable quarterly in advance; provided that this Lodge, by the adoption· of a standing r esolution to that
effect, which resolution shall not b e acted upon at the stated meeting
at which it is introduced, nor until notice in writing thereof shall
have been forwarded by mail to every member, may provide for a
system of life membership, which shall forever exempt the life member from the payment of du es ther ein. Said resolution shall provide
that no life membership shall be granted except upon payment of a
sum of money named therein, which sum shall, in case the annual
dues are $12.00, be not less than the sum of $200, and the minimum
amount to be proportionately greater or less as the dues are gt-eater or
less; and shall further provide that all amounts paid for life membership shall be invested only in such reputable. banks of deposit or in
such bonds of the United States, State of California, or some county,
city and county, city or town thereof, or in such other first-class
stocks, bonds or securities as may be directed by the Lodge and approved by the Master, and that only the income thereof shall be
used by the Lodge, the original amounts to be forever kept and maintai!!ed as and for a permanent Life Membership Fund. Said resolution shall require the Secretary in making his Annual Report to
the Grand Lodge to report the numb er of life members borne on the
roll, the amount of the fund thus created, and the manner in which
said fund is invested. Said resolution shall take effect only upon
its approval by the Grand Master.' '
"Sequoia" Lodge, No. 349, presented the following for approval:
"Moved that the Past Masters of 'Sequoia' Lodge, No. 349, who
have served 'Sequoia' Lodge as Worshipful Master be made life
members.''
''Occidental'' Lodge, No. 22, presented the following resolution
for approval:
''Resolved, That all Past Masters of 'Occidental' Lodge, No. 22,
be and they are hereby made a life member of this Lodge.''
Both of these resolutions I declined to approve, on the ground
th~t the Grand Lodge at its last session decided that life memberships
can only be granted upon payment of a sum of money named in the
resolution, which sum shall, in case the annual dues are twelve dol-

212

213

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

lars, be not less than the sum of $200.00, and the mmimum amount
to be proportionately greater or less as the dues are greater or less,
and as the evident intent of the resolution was not to grant life
memberships without the payment of a sum of money, the same were
in conflict with the Regulations of the Grand Lodge and the Uniform
Code of By-Laws.
Masonic Home, Decoto.

t~at the buildings and grounds are in an excellent state of preservation, and the property has been improved very materially during the
past year. Certainly the Brethren have made an excellent investment
aud one which, in my Judgment, will prove of great value to the Fm'.
ternit~.. Bro~her .w. ·Frank Pierce has made a suggestion which, in
my opm10n, is wise, and should bear careful investigation· that is
provided satisfactory arrangements can be effected, to tr:nsfer th~
adults to the California Home at San Gabriel, near Los Angeles, and
that our Decoto Home be us€d entirely for an orphanage. The wisdom
of allowing the boys and gi_rls growing into manhood and womanhood
to be in the same building, or on the same grounds, as the adults of
mature years, has been a question of serious consideration. However,
these are but suggestions, and it would seem to me that it is wise
for a Committee to be appointed to carefully investigate each or
both of these matters I have brought up.
Our Home at Decoto has been supplied with a printing office, and
I have carefully examined the work turned out· under the direction of
tne foreman in charge, and feel satisfied that it would be an advan.
tage, both to our Home and to the Fraternity, if th e Lodges of this
Jurisdiction would have their printing done at the Home. It would
enabl e them to conduct the printing office very economically, and
s€r ve as an opportunity to teach the young people a useful trade.

It was my intention when I assumed the position as Grand Master
to give the Masonic Home considerable attention, but, unfortunately,
other matters of serious importance have prevented, but recently I
had an opportunity of visiting our splendid institution and going
over it very carefully. In my judgment, the Home is well and economically conducted; the Brethren, their wives and the widows who are
domiciled there are certainly well taken care of in every particular.
It was very pleasing to note the neat and healthy appearance of all
the children, and I cannot speak too highly of the excellent care and
motherly devotion of our Matron, Mrs. Rucker, whose heart is undoubtedly wrapped up in the welfare of the children, young and old,
under her c.h arge. It is my opinion that the Trustees are handling
the business of the Home in the best possible manner, and I cannot
see how any great saving can be made. We have erected this magnificent institution, and must conduct it so that it will be a credit to
our Fraternity, and I feel positive that our Trustees are doing everything in their power to follow the teachings of our beloved Order
and looking carefully after the interests of the Grand Lodge. It has
been suggested that it would be more satisfactory to some of the
Lodges if we followed the method adopted by the Southern California Home; that is, to require each Lodge which may place an
adult or a child in the Home to pay for their maintenance, and for
the Grand L0·lge to provide for the fixed charges, suelh as expenditures
for help, Superintendent, Matron, taxes and other charges that must be
maintained to keep .ip the institution, but the cost of food and
supplies given to each inmate shall be paid by the respective Lodges
whom they are charged against. This question was brought up in
Los Angeles, where one Lodge of three hundred and forty members
pays annually three hundred and forty dollars towards the Masonic
Home, and has never had any direct benefits from it, whereas another
Lodge of equal size has had a Brother and his wife as inmates for
several years; hence, as a suggestion, it might be well ·to investigate
the propriety of changing the system, following the lines, as before
stated, of the California Masonic Home Association at San Gabriel.
I have also had the pleasure of visiting the California Masonic
H1Jme Association, and find that they have a magnificent property, and

California Masonic Home Association, at San Gabriel.
At our last Annual Communication five thousand dollars was appropriated to be paid to the California Masonic Home Association
and a check for that amount was transmitted to me by the
Grand Secretary and by me forwarded to the Secretary of said
Asso ciation with the following communication:
"I am transmitting herewith Grand Lodge F. and A. M. of Californi a check No. 1519 for five thousand dollars ($5,000), payable to
my order and endorsed by me to the 'California Masonic Home Association,' and in transmitting thi~ check I invite your particular attention to the Report of the Finance Committee of the Grand
Lodge, which was adopted at the last session, reading as follows:
" ' The recommendation of the Special Committee appointed to
investigate and report concerning the California Masonic Home Association, that a sum be appropriated as a donation to said
Associ ation has been carefully considered, and after conference with
the Chairman of said Special Committe1i, we offer thll following resolution and recommend its adoption :
" 'Resolved, That there be, and is hereby appropriated from the
General Fund of this Grand Lodge, the sum of $5,000, to be paid to

214

215

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

the California Masonic Home Association in the care and maintenance
of sick and distressed Brother Master Masons, their widows and
orphans; and, be it further
" 'Resolved, That the California Masonic Home Association be,
and it is hereby directed to, report to the next Communication of
this Grand Lodge, its financial condition, and the work performed by
it and under its supervision, including a detailed statement of the
cost of the operation and conduct of the institution maintained by it.'
"In calling your attention to the resolution adopted, permit me
to advise that, in my judgment, this resplution conflicts with your
Announcement, Explanation, Rules and Qualifications for admission to
the California Masonic Home Association; particularly on page 23,
paragraph 2, under the head of 'Qualifications,' reading as follows:
" 'All entitled to relief under th e laws, customs and usages of
Free and Accepted Masonry and the Order of the Eastern Star are
eligible to the Home; namely, sick and indigent Masons in good standing and the destitute and helpless members of the families of deceased
Masons in good standing at their death, of some Masonic Body or
Eastern Star in this part of our Jurisdiction.'
''And on page 24, paragraph 1, under the head of 'Rules,' reading
as follows:
'' 'Admission to the Home will be made by the Board of Directors,
on the nomination of any organized Masonic "Body ( either of the York
or Scottish Rite), any Chapter of the Eastern Star, or any Masonic
Board of Relief of Southern California, such nomination to be duly
certified by the proper officers a nd und.er seal. Admission may be
had on the nomination of individual Masons, their widows or orphans
in good standing in other Masonic Jurisdictions who are able to
defray their entire expenses, at the discretion of the Board of
Directors.'
"You will note that the Grand Lodge instructions are that this
money donated is 'to be used by said Association in the care and
maintenance of sick and distress ed Brother Master Masons, their
widows and orphans,' whereas, your rules, apparently, apply simply
to those in Southern California. Before your acceptance of this
dmation it is my duty as Grand Master to call your attention to
these important points, and to r equ est that before this money is used
by you that you consent and agree to the resolution adopted by the
Grand Lodge, which, in my judgment, provides for the care and maintenance of sick and distrEssed Brother M11.ster Masons, their widows
and orphans, of the entire California Jurisdiction.''

"I regret to have delayed until now acknowledging receipt of
your kind favor of October 18th, enclosing check for $5,000, as a
donation to the California Masonic Home .Association, from the
Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California. Since its receipt,
the Board of Directors have had a meeting and the resolutions contained in your letter were read to the Board, also the attention of the
Finance Committee to a seeming discrepancy between two rules, were
discussed and satisfactorily explained. On page 23, paragraph 2, of
the enclosed copy of Rules should read as follows:
'' 'All entitled to relief under the laws, customs and usages of
Free and Accepted Masonry and the Order of the Eastern Star are
eligible to the Home; namely, sick and indigent Masons in good
standing and the destitute and helpless members of the families of
deceased Masons in good stan.d ing at their death, of some Masonic
Body or Eastern Star in this Jurisdiction.'
''The Board of Directors instructed me to convey to you, and
through you to the Grand Lodge of California, their expression of the
acrknowledgment that the labor in which we are engaged in this, our
California Home at San Gabriel, is a worthy object of Masonic
<.;narity."

In reply the following communication was received by me:

Several weeks since I called upon the Secretary of the Association
for the Report called for by this Grand Lodge in the resolution
adopt"ed at the last Annual Session, and said Report as presented is
as follows:
Los Angeles, Cal., September 20, 1906.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge,
F. and A. M. of California.
Dear Brethren: In accordance with the resolution adopted at your
last Grand Communication, ''That the California Masonic Home
Association be, and it is hereby directed to report to the next
Communication of this Grand Lodge, its financial condition, and the
work performed by it and under its supervision, including a detailed
statement of the cost of the operation and conduct of the institution
maintained by it," we have pleasure in complying therewith in the
submission of the following:
During September and October, 1905, a complete · corps of help
was installed and the Home and grounds was in readiness for the
admission of inmates by November 15th. The first permanent members of our Home fam:ly were admitted in December, 1905, the beginning of our Association year.

216

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE Olf CALIFORNIA.

Financial Statement.

This is larger than it will be next year; while the table expenses
and help will be more, water, insuran~e, printing and sundries will be
much less.
The net cost of table board has been $15 per month, which will be
reduced as the family becomes larger. We have had some twentyfour in the Home, but now have twelve regular inmates, a happy,
contented family. There are other applicants who will soon be admitted.
The Board of Directors all have the interests of our Home at
heart and are now planning for a large increase in the general interest
of the Fraternity-which will increase our income. The Institution
is entirely free from debt and the assets at present are:
Ten acres of ground, worth ................................ $ 10,000
Buildings . . . . . . . ......... . .... .. . . .... .. .. .... .. . ...... . 70,000
Furniture, fixtures and machinery .. . .. . ..... .. ............ . 10,000
Cash and Trust l!'und sec.urities . ... ................. . ...... .
8,817
Due from members and donors ......................... ; ... .
1,300

December 1, 1905, cash on hand ... . ... ..... . .... ......... $ 5,049 92
Collected from all sources since ......................... . 7,079 07
Total . . ......................................... $12,128 99
entire cash paid out since. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6,161 83
Cash on hand September 20, 1906 ................... $5,967 16
Of the above balance there is to the-·
Credit of the General Fund ........................ $4,281 76
Credit of the Trust Fund.............. . ........... 1,685 40
Our Home is supported by gratuous donations, together with membership fees of $1.00 per year, or $25 for Life.
We were exceedingly fortunate in securing Mrs. Ora E. Aikin as
our Matron, who has for the last twelve months given entire satisfaction. She has at present two women as houaekeepers, who also keep
the dining-room, and one woman as cook. At present only one man
cares for the grounds alld cow. The men in the Home are assisting
in the· care of the grounds. Our pay-roll for help is $130 per month;
as soon as cold weather begins this will be increased to $155 per
month.
The expense account for the last thirteen months is made up as
follows:
Help, for 13 months ...................................... $1,294 28
Water, for 13 months......... . ............ .. ............ 265 00
Coal and oil, for 13 months.... ... ........................ 237 24
Lights, for 13 months.......... .. .......... .............. 198 05
Insurance, for 3 years ....... . ... ; .......... . ............. 1,400 00
Premium on Bonds, Treasurer and Secretary. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
12 00
Taxes for 1905-6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 152 35
Printing, for 13 months ............ : ..............•..... · 106 00
Meat ....... . .................................... $162 05
Groceries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 777 45
Milk ............................................ 27 63
Vegetables . . ........ ....... .................... . 31 10
Cow feed ... ......... ..................... ...... . 27 70
Total • . ............................. . .... .
Drugs ......................................... ..
Laundry . . . . .............. · ....... · .. · · · · · · · · · · ·
Sundries, including many repairs, stamps, stationery,
transportation, etc. . ....................... .
Secretary, for 13 months ....... .. .......... . ..... ·
Total

$1,020 93
15 03
141 50
267 03
325 00
$5,434 41

217

Total . . ...... .... ......... ..... ......... .. ........ $100,117
All of which cost only $26,500; insured for $40,000.
The Board of Directors have demonstrated the fact that this splendid Home can be run on $5,000 per year, and hope soon to have an
annual income from dues of that amount.
We congratulate the Fraternity on the acquisition of this magnificent property, and earnestly invoke their hearty co-operation, that
it may be the pride of California Masonry.
Fraternally submitted, by order of the
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
(Signed) W. B. SCARBOROUGH1 Secretary.
Masonic Board of Relief-Philippine Islands.
At our last Annual Communication the Finance Committee pre·
sented, as a portion of their Report, the following:
"Relative to the resolution of 'Manila' Lodge, No. 342, petitioning this Grand Lodge to appropriate to the use of the Masonic Board
of Relief of the Philippine Islands the sum of $350 for the year commencing January, 1906, said Board of Relief to be composed of the
Lodge, above named and 'Cavite' Lodge, l'l'e have to report that no
Board of Relief has yet been organized in the Philippine Islands;
that there are now two Lodges under the Jurisdiction of this Grand
Body and three under the Jurisdiction of the Grand Council of
France; and while the Brethren of 'Manila' Lodge have been
subjected to no little hardship by reason of the demands made upon

218

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

them for .assistance to stranded Masons, we feel that until Masonic
affairs in the Philippines become more settled, and a Board of Relief
is actually organized, and its plans of operation submitted to this
Grand Lodge and meets with its approval, no appropriation should be
made, and therefore recommend that said application be filed. ''
Which was adopted by the Grand Lodge. Under date of April
28th last, the Worshipful Master of "Manila" Lodge, No. 342, addressed a communication to me on the subject of a Relief Association
for the Philippine Islands, transmitting at the same time copy of the
proposed By-Laws, and asked that I approve and make any suggestions in the way of criticism towards the organization of said Relief
Association. I advised the Master of the Lodge that this case had
been up for consideration at our last Annual Communication and
that all papers transmitted by him, together with copy of the proposed By-Laws, would be transmitted to this Grand Body for their
action. Said papers are herewith transmitted with the recommendation that tlrey receive careful and serious consideration.
Dispensation for New Lodge in the Philippine Islands.
During the past few months I have received considerable ·correspondence relat ive. to the establishment of another Lodge in Manila,
Philippine Islands. Papers were in proper form, with the exception
that Certificate of Qualification from a Master of a Lodge was not
transmitted. In view of the fact that this is a .constitutional requirement, I transmitted all papers to our Grand Secretary, with
instructions that it would not be possible for me to sign the Dispensation for this new Lod.ge until this very necessary requirement had
been complied with. At my last interview with our Grand Secretary
I find that this certificate has not as yet b een received, hence there is
no necessity for issuing a Dispensation prior to the meeting of this
Grand Body.
Among the papers asking for this Dispensation .is the approval
of "Manila" Lodge, No. 342; yet by the same mail I r eceived a
let ter from the Master of tha t Lodge, in which he submits certain
arguments showing that it is not altogether advisable to establish
another Lodge at Manila at this time. It might b e well, therefore,
that all correspondence in connection with a new Lodge and papers
.asking for Dispensation be referred to a Committee for investigation
and report to this Grand Body at this Session.
Necessity of a New Lodge at Dinuba.
At our last Annual S ession the Representatives of "Reedley"
Lodge, No. 304, and "Traver" Lodge, No. 294, called to my attention tha t a numb er of Brethren residing at Dinuba, Tulare County,

GRA~D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

219

were endeavoring to llrganize a Masonic Lodge in that city, and
they advised that if such a Lodge w:as organized it would seriously
injure both "Reedley" and "Traver" Lodges. Within a few
moments I met a number of the Brethren interested in the organization of this n ew Lodge at Dinuba, and they informed me that Dinuba
was very prosperous and increasing in population very rapidly, and
that a Masonic Lodge would be of material benefit in the up-building
of their home city. I made many inquiries, but not being altogether
sure of the true facts, r equested Worshipful Brother .Tames C. P ottle,
Inspector of the District, to give the matter a most careful investigatio-n,. and he advised me that at first h e was averse to the organization
of the Lodge, but after investigation found i~ was very necessary
and proper and should have the encouragement of the Grand Master.
Thereupon I took up the case with the Master of "Reedley " Lodge
and was informed that :1 petition of these Brethren for the new Lodge
had been twice presented to "Reedley " Lodge, the nearest and
probably most convenient Lodge, at their l<'ebruary and March meetings and had been denied on both occasions. Whereupon, I wrote the
Master of "Reedley" Lodge in full, a dvising him. that under our
Constitution the recommendation of the nearest and most convenient
Chartered Lodge must be obta ined b efor e the Grand Master could
issue the Dispensation, and I did not believ e that the Lodge that had
such power should use it arbitrarily, and if it was really a fact that
a Lodge was of material benefit to our Frat ernity at Dinuba that I
hoped that the Brethren of "Reedley" Lodge would grant t heir
recommendation. The letter had no effect and ''Reedley'' Lodge
again declined to grant t he r ecommendation. It was my intention to
immediately leave for Reedley and Dinuba and personally investigat e
the conditions, but unfortunately the r elief work has seriously inter fered, but on September 29th I visited Dinuba and looked over the
situation v ery carefully and met with twenty-three of the Brethren
of 't ha t city who were anxious to organize
Masonic Lodge, and
was informed that if a n ew Lodge could b e started they would easily
have fo rty-one or forty -two Brethren who were anxious t o join.
Dinuba is a prospe rous little city , growing r apidly, is sev en miles
fro m Reedley, and there does not appear to be any r eason in my
Judgment why a new Lodge should not be organized in that city.
While I have no words of criticism for our brethren at Reedley, I feel
that they do not understand the facts, but believe that a new Lodge
would b e a detriment t o them by reason of t h e loss of a few memb ers.
However, it is my judgment that in this world we should do the
gr eat est good t o the greatest number , and the Grand L odge should
consent to the organization of this n ew Lodge. To do this our Constitution will hav e to be amended, but in v iew of the fact that I can

a

220

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

now recall several cases where certain Lodges have arbitrarily refused
to grant recommendations for new Lodges, which facts I should be
glad to give to the Committee of Jurisprudence at any time, makes it
incumbent upon rue to respectfully but urgently recommend the
Constitution be so amended that the Grand Master have the power
in case the nearest or · most convenient L odge shall refuse a recommendation for the organization of a new Lodge, to investigate the
necessity and issue a Dispensation if it is, in his judgment, considered
best and proper. This recommendation has not been made hurriedly,
but after deep thought and, to my mind, will result in great benefit to
our Grand Jurisdiction.
Conclusion.
Finally, my. Brethren, in c.losing my Report, I desire to thank you
one and all for the kindness and courtesy extended to me during the
past Masonic year. I commenced my year's work with the best
intentions in the world, intending it to be one long to be remembereq
in Masonic history, for I anticipated visiting practically all the Lodges
in the State, but my personal business, my health, and the relief work
has prevented. I have, however, been enabled to visit a large number
of our Lodges and have been received with fraternal kindness,
and I assure you that the memory of the cordial greeting, the hearty
hand-clasp, and the words of welcome :from our Brethren will never
be forgotten. Not being gifted with the flow of words required by
our orators, I have not attempted to make speeches during my numerous visits, but have endeavored to impress upon all the Fraternity that
this was to have been a business administration, and if I have succeeded to your satisfaction it will be a source of great pleasure to me.
In visiting different portions of the State I have observed a great
deal o:f discussion regarding "Superior California,'' "Northern California,'' ''Central California,'' and ''Southern California.'' My
.t:!rethrcn, we have in this great State but one California, and that is
the whole and the entire State. If there is any time in our history
when we require united effort it is now, and by this united effort we
can rebuild and make the portion of our State requiring our assistance
far better than before, and I ask you now, one and all, to forget
eve.rything but that one great word, ''California.'' It will require
the highest type of .!itizenship to continue California's reputation
and steady advancement, and nothing can do more in up-building this
great State than to have each and every Lodge in California assisting
in the splendid work.
Respectfully and fraternally submitted,
MOTLEY HEWES FLINT,
Grand Master.

221

ADDITIONAL REPORT
~ing to the preparation of Relief Report which occupied
t
po1hon of my time for the past two weeks,' it became neces:a:rea
y to
prepare my Annual Address Earlier than is usual b
consequently, since the Add
h
. Y my predecessors;
intHest to the Frat
't ~ess as. gone to .prmt several matters of
.
erm y ave arisen and I deem it necessar to
submit an additional Report for consideration by this Grand Bod;.
Disastei: in the South.

~o~e ten days ago newspaper dispatches reported that storms had
crea e . great havoc and ruin, with loss of life, at Mobile Alabam
and pomts near there, and at Pensacola Florida and ' . t
a,
the·e I end
d t k
'
'
po1n s near
. .
eav~re
o eep carefully posted on the situation but
the newspaper dispatches were unsatisfactory I th f
' .
the Dep t
d A t"
·
'
ere ore, wired
c mg Grand Master of Masons, the Most Wor.
u y an
sh~pful Ben M. Jacobs, at Birmingham, Alabama and the M t W
shtp~ul ~harles. W. Johnson, Grand Master of Masons, Jack::nvil~;Florida, informmg them that I had been
d
.
,
the t
d' .
en eavoring to ascertain
ru~ con itions existing in their Jurisdictions from the newspai:-~,r .d1~pa tch es, but that same were unsatisfactory and •that this
~~r1sd1~tion sto~d ready to extend any relief required, :financial or
lerwise, by wire. I have received a report from the Grand M . t
of Masons of :b'lorida with fraternal thanks f
as er
ad · ·
th t h
or my message and
v1smg a t e Grand Jurisdiction of Florida was able t t k
of th d · t
d ·
o a e care
fr:>m.ethe1sTre~sed' t1~ thaft State. No report, has, as yet, been received
.. uris ic ion o Alabama.
Additional Dispensation.
Dispensation has been issued for a new Lodge i'n
't t b
Los Angeles
c1 y, o e known as ''Highland Park" Lodge.
Remission of Dues.
During .;\.ugust last I addressed a communication to the . Master
·
diction, requesting information as to their financial condition, u:~~

a~d. Secretary of every Lodge in the stricken district of this J
4

223

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

asking whether or not they were able to pay their Grand Lodge dues,
and if not to make necessary temporary arrangements to meet same
and submit the facts to me for submission to this Grand Body for
action as to the remission of "said dues. The only Lodge making a
direct request for the !'emission of their dues is that of "La Parfaite
Union," No. 17, of San Francisco; the papers in connection with
which are transmitted herewith for reference to the proper Committee.

are in a dormant state. Under their Constitution, these Lodges can
become active a11d resume their work whenever a sufficient number
of members of a Lodge may desire.

222

Condition of Masonry in the Philippine Islands.
Brother Amos G. Bellis, representative from "Manila" Lodge,
No. 342, called upon me the past few days, at my office in Los Angeles, and brought up for serious consideration the condition of
Masonry in the Philippine Islands, more particularly as to the recognition of certain Grand Jurisdictions, and on the advisability of the
establishment of a Grand Lodge in . the Philippine Islands. Inasmuch as the conversation brought up several matters of vital importan(l•, to Masonry in general, I r equested Brother Bellis to set forth
all of the facts in a communication which would be presented to this
Grand Body. Said communication is as follows:
"Los Angeles, Cal., October 3, 1906.
"Motley H. Flint, EBq., M.·. W.-. Grand Master,
Grand Lodge of California, F. and A. M.,
Los Angeles, Cal.
"Most Worshipful Sir: In reply to your request for a statement
regarding the Spanish-Filipino Lodge -in Manila, working under
cha1ter from the Grand Orient of Spain, I desire to submit the following:
''In Manila at the present time there are three active Lollges,
reoularly chartered by the Grand Orient of Spain, viz.: "Dalisay"
L;dge, No. 177; "Modesto" Lodge, No. 199; and "Sinu~uan."
Lodge, No. 272. Another Lodge, "Mabini,'' No. - , worki.ng in
Aparri, Cagaayan (the northern part of Luzon)', rec~ntly rec~ived a
charter from the Grand Orient. These Lodges were not recognized by
"Manila" Lodge, No. 342, Jurisdiction of California, until the latter
part of 1904, when in response to an inquiry, our W.:. M.-. Brother
H. G. Squier receiven a communication from M.:. W .: . P.ast Gr~nd
M·ister Nutting inferring that these Lodges were regular, since which
tir•.e. Masonic intercourse has been exchanged between ''Manila''
Lodge and the three f:panish-Filipino Lodges above metttioned.
''There are also about seventeen other Lodges in the Philippines,
all claiming to hold charters from the Grann Orient of Spain, that

The Grand Orient of Spain is composed of the Supreme Council
33d degree; the Grand ·council of the Order, members of which are
elected by a General Assembly consisting of representatives from all
Lodges, Chapters, etc., up to the 33d degree; and the various Subordinate Bodies dependent upon the above. The Supreme Council exerci~es juris.diction over all the degrees from the fourth to the thirtythird, while the first three . d egrees are the special charge of the
Grand Council of the Order. The Grand Orient of Spain claims to
work in Scottish Rite Masonry only.
''There were also Revera! Lodges in tlie Philippines holding charters from the Grand Orient of France, but these Lodges were not
recognized by ''Manila'' Lodge. I understand that the party at the
he<1•~ of these Lodges has recently returned his charter to the Grand
Orient of France, and has petitioned the Grand Council of France to
be healed.
''I have recently been informed that there are several Masonic
G.-and Bodies in Spain, each claiming to be regular, and as there has
beeu some doubt expressed as to whether or not the Grand Orient of
Sp~in, which controls the three native Lodges in Manila recognized
by ''Manila'' Lodge, is a regular Masonic Body recognized as such
by . other regular Masonic Jurisdictions, I would fraternally request
that this matter be looked intp and that "Manila" Lodge be informed in the premises._ I b elieve tl\at this qu13stion .should be settled
in view of the large numbers of dormant Lodges claiming to hold
charters from the Grand Orient of Spain, and which may become
active at any time, au,d also of the fact that new Lodges are being
chartered. Two of these native Lodges have an American member
raised since the American occupation, and when I left Manila o~e of
them had received and balloted upon petitions from three Americans
for the degrees of Masonry.
"I might state here that there is a Spaniard residing in Cavite,
P. I., who claims to be a regular Mason, and who states that the
Grand Orient of Spain is not a regular Masonic Body. I also know
that this Spaniard has been refused admittance to the three native
Lodges in Manila, as 'they claim that he is under a ban of the Grand
Orient of Spain, and on their objection he was also denied admittance
into "Manila" Lodge. However, I a m informed that this Spaniard
visits "Cavite" Lodge frequently.
''Trusting that this will receive some consideration by you and

GRAND LODGE OF CAI.IFORNIA.

224

225

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

th(, M.:. w.:. Grand Lodge, as it is for the good of regular and
kgitimate Masonry in the Philippines, I beg to remain,
"Yours very frateJ"nally,
(Signed) ''AMOS G. W. BELLIS,
"Representative of 'Manila' Lodge, No. 342."
I would earnestly ,·ecommend that the entire subject of the ad~i·
tional Lodge in the Philippines and the conditions of. Maso~ry. in
saiil Islands be referred to a Committee for careful in;estigatio.n
and report at this session. Brother Bellis is a representative at this
Communication and will undoubtedly give the Committee any facts
that they may require.
Respectfully submitted,
MOTLEY HEWES l!'LINT,
Grand Master.
.

Which was referred to a special committee of three Past
Grand Masters, and the Deputy Grand Ma~ter named the
following brethren to constitute such committee:
On Address of Grand Master.

M.'.W.'. ·Edmund C. Atki~son,
M.' .W.'.James B. Stevens,
M.'.W.'.George W. Hunter.

And on motion of thew:. Oscar Lawler, Grand Orator,
the tha~ks of Grand Lodge was tend.ered our M. ·~W. ·.
Grand Master, and 2,500 copies of his address ordered
printed for distribution.
The Grand Master then presented a detailed report of
the ·G eneral Masonic Relief Fund i,i.s follows :

GRF\ND Mf\STER'S RELIEF
REF ORT
Los ANGELES, CAL.
·
October I, 1906.
Brethren of the Grand Lodge
On the morning of April 18th last as I was about to leave my home toattend
to my business engagements the telephone operator at my office called ml' up
and stated that she had just received a message from the train dispatcher
of the Southern Pacific Railway informing her that there had been a severe
earthquake in San Francisco and a number of people had been killed. Of
course I little realized that the dfsaster would prove so serious, but on reaching the center of the city I ascertained that the newspapers were preparing
to issue extras and then it dawned upon me that the casualty was much more
serious than first appeared. I immediately called upon the telegraph companies and the railway auth~rities for full information but unfortunately
the wires out of San Francisco were either seriously damaged or not working
satisfactorily and but little information could be secured more than the fact
that the loss of life had been appalling and the city of San Francisco was
burning. Notwithstanding the fact that my physical condition was not all
that could be desired I deemed it my duty to go to San Francisco at once
and within a short time Brother Oscar Lawler, Grand Orator, telephoned and
volunteered his assistance and agreed to go with me by first train. We left
Los Angeles at the first opportunity and on reaching Oakland the next morning found the streets crowded with panic stricken people from San Francisco
practically all of whom had lost all their earthly possessions and were simply
striving for an opportunity to get away from the scene of the terrible disaster
and the conflagration which was fast destroying the metropolis of the Pacific coast. After inquiries I ascertained that a meeting of Masons had been
called for April 20th at the Masonic Temple and I attended this meeting
and found that it had been called by Doctor R. W. Meek, he acting as tern.

.

226

PROCEEDINGS QF THE

porary Chairman. It was found that the first matter of importance :was the
securing of funds to meet the immediate necessities. Every bank m Oakland and surrounding points was closed. I finally, by giving proper guarantees was accommodated by Brother Samuel J . Taylor, Secretary of the Realty
Syndicate, with a loan of one thousand dollars in gold, and at t~s ~ime I d~­
sire to express to Brother Taylor my deep and sincere apprec1at10n of his
kindness in our hour of need: Finding that it was not possible to secure further
funds I telegraphed to Los Angeles and instructed that three thousand dollars
in postal money orders be sent me from I,llY personal funds iis I was satisfied
that I could secure the necessary amount through thepost-office. I will add
that for many days all the available funds I secured was through post-office
money orders sent me from Los Angeles which were promptly cashed through
the courtesy of the Postmasters of Oakland and San Francisco. This method
immediately relieved the financial situation. Dr. R. W. Mee~ was elected
President of the Masonic Relief Bureau and appointed the followmg brethren
members of the Executive Committee. Alfred William Burrell, ·David
Rutherford, George Roeth; Adam Francis GunnandJosephFountainChi..ndler.
The Masonic Temple at Oakland was immediately opened and lodging given
hundreds in the different rooms in the building. Hot meals were prepared
and no person- was refused lod11:ing or meals. A splendid organization was
effected and to our beloved brethren of Oakland Masonry is surely greatly
indebted. While I do not know the names of many of the volunteers who
gave up their time for the splendid work, still I have their li~e~esses i~ m.y
heart and I can but express in this feeble manner the appremat10n whwh IS
due to them from all the Masons of the world. Eighteen large wagons were
secured and through the efforts of the General Relief Committee at Oakland
and the Oakland Board of Trade, both of which organizations were most
kind and generous at all times, sufficient provisions were secured to fill the
eighteen wagons and they started the next morning by first boat for San
Francisco. I personally used a carriage which we loaded with bread and
canned beef, and on arriving in the stricken city food stations were established at many points, Brother Lawler and myself distributing the pr~visions
we had to the people on the streets whom we met as we drove to the different
refugee camps.
Certainly one of the Saddest sights I have ever seen was during the first
day of our relief work in San Francisco. Mothers calle~ to us as w~ drove. through
the streets begging for bread for their children and milk for theu babies, but
I am very glad to state that it was only on the first day of our work that we
found the conditions to be so serious 'for on the following day the food had
arrived in such quantities thatall cases of serious distress could be promptly
relieved.
For your information let me detail in a few words the work of one day
in connection with the Oakland Masonic Relief Bureau and that of your
Grand Master and Grand Orator who spent the entire day for fourteen consecutive days in the stricken city. In Oakland each night the eighteen wag-

GRAND LODGE OF CALI~ORNIA.

227

ons would be loaded with such provisions as were obtainable· at six o'clock
the next morning bread and other provisions were loaded ~ntil all of the
teams had their capacity. Doctor Meek and his able executive foroe detailed from the splendid committee of volunteers certain of our Masonic
brethren to accompany each team and look after the distribution of food in
San Francisco. At six o'clock each morning, as before stated, after the teams
were all loaded with fresh bread and the balance of the ·provisions I loaded
my own carriage with bread, condensed milk for the babies, and cases of
corned .beef; we reached the ferry at the foot of Broadway, Oakland,as early
as possible to be sure and catch the early boat. On the arrival of the teams
in San Francisco they were driven to points where food stations had been
opened. ~mbers of the Oakland executive committee had been sent to
these food stations and also to the Oakland ferry where food was distributed
for se~eral .days. Any person, be.he Mason, Christian or pagan, was promptly
supplied with the needed food. milk and coffee; in fact every person applying
was promptly fed. This same condition prevailed at every food station
opened under charge of the Masonic Fraternity. The wagons were sent to
all points where refugee camps had been opened and after the food had been
distributed these large wagons were loaded with old men and women and little
children with their personal belongings and taken many miles to the Oakland
Ferry and sent across by boat to places of safety. The value of teams at
that time may be appreciated when I state that some few hard hearted perdons who owned horses and wagons who desired to make money out of the unfortunate charged as high as twenty-five dollars to take a family from the
district outside the burned section to the ferry; conaequently it will be clearly
noted that the teams sent from Oakland did a great and splendid work. After
the teams reached the ferry with the old men, women and children additional
food supplies were secured from the United States Government and relief
bureaus and again distributed to the different supply depots and another
load of old men, women and children and their belongings taken to the ferry
to ~ transferred to Oakland and places of safety. This continued each day
until dark and we were compelled to cease work then as the city was without
lights, the power plants having been destroyed.
The difficulties of getting through the streets of San Francisco after the
awful conflagration cannot be described, but it took heroic action on the part
of brave men to accomplish the splendid work.
.
During each day I drove through all parts of the city as I had received
many .telegrams and letters asking my assistance to locate missing relatives
and fnends, and I am pleased to state that I wa.s enabled in many dozens of
cases to send telegrams advising that. relatives and friends were safe. For
days I kept advertisements in every paper published calling for information
concerning missing people; this list, of course, was secured from the telegrams
and letters I had received from the anxious people throughout this Union.
One ?ase in particular which I call up at this time is of an old gentleman and
his wife who were quite feeble who desired to be sent to Cleveland, Ohio. The

228

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

gentleman was a member of all the Masonic bodies in Chicago and was destitute, further he was paralyzed from the waist dqwn. I finally secured a good
Masonic brother who was strong and rugged and who carried on his shoulders
this paralyzed and destitute brother several miles from the district outside
the burned section to the ferry and placed him and his wife on the train and
started them safely for Cleveland.
After my inspection of all the food stations and endeavoring to relieve
the distressed at every point and search for lost and missing relatives and
friends I returned to Oakland each night where I found Doctor Meek and his
splendid committee hard and actively at wock. During the night hundreds
of telegrams and letters were received which required"attention; eastern jurisdictions were telegraphing funds and asking what assistance they could give,
and these letters and telegrams demanded answers. This work required many
hours of each night and it finally became necessary for me to wire to Los Angeles for my private secretary; the only expense for clerical assistance in this
great work that I endeavored to perform to the best of my ability was for
railway fare and hotel expeiises of my private secretary while in Oakland
attending to my correspondence and telegrams.
I had made an engagement as Grand Master to lay the corner stone of
the Golden Gate Commandry Asylum on April 21st, the Grand Lodge to meet
at King Solomon's Temple, San Francisco. I reached King Solomon's Temple,
located outside the burned section, exactly on time on that day but illiltead
of opening the Grand Lodge I endeavored to open the doors of that Temple
and start another food station. The next morning in King Solomon's Temple
Grand Orator Lawler and myself spent many hours, he cutting slices of bread·
and I opening cans of corned beef preparing sandwiches to feed the hundreds
of hungry people surrounding the Temple.
I desire to commend at this time Brother E . M. Percy one of our volunteers at the first meeting held in Oakland. Brother Percy resides at 3570
Clay Street, San Francisco, outside the burned district, and he turned over
to us his residence for use as a food station and supply point and also as a hospital in taking care of the sick. Further than that he was on duty day and
night looking after the distressed.
To Brother H. M. Owens, Past Master of California Lodge No. 1, we are
greatly indebted for looking after the detailsand introducing to me Brother
M. Hennings of Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44. Brother Owens learned from
Brother Hennings that he had a bakery that could be used; he conferred with
me and I advis!ld that all expenses would be borne out of the funds in my possession, and with that understanding Brother Owens arranged to have the Board
of Public Works approve the oven for baking bread, notwithstanding the
fact that there :were no fires permitted in the city. Flour was secured
and on the third day after the disaster the bakery was open and two
thousand loaves distributed from it daily as follows· Five hundred
loaves to the Board of Relief at King Solomons' Hall; five hundred

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

229

loaves to Mission Masonic Hall,and the balance divided up between the Hebrew
Orphan Asylum and St. Mary's Hospital. Bakers were secured through the
Masonic Relief Bure~u at King Solomon's Temple and the only expense involved for which I was compelled to pay out of my funds was two.hundred
and fifty dollars. This bakery continued actively for eight days and it is
needless to state that during that period the good accomplished was of inestimable value. I have personally advised Brother Hennings of the gratitude
of myself as Grand Master and that of this Grand jurisdiction and now desire
to publically commend both his action and that of Brother Owens.
It is probably unnecessary to detail the work of the Oakland Relief Bureau for the reason that the full and complete review of the work of said Bureau will be found in full as a portion of this report, but I can only state that
I personally appreciate more than words can tell the work of the executive
committee and the many volunteers who assisted in the splendid Masonic
relief work. Many of our brethren on that executive committee and the
volunteers gave up their own business for days simply to relieve the distressed
and I assure you that they have literally followed their obligations and the
Masonic teachings.

Brother John Thompson, Master of Mission Lodge No. 169 and the corps
of volunteers at Mission Masonic Temple are entitled also to my sincere thanks
for the splendid work they performed during the trying hours immediately
following April 18th. There can be no question but that they accomplished
a wonderful amount of good and relieved hundreds of cases of distress. While
it is not possible to enter into elaborate details of the work of the brethren of
Mission Lodge still I feel that in justice to them their work is entitled to great
credit and also the commendation of this Grand Lodge.
It took some few hours for our brethren in San Francisco to fully realize
their position. Many were dazed by the disaster but it was not many hours
before they came bravely to the front and determined that the Masonic relief
should stand out boldly. A meeting was promptly called at King Solomon's
Temple, presided over by Worshipful W. Frank Pierce, details of organization
perfected and Worshipful Brother Harry J. Lask placed in charge as Secretary.
After discussion the following were elected permanent officers of the organization: Worshipful Brother William Frank Pierce, President; Worshipful
Brother Harry Joseph Lask, Secretary; Worshipful Brother Harry Davis
Loveland, Vice-President, (Brother Loveland, on account of illness, soon after
resigned and his place was filled by the appointment of Worshipful Brother
Brilsford Pease Flint.) Worshipful Brother Otto Frank Westphal, Treasurer.
This organization developed into what I consider one of the most substantial
and satisfactory relief boards ever gotten together. I have several times examined the business methods adopted and have the highest praise for the
manner in which the work has been carried on from its inception. Complaint
was made to me that the Masters of the lodges of San Francisco were not giving the attention necessary to relieve the distressed and I therefore issued

230

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

231

mandatory instructions to the Masters to at once issue summons for every
member of their lodge to attend a meeting and check up the membership
carefully and if any members were not accounted for to .go to the refugee
camps, visit each one, and ascertain if there were any Masonic brethren in
distress and if so to relieve them at once. Perhaps the officers and members ·
of the lodges in San Francisco may feel that my letters were sharp and peremptory. It was not my desire in any way to criticise them but it was with the desire
that every Me.son, and in fact every person connected with the Masonic organization directly or indirectly, receive the benefits of the relief that was required at that time. I felt that there were many who before April 18th had
ample funds and resources to take care of them the rest of their days, but after
that were penniless and who were so modest and despondent that they
would not ask for relief and it was our duty to assist them above all others.
There was no particular danger from the brother or members of his family
who applied for relief but there was danger that those who through modesty
and losses occasioned by the fire were destitute and were suffering in some
tent or unprotected place in or around the refugee camps. My reports fr<:>m
the San Francisco lodges were very satisfactory and I now desire to "commend
the Masters and officers of those lodges for their strict compliance with my instructions.

ceived information that a family residing in San Francisco-a woman with
five little children-had applied to the General Relief Board, not Masonic,
for assistance and the same had not been secured. I requested Brother Lask
to carefully and promptly investigate the case and he found that the family
were without clothing and were sleeping on the floor. ·As I had funds in my
charge given me by different jurisdictions to relieve the distressed be they
Masonic or otherwiiie, I deemed it my duty to grant the required relief although the family had no Masonic connections. Proper clothing, furniture
and provisions were supplied, and while throughout this relief work I have
endeavored to be guided by Masonic rules and regulations I have as yet to
refuse one worthy case where it proved to be a Ma.son out of standing or some
one of Me.sonic connection that required some assistance. I am very thankful
to some of our jurisdictions that in entrusting relief funds to me instructions
were given to dispose of it as I deemed best and proper, consequently in
every worthy case of a suspended Mason I have granted immediate relief.
In submitting this report I can state that no case of any kind, Masonic or
otherwise, brought to my attention where relief was desired was refused by
me and I am indebted for the opportunities of extending relief to those outside of the Fraternity and those out of standing to some of our sister jurisdictions who issued instructions that. I should relieve the distressed be they
Masons or not.
·

The General Masonic Relief Boe.rd of San Francisco have submitted a
full and complete review of the vast work performed by their perfect organization, and as this review is a portion of this report and will be in the hands of
every member of the Grand Lodge it is unnecessary probably for me to recapitulate the work accomplished, but I feel it my duty to state that the
President, Worshipful Brother W. Frank Pierce and his good wife have both
given up their time and personal possessions simply to aid the distressed and
to comfort the affiicted and that since the disaster Brother Pierce has done
nothing but give the General Masonic Relief Board his entire time and attention.
For the other members of the executive committee and the
officers ·of said committee who have so loyally and devotedly
ministered to the wants of those of our Fraternity requiring it I
uce.n only report that from my investigation they have accomplished all that
cold be desired. In times of trouble such as we have experienced in thisgreat
state dm:ing the past few months it brings forth men and we
should give thanks that men of courage and determination were found in
San Francisco wh~ were willing to give up their time for those who required
relief and advice. ·For Brother Harry J. Lask, the efficient Secretary of the
Board, I would state that in my judgment he was the right man forthe plal'.e.
He is thorough, systematic, painstaking and reliable, and his books and
records speak volumes for his splendid executive ability. In the past five
months I have had a great deal of correspondence with Brother Lask, particularly jn connection with inquiries from other jurisdictions concerning
neceSSl!.ry relief and in every case the investigation has been thorough and
complete, and relief has been given promptly. Some sixty days ago. I re-

While the work in San Francisco and Oakland required my careful attention I was not unmindful of the fact that other portions of our state had
been severely afflicted, the most impQl'tant points where damagewruireported
to be severe were San Jose and Santa Rosa. I made prompt inquiries and
ascertained that relief was required at once. Telegralllil were promptly sent
by me to both cities instructing them to extend any relief required and funds
would be promptly sent. Relief bureaus were established at both San Jq{l0
and Santa Rose. and I have kept in touch with the situation at all times and
am glad to state that relief has been granted promptly in every case and ample
funds have been kept on hand in both cities to provide for all. The brethren
of Santa Ro!'ll. made a most u!gent appeal that I visit that city and look
over the situe.ton and I was exceedingly glad that I did for I believe that I
brought new courage to our discouraged brethren of that little city. Of course
our brethren of San Francisco were severely smitten but they were not, in
my judgment, a comparison to that prosperous little city of. Santa Rosa where
every business house was gone and the merchants stared at the ruins of their
once prosperous business, and many who were independent on the night of
Aprilj7th were bankrupt the next day. To give some idea of the situation
I had a number of photographs prepared showing the condition of the city
at the time of my visit, the same being submitted herewith:
On the afternoon of the day of my visit a general meeting of all th~ Me.sonic
brethren of the city was called and we talked over the financial situation for
a lung time. The brethren had sold their old property and had practice.Uy
completed their new Tem_ple. Every dollar that they could raise had been

232

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

THE. HAvoe WROUGHT

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

AT SANTA ROSA, CAL.

Opera House and Post Office, Oppo1ite Masonic Temple,
New Masonic Temple, approaching completion: to have been dedicated
June 25, 1906. Nearly $50,000 had been expended on the building; entirely ruined by the earthquake.

Every hotel. bank and busineu house ruined.

Busine~s portion of City entirely destroyed by earthquake and fire.

233

234

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

invested in the new building .and they had received advances from me~b4ilPS
of the Fraternity which amounted to six thousand dollars and owed brethren
contractors for different portions of the building legal and moral obligationa
amounting to nine thousand dollars; hence the situation was that theywere
owners of a lot with a fifty thousand dollar building entirely demolished
and were fifteen thousand dollars in debt to the members of the Fraternity.
To say that .our brethren were discouraged at that time hardly does the situation justice, but I spoke as encouragingly as possible and informed them
that while I had been given funds for the relief of the distressed I believed
that relief should be granted the members of the Fraternity wh~
had advanced funds and members of the Fraternity who were contractors on the building and who were ruined by the disaster. I immediately
returned to San Francisco and called into consultation the following Grand
Lodge dTficers: Edward H. Hart, _.Deputy Grand Master; George M. Perine,
Senior Grand Warden; Reuben H. Lloyd, Junior Grand Warden; E. Coleman,
Grand Treasurer; George Johnson, Grand Secretary; Frank M. Angellotti
Edmund C. Atkinson, Charles L. Patton, Thomas Flint, Orrin S. Henderson
and J. B Stevens, Past Grand Masters; Jacob H. Neff, Past Junior Grand
Warden; and J W Anderson, Past Grand Lecturer, and after debating
for some time itwasthought that it was our duty to provide for the claims
of the brethren, and fifteen thousand dollars was paid to the Treasurer of
Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57 to meet the obligations contracted by the brethren
of Santa Rosa to members of the Fraternity This was simply done to save
them from absolute ruin. Feeling that the bankers and business men who
at ordinary times would be able to assist in rebuilding the beautiful city .of
Santa Rosa were now in no condition to assist and further that every available cent they could gather together would be required to open up their own
business again I wrote many of our sister Jurisdictions who had funds on
hand which they were holding pending my advices and stated the condition
of the brethren of Santa Rosa and asked that if they deemed the situation
one which should receive assistance and felt they should assist in the rebuilding of the Temple I would be glad to be advised. Personally I am strongly
against the Grand Lodge favoring subscriptions for the rebuilding of Temples
and would oppose such a project at any other time but the situation in portions of our state was entirely different and if relief was ever 'required it· was
at Santa Rosa. Some of our sister jurisdictions advised that they believed
as I did but in this case the situation was different and they would assist
if their Grand Lodge would consent, but in many other jurisdictions immediate
response was sent and one of the great.Grand Jurisdictions. of this country
telegraphed authorizing me to draw for five thousand dollars for the benefit of
Santa Rosa. I have received large subscriptions for this city and have thus
far advanced them but ten thousand dollars towards the rebuilding of the
Temple.
Immediately upon my return to my home in Los Angeles after completing
the details of the organization of relief bureaus at different point(! addressed

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

235

a letter to the Master and Secretary of every lodge' located in or near the
etricken district asking as to the condition of the brethren of their lodges
and Masons of other jurisdictions, advising that immediate relief should be
given in every case and that it was my desire that careful and immediate
investigation be made so that all distress should be relieved promptly. Furthermore that in a case of doubt whether a brother might be in standing
it were better to err and grant ·relief rather than to stand on strict Masonic
rules and regulations. Through this vast correspondence received in reply
I have been in close touch with the situation throughout the entire district,
covering some two hundred miles in length; each and every case has received
my serious and thoughtful consideration and where I deemed it necessary
request has been made for some brother in whom I had absolute confidence
to make a careful investigation and submit the facts to me. This rendered
it possible for me to assist every Lodge and every worthy case throughout
the entire district and I know of no request made upon me that has not
received immediate attention. Many of our sister jurisdictions have written
or. telegraphed me asking that relief be extended to certain brethren of their
jurisdiction, which requests have had' attention by telegram or by first mail.
Throughout Lake and Sonoma Counties the loss was very serious, consequently
a great deal of my time has been taken up in investigating worthy cases
throughout both of these Counties, but I feel at this time that there is no
reason why there should be any suffering at any point provided the Masters
and members of the Lodges have performed their duty as true Masons.
The fire in San Francisco was so very disastrous that it left hundreds
of thousands homeless, the consequence being that former residents of San
Francisco have scattered throughout the state and many lodges have been
called upon to assist. Where information has been given to me I have immediately reimbursed every Lodge. In Los Angeles a relief bureau was promptly
started and every member in good standing of all the lodges in the city called
upon to donate one dollar towards the fund; this resulted in the accumulation of something between three and four thousand dollars which has been
used to splendid advantage and is being used daily for the relief of the distressed Masons, their wives, wide>ws and orphans, who formerly lived in
San Francisco but are now residing in Los Angeles. As before stated a review
of the work performed by the San Francisco and Oakland relief bureaus has
been made a part of this report, and in addition I have requested the Secretaries of the relief boards at Sacramento, San Jose, Santa Rosa, Alameda and
Los Angeles to sub~it reports and the same are included with this document.
I feel that the work performed by all the Boards has been conducive of a geat
amount of good and it is my earnest desire that at the next stated meeting
of the lodges in this state the great work of relief be explained fully to our
brethren of this Grand Jurisdiction. Probably there has never been a disaster in our time that has covered such a scope of territory. Of course the
loss of life as compared to the property value was infinitesimally small, but
undoubtedly no such loss ·has ev.01 0een sustained in the United States as was

236

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

that incident to the disaster of last April. During my recent official visits
to lodges of this jurisdiction it seemed to bethe general opinion of our brethren
that the work of relief had ceased, but I assure you that the work has really
just commenced and it has been my fear that the coming winter would show
that more actual relief will be required than at any time since the disaster.
Not a day passes but some serious case is brought to my attention; destitute
widows and. brethren require clothing, food and general supplies. Many
families have no furniture whatever and they must be provided with some
few comforts for the coming winter. After mature and thoughtful deliberation I have investigated the situation throughout all the districts of the state
and have apportioned the funds at my disposal to every relief bureau that I
believe will require additional funds during the coming winter, and it is with
great pleasure that I inform you that thereisnota relief bureau in this state
that has not ample funds on hand to meet fully the needs of our distressed·
during the winter months. While I have provided for every case called to
my attention I have harvested my resources to some extent for the coming
winter and it is certainly a satisfaction to be able to report that each relief
bureau has been apportioned sufficient funds so that they can see that our
brethren will be well and. satisfactorily provided for months to come.
This report has been brought down to as near the date of the meeting
of the Grand Lodge as possible. As my term of office a11 Grand Master is
about to expire I assure you that the work of relief has not ceased and will
not cease for many months to come, but it was necessary for me to submit to
you a full and complete statement of the work performed and particularly
a correct and complete financial statement showing every dollar received by
me and the matter of its expenditure.
During the early days of the relief work it became apparent that clothing
of all kinds would be required, particularly in view of the fact that a great
quantity of the old olothing shipped by different relief committees in this
and other states was unfit for use. On my return to Los Angeles I purchased
at. ,the lowest cash prices large quantities of boots, shoes, underclothing and
outside clothing for men, women and children, to the amount of five thousand,
three hundred twenty-seven and 83-100 Dollars; the suppliesbeingshipped to
San Francisco whenever necessities demanded it or until the committee there
was enabled by the reopening of the wholesale houses of that city to purchase
in open market at reduced rates the required clothing to conduct their supply
bureau in a proper and systematic manner. I might add for your information
that the General Masonic Relief Board under the supervision of Worshipful
Brother W. Frank Pierce conducts a full clothing bureau, and every article of any
kind or character needed by members of the Fraternity is promptly supplied
on demand.
And now my brethren I have submitted to some slight extent the details
of this great work of relief and I realize full well the great responsibility that
was thrown upon me and it has been my sincere regret that my health was

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

237

not of the best, notwithstanding this fact I have endeavored in every way
to faithfully carry out the trust imposed. On reviewing the entire situation
I feel that the work of the Masonic Fraternity will stand out boldly as being
well and ably performed. There may be criticisms but in my judgment there
can be no just criticism for among the many committees at work they were
all able, willing and anxious to serve our brethren. While mistakes have been
made I am sure they were not intentional but occurred through some misunderstanding.
During the past five months fully one-half of my time has · been devoted
to relief work, the correspondence and telegrams received and sent being as
follows: Telegrams received, 179; telegrams sent, 115; letters received, 922;
letters sent, 1123; total telegrams and letters received and sent, 2339. Some
cases required great thought, study and determination as to the best procedure. but I am sure that I have endeavored to bestow the charity given and intrusted to me to the best of my ability. I little thought when I assumed
the position of Grand Maste.r that such a responsibility would be forced upon
my shoulders but I am glad that my physical ability was sufficient to do the
work and if I have performed my duties satisfactorily to the brethren of the
Grand jurisdictions of this world who have contributed so nobly, then I am
satisfied. As reports of the various bureaus of relief have reached my hands
it has been thought necessary to send additional funds in order that each may
be fully protected (as before stated in this report, for the winter) these bureaus
are notably Sacramento, $1000.00; Los Angeles ~3000.00; San Francisco
$5647.17 making a total of $100,000.00 in cash and supplies furnished the
General Relief Board of San Francisco, and while the cash now remaining in
my hau"ds has been materially reduced, all our i:elief bureaus are in splendid
shape to provide for the relief required for many months to come.
Immediately following this address will be found a detailed financial
statement showing every dollar received byme from the various Grand Jurisdictions throughout the world, and also a statement showing the funds received by our Grand Secretary, Very Worshipful George Johnson, in amount
$2551.00 and by him turned over to me September 1st, 1906. It was my
intention to mention particularly the generosity of certain of our sister jurisdictions but on reviewing the situation I find that all of these great jurisdictions are entitled to our deepest and most sincere gratitude. Telegrams and letters reached me from all over this world asking what they could do to aid California, and particularly San F:cancisco, who in the hour of need of other sta~es
a:ridnations wasalwaysthe first to send relief andthiswasthefirstopportumty
that they had to repay the brethren of the Golden State for their generosity
which had beenpouredforth by the brethren of this state on many, many occasions. During June last it was my pleasure while travelling through the
eastern states to meet many Grand Masters and Grand Secretaries of sister ·
Jurisdictions and I had the great satisfaction of thanking them perso~ally
for their kindness to our grand Jurisdiction, and it was a source of hi:ippmess
to me that I received from their lips words of praise forthe braveryof the men
of California and their generosity when other jurisdictions neededrelief.

238

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Every dollar received by me has been acknowlM.ged by a personal letter
It is my intention to mail to eve!J' Grand Jurisdiction and to every Lodge,
and a.Lso to each brother contributing funds, a copy of this report, for I feel
that they are justly and fully entitled to know how th11 funds intrusted to my
care have been disbursed. I believe I have mentioned in this report that many
of the Grand Jurisdictions sent me funds to be disposed of as I deemed best
and proper; th11ot I was to be the custodian of these funds and to disburse
them to'. those worthy and deserving ca.ses, be they masons or not, requiring relief hence the work accomplished has been greater than had it been confined to
our Fraternity alone: During the days immediately following the disaster
funds :were sent to me by telegram, registered mail and by bank draft, but
I have endeavored to keep the accounts absolutely correct and have tried
to acknowledge to the proper jurisdictions every dollar received, but if this
has not been done proper acknowledgment will be shown in this report. In
the reports of other bureaus it will be noted that large contributions have been
made direct to them and it is my idea that a copy of this full and complete
report should be mailed to these contributing bodies. Certainly any brothe'r,
any Lodge, any Commandery, Chapter, Scottish Hite organization, or Grand
Jurisdiction contributing to this fund is entitled to a full, clearandcorrect
statement of how the money has been disbursed and .in justice to them and
in order that our record shall be perfectly clear, it is my intention that this
report shall be sent broadcast, particularly to every contributor.
Throughout the entire relief work I have impressec;l upon all the abso~
lute importance of economy in expenses, and although a very large amount
of funds has been handl~d by me, throughout my personal relief work and
the correspondence incident·thereto has been an item of great expense it
has not been charged in any way in this report, for I believed the funds were
given me for relief and I have tried to follow these instructions very carefully.
From the financial statement following you will note the total receipts,
cash passing through my hands, aggregated in amount $225,692.10 total
expenditures, $174,814.85; balance on hand, $50,877.25; according to my
bank book the following figures are shown: Blilance, $95,028.32; checks
outstanding, $42,960. 72; balance $52,087. 72. This shows a surplus apparently
unaccounted for of $1,190.35. I have carefully checked up every communication received, all telegrams, and interviewed the managers of the telegraph ·
offices of Oakland and Los Angeles and every dollar so far as I can learn has
been accounted for in my financial statement. Of course during the first
few days immediately following the disaster telegrams were sent to me at
so many different points that I may have received funds by wire or otherwise
which I have failed to keep an account of, but it has not been possible to
locate it in any way notwithstanding that every possible action has been
taken by myself and secretary. Should it develop hereafter that any relief
funds were transmitted to me and have not been acknowledged it will be

GRAND LODGE' OF CALIFORNIA.

239

my pleasure to immediately investigate and make proper acknowledgment.
All I can state, however, is that our · records have been carefully examined
and ~ow a surplus apparently unaccounted for of $1,190.35.
In looking over the reports of the San Francisco, Oakland and Los Angeles bureaus of relief it appears that quite large amounts of money were
sent fo them independent of that handled by me and in round figures I would
state that over three hundred and fifteen thousand dollars has been received
either by the Grand Master or relief bureaus for the purpose of aiding the
distressed incident to the disaster of last April.

And finally· my brethren I trust that this relief work which I have endeavored tO supervise and that of the many relief bureaus of this state will
meet with your entire satisfaction. While it has been a great responsibility
I shall be more than satisfied and shall be pleased to transfer the work to
my successor if I have the satisfaction of knowing that this responsibility
and t,he work performed meets with your entire approval and approbation.
MoTLEY HEwEs FLlNT,
Grand Master.

240

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

ITEMIZED STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS

May 7,

ALABAMA.
April 27, Grand Lodge, by telegraphic transfer from
Ben M. Jacobs, Deputy G. M. _________ _
$600.00
May 1,
Subordinate Lodges of State, by telegram
received from Ben M. Jacobs, Dep. G. M.
700.00
14, Subordinate Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange received from Ben M. Jacobs, Deputy Grand Master, ___________________ _
500.00
16, Subordinate Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange received from Ben M. Jacobs,
Deputy Grand Master, _____________ _ 1000 .00
June 21, Subordinate Lodges of State by N. Y. exchange received from Ben, M. Jacobs, Dep
500.00
uty G. M. -----------------------$3300.00
ARIZONA.
May 2,

7,

9,

12,

June 30,

Grand Lodge, by Los Angeles exchange __ _
Tucson Lodge No. 4, Tucson, Los Angeles
exchange, _________________________ _
Chalcedony
Lodge No. 6, Holbrook, Los A._
exchange ___________________________
King Solomon Lodge No. 5, Tombstone,
Los Angeles exchange _______________ _
Yuma Lodge No. 17, Yuma, by check, __
Corinthian Lodge No. 18, Morenci, Los
Angeles exchallge, ___________________ _
Tempe
No. 15, Tempe, by cashier's_
check, Lodge
______________________________
Safford Lodge No. 16, Safford, by check,_
Coronado Lodge No. 8, Clifton, Los Angeles
exchange, _________________________ _
Mount Moriah Lodge No. 19, Douglas, by
check, -----------------------------Winslow Lodge No. 13, Winslow, by Los
Angeles Exchl!.nge, --------J--------Wilcox Lodge No. 10, Wilcox, by Los An.N

f;~i!s
~d~~n~~- 1-1~ N~g~le°"s~ Lc;°s-~g~l;sexchange ___________________________ _

White Mountain Lodge No. 3, Globe, Los
1

Te!i;1: ch!;~~Jt~: s,-a.-A".-M". ~ wi~1~;.:
Los Angeles exchange, ---- - ---------Individual donation, member White Mt.
No. 3, Los Angeles exchange,~-------­
All received from George J. Roskruge, G. Sec'y.
April 28, Perfect Ashlar Lodge No. 12, by Los Angeles

La~xd!~~~e, Cl;~pt;;-N~~ -6~ -by-L~ -A.- -e;;~

Bisbee Commandery No. 4, by Los Angeles
exchange, ___________ ---- __________ _
Received from C. I,. Gaven E. C., Bisbee Commandery

100.00
50.00
20.00
250.00 '
50.00
200.00
100.00
50.00
250.00
50.00
50.00
25.00
75 .00
25 .00
25.00
4.00
400.00
350.00
250.00

~R.IZONA Continued.
Flagstaff Lodge No. 7, Flagstaff, by check
received from E. S. Miller, Secretary __ _
Aztlan Lodge No. 1, Prescott, by Los
Anfceles exchange. received from Morri11
. Go dwater, Secretary, --------------

241

100.00
100 .00

$2524.00

AR.KANSAS.
June 5,

Grand Lodge, by ' New York Exchange received from C. E. Rosenbaum, Grand
Treasurer __________________________ _

602.50

CALI FOR.NIA,
Buena Park Lodge No. 357, Buena Park, by
check received from C. H. Mann, Sec'y,
April 24, Received from A. H. Noyes, Borel, Cal., __
April 27, Chico Lodge No. 111, Chico, by coin, received from A. L. Neubarth, Secretary_
Humboldt Lodge No. 79, Eureka, by P. O.
May 10,
money order, received from J, B. Brown,
May 8,

$ 25.00
5.00
100.00

100.00
Secretary•----~---------------------Hornitos Lodge No . 98, Hornitos, by WellsFargo order, received from Wm. Adams,
20.00
_______ _
Secretary, ----------------.
Received from F. J. Zeehandelaar, Los
May 3,
Angeles, by check, _________________ _
50 . 00
150 .00
April 27, Oxnard Lodge · No. 341, Oxnard, by instructions to draw, received from T. E.
150.00
Walker, Secretary, -----------------May 21, Pomona Lodge No. 246, Pomona, _______ _
100.00
25.00
Pomona Chapter No. 76, R. A. M. Pomona,
Received by Los Angeles exchange from E. H.
Welch, W. M.
May 7,
Santa Barbara .Lodge No. 192, Santa
Barbara, by Los Angeles exchange, re200.00
ceived from C. o:Garretson, Secretary,_
April 24, By telegraphic instructions to draw, received from Ed. Stanton, Avalon, Cal. ___ _
25.00
April 23, San Diego Lodge No. 35, San Diego, by
telegraphic instructions to draw, re150 .00
ceived from Herbert A. Cro~an, Master,
April 21 Santa Ana Lod$e No. 241, by mstructions
to draw, received from F. W. Mansur,
100.00
W. M. ---------------------- - -----May 1,
Santa Monica Lodge No. 307, Santa Monica
100.00
Visiting brethern of Santa Monica, _____ _
15 .00
Received by check from J. H. Jackson, Secretary
May 3,
Sanger Lodge No. 316, Sanger, by P. 0.
money order, received from One Hayward,· Secretary, ___________________ _
65.00
April 23, Olive Branch Lodge No. 269, Tulare, by
150.00
gold, received from W. B. Cartmill, W. M.
Aprll 27,

602 .50

242
May 29,
June 7,

July 18,
July 26,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CALIFORNIA - Continued,.
Received from Mary B. Horton, Bishop,
Cal., by P. 0. money order, _________ _
Received from Ira B. Bennet, by P. 0.
money order, received from Orie Hayward, Secretary Sanger Lodge No. 316,
Sanger, __ - - - -- - -- - - - - - - -- -- - -- - - -.- - Surprise Valley Lodge No. 235, Cedarville,
by currency received from T. H. Johnstone, Secretary, ___________________ _
Unity Lodge No. 368, Glend:tle, by check,
received from Geo. U. Moyse, "\V. M. __

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

FLORIDA
10.00

25.00
100.00
50.00
$1565.00

COLORADO
April 23, Grand Lodge, by draft, --------------May i, Subordinate Lodges of State N. Y. exchange ------------------------------June 25, Subordinate Lodges of State, by San Francisco exchange, ________ - -- -- - --- ____ _
Received from C.H. Jacobson, Grand Secretary,
April 24, Union Lodge No. 7, Denver, b:y- telegraphic
instructions to draw, received from
H. W. Hannum, Secretary, _________ _
April 28, Leadville Lodge No. __ , Leadville, by ~ele­
graphic instructions to draw, received
from H. W. Woodward, Secretary, _____ _
April 26, Cripple Creek Lodge No. 110, notice to
draw draft, received from G. R. Lewis
Past Master, ------------- ____ ___ _
Mt. Pisgah Lodge No. 96, Cripple Creek, by
telegraphic instructions to draw, received
from John E. Rinker, Master, _______ _
Trinidad Lodge No. 89, by telegraphic
instructions to draw, received from
Lodge, ________ -- - - - - -- -- ---- -- - - -- Aug. 6,
Masons of State, by San Francisco excqange
received from C. H. Jacobson, Grand
Secretary, --------------------------

500.00
2928.00

$2996.73

OEOROIA.
May 21,

Masons of State, by check, received from
J.M. Rushin, Grand Treasurer,________
$75<].00
Masons of State, by check, received from ·
June 6,
J. M. Rushin, Grand Treasurer, ______
500. 00
April 24, Wm. Landrum Lodge No. __ , Savannah,
by telegraphic transfer, received from
N. B. F. Close, of said Lodge,________
50.00
August 7, Masons of State, by check received from
J. M. Rushin, Grand Treasurer, -----200.68
Sept. 11, Masons of State, by check received from
J. M. Rushin, Grand Treasurer,
5.00

100.00
100.00
50.00
50.00

$1505.68

100.00

HAWAII.

20.00

Masons of State, by New York exchange,
1541. 40
May 3,
9,
Masons of State, by New York exchange,
1400.00
16
Masons of State, by New York exchange,
1000.00
Received from Miles W. Graves, Grand Treas. - - - - DELAWARE.

July 11,

April 23, Grand Lodge, by telegraphic instructions
to draw, received from Charles W. Johnson, Grand Master. ---------------500.00
May 7,
Subordinate Lodges of State, by New York
exchange, received from Wilber P.
Webster, Grand Secretary,__________
1000.00
May 24, Lodges of State, by New York exchange,
received from Wilber P. Webster, G. Sec. 1000.000
Lodges of State, by New York exchange,
June 9,
received from WilberP. Webster,G.Sec'y,
350.00
April 28, Escambia Lodge No. 15, Pensacola,. by
instructions to draw draft, received
from W. G. Dailey, Secretary,________
25.00
July 30, Lod~es of State, by N. Y. exchange, received from W. P. Webster, Grand
Secretary, -------------------------121.73

306.70

4154.70

CONNECTICUT.

May 7,

243

3941.40

April 22, Hawaiian Lodge No. 21, Honolulu, by cable
instructions to draw received from
Spreckles Bank, -------------------- $4500.00 ·
May 16, Pacific Lodge No. 822, Honolulu, by draft
drawn against Lodge,________________
2000.00
May 17, Kilauea Lodge No. 330, Hilo, by N. Y.
exchange received from E. I. Spalding,
P. M. -----------------------------500.0
$7000.00

IDAHO.

Lodges of State, by instructions to draw
draft, received from Levin Irving Handy,
Grand Master, _____________________ _ $1000.00
Lodges of State, by instructions to draw
draft, received from Levin Irving Handy,
Grand Master, _____________________ _
836.85

May 9,

$1836.85

Bethany Lodge No. 21, Shoshone, _____ _
King Solomon Lodge No. 27, Montpelier, __
Boise Lodge No. 2, Boise, _____________ _
By New York exchange, received from J. W.
Robinson, Grand Master,

25.00
100.00
250.00

244

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
IDAHO -

ILLINOIS -

Continued.

April 25, Nez Perces Lodge, No. 10 Lewiston, by
telegraphic transfer from J. J. Randall,

W. M., ---------------- - ------------

April 28, Benevolent Lodge No. 38, St. Anthony,
by certified check, received from M. M.
Harshbarger, M. D. -- - --------------Twin Falls Lodge U. D., Twin Falls, by
May 2,
New York exchange, received from
G.D. Akin, W. M. ___________ ________ _
April 26, Wardner Lodge No. 34, Wardner, by telegraphic instructions to draw, received
from Wardner Lodge, -- --- --- - ---- - -July 30, Cyrus Chapter No. 2, R. A. M., Silver
City, by San Francisco exchange received from R. H. J,eomud, Jr., Sec'y,_

250.0)
161.00
115.00
75 .'oo
50.00
1026 .00

ILLINOIS.

April 28, Grand Lodge, by telegraphic instruction
to draw, received from C. E. Allen,
Grand Master, -------- - ------------- $1000.0(}
Grand Lodge, by telegraphic transfer from
May 4,
L. A. Goddard, Grand Treasurer, _____ _ 2500.00
May 10, Grand Lodge, by telegraphic transfer from
L. A. Goddard, Grand Treasurer, _____ _ 2500 .00
May 11, Grand Lodge; by telegraphic Transfer from
L. A. Goddard, Grand Treasurer, __ ___ _ 1200.00
May 22, Grand Lodge, by telegraphic transfer from
L. A. Goddard, Grand Treasurer, ___ ___
900.00
May 29, Grand Lodge, by telegraphic transfer from
L. A. Goddard, Grand Treasurer, ___ __ _
565.00
June 20, Masons of State, by N. Y. exchange, received
from L. A. Goddard, Grand Treasurer, __
317.25
Masons of State,.by Los Angeles exchange,
July 5,
received from L. A. Goddard, Grand
Treasurer, ----- ____ ____ __-- - - - --- __ _
14.00
April 23, American Lodge U. D. Chicago, by P. 0.
money order received from Harry D.
25.00
Davisson, Secretary, ----- - - ---- -- -- -Auburn Park Lodge No. 789, Chicago, by
May 2,
P. 0. money order, received from Henry
50 .00
Seitz, Treasurer, -- - --- -- -- - - - - - - -- - Brighton Park Lodge No. 854, Chicago,
by P. 0 . money order, received from
50.00
Jas. MacLaughlin, Secretary,~ ----- - --­
April 27, Beacon Lights Lodge No. 784, Chicago,
b_y check received from F. W. McNally,
25.00
W. M. ------------- - -- - -- --- ------April 26, Chester Lodge No. 72, Chester, by tele. graphic instructions to draw from Ches25.00
ter Lodge, --------- - --- - -----------28, Columbia Lodge No. 474, Columbia, by
draft received through J. H. C. Dill,
Grand Secretary, ______ ______ - -- - - __ _
15.00

Continued.

April 26, Columbian Lodge No. 819, Chicago, by
check received from Fred M. Glennon,
Secretary __ ------ -- --------------.- -D. C. Cregier Lodge No. 643, Chicago, by
Ma;r 1,
check, received from Fred R. Handrup,
Secretary ____ --------- ------ - ------Chicago Lodge No. 437, Chicago, by check
May 5,
Received from Nathan Hefter, Secretary,
April 27, East St. Louis Lodge No. 504, by draft,
received from R . A. Paschal, Secretary,
Fides Lodge No. 842, Chicago, by New
May 3,
York exchange, received from Martin
·Anderson, Secretary, ---------------April 25, Gothic Lodge No. 852, East St. Louis, by
Treasurer's warrant, received through
J. H. C. Dill, Grand Secretary, _______ _
Humbolt Park Lodge No. 813, Chicago, by
May 3,
check received from John C. GroetzinApril 26,

Kif!;'i~~i~re~~ge--N~~-3ii~-Chl~~-~.--by

telegraplfiic transfer from W. N. Ec~harlt,
treasurer, -- - ---- ---- _---------- ____ _
Lawn Lodge No. 815, Chicago, by express
May 4,
money order received from J. R. Hayden,
Secreta!J' ------- - ------- -- - -- ------Lakeside Lodge No. 739, Chicago, by
May 3,
cashier's check received from J. Meek
Finley, Secretary, ------ - -----------April 26, Lincoln Park Lodge No. 611, Chicago, by
draft received from P. F. W. Kehling,
May 4,
May 1,

W. M. ----------- ------------------

Normal Park Lodge No. 797, Chicago, by
Lodge voucher, received from B. S. Wilson, W. M., ------ - ----------------Olympia Lodge No. 864, Chicago, by Lodge
voucher received from E. 0. Waldo,

W. M.

----------------------------

April 27, Pleaides Lodge No. 4784_Chicago, by check
received from C. G . .ttaebich, Treasurer,
April 28, Rock River Lodge No. 612, Sterling, by
draft received from John W. Niles, Secretary---- - -------- -- -------- - ---- - April 25, Siloam Lodge No. 780, Chicago, by express
money order received from F. 0. Christensen, Treasurer, ------------------Wright's Grove Lodge No. 779, Chicago,
May 1,
by cashier's check received from R. E.
Jones, W. M. - --------------------York Chapter No. 148, R. A. M. Chicago,
May 1,
by check received from Frank E. Locke,
E. H. P. ---- - ----- - ---------------Rob't Morris Chapter 0. E. S. East St.
May 8,

ra~r· w. ~~. ~~~~~~~~·-~~~e!~~~-~~~

100.00
100.00
200.00
100.00

I 39.00
100.00
50.00
100 . 00
25 . 00
25 .00
100.00
100.00
50.00
25.00
25.00
50.00
50.00
100.00
20 .00

245

246

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ILLINOIS - Continued.
Boulevard Lodge No. 822, Chica'W, by
P : 0. money order, received from . H.
Reid, Secretary --------------------May 23,. Oriental Lodge No. 33, Chicago, by check
received from Charles Catlin, Secretary,
July 16, Masons of State,
Los Angeles exchange
received from . A. Goddard, Grand
Treasurer, -------------------------Aug. 4,
Masons of State, 1J:': Los Angeles exchange
received from . A. Goddard, Grand
Treasurer, __________________________

GRAND .LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

May 10,

bl

May 4,
25.00

June 2,
50 . 00

June 4,
10 . 00

May 4,
12,

Masons of State, ~ Chicago excha~e, received from A. . Emery, Grand aster,
Grand Lodge, by New York excha~e, received from A. W. Emery, Grand aster,

KANSAS.
$10648.25

1341.00
1196 .75
2537 . 75

INDIAN TER.R.ITOR.Y.
April 29, Grand Lodge; by telegraphic instructions
to draw, received from J. S. Murrow,
Grand Secretary, --- ----------------April 24, Scottish R.ite Bodies, by telegraphic instructions to draw, received from Wm.
Busby, South McAlester, ___________ __ _

$100.00
1000 .00
$1100.00

IOWA.
May 7,
May 15,
May 16,
May 21,
May 28,
May 29,

Lod~es of State, by N. Y. exchan~e re-

ce1ved from Newton R Parvin, rand
Secretary, ------------------------ -Lod~es of State, by N. Y. exchange, rece1ved from Newton R Parvin, Grand
Secretary __ _____ .. __________ __ _____ __
Lod~es of State, by N. Y. exchange, rece1ved from Newton R. Parvin, Grand
Secretary, ------ ------- ----- --- --- - Lod~es of State, by N. Y. exchange, rece1ved from Newton R. Parvin, Grand
Secretary, - - ----- - ---------- ------ -Lodges of State, by N, Y. excha(fie, received
from Newton R Parvin,
rand Secretary,
----------------------------Lodges of State, by N. Y. excha(fie, received
from Newton R Parvin,
rand Secretary, --=----------- -- ---- ------- --

350.00
1000 . 00

April 26,' Grand Lodge, by voucher received from
' Albert K. Wilson, Grand Secretary, __ _ $500.00
April 24, Great ~end Lodge_ No. 15, Great.Bend, ___ _
50 . 00
Empana Lodge No. 12, Empona, ______ _
50 . 00
R.ismg Su.n Lodge No. 8, Fort Scott, _____ _
25.00
Mount Nebo Chapter No. 36, R A. M.,
100 .00
Great Bend, ------- ·---------------By .telegraphic instructions to draw, received
from Albert K. Wilson, Grand Secretary, __ _
50.00
April 26, Ellinwood lodge No. 217, Ellinwood,___
Union Lod~e No. 7, Junction City,_ _____
50.00
By telegraphic mstructions to draw, re-ceived
from Albert K. Wilson, Grand Secretary,
100.00
April 29, Orient Lodge No. 51, Topeka,__________
Eminence Lodge No. 205, Eskridge,_____
50.00
Kansas Lodge No. 307, Herington,______
2.5 . 00
Greenwood Lodge No. 163, Fall River, ___
10.00
By telegraphic instructions to draw, received
from Albert K. Wilson, Grand Secretary.
April 27, Linwood Lodge No. 241, Linwood, contribution received from Andrew T.
15.00
Christie, Secretary, __- ___ _-- __ - - - --May 5,
Downs Lodge No. 204, Downs, by N. Y.
exchange, received from George M.
25:00
April 26, Be~~n~' c~:;~~No~-69,-R".-:~CM".-~B~if;
·ville, by telegraphic instructions to draw
received from National Bank of ' Belle50 . 00
ville, - - - - - --- - -- - -- -- - - - - - - -- - -·~ - -- -

- - -- -

650.00
1000 . 00
1000.00
500.00

IOWA - Continued.
Centennial Lodge No. 373, Grant, by
Chicago exchange, received from George ·
10 .00
T. Carey, Secretary, ---------------Ashlar Lodge No. 111, Fort Dodge, by
Chicago exchange, received from Henry
A. Cook, Secretary, _____ - __ _- - - -- - 25.00
Salem Lodge No. 17, Salem, by N. Y. exchange, received from E. A. Wilnuth,
Secretary, ______ _______________________5_._o_o
$4540.00

18.00

INDIANA.

247

KENTUCKY.
May 2,
Grand Lodge, by Chicago exchange, ____ __ $1000:00
May 14, Grand Lodge, by N. Y. exchange, _____ _ 1000.00
June 4,
Grand Lodge, by New York exchange, ___
500.00
Received from John H. Leathers, Grand Treasurer.
Daylight Lodge No. 760, Louisville, by
Ap91
N. Y. exchange, received from David
25. 00
W. Grey, W. M. - -- - --- ------- -- --- -

Z6,

$1100.00

248

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

KENTUCKY - Continued.
April 29, Providence Lodge No. 148, Providence, by
N. Y. exchange, received from T. T.
Morris, J. W. ----- ------ - - ------ --May 21, Kosair Te~le, A. A. 0 . N. M. S, Louisville, by . Y. exchange, received from
Wm. J. Watkins, Recorder, __________
July 2,
St. George Lodge No. 239, Louisville, by
N. Y. exchange, received from S. A.
Slauirter, Treasurer, --------------July 16, Grand odge, ~ N. Y. exchange, received
from John . Leathers, Grand Treasurer
July 18, Grand L;dg;,--b~-:N: --y~ - ~~~h~~g~~-~;
ceived from Jo
H. Leathers, Grand
Treasurer, __- - - - -- - ______ ____ ___ ____
Sept. 10, Grand Lodge, by N. Y. exchange, received from John H. Leathers, Grand
Treasurer, _____________ _____________

LOUISIANA - Continued.
April 23, Jefferson Lodge No. 191, New Orleans, by
telegraphic instructions to draw received from Samuel Wolf, W. M. ______
Louisiana Lodge No. 102, New Orleans, by
May 81
express money order received from J. B.
Parker, Secreta;rc1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Louisiana Lodge o. 102, ~rsonal conMay 4,
tributions from C. A. and . B. Farwell
members of said Lodge ) received from
J.B. Parker, Secre~, -------------George Washi{f.ton
ge No. 65, New OrMay 7,
leans, by P. . moni order received from
Robert W. Irvine, ecretary, __________
May 21, Contribution from Mrs. Richard Milliken,
received by express monecL order from
J. B. Parker, Sec. La. Lo ~e No. 102,_
P. 0.
June 14, Anacoco Lodge No. 147, Leesville,
money order received from Jno. . Cain,
Secretary, _________ _________________

10.00
500.00
25.00
30.15
17 . 50

?.

5.00

249

50 .00
50.00

100 .00
20 .00
50 .00
10.00

$3112.65

$5865 .00

LOUISIANA.
MAR.YLANO.

bl

April 24, Grand Lodge,
tel'1{japhic instructions
to draw from . C. !en, Grand Master,
April 28, Union Lodi'.:i No. 172, ---------------Jeanerette
dge No. 255, - - ---------May 1, By check received from Richard Lambert,
Grand Sec'y Orleans-Delta Chapter No. 1,
R. A. M. by N. Y. exchan&e, ___ ___ , __
Columbia Lodge No. 164,
lumbia, by
check ------ - --- - --- --- ------- ----- Received from Richard Lambert, Grand Secretary.
May 15, Germania Lodge No. 46, New Orleans, by

5000 .00
100 .00
25.00
100 .00
25.00

$12520.00

· ~~cki;i<lg~- -:N~:- 175~-A:~i;-ciii,--i;;;

100,00

currency, ------ - -------------------Received from Richard Lambert, Grand Secretary.
May 2,
Ocean Lodge No. 144, New Orleans, by
N. Y. exchange, received from James

10.00

May 2,

stj~:~ tcJ:!a~~~ 4-1~ -B~t~~-il""o;;~e~ -~

N. Y. exchange, received from . .
Ross Secretary, ----- -------------- - May 2,
Jacques DeMolay Commandry No. 2, New
Orleans, by express money order received from Geo{!ce Medus, E. C. ____
May 3,
Abbeville Lodge o. 192, Abbeville, by
P. 0. mone~ order, received from M. R.
()ushman, ecretary, ----- -- ----- -April 26, Perfect Union Lodge No. 1, New Orleans,
warrant received from Wm. C.
right, Treasurer , ______ ___ _________

W

April 27, Masons of State, by telegrac}hic transfer,
from Thomas J. Shryock, rand Master, $5000 .00
Masons of State, by telegr{fihic transfer,
May 1,
from Thomas J. Shryock, rand Master, 5000.00
Masons of State, b~ telegraJhic transfer,
May 8 1
from Thomas J. S ryock, rand Master, 2500.00
April 27, Annahlis Lod~e No. 89, Ann~lis, by
cas receive from L. D.
apoway,
20.00
Secretary, --------------------------

25 .00

50 .00
100 .00
25 .00
25.00

MASSACHUSETTS.
April 28, Grand Lodge, by telegraphic instructions
to draw, received from John Albert
Blake, Grand Master, -- -- -- - ------- -- $1000 .00
May 11, Grand Lodge, by telegraphic instructions
to draw, received from John Albert
2000 .00
Blake, Grand Master, --- - ---- ------- May 21, Grand Lodge, by !eiegraphic instructions
to draw, received from John Albert
2000.00
Blake, Grand Master, ----- - ---- - ----April 26, Lodges of 13th. Masonic District, bb N. Y.
Aug. 23,

G~~~'dn\Ya~~~:,iv~- ~~o-~-~!~~r!~~ __ ~:~~:

Grand Lodge, by instructions to draw, received from S. D. Nickerson, Recording
Grand Secretary, --·---- -- --- ----- -- -

115.00
1600.00
$6715.00

250

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MISSOURI - Continued.
Seaman Lodge No. 126, Milan, ___ ____ __ _
Solomon Council No. 26, Milan, ____ _____ _
Milan Chapter No. 103,------- -- - -- - ---St. Bernard Commandry No. 52,, Milan, __
By N. Y;. exchange received from R. B. Ash,

MICHIOAN.

May 1,

50.(VI

Grand Lodge, ____ _____ - - - - -- - -- - - - - - - Subordinate Lodges of State, ________ ___ _
By Portland exchange received from Cornelius
Hedges, Grand Secretary.
May 11, Subordinate Lod~es of State, by N. Y. ex-

$300.00
450 .00

Scottish Rite Bodies of Butte, _________ _
Subordinate Lodges of State, -------- -- By N. Y. exchange received from Cornelius
Hedges, Grand Secretary,
May 4,
Masonic Relief Committee, Butte, by currency received from R. H. Paxson,
Chairman _____ ____ __ ____ ___- - -- - - - -1 une 19, Masonic Relief Committee, Butte, by San
Francisco exchange received from R. H.
Paxson, Chairman, - -------- - -- - --- - Aug. 2,
Subordinate Lodges of State, by San Francisco exchange received from Cornelius
Hedges, Grand Secretary, - --- ~ -- - - - - -

1076.50
150.00
400 .00

May 11

May 14

Lodges of State, by check received from
Thomas Montgomery, Grand Secretary,$1000 . 00
June 19, Lodges of State, by check received from
Thomas Montgomery, Grand Secretary,
800.00
May 21, Dalles Lodge No. 181, Cloquet, by Chicago
exchange received from C. T. Exstrand,
Treasurer, ___ __ __ __________ ______ ___
25 . 00
Aug. 13, Lodges of State, by check received from
Thomas Montgomery, Grand Secretary,
416.00
s2241.oo·
MISSISSIPPI.

G~~~e s::~~:ry,fr~~ ~~~~I~~ ~~~~~~

743. 50
292.25
405 .00

- -- --

1000.00
500.00
1000.00

5000.00
4848 .80

$3817.25

NEBRASKA.
$2500.00

MISSOURI.
Grand Lodge, by N. Y. exchange, received
from John R. Parson, Grand Secretary,
Subordinate Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange received from John R. Parson,
Grand Secretary, - -- - - - ---- - ----- - - -

200.00

MONTANA.

June 4,

May 4,

200.00

$10423.80

$6006.73

July 5,

W. M.

Naphtali Lodge No. 25, St. Louis, by N. Y:
exchange received from Sol. Boehm,
Treasurer, - - ----- -- ----------------April 28, Charity Lodge No. 331, St. Joseph, by N. Y.
exchanl!"e received from Ed. Schramm,
Secretary, r ----- --- -- -------------- April 26, Samaritan Lod~e No. 424i Bonne Terre, by
telegraphic mstructions to draw, received from Lodge, _-- __- - - - - - - - - - - - -

MINNESOTA.

Grand Lodge, by N. Y. exchange, ____ ___ _
May 1,
May 2,
Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange, ____ __
May 11, Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange, ____ __
Received from Frederic Speed, Grand Sec. ___ _

50.00
25.00
25.00
25 .00

May 3,

April 24, Grand Lodge, by telegraphic instructions
to draw received from John Rowson
Grand Maater, ___ __ ____ _____ ____ ___~ $1000. 00
May 7,
Blue Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange received from Wm. Wente, Grand Treasurer, -- --- - ---- --- --- - ------ - ---- ~- ·871 .60
May 25, Blue Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange
received from Wm. Wente, Grand Treasurer, - - ---- ---- - -------- -- - - - - - ---- 3119.17
June 8,
Blue Lodges of State, by N. Y. draft received from Wm. Wente, Grand Treasurer, -- -- - ----- - ---- - ---- - - - ----- --715. 21
July 2,
Blue l:<>dges of State, by N. Y. exchange,
received from Wm. Wente, Grand Treasurer, - - - - -- - ~ - ________ _______ _______
169 . 00
July 24, Lod~es of State, by N. Y. exchange, received from Wm. Wente, Grand Treasurer, - -- - -- - ----- -- --- --- --- - -- -- --106 . 75
Aug. 28, Lod~es of State by N. Y. exchange, received from Wm. Wente, Grand Treasurer, - _________ ____________ ______ ___
25 . 00

251

April 24, Grand Lodge, by telegraphic instructions to
draw received from Melville R. Hopewell,
Grand Maater, __ ---- - - - - - - - - -- - -- -- Lincoln Lodge No. 19, Lincoln, by Chicago
May 8,
exchange received from Charles M.
Keefer, W. M. ____ _- __- - - - - - - -- - - - - -

$500.00
200 .00
$700.00

252

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

NEVADA.
May 2,
May 3,
May 12,

NEW MEXICO.

Lo~ges of State, by N. Y. and San Fran-

ClSCo exchange received from Chauncy
N. Noteware, Grand Secretary, ------Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange received
from (.,~auncy N. Noteware, Grand
Secretary, -------------------------Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange received
from Chauncy N. Noteware, Grand
Secretary, --------------------------

Apn1 24, Roswell Lodge No. 18, Roswell, by telegraphic transfer from John Shaw, W. M.
May 2,
Lebanon Lodge No. 22, Gallup, ~ express
money order received from C. . Brown,
Secretary, --------------------------

2286.05
250.00

50.00

$200 .00
615.50

NEW HAMPSHIRE.

Aug. 29,

$150.00

NEW YORK

$3151.55

June 2,

253

Grand Lodge, and Subordinate Lodges of
State, by N. Y. exchan&e received from
Frank D. Woodbury, rand Secretary, $1225.00
Lodges of State, by N. Y. excha~e received
from Frank D. Woodbury, rand Sec274.75
retary, ------------------------ -- ---

$1499.75

May 2,

Grand Lod\i by check received from Frederick P. r orris, Grand Treasurer, ______
5000.00
Lodges of State, by check received from
May 5,
Frederick P. Morris, Grand Treasurer, __ 10000 .00
April 28, Syracuse Lodge No. 501, Syracuse, by
instructions to draw draft received from
H. W. Greenland, Secretary, __________
100 .00
May 14, Merchant's Lodge No. 709, Brook!~, bJ;
check received from Harry J. chei t,
Master, ____ -------- _____ ----- ------ _
400.00
Sept. 18, Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange received
from Frederick P. Morris, Grand Treasurer, ---- -- -- --- - -- -- -- - - -- -- - - -- - - - 25907 . 50

$41407.50

NEW JERSEY.
NORTH DAKOTA.
April 30, Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange received
from Thomas H. R. Redway, Grand
Secretary, -------------------------- $3000 .00
May 1,
Lodges of State, by telegraphic instructions
to draw received from Thomas H. R .
Redway. Grand Secretary, ____________
1500 .00
May 2,
Lodges of State, by telegra~ic instructions
t.o draw received from homas H. R.
Redwaf, Grand Secretary,------------- 2000.00
May 11, Lodges o State, by telegraphic instructions
to draw received from Thomas H R.
Redway, Grand Secretary, ------ -- ----- 1500.00
May 28, Lodges of State, by- N. Y. exchange received
from Thomas H. R . Redway, Grand
1500 .00
June 6,
from Thomas H. R. Redway, Grand
1000 ,00
Secretary, --------~------------ ----April 25, Washington
Lodge No. 33, Elizabeth, by
P. 0. money order received from James
A. Knowles, Secretary, -------------100.0C
June 9,
Salaam Temple, A. A. 0. N. M. S. Newark,
by order on Treasurer, received from
G . .C. Ward, Recorder, ________________
500 .00
.... ~

April 26, Masonic Lod~e No. 37, Fairmount, by
telegr'if.hic mstructions to draw received
from . H. Greenman, W. M. __________ $

50.00
$50 .00

OHIO.
Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange, ______ $1000.00
May 1,
Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange, ______
2000 .00
May 3,
Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange, ______
1000 .00
May 7,
Lodges
of
State,
by
N.
Y.
exchange,
______
2000.00
May 12,
2000.00
May 17, Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange, ______
June 2,
Ladies of Cincinnati1 by N. Y. exchange __
25.00
Received through LeWlS P. Schaus, Grand
Master.
April 26, Columbian Commandry No. 52, K. T.,
Ashtabula, by telegraphic instructions
to draw received from C. W. Herrick,
100.00
E. C. --!--------------------------April 26, Western Reserve Chapter No. 8, R. A. M.,
Ashtabula, by telegraphic instructions
to draw received from E. G. Pullman,
100.00
High Priest, ------------------------

Lo~~C::~fStat""e~byN.-Y~-e;;c~ge-;;c-el~~d

$11100.00

$8225.00

254

July 13,

May 2,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

OKLAHOMA.

SOUTH CAROLINA.

Grand Lodge, by N. Y. exchange received
from James S. Hunt, Grand Secretary,
received through George Johnson,
Grand Secretary, __ ___ ______ _________
Earleboro Lodge No. 72, Earleboro, by
instructions to draw draft received from
Joseph A. Ingram, W. M, _____________

•

April 28, Landmark Lodge No. 76, Charleston, by
telegr'.(.hic instructions to draw received
from . M. Athens, W. M. ____________
April 27, Union Kilwinning Lodge, Charleston, by
telegraphic instructions to draw received
from George H. Moffett, Treasurer, ____

$908.25
20 .00

$100.00
100 .00

$928.25

$200.00

OREGON.
April 12, Grand Lodge, by telegra&i-hic instructions
to draw received from . H. Flanagan,
Grand Master, _____ _____ ___ ______ ___
April 27, Oregon Commandry No. 1 K. T., by currency received from W. S. McCrum,
Recorder, ___________________ __ ______
April 27, Harmony Lodge No. 12, Portland, by draft
received from F. A. Jones, W. M. ______
May 1,
Portland Lodfe No. 55, Portland, b~ Los
Angeles exc ange received from F. 'reidlander, W. M. ___ ______________ ____

2.~5

SOUTH DA KOT A.
April 29, Coteau Lodge No. 54, Webster, bb N. Y. exchange received from W. S. . Adams,
W. M. --- - - --- ---~- --- ------ --- ---

$500.00

$50.00
$ 50.110

200.00

TENNESSEE.

500.00
250.00
$1450.00

PENNSYLVANIA.
April 23, Grand Lodge, by- telerr;aphic instructions
to draw received rom George W.
Kendnck, Jr. Grand Master, _________ _ $5000.00
May 2,
Lodges of State, by telegraChic instructions
to draw received from eorge W. Kendrick, Jr., Grand Master, __ _________ __
5000.00
May 12, Lodges of 8tate ,by telegraChic instructions
to draw received from eorge W. Kendrick, Jr., Grand Master, ___ __ ____ , ____
5000.00
June 5,
Lodges of State, by telegra hic instructions
to draw received from eorge W. Kendrick, Jr., Grand Master, -- ------- --5000.00
April 26, Robert Burns Lodge No. 464, Harrisburg,
by telegraphic instructions to draw received from Andrew S. Patterson, W. M.
100.00
July 10, Lu Lu Temple, A. A. 0. N. M. S. Phila833.25
delphia, by check, ------------------ -

April 27, South Memphis Lodge No. 118, Memphis,
by telegraphic transfer, from E. E. J< rancis, W. M. ___ ____ _____ ____ ______ ____
May 4,
Leila Scott Lodge No. 289, by exNesij
money order received from H. L. ·cker\ng, Secretary, --------------------

$100 . 00
25 .00
$125.00

TEXAS.
April 28, Lodges of State, by telegraphic instructions
to draw received from S. M. Bradley,
Grand Master, ____ _____ ____ _____ ____ $2500 .00
May 12, Lodges of State, by telegraphic instructions
to draw received from John Watson,
Grand Secretary, ----------------- --5500.00

0

$8000.00

UTAH.

$20933 .25

RHOD E ISLAND.
April 28, Masons of State, by telegraJchic instructions •
to draw received from oseph W. Freeman, Grand Master, ___ ------ --____ __ _ $1000. 00
June 12, Masons of State,
instructions to draw
received from
. A. Presbrey, Grand
2116 .31
Master, _~ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

April 28, Grand Lodge, bfu N. Y. exchange received
from Christop er Diehl, Grand Secretary,
May 2,
Tintic Lodge No. 9, Eureka, by P. 0. money
order received from Charles Kryger,
8ecretary, --------------------------

$500 .00
110 .00
$610.00

VERMONT.

.w.

May 21,
$3116.31

Lodges of State, b~ N.Y.exchange received
from Chas. W. hitcomb, Grand Treasurer. _____ __ ____ ____ _____ ____ __ __ __ $1181.00

256

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

VER.MONT - Continued.
June 5,
Lodges of State, b~N. Y. exchange received
from Chas. W. hitcomb, Grand Treasurer, ______________ ___ ___ --- ------120.50
June 16, Lodges of Sta~b~ Y. exchange received
from Chas. .
"tcomb, Grand Treasurer, _____ -------- ______ ____ ___ ___ _
25 .00
May 2,
Telegraphic transfer from Dayton H. Switzer, Bellows Falls, received through
50 .00
G. W. Hunter,---- - ------------- -- --July 18, Mt. Anthony Lodge No. 13, Bennington,
N. Y. exchange, received from Chas. W.
Whitcomb, Grand Treasurer, ________ __
27.75

May 11,
July 5,
April 26,
April 26,
$1404.25

April 27,

VIR.GINIA.
April 28,
April 26, Masons of State, by telegraphic instructions
to draw received from Fred Pleasants,
Grand Treasurer, ____________________
May 7,
Masons of State, by telegra)chic instructions
to draw received from red Pleasants,
Grand Treasurer, ________ ____ ______ __
May 8,
Masons of State, b~ instructions to draw received from
red Pleasants, Grand
Treasurer, ------------------- ------May 15, Masons of State, Wr instructions to draw
received from red Pleasants, Grand
Treasurer, ---- - --- ~-- ------------ -- May 21, Masons of State, ~ instructions to draw
received from red Pleasants, Grand
TreMurer, ____ --- ________ __ _________
June 25, Masons of State, b/i instructions to draw
received from red Pleasants, Grand
Treasurer; -------------------------April 30, Norfolk Lodges,
telegraphic instructions
to draw receive from T. S. Purdie, D. D.
G. M. ------------ --- --------------May 1,
Winchester Hiram· Lodge No. 21, Winchester, by currency .received from W. E.
Coop,er, W. M. ------------ -- -------May 1,
Suffolk Lodie No. 30 and Mt. Nebo R . A.
Chapter, y N. Y. exchange received
from H. Woodward, Secretary, Suffolk,

bl

May 5,

$500.00
500.00

May 21,

500.00

450 .00
50 . 00
100.00
100 .00
200.00

received from Benjamin W. Sherwood,
~cretary, received through Geo. W.
un~r, -- --- - ---------- - - --- ------Cheha~1s Lodge No. 28, by N. Y. exchange
Bece1ved
Coffman,
Dobson
& Co.,
ankers, from
___________
__ ____
__________

50.00
200.00
$1790.Uu

WASHINOTON··DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

500.00

April 26, Masons of D. C. by telegraAhic transfer
received from Walter A. rown, Grand
Master, ___ ______ ___
May 23, Masons of D. C. by Ne-;-y;rk ~-;zcha~g; $1000.00
received from Walter A. Brown, G. M._ ~ 1616.50

450 .00
400.00

$2616 .50

WEST VIR.GINJA.
100 .00

May 1,

100 .00

Grand Lodge, b\vN. Y. excha{fie received
from George . McClintic rand Master
'

May 8,

Morg~""n~~~ -u~i~~-L~dfi~-N~~-4,-by- N.-Y.

May 22,

exchange received rom George W
·
McClint1c, Grand Master
Minturn Lodge No. 19, Po'i~t-Pl;~-;;t--by
Y. exchange received from B. Fr~nkJin, Secretary,

$3550.00

te~ ----- -- - - - --- - -- - --- ---- -- -- ----

Ev~:~~ts~<l;!uo. i37~"b~vN:Y.-~~~h;~g~

140.00

500.00

WASHINGTON.
April 23, Grand Lodge, b;r telegraphic instructions
to draw received from A. L. Miller,
Grand Master, _. ____- -- - __ __ ------- __
April 27, Grand Lodge, by instructions to draw re
ceived from A. L. Miller, Grand Mas

W ASf11 NG TON _,.. Continued.
Bremerton Lo~ge No. 117, ~ Chicat ex
cha!lge received from
. W.
!er
Actmg Grand Secretaw;Anvil Lodge No. 140, o~~--A.!B;k"~-by
San Francisco exchange r~ceived from
H. W. ;J;ler, Grand Secretary
Pll;lOU;Se Lo g~ No. 46, Palouse, bY-t~li,;ph1c mstructions to draw received rom
C. H. Knaw;:, Secreta'.},t- _____ __ ___
Northpor.t :£:0 ge N<_>.100, orthport, by t";1:
egraphic mstruct10ns to draw received
f~om H. W. Sterrett, Secretary, ___ __ ___
Waitsburg Lodge No.16, Waitsburg, by N.
Y. exchange received from R. E. Butler
Secret£.
'
Olympia: b<lge- -N~~-i~ -Ol~piS::-b~ -~st~uct10ns to draw received from
. R.

257

250 .00

50.00

r:r.

--- ------- ------------

$250 .00

$300.00

25.00

WISCONSIN.
April 30, Grand Lodge, by telegraphic instructions
to draw received from J esse C. Bradley
Grand Master, ___ _

------ ----- ----

$375.00

$1000.00

WISCONSIN - Continued.
May 11, Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange __ 7 _ _ _
May 21, Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange, ____ __
21, Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange ____ __
May 29, Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange ____ __
June 13, Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange _____ _
June 15, Lancaster Lodge No. 20, Lancaster, by
June 16,

K~~t~;~ L~d~~~~.- -263,--H~~~;d,- -by

Chicago exchange, ------ - -----------All received through J. M. Pereles, Grand
Treasurer,
June 22, Robert Morris Lodge No. 115, Eagle, by
June 26,

w~:ri~~n~~cton!;~-N~~-9o,- E~~~;~iie~-i:;y.
N. Y. exchan~, --------------- - -----

July

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

258

2

'

Pa;rY.~x~~ang~·- -~~~~-=~~~~~~~~~·--~:

Received through J .. M. Pereles, Past Grand
Treasurer,
April 29, Oshkosh Lodge No. 27, Oshkosh, by N. Y.
exchange received from E. R. Williams,
Treasurer,
__ - - --- ____ - --- - --- - - --May 5,
Columbia Lodge No. 124, Kilbourn, by
Chicago exchange received from H.
Goedecke, Secretary, ---------- - ----May 5,
Independence Lodge No. 80, Milwaukee, by
check received from Alfred Church,
July 24.

500.00
1500 . 00
500 . 00
500 . 00
262 . 75
50.00
10 .00

15 . 00

5 .00
10.00

100 . 00
40.00
100 .00

Sp~e~rety~ey-~d-~~N~.--262,-b-- -N~-Y.
exctange receive~ from J. M. 1'ereless,
33.50
Past Grand Treasurer, ___ - ___ - - __-- - - -----

$4626 . 25

259

MISCELLANEOUS CONTRIBUTIONS.
Contributions to the Relief Fund, transmitted
to George Johnson, Grand Secretary, San Francisco, and by him turned over to Grand Master
September 1, 1906.
April 28, Charleston Lodge No. 407, Charleston, Mo.,
$25.00
30, Barney Lodge No. 279, Dighton, Kansas, __
25.00
M~nic Board of Control, Springfield, Ill.,
100.00
. 25.00
Midwk Lodge No. 185, St. Paul, Minn., __
Starr ing Lodge, Salem, Mass., ________ _
May 1,
150.00
Ottawa Lodge, No. 128, Ottawa, Kansas,_
50.00
Grand Lodge F. & A. M. Arkansas, from
100.00
its Secretary, ---- - --------------•-M\v Olivet Lodge No. 3, Parkersburg,
50.00
est Va., --------- -- --------------2,
Yellowstone Mas. Club, Yellowstone Park
70.00
Wyo., ---- - -------- - ----~------ __ --~
Crescent Lodge, Pittsfield, Mass., ___ ____ _
100 . 00
Sonora Lodge No. 12, Cananea, Mex., _____ _
5 . 00
100.00
Lake View Lod_ge No. 774. Chicago, Ill.,.~100.00
Peoria Lodge No. 15, Peoria, Ill.,.-------Sconondoa Lodge No. 814, Vernon, N. Y.,
60.00
3,
Macdonald Lodge No. 103, Macdonald,
50 .00
West Va., - ------------- - ------ - ---Valley Lodge No. 71, Orting, Wash., _____ _
25.00
Nelson Lodge No. 30, Wheeling, West Va.,
50.00
Wm. G. . Hill Lodge No. 218, Raleigh,
100 .00
West. Va., ------- - ---- - --- - --- -- ---Sonora Lodge No. 2, Cananea, Mexico, ___ _
110.00
4,
Hiram Lodge No. 98, Clinton, N. C., _____ _
10.00
5,
25.00
Union Lodge No. 31, New London, Conn.,
E'{ans Lodge No. 524, Evanston, Ill., ____ _
100.00
J. S. Murrow, Grand Sect'y, Ind. Ter., ___ _
135 . 00
St. Johns Lodge No. 9, Seattle, Wash., ___ _
100 .00
6,
Saint Cecilia Lodge No. 865, Chicago, Ill.,~
7,
50.00
50.00
10, Rolla Lodge No. 66, Rolla, North Dakota,_
Coal~ate Lodge No. 129, Coalgate, Ind. Ter.,
25.00
14, Cassia Lodge No. 14, Albion, Idaho, _____ _
75 .00
25 .00
15, Carthage Lodge No. 181, Carthage, N. C, __
16, C. E. Rosenbaum, Grand Treasurer, Little
219.00
Rock, Ark., -----------------------22, Mt.·Herman Lodge No. 118, Asheville, N. C.
50.00
50.00
28, Olivia Lodge No. 220, Olivia, Minn., _____ _
107 .00
29, P!airie ~dge No. 120, Hartline, Wash., __
June 1,
Silver City Lodge No. 8, from Grand Secty,
of New Mexico, _______________ .: _____ _
100.00
Grand Lodge of Hungary, _____________ _
40.00
5,
Concordia Lodge No. a05, Vidalia, La,, __ _
15 .00
6,
9,
Joppa Lodge No. 123, Shattuck, Oklahoma,
10.00
Hibernia
Lodge
No.
3,
St
John,
N.
B.
___
_
July 3,
50.00
1
Henderson Lodge No. 485, Henderson,
6,
10.00
Tenn., ----------- ------- - - - - - - -- - -10.00
Aug. 6,
Grand Lodge, Ok~homa, from Grand Secy.,

-----

$2551.00

260

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

FROM FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS.
BRITISH AMERICA.
April 20, Grand Lodge, Victoria, B. C., shipment of
food supplies, sent by steamer,
King Edward Lodge No. 36, Phoenix, B. C.,
May 8,
by N. Y. exchange received through
Morris Klein, Secretary Los Angeles
Lodge No. 42, Los Angeles, Cal., _____ _
May 25, Temple Lodge No. 33, Duncan's, B. C., by
check received from R. E . Brett, Grand
June 12,

July 5,

Gr:de{,~~e ~f-C~~;;i~~ by ~h~~k-~;c-ei;~d

from Jas. H. Burritt, Grand Master,
Pembrook, Ont., ______ __ ______ - ----Civil Service Lodge, Ottawa, by check
received from Jas. H. Burritt, Grand
Master, _____________ -- ___ - -- - - - ___ - Sussex Lodge No. 7, St. Stephen, N. B.,
by check received from J. T. Whitlock,
et al, - - ----------------------- - ----

261

MONEY EXPENDED.

Exc~f~. -c~~e-c~'.~~~ . ~~-~ . .e~·e·n·s~- . ~~
W. P. Jeffries Company, stamped envelopes
and letter heads . . . ... ... . . ..... . .
W. P. Jeffries Company, printing . . . .. . .
W. P. Jeffries Company stamped envelopes

$32.00
17.50
23.50

50.00

6-2,
6-30,

Postage• .
Postage ..

12 .00
5.00

1000 . 00

5-4,

Santa Rosa Relief Board.... . . ........ . .

2500 .00

25.00

5-26,
7-16,
9-4,

Santa Rosa, account Temple. . ...... .. .
Santa Rosa Relief Board ........ . ... .. .

15000.00
10000.00
1000.00

5-4,
9-5,

San Jose, Relief Board ..... ..... .. . ... .
San Jose Relief Board . .. .. ... ... . ... .. .

5000 .00
2000.00

li-4,

$124.60

25 . 00

73.00

17.00

Obli~~~n·s· ~~~~~r~~- ~~- ~~~~~~~ _o_f_~a~~~

28500.00

101.00
$1201.00

IRELAND.

7000.00
June 26,
July 24,

Grand Lodge, by San Francisco exchange
received from H. G. Flavelle, Deputy
Grand Secretary, Dublin,---------- -- Grand Lodge, by San Francisco exchange
received from H. G. Flavelle, Deputy
Grand Secretary, Dublin, __ ~ ___ _____ ___

$507.94
508 . 20
$1016.14

MEXICO.
May 26,

June 2,
July 5,

A Mason of La Cananea, Sonora, by N. -y.
exchange received . through J. L. Brown,
Secretary Perfect Ashlar Lodge No. 12,
Bisbee, Arizona, -------- -- ----- - ---Masons of Mexico, by instructions to draw
received from G. G. Bergman, Assistant
Grand Secretary, -- --- - - --- -- - --- -- -Masons of Mexico, by Chicago exchange
received from G. G. Bergman, Assistant
Grand Secretary, -- --- -- -- ---- - -- - -- -

5 . 00
800 .00

San Francisco Relief Board ............ . 14025 .00
8-1,
San Francisco Relief Board .. .... . . .. .. . 25000 .00
9-8,
San Francisco Relief Board .. .. ...... .. . 25000.00
9-13, San Francisco Relief Board ... . ..... . . . . 25000.00
9-26, San Francisco Relief 'Board . ... ... .. ... .
5647 .17
Clothing and supplies shipped to San Francisco,
5-25, Brownstein, Newmark & Louis . .. . .... . .
1491 .36
6-5,
Brownstein, Newmark & Louis . ... .. . . . .
995 .40
6-16, Brownstein, Newmark & Louis ... .. .... .
13 .24
6-22, Brownstein, Newmark & Louis . . . . . . . . . .
1148 .64
8-3,
Brownstein, Newmark & Louis..... .... .
306.00
6-5,
Moore-Barret D. G. Co............... .. .
175 .69
6-22, Moore-Barret D. G. Co....... ... ... . . .. .
208.63
7-11, Moore-Barret D. G. Co....... ... . ... . . . .
45.00
6-22, L. W. Stockwell Co. .. .... , . ...... . .. . . .
87 .83
Rosenthal & Salzman .... . . . . . .. ... ... .
674 .24
181 .80
Wm. H. Hoegee Co., ...... .... . .. ... .. .
100000.00

188.56

5-4,
$993.56

SOUTH AUSTRALIA .

Sept. 6,

Grand Lodge, by London exchange received
from J as. H. Cunningham, Grand Secretary, Adelaide, ---- - ----- ------ -- -Grand Total of Receipts ________ ___ ___ ___

6-4,
241.50
$241. 50
$225,692.10

9-5,

Kane & Daly, Carriage, relief work 10 days,
San Francisco ........... . ....... . .
Relief extended San Francisco, Grand
Master . ...... .. ..... ... . . .. .. ... .
Clerical expenses . . . . . . ... .. . ... . .. ... .
Draft, favor George Johnson, for M. Hennings, conducting bakery . . .. . .. . . . .
Oakland Masonic Relief Bureau ...... .. .
Oakland Masonic Relief Bureau . . . .. . . . .

150.00
196.00
59.00
250.00
9600.00
5000.00
14600 .00

262
6-5,
9-18,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Sacramento Board of Relief .... . ........
Sacramento Board of Relief .. , .... ... ...

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
1500 .00
1000.00

9-18,
7-18,

Masonic Board of Relief, Stockton . .......
F. B. Silverwood, (clothing, etc. destitute
brother) ..... .... ... ... .... .... ...
5-4,
Stoll & Tha;rer,, (~e~ta;ie !1-nd paper, brother of Illm01s JUns 1ct10n) ... .. , .....
5-29, Clot~in~, ~tc:, destitute brother, California
JUnsd1ct1on .. ... ... ..... ..... . ... .
5-31, Durant Lodge No. 268, Berkeley, (advanced by Lodge for brethren of outside jurisdictions) ... ... .... ..... ..
6-4,
Southern Pacific Company, (transportation
family California jurisdiction) .......
6-2,
Smith Brothers Hardware Co., (tools for
brother of Illinois jurisdiction .... , ..
6-4,
Relief Brother California jurisdiction . .. . .
6-5,
Relief, Brother California jurisdiction ....
5-10,
5-23,
6-9,
7-24,
8-20,
6-12,
6-30,
7-25,
8-16,

Yount Lodge No. 12, Napa, relief widow .
Southern Pacific Company, transportation
widow and daughter .......... . . ...
Solano Lodge No. 229, Vallejo, relief ... , .
Solano Lodge No. 229, Vallejo, relief .....
Naval Lodge No. 87, Vallejo . ...........
Oscar Lawler, (expenses San Francisco) ..
Oak Grove, Lodge No. 215 Alameda relief
Oak Grove Lodge No. 2151 (relief widow
Massachusetts jurisdict10n) ... .. ....
Oak Grove Lodge No. 215, relief . . . . . ....

2500.00

7-16,
7-18,

$364.00

7-25,

21.75

9-18,

9-27,

41.70

7-20,
7-24,
8-8,

14 .40
50.00
150.00

6-2, . Relief, brother Mt. Moriah Lodge St. Louis.

9-18,
8-3,
8-27,

200 .00
100.00

8-29,

32.50
85 .85
363 .75

9--8,
449 .6o
96.65
81.00

600 .00
50 .00
500.00

40 .25
100.00
20.00

250.00
250.00

E. C. Atkinson, (relief widow Past Grand
Commander, Knights Templar) ......
Hartley Lodge No. 199 .. ....... .. ......
Keith Lodge No. 187 .. ............. .. ..
McKinley Lodge No. 347 .. ..... .. . . ....
Lompoc Lodge No. 262 . . .. ........... . .
Vitruvius Lod~e No. 145 ....... , .......
Southern Cali ornia Masonic Home Assn.
(Maintenance Brother California jurisdiction) ..... .... ..... . . . ... ... ..
Southern California Masonic Home Assn.
(Maintenance Brother California jurisdiction) .... ............... . ... ..
Southern California Masonic Home Assn.
~M!l-i~tenance Brother California jur1sd1ct1on) .... ........... .. ..... ...
Southern California Masonic Home Assn.
~M!l-i~tenance Brother California jur1sd1ction) .. .... ....................

250.00
1000.00
600.00
105 .65
500 .00
2500.00
16 00
18 .00
15.00
200.00
249.00

-H. J. Lask, (furniture, suEplies, etc., purchased for widow and ve children ....
7-26, Relief widow member Ascension Lodge
No. 251 Louisiana ..... ..... .. .....
Relief widow member Ascension Lodge
8-7,
No. 251 Louisiana ...... .. .........
M. Brown, (furniture) widow member As8-9,
cension Lodge No. 251 Louisiana . . ..
Carr & Stephens, (merchandise) widow
9-6,
men;i~er Ascens10n Lodge No. 2.51
Loms1ana . . .... . ........ . ..... ... .
9-10, Relief, widow member Ascension Lodge
Lodge No. 251 Louisiana . .. .. .... ..
7-24,

209 .50
25.00
55.00
168.20
24.85
40 .00 .

20.00

313.05
40 .00

Russian River Lodge No. 181 •.. , .. ... , .
Russian River Lodge No. 181 .. , .. ... . ..

250.00

750.00

44.00

50.00

6-7,

6-1,
8-1,

250.00

45 .50

1150 .00

Southern Pacific Company, trans{lortation
brother of Maryland Jurisdiction .. . ..
7-9, .Relief, destitute brother ... .. .... ..... ..
6-26, California Hospital, (expenses destitute
widow) . .. .. . ....... ........ ......
'7-5,
California Hospital, (expenses destitute
widow) ........ _..... . ........... ,.

Lafayette Lodge No. 126. ·.......... ... .
E. C: A~ki~sc;m, (relief brother of California
lUr1sd1ct1on) ........... .... _.......
E . C: A~ki~s«;>n, (relief brother of Califi;>rnia
lUrisdrnt1on) .. ... .... . . ... ... ... ..
E. c., A~ki!ls?n, (relief brother of California
JUnsdwt1on) . . . . ..................

263

500.00
1700.00

8-18,
8-27,

2200.00
25.00

D. Samuels Lace House Co. (relief widow
California jurisdiction) . . . . ..... ... .
Sterling Furniture Co., (relief widow California jurisdiction) ..... ... .... ... ..
Chas. Brown & Son!', (relief widow California jurisdiction) .... ..... .. .. . .. .

6 .00
147 .80
24.85
178.65

264
7-26,
8-30,
9-22,
9-23,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Singer Sewing Machine Co. (relief widow
California jurisdiction) .• .......... ,
Relief, widow Colorado jurisdiction ..... .
M. B{i'::Sdi~~ifri)l'.~s~ ~i~.o~ .r~~~~ .~~l~~~~~
Carr & Stephens, (merchandise), (relief
widow Colorado jurisdiction) ....... .
Rhoades, Reed & Rhoades, (merchandise)
(relief widow Colorado jurisdiction.) ..

Eli 'f· .B~c~mer, (relief widow Missouri
JUnsdict1on) . . . . .... . . ... .... . ... .
8-28, Southern Pacific Company (transportation)
widow and daughter, California jurisdiction) .. . ................ .. ... . .
9-21, Relief widow Kansas jurisdiction . . .. ... .
9-27, Eastern Outfitting Co., furniture, etc. (Relief widow Kansas jurisdiction) ..... .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

37 .00
50.00
207 .80

GENERAL MASON re RELIEF BOARD

33.20

JAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA
1154 O'Farrell Street.

194.05
485.05

9~17,

9-25, Temple Lodge No. 14, relief ... . . . . .. ... .
9-25, Masonic Board of Relief, Los Angeles ... .
6-2,
Western Union Telegraph Co .. ... . .. ... .
6-6,
Western Union Telegraph Co .. . ........ .
7-26, Western Union Tetlegaph Co. . .... . .... .
6-5,
Pos~al Telegraph Cable Co . . ........ . . . .

75.00
35 .00
50.00
647.30
697.30
5000.00
3000 .00
.95
6.61
4.30
l'.84

-----

Total . .. . ..... . .... ... ... . .. .. . .
Total receipts . . . ................ .... .... ... .
Total expenditures ..... ........ ........ .. . .. .

13.70
$174814 .85

$225692 .10
174814 .85

Balance .... . ...... .. . . . ...... .. . .. .
Balance shown in bank book .... ... .... . . .... .
Checks outstanding ... .. ... .. ... . .... .. . . ... .

265

50877.52

San Francico, Cal., Sept. 1906.
" To relieve the distressed is a duty incumbent on all men, and particulary on Masons. who are linked together by an indissoluble chain of sincere,
affection. To soothe the unhappy, to sympathize with their misfortunes
to compassionate their miseries, and to restore peace to their troubled minds,
is the great aim we have in view. On this basis we form our friendships
and establish our connections.
Hon. Motley Hewes Flint
M. W. Grand Master of Masons, California
Most Worshipful Sir and Brother:
Complying with your will and pleasure contained in letter of the 16th
ult., and following a custom. long in vogue of printing a report of stewardship
of important affairs entrusted to the care of those on whom devolve such
matters, we herewith beg leave according to such usage, to submit to you the
workings of this particular Board, together with a short history of its inception,
the cause for such, together with financial and statistical exhibits, which
we trust will meet with your approval as well as bring to the
attention of the members of the Craft whithersoever dispersed, the work
accomplished by this board and its endeavor to carry out the tenets of our
ancient and beloved fraternity
Super Omnia Religio
(Duty before everything)
Historical.

95028 .32
42960 .72

Immediately after the dire calamity which befel our city on April 18th-

Balance . .. ..... . .. . . . .. . . . .... . .. ....... .. .
Grand Master balance ..... : .... .... .. ....... .

52067.60
50877 .25

Excess unaccounted for ... .. . .... . . .. .

1190 .35

! 9th-20th last, and recognizing the importance and necessity of concerted

action for those who were sufferers by the earthquake and fire, a number of
Craftsmen in this city assembled and determined on at least, distributing
food to those who might be in want of it. To this end the directors of King
Solomon's Temple, 1745 Fillmore St., lent assistance and gratuitously placed
their main rotunda at the disposal of a few zealous Craftsmen, who started
out immediately to procure eatables. Stores from the general commissary
department of the United States Government were obtained. Chairs, tables,
cutting knives, axes and other implements necessary to work with were borrowed, and thus equipped, the iron gates were thrown open and the task o
feeding the hungry began. At first it was only intended that the Masons and
their kindred should be supplied, but as supplication after supplication was

266

267

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

made, almost begging for food, the portals were opened wide, and the distributing station started by Masons for Masons was in reality a veritable
"Gates Ajar".On the first day of the voluntary giving out food, upwards of
seven-thousand persons of both sexes, of all ages, of every nationality and
irrespective of creed or religion were supplied. From that on, and for nearly
nine days thereafter, at least six-thousand rations a day were given out, and
the fervent "God bless you", the silent thanks and the humble gratitude of
all was more than payment for the trying and strenuous work of the little band of Master Masons who worked day and night, early and late The
good, big-hearted Craftsmen of Oakland and Alameda County, hearing of the
work that was being done, came to the aid of those in charge by supplying
food in such quantities that at times it was a puzzle where it could be stored.
In the whole world's history covering calamities which have befel cities,
countries and nations, (and none have been handed down in any equalling
that which overcame our cherished city) , is there any record of the feeding
sans cost to any one, as was the case on the many days succeeding the second
and third days of the disaster. In a population of over 500,000 persons, and
allowing that 100,000 of them fled the city, there is yet to be heard of one
single instance where anyone went hungry. Arrangement had been made,
and was made for everyone, and it will always be a remembrance, never to
be forgotten, of the millionare standing in front or behind the poorest soul in
the "Bread-line" (Prince and Pauper) awaiting his chance to obtain something, no matter how little or what he might be given, to appease his and his
family's hunger. Conditions were unalterably changed, and "one touch of
nature made the whole world kin". As disasterous and sorrowful as was the
calamity, it had its good effect in maliing all as one family and binding the
tie of brotherly love and fraternity stronger. It knew no station in life,
all, like the teachings of Masonry, were of an equality; they met upon the level
and parted on the square - such a square as had never before dawned on
men - not even Craftsmen who suffered, to realize the full meaning and
intent of that teaching, Moreover, it brought an old and sacred Order
to the front rank of respect and esteem. The profane opened their eyes in
wonderment, and their very looks indicated that Masonry amounted to something after all, )lnless how could they who were members of it, succor those
who had belittled and defiled it, and treat all as if of their own fold. The
parable of the good Samaritan was brought home to them, as it never was
before; and while our Craft needs no commendation, no thanks, nor testimonial, it is gratifying to know that its principles and teachings have found favor
with many who heretofore have abhorred what they term "Secret Societies".
Willingly day after day, with joyful mien, the little band of workers - the
gleaners in the Lord's vineyard of help and assistance,- toiled without murmur, and it was only when it was found that storage for food became the
question, that it was decided to limit the distribution to Masons and their
families only. As previously stated, our good brethren of Oakland and Ala·
meda County were supplying us with untold quantities of food of every

description, even to thousands of loaves of bread, as well as appetizing boxes
of cooked foods made up in a generous way, and tons of fruit. Not to be
out done, and feeling assured that a Masonic distributing station had been
established (the telegraph lines up to this time being broken, and
even mail facilities and telephone communication dis-established) our loyal
and ever ready brethren of the beautiful Southland - Los Angeles - and
contiguous places - started food relief trains to this city, via Alameda county,
which trains were supplemented by others from Fresno, Tulare, Sacramento,
Marysville, Chico, Red Bluff, Redding and every portion of the state - places
untouched by shake or fire - and in this way, food, carloads of clothing
bedding and other comforts and necessities were delivered to the station in
this city as quickly as steamer and other modes of traffic could bring them.
We, ourselves, Californians as we are, used to prodigious liberality, were even
dazzled by the quantities of provender showered upon us. As grateful as
were the poor profane who were receiving bounty at our hand, so much more
grateful were we, and pen nor tongue cannot find words to say what we would
have said, could we have reached any and all of God's thoughtful angels those remembering our sad plight and with bounteous offerings caring for
our then necessary and instant welfare. Our gratitude was silent, but our
prayers for their every success in life made amends for what we did not publicly proclaim. Kindly and fraternal acts such as these do not a little to draw
together in the bonds of peace, harmony and lasting friendship all of the human
race, and is hastening the time when
"Man to man the world o'er
Shall brothers be for a'that."
The distribution of food and clothing was continued right along, and on monday, April the 23rd, at your solicitation, as also Will and Pleasure, Most
Worshipful Sir, a preliminary meeting was called at ten o'clock in the morning,
at the temporary office of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of this jurisdiction, in King Solomon's Temple, No. 1745 Fillmore St., at which there
were present nine brethren, including your honored self, who after listening
to your more than fervent appeal to organize, so that together,- as in union
there is strength, - the best and most effective work could be done, a preliminary organization was effected at which the following temporary officers
were elected:W. Bro. William Frank Pierce, President.
W. Bro. Harry Joseph Lask, Secretary.
W. Bro. Harvey Davis Loveland, Vice-President.
(W. Bro. Loveland, on account of illness, soon after resigned, and his place
was filled by the appointment of W. Bro. Brilsford Pease Flint).
W. Bro. Otto Frank Westphal, Treasurer.
A plan of action was immediately mapped out llnd the work began .

268

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

"CALLED TO LABOR"
Sub-stations were established, committees were appointed, and the real
work of the Board commenced. The name chosen was:

GENERAL MASONIC RELIEF BOARD
As a compliment to you (moreover deserved) you were induced to
accept the Honorary Chairmanship.
At date of Thursday, April 26th, due and timely notice having been
given, a meeting was held at 9.30 o'clock in the morning, at which there were
present the officers as before named and a majority of the elective officers of
the several branches of Masonry in this city. At this meeting, the officers
elected at the preliminary meeting of April 23rd were made permanent; and
words of commendation for what had already been done, was the key-note of
all who spoke. Further and more amplified means of extending relief was
discussed and determined upon, and with every assurance by yourself that
ample funds were at the command of the Board, for any and all calls, it" was
ordered that a general assemblage of all Master Masons be requested to meet
and confer with the Board on Monday, April 30th, at which time it was hoped
every Master Mason in this city would lend a hand to aid the distressed and
those requiring relief.
"Blest be the tie that binds."
On that date, at 9.30 o'clock in the morning, the meeting took place, and a
more enthusiastic gathering of Masons never assembled. All seemed to be
imbued with the one thought of helping those who were in need of assistance,
and the attendance was so large, that many had to·content the.m selves with
remaining int.he lobby, and catching here and there a word of what was taking ·
place in the meeting room. Volunteers were called for to take charge of
districts in the unburned portions of the city, and in less time than it takes
to record this, over two hundred brethren had offered their services to assist
the Board in its work. Districts were outlined, all points were covered, and
a general plan adopted whereby none should be overlooked who needed help.
It was also resolved that the Masters and Wardens of all the blue lodges,
as well as the first three officers of every branch of Masonry, the women relatives of members of the fraternity, should form an advisory committee to
this Board, and that meetings should be held every morning, at which time
the general work of the day should be determined upon, and ways and means
adopted for carrying into effect .and the best methods of caring for and aiding
the distressed and homeless. This advisory committee met for several weeks
and ·did much to carry O\lt the noble work outlined by yourself. During all
this time, the officers held frequent meetings and enlarged the scope of its
labors.
It was believed that the addition of two well known Craftsmen as officers
of this Board, and to serve with it in an advisory capacity, would extend its

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

269

sphere of usefullness, and in consonance with this, R. W. Bro. Jacob Hart
Neff, Past Junior Grand Warden and Bro. Charles Lord Field were made a
part of its executive. The question of employment being brought to the
attention of the Board, it was decided to call a general meeting of the Craft
for Sunday morning, May 13th, and on that date ·at 10 o'clock, a monster
meeting was held when the immediate necessity of providing situations for
those of our brethren who had lost their employment was brought up, and
sub-committees were appointed to report to the Board any employment that
could be had for those in need of places, and more especially to visit those
members of the Craft requiring help, and acquaint them with the fact that
many of the brethren were in need of employment, and if possible, to give
Masons a preference in engaging help. That meeting was the means of
placing many a Craftsman on his feet, and giving him an opportunity of supporting himself and family, as well as relieveing this Board of much of its
work. Hundreds of positions were found for our brethren, and while scores
of the places accepted were not equal to those held by them previously, still
there was not a murmur of discontent from any one, but on the contrary,
words of thanks for being able to earn a living, were heard on all sides. All
this time, food was being distributed three times a day, and clothing, blankets
and other necessaries and comforts of life bountifully given. The best of
feeling prevailed, and happy·, smiling countena.Ilces, not withstanding the
terrible ordeal through which they had passed, were the rule and not the
exception.
"And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor
and though I give my body to be burned,
And have not charity, it profiteth me nothing." . .
The Board also from its inception was furnishing transportation to all
parts of the world to those who solicited it. It was the policy of the Board not
to give transportation to any able bodied man whose home was in this city
who desired the chance of going to some distant state or country, either for
recreation or to get'away. The need of our men remaining here became more
apparent daily, and it was oniy to those who had been sojourning here that
such free transportation was given, but no objection to granting it was made
women and children, as they were better off out of the city t han in it. The
several railroad and steamship companies gave this Board half-rate fares,
and to them our thanks are more than due
The quarters of the provision depart~ent proving inadequate on
account of the great amount of food being distributed it became necessary
to move to a larger place, as well~as ask for more volunteers to help in distributing the food. As time wore on, a better system of food distribution
was put into effect. Regular hours of giving out supplies were established
and orders were required from each person applying for the food, an apportionment on the lines of government rations being applied, thereby giving to each
person enough, and still not that over-abundance which might create waste.

270

271

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

.GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Our brethren in charge of this· department worked with a will, sometimes
remaining on duty as long as eighteen hours a day, still putting in their time
cheerfully and with never a murmur of discontent. They wanted to please
as well as help their brethren and famili~ and succeeded so well as to earn the
gratitude of all.

During the first number of weeks of the inception of the Board, many
thousands of dollars were advanced both to lodges and individuals, who did
not desire our offering, but only asked for an accomodation in the shape of
a loan until such a time as the banks should reopen, or their business so
arranged as to permit them to obtain what was really and justly theirs.
Bank accounts were cashed, cheques paid, money advanced on insurance
policies, the stii)endiaries of lodges and the local Board of Relief taken care
of and the bills and other urgent accounts d:ue by lodges paid. All advances
were made at their face value, no discounts were taken and no profit attempted, as it was the policy of the Board to assist all of the Craft needing help to
the fullest extent of the meaning of the word "ASSIST". Nearly every loan
or advance so made has been repaid, and in many cases the Board was asked
to accept a profit, but in each case the proffer was declined with thanks.

The general offices of the Board were also found to be too small and
cramped to efficiently conduct the relief business, which was growing instead
of lessening, and accepting the generous offer of R. W. Bro. Jacob Hart Neff
to occupy the splendidly arranged and fitted lower floor of his home, on
Monday, May 7th, the headquarters of the Board were moved to 1154 O'Farrell Street, where it has remained ever since. The word "generous" is used
above in speaking of the offer from Bro. Neff. It is but a mild adjective, as
R. W. Bro. Neff has steadily declined to accept remuneration of any kind, and
has even when extra necessities were needed, paid for the same himself, and
positively declined reimbursement. The provision department was also
moved, notwithstanding the fact that the location was away from the "maddening crowd", the demands upon us were even greater than ever. Our helpers
were equal to the occasion and no matter how large the number, or pressing
the demand, all were served, and bountifully at that. Carloads of omoked
and canned meats were sent to us; tons of California's most luscious and
succulent fruit, flour, coffee, canned goods and thousands of loaves of bread
handled, and everything that heart could wish for was donated by our thoughtful and beloved brethren in all parts of our country and state. Dainty boxes
of cooked meats and eggs, together with fruits and canned goods were sent by
the wholesale.
As many of our brethren were destitute of clothing and bedding (including their families) and as it became apparent that the external as well
as the internal part of their body must be cared for, the women relatives of
our brethren were pressed into service and by courtesy of Pastor J . Fuendeling of St. Mark's German · Evangelical Lutheran Church, the spacious basement of his "House of the Lord" was given for our use, and in it was stocked
a plentiful supply of every kind of clothing, including outer and underclothing,
not excepting warm comforters and necessities for the baby, as well as the
aged. The Red Cross Society donated upwards of fifteen hundred dollars
worth of government shoes, besides tents, mattresses, blankets and woolens.
The women were placed in full charge of the clothing 'tlepartment and the
requirements of all of our fraternity who applied were supplied. This establishment was maintained until August 1st, when it was deemed best to concentrate the entire work of the Board under the direct supervision of its
officers, and the department was moved to a large storeroom near our offices
and managed directly from this office
"Never sitting down contented while our fellow creatures
around us are in want, especially when it is in our power
to relieve them."

"Renew our hope, inspire our faith."
Telegrams of offers of help in the shape of money came in daily and before
a reply could be sent accepting the same, package after package of coin and
currency was being delivered into our Treasurer's hands. Our distant brethren were not slow in showing and proving the metal of their great big-heartedness. Action followed ·words, and tangible action at that, and at no time from
t he commencement 'of the work of relief was there a moment but what ample
funds were at hand to meet any and all exigencies that might arise. The
Board received inspi.ration at all times from you, Most Worshipful Sir and
Brother, as every letter and telegram sent by you gave us to understand
that your heart and influence was with us in our work, and you desired the
broadest and most liberal charity shown. Such words as those kept us
filled with a love for the labor we·were engaged in, and while we heard nothing ·
but pitiful stories and saw nothing but sorrow and helplessness, we were
imbued with a spirit to keep on and work the harder for our poor distressed
brethren who had suffered so keenly from the calamity that had befallen us.
In this we were nobly aided by hundreds of our brethren, each of whom
volunteered to share part of our work at any and all t~es, day or night.
We were in the midst of most trying times, but never undaunted, and our
motto was Nil desperandum. Our only thoughts were to try and alleviate
suffering. and how well we succeeded remains for those assisted to say.
"Charity extends beyond the grave through the
boundless realms of eternity.'
Besides the work of feeding the hungry, clothing those bereft of almost
everything, supplying beds and bedding, furniture, stoves, cooking utensils,
crockery and cutlery, and temporarily assisting others by finding employment for them, and a hundred and one other things to lighten the burden of
their woes, we have cared for and visited the sick, administered to the dying,
buried the dead, traced and recovered lost ones, returned children to their
parents, effected reconciliations, and have thrown the strong protecting arm
of Masonry around many, some of whom.would have had injustice done them

272

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

and what little they had taken from them if not for our intercession.
Through our influence the amounts due from fire insurance companies on
losses have been obtained, appraisements on losses have been increased at
least twenty per cent, and as high as fifty, and proportionate payments made
on fire insurance matters, and proofs of loss have been prepared. We have
. cashed claims due from the City Relief Finance Committee and Red Cross
Fµnds, and have drawn legal documents, including agreements, leases,
powers of attorney and other papers. In fact, this Board has performed
and accomplished more than is known, and has even conducted women and
children to the steamers and railroad trains, moved their personal effects
and belongings, assisted them in leaving the city, and attending to their_
every want, so that their departure might not only be safe, but so guarded
as to prevent any confusion or accident arising. We have assisted in repairing dwellings and chimneys, and making houses habitable, as well as renting
houses and rooms for many and finding places of abode. The members of
the Board have been at the call of any and every unfortunate, night and
day, even at "low twelve", and every case requiring attention has been given .
immediate help, our motto being " Quick action and needful assistance".
Many have been the hurried and wild automobile rides in the dead of night,
to care for the sick or dying. Physicians have been ·called, nurses engaged
and hospital service attended to as quickly as vehicles could carry, and often
it has been an all night watch of care and solicitude, but in the end a labor of
love - errands of mercy - with results which fully repaid~.

<lonations, that is, so far as could be applied. To this end it was decided
that true charity comists in helping people to help themselves. From experience it was known that to give an applicant any sum of money at one time
amd not try to help him so that he could help himself would be no.charity
or assistance to him whatever, but would rather make him a dependent, and
as our Craftsmen hesitate:i to accept anything that might be termed "Charity",
we gave all to understand that they were only receiving what was their
rights as pledged by each and all by every tie which binds us together as
li'ree-masons. To make this RIGHT more effective and pronounced, we
decided on restoring people so far as we could, to the position occupied by
them prior to the calamity and we have given sewing machines, irons, pressing boards, shears, etc. to those who were tailors, so that they again might
resume their usual avocation. Instruments have been furnished to dentists,
together with dental chairs and machinery necessary to' resume their profession; instruments and books to physicians and surgeons; tools to carpenters,
machinists and all kinds of mechanics; sewing machines to women who are
dressmakers and for household purposes; wagons and horses to laundry
wagon drivers; and to other tradesmen; instruments and charts to seafaring
men; pianos and other musical instruments to music teachers, performers ·
and vocalists; photographic supplies and cameras to artists and· photographers ; electrical appliances to those engaged in the electrical business and to
apprentices learning that, as well as other trades. No profession, art or
calling has been neglected and while as previously noted, we did not attempt
to overdo it, we have given good and plenty and to use a common term
" have endeavored to put them on their feet again". Even to attorneys and
counselors-at-law have legal books been given, and it may be surprising 'to
many, when it is known that of all who have suffere:i the most through fosses
from the fire, professional men and women take the the front rank. Not
only did many of them lose their valuable instruments, reference books and
electro-machinery, but their clients and patients scattered, and their business
since then has been such as to barely give them a living.
"Acting with our neighbor upon the square, rendering
him every kind office which justice or mercy may
require, and relieve his distress and soothe his affiiction."
Our influence - the strength of Masonry - has been used in more than
one way. It has been successfully carried out in intercessions with the civil
and military authorities. Our letters have been honored in nearly every
instance, and much good has come to many of our brethren and ·t heir families through the influence of letters sent by this board to those high in authroity, oft-times not members of the Fraternity, but who recognizing its strength
and well defined principles which are known to the profane as well as to those
initiated into its mysteries.
Nothing that could be thought of for the welfare of our brethren has been
left undone, and our every thought has been to devise means to make all ali
happy as could be under the trying times and to give them all the succor, help

It has been the endeavor of the Board to keep the expense account as
low as possible. No money has been squandered or frittered away; nothing
has been purchased in the way of office or other supplies not essentially necessary, and the salaries have been fair but not exorbitant. At the beginning
of our labors and for some weeks thereafter. it was imperative that some of
our helpers be paid, as they had families to support, and having themselves
lost everything by fire and being in the same unfortunate position as thousands of other sufferers and their loved ones having to be fed, clothed and
housed, it was no more than right that some small return be given them. Had it
not been that we were able to employ them, we must of n ecessity have relieved them out of the funds at our command, and by giving them something
to do and reasonably compensating them, we saved an amount of money
which otherwise we would have had to donate, and at the same time, made
them independent. They earned all they recived, in fact they did not receive
enough, but considering what we were constituted for, we did not deem it
fair to give them their full worth in pay and they felt as well that it was
incumbent· on themselves to give part of their time and services for those who
were in a more u_n fortunate position than they.
It was decided by the Board after it had been in existence but a short
while, to conduct its affairs as practicable as possible and in aiding those who
might seek our assistance, to apply what is known as practical charity to our

274

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

and aid possible. Our only regret at times has been that ·we may not have
done enough for some, but when second thoughts of that kind came upon
us, we P.ave hunted them up and made amends for any little shortcomings
that may have occured as an error on our part.
"Stop a minute and say Hello"
As down life's road
smoothly go,
For a pleasant word an a cheery s~le
Will shorten the road by many a mile
For some poor brother who is going slow,
So stop a minute and say - Hello"
The funds which constitute the capital of this Board were derived from
donations received from yourself, Most Worshipful Sir and Brother in your
official capacity as Grand Master of Masons of this jurisdiction; from nearly
every Grand Commandry of Knights Templar in the United States; from
several Blue Lodges of different jurisdictions;· from Grand Chapters, Royal
Arch Masons and the Ancient and Accepted Scottish llite Freemasonry, who
forwarded their contril:rotions to this Board direct, instead of to and through
you, not forgetting a number of lodges in our state which we believe should
have their donations returned, as said lodges have enough to contend with
at present in caring for their own, for not only has the City of San Francisco
suffered financially and in other ways, but the whole State has had its share,
therefore, we believe that with the funds already received from jurisdictions
other than our own, we have ample means, (at least for the present) and
intend to return to our own brethren of this jurisdiction that which they have
sent us. Part of our funds have also come from Chapters of Royal Arch
Masons; from Scottish Rite Bodies of the ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite
of Free-Masonry 9f both Northern and Southern Jurisdictions; from individuals too modest to have their names made known; from the Great Priory
of England and Wales; from Havana, Cuba; from the City of Mexico and from
Manila, Philippine Islands. Surely we have not been forgotten or overlooked
anywhere, and from letters which we constantly receive, we are assured that
if we need more, the donations already made will be doubled, yea tripled, if
we ask, and what is more that the treasuries of the Masonic bodies are at
our disposal for the assistance and aid of California brethren. The funds
received by permission of every contributor have been turned into one common fund- that is consolidated-and Masons, whether Blue Lodge, Chapter,
Templar or Scottish Rite, have been assisted from this one grand fund, irrespective of degree, place or nationality. One fund for all, the only qualification being worthiness and Masonic standing, and not any height of Masonry
which they may have attained. The spirit of this Fraternity, one of its
strongest landmarks - Equality -;---- has been observed, and we have no
doubt that the course pursued by us will be met with favor by every Craftsman who may read or hear of our actions through this report. To our more
than generous donors, our brethren near and far from us, although ever in
our remembrance, let us quote the old Latin Maxim, which we believe justly
applies to them :-

lou

GRAND LODGE OF· CALIFORNIA.

275

"He gives twice, who gives quickly."
Our gratitude is extended for the thoughtful and prodigal amounts sent to
us by those brethren.
The business of the office of the Board has been enormous. When it
is realized what it means to receive thousands of communications, telegram~
and inquiries, and every communication, letter, telegram, postal card and
inquiry answered without delay, then some little idea may be form_ed of
a small part of our work. We have endeavored to conduct our affairs on
strict business lines, not forgetting that Fraternity was coupled with the
business in hand, and to each and all, whether by" written or verbal communcation, it has been our endeavor to answer every communication, not alone
expeditiously, but in an intelligent manner, and to give as fully as possible
the informat.ion desired. Our accounts, d11-ta and vouchers are in perfect
shape, and although an audit has been had and everything found to be correct,
the intent of Masonry, one of its most saCJ"ed tenets that its
charities must be unostentatious and that the left hand must not know
what th) right hand doeth - has been more than strictly adhered to, and
as will b&, further seen by examining the schedules of. relief exten.ded, neither
the name of the person assisted nor the lodges of which they claim membership are given, and none outside of yourRelf and the members of this Board
are cognizant of who as individuals have been relieved, or as to whether this
lodge or that lodge or other body of Masonry has received more or less than
the other. While it has been essentially necessary for the Board to have the
names of applicants and lodges, their numbers and locations, in order to keep
its records straight, and its finances clear so that the Board of Audit, (a Committee of the Grand Lodge of this jurisdiction), can intelligently pass on all
vouchers of expenditures; no one but tho~ebefore mentioned have any definite
information of those aided, and under your instructions, never will. The
vouchers after approval, will have been destroyed and thus an effectual
silence of Masonic law and custom faithfully adhered to.
We believe that with the foregoing a synopsis of our labor has been
reported, and we now present to you statistical, financial and other tables
which will show in detail the full workings of the Board.
STATISTICAL.
Secretary's Office.
At the commencement of the work, the office force consisted of an assistant secretary, an accountant, two stenographers and twenty messengers.
This number was retained for nearly six weeks and until it was found that it
could be reduced. At the present writing, and for the past three months,
the office is conducted by a bookkeeper, a stenographer and one messenger.
At the outset, as many as seven buggies, automobiles, wagons, carri~ges and
other kinds of vehicles were used and hired in order that distant cases for

276

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

relief could be immediately given attention. Since then, the number has
been reduced, and at present, one buggy is in daily use, and is kept constantly
at work. It is not amiss here to say that our subordinate employees have
proved true and loyal in our cause. The immense amount of work performed
by them speaks volumes for their efficiency and faithfulness, and not only
our own, but. the thanks of the fraternity are due them.
COR.R.ESPONDENCE.
Letters and Telegrams Received and Answered.
LETTERS.
Received --- ------- -- -- ----- - --------- - ---- ----4702
Sent - - ---------- -- --------- -- - - ---------------7013

Classification by locality.
Foreign
------------------------ ---__________
-------- ---United States
__ _____ ___ _____ _______
___ _
California _____________________________ _______ __
San Francisco _ ________ ___ __ __________________ _

Received
251
823
2007
2239
5320

· "Import.
Miscellaneous_. _____ __ __ --- ---- ---- ---------- --Relative to Masonic standing ___ ____ _ -----------Relief (Masonic) ---------- ____ _ -------- ---Missing Persons_ __ __ _ ____ __ --------------Synipathy --- - ---------- __ _ __ _____ ____ ______
Recommendations ______ ~- ______ ____ ___________
------_- ~_-- -- - ---- ---- - - --------Employnient
_______
__ ___
~ ______________
Orders
for supplies

415
837
1101
707
147
1005
855
1361

Thanks - ----- - - - -- - - -- - - ----- - ----- -----------Introduction --- --- -- - - - -- -- - -- - ---- - --- - - - ----Relative to the sick _____________________________
Relative to Deaths ______ _____ ____ __ ____________ _

386
413
147
79

~~~~k~r~~~~~-===================-==============

~~~
545
117

Application for relief ____________ ______ __________
Complimentary ______ - ------- __ _______ ___ ____ ___
Insurance ------------ - ----- - --------------- --- Offers of · Assistance (Clerical, etc. ) _ __ ____ _______
Offers of Assistance (Financial) .. _______ __ ______ __
Condolence _____ __ ______ _____ __ __ ___________ __ ___
Resolutions _____ ~ ____________________ ___________
M. W. Grand Master ____________________________
Banks _______ - ---- -- - ----- - - - ------ ------- - --City Relief and Red Cross ___ ___ __.____ ______ __ ___
Legal Matters _ ______________ ____ ___ __ __________
Disposition and Division of Funds ______ ______ _____
Average per month _____ - - - ---- - - ----- --- ------Average per day _____ _ ____ __ ______ __ _____ ___ __

""

Sent
296
972
2593
2534
6~95

2312
Locality
California _____________ ____ ____ c _______________ _
United States ___ ____________ --- --- ----------- _

541
1771

~~iff~;~~~~~~ ;~ ~; ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~ ~; =~-~ ;~~ ~~=~ ~

_ ------- - Miscellaneous _____ ___ _________ _ __ ~ - ----------M. W. Grand Master __ _____ -- -- ------ ---- -- ___ _

83
1107
331
700
17
37
37

Average per month _____ ____________ ______ ____ _
Average per day __ ____ ___ ___ ________ __ ___ ______ __

534
21

=

Deaths ----~---- - - - -- ------------

2312

Provision Department.
All told when this branch of our work was at the highest point, there
were fully forty of our brethren who assisted in the distribution of food.
This number finally gave way to six, who had all they could attend to for
many days. They worked \irelessly and without complaint, and were the
means of bringing comfort to the hungry and needy. Connected with this
department were four ~rays and six wagons, each of which made innumerable
trips daily, obtaining cases of food , clothing and bedding at depots, etc., and
distributing orders to those unable to come to us, by reason of infirmity and
old age. When we discontinued our provision department (June 2nd) we
turned over to the Salvation Army about six tons of provisions, consisting
of hams, bacon, canned meats, canned fruits, cereals, etc
Food Distributed.
Tot.al Rations Distributed ____ ____________ __ ____ ___ _______ _
From April 21st to June 2nd inclusive, a total of 43 days
Segregation.
First
day ------- --------------------- - --___
---_
Nine days,
averaging
6000 a day _______
____ -____

1~

Thirty-three days, averaging four hlindred a day._

28
87
298
303
188
680

2705
104!

1337
975

2312

431
202
279
67

- - - - -

Telegrams.
-----------------------------------_
Sent
Received ___ _____ __ __------ ________ _____ _______

Nature of.

11715

~::a~~ -Ii~~~=========-=-======================

277

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

74,200

7000
54000
13200

74200
Clothing Department.

11715

This part of our work was placed in charge of the women relatives of
members of the Fraternity, who were given full charge and who arranged up to
and including August 1st, for a number of themselves each day to take charge.
T his gave all an opportunity to assist in the distribution of clothing, shoes,

278

etc. Since the last named date the department has been under the immediate
control and charge of the Secretary's office and all distributions are made on
order. The department at present is giving complete satisfaction and our
storeroom has all the articles necessary to make the applicant comfortable
and happy. Prior to date of August 1st, fully fifteen hundred persons,
(estimated) were supplied with clothing, consisting of shoes, underclothing,
outer wearing apparel etc., the major portion of which was received as donations. Since August 1st, we have supplied at least three hundred and
seventy-five persons with clothing, shoes, underwear etc., also with blankets
and comforters, sheets, pillow cases and towels.
Supplies to the amount of $4961 . 92 have been purchased for this department, same consisting of suits, wrappers, petticoats, skirts, night dresses,
ladies' mens' and children,s underwear, shoes, hosiery, blankets, comforters,
sheets, pillow cases, towels and table clothes.
Clothing Supplied.
Total number of persons clothei_ _ _ _____ ___ _

1875

Segregation.
To August 1st, (estimated) - ---- --From August lst, to date ____ _

279

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1500
375
1875

(Note: In order that proper credit may be given in this report, as well
as no important transaction or fact omitted, attention is directed, Most
Worshipful Sir and Brother to the additional donation to this Board of
clothing, bedding etc, which you shipped from Los Angeles, and which according to figures sent by you to us amounted to $5327. 83. )
Employment.
While no regular employment bureau has been established, we have been
able by individual effort and our influence to supply our brethren or their
kin with a few positions, as are more fully enumerated in the following excerpt
from our records. We could have accomplished more in this particular line
had those of our brethren in affluent circumstances requiring help come to
our assistance and informed us of their wants, giving us the preference in
supplying them with those of our applicants who wanted postions. We
trust that ere long such brethren will affiliate with us and make this Board
the nucleus of an employment bureau which will prove far better for those
needing our care, than the mere giving of alms and other assistance. It will
make many of our applicants self-supporting and be more compatable with
their own self respect and the dignity of the Craft
·

Number of Positions Secured.
W~ have secured positions for one hundred and seventy-seven persons,

segregated as follows :Tailors ___ ____ __ _______ ____ ____ _____ _______ ____ _
Dressmakers (fitters) ______________ - - - - - - - - - - - - Clerks --- -- -- ---------------------------------BookkeeperB --------------- --------- -----------Political, (Red Cross and City Relief Fund Committee)
Surgeons for Camps _____________ - - - - - - - - - - - - Stenographers ----------- ------ ------------ - --- ------------__
IIousekeepers
- -----------Watchmen ________
_____ ___-----__ __ __
_
Milliners - ---- - ----- - -- ---- - --- Teachers __ __ __ -- --- ---- _ --IIelpers in canneries_______________ ___ ____ - _- __ _
Butchers ___ ___________ ----- _
Bakers ___________ -. _- _ _- _- - Shoe Makers _____ _ _ _ ___ _ __ - - - - - - IIarness Makers ____ __ ______ - ___ - _- - - - - - - - - _- _Machinists _____________
_ - - - - _ __
Plumbers-- ---- --- _ __ __
-- - - - Collectors ___ _ ____ _ _ _ __ __ _
Carpenters __ ___
Stone Masons--- - - - -Mill !lands ____ __ __ _ __ _

5
11

33
9
3
15
4
6
3
2
17
4
5
4
2
9
6
9
15
5
10

177
The foregoing enumeration only includes our personal and individual
effort. The number of positions secured, irrespective of the above, a nd of
which we have kept no record, numbers fully one thousand. )
FINANCIAL.
Co~tributions

to this Board from Most Worshipful Grand Master
BRO. MOTLEY HEWES FLINT
and from~Jurisdictions, etc.

From M. W. Grand Master.
April 26,
___ - - - - - _- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - April 28,
- - ---- -- - -- - - ~-- -- April 30,
- - - _, ___ - ------ --April 27,
----- -- _ - -- -- - ----- ___ - - - -- - - -- - -- - -- ----- -May 3,
August 3,
____ _ _ _
_ _ - ------ - - - -- -----Sept. 8,
------------- ---- --- -··- -- - - __ _
Sept. 13,
Received from Jurisdictions, etc. __ ___ ____ __ ____ __
Total donations received _____ ___ _

$2025 .00
100.00
1900 .00
2000 .00
8000.00
25000 .00
25000.00
25000 .00
$89025. 00
74670 . 48
$163695 .48

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Segregation of Contributions by Jurisdictions, etc.
Jurisdictions.
Blue Miscell- Royal Knights Scottish . Total
Lodges aneous
Arch
Templar Rite
Arkansas __________ _ 105.00
476.50
581.50
Alabama ________ _ 40.00
40.00
Arizona ________ . __ _
125.00 125.00 100.00 350.00
California _________ _ 625.00 550.00
1675.00
500.00
Connecticut _______ _
1075.00
Hl75.00
Colorado _______ ___
500.00 500.00
Delaware __________ _
100.00
100.00
Dist. Col. • _________ _
500.00
500.00
Florida ___________ _
350.00 600.00 950.00
Georgia ___________ _
100.00
599.00 100.00 799.00
Illinois ____________ _
1625.00 4631.00 1500.00 7756.00
Indian Territory ____ _
100.00
100.00
Idaho ________ c ____ _ 150.00
275.00
425.00
Iowa _____________ _ 75.00 500.00
50.00 1117.50
40.00 1782.50
Indiana ____________ _ 100.00
1028.00 500.00 1628.00
50.00 37·5.00 100.00 550.00
Kansas
25.00
2000.50
2110.50
Kentucky ---------- 110.00
Louisiana ________ _
100.00 150.00
300.00
50.00
Minnesota _________ _ 25:00
1360.00
1385.00
Montana _________ _ 25.00
25.00 1000.00
1050.00
Mass. ______________ _
2729.25
2729.25
Maryland _______ _ 75.00
2576.00
2651.00
Michigan _____ _
3545.25
3595.25
50.00
Missouri ________ _
25.00
100.00 827.00 800.00 1752.00
Mississippi _________ _
250.00
250.00
Maine ___ _ ______ _ 80.00
500.00 580.00
100.00
350.00
Nevada ------------ 250.00
New Jersey ______ _
1527.00
1527.00
150.00
150.00
New Mexico-------Nebraska ____ -r-- -- 500.00 600.00 1100.00
·New Hampshire ___ _
490.00
490.00
77.00. 100.00 100.00 3072.00 1050.00 4389.00
New York --------North Carolina ____ _
961.00
961.00
North Dakota
580.00
580.00
2266.60 1050.00 3341 60
25.00
Ohio--------------350.00 200.00
1365.00
Oregon------------- 815.00
Oklahoma _________ _
270.00
270.00
Personal __________ _
1263 .40
1263.40
Pennsylvania ______ _
5585.75 1000.00 6585.75
550.00
550.00
Rhode Island ------South Dakota _. ___ _ 50.00
551.00 250.00 851.00
575.00 970.65 2156.70
South Carolina
611.05
Texas _____________ _
250.00 1025.00
450.00 1725.00
Tennessee ________ .. _ 250.00
257.00 750.00 1257.00
250.00
250.00
U~a~
.-------------Virgmia
_________ ·__ _ 100.00
100.00 610.00
50.00 860.00
Vermont __________ _
530.00
530.00 .
Washington ______ _ 640.00 100.00
320 . .50 100. 00 1160. 50
Wyoming ________ _
200.00
200.00
W~t V~rginia _____ _
345.00
345.00
W1sconsm __________ _
972.53 5000.00 5972.53
25.00
25.00
Havana -----------En~land and Wales,
(Grand Priory) __ _
1000.00
1000.00
Mexico ____________ _
100.00
100.00
Manila ___________ _ 100.00
100.00
4478.05 2888.40 3650.00 47643.38 16010.65 74670.48

281

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Segregation of Contributions Received.
Jurisdictions Blue lodges MiS'CelRoyal Knights Scottish Total
Templar Rite
laneous
Arch
Arkansas ______ __ ___
2
'8
10
Alabama __ ~_________
2
2
Arizona ____________ _
2
5
2
California _________ _
1
10
2
7
Connecticut _______ _
7
7
Colorado __________ _
1
1
Delaware __________ _
2
2
2
2
Dist. Col. ---------Foreign ___________ _
2
4
2
Florida ___________ _
4
2
6
Georgia ___________ _
5
1
7
1
Illinois ______ ·- _____ _
6
2
12
4
Indian Ty._~ _______ _
3
3
2
4
2
Idaho-------------Iowa _____________ _
10
2
2
2
3
Indiana ___________ _
1
1
4
2
. 1
2
1
5
Kansas
___ _
1
Kentucky ______ _
5
7
2
Lousiana ___ _
1
3
1
1
Minnesota _________ _
3
4
1
2
4
1
1
~fontana ------- __ _
Mass. ______________ _
18
18
2
4
2
Maryland ---------M~chiga!l __________ _
7
8
1
16
2
22
3
1
· M1ssoun -----------Mississippi _________ _
1
1
Maine ______ . ______ _
2
1
1
3
2
Nevada -----------1
1
New Jersey -------New Mexico ______ _
3
3
Nebraska __________ _
1
1
2
1
1
New Hampshire ___ _
45
3
52
2
1
1
New York --------11
11
N. Carolina -------1
1
N. Dakota·--------Ohio ______________ _
6
2
9
1
Oregon ____________ _
14
1
3
10
0 klahoma _________ _
·2
2
17
17
Personal ----------64
1
65
Pennsylvania ______ _
4
4
Rhode Island------10
1
12
1
S. Dakota---------4
3
11
4
S. Carolina --------4
7
2
1
Texas ____ • --------Tennessee _________ _
6
2
9
1
3
3
Utah
---··---------Virginia ___________ _
1
1
4
1
1
3
3
Vermont ----------Washington · _______ _
1
1
8
5
1
4
4
Wyon;iin~ .. ______ - - W: Virg.m1a _______ _
6
6
W1sconsm _____ • ____ _
1
1
2
56

26

21

284

34

421

282

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

One complete set Grand Lodge Proceedings of Califor-.
nia 1850 to 1905 inclusive.
One set Printed Proceedings every English Speaking
Grand Lodge Jurisdiction.

Disbursements.
Incidental expenses _ _______ __ __ __ __ ______ _____ _ $ 1437.45
Stationery and Supplies ______________ ________ _
113 .35
Clerical Account, salaries _______________________ _ 3293 . 25
General Expenses, advertising, Stamps, Telegrams,
3054.65
etc. -------- - --------------------------------1290 .00
Drayage Account
------------------------------¥urniture
a~d Fixtu~es _________________________ _
195.98
ransportat1on ______ __ _________________________ _ 10284.30
Money given for relief ______________ __ __________ _ 27654.88
936 .40
2701.80
613 .25
Supplies furnished _____________________________ _ 36696 .30

~~~J~-~~~t~~~=================================

Unpaid Accounts.
Orders issued, but not paid for (estimated)---------- $3500 .00
Miscellaneous, including transportation (estirn11:ted) __
500 . 00

$4000.0ll
Summary.
Total Assets- - ----- -- - - -------- ------ - -- -- ----- - $82093 .94
Less estimated Amount Outstanding _____________
4000. 00

$88271 .61

Statement of Supplies Donated to
Applicants for Relief.

~i:~~ll~::~~===-=====-=======-=

~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ =~

$78093.94

~

~~~~~rie~---==------=-=-=========================
~!:1_~~~~~~~~:~~-===~===========================

~~r~s
c?~~~~~g-= ====
~=~~fa!:c~ir~ ii~;pit~ -F;~-~~~f M~di-;ai-s;~~~=

Assets.
Cash on hand - - - - - -- ---- - ---- -- ---- ---- - - - --- - - $ 960.'95
Cash in Bank ______ -------------- - ---- _____ _ 78629.11
Roller Top Desk _____ __ ____ _______ ____ ___ _____ __
40.00
Roller Top Desk ___ _ _____ ________ _____ _______ _
20.00
Filin~ Case - -- -- - -- -- - - - ---- -- - - _____________ ___
27.00
Smal Filing Case (Cards ) _________ ____________ __
7 .00
97 .50
4 .38
Stock of Clothing on hand ______ __ __ ____ ___ __ ____ _ 1777.00
.531.00
Advances (not paid) -- --- ----- ·. - - --------- -- - --

Gross Assets ________ _______________ __- ___ _

Trial Balance Statement.
Close of Business, Thursday, Sept. 13, 1906.
Cr.
Dr.
Cash in the hands of Secretary ___ _____ ___ ______ ___ $960 .95
Bank Account - ---- - - - -- - ---------- -- --- --- -- - -- 157787 .64 $79158 . 53
74670.48
Contributions received from Jurisdictions ________ __ _
Contributions received from Grand Master_ ____ ____ _
111.00 89136.00
Transportation Account ______ ____ ____ __ ___ __ ~ ___ 10284 .30 1492.65
1437.45
Incidental Expense Account ~- - - - - - - -----------Stationery Account ______________ ____________ __ _
113 .35
Clerical Account _________________________ _____ _ 3293.25
General Expense Account _________ __ _______ - _- __
3054.65
Drayage Account __ ____ ______ __ ___ - --------1290.00
Relief Account ________ ____ ___ _____ ___ ___ ____ ___ 27654.88
79 .30
Furniture and Fixture Account_ __ __ ___ __ __ ___ ___ __
195. 9.8
Mission District, Masonic RelieL __ ____ ____ ____ _____
936.40
2701. 80 2170.80
Loan Account - -- - -- - -- --- - -- ---- - - ___ - -- --- - B utial Account ______________ ____ ___ _____ ___ _
216 .61
613.25
Supply Account ___________ _ ______ ____ _____ __ 36696.30
206.83

Furniture _______ ----------------- ---- -------- $14275.86
Coal Stoves, Gas Stoves, Utensils ___ _ _ ___ ·_ ____ _ 2996.29
Tools for Mechanics _ ___ __ ___ _________ ___ ______ _
224.75
51.60
30.50
=
==-=-=
===
==
-===
1490.25
Crockery and Cutlery _·__ ----- ----------- ------673.90
48.55
329.70
====== ===== == = = = = = == ====·= 152.55
42.05
37.50
Trunks__ __ __ ---- - ----- - ------- ------- --- ----26 .25
5:00
~~~b~~ ~~s-trurnents _______ _____ __ __ ______ ______ _
25 .35
472 .05
796.03
2146.70
=============== == =========== 2745.50
321.00
Funeral Expenses ___ _____________ ______ ________ _
613.25
Instrum~nts, (Su~gical, Dental), Photographic and
Optical Supphea, etc. ___ ___ ___ _______ _______ _ 5095.49

~l~:t~~i;~== =~

283

$247131.20 247131.20
Articles Furnished.
Sewing Machines _____ ______ ___ _____ __________ ____ ___ _____ _
Stoves and Cooking Utensils _____ __ ___ _____ ___ _____ ___ _ __ _
Furniture and Bedding - - -- - --- - --- - - - - ---- -- -- - - - -- - --- .
Orders for Clothing (Male) __ _____ ________ ______ __ __ ____ __ _
Orders for Clothing (Female) - -- --- - - - -- - -- ---- --- --=- - - -- -- Orders for Shoes __ ____________________ -·- _________________ _
Crockery and Cutlery ________________ _______________ , ____ .
Tools for Mechanics and Artisans -- - ---- - ------- -- --------Instruments for Surgeons, Physicians and DentistB - - -~ - - --- -- Lumber -------- - - --____
- - - -____
----- - -- - - --_____
-----__- -_____
- -- - -Barber's
Implements
____
______
___- ---____ -_

~KEctri~te~-===-==========-=-=====-=-=-==========

$82093.09.

~~~ic~1!'tr~~~n~st~.~ -= =

===____
====
==== == =
==== =
====_
Photoifa"apher's Supplies ==
____==
___
_______
_____
__==
~ ====
____ =
____
~Iisce aneous _______ ____ _____ __ __ - - - - - - -- - -- - ------ -- __ _

101
142
311
138
180
60
103-

39
50
4
1
1
1
2

65

284

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Analysis of Amount and · Kind of Relief Granted.
by Cities, States and Jurisdictions.
San Francisco

Shoes-----------------------------------------Men's Clothing ______ ____ --------- -----------Lady's Clothing __ ------------------------------

.

Arizona.

Lady's Suit ___________________________________ _
Shoes -- - ------------------~-------------------­
Furniture___------------------------- ------------_
Utensils
____ _________________ _______________
Gas Stove --------------------------------------

____________ ____________________________ 2098.25
Furniture and Bedding -------------------~------ 10535 . 10
Crockery and Cutlery ____ __ _______ ___ ______ _____
613 . 52
Stoves and Cooking Utensils --------------------- 2343 .75
~i ac hin es

Trunks --------------·---- -- ___ _ ___ __ ___ _

Merchandise- - -------------------------------~---

Drugs
- - - - - - -Supplies
- - - - - - - - ___
- - - _- __
- - __
-- -_-__- -_-__-__- -_-_-_-__- -__- -_- _- - .
Photographic

~;~YG,:s;i;~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~-~-~-~

Horse and Wagon _______ ___________ ___________ _

$98. 90

Cash ---------- - -----~--------------------------

~g~ : ~g

119 .30
Colorado.

14 .00
294 .98
i 1. 55
200. 00

Transportation ____________________________ .- ___ _
Furniture and Bedding _________________ _______ _
Lady's Clothing ------------------------------ __ _
Cash-- ------------------------- - - - ------------Tools -- - ---- - ----------------- - -- - -------------

~ : gg

250 . 00

California.

Cash - ------------------------------------------ $4252. 70 .
Tools --------------- ----- - -------------------- . 119 .30
5.50
Drugs-----------------------------------------Transportation
_________________________________ _ 1344 .45
Men's Clothing ________________________ --~-- ___ _
469 .00
Ladies' Clothing ________ _______________________ _
260 .00
484.00
Machines
Furniture --------------------------------------and Bedding ________________________ __
.70
Merchandise __ ____ _____ ______________________ ___ _ 1606
233 .15
Ambulance ______ _____ ____ ______________________ _
20 .00
Funeral Expenses _____ _________________________ .
49 .00
Medical Books ___ __________________________ , ___ _
17 .07
11 .00
---------------------------------Blankets
Stoves and Cooking Utensils _____________________ _
C ro c~e3'

$314 .84
269 . 10
13 . 50
100 .00
17.15
$714 . 59

Connecticut.

546884 .83

Shoes -----------------------------------------and Cutlery __ ____ __c __________________ _
Hosp1ta Fees _______________ :_ _________________ _
------------------------------------_
Instruments
Gas
R.ange _____________________________________

$22 .40
30 .50
63.40
3 .00

Transportation
----------------------------------_
Merchandise ___________________________________
Furniture and Bedding _______________ ___________ _

4375. 12

1

$20 .00
3. 50
62 .60
6 .05
6 .75

Arkansas.

6~hs~~~~~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
lg;5.!~
: ~8
Lutnber ________________________________________
664. 04
¥~~r8er_ -~~~i~- ____________ ~---_-_-_-_-_-_- -_-_-_-_-_-__-_-_-_-_-_-_-:_-_-_-_-_

$75 .40
20 .00
39 .25
$134.65

~¥~~~~~=~-m-_m-m-mmmmm- l~

Instruments ------------- --- --- ---------------

UNITED STATES.
Alabama.

Transportationl ________________ _________________ _
Cash --------------------- -- ------------------Furniture -- - ----------------------- - -----------

$166.50
1280 . 75
566 .00

. 285

176.15
49 .50
57 .53
90 .00
653 .85
29 .05

$10027 .95

$80 .00
66 .60
59 .50

Cash ----- -- ------------------ --- ---- - ---------Transportation -------------------- - ------------Furniture --------------------------------------

$206 . 10
Delaware .

$85. 00
5 .05
63 . 50
25 .00
3 .50
30 .25

Cash -- - ---------------------- ---· ------- --- - -_
_______________________
__ ________
Transportation
Furniture _________________________·____________ _
Lady's Suit ___________________________________ _
- - ------------------------------ ---------_
Shoes
Merchandise
__ ___________________ _______________

212 .30
District of Columbia.

$25 .00
190 .00

Cash ----------------------- - - - ------·- - -- - ----~

Transportation ---------------- -- ---------- - ----Florida.

Furniture ·- ____________________________________ _
Lady's Suits ___________________________________ _
Ambulance ___ __________________________________ _
Transportation ___________ _____ --. ______________ _
- -- ----------------------- -------- - -----_
Cash --and
Stoves
Utensils ____________________________

$215. 00
.

$50 .00
42.50
7 .50
22. 65
10 .00
44 . 14
:$176 .79

286

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Kansas.

Georgia.

Cash -- - -------- _ ------------------ ---------Transportation ________ _ __________ - - - - - - -- -- - - -

Cash ---------------------------"---------------Furniture__------------------------------------___ _________________________________ -_
Utensils

. $15.00
58 . 15

160 .00
234.75
12. 40

$73 .15
Idaho.

Cash ___ ______ ___ _______________ -·- ___________ _

~:~~i~;====--===============================-==
~:~:P(;l~~~i~~ -=--============-=====-==-========

Coal _________________________________________ _

Illinois.

$75.00
2.75
37 .50
5 .00
60 .70
28. 00

Cash -------------- -- ----- _ -----------------Transportation ----------------- - ----------------

Transportation _ __________ ---------- ______ _
Ca.-h -- - ---------- - ---------- - --------Men's Clothing _______ ----------- --------Merchandise ---------------_________ -----Cash ____ ------------------ -------- -- -------

~~~~:~r~ti~m-== ==-=-=-=·= ==========-= ==-= ====== =

$355. 00
85 .50
10.00
15 .00
5 .00
3.50
90 .00

Indiana.

$443.40
70 .00
35 .00
12. 88
60 .00
25 .00
13 .50

Indian Territory.

Iowa.

~::.:Pcf~~~i~~
===
Machine ____ _-==
_____
-=
-=
-=
- -==- -==- =
- =-==- =
-=
-=
- -=-==- =
-=
-=
- -==
-=
-=
-=
-=
-=
-=
-

$25 .00
110 .00
$135. 00
$42.50
9 .80
55. 70
35 .00
14.00
10 .55
25 .s.5
13 .60
3.50
11 .45
$22 Ul5

Maryland.

$74 .50
Massachusetts.

$155.00
129 .35
22.60
62.25
3 .50
7 .30

Cash--------------------_ ------------------_
Machine
_______________________________________
Utensils ___________________ ----------- _____ _
Gas Stove ________ ----------------------------Furniture ------------- _________________ _
Merchandise_ __ ______________ . ____ _ ______ ___
Transportation ------------------ - ____________ _
Ladies' Suits - ------------- ----------- ______ _

~fr1;: ~~f;:

$30 .00
7 .75
3 .50

Groceries __================-=======-==========-=
__________________ . ________________ _
Ambulance___ __ _____·_______ _____ ___________ _

$31 2.50
30 .00
40 .55
5. 00
150 .60
10.25
543. 80
37 .50
9 .50
7.20
16 .25
25 .00
$11R8 15

Michigan.

$41. 25

Cash ___ ___ -----------------------------------

Ladies Clothing ____ _____________ _ ________ ___
Tools ------------------------- ___________ _
Men's Clothing ------------ -------------------- ·
Cash ------------------------------------------Transportation
_________________________________ _
Crockery and Cutlery ______________ ___________ _
Stove and Utensils ___ ________ ________________ _
Furniture -- ------------------ ----------------Shoes----------------------Merchandise_ ____------------__________________________
_

Transportat~on __·

$380 .00

Cash ___ ----------~---------------------------Furniture -------------------------------------Shoes _____ _ ------------------------·--------

$77 .50

Maine.

$659 .78

Cash ------------------------------------------Furniture -------------------------------------Machine ---------------------------------------Transportation
________________________________ _
Shoes
-----------------------------------------Utensils _______ ----- ___________________________ _

$50 .00
27 .50

Louisiana.

Cash ______ . ________ _, _________________________ _
Transportation __________ ____
_______ _

$564 .00
Chicago.

$407 . 15

Kentucky.

$208. 95

Cash
________
------------------------Furniture
__________
: _______________ ---------Men's Clothing _______________________________ _
Transportation __ _____________ _ ---------- _
Eye Glasses _______ _____ _____ __ ___ ______ - _
Shoes _________
________ ___
Machine __ ------------

287

$55.00
20.60 23 . 00
30.00

Crockery and Cutlery __________________________ _
Stoves
and _.Utensils
------------- ---------------_
Furniture
_______ -____________________________
Cash ------------------ - ------------------------

$10 . 10
31.40
98. 40
105 .00
$244.90

Minnesota.

Cash------------- ----------------------------_
Transportation
_________________________________
$128. 60

$125 .00
15 .40

$140 .40

288

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

New Mexico.

Mississippi.

Merchandise------- ---------- -- ------ ---- -- -- ----

289

Cash __________________________·__ ~ _____________ _

$29.25

----

$29 .25

Missouri

$ 25.35
383.50
435.00
42.50
17 .90
3.60
20.25
25.00

Musical Instruments
--- ----- - ---- ------ - -Transportation - - - --- -- - -- -- ------ --- -- - ----- ---Cash ______ - -- - - - - - - -- - -- --·--- -- - -- - - - - - --- - -- -Men's Clothing ---- -- ------- ---------------- -- -Bedding ___ - __ - - - - - -- --- -- -- --- - - -- - -- - - -- - -- -Tools --- - - ---------------- -- - - - - -- --- --Furniture ----- - ---- ---- ------- ----------------Machine - -- -- - - ---- -- -------- ---- - - --- -- ------ - -

$101.05
:

New York.

Cash--- ---- -· ------ ---------------------------Shoes----------- ----------------- ----- -- ----- --

$953 .18

~~~~ha~~i~~i~~-=::::::::: :::::: ::::: : : ::::::::::
~~~~::a~~~-::: :::::::::: : : :::=::=::: ::=::::::

Stoves
Utensils_____
-------- ------------------_
Funeraland
Expenses
__ _ ______
___ ____
__ ______
Machine __ _________ __ ____ _ ____________________ _
~

Montana.

~~~~~~~==================================

~h~~=~~~~~~~-=:::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::

Furniture ---- -- ------ ---- - --- --- -------- -- --- - -

$17 .50
25.00
17. 50
27.80

Stove and Utensils ___ __--- _- ___- ___- ___ - _- _- __--

- - --

7

$87.80

$30 .00
10 .00
72 . 50

----

Nevada.

Cash ----------- - - - - -- - -- --- - ---------- ---- ---- Shoes ----------------------- --- ------ -- -------Men's Clotl\ing __ _- __ - - _-- -- -- -- - -- - _- - - _- - - _-- Merchandise---- ---- - ------ -- ------------ -- -----Transportation __ - - - __ - ---... _· __-- -- - - - - -- --- - -- -.- Furniture _-- __ -- - ___ - - _-- -- -- - -- - _____ ________ _
Crockery and Cutlery - - _-- -- --- -- - - - - - - --- - -- -- Stoves and Utensils ___ __ -- - --- -- __ - - __ - - --- - _- --

$112 .50

Cash--- - ------- ---------- - --- - -----·--- - ----- - -

$30 .00
. $30.00

$637. 70

North Carolina.

Cash-------- ---------- ----- -- -- - -Transportation--·---________
__ _________
__ ________
___--_-_

$30.00
40.30
$70.30

Ohio.

$71 .00

Shoes
--- - ______
- -- ----______
-- - -- ___
-- --____
- - - __
---_
Men's -------~-------Clothing __ ___ ______
Cash
- Lady~-C~~t-:::::::::::: : :::: : ::::::::::::::::::

New Jersey.

Cash- -- --- --------- -- ---- -- -- -- ---- - -- ---- -- -Men's Clothing _____ __
----------- - - -------Transportation __ ___ __- - -_-- ---- -- -- -- -- - -- -- - -- Shoes-- ---- --- --- - -- - - --- ---- - ----------- - ----Merchandise _______ ___ _____ _ ----- -- - - -- - -- - -----

~~:h:~~:~~~-~-=====::::::::::::::::::::::::::

$410 .00
713 .40
92.43
323 .85
27 .15
60.00
40.00
75.00
13 .25
2.00
4 .80
3 .50
.75
$176ti.'13

$45 .00
6.00
20.00

~~ii?~:s~~~-=====-==-=====================~=====- -- -

~-

North Dakota.

New Hampshire.
Cash -- -- ---- ---- - - - - ------ - ------ --- - ------ ---~

New
City._____ ___
Cash _: ________ ___ ___ ___ __ ___
__, York
___ _____
Transportation _______ __ ____ __ ___ __ ____ _ ___ ___ _
Stoves and Utensils ____ ___ __ ___ _____ __ ___ __ __ ___
Furniture and
--------- --- -- -- ----- __
-- __
-- -_______
-- -- - ---Crockery
Cutlery
__ ___
__ ______
___
Men's Clothing _______ ____ ____ --- ----- - __ ___ __ __
Ladies' Clothing __ __________ ___ ________________ _

Eye Glasses ------------- ------- --- -- - ---- - -- - -Truss ----- - ~-------- - ----- - --- -- --- - - -- -------­
Shoes ------ -- -- -- --- -- - -- -- -- --- ----- ---- --- --Drugs---- - --- -- ------ -- - --- ------ -···--- -- -----

$378 .00
3 . 50
42 .50
20 .10
33 .85
86.10
11 . 75
. 61 .90

- ---

$395.00
7.00
20.00
12 .50
337 .15
13 . 50
18.00
144 .75
25.00
$972.90

Nebraska.

Machine _- __- _- - _ - - -- - -- -- - --- __ - - __ - __ - _____ _
Cash ----- -------------------- -- -- --- -- - ---- Transportation __ --- -- _ - ---- -- ---- --- -- ---- -·-

$75.00
3.30
3.50
19 .25

Transportation __ ____ __ ___ ____ --- ·~ -"-- _.___ __ ____ _

$195 .00
67 .13
168 . 50
7 .00
19 .00

s 3 .50
45 .00
223 .50
8.50
141.45
I

$421.95!
$456 .63

$25.00
25.00

.'

.,r

$50.00

290

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Oregon.

Virginia.

$40 .00
135.10
17 .50

Cash ------------------------------------ ----- --

ii:~:PCI~~~~ - ===== === ====== == == === ==== === =====- - - - $192 .60

Cash ----------------------- - ---------------- ---

Pennsylvania.

Cash------- -----------------------------------Transportation------------------------------M:erchandise ___________
________ -____________
----.. _
M:achines --- - -- --- ----- - --------- -~- -----------­
Furniture -- ---------- --- ------ --- -- -----------Stove and Utensils--- - ---------- ------ - -------- -

$343.25
30.00
8 .75
52 .25

Transportation _____ -- __ - - -------- - -- - - - - - -- --- - Cash------------- -- -- - ----- ---------- - ---- ----Stove ---- - __ -- - - -- - - - - - -- - -.. - · - --- - - - - - --- - -- Furniture ____ ___ - _- - - _-.. - -- -- ---- -- - - · -- - - -- - -- -

$434.25

Transportation ___ _______________________ _______ _
Ca-sh _________ ________________________________ _._
$148 .50.

Rhode Island

$10.00
8 .50

Cash - ----- --- --- -- -- ------- -- - -- --------- -----Suit Case --- - - -- ----- -- -- --- -- - ------- -- -- - --

$95.00
$195.00
132.85
7.00
55.00
85.50
38.15
$513.50

Wisconsin.

$10 .00
7 .50
16.00
115.00

~~~~i~~g-:iI~~se-================================- - - -

$95.00

Washington.

· South Dakota.

Cash -'-- -- ------ -- --- ----- -- --- ----- ---- -- ----Transportation __ - ______ - --- -- -- - - -- -- - - - - ---- -- -

$18 .50

$7.70
30.00
$37.70

Wyoming.

Cash--- - - --- ---- ------- - ----- - ------------ ----Shoes
------------------ - ---- --- - ----- --M:en's -----Clothing
________ _____________
___________
Furniture __ ___ ________ ______ ____ _____ ____ __ ___ _

100.00
7 .00
24 .50
32.45

::\Quth Carolina.

Furniture --------------------- -- -- ---- --- -----Shoes
---------M:achine
______ ___- -------------------------__ ___ ______ ___ ___ _______ __ ----__ __ _

$89.50
3.50
25.00

----

$163.95

West Virginia.

Cash----------- ------------------------------ -$118 .00

Tennessee.

Shoes- ---- ------ --·-------- --- -- ----- -- -- --- ---

Cash----- - -- --- -- - ----- - -- - ---- - -- -------- --- -Trunk --- - -- ---- --------- - - ----------------- - --

$5.50

$50.00
$50 .00

Alaska.

$25 .00
9.00

$5 .50

$34.00

Texas.

Transportation __________ -- -- --- -- -- - -- - -- - -- --- Cash ---- - --- -- -- -- ---- - ---- --- ------ --- - -- --- - -

Australia.

$172.15
115 .00

Utah.

$70 .00
45 .65
84.80
18.60

~~rcliu~~i~~-=
=======
==
=== ==
Crockery and Cutlery
__
- ==
-- =
_=
--==
----- =
-=
-=
-=
- ==
- -=
--==
--===
- •=
---Vermont.

Transportation __ - - - - _- - --- -- --- -- -- - - -- -- -- - - -- Cash -- ---- ----- ----- ------ --- ------- ---- -- ---- Furniture --- --- - --- - - ------- -- -------- ---Crockery and Cutlery - --- -- -- ---- --- ------ --- -- Gas Stove ___ - --- __ - __ - ---- -- -- -- -- - - - - -

Cash-- - ---- -- ---------- ------- --- --------- - -- -Shoes ----------- ------____
-- ---------- ______
------ --__ _______
________ __
___ -_-_

Tra~rtation

5287 . 15

Cash-- -- - ------------ -- ----- --- -- ----- -- -- -- ---

291

i:dy•saS~lt-====================================
Furniture

$30.00
3 .50
82.50
24.00
15.00
14.00
$169.00

British Columbia.

$219 .05

:u5 .00
20 .00
49.10
23 .95
15.00

Cash------------------__- ---------------- --__- _--_
Stove
and Utensils _____
_____ ______
________
Transportation __ ________ _____ ___ ______ _____ ____ _

$143.00
17.75
12 .00
$172.75

British West Indies.

Cash ---- - -- - · --- ------ -- - -- ---- -- -- -- ----- ---- Furniture and .Stove ------ - -- --- --- - -- --- --- -- -$123.05·

56.00
57.90

sn3.9o

292

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

.
Canada.
Cash _________
: ________________________________
_

~~i~;:-a~~~-==================================
Stove
---~--------------------------------------

Manitoba.

Cash--------------------------------·----------

$120.00
68.75
112.50
12.30

Chili.

Furniture _________________ _____ --------- ______ _
Transportation ______________________ -~----- - ___ _
Nova Scotia.

Cash ------L-----:---------------------------~-$59.00

China.

England

Cash --------··--C----------------------------Shoes
Ladies'-----------------------------------------Clothing ______________________ --- - - ----Stove ------ -----------------------------------Furniture --------------------------------------

Panama.

Cash-------------------------------------------

$56.25
60.00

----

$42 .50
250.00
$292.50

$55.00
4.00

Transportation _____ ---- ____ ------- --- - - -- ----- -Cash --- _____ -- ______________ --.-- -- -~ -.- - _- --- ---

$30.00
$30.00

New South Wales.

$313.55
Cash ------------------------------------------Truss-------------------------------------------

Peru.

$116.25

$105.00
3.50
24.00
7.50
42.10

Cash------------------------------------------Transportation _____________ ------ ---- __ --------Philippine Islands

UtensilsClothing
---------------------------------------Men's
_------ _________________________ _
Furniture _____________________________________ _
Cash-------------------------------------------

$80.00
$80.00
$10 .00
$10.00
$25.00
50.00

Transportation ___________________ -- ____ -- ---- ---

Men's Clothing __ ------ _________ ----- - - -- -- - -- --

$7.50

Central America.

$20.00

$8.80
$8.80

Hawilan Islands.

Furniture -------------------------------------Crockery and Cutlery __ --- - ---- -- - - - - - -- - ~ --- --Transportation ___________ -- -- -- - -- - ---- - - - - --- -Cash __ - - -- - - - - - - - -- - -- - - - --- -- --.- - - ----- - - - - -- -

$69.10
19.00
75.00
20.00
$183.10

Ireland.

Cash ------------------------------------------Furniture -------------------------------------Stove and Utensils _____ ---- -- --- _- -- - - - ---- -- ---

Furniture -------------------------------------Cash----------------------------- --------------.
Stove and Utensils ------------------------------

$10.00

Prince Edward Island.
Cash: __________________________________________
_

$15.00

$126.45
35.00
46.85
7.50
141.40

Scotland.

Cash -------------------------------------------

~~~~~~~~:i~~-= == ====

== = =_________
= = ==---·
=====
===========·= ==
Furniture ---------______________
_
Coat -------------------------------------------

$40 .00
72 . 50
167 .50
74 .50
17.50

$10 .00
$15.00

$372.00

Total ~------------------------------------Miscellaneous
items not enumerated ___________ _

$75310. 70
3576.23

Grand Total ----------------------------

$78886.93

Transportation.

$30.00
52.00
22.50

Southern Pacific Co.

$104.50
Mexico.

Cash ______________________________________-____ _

$20.00

----

Tools ------------------------------------------

$145.40
Portugal.

$7.50
East India.

$75.00

$14 .30
25.00
76.10
30.00

$182.10
Cuba.

293

~::~~~~~~-==================================---- $357.20

282 orders were issued on the Southern Pacific Co.,same covering 449
·fares, for which we paid to date $5537. 50.
79 of the above orders were paid for by the persons receivmg the same,
we using our influence for half rate fares.
·
Santa Fe Co.

·

84 orders were issued on the Santa Fe Co., covering 150 fares, for which
we have paid to date $3673 . 05.
10 of the above orders were paid for by the persons receiving the same,
we getting half rate fares for same.

294

295

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Pacific Coast Steamship Co.
11 orders issued covering 16! fares, for which we have paid $145. 75.
Barneson & Hibbard.
1 order for transportation to Nome amounting to $40 .00.
Pacific Mail :i. S. Co.
2 orders issued for which we paid $87 . 50.
Crescent City Transportation Co.
3 orders issued covering 6 fares for which we paid $70. 00.
California Northwestern Ry. Co.
4 orders issued covering 5 fares (not paid).
North Shore Ry. Co.
2 orders oovering 2 fares (not paid),
Oceanic. Steamship Co.
4 orders .covering 4 fares amounting to $500. 00.
Miscellaneous Transportation Companies. $230. 00
Summary.
Southern Pacific Co. ----------------------------- $5537 .50
Santa Fe --------- ----- ------- ------ - - - --------3673.05
Pacific Coast S. S. Co. _______ ---- ---- ---- _ ______ _
145. 75
Barneson & Hibbard_ ___ ______ ____ ____ ______ _____
40.00
Pacific Mail S. S. Co. __________ __________ ___ _____ _
87. 50

Conclusion.
"He looketh on the earth, and it trembleth,
He toucheth the hills, and they smoke."
Psalm civ, 32.
And now Most Worshipful Sir and Brother, we have placed before you
the record of our labors. We appreciate, as officer~of this Board, the great honor
you have conferred upon us by confiding to our care the noble work which we
have endeavored to carry out.. It is a distinction to be proud of, in trying
to help huma.llity and our brethren. St. James declared that true and undefiled religion before God and the Father is in visiting the widows and orphans
in their affliction and keeping one's self unspotted from the world. Surely
to relieve the distressed and aid all in affliction and to cheer them with sympathy is the divinest work in which man can be engaged. Our obligations
of gratitude to all our brethreen who have in any way assisted· us, whether
financially .or by their help, or by their good and kind suggestions and ready
response to our appeal for their advice and assistance can never be expressed
and much less recompensed. Words in such a case are but empty thoughts,
their reward must come hereafter, and from a higher power. ·
This report would indeed be incomplete without some little recognitio n
by name of several of our brethren who have given so freely of their time and
labor and have so unselfishly devoted the best efforts ·of their hearts to ai
us and our unfortunate in the severest and most urgent cases. To our Bro.
George Henry Boskowitz, M. D., of Doric Lodge No. 216, modest and unostentatious, no words are adequate to render tO him our gratitude and that o
all the Fraternity for his many acts of professional kindness. Day and night,
always at our command, leaving his large practice to be of service to our
sick and dying, he has gratuitously given his skill, and we would be truly
ungrateful did we not here mention him as an example of all that is Masonic
and noble.
Our Bro. Roland English Hartley, M. D.,. Past Master of King Solomon's
Lodge No. 260, is also here placed on our roll of ·honour, for always and ever
ready to visit and care for the sick, following his every obligation to aid his
brethren whenever and wherever in distress .
To Bro. James William Ward, M. D., of Crockett Lodge No. 139, we are
under the deepest obligation. .Occupying the position of President of
the board of Health of this City and County, it has been our good fortune ·
to have him as a member of the Fraternity and to personally know him as
a man and physician. · All the influence at his command has been free)
granted to us. Position after position has he given those of our brethren
qualified to fill the same. In such places where he needed men, and the
hospitals under his control have been the haven of many a poor unfortunate
demanding his attention, with the best of care and skill given them to restore
health and happiness.
Others too numerous to ·mention, of the same profession, have served tis
or offered their services and to all we can truly say THANKS.

&~~cict
s~~___6:;~~~=~~:~~~~-?~~==================
Miscellaneous
______ ---=-______________________

5~:~

230. 00
- - - - $10284.30

The transportation orders issued called for transportation to all part
of California and the United States, to cities in Canada, to Honolula, Mexico
Alaska, Australia, and to points in Europe.
Grand Summary.
Number of letters received and answered ___ ___ ___ ___
11715
Numbers of telegrams received and sent ___ ____ ___ __
2312
74200
Number of rations distributed--- -- --- - - - - - -- - - -~ Number of persons supplied with clothing _________ _
1875
Number of persons for whom employment was secured
through personal influence ______ ______ _______ _
177
Number of persons for whom employment was secured
. (e.stimated) ____ ____ __ __ __ - ----- ___________ _
1000
Number of Persons as individuals assisted (irrespective
1468 ·
of clothing) _ _______ _____ ______ _________ __ __
Number of P.ersons assisted (estimated)_ ______ ____ _
5872
Total contnbutions received_. __ _• __-" -·- ______ ____ _$163695 . 48
Total Disbursements __ _________ ____ __ ___ ______·__
$88271.61
31040.59
Total Relief Granted with money -- --- ---- - - - - --Total amount of Supplies furnished _______________ _
32600.12
Total amoullt of transportation ___ ______ __ ____ ____ _
10284 . 30
Amount of Supplies for Clothing Department_ __ _____
4961.92
Total expense account __ _____ ______ ___ _____ ____ ___
9384 . 68
Total cash on hand __ ______ __ ______ ___ __ ______ ___
79590.66
Value of Clothing on hand __ ______ • ___ _____ ____ ___
1777.00
531.00
Advances (not yet returned)----- -- - -- - - - - - ---- - -195 .88
Office Fixtures (cost)- - - - --- - -- -- -- - ---- ----- --- Ratio of expense to relief granted, per capita __ ____ __
1.51

296

297

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

We also extend our thanks to Bro. Arthur William Foster of Oriental
Lodge No. 144, President of the California Northwestern Railway Company
and the North Shore Railroad Company, for furnishing transportation
without cost, to many of our brethren. . Although importuned many times
to accept remuneration, Bro. Foster has at all times refused, saying that it
was as little as he could do. to assist this Board in that manner. To Bro.
Lollis Glass, Past Master of California Lodge No. 1, Vice-President and General
Manager of the Pacific States Telephone and Telegraph Company we are
indebted for free telephone service, a matter of considerable import and saving
to us, and one duly appreciated.
To Bros. Abraham Isaac Bloch and Louis Bloch of Fidelity Lodge No.
120, we also extend thanks for many courteous acts in furnishing us with
supplies for our office, for which although strongly importuned to accept pay,
have refused, each time saying that what they or either of them could do for
the welfare of their afflicted brethren they were only too happy to do so and
were glad of the opportunity to give their mite.

well meant intentions for the rebuilding of our beloved 9ity, still there are
conditions which seem to us will bring on an era of dull times, and how far
that will affect those of our brethren who. have lost their all, remains to be
seen. One cannot but admire the joyful, smiling and contented faces met
every day; a universal cheerfulness and. thankfulness; no one seems to be
discouraged, although many have gone through enough misfortune to make
them anything but hopeful; but in every case and especially those cases
with which we have directly dealt, it is to be said that the first one has to
be met who has looked dt1Spondent, and was not bright and cheerful, with
hope for the future. We have heard them utter thanks to God for their and
their family's lives being spared, and. that it was no worse. All seemingly
cheerful and happy under the worst conditions. Among the many, temporarily
housed in tents in our parks and vacant building lots, are some of our own
Fraternity. Whether they will procure permanent abodes for the winterremains
to be seen, and those who clerk for a living whether they will be retained in
their positions, or if so, whether the compensation will be enough to ke~p
them and their famiJ.y (if they have one ) in fairly good circumstances. These
are conditions that confront us, as well as some of our brethren who up
to this time have weathered· the storm, and have not applied to us for assistance, as they have been able thus far to care for themselves witheut requiring'
the aid of us or from any other source. We hope and pray for the best, but
if we are correct in our conclusions as to the future, we desire to so husband
our funds so as to be able to relieve any and all who may require Masonic
aid and assistance. It is true, notwithstanding a denial in some quarters,
that living and other expenses have increased beyond measure or reason, and
a person who has to earn his daily bread, and whose earnings are limited, will
need and require our help and we want to be prepared for that contingency, if
it should arise. While we do not desire to continue the existence of this
Board a day longer than is actually necessary we feel that its life should be
prolonged for a reasonable time, and until the last one of our brethren who
needs help is firmly placed in a position to help himself. We believe in going to
the limit and extent of our obligations taken as Master Masons, and we fully
realize that in so doing we are sacrificing many of our own interests, but so .
long as we are helping our fellows, we are more than willing to make such
sacrifice. We can here quote' with due regard to its truth the following excerpt
from the writings of a most Worshipful Grand Master of a sister jurisdiction.
"No longer are men banded together in our Fraternity to erect physical
structures or overcome physical foes. The LIGHT that we follow leads to
a keener insignt, a better understanding, and a nobler expression of the
human faculties. The materials with which we labor are constituent elements of
every human being and our purpose is to learn how to use the materials to
construct temples of the MIND and SOUL which will be pleasing in the eyes
of the Great Architect of the Universe."

To the Very Worshipful Grand Secretaries of every English Speaking
Jurisdiction and to the subordinate officers of Blue Lodgesweareindebted for
many courtesies, always ready to answer our telegrams and correspondence,
as well as to perform any anil all favors we have requested from them,we appreciate their efforts for us and so record it.
To the · various transportation companies, both rail and steamship in
this city, to the daily newspapers, to tradesmen with whom we have doolt,
and to countless others in many and devious occupations and positions, we
extend our gratitude for many acts of kindness, only hoping that we may be •
able to show our better appreciation for what they have done for us than by
the simple word THANKS.
We cannot conclude this report without mentioning what in our opinion
is the present condition of unfortunate and distressed members of the Craft
and their families in this City. At the 'present time we firmly believe that
all who suffered either physically or financially, or both, from the earthquake
and fire, to be in fairly good condition, that is so far as immediate wants and
n~cessities are concerned. All their wants have been met as fully and as to
their needs as has been possible, and while we admit that there may be some
"whose wants may not have been made known to us, those who have applied
or been sought, have had everything done for them that could be, and
that all of these are comfortably situated at present a~d are nearly above want
of anything. That, for the past and present, but the future is ~hat is troubling us, We grieve to say that we fear for the future. We are fearfol of the
approaching winter. This may seem pessimistic, but to be truthful, we must
say so, although we should have preferred to have taken the other view, and
would have done so, had we the slightest belief in the roseate word -optimistic.. While the people of this city are to be given every credit, and which is
no more than deserving, for their fortitude in the hour of affliction, and their

And now Most Worshipful Sir and Brother, having placed before you the
record of our· acts as a Board of relief, constituted by yourself for the aid of

298

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

the distressed and needy of our Fraternity who have suffered and withal
bourne that suffering with patience and fortitude - "wJ:iereby we are enabled
to undergo any pain, peril or danger, when prudentially deemed expedient"_,..
it would indeed be neglectful in our feelings towards you, did we not proclaim
how grand and noble has been your every effort to inspire us with courage to
carry on the work which you defined and in which you have taken so great
an interest. Time and again, letter after letter, telegram, personal presence
and command, have you wished it to be made known how broad and liberal
our aid should be; how strict rules, regulations and statutes - technicalities-+
should be brushed aside in this more than awful disaster, and how our brethren
and their own should be aided. How all the powers possessed by you as Most
Worshipful Grand Master would be invoked to help us in carrying out your
views and although we might err in some cases in granting relief, that it was
better to err on questionable applications than that one worthy appeal should
be refused, and the innocent be made suffer. How at the risk of your own
health and life, you came to our city during the most trying times and not
only inspired us by your presence, but with your good neason, argument and
kindly and generous nature, spurred us on, when by overwork we were almost
ready to collapse. These things have not been forgotten, but are fresh in
our memory, and if we have accomplished any good, if our work has been
fraught with that good result which we. learned as Masons when we were first
admitted to the LIGHT - "and the greatest of "these is charity" -then
has our membership in the great Fra.ternity been of some avail, and that
good has been more prominetlybrought to the surface by what you ha ve done
as our leader, and from whom we derived our inspiration in at least trying
to help ·o ur fellow men.
Your intentions have been of the best; you have done your duty and
that only, and in a small way at that, we have tried to assist you. "Your
fraternal garb is not folded like a disused garment but is so worn in your
intercourse with your brethren that when the Great Grand Master shall send.
forth His Angel to summon yo\). before him, it may prove a vestment fit to
wear in the House Eternal in the Heavens."
PAX VOBISCUM
Fraternally submitted,
HARRY J. LASK,
Secretary

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

299

Oak.land Report of Masonic Relief Bureau
OAKLAND. CALIFORNIA

OFFICERS

ExECUTIVE.-Most Worshipful Motley H. Flint, Chairman, Dr. R. W.
Meek of the Oakland Masonic Relief Bureau and Brothers Chandler, Burrell,
Hart, Rutherford, Roeth ~nd Gunn.
·
FINANCE.-A. W. Burrell, J. W. McClymonds, J. F . Chandler.
PRINTING.-Thomas Miller, Roy Farish, J. H. Taylor.
AuDITING.-W. H. Craig, W. G. Mobley, Fred W. Hersey.
BEDDING AND CoTs.-John .1V. Guilt, Albert Schulte, William G. Crossman.
TRArns.-A. J. Waterhouse, W. I. McDonald, H. T. Helfer, Dr. J. C.
Gilbertson, P. L. Faulkner, C. J. Frederick, W. F. Frederick, E. J. Reed, H.
I. Jones.
•
Hous1NG.-Charles A. Gibson; G. H . Goodwin, T. K. Fox, H. F. Starbuck, A. C. Baumgartner. ·
SuPPLIES.-Constant Meese, J . H . Hu~t.
FERRY BurLDING.-J. H . Taylor, Geo. A. Cockerton, A. B. Webster, D.
Rutherford, W. E. Logan, C. C. Hemler, J . L. Lockwood, A. W. Burrill, W .
H. Craig, J. W. Evans, A. F . . Gunn, ·A. R. Burrill.
The mystery of Masonry, the craft of Freemasons, has from the inception of the order been discussed freely by those without its ranks. No conclusion, however, has ever been arrived at other than that to know the secrets
of the lodge, one must become a member.
But that Masonry has done an enormous amount of good in different
ways and directions has long been agreed upon. One of its most noteworthyacts of charity and relief in the history of the organization, was that following the earthquake and fire in San Francisco on the memorable morning of
April 18th, when the greater pdttion of that city was reduced to a heap of
smoking ashes and ruins.
It is of these affairs that we now have to deal, and following a description
in general of the disaster in both San Fran~isco and Oakland, the many acts
of self denial on the part of the members of the Masonic fraternity on the Oakland side of the bay; the numerous worthy deeds done.and the countless steps
taken to alleviate much suffering and to provide for the destitute, will be told
in detail. . For although the thousands of charitable deeds of Masonry rarely
€ach the ears of the general public-it being a rule of the order to act in an

300

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

unostentatious manner-the acts of the Masons in this particular seems justly
public property and the occasion demands and has demanded from the beginning, a public record of the work done and the good accomplished.
Before going into the history of the disaster itself, it will be well to state
that among the most willlng workers with the Masonic lodges was Mayor
Frank Mott. He was tireless at his task and did much to aid the Masonic
fraternity. Each night between the hours of 10 and 12 o'clock he was in close
consultation with Dr. R. W. Meek,.chairman of the Executive Committee
and president of the Oakland Masonic Relief Bureau. And another worthy
of the highest praise and consideration is Most Worshipful Motley H. Flint,
Grand Master of Masons of California. he was an enthusiastic worker for the
relief of the refugees and provided the Oakland Relief Bureau with ample
funds, the same having been sent to him from all o~er the United States. The
future work of the Oakland Bureau will be continued along the same lines
until all of those who were in distress by the disaster of April 18th, have been
relieved.
Toward the end of this report, it will be noticed that the expenses and
general relief work are bunched in figures, it being ahnost impossible to determine just where the money went or into which channel it was forced without going through the entire list of vouchers which are in the hands of the
Chairman of the executive committee and the President of the Masonic Relief Bureau.
It is with great pleasure for this committee to make special mention of
the names of Mrs. Mary M. Van Court, Miss Kate Clarisse Morris and Mrs.
Caroline W. Emery who were most obliging and who worked for the relief of
total strangers just as though they had been of their own flesh and blood.
Treasurer George. Roeth is also one who is deserving of special mention. He
worked day and night and was ever of uncomplaining disposition. Without
his assistance the Relief work of the Masonic Bureau, would have found con
ditions much worse than they were.
On the morning of April 18th., last, a day and days to follow.long to be
remembered, it seemed that the world had run its course. There were few
inhabitants of San Francisco who were of an opinion other than that their
last day had come. The dp.y had dawned as calm and peaceful as a summer's
dream. Yet there was an oppresion, a feeling of unrest, a horror of something
that was about to happen but could not be foretold. Many tell of an uneasiness that seemed like the approach of unwelcome death. Others felt the
nervousness which precedes an illness; and the rest of the city slept.
Those who have taken notice of the husb and indescribable Eiilence of the
woods; who have heard the mournful soughing of the winds through the pines
just at the break of morn; have heard the wierd cries of the birds and beasts
of the forests as nature frowns and.takes on a darkened aspect; have listened
to the creaking and groaning of the trees like one in pain; have seen and heard
a flash and crash of lightning, a r0ar of thunde~ followed by a sudden hush as

GRAND LODGE OF CALiFORNIA.

301

though all nature were at rest, can picturein the minds eye to aslight extent
the first fierce rockings and wrenchings of the earth. and subsequent happenings which threw the minds and hearts of the inhabitants of the doomed city
into a state of alarm and desperation.
The darkness had hardly faded from the sky when the first shock came.
It was terrific in its intellBity; It seemed to wish to blot all things from the
coast. There was a crash of chimneys, falling walls, and buildingw,-gyrating
round in fantastic dances,-leaned far toward each other in the streets and
all but tumbled wrecks of their former "selves.' For a moment there was a
lull, a breathing spell. Then apparently froin the bowels of the earth there
came up a roaring as from a den of wild beasts followed by jar after jar which
shook the city to its foundations. The quake was terrifying, absolutely hideous, a monstrosity in its acts. . It seemed that there would be no end to the
thing. People ran screaming from their homes only to locate in even more
dangerous places. Domestic animals such as cats and dogs, were bewildered
and hurried and scurried about with their masters i~ search of a place of safety,
a somewhere that quiet could be found. But it was useless. In every direction there was ruin and desolation. Everywhere the conditions were the
same.
The earth's crust was· shaking, guivering, wrenching to the right and left
and in other opposite directions and it seemed that nothing could survive the
shock. Then all at once things seemed to find their equilibrium. The groans
of the wounded and dying ceased, those who had escaped unharmed stood
amazed and the most hideous and mind-wrecking character of it all, was the
ghastly, unearthly silence that followed.
It seemed like a tomb in the open streets. Not a thin'g of life seemed to
move or breathe. The seriousness of the situation ~ould not at first be grasped.
From all sections of San Francisco there could be plainly seen the glare of
light on the leaden sky cast by the fires which had sprung up in a hundred
different directiollB almost simultaneously. The dread cry that water was
not a.v ailable with which to fight the flames was passed from lip to lip and not
unlike N.e ro at the destruction. of .the beautiful city of Rome, the homeless
settled down to witnE)Ss the scenes of desolation and ruin.
·
It was not for long, however, for soon every available able-bodied man
was pressed into service in the attempt to stay the flames which were fast devouring buildings and property which had survived the tremblor. As the
men fought fast and hard, the women and children were hurriedly carrying
away the belongings from their doomed homes. Many pitiful sights .were
witnessed, many acts of charity were done and through it all the residents
showed a spirit of bravery and unconcern matchless in every particular.

Hardly had the last severe shock subsided before Mayor Schmitz and
other officials of San Francisco were at work attempting to· quiet a bewildered
ulmtitude, and the soldiery-the men of blue who know not what fear is-the mell" of blue of both the ·army and the police force-were soon patrolling

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

the streets to prevent looting and the wanton destruction of property. The
commanders located at the Presidio on that verge of land kissed by the first
waters which flow and ebb from the yawning mouth of the Golden Gate, did
wondrous things on behalf of the sufferers. They brought order out of chaos,
stilled the fear which seemed to close the throats of strong men and dependent
women and in tens of thousands of ways assisted in the work of caring for
those who had lost their all in the earthquake and fire.

peared to them, could have visited so fair a city and they feel that it was far
more an act of God than of human effort, that any part of the city was left
standing in which many of the thousands of strick.en men and women and
children found at least temporary homes.

302

Some of the scenes enacted during the first hours of the burning of the
city beggar description. The hospitals and homes for the wretched were
turned into mad houses. Patients w.ho were unable to care for themselves
groaned and cried out with feelings of helplessness, and, the stronger ones,those on the way to recovery-ran about like one possessed. · Fainting women,
praying men and bewildered children could be seen on evety hand and the
work of removing the sick, the crippled and the otherwise afflicted to the general hospital at the Presidio was by no means a small undertaking. There
were many nurses, who, from a feeling of duty had worked themselves beyoI].d
the power of human endurance and fell fainting to the floor. This added to
the already !Ong list of sufferers and for a time confusion reigned supreme.
As the flames, stealthily at times, then noisily and with a roar of defiance
swept their way along the principal streets, many lives were snuffed out'. The
dead and dying were tenderly cared for, but those who were in positions td
know agree that San Francisco's death roll would be long in calling provided
everybody had been recovered. The flames and resulting ruins have carefully and completely hidden from human sight all that remains of many who
were once prosperous citizens and beloved members of now grieving families.
For a time it appeared that there would be much illness in the city by
the Golden Gate and that there would be a famine, but these things happily
did not occur owing to the liberality and promptness of the outside cities providing food and clothing and Oakland was by no means the last to come to
the aid of her sister city which was so sorely stricken. In fact it was through
the efforts of the generous citizens, worthy officials and lodges and churches of
Oakland that San Francisco was not left to suffer and hold out her scorched
and withered hands for succor one moment longer than was absolutely necessary.
After days and nights of bitter strife with the flames which had greedily
consumed millions of dollars worth of property, it appeared that they were
under control, and hundreds, yes thousands of workers, both civilian and of
the army, who had kept the city in a roar with exploding dynamite, the use
of axes and wrecking paraphernalia, sank from utter exhaustion and in their
turn needed the care of those for whom they had risked their lives .that a portion at least of the city's homes might be spared.
Those who took part in the attempt to stay the flames have stated that
it all seemed like a dream; that nothing so overwhelmingly disastrous, it ap-

It was not long after the excitement had somewhat subsided that tented
cities filled with the destitute sprang up in many quarters and within an incredibly short space of time a regular system of relief had been adopted and
put into operation by those in authority. True'it was that the "green-eyed
monster, jealousy" crept in to make affairs disagreeable regarding the care
of certain camps, but taken as a whole the affair was most admirably handled.
And among the hardest workers in the field of desolation, care and want were
the members of the Masonic fraternity on the Oakland side of the bay who
were truly Masons from a lodge standpoint and who looked like masons by
trade as they struggled and wended their way about the smoky and grime! aden city in their work of relief.

San Francisco was indeed unfortunate. From exalted heights among
the world's greatest cities, she was suddenly stricken with earthquake and
fire and cast down so low that she became an object of chp,rity. Her parks
were dotted with the tente of refugees and her citizens were left struggling
in the throes of recovery and rehabilitation. For a considerable period of time ·
her situation was as an orchestra with every instrument out of tune with every
other instrument, and noise and dissatisfaction, not harmony resulted.
That any man or set of men could solve the problem of peace and regularity at such a time seems almost beyond comprehension, but it was done
and done well. The stones and bare bleak walls of San Francisco appealed
as eloquent advocates of harmony and decided effort on behalf of her dwellers
and officials and there were few who refused to join in the effort to lift their
city from the position which she occupied. Love of home was never more
thoroughly exemplified and debris filled streets, wrecked structures and ashes
did not deter many from at least making an attempt toward the reconstruction
and rehabilitation of the city by the Golden Gate.
Through all this terrible disaster by which every hotel, bank, every large
store and nearly every storeroom and wareroom in the city had been destroyed,
the conduct of the three hundred thousand people who were homelessand
thousands more who were left without the means of livelihood, was admirable. There was very little panic p,nd no serious disorder. The rations, tents,
and blankets on hand at the army posts adjacent to the city were dealt out
to the sufferers with no account of the responsibility involved; and within
two days, relief supplies from nl'lighboring states and cities and army supplies
from various army posts had begun to arrive and were being distributed.
It is almost useless to attempt to .go into detailed accounts of the events
of the days and nights of horror. Four square miles of the city were soon on
fire. The night was as light as day, and the roar of the conflagration, the
crash of falling walls, and the continuous explosions made a pande mnium

304

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

simply indescribable. It was .shortly after this that the members of the Masonic fraternity began to cross the bay for San Francisco to lend a helping
hand to brethren and the afflicted in general. And the Masons were well organized.
At 2 o'clock on the afternoon of April 20th, two days after the earthquake,
a called meeting of the members of the several Masonic bodies of Oakland was
held. This meeting, as well as all subsequent meetings, was called to order
by Brother R. W. Meek, who announced that it was on his initative that· the
meeting was called for the purpose of organizing for the relief of the brethren
and others who had suffered through the disaster.
Most Worshipful Motley H. Flint, Grand Master of the Masons of California was present and not only endorsed the movement, but urged it in the·
strongest terms and pledged the support of the Grand Lodge and the entire
order of the state. At this first meeting Brother Meek was elected perman-·
ent chairman and his endeavors during theentire relief work are worthy of more
than passing recognition. He, like many others of the order, worked day and
night, neglected their business and social duties, to see to it that not a single
soul within their reach remained hungry, ill-clad or without shelter. Brother
Charles Husband was elected secretary and Brother George Roeth, treasurer.
A. W. Burrell, J. W. McClymonds and J. F. Chandler were appointed
a committee on finance and were requested to call upon the Oakland Traction
Consolidated and secure from them ready money for the purchase of needed
supplies, Most Worshipful M. H. Flint 'pledging the resources .of the Grand
Lodge for the accommodation. · This action was deemed necessary owing to
the fact that the banks of both Oakland and San Francisco were closed. Following this action com~ittees were appointed as follows:
PRINTINo.-Thomas Miller, 'Roy Farish and .J. H .. Taylor.
AUDITI~G.-W, H. Craig; W. G. Mobley and Fred H. Hersey.
BEDDING AND CoTS.-John W. Guilt, Albert Schulte and William G.
Crossman.
The matter for arranging for headquarters in San Francis.co was then taken
up. Brother E. M. Percy ten,dered to the bureau two houses, 3570 and 3580,
Clay street, San Francisco and a committee consil!lting of Charles A, Gibson,
G. H. Goodwin, T. K. Fox, H. F. Starbuck. and A. C. Baumgartner, were appointed a committee to visit the houses and make suit:able arrangements for
their occupancy. A committee divided into several sec.tions, was appointed
to meet incoming train as follows:
FORTIETH STREET.~C. J. Waterhouse, W. I. McDonald and H. T. Helfer
SIXTEENTH STREET.-Dr. J. C. . Gilbertson, p, L. Faulkner and C. J .
Frederick.
SEVENTH STREET.-W. F. Frederick, E. J. Reed and H. I. Jones.
Following a communication;· the Eastern Star Chapters promised their
co-operation in the relief work being carried on by the various Masonic bodies

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

305

of Oakland. Information badges were printed and distributed to every Oakland Mason so far as known in order that they might be in position to give more
efficient assistance in all directions.
At a subsequent meeting, after Constant Meese and J. H. Hunt were appointed a committee on the purchase of supplies, those present were addressed
by Most Worshipful M. H. Flint. For the benefit of the many who were not
advised of the afternoon session, he explained the objects of the meeting and
asked the hearty co-operation and assistance of the craft. Brother Meek
then announced that the Governor, Brother George C. Pardee, would secure
the nave in the Ferry Building across the bay for their use and the following
were appointed to serve there in relays of six as follows:
J . H. Taylor, George A. Cockerton, A. B. Webster, D. Rutherford, W.
E. Logan, and C. C. Hemler and J. L. Lockwood, A. W. Burrell, W. H. Craig,
J . W. Evans, A. F. Gunn and A. R. Burrell;
At the suggestion of Chairman Meek the wife of each brother met on
the morning of Apnl 21st and organized for the purpose of.assisting in the
work. On motion of A. W. Burrell, an executive committee consisting of
Grand Master Flint, Chairman Meek and Brothers E. H. Hart, A. F. Gunn,
D. Rutherford, George Roeth and A. W. Burrell was appointed. Leon Behrendt, Leo Munter, C. I. Gilbert, Geo. J. Henry, H. B. Ross, H. U. Maxfield,
0. A:.. Pol!lson and J. C. Gilbertson volunteered their services in any capa.
city. With this work accomplished the Masons were well on the way toward
general relief work.
·
On Motion of Most Worsl).ipful M. H. Flint at a meeting on April 28th,
requisitions on the Oakland merchants were issued· for clothing, underwear
and shoes. A sub-committee, headed by the Secretary visited the Oakland
stores and made arrangements for suitable articles both as to price and quality. And it may be said for the merchants that they were more than fair in
their· dealings with all those who were purchasing articles for the relief workBrother James P. Edoff appeared at a meeting of May 18th, and called the
attention of those present to the fact that the Oakland Relief Committee had
furnished a quantity of supplies to the Masonic bureau and he also gave an
order to Chairman Meek for additional supplies. Brother Edoff, who was
chairman of the Auditing Committee of the Oakland Relief Committee, was
one of the most willing and thorough relief workers connected with the aid
to the San Francisco sufferers. As a Mason he is a member of Live Oak
Lodge No. 61 and as a relief man he was connected with pretty nearly every
committee or organization on this side of the bay. His work has been heartily applauded by the members of his fraternity and by the public in general.
At an adjourned meeting of 'the Executive Committee of the Oakland
Masonic Relief Bureau held on July 21st., the following Masters of the several lodges in the Thirtieth and Fifty-first Masonic districts were in attendance in answer to an invitation:

306

W. S. Smith, Live Oak No. 61; R. B. Gaylord, Oakland 188; C. H. Blohm,
Durant No. 268; J. A. Petty, Brooklyn No. 225 a.nd J. L. Robison, Berkeley
No. 363.
After giving a synopsis of the work already done by the relief bureau
since its organization, Chairman Meek stated ti).e invitation had been sent to
the:!:'several Masters in both districts with a. view of determining ways and
means of reaching and relieving members of the lodges in those districts who
hadlbeen affected directly or indirectly by the recent calamity in San Francisco. After some discussion concerning the matter, Brother Burrell offered
the following resolution which was adopted:
"RESOLVED, That the several Masters of each lodge in the Thirtieth
a.nd Fifty-first Masonic districts be invited to appoint a committee of two
members of his lodge to act with him in directing and in investigating its members and ascertaining who of its members are in distress by reason of the calamity of April 18th. Such committee to report such members and the circumstances to a sub-committee of the Executive committee of the Masonic
Relief Bureau, .consisting of Brothers Meek, Roeth and Chandler, which subcommittee is authorized to relieve such distress at their discretion."
That Chairman Meek was authorized to carry out his plans and the vast
amount of work he accomplished on_behalf of the sufferers from San Francisco, is evidenced by the following self-explanatory letter:
GRAND LODGE F . & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA.
OFFICE OF THE GRAND MASTER.

Oakland, Calif., April 29, 1906.
DR. R.

GRAND LODGE .OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

w. MEEK,

President Masonic Relief Bureau,
Oakland, California.
My Dear Dr. Meek:Please consider this your authority and that of the executive committee
under you, to perform such relief work as you may deem best and proper for the
relief of distressed Masons, their widows and orphans, or in fact to relieve
the distress of any whom, in your judgment, you may deem best and proper.
Such relief to be expended on account of any of t he sufferers who a.re injured,
financially or otherwise, in the terrible earthquake and fire on the morning
of April 18th .
The action of yourself and the executive committee meets
with my entire approval, and I will supply such funds as may be necessary
at any time to carry on the work under your charge.
Yours Truly and F raternally,
M. H. FLIN'r,
I
Grand Master of Masons.
And it is advisable to say just at this time that the Masons were not holding meetings exclusive of everything else. It was necessary that they should
get together for the purpose of appointing their cominittees, directing the

307

work that wa.s being done on the outside and attending to other most importantmatters in cominittee meetings, but there was as much being done in the field
all the time and the Masons were the first in line to attend to t h!'! business
required.
Within a few hours after the disaster, there was not a member of the
Masonic organization on either side of the ba.y who had not been cared for
in one way or another. This refers to those in want. All those who had
escaped without loss in any direction, gladly joined with the working forces
and gave their aid in relieving the suffering which had existed in every direction.
As a first step in the direction of relief, the Masonic Relief Bureau on the
second day following the disaster sent eighteen wagons drawn by two horse"
each, filled with provisions to the stricken city. At a low estimate one hundred
and fifty tons of provisions were sent to San Francisco, the most of it being
furnished at the expense of the Masons. True it is that a p ortion of this
amount was given. by the Oakland Chamber of Commerce.
For over a week the brethren worked like slaves in Sa.n Francisco and
did not c9mplete all their work in Oakland for months after the disaster.
The headquarters in Oakland were in the Masonic Temple at Twelfth and
Washington streets and there were stations established in San Francisco at
Twenty-third and Mission streets, at the Stanya.n street entrance to the Park,
one in King Solomon's Ha.II on Fillmore street, one at North Beach and another
one at 3584 Clay street. Besides these there was a head. distributing point
and office in the ferry building. The amount of business transacted in these
quarters was enormous. At the ferry station there was a force of men constantly preparing sandwiches which were carried off in teams for distribution.
At least $15 a day was paid out for ea.ch of these wagons by the Masons and
after t hey had distributed the food, they picked up refugees' trunks and baggage
on their return trip. 1\ regular checking system was established and many
articles were carried to headquarters for the refugees regardless of sex, race,
color or to which fraternal organization, if any, they~belonged. And besides
the food which was freely distributed to the needy in San Francisco, over
35,000 meals were supplied the refugees in the Oakland Temple. Money
was sent in liberally from all quarters of the United States and this, with what
had been given locally, resulted in an immense relief fund at the disposal of
the Masonic fraternity.
The executive committee of the order was most generously treated by
the Santa Fe and Southern Pacific Railroad companies. · In many instances,
money was advanced for transportation and besides this t he companies never
refused any transportation to worthy and deserving people. In all the relief
work done in the city of Oakland and surrounding communities the railroad
organizations aided materially, and had it not· been for their conscientious
effort on behalf of those doing relief Work, but little headway could have been
mad~. The Ma.sonic fraternity are particularly t hankful to the companies

"

308

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

for the aid granted them by these corporations. The heads of the transportation companies on both sides of the bay were more than accommodating
and set a good example to others in a position to help in the relief work and a
general straightening of the tangled situation. Wherever a case was reported
by the Masonic executive committee as being worthy of assistance, there was
no disputing the report and the destitute soon found themselves speeding
over the rails on their way to home and friends. It would take a book of
large dimensions to place all the names of refugees who were carried over
the lines of the companies to all sections of the United States. It is stated
that refugees were carried to every point where the roads were run. This
in eludes the roads in the east which opened their lines to the local companies.
At the time of the arrival of the advance guard of the Masonic fraternity,
Market street was full of excited, anxious people who were gazing horrified
at the mins as the result of the various fires which had been merged into one
great conflagration. The presence of the members of this order with flying
badges had an instantly reassuring effect on all awe-inspired persons. They
knew the quality of the men wearing the badges and not in one ins.tance did
anyone of those in the streets apply for aid that it was not granted.
The thing that at this time ·made the greatest impression on the working lodge men was the strange and unearthly silence. There was no talking,
no apparent excitement among the near-by spectators; while from the great
and dying city lying at their feet there came not a single unusual sound.' No
one seemed to be greatly concerned over material possessions and each was
to the other as a brother. San Francisco had indeed been taught a hard lesson
and a lesson that softened in some distinct manner the instincts of the sufferers or their more fortunate brothers and sisters. Not that charity and
self-denialhadnoeager followers before that memorable time, but the terrific
disaster set more people to thinking of the bible's teachings than could all
the sermons ever preached from the pulpits of high or lowly houses of worship.
And the disaster which had changed San Francisco from a condition of
opulence 'to mendicant, came swiftly. Just a few short hours before, the
beautiful city by the sea had been a thing of beauteous life. It was the beginning
of the grand opera season and the star singers from all over the world had gathered together to give San Francisco music lovers one of the treats of the season. That light and refreshing "Carmen," was sung on Tuesday nightfatal Tuesday night. A few hours later there was no opera house, no places of
amusement, no safe place to go. The beautiful women who the night beore- had been brilliantly attractive in diamonds and ermine were rushing
hither and thither, caring not for dress, for jewels, for nothing but safety.
There was flame everywhere, smoke everywhere, and a feeling of hopeless
dread, filled the hearts of poor and rich alike. In a few short hours there
was a scene of desolation and destruction sufficient in its enormity to turn the
minds of even the strong~st men. Thit shock was a never-to-be-forgotten
sensation. It seemed that the devilish forces of destruction had centered

a

GRAND LODGE 01!' CALIFORNIA.

309

beneath the sandy crust of San Francisco peninsula. There was a rocking
motion north or south, followed by an upheaval that twisted buildings as
though they were builded of the most flimsy material. There was a panic
in many of the larger hostelries but numbers were collected in mind although
gazing at scenes of horror that were to sweep the city and fill the parks with
refugees.
It was some time before the people awoke to a full realization of the fact
that nature, with the combination of untoward circumstances, was not playing entirely fair. The men who were tmdging toward the city found crowds
already in the streets and in the squares watching the widespread destruction
and desolation. And these very refugees were being slowly but surely driven
further westward by the spread of the flames as they were fanned by the April
breezes. The action on the part of all the authorities was most commendable
and they have been the only ones to receive words of praise for their acts.
Many brave deeds, many acts of self-sacrifice, were done by others and the
Masonic brethren were by no means the last to give a helping hand to the
needy and wretched. They, as well as everyone else were for a considerable
time helpless in the face of the wail of fire which leaped block after block in
its work of destruction. In the first wild rush for a place of safety it was no
more than natural that the thoughts of the homeless thousands should turn
to a desire to leave the doomed city. Many there were who gaye up all hope
that even one building would remain standing and it is agreed that the changing of the wind to the east just at a critical time was all that prevented a further spreaJ of the fire into the Western addition. Had the flames once gained
headway on the west side of Van Ness avenue, it would most probably have
burned itself out along the shores of the Pacific.
It was 11.t this time that the railroad companies were prompt with their
most necessary aid, crowding their ferries and carrying refugees to all points
of the compass without charge. The,day of the greatest outgo was that folfowing the first shock and the movement was continuously heavy for the next
week or more. Simultaneously with the movement providing for carrying
people to places of refuge outside the city was the prompt effort to transport
supplies from all:directions, and the runs of relief trains from all quarters of
the globe broke .i,ll the transcontinental freight train records.
The fire swept in all over 455 blocks or squares, but fortunately all or
most of the waterfront was spared. This made it possible for the removal
of the refugees from San Francisco to Oakland and then to other outside
point~. It was felt by those who first jumped to .the steering gear in the
enormous work of caring for the destitute and arranging for the rebuilding '
of the great city, that the most searching test of efficiency in this world is
the sudden strain of emergency. Those who bore the supreme strain of unexpected emergency are those who are now considered the "men of the hour."
And there has not been a soul who denies that those in charge of railways
dotting this coast, saved, by most heroic measures, the city of San Francisco
from the terrible -consequences of panic and stampede.

310

311

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

It has been stated that in all the overwhelming calamity that befell San
Francisco during the three days' and nights' conflagration that followed the
earthquake, one of the supreme tragic moments was reached that Wednesday morning when the firemen, rushing with their engines and hose carts to
the various points of alarm, found themselves standing helpless before the
spreading flames beside empty hydrants. But there were more tragic moments than that. One of them was when Chief of the Firemen Sullivan was at
death's door by an injury sustained at the time of the earthquake. Bµt the
supreme tragic moment, the one that appealed to everyone in San Francisco
and outside points was, "what can be done with the hundreds of thousands
who are homeless and penniless?" The earthquake and fire were the acts
of God. The care for the poor, bewildered and destitute were the aets of
humanity. And from where was the first step toward relief to come? The
officials and the soldiery were active, but what of them in the case of those
who were flocking into the city of Oakland by the thousands-yes-tens of
thousands? They came unclothed-they came hungry, destitute, weary and
with hearts and minds heavy and numb because of the ordeal through which
they had just passed. This was the supreme moment and it is fortunate that
there were men in the city of Oakland who were equal to the emergency and
a goodly number of them wore the insignia of the Masonic fraternity.
On the <?akland side of San Francisco bay, it was like taking command
of a battle after it had been turned into a rout. The effectual fire fighting
in San Francisco was on the part of brave men who had the endurance or
permission to stay in threatened buildings, in fact it was of their own choice,
but the care of the wanderers, the putting of life into the stomachs and minds
of the wretched and depressed, the clothing of the naked, the feeding of the
destitute, fell into the hands of just as brave men as those who had risked
their lives in the attempt with dynamite and battering rams to stop the spread
of the flames. For is it not an act of bravery and stout-heartedness to feed
and clothe restless thousands when it took determined effort to find either
clothing or food, to find places in which the wretched could lay their heads,
to find blankets with which to cover their shivering forms? Is it not an act
of bravery to abandon one's business, to go without necessary sleep and to
labor by the light of the sun and throughout the darkest hours on behalf of
those unfortunates with whom you have no acquaintance or ties of relationship? Is it not bravery to risk your own lives to save those who hold
out hands of want to you for assistance? And these things and more were
done by the Oakland Masonic Relief Bureau.
Before going into detail as to work done in the city of Oakland by the
Masonic Relief Bureau after the arrival of the refugees here, it may be well
to give some reasons as to the necessity for such a chaotic condition of affairs from the scientific side of it. Alexander G. McAdie of the United States
Weather Bureau situated in San Francisco has said, "that not the least interesting feature of the great earthquake was the record made at various
points on the earth's surface, showing the displacement of the earth particle,

or in other words, the indication of the passing earth tremors and waves.
The instrument by which earthquake motion is determined is called a seismograph, and the particular type of instrument most favored today is the
Bosch-Omori horizontal pendulum seismograph. The instrument obtains
its name from an eminent investigator Bosch; and an equally eminent Japanese investigator-Dr. F. Omori, Professor of Seismology in the Tokyo Imperial University and member of the Imperial Earthquake Investigation
committee. Ten or more of these instruments are installed at different points
around the globe, and doubtless very full records have been attained, the discussion of which will materially increase our knowledge of the way in which
the earth's surface transmits the jar occasioned by any great slip or dislocation of strata, comll!only called an earthquake.
"Europe seems far away from the Pacific Coast ·and yet within twenty
minutes from the time the earthquake began in San Francisco these horizontal and vertical Micro-Seismographs were busy recording, as best they could,
the different sets of wave motions traversing the United States, speeding
across the Atlantic and hurrying throughout Europe. Japan is our neighbor
to the West. but not a close neighbor. Within eleven and one-half minutes
the seismographs in Tokyo were recording the beginning of the shock in San
Francisco. It was then about 10:30 Wednesday night in Japan-Japan
standard time. Without delay Prof. Omori could tell by means of the record
given on the seismograph that a severe earthquake had occurred on the American side of the Pacific at 5:13:05 A. M.-our time. The record of the earthquake at Washington, D. C., in the weather bureau laboratory obtained by
Prof. Charles Marvin, with a large Omori seismograph, told him before the
news had yet arrived from San Francisco that a severe dislocation of the
earth's crust had occurred about 2450 miles away from Washington. It was
then 8:19 in the morning, Washington time. The actual displacement of
the ground at Washington, D. C., was nearly one-half inch each side of a point
of rest. The movement was so slow, however, that only a seismograph could
detect it.
"At Tokyo the movement was a little less and equally slow. In San
Francisco if a record of the movement could have been obtained, perhaps an
inch or more each side of the neutral point would have been recorded; but
executed in an extremely short time. These displacements, continuing for
about forty seconds, from west to east and back again, and up and down,
constitute the heavy, racking and twisting motions known to nil of us.
"One of the most interesting features of the seismograph record is the
duration of the so-called preliminary tremors. These small waves travel
through the body of the earth at the rate of about six or seven miles a second. They precede the larger waves, which apparently move on the earth's
surface and travel at a rate of about two miles a second. Knowing the interval between the beginning of the preliminary tremors and the beginning
of the surface waves, we can determine approximately the point or line of

312

313

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

origin of the earthquake. Thus at Washington the preliminary tremor lasted
six minutes. At Tokyo, mne minutes and forty-nine seconds. At Birmingham, Engiand, they lasted twenty-live minutes. Sometime in the future
when seismographs will be in use in San Francisco, we will be able to note
the beginning of a small earthquake, and by comparing our seismograph
with those made elsewhere, determine the center or line of origin.
"At a point exactly midway around the world from San Francisco the
tremors would have lasted twenty-eight minutes. It is not merely to satisfy
scientific curiosity that such records are made. Far from it. The welfare
of mankind is the objective. Judging from the history of disturbances in
this kindly land, the present generation will probably not be called upon to
again undergo such experiences as those of April 18th.. Mankind fortunately
recovers quickly and as quickly forgets. A certain few, however, more devoted than ever to their labors, will follow the trail with a doggedness and
persistence that can only spell achievement, measuring earth movements
for the welfare of all men."
No sooner had the refugees and Masonic lodge members commenced to
arrive in Oakland, than those who had taken up the relief work realized that
there was an enormous amount of work to do. While the various members
of the order had done all that humans could do in the way of relief in San Francisco, there was a heavy strain on this side of the bay. In order that there
might be no confusion in arranging for transportation, food, clothing or money
for the really needy, the Masonic Executive Committee went at once to work
in the preparation of blanks which when properly filled out and signed, were
all that were needed by those in search of employment or anything else in
the way of assistance. That the simplicity of the form and yet its thoroughness might be determined, it is here reproduced :

The brothers . sent to San Francisco received much praise at the hands
of their superiors for .the splendid results they obtained and the general good
work done there. It was no easy task to climb about the brick-filled streets
and through hot debris to reach the side of those in trouble; it was no easy
task to convince many that it would be safe to cross San Francisco bay to
Oakland as they had been informed that Oakland was as bad off as San Francisco if not worse. As soon as they were prevailed to come to Oaklan d, how
ever, they were glad of the chance to get somewhere where they knew that
they would be provided for in every way. They were clothed, fed, housed,
given money, provided with transportation and sympathy at the hands of
the Masonic Relief Bureau and many of those so aided had no connection
. whatever with the Masons or any member of the Masonic fraternity. Yet
this had no effect on the attention given them. The Masonic records of the
greatandoverwhelmingdisaster show that numerous utter strangers to Masonryorthe crafth Ld the best ofatt.ention and at no cost to themselves. Hundreds of women nnrl likewise men who had no place to go and who were in need of
food, were taken in by the committees and properly attended. No worthy
subject, and in fact many unworthy ones were lifted upon their feet by those
who had willingly given their time and attention to the helpless who came
to Oakland in droves.

MASONIC RELIEF BUREAU
OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA, ....... .. .•... . ... ... ....... ....... 1906.
Name in full ....................................................................................... ............ , ............. .
Name and No. of Lodge ...................... ..... ..... ...... .......... .. ............................................. .
Location of Lodge ...................................................... .... .... .... .................................. .... ..
Wi.dow of. ........................, ............................................................................................ .
Daughter of ..................... ;............................................................................................... .
Former 1·ell'ideni:e.................................................... ......... ........ ............... ............... .... .... .
Pre.~ent rell'idence .......................................... ..... ..... .. .... ..... .... ... ......... ............................. ,
Occupation ........... ...... .. ...... ........ _ ........ ....................... ................................. ......... ....... ..
Lo1111.·........................ ......... ...................... .. ... .. ... ...... ..... .... .......... ... ..... ..... ...... ..... .. ......... . .
Condition of heal.th .......... :................... ... .... ...... .. ......... .. ...... .... ..... .... ........ .... ... ............. .
Transportation ............................... ........... :.. .. .... .. ...... ...... ........ ...... ..... ......... ....... ..... .......
Household furniture supplied ................ ........... ........... ... ... ................ ................. .......... .
Clothing furnished ................. .... ...... .......... .. .............................................................. .
Tools furnished . .......................................... ...... ..... ..... .. ...... .. ................................. .... ...
Bedding furnished ............. ............................... .. ... .... .. .... .... ..... ......... ............ .............. .
.. ................................... .......... .. ........................................ .. .
Provisions furnished.
Relwf in money, amt............................................................ .... ........ ,................. ......... ..
Character of employment desired ........................... ... ........... .... .... ........................ ... ..... .
Remarks: ........ .. ... .. ...

A slight idea of the enormous amount of work and good done by the Masonic Relief Bureau can be gleaned from minutes held by the members of
the bureau and of the Executive Committee. The first meeting, as has been
told, was held on ,t he twentieth day of April, a time when it was seen that every
organization, church and individual must put forth their best efforts toicare
for the thousands of refugees who were flocking to the Oakland side of the
bay. At that meeting, necessary committees were appointed and steps were
taken for obtaining and distributing information badges that there should
be no hitch in efficient service. It was at this meeting that the Grand Lodge
and the entire order of the state promised their support in the work. During the evening of the same day the wives of the members of the·various lodges
were called in to take a hand and right well did they do the work laid down
for them. The executive committee was appointed during this meeting
and many brothers volunteered their services in any capacity. In fact there
were so many wishing to give their aid, that no work could be found for them
to do. There was not a member of the order found who was not willing and
even anxious to get in line with the workers.
On a called meeting for April 28th, it being called to order by Chairman
R. W. Meek, it was agreed to transfer the .work of the committee to the secretary. In consequence the chairman was empowered to employ a competent
person who gave his entire time to the relief work. This was a great saving
of time to the committee which was working night and day to keep things
running smoothly and to see that all the wants of the refugees were attended
td. It was agreed at this meeting that the Executive Committee should
rneet nightly, until the stress of trouble was over, and it was also agreed that

314

315

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

three constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. A rule was established that the credit of the Relief Bureau be pledged for the furnishing
tools to properly accredited mechanics until such time as the recipients were
in a financial condition to pay for them. Household furniture was also guaranteed in the same manner. The chairman and secretary were granted power
to act in any way advisable in the matter of employing help and there was
discussion as to the proper mode or procedure in the purchase of needed iirticles such as clothing, underwear, shoes and hat.s.

laborious effort and daily strain. Take the Finance committee for instance.
The members of this committee, consisting of A. W. Burrell, J. W. McClymonds and J. F. Chandler worked day and night in their efforts to keep all
in working order. And when they did not find enough to keep them busy
with their own committee-which was seldom the case-they joined hands
with others and gave a boost where a boost was badly needed. They are to
be commended for their efforts on behalf of the homeless and hungry in San
Francisco and but for them, the general work would have been much harder
to handle. The members of a finance committee are in a rather unenviable
position because of the vast amount of work and worry which is their lot.

During the meeting of May 14, Brother Robert E. Evans was directed to
issue supplies from the Masonic Temple only on Mondays and Thursdays.
Prior to this time a vast amount of clothing and food stuffs had been issued
every day from the Temple but by this time there was less rail for aid, many
of the refugees having secured work or taken their departure for other pa:r:ts,
so the daily issuance of supplies was considered not necessary. As the demands were fewer the members of the executive committee decided at this
meeting to have sessions only on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays instead
of every night in the week. This was agreed to by every member of the executive committee and despite the decrease of the number of sessions in a week,
all relief work was most thoroughly attended fo. At the meeting on May
18th, the first case of one's mind being effected through the horrors of the
earthquake, was brought to the attention of the mem.b ers of the executive
committee. A member of· the lodge visited the house where the unfortunate was located and he and his wife were furnished with necessaries and given
transportation to their home in Los Angeles county where they could be given
proper attention. Another member was given transportation to Fresno,
he having lost everything in the disaster.
Up to and including May 25th, much general business was transacted
and at a meeting on the latter date, Chairman Meek notified those present
that he was in receipt of $5000 from Most Worshipful Motley H. Flint for
relief purposes.
This willgive but a slight impression of the actual work that was done
by those in charge as well as the regular relief workers of the Masonic Relief
Bureau. Hundreds and thousands of cases were attended to; transportation
was given out with a lavish hand, hundreds. were clothed and a countless
army of the needy were given food and shelter. It would be most difficult
to call to mind just the number of cases attended to. There are records of
a number of them, but in many instances not even a pencil mark was kept
as a record of most charitable a.ct~, but those who aided the needy were of
large hearts and carry in their being the souls of men which cannot stand
idly by and see humanity suffer. ·
That which has been told heretofore was largely attended to by the executive committee. While their actions were all that could be desired and that
they directed the general relief work, goes without saying, but the labor of
the members of the other committees was far from being anything but most

And then there is the printing committee which consisted of Thomas
Miller, Roy Farish and J . H. Taylor. They were tireless at their task and
their efforts greatly assisted every other committee in the relief work. Then
there was the auditing committee-the committee which has more to look
after possibly than any other committee other than the executive committee.
But the auditing of bills, the straightening out of many tangled matters is
of no small consequence. Their work must be conscientiously and thoroughly
done and this was so in regard to this committee. One of the best committees
of the Oakland Relief Committees, was the Auditing Committee with James
P. Edoff at its head. Both that committee and the Auditing Committee of
the Masonic Relief Bureau are worthy of the utmost praise.
Then there was the Bedding and Cots Committee. They are obliged to
work hard and those who believe that relief work from standpoint of this committee is not difficult and trying work, he or she try it. Here and there and
there and here for something for the needy to rest a weary head. A hunt
fora cot, a search for a bed and when the day is done and although hundreds have
been provided for in this direction, there are hundreds more waiting for a
repetition of the work that has gone before. And the Train Committee.
Those who have fought their way through large crowds i'!st for the purpose
of finding a relative or friend, can realize what the members of such a committee must have to contend with. At the time just following the earthquake there were thousands hurrying to Oakland. It was the duty of the
members of this committee to locate the deserving refugees and see to it that
they were properly cared for, and it was a gigantic undertaking.
Then we have the ,H ousing committee. The members of this committee
were obliged to go from place to place in search of rooms and other accommodations for those who were arriving in Oakland faBter than they could be
provided for by all the relief committees, lodges, churches and other like associations. The Housing committee worked day and night in Oakland to get
rooms for those who depended upon them in this direction. Every house
in Oakland was visited with the hopes that a vacant room could be found.
They were successful in many instances but in a great majority of cases, the
wanderers were sent to the refugee camps or to tents provided for them.
Every cot available to the Masons was pressed into service regardless of race,

316

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

color or affiliations and many a weary body, many an aching head, was rested
and soothed through the efforts of those working on the housing committee.
They will not soon be forgotten by the wretched who kept arriving in this
city for weeks after the first earthquake shock felt on the morning of April
18th, in the city of San Francisco.
And the Supply Committee was kept equally busy. There were but two
on this'committee-Constant Meese and J. H. Hunt, and although they were
not very prompt at their own meals because of the amount of work they had
to.do, they saw to it that not a refugee, whether a Mason or not, was not provided for-that is those refugees with whom they came in contact or were
turned over to them by some other committee of the Oakland Relief Bureau.
The getting of supplies at the time the work was going on was no easy matter
and the work was well done.
'
The committeemen who registered those looking for aid in the way of
shelter, food, money, clothing or transportation had no easy affairs on their
hands. It is the intention in this resume of the work done through the Oa,kland Masonic Relief Bureau to show as far as a portion of the records were
kept, cases who applied for and were given assistance from one standpoint
or another. The cases will be run in numbers as follows.
CABE 1-Me.inber of Estrella del Pacifico Lodge No. 33, Panama, Colombia-furniture supplied.
CABE 2"-Member of Elgin Lodge No. 117, Elgin, Illinois-$25.
CABE 3-Member of Oriental Lodge No. 360, Shangai, s. c.,-$1.50.
CASE 4--Member of Nevada Lodge No. 13, Nevada City-tools given.
CASE 5·-Member of Berkeley Lodge No. 363,. Berkeley, Cal.-$100.
CASE 6-Member of Madison Lodge No. 323 of Grass Valley, Cal.-fur- ·
niture and bedding.
CASE 7-Member of Greenbush Lodge No. 337, Albany, N. Y.,-tent.,
mattress and blankets.
CASE 8-Member of St. John's Lodge, Kingston, Canada-suit of clothes,
underclothing and money.
CABE 9-Member of Herman Lodge No. 127, San Francisco-chairs, mattress and bureau.
CASE IO-Member of !Ancient Land Mark Lodge No. 5, St. Paul, Minn.,transportation for seven.
.
.
CASE 11-Member of Emanuel Lodge No. 654, New York City-food.
CASE 12-Member of Aztlan Lodge No. 1, Prescott, Arizona-transportation.
CABE 13-Member of Adelphi Lodge No. 23, New York City-$20.
CASE 14-Member of Minerva Lodge, Athens, Greece-transportation to
New York for four.
·
CASE 15-Member of Oakland Lodge No. 188-provisions furnished.
CABE 16-Member of Aurora Lodge, Henniker, N. H.--'transportation
to Byron Springs.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFPRNIA.

317

CASE 17-Memberof Evanston Lodge No. 4, Evanston, Wyoming-clothng and furniture.
CASE 18-Member of Erie Lodge No.' 161, Buffalo, N. Y.-suit of clothes
and pair of shoes.
CASE 19-Member of Lodge in State of Nevada-$10.
CASE 20--Member of Western Star Lodge No. 2-given employment.
CASE 21-Member of King Solomon Lodge, San Francisco-established
in businei;;s.
CASE 22-Member of Louisiana Lodge-moved to San F'rancisco.
CASE 23-Meinber of Union Lodge No. 2, Detroit, Michigan-transportation to Detroit.
CABE 24-Member of Freeman, Mo., Lodge-transportation.
CABE 25-Member of Onorga Lodge No. 805, Moberly, Mo.,-transportation home.
CASE 26-Member of Pacific Lodge No. 136, San Francisco-transportation to Denver.
CASE. 27-Member of Plymouth Lodge No. 332, Plymouth, Penn.,transportation to Chicago.
CASE 28-Member of Reno Lodge, Reno, Nevada-transportation to
Fort Atkinson, Wis.
CASE 29-Member of Oklahoma Lodge No. 3, Oklahoma City, 0. T.transportation to Pittsburg, Pa.
CASE 30--Member of Iowa Lodge No. 2, Muscatine, Iowa-transportation to Muscatine.
CABE 31-Member of OC'cidental Lodge No. 22 of San Francisco-transportation to New York City for two,
CASE 32-Member of Montgomery Lodge, Milford, Mass.,-transportation to New York City.
CABE 32-Member of Temple Lodge No. 299, Kansas City, Mo.,-transportation to Kansas City.
CABE 33-Member of Carrigan Lodge, Marion Co., Ill.,-transportation
to Chicago.
CASE 34-Member of Los Angeles Lodge-transportation.
CABE 35-Member of Los Angeles Lodge-transportation.
CABE 36-Member of Richmond Lodge No. 66, West Brighton, N. Y.transportation to Rivera, Cal.
CASE 37-Member of Yondota Lodge No. 572-transportation for wife
and children to Cleveland, Ohio.
CASE 38-Member of Mission Lodge No. 169-transportation to Kings
Court, Ont.
CABE 39-Member of .Kansas City' Lodge No. 220--transportation.
CASE 40--Member of Rosemelle Lodge No. 232, Springfield, Mase---.,
transportation to Denver.
CASE 41-MemberofLodgeof.Old Monroi-, Mo.,-transportation for wife
and self to Old Monroe.

318

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CASE 42-Wife of member of Kansas City Lodge-transportation.
CASE 43-Member of National Lodge No. 12, Washington, D. C.,-tra118portation to Denver, Colo.
·
CASE 44---Member of Sunflower Lodge No. 86, Wichita, Kansas-transportation home.
CASE 45-Member of King Oscar Lodge No. 855, Chicago-transportation home.
CASE 46-Member of Preston Lodge No. 281, Louisville, Ky.,-transpor·
tation home.
CASE 47-Member of Narragansett Lodge, Fall River, Mass.-transportation to ew York City.
CASE 48-Member of Porterville Lodge No. 303, Porte"rville, Cal.-t~ns­
portation to Dublin, Wayne County, Ind.
CASE 49-Member of Boulder Lodge No. 45, Boulder, Coio.~transpor­
tation to Denver.
CASE 50-Wife of member of Kansas City Lodge-transportation. ,
CASE 51-Member of Palace Lodge No. 765, Pullman, Ill.-transportation home.
CASE 52-Refugee, Portland, Ore.-transportation home.
CASE 53-Refugee, Santa Cruz- transportation home.
CASE 54-Refugee, Portland, Ore.-tr,ansportation home.
CASE 55-Refugee, Galconda, ev.-transportation home.
CASE 56-Refugee, San Luis Obispo, -transportation home.
CASE 57-Member of Mt. Jackson Lodge No. 295, Guerne)rville, Cal.transportation to Portland. Ore.
CASE 58-Daughter of member of Mosaic Lodge No. 218, Livermoretransportation to San Luis Obispo.
CASE 59- Member of Fidelity Lodge No. 120, Portland, Ore.- transportation home.
CASE 60---Wife and twochildren of Member of Los Angeles Lodge.:-transportation to Los Angeles.
CASE 61-Wife and child of Los Angeles Mason-transportation.
CASE 62-Wife and three children of member of Naval Lodge No. 87,
Vallejo, Cal.-transportation.
CASE 63-Wife and four children of member of St. Paul Lodge No. 3,
St. Paul, Minn.-transportation to St. Paul.
CASE 64-Member of Selma Lodge No. 277 and wife and child-trapsportation to Fowler, Fresno County.
CASE 65-Wife of member of Harmony Lodge No. 6, Galveston, Texastransportation to Austin, Texas.
·CASE 66-Refngee of Marysville, Cal.-transportation home.
CASE 67-Refugee of Chicago, Ill.- transportation home.
CASE 68- Member of Washington Lodge No. 3, Baltimore and wife and
three children- transportation home.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

319

CASE 69-Daughter of member of Williamsport, Pa., lodge-transportation to Williamsport.
CASE 70---Member of Waterville Lodge No. 33, Waterville, Maine-mattress and fly for tent.
CASE 71-Member of Lincoln Lodge No. 19, Linncoln, Neb.-transportation.
CASE 72-Member of Hammond Lodge, Boston-to hospital.
CASE 73-Member of Perseverance Lodge No. 92, Louisiana, Mo.-general .asaistance.
CasE 74-Daughter of member of Ellsworth Lodge No. 55, Clevelandtransportation home.
CASE 75-Member of Henemoa Lodge No. 786, New Zealand- financial
aid and sent to San Francisco.
CASE 76--Wife of member of Pierre Marquette Lodge No. 299, Ludington, Mich.-$20.
CASE 77-Member of Eel River Lodge No. 147, Rohnerville, Humboldt
County, Cal.-clothing.
CASE 78-Member of Golden Gate Lodge No. 30, San Francisco-clothing furnished.
CASE 79-Daughter of deceased member of Gaylord Lodge No. 183, Gaylord, Kansas-$10.
CASE 8~Daughter of member of Asalia Chapter No. 77, 0. E. S., San
Andreas, Cal.-material to make dress and one pair shoes.
CABE 81-Widow of member of Commandery Lodge No. 1, Henderson,
Ky.-clothing furnished.
CASE 82-Member of Doric Lodge No. 216, San Francisco-$20.
CASE 83-Member of Knightstown Commandery, Knightstown, Ind.general relief.
CA.SE 84-M.ember of Sancterum Lodge, Brooklyn, N. Y.- clothing and
shoes.
CASE 85-Wife of member of King Solomon's Lodge No. 260, San Francisco-clothing for herself and children.
CASE 86-Member of Oriental Lodge No. 33, Chicago-money and clothing.
CASE 87-Member of Crockett Lodge No. 139, San Francisco- bed covering, overcoat and underwear.
CASE 88- Member of Tenquoise Lodge No. 10, Tonopah, Nev.- bedding
furnished. ·
CASE 89-Sister of member of Golden Gate Lodge No. 30, San Francisco-bedding.
CASE 90---Member of Tehema Lodge No. 3, Sacramento-underclothing
and shoes.
CASE 91-Member of Cyrene Lodge No. 14, Cyrene, Mo.- food and $25.
CASE 92-Daughter of member of Pacific Lodge No. 136, San Francisco-bedding.

320

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CASE 93-Member of Sanctorum Lodge No. 747, Brooklyn, N. Y.clothing furnished.
CASE 94--Member of Montgomery Lodge No. 68, New York City-trans
portation to Chicago.
·
CASE 95-Member of Carthage Lodge No. 197, Carthage, Mo.-transportation to Los Angeles where he went in search of work.
CASE 96-Wife of member of Excelsior Lodge No. 166, San Francisco-·
clothing.·
CASE 97-Member of Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44, San Francisco-provisions furnished.
CASE 98- Member of Doric Lodge No. 274, Philadelphia, Pa.-clothing,
underwear, shirt and hat.
CasE 99-Member of Jewel Lodge, San Francisco-provisions.
CASE 100-Member of Columbia Chapter No. 75, Washington, D. C.provision.s furnished.
These first one hundred applications are included in this report with the
object in view of showing the various requirements of the refugees and . to
illustrate how many different lodges had members who were rendered entirely destitute by flame a~d earthquake.
Some wanted one thing and some another. There were petitions for
transportation, food, clothing, cooking utensils, tents, cots and bedding and
numerous other articles needless to mention. The largest number probably
asked for transportation as they were anxious to get near friends or relatives.
But hundreds were clothed and fed during the days of stress and discontent
following the disaster. In the Masonic Temple there was a n unusually busy
scene. Those without places to sleep and those without food or shelter were
all provided for and it is safe to say that the members of the Masonic fraternities were as heavy losers as those connected with any like organization.
And the members of the Oakland Masonic Relief Bureau did not stop
to look into their own losses when they saw the thousands or homeless flocking in Oakland. They at once prepared to meet the emergency and most
well did they do the work. They worked hand in hand with the Oakland
Relief Committee and outside lodges and also did much individual and collective relief work. Had it not been for the Oakland Masonic Relief Bureau
in Oakland, there would have been much unnecessary suffering and want.
The Masons, as has been said before, did not only care for Masons, but out
of the generosity of their own hearts and pockets, prepared most generously
and aided greatly in the general relief work which was going on. In fact
the Oakland Masonic Bureau considered itself a part of a great organization
of relief committees, lodges and churches which were working toward one
end-the care of the de9titute and the protection of the helpless.
The exact details of the work can never be tabulated. So much good
was done and quickly forgotten because of something else to do, that no record
was kept of every act, but the general aid given and the charity extended,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

321

will not be forgotten long after the city of San Francisco has cleared away
her debris and risen anew 1 one of the grandest cities of our United States.
And she will not forget that Oakland willingly and unselfishly held out a helping hand to the bewildered San Franciscans who called loudly for aid.
Those who worked with and assisted the Oakland Masonic Relief Bureau, have not looked for nor did they expect that they would receive any
words of praise for their many worthy acts, but to give succor to the hungry,
to hunt out homes for the needy and to do other such deeds of valor, place
such men side by side with those who have made history through times of
war and troublous periods. The man who will aSl:!istanother man and neglect his own affairs and relatives to do so, is· a man, every inch of him. And
the world-knows it, knows that Oakland produced more real men than has
been the fortune of any other city within the confines of the Un.lied States.
For the occasion presented itself and those in charge of things, were not found
wanting.
Money was no object to those doing ~lief work. The pinched, drawn,
miserable faces and bodies of the women and children as well as men who
came here for succor and relief, were too much a lesson of self denial to allQw
any to stop to think of self gain or self sacrifice. Taken from the outset the
the affair was well and most thoroughly handled. While the members of the
Masonic Bureau were doing all in their power to relieve suffering, there were
others in Oakland doing the same. And when the needy were concentrated
in the camps on the Oakland shores of San Francisco bay, the efforts of all
were doubled.
Nightly meetings of the ·executive committee were held while the crisis
was on and they were all well attended. Questions of vital moment were
discussed and considered from every view-point and in most instances were
decided with practical unanimity. And the financing of this emergency enterprise was no small matter of itself. The money raised in Oakland was
supplemented by generous contributions from many outside points. The
difficulty and rather delicate duty of determining the demands made upon
the treasury was carefully and conscientiously perfonned and a system of
vouchers was devised that saved many dollars for the Masonic Bureau and
guaranteed the.disbursement of money without fear of favor or mistake.
The ladies who gave su~h great and willing assistance during the days
of trials and troubles following the earthquake and fire, should come in for
much deserving praise. Their knowledge of humanity and their quicR sense
of justice, worked much toward the splendid ends attained. They were here,
there and everywhere, looking out for the interests of the affiicted and had
it not been for their hearty co-operation with the male sex, who were also
hard and willing workers, it is more than probable that it would have taken
much more time to right affairs than it did.
There is one individual whose position was most trying and yet who wa~
never heard to enter a complaint and that person is Robert G. Evans, chief

322

, PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

of the Commissary department. Although his duties were many and varied,
he attended to them with such exa.c tness and business ability, that there was
no -confusion in obtaining and distributing food to the refugees.. At one time
shortly .after the overwhelming disaster, the banquet hall in the Masonic
Temple proved inadequate for the horde of needy who were served with meals
and a coffee and sandwich line was instituted on the street. · For a number
of days there were hundreds who satisfied their appetites in this manner ·and
the line was done away with only after affairs had become largely settled.
Mr. Evans had much assistance from the ladies in his work and felt thankful
for it.

The contributions to the Oakland Masonic Relief Bureau are as foHows:
Through Most Worshipful Motley H. Flint, Grand Master of Masons of
California, $14,600.
·
'
Portland Lodge No. 55... . " ... .. ... . ... .. , .. ... . . . ..... . .. .. . .
Oakland Lodge No. 188 , . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hall Warehouse Co. . . .
Live Oak Lodge No.
W. A. Hermie .. ...... ... ... ..... .. .... . . ... . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . .
Frank H . Wright ... ... . .. . . . .. . ...... . . .. .. .... .... . .. . . ... .
James McClese . . . .... . .. . .. . ............. ... . . .. . ..... . . .. .
William Bufton . . .. .
Grove City Lodge, Bl~~kf~t~ .Id~h~
A friend . . , . ...... ... ... ... . . ... .. .... . .. .... . . ... , ... . . .. . .
~· C. Waterhouse . .. ... . ... .. ... ... . .. . ....... . ...... . .. . ... .
Capt. Chas. J. Anderson . . ...... ..... ... ..... . ....... .... .... .
Berkley Lodge No. 363 ... . ... . ... .. .. . ...... . . . . . .... .. ... ... .
Tuscan Lodge No. 26, Williams, Cal .... . ... .......... . ... . .. . . .
August Hageman, Livermore ....... . . ... .... . . . ..... .. ..... , .. .
A. G. Little ........ ........ ....... .. .. . .. . . .... . ... . . .. . . . . . ..
Alisel Lodge No. 321, P leasanton, Cal ...... .... .... . . .. ... . . . . .
W. W. Price, Alta, Cal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. John's L9<fge No. 37 .... ... . ..... .... ..... . ... ..... . . , . . , .
Howard Lodge No. 99 .. ..... . .. . .. .... . . ..... .. .... . ... .. . .. .
Cynes Chapter No. 15 . ................ . ..... . ............... .
Mt. Shasta Commandery No. 32 . .. . ..... .... . ... . . .... ... .... .
Stella Chapter No. 39, 0. E. S. . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .. , ... . . .... .. .
Brooklyn Lodge No. 225 . . . . . . ..... .. ... ... . ... . . . . .. . .. . .... .
Winnedumah Lodge No. 287, Bishop, Cal . . .. . . . ........ . .... . . .
Millbury Lodge, Millbury, Mass . ............ . ... . ... . ...... . .. .
C. L. Sumbardo, Houston, Texas .. . .. . . .. .... .. . .... .. ..... . . .
Robert M. Francis . ...... ....... .. . . .... ... . .. .... .. . . . .. . .. .
Rockland Granite Lodge No. 222 ..... . .. .. . . .. . .. .. . . .. ..... .. .
Harrington State Bank, Harrington, Wash . ...... . . .... .... .. . . ,
Ernest Parkham, Memphis, Tenn. . .. ... . . .... ... ... . . . .. .. . ... .
Harmony Lodge No. 20, New Britton, Conn . ... .... . .. .. . . ..... .
.Pencasular Commandery No. 8, Kalamazoo, Mich ......... , .•. . . ..
Masonic Lodge No. 28, Trinidad, Col. . ..... . ... .. .. .. .. . . .. . . .. .
Russell State Bank, Russell, Kansas .. . . .. . . . . . . . ... .. . . .. . . ... .
Oakland Lodge No. 188 . ... . .... . . . . .... .. .. ...... .. ..... .. . . .
Bay State L~ge, St. Louis, Mo .. ..... .. . . . ..... ..... . ......... .
J . G. Rope, Chico .. . .. .... ... . . .... . . .. . . . ... . .. . . . ....... . . .
pve Oak Lodge No. 61 ........ . .. ........... . . ... . . ....... . .
Kirksville Lodge No. 105, Mo. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . .. .. .
Macon Lodge No. 8, Decatur, Ill ....... . . . . . .. .. . . .... .. .. . .. . .

6l .'. '. ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

It might be said again that it w.o uld be utterly useless to give a detailed
statement of the work done or to personally mention each and every one who ·
had a hand in the work, but they have satisfaction in the fact that t heir work
was appreciated, it having been done well-extremely well. Those who
toiled in Oakland and those who labored in San Francisco well realize that
if it had not been for united effort on the part of all concerned, no such worth)io
and commendable actions could ·have been carried out and no such self-satisfying results have been obtained. There is not a man, woman or child,
Mason, or members of other organizations who can help but admit that the
liberality of Most Worshipful Motley H. Flint was not excelled by any individual nor can they deny that Dr. R. W. Meek, Chairman of the Executive
committee and President of the Oakland Masonic Relief Association did not
do everything in his power to aid the afflicted and to give his assi~tance to
every m~"l who willingly gave time and attention to the work of relief. Neither
can it be denied that each and every member of any of the committees under
the Masonic order did all within human reason and endurance to rarry out
the work laid down for them. The sick were sen t to proper institutions or
to friends, the naked were given clothing, the hungry were liberally fed, the
strangers were given transportation to their homes and everything was done
that could be done for the welfare of the unfortunate visitors from San Francisco.
Despite the fact that t he offirers and committeemen as well as many
others did all in their power to give comfort to the needy, they would have
been powerless to act without the aid of those who contributed so liberally
to the relief fund of the Masonic Relief Bureau of Oakland. Money poured
in from every direction and was put to the best of use. Everything was
carried on along strictly business lines and the financial report shows that the
O~kland Masonic Relief Bureau ha d on hand at the meeting of September
10, 1906, the splendid sum of $1 1,046.08. As the relief work is to be continued
throughout the year, this money wili be used in the general work of relief
and that it will be iu.diciously distributed, goes without saying.

323

: '. ::::'. ::::::::. ::::::::::::.'.

\

$5 .00
20.00
100.00
3 .25
10.00
5.00
20.00
2 .00
IO .00
:2 .00

5 .00
5.00
I0.00
100 .00
100 .00
10.00
500.00
7 .50
100.00
I00 .00
100.00
100 .00
100 .00
20 .00
100.00
100 .00
10 .00
5.00
I00.00
50.00
5. 00
200 .00
50.00
100 .00
25. 00
5 .00
50.00
I0 .00
10 .00
IO .00
50 00

324

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Barnett Lodge, Delaware . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
IO .00
F. A. Chase, W. ·M. Lodge No. 74, Spokane . . ..... . . .. . . ... .. ... IOOO .00
Grand Recorder of Kansas City K. T.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600 .00
Gates Livery Stable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3 .00
Ott Stebloch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1 .00
Masonic Fraternity and Mystic Shriners of Dayton, Ohio ... . . .. . ... IOOO .00
V. H. Snook.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
25 .00
Tacoma Lodge No. 22 .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5 .00
J. W. Wigginton .. ..... . .'........ ..... . . ............ ..... . . . .
3 .85
W. J. Ustick; Chicago . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
10 .00
Hollywood Lodge No. 355, Hollyw.ood, Cal . . ... .. . . . . . . ... .. . ... . . . 75 .00
Oriental Lodge No. 74, Spokane . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25Q .00
Masons of Providence, R. I .. .. . . . ... . . . . . . .. ......... . ... . .. .. 1000 .00
Chico Lodge No. 111. .. . ... . . . .... . ........... ,.. . . ... .. . .... .
25 .00
J . l.Casale .. ... . . . .... .. .. . . . . . ...... . .. . .. .. .... . .. . .. .....
8.00
Columbia .Chapter No. 132, Grand Rapids . .. ... ..... ... . ... :....
25 .oo.
C. E . Chambers .. . . .. . . . ........ .. ..... . ....... . . . ·. . . ... . . ...
25 .00
Eden Lodge No. 113, San Leandro ........ . ........ . ... . ... . . . :
50 . 00
St. Paul Lodge No. 3, St. Paul, Minn .. . . .. .... . . .... ...... .. : . 150 .00
J . H . Combs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1.90
E. N. Wilberg, refunded . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50 .00
Solomon Kam~erer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50 .00
W.P.Reid,Jr. .. . ........... . ...... . ............... . ..... . ..
50.'38
Doric Chapter ~o. 36, San Leandro. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50 .00
William Pray . . . . ... . ... . ... . . . . . . . . . . .. . . ..... . . . . . . .. . . .. . .
2 .00
Imperial German C..onsulate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5 .00
F idelity Lodge No. 120, Portland, Ore.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
12 .50
Aurora Lodge, F itchburg, Ma~. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IOO .00
C. E . Chambers . . .. . ... . .. . . .... . . . . . .. ........... . . ... .. .. . .
1 .50
Mrs. E. Wilberg, refunded . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
15 .OCI
Oriental Lodge No. 74, Spokane. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
59 .00
Doric Lodge, No. 216, San Francisco . . .. .. ....... . ... . .. : . . . . . .
9 .70
William Horlick, Jr. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
25 .00
George H . Rand .. .. .. . ..... . ....... . . . .... . ..... .. ... . ... . . ..
40 .00
Thomas Chapter, Fitchburg, Mass ... . .......... . .. . .. '.. . . . . . . . . . 100 .00
Mrs. J ennie C. Stutzman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4 .05
Occidental Lodge No. 22, refunded . . .... .. . . . ... . ... . . . ..... .. .
17 .60
A Stranger ... .. .. . . ........ ... .. . ......... . .. . : . . . . . . . . . . . . .
59 .25
For transportation, stranger . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
23 . IO
Boston Commandery ....... . ..... . .. . . .. . . ... . ... .... ...... . .
74 .50
Los Angeles Examiner, for tents.... . .... . .......... . . .. .. . . . . . 150 .00

325

Where a repetition is seen in the columns of the donators, it is the result of the same party having sent checks or money on various dates. They
may have sent one amount for the use· of t he Relief Bureau or it may have
been sent in some instances to be used in specified cases.
The amounts paid out will be shown in total amounts and vouchers for
such amounts and t he parties to whom t he money wae paid are at this time
in the hands of Chairman Dr. R. W. Meek of the Executive Committee of the
Oakland Masonic Relief Bu~eau. Of the sum of $22,081.08, the amount of
$ll ,034.45 was paid out as follows. :
Statement from April 20th to September 11th, 1906, Masonic Relief
GEo. ROETH, Treas.
Bureau of Oakland, Cal.
DISBURSEMENTS.

R elief (cash) .. .... . .. . ... .. .. ...... ......... . ...... . . . .... . . 1885.67
Transportation (R. R. Co's.) . .. ... . .. .. . ... . ... .. . . . ......... . 3110.90
Provisions (food supplies) .. ..... . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . .. .. .. .... . . . 1164 .21
Clothing and shoes ..... ... . :-. . ......... .. . . . .. . ..... . . ... . . . . 613 .80
Teaming (hauling supplies) . .................. . ...... .. .... . . . . 1537 .72
La bor . .. ...... . ............. . ..... . .. . ..... . ... . . ... . .. . .. . 649 .25
Drugs and Doctors . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . .... . . ... . . .... .. . .. ... . ... . 242.89
E:fense ,(office, stamps, etc.) ...... . .. . . . .. ... . .... .. . ... . . . .. . 161 .91
Oa land Gas L. & H . C.. . ... . . . . . .. . ... .. .. .... . .... .. . .... . . llO .80
Printing (ads, badges, etc.) . . .. . ....... . . . .... .. .. ... ...... . . . . 109.05
Furniture and tools . . .. . . ... . . . . ... ... . . . ... .. .. . . ... ... . ... . 746.80
Tents . . .. . .. . . .... . .. . ...... . . .. ..... .. ........ ... ........ . 150 .00
Mattresses.. . . .. . . .. .... .. .. . ...... . . . ....... .. .... .. ... . . .. . 248 .40
Cleaning carpets . . ... . . . .. .. .... . ....... . .. . . .. .. ..... . . .. . . . . 228.05
Funeral expense .... .. . .. .. ..... .. . . ...... . ........ . . .. . .... .
75 .00
Sl1034 .45
Sept . 11th, balance on hand ... . ... .. . ... . .. . . . .. .. . S ll 046 .63

Grand total .. . ... . .. . .. . . . . . . ..... ...... .. . .. . ....... . .$22081 .08

I

326

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

327

ALAMEDA RELIEF BOARD.
Alameda, Cal., Sept. 16, '06.
Motley H. Flint,
Most Worshipful Grand Master,
Los Angeles, Cal.
Dear Sir and Brother:We submit herewith statement of the relief extended by Oak Grove Lodge
No. 215, F. & A. M.
9n April 19th, 1906, a special. meeting was called for the purpose to.
provide ways and means to secure aid for .the refugees. A motion was made
and seconded that the Master be authorized to spend $500. 00 and appoint a
committee of fifteen to assist him in caring for them.
The committee was divided into squads of three who worked on all the
local trains coming into our city and turned them over to others who were
in waiting to receive them and conveyed by vehicle to our hall, where they
were fed and made as comfortable as possible.
. A quantity of bedding was bought, used for making beds for the many
-~fugees, the large hall being for families and women, the .s mall hall being
used for the men.
A number were permitted to take bedding where shelter could be provided
in different parts of our city.
The Temple was thrown open on the morning of April 20 and was kept
open for twenty-four h?urs per day till Thursday, May 3, 1906, when t he dining
room was closed.
No account was kept of the number of meals served.
No one was turned away, no questions asked as to sect or opinion, t hat a person who came up the steps was in need was sufficient.
Through the aid ol the Ladies of the Eastern Star, and others, the dining
room was handled splendidly, flowers brightened the tables and t he sympathetio
touch of these kind hands gladdened the hearts of many a sufferer.
The committee are indebted to many who gave their time and Bervice
and others who refused pay for service and supplies;Received from Grand Master, _______ __ __ _
$1100.00
· Bedding purchased and distributed,_ __ ___ $166.60
Cash paid out to refugees,_ __________ ____
315.25
Printing____________ _______________ ___
5. 26
Drayage
-----------------10
10
lnciden tals ____________ ____________ __ _
5.. 25
Drugs, -- -- --- - - -------------- -- - -- -Physicians services,- -- -- - -- - -- - - - -----Nurse hire_~-__ __________________ _ ____
Gas, refufu: family> ----- - - -- - ----- - - - - Rent1 .re ugee family, -------- - - -- - ----Prov1s10ns, ___._ __ __ ______ _____________
Hardware supplies, _________________ ___
Labor, ___ ________________________ __ _
Cash Balance on hand _________________ _

W. Leydecker,

T.

Treasurer.

1.10
15.10
91. 50
4.94
48.50
88. 70
21. 60
96 . 50
229. 30

$1100.00 $1100.00
Respectfully submitted,
H . M. Hammond,
Master of Oak Grove Lodge
No. 215, F. & A. M.

SANTA ROSA RELIEF BOARD.
Santa Rosa, Eept. 15, 1906.
M. W. Motley H. Flint
Loa Angeles, Cal.
Dear Sir and Brother:ln reply to your letter of the 16th inst. requesting a repo1 t in regard to
relief work incident to .the disaster of April 18 '06 will eay:At t he regular meeting of Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57, F. & A. l\'J., held
on May 6, a relief committee composed of Bros. C. A. Lane, E. R. Eawyer,
W. L. Whitaker and C.. D. Barnett were regularly elected by the Ledge to
take full charge of the relief work among the Masonic brethem, their widows
and orphans in its jurisdiction
Following is a complete statement of receipt and disburserr:ents to date.
RECEIPTS.
Mar 3, '06 Cash, - - ------------- - -- - -- - ---- -----' 7,
,,
- - --------- - ---- --- - - - ---------" 27
" ----- ---- - ----------------------Julv is;
,r 5,

$1000.00
1500.00
15000.00
10000 .00
1000.UU

Tota~-- - - ---- - - - - --

$28500 .0Q

DISBURSEMENTS.
Paid Masonic Hall Ass'n, ____ _____ _____ __ __ ___
$15000.00
Personal relief, clothing, groceries etc., ___ _____ _____ _
243.00
Mason's widows and families,______________ __ ____ _
458.75
Mechanic's tools, physician's outfits etc., ____ ______ _
225 .00
Funeral expenses, drugs, nurses, medical attendance
etc., __ ______ ___ ___ ___ _________ __ _
667 .00
Expenses, familr to eastern relatives, ___________ __ __
100 .00
Repairing d.wellmgs e~c., ___ ___ ___ __ _______ ___ __ _
521 . 25
Paid Masomc Hall~ n, __ __ ~ ___ ________ _________ _ 10000 .00
Expenses to Windsor, Camp Meeker, Sonoma, telegrams etc., ____ __ ____ _______ ___·____ _
10.00
Ca.qh in bank, special acc't r- ___ - __ ___ _____________ _
1255.75
" on hand, . ____ ______ ___ __ ______ - _- - - - - - - ___ _
19 .25
-~

$28500. 00
Carl A. Lane.
E. R. Sawyer.
W. L. Whitaker.

328

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

329

Your early telegram advising me that you had plenty of funds at hand
for relief purposes and tendering me such amount as might be required, as
well as extending your sympathy to those members who were afflicted, came
promptly to hand

SAN JOSE RELIEF BOARD.

With great gratitude to those jurisdictions and lodges who contributed
it, your fund has been drawn against to the amount of Seven Thousand Dollars.
Some thirty odd casei. have been attended to out of this fund, amounting in
all to the sum of $3,577 49 and leaving a balance on hand to date as noted below

To Motley H. Flint,
Grand Master F. &. A. M., of California.
M. W. Sir and Brother:
The great calamity of April last , occasioned special and immediate
acti~n in doing our part toward rendering every kind offiee that might be

required of the Masonic Fraternity in those trying days.

.

Many thoughtful and kindly acts had already been performed by member~ of the craft, both as citizens and Masons and by the Masonic Board of
Rehef ot Sa~ Jose, .when a special gathering of Masons took place on
Sunday mornmg, April 22nd at the Masonic Temple at San Jose, called by
the. Masters of the Lodges of that city at which I was L-ppointed permanent
chairman. A secretary and twQ assistants were chosen and arrangements
made · for · systematic relief work at the railroad depots and elsewhere
Inside of an hour after adjournment, a large tent had been erected at the S.· p.
Depot and headquarters established there. The trustees of the Unitarian
Church kindly tendered the fraternity the use of the church and the edifice
was immediately supplied with cots, blankets etc. for caring for the refugees
from San Francisco.

•

Books were also at once opened by the Secretaries to record the name.~
of Masons who had rooms at their homes that might be used for bretherrt in
need ~f such .and many hundreds were cared for in that manner, thereby
rendenng a kmdly office as well as spreading the cement of · brotherly love
and affection.

Receipts and Disbursements are appended;
·Funds were received from the Grand Master as follows :
-- ----------- -- ---- --- --- - - - -- - ---- - -- $1000.00
May 5,
May 8,
- -- ---- - --- - - -- ----- -- ---- -- -- --- ----- 1500 .00
2500.00
May 26, - - - - -- - --- -- - -- -- -- -- --- - --- ------ -- -__ _- ----- - --- -- -- __ - -- - -- - -- --- __ __ ___ 2000 . 00
Sept. 7,

. . This class of work went on for many days, regular changes being made
m the personnel of the members stationed at the depots and el~ewhere.
The headquarters were kept open all night for over a week.
With thankfulness I note that not a death occurred among the members
of the craft in this district, as a result of the catastrophe ; though several
members were injured and a great many lost a portion or all their possessions.
The whole-heartedness with which the Masonic fraternity here and
e~ewhere entered into the work of relief occasioned not only all the commendation of members of the Craft, but received the benediction of the people
at large
·
Thanks is due to the railroad companies for carrying many members to
an? fro~ this city free of charge for transportation, some members indeed
bemg given t ransportation a great distance

One of my first actions was to enter into communication with those of
our brethern residing in San Francisco, to ascertain, as well as we might,
their condition and needs. With many of these letters we Eent receipt for
dues and assured the brethern of our desire to assist them at once. Those
residing in our own midst who could be assisted, were personally visited an<l
promptly given assistance. In some cases it was to rebuild chimneys or
repair houses ; in others to care for the injured. In two cases the lumber for
two cottages was furnished. Several professional members were enabled
to secure a new start in their professions. Other members were prov~ded
with funds to secure provisions and clothing etc. Of course this does not
include the many cases that were looked after by individual Masons.
It is pleasant to note in this connection that so far as I know, no case
went unrelieved·, nor was relief extended beyond an amount that seemed
judicious.
All bills contracted for are paid with the iixception of one which cannot
be paid until the repairs are completed.
In connection with t he relief work I wish to say that a splendid display
of self-denial was exhibited by many members of the Craft in their eagerness
to do their utmost for those less fortunate. May the blessings of Heaven
rest upon them.

Being a total oL __ ___ _____ ____ _
Relief funds were disbursed as follows :
---- - --- - --------- -- ------------ -- ---May 5,
May 5,
- - ------- - - - --- ---- - ------ ----------- -

Mar 5,

•

, 8,
'' 10,
" 12,

"
"

----------- ---- -------- -- ------------ -

-- -- - - -- -- - --- -- -- -- --- -- - -- - -- - ------ - --- - -- -- -- - - --- - - - - ------ --- - --- - --- - -- - ---- - - --- - --- - ------- - ------ -- - --

-- -- -- --- --- -- -- ----- ---- ----- --- -----

$7000 . 00
$125 . 75
34 .00
493.00
25 . 00
50 .00
20.00
4.00
50.00

330
"
"
"
"
"
"

18,
18,
18,
21,
26,
26,

"

29

PROCEF..DINGS OF THE

" a1:

" 31 1
" 31
June 5,'
" 14,
" 21,
" 28,
" 29
July 5, I
.r 6

" 17

Aue:. 11',
(( 13,
" 14,
.:: 20,
21 ,
" 21,
"

?5

" 31',
Sept. 12,
." '15,
Making the total disbursements,--- ---- -- - ~---­
Leaving a balance on hand Sept. 15th inclusive oL

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

25.00
100.00
100.00
103.00
250.00
100 .00
100.00
100.00
6.00
3.00
100.00
50.00
100 .00
20!1.00
75 . 00
100.W
137 .14
100 .00
31.10
50 .00
100 .00
100.00
75.00
25.00
25.00
250 .0
62.50
308 .00

331

SACRAMENTO RELIEF BOARD.
M. W. Motley H . Flint
Grand Master of Masons of Calif.
Dear Sir and Brother:As requested by you, I attach report showing relief given to San Francisco Fire Sufferers by Sacramento Masonic Board of Relief.
Our Board, which is composed of the Masters and Wardens of the five
Lodges here, met on the day following the catastroph~ to make arrangements
to take care of all who might come this way. At the Board's request, I made
a trip to Oakland and personally offered you our assistance. ~he Masters
reported to the Board that their Lodges stood ready to assist us financie.lly
as did the Masonie Hall Ass'n, Sacramento Chapter No. 3, R. A. M. and the
Scottish Rite Bodies and also appointed members to act in conjunction with
the Board. Committees were appointed to remain on duty at the Hall, and
arrangements were made to furnish Board and Lodgings. We did not.have as
many cases as we expected, but this was due to the fact that the majority
of those who left San Francisco continued on to Eastern points .
The report shows a balance of $278.60 and the Board thinks that if
you decide to allow us to retain this balance, it will, with the amount we have
in our General Fund, last us through the winter.
Trusting the report meets with your approval, I remain·,
Yours fraternally,
F . A. Roblin,
Secretary.

$~577 .49

$3422.51

$7000.00
This amount is on deposit in the name of the Masonic Relief Fund.
Vouchers have been retained in all cases.
I am of the opinion that this balance should shortly be turned over to
the Masonic Board of Relief of San Jose to be retained for the purpose of
caring for such cases of relief as may yet arise, and in assisting those who
may need further aid.
The thanks of those who have been assisted as well as all members of
the Craft go out to those of our brethern who so promptly and efficiently
extended their sympathy and relief.
My personal thanks are due to the Masters of the San Jose Lodges
and the members of the Board of Relief for their assistance.
While some of the Lodge rooms in this district were damaged and in
some instances totally destroyed, yet the losses to the Lodges were in all
cases, I am glad to report, trifling.
I recognize with pleasure and cordiality, M. W. Grand Master, your
promptness, solicitude and cooperation during a per:od that required strong
executive ability.
Respectfully submitted,
Delos W. Smythe,
Chairman Special Committee.

Report of relief ~iven to San Francisco Fire Sufferers by Sacramento
Masonic Board of Rehef:
...
Receipts.
From M. W . Motley H. Flint, Grand Master, $1500 .00
Donations by individual members,_ ____ ___
30 .00
Total receipts,
Expenditures.
Money advanced, ____________ _____ - _
Forty-five lodgings furnished,
Eighty-two mee.ls, __ _______ ___ ______ ___
Clothing furnished, _ __ • __ _ ____ ______ _

~~:S~ahf:~.-========================~==

House rent paid, __ __ ______ ______ _____ _
Doctor's services, ___ __ __ ____ ____ __ __ _
R. R. fare paid, ____ _____ ____________ __ _
·Sacramento City Board of Relief, __ _____ _
San Francisco Masonic Board of Relief, __ _
Miscellaneous, __ ___ __ ___ ___ __ ____ _____ _

•

Total expenditures,
Balance,- ------ ------ --

$1530.00
144.40
13.75
20.50
11.00
1. 75
9.00
18 .00
3 .00
4.25
500.00
500. 00
25. 75
$1251. 40
278.60

332

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

FRUITVALE RELIEF BOARD.
Fruitvale, Aut,'Ust 18, 1906.
Motley H. Flint, M. W. Grand Master of F. & A. M. of Cal.,
Dear Sir and Broth~r
Your request concerning the relief work done, at hand. At the call of
the Master of Fruitvale Lodge, a meeting of the members convened for the
express purpose of providing some ways and means to take care of refugees,
masons and others who might come from San Francisco
· The most feasible plan proposed and adopted as the best, was the establishment of Masonic Headquarters on the main thoroughfare and the appointment of a committee to act in conjunction with the officers of the lodge,
to visit San Francisco and also to wait upon the local trains which arrive
every 20 minutes in Fruitvale from San Francisco. To aid and assist refugee
Masons and other needy persons, the committee made themselves conspicuous by the Masonic badges they wore. In this way Masons were easier
identified, located and temporary . shelter provided.
At a call meeting of the Lodge on April 30, arrangements were formulated
to have a committee of brethern in the· vicinity surrounding their homes
visit their neighbors and ascertain if there were any Masons stopping with
them and whether they could provide room for any refugees. This committee which consisted of thirty-six members, made this search on the day
following and secured places of shelter for a large number of families. A
committee visited the Oakland Masonic Board of Relief and were informed
by that body that whatever provisions were needed for refugees in Fruitvale
might be obtained from them for the expressing of them to Fruitvale. The
expressing was provided for and the provisions taken to the Fruitvale headquarters and distributed to the needy, although a numberwere provided with
provisions in this manner. A great number were taken care of at the homes of
brethern who did not call on the Relief Board for assistance
One hundred and twenty-seven Masons were taken care of i.I1 this manner.
· Doctors of the Fruitvale Lodge gave their attention to the sick free of
any charge.
·
·
I only mention the above to have it clear in your mind that the brethern
of Fruitvale Lodge met their obligations without any shirking of their duty.
I will concede to your request regarding the expenses, but with the understanding that Fruitvale Lodge does not wish to be re-imbursed. The brothers
appreciating the fact that they were called upon to help in the hour of need.
·
Expenditures:
To widow of Mason __ ______ __ ___ ___ ____ __
20.00
Employment of night help, ___ __ ____ __ _______ _
30.00
Expressing, _______ __ __ ___ _____ ___ _________ _
12.50
Medicine, _____ __ _____ ____ __ __- - - ___ __ _- - - -- 1.00
$63.50
Total, - --- -- ---- --- - - -Respectfully submitted,
W. G. Thornalley, Jr.,
Master of Fruitvale Lodge No. 336, F. & A. M.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

333

SAN RAFAEL RELIEF BOARD.
SAN RAFAEL, CAL., Sept. 13, 1906.
MoTLEY H. FLINT, Grand Master,
DEAR BROTHER:-;Your kind letter of recent date to Marin Lodge No. 191, F. & A. M. is
at hand and was read at our stated meeting last ·night. I was directed to
answer it as follows:
"Directly after the disaster of April 18th, we met and intended to organize a Board of Relief, but soon changed our minds and concluded to work in
conjunction with the General Relief Committee in San Rafael. Our Lodge
contributed $150.00 to the Relief fund, besides assisting Brethren and the
Relief Committee in numerous ways. We held advisory meetings every
night, and kept the Lodge room open daily with some one in charge.
On April 21st we conducted the funeral of a Brother who was killed in
Santa Rose by the earthquake. The Brother belonged to Santa Cruz Lodge."
I think this covers the ground, at least in a general way, and I hope it
will answer the requirements.
Fraternally yours,
DR. G. G. v ANDERLIP,
Secretary.

ALCATRAZ RELIEF BOARD.
OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA, Sept. 16, 1906.
MuTLEY H. F·LINT, EsQ.,
Grand Master of Masons of California,
Los Angeles,
W OHSHI PFUL SIR : -

As an or.ganization Alcatraz Lodge took but little part in the relief work
incident to the disaster of April 18th.
As individuals many of our members took active parts. Matters so
shaped themselves that the lodge was not called on for any particular action
in the relief work-in fact, but one brother has asked for assistance since the
date mentioned.
When the influx of refugees from San F rancisco commenced, the Officers
of Alcatraz Lodge immediately transformed our Temple into a temporary
hotel, and invited all comers, without reference to fraternal connections, to
partake of our hospitality. We fully expected to continue this course in. definitely, and were preparaed to empty our treasury, if necessary, in the good
cause. But fortunately for us the General Relief Committee soon heard of
ur situation, and immediately offered to furnish us with all .the provisions

334

. PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF.ORNIA.

required. Needless to say the offer was gratefully accepted, and up to the
time of the concentration of the _refugees in one general camp, we were supplied
with groceries, vegetables, etc., in the greatest profusion. Our entire outlay
as a Lodge will not exceed $125, and while we thank you most sincerely for
your offer to reimburse us for our expenditures, we most respectfully decline
as we feel we can stand this small amount without inconvenience. Neither
do we expect to call on the Grand Lodge for funds during the coming winter,
as, although it is true we have several Brothers on our rolls who will undoubtedly require assistance, we are quite confident that the funds of the Lodge
will be ample for all demands.
We desire to callyourspecial attention to the noble work performed by
the ladies of Unity Chapter, No. 65, 0. E . S. without whose assistance we could
have accomplished but little. They responded to the call for help instantly
and willingly, and for nine days worked early and late in ministering to the
wants of hundreds of refugees, as well as three companies of soldiers who
were quartered on us at different times.
· No account was kept of the number of meals served, but a conservative
estimate would place the number at four thousand.
Our main Lodge Room was used as a dormitory by the refugees, and the
large assembly hall on the first floor was placed at the disposal of the soldiers.
All who made themselves known as being in any way connected with the
Masonic Fraternity were directed to the Masonic Committee's headquarters
at 12th and Washington Sts., where special attention was accorded them.
Several of our members were active participants in the work of this Committee
whose endeavors can only be commended in the highest terms, a full account
of which will doubtless be rendered to you from other sources. .
Special mention must also be made of the other Fraternal organizations
who occupy our Lodge room, and who for over three weeks surrendered their
rights without a murmur-neither asking or expecting any rebate in their
rent, and many of the individual members offering contributions of money
supplies and services.
Thanking you most sincerely for the interest you have displayed in Alcatraz Lodge, I remain,
Fraternally Yours,
H. A. GLJNES,
Secretary.

33.5

LOS ANGELES RELIEF BOARD.
To the Most Worshipful
Motley Hewes Flint Grand Master of Masons
State of California:
()ear Sir and ·Brother:Complying with your request of August 16, 1906, concerning the action
which this Board of Relief took in the matter of the dirnster cccasioned by
Earthquake and fire which befel the Cen tral po1tion of our glorious State,
on the 18th ·day of April, 1906, will say:That immediately upon the realization•of that awful calamity, a special
meeting of t he Masonic Board of Relief of Los Angeles, was called on April
22nd, 1906, at which meeting I was directed to cornmunicafo with each Masonic Body of this City, and request a contribution of One Dollar ($1.CO)
i}er capita, to enable our Board ·to relieve the distress of the rr.ernbers of the
craft, and those dependent upon them who might take refuge in our City.
This request was promptly complied with, and there came into my hands,
as Secretary, from the vario.us Masonic Bodies of our city, together with
individual contributions; and also from Mount Zion lodge of Troy, N. Y.,
the sum of Three Thousand One Hundred and Seventy-Four Dollars and
Fifty Cents ($3,174 . 50 ).
Arrangements were made that the Masonic Board of Relief, should
establish Headquarters at the Masonic Temple, and notices were placed in
all the Newspapers of the City, calling attention to that fact. We secured the
use of the Banquet Room and I\itchen for the purpose of providing meals ;
also the Lodge Room recently vacated by the Scottish Rite Bodies, was filled
with cots and bedding for use of the ladies.
We secured the upper floor of the Lexington Hotel (now the Rosselyn
Hotel) for t he use of the gentlemen.
A cook was hired, and with the assistance of the Ladies of the Eastern
Star, meals were provided at the Masonic Temple; committees were appointed,
who met all trains corning from the North, and brought the members of the
fraternity to the temple, and after a bath, a good meal, and a rest, positions
were secured, as best the:i< could be, for employment.
Those of the unfortunates who were in feeble health, were sent to the
Southern California Masonic Home at t;ian Gabriel, at our expense, and when
they were recovered, they sought employment.
Quite a number of refugees being aged, and having relatives in other
cities, were furnished with transportaiton, as they desired.
It is estimated that at least One Thousand (1000 ) Meals were furnished
at our expense.

336

P ROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND L ODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

FINANCIAL STATEMENT.

RECEIPTS.
Los Angeles Lodges.

$275.00
Los Angeles Lodge No. 42, ------ -------Pentalpha Lodge No. 202, ______________ _
516.00
Southern California Lodge No. 278, ______ _
600.00
East Gate No. 290, _______________ -.- ___ _ 314 .00
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319, ____.________ _
.310.00
Southgate Lodge No. 320, ______________ _
341.00
Vallee de France Lodge No. 329, ___ : __ __ _
50.00
West Gate Lodge No. 335, ____ _________ _
250.00
Palestine Lodge No. 351, ________ _____ __ _
125. 00
Sunset Lodge No. 352, _________________ _
100.00
Golden State Lodge No. 358, ___________ _
123.00
Mt. Zion Lodge No. 311, Troy, N. Y. _____________ _
105.00
5 . 00
William Jenkins, Bigelow Lodge No.243, Columbus, 0.
2.50
C. D. Gina.ca, (a friend>-------------------------A. C. A. Kuester, Ashlar Lodge No. 308, Chicago, Ill.,
5 . 00
J. H. Miller, Pentalpha Lodge No. 202, Los Angeles, __
5.00
D. W. Campbell, Union, Lodge No. 7, Denver, Colo., __
5.00
5.00
S. G. Dunham, Linwood Lodge No. 667, Cincinnati, 0.,
J. A. Thomas, St. Bernard Lodge No. 222, Dodge City,
5.00
Kansas, --- -- ---------·------------5 .00
R . H. Robisar, 1'yrian Lodge No. 553, Wilmart, Ark., _
5 . 00
Bernard Healy, Ea.st Gate Lodge No. 290, Los Angeles,
5 .00
H. S. Allen, Pentalpha Lodge No. 202, Los Angeles, __
1.00
(A Friend), name not given, Los Angeles,----------.
(Leo V. Youngworth __ $7 .00)
(J. Hauser, __________ 5 . 00) Cash returned by members
.
of committee,___
17 .00
(Mrs. Bradish ________ 5.00
$3174 .50
DISBURSEMENTS.
Paid out for:

·

Food Stuffs, -------------------------Labor,
----------------------------Merchandise,
____________________
_____ -_
Printing and Stationery, ______ ______ __ _
Telegraphing, ______ - - - - - - - ___ -- - - - - - So. Cal. Ma.sonic Home, __________ ____ __ _
Transportation, --- __--- - - __ - __ -- - - -- Cash to Masons and families, _____ - - - - - - Balance to M. H. Flint, G. M.· --------- - -

$165.41
51.00
25.25
71.42
28.26
28.00
215 .75
1154 .65
1434 .76

~ilinf Filing
Case -----------------------------------Smal
Case, (Cards) __ ___ ·--- ______ __ _____

70.20
7. 00

6re:ki~ch== =- - ---- --··----- --- - -- -- - - -- ----- --

~~: gg

337

Sundries ------ ===== ================ ====== == ====
4.50
Advances (not paid)------------ --- ------------80 ,00
Clothing on hand______________ ___ _______________
1325 . 00
Total---- $78490. 70
$2000.00
Unpaid accounts, orders issued (estimated)___ ______

Trial

Balance Statement.

Close of Business, Saturday, October 6, 1906.
Dr.
Cr.
Cash in the bonds of Secretary _________ ___ ___ _ 1631. 50
Bank Account----------- --------- -- - ----------- 164231 .81 $89008.61
Contributions received from Jurisdictions ____ _____ _
74718.48
Contributions received from Grand Master ______ _
111.00 100111.00
Transportation Account ____ __ __
_
10368.70
1510.05
Incidental Expense Account ______ _ __ __ _ ___ _ • 1726.05
119.85
Statione1I, Account --------------- -- - -- ____ __
___ _
Clerical ccount _____ -------- ______ __ _
3640.75
!?urniture and Fixture Account _ _ _ _____ _ __
230.98
General Expense Account----~ - ------- - --- : ____ _ 3370.55
1338.00
Drayage Account ------- -- -- - - -- -- -- - __ _
Relief Account --------------- ------ - _____ __ 30335.88
154 .45
Mission District, Masonic Relief__ . ___ . _______ ___ _
936 . 40
2701.80
2621.80
Loan Account ---------------------- - -- - --- __ _
108.70
718 .25
216.61
47090
. 11
31!L33
Supply Account
__ -- - --- -------- - -- ----- - --

~~~~a~-~~~~-========================~-== -=--~=

$268660.33 268660.33

Articles Fu rnished.

$3174.50

All of which is respectfully submitted,
Sam'l Prager,
President.
ATTEST
J. M. Dunsmoor
Secretary.
.
Since the foregoing report was made, the Grand Master, Brother M. H .
Flint, has returned to this Board of Relief, the $1,434. 76, and the same has
been entered in a Special Fund, to be used to relieve additional distress
caused by the late disaster.

Books - - - _---Furniture
____--___--__--__- -----------_ ________ _-__----___ ----___ _----------___________- -_
Crockery and Cutlery _________ ___ _ -·--- _____ ____ __
_ _ _ _ _ . ________ _
Ladies' and Children's Clothing_ __
Men's Clothing _______________ ______ ____________________ __

~~It~~:'_~~~~===-=====-================ -=-- =-=-=

1

32
19
8
7
4

===-====_
Stoves and Utensils _. _____________ __ _______ ______________

26
9

Gas
Stoves _____
_ ----------------------__--__------------Instruments
____ ________
___________________
_______ ____ _
Transportation
______
__
__
--------------------------Shoes __ _____ ____ _-.- __________ _____ _______ ____ _______ ____ -_

1
2

1
l

338

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE .

Delaware.

Analysis .of, Amount and Kind of Relief Granted
by Cities, States and Jurisdictions.
San Francisco.

'

Cash ----------- ------------------------------- $1233 .50
:Machines ·-------------------------------------430 .00
Lady's Suit ------------------'----------------20 .00
Furniture _ _________ __ ________ __________ ____ ___
515 . 55
Stoves and· Utensils ------------------------ ____
57 .55
:Men's Clothing ______________ __ ___________ ____
117 . 50
Crockery .and Cutlery, (Bills not received ) _______ _
Tools, (Bills not received) ___ _________ ----------Shoes, (Bills not received ) ______________ _

Jackson
Los An?eles
:Murphy s Camp
Napa
North San Juan
Oakland
Richmond

8acramento
8anta Rosa
Shasta
Sutter Creek
Vallejo
West Oakland
Watsonville
Lower Lake
Yuba City

Newport
Seaford

:Machine ---------------------------Cash -------------------------------

25 .00
40 .00

Chicago

Illinois.
Furniture _________________ . ________ _

8 .75

Cedar Rapids

Iowa.
Furniture ________ ---~ ______________ _

Clark

Indiana.
Cash ___________________________ .. __ _

Hanover

Cash -------------------------------

Alexandria

Cash -------------------------------

$20 .00
Cash ------------------------------5.00
Cash ------------------------------150 .00
Instruments
Cash
__ ___ __-----------------------___ ____ _ _____ . _______ _
50.00
Stoves and Utensils ________________ _
36 .75
Furniture _________________________ _
83 .50
Cash _____ :____ ___ _ _ _ _______ _
20 .00
Cash (Instruments )________ _ _____ _
150 .00
:Machine _.. __ _ _ _ _ _
_________ _
25 .00
135 .50
Books ------------------- _
Hospital Fees ___ _____ _____._______ _
32 .95
Drugs __ _____ _________ ----------.60
50 .00
Hospital Fees ---------- _ ---------Furniture __________________________ ..
Stove and Utensils ___ -------- ______ _
Furniture __________ ____ ___________ _
Stove ----------------- _________ _
:Man's Clothing _____________________ _
Lady's Clothing --------------------Cash ______________ ·- _______________ _
40 .00
:Machine _______________ .. ___ _________ ' 25 .00
Furniture __________________________ _
.50 .00
Cash ------------------------ ______ _
Stove and Utensils _________________ _
45 .75
Furniture _ _____ ___ _________ ____ ___ _
205 .95
20 .00
Cash ---------------------- -~-----­
300 .00
Cash ------------------------------10 .00
Cash ------------------------------150 .00
Instruments
Furniture ___-----------------------_____ _____ ___________ _
7 .50
Stove and Utensils _ _______________ _
20 .00
Cash -------------- ----- ----------

Cash

20 .00

Louisiana.

Brighton
:Milton

Massachusetts
Furniture __________________________ _
Hospital Fees ______________________ _
Cash ___ ____ . ______________________ _

Roxbury
Salem

Cash
------------------------------Cash _______________
. _______ -·- ____ _

St. Louis

Cash -------------------------------

Detroit

:Machine ----------------------------

Virginia City

:Machine ------,---------------------

Carson City

Genoa

------------------------------Cash
Furniture
__________________________ _
Stove and Utensils -----------------Crockery and Cutlery _______________ _
Furniture __________________________ _

Cornish .!!'lat

Cash -------------------------------

Jersey City

Cash -------------------------------

20.00

28 .50
25 .75
25 .00
5 .00
50.00

Missouri.

15 .00

Michigan.

25 .00

Montana.

25 .00

Nevada.

15 .00

New Hampshire.

Colorado
Durango

20 .00 .

Kansas.

California.
Etna :Mills
Forest Hill
Fort Bragg
Fresno
Iowa Hill

339

$50 .00

New Jersey. ·

$7.50

25 .00

340

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
New York.

85 . 00

New York City

Cash ---- -- -------------- ·------ __ __ _

Cincinnati

Cash

Roseburg

Ca.sh

30.00

Woonsocket

Rhode Island.
Cash ___ ___ ___ ____ ____ __ ___·_____ __ __

150 . 00

Ohio.

35 . 00
Oregon.

Cash

Pomeroy
Port Angeles

Cash
--J---------------------------Furniture
__________________________ _

20.00
Washington.

10 .{)()

Gas Stove -- ---- --- -- --- - ----- -- - - -New Mexico.
Silver City

Honolulu

Cash --------- ---------------------Tra.nsportation ___.__ ___ __
Hawaiian Islands.
Funeral Expenses ________ __ ________ _
Ne.w Zealand.
Cash ___ ____ __ __________ _____ _-·- __ __

100.00

105 . 00

·cash

25. 00

5.00
Ireland.

Dublin

Cash

New Brunswick

Canada.
Furniture ____ __ ___ ______ _

From date of Incipiency of this Board to October 6th, Inclusive.
Number of letters and telegrams received and answered
16466
74200
Number of rations distributed_ ___ ____________ ___ _
Number of persons supplied with clothing__ __ ____ _
1972
Number of persons for whom employment was secured
1288

N um~rc~t~~o)n~ ~~ !~~~ ~~~~~l~-~s~~~t~~- _<~1?'~~~~~~~
1518
6019
Number of persons assisted tei;timated ) __ ________
Total Contributions received ____ __ _____ ____ _____ $174718.48
Total Disbursements (irrespective of amounts refunded and credits) _______________________ ._____ $102686 . 02
Total amount expended for supplies ~including Uothing Dept. and amount expended by Grand Master)
Total amount expended for Transportation ____ _____ _

~~~:~ ~~re£;~~t;d -i~- ~~~~y=====~======= ======-

Amount expended for Burials - - --------- - -------Amount advanced as loans _______________ _____ _

Peru.

Lima

Total amount of Transportation_____ _____ __ __ ___ _
84 . 40
Total Expense Account___ _______________ __ ______
994.10
Hospital Fees ---- - - -- ---- -- - -.- __ ----- - - - --- ---108. 70
Burials--"·------ - -------- - --- -- ----------- ----105.00
Total Disbursements tas above) ______________- - - - - $14367.01
Total Cash on hand _______________________________________ $76854.70
231. 00
Office fixtures (cost) _ __________ ______ ______ _______________
Estimated value of Clothing on hand__ ____ ___ _____ ___ __ ____ _ 1325.00
Advances (not yet returned)___ ____________________________
80 . 00
Grand Summary.

Virginia.

Winchester

341

10.00

Summary.

From September 14th to October 6th, 1906, inclu~ive.
Number of Letters received and answered___ ___ __ ____ __ ___ _
2439
Number of persons supplied . with Clothing_____ ______ ____ __
97
Number of :eersons for whom employment was secmeJ_ __ __ .
111
Total Contributions Received ___________ __ ________ ______ .$174718 .48
Total Disbursements from September 14th to October
6th inclusive -- --- __ __ -~- ____ __ __ ______ ___ __
$14367 .01
Total Relief granted with money ____ ____ ___ ___ ___ _ 2681. 00
Total amount of Suoplies furrushed ___ ____ _____ _. __ 10393.81

47090.11
10368 .70
10426 .18
31380.98
718.25
2701.80

$102686.02
Total ca.sh on hand __ ______ ______ ____ _ _______ _ $76854 . 70
Office Fixtures (cost ) _______ _____ _ ___ __ ____ _
231.00
Clothing on hand (estimated) _____ __ - -- --- -----1325.00
Advances (not paid ) __________________ ___ ___ _..
80 . 00
Fraternally 8Ubmitted,
HARRY .T. LASK,
Secretary.

342

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL MASONIC RELIEF BOARD
San Francisco, California

1154 O'Farrell Street
San Francisco, Cal., October 6th, 1906.
Hon. Motley H. Flint
M. W. Grand Master of Masons, State of California
Hotel Majestic, City.
M. W. Sir and Bro.:1 have the honor to submit to you my supplemental Report of the transactions of this Board from date of September 14th, 1906, to t he above date,
nclusive.
SUPPLEMENTAL REPORT.

Letters and Telegrams Received and Answered.

1144
1295
2439

Import
Relief ___ ____________________ - --- - -- - __________ .
Loans - ---- -- ------ --- --------------------------

~scellaneous - - - ---------- - --- --------- ------- - -­

Contributions
------__--___
- --_
Telegrams __ _-__--_----__ ___---------------___ _________________
Introductions -- ------------- ----------- -- -------

5~~~M:~\~rn
==============================~===
Inquiry - ---- -- ---------------------------------

Appreciation and Thanks -----------------------'Recommendations ____ _________________________ _
Orders for Supplies ----- -------- ----- ---- ------

Clerks
--- -----Bookkeepers
_____-------___ _____-----------__________ __--_----______--___--_
Stenographers ____ ________ " ________ __ __________
Watchmen ____________________ ____ ____ _________
Milliners __ ___ _________ _ . __ __• _________ _.. ____
Butchers ____ ___ _ ____________ _ ____ ·- ----- __
Bakers ___ __ ___ _____ . ___ .. _____1 _____________
Machinists ____ ________ __ __ _______ ________ _. _____
Plumbers ____________ ________·_____ _____ ________ _
Carpenters _ __ ____ _____ 7 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Stone Masonb _______ ________ ____ ___ __ . _________
Mill Hands ____ __ ____________ __ ______________

273
11
5
2
3
5
17
9
8
5
6
111

FINANCIAL.
Contributions to this Board from Most Worshipful Grand Master
BRO. MOTLEY HEWES FLINT
and from Jurisdictions, etc.
From M. W. ·Grand Master .

. Correspondence •.

Received
Sent __ _

343

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

1090
12
471
4

391
46
23
17
204

April 26,
April 28,
April 30,
April 27,
May 3,
August 3,
Sept. 8,
Sept. 13,
Sept. 28,
Sept. 28,

-

(Expended for Supplies )

Received from Jurisdictions, etc. _

$2025 . 00
100 . 00
1900 . 00
2000 . 00
8000 . 00
25000 .00
25000 . 00
-- - - - -- 25000.00
5647 .17
------ ---5327 .83
- - - -$100000. 00
74718.48

Total Donations Received ---------- --- ---- --

50

$174718.48

Disbursements.

18
113
2439

Clothing Department.

Since September 14th, 1906, we have furnished supplies from our Clothing Department to 97 families.
Employment.

We have secured positions for one hundred and eleven persons {111 ),
segregated as follows:Tailors ___ _________ ________ ______________ _______
3
7
Drummers ____ _------ ----------- ______ ----- __ ___

From September 14th to October 6th, inclusive.
Transportation ____ _______ ________ __ . _ ___________
84 . 40
Incidental Rx~nses ___ .. ____ --- ~ - - __ _
__ _ .
256. 70
Stationery ana Supplies ________ __ _ -- -- --6 .50
Clerical, Assistan ts_ ______ _______________ _ _____
347 . 50
300 . 40
General Expense ___ ________ .. _ . _ . __ ____________
Drayage ________ __ __ __ _ _____ __. ___ _____
48 . 00
Money: given for Relief __ ___ ·----- -----· _____ ____ 2681.00
Hospital ___
Fees
-108 .. 00
70
Burials_
__ ----__ ___-_-___---------------____ _ ____ ___ --____----____ __
105
Supplies, (including $5327 . 83 expended by Grand
Master - ---·--- - --- ------------------------- 10393.81
35.00
F urniture and Fixtures - - - ---- -- -- --- -----------Total- -- - $14367 . 01

344

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Amount expended for Supplies from September 14th
to October 6th, inclusive.

Furniture ____ __________ _. __--- -- -------- ____ __ _ $2705 . 74
Dru~s ___ _____ __.. __ _____ ____ ____ __ ,_ __ ___ _.. ____
. 60
Ladies' Clothing------ ----------------·__________
218 .65
Me~'s Clothin~
___ _________ ______ ________ ____ __ _
277 .50
Optical Supplies ---------- ·------ -- ---· ---- -- --65 .65
Books -~- -----------------------------:________
135 . 50
Gas Stoves - ----- -- ----- --------- -- ------------49.68
Instruments ------ - ----- -----------------------193 .50
Instl'UIIlentsetc.
--- -- --- ---- ------- ---__--150
. 00
Chemicals,
__ --______________
_____- :- ___
___---___
65.00
Stoves and Utensils--- ---- -- ---- --- --- - ---··---._
148 . 69
Sewing Machines ___ _______ .. ____ ________________
680. 00
Crockery and Cutlery, etc . .. _____ ___ _____ ______ _ _
375. 47
Supplies purchased by Grand Master ------------5327.83
Total---- 810393 . 81
Assets.
Cash on hand ___ . _____ ____ ____ ___________ __ _
1631.50
Cash in Bank _____ __. ___ _.. _____________ ____ _ 75223 .. 20
Roller Top Desk _________ ___ ____ ____________ __ _
40.00
Roller Top Desk __________ __ _ _ _. ____ ___ . __ ___ __
20..00

Which was referred to a special committee of three, and ·
the Deputy Grand Master named the following brethren to
constitute such committ.e e:
On General Masonic Relief Fund.
M.'.W.'.Charles W. Nutting,
V.'.R.'.Jacob Nieto,
W.'.James W. Anderson.

Bro. Harry S. Johnson, from the Committee on Credentials, reported the following Officers and Representatives of
chartered Lodges, Delegates from Lodges under dispensa-'
tion and Past Masters by service within this jurisdiction, as
being present and entitled to seats, viz.,.fromCalifornia Lodge, No. 1 . H en ry A. Cline, Master;
William J. Golcher, Senior Warden;
Francis V. Keesling, Junior Warden;
H. Ascroft, Past Master;
G. Childs, Past Master;
W. Crocker, Past Master;
F . H. Day, Past Master;
G. Johnson, Past Master;
H . M. Owens, Past Master ;
C. L. Patton, Past Grand Master;
E . P eabody, Past Master;
C. M. Plum, Past Master;
W. A. Scott, Past Master;
C. D. Wilson, Past Master.

Western Star Lodge, Nq. 2 . -

..

345

Charl es E . Brown, Master and Past Master;
Wm. A. Speak, Junior Warden .

Benicia Lodge, No. 5.Ansley K. Salz, Master;
E . B. Billings, Past ¥aster;
J. R. B. Chisholm, Past Master;
D. M. Watson, Past. Master.

Tuolumne Lodge, No. 8.Robert E . Rundell, Senior Warden.
31

346

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Corinthian Lodge, No. 9.Charles F. Chase, Master.

Mariposa, Lodge, No. 24.-

Yount Lodge, No. 12.Harry L. Johnson, Master;
J. B. Stevens, Past Grand Master;
F . W. Williams, Past Master.

Georgetown Lodge, No. 2s.-

Nevada Lodge, No. 13.J oseph F. Stenger, Master;
A. S. Lord, Past Master.

Palmyra Lodge, No. 26.Louis A. Reeg, Senior Warden.

Temple Lodge, No. 14.J oseph H. Potter, Master and Past Master.

Trinity Lodge, No. 27 .August F. Bremer, Senior Warlen.

Eureka Lodge, No. 16.J. G. Bisbee, Past Master and Representative;
J. H. Neff, Past Master.

Golden Gate Lodge, No. 30.Robert J. Airey, Master;
Chas. L. Parks, Senior Warden;
William W. Thompson, Junior Warden;
C. 0. Johnson, Past Master;
W. A. T. Agard, Past Master;
C. L. Meyer, Past Master;
W. S. Moses, Past Master;
J. Patterson, Past Master;
W. G. Wright, Past Master.

La Parfaite Union, No. 17.Thomas Sehabiaque, Master;
Henry Mottet, Senior Warden;
Marcus W. Frederick, Junior Warden;
0. M. Goldaracena, Past Master;
A. Huguenin, Past Master.
Mountain Shade Lodge, No. 18.Wm. I. Redding, Master and Past Master.
San Joaquin Lodge, No. 19.J. W. Cavis, Past Master and Representative.
Washington Lodge, No. 20.J. J. McKinnon, Past Master and Representative.
Hawaiian Lodge, No. 21.J . D. Tucker, Representative.
Occidental Lodge, No. 22.Wm. V. Bryan, Master;
James M. Gleaves, !;)enior Warden;
Samuel H. Clawson, Junior Warden.
Madison Lodge, No. 23.Thomas Ingram, Master and Past Master;
F. Aver, Past Master;
E. Coleman, Past Master;
J. Coleman, Past Master.

J ohn S. Larew, Master and Past Master;
E. P. Wason, Past Master.

G. W. Simpers, Past Master and Representative;
I. G. Swift, Past Master.

Gold Hill Lodge, No. 32.Hans P. Jansen, Master and Past Master;
J. Gerber, Past Master.
Ophir Lodge, No. 33.D. B. Driver, Past Master and Representative.
San Diego Lodge, No. 35.Herbert A. Croghan, Master.
St. John's Lodge, No. 37.Clifford E. Butler, Master;
J. J. Wilson, Past Master.
Santa Cruz Lodge, No. 38.Ralph J. Mattison, Junior Warden.
Yuba Lodge, No. 39.David Powell, Master and P~st Master;
J. B. Fuller, Past Master;
E. E . Stone, Past Master.

347

348

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Sacramento Lodge, No. 40.w: M. Petrie, Past Master.

Union Lodge, No. 58.T. J. Baker, Past Master and Representative.

Martinez Lodge, No. 41.William A. Hale, Master;
W. S. Wells, Past Grand Master.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42.Oscar J. W . Burg, Master;
S. Prager, Past Master

Live Oak Lodge, No. 61.Wager S. Smith, Master;
Anton. C.. Jackson, Junior Warden;
J. A. Beckwith, Past Master;
E. H. Hart, Past Master; .
R. W. Meek, Past Master;
J. J. Warner, Past Master;
A. · B. Webster, Past Master.

•

Mount Moriah Lodge, No. 44.Herbert F. Ward, Master;
William H. Dolling, Senior Warden;
Clarence Erikson, Junior Warden;
T. C. Conmy, Past Master;
T. Frolich, Past Master;
J. C. Jens, Past Master;
J. F. Schroth, Past Master;
A. Woodside, Past Master.
Crescent Lodge, No. 45.Drury W. Rice, Master and Past Master;
Chester E. Cutting, Senior Warden;
G. Curtis, Past Master;
B. Stone, Past Master.
Texas Lodge, No. 46.William R. Flint, Master;
William W. Canfield, Senior Warden;
T. Flint, Past Grand Master;
A. S. Moore, Past Master;
I. W. Moore, Past Master.
Forbestown Lodge, No. 50.William J . Schultz, Master and Past Master.
Illinoistown Lodge, No. 51.W . R. Culver, Past Master and R_epresentative;
A. Stevens, Past Master.
Suisun Lodge, No. 55.Ralph M. Sheldon, Master.
Santa Rosa Lodge, No. 57Carlton A. Lane, Master;
C. M. Bumbaugh, Past Master;
A. C. McMeans, Past Master;
F. L. Jones, Past Master.

Natoma Lodge, No. 64.C. H. Ecklon, Past Master.
Amador Lodge, No. 65.J ames E. Taylor, SeIJior Warden;
J. E. Dye, Past Master.
Morning Star Lodge, No. 68.0rrin s; Henderson, Past Grand Master and Rep.
G. H. Buttrick, Past Master;
E. W. Butters, Past Master.
Enterprise Lodge, No. 70.A. G. Woodworth, Master.
Bear Mountain Lodge, No. 76. Frederick W. Clough, Master and Past Master;
J . F. Anderson, Past Master.
Calaveras Lodge, No.. 78.J oseph J . Halley, Master.
Humboldt Lodge, No. 79.Charles H. Falor, Master;·
G. W. Hunter, Past Grand Master.
Ione Lodge, No. So.Eugene G. Woolsey, Master and Past Master.
Yolo Lodge, No. 81.Geo. H. Hoppin, Senior Warden and Past Master.
Rising Star Lodge, No. 83.John A. Ferguson, Senior Warden.
G. R. Cowan, Representative.

349

350

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Vesper Lodge, No. 84.Glenn L. Allen, Master;
Frank L. Doane, Junior Warden.
Naval Lodge, No. 87.Lawrence H. Kaarsberg, Master;
Alexander Greig, Senior Warden;
.William H . Mitchell, Junior Warden;
J. J . Luchsinger, Pas·t Master;
A. McDaid, Past Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
Oroville Lodge, No. Io3.Roger S. KitriCk, Master.
Lexington Lodge, No. Io4.William R. Pearson, Master.
J. D. McLeod, Past Master.
Arcata Lodge, No. Io6.Geo. H. Burchard, Master and Past Master.
Chico Lodge, No. III.-

Quitman Lodge, No. 88J. Glasson, Representative.
North Star Lodge, No. gI.Fred S. Henderson, Master and Past Master.
Acacia Lodge, No. 92.Leonard Thomas, Master and Past Master;
Albert W. Norris; Junior Warden.
St. Helena Lodge, No. 93.J ohn H. Allison, Senior Warden.
Henry Clay Lodge, No. 95.W. H. Gunsolus, Past Master and Representative;
L. Katz, Past Master.
Howard Lodge, No. 96.J. E. Harman, Past Master and Representative.
Jefferson Lodge, No. 97.Gil bert May, Master.
I

Hornitos Lodge, No. 98.William Adams, Past Master and Representative.
La Grange Lodge, No. 99.Edward J. McKain, Master;
Frederick W. Yokum, Senior Warden.
Clay Lodge, No. IOI.Bernard H . Huysink, Senior Warden.
Manzanita Lodge, No. Io2.Henry German, Senior Warden.

William H. Nunn, Master.
Eden Lodge, No. n3.Herman F. W . Helms, Master.
Concord Lodge, No. u7.A. De Johnson, Past Master and Representative.
Clinton Lodge, No. ug.J ames W. George, Master and Past Master.
Fidelity Lodge, No. I2o.Charles Schlessinger, Master;
John P. Albro, Senior Warden;
Joseph D. Abrams, Junior Warden;
P . Davis, Past Master;
M. Goldman, Past Master;
P. J acobovics, Past Master;
J. Nieto, Past Master.
Alamo Lodge, No. I22.Cecil J . Booth, Master and Past Master.
Sotoyome Lodge, No. I23.William W. Ferguson, Master;
}. H. Gunn, Past Master.
Table Mountain Lodge, No. u4.H . C. White, Past Master and Representative;
C. F. Lott, Past Master.
Lafayette Lodge, No. I26.Frank M. Martin, Master and Past Master.

351

~52

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Hermann Lodge, No. 127.August Busse, Master;
Otto Lemcke, Senior Warden;
G. C. Beck, Past Master;
F. Gercke, Past Master;
L. Schumacher, Past Master;
H. G. Schwesinger, Past Master.
Nicolaus Lodge, No. 129.J ames M. Hicks, Master and Past Master.
Woodbridge Lodge, No. 131.Frank Perrott, Master.
Sincerity Lodge, No. 132.R. W. Young, Past Master and Representati\'e.
Yosemite Lodge, No. 133.Samuel D. Hobron, Master.
Vacaville Lodge, No. 134.Woodbury McC. Goodwin, Master;
Sterling P . Dobbins, Senior Warden;
John T . Montgomery, Junior Wardeu.
Pacific Lodge, No. 136.Andrew W. Turpin, Master;
Charles E. Jackson, Senior Warden;
Edward F. Leonard, Junior Warden;
I. J. Aschheim, Past Master;
W. H. Edwards, Past Master;
F. L. Hansen, P ast Master;
W. E. Lutz, Past Master;
G. Penlington, Past Master;
T. P enlington, Past Master;
G. M. Perine, Past Master.
Croc.kett Lodge, No. 139·William Kahn, Master;
John P. Court, Senior Warden;
Albert P. Heise, Junior Warden;
H. F . Chase, Past Master;
E. S. Ciprico, Past Master;
C. Hilderbrandt, Past Master;
H. N ewhoff, Past Master.
Curtis Lodge, No. 140.Edward A. Cooley, Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

353

Gratton Lodge, No. 141.T . H. Dixon, Past Master.
Franklin Lodge, No. 143·H. D. Kercheval, Past Master and Representativt!..
Oriental Lodge, No. 144.Clarence W . Dobie, Master;
Oscar P . Hicks, Senior Warden;
Robert R. Moody, Junior Warden;
C. Bone, Past Master;
W. R. L. Campbell, Past Master;
R. C. Jewell, Past Master;
R. H. Lloyd, Past Master;
J . Tonningsen, Past Master.
Abell Lodge, No. 146.Arth ur J. Thatcher, Master;
J. M. Mannon, Sr., Past Master ;
J. McMurry, Past Master.
Eel River Lodge, No. 147·John M. Cornick, Master.
Lassen Lodge, No. 149·J. E. Pardee, Past Master and Representative.
Molino Lodge, No. 150.J ohn Simpson, Master and Past Master.
Woodland Lodge, No. 156.B. Ball, Past Master.
Gibsonville Lodge, No. 158.J. Wiegand, Past Master and Representative.
A. McFarland, Past Master.
Excelsior Lodge, No. 166.Edwin L. Foster, Master;
John W. Cameron, Senior Warden;
Herman C. Gingg, Junior Warden;
C. H. Bryan, Past Master;
W. N. Brunt, Past Master;
C. Cook, Past Master;
R. G. Guyett, Past Master;
F. C. Hensley, Past Master;
H. J. Owen, Past Master;
J . J. Stofen, Past Master.

354

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Alameda Lodge, No. 167.Charles Evans, Master;
A. Norris, Past Master.
Redwood City Lodge, No. 168.Thomas 0. Heydenfeldt, Master and Past Master;
Frank K. Towne, Senior Warden.
Mission Lodge, No. 169.J ohn Thompson, Master;
Edward F . Crosett, Senior Warden;
Sherman A. Bishop, Junior Warden;
R. S. Allen, Past Master;
H. C. Bunker, Past Master;
C. A. Day, Past Master;
C. F. Libby, Past Master;
G. W. Lunt, Past Master;
W. W. Moore, Past Master;
W. C. Ordway, Past Master;
M. Van B. Taylor, Past Master;
E. W. Tucicer, Past Master.
Elk Grove Lodge, No. 173.Jes·se L. Reith, Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
Claiborne Lodge, No. 185.J. C. Lane, Past Master.
Evening Star Lodge, No. 186.Alexander Parker, Jr., Master;
C. W. Nutting, Past Grand Master.
Keith Lodge, No. 187.James C. Patison, Junior Warden.
Oakland Lodge, No. 188.E. H. Morghan, Past Master and Representative;
J. B. Merritt, Past Master;
G. C. Pardee, Past Master;
W. F. Pierce, Past Master;
H. A. Powell, Past Master;
W. F. Williamson, Past Master.
Northern Light Lodge, No. 190.Samuel G. Smith, Master and Past Master;
William G. Wagoner, Junior Warden.

Antioch Lodge, No. 175.Walter S. Mbore, Master and Past Master;
Ralph M. Beede, Senior Warden.

Marin 4dge, No. 191.David Duncan, Master;
Henry E . Greer, Senior Warden;
Carson C. Hanson, Junior Warden;
F. M. Angellotti, Past Grand Master;
G. F. Rodden, Past Master.

Phoenix Lodge, No. 178.Thomas W. Orme, Master.

Ferndale Lodge, No. 193.Albert M. Dinsmore, Junior Warden.

Mendocino Lodge, No. 179.T. J. Richards, Past Master and Representative;
C. J. Wood, Past Master.

Buckeye Lodge, No. 195.John E. Sackett, Master and Past Master.

Petaluma Lodge, No. 18o.August W. 'Horwege, Master;
L. C. Byce, Past Master.
Russian River Lodge, No. 181.Lawrence H. Wilson, Master and Past Master.

San Simeon Lodge, No. 1g6.J. S. Arbuckle, Past Master and Representative.
Wilmington Lodge, No. 1g8.T. B. Hayes, Past Master and Representafive.

Clear Lake Lodge, No. 183.L. Evans, Representative.

Hartley Lodge, No. 199.Albert M. Reynofds, Senior Warden;
C. J. Monroe, Past Master.

Sierra Valley Lodge, No. 184.Gaines L. Coates, Master and Past Master.

Truckee Lodge, No. 200.H oward W. Wilmoth, Master and Past Master.

355

356

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Silveyville Lodge, No. 201.Harry McFadyen, Master.
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202.Charles H . Brown, Master;
]. B. Gist, Past Master;
G. Q. Stewart, Past Master;
J. F. Hughes, Past Master.
Confidence Lodge, No. 203.John E.' Miller, Master and Past Master.
Newville Lodge, No. 205.Z. P. Dyer, Representative.
Stanislaus Lodge, No. 206.C. D. Swan, Past Master and Representative.
Anaheim Lodge, No. 207.Philip H . Krick, Master and Past Master;
Chester E. Holcomb, Junior Warden.
Rio Vista Lodge, No. 2o8.August Gloff, Senior Warden;
T. P. Emigh, Past Master.
King David's Lodge, No. 209.D. M. Garrison, Past Master and Representative.
Friendship Lodge, No. 210.Franklin B. Warring, Master;
Fred'k L. Cauch, Senior Warden;
Frank T. Edmans, Junior Warden;
H. D. Mathews, Past Master;
D. W. Smythe, Past Master.
South San Francisco Lodge, No. 212.James A. J. McDonald, Senior Warden;
Madsen ]. Iverson, Junior Warden;
W. McDonald, Past Master;
H. F. Williams, Past M<_tster.
San Buenaventura Lodge, No. 214.Merle J. Rogers, Master and Past Master;
D. J. Reese, Past Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
Oak Grove Lodge, No. 215.Henry M. Hammond, Master;
Edmund D. Rue, Senior Warden;
Burton E. Combs, Junior Warden.
Doric Lodge, No. 216.Fred' k L. Wight, Master;
Moses M. Getz, Senior Warden;
William E . Joslyn, Junior Warden;
W. F . Curlett, Past Master;
L. Goodday, Past Master;
C. B. McCroskey, Past Master;
S. Myrson, Past Master.
Monterey Lodge, No. 217.Eq1est A. Scholze, Master.
Esperanza Italiana Lodge, No. 219.Luigi Valsangiacomo, Senior Warden.
Downey Lodge, No. 220.Toy B. Gibson, Senior Warden.
Bakersfield Lodge, No. 224.Ira H. Glenn, Master.
Brooklyn Lodge, No. 225.John A. Petty, Master;
Herbert P~ Briggs, Senior W arden.
San Mateo Lodge, No. 226.Daniel W. Donnelly, Senior Warden;
H . Luff, Past Master.
Solano Lodge, No. 229.Robert L . Robertson, Master;
John F. Walters, Junior Warden;
]. Q. Adams, Past Master;
F. R. Debolt, Past Master;
D. F . Dufour, Past Master;
A. · S. H allida y, Past Master.
North Butte Lodge, No. 230.Richard Campbell, Senior Warden.
Janesville Lodge, No. 232.James I. Christie, Master and Past Master.

357

358

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Calistoga Lodge, No. 233.J oseph C. Wright, Master.
Surprise Valley Lodge, No. 235.Ransom K. Stanley, Master and Past Master.
Guadalupe Lodge No. 237.Paul B. Carter, Master;
W. T. Lucas, Past Grand Master and Representative.
Colusa Lodge, No. 240.0. Robinson, Past Master.
Santa Ana Lodge, No. 241.Fred'k W. Mansur, Master.
Magnolia Lodge, No. 242.William P. Butcher, Master and Past Master.
Eucalyptus Lodge, No. 243.C. F. Thomas, Past Master.
Alcatraz Lodge, No. 244.Wi!Ji.am G. Davidson, Master;
William J. Lawry, Senior Warden;
John Crossman, Junior Warden;
H. T. Huggins, Past Master.
Laurel Lodge, No. 245.J. D. Danner, Past Master and Representative.
Pomona Lodge, No. 246.Everett H. Welch, Master and Past Master;
J. R. Garthside, Past Master.
Altuqls Lodge, No. 248.Simeon T. Ballard, Master;
E. C. Bonner, Past Master.
Landmark Lodge, No. 253.T. Hall, Past Master and Representative.
Reading Lodge, No. 254.Israel J. Johnson, Master;
C. C. Bush, Past Master.
Welcome Lodge, No. 255.Harry V. Woodgates, Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
Lodi Lodge, No. 256.G. W. LeMoin, Past Master and Reprcoentative.
Penrhyn Lodge, No. 258.Ro b ert Kayo, Master.
Evergreen Lodge, No: 259.Chas. B. Bayley, Junior Warden.
King Solomon's Lodge, No. 260.Samuel B. Stevenson, Master;
George M. Davis, Senior Warden;
Ira S. Hobbs, Junior Warden;
G. E. Bacon, Past Master;
W. P. Filmer, Past Master;
R. E. Hartley, Past Master;
J. A. Hosmer, Past Master;
C. L. P. Marais, Past Master;
F. B. Wood, Past Master.
Tuscan Lodge, No. 26I.George A. Ware, Junior Warden.
Lompoc Lodge, No. 262.Edwin C. Wilkin, Master and Past Master.
Hesperian Lodge, No. 264.William H. Tunnell, Master;
Chas. N. Armstrong, Senior Warden;
Manuel F. Pires, Junior Warden.
North East Lodge, No. 266.J. Herrington, Representative.
Galt Lodge, No. 267.Joseph L. Orvis, Junior Warden.
Durant Lodge, No. 268.George Leonard, Junior Warden;
E. C. Bridgman, Past Master.
Pasadena Lodge, No. 272.Albert Mercer, Master.
Anchor Lodge, No. 273.Harm9n J. Mayo, Master and Past Master.
Arroyo Lodge, No. 274.Benjamin E. Short, Senior Warden.

359

360

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Oakdale Lodge, No. 275.J. Haslocher, Past Master and Representative.
Selma Lodge, No. 277.Manuel Vincent, Master;
J. L. Mitchell, Past Master;
W. S. Robinson, Past Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
Santa Paula Lodge, No. 291.Frank E. Davis, Master and Past Master;
John H. Orcutt, Senior Warden.
Orange Grove Lodge, No. 293.Warner B. Williams, Master;
W. S. Gregg, Past Master.

Southern California Lodge, No. 278.George I. Kyte, Master;
J. A. Foshay, Past Grand Master;
W. P . Jeffries, Past Master;
H. 8. Orme, Past Grand Master;
H. Z. Osborne, Past Master;
D. R. Weller, Past Master.

Silver Gate Lodge, No. 296.Archibald Taylor, Mas t er.

Hanford Lodg_e, No. 279.Delmar H. Latimer, Junior Warden;
J. C. Ensign, Past Master.

Dunsmuir Lodge, No. 297.George E. Malone, Junior Warden;
G. W. McCoy, Past Master.

Mt. Shasta Lodge, No. 281.A. C. Burbanks, Past Master and Representative.
South West Lodge, No. 283.Warren B. Vaughan, Master.

Traver Lodge, No. 294.G. W.' Curle, Past Master and Representati ve.
Mt. Jackson Lodge, No. 295.Isaac McGuffin, Master and P ast Master.

Mokelumne Hill Lodge, No. 298.Thomas C. Peters, Master and Past Master.
Liberty Lodge, No. 299.George L. Downing, Master.
I

San Miguel Lodge, No. 285.Gerald N. Douglas, Master.

Redlands Lodge, No. 300.Walter McN. Campbell, Master;
J . A. Stone, P ast Master.

Paso Robles Lodge, No. 286.Myron H. Brooks, Master and Past Master.

Ontario Lodge, No. 301.Geo. P. Smith, Representative.

Winnedumah Lodge, No. 287.A. Cohn, Representative.

361

Porterville Lodge, No. 303.Ro bert Harbach, Master.

Maxwell Lodge, No. 288.H. J . Cook, Past Master and Representative.

Reedley Lodge, No. 304.Geo. A. Hawkins, Master and Past Mastc::r;
Daniel L. Reed, Senior Warden.

Elsinore Lodge, No. 289.J ames Stewart, Master and Past Master.

Azusa Lodge, No. 305.Don DeW. Morgan, Master.

East Gate Lodge, No. 290.Gatesby C. Thom, Master;
F rank C. Mulkey, Junior Warden;
M. H. Flint, Grand Master;
0. L awler, Past Master.

Ashlar Lodge, No. 306.Irwin W . Brink, Master.
Santa Monica Lodge, No. 307.0liver G. Tullis, Master and Past Ma >ter
14

:

362

PROCEEDINGS OF THB

GRAND LODGE OF 0.ALIFORNIA.

363

Monrovia Lodge, No. 3o8.Richard B. Cowan, Master.

Consuelo Lodge, No. 325.W m. W . Carpenter, Jr., Sen. Warden and Past Master.

Delano Lodge, No. 309.Christian W . Cline, Master and Past Master.

i..ong Beach Lodge, No. 327.Edward P . Dewey, Master.

Sisson Lodge, No. 310.Edward H . Kaupp, Senior Warden.

Redondo Lodge, No. 328.J oseph C. Gillespie, Master.

Tehachapi Lodge, No. 313.Peter J. McFarlane, Master and Past Master.

Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329.C. Deutsch, Past Master and Representative.

Temescal Lodge, No. 314.Charles M. Scoville, Master.

Kilauea Lodge, No. 330.C. H. Fairer, Past Master.

Norwalk Lodge, No. 315.Alphons E . Dressell, Master.

Pacific Grove Lodge, No. 331.E . S. Johnston, Representative.

Sanger Lodge, No. 316.0 . Hayward, Past Master and Representative.

San Pedro Lodge, No. 332.W m. C. Hill, Master.

Fallbrook Lodge, No. 317.Jesse T. Fickas, Senior Warden.

Alta Lodge, No. 333.Elmer A. Kirkwood, Senior Warden;
J . D. Murphey, Past Master. .

Emmanuel Lodge, No. 318.M. LaPaint, Past Master and Representative.
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319.Leo. V. Youngworth, Master and Past Master.
Joseph A. Smith, Junior Warden;
J . M. Dunsmoore, Pa·s t Master.
South Gate Lodge, No. 320.J ohn W. Musselman, Master;
John W. Kemp, Senior Wa.rden;
Kearney L. Wilcox, Junior Warden.

Covina Lodge, No. 334.Franklin E. Dudderar, Master.
West Gate Lodge, No. 335.Ellsworth F. Richards, Master.
Fruitvale Lodge, No. 336.Wm. G. Thornalley, Jr., Master;
Cornelius Carew, Senior Warden;
W . H. Fraser,, Past Master.

Alisa! Lodge, No. 32i.E . E . Hall, Past Master and Representative.

Carquinez Lodge, No. 337.George Jones, Master;
H. G. Powers, Past Master.

Alhambra Lodge, No. 322.Ralph B. Clapp, Master.

San Jacinto Lodge, No. 338.Joseph B. McCue, Senior Warden.

Whittier Lodge, No. 323.James H . Stewart, Master.

Fullerton Lodge, No. 33g.J. C. Braly, ,Representative.

Corona Lodge, No. 324.Lemuel L. Test, Senior Warden.

Santa Maria Lodge, No. 340.Elbert E . Blo·s ser, Master and Past Master.

364

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Oxnard ,L odge, No. 34r.Earle Carr, Master and Past Master.

Presidio Lodge, No. 354._Robert A. Grier, Master.

Manila Lodge, No. 342.A. G. Bellis, Representative.

Hollywood Lodge, No. 355.Theodore Heinig, Master;
John P. Day, Senior Warden;
George Lingo, Junior Warden;
G. F. Stevenson, Past Master.

San Fernando Lodge, No. 343.Wm. T. Burr, Master.
Starr King Lodge, No. 344.David S. Hirshberg, Master;
Wm. A. Keller, Senior Warden;
I. B. Schantz, Past Master.
Brentwood Lodge, No. 345.Robert Wallace, Master and Past Master.
Palo Alto Lodge, No. 346.Louis H . Barker, Master;
Milton B. Roller, Senior Warden;
C. W . Decker, Past Master.
McKinley Lodge, No. 347.John Mel. Morrison, Master;
Palen Church, Senior Warden.
San Bernardino Lodge, No. 348.Benj. F. Bledsoe, Junior Warden;
J . B. Frith, Past Master.
Sequoia Lodge, No. 349.Charles Husband, Master;
James C. Cole, Senior Warden;
John P. MacGregor, Junior Warden;
W. J . Chesney, Past Master;
J . W. Gwilt, Past Master.
Palestine Lodge, No. 35r.Arthur J. Wheeler, Master;
Henry D. McCabe, Senior Warden;
E. E. Selph, Past Master.

Mill Valley Lodge, No. 356.James Newlands, Jr., Master;
,Samuel M. Burt, Senior Warden;
Thomas T. Greaves, Junior Warden;
L. L. Janes, Past Master.
Buena Park Lodge, No. 357.James H. Whitaker, Master.
Golden ~tate Lodge, No. 358.Peter W. Garn, Master;
Geo. H . Tenbrook, Junior Warden;
J. H. Bean, Past Master.
San Francisco Lodge, No. 360.Harry S. Johnson, Master;
Jesse C. Perry, Junior Warden;
H . D . Loveland, Past Master.
C.harity Lodge, No. 362.J esse J. Cornell, Master;
Sylvanus R. Wade, Senior Warden;
F. M. Righter, Past Master.
Berkeley Lodge, No. 363.James L. Robison, Master;
Julian J. Benton, Junior Warden;
]. T. Morrison, Past Master. ·
Olivet Lodge, No. 364.Wm. H. Samson, Master.

Sunset Lodge, No. 352.Sedgewick Z. Osmund, Master;
Samuel E. Burke, Senior Warden.

Las Palmas Lodge, No. 366.Albert B. Clark, Master;
B. A. Fassett, Past Master;
J . C. Pottle, Past Master.

Pinole Lodge, N o. 353.J ohn· C. Paterson, Master.

South Pasadena Lodge, No. 367.Benjamin V. Garwood, Master.

365

366

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Unity Lodge, No. 368.George U. Moyse, Master and Past Master.
Ocean Park Lodge, No. 369.Alex. R: Fraser, Master and Past Master.
Amity Lodge, No. 370.Robert J. Laughrey, Master;
William J . Loveland, Senior Warden;
Edward Stephenson, Junior Warden.
Oceanic Lodge, No. 371.J. D. Tucker, Representative.
Gardena Lodge, U. D.Fred'k B. Williamson, Senior Warden.
Jewel Lodge, U. D.Arthur B. Sanborn, Junior Warden.
Francis Drake Lodge, U. D.Geo. F. McDonald, Master;
John T McDonald, Junior Warden
Mizpah Lodge, U. D.Charles E. Sebastian, Master and Past Master.
Fillmore Lodge, U. D.Gilbert E. Webb, Master and Past Master.
Huntington Beach Lodge, U. D.Andrew W. Griffith, Master.
Oceanside Lodge, U. D.Wm. VanD. Nichols, Master.

Which report was concurred in, and the brethren therein
· named were admitted to seats.
The Grand Lecturer presented his Annual Report to the
Grand Lodge as follows :
To the Most Worshipful Grand Master
and Brethren of the Grand Lodge:
I beg to submit this brief report upon the condition and needs
of the Lodges in the several Masonic Districts of this Grand Jurisdiction.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

367

In Augu?t last a circular letter was sent to each District Inspector, which was intended as a sort of guide to them, pointing to
the matters which, as Inspectors, it would be their especial duty to
investigate.
It is gratifying to be able to say that nearly all the Inspectors
have sent in their reports conc.e rning the work they have accomplished and the condition of the Lodges over which they have been
called to exercise supervision and impart the necessary instruction
in the Ritual and Work.
·
From the reports of the Inspectors, it is found that with few
exceptions the Lodges are in a prosperous condition; that the work
is in accordalice with the Ritual and fairly well done ; that the books
· of secretaries are neatly and correctly kept; that the minutes are
prop.e rly transcrib.e d by the secretaries and signed by the W.'. M.'.
as required by the Grand Lodge; that the dues, though not collected
in advance, as required by the Uniform Code of By-Laws, are generally paid at or before the annual election of officers. In this con·
nection I might say that the custom of paying dues at the end of
the Masonic year has grown almost into a law.
The Inspectors report that they have been busy in the discharge of their official duties and have visited and instructed the
Lodges of their respective districts at all times when requested
by the Lodges to do so, and more than this, have voluntarily gone
to the Lodges and proffered their assistance.
It is to be regretted, however, that some Lodges, notably those
which are in the greatest need of instruction and assistance, are
the ones that not only refrain from asking the Inspectors for help,
but also fail to get together when notified by the Inspector in
advance of his coming.
It would be of great benefit if the Grand Lodge should adopt a
regulation providing that where the Inspector is cognizant of a
Lodge in his district that from carelessness or lack of interest is
not able to confer any or all degrees in a creditable and proper
manner, the Inspector be authorized to forbid further work in the
Lodge until the fault be remedied.
I hold that the Inspect or is
now so authorized; and I know of an instance where the Inspector,
knowing a certain Lodge in his district was not able to c·o nfer the
degree as it should be done, went to the W.'. M.'. of that Lodge
on the day the degree was to be given and forbade it, until the
Lodge had been called together and practiced on the work until
the W.' . M.'. and his officers had acquired the necessary proficiency.
It was a splendid lesson, not only to the Lodge itself, but to the
other Lodges of that district. It was a glorious example of the
stam~na of that Inspector and worthy of emulation by other Inspectors.

368

369

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

It has been apparent to me for several years that it would be
of benefit to the Lodges to require Junior Wardens~elect before
being installed, to be able to confer the E. A. degree, :nd that
Senior Wardens be able to confer both E. A. & F. C.
Were this provision embodied in a Regulation, it would not
make it necessary for the Master-elect to cram into his memory in
a short time the entire work of the three degrees.
It would lessen the strain and confusion consequent upon
burdening the mind so much in so short a time, and it would lighten
the task of the Inspectors by having them examine the Masterelect only in the Ritual of the Third Degree and the law governing
Masonry in general and his duties as Master in particular. Upon
this question I have sounded the several Inspectors, and through'.
them the ·o fficers of the Lodges, and the result has shown the great
majority of all concerned very much _in favor of such a regulation,
and I therefore respectfully suggest that such a regulation be
adopted by the Grand Lodge.
The following Inspectors have sent in their reports upon the
condition of their Lodges, and the reports reflect much credit upon
the zeal and fidelity with which they have performed the arduous
duties of their office :
·

John T. Porter ...... .. ......... 26th D.i strict
Carlton C. Case .. . . . . .. ... ..... 27th District
John R. B. Chisholm ........... 29th District
Richard S. Allen ..... . ......... 31st District
Max Goldman ................. 32nd District
Delos W. Smythe ............. . 33rd District
Francis A. Abbott ... .. ........ 34th District
Jam es S. Larew ... . ... ..... .... 35th Distric t
Wm. D. Logan ................ . 36th District
Guy P . Doyle .............. ... 37th District
James C. Pottle .......... ... ... 38th District
A1fam Brown .......... . .... . ... 4oth District
David J. Reese .. .... .. ... . . . .. . 41st Distr.ict
George N. Black ............... 42nd District
David R. Weller ............... 43rd District
Henry Ramel .. ...... ... .. ..... 44th District
Chas. E. Mitchell . . ...... .... .. 45th District
Philip H . Krick .... . .... .. ..... 46th District
Joseph B. Frith ................ 47th District
Eli T. Blackmer .. .... . ........ 48th District
Joshua D. Tucker .............. 49th District
George F. Rodden ......... . .. . 52nd District
Roderick G. Guyett ............ 53rd District
John H. Bean ................. 54th District
Joseph R. Garthside ............ 55th District
and the following Special Inspectors for the Lodges not working
in the English language:
0. M . Goldaracena, La Parfaite Union .. No. 17
Richard Sternitsky, Hermann ........ No. 127
Giovanni Scalmanini, Speranza Italiana.No. 219
Daniel Cave, Vallee de France ... . .... No. 329

A. J. Monroe .................... 1st District
Thos. J . Richards ........ . .. . ... 2nd District
C. W. Nutting ................. .. 3rd District
Edward Sweeney ................ 4th District
E. C. Bonner ........ . ......... .'.5th District
Isaac F. Moffitt . .. .. .. .. . ... .. .. 6th District
Julian E. Pardee ... .. . ......... 7th District
James 0 . Moncur ................ 8th District
E. L. Case . ... ....... . . ... ..... roth District
J. D. Murphy . . .. . ......... . ... 12th District
W. E. Meservy .... ....... .. .. . 13th District
M . D. Lininger ..... .. ...... ... 14th District
Emil Meybem ....... . . . ........ 15th District
Jay W. Ashley ... .............. 16th District
J . P. Danner .. . .. .. ......... . ... 17th District
Robt. L. Hutchinson ........... 18th District
C. J. Monroe ...... . ........... 19th District
John H. Gunn ................ . 20th District
Alexander McDaid .. ....... .... 21st District
Levi J . Nuttall ................ . 22nd District
Byron Ball ·.......... . .......... 23rd District
Max Mierson ............... . .. 24th District
James E . Dye ....... ... ......... 25th District

I presume that the Inspectors whose reports have not reached
me have, through business pressure or forgetfulness, neglected this
duty.
I regret that it has been impossible for me to do as much work
during the year as I had hoped and planned to do.
The great cal1amity of last April so much disturbed the whole
State that for several months it seemed impossible to settle down
to the usual order of everyday business, and later the intense summer heat rendered work in the Lodge-rooms so disagreeable that
it would have been little less than torture for the brethren to assemble.
However, I have done the best that was possible under the
circumstances.

371

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CAL~ORNIA.

It is known to the Grand Lodge and the membership throughout the State that at all times since I have held the office of Grand
Lecturer, I have been engaged in professional work in the city of
San Francisco and could only devote such time to Masonry as
was not occupied in my profession.

reposed in me, and thanking the brethren for the many kindnesses
ancl courtesies extended me, I am,
Sincerely and fraternafiy,
WILLIAM H. EDWARDS,
Grand Lecturer.

There seems to be a sentiment among the Lodges that the
time has come when the Grand Lodge of California should have
its Grand "Lecturer devote his entire time to the business of lecturing the Lodges, not only in the Ritual and Work of the Fraternity
as used in the conferring of degrees and the proper transaction
of the business of a Lodge, but also in the principles and groundwork of this greatest of all societies.

Which report was ordered to be referred to a Special
Committee of three, and the Grand Master named the following brethren to constitute such committee-

It is well known many of our brethren know less about the
history and symbolism of Masonry than they should. They are
eager to learn more. Nothing could be. of more benefit to the
Grand Lodge than to have a Lecturer go from Lodge to Lodge,
stirring up interest, awakening enthusiasm and so bringing into
our brotherhood the good and the true of every community in our
glorious State.

The Grand Treasurer presented his Annual Report to
the Grand Lodge, as follows :-

370

I cannot close this report without saying something concerning "Anderson's Manual." When the author of thaot book had completed that most valuable volume and offered it to the Masons of
California, it was a complete compendium of the Constitution,
· Regulations, Decisions, and Forms of every kind and character,
clearly and accurately stated and in all up to date in every partic·
ular, and it was a source of genuine pleasure to know that if one
wanted any form for any Masonic purpose, he had only to look in
"Anderson's Manual," and, like a dear friend, it was there to greet
him. If one wanted to find any Masonic law or decision for California, he had only to search "Anderson's Manual" and he found it.
If one sought to establish a new Lodge, every form of procedure
was in it. If a cornerstone· was to be laid, the form was there,
and so on throughout, everything could there be found.
But one by one the forms have been dropped out, the decisions
which have been reversed do not now appear, and if we de5ire to
trace through them the rise and progress of Masonry in this State
we cannot do h.
I believt> from the comments of the brethren throu1rhout the
::itate upon the changes and omissions above named that the Grand
Lodge should refer the book to its author that it may be by him
revised, and that all that original volume contained should again
appear between its covers with whatever has since been ordained as
law or decision.
And now, thanking the Grand Lodge for the confidence it has

On Grand Lecturer's Report
Rodolph W. Meek,
Dana R. Weller,
Arthur J . Thatcher.

w:.

To the M.".
Grand Lodge of California:
The undersigned herewith submits his account of ·the receipts
and expenditures of the Grand Lodge during the past year.
The Grand Treasurer in account with the Grand Lodge for
the fiscal year ending July 31st, 1906:
RECEIPTS.
1905.
Aug. 5.
Aug. 10.
Aug. 21.
Aug. 29.
Oct. 5.
Oct. 27.
1906.
Jan. 2.
April 2.
Aug. 8.

Received from Grand Secretary ..... $6,685 25
Received from Grand Secretary ..... 8,582 20
Received from Grand Secretary ..... 14,445 70
Received from Grand Secretary ..... 5,281 90
Received from Grand Secretary ..... 2,430 30
Received from Grand Secretary ... .. 1,764 30
Received from Grand Secretary . . ... 2,818 40
Received from Grand Secretary ..... 2,039 30
Received from Grand · Secretary ..... 538 95
$44,586 30

1905.
Sept. 15.
19o6.
Mar. 15.

Received interest on $7,000 Blue Lake
6% bonds ........................ $210 00
Received interest on $7,000 Blue Lake
6% bonds ..
••• •t ••••••••••••••••

210 00
$420 00

Received interest on deposit with A.
Borel & Co ..... . . .............. .
Total receipts for year ending July 31, 19o6 .....

266 21

372

373

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

DISBURSEMENTS.

Paid Frank Eastman for ~rinting and binding
Proceedings of I905, as per voucher No. 74. I,I59 oo
Paid E. J. McKain, funeral expense of Past
Grand Master Rucker, as per voucher No. 76 237 50
Paid Schmidt Lithograph Company for 74
charters, as per voucher No. 82. . . . . . . . . . . . 148 oo
Paid Wells Fargo & Co., shipping Proceedings
of Grand Lodge of I905, as per voucher
No. 88 ........ •.......................... ·
88 52
Pai!! Jas. Fredericks & Co., office furniture, as
per voucher No. 5. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43I oo
Paid R. H. Chamberlain, covering for floor, as
per voucher No. 7. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
27 so
Paid Guyett Havens, premiums on policies Nos.
34, 54 and 2I2, as per voucher No. I6. . . . . .
37 oo
Paid E. M. Bartlet, for Premier typewriter, as
per voucher No. 25 ................... · · ·
87 75
Paid expenses of Grand Lecturer, as per
vouchers Nos. 6, 68 and 20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 294 05
Paid care of office, as per vouchers Nos. 8, I9,
45, 54, 65, 80, 93, 97, 2I and 3I..... . . . . . . . . IOO 00
Paid rent of office, as per vouchers Nos. 57,
78, 4 and 36 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . I,I25 oo
Paid printing and Stationery, · as per vouchers
Nos. 22, 36, 38, 52, 58, 62, 72, 87, 3, II, I4
and 30. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I,053 85
Paid for sundry roll call, pay roll, telephone,
postoffice box and incidental expense, as per
vouchers Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, IO, I3, I4, IS, I7, 34,
35, 39, 40, 4I, 43, 44·, 48, 50, 5I, 60, 6r, 63, 49,
69, 70, 73, 75, 83, 42, 85, 89, 2, 4, 6, 9, I2, I3, I5,
I7, I8, . I9, 26, 28, 29 and 3I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I,I2I 40
- - - $33,056 22
s
For Account of Payment of Representatives:
Paid Representatives of Lodges, as per pay roll.$4,550 IO
Paid Grand Officers and Chairmen of Committees ............................... · · · · · · 280 40
Paid Inspectors ....................... · . · · · · · 780 40
IO 00
Paid reimbursed to Harry Johnson .......... .
$5,620 90
Total disbursements for the year ending July
$38,677 I2
3I, I9o6 ............. ' ................. ' ..
6,595 39
Balance cash on hand this date, July 3I, I906 ..

For Account of S!laries of Grand Officers:
Paid Grand Treasurer as per voucher No. 33 .... $ 200 oo
Paid Grand Secretary as per vouchers Nos. II,
2I, 47, 56, 67, 8I, 9I, 99, my,;, 24 and 37. . . . 3,000 oo
Paid Grand Lecturer as per vouchers Nos. 7, 18,
53, 64, 77, 90, 96, 8, 22 and 32 ............... I,200 oo
Paid Assistant Grand Secretary as per vouchers
NOS. 9, 20, 46, 55, 66, 79, 92, 98, IO, 23 & 34.. I,500 00
Paid Grand Organist as per voucher No. 28....
50 oo
Paid Grand Tyler as per voucher No. 29.. . . . . I25 oo
$6,075 00
For A~count of General Disbursements:
Paid overdraft at bank, as per last report ...... $ rn8 26
Paid George Johnson for 345 shares of Masonic
Hall stock, as per voucher No. I .......... I0,080 04
Paid Wm. A: Davies, Chairman of Committee on
Correspondence, as per voucher No. I2.. . . 250 oo
Paid Mutual T. & L. Co., as per voucher No. I6 255 oo
Paid Samuel Prager, appropriation to Los Angeles. Board of Relief, as per voucher No. 23 3,000 oo
Paid E. Chase, appropriation to Liberty Lodge,
No. 299, as per voucher No. 24.............
IS oo
Paid J. B. Sheppard, appropriation to Russian
River Lodge No. I8I, as per voucher N 0.25 I57 45
Paid H. A. Woodworth, appropriation to Butte
Lodge No. 230, as per voucher No. 26...... I32 90
Paid J. G. Herron, appropriation to Yount
Lodge No. I2, as per voucher No. 27.. . . . . . I97 oo
Paid L. Wadham, experting Grand Treasurer's
and Grand Secretary's books, as per
voucher No. 30. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IOO oo
Paid M. H. Flint, appropriation to Southern
California Home, as per voucher No. 3I.. . . 5,000 oo
Paid M. H. Flint, contingent expense of Grand
Master, as per voucher No. 32 ......•..... I,200 oo
Paid W. S. Wells, for expense of Special Committee, as per voucher No. 33........... . .
50 oo
Paid Radke & Co. for testimonial to Past Grand
Master Hunter, as per voucher No. 37 .... 300 00
Paid Harry J. Maxwell, premium on bonds of
Grand Treasurer and Grand Secretary, as
per voucher No. 59 ..................... · · I25 00
Paid Masonic Home for printing report ....... . IOO 00

374

. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The vouchers for all the foregoing, with the Grand Treasurer's
books, are herewith presented. He reports that he has in his keeping 5,881 shares of the capital stock of the Masonic Hall Association of the °City of San Francisco, the par value of which is $58,8IO,
and the actual value $176,430, also seven 6 per cent $IOOO first mortgage bonds of the Blue Lake Water Co., the par value of whieh is
$7,000, the actual value $7,910.
All which is respectfully submitted by
.
EDWARD COLEMAN,
Grand Treasurer.

He also presented his report as Treasurer of the Masonic
Widows and Orphans' Home, as follows:To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic
Widows' and Orphans' Home:
The Grand Treasurer herewith submits his account of the receipts and expenditures of the Masonic Widows' and Orphans'
Home for the year ending September 30, 1906:
RECEIPTS.
Balance on hand from last year.. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
$36,286 99
1906.
Jan. 2. Received from the Grand Secretary .. $1,250 15
Aug. 8. Received from the Grand Secretary..
IO oo
Aug. 8. Received from the Grand Secretary .. 8,775 oo
Aug. 1I. Received from the Grand Secretary .. 7.417 oo
Aug. 16. Received from the Grand Secretary.. 6,492 oo
Aug. 22. Received from fhe Grand Secretary .. 6,260 oo ·
Sept. 3. Received from the Grand Secretary.. 2,667 oo
Sept. 29. Received from the Grand Secretary . ." 2,029 04
1905.

Dec. 31.
Dec. 31
1906.
June 30.
June 30.

$34,900 19

Dividend on deposit with San Francisco Savings Union .............. $
Dividend on deposit with Union Trust
Company ....................... .
Dividend on deposit with San Francisco Savings Union ............. .
Dividend on deposit with Union
Trust Company ................. .
Interest on deposit with A. Borel
& Co ........................ .

49 20
IO 85

375

DISBURSEMENTS.
Paid Edward ·Peabody for new reservoir, as
per voucher No. 4 ........................ $3.483 98
Paid Geo. Johnson, salary, as per vouchers
Nos. 388, 6 and 7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 450 oo
Paid Edward Peabody, Masonic Home supplies,
as per voucher No. 383.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,926 85
Paid E. Peabody, for• pay roll, as per vouchers
Nos. 384, 386, 389, 2, 5, 8, 3, 5, 8, IO and 13. 7,249 85
Paid E. Peabody, for sundries, as per vouchers
Nos. 385, 387, 1, 3, 6, 9, 4, 7, 9, II and 12 ... 18,791 77
Total disbursements for year ending
September 30, 1906 ........... $31,902 45
Srpt. 30. Balance cash on hand this date ..... 39,8o7 40
- - - $71,709 85
Disposition of Money on Hand:
With A. Borel & Co .................. $36,075 85
With San Francisco Savings Union.. 3,051 54
With Union Trust Company . . . . . . . .
680 01

All which is respectfully submitted,
EDWARD C0LEMAN,
Grand Treasurer.

Both which reports, with their accompanying books and
vouchers, were ordered to be referred to the Committee on
Finance.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until ten o'clock
tomorrow morning.

50 02
II 02
401 58
$522 67
$71,709 85

376

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Visalia Lodge, No. 128.
Frederick W. Ward, Master.

3Jn ~ranh 14nhgr.

Pacific Lodge, No. 136.
J. W. Anderson, Past Master.

Morning Session,
Wednesday, October 10th, A. L. 5906.

Vitravius Lodge, No. 145.
Louis C. Bailey, Senior Warden.

The Grand Lodge was called on at ten o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.

Lassen Lodge, No. 149.
W. Brockman, Past Master.

The minutes of the sessions of yesterday were read and
approved.

Wood.land Lodge, No. 156.
Ira A. Morris, Master.

Bro. Harry S. Johnson, from the Committee on C~eden­
tials, reported the following additional officers of chartered
Lodges, and Past Masters by service within this jurisdiction, as being present and entitled to seats, viz: from
Tehama Lodge, No. 3.
T. J. Milliken, Past Master and Representative.
J. E. Thompson, Past .Master.
San Jose Lodge, No. 10.
John P. Jarman, Master and Past Master.
Yount Lodge, No. 12.
Elmer L. Bickford, ·senior Warden.
Chas. E. Trower, Junior Warden.
C. B. Johnson, Past Master.
P. S. King, Past Master.
Santa Cruz Lodge, No. 38.
E. S. West, Past Master.
Sacramento Lodge, No. 40.
E. C. Atkinson, Past Master and Representative.
Martinez Lodge, No. 41.
L. N. Buttner, Past Master.
George Washington Lodge, No. 62.
John A. Smith, Master an<l Past Master.
Chico Lodge No. 111.
E. Meybem, Past Master.

Marin Lodge, No. 191.
R. Furlong, Past Master.
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202.
W. R. Hervey, Past Master.
Salinas Lodge, No. 204.
J. K . Alexander, Past Master and .Representative.
San Benito Lodge, No.· 211.
Edwin S. Logan, Senior Warden.
Monterey Lodge, No. 217.
W. Kay, Past Master.
Hope Lodge, No. 234.
Roger D. Mathews, Maste[ and Past Master.
Surprise Valley Lodge, No. 235.
T. H . Johnstone, Past Master.
Hill's Ferry Lodge, No. 236.
Jules G. S. Cain, Master.
Fresno Lodge, No. 247.
E. D. Edwards, Past Master and Representative.
Penrhyn Lodge, No. 258.
J. P. M. Phillips, Past Master.
Durant Lodge, No. 268.
William H. H. Gentry, Senior Warden.
15

377

378

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Berkeley_Lodge, No. 363.
James F. Hill, Senior Warden.
Artesia Lodge, U. D.
George R. Frampton, Master and Past Master.

Which report was concurred in and the brethren therein
named were admitted to seats.
The M. :. W. :. Edmund C. Atkinson, Past Grand Master,
appeared and took his seat.
The Grand Secretary presented his annual report to the
Lodge, as follows:
To th<:l M. ·. W.:. Grand Lodge of California:
The undersigned submits his Sixteenth Annual Report, and notwithstanding the awful disaster of April last, he believes that all
transactions of his office for the year as should necessitate action by
the Grand Lodge will be fully presented for its consideration.
At the earliest day possible after the close of the last Annual Communication, seventeen hundred copies of the Proceedings were distributed, or reserved for future binding, in the customary manner,
viz.: one copy to each of the present Grand Officers; one copy to each
of the elective Past Grand Officers; three eopies to each of the Grand
Bodies, American and }'oreign, with which we are in correspondence;
one copy to each Inspector, and two copies to each of the Lodges of
our Jurisdiction.
New editions of the Constit;ition, Anderson's Manual, Monitor,
Example Lodge, Installation Service, Form for Record of Trial, ~ni­
form Code of By-Laws, Funeral Service and Ceremonies for Laymg
Corner·Stones, Dedicating Halls and Constituting Lodges have been
issued, all of which had been destroyed by fire.
The Proceedings of all the Grand Lodges of the United States, for
the year, have been receive<l and placed in the hands o~ the Chair~n
of the Committee on Correspondence, with the exception of Georgia,
Indian Territory New Mexico, and Tennessee, as have also those of
British Columbi:, Canada, England, Manitoba, New Brunswick, Nova
Scotia, Prince Edward Island and Quebec.
The seven Lodges to which Charters were granted at the last
Annual Communication were, in due season, properly constituted; four
by deputies specially appointed for that purpose, as follows:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

379

"Willits" Lodge, No. 365, at'Willits, by the W.·. Robt. L. Hutchinson, Inspector of the Eighteenth District;
"Las ·Palmas" Lodge, No. 366, at Fresno, by the R.-. W. :. Edward
H. Hart, Deputy Grand Master;
''Amity'' Lodge, No. 370, at San Francisco, by the R. ·. W. ·. Edward H. Hart, Deputy Grand Master;
"Oceanic" Lodge, No. 371, at Hoµolulu, by the W. : . Joshua D.
Tucker, Inspector of the Forty-ninth District;
"South Pasadena" Lodge, No. 367, at South Pasadena; "Unity"
Lodge, No. 368, at Glendale, and "Ocean Park" Lodge, No. 369, at
Santa Monica, by the M.:. W.·. Motley H. Flint, Grand Master.
Since the last Annual Communication, dispensations for the formation of nine new Lodges have, by direction of the Grand Master, been
issued from this office, as follows:
Oct. 14, 1905-To ''Veteran'' Lodge, at Sawtelle, Los Angeles County;
Nov. 21, 1905-"Jewel" Lodge, at San Francisco, San }'rancisco
County;
Feb. 23, 1906-" Richmond" Lodge, at San Francisco, San Francisco
County;
Mar. 8, 1906-" Francis Drake" Lodge, at South San Francisco, San
Mateo County;
Mar. 27, 1906-' 'Artesia'' Lodge, at Artesia, Los Angeles County;
June 9, 1906-\'Mizpah" Lodge, at Los Angeles, Los Angeles County;
June 21,_1906-"Fillmore" Lodge, at Fillmore, Ventura Count;r;
June 22, 1906-" Huntington Beach" Lodge, at Huntington Beach,
Orange County;
July 23, 1906-" Oceanside" Lodge, at Oceanside, San Diego County;
The petitions for the foregoing dispensations, with the certificates
of withdrawal of the several petitioners from the Lodges of which
they had last been members, the recommendation of the proper chartered Lodges, and the necessary certificates as to the qualifications
of the Masters and Wardens proposed, were all correctly prepared and
presented, together with the returned dispensations and books of record and the petitions of the new Lodges to be perpetuated by Charter.
At the date of last Report · there were two hundred and ninetynine Lodges borne upon the roll of the Grand Lodge, with a membership of thirty-one thousand five hundred and sixty-one. Since that
time nine dispensations to fo1·m new Lodges have been granted, being
a gain of nine Lodges, and, added to above, makes a total number of
Lodges now in existeMe in this jurisdiction three hundred and eight,
with a membership of thirty-three thousand seven hundred and sixty-

381

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA .•

nine, being a net gain for the year of nine Lodges and two thousand
two hundred and eight members.

have been received, the approval of the Grand Master in fourteen
cases has been filed in this office. Of these, seven being from Lodges
Nos. 136, 259, 306, 324, 334, 347 and 356, proposed changes in time
for stated meetings; three, being from Lodges Nos. 126, 297 and 368,
proposed to increase the fee for the degrees; three, being from
Lodges Nos. 58, 320 and 349, proposed adopting the life membership
system, and one, being from Lodge No. 202, proposed creating an
affiliation fee.
The approval or dibpproval of the Grand Master being but temporary, the foregoing amendments, as required by our laws, have been
placed in the hands of the Chairman of the Committee on By-Laws
of Lodges, and will l;le submit.ted to the Grand Lodge for final action,
as have the books of By-Laws of the nine Lodges now working under
dispensation.
,

380

The transcripts . of trial records, unaccompanied by notices of appeal, which have been received at this office since last Annual Communication-all which have been placed in the hands of the Chairman
of the Committee on Grievances-are as follows: From
"Manila" Lodge, No. 342, James l!'rancis Branham, expelled September 5, 1905;
"Marin" Lodge, No. 191, Charles W. Koerner, expelled January
31, 1906;
' 'Presidio ' ' Lodge, No. 354, Emil Julius Kanngiesser, expelled
March 1, 1906;
''Hartley'' Lodge, No. 199, Franklin Ridgway Todd, expelled
April 7, 1906;
"Chico" Lodge, No. 111, Robert Emil Goeritz, expelled April 7,
1906.
"Manila" Lodge, No. 342, Hugh Kirkman (of Lodge No. 75,
Oklahoma), expelled May 1, 1906.
"California" Lodge, No. 1, William Silver Glover, expelled May 3,
1906.
"Chico" Lodge, No. 111, William Clawson, expelled June 2, 1906.
"Acacia" Lodge, No. 92, Harry Irwin, E. A., expelled July 6, 1906.
"Mission" Lodge, No. 169, Benjamin Beatty Duncan, expelled
August 1, 1906.
"Berkeley" Lodge, No. 363, Lester Clay McNulty, suspended September 1, 1906.
"Truckee" Lodge, No. 200, Barton Willard Johnson, expelle,d September 12, 1906.
Transcripts of similar recorqs, accompanied by notices of appeal,
have been received and transmitted to same committee from
"Naval" Lodge, No. 87, Charles Franklin Mugridge, expelled November 16, 1905.
"Monterey" Lodge, No. 217, Augustus Antoine Manuel, reprimanded November 17, 1905.
''Lexington'' Lodge, No. 104, Charles L. Mulholland, expelled
January 6, 1906;
''Palo Al to '' Lodge, No. 346, William Dean, reprimanded March
31, 1906;
"Fruitvale" Lodge, No. 336, Thomas Tippin Burnett, acquitted
July 7, 1906.
Of the proposed amendments to ihe By-Laws of Lodges which

The following resolution has been received and referred to the
Committee on Charters:
''Resolved, That Ionic Lodge, No. 121, F. and A. M., voluntarily surrender its Charter to the Grand Lodge, and that the members apply
for their dimits to the Grand Secretary."
The correspondence relative to above resolution has also been referred to that Committee.
Petition of "George Washington" Lodge,, No. 62, and "Parfaite
Union" Lodge, No. 17, for remission of dues, and documents relative
to a Board of llillief at Manila, have been placed in the hands of the
Chairman of the Finance Committee.
Business before Grand Lodge, at last Annual Communication, unfinished:
Consideration of Decision No. 15, Grand Master's Address, relative
to the Lodges in Sacramento forming a ~orporation, under State laws,
for the purpose of providing for the perpetual care of lots in the
Masonic Lawn Cemetery. (Page 140, Proceedings 1905.)
Further consideration of reading the names of the Committee of
Investigation on petitions for the degrees or applications for membership. (Page 141, Proceedings 1905.)
·
Further consideration of the resolution that no Junior Warden of
a Lodge be installed until he shall have produced to the installing
offi~er a certificate from the Grand Lecturer or the Inspector of his
District. (Page 154, Proceedings 1905.)
Resolution presented by Past Grand Master Charles L. Patton,
relative to representatives to and from Grand Lodges. (Page 156,
Proceedings 1905.)
The various registers and account books of this office, the vouchers
for the orders drawn upon the Grand Treasurer, the several letter

382

383

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

books for the year, the files of letters received, and all other papers
concerning the business of the Grand Lodge, not hereinbefore mentioned, are herewith presented for inspection; as is also an account of
th.e revenues for the year ending on the thirty-first day of .July last,
with the receipts of the Grand Treasurer for the moneys collected by
the undersigned, as follows:

this exception, the returns from all the Lodges have been received,
and their dues have been paid in full.
Respectfully submitted,
GEO. .JOHNSON,
Grand Secretary.

The Grand Secretary in account with the Grand Lodge of California,
for the fiscal year ending on the 31st day of July, 1906.
1906.
Home Fund.
Gen. Fund.
.July 31, From sundry sources from Aug. 1,
1905, to this date ............ $31,571.00
$37,178.30
"
fees for Charters . .... ... . . .
350.00
5,881.00
" dividends Mas. Hall Ass'n.
" dispensations for sundry purposes . . .... . .......... . . .
775.00
156.00
" fees for diplomas .. . ...... .
126.00
" sales of Monitors ......... .
Manual . . ....... . .
120.00
"
$31,571Amounting collectively to the sum of ..

Which was ordered to 1:1e referred to the same special
committee as that upon the Address of the Grand Master.
He also presented an itemized statement of amounts received by him from Lodges, etc., in this jurisdiction, for
account of the relief fund, as follows:

•

$44,586.30
$76,157.30

1905.
Contra.
Home Fund.
Aug. 4, Paid Grand Treasurer this date... $5,635.00
Aug. 9, Paid Grand Treasurer this date...
7,515.00
Aug. l~, Paid Grand ·rreasur-er this date... 12,241.00
Aug. 25, Paid Grand Treasurer this date...
4,441.00
1,729.00
Oct.
5, Paid Grand Treasurer this date. . .
Uct. 26, Paid Grand Treasurer this date ...
1906.
.Jan.
2, Paid Grand Treasurer this date .. .
April 2, Paid Grand 'freasurer this date .. .
July 31, Paid Grand Treasurer this date...
10.00

Gen. Fund.
$6,685.25
8,582.20
14,445.70
5,281.90
2,430.30
1,764.30

Total payments to Grand Treasurer ... . $31,~71.00

$44,586.30

Making a n aggregate amount as above of

$76,157.30

2,818.40
2,039.30
538.95

Since my last Report the sum of $37,025.19 has been paid to the
Treasurer of the Masonic Widows and Orphans' Home, and the sum
of $13,421.50, relief contributions, has been paid to the M.:. W.:.
Grand Master and W. Frank Pierce, Chairman of the General Relief
Committee.
At the time of going to print (October 5th) no Grand Lodge Report
hacl been received from ''Huntington Beach'' Lodge, U. D. With

•

•

FromAmount.
Porterville Lodge, No. 303, and Chapter, R. A. M. . . . . . . . . . . $150 00
San Mateo Lodge, No. 226................................. 100 00
Buckeye Lodge, No. 195 ............... . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50 00
Tehachapi Lodge, No. 313 .. ........... , , . .. . .. . .. . . .. .. . .. 100 00
Santa Maria Lodge, No. 340.... . .......................... 100 00
Mount .Jackson Lodge, No. 295.............................
50 00
Curtis Lodge, No. 140 ... ... .... . ................ ... . .. ....
50 00
Loyalton Lodge, No. 359. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50 00
Ione Lodge, No. 80. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50 00
Hesperian Lodge, No. 264........... . ......... .. ..... .. ....
50 00
Yosemite Lodge, No. 133....... .. ... .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
25 00
Palmyra Lodge, No. 26.................................... 100 00
Evening Star Lodge, No. 186. ... ........ .. . . ..... . . .... .. ..
50 00
Manzanita Lodge, No. 102.................. . .. .. . .... .... .
20 00
Ashlar Lodge, No. 306..... . .. . .......... . ....... . .. ... .. .. 100 00
Pinole Lodge, No. 353. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 500 00
Hornitos Lodge, No. 98....................................
20 00
Los Banos Lodge, No. 312................................. 100 00
Franklin Lodge, No. 143................................... 250'00
Visalia Lodge, No. 128 ... :. . . . . . . .. . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . 100 00
Laurel Lodge, No. 245................................... 100 00
Gibsonville Lodge, No. 158 ................. . . ... . ;. .......
25 00
Bodie Lodge, No. 252..................................... 250 00
King David's Lodge, No. 209............... ..... ......... .
2 00
Truckee Lodge, No. 200... .............. ...... .............
50 00
Los Gatos Lodge, No. 292................................
50 00
Henry Clay Lodge, No. 95.................................
75 00
McKinley Lodge, No. 347................................. · 25 00
Illinoistown Lodge, No. 51.. .. .... . .. . .. .. .......... . .... .
25 00
Willits Lodge, No. 365.................. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
25 00
Lodi Lodge, No. 256............................. . ........ 250 00

384

385

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF 0ALIFOHNIA.

FromAmount.
Alta Lodge, No. 333................ . .. . ................. 100 00
Dunsmuir Lodge, No. 297 ....... . ........................ . 250 00
Trinity Lodge, No. 27 ................................... . 100 00
Plumas Lodge, No. 60 ............. : ...................... .
50 00
Ed~n Lodge, No. 113 .................................... .
50 00
Santa Cruz Lodge, No. 38 (Lodge $100, Mrs. Booth $20) ... . 120 00
Hiram Lodge, No. 43 .................. . ................. . .
50 00
Monterey Lodge, No. 217 .... , .. . ............... . .... . .... .
50 00
Silvey.ville Lodge, No. 201. ............ .. ......... . ....... .
50 00
Abell Lodge, No. 146 ..............•...................... 200 00
Suisun Lodge, No. 55 ................................... .
25 00
San Bernardino Lodge, No. 348 ........................... . 200 00
Colusa Lodge, No. 240 ...... . ............................ . 300 00
Clear Lake Lodge, No. 183 ............................... .
50 00
Eucalyptus Lodge, No. 243 ............................... .
50 00
Ophir Lodge, No. 33 ... , ......... . ...................... . .
50 00
Petaluma Lodge, No. 180 ................................. .
50 00
Callayomi Lodge, No. 282 ................................ .
50 00
Delano Lodge, No. 309 .................................. . 100 00
Inyo Lodge, No. 221 ............................... . ..... . 250 00
Confidence Lodge, No. 203 ................................ .
25 00
Alturas Lodge, No. 248 .......................... . ........ .
25 00
Lassen Lodge, No. 149 ........... . ....................... . 100 00
Mendocino Lodge, No. 179 ........................... : ... .
51 00
Mariposa Lodge, No. 24 ................................... .
25 00
Emmanuel Lodge, No. 318 ................................ .
50 00
North Star Lodge, No. 91. ........................... . ... .
25 00
Georgetown Lodge, No. 25 ......................... . .... .
20 00
Eureka Lodge, No. 16 ........... . ........................ .
50 00
Woodland Lodge, No. 156 ......................... . ...... .
60 00
Phoenix Lodge, No. 178 .................................. .
50 00
Paso Robles Lodge, No. 286 .......................... , ... . 100 00
Crescent Lodge, No. 45 ...............•.................... 100 00
Amador Lodge, No. 65 ................................... .
50 00
Nevada Lodge, No. 13 ................................... .
50 00
Tuolumne Lodge, No. 8 ................ . ................. . 100 00
Tex!ls Lodge, No. 46 ..................................... .
30 00
George Washington Lodge, No. 62 ......................... . 100 00
Martinez Lodge, No. 41 ............................. . .... . 100 00
Newville Lodge, No. 205 ................ . ................ .
50 00
Gold Hill Lodge, No. 32 ..•................................
75 00
Selma Lodge, No. 277 ............ .. ....................... . 100 00
Forest Lodge, No. 66 .. ................... . .............. . .
38 00
Meridian Lodge, No. 182 . . ................................•
31 00

FromAmount.
North East Lodge, No. 266....... . .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50 00
Keystone Lodge, No. 161... .. .......... .. ...... .. ... . . . . . .
20 00
Evergreen Lodge, No. 259. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125 00
Harmony Lodge, No. 164. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
25 00
Mountain Shade Lodge, No. 18.............................
25 00
Charity Lodge, No. 362. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
25 00
Doric Chapter, No. 66, R. A. M., ~an Leandro...............
50 00
Hill's Ferry Lodge, No. 236.............................. 116 75
Sincerity Lodge, No. 132 ($100, 0. E. S. Chapter, $50).. . .. . 150 00
56 00
Elope Lodge, .No. 234 ............ ; . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Molino Lodge, No. 150_............................ . .......
50 00
Vacaville Lodge, No. 134.................................. 100 00
Adin Lodge, No. 250......................................
25 00
Nicolaus Lodge, No. 129..................................
25 00
Rio Vista Lodge, No. 208.................................
42 00
Clay ·.L odge, No. 101................................... . ..
50 00
Grafton Lodge, No. 141...................................
50 00
7426 75
Received of Geo. Johnson, Grand Secretary, F. & A. M., above
amount of Seven Thousand Four Hundred Twenty-Six and 75 /100
Dollars.
W. FRANK PIERCE,
President General Masonic Board of Relief.

Which was ordered to be printed with the Proceedings.
Bro. Edward Peabody presented the report of the Trustees of the Masonic Widows and Orphans Home.
Which was referred to the Committee on Finance.
The Grand Secretary, on behalf of the various Masonic
Boards of Relief of the jurisdiction, presented their annual
reports to the Grand Lodge, as follows :
SAN FRANCISCO.
To the M.:. w.:. Grand Lodge of California, and the Oftlcers and
Members of the Twenty-two Lodges of San Francisco, Parties
to the Compact:The undersigned beg leave to present their annual report of the
Masonic Board of Relief of San Francisco for the year commencing
on the first day of October, 1905, and ending on the thirtieth rlay
of September, 1906.

386

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

The destruction by fire, however, of the books and records of the
Masonic Board of Relief, on the unfortunate days of April 18th and
19th, 1906, has made it impossible to render a more complete sbtement.
Since the date of our last report, the lodges of the city of San
Francisco have been represented in the Board of Relief by their
Masters or delegates.

The following Brethren have been buried with Masonic honors,
under the direction of this Board:

The receipts for the year were as follows, viz:
From Assessment Upon the Oity Lodges:
California, No. 1. .... , . $284 70
Parfaite Union, No. 17. .
46 65
Occidental, No. 22...... 243 05
Golden ~ate, No. 30. . . . 194 6\1
Mount Moriah, No. 44... 130 (l;'j
Fidelity, No. 120........ 209 05
Hermann, No. 127......
79 45
Pacific, No. 136. . . . • . . . . 228 60
Crockett, No. 139....... 101 66
Oriental, No(). 144....... 155 65
Excelsior, No. 166. . . . . . 170 65

Amount forward ..... $1844 11
Mission, No. 169........ 373 99
So. San Francisco, No. 212 71 20
Doric, No. 16........... 182 50
Speranza Ital., No. 219. .
47 46
King Solomon's, No. 260 200 20
Starr King, No. 344.....
74 20
Presidio, No. 354.......
54 44
San Francisco, No. 360..
61 90
Amity, No. 370.........
11 65
Jewel, U. D............
3 10
Richmond, U. D. . . . . . . .
1 35

Forward ............. $1844 11
Total receipts from city lodges ......................... $2926 10
From amounts received by sundry lodges and brethren ....... 3149 50
From amounts dividends German S. & L. Society.. . . . . . . . . . 165 66
From amounts dividends Johnson's Bequest Fund.......... 393 11
Donations from Meridian Sun Lodge, No. 158, Philadelphia, Pa.. 250 00
Surplus, last report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6548 45
Being a total of receipts from all sources of ........... $13,432 82
The disbursements for the year were as follows:
For the relief of sick and needy brethren, their wives,
widows and orphans ................................. $6,476 14
Sundry unclassed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
156 85

1905.
Oct.
1.
Oct. 16.
Oct. 29.
Nov. 17.
Nov. 22.
Dec.
6.
Dec. 15.

387

James Stanley Ewing, So. California, No. 278, Cal.
Chas. F. Anthony, Wm. B. Warren, No. 209, Ill.
J. W. Schauff, Columbus, No. 30, Ohio.
Benjamin K. Thorn, Calaveras, No. 78, Cal.
John F. Millner, Keystone, No. 61, Cal.
Thomas H. Rablin, Pacific, No. 16, B. C.
Joseph S. Dalla:ln, Yuba, No. 39, Cal.

1906.
Jan.
7. John C. Dunne, Le Progres de l 'Oceanie, No. 124, H. T.
Jan. 16. Archibald Gillespie, Friendship, No. 210, Cal.
Jan. 27. Louis Schiavi, Fruitvale, No. 336, Cal.
Feb. 14. Emery Cavin, Alta, No. 333, Cal.
Feb. 15. J; B. Kendall, .Anchor, No. 443, Mo.
Feb. 18. Porter H. Andros, Charity, No. 43, Vt.
Feb. 21. Henry Kershaw, North Star, No. 30, Canada.
Mar. 14. William F. T. Christian, Ionic, No. 121, Cal.
May 22. R. L. Lambert, King Solomon, No. 30, Colorado.
July 1. Bernard Myers, Orland, No. 265, Cal.
July 23. David S. Beer, Bethesda, Maine.
Aug. 7. John Vlaho, Esperanza Italiana, No. 219, Cal.
Aug. 11. Harry Stirling, Saint John's, No. 543, Scotland.
Sept. 5; Frank Justin Ducray, Mountain View, No. 194, Ca.L
Sept. 23 .. William Friede, Santa Lucia, No. 302, Cal.
.
Also, on February 22, 1906, Mrs. Emma V. Law<1on, widow of late
Brother Lawson, of Carson Lodge, No. 1, Nevada.
Respectfully submitted,
F. L. HANSEN, Chairman.
J. B. REUBEN, Secretary,

Being a total disbursement for charities of ........... . $6,632 99
146 85
For support of employment office, salary and sundry expenses
Board of Relief, salary secretary, stenographer, rent, including purchase of furniture since the fire, etc ............ . 2,541 50

TO THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GkAND LODGE, FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS, OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA, AND
SUBORDINATE LODGES OF THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES,
CALIFORNIA.

Making the total expenditures for the year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $9,321 34
Leaving a !urplus September 30th, 1906, of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,111 48

Dear Sirs and Brethren:

$13,432 82

The Masonic Board of Relief of the City of Los Angeles herewith
presents the following report of its labors from October 1, 1905, to
September 1, 1906:

388

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The Membership of the Board, as at present constituted, is:
OFFICERS.
President ....... . .............. Brother SAMUEL PRAGER
Vice-President. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brother JOHN HILL BEAN
Treasurer ................ Brother MOTLEY HEWES FLINT
Secreta?1 ......... Brother Dr. JOHN MARCUS DUNSMOOR
MEMBERSHIP.
·Los Angeles Lodge, No. 420scar Georgen William Burg,
Ashton Albert Wells,
Samuel Prager.

389

Palestine Lodge, No. 351Arthur James Wheeler,
Henry Debasco McCabe,
Edgar Eugene Selph.
Sunset Lodge, No. 352Sedgewick Ziba Osmun,
Samuel Edgerton Burke,
Charles Henry Bridges.
Golden State Lodge, No. 35~
Peter W. Garn,
George Walter Tedford,
John Hill Bean.

Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202Charles Henry Brown,
Orville Devere Stone,
Herbert Hamilton.

Mizpah Lodge, No. U. D.Charles E. Sebastian,
W. W. Richards,
M. R. Rafferty.

Southern California Lodge, No. 278George Irwin Kyte,
Ernest Henry Greppin,
Dana Reid Well er.

The work of this Board of Relief for the year 1906 has been inc11eased by the unfortunate disaster which befell the City of San
Francisco on the 18th day of April; for which reason many unfortunate
brethren, or their families, sought refuge in our own beautiful city,
and called upon us for aid. However, a word from · this Boarcl to
the several Lodges of our c~ty, brought a ready, generous response,
and thereby we were enabled to relieve the suffering with little difficulty; and we believe no worthy brother, or any member of his family,
has suffered for the necessaries of life.
To all° who contributed to this Board of Relief for the benefit of
the San ~rancisco sufferers pe extend our fraternal thanks.

East Gate Lodge, No. 290Catesby Charles Thom,
Motley Hewes Flint,
David Martin.
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319Leo V altus Y oungworth,
Joseph Augustus Smith,
Dr. John Marcus Dunsmoor.
South Gate Lodge, No. 320John William Musselman,
John William Kemp,
Frederick William Dunn.
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329Leon Curtet;
Franz A. Bouelle,
Charles Deutsch.
West Gate Lodge, No. 335Ellsworth Francis Rich11.rds,
Henry Wash Louis,
Felix J osep 's Zeehandelaar.

MASONIC EMPLOYMENT BUREAU.
Through the efforts of Most Worshipful Grand Master Motley H.
Flint, a Masonic Employment Bureau has been established, through
which several hundred positions have been secured for needy Masons,
their widows or orphans. This we deem a most worthy charity,
enabling one to become self-supporting.
FUNERALS.
The following deceased Masons, or members of the Masonic family,
have been buried during the year by direction of this Board of
Relief, namely:
Name

Name of Lodge

Location

Date

Calvin Chancy Clark, Elsinore, No. 289, Elsinore, Cal., Oct. 21.
Arthur Alex Connell, Magnolia, No. 242, Santa Barbara, Cal., Oct. 28.
Percy Claine Smith, M. D., Charlotte, No. - , Charlotte, Mich., Nov. 2.

390

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Name

Name of Lodge

Location

Date

Marcellus 0. Kirby, Golden City, No. 1, Golden, Colo., Nov. 5.
Albert W. Kinne, Colorado, No. 1, Denver, Colo., Nov. 11.
Richard E. Walker, Detroit, No. 2, Detroit, Mich., Nov. 18.
Thomas P. Stuard, Philates, No. 527, Philadelphia, Pa., Dec. 1.
John Lawrence, Lebanon, No. 77, Steelville, Mo., Jan 3.
Hiram Valentine Cooper, La Fayette, No. 626, La Fayette, Tenn.,
Jan. 25.
Edward B. Bayfield, Cruz Austral, No. 5, Callao, Peru; Jan. 31.
William E. Hill., Independence, No. 87, Independence, Ia., Feb. 6.
James H. Trevorrow, Corinthian, No. 27, Rossland, B. C., Feb. 5.
Dr. R. Austin Orr, Blaney, No. 271, Chicago, Ill., Jan. 10.
Henry Dugan, Crystal Lake, No. 34, Lake City, Colo., Feb. 20.
Green B. Crowley, Visalia, No. 128, Visalia, Cal., March 2.
Lawrence T. Holland, M. D., South Gate, No. 320, Los Angeles, Cal.,
March· 6.
John Henry Young, York, No. 410, Grand Rapids, Cal., March 15.
Amos Milton Beal, Tannehill, No. - , Dallas, Texas, March 18.
Samuel Aiken King, Mariposa, No. 24; Mariposa, Cal., May 1.
Thomas J. Callaway, El Paso, No. 13, Colorado Springs, Colo., May 6.
Dr. D. Franklin Powell, Cody, Cody, Wyo., May 7.
Anson Serene De Yoe, King David, No. 209, San Francisco, Cal.,
May 10.
Alvan Dalton Porter, Needles, No. 326, Needles, Cal., May 25.
John T. Broad, King Solomon, No. 5, Tombstone, Ariz., May 26.
Landon Bonha·m, Verd13, No. 14, Jerome, Ariz., May 31.
Moses Magee, Chartierre, No. 297, Cannonsburg, Pa., June 10.
William Wallace Sheldon, Natoma, No. 64, Folsom, Cal., June 10.
John W. Goetz, Hesperia, No. 411, Chicago, Ill., June 13.
Thurman B. Macgregor, Western Star, No. 100, Clinton, Ia., June 17.
Edgar H. Neff, Fraternal Lodge, No. 139, Trenton, N. J., No. 17.
William B. Burt, Villa Grove, Villa Grove, Colo., June 20.
Samuel S. Watson, Ouray, No. 37, Ouray, Colo., June 26.
William Berry Hurt, Garfield, No. 480, Garfield, Ark., July 18.
Mrs. Jean Marshall (daughter), Garfield, No. 480, Garfield, Ark.,
July 18.
Jules Ernest Jammes, Couers Unis, No. 45, Montreal, Can., Aug. 2.
William Oxnam, St. John's, No. 18, Delamar, Nev., Aug. 16.
DETAILED

STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS FROM
1st, 1905, TO SEPTEMBER 1st, 1906.

October, 1905.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. ............... $
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. ............. .
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. . . . . . . .

20 32
47 52

OCTOBER

East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal. ............... .
23 60
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. .............. .
20 32
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal. .............. .
24 32
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal. ........ .
3 35
West. Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal. ............... .
17 92
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal. ............... .
8 3.2
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. ................. .
6 80
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. ............. .
7 76
Grand Lodge of California .................. . 3,000 00
Tehachapi Lodge, No. 313, Cal. ............... .
20 00
Palo Alto Lodge, No. 346, Cal. ............... .
7 50
Minneapolis Lodge, No. 19, Minn ............. .
7 50
15 00
Hesperia Lodge, No. 411, Ill .................. .
San Diego Lodge, No. 35, Cal. ................ . 100 00
South Denver Lodge, No. 93, Colo ............. .
15 00
Greenville Lodge, No. 96, Mich .............. .
35 00
Washington-Centennial Lodge, No. 14, D. C .... .
15 00
Bladon Springs Lodge, No. 151, Ala ........... . 250 00
Harmony Lodge, No. 61, Colo ................. .
10 00
Venus Lodge, No. 152, Ohio ................... .
2 50
Maimonides Lodge, No. 743, N. Y ............ .
25 00
Franklin Lodge, No. 447, N. Y ................ .
45 00
St. John's Lodge, No. 11, D. C ............... . 140 00
Carson City Lodge, No. 332, Mich ............. .
5 00
November, 1905.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. ............... $ 21 28
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. ............... .
41 12
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. ............... .
40 96
Southern California, No. 278, Cal. ............ .
47 60
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal. ............... .
23 68
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal ............... .
20 32
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal. .............. .
24 32
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal. ........ .
3 35
18 16
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal. ............... .
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal. ................ .
8 56
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal .................. .
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. ............ .
8 00
Lavalle Lodge, No. - , Wis .................. .
36 25
Vitruvius Lodge, No. 145, Cal. .............. .
8 00
Janesville Lodge, No. 55, Wis ................ .
40 00
Hesperia Lodge, No .. 411, Ill ................. .
10 50
Suburban Lodge, No. 740, Ky ................ .
5 00
King Solomon Lodge, No. 260, Cal ............ . 100 00
Golden Rule Lodge, No. 770, N. Y ............. .
58 25

391

$3,873 37 •

392

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Amity Loclge, No. 483, Ind ................... .
Daggett Lodge, No. 492, Mo ....... . ......... .
Elsinore Lodge, No. 289, Cal. ................ .
Venus Lodge, No. 152, Ohio ................. .
Birmingham Lodge, No. 56, Iowa ........... ···
Capitol Lodge, No. 3, Neb ........... . ........ .
Detroit Lodge, No. 2, Mich ......... . ... . ..... .

5 00
14 95
36 00
2 50
2 50
5 00
15 00

$ 596 30

December, 1905.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. .. . ............ $
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. ...... . ....... .
Southern ·California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. ..... .
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal. ...... . ........ .
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. ............. .
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal. ............. .
Valee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal. ......... .
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal. .............. .
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal. .... . ........... .
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. (Nov-Dec.) ....... .
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. ............ .
Commonwealth Lodge, No. - , Mass .. . ....... .
Pacific Lodge, No. 136, Cal .... .. ... ... ....... .
Idaho Springs, Lodge, No. 26, Colo ..... . ...... .
Somerset Lodge, No. 34, Conn ...... : ..... . ... .
Abell Lodge, No. 146, Cal. . . ..... . ........... .
Hudson (Nova Scotia) Lodge, No. 77, N. S .... .
Virginia City Lodge, No. 1, Mont ............. .
Cleveland City Lodge, No. 15, Ohio . .. ........ .
Marion-Dunn Lodge, No. 19, Fla .............. .
H esperia Lodge, No. 411, Ill ........... . ...... .
Auburn Park Lodge, No. 789, Ill. ............. .

21 60
41 04
47 68
24 00
21 75
24 40
3 35
18 72
8 64
13 76
8 16
10 00
25 00
10 00
30 00
7 50
15 00
50 00
35 00
25 00
15 00
36 25

$ 491 85

Error August .......... . .. . ......... · ... · · · · · $
Interest, January, 1905, to January, 1906 ...... .

1 00
56 05

$

January, 1906.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. .... . . . ... . .... $
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. ..... . ......... .
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. ..... .
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal. ........ . ...... .
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. ............. .
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal. ..... . ........ .
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal. . ....... .
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal. . .. . ........... .
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal. ................ .

21 60
41 20
47 44
24 00
21 75
25 60
3 45
18 88
8 64

57 05

Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. .................. .
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. . ........... .
Corning Lodge, No. - , Iowa ................. .
Hesperia Lodge, No. 411, Ill .... . ............. .
Blaney Lodge, No. 271, Ill .. . ................. .
Charlotte Lodge; No. - , Mich. ·............... .
Colorado Lodge, No. 1, Colo . . ................ .
(By L. A. Commandery, K. T., No. 99, Cal.
Magnolia Lodge, No. 242, Cal. ... . .... . ..... . . .
Nassau Lodge, No. 536, N. Y . . ............... .
Blaney Lodge, No. 271, Ill .. . .. . . .. .... . ... : .. .
Blaney Lodge, No. 271, Ill. .. ... ..............•
Was4ington-Centennial Lodge, No. 14, D. C ....•
Lebanon Lodge, No. 77, Mo .. . ............... .
Clayton Lodge, No. 147, Ill . . . . ..........•.....
Macedonia Lodge, No. 258, N. Y ..............•
Acacia (Canada) Lodge, No. 61, Can .......... .
Somerset Lodge, No. 34, Conn ................ .
San Francisco Lodge, No. 360, Cal. ........... .

393

6 96
8 40
17 50
10 50
10 00
15 00
15 00
15 00
7 50
300 00
23 45
15 00
. 15 00
15 00 .
54 55
25 00
4 00
40 00

$ 810 42

February, 1906.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. .... . .......... $ 21 76
41 36
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. . . ........ .. ... .
47 46
Southern California Lodge, No.- 278, Cal. . . .... .
24 16
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal. ... . .......•....
22 55
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. ............. .
25 84
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal. .............. .
3 45
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal .......... .
19 12
West Gate Lodge, Nq. 335, Cal. .............. .
8 80
Palesti.ne Lodge, No. 351, Cal. .. ; ............ .
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. .................. .
7 04
8 64
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. ............ .
10 00
Cruz Astral (Peru) Lodge, No. 5, S. A ........ .
Corinthian (Canada) Lodge, No. 27, B. C .. ·. , .. 365 00
36 25
Doric (Canada) Lodge, No. 382, Can ......... .
10 00
Hiram Chapter, R. A. M., No. 2, Can . . .... . .. .
25 00
Washington Lodge, No. 33, N. J . .. ....... , .. . .
34 45
Crystal Lake Lodge, No. 34; Colo ............ . .
25 00
Cripple Creek, R. A. M., No. 33, Colo .......... .
7 50
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. . ......... ; .. .
Charlotte Lodge, No. ~, Mich ............... .
36 25

$ 779 63

March, 1906.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. ............... $
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. .............. .

21 84
41 52

394

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. ..... .
East Gate Lodge, No. WO, Cal. ............... .
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. .............. .
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal. . .......... .. .
Vallee de France Lodge,, No. 329, Cal. ........ .
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal. ....... .... ... . .
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal. ............ ... .
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. .... ... ....... . ... .
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. ............ .
Cruz Astral (Peru) Lodge, No. 5,. S. A ........ .
Toronto (Canada) Lodge, No. - , Can ......... .
Independence Lodge, No. 87, Iowa ........... .
Fort Worth Lodge, No. 148, Texas . .. . .. ... . . .
Earl's Court (England Lodge, No. 2765, Eng .. .
Earl's Court (England ) Lo~e, No. 2765, Eng .. .
Nassau Lodge, No. 536, N. Y .. . ............. .
Orange Lodge, No. 14, S. C . . ................ .
Pleiades Lodge, No. 478, Ill ... .. .............. .
Venus Lodge, No. 152, Ohio ... .. .. .. ... '. ..... .
Hesperia Lodge, No. 411, Ill .. .... .... .... .... .
April, 1906.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. ... .. ... .. .... . $
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. ..... .. ..•.....
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. ..... .
East Gate Lodge, No.· 290, Cal. .............. .
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. .............. .
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal. .............. ..
'Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal. ........ .
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal. .............. .
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal .. ...... .. : ...... .
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. .................. .
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. ........ . ... .
Venus Lodge, No. 152, Ohio ....... ., . .... ..... .
Tannehill Lodge, No. - , Texas .. ............. .
Crystal Lake Lodge, No. · 34, Colo ............. .
Washington-Centennial Lodge, No. 14, D. C ... .
Cruz Astral (Peru) Lodge, No. 5, S. A . ....... .
Pine Lodge, No. 82, Fla ..................... .
North Bend Lodge, No. 119, Neb ............. .
Niagara Lodge, No. 375, N. Y ................. .
Ashlar Lodge, No. 306, Cal. .............. .... .
La Fayette Lodge, No. 626, Tenn ..... ... . .... .
Crystal Lake Lodge, No. 34, Colo ............. .
Irvine Lodge, No. 137, Ky .. . .. ....... . . .. ... .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
47 68
24 64
23 00
26 48
3 35
19 36
8 88
7 12
8 72
5 00
26 25
15 00
25 00
35 OU
5 00
30 00
20 00
10 00
1 00
15 00

St. John Lodge, No. 11, D. C ........ . .. . . .. .. .
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal. ........ .
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. ............ .
Wm. J enkins, Bigelow Lodge, No. 243, Ohio .. . .
C. D. Ginaca ....... . .................... : ... .
J. H. Miller, Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. .... .
A. C. A. Kuester, Ashlar Lodge, No. 308, Ill. .. .
D. W. Campbell, Union Lodge, No. 7, Colo ..... .
Mrs. Brandish, Cal. ........... .. . ..... ........ .
Los Angeles L odge, No. 42, Cal. .............. .
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal. .. . ... . ..... . . .
Sunset Lodge, No.· 352, Cal. .................. .
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal ....... .. . . ..... .
S. G. Dunham, Linwood Lodge, No. 567, Ohio .. .
J. A. Thomas, St. Bernard Lodge, No. 222, Kan ..
R.- H . Rabisar, Tyrian Lodge, No. 553, Ark .....

$ 419 84

21 84
41 44
47 92
25 12
23 60
27 04
3 35
19 92
9 12
7 28
9 44
1 00
15 00
12 50
15 00
5 00
41 40
50 00
77 50
7 50
15 00
10 OU
41 75

•

60 00
50 00
123 00
5 00
2 50
5 00
5 00
5 00
5 00
275 00
250 00
100 00
125 00
5 00
5 00
' 5 00

May, 1906.
Los Angeles L odge, No. 42, Cal. . . .... .. .... .... $ 22 32
Pentalpha Lodge', No. 202, Cal. . .. .. .... . ..... .
41 36
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. ...... .
48 16
East Gate" Lodge, No. 290, Cal. ............... .
25 12
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. .............. .
23 60
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal. .............. .
27 28
Vallee de ·France Lodge, No. 329, Cal. ........ .
3 35
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal. .. . ..... ...... . .
20 16
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal. . . ........ . ... . . .
9 44
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. .... . ........... .. .
7 36
Golden .State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. .. ..... .... . .
9 84
Schiller Lodge, No. 335, Ill .................. .'.
7 56
Thomas J. Turner Lodge, · No. 409, Ill. ... .. .. . .
10 00
Marion-Dunn Lodge, No. 19, Fla .. . .......... .
20 00
Ivanhoe Lodge, No. 443, Pa .................. . 108 75
Excelsior Lodge, No. l.66, Cal. . ...... . ... .. . .. .
7 50
Louisville Lodge, No. 400, Ky . . .............. .
42 75
Virginia City Lodge, No. 1, Mont ............. .
60 00
Leavenworth L odge, No. - , Ind ........•......
62 65
Golden Gate Lodge, No. 30, Cal. .. .. ..... .. ... .
19 25
Davenport Lodge, No. - , Ia .... . ............ .
19 00
Harmonia Lodge, No. 138, Fla ................ .
48 50
Klamath Lodge, No. 77, Ore ... ... ...........•
10 00
Cody Lodge, No.-, Wyo ... ............. .. .. .
15 00
Cruz Astral (Peru) Lodge, No. 5, S. A ........ .
5 00
San Diego Lodge, No. 35, Cal. .. . .. . ........ .. .
23 55
John McKay Lodge, No. - , Cal. ... . .. . ...... .
10 00

395

$1,553 22

GR.AND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

396

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

King Solomon Lodge, No. 260, Cal. ............ .
Solomon Lodge, No. 20, Fla ...... : ...... . ..... .
Pleiades Lodge, No. 4 78, Ill .... ... ........... .
Crewe Lodge, No. 123, Va ........ ... ......... .
Las Animas Lodge, No. 28, Colo .............. .
Bernard-Healy, East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal..
H. S. Allen, Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. .... .
A Friend, Cal ................................ .
J. Houser, Cal ........... , .................... .
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. ... ..... . .. .... .
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. . ..... ·
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. ...... .. ....... :
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal. .............. .
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal. .......... ·· .. ··
Mt. Zion Lodge, No. 311 (Troy), N. Y . . ...... .
Pentalpha Lodge, "No. 202, Cal. .... . .......... .
Leo V. Youngworth, Cal. .......... . ..... ··.···

60 00
5 00
19 25
45 00
66 05
5 00
5 00
1 00
5 00
200 00
600 00
100 00
341 00
314 00
105 00
50 00
7 00

June, 1906.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. . .. ............ $
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. .............. .
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. ...... .
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal. ............... .
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. .............. .
South Gate Lodge, No. 820, Cal. .............. .
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal. ........ .
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal. .... ·.......... .
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal. .. ;, ............ .
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal ................... .
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. ............. .
El Paso Lodge, No. 13, Colo .. i .••• •. • . • • . . . • • . .
Covenant · Lodge, No. 526, Ill. ... .. ........... .
Thomas J. Turner Lodge, No. 409, Ill ... .. : .... .
Franklin Lodge, No. 447, N. Y .. .. .. ....... .. .
Port ,Tarvis Lodge, No. 328, N. Y ........ ..... .
Pomona Lodge, No. 246, Cal. ................. .
Verde Lodge, No. 14, Ariz .................... .
Port Jarvis Lodge, No. 328, N. Y ..... .· ........ .
Klamath Lodge, No. 77, Ore ....... ..... ...... .
Bastrop Lodge, No. - , La .................... .
Ch:utiers Lodge, No. 297, Pa ................. .
King Solomon Lodge, No. 5, Ariz .. .. ......... .
Putnam Lo4ge, No. - , Mass .... • ....... · .... .
Fraternal Lodge, No. 139, N. J ................ .
Enterprise Lodge, No. 249, N._J . .... ..... . ... .

22 40
41 20
48 16
25 28
25 00
27 52
3 70
20 48
9 52
7 44

9 84
50 00
75 00
46 25
53 25
50 00
7 50
15 00
10 00
33 50
67 50
50 00
80 00
52 25
26 00
63 00

$2,635 74

397

-Putnam Lodge, No. - , Mass . ...............•.
Needles Lodge, No. 326, Cal: .................. .
Mankato Lodge, No. 12, Minn ............•....
. Neptune Lodge, No. 442, Scotland ............. .
Washington Lodge, No. 21, N. Y ... ; .......... .
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. .............. .
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, C8;1. ............... .

52 25
15 00
15 00
10 00
52 25
310 00
166 00

$1,540 29

July, 1906.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. ............... $
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. .......•........
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. ....... .
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal. ............... .
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. .............. .
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal. .............. .
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal .......... .
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal. .....•..........
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal. ................ .
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal .................... .
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. . .- .......... .
Searcy Lodge, No. 49, Ark .................... .
Pacific Lodge, No. 136, Cal. .................. .
Verde Lodge, No. 14, Ariz . ... ................ .
Villa Grove Lodge, No. 32, Colo .............. .
Ouray Lodge, No. 37, Colo ................ : .. .
Eleusis Lodge, No. - , Mass .................. .
Bodley Lodge, No. 1, Ill ...................... .
Washington-Centennial Lodge, No. 14, D. C .... .
Crewe Lodge, No. 123, Va .................... .
McCandless Lodge, No. 390, Pa ............... .
Fraternal Lodge, No. 139, N. J ............... .
Cruz Astral (Peru) Lodge, No. 5, S. A ........ .
Warrant No. 431 cancelled .................... .

22 88
40 80
48 40
25 92
25 00
27 52
3 70
20 96
9 68
7 60
10 16
7 50
25 00
5 00
25 00
65 00
5 00
15 00
15 00
45 00
20 00
88 50
10 00
10 00

$ 578 62

August, 1906.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. ............... $
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202; Cal. ............... .
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. ...... .
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal. ............... .
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. .............. .
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal. .............. .
Vapee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal. .......... ·
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal. ............... .
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal. ................ .
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. .............. : ... .

23 04
40 88
48 56
25 92
27 15
27 84
3 70
21 36
9 76
7·76

Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. ............. .
Mizpah Lodge, u, D., Cal. ... .... ....... . .. .. . .
Silver State Lodge, No. 95, Colo ............ .. . .
San Jacinto Lodge, No. 338, Cal: ..... : ........ .
Golden Gate Lodge, No. 245, Ohio ............. .
Special Bush Estate account .................. .
Golden State Lodge, No. '358, Cal. ............. .
Putnam Lodge, No.-, Mass .. . .. . . . .......... .
McCandless Lodge, No. 390, Pa ... . ...... . .... .
Add error February, 1906 ... . ................. .

10 16
1 04
33 00
25 00
36 25
220 00
15 00
52 25
50 00

$ 678 67

$

10

$ 678 77
DETAILED STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
CLASSIFIED BY JURISDICTIONS.

.

Paid.
Jurisdiction.
5 00
Africa ..... ...... ...... $
80
270
...............
Alabama
107 50
Arizona ................
100 95
Arkansas ...............
104 25
Australia . . .. . .. . ... . .. .
31 00
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
Austria
20 00
Bermuda Island . .. . .. . .
10 00
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
...
Brazil
1,247 95
California ..............
714 59
Canada ................
10 00
Chili . . . . .. . .. ...
6 50
China . . .. . . . . .. . .. . .. . .
408 55
Colorado ...............
85 00
Connecticut ·· ··· .......
22 50
Delaware . . .. . .. . .. . .. . .
27' 50
D enmark . ... .. . ... .. . .
60 00
England ......... .......
184 90
Florida .................
30 00
.. .
France . . . .
23 50
Georgia . . .. . .. . .. . .. .
92 35
Germany . . . .. . .. . .. . . .
17 00
... . ..
Holland . .. . .
47 50
Honolulu . . .. . .. ... . .. . .
10 00
IJaho . . . . . .. . ... .. ..
40
$1,055
........
..
......
Illinois
92 65
Indiana ...... ... ...... .
22 50
.. .. ..
Indian Territory

.
.
.. ..

. ..

~

. .. .. ..

.

.. .. .. ...
..

.

.. ..

. ..

..

.

.

399

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

398

Received.
$ ........

250 00
100 00
22 50

........ .
.........
... . .....
.........
576 70
462 50

...... ...
.........
376 00
34 00

.........
.........
40 00
139 90

.........
..... . ...
....... . .

.........
.. . . .. .. .
.........
638 70
67 65

... . .....

Jurisdiction.
Iowa . . ... .. ........... .
Ireland ................ .
Italy ....... . .......... .
Japan ................. .
Kansas .. . ............. .
Kentucky ............. .
Louisiana .. . ........... .
Maine ................. .
Manila ................ .
Maryland ............. .
Massachusetts ......... .
Mexico ... . ............ .
Michigan . . ............ .
Minnesota .............. .
Mississippi ............ .
Missouri ........... , ... .
Mont~na .............. .
Nebraska .............. .
Nevada ............... .
New Hampshire ........ .
New Jersey ........... .
New Mexico ........... .
New York ............. .
North Carolina ......... .
North Dakota ......... . .
Norway ... . ... .... : .... .
Nova Scotia .. : ........ .
Ohio .................. .
Oklahoma ............. .
Oregon ............... .
Palestine (Holy Land) ..
Pennsylvania .......... .
Peru .................. .
Philippine Islands ..... ..
Prince Edward's Island ..
Prussia ............... .
Rhode Island .......... .
Russia Poland ......... .
Scotland ............. . .
South Carolina ........ ..
South Dakota .......... .
Sweden ................ .
Switzerland ............ .
Tennessee

Paid.

204 00
35 00
22 50
22 00
237 65
143 00
105 00
39 00
30 00
15 00
244 25
24 80
186 15
67 50
17 00
333 95
144 50
66 50
29 00
50 50
227 50
20 00
693 61
22 .50
18 50
32 50
17 20
219 55

25 00
110 50
15 00
423 75
49 00
20 00
19 90
5 00
35 00
20 00
137 50
32 00
16 50
11 50
15 00
94 35

Received.

54 00

5 00
89 50
67 50.

171 75

106 25
22 50
29 95
110 00
55 00

202 50
463 30

15 00
88 25
43 50
228 75
35 00

10 00
20 00.

15 00

400

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Paid.
55 00
28 12
32 50
37 50
113 80
20 00
30 00
275 00
15 00
79 75
27 50

Received.
40 00

Totals ... ... . .. .. . .... $9,810 72

$5,006 95

Jurisdiction.
Texas ... .. .. . ........ . .
Turkey ...... . : .... .... .
Utah . ............... . . .
Vermont .. .. ..... .. . : ..
Virginia .. . .... ..... ... .
Wales . .. .... . .. .. . . . .. .
Washington .... .... ... . .
Washington, D. C...... . .
West Virginia . .. ...... .
Wisconsin ........ ..... .
Wyoming . . ....... . .... .

401

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

90 00

260 00
76 25

SPECIAL DISASTER FUND.
Ther e was paid into the treasury of this Board
of Relief1 on account of t he disaster of
April 18th, 1906, the sum of ... . .. .. .. .. .
And the same is accounted for as follows:
Relieving distress in various amounts ......... $1,739 74
To M. H. Flint, Grand Master, to b'a lance
account . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . 1,434 76

$3,174 50

$3,174 50

Note-The Gr and Master, M. H. Flint, has since returned the
$1,434. 7.6 to this Board of Relief, the same to b e k ept as a Special
Disaster Fund.
All which is respectfully submitted.
SAM 'L PRAGER, President.
Attest: J. M. DUNSMOOR, Secretary.

RECAPITULATION.
To the Most Worshipful Motley Hewes Flint,
Grand Master bf Masons, State of Califomia:Dear Sir and Brother -

Receipts.
Grand L~dge of California . .............. ... ... $ 3,000 00
Los Angeles City Lodg.e s . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,556 40
Sist er Jurisdictions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,006 95
Special Disaster Fund. . ........ . ......... . ... 3,174 50
Special Bush Estate Account ... . : .. . .. . .. .. ,:
220 00
Interest, Etc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
57 15

$14,015 00

Disbursements.
Paid Overdraft ..... .. .. .. .. . . . . ... .. ..... .. $ 394 80
250 00
Employment Bureau . . . . .. ·..... . ... ... . .... .
957 21
Expense Account . ..... .. . . ...... .... ...... .. .
Classified by Jurisdictions, including $1, 739.74,
Special Disast er F und ... .... .... ........ . 9,810 72
M. H. Flint, Grand Master, bala nce Special
Disaster Fund . . ... ..... .. . ...... . .. .. .. . 1,434 76
220 00
Special' Bush Estate Account . ...... . .. .... . . .
234 83
Unclassified .. .... . ...... .. .. . ... ...... . . ... .

$13,302 32

Gr and Total r eceived in 11 months .... ... . .. . $14,015 00 ·
Grand total paid out in 11 months . . . .. .. : .... 13,302 32
Balance on hand September 1st, 1906 . ...... . ..... ... ... ... . $712 68

Complying with your request of August 16th, 1906, concerning the
action which this Board of Relief took in matter of the disaster occasioned by ear t hquake and fire, which befell the central por t ion of our
glorious State, on t he 18th day of April, 1906, will say:
That immediately upon the r ealization of that awful calamity,
a special meeting of the Masonic Board of Relief of Los Angeles was
called, on April 22d, 1906, at which meeting I was directed to communicate with e.ach Masonic body of this city, and r equest a contribution of One Dollar ($1.00) per capita, to enable our Board to r elieve
the distress of th e members of t he craft and those dependent upon
them, who might take r efuge in our city. This r equest was promptly
complied with, and ther e came into my hands as Secretary, from the
various Masonic b odi es of our city, together with individual contributions; and also from Mount Zion Lodge, of Troy, N. Y., the sum
of Three Thousand One Hundred and Seventy-Four Dollars and Fifty
Cents ($3,174.50).
. Arrangements were made that th e Masonic Board of Relief should
establish headquarters at the Masonic Temple, a nd notices were placed
in all t he newspapers of th e city, calling attention to that fact.. We
secured the use of the banquet room and kitchen for the purpose oi
providing meals; also t he Lodge Room r ecently vacated by the Scot·
t l.sh Rite Bodies, was filled with cots and bedding for use of the
ladi es.
We secured the upper floor of the Lexington H otel (now the
Brooklyn Hotel) fo r the use of the gentlemen.

402

PROCEEDINGS OF 'i'HE

A cook was hired, and with the assistance of the Ladies of the
Eastern . Star, meals were provided at the Masonic T emple; committees were appointed, who met all trains coming from the North, and
brought the members of the fraternity to the Temple, and after a
bath, a good meal, and a rest, positions were secured, as best they
could be, for employment.
Those of the unfortunates who were in feeble health, were sent
to the Southern California Masonic Home at San Gabriel, at our expense, and when they were recovered, they sought employment.
Quite a number of the refugees being aged, and having r elatives
in other cities, were furnished with transportation as they desired.
It is estimated that at least One Thousand (1000) Meals w~ re furnished at our expense.
FINANCIAL ,STATEMENT.
RECEIPTS.
Los Angeles Lodg~s.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42 .... . ........... ...... $275.00
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202 ........... '. .. ......... 516. 00
Southern California Lodge, No. 278 ... .. ......... 600. 00
East Gate Lodge, No. 290 ...... .... ... .. ......... 314.00
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319 ....................... 310. 00
South Gate Lodge, No. 320. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 341. 00
Valle de l!'rance Lodge, No. 329 ... .. . . ... .... ... . · 50.00
West Gate Lodge, No. 335 ................... ... . 250.00
Palestine Lodge, No. 351. ....................... 125.00
Sunset Lodge, No. 352 ........................... 100. 00
Golden State Lodge, No. 358 ...................... 123. 00
Mt. Zion Lodge, No. 311, Troy, N. Y .............. 105.00
Wm. Jenkins, Bigelow Lodge, No. 243, Columbus, 0.
5. 00
C. D. Ginaoa, (friend)..................... . . . . .
2. 50
A. C. A. Knuster, Ashlar Lodge, No. 308, Chicago
5.00
J. H. Miller, Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Los Angeles
Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5. 00
D. W. Campbell, Union Lodge, No. 7, Denver, Col..
5. 00
S. C. Dunham, Linwood Lodge, No. 667, Cincinnati.
5.00
J. A. Thomas, St. Bernard Lodge, No. 222, Dodge
City, Kan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.00 ·
R. H. Robisar, Tyrian Lodge, No. 553, Wilmart,
Ark. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.00
Bernard Healy, East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Los Angeles, Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5. 00
H. S. Allen, Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Los Angeles,
Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5. 00
(A friend), name not given,....................
1.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

403

Cash returned by Members of CommitteeLeo \'. Youngworth .................... $7. 00
J. Hauser ............ . ....... : ............ 5.00
Mrs. Bradish . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5. 00

17. 00

$3,171 'JO

Disbursements.
Paid Out, forFood Stuffs ........... .. ....................... $ 165 .41
Labor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
51. 00
Merchandise . . . . . . . ......................... .
23.25
Printing and Stationery ....................... .
71.42
Telegraphiug . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ................ .
28.26
Southern California Masonic Home ... ...... .... .
28.00
Transportation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 215. 75
Cash to Masons and families. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,154. 65
Balance to M. H. Flint, G. M. '. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,434. 76 $3, ti'-l-. 50
All of which is respectfully submitted,
SAM 'L PRAGER, Chai.rnmn.
Attest:
J. M. DUNSMOOR, Secretary.
Note.-Since the foregoing report was made, the Grand Master,
Brother M. H. Flint, has returned to this Board of Relief, the $1,4:H. 76,
and the same has been entered in a special fund, to be used to relieve
additional distress caused by the late disaster.
OAKLAND.
To the M. W. Grand Lodge of California:The Masonic Board of Relief of Oakland, herewith reHpectfoll_v
presents its Annual Report, from October 5th, 1905, to October 3rd,
1906, inclusive.
Until January, 1906, the Board's membership is shown in our IeJ.lort
• for 1905. From January 1, 1906, the following brethren hn.ve <'Olli·
posed the Board:Live Oak Lodge, No. 61, by
Wager Swayne Smith, Master.
Abraham Powell Leach, S. W.
Alton Cass Jackson, J . W.
Oakland Lodge, No. 188, by
Robert Brainard Gaylord, ¥aster.
Charles Edwin Keyes, S. W.
James Henry ~IacLafferty, J. W.

404

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The sum of $220 25 reported as refunded by Lodges in California,
was received as follows:Friendship Lodge, No. 210, San Jose ................. ... .. . . $ 80 00
15 25
Yuba Lodge, Marysville . .. .. ........... ...... . .... . . .' ... . .
75 00
Oceanic Lodge, No. 372, Honolulu ... ..... . . ... .. , . ....... .
Oroville Lodge, No. 103, Oroville .............. .. ..... . .... .
50 00

Brooklyn Lodge, No. 225, by
John Arthur Petty, Master.
Herbert Pasha Briggs, S. W.
Walter Joseph Peterson, J. W.
Alcatraz Lodge, No. 244, by
William Gardiner Davison, Master.
William John Lawry, S. W.
John Crossman, J. W.
Sequoia Lodge, No. 349, by
Charles Husband, Master.
James Cairns Cole, S. W.
John Ryle MacGregory, J. W.
The present officers have been elected to serve until the first
Wednesday in January, 1907, and they are: J. Arthur Petty, Chair·
.man; Abraham P. Leach, Treasurer; J. J. Warner Secretary.
The receipts and disbursements of the Board from October 4, 1905,
to October 3rd, 1906, inclusive, are as follows:
RECEIPTS.
Live Oak Lodge, No. 61 ........ ·. . .. ... ..... .. .... $426 00
Oakland Lodge, No. 188 ....· ... ·. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 270 15
Brooklyn Lodge, No. 225 ......................... 139 20
Alcatraz Lodge, No. 244 .. . ........... . .•........ 226 25
Sequoia Lodge, No. 349 ...... ... ..... .. .... .. ... . 142 05
Interest on money deposited in bank ........... ···
Refunded by Lodges in California ............. ··.
Refunded by Lodges in other Jurisdictions ... .. .. .
Refunded by individuals . ......... · ... · . · · · · · · · ·
Donated by Brother K. M. Kjelsberg . ... ..... · . · · .

Add balance in treasury October 5, 1905 . ..... . . .
Total available funds during the year .. . · .. · · · ·

405,

$1,203 65
66 24
220 25
441 90
137 70
100 00
$2,169 74
1,977 76
4,147 50

DISBURSEMENTS.
For the relief of needy and sick brethren and buria!. · .. · · · · · $1,009 15
For the relief of needy and sick widows and orphans ....... · 658 20
Expense for Secretary, statieii.ery, postage, telegraphing, etc· 144 95
Care of burial plot two years ................. · · . · · . · · · · · ·
40 00

-----

Total disbursements . . .. ............. . ·. · · · · · · · · · · · • •$1,852 30
Balance in Treasury, October 4, 1906 ............ · . • · . · · · · · · 2,295 2~
$4,147 50

$ 220 25
The sum of $441 90 reported as refunded by Lodges of other Jurisdictions was received as follows:Garden City Lodge, No. 141, Chicago ...................... $ 173 15
Capital City Lodge, No. 312, Indianapolis, Ind...... . ...... ..
48 00
Germania Lodge, New Orleans, La .. .. ... ... . ... .. . .. .. . . . .
50 00
Pleiades Lodge, No. 478, Chicago ........................ . 125 00 .
Washington Lodge, No. 240, Buffalo, N. Y ........... : . . ... .
45 75
$ 441 90
The sum of $1,667 35 reported as disbursed for charity to brethren,
their widows and orphans, was distributed as follows:18 cases from California . ................. $ 778 25
3 cases from Australia .... : ............ .
29 00
1 case from Connecticut ....... . .. . ..... .
65 00
4 cases from Illinois ........... .' . . ...... . 205 15
2 cases from Indiana ....... ,' ........... .
50 00
1 case from Louisiana ...... . ............. .
50 00
·1 case from Kentucky .. .. , .. ...... . .... .
23 70
1 case from Michigan ..... .. .... .. ...... .
2 00
2 cases from Maine .. .. .... . ............ .
62 50
10 00
1 case from Minnesota ...... , ... ..... ... .
1 case from Montana . •. ... . .............
42 70
7 cases from New York ................. . 302 05
1 case from Pennsylvania ............... .
10 00
1 case from Quebec ..................... .
10 00
1 case unidentified ........... .. . ... .... .
2 00
1 case from Washington . ..... ........ . . .
25 00
$1,667 35
During the year covered by this report the following named
brethren were buried with Masonic Honors, under the auspices of this
Board: 1905;
Dec. 3 William N. Smith, Garden City Lodge, No. 141, Chicago, Ill.
1906.
Feb. 24 Charles H. Moore, Oroville Lodge, No. 103, Oroville, Cal.
March 5 L eonard F. E. Jarvis, Tuolumne Lodge, No. 8, Sonora, Cal.
March 6 William Leslie Cottrell, Oceanic Lodge, No. 322, Honolulu.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

406

407

. All which were referred to the Committee on Finance. ·

l~i 15

Thomas W. Hambly, San Jose Lodge, No. 10, San Jose, Cal.
May 19 Marcus B. Ivory, Brentwood Lodge, No. 345, Brentwood, Cal.
June 24 J. Fessenden Clark, Occidental Lodge, No. 22, San Francisco.
July 9 William Henry Drennon, Petaluma Lodge, No. 180, Petaluma.
Aug. 5 George Upjohn, Mt. Royal Lodge, No. 32, Montreal, Canada.
Sept. 18 J. W. Baggett, Holland Lodge, Houston, Texas.
Sept. 27 Ichabod O. Ross, Morning Star Lodge, No. 68, Stockton, Cal.
. All of which is respectfully submitted,
J. ARTHUR PETTY, Chairman.
J. J. WARNER, Secretary,

SACRAMENTO.
To the M.:. w.:. Grand Lodge of Califomia:The Sacramento Board of Relief respectfully offers the following
report of its transactions from October 1st, 1905, to October 1st, 1906:
Cash on hand last report ...................... $ 255 13
Received from ..Tehama Lodge, No. 3.......... 185 15
Received from Washington Lodge, No. 20...... 103 30
Received fron! Sacramento Lodge, No. 40. . . . . . 200 85
Received from Union Lodge, No. 58. ... ...... 192 75
Received from Concord Lodge, No. 117 . . ......
89 10
Received from California Lodges, repayment...
48 50
Received from Fo.reign Lodges, repayment.... 522 60
$1,597 38
Disbursed.
For relief of Brethren, widows and orphans.
California . ............... 5 cases ............ $ 301 00
Canada .. .. . . ... .... ...... 1 case . . . . . . . . . . . .
3 00
Illinois . . . . . ..... ......... 4 cases ... . .. ..... . 382 35
2 00
Indiana ................... 1 case •..... ... ...
2 25
Iowa ... .......... . ..... . . 1 case . ........•..
4 00
Kansas .... . . .... .. ....... 1 case ........... .
72 50
Kentucky ................. 2 cases ........... .
5 00
Maine .................... 1 case ........... .
20 00
Michigan ....... .. ........ 1 case .. .. . ...... .
80 50
Missouri .... .....•........ 1 case ........... .
73 45
N ebraska ................. 1 case ... .... . ... .
2 00
Scotland ....... . .. ... : ... 1 case . . . . .. . .... .
63 45
Expenses ........... . .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·

Bro. Everett H . W etch presented the following:
Resolved, That the Committee on Jurisprudence be and is hereby
requested to prepare and present to. this Grand Lodge a r egulation
exempting from the payment of all local and Grand Lodge dues and
assessments( all Master Masons of this Jurisdiction after they shall
have reached the age of seventy years, provided they shall have been
members in good standing and have paid dues to the local Lodge
granting such exe!Ilption for fifteen consecutive. years next preceding
the date thereof.

Which was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
Bro. Amos G. Bellis presented the following:
Whereas, Our Worshipful Brother, Herman G. Squier, Past Master
of "Manila" Lodge, No. 342, F. & A. M., Manila, P. I., was requested
and delegated to represent "Manila " Lodge, No. 342, at the Fifty·sixth Annual Communication of the M. W. Grand Lodge of California,
held in San Francisco, California, during the month of October, 1905,
and
Whereas, "Manila Lodge, No. 342, at its Stated Communication,
held .on August 1, 1905, voted that the sum of one hundred and
twenty-five dollars be allowed its representative to the Fifty-sixth
Annual Communication of the M. W. Grand Lodge of California, as
part rElimbursement of his traveling expenses incurred in performing
his duties as such representative; and
Whereas, Representatives of Lodges under the jurisdiction of the
M. W. Grand Lodge of California, located outside of the limits of
the State of California, are not allowed any traveling expenses by the
Grand Lodge as such Representative; and

$1,011 50

Balance, cash on hand ... ......... ........ ...... .. . . . $ 585 88
Fraternally submitted,
F. A. ROBLIN, Secretary.

Whereas, There are two Masonic Lodges situated in the Philippine
Islands, under the jurisdiction of the M. W. Grand Lodge of California,
which Lodges hold, as it were, a unique position in American Masonic
history, being the advance of American Freemasonry on territory
· under the exclusive control of the United States of America, in the
far orient, and it is fit and proper that a Representative acquainted
with the conditions existing in these islands should be present at the
Annual Communications of the Grand Lodge; therefore, be it
Resolved, That "Manila" Lodge, No. 342, petition the M. W. Grand
Lodge of California to refund to it, the amount of one hundred and

409

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNlA.

twenty-five dollars, which was allowed to its Representative at the
Fifty-sixth Annual Comm uni cation, from the annual dues of ' 'Manila''
· Lodge, in view of the great amount of .charitable work that is done
by ''Manila'' Lodge for sojourning Masons from all parts of the
world; and also that the adtlitional sum of one hundred and twentyfive dollars, which was allowed as part :reimbursement of the traveling
expenses that may be incurred by our Representative .to the Fiftyseventh Annual Communication of the M. W. Grand Lodge of California, to be holden i.n San Francisco, Calif., in October, 1906, be :refunded from its annual dues to the Grand Lodge, making in all two
hundred. and fifty dollars; and

The Directors of the Hall Association after receiving the consent
of more than two-thirds of the stockholders entered into a contract
with Rudolph Spreckels, selling to him the Jot on the northwest corner
of Montgomery and Post streets, San Francisco, for the sum of seven
hundred and fifty thousand dollars net, sixty days being allowed to
.search the title,.

408

Be it further Resolved, That this resolution be presented to the
M. W. Grand Lodge of California, at its Fifty-seventh Annual Communication, by our Reptesentative.
•

Which was referred to the Committee on Finance.
The Grand Oration was made the special order for two
o'clock, Thursday afternoon, to be immediately followed
by memorial services in memory of Past Grand Masters .
Johnston and Rucker.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until two o'clock
this afternoon.

3Jn ~rnuh 1.Gnhgt.
Afternoon Session,
I
Wednesday, October 10th, A. L. 5906. \
The Grand Lodge was called on at two o'clo,ck, the Grand
Master presiding.
The M. :. W. :. Charles L. Patton presented the fbllowing:
To the M. w. Grand Lodge of California:
The undersigned, on behalf of the Masonic Hall Association of the
City of San Francisco, and in order that the matter of the sale of the
Temple site may be fully understood by the Grana Lodge, submits
the following for consideration:

The purchaser is now examining the title and this sale will be consummated in a very short time.
Upon receipt of this money it is the intention of the Hall Association to obtain an order of Court permitting the distribution of all the
funds on hand among the stockholders and, for the reason that there
is no power in the Hall Association to acquire a new site under its
Articles of Incorporation, the Directors propose to proceed to disin·
corporate.
The Directors have, however, been advised that nearly all the Masonic Bodies owning stock in this corporation desire to invest all 'or
nearly all the amount to be received from the sale of the Temple site
to build a new Temple on ·a new site to be selected, are about to
formulate a plan whereby a new hall association shall be incorporated
with a capital stock equal in amount to the price received from the
sale of the Temple and ·divided into twenty-five thousand shares of the
par value of thirty dollars each, so that each stockholder in the
present Hall Association may either receive the amount due him on
dissolution in. cash or may receive an equal number of shares of equal
valu·e in the new hall association in lieu of shares in the old asso·
ciatiOn.
The fact that the purchase price of the Old Temple site has not
yet been paid makes it impossible to fu:rnish the Grand Lodge at this
time with a more detailed statement of the plans for the erection of
a new Temple.
As the decision of thiji Grand 'Lodge in :reference to investing the
funtls received from the sale of the Temple site in a new and modern
'J'emple for the use of the Craft, will have great weight in accomplishing this most desirable purpose it is suggested that a committee
be appointed at this session of the Grand Lodge with power to act for
the Grand Lodge in all matters connected with the consummation of
the sale of the Temple site and with the erection of a new Temple in
San Francisco.

The consideration of which was postponed until the
presentation of the report of the special committee on the
address of the Grand Master.
17

410

411

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

The M. :. W. :. Albert G. Brice, ·Past Grand Master of
Louisiana, was introduced and conducted to a seat in the
Grand East.

quirements have been complied with, and recommend that the same
be accepted.
Respectfully submitted,
ELLSWORTH F. RICHARDS,
WILLIAM R. FLINT,
JOHN C. LANE,
Committee.

Bro: Ellsworth F. Richards, Chairman of the Committee
on Charters, presented the following report:
To the M. w. Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee begs leave to submit the following r eport:
Dispensations have been granted to the following Lodges :
Gardena;
Veteran;
Jewel;
Richmond;
Francis Drak.e ;
Artesia;
Mizpah;
Fillmore;
Huntington Beach;
Oceanside;
All of these Lodges have sought charters. We have made a close
.examination of the records and papers accompanying the petitions,
and recommend that charters be granted as follows:
Gardena;
Veteran;
J ewel;
Richmond ;
Francis Drake;
Artesia;
Mizpah;
Fillmore;
Huntington Beach;
Oceanside.
Concerning the matter of the surrender of Charter of "Ionic"
Lodge, No. 121, F. & A. M., Iowa ' Hill, California, left over from the
last Annual Communication:·
We have carefully considered the papers connected with the sur·
render of Chart.er of said Lodge, and find that all constitutional re-

Which was concurred in and the recommendations
adopted.
Bro. Henry M. Owens, Chairman of the Committee on
Accounts, presented the following:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Califorµia:
Your Committee to audit the bills of this Grand Lodge, beg leave
to submit the following report:
Your Committee have met on the last Saturday of each month
during the past Masonic year; when all bills and vouchers for expenditures of money outside of the regular appropriations by this Grand
Lotlge have been acted upon by this Committee. Authority for . the
expenditure and copies of articles purchased have b een pre11ented to
the Committee in every and all cases. No bills have been approved
until. they have passed the scrutiny of the majority of this Committee.
Respectfully submitted,
H. M. OWENS,
THEODORE FEOLICH,
.HARRY ASCROFT,
WALTER A. SCOTT,
Committee.

Which was concurred in.
The M . :. W. :. M. H. Flint presented the following:
Hon. Motley H . .Flint,
.
M. W. Grand Master, F. & A. M. of California..
Dear Sir:The Accountants appointed to examine the books of the General
Masonic Relief Bureau of San Francisco beg l eave to report that .~e
have made a complete and thorough audit of the .Secretary's accounts.
We find that a proper r ecord has been kept of all receipts and dis-

412

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

bursements, that all receipts were found to have been regularly
deposited with the Treasurer and drawn by proper warrants, that all
disbursement items, whether for expense or for relief purposes, are
supported. by vouchers on file and readily accessibl.e, and we hereby
certify to the correctness of the financial statement presented by the
Secretary of the Board under date of October 6, 1906, an amplified
copy of which we present herewith.

Salaries . . . . . . . .............. ..
Vice-President . . . . . ...... . ... $ 1,150 00
Secretary . . . . . . . ....... ~ ... . 1,000 00
Bookkeepers . . . . . . . ......... .
775 00
Stenographer . . . . . . . ........ .
372 50
Clerks, messengers, etc ........ .
343 25
$ 3,640 75
Drayage, expressage, etc ........ .
Stationery . . . . . . . ............ .
Furniture and fixtures ............ .

Statement of Receipts and Disbursements General Masonic Relief
Board from April 25 to October 6, 1906, inclusive.

Contributions ......... .
General contributions ............. . .... $ 74,718 · 48
M. · W. Grand Master, Hon. Motley H .
100,000 00
Flint

$ 1,338 00
119 85
230 98

97,863 78

COMPOSITION OF BALANCE.
Cash in hands of Treasu~er . .. .. . ................. .. .... $ 75,223 20
Cash in hands of Secretary ............................ .
1,631 50

$174,718 48

Total . . . . . . . . . .................. .... ........... $ 76,854 70
Respectfulll,'"' submitted,
J. R. RUCKSTELL,
1'HOS. T. ATKINSON,
Committee.

DISBURSEMENTS.
$87,437 60
Relief . . . . . . . . . .............. .
Cash . . . . . . . ................. $30,181 43 '
.Supplies, food, clothing etc .... 46,770 78
Transportation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8,858 65
Mission District ac~ount.......
936 40
Burials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
501 64
108 70
Hospital services .. .... . . .... .
80 00
Loans, balance . . ............ .

$ 5,096 60

$ 3,640 75

Balance, reso~rces ...... : ....... . .. . .............. $ 76,854 70

RECEIPTS.

$87,437 60
General : expense .............. .
T elegrams . . . . . . . .. .... ...... $ 1,437 75
Advertising ...... ... .. .... .. . 1,340 50
150 00
R ent (store-room for supplies).
57 75
Postage .... . . . . .. .......... .
Lumber . ·..................... .
114 05
42 25
Printing .............. . ..... .
40 05
Freight .... ·................. .
26 50
Typewriter rent, ribbons .... . '.·.
88 00
Traveling expenses .. . . . . . ... .
73 70
Miscellaneous . . . . . . . . ... .... .
Incidental expense, contingent . . 1,726 05

413

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

$ 5,096 60

I

Wh'ich was referred to the spedal committee on the
report of the General Masonic Relief Fund.
Bro. William P. Butcher presented the following:
Resolved, That regulation No. 57 be and the same is hereby
amended by striking out the word "five," and substituting in lieu
thereof the word '' twenty-hve.''

_Which was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
The M. :. W. :. George W. Hunter, from the special committee on the Grand Ma~ter's Address and Grand Secretary's· Report, presented the following reports:
To the M . W. Grand Lodge of Califomia:Your committee to whom was r ef erred the address of the M. W.
Grand Master, Motley H. Flint, beg leave to submit the following:
0

It has been the fortune of Grand Master Flint to serve t his Grand
Jurisdiction in the most eventful year of its history, and in a capacity
which, for taxing one's powers and r esources, has never before fallen

414

415

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

to the lot of any Grand Master of this or auy other Granu Jurisdiction.

Although brief, the report is complete · and bears evidence of the
accuracy of all the work of the Grand Secretary's office.

•

The awful calamity which befell the City of San Francisco in April
1ast was so sudden and appalling that thousands of ih 'inhabitants
were not only deprived of their homes, but of the actual r.ecessaries
or life. It required _a man of great executive ability to take charge
of the relief work and organize committees to perform the service
demanded, and Grand Master Flint, by reason of his business experi·
ence, was specially qualified tp grasp the situation and render the niost
efficient service.
We commend his untiring zeal and personal efforts in aiding the
needy, and heartily approve of his action in helping, not only the
members of the Masonic fraternity and their families, but all who
were in distress in those trying hours.
The generous response of other Grand Jurisdictions; in contributing
so liberally, for the· relief of San Francisco and other stricken cities
in our State, shows how universal was the sympathy' of our Masonic
brethren and how true and loyal the -fraternal spirit when a great
occasion calls it into activity. The funds donated were gratefully
r eceived, worthily bestowed and faithfully accounted for, and the
report of the Grand Master on the relief fund, and the record of relief
work as shown by his special report, is a tribute to Masonry throughout the world.
•
we note with pleasure the gain in membership during the year, and
the satisfactory condition of Masonry in general in this Jurisdiction.
We recommend that so much of the address of the Grand Master
as deals with decisions be referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence;
that portion which r elates to the amendment of the constitution in
regard to granting Dispensations for the formation of new Lodges
upon the recommendation of the Grand Master where the nearest
Lodge declines to give its conse-n t, be referred to the same committee;
that portion _which relates to Masonic Temple matters in San Francisco be ref erred to a special committee for consideration and report;
that portion relating to ~ Dispensation for a n ew Lodge in · the Philippi ueR be r eferred to a special committee, and that portion relating
to printing a list of members of Lodges be submitted to the Grand
Lodge for its considera tiOn and decision.
Grand Secretary, Bro. Johnson, has been able, notwithstanding the
great loss sustained by him in the destruction . of th<i records, 0f his
office, to present to this Grand Lodge a full account of all transactions
of his office for the year requiring consideration by this Grand Body.
That portion of his r eport realting to unfinished business has
already been referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

Respectfully and Fraternally submitt.ed,
EDMUND C. ATKINSON,
JAMES B. STEVENS,
GEO. W. HUNTER,
Committee.

Both which were adopted.
On motion it was ordered that the publication of the
Roster _of Lodges, which was discontinued at the. Annual
Communication in 1905J be resumed, and that the same be
published as soon as possible after the receipt by the Grand
Secretary from subordinate Lodges of the certificates of
election and appointment of officers for the year. It was
also ordered that the publication of the bi-monthly circul~r
of suspensions, restorations, etc., which was discontinued at
the Annual Communication m 1891, be resumed and same
published as formerly.
On motion it was ordered that a committee of seven be
appointed to cons.ider the proposition of building a temple,
said committee to consist of five residents of the city and
two residents of the country, and the Grand Master appointed the following brethren to constitute such committee:
REUBEN H. LLOYD,
WILLIAM P. FILMER,
EDWARD COLEMAN,
CHARLES SCHLESSipGER,
CHARLES M. PLUM,
WILLIAM P. JEFFRIES,
ORRIN S. HENDERSON,
On the New Temple.

The Grand Lodge was then called off until ten o'clo1:k
to-morrow morning.

416

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

llu ~rau~ 1J.juhgr.
Morning Session,
Thursday, October nth, A. L. 5906. (
The Grand Lodge was called on at ten o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
·
The minutes of the sessions of yesterday were read and
approved.
Bro. J ohn Hosmer, Chairman of the Committee on Grievances presented the following reports:
~o the M.:. W.:. Grand Lodge of California:

· Your Committee have had under consideration and have care·
fully examined the following records of trials had in subordinate
Lodges, from which no appeals have been taken, and find them all
to be in substantial compliance with our law, and the respective
judgments are sustained by evidence, to wit:
William Silver Grover, expelled by "California" Lodge, No. 1.
Harvey Irwin, an Entered Apprentice Mason, expelled by '' Aca·
cia'' Lodge, No. 92.
William Clawson, expelled by "Chico" Lodge, No. 111.
Benjamin Beatty Duncan, expelled by "Mission" Lodge, No. 169.
Alexander .Isaac Gray, expelled by ''Elk Grove'' Lodge, No. 173.
Charles W. Koerner, expelled by ''Marin'' Lodge, No. 191.
•Tohn Duncan Cummings, expelled by ''Dunsmuir'' Lodge, No. 297.
James Francis Beahan, expelled. by "Manila" Lodge, No. 342,
and Emil Julius Kanngeisser, expelled by ''Presidio'' Lodge, No. 354.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the action of the several Lodges upon the cases
herein particularly specified be, and the same is, hereby affirmed.

Your Committee, to whom was referred the trial record of the
case of A. A. Manuel, sentenced to reprimand by "Monterey" Lodge,
No. 217, and from which ·judgment the accuser, George W. Mease, has
appealed, have had the same · under consideration, and report as
follows:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

417

The accused was the Treasurer of ''Monterey'' Lodge, and was
charged with the embezzlement of $176.74 of the funds of the Lodge,
set forth in six specifications. Among other matters the specifications
related offensive and defiant actions on the part of the accused when
requested to make payment of these funds, even afte'r a successor had
been appointed and de~and made.
. Upon the trial before the Commissioners, through his counsel,
the accused himself being present, he pleaded guilty to the charges,
and such was the finding of the Commission. In sentencing the
accused to reprimand the Commission evidently took into consideration a promise to repay the money in six months, or sooner if possible.
If a Brother so far forgets his Masonic duty as to appropriate
money of the Lodge, en trusted to him as an official, he should ·be
subjected to such discipline as shall, at least, convince the Lodge
that he is penitent for his act, and worthy to mingle with his 'Masonic
Brethren. While a reprimand may work reform for small offenses,
the good faith of the Brother will be better shown if he is deprived,
for a season, of Masonic rights, and displays to his Brethren a bearing that will justify them in again receiving him into full fellowship.

Your Committee is not satisfied that the sentence is sufficient
or adequate punishment for the offense of which the Brother has
acknowiedged. himself guilty. Such conduct warrants the severest
punishment known to our law, but as the trial Commissioners have
shown such great leniency, and there may be circumstances of which
we are not cognizant, which may be urged in mitigation, we are disposed to recommend a milder judgment.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the action of the Trial .Commissioners of "Monterey" Lodge, No. 217, sentencing A. A. Manu.~l to a reprimand, be,
and the same is, hereby reversed, and that the said A. A. Manuel be,
and he is, hereby suspended from all the rights and privileges of
Masonry.

Your Committee, to whom was referred the trial record in the case
of Robert Emil Goeritz, expelled by "Chico" Lodge, No. 111, have
had the same under consid.eration, and beg leave to report.
The accused was charged with unmasonic conduct in four specifications, but evidence was introduced to the Commission only as to
one, which was that during the month of April or May, 1905, the said
Goeritz came to me (the accused) and said he was in trouble ancl

418

419

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

asked me as a Mason to assist him by letting him have some cattle
to tide him over his difficulties, and that in a few days he would p·a y
me for them without fail. I (the accuser) gave him the assistance
he desired, and he took niy cattle and disposed of them, and· took the
money and left the State, and I have no doubt but it was his intention at the time he secured the cattle to rob me of my property.

would not accept of it. If there was dishonesty in procuring the cattle the evidence do es not sho~ it. At most, it shows that in his busin ess he estimated beyond his ability.

At the time that charges were preferred the accused was in Butte,
Montana, and wrote to the Ma~ter, asking an extension of the time
of trial for at least sixty days, which was granted, and at the expiration of that time the trial proceeded and the accused was present.
In his statement to the Commission he said : "Everybody knows the
way I started in business, and as soon as I made a few dollars, I spent
it in improving my business with fixtures, etc., and finally I got married and my expenses were higher and business was pretty good, and
I improved my business, and in one way I made a mistake. I risked
too much, and I thought . busi11ess was getting better, and it got
worse, prices declined, competition was harder, and I could not meet
my bills; consequently, my' family expenses were awfully high, it was
impossible for me to cut them down, which I can prove by my books.
Through this came my family trouble, and I made a mistake by
starting in drinking, and for this I ask forgiveness from my brothers.
I tried to beat nobody out of a cent ; that is why I came back and
took charge of the market, where I take only my living expenses,
a~d I will pay everybody dollar for dollar.''
Upon the trial the only evidence offered was by the accuser, who
testified ''all the charges preferred by me were on the hearsay of
Brothers, except the first charge; relating to cattle.''
The accuser was apparently not even half-hearted in his prosecution, for when asked, ''Where did you get the other information
preferred in charges'" answered, from Brother J. D. March; and
when further asked, ''Why did you not get the witnesses here to
prove thatf" answered, "Because I did not care to." He also stated
that he received a ' Jetter from Brother Goeritz offering to square the
first charge, relating to the cattle, but that he wrote. him an answer
th.at he would ~ot do so, as it was too late, and he was advised by
Masonic authority that he could not do so.
The transaction disclosed by the charge gave the accused the
privilege of using the cattle, and in the absence of fraud, such use
would not subject ·him to censure. The only thing looking towards
fraud is that he went away, but before the completion of the trial
he returned and went to work, and was only taking his living expenses,
and would pay everybody dollar for dollar. According to the prosecutor he had offered to square his indebtedness, but the prosecutor

·The charge of fraud, a serious offense, especially when committed
by a Mason against a Brother, should be fully and clearly substantiated by the testimony. Anderson's Manual, Sec. 203, page 250.
'
by the testimony. Anderson's Manual, Sec. 203; page 250.
We are not satisfied that the evidence in this case is sufficient to
justify the finding of the Commissioners.
We therefore offer t he following resolution and r ecommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the action of "Chico" Lodge, No. 111, expelling
Emil Goeritz be, and the same is, hereby reversed and set
aside.
R~bert

Your Committee, to whom was referred the trial record of tl~e
case of Charles F. Mugridge,· expelled by ''Naval'' Lodge, No. 87,
and from which judgme:nt the accused has appealed to this Grand
Lodge, has had the same under consideration, and r eport:
The charges preferred against the accused are that on divers occasions he violated the chastity of Katherine C. Macdonald, the wife
of· Angus E . Macdonald, the accusing Brot her.
·
The appeal is upon the ground that the ·evidenc·e is insufficient
to support the finding of guilty of the charges, and that error was
committed in allowing in evidence over the objection of the accused,
of an ex ·parte affidavit of Katherine C. Macdonald.
The accused denied the charges. The evidence of the ,accuset
was wholly hearsay, aside from the affidavit of Katherine C. Macdonald, which was admitted in evidence over the objection of the accused,
that it was incompetent, irregular and not taken in accordance with
Masonic law. This document was offered as a deposition, but it is
wholly in narrative form, reciting the a cts charged in the complaint
of the accuser, but not by question and answer, nor do.es it appear that
the accused had an opportunity to appear and cross-examine the witness.. The only reference to the matter in the transcript is: "The Sec·
retary was instructed to notify the Master of 'Sacramento' Lodge, No.
40, F. & A. M., to accompany a Notary Public for the purpose of
taking the testimony of wife of Angus E. Macdonald, Katherine
C. Macdonald. Accused was also notified in person.'' But it nowhere
appears that notification of the time and place of taking the deposition was given. The only apparent whereabouts of the wife is indi-

420

421

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

cated in a letter from Macdonald to the. Master of "Naval" Lodge,
speaking of her condition, written from Broderick, Yolo County. The
alleged deposition was atteste~ by William F. Renfro, Notary Public
in and for the County of Sacramento, and the record shows it was
received from H. H. Stephenson, W.:. M.:. of "Sacramento" Lodge,
NCI'. 40. We do not think this a substantial compliance with our law,
as provided by the Constitution (Part VI, Art. IV, Sec. 5), "The
t~stimony of witnesses who are not Masons shall be taken by depositions before some officer authorized by the laws of the State wherein
he resides to administer oaths, and at such time and place and upon
such notice to the adverse party as shall be designated by the Master,
upon the application of the party desiring the testimony.''

We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the action of "Hartley" Loclge, No. 199, in expelling Frank Ridgway Todd be, and the same is, hereby affirmed.

Your Committee, to whom was referred the trial record in the
case of Hugh Kirkman, a member of " Lawto., n" Lodge, No. 75,
located at Lawton, Territory of Oklahoma, then residing at Fort
McKinley, Rizal, Philippine Islands, expelled by ''Manila'' Lodge,
No. 342; have had the same under consideration, and .beg leave to
report as foilows:

. It is the duty of the Master, if he deem the application for a
deposition sufficient, ''to make an order authorizing the taking of
the deposition before some officer authorized to administer oaths,
after such notice to the adverse party as may be prescribed by the
order, and at a time and place therein designated. The application,
order and notice cannot be dispensed with." (Anderson's Manual,
Sec. 686, Sub. 8, page 345.)

The accused, an officer in the United States Army, was charged
by a membe'r of said "Lawton" Lodge with having embezzled $772.23
of moneys that he had in his possession -as such officer.

We therefore offer the following resolution and r ecommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the action of "Naval" Lodge, No. 87, expelling
Charles F. Magridge be, and the same is, ltereby reversed, and returned
to "Naval" Lodge, No. 87, for a new trial.

Your Committee, to whom was referred the trial record in the
case of Frank Ridgway Todd, expelle·d by "Hartley" Lodge, No. 199,
beg leale to report as follows:
This is the second time tliat this case has come before the Grand
Lodge. The action of ''Hartley'' Lodge was reversed by the Grand
Lodge at 'its annual session of 1904, on account of the charge being
supported by hearsay evidence.
The new trial was had under the charges preferred by the Junior
·Warden, under direction of the Master in 1904. And while it does
not appear from the transcript, it is a fact shown by the records
· of the Grand Lodge, that the officers at the trial were different persons from those who officiated in 1904.
The accused was charged with having committed embezzlement in
Santa Ana, Orange County, and having pleaded guilty to the charge,
The whereabouts of the accused was unknown, and the trial proceeded
ex parte. The charge was sustained by the evidence.

•

The Trial Commissioners were elected March 31st, 1906, and the
Master named April 5th, 1906, as the time for the first meeting of
the Commissioners, and ordered the Secretary to prepare a summons
to ace.used, w~ch summons. was served upon the accused April 1st,
1906. The accused was at the tim~ under arrest by the United States
military authorities, and General Wood refuse~l to allow him to
appear before the Commission. This fact was made known to the
Commission and on motion it adjourned until April 10th, 1906, authorizing a brother to take the deposition of the accused, and to notify
him of his right to be represented at the trial, and also to give him
sufficient time to prepare for his defense. Upon April 10th the . Com.mission again met, and the accused's deposition not being received,
another adjpurnment was had, until April 14th, 1906, at which time
no objecti~n was made to the Commissioners, and the accused filed
an answer, which was witnessed by the accuser and a Brother Lawrence S. Carson, of "Minrehohn" Lodge, No. 5, of Sioux Falls, South
Dakota, who represented the accuaed upon the trial. In the answer
the accused admitted the charge, and upon the trial there was evidence
of other witnesses, that justified the action of the Commis~ioners.
These µroceedings were not in compliance with our law, and if
the accused liad not appeared by answering and being represented,
the sentenc04of the Lodge could not stand. Our law is very plain.
(Const., Part VI, Art. IV, Sec. 3.) "If the accused be within the
jurisdiction of the Lodge, the summons ancl a copy of the charges
shall be issued at least ten days prior to t he day appointed for the
trial, and shall be served personally by the Tyler, or some other member of the Lodge, authorized by the Master for that purpose, or shall

422

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

be left at his ordinary residence or place of business,'' ·and we cannot too seriously commend to our Brethren having trials, that they
closely read and pursue the practice laid out for them in· the law,
thereby avoiding the necessity of reversal.

Br.o. William P. Jeffries, Chairman of the Cqmmittee on
Returns, presented the following report:
To the M.:. W.:. Grand Lodge of California:-

Your . Committee, however, are of the opm1on that inasmuch. as
the accused Brother appeared by answer and representative, and made
no objection to the character of the service of summons, tha.t• he
waived any informality that might exist in such service, and as
the evidence before th~ Commission justifies the sentence, we. offer
the following resolution and recommend its adoption:

Your Committee, to whom was referred the examination of the
returns of the Lodges for the current year, with the assistance of the
Grand Secretary, performed that duty, and take pleasure in reporting
that the returns of all the Lodges have been received by that officer;
that a very large majority of them were prepared correctly; that those
which were in the first instance erroneous, have since been corrected
by the Secretaries, upon notice thereof (in some cases more than
once repeated) by the Grand Secretary; that the dues have, in nearly
every instance, accompanied the reports; and that all the dues have
now been paid.

Resolved, That the action of "Manila" Lodge, No. 342, expelling
Hugh Kirkman from all the rights and privileges of Masonry be, and
the same is, hereby affirmed.

Your Committee, to whom was referred the trial record in the
case of William Dean, sentenced to reprimand by "Palo Alto"· Lodge,
No. 346, and from which an appeal has been taken to this Grand
Lodge, has had the same under consideration, and report:
The Brother was charged with unmasonic conduct in using vile,
profane and indecent language towards a Brother, and in charging
him with dishonesty and making threats of violence towards him.
The affair was evidently an outcome of business difficulties. The
accused Brother appeared, confessed the charge and expressed sorrow
for his acts, and showed a penitential disposition. The Brethren of
the Commission were, no doubt, impressed with his statement, for they
all concurred in the adoption of reprimand al\ a punishment, and
we cannot say, in view of the facts, that a more serious penalty was
nllcessary.
We therefore offer the ;ollowing resqlution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the action of "Palo Alto" Lodge, No. 346, sentencing William Dean to be reprimanded be, and the same is, hereby
affirmed.
Respectfully submitted,
JNO. A. HOSMER,
J. A. MURPHY,
ALBERT NORRIS,
E. E. SILPH,
Committee.

All which were concurred m and the resolutions accom- .
panying them were adopted.

423

The classification which follows will show the respective credits
due to the Secretaries of the several Lodges:

•

The reports of the following three hundred and eight Lodges were
transmitted wi:hin the period of time prescribed by the Constitution;
were accompanied by dues; were in all respects con:ect; and were handsomely prepared:
California,
Tehama,
Benicia,
Tuqlumne,
. Corinthian,.
San Jose,
Yount,
Temple,
Eureka,
Mountain Shade,
San Joaquin,
Washington,
Hawaiian,
Occidental,
Madison,
Georgetown,
Trinity,
Gold Hill,
Ophir,
San Diego,
St. John's,
Santa Cruz,
Yuba,

No.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"

1
3
5
8
9
10

12
14
16
18
19
20
21
22
23
25
27
32
33
35
37
38
39

Martinez,
Los ""ngeles,
Hiram,
• Mount Moriah,
Crescent,
Texas,
Forbestown,
Illinois town,
Suisun,
Santa Rosa,
Union,
Live Oak,
G·eorge Washington,
Natoma,
Amador,
Forest,
Enterprise,
Bear Mountain,
C,~.laveras,

Humboldt,
Ione,
Yolo,
Rising Star,

No.

"

"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

..
"
"

41
42
43
44
45
46
50
51
55
57
58
61
62
64
65
66
70
76
78
79
80
81
83

424
Vesper,
Quitman,
Rose's Bar,
North Star,
Acacia,
St. Helena,
Henry Clay,
Howard,
Jefferson,
Hornitos,
La Grange,
Manzanita,
·Oroville,
Lexington,
Owen,
Chico,
Summit,
Eden,
Concord,
Clinton,
Fidelity,
Ionic,
Sotoyome,
Table Mountain,
La Fayette,
Hermann,
Visalia,
Nicolaus,
W oodoridge,
Sincerity,
Yosemite,
Vacaville,
Valley,
Pacific,
Crockett,
Franklin,
Oriental,
Vitruvius,
Abell,
Eel River,
Molino,
Woodland,
Gibsonville,
Keystone,
Harmony,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No.
"
"
"
"
'' ,

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

84
88
89
91
92
93
95
96
97
98
99
102
103
104
108

111
112
113
117
119
120
121
123
124
126

127
128
129
131
132
133
134
135
136
139
143

114
145
146
147
150

llre
158
161
164

No. 166
Excelsior,
Alameda,
"
167
Redwood City,
" 168
Mission,
" 169
Drytown,
" 174
Phoenix,
" 178
Mendoc,ino,
" 179
',. 180
P etaluma,
Russian River,
" 181
Meric..lian,
" 182
Clear Lake,
" 183
Sierra Valley,
" 184
Claiborne,
" 185
Evening Star,
" 186
Keith,
" 187
Oakland,
" 188
,, 191
Marin,
Santa Barbara,
" 192
:Mountain View,
" 194
Wilmington,
" 198
Hartley,
" 199
Truckee,
" 200
Silveyville,
" 2:n
Pentalpha,
" 202
Confidence,
" 203 ..
Salinas,
" 204
Rio Vista,
" 208
King David's,
" 209 .
Friendship,
" 210
San Benito,
" 211
South San Francisco, '' 212
San Buena Ventura, " 214
Oak Grove,
" 215
Doric,
" 216
Monterey,
" 217
Mosaic,
" 218
Speranza Italiana,
" 219
Downey,
" 220
Granite,
" 222
Bakersfield,
" 224
Brooklyn,
" 225
San Mateo,
" 226
Solano,
" 229
North Butte,
" 230
Janesville,
" 232

425

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
Hill's Ferry,
Guadalupe,
Colusa,
Magnolia,
Eucalyptus,
Alcatraz,
Laurel,
Pomona,
Fresno,
Bodie,
Landmark,
. Welcome,
Lodi,
Penrhyn,
Evergreen,
King Solomon 'e,
Tuscan,
Lompoc,
Hesperian,
Orland,
North East,
Galt,
Olive Branch,
Snow Mountain,
Pasadena,
Anchor,
Arroyo,
Oakdale,
Southern California,
Hanford,
Madera,
Mt. Shasta,
Callayo mi,
South West,
San Miguel,
Paso Robles,
Winnedumah,
Maxwell,
Elsinore,
East Gate,
Santa Paula,
Los Gatos,
Orange Grove,
Traver,
Mt. Jackson,
18

N(}, 236
" 2,3 7 .

"

24'Q.

''

242
243
244
245
246
247
252
253
255
256
258
259
260
261
262
264
265
266
267
269

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"

"

"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

271
272
273,
274

275
278
279
280

281
282
283
285
286
287
288
289
290
291
292

293
294
295

Silver Gate,
Dunsmuir,
Mokelumne Hill,
Liberty,
Redlands;
Santa Lucia,
P orterville,
Reedley,
Azusa,
Santa Monica,
Monrovia,
Delano,
Sisson,
Los Banos,
Tehachapi,
Temescal,
Norwalk,
Sangei:,
Emanuel,
Hollenbeck,
· South Gate,
Alisa!,
Alhambra,
Whittier,
Corona,
Needles,
Long Beach,
Vallee de France,
Pacific Grove,
San Pedro,
Alta,
West Gate,
Fruitvale,
Carquinez,
Fullerton,
Santa Maria,
Oxnard,
Manila,
San Fernando,
Brentwoo<l,
Palo Alto,
San Bernardino,
Sequoia,
Cavite,
Pa}estine,

No. 296
" 297
" 298
" 299
" 300
" 302
" 303
" 304
305
" 307
" 308
" 309
" 310
" 312
' ' 313
" 314
" 315
" 316
" 318
" 319
" 320

"

"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"

·"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"

321

322
323

324
326
327
329
331
332
333
335
336
337
339
340

341
342
343
345
346
348
349
350
351

426
Sunset,
Pinole,
Presidio,
Hollywood,
Mill Valley,
B·uena Park,
c;1olden State,
San Francisco,
Fort Bragg,
Charity,
Berkeley,
Olivet,
Willits,
Las Palmas,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. 352
" 353
" 354
" 355
" 356
" 357
" 358
" 360
361
,, ·362
" 363
" 364
" 365
" 366

South Pasadena,
Unity,
Amity,
Oceanic,
Gardena,
Veteran,
Jewel,
Richmond,
Francis Drake,
Artesia,
Mizpah,
Fillmore,
Huntington Beach,
Oceanside,

qRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 367
,, 368
" 370
'· 371
U. D.
U. D.
U. D.
U. D.
U. D.

U. D.
U. D.
U. D.
U. D.
U. D .

The reports of the following thirty-two Lodges were correct, aml
_were accompanied by their dues, but were not transmitted within
the proper time:
Wes tern Star,
La Parfaite Union
Palmyra,
Golden Gate,
Sacramento,
Volcano,
Na~.al,

A1·cata,
Pajaro,
Mount Zion,
Grafton,
Lassen,
Elk Grove,
Antioch,
Northern Light,
Ferndale,

No.

2

"
"

17
26
30
40
56
87
106

"
"

"
"
"
,,"

llO

114
" 141
"" . 149
173
175
"
" 190
" 193

San Simeon,
Stanii:!laus,
Athens,
Covelo,
Calistoga,
Hope,
Santa . Ana,"
Alturas,
A din,
Reading,
Durant,
Tyrian,
Fall brook,
Consuelo,
Loyalton,
Ocean Park,

No. 196
,, 206
" 228
" 231
" 233
234'"
241
" 248
" 250
" 254
" 268
" 284
" 317
" 325
" 359
" 369

The reports of the following seventeen were transmitted within
the proper time, and were accompanied by their dueR, but each
required corrections, which were duly made by the Secretaries upon
being notified (sometimes more than once) by the Grand Secretary:
Nevada,
Mariposa,
Morning Star,
Alamo,
Newville,

No.

"

"
"

"

13
24
68
122
205

Anaheim,
Inyo,
Surprise Valley,
Selma,
Ontario,

No. 207
" 221
235
" 277
" 301

'"

· Ashlar,
Redondo,
Kilauea,
Covina,

No. 306
" 328
" 330
" 334

San Jacinto,
Starr King,
McKinley,

427
No. 338
" 344
" ::147

The reports of the following five Lodges were accompanied by the
dues, bu_t were not transmitted within the proper time, and required
corrections, which have since been made:
Gravel Range,
Plumas,
Clay,

No.

"
"

59
60
101

No. 140
" 19.5

Curtis,
Buckeye,

The amounts for dues for which the several Lodges of this ,Jurisdiction were indebted, and which have all been paid, a.re as follows:
Name and No.

California,
Wes tern Star,
Tehama,
Benicia,
'l'nolumne.
Corinthian,
~~.n Jose,
Yount,
Nevada,
Temple;
Eureka,
La Par. Union,
Mountain Shade,
San Joaquin,
Washington,
Hawaiiap,
Occidental,
Madison,
Mariposa,
Georgetown,
Palmyra,
Trinity,
'
Golden Gate,
Gold Hill,
Ophir,
San Diego,
St. John's,
Santa Cruz,
Yuba,

Gen. Fund.

1. .$

2 ..
3. .
5 ..
8 .•
9 ..

10 ..
12 ..
13 ..
14 ..
16 ..
17.;

°18 ..
19 ..
20 ..
21..
22 ..

23 ..
24 . .
25 ..
26 ..
27 ..
30 . .
32 ..
33 ..
35 ..
37 ..
38 ..
39 ..

634 65
119 20
176 35
125 00
157 55
135 35
308 25

vn·75

152 65
73 05
64 75
129 70
40 95
250 60
111 00
229 00
581 80
139 40
62 35
48 60
202 90
74 85
447 85
58 20
71 05
245 20
101 10
203 60
84 15

Home Fund.

$

607 00
116 00
173 00
100 00
149 00
113 00
275 00
125 00
147 00
59 00
65 00
126 00
41 00
208 00
100 00
264 00
524 00
132 00
53 00
48 00
162 00
63 00
423 00
56 00
59 00
236 00
98 00
168 00
77 00

Total.
$ 1,241 65
235 20
349 35
225 00
306 55
248 35
58il 25
256 75
299 65
132 05
129 75
255 70
81 95
458 60
211 00
493 00
1,105 80
271 40
115 35
96 60
364 90
137 85
870 85
114 20
130 05
48i 20
199 10
371 60
161 15

Allowed
Rep'tvs
$-........ .
20 OQ
6 60
2 00
13 ~o
9 2(l

2 5r
14 60
2 00
8 20
30 00
5 00
6 60

13 60
16 50
12 20
13 40
29 00

7 80
15 00
45 00
30 60
5 60
9 20

428

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE .

Name and No.

Sacramento,
40 ..
Martinez,
41 ..
Los Angeies,
42 ..
Hiram,
43 ..
Mount Moriah,
44 ..
45 ..
Crescent,
46 ..
Texas,
50 ..
Forbestown,
51 ..
Illinois town,
55 ..
Suisun,
56 ..
Volcano,
57 ..
Santa Rosa,
, 58 ..
Union,
59 ..
Gravel Range,
. 60 ..
Plumas,
61..
Live Oak,
Geo. Washington, 62 ..
64 ..
Natoma,
65 . .
Amador,
66 ..
Forest,
68 ..
Morning Star,
70 ..
Enterprise,
Bear Mountain, 76 ..
78 ..
Calaveras,
79 ..
Humbolilt,
80 ..
Ione,
81..
Yolo,
83 ..
Rising Star,
84 ..
Vesper,
87 ..
Naval,
88 ..
Quitman,
89 ..
Rose's Bar,
91..
North Star,
92 ..
Acacia,
93 ..
St. Helent,
95 ..
Henry Clay,
96 ..
Howard,
97 ..
J efferson,
98 ..
Hornitos,
99 . .
La Grange,
lUl ..
Clay,
102 ..
Manzanita,
103 . .
Oroville,
104 ..
L exington,

Gen. Fund.

Home Fund.

190 80
117 05
348 60
29 65
329 40
87 80
33 45
45 80
37 05
105 05
52 20
279 05
207 35
22 80
94 80
654 95
41 80
66 80
81 25
. 36 35
192 05
149 70
112 15
69 35
.311 20
58 . 55
42 35
61 30
129 70
276 15
26 60
32 70
41 05
32 95
95 85
72 65
90 15
39 15
31 50
119 10
62 05
33 30

184 00
99 00
288 00
27 00
312 00
64 00
31 00
44 00
39 00
79 00
36 00
259 00
193 00
24 00
44 00
601 00
44 00
64 00
75 00
33 00
179 00
146 00
97 00
73 00
276 00
49 00
33 00
54 00
126 00
237 00
28 00
26 00
39 00
21 00
83 00
67 00
77 00
!17 00
30 ' 00
98 00
59 00
34 00
129 00
48 00

· 148 55

59.60

Totai.
374 80
216 05
636 60
56 65
641 40
151 80
64 45
89 80
76 05
184 05
88 20
538 05
400 35
46 80
138 80
1,255 95
85 80
130 80
156 25
69 35
371 05
295 70
209 15
142 35
587 20
107 55
75' 35
115 30
255 70
513 15
54 60
58 70
80 05
53 95
178 85
139 65
167 15
76 15
61 50
217 10
121 05
67 30
277 55
107 60

Allowed •
Rep'tvs

6 60
2 00
35 00

57 30
5 70
17 20
10 10
3 40
3 00
6 60

20
12 70
10 00
24 60
5 00
9 20
15 20
12 10
20 00
8 70 .
6 .40
13 10
15 00
2 00
18 60
34 10
13 00
4 10
12 70
30 60
24 20
13 50
9 20
11 30
16 50
12 20
35 80

' .

Name and No.
Gen. Fund.
Home Fund.
Total.
Arcata,
106 . . $
95 95 $ 101 00 $ 196 95
Owen,
108 ..
12 35
13 00
25 35
Pajara,
110 ..
114 20
116 00
230 20
Chico,
111 ..
186 20
156 Ou
342 20
Summit,
112 ..
33 45
31 00
64 45
Eden,
113 ..
99 00
100 00
199 00
Mount Zion,
114 ..
21 00
20 00
41 00
Concord,
117 ..
110 20
96 00
206 20
Clinton,
119 ..
40 35
33 00
73 35
Fidelity,
120 ..
464 90
442 00
906 90
Ionic,
121 . .
19 00
20 00
39 00
Alamo,
122 ..
67 20
56 00
123 20
Sotoyome,
123 ..
159 05
139 00
298 05
Table Mountain, 124 ..
. 55 50
50 00
105 50
La Fayette, .
126 ..
105 40
92 00
197 40
Hermann,
127 . .
183 35
173 00
356 35
Visalia,
128 ..
143 55
129 00
272 55
Nicolaus,
129 ..
74 55
69 00
J43 55
Woodbridge,
131 ..
94 75
85 00
179 75
l::!incerity,
132 ..
48 25
35 00 .
83 25
Yosemite,
133 . .
28 00
20 00
48 00
Vacaville,
134 ..
136 65
107 00
243 65
Valley ,
135 ..
46 70
46 00
92 70
Pacific,
136 ..
540 50
490 00
1,030 50
Crockett,
139 ..
331 30
314 00
645 30
Curtis,
140 . .
48 55
49 00
97 55
Grafton,
141..
24 70
. 50 70
26 00
Franklin,
J43 ..
65 05
59 00
124 05
Oriental,
144 ..
370 25
335 00
705 · 25
Vitruvius,
145 ..
51 50
50 00
101 50
Abell,
146 . .
105 75
105 00
210 75
Eel River,
147 . .
106 80
104 00
210 80'
Lassen,
149 ..
94 45
91 00
185 45
Molino,
150 ..
48 65
47 00
95 65
Wooilland,
156 ..
151 55
129 00
280 55
Gibsonville,
158 ..
22 90
22 00
44 90
Keystone,
161 ..
40 20
36 00
76 20
Harmony,
164 . .
16 30
14 00
30 30
Excelsior,
166 . .
417 75
405 00
822 75
Alameda,
·167 . .
99 10 .
98 00
197 10
Redwood City, '168 ..
98 20
96 00
194 20
Mission,
169 . .
887 65
807 00
1,694 65
Elk Grove,
'173 ..
62 95
61 00
123 95
Drytown,
174 ..
17 10
18 00
35 10

429
Allowed
Rep'tvs

$

20 90

,.. ... ... .
11 80

70
6 60
20 30

3 30
4 50
14 70
3 60
17 30
8 40
6 20
36 00
14 50
4 60

6 00
5 80
4 00

3 80
9 00
22 50
39 00
12 20
6 20
25 00

1 70
1 60

7 20

430
Name and No .

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Gen . Fund.

Antioch,
175 .. $
Phoenix,
178..
Mendocino,
179 ..
Petaluma,
180 ..
Ru~sian River,
181 ..
Meridian,
182 ..
Clear Lake,
183 ..
Sierra Valley,
184 ..
Claiborne,
185 ..
Evening Star,
186 ..
Keith,
187 ..
Oakland,
188 ..
Northern Light, 190 ..
Marin;
191 ..
Santa Barbara, 192 ..
Ferndale,
193 ..
Mountain View, 194 ..
Buckeye,
195 ..
San Simeon,
196 ..
Wilmington,
198 ..
Hartley,
199 ..
Truckee,
200 ..
Silveyville;
201 ..
Pentalpha,
202 ..
Confidence,
20,3 ..
Salinas,
204 . .
Newville,
205 ..
Stanislaus,
206 ..
Anaheim,
207 ..
Rio Vista,
208 . .
King David 's,
209 ..
_ll'riendship, ,
210 ..
~an Benito,
211 ..
So. San Fran.,
212 . .
San Buena V en., 214 ..
Oak Grove,
215 ..
Doric,
216 ..
Monterey,
217 ..
Mosaic,
218 ..
Speranza Ital., 219 ..
Downey,
220 ..
Inyo,
221 . .
Granite,
222 ..
Bakersfield,
224 ..

82 40
245 80
128 25
214 60
. 67 45
50 65
28 55
38 20
51 55
41 15
93 65
420 35
51 60
157 15
125 55
102 55
64 15
113 20
36 45
33 35
92 75
148 60
59 00
551 35
24 85
lil5 45
60 80
67 80
66 30
54 20
108 40
243 55
110 25

167 50
104 45
474 85
420 60
71 05
108 60
167 60
65 20
56 55
64 00
210 35

Home Fund. ·

$

72 00
204 00
115 00
208 00
71 00
47 00
29 00
36 00
49 00
37 00
87 00
393 00
48 00
137 00
109 00
89 00
57 00
76 00
31 00
33 00
85 00
108 00
60 (}0
513 00
23 00
131 00
44 00
64 00
54 00
56 00
112 00

229 00
95 00
150 00
91 00
403 00
388 00
59 00
88 00
148 00

56 00
49 00
60 00
173 00

GRAND LODGE OF CALlFORNIA.
Allowed
Rep'tvs

Total

$

154 40
449 80
243 25
422 60
138 45
97 65
57 55
74 20
100 55
78 15
180 65
813 35
. 99 60
294 15
234 55
191 55
121 15
189 20
67 45
66 35

177 75
256 60
119 00
1,064 35
47 85
266 45
94 80
131 .80
120 30
110 20
220 40
472 55
205 25
317 50
195 45
877 85
808 60
130 05
196 60
315 60
121 20
105 55
124 00
383 35

$

3 0(}
38 50
. 17 00
2 00
3 40
. 11 00
25 60

36 60
4 40
20
21 00
70
22 50
5 60
20 60
35 70
10 00
19 60
4 90
35 00
6 00
6 50
13 · 9o
6 20
36 60
4 00
18 30
2 50
5 30
33 50
20
6 00

35 7(}

23 20

Name and No.

Gen. Fund.

Brooklyn,
225 .. $
San Mateo,
226 ..
Athens,
228 ..
Solano,·
229 ..
North Butte,
230 ..
Covelo,
231 . .
Janesville,
232 ..
Calistoga,
233 ..
234 ..
Hope,
Surprise Valley, 235 ..
Hills Ferry,
236 ..
Guadalupe,
237 ..
Colusn,
240 ..
Santa Ana,
241 . .
Magnolia,
242 ..
Eucalyptus,
243 ..
Alcatraz,
244 ..
Laurel,
245 ..
Pomona,
246 ..
Fresno,
S47 ..
Alturas,
248 ..
A din,
250 ..
252 ..
Bodie,
Landmark,
253 ..
254 ..
Reading,
255 . .
Welcome,
256 ..
Lodi,
Penrhyn,
258 ..
Ever(!reen,
259 ..
King Solomon's, 260 . .
261 ..
Tuscan,
262 ..
Lompoc,
264 ..
Hesperian,
265 ..
Orland,
266 ..
North East,
267 ..
Galt,
Durant,
268 .•
269 ..
Olive Branch,
Snow Mountain, 271 ..
272 ..
Pasadena,
273 ..
Anchor,
274 ..
Arroyo,
275 ..
Oakdale,
277 ..
Selma,

238 95
89 95
59 35
161. 10
60 95
49 oO
51 10
73 95
59 20
33 45
45 60
41 20
85 05
226 55
77 40
78 35
332 20
89 75
174 60
314 45
40 05
31 40
40 90
39 45
124 40
128 50
142 30
47 65
225 40
545 75
59 35
103 20
142 90
59 35
33 25
32 45
363 0.5
94 30
25 65
377 00
68 25
45 80
64 40
98 65

Home Fund.

$

201 00
81 00
53 00
138 00
61 00
48 00
38 00
61 00
56 00
31 00
48 00
36 00
79 00
209 00
72 00
73 00
296 00
85 00
148 00
271 00
39 00
32 00
42 00
31 00
112 00
90 00
94 00
47 00
212 00
485 00
53 00
76 00
102 00
53 00
35 00
31 00
319 00
94 00
27 00
300 00
55 00
44 00
52 . 00
87 00

Total.

$

439 95 $
170 95
112 35
299 10
121 95
97 60
89 10
134 95
115 20
64 45
93 60
77 20
164 05
435 55
149 40
151 35
628 20
174 75
322 60
585 45
79 05
63 40
82 90
70 45
236 40
218 50
236 30
94 65.
437 40
1,030 75
112 35

179 20
244 90
112 35
68 25

63 45
682 05
188 30
52 65
677 00
118 25

89 80
116 40

185 65

4Hl
Allowed
Rep 'tvs

20
1 21

2 00
10 20

41 50
.4 60
26 00
52 40
8 00
17 70
37 00
31 80
20

10 00
37 00
11 80
. 51 10
51 10
6 40
18 00
18 10

5 90
7 70
38 50
8 50
25 40
21 50

.57 50
7 50
20

35 50
35 70
19 90
7 70
15 70

432
Ne.me and No.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Gen. Fund.

Home Fund.

So. California,
278 .. $ 644 65 $ 607 00
Hanford,
279 ..
157 25
.135 00
Madera,
280 ..
91 90
82 00
Mt. Shasta,
281 ..
36 10
38 00
Callayomi,
282 ..
45 25
35 00
South Weet,
283 ..
60 25
55 00
Tyrian,
284 ..
41 40
32 00
San Miguel,
285 ..
59 20
36 00
Paso Robles,
286 ..
67 95
. 61 00
Winnedumah,
287 ..
82 15
57 00
Maxwell,
288 ..
23 75
25 00
Elsinore,
289 ..
60 so·
44 00
East Gate,
290 ..
.414 80
324 00
Santa Paula,
291..
124 30
94 00
Los Gatos,
292 ..
69 15
57 00
Orange Grove,
293 ..
86 55
69 00
Traver,
294 ..
29 , 65
27 00
Mt. Jackson,
295 ..
66 95
61 00
Silver Gate,
296 ..
191 35
153 00
Dunsmuir,
297 ..
131 60
88 00
Mokelumne Hill, 298 ..
59 05
59 00
Liberty,
299 ..
181 10
. 138 00
Redlands,
300 .. . 192 70
166 00
Ontario,
301..
100 60
88 00
Santa Lucia, ·
302 ..
39 90
42 00
Porterville,
303 ..
99 45
91 00
Reedley,
304 ..
62 20
56 00
Azusa,
305 ...
90 45
71 00
Ashlar,
306 ..
142 30
94 00
Santa Monica,
307 ..
93 20
96 00
Monrovia,
308 ..
82 35
73 00
Delano,
309 ..
46 30
34 00
Sisson,
310 ..
78 80
64 00
Los Banos,
312 ..
39 25
35 00
Tehachapi,
313 ..
94 15
77 00
'femescal,
314 ..
69 80
64 00
Norwalk,
315 . .
42 10
38 00
Sanger, ·
316 ..
74 65
IJ7 oo
Fall brook,
317 ..
29 70
26 00
Emmanuel,
318 ..
44 65
47 00
H ollenbeck,
319 ..
578 05
339 00
South Gate,
320 ..
451 60
348 00
Alisa!,
321 ..
41 05
39 00
Alhambra,
322 ..
90 55·
69 00

433

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
Allowed
Rep'tvs

Tote.I.

$ 1,251 65
292 25
173 90
74 10
80 25
115 25
73 40
95 20
128 95
139 15
48 75
104 80
738 80
218 30
126 15
155 55
56 65
127 95
344 35
219 60
118 05
319 10
358 70
188 60
81 90
190 45
118 20
161 45
236 30
189 20
155 35
80 30
142 80
74 25
171 15
133 80
80 10
141 65
55 70
91 65
917 05
799 60
80 05
159 :55

$

35 00
16 80
17 30
45 00
11 90

12 40
66 00
9 00
42 40
35 00
31 00
36 90
16 30
5 00
45 00
23 20
12 10
2 50
39 10
37 40
20 00
17 30
37 00
38 50
35 70
36 00
22 30
24 30
27 10
35 00
35 90
16 30
43 80
10 40
35 00
35 00
2 20
35 59

Ne.me e.nd No.

Gen. Fund.

Allowed
Rep'tvs

Tote.I.

Home Fund.

Whittier,
323 .. $ 133 30 $ 114 00
Uorona,
324 ..
234 30
214 00
Consuelo,
325 ..
50 00
50 50
Needles,
326 ..
61 10
58 00
Long Beach,
327..
.231 85
203 00
Redondo,
328. .
125 10
78 00
Valle de France, 329. .
54 75
45 00
Kilauea,
330. .
102 75
117 00
Pacific Grove,
331. .
45 00
40 00
San Pedro,
332. .
127 90
102 00
Alta,
333..
40 95
41 00
Covina,
334 ..
60 00
79 00
West Gate,
3.35 ..
267 00
379 65
Fruitvale,
336 . .
97 00
151 15·
Carquinez,
337 ..
63 10
58 00
82 15
San Jacinto,
338 . .
57 00
Fullerton,
87 55
89 00
339 ..
Santa Maria,
340 ..
92 00
60 00
Oxnard,
341 ..
158 00
198 10
Manila,
342 .. . 316 00
256 00
San Fernando,
343 ..
56 55
49 00
222 25
344 . .
155 00
. Starr King,
345 ..
Brentwood,
44 00
61 80
123 05
Palo Alt o,
346 ..
99 00
McKinley,
347 . .
89 05
79 00
San Bernardino, 348 ..
204 10
.178 00
232 25
Sequoia,
349 ..
155 00
Cavite,
350 ..
68 00
112 00
Palestine,
351 ..
181 50
130 00
141 15
352 ..
97 00
Sunset,
Piifole,
63 35
353 ..
53 00
208 70
354 ..
Presidio,
126 00
355 ..
82 00
Hollywood,
126 90
Mill Valley,
356:.
97 90
62 00
Buena Park,
357 ..
43 00
59 85
358 ..
127 00
210 65
Golden State,
34 00
Loyalton,
359 ..
44 30
San Francieco,
360 ..
131 00
204 45
Fort Bragg,
361 ..
69 15
57 00
52 15
Charity,
362 ..
37 00
182 50
110 00
Berkeley,
363 . .
46 15
37 00
364 ..
Olivet,
54 10
365 ..
Willits,
38 00
131 65
Las Palmas,
366 ..
87 00

$

247 30
448 30
100 50
119 10
434 85
203 10
99 75
219 75
85 00
229 90
81 95
139 00
646 65
248 15
121 10
139 15
176 55
152 00
356 10
572 00
105 55
377 25
105 80
222 05
168 05
382 10
387 25
180 00
311 50
238 15
116 35
334 70
208 90
159 90
102 85
337 65
78 30
335 45
126 15
89 15
292 50
83 15
92 10
218 65

$

35 80
35 50
43 30
58 10
35 70
36 00
35 00
6 30
35 70
48 10. .
36 40
35 00
20
1 80
44 70
36 40
21 50
30 80
35 00

3 50
1 90
80
38 50
20
35 00
35 00
1 40
35 50
50
36 20
35 00

3 00
20
11 70
11 80

434

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS "OF THE

Name and No.
Gen. Fund.
70 00
South Pasadena, 367 . . $
Unity,
368 . .
85 45
Ocean Park,
369 ..
92 70
Annty,
370 ..
160 25
Oceanic,
371..
115 10
Gr.rdena,
54 60
U. D . .
Veteran,
U. D . .
124 55
82 40
Jewel,
U. D ..
Ri<>hmond,
103 00
u. D ..
Francis Drake, u. D ..
55 85
Artesia,
61 50
u. D ..
Mizpah,
U. D ..
88 35
42 70
Fillmore,
U. D ..
26 10
Hunt. Beach, U. D ..
Oceanside,
U. D ..
24 05
Making total dues .. $39,495 35

Home Fund.

$

40 00
51 00
46 00
55 00
114 00
28 00
69 00
32 00
40 00
23 00
30 00
33 00
26 00
18 00
19 00

$33,769 00

Total.
$ 110 00
136 45
138 70
215 25
229 10
82 .60
193 55
114 40
143 00
78 85
91 50
121 35
68 70
44 10
43 05

Allowed
Rep'tvs

$

35 50
35 00
35 50

... .......
..........

35 50

.. ... ... . .
.... ......
..........
70
35 60
35 00
25 00
35 50
45 00

$73,264 35 $ 4,637 20

Congratulations are again due this Grand Body and the subordinate Lodges on the very marked ·increase in membership. It is unnecessary to call attention to the immense handicap resultant upon the
earthquake and fires, which took the homes from many of the subordi'late Lodges, and for a period covering several months made work
extremely difficult and, in many instances, impossible.
The returns show a gain of 2,208, having increased from 31,561 in
1905, to 33,769 in 1906.
The report, therefore, is particulariy pleasing and serves to empha1Size the strong hold that Masonry has upon the minds and hearts of
. honest men.
For the information of those Brethren who take an interest in the
growth of our Fraternity your Committee submits the following, which
shows the membership of the ten largest Lodges:
·
. Mission Lodge, No. 169 ...... . .. .. . .. .... ....... 807
California Lodge, No. 1. . .......... . . .......... 607
Southern California Lodge, No. 278 .... ....... .. 607
Live Oak Lodge, No. ~1. . ... .- • .............. . . . 601
Peutalpha Lodge, No. 202 . . .. ..... ... ....... .. .. 513
Oce1den tal Lodge, No. 22 ... .. ................ .. 524
Pacific Lodge, No. 136 ..... . . .. ........... ... .490
King Solomon's Lodge, No. 260 . ... .. .......... 485
Fidelity Lodge, No. 120 . .. .. ......... ......... .442
Go!Jen Gate Lodge, No. 30 .... ..... ........... . .423
making a total membership in the t en largest Lodges of 5,498. ' 'Ho!-

43fi

lenbeck" Lodge, No. 319, has conferred more degrees than any other
in t his Juris:l.iction, having conferred 256 degrees_.
Your Committee finds that the r eturns and r.eports are properly
preserved, and that their contents are conveniently and handsomely
tabulated and recorded in the books of the Grand Secrtary.
The Grand Secretary and his. assistant have earned the thanks and
appreciation of this Committee for their efforts in presenting in a
concise and available manner the facts and statistics for this report.
Respectfully submitted,
W. P. JEFFRIES,
HENRY C. SCHERTZER,
' GEO. F. RODDENK,
ERNEST C. BONNER,
HENRY SHERRY,
Committee.

\Vhich was concurred in.
Bro. Henry M. Owens, from . the Special Committee on
Relief Fund, presented the follo.wing:
'To the M.'. w:. Grand L~dge of California:Your ·committee, to whom was referred the Special· Reports of the
General Masonic Relief Fund, begs leave to report:
That it 'has scrutinized most carefully the r eports and the financial
statements, End finds no other criticism necessary or adequate than
the highest commendation for the work done and the manner in
which it was executed. The Committee considers every page of this
glorious record of philanthropy a tribute to that Freemasonry which
evidences itself not in formulas or rituals, but in deeds · of kindness
done. An ancient sage declared that we should thank God for the evil
as well as for the good, and the philosophy of that counsel is evidenced
in the great blessing that flowed from full hearts to the distressed
population flf our beloved city as an earnest and a proof of the great
g00d Masonry has done for the world. ·
Your Co;nmittee has had submitted to it the report of expert accou.ntants cer tifying to the correctness of the accounts of the Relief
Fund Committee, and your Committee feels assured, as it did before
this testimony was offered, that the fund was wisely administered,
th~ amounts properly expended and the accounts faithfully and correctly k ept. Great credit is due those in charge for the economy .
pr rc cticed in the matter of salaries and other expenses of adminis-

436

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

tn:tion. In view of the foregoing, your Committee begs to offer the
following:
. ~esolved, Th~t this· Grand Lodge hereby expresses its high apprec1:it10n of th(l ability of M. W. G. M. Motley H. Flint· and the humane
anJ Masonic spirit that guided him in his successful efforts to relieve
the distressed.
II. Res1Jlved, That the · Grand Lodge hereby expresses its commendation of th"e work of relief as carried on under the supervision
of Bros. W. Frank Pierce, Harry Lask and those mentioned as co-operating with them.
III. Resolved, That the Grand Lodge hereby desires to record i·ts
inc:radicable appreciation of the prompt and gracious tenders of assistance a~d eneouragement that reached us from all Masonic jurisdictions and bodies during the period of our calamity.
IV. Resolved, That the· Grand Lodge approve the suggestion of
M. W. Motley H. Flint in reference to continuing the work of the
fund during the winter, and recommend same to the incoming Grand
Master for action.
V. Res~lved, That copies of the special report covering the entire
~ork of relief be sent to all Masonic jurisdictions, foreign and domestn, to the Congressional Library, and to all libraries in this State
thnt this Monument to Masonic Philanthropy may be preserved.
'
Respectfully submitted,
J. NIETO,
H . M. OWENS,
J. W. ANDERSON,
Committee.

v\'hich was concurred in and the resolutions adopted.
Bro. Rodolph W. Meek, from the Special Committee on
tht Grand Lecturer's report, presented the following:
To the M.". W .". Grand Lodge of California:Your Committee to whom was referred the report of the Ver

Worsh~pful Wm.· Harvey Edwards, Grand Lecturer, beg to submit th~

foJlowrng report:

"\Ve feel that we cannot take. up the report in detail without in
passing, at least making a few general comments on the admirable ~nd
~fficient ma:.rner in which the office of Grand Lecturer has been filled
m recent years.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

437

We cannot refrain from congratulating ·the Grand Lodge and Masonry in general, for the wisdom given us to select such a man for
this highly important and arduous post. The Grand Lodge is peculiarly fortunate in being able to command the services even in part
of one trained for a lifetime in the profession of teaching. One to
whom the imparting of knowledge has become practically a second
nature. And when we consider the kindly tact ·and polished diplomacy
with which this work has been accomplished, we . cannot but renew
our congratulations. Brother Edwards has not hesitated to praise
where praise was due, nor has he withheld censure where th!lt was
called for. And it is this fearless administration of the duties of his
high office, coupled_with the kindly manner of his teaching, which has
so endeared him to our hearts, and at the same time 'brought .t he work
to its present high standard of efficiency. Since the adoption of the
new ritual the duties of his office have been greatly augmented, and
all Masons will readily realize what· a stupendous task confronted the
Grand Lecturer in bringi11-g about the change all over this vast juriSdiction, and when we see that it is admitted that the work in these
few short y~ars has been entirely remodeled and brought to a degyee
of perfection, where it is a subject of favorable comment all over the
United States, we can begin feebly to realize what a herculean undertaking the Grand Lecturer has accomplished and hovy great should be
9ur appreciation of his efforts.
We note with great satisfaction that the large majority of the Inspectors have been faithful and diligent in the discharge of their
duties, but we also note· the deplorable negligence of some Lodges in
permitting their work to fall far below the standard, and failing to ·
seek the assistance ·of the Inspectors to the end that this condition
might be remedied.
With regard to the recommendation of the Grand Lecturer that the
Inspectors be vested with the power to suspend the work of any Lodge
nntil the proper degree of proficiency has been attained, we concur in
the advisability of conferring such auth9rity upon the Inspectors and
recommend that this portion of the ·Grand Lecturer's report be referred
to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
'We heartily concur in the recommendation of the Grand Lecturer
that _the Junior and Senior Wardens-elect be required to perfect
themselves in the Entered Apprentice ·and Entered Apprentice and Fellow Craft Dewees respectively before installation in their respective
offices ~nd reco111i;nend that this portion of the report be referred to
the Committee on Jurisprudence.
We cannot but feel that the criticism of the Grand Lecturer of the
· present form of Anderson's Manual is well taken, and concur with

•

439

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

him that a valuable and able work has been shorn of much of its value
and power for good, and therefore recommend the adoption of the
Grand Lecturer's suggestion that this manual be referred to the author
by the Grand Lodge for revision and exemplification.

themselves in the lectures, were referred to the Committee
on Jurisprudence. Those portions relating to a revision of
the Manual and the salary of the Grand Lecturer, were
referred to the Committee on Finance.

438

We note with particular · pleasure the sentiments of the Grand
Lecturer upon the subject of devoting his entire time to the work of
thi11 office. It may not be amiss to say in this connection that other
Jurisdictions, notably New York and Missouri, require the whole time
of the Grand Lecturer and pay him a salary commensurate with such
requirements. Masonry has reached such a point in California that
such a requirement on the part of the Grand Lodge seems absolutely
essential if we are to retain our present high standard among the
jurisdictions of the United States. It is not alone instruction in the
ritualistic work which we ought to require of th.e Grand Lecturer, but
having a man capable of doing so, it would immensely add to the edu·cational value of the office, if we could receive from him lectures and
instructions upon the history, principles, ground work, symbolism anrl
the law and jurisprudence of the Order. But it is totally out of the
question to expect such services from our Grand Lecturer unless he
can devote his whole time to the office, and if we ask that of him we
must be prepared to pay him a salary in accordance with the demands which we make upon him. We are asking the entire time and
attention of an expert, and we must be prepared to pay according to
the services which we receive. So while we hesitate to r ecommend a
figure, for the purpose of bringing the matter in concrete form before
the Grand Lodge, we would r ecommend that the salary of the Grand
Lecturer be fixed for the ensuing year at Twenty-five Hundred Dollars,
with the usual allowance for traveling expenses.
In conclusion, we would again reiterate our appreciation which we
feel confident is concurred in by the Grand Lodge and Masons throughout the State, of the magnificent administration of the Grand Lecturer,
and while Brother Edwards in his usual modesty has r efrained from
touching upon a greater part of his achievements, a perusal of the
Grand Lodge report, showing the growth of this Order in this State
and our own personal contact with his delightful personality, speak
volumes for him in his work and as a man and a Mason.
Respectfully submitted,
R. W. MEEK,
D.R. WELLE,
A. J. THATCHER,
Committee.

Which was concurred in and those portions relating tp
Inspector's power to suspend work and Warden's perfecting

Bro . . Elmer M. Billings presented the following:
Whereas, Stocks of p~ivate corporations have an uncertain and
fluctuating value, a Lodge investing therein is not only liable to lose
its investment, but may be called on for assessments; t.h erefore
Resolved, That' aside from Masonic Hall Associations the Lodges
in this µrand Jurisdiction are forbidden to make such investments.

Which was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
'

.

On motion the M. :. W. :.' Motley H. 'Flint, Grand Master,
and the V. :. W. :. George Johnson, Grand Secretary, were
added to the Co~mittee on the New Temple.
The Grand Master announced the appointment of the .
Poards of Trustees of the Homes at becoto and San Gabriel a committee, to report at the Annual Communication
in 1907, a~y change in the rules arid regulations of those
institutions which might seem desirable. He also appointed
Bros. W. Frank Piere~, Rodolph W . Meek and Henry M.
Owens a committee on the condition of Masonry in the
Philippine Islands.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until two o'clock
this afternoon.

3Jn °'runh 1£nhge.
Afternoon Session,
I
Thursday, October r rth, A. L. 5906. I
The Grand Lodge was called on at two o'clock , the Grand
Master presiding.

440

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

blood of his brethren is enriching the soil of a corrupt and nominally
civil!zed country, yet, as he contemplates the story of his race, 'and
tlnds it illumined by contributions to the world and to humanity
ric'i beyond compare and by examples of patient fortitude and steadfast fervency in his religious devotions, and its present marked by
leadership in every field of human endeavor,-in letters, in art, in
government, and in charitable efforts to alleviate and improve the
conilition of his f ellow-man; who is there to deny in him the fulfillment of a divine purpose, and who will not rejoice with his H ebrew
broth er in the proud heritage of the Mother of all religions f

· This being the hour for the special order; as ordered by
the Grand Lodge yesterday, the Grand Orator, the W. :. Bro.
Oscar Lawler, delivered the Annual Oration before the
Grand Lodge, as follows :
''God moves in a inysterious way his wonders to .perform.' '
Since the Divine fiat was sent forth which brought the world from
darkness to light, the planet in its course through space has progressed
in :i series of diurnal r evolutions, .with alternating periods of light
.·and darkness, and as, in a never-ending circling around the central
sun, it n ever traverses exactly the same track, but comes almost back
to the same places, only always a little farther on through the infinite
expanse, so, there often seems to be a corr~sponding system of progress
in the world of thought and knowledge.

When the trials and tribulations of the Prince of Peace were ended
by ~n ignominious death upon the cross at Golgotha contemporaries
marked the mere passing of a fomenter of discord and plotter against
existing institutions, the elimination of a dangerous and disturbing
element; but, whether He was a personal divinity or a prodigy of
human virtue, the brutal and inhuman circumstances of his taking
0ff have served to emphasize in striking contrast to the vice and
passionate indulgence of the time the sublimity of his life and character, which for nineteen hundred years has been the pole star of rectitude, the inspiration and guide of '_ a great portion of the human
race in the path of virtue.

:Man, the creature, is born, passes through the morning, noon and
ev<.•ning of life, to vanish into the Gr eat Beyond, whither his fathers
have gone before him; nations are brought into existence, wax great
anu powerful, ultimately to wither and decay, going the way of all
earthly things; God the Creator, everlasting and perpetual , supervising the passing generations, in his infinite wisdom has made each
one better than the one which went before, and in the building of
nations has given us a government of to-day better and more benefi·
cent than its predecessor of yesterday.
To human eyes the Divine purpose and the manifestations of the
judgments of the Almighty have ofttimes-nay always-been a
mystery. To their dim and restricted vision the visitations of a socallcd merciful God have been sore afflictions, and the course of human
affairs has at times seemed to be one of retrogression 1 ather than of
progress· but in due course of time, which "healeth all wounds," the
calamit; of ~~sterday forms the background for the bountiful blessing of to-day-the pestilential visitation to one generation brings
forth the means of securing health and immunity therefrom to its
successor, and the grossness, passion a nd vice of ·one day has turned
man to ''Jove virtue, for she alone is free,'' the next.
The J ew was Jed ftom the bondage and oppression of Egypt to
the Promised Land, where his genius established and his successors
have maintained a system of personal conduct and a standard o:f?
morn.I character which affords an example susceptible of profitable
imitation; and, though. for centuries he has b een a wanderer on the
face · of the earth, thongh (to their shame be it said), he has b een
oppressed by every people of every generation, and though to-day the

441

f

At an early day a great r eligious hierarchy was established, having
for its purpose the promulga-tion of the precepts and exemplification
:;f tl: e ·practices of t!J.e Jowly man of Galilee-with the lapse of time
and accumulation of ·power it assumed control and dominion, not only
over the r eligious, but also over the civil and governmental affairs
of men and nations. .The opposition thus aroused resulted in a controversy without parallel for the cruelty, bitterness, bloodthirstiness and
unbridled sway of animal passion displayed, and in which the characteristic least obser vable was the Christian virtue professed by all
the participants. Protestant vied with Catholic in devising means of
to.r tnring human beings into false professions-while Alva butchered,
Calvin burned. If Mary led h er victims to the stak e, Elizabeth cast
he1·s into foul dungeons, there to starve and rot. But, while the
victims of those dreadful times may have felt that the God of Hosts
had abandoned man to accomplish his own destruction, and that his
co·irse was one of retrogression, we who are enjoying the fruits
of the Jong struggle for r eligious liberty, standing upon free soil,
privileged to exer<oise our religious devotions at such time and in such
manner as an unrestricted conscience may dictate, acknowledging
citizenship in a conntry whose sole demand is that we be true to ourselves, can realize that the contradiction and barbarism of the Reformation was but part oi' the Divine plan of tra nsition f rom a state
19

442

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

11f human serfdom and religious hypocrisy to a condition of citizen
sovereignty and religious truth.

upon intoleranci:-, oppression of every description, it has by precept and
e~a~ple and with due regard for the frailities of human nature inb1sted u?on education and enlightenment as the only sure panacea for
human ills. ~ooking to the individual as the basis of .all society, it
demands of him not only the faithful observance of his duty to him'self, but a due performance of his r elative obligations to his fellowman, and to posterity. ;f he is upright and honorable in his professions
~is ~eligion will be a power for good, regardless of his denomination1f ~1~honest and hypocritical it will be a delusion and a f arce. If as
. fl citizen he is pure and honest, the country will reflect those virtues
an~ insist on the practice of that same honesty in governmental affair~
·wh1~h should prevail iu dealings between man and man; but, if he
be corru.pt the county will be corrupt also. The foremost citizen, who
has led rn the efforts at the maintenance of proper moral standards is
a member of our· Craft, and may we not flatter ourse.lves that his
P.upcrb confidence in hi~ fellow-man and magnificent optimism for the
nltima.t~ d~stin~ of _his country have been at least in part inspired by
a ~m1harity with its principles and operations'

'rhe "divine right of kings" had its origin a nd growth in the cupidity of prinaes and the ignorance of subjects. Through it the physical,
mLntal and r eligious r esponsibility of the citizen was subordinated to
the will and caprice of the sovereign. As the appetite grows great by
wlJat it feeds upon, possessio.n of some power create!! the lust for more,
and in course of time husband and son were bartered away in military
serv;.ce to enrich the crown, while wife and daughter were reduced to
harlotry for kings, until, goaded to desperation by unbearable oppressicm and revolting at the grossness of the prevailing immorality, the
populace, unchecked by education, and spurred by passion for veng•gwce, visited its wrath upon all persons in high places and innocent
and guilty were alike swallowed in the vortex of the French Revoluti0n. To say that ·God was accountable for the blood and carnage of
the time would be almPst sacrilege, and yet, when, cringing at the
sound of the approaching mob the modern autocrat hastens from his
bomb-proof seclusion to proclaim reform, may we not at least say that
~he demonstration _of rnppressed energy and r eserved power of the
mul t.i tu de thus accomplished was not an unmixed evil~
In bur own country the Puritan landed at Plymouth and the Catholic in Maryland, both ready and willing ~o ·face the privations of the
new world in order to escape the persecutions of the old, and entered
upon a course of religious bigotry and intolerance, second only in
<ieg!ee to that from which they had fled. But enfor ced association in
a struggle against common hardships and an enemy impressed the_m
that each had permitted unchristian narrown ess to dwarf his estimat~ of the other, and, when the bonnres of the r evolution were lighted
we find Jew and Gentile, Protestant and Catholic, marching shoulder
to shoulder, sacrincing life for life in that great struggle for the
establishment of a government which would guarantee both civil ~nd
religious liberty.
The progenitors of American independence promulgated the doctrine that all men are born free and equal; and yet, when the fundam<.'Iltal law was established, it countenanced the very antithesis of
free(lom by recognizing the institution of slavery. By some that
recognition is. still attributed to weakness and decried as a mistake;
but., when we realize . the portentous effect 'for g?od to the entire
human race of the mighty struggle involved in the eradication of
slavery, we may be pardoned the assurance in the course qf our
\',Oun try 's affairs of the guiding forc e of divine intuition.
T_hrough all .of the ages and with all ·of the changes and progress
of the human race Freemasonry has existed and kept pace. Frowning

443

Though rece~t progress in moral regeneration has been great,
there are yet evils to be met; still problems to be solved and difficul~ies ~o be surmounted whose magnitude occasions faltering and pessimism rn the weak at heart. They cannot, however, be satisfactorily
llOmbated by approachi.11g them in a spirit of intolerance, nor can they
be solved by men embittered w~th prejudice. "To err is human-to
forgive di vine. ''
Htlr etofore the passions of men have driven the great pendulum
of rrogress first to one extreme and then the other of the situation
which for the time engrossed them, and only after great sacrifice of
time and blood has genuine reform been accomplished. Civilization
is too. far advanced to permit a r ecurrence of such experiences. While
we may be privileged to criticise and regulate the conduct of out f ellow, ourf criticism e;nd r egulation must be te~pered by a knowledge
o.~ our own shortcomings.
It is not unnatural that the possessor of great wealth and the
incidental power it brings should view any attempt to regulate his
use thereof or conduct in relation thereto as an unjm!t and unwarranted infringement of his rights-nor is it perhaps remarkable that
the toilers of the land Ehould look upon t he interference of the law to
·pr event the destruction of the property rights of another as unjust
and oppressive. Both are wrong-; yet neither can be convinced of his
er:or by bitter denunciation or personal abuse. The r emedy will not
come through weak submission on one side nor a rrogant asser tiveness

445

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

upon the other, but through mutual concession and conciliatio.n, which
will preserve the good and eliminate the evil of their respective positions.

Since our last Annual Communication many of our brothers have
been summoned by our Sup;i-eme Grand Master to pass through the
portals of the Great Temple above-that ''house not made with hands
eternal in the heavens." Among those who have obeyed the final
· summons are two who had passed the Oriental Chair and been prominent in this Grand Lodge for faithful attention to duty and for zeal
in inculc.ating the sublime principles of our ancient and honorable
fraternity. We miss them from their accustomed places; we miss their
kindly greetings. The ties of brotherly love and friendship have been
strengthened by the associations in the years that have gone; and
when we realize that those cherished associations are never to be
renewed on earth, our hearts swell with emotions that language is
powerless to express. How sad the thought of the separation!

444

Freemasonry as an institution and }'reemasons as individuals cannot be separated from the ordinary affairs of life. It is not a mere
toy, serving as a mental diversion at each annual Communication,
nor on idle lip service to be performed in the Lodge room. It is a
great, living moral fo·r ce which should pervade and regulate human conduct from childhood to age, at the hearthstone, on the marts of trade,
in the social and business intercourse between man and man. Its principles express and their practice should exemplify the cardinal virtues which should be part and parcel of our every-day exiStence.
Never in the history of civilization since the elimination of religion from government has there been a time when a proper application
of 1\~asonic virtue could accomplish so much for the pEirpetuity and
peace of beneficent institutions. We are taught that time, patience
and perseverance, with proper exercise of temperance, fortitude, \ervency and zeal, will accomplish all things. Let each party to existing
controversies, standing upon that common level established by our
magnificent institution, with patient zeal endeavor to bring about .an
adjustment of differences, and persevere in his efforts, let each with
temperate consideration for the judgment of his fellow, and courageou~ fortitude ·i n the hour of trial, zealously seek the right and fervently pursue it, and in God's own time honor, justice and truth will
ultimately prevail.
OSCAR LAWLER,
Grand Orator.

On motion of M. :. W. :. Bro. Charles L. Patton it was
ordered that the thanks of the Grand Lodge be tendered to
the Grand Orator for his interesting and eloquent address;
that he be requested to furnish a copy thereof for publication
with its proceedings ; and special copies printe.d for distribution.
Past Grand Master Edmund C. Atkinson then addressed
the Grand L..odge as follows :
Most Worshipful Grand Master and Brethren of the Grand Lodge:
As we assemble in Annual Communication to resume our accustomed duties for the benefit of the Craft, and for the exchange of fraternal court'esies, we are saddened by the. appearance of vacant places,
and vrie note with sorrow the absence of son:ie of our most faithful colaborers.

A few months ago I stood in the .gallery of that Temple where for
so many years we were wont to assemble-that dear old Temple now
laid in dust and ashes, and as I gazed upon the life-like portraits of
my departed brothers with whom I had associated in this Grand
Lodge, a feeling of sadness came over me that defied my soul's resistance, and, like the lonely cavalier in Locksley Hall, I seemed to hear
the phantom years whispering, "Never! Nevel'! "
Never to hear
their voices again! Never to stand in the living presence and receive
the hearty, fraternal greeting! ·
What a mystery is death! Philosophers tell us that God never
gives to man the key that opens the golden gate of Eternity until hi~
time shall come to enter there. The only proof they give us of
immortality is that the desire to live again is implanted in every
human breast; that the sun-browned children of the forest see God in
clouds and dream of happy hunting grounds beyond the star-gemmed
sky; that the polished and imaginative Greek in fancy walks in Heeperian gardens and roams iD; .Elysian fields. This is their conclusion:
It must be so!

Plato, thou reasonest well,
Else why this longing for immortal!ty?

But, my brethren, ou;r faith requires a firmer foundation. The
philosophy of six thousand years has failed to search the chambers of
the human soul. Reason, unless it be illumined by inspiration, leaves
us in the cold and chilling atmosphere of uncertainty and doubt.
Intellect is not our highest endowment. Imagination is not our crowning faculty. Every form of genius is inferior to conscience, to faith,
to sympathy and love. Man became a living soul when God breathed
into him the breath of life. The soul is then divine-a part of the
Infinite life, similar in essence but different in degree. If God is the
Infinite Spirit of Life back of all, from whfoh all comes, then clearly
our life, as individualized spirits, is continually coming from that
Infinite Source by divine inflow.

446

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

The great central fact in human life is the coming into a vital,
conscious realization of our oneness with the Infinite Life; and in so
far as we come into this realization, and open our receptivities to. the
Divine Inspiration, do we actualize in ourselves the qualities and
powers of the Infinite Life, and bring ourselves into harmony with ·
great laws and forces.

privileged to speak to you
a few moments upon the life and character of our lamented Past Grand Master, William Johnston.

The human soul is God's highest creation and through it must
come the clearest revelations. In these revelations God speaks to us
through Nature. As we approach the lofty mountain, we feel the
breath of· Infinite presence upon the heart. As we stand upon the
border line of the unsounded sea, the soul aches with immensity when
a deep voice from those pearly caves tells of the Boundless Evermore.
As we stand beneath the starry heavens at night and realize that all
those bright specks that shine and sparkle· in heaven's high archway
are worlds floating upon the sea of Infinite power, for an instant we
catch a glimpse of the truth, the. power and the glory of Almighty
God, and, under a spell of insp.iration, we realize that Infinite tb9ugbt
and care encircle, embosom and penetrate the whole of creation. But
our faith is strengthened by a still higher inspiration when we turn
to the human form, and through the windows of the soul discern that
vital principle within, which will survive the wrecks and mutation.a
of time, triumph over death and the dissolution of the elements ·and
dwell at last i.n the sunlight of eternal peace.
From the border line of light where history begins there comes to
us the great question of the ages, "if a man die shall be live again'"
• Are we ready with the answert
That question has been uppermost in my mind since early manhood. The day-st.ar of my life is far past the meridian and hastening
now with prone career to the Ocean Isles. For myself I am ready to
give the answer. "I have asked that dreadful question of the hills
that look eternal, of the purling streams that rippling flow forever;
of the stars amid whose fields of azure my rapt spirit hath trod in
glory,-all were 'dumb; but now as I gaze upon the living face and feel
that the love which kin<lles through its beauty can never wholly
perish,'' I b elieve-I KNOW that we shall live ·a gain. As ~ure as I
have faith in the existen ce of God, the All-Father, I believe that we
shall live to join the loved and lost in realms of ·light beyond the
confines of earth.
The stars come nightly to the sky,
The tidal wave unto the sea;
Nor time, nor space, nor deep nor high
Can keep my own away from me.
Through the kind:ii ess of our Most Worshipful Grand Master, I. am

447

fa;

Our departed brother was born in Wilkinsburg, Pennsylvania, June
2, 1825. He came from rural parentage and of a long line of tillers of
the soil. In youth be labored on his father's farm in summer and
attended the district school in the winter months. From qoybood he
was a diligent workel', doing with all his might what his bands found
to do. So diligent was be in his studies and so rapid was his progress
that at the age of 19 years ll.e became a teacher in the public schools.
The following year he fell a victim to the "gold fever"; he joined a
large ~art~ of neighbors and friends and journeyed across the plains
t~ Cahforma, the El Dorado of the West. He crossed the snow-capped
Sierras and descending the western slope came into the Sacramento
valley; and at sight of a beautiful spot on the bank of the Sacramento
river be exclaimed, "Here I pitch my tent." His first night's rest
was b.eneath a giant oak, which in after years shaded bis beautiful
dwelling. He secured a tract of land . in accordance with bis means,
and later purchased large outlying tracts until be came into possession
of one of the largest and most fruitful farms on the Sacramento river.
He. built an elegant residence and braug'b.t around it everything that
eould conduce to the comforts and enjoyments of home. Peace and
Plenty sat smiling at his door.

It was my privilege to enjoy an intimate acquaintance with our
brother for more than thirty years. I was often a visitor at his home
and he a guest at mine. Foi; nearly twenty years we met once a week
as directors of a corporation which was the cutsodian of the poor
man's savings, the widow 's mite, and the orphan's heritage. It was
in this relati~n ~bat I learned to . admire our brother for his rigid
adherence. to Justice and right.
Brother Johnston's every act was the sequence of mature .t hought.
He made no f ailure, left nothing undone, improved every hour, and
every year's effort tended to material prosperity.
He was also a man of public spirit; he did much for the general
prosperity of the State, and served in many positions of trust. His
advice was eagerly sought in private and public enterprises. His hand
and heart were ever open to _public and private charities.
As a public speaker he aspired to no 'flights of eloquence, he used
no smooth and rounded p.erio.ds. His words were simple, plain,
straightforward, and big with meaning. He held the attention of bis
audiences and impressed his hearers with the superiority of bis judgment. Many times I listened to. his words in the balls of legislation
and observed him in the dignified position of :rresident of the State

448

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Senate. At all times and in all places he acquitted himself with credit
to his ~ame anil honor to the position.
As Grand Master of the Grand Lodge he was ever faithful in the
discharge of his official duties, and zealous in promoting peace and
harmony among the Craft. He appointed the first Trustees of the
Masonic Home, .and for years thereafte:r he was a faithful member
of the Board. His last appearance in this Grand Lodge was at the
Annual Communication of 1904. He had already received the Supreme
Grand Master's warning to gather up his working tools and prepare
to quit ea;th 's field of labor. He had suffered from a stroke of paralysis, and could with difficulty converse with the brethren. A short
time thereafter a second admonition was given and he entered into
a state of mental decline. He was often oblivious to time and place,
and a guide attended him wherever he went. At 1'ast came the third
warning. ''God's finger touched him and he slept.'' On the fourteenth ' of last November, as the shades of night were gathering round
his beautiful home on the banks of that river which for more than
fifty years had gladdened his heart with its musical cadences, our
brother bade adieu to the scenes of earth and passed into the Silent
J,and.

449

To the M.:. W.:. Grand Lodge of California:-

•

It is not often that we are so forcibly reminded of the uncertainty
of human life as we were when, on the 13th day of December, 1905,
our friend and Brother, the M. :. W.:. Hiram Newton Rucker, Past
Grand Master of this Jurisdiction, was, without a moment's warning,
called from a life of usefulness among us to the Grand Lodge above.
He had been in attendance upon a meeting of the' Board of Trustees
of our Masonic Home, of which he was the Superintendent, and was
returning to the Home, when the accident occurred which caused
bis death. One moment vigorous and strong, filled with enthusiasm
for the work for which he was so well fitted, looking forward to
many ;rears of usefulness and companionship with his Brethren, the
next, be had gone to join the innumerable throng in ''that undiscovered country, from whose baurne no traveler returns.''

I see many new faces before me. My brothers, you, who are here
for the first time, are not expected to enter fully into our deep sorrow,
for you did not know our departed brother. But the lessons of this
hour and the influence of this sacred observance should make deep and
lasting impressions upon your minds and heart~. You have, no doubt,
f elt the pangs of separation from friends and brothers and, even now
you may be cherishing the memory of loved ones lost. Unite then
with us in the comforting assurance that, if our Masonic faith b e not
founded upon the quicksands- if our hope be not a delusion and a
will-o '-the-wisp, the separation is not final; that when the storms of
life are past, when the mistakes and discords of time no more annoy,
when the clouds of sorrow and the mists of doubt have rolled away,
there will be an unbroken r eunion out beyond life's golden sunset
where earth 's shadows n ever fall.

B_rother Rucker lived practically his whole life in California; he
was born on September. 6th, 1844, at Arrow Rock, in ·the State of
Missouri, and came to this State with his parents at the age of six
_years, and thenceforth continually resided here. His first home here
was in our beautiful Santa Clara Valley, where he was educated in
our public schools and at the Unive~sity of the Pacific, from which
he graduated (with the first class of the medical department) in the
year 1870. · For the following eighteen years he made his home and
practiced his profession fa Merced County. He was one of the prominent citizens of the county for many years, and always took a
commendable interest in public affairs. For a. Jong time he served
his· fellow citizens in the official capacity of Coroner and Public
Administrator, and was also Chairman of the Democratic County
Central Committee. In the year· 1884 he was appointed by the
Governor o;f the State to be a Director of the State Hospital at Stockton, and in the year 1888 .he was elected to the important office
of Superintendent of that institution, which office he held for four
years. In the year 1892 he removed to Oakland, where for the
following nine years he resided and practiced his profession, and was
for a season President of the Board of Health. In the year 1901 he
returned to the scene of his early labors in Merced County, where
he continued to reside until, in 1904, he responded to the insistent
call of his Brethren to take upon himself the ·duties of Superintendent
of the Masonic Home at Decoto, which office he most acceptably'
Jilled until the time of his death.

Past Grand Master Frank M. Angellotti then spoke as
follows:

Brother Ruck er was made, passed and raised in our ''La Grange''
Lodge, No. 99, of Merced, in the year 1873. He was the Master of
that Lodge for the year 1877, and again for the year 1902. From
the year 1877 he was a faithful attendant upon the communications

Authorized by our Most Worshipful Grand Master, I opened the
Grand Lodge at Sacramento, and, with ,the beautiful and impressive
ceremonies of our Order, laid the lifeless form of Past Grand Master
Wi.lliam Johnston in the tomb-there to r est "until the day break
and the shadows fiee away.''

450

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

of the Grand Lodge. His sterling worth was soon recognized in this
bocly, and he was made a member of the Committee on Grievances,
where he served until, on October 12th, 1883, he .was elected Junior
Grand Warden. He was re-elected to that office for a second term
on October 17th, 1884. On October 16th, 1885, he was elected Senior
Grand Warden, and on October 15th, 1886, Deputy Grand Master.
On October 14th, 1887, he was elected Grand Master of Masons of
the State of California. An examination of the record of his year's
service in that exalted position will suffice to show his high idea
of its duties arid responsibilities, and his appreciation of the honor
bestowed upon him by his Brethren. He gave practically all of his
time to the many duties of the office, and he discharged those duties
with signal ability. It was well said of him by the Special Committee
to whom was referred his annual address: "Weighed in the balance
of duty, our present Grand Master is not found wanting.'' His
interest in the Fraternity did not cease with his retirement '.from the
Grand East, but each succeeding communication of the Grand Lodge
found him present, ready and glad to serve his Brethren in any. place
where his experience and wisdom might make him useful. For many
years he was a member · of our Committee on Jurisprudence, and his
associates on that committee can testify to .the value of his services
and the beneficent effect of his presence.
We shall sorely miss Brother Rucker at our annual communica·
tions. To those who knew him an'd loved him, the r ecord he has left
behind him will, however, be a solace and an inspiration. It is a
record without a blemish. He lived the life enjoined upon him upon
his admission to our Fraternity. He was a good man, a good citizen,
a good Ma~on. He was faithful to the trust committed to his care.
Although we shall s~e him no more, the good influences of his life
will be effective among us for many years to come.
Brother Rucker was, on December 29th, 1873, united in marriage
to Emma T. Abbott, a native of Massachusetts, who, with ~>ne daugh·
t er, E. Robin Rucker, survive him. Our heartfelt sympathy is theirs
in the hour of their affiiction, deprived as they are of the loving
companionship and protection of the devoted husband and the affec·
tionate father.

By a unanimous vote of Grand Lodge Bros. Atkinson
and Angellotti were requested to furnish copies for publication with its Proceedings, and the Grand Secretary was
instructed to forward copies to the families of our deceased
Past Grand Masters.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

451

Bro. E. F. Richards, from the Committee · on Charters,
presented· the following:
To the M.: . W.:. Grand Lodge of California:Your Committee has had referred to it the following resoiution:
Resolved, That the Grand Lodge of California be and is hereby
requested to authorize and cause the name of Oceanic Lodge, No. 371,
F. & A. M., to be changed to Lodge · le Progres de !'Oceania, No. 371,
F. & A. M.
It is our belief that such change of name can only be effected by
an amendment to the By-Laws of the subordinate Lodge, and no evidence has been adduced that such a course has been followed.
We, however, recommend that upon the fulfillment of the Constitu,tional requirements the request be granted.

Respectfully submitted,
E. F. RICHARDS,
W. G. THORNALLY, JR.,
JOHN C. LANE,
WILLIAM, R. FLINT, ·
Committee.

Which was adopted.
Bro. Julien E. Pardee, Chairman of the Committee on
By-Laws of Lodges, presented the following:
To the M.:. W.:. Grand Lodge of Oalifornia:Your Committee . begs leave to report as follows:
We have carefully examined the By-Laws of Jewel, Mizpah,
Veteran, Gardena, Artesia, Oceanside·, Richmond, Fillmore, Huntington Beach and Francis Drake Lodges, all under dispensation, and find
as follows:
Huntington Beach, Francis Drake and Artesia Lodges have adopted
the uniform code of By-Laws prescribed by the Grand Lodge, with
the exception that t~y have failed to fix the hour for stated
meetings.
Oceanside, Fillmore, Mizpah and Jewel Lodges have adopted the
uniform code, but they have failed to leave room for the insertion
of amendments between the By-Laws and the signatures of members, nor have they fixed the hour of meeting. Veteran Lodge has
also adopted the uniform code, but has not left sufficient rdom for
amendments before the signatures of membei:s.

452

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Jewel Lodge bas not fully adopted Sec. · 3 of Art. IX, in that no
period of neglect in payment of dues is spe~ified, nor is the mode
of reinstatement provided, i. e.; as to balloting, etc. The lines covering the above should be inserted. Neither Jewel nor Veteran Lodges
have inserted the title headings of the different articles. This omission should be corrected.
Gardena Lodge has attempted to adopt the uniform code, but
certain irregularities should be corrected.. No hour of meeting is
specified, nor are the title headings placed before each article. Sec.
2, Art. II, is not in accordance with the uniform code, there being
omissions from the body of the article. Sec. 3, Art. IX, is not correct
in that the word ''should'' has been omitted from the beginning, and
the words "who shall have been" should be eliminated.

I

•

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

453

Union Lodge, in April, 1906, adopted a resolution at a stated
meeting, by a unanimous vote, providing for life-membership. The
resolution was introduced at a previous stated meeting, and the proper
written notice given to each member of the Lodge. But the resolution, as certified by the Secretary, is radically defective. It does not
comply with the requirements of the uniform code of By-Laws.

Richmond Lodge has adopted the uniform code except that the
hour of meeting is not specified, and there is an error in Sec. 4, Art.
IX. All of this section, commencing with the words "to that effect
at a stated meeting,'' etc., has been omitted.

Sequoia Lodge bas attempted to adopt lifti·membership by amend·
ing its By-Laws, but the action taken entirely fails to accomplish
the desired purpose. Instead of adopting such a resolution as the
code prooides for, the Lodge attempted to adopt Sec. 1, Art. IX,
as amended by Grand 'Lodge. The amendment of the uniform code
by Grand Lodge in 1905 served to incorporate that amendment into
the By-Laws of each and every subordinate Lodge in this Jurisdiction~ thereby making it possible for any Lodge to adopt a system of
life-membership as therein authorized, by the adoption of a resolution such as is specified in the amended section. The record from
Sequoia Lodge does not show any such resolution.

We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend it~
adoption:

We therefore submit the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:

Resolved, That when the above named Lodges under dispensation
shall have adopted the µniform code of By-Laws, or shall have made
amendments to those already adopted, so as to make them comply
with said code in the partic~lars above mentioned, that they shall
be approved and confirmed.
Your Committee has also examined the reports of amendmwts
made to the By-Laws of other Lodges, and beg to report as follows:
South Gate Lodge, No. 320; Union Lodge, No. 58, and Sequoia
Lodge, No. 349, have taken action seeking to provide for life-member·
ship, pursuant to the authority of Sec. 1, Art. IX, of the uniform
code of By-Laws, as amended at the last session of Grand Lodge.
We find that the proceedings bad by South Gate Lodge, as s~own
by the certificate of the Secretary, were regular in all particulars
save 9ne. A resolution of proper form was introduced at a stated
meeting in December, 1905, and notice thereof was mailed to eac.h
member of the Lodge, and final action was taken at the stated meeting in February, 1906, but it does not appear that the resolution was
adopted by a two-thirds vote. The certificate simply states that t he
resolution was adopted.
Your Co~mittee understands that the adoption of such a r esolu·
tion is in the nature of an amendment to the By-Laws of a Lodge, and
such being the case, Art. XIII of the uniform code applies, and it
should affirmatively appear that the resolution was adopted by a
two-thirds vote.

Resolved, That the action of South Gate Lodge in adopting a system of life-membership shall stand approved and confirmed from and
after the filing of evidence with the Grand Secretary that the resolution above specified, as adopted by a two-thirds vote, a nd that t he
action of Union Lodge and Sequoia Lodges be not approved;
Amendments to the By-Laws of the following Lodges appear to
have b een regularly adopted after due notice, viz:
''Dunsmuir,'' No. 297, increasing the fee for degrees; '' Pental'pha," No. 202, creating an affiliation fee; "Pacific," No. 136, "Corona," No. 324; "Covina," No. 334, and "McKinley," No. 347,
changing the time of stated meetings.
We therefore submit the following resolution, and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the action of the above named Lodges in amending
t heir By-Laws in the particulars specified be, and the same is, hereby
approve_d and confirmed.
· The following named Lodges have attempted to amend their ByLaws as hereinafter stated, viz: "La Fayette," No. 126, and
"Unity," No; 368, increasing the amount of fees fo.r degrees; "Hanford," No. 259; '"Ashlar,'' No. 30.6, and "Mill Valley,'' No. 356,
changing t he time of stated meetings.

454

PROCEEDINGS OF THE .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

The action of said Lodges was ·taken b efore the fire in April,
and the original repo:rts thereof are not befo:re your Committee, having been destroyed with other r ecords of this Grand Lodge. All that
has been presented to . us is brief statements from the Secretaries
of the several Lodges to the effect th.a t the By -Laws of their Lodges
had b een amended in the particulars named. It does not, therefore,
affirmatively appear that the proceedings had were regular, in · this,
that there is no showing as to when the amendments .were proposed,
the 'time of final action thereon, or the vote by which they were
adopted.

has co~e to the attention of your Committee that if evidence is produced it can b e provel;I that the indictment against t he accused was
dismissed as a consideration for the accused giving testimony for
the United States that would convict other parties charged with the
offense for which the accused was indicted. If such evidence is pro,
duced a different result might ensue, and as the suggestion involves
the moral turpitude of the accused, 1 it is the opfoion of your Com~itte.e that the interest of M.asonry r equires a more thorough investigation. than was made by Fruitvale L odge.

We therefore submit the following resolution, and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That when the Lodges last above named shall have .furnished to the Grand Secretary proper evidence that due notice was
given of the proposed a~endments, and that they were adopted by
the required two-thirds voteJ said amendments shall stand approved
and confirmed.

455

Your Committee ther efore offer the following ·resolution, and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That the action of Pruitvale Lodge, 'No. 336, acquitting
Thomas T. Burnett, be and the same is hereby set aside, and the
case returned to said Fruitvale L odge for a new trial.

All which is respectfully submitted,
JULIAN E. PARDEE,
HERBERT A. CROGHAN,
GEO. U. MOYSE,
Committee.

Which was concur.red
recommendations adopted.

m and the resolutions and

Bro. John A. Hosmer, Chairman of the Committee on
Grievances, pre.s ented the following reports:
To the M.:. W.:. Grand Lodge of California:. Your Committee, to whom was referred the trial record in the
case of Thomas T. Burnett, a non-affiliated 'Mason, residing within the
jurisdiction of Fruitvale Lodge, No. 336, and acquitted by said Lodge
of cha:rges of un-Masonic conduct preferred therein, and from which
judgment of acquittal the accuser has appealed, has had the same
under consideration,· and report as follows:
The accused was charged with the commission of a criminal offense under the United States laws, and with having admitted his
complicity in the crime. The record shows that the accused was
indicted, and subsequently the indictment was dismissed by the
United States District Attorney. There is no 'evidence that warranted any other finding than that made by the Commission, but it

Your Committee, to whom was r eferred the trial record of the
case of Charels L. Mulholland; expelled by L exington Lodge, No. 104,
and fro m which decision. the accused has appealed to this Grand
Lodge, h as had t he same under consideration, and reports as follows:
The appeal does not attack the sufficiency or truthfulness of the
testimony given upon the trial . of the case, but does attack the
Mas~er who presided in the case, 11-nd it has come to our attention,
outsi.de of the record, that the Master did, after the submission of the
case to the Commission, participate in a discussion with the Commissioners as to what they should find. Such action is contrary to our
law, and the Master who violates his duty in such respect is subject
to the highest censure.
A review of t he testimony taken at the trial does not disclose
that the accused was in any way deprived of rights in its reception.
The charge is one of great immorality, and the tE_istimony, covering
more than 70 pages of t r anscript, sustains the charge, While denied
by the accused and the girl with whom it is alleged he is living it is
shown, different witnesses testifying to different material facts: that
the accused, a married man with children 11 years olcl and under,
brought a nineteen-year-old girl iJ;1to his house as a domestic ·that
she became estr anged from her parents, that he sustained sexua; relations. with her while his wife was living with him; the wife says the
relations brought about a separation of the family, that a settlement
of property was made, the wife leaving and now residing within a

456

457

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

short distance of her former home; that. the girl is now the housekeeper of the accused, and they occupy his home; that he has on
several occasions been seen with her in sexual relations on the highway and elsewhere.
·

cuseu not guilty upon the first charge and guilty upon the second
charge by a vote !Jf. 6 for and 1 against, and further voted that the
accused be suspended by a vote of 4 to 3 against.

If this record of testimony was taken as given, and no claim is
made that it was not, notwithstanding the denials of the accused
and the girl, the integrity of the numerous witnesses was not attempted to be impeached by evidence that they were not worthy of
credit, and in the face of it it is inconceivable how any other finding
could have been reached than that which is r ecorded as the finding
of the Commission, and while the Master acted otherwise than he
should have done, the finding of the Commission is justified by the
testimony.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the action of Lexington Lodge, No. 104, expelling
Charles L. Mulholland be, and the same is, hereby affirmed.

Your Committee, to whom was referred the trial r ecords in the
case of Lester Clay McNulty, suspended by Berkeley Lodge, No. 363,
have had the same under consideration, and r eport as follows:
The accused was charged with unmasonic conduct, consisting of,
first, that on or about the 5th day of November, 1905; he did attempt
unlawful and immoral carnal intercourse with one Dorothy Olsen, and
did persist in such attempt until frightened away by people passing
along the public street, and second, that on or about the 16th day of
November, 1905, when the matter set forth in the first specification
had been made public through San Francisco and other newspapers,
and when he was visited at his home by a delegation of his Masonic
brethren for the purpose of ascertaining the facts in the case, and
with . a view of re1.1dering him such fraternal aid and advice as might
be deemed proper, he did then and there absolutely and repeatedly
deny that he was the person complained of, or that he had any knowledge of the matter referred to. All of which denials were false and
calculated to deceive and mislead his brethren, who were seeking in
a fraternal way to aid him. All of which has tended to and has
brought scandal and disgrace upon himself in particular and upon the
body of Masonry in general.
·
Upon the trial of these charges the Commissione rs found the ac-

'fhe first specification was submitted upon the testimony of the
accuseu given upon the trial of criminal charge pending against him
in the Superior Court of Alameda County. From that testimony it
appears that the accused and one Dorothy Olsen were passengers on
a Telegraph avenue car from Oaklanu to Berkeley on the night of
November 5, 1905. · That during the trip on several occasions the
accused and Dorothy 01sen exchanged looks, that she left the car at
Stuart street in Berkeley, and immediately tnereafter the accused
Jett the car. That the girl looked back towards him, and he accosted
her with the remark, ''Good evening,' how do you do this evening,''
and he believes she said, ''Good evening'' to him. 'l'hat after a remark about its being wincly, he asked her if she did not want to take
a little walk, and does not know if she made a reply. That h~ then
put his right arm around her and they started down Stuart street.
After proceeding possibly 25 feet, at her invitation, they · sat down
upon a coping at the line of the sidewalk. After. sitting down upon
the coping he took his arm from around her waist and put it around
her neck, and put his left on her breast, she shoving it gently away,
and then put it back again, when he' does not think she shoved it
away. After some conversation as to where she lived, he laid her
l::ack upon the lawn inside the coping, without force and assumed a
reclining position by her, and while there fondled her and was loving
her there for a little while. This rriatter subsequently became a
criminal charge, and while in the position r elated, the girl stated
'· i..ook out, some one is coming~ I hear some one,'' and began to
cry out. The following questions were asked and answers given:
Q. Did you or did you not at any time during the encounter that
night intend to commit an act of sexual intercourse with this woman
by force~ A. I did not, sir. Q. Or against her will or without her
consent~
A. No, sir. · Q. Was it or was it not your intention to
induce her to consent to such act if you could~ A. Yes, sir.
In view of this testimony, your Committee believe the acts of the
accused were grossly immoral and that the first specification of the
charges was strictly proven, and shoulrl have been · so found by the
Commission.

"\Ve therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the action of Berkeley Lodge, No. 363, acquitting
Lester Clay McNulty of the charge contained in the first specification
20

458

P.ROCEEDIXGS OF TH g

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

against him in said Lodge be and the same is hereby reversed, and
the said Lester Clay McNulty be and he is hereby expelled from all
the rights and privileges of Masonry.

With the assistance of the California Promotion Committee, .accommodations were secured for three hundred and eighty-five; but as
many members had made their own arrangements, the Committee was
called upon to provide for only two hundred.

Respectfully submitted,
. JNO. A. HOSMER,
J. A. MURPHEY,
ALBERT NORJ:qS,
E. E. SELPH,
Committee.

All which were concurred m and the resolutions and
recommendations adopted.
Bro. E. E. Stone, from the Committee on Finance, presented the following:
To the M;:. W.:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Co.mmittee on Finance, to whom was referred the report of
the Special Committee on the Grand Lecturer's report, have had the
same under consideration, and beg to report as follows, viz:

459·

The thanks of the Grand Lodge are due to the California Promotion Committe~ for its invaluable assistance.
The expenses attendant upon the work of the Committee are as
follows:
Automobile hire ..... ·... ......... .... ·...... . : ........ ... ... $147 50
Buggy hire ....................... •.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2 50
Services of assistants in selecting rooms, advertising etc.. . . . . 122 00
Total expenses ...... , .............................. $272 00
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN TONNINGSEN, Chairman.

Which was referred to the Committee on Finance:

Your Committee desires, first, the expression. of this Grand Lodge
as to whether or not it desires the Grand Lecturer to devote his entire
time and attention to the duties of said office.
·

M. :~ W. :. James B. Stevens, from· the Committee on
Jurisprudence, presented the follo'wing:

Second, If so; shall the present system of district inspection be
continued.

To the M . :. W.:. Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee cannot determine the proper compensation for the
Grand Lecturer until this Grand Lodge shall have decided the above
questions.
Respectfully submitted,
JACOB HART NEFF,
ELMER E. STONE,
P. M. GOLDARACENA,
THOS HEYDENFE:LT,
LEON YOUNGWORTH,
Committee.

Your Committee have had under consideration that portion of the
address of th~ Grand Master relating to dispensations granted during
the year, and respectfully report as follows:
We find that one dispensation was for permission to elect a Master,
one to elect a Junior Warden, and eight to r e-ballot upon rejected
applications for the degrees.
We also find that in all cases our Grand Master has acted in
accordance with the Constitution, and 'in strict conformity with our
usages.
We recommend that his action be approved.

f.:Jth which questions were ahswered in the affirmative.

FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI,
. J . B. STEVENS, .
THOS. PLINT,
C. W. NUTTING,
C. J. CULLY,
CommittEe

Bro. John Tonningsen presented the following:
To the M.:. W.:. Grand Lodge, F. & A. M., of California:
Your Committee appointed by the Grand Master to secure accommodations tor th~ members of the Grand Lodge during the present
session, having performed that duty, sutmit the following report:

Which was adopted.

460

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

. M. :. ·W. :. William S. Wells, from the Committee on
Jurisprudence, presented the following reports:
To the M.:. W.:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee, to whom was referred the resolution tiffered by
P. G. M. Patton at the Annual Communication of 1905, relative to th'e
discontinuance of the Representative system, have had the same under
consideration, and report as follows:
.The custom· of appointing Representatives to and .from other
(jrand Lodges is an ancient one, still in force in almost all the Grand
Jurisdiction; some few, however, have discontinued and abolished
same.
We see no reason at the present time for a ny change on the part
of our Grand Lodge in regard to this matter, and believe it under all
circumstances to be undesirable, and therefore recommend that the
sys.t em b e continued in force as heretofore.
Your Committee, to whom was referred the resolution r elative to
the exemption of Masons over seventy years of age from the paf"
ment of dues, have had the same under consideration, and report as
follows:
Every Mason, whether old· or young, if abl e, should bear his pro- .'
portion of the burdens of his Lodge and pay his dues; if n~t able it
becomes the duty of the Lodge to see that his dues are remitted and
the brother kept i~ standing.
The r esolution would, in effect, create a life membership, and we
deem it unwise to enlarge in any way our present system and the
objects sought to be accomplished by the resolution can now be accomplished by the action of the Lodges under the present laws. ·
We therefore ·report the resolution back with the recommendation
that it be not adopted.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI,
WILLIAM S. WELLS,
JAMES B. STEVENS,
THOMAS FLINT,
CHARLES W. NUTTING,
Committee.

Both which were adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

461

M. :. W. :. Frank M. Angelotti, Chairman of the Committee on J u'risprudence; presented the following:
To the M.:: W.:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration
that portion of the address of the M. :. W.:. Grand Master r elative to
the decision rendered by· him upon · questions of M;aso nic law. It is
evident that the Grand Master has given very careful consideration
to this portion of his work, and his conclusions are in the main fully
in accord with our view ·as to the, iaw obtaining in this Jurisdiction.
..1.n only one or two particulars do we deem any modification necessary.
The Grand Master was asked to ·determine the status in this Jurisdiction of a brother who was a Past Master of a Lodge in a foreign
Jurisdiction, and . had thereafter affiliated with a Lodge in California.
Is he a Past Master in California, with the rights and privileges of a
Past Master, including the right to be carried on the rolls of the California Lodge as a Past Master, and also the right of membership in
the Grand Lodge' H e was also asked to determine the same question
as to one who had acquired t he rank of Past Master by service in a
California Lodge, and who had 'dimitted therefrom and affiliated with
another California Lodge, of which he is still a member. · He answered
these questions in both cases in the affirmative. We have no doubt as
to the correctness of the decision so far as the brother who had become a Past Master .by service in a L odge in this Jurisdiction is concerned; but it appears to us to b e ·incorrect as to the brother whose
only service as Master was in a foreign jurisdictfon. The whole matter is covered by the expr ess language of our Constitution, where, in
Art. II of Part VII) under the h ead · of ''Definitions,'' we find the
following:
"Past Master,-This title applies only to one who has b een regularly elected or named in a charter a nd installed, and has served a
term as Master of a chartered Lodge within the juri.sdiction of this
Grand Lodge, and who remains a member in good standing of one of
its subordinates.''
This provision is, of course, controlling as to the meaning of the
term "Past Master" wher ever it is used in our Constitution. Only
those who come within its terms can be held to b e entitled to the
rank and privileges of a Past Master in California, and one whose
only service as Master was in a Lodge of another jurisdiction, is
plainly not within its terms.
We therefore recommend that this decision be modified to .conform
to these views.

4fi2

4ti3

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

The Grand Mas'tElr was also asked as to the status of a Mason
under the following conditions: He is a member of one of our
Lodges, and while such member, without first withdrawing from his
Lodge, applies, under Sec .. 8, Art I, Part V, for affiliation with another
Lodge, upon a certificate of his standing in the Lodge of which he is
a member. He is elected to membership in the Lodge to which he
applies. When does he cease to be a memb.er of his old Lodgef When
does he commence to be a member of the new L odge to which he is
eiected ~ when does his liability for dues in the old Lodge end~ and
when does his liability for dues begin in the new Lodge~ The Constitution provides in t he section just cited : "If such applicant be
elected to affiliate with a J,odge, he can become a member thereof,
only by filing with the Secretary, at a stated meeting, the certificate
of his withdrawal from the Lodge of which he was last a member."

In regard to the question presented to the Grand Master as to the
right of a Lodge to pay from Lodge funds for services rendered by a
brother in assisting candidates in the work and lectures of the first
and second degrees, we are of the opinion that the Grand Master's
view that no such use can qe made of lodge funds, under our existing
law, is correct. It is the settled law of this ,Jurisdiction that t he
funds of a lodge are dedicated solely to charitable purposes, and the
ne~ssary expenses of the Lodge, the only exception being that provided by General Regulation 57, under which not to exceed five (now
tel\) per cent of the yearly revenue niay be used for purposes of refreshment and the promotion of fraternal int.ere>ourse. The proposed
expenditure is not, in our judgment, within any class of expendituns
now au~horized. It is, of course,. within the power of this Grand Lodge
to authorize subordinate Lodges to expend a portion of .their funds
for the purpose, just as it has authorized such an expenditure for
purposes of refreshment and the promotion of fraternal intercourse.
whether it would be for the best interests of Mason~y that this
should be done is a question of policy for the Grand L odge to determine; .and as to which we make no recommendation. If it be desir€d
to do this, it can be done by a regula.tion authorizing the expenditure,
and it will 11ot be necessary to create any new office in the Lodge or
to amend the by-laws.

It is clear that the mere election of the brother to membership in
the new Lodge under these circumstances in no way affects his standing as a member of the old Lodge. H e continues a member of the
old Lodge and liable for all dues that me:y accrue until such time as ·
he formally withdraws therefrom, which he may do, under section 6
of the same article, by giving notice of his intention so to do at a
stated meeting, when, he being in good standing, and his dues being
paid, he will receive a certificate of withdrawal or dimit_ F rom that
moment he is not a member of. any Lodge until he becomes a member
of another Lodge, and he can become a member 'of the new Lodge to
which he has been elected only upon filing s\lch certificate of withdrawal or dimit with the Secretary thereof at a stated meeting. His
dues in the new Lodge do not commence to accrue until such filing of
the certi1icate. During the time that may elapse before his withdrawal from· the old Lodge and the filing of his certificate of ')Yithdrawal or dimit in the new Lodge, he, not being a membel'" of any
Lodge, is not liable for dues to any Lodge. The certi1icate of standing or membership contained in the Grand Master's ·decision, and
taken 'py him from Anderson's Manual, at page 77, we find on investigation has never been adopted as a part of our Constitution or law,
and is no part thereof. As we understand the Grand Master's decision, he ruled that the brother was liable to the old Lodge for such
dues .as might accrue to the time when he formally withdrew therefrom, ·and such ruling is strictly in accord with our law, and we recommend that it be approved. We have discussed this matter at
length for the purpose of maki11g clear the status of the brother from
the time of his withdrawal to the time of filing his certificate of
withdrawal with the Se~retary of the new Lodge, a matter that does
not appear to be explicitly cove.r ed by the decision of the Grand
Master.

0

'

)

The decisi~n of the Grand Master relative to the right to use wine
at a banqul:lt held outside of the lodge-room, where such wine is paid
for othei:wise than from lodge funds, is in accord with our existing
written law on the subject. The only written prohibition now in our
law is as to the payment for spirituous,. malt or fermented liquor from
lodge funds. It has also been decided that it is contrary to Masonic
usage to serve such liquors in a Masonic hall. If· it be desired to
prohibit the use of such liquors at any Masonic banquet or gathering,
wherever held, a regulation to that effect will a ccomplish the desired
purpose.
The various other decisions rendered, including t hat in regard to
life membership, are clearly in accord with our law, and do not
require special mention. We recommend ·that they be approved.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK M. ANG ELLbTTI;
·WILLIAM S. WELLS,
.fAMES B. . STEVENS,
THOMAS FLINT,
CHARLES W. NUTTING,
Committee.

4G4

PROCEEDINGS OF TE J<j

All which were concurred in _a nd the recommendations
adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

465

M<· vv:. Frank M. Angellotti, Chairman of the Committee on Jurisprudence, presented the following:
To the M.:. W.:. Grand Lodge of California:

Bro. Angellotti also presented the following:
Your Committee have bad under consideration the matter of proposed 1£gislation looking to the keeping secret the names of tretbren
appointed on committees on investigation, referred to them at the
last Communication.
A careful examination of our constitutional prov1s10ns and further c.onsideration of the subject have satisfied us that the resolution
introduced at tliat Communication by Bro. ,Jas. W. Anderson is entirely consistent with all existing law on the subject, and goes as far
in the direction proposed as is advisable. That resolution was as
follows, viz:
''Resolved, That the reports of Committee on Investigation ap.pointed on the petition of appHcants for the degrees of Masonry, or
for applicatfons, shall not be r ead in the Lodges, except so far as the
announcement of the character of the report is concerned; nor shall
the names of the brethren appointed on such committees be announced
in the Lodge.''
We now see no objection to this resolution, and report it to the
Grand Lodge· for such action as it may deem proper.

Which was concurred in and the original resolution
embodied in above was adopted.
Bro. W. Frank Pierce presented the following:
Resolved, That a committee of three Past Grand Masters be appointed to prepare suitable resolutions expressing the gratitude of
this Grand Lodge to the Order of Knights Templar which contributed
so generously f~r the relief of our brethren who suffered by the terrible calamity which recently visited this Jurisdiction; that these
resolutions also be printed in the transactions and be sent to the
Grand Master of the- Grand Encampment and through him to the
several Grap.cl Commanderies.

And the Grand Master named the following Past Grand
Masters to constitute such committee: M. :. W. :. F rank M. ·
Angellotti, J\1.'. w:. \ Villiam S. Wells and ~f.'. w:. James
B. Stevens.

Your Committee have had under consideration the recommendation of the Grand Master that our Constitution be amended so as to
authorize the issuance by him of a dispensation for a Iicw Lodge
without the r ecommendation of the nearest or most convenient cba;rtered Lodge, when sueh L odge, after r eqt\est, r efuses to grant such
recommendation, and the Grand Master, after investigation, considers
it proper that such dispensation should issue. The restriction upon
the power of the Grand Master to issue a dispensation for a new
Lodge without the recommendation of the nearest or most convenient
chartered Lodge, has been a part of our fundamental law for many
years, and has always beeil considered a wise and necessary provision
for the protection of existing Lodges. Doubtless, there may have .
been cases where the r ecommendation of the nearest or most convenient chartered L odge has been withheld without good r eason, b_u t we
do not think that this demands the practical abolition of what was
consideren a necessary safeguard by the framers of our Constitution,
and this would be the effect of the amendment recommended. It
often happens that a good and necessary law works injustice in a
particular instance, but this is not a good reason for the practical
repeal of the law. On the whole, doubtless the provision in question
bas wor~ed for tne general good of Masonry in this Jurisdiction. If
any ehange at all in the direction suggested is to be made to meet
exceptional cases, we are of the opinion that the change should not
authorize the issuance of a dispensation without the consent of the
nearest or most convenient chartered Lodge, except under direction
of the Grand Lodge itself, given after notice to such L odge that such
relief will be sought and an opportunity to such Lodge · to be heard
thereon.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI,
WILLIAM S. WELLS,
JAMES B. STEVENS, ·
THOMAS FLINT,
CHARLES W. NUTTING,
Committee.

Which was re-referred to the committee, with instructions to prepare and subm it an amendment to Sec. 2, Art.
I, Part III, of the CoF1stitution, which it did as follows:
Amend Sec. 2, Art. 1, Part III, of the Constitution, adding, after
the words "the lectures thereunto appertaining":

467

PROCEEDINGS OF '.l'HE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

''Provided, always, that whenever the nearest or most' convenient
chartered Lodge refuses to grant its recommendation, the Grand
Master may, if after full investigation he deems it to be for the best
interests of Masonry, grant such dispensation without any such recommendation having been given.''
·

The M. :. W. :. Orrin S. Henderson presented the following:-

466

Which was unanimously adopted.
The resolution presented· by Bro. Billings, relative to
the purchase of stock by Lodges, was reported adversely
by the Jurisprudence Committee and was rejected by the
Grand Lodge.
The _proposed amendment to General Regulatiori No.
57, presented by Bro. Butcher, was not cop.curred in by the
Jurisprudence Committee, but on motion it was ordered
that the Regulation be amended by substituting the word
ten in lieu of the weird five .
The Grand Lodge was then called off until ten o'clock
to-morrow morning.

'Morning Session,
Friday, October I 2th, A. L . 5906.
The Grand Lodge was cailed on at t en o'c:Iock, the
Grand Master presiding.
The minutes of the sessions of yesterday were read and
approved.
The M. :. W. :. Samuel C. Denson appeared and "took his
seat.
On motion, General Regulation No. 20 wa~ suspended,
· and the election of Grand O fficers was made the 'pecial
order for eleven o'clock this forenoon.

To the M.:. W.: . Grand Lodge of California:Your Masonic Temple Committee has had little opportunity to formulate a plan for ,the erection of a new Masonic Temple. From the
facts before us, we respectfully report:
That in ordu to acquire the land and erect a Temple, it will be
necessary to organize a corporation, with full power to carry out the
purposes "of this G.rand Body.
We think the. new organization should be under the control of this
Grand Body, and the stock be owned exclusively by the Grand Lodge
'nd other Masonic Associations of California.
The ' iirectorate should b e made large enough to permit a representatio in the Board of all Masonic Bodies who may subscribe to
stock, a d the various Masonic Lodges and· Bodies should be invited
to assii;!t in making our new home an imposing Masonic fandmarkone Hf which every Mason would be proud.
/

To that end this Committee, or some other committee, appointed
by this Grand Body, should be authorized to carefully prepare a plan
for, and organize a corporation with full power and authority to do
all things necessary to acquire and hold the land, and build an appropriate Masonic Temple thereon, and, under the guidance of this Grand
Body, control and manage the same.
When such plan is formulated it should be submitted to and approved of by the ·first four officers of this Grand Lodge before the
corporation is organized. When the latter is organized, before any
Temple site is purchased, it should be submitted to, and approved of,
by. such officers, and t hen the Grand Mast er and Grand· Treasurer
should be authorized, out of the funds o'f this Grand Body, to advance
a sum not exceeding two hundred and ten thousand dollars, to be
u sed in the purchase of a site, and the erection of a suitable Temple
thereon.
Said corporation should also have power, by ·and with the consent
and app roval of the said first four officers, if · ileemed n ecessary to
complete the T emple, to cr eate and incur· a bonded indebtedness. The
plans for the building should also be submitted to said officers' a·nd
approved of by them before b eing finally agreed upon. ·

Which was concurred m and the .. present committee
continued.

468

PROCEEDINGS OF THB

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Bro. Henderson also· presented the following:
Resolved, That the action of the M. :. W. :. Gran<l Master in agreeing to the sale of the stock in the Masonic Hall Association of San
fra;ncisco 1 belonging to this Grand Lodge, be and the .same is hereby
approved, and the incoming Grand Master is authorized ancl directed
to complete such sale ana receive the money therefo_r, a_nd pay it to
the Treasurer.
Resolved, That when the Committee on the Erection of the New
Temple, appointed at this session, shall have, by and° witfi the approval of the first four officers of this Grand Lodge, .organized a cor-_
poration to purchase a lot and construct a new Temple, and shall
have, ·with like approval, selected a suitable site for such Temple,
then the M.:. W.:. Gran·d Master and V.:. W.:. Grand Treasurer are
authorizerr to subscribe for and take stock in such corporation for this
Grand Body to the amount of two hundred and ten thousand dollars,
and pay therefor 01it of any money belonging to this Grand Loclge. ·
Resolved, That the plans for ·a Masonic Temple to oe erected on
ths lot so acquirecl shall be submitted to ancl approved by said first
four officers.
0

Resolved, That the M. :. W. :. Grand M aster, and fo his absence, the
R.:. W.:. Deputy Grancl Master, shall have the right to represent and
vote the stock so subscribe.cl for, at any meeting of said corporation,
and to generaily guide and direct all proceedings in connection with
the erection of said Temple.

Which was concurred m and the resolutions adopted.
Bro. William P. Filmer, Chairman of the Committee on
Pay of Members, . presented the following report ::.._
Your committee, charged with the duty of ascertaining the cost of
transportation for one person from the location of each Lodge in the
State to the place of meeting of the Grand Lodge and return, and of
reporting such cost of transportation as the sum due to the Officers
or Represen_tatives in attendance from each Lodge, as well as the
Grand Officers, Chairmen of Standing Committees, ancl Inspectors, for
their necessary expenditure for transp(Jrtation to and from the Grand
Lodge, report that they have carefully discharged that duty, and
submit the following statement:
GRAND OFFICERS.

Motley H. Flint, Grand Mas.t er, Los Angeles .............. . . $
Osc~r Lawler, Grand Orator, Los Angeles..... . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Charles D. Barnett, Grand Marshal, Santa Rosa. . . . . . . . . . . .

35 00
35 00
3 00

469

Chauncey C. Bush, Gr. Bible Bearer, Redding ..... ..... .. , .
Albert L. Re-ed, Gr. Sword Bearer, Suisun ... , .... . ..... . .. .
Samuel Prager, Gr. Standard Bearer, Los Angeles.~ ·. .... .. : .
· Thomas J. Bak!Jr, Sen. Grand Deacon, Sacramento .... .... . .
Adelb't W. Davidson, .Jun. Grand De.a eon, Stockton .... . .. .
Emil Meybem, Sen. Grand ·!3teward, Chico .. ... ............ .
Joseph R. Garthside, G.rand Pursuivant, Pomona . ........ . . .

18 00
3 40
35 00
5 00
11 80
37 00

CHAIRMEN OF STANDING COMMITTEES.

Frank M. Angellotti, Jurisprudence, San Rafael. .......... .
William P. J effries, Returns, Los Angeles .. .' .. . .. ... . ..... .

70
35 00

INSPECTORS.

Alonzo J. Monroe, 1st District, Eureka .................. .
Thomas J. Richards, 2nd District Mendocino
·
Charles W. Nutting, 3rd District 'Etna Mills .... .... .. .. . .

~dward Sweeny, 4th District, Redding ..... : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :

36 60

Ernest C. Bonner, 5th District Alturas
Isaac F. Moffitt, 6th District, C~rning ... :::::::: -: : : : : : : : : : :
Julien E. Pardee, 7th District, Susanvi.lle .... '. ............ :
James 0. Moncur, 8th District, Quincy .... ................ .
John M. Mussey, 9th DiRtrict, Le. Porte ... ... .... ... . .. . . .
Eliphalet L. Case, 10th District Downieville
Gaines L. Coats, 11th District,' Sierraville .. :::: : ::::::: : :::
John D. Murphey, 12th District, Bridgeport ......... . .. . .. .
Wm. E. Meservey, 13th District , Nevada City .. ..... . ... .. .
Michael D. Lininger, 14th District Auburn
Emil Mayhem, 15th District Chic'o
... .... ... .... .. .

51 10

27 00
48 1,0

.::

Jay W. Ashley, 16th Distri~t, Yub~. ci~;:::::::::::::::
Jefferson D. Danner, 17th District Willows
Rob't ;L. Hutchinson, 18th District: Ukiah .. ::::: :::::::·.: ::
Curtis .T. Monroe, 19th District, La.keport .. .. .............. .
John H. Gunn, 20th District, Healdsburg . . . .. .. . ...... . ... .
Alexander McDaid, 21st District, Vallejo ................. .
Levi Nuttall, 22nd District, Sacramento ....... , . ...... .... .
Byron Ball, 23rd District, Woodland . ..... ..... .. .. ..... . .
Max Mierson, 24th District, Placerville, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .
James E. Dye, 25th District, Jackson .... .. . ... .. . ..... ... .
John . T. Porter, 26th District, Angels' Camp . . .......... .. .
Carlton C. Case, 27th. District Stockton
Louis N. Buttner, 28th Distri~t . Port C~~~~ . ...... . ..... . .
J. R. B. Chisholm, 29th District Benicia
............ . .. .
Delos W. Smythe, 33ra Distric~, San J~~~::::::::::::: ::::
Francis A. Abbott, 34th District, Salinas ..... .. . .. ....... .. .

10 00
4 50

6 20
10 00

2 00

2 50

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

470

John S. L a rew, 35th District, Mariposa .. . .... .. ···········
William D. Logan, 36th District, Knight 's Ferry. · . · · · · · · · ·
66 00
Guy P. Doyle, 37th District, Bishop ..... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
James C. Pottle, 38th District, Fresno ....... . . · · · · · · · · · · · ·
11 80
Frank W. Robinson, 39th District, Bakersfield ... ········· ··
16 90
Adam Brown, 40th District, Arroyo Grande . .. . · · "· · · · · · · · ·
35
00
David J. R eese, 41st District , Ventura ......... ····· ···: ·· ··
35 00
James B. Gist, 42nd District, Los Angeles .. . ... · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Dana R. Weller, 43rd District, Los Angeles . · . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . 35 00
Henry Ramel, 44th District, Pasadena ..... · .. · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Charles E. Mitchell, 45th District, Long Beach········ · · · ·
Philip H . Kreck, 46th District, Anaheim ... : .. · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Joseph R. Frith, 47th District, San B~rnardrno. · · · · · · · · · · · · 38 50
Eli T. Blackmer, 48th District, San Diego.··· · ·· ·' ··· ··· ··
George F. Rodden, 52nd District, San Rafael . . · · · · · · · · · · ·. · ·
Rodnick G. Guyett, 53rd District, Palo Alto .... · .. · · · . · · · ·
John H. Bean, 54th District, Los Angeles .... · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
.Joseph R. Garthside, 55th District, Pomona .... · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Daniel Cave, Special District, Los Angeles····· · · · · · · · · · · · ·

----

Tota l .. .. ... ....... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · •
Recapitulation.
*For Representatives of Lodges ..... · ... · ······ ··· · ······ .$4,637 20
20
For Grand Officers .. ..... ... · · . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
183
.
-,
'tt'
35
70
}'or Chairmen of Stanchng Comm1 ees . .. · · · · · • · · · · · · · · ·
473 80
}'or Inspectors ............ · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Grand . Total .. . .... ....... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ; · · · · · · · · $5,329 90
*For items see pages 427-434.
Your Committee offer the following r e.s olution and r ecommend its
adoption:
Resolved That there be levied upon the subordinate Lodges of this
jurisdiction 'for the current fiscal year, in addition ~o the dues pre·
scribed by t'he Constitution, the sum of twenty cents for each member
b orne upon the respective rolls at the date of the ~nnual reports.
Said levy shall be for the paY,ment of Represent~tives, and shall
be paicl at the same time and in the mannn PI'_€scribed for the pay·
ment of the annual dues.
Your committee desire to express their appreciation of valuable
t"tives ancl Inspectors, in enabling
assistance i:end ere.d by Represen "

471

it to arrive at the actual facts regarding the cost of transportation
of the Representatives to and from the Grand Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,
WM. P . FILMER,
H. D. KERCHEVAL,
AMOS STEVENS,
THEO. J. MILLIKEN,
R. E. HARTLEY,
Committee.

Which was concurred in and the resolution adopted.
Bro. Albert Norris, from the Committee on Grievances,
presented the following reports:To the M.:. w.:. Grand Lodge of Californfa:At the last Regular Communication of this Grand Lodge the fol·
lowing named Lodges were directe.d to proceed to the trial of the
following cases, r espectively returned to them for new trial: And in
the cases of the first two mentioned they were specially directed to
make r eport of their proceedings in said cases at the next Annual
Communication of this Grand Lodge (Grand Lodge Proceedings for
1905, page 125 ) to wit:
Charies Watson Coggins, expelled by ''Sisson'' Lodge, No. 310.
George Thayer Greenleaf, expelled by "Redlancls" Lodge, No. 300.
Arthur James Camp, suspended by "Anchor" Lodge, No. 273.
In none of these cases have r eturns of trials been m!J-de to this.
Grand Lodge, nor has any explanation be6n made as to why the direc·
tions of this Grand Lodge in r espect to said cases have not been
complied with.
We th"erefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption_:
Resolved, 'l'hat. the several Lodges hereinbefore mentioned are
hereby censured for neglect· of duty in failing to comply with the
clirecti.ons of this Grand Lodge in the respective cases.

Your committee, having had under consiclera tion the matter of the
trial of Bro. Atkinson by ''Tehachapi '' Loclge, No. 313, respectfuily
r epo rt as follows:
.
The procedure seems t o be regular, but upon the trial no testi·
mony was introduced except two letters, which were written before

473

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF 0ALIFORNlA.

the .charges were preferred, and we are of the opinion that such
letters were not legal evidence or were intended to be used in the
trial by the writers · of such letters, and much of the testimony in
such letters, if it could be admitted at all, was purely hearsay.

Angeles, Sacr11mento and San Diego, and offer the following resolution,
and recommend its adoption:

472

It is also doubtful in our minds .whether the specifications state
a Masonic offeRse.

The charge was drunkenness, and w hile it is a serious offense, yet
it should be fully proven.
We therefore propose the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
. Resolved, That the action of "Tehachapi" Lodge, No. 313, in
expelling Bro. Atkinson be, and the sa!Ile is, hereby reversed.

Your committee has r eceived from the Grand Secretary trial
records in the following cases, now on file in his office:
J . J. Hagerty, suspended by ''Vacaville '' Lodge, on September
28th, 1906.
Barton Willard Johnson, expelled by "Truckee" Lodge, No. 200,
on September 12th, 1906.
Your committee have made no r eport in either of these cases, for
the reason that the judgments in both cases were rendered within
the last thirty days, and the time within which the accused may
appeal to the Grand Lodge has not yet expired.
Respectfully submitted,
JNO. A . . HOSMER,
J. D. MURPHEY,
ALBERT NORRIS,
E. E. SELPH, '
Committee.

A ll which · were concurred m and the resolutions were
adopted.
Bro. Elmer E. Stone, from the Committee on Finance,

Resolved, That the sum of $6,000 be and is hereby appropriated
from the funds of this Grand Lodge, to be divided as follows, .viz: ·
$3,000 to the Board of Relief of San Francisco, Cal.
$3,000 to the Board of Relief of Los Angeles, Cal.
In r egard to the General Board or Relief, your committee have
examined the same and believe that all matters upon which' they
have acted have been carefully administered, and recommend that
all funds in the hands of the retiring Grand Master, contributed for.
relief, be turned· over to the incoming Grand Master, and that all
matters connected therewith be placed in his hands with full power
to act.
We have had under consider ation the salaries' of the Grand Offieers
of the Grand Lodge, and re.port thereon as follows, and recommend its
adoption:
For the salary of the Grand Treasurer .... . ... . . '. .......... $ 200 00
For the salary of the Grand Secretary. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,000 00
For the salary of the Assistant Grand Secretary ........ . ~ . . 1,800 00
For the salary of the Grand Organist. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50 00
For the services of the Grand Tyler ............... ·. . . . . . . . . 125 00
For the services of the Chair\'nan of the Committee on Correspondence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200 00
For contingent expenses· of the Grand Master, to b~ used in
defraying of actual expenses incurred, and to be paid in
equal quarterly installments if r equired . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,200 00
For the salary . of the Grand Lecturer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,400 00
For expert accountant of Finance Committee .... . .. ... . . . . 100 00
No amount has been designated for t.he contingent expenses of the
Grand Lecturer, your committee were unable to determine the amount
required, but recommend that the Grand Lecturer file with the Grand
Secretary an itemized account of his actual ~xpenses, incurred in
\ the discharge of his duties, said account, when presented, to be
audited by the Committee on Accounts.

pr~sented the following reports:-

To the M .:. W.:. Grand Lodge of California:Your committee beg leave to r eport as follows:
We have received and carefully considered the reports of the
Boards of R elief from the citi es of San Francisco, Oaklanrl, Los

Your committee, to whom was referred the request of the Masons
of Manila to· form a Masonic Board of Relief, have carefully considered the same, and find that they have complied with the r equirements of this Grand Lo'dge and have adopted a set of By-Laws for
21

474

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

the governing of said Board of Relief. We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $350 be and is hereby appropriated
from the funds of this Grand Lodge and made payable to the Masonic
Board of Relief of Manila, when said Board of Relief shall have
completed its organization.

We are of the opinion that this request should be granted and
offer the following resolution, and recommend its adoption:

Your committee, to whom was referred the resolution requesting
an appropriation of $250 for the Representative of ''Manila'' Lodge,
who is in ·attendance upon this Grand Loqge, tind it impossible to
• grant this request. Owing to Regulation 12 of this Grand Lodge,
which provides as follows:
''No Lodge under this jurisdiction,
located beyond the limits of this State, shall receive any allowance
for the expenses of a Representative of this Grand Lodge, nor shall
any such Lodge be chargeable with dues on account of the Representative Fand.
.

The claim for the expenses incurred by the Committee on Accommodations, which was rderred to this committee, has been considewd,
and we offu the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $272 be and is hereby appropriated
from the funds of this Granil Lodge, payable to Bro. John Tonningsen, Chairman of the Committee on Accommodations, for payment
of expenses incurred by said committee.

In the matter of the claim of the Deputy Grand Master, Edward

H. Hart, for money expended for traveling expenses while in discharge of his duties as an officer of this Grand Lodge, we offer the
following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $50.90 be and is hereby appropriated
from the funds of this Grand Lodge to reimburse Deputy Grand
Master Hart for expenses incurred in traveling to Fresno, Merced
and Bakersfield, while in discharge of his duties as a Grand Officer
of this Grand Lodge. ·

'' George Washington'' Lodge, No. 62, having suffered the loss
of their property by fire, has r equested the r emission of its Grand
Lodge dues.

475

Resolveci, That the dues .of "George Washington" Lodge, No. 62,
for the year 1906, be and the same are hereby remitted.

In the matter of the petition of "La Parfaite Union" Lodge,
No. 17, F. & A. M., of ~an Francisco, asking for a remission of t heir
Grand L(ldge dues, your committee have made a very careful examination of the finan cial condition of said Lodge and find ·that it has
.assets in the sum of $7,llO, and cash on deposit in various banks
!Lmou_n ting to $2,000. Upon this financial showing your committee
reco~mends that the petition for a remissiori of ''La Parfaite Union''
Lodge Grand Lodge 's dues be denied.
We respectfully recommend that our retiring Grand Master, Motley
H. Flint, be and h e is hereby requested to sit for his portrait, and
that the Grand S.e cretary be and he is hereby instructed to have said
portrait, when finished, suitably framed and placed in the office of
the Grand Secretary.

We have conferred with the Chairma n of the Board of Trustees
of the Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home, and have ·given the
affairs of said institution thorough consideration; as a result of which
we offer the following resolution and. recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That a per capita tax of $1 per year .be levied upon
the subordinate Lodges of this jurisdiction, and said tax to be due
and payable to this Grand Lodge in the same manner and at the
same time as the annual Grand Lodge dues; and that said per capita
tax, when received by the Grand Lodge, be· placed in the fund designated Widows' and Orphans' Home Fund, subject to the order of
the Board of Trustees of said Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home,
and to be used for the support and maintenance of said Home.

We \J.erewith submit reports of our expert accountant a:. r eports of
this committee upon the books of account and vouchers of the Grand
Secretary, Grand Treasurer and Board of Trustees of the Masonic
Widows' and Orphans' Home, r espectively. Said reports are a11
follows:

..

•
476

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

To the Finance Committee of the
M.:. W.:. Grand Lodge of California:Sirs and BrethrenHerewith please find report of my examination of tlie books and
vouchers of Grand Secretary George J ohnsoii and Grand Treasurer
Edward Coleman.
Have checked all returns from Lodges in this jurisdiction for
the Masonic year ending July 31st, 1906; compared stubs of receipts
sent Secretaries for moneys received from them for a ccount of this
Grand Lodge; also checked the books and vouchers for money paid
by Grand Secretary George Johnson to Grand Treasurer Edward
Coleman; compared the warrants drawn for payments, and I find
vouchers properly numbefed and filed for every dollar disbursed a~
per books just examined.
THE GRAND TREASURER IN ACCOUNT WITH THE GRAND
LODGE, F. & A. M.
Receipts.
To · cash received from Secretary, General Fund . .. ... . ..... $39,495 35
To cash from dividend Hall Stock... . .................... 5,881 00
'l:o caJlh, sale of book, diplomas, etc .................... ·. .' 1,177 00
To cash, dividends Blue Lake Water Bonds .......... ·.....
420 00
To cash from A. Borel, interest on deposits.......... . .... .
266 i l

GRANI/ LODQ.E OF CALil"ORNIA.

477

L :idges subordinate to this jurisdiction, and find return~ from all
Lodges in this jurisdic~iQp. Total a.mount received, $73,264.35; distributed as follows, viz:
Passed to the credit of the General Fund .... .. .. . . .. .. . .. $39 495 35
Pr.5sed to t he cr edit ?f the Home Fund . . : ... .' .... ..... ... 33:769 .00
Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $

·
73 ' 264 35

SUMMARY OF . CASH. IN '.l'REASURY.
1906.

Receipts.

Argiist:...:_To <:ash ~rom this year's receipt~, ............ .. .. $44,586 · 30
To cash.' i_nterest Blue Lake Water Co .. .'....... . . .
420 00
To cash, rnterest A. Borel & Cci.... ... . . . . . . . . . . .
266 21
Total...... . ...... .. .. .. . . . ·: . . ... ·.. . . ............. $ 5,272 51
4
Disbursements.
A8 per warrants on file with Grand Treasurer . .. .. . ....... $38 677 12
To balance 0n hand (see A. B?rel & Co. 's bank book) .. ,. . . 6:595 39
Total. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . ... .. ....... $45,272 51

Total receipts . . . . . . . . ..... .... . .... ... ............ $47,239 56
Disbursements.
As per warrants drawn on the Grand Treasurer, viz:
Sundry expenditures, per vouchers on file with Grand Secretary Johnson . ... .. ............. . ........... .. ..... $33,056 22
Representatives, as per payroll . " ................ ·. ....... 4,550 10
Appointed Grand Officers. and Chairmen Standing Committees as per payroll . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . .
280 40
Inspectors as per payroll . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
780 40
Harry S. Johns.on, assistai:it to Grand Secretary. . . . . . . . . . . .
10 00
'l'otal disbursements ............. .. ..... .. ........ :$38,677 12
l have examined the Grand Treasurer's account and certify the
same correct.

After closing my e:x;amination of the books and vouchers of Grand
Secretary Johnson and Grand Treasurer Coleman for the Masonic
fiscal year ending July 31st, 1906, I tabulated the r eturns for the
e'nsuing Masonic year, received. by the Grand S ecr etary from the

.Assets.
Belonging· to the M . '. W." . Grand Lodge, F . & A. M., and in the
po•session of Grand Trea
Ed
·d
surer
war . Coleman, October lat, 1906,
ar0 as follows:
Par Value.
5881 shares Masonic H ll St k
a
oc · . ......... $58,810 00
7 1000 6 i::er cent first mortgage bonds
B. L. Water Co .. . ........... . .... ... . 7,000 00
C1:sh in bank ... .... ......... .... .. ......

Actual Value.
$176,430 00
7,9 ~0 00
50,963 46

Grand total. ... .. ... ........... . .. .. .. ...... . ...... $235,303
·
46
Grand Treasurer Coleman, together with the Finance Committee
and the expert, visited the Trust Company's vaults and the B k
and the Safe Deposit Company's vaults, where we f.ound all mon:;s
stock and ~onds saf.ely deposited, agreeing in every particular with
the books . Just examrned.

It gives me much pleasure to r eport that I find your bo k ·
d
o s in
" \.l " cond't'
•
i ion an correct; vouchers properly numbered and filed.
L. WADHAM, Expert Accountant.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A.
PROCEEDINGS m' ·T HE

478

To the Board of Trustees of the
Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home:Sirs and Brethren-

.
ort to you that I have carefully
h
k pt by Grand Secre. d th books and vouc ers e
checked and examine
e
T
Edwar d Coleman, and
d Gr and reasurer
tary Georg,,i Johnson, an
. d nd check ed each and every
we have examine a
d
b
P
with Bro. ea o Y
f
M
h lat 1906 to October lat,
th Home r om
a;rc
'
'
bill, purcha~ed f or
e
'
. th hands of the Grand Treasurer
. 1 ·
and the warrants m
e
b'll'
1916, me u s1ve,
M
h 1 t 1906 inclusive, the i s
frum Septe1nber 1st, 1905, to
arc
ds '
fin' d vouchers properly
d b the fire· an we
having b een destroye
y
1 ' disbursed with a summary of
filed and numbered ~or ev.erya:~olc~:cked all · ~arrants drawn on the
each month ''l expenditures'. h f
h and J' ournal to ledger, and
. k d n postmgs rom cas
'l'reasurer, ~nee e a
h b k 'n perfect order, ·and correct.
taken a trial balance. I find t e oo s l
It is my pleasure to .again r ep

FINANCIAL STATEMENT.

..

Your committEe recommend that the sum of one hundred and. fifty
dollars be donated from the funds of this Grand Lodge to the Calvary
Presbyterian Church authorities for the use .o f this lecture room and
the committee-rooms. We also r eeommend that a vote of thanks of
this Grand Lodge be extended to the trustees of said ehurch.
Respectfully submitted,
JACOB H. NEFP,
ELMER E. STONE,
0 . . M . GOLDARACENA,
L EON YOUNGWORTH,
THOS. 0. HEYDENFELDT,
Committee.

All which were concurred in and the resolutions and
recomm1en<lations accompanying them were adopted.
The M. :. W. :. Frank M . Angellotti, Chairman of the
Committee on Jurisprudence, presented ' the following:-

Receipts .

1905.
. ' ........ $36,286 99
Oct. 1st-To cash balance on hand ... . ......... .
... ........ $34,900 19
1906.
.
1st-To cash, per capita tax, 1906 .... . ... ,
401 58
Oc.t.
To cash, received interest A. Borel. ..... , . . . . . . . .
21 87
To cash received Union Trust Co. : . .. ... , . , . . . . .
99 22
· d s · F · Savings Umon · · · · · · · · · · · ·- - - - To cash,' receive
Grand total· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ' ·

479

... ' ... ' . .. $71,709 85

Disbursements.
•t · d bills with Grand SecAs per vouchers on file ( se:. i e;::eevery doJ.lar disbursed .. $31,902 45
r etary J?hnson), accoun mg
.. .. . .. ...... .... .. .. .. .. ............. $39,807-40
N et balance
Distributec! as follows:
$36 075 85
T:> cash in A. Borel 's bank· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . . . . . 3' 051 54
h in 3. F. Savings Union Bank...... ... ........ ....
,680 01
T o ca S
, B k
........ . .
----T .1 cash in Union Trust Co. s an . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
....... .. .... $39,807 40
Total . .. . ················· · ·· ···· ·· ··
"cl monthly by warrants drawn on
'!'hf' hllls of the Home are pa1 t
thing correct and in order.
I am pleased to repor every
the Treasurer.
L . W ADHAM, Expert Accountant.

To the M.:. W.:. Grand Lodge of California:Your committee have hacl under consideration that portion of the
Grand Lecturer's report reeommending legislation whereby Inspeetors
may be clothed with authority to forbid and prevent further work
in a Lodge when satisfied that the Lodge from carelessness or laek
of interest is not able to confer . any or all degrees in a creditable
manner .
An Inspector has, of course, no such power under existing law.
His powers are defineu by express premises, and we find no such power
anywhere conferred.
Nor do we think it advisable that any legislation of the nature
proposed should be adopted. The 'power of suspending any funetion
of a Lodge is an extraor<linary one, to be· exercised only where the
necessities of the case elearly demand it. That, however, is now
vested exclusively in the Grand Master, and .we deem it inexpedient
that it should be exereised, in whole or in part, by any other oflieer.
If for any r eason whatever a Lodge should not be permitted to contmue to exercise any of its functions, it is clearly the duty of th.e
Inspector to immediately aequaint the Grand Master with the condi. tion. The Grand Master can at any time take such aetion in this
direc.t ion a s is for the best interests of Masonry.

.

,

480

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

We therefore recommend that ~o legislation of the character
1mggested be adopted.
·
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI,
WILLIAR S. WELLS,
JAMES B. srrEVENS,
THOMAS FLINT,
CHARLES W. NUTTING,
Committee.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

481

On motion· of the R. :. W. :. Reuben H. Lloyd, the Grand
Secretary was instruded to procure, so far as possible, the
P.hotographs of each individual who had occ~pied the position of Grand Master in this Jurisdiction.
·

Which was concurred m and the recommendation
adopted.

The hour having arrived for the election of the Grand
Officers for the ensuing year, the Grand Master riamed as
tellers Bros. T. J. l\1illiken, D. W. Smythe, E. C. Bonner
and W. P. Jeffries, and the election proceeded with the
following results:
·

The M.". vv:. Wm. S. Wells, from the Committee on
Jurisprudence, presented the following:

The R.:. W.:. Edward H. Hart, of Berkeley, was unanimously
elected Grand Master.

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of Califomia:'l'hat portion of . the report of the Committee on address of Grand
Lecturer, which recommends that the Junior and Senior Wardens-elect
be required to perfect themselves in the Entered Apprentice and Fellowcraft Degrees before installation, has been referred to this committee and they report as follows:

The R.:. W.:. George M. Perine, of San Francisco, was unanimously elected Deputy Grand Master.

That at the last Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge a
proposed General Regulation; to be known as ''General Regulation
No. 82,·•' was referred to them. This General Regulation is found on
page 154 of the Proceedings of 1905. Your committee at' that time
· reported that they found that the proposed regulation in no way conflicts with any constitu.tional provision and reported it back to the
Grand Lodge without any re~ommendation as to whether it be adopted
or rejected, as it involved quite a radical change in existing methods,
they recommended that the same be referred to the next Annual
Communication. This recommendation was adopted and the only
thing to be done at this .time is to determine as to whether or not they
desire to adopt such r <:'gulation, and the proper way to dispose of this
matter would be· to eithH adopt or reject the General Regulation
No. 82, as presented last year and ·found on said page 154.
Respectfully submitted,
F. M. ANGELLOTTI,
W. S. WELLS,
J. B. STEVENS,
T. FLINT,
C. W. NU'fTING,
Committee. ·

Which was concurred in and the proposed Regulation
No. 82 was adopted.

. The R. :. W. :. Reuben H. Lloyd, 'o f San Francisco, was unanimously elected Senior Grand Warden.
ThJl W. :. Oscar Lawler, of Los Angeles, was elected Junior Grand
Warden.
The V.:. W.:. Ed~ard Coleman, of San l!'rancisco, was unanimously
re-elected Grand Treasurer.
'
The V.:. W.:. George Johnson, of San Francisco, was un°animouely
re-elected Grand Secretary.
The V.:. W.:. William H. Edwards, of San Francisco, was unanimously re-elected Grand Lecturer.
·

The Grand Lodge was then called off until two-thirty
o'clock this afternoon.

3Ju ~rauh iljnhgr.
Afternoon Session,
·I
Friday, October 12th, A. L. 5906. I
The Grand Lodge was called on at two-thirty o'clock,
the"Grand Master presiding.

482

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

483

Bro. Henry M. Owens, presented the following:To the M.:. W.:. Grantl Lodge of California:Your committee to whom wa~ referred that part of the Grand
Master's address which 'contained the communication from the Special Representative of "Manila" Lodge, No. 342, requesting this
Grand Lodge to define our Masonic relations towards other Masonic
powers in the Philippine Islands, to wit: The Grand Orients of Spain
and France.
From a iack of information and the limited time at the command
of this committee, it recommends that the final disposition of this
question be referred to the next Communicii.tion of this Grand Lodge,
and in the meanwhile (the regularity of the aforesaid Masonic bodies
being discussed by other Masonic powers), that no Masonic communication be held with said Masonic bodies or their subordinate bodies.
Respectfully submitted,
W. FRANK · PIERCE,
H. M. OWENS,
R. M. MEEK,
Committee.

Which was concurred in.
The Grand Lodge then proceeded to the installation and
investment of the Grand Officers elected and to be appointed. At the request of the Grand Master-elect his appointments for the ensuing year were read by the Grand
Secretary, as foJ!ows: For
Grand Chaplain . ..... . . E. E. Baker . . . .. . ... ... of Oakland.
Grand Orator .......... Jacob Nieto ........... " San Francisco.
Asst. Grand Secretary . . Harry S. Johnson ...... ' ' San Francisco.
Grand Marshal. . ....... Delos W. Smythe
" San Jose.
Grand Bible Bearer .... Chauncey C. Bush ...... '' Redding.
Grand Standard Bearer. Samuel Prager . . ...... . ' ' Los Angeles.
Grand Sword Bearer . .. . Arthur J. Thatcher ... .. '' Ukiah.
Senior Grand Deacon ... Thomas ·J. Baker .. ..... " Sacramento.
Junior Grand. Deacon ... Albert B. Webster . .... . " Oakland.
Senior Grand Steward .. John T. Morrison .... . . " Berkeley.
Junior Grand Steward .. Albert L . .l:(.eed . . ..... . . " Suisun.
Grand Pursuivant ...... Louis L. Janes ... . ..... '' Mill valley.
Grand Organist ...... . . Samuel D. Mayer ....... '' San Francisco.
Grand Tyler ..... .. .... George P. Adams ....... '' San Francisco.

The Grand Officers were then duly installed in their
several stations and places by Grand Master Motley
H. Flint, assisted by Past Grand Master James B. ·stevens
as Master of Ceremonies.

'

On behalf of the Grand Lodge, the -M.". w:. Charles
W. Nutting, presented our retiring Grand Master with a
beautiful chest of silver.
The Grand Master announced the appointment of the
Standing Committees for the ensuing year, as follows:On Jurisprudence:
Bro. Edmund C. Atkinson,
" James W. Anderson,
" Samuel C. Denson,
" George W. Hunter,
" Motley H. Flint,

On Finance:
Bro. Oral M. Goldaracena,
" Orrin S. H enderson,
" Charles L. P atton,
" Alonzo J. Monroe,
" Harvey D. Loveland.

On Grievances:
Bro. John A. Hosmer,
'' John D. Murphey,
" William VI. Waste,
'' Henry M. Owens,
'' Edward Sweeney.

On Pay of Members:
Bro. William P. Filmer,
" Amos Stevens,
" Theodore .J. Milliken,
" David J. Reese,
" George H. Burchard.

On Returns:
Bro. William P. Jeffries,
" James C. P ottle,
" John P. Jarman,
'' . Carlton C. Case,
" Ernest C. Bonn er.

On Correspondence:
Bro. James B. Stevens,
" William S. De Turk,
" Herbert A. Croghan,
" William F. Williamson,
" Joseph B. Frith.

On Accounts:
Bro. Henry Ascroft,
'' Theodore Frolich,
'' Walter A. Scott,
'' Edward P eabody,
'' Hugh ,J. Owen.

He also announced the appointment of Bros. Henry E.
Pennell, Rodolph W. Meek and Ernest E. Hall as Trustees
of the Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home.

484

48f)

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEED~NGS OF THE

STA TEMENT

The Grand Secretary reported that the Lodges· to whom
charters had ·been granted at this Communication; had
been numbered, and are located as follows:
Gardena, No. 372, at Gardena, Los Angeles County.
Veteran, .N'o. 373, at Sawtelle, Los Angele!f County.
Jewel, No. 374, at San Francisco, San Francisco C@unty.
Richmond, No. 375, at Sa.I). Francisco, San Franeisco County..
Francis Drnke, No. 376, at South San Franciseo, San Mateo County.
Lrtesia, No. 377,. at Artesia, Los Angeles County.
Mizpah, No . 378, at Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Fillliiore; No. 3·79, at Fillmore1Ventura County.. ·
!fnn.tington Beach, No. 380, at Huntington Beach, Orange Comity.
Oceanside, No. 381, at Oceanside, San Diego County.
•)

.
~

No other business appearing, the Grand Lodge F. & A.
:rvr. of California was closed in Ample Form.
GEO. JOHNSON,
Grand ' Secretary.

EDWARD H. HART,
Grand Master.

Of receipts by the Grand Secretary, for account of the Grailll
Lodge, from August 1st, up to and including the 6th day of October,
1906:
Fund.

General.

1906.

Aug.

"
"

"
"

"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"

1, Sotoyome,
1, Jefferson,
1, Washington,
1, Manzanita,
1, San Pedro,
I, Redlands,
1, Clear Lake,
1, Excelsior,
1, Occidental,
1, Doric,
1, Hanford,
1, Ione,
. 1, Porterville,
1, Tuscan,
1, Los Gatos,
1, Benicia,
1, Hermann,
1, Enterprise,
1, Vacaville,
1, Geo:rgetown,
l,' Mt. Jackson,
1, Monrovia,
1, San Benito,
1, Brentwood,
1, Abell,
1, Yount,
1, Traver,
1, Los Angeles,
1, Liberty,
2, Petaluma,
2, Tehachapi,
2, Rio Vista,
2, Pomona,
2, Pentalpha,
2, Phoenix,
2, Santa Barbara,

Home.

j dues in full to l
123, (,3l July, 1906 _j $159 05

$139 00

97,
20,
102,
332,
300,

~:~:
22,
216,
279,
80,
303,
261,
292,
5,
127,
70,
134,
25,
295,
308,
211,
345,
146,
12,
294,
42,
299,
180,
313,
208,
246,
202,
178,
192

.

do
do
do
<lo
do

do
do
do
do
do

39 15
111 00
33 30
127 90
192 70

37 00
100 00
34 00
102 00
166 00

~:

~:

4~ ~~

4~: ~~

do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do

do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do

581 80
420 60
157 25
58 55 ·
99 45
59 35
69 15
125 00
183 35
149 70
136 65
48 60
66 95
82 35
no 25
61 80
105 75
131 75
29 65
348 60.
181 10
214 60
94 15
54 20
174 60
551 35
245 80
125 55

524 00
388 00
135 00
49 00
91 00
53 00
57 00
100 00
173 00
146 00
107 00
48 00
61 00

<lo

do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do

73 00
95 00

44 00
105 00
125 00
27 00
288 00
138 00
208 00
77 00
56 00
148 00
513 00
204 00
109 00

486

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA .

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Fund.

1906.

Aug.

"

"'"
"
"

"

"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"

."

"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"

·Jdues in full to

2, Mission,

i

i

Ganem).

_

1159, 31 July, 1906. J $ 887 6.:>

2, Penrhyn,
258,
289,
2, Elsinore,
136,
3, Pacific,
3, Arroyo,
274,
3, King David's,
209, ·
3, Hornitos,
98,
3, Oakland,
188,
3, Reedley,
304,
64,
3, Natoma,
3, Forbestown,
50,
3, Yuba,
39,,
291,
3, Santa• Paula,
320,
3, South Gate,
3, Mountain View,
194,
361,
3, Fort Bragg,
3, South West,
283,
365,
3, Willits,
3, Yolo,
81,
3, Fidelity,
120,
4, Granite,
. 222,
4, Friendship,
210,
~' Nevadit,
13,
347,
4, McKinley,
4, California,
1,
4, Oxnard,
341,
4, Union,
58,
4, Alta,
333,
6, Amador,
65,
6, Suisun,
55,
6, San Buena Ventura, 214,
6, Russian River,
181,
6, ~akersfield,
224,
6, Silver Gate,
296,
6, North Star,
91,
6, ~old Hill,
32,
6, Humboldt,
79,
6, San :Mateo,
226,
346,
6, P&lo Alto,
315,
6, Norwalk,
6, Sierra Valley,
184,

do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
db
do
do
do
do
do
do ·
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do

do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do

47 65
60 80
540 50
45 80
108 40
31 50
420 35
62 20
66 80
45 80
84 15
124 30
451 60
64 15
69 15
60 25
54 10
42 35
464 90
64 00
243 55
152 65
89 05
634 65
198 10
207 315
40 95
81 2()
105 05
104 45
67 45
210 35
191 35
41 05
()8 20
311 20
.89 95
123 05
42 10
38 20

Fund .

1006.

Horne.

807 00

Aug.

6, Fresno,

47 00
44 00
490 00
44 00
112 00
30 00
393 00
56 00
64 00
44 00
77 00
94 00
348 00
57" 00
57 00
55 00
38 00
33 00
442 00
60 00
229 00
147 00
79 00
607 00
158 00
193 00
41 00
75 00
79 00
91 00
71 00
173 00
153 ·oo
39 00
56 00
276 00
81 00
99 00
38 00
36 00

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

6, Marin,

"
"•
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"

"
"

"

"

"

"

"
"
"

487

.

6, Mountain Shade,
6, Orland,
6, Vesper,
6. Evening Star,
6, Tuolumne,
6, Mokelumne Hill,
6, Hi:nry Clay,
6, San Jose,
6, Alisa!,
6, Calaveras,
6, Illinoistown;
6, Long B each,
G, Orange Grove,
7, La Fayette,
7, San Joaquin,
7, Sil veyville,
7, Templ e,
7, Oak Grove,
7, Vitruvius,
7, Ionic,
7, North Butte,
7, Colusa,
7, Crescent,
7, Redwood City,
7, Starr King,
7, Eden,
7, Santa Lucia,
7, Lompoc,
7, Clinton,
7, Howard,
7, Table Mountain,
°7, Delano,
8, Hiram,
·8, Mill Valley,
8, Monterey,
8, Summit,
8, Rising Star,
8, St. Helena,
8, Evergreen,

.2471 Jdues in full tot 314 '45

General.

Home.

271 00

157 15
40 95
59 35
129 70
41 15
157 55
59 05
72 65
308 25
41 05
69 .35
37 05
231 85
86 55
105 40
250 60
59' 00
73 05
474 M5
51 50
19 00
60 95
85 05
87 80
98 20
222 25
99 OU
39 90
103 20
40 35
90 15
55 50
46 30
29 65
97 90
71 05
33 45
61 30
95 85
225 40

137 00
41 00
53 00
126 00
37 00
149 00
59 00
67 00
275 00
39 00
73 00
39 00
203 00
69 00
92 00
208 00
60 00
59 00
403 00
50 00
20 00
61 00
79 00
64 00
96 00
155 00
100 00
42 00
76 00
33 00
77 00
50 00
34 00
27 00
62 00
59 00
31 00
54 00
83 00
212 00

191,
18,
265,
84,
186,
8,
298,
95,
10,
321,
78,
51,
327,
293,
126,
19,
201,
214,
215,
145,
121,
230,
240,
45,
168,
344,
113,
302,
262,
119,
96,
124,
309,
43,
356,
217,
112,
83,
93,
259,

l31 July, 1906.J
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
· do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do

488

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Fund.

1906.

Aug.

8, Los Banos,

5dues in full to l
312

• l31 July, 1906.J
357,
do
clo
" 8, Buena Park,
329,
do
do
8,
Vallee
de
France,
"
179,
do
do
" 8, Mendocino,
3,
do
do
" 8, Tehama,
132,
do
do
.8, Sincerity,
"
143,
do
do
8, Franklin,
"
349,
do
do
8, Sequoia,
92,
do
do
8, Acacia,
"
16,
do
do
" 8, Eureka,,
37,
do
do
8, St. John's,
"
111,
do
do
8, Chico,
"
348,
do
do
" 9, San Bernardino,
245,
do • do
9, Laurel,
"
281,
do
do
9, Mt, Shasta,
"
117,
do
do ·
" . 9, Concord,
204,
do
do
9, Salinas,
"
316,
·dO
do
9,
Sanger,
"
280,
do
do
" 9, Madera,
167,
do
do
9,
Alameda,
"
158,
do
do
9, Gibsonville,
"
27,
·
do
do
9,
Trinity,
"
319,
do
do
9, Hollenbeck,
"
182,
do
do
10,
Meridian,
"
99,
do
do
" 10, La Grange,
135,
do
do
" 10, Valley,
367,
do
do
" 10, South Pasadena,
256,
do
do
" 10, Lodi,
267,
do
do
" 10, Galt,
200,
do
do
10,
Truckee,
"
337,
do
do
" 10, Carquinez,"
174,
clo
do
10,
Drytown,
"
334,
do
do
" 10, Covina,
104,
do
do
" 10, Lexington,
335,
do
clo
" 10, West Gate,
352,
do
do
'' · 10, Sunset,
323,
do
clo
" 10, Whittier,
108,
do
clo
" 10, Owen,
339,
do
do
" 10, Fullerton,
187,
do
do
" 11, Keith,
266,
do
do
" 11, North East,

4SD

GRAND LODGE 01<' OALil'ORXB..
O<lneral.

Home.

39 25

35 00

59 85
54 75
128 25
176 35
48 25
65 05
232 25
32 95
64 75
101 10
186 20
204 10
89 75
36 10
110 20
135 45
74 65
91 80
99 10
22 90
74 85
578 05
50 65
119 10
49 70
70 00
142 30
32 45
148 60
63 10
17 10
79 00
59 60.
379 65
141 15
133 30
12 35
87 55
93 6li
33 25

43 00
45 00
115 00
173 00
35 00
59 00
155 00
21 00
65 00
98 00
156 00
178 00
85 00
3~ 00
96 00
131 00
67 00
82 00
98 00
22 00
'63 00
339 00
. 47 00
98 00
46 00
40 00
94 00
31 00
108 00
58 00
18 00
60 00
48 00
267 01\
97 00
li4 00
13 00
89 00
87 00
35 00

190fi.

Aug. 11, Vvinnedumah;

Fund .

Jdues in full to I
287

• l31 July, 1906.J
282,
clo
do
"
41,
do
do
"
156,
do
do
"
76,
do
do
"
236,
do
do
"
285,
do
do
"
225,
do
do
"
354,
do.
do
"
2·±2,
do
do
"
305,
do
do
11, Corona,
324,
do
do
'' · 11, Las Pal mas,
366,
do
do
do
do
" 11, Southern California 278,
do
do
" 13, So. San Francisco, 212,
61,
do
clo
" 13, Live Oak,
13, Wilmington,
rns,
do
do
1213,
do
do
" 13, Visalia,
161,
do
do
" 13, Harmony,
35,
do
<lo
" 13, San Diego,
13,
Keystone,
161,
do
do
"
229,
do
do
" 13, Solano,
368,
<lo
do
" 13, Unity,
310,
do
do
" 13, Sisson,
9,
do
do·
" 13, Corinthian,
364,
do
do
" 13, Olivet,
33,
do
do
" 13, Ophir,
57,
do
do
" 13, Santa Rosa,
331,
do
do
" 13, Pacific Grove,
147,
do
do
" 13, Eel River,
273,
do
<lo
" 13, Anchor,
338,
do
do
" 13, San Jacinto,
clo
363,
do
" 13, Berkeley,
362,
do
do
" 13, Charity,
66
do
do
" 13, Forest,
133,
do
do
" 13, Yosemite,
21,
do
no
" 13, Hawaiian,
110
131,
do
" 13, Woodbridge,
275,
do
<lo
" 14, Oakdale;
14,
Alcatraz,
244,
do
clo
"
314,
do
•lo
" 14, Temcscal,
11, Callayomi,
11, Martinez,
ll, Woodland,
11, Bear Mountain,
11, Hill's Ferry,
11, San Miguel, .
11, Brooklyn,
11, Presidio,
ll, Magnolia,
ll, Azusa,

22

Geperal.

Home.

82 15

57 00

45 25
l17 05
151 55
112 15
45 60
59 20
238 95
208 70
77 40
90 45
234 30
131 65
644 65
167 50
654 95
33 35
143 55
16 30
245 20
40 20
161 10
85 45
78 80
135 35
46 15
71 05
279 05
. 45 00
106 80
63 25
82 15
182 50
52 15
36 35
28 00
229 00
91 75
64 40
332 20
69 80

35 00
99 00
129 oo.
97 00
48 00
36 00
201 00
Hl6 00
72 00
71 00
214 00
87 00
607 00
150 oo
601 00
33 00
129 00
14 00
236 00
36 00
138 00
51 00
64 00
113 00
37 00
59 00
259 00
40 00
104 00
55 00
57 00
110 00
37 00
33 00
20 00
264 00
85 00
52 00
296 00
61 00

490

. PHOCEEDIKGS OF THE
Fund.

1906.

5
l

491

.GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

l

dues in full to
Aug. 14, George Washington, 62 · 31 'July, 1906. 5
286
do
do
''
14, Paeo Robles,
203,
do
do
''
14, Confidence,
38,
do
do
''
14, Santa Cruz,
28?,
do
do ·
''
14, Maxwell,
103,
do
do
''
14, Oroville,
144,
do
do
''
14, Oriental,
218,
do
do
''
14, Mosaic,
44,
do
do
''
14, Mount Moriah,
358,
do
do
''
14, Golden State,
207,
do
do
''
14, Anaheim,
328,
do
do
''
14, Redondo,
297,
do
do
''
14, Dunsmuir,
232,
do
do
''
14, Janesville,
353,
do
do
''
14, Pinole,
237,
do
do
''
14, Guadaloupe,
255,
do
do
14,
Welcome,
"
290,
do
do
" 14, East Gate,
46,
do
do
14,
Texas,
"
336,
do
do
15,
Fruitvale,
"
252,
do
do
15,
Bodie,
"
326,
do
do
" 15, Needles,
243,
do
do
15,
Eucalyptus,
"
185,
do
do
" 15, Claiborne,
129,
do
do
15,
Nicolaus,
"
360,
do
do
" 15, San Francisco,
253,
do
do
15-,
Landmark,
"
370,
flO
do
" 15, Amity, ,
271,
do
do
" 15, Snow Mountain,
264,
do
do
15,
Hesperian,
"
340,
do
do
15,
Santa
Maria,
"
272,
do
do
15,
Pasadena,
"
tlo
do
220,
15,
Downey,
"
307,
do
do
" 15, Santa Monica,
<lo
150,
do
15,
Molino,
"
199,
do
do
" 15, Hattley,
318,
do
do
" 15, Emam1el,
do
do
15, Speranza Italiana, 219,
"
269,
do
do
15, Olive Branch,
"
355,
do
do
15,
Hollywood,
".,
89,
do
do
15, Rose's Bar,

General.

Home.

41 80

44 00

Aug. 15, Quitman,

67 95
24 85
203 60
23 75
148 55
370 25
108 60
329 40
210 65
66 30
125 10
131 60
51 10
63 35
41 20
128 50
414 80
33 45
151 15
40 90
61 10
78 35
51 55
74 55
204 45
39 45
160 25
25 65
142 90
92 00
377 00
65 20
fHl 20
48 65
92 75
44 65
167 60
94 30
126 90
32 70

61 00
23 00
168 00
25 00
129 00
335 00
88 00
312 00
127 00
54 00
78 00
88 00
38 00
53 00
36 00
90 00
324 00
31 00
97 00
42 00
58 00
73 00
49 00
69 00
131 00
31 00
55 00
27 00
102 00
60 00
300 00
56 00
96 00
47 00
85 00
47 00
148 00
94 00
82 00
26 00

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

1906.

"
"
"
"
"
"

15, Surprise Valley,
15, Palestine,
15, San Fernando,
15, Alhambra, ·
15, Madison,
17, Fallbrook,
17, Hope,
17, Alturas,
17, Pajaro,
17, Lassen,
17, Santa Ana
17, Stanislaus,
17, San Simeon,
17, Naval,
23, Palestine,
23, Northern Light,

23, Piufaite Union,
23, Mariposa,
23, Golden Gate,
" 23, Elk Gro.ve,
" 23, Mount Zion,
" 23, Fe,r:hdale,
" 23, Inyo,
" 23, Covelo,
" 23, Selma,
" 23, Tyrian,
" 23, Ontario,
" 23, Ashfar,
" 281 Calistoga,
" 28, King Solomon's,·
" 28, Loyalton,
" 28, Morning Star,
" 28, Durant,
Sep. 4, Athens,
4, Ocean Park,
"
4, Adin,
"
4, Buckeye,
"
" 4, Consuelo,
4, Oceanic,
"

Fund.

5dues in full to (
88

5

General.

Home.

26 60

28 00

' ( 31 July, 1906.
235,
do
do
33 45
351,
181 50
do
do
343,
do
56 55
do
322,
90 55
do
do
do
23,
do
139 40
· do
29 70
317,
do
59 20
234,
do
do
40 05
do
do
. 248,
114 20
110,
do
do
94 45
149,
do
do
241,
226 55
do
do
do
206,
67 ~o
do
do .
36 45
196,
do
276 15
87,
do
do
351, disp. to re ballot 10 00
Jdues in full to/ 51 60
19'0,
( 31 July, 1906. 5
do
do
129 70
17,
62 35
24,
do
do
447 85
30,
do
do
62 95
173,
do
do
21 00
114,
do
do
102 55
193,
do
do
221,
56 55
do
do
231,
49 60
do
do
277,
98 65
do
do
do
do
284,
41 40
do
do
301,
100 60
do
do
306,
142 30
23~,
73 95
do
do
260,
545 75
do
do
44 30
do
359,
do
192 05
do
do
68,
363 05
268,
do
do
59 35
228,
do
do
92 70
do
do
369,
31 40
do
do
250,
113 20
do
do
195,
50 50
325,
do
. .do
do
do
115 10
371,

31 00
130 00
49 00 .
69 00
132 00
26 00
56 00
39 00
116 00
91 00
209 00
64 00
'31 00
237 00
48 00
126 00
53 00
423 00
61 00
20 00
89 00
49 00
48 00
87 00
32 00
88 00
94 00
61 00
485 \JO
34 00
179 00
319 00
53 00
46 00
32 00
76 00
50 00
114 00

Fund.

1906.

Sep.

4, Sacramento,

"
"

4, Clay,
10, Alamo,
10, Arcata,
10, Palmyra,
10, Western Star,
11, Cavite,
11, Curtis,
12, Grafton,
12, Reading,
12; Plumas,
. 14, Volcano,
14, Gra'Vel Range,
·15, Crockett,
15, Antioch,
18, Newville,
18, ·Kilauea,
22, Manila.,

"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"

24, Gardena,

26, Artesia,
26, Veteran,
29, .l<'illmore,
Oct. 1, Jewel,
1, Richmond,
"
" 1, Francis Drake,
" 2, Mizpah,
3, Oceanside,
"
4, Highland Park,
"

"

Jdues in full to l

General.

Home.

190 80

184 00

40; l31 July, 1906.\
101,
do
do
62 05
do
do
67 20
122,
106,
do
do
95 95
do
do
202 90
26,
119 20
do ·
do
2,
112 00
do
do
350,
48 55
do
do
140,
24 70
do
do
141,
124 40
do
do
254,
94 80
do
do
60,
52 20
do
do
56,
. 22 80
do
do
59,
331 30
do
do
139,
82 40
do
do
175,
50
80
do
do
205,
102 75
do
do
330,
'do
do
316 00
342,
Jdues in full to 54 60
U. D. 30 Sept., 1906.
do
do
61 50
U. D.
do
do
124 55
U. D.
42 70
do
do
U. D.
82 40
do
do
U. D.
103 00
do
do
U. D.
55 85
do
do
U. D.
88 35
do
do
U. D.
24 05
do
do
U. D.
U. D. dis. to open Lodge 75 00

6, Huntington Beach, U . D.

l

l
J

Jdues in full to~

l 30 Sept., 1906.

493

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE .

492

26 10

59 00
56 00
101 00
162 00
116 00
68 00
49 00
26 00
112 00
44 00
36 00
24 00
314 00
72 00
44 00
117 00
256 00

3Ju flrmnrtam.
ABRAHAM HALSEY, P. M.
California Lodge, No. 1. ........... Died September 28, 1905
JOHN KIRKPATRICK, P. M.
California Lodge, No. 1. .......... Died September 21, 1905 ·
ISAAC NEWTON McCULLOCH, P. M.
Tuolumne Lodge, No. 8 ..... ....... . .. Died October 31, 1905
WILLIAM BARKER, P. M.
Nevada Lodge, ~o. 13 ... . , ......... Died December 11, 1905

28 00
30 00
69 00
26 00
32 00
40 00
23 00
33 00
19 00
18 00

Total amounts received to October 6, 1906 .... $39,495 80 $33,769 00
Making an aggregate sum of. ................... ·: .... $73,264 8:)

JOHN CALDWELL, P. M.
Nevada Lodge, No. 13 ......... , . ... Diej]. February 14, 1906
BENJAMIN DULANEY DUNNAM, P. M.
Eureka Lodge, No. 16 ........ . ....... Died January 29 1906
I

•'

PRESLEY THOMAS JOHNSTON, P. M.
Washington Lodge, No. 20 .............. Died July 14, 1906

·

WILLIAM FESSENDEN ALLEN, P. M.
Hawaiian Lodge, No. 21. ....... . ... . Died February 4, 1906

1

THEOPHILE LE BOEUP, · P. M.
Georgetown Lodg~, No. 25 ............ Died January 20, 1906
ANDREW MIDDLEMESS SHIELDS, P. M.
Yuba Lodge, No. 39 ................. Died January 20 1 1906
. EDWARD JAMES CROLY, P. M.
Sacramento Lodge, No. 40 ............ Died January 6, 1906

494

MOURNING

p AGES OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

3Jn i11ttmnriam.

3Jn ilrmnriam.

HUGH MAXWELL, P. M.
Crescent Lodge, No. 45 .... .... ... . Died November 29, 1905

ALBERT SHERBURNE, P . M.
..tlamo Lodge, No. 122 ..... .... .. .. .... . . Died April 4, 1906

ABNER · ELIAS CHARLES, P. M .
Suisun Lodge, No. 55 ... ............... Died March 10, 1906

WILLIAM THURSTON SEARLES, P. M.
La Fayette Lodge, No. 126 ..... . . .. . .... Died May 21, 1906

WILLIAM CORYDON SHELDON, P. M .
Suisun Lodge, .No. 55 .. . . ........ ..... Died January 26, 1906

JOHN CORNELIUS GOAD, P. M.
Visalia Lodge, N,o. 128 . . .. .. .... . .. Died September 25, 1905

JOHN RIPLEY WRIGHT, P. M.
Santa Rosa Lodge, No. 57 ... ; . . . . .... .. Died August 5, 1905

WILLARD PEMBERTON INGLISH, P. M .
"Vacaville Lodge, No. 134 . .... . . .. ... Died September 7, 1905

JAMES TODD GARDINER, P. M.
Live Oak Lodge, No. 61. . . ... .... . ... Died January 30, 1906

JOHN FITZMAURICE KENNEDY. P . M .
Pacific Lodge, No. 136 ....... .... .... . .. Died May 15, 1906

JOSEPH CAVIN SIMPSON,' P. M.
Live Oak Lodge, No. 61 .. . ..... ... ..... . Died May 27, 1906

GOTTLOB CHARLES GROEZINGER, P. M.
Crockett Lodge, No. 139 .. .. ........ . Died April 18, 1900

.

.

,

I

WALLACE KAY, P. M.
Amador Lodge, No. 65 . . . ... ........... Died March 25, 1906

WILLIAM REED LOW, P. M.
Crockett Lodge, No. 139 . . . . . . .. ... ... ... Died May 31, 1906

JAMES FRANKLIN THOMPSON, P. M.
Humboldt Lodge, No. 79 ... ... . . . . . . Died D ecember 27, 1905

WILLIAM JOHNSTON, P. G. M .
Franklin L odge, No. 143 .. ....... . . Died November .16, 1905

JOSEPH A. FLINT, P. M .
Rose 's Bar Lodge, No. 89 .......... . . Died March 28, 1906

THOMAS KYLE, P. M.
Oriental Lodge, No. 144 .. . .... . .. .. .. Died August 19, 1905

HIRAM NEWTON RUCKER, P. G. M.
La Grange Lodge, No. 99 . .. .- .. ... .. . Died December 14, 1905

JACOB SOPER GOULD, P. M .
Gibsonville Lodge, No. 158 . .. .. . . ...... Died March 25, 1906

SETH SPRAGUE BOYNTON, P. M.
Oroville Lodge, No. 103 . ..... ........ Died February 28, 1906

GEORGE FREDERICK CHALMERS, P. M .
Alameda Lodge, No. 167 . . .. . . ...... Died Decemb er 26, 1905

495

4S)6

MOURNING

•

p AGES OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

3Ju ilrmnrtam.

3Ju ilrmnrtam.

WILLIAM HEESER, P. M.
Mendocino Lodge, No. 179 ... .... ... . ... Died April 8, 1906

JAMES MILLINGTON, P. M.
Oak Grove Lodge, No . . 215 .. . . . .... .. . . . Died April 15, 1906

JAMES LEVIN NICHOLS, P. M.
K orthern Light Lodge, No. 190 ..• . .. Died February 23, 1906

WILLIAM BRAI~BRIDGE STOREY, P. M.
Oak Grove Lodge, No. 215 . .. . .. .. .. Died September 9, 1905

WILLIAM ISAAC WEBSTER, P. M.
Ferndale Lodge, No. 193 ........ .... . Died October 7, 1905

CHARLES DRINKWATER HAYES, P . M.
B rooklyn Lodge, No. 225 ... . . . . ...... . Died January 13, 1906

THOMAS ROWE, P. M.
Truckee Lodge, No. 200 . . .. . . .. ... . . . Died.February 24, 190()

•

WARD SPOONER WILLIAMS, P. M .
Athens Lodge, No. 228 ............. Date of death unknown
WHITCOMB HENLEY, P. M.
Covelo L odge, No. 231. ... .... . ....... . .. Died June 9, 1906

JOHN WILL1AM McFADYEN, P. M.
Silveyville Lodge, No. 201. ........ .. Died September 6, 1905
,•

HENRY ACKSON ROSS, P. M .
Siiveyville Lodge, No. 201 ..... .• ..... . Died March 21, 1906

JOSEPH BAILEY COOKE, P . M.
Colusa Lodge, No. 240 ............... Died August 3, 1905

IBEBY BARROW, P . M.
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202 .. . ......... Died Auglist 22, 1905

GEORGE HADSELL, P . M .
Alcatraz Lodge, No. 244 ............. Died September 4, 1905

ANDREW NICHOLS, P. M.
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202 ....... . ... Died F ebruary 26, 1906

JOSEPH HOLLYWOOD, P. M.
Alcatraz Lodge, No. 244 .. . . .... .... . Died December 6, 1905

JAMES HENRY MILLER, P. M .
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202 . . . . . .. . ... ... .. Died May 1, 1906

HENRY STOWELL, P. M.
Hesperian Lodge, No. 264 .. . .... .... Died November 10, 1905

WILLIAM VICTOR McGARVEY, P. M.
Salinas Lodge, No. 204 . .. .. .. .. . .. . .. . . Died March 3, 1906

WILLIAM HENRY PABST, P. M.
Orland Lodge, No. 265 .. .. .. . . .... .. Died November 3, 1905

GEORGE THOMAS SHAW, P . M .
South San Francisco Lod·g e, No. 212 .... .. Died June 13, 1906

JOSEPH McCLAIN, P. M .
Durant Lodge, No. 268 . .. . . .. . .. .. .,. Dietl November 18, 1905

,

497

498

MOURNING PAGES OF THE

3Jn flrmnrtam.
WILLIAM BOSBYSHELL, P. M.
Southern California Lodge, No. 278 .... Died January 4, 1906
ALFRED ROGER BOOTH, P. M.
Paso Robles Lodge, No. 286 ......_.. ... . Died March 15, 1906
JOHN GEORGE SCHROEDER, P. M.
Paso Robles Lodge, No. 286 ........... . .. Died July 7, 1906
ANDREW JEWELL, P. M.
Mount Jackson Lodge, No. 295 . ...... . . Died March 19, 1906
FRANCIS MARION CULP, P. M.
Santa Monica Lodge, No. 307 .......... . . Died June 10, 1906
THOMAS CROSS POCKMAN, P. M.
Sisson Lodge, No. 310 ................... Died April 14; 1906
JAMES HENRY SAYRE, P. M.
Sanger Lodge, No. 316 . .. . . .. ....... . . .. Died July 26, 1906
JOHN RICHARD SLATER, P. M.
Corona· Lodge, No. 324 .. . ............ Died November 3, 1905
EDMUND DANFORTH, P. M.
Loyalton Lodge, No. 359 .. ..... ..... Died September 10, 1905
CLARENCE MORTIMER WHITE, P. M.
Oceanic Lodge, No. 371. ................ Died March 6, 1906

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

499

AMENDMENTS
AMENDMENT

TO

THE

CONSTITUTION.

Sec. 2, Art. ·I, Part III, adding, after the words, "the lectures
thereunto appertaining":
Provided, always, that whenever the nearest or most convenient
chartered Lodge refuses to grant its recommendation, the Grand
Master may, if after full investigation he deems it to be for the best
interests of Masonry, grant such dispensation without any such recommendation having been gi11en.
AMENDMENT TO GENERAL REGULATION No. 57.

Substitute, aft er the words, '' su_m not exceeding,'' the word ''ten''
for the word ''five.''
NEW GENERAL REGULATION.

No. 82. No Junior Warden of a Lodge shall be installed until he
shall have produced to the installing officer the certificate of the
Grand Lecturer or of the Inspector of the district in which his
Lodge is situated, certifying that he has personally examined such
Junior Warden-elect and that he is qualified to give the work and
lecture of the First Degree; and ·no Senior Warden shall be installed
until he shall have produced a like certificate of his qualification to
give the work and lectures of the First and Second Degrees. Such
eertifica tes shall be sent to the Grand Secretary and filed in his office.

· ··~-~

·· ···91 ··· ··27.~

Willamette
11 Portland ....... . ... Oregon Ter . . .·.. ... .
::::::
'
"
"
Yount .... .. .. . . . 12 Napa .............. Napa ..... ......• .. . May
6, 1851,
ilO .. .. ..
6
125
Note-Those Lodges in the present list marked thus • have surrendered their charters-those marked thus t have
had their charters revoked-those ma~ked thus t are now under the jurisdiction of t he Grand Lodge of Oregon-those
marlrnd thus § are now under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Nevada-those marked thus II are now under the
jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Arizona-and those marked thus ,i have consolidated as follows : Marysville, No. 9,
and Corinthian, No. 69, under the designation of Corinthian, No. 9; Saint John's, No. 37, and Siskiyou, No. 105, µnder
the designation of·Saint John's, No. 37; Tuolumne, No. 8, Mount Jefferson, No. 107, and Columbia, No. 28, under the
designation of Tuolumne, No. 8; Colusa, No. 142, and Equality, No. 240. · under the designation of Colusa, No. 240 ;
Saint Louis, No. 86, and Gibsonvllle, No. 158, under the designation of Gibsonville, No. 158; Mokelumne. No. 31, and
Calaveras, No. 78, under the designation of Calaveras, No. 78; Natoma, No. 64, and Latrobe, No. 189, und er the designation of Natoma, No. 64; Nebraska, No. 71, a nd Ione, No. 80. under the designation. of Ione, No. 80 ; Sincerity, No. 132,
a nd Greenville, No. 249, under the designation of Sincerity, No. 132; Calaveras, No. 78, and Campo Seco, No. 100, under
the designation of Calaveras, No. 78; Georgetown, No. 25, a nd Pilot Hill, No. 160, under the designation of Georgetown,
No. 25; and Petaluma, No. 77, and Arcturus, No. 180, under the designation of Petaluma, No. 180; Hueneme, No. 311,
and Oxnard, No. 341, under the designation of Oxnard, No. 341, and Palmyra, No. 151, and Eldorado. No. 26, under the
designation of Palmyra, No. 26.
George Johnson, Grand Secretary.

t
8

0

ti

Cl
t;I
lfJ.

0

>zj .

,..,,
II:
t;I

•

9
10

t
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
~

*

23
~
24
25
t
26
•
27
28
29

ao

31
32
33
34
35
36

N£vada .. ...... . 13,Nevada ............ Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . .
Temple . . . ... . . . . . I ! Sonoma . .. ........ . Sonoma . . . . . . . . . . . .
La Fayette ...... 15 'La Fayette ....... . Oregon Ter.. ... ....
Eureka .......... 16 Auburn .. .. ..... .. Placer . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parfaite Union .. 17 1San Franeisco .... .. San Francisco . . . . . .
Mountain Shade .. 18 1Downieville .... ... . Sierra . . . . . . . . . . . . .
San Joaquin . ..... 19 1Stockton ... . ....... San.Joaquin . .. . . . . .
Washington ...... 20,Sacramento ...... .. Sacramento . . . . . . . .
Hawaiian . . ..... 21 Honolulu, H. T ..... . Hawaiian Ter.......
Occidental . . . . . . . 22 San Francisco ....... San Francisco . . . . . .
Madison ... .... . . 23. IGrass Valley .... ... Nevada . . .. ... , . . . .
Mariposa . .. . . ... 2i Mariposa . ... ..... . . Mariposa . . . . . . . . . ..
Georgetown . . . . . 25 <.+eorgetown ........ El Dorado . . . . . . . . . .
Palmyra .. . . ..... 26 Placerville .. .... .. . El Dorado . . . . . . . . . .
Trinity . ... . ..... 27 Weaverville ........ Trinity . . . . . . . . . . . .
Columbia ... ..... 28 Columbia .......... Tuolumn e . . . . . . . . . •
Diamond . . . . . . . . 29 Diamond Springs .· .. El Dorado . . . . . . . . . .
Golden Gate . . . . . 30 3an Francisco .... . . . San Francisco . . . . . .
Mokelumne ...... 31 Mokelumne Hill . . .. Calaveras . . . . . . . . . .
Gold Hill . . . . . . . . 32 Lincoln .. .. .. .. .... Placer . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ophir .. . . .... . . . 33 Murphy's ..... ... .. Calaveras . . . . . . . . . .
Santa Clara . . .... 34 Santa Clara .. . . . ... Santa Clara . . . . . . . .
San Di<'go . . ... .. 35 San Diego ... . . . ... San Diego . . . . . . . . .
Butte ........... 36 Bidwell . ... ~ ....... Butte . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. John's ..•. .... 37 Yreka ...... : .. ... . . Siskiyou . . . . . . . . . . .
Santa Cruz ...... 38 Santa Cruz ..... .... Santa Cruz . . . . . . . . .
Yuba . ...•. _.... 39 Marysville ......... Yuta . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sacramento . . . . . . 40 Sacramento ........ Sacramento . . . . . . . .
Martinez . . . . . . . . 41 Martinez ....... . ... Contra Costa . . . . . . .
Los Angeles. . . . . . 42 Los Angeles ... ... .. Los Angeles . . . . . . . .
Hiram . . . . . . . . . . 43 El Dorado :......... . E l Dorado . . . . . . . . . .
Mount Moriah ... 44 San Francisco ...... San Francisco . . . . . .
Crescent . . . ..... 45 Crescent City ..... .. Del Norte . . .. . . . . . ..
Texas .. .... ..... 46 San Juan .. ..... .. . San Benito . . . . . . . . .

May
"
"
Nov.
May
"
"
"
''
"
"
"
"
''
"
"
"
''
"
''
"
''
"
May
"
"
"
"
"
''
"
''
"
"

6, 1851.
"
"
9,
"
7,
"
5, 1852.
"
"
"
"
"
"
''
''
20,
"
5, 1853.
"
"
"
"
6,
''
"
"
5,
"
"
"
''
''
"
"
''
''
"
"
''
''
7,
"
3, 1854.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
5,
''
3,
"
''
''
"
"
4,
"

50 ......
6
147
30 11-2 12
59
.... ..
. ....... .. ... . .
50 ......
6
65
75
5 12
126
30 ....•.
6
.41
. 50 .. ....
6
208
7
10
6
100
50
5 12
264
100 . .. . ..
9
524
53 ..... .
8
132
50
5
6
5::1
33 .. ....
6
48
30
5
6
162
30 ...... 12
63
. .. .. . .. . ... .. .... ... .... ..
... .... ..... . .... ... .. .. .. .
75 10 12
423
.. .... .... . .
50 1 6
56
50
4
6
59
...... ... ... ......
50 ... .. .
6
236
... ... ..... .
30
1
6
98
30
1
6
168
50 .. ... .
6
77
75 10
8
184
30 . .. . ..
6
99
50 . . . . . .
6
288
30 . . . ...
6
27
75 10
9
312
35 .. ....
6
64
30
I
31

4'.)
::0

>

z
t:;)
r
0t:;)

§ii
~

0

~

l::rj
·
0
::0

z
>

01

8

42 Union .... .. . ·... .
43 Gravel Ran ge .. . 59 Campton ville . . ..... Ynba . ... ......... .
44 Plumas .. . ...... . 60 Quincy ............ Plumas .. . ........ .
45 Live Oak ....... . 61 Oakland ... . .. . ..... Alameda . : . .' .... : . .
46 Geo. Washington .. 62 Chinese Camp ... . .. Tuolumne . . . '. ..... .
* Iowa Hill . ..... . 63 Iowa liill .. .. ...... Placer .. ...... • ... .
47 Naton.1a .. ... . .. . 64 Folsom ..... ... , .... Sacramento .. . .... .
48 Amador .. ...... . 65 Jackson ... .. . ...... Amador ........... .
49 Forest ......... . 66 Alleghany .... .. .... Sierra ............ .
* Minnesota .. .. .. . 67 Minnesota .. ... .... Sierra ............ .
50 Morning St::r .. .. . 68 Stockton ........... Stockton .......... .
69 Marysville .... . .... Yuba .. .... ....... .
1f Corinthian
51 Enterprise .. . .. . . 70 Yuba City ......... Sutter .. ._ ......... .
i! Nebraska . ... ... . 71 Michigan Bar ...... Sacramento .... .. . .

*
*
52

i!

53
54
55
56

*

57
58
t

1f

59
60
61
*
62
63
64
*
65
66
67
68
69

1f

70
71

82
73

1f

E. K . Kane ...... 72 Nevada .. : .......... Nevada . ... .. ......
Tyro ............ 73 Dry town . . .. . .. . ... Amador .. . . \ .......
Wisconsin Hill. .. 74 Wisconsin Hill ..... Placer . . ...........
Mountain Forest .. 75 Eureka North . ... .. Sierra . ............
Bear Mountain ... 76 Angel's Camp ...... Calaveras . . .. . .. . ..
Petaluma .. . ..... 77 Petaluma
. .. . .. Sonoma . .. .........
Calaveras ........ 78 San Andreas .. . .... Calaver as ......... .
Humboldt . . . . . . . 79 Eureka . . .. . . . . .. .. Humboldt .... . .... .
Ione . . ........ .. 80 Ione ... ... ......... Amador . . .. . . . . . .
Yolo . ... ........ 81 Yolo .... . .......... Yolo .. .. ......... ..
Mountain ....... 82 Don P edro's Bar .... Tuolumne . . . . . ... . .
Rising. Star. . . . . . . 83 Forest Hill .... .. ... Placer . ... . ... . .. ..
Vesper .......... 84 Red Bluff .......... Tehama ... ........ .
Saint :Mark 's .... . 85 riymouth . . .. . .. . .. Amador . ........ . ..
Saint Louis ...... 86 Howland Flat .. .... Sierra . . .. . .. .. . .. .
Naval ........... 87 Vallejo .. .......... Solano . . . . . .. . . . . ..
Quitman .... ..... 88 North Bloomfield ... . Nevada . . .. . ... .. . .
Rose's Bar .... : .. 89 Sruartsville .... . .... Yuba . . .. .... . .. ...
Polar Star . ...... 90 Poorman 's Creek .... Plumas . ......... . .
North Star . ... . . 91 l!'ort Jones ......... Siskiyou . . .. . . ...
Acacia ...... .... 92 Coloma . . .. . .. . . . .. El Dorado ..........
St. Helena.'. ...... 93 St. Helena .. ....... Napa ..............
Mount Hermon . .. 94 Elizabethtown ...... Plumas . . .. . .. . .. . .
Henry Clay . . . . . . 95 Sutter Cr eek ........ Amador ......... . ..
Howard ... .... . . 96 Yreka .............. Siskiyou . . .. . ... .. .
Jefferson . . . . . . . . 98 La Porte ........... Plumas .. ....... ...
Hornitos ..... ... 99 Hornitos . ... . .. . ... Mariposa . . .. . ... . ..
La Grange ...... 99 Merced . . .......... Merced . .... . .. ....
Campo Se~ ...... 100 Campo Seco ........ Calaveras ..... .. . ..
Clay . .. . ..... ... 101 Dutch Flat ......... Placer .. ......... . .
Manzanita ....... 102 North San Juan ..... Nevada . .. .. . . .. ...
Oroville ......... 103 Oroville ............ Butte . . ... .. . .. ..
Lexington ....... 104 El Monte .... . ..... Los Angeles ....... .
Siskiyou ........ :105• enley .... . ........ Siskiyou ...... . ....

.. ..

..

..

"
"
"

"
"

"
"
""
"
"

3,

.

"

'"
"

..
.."

May
,; ~

"
"

"

.July
May
,,

"
..
"
.."

.., ,
•'

..

..
"
....
.."..
"

"
"
.."

..,,

"
2,
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
."
"
"

2,

1855.

'·
"

"

30 .... ..
50 ......
50 ......
50 .. ....

8
6
6
6

24
44
601
44

50 .... ..

~8\ .....1.

6"

64
75
33

50..... ..

6

179

5

4

146

...... ...... ...... .. ... ... .
...... ...... ..... . .........
...... ..... . .. .... . .... ... .
. .. . .. ... ... ... ... ·· ······ ·
97
3
tl
50
... ... .... .. ...... . .........
50 ..... . 12
73
276
6
50 ......

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
4
"
6
1,'
30 ......
4!1
"
8, 1836.
33
6
30 .. ....
...... .... .. ....... ...... ...
"
"
5
6
54
30
'"
"
12G
30
5
6
"
"
...... ... ... .. .... .. .......
!l,
"
... . .. ... ... ...... .........
8,
"
50
5
6
237
"
"
50
6
6
28
"
"
30
5 12
26
"
"
"
"
······ . .. .. ...... .... .....
3\l
35
5
6
"
"
21
30
5
6
"
"
30
l
9
83
"
"
.. .. ... ... .... .. ... ..... .
"
"
67
40
6
"
=~
"
77
30 ... .. .
6
"
"
37
30
6
6
"
"
50
30
5
6i
"
"
50
6;
08
"
"
..... . ... ... .... .. .... .. ....
"
"
50
5
60
3
"
"
50 ... ...
6
34
"
"
35 10
6 . 129
"
"
1
30
6
48
"
"
3,
2,

15,

"

~
U1
0

"'1

6
fl

50

ti

.. .......... . . . . . . . . .......

~t:rj

Q
~

>

zt::l .

r0

t::l

Cl
t_rj

0

r:r::

a
~

~

0

~

z
H

>

<:.n
0
c.:>

Concord ......... Ili Sacramento ..... .. . Sacramento .. . .... .
Vallecito ... .... . 118 Vallecito ........... Calaveras .. ." ...... .
82 Clinton ......... ll!J Igo ................ Shasta .. . ......... .
83 Fidelity ...... , .. 120 San Francisco .-. .... San Francisco . : .. : .
84 Ionic .. ..... .. ... 121 Iowa Hill .. .... .. .. Placer ........ . .. . .
85 Alamo ......... ·.. 122 Walnut Creek ...... Contra Costa ...... .
86 Sotoyome ........ I23 Healdsburg ......... Sonoma· ........... .
87 Table Mountain .. I24 Cherokee ........... Butte .......... . .. .
Progress ......... 125 San Francisco .. : . .. San Francisco . . ... .
t
88 La Fayette ...... 126 Sebastopol .... . .... Sonoma .. . ......... .
89 . Hermann. . ....... 127 San Francisco ...... San Francisco . . . .. .
90 Visalia .......... 128 Visalia . .. .... .. ... ; Tulare ......... ·... .
91 Nicolaus ........ 129 Wheatland ......... Yuba · ..... ·. ~ .. . ... .
.Unity .. , ..... . .. 130 San Bernardino ..... San Bernardino .... .

81

*

~

Woodbridge ..... I31 Woodbridge ........ San Joaquin ... .. ...
Sincerity . . . . . . . . I32 Taylorsville .... .. .. Plumas . ...........
Yosemite . .. ..... I33 Coulterville ... ... . . Mariposa . .... ......
Vacaville ........ I34 Vacaville .......... Solano . ............
Valley . . . . . . . . . . I35 Linden ...... ... .... San Joaquin . ... ...
Pacific .......... 136 San Francisco ...... San Francisco . .....
Oro Fino ........ I37 Oro Fino ........... Siskiyou ....... ....
Violet . . . . . ... . . . . 138 Spanish Flat .. ..... El Dorado ..........
98 Crockett . ... .... 139 San Francisco .. .... San Francisco ......
99 Curtis ........... I40 Cloverdale ....... . . Sonoma .. . ....... ..
100 Grafton ... .... .. I41 Grafton .......... .. Yolo .. .. .. ... ... ...
Colusa ...... . .... 142 Colusa ......... ... . Colusa . ............
101 Franklin ........ I43 Courtland .... . ····· Sacramento ... .. . . .
I02 Oriental ....... .. I44 San Francisco .... .. San Francisco .. . ...
103 Vitruvius ....... 145 Bloomfield .... . . . ... · Sonoma ....... .. ...
104 Abell . .. ......... I46 Ukiah ... . .. ... ..... Mendocino .... ... ..
105 Eel River ........ 147 Rohnerv ill e ......... Humboldt ...... .. ..
* San Luis Obispo .. 148 San Luis Obispo . .... San Luis Obispo . .. ..
106 Lassen .......... I49 Susanville ......... . Lassen ...... .. . ....
I07 Molino .......... I50 Tehama ......... ... Tehama .. .. .. ... ...
iT Palmyra ......... I 51 I:' lacer:vill e ........ . . El Dorado ... ... ....
* Josephus .... . .... I 52 Brnsh Cr eek ...... .. Butte ........ .. . ...
Rising Sun .... . . 153 Brandy City ..... ... Sierra .............
§ Carson .... ... ... 154 Car~on City ........ Nevada Ter. .......
* Mount Carmel . . . I55 Red Dog ... .. . .. ·.. . Nevada .. ...... ....
108 Woodland .. ..... I56 Woodland ........ . . Yolo ......... ......
§ Washoe ... ...... I57 Washoe City ....... Nevada Ter.........
I09 Gibsonville ...... I58 Gibsonville . .. .... . . Sierra .. .... .. .....
. . .. . .. . Santa Clara .. .. . . . .
* Gilroy .......... 159 •J-ilroy
iT • Pilot Hill ........ I60 Pilot Hill ........ .. . El Dorado .... .... ..
llO Keystone ........ I61 Milton ... ....... ... Calaveras ..... ... ..
§ Virginia City .... I62 Virginia Citv ... . . . . Nevada Ter.........
a Silver City ...... 163 Silver City : ........ Nevada Ter. . ... ....
Ill Harmony ........ I64 JSierra City ......... !Sierra .............
92
93
94
95
96
97

,

"

May

13,

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"'

"
"
"

1858.

"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
1839.
"
"

May

I3,

I859.

"
"
"
May
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"

"

.

"
""
"
"
"
"

May

"

"

May

"
"
"
"
"
May
"
"
"
"
"

May

"
"
"
"

"
".
"

"

Oct.

"
"

14,
13,

11,
10,

"
"
IBM.
"

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"c.t
"
I861.

"
"
"

"
"

"I6,

I 7,
I6,
15,

"

"
"
"
I862.
"

"

"
"
"

I4,

I863 .

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

I6,
I5,

"

15,
I3,

"

"
"
"
"
"
"

I864.

:::~.~30 ::f~
:::::f
.:::Y.~33
......
6

tl

IOO 10 I2
50
5
6
30 ...... . 6
30
5
6
50 ......
6

0
"".l
H

442
20
56
I39
50

······ ...... .............. .
40 ......
75 10
50
8
. 30
]

5
I2
6
4

92
I73
I2<J
69

30 .. : .. .
5
30
30 ......
30 . .. ...
30 ......
5
75

6
6
9
6
6
9

.85
20
107
46
490

75 10
30 ......
30
5

12

3I4

1
50
75 10
I
30
30 . .....
40
5

6
I2

6
'19
26
6
...... ...... ...... ..... ....

6
6

59
335
50
105
104

...... ...... ...... .... ... ..
30
30

1
1

6
6

II:
l':l

~5

.... .. ...... ...... ·········
...... ...... . .... .

6

~
w

91
47

.. .... ··· ··· ...... ·········
.. .... ... ... ...... ....... ..
...... .... .. ...... .... .. ...
...... . ..... ...... . ...... ..
. . .... ...... ...... ·········
30.
l

.6

I29

50 ..... .

6

22

...... ...... ..... . .. .......

0!;O

~

zt:l
t'i

0

@
0

1-:rj

a
~

~

0

!;O

z......

?"

...... . .... . ...... . ...... . .
. . .. .... .. . . ···· ·· ···· ·····

3

36

...... ...... .... .. .... .. . ..
...... ...... ..... . ....... ..

30 21-2

01

6

l4

C.H

30 .... ..

0

"
Merced .......... 176 Snelling .......... . . Merced ........... .
Aztlan .......... 177 Prescott ... ..... ... Arizona Tcr ..... . .. . Oct.
"
11g Phoenix ......... 178 San Bernardino ..... San Bernardino .... .
"
120 Mendocino ...... 179 Mendocino .......... Mendocino ........ .
"
121 Petaluma ........ 180\Petaluma .. .. ..· .... Sonoma ........... .
"
122 Russian River . _ .. 181 Windsor .......... . Sonoma ........... .
Oct.
123 Meridian ........ 182 College City . .... : .. Colusa . . ........... ··
"
124 Clear Lake ...... 183 Lower Lake .... ... . Lake ............. .
"
125 Sierra Valley .... 184 Sierra ville ..... .... Sierra .. ... ... . ... .
"
126 Claiborne .. .. .... 185 Point Arena .. .. .... M endocino .. . . . .. . .
"
127 Evening Star .... 186 Etna Mills ..... . ... Siskiyou .......... .
128 Keith . .... ...... 187\Gil,roy .. ...... : .... Santa Clara .. . .... . Oct.
"
129 Oakland ......... 188 Oakland .... . ...... .-\ lameda .......... .
"
if . Latrobe .... . .... 189\ Latrobe .... .... ... El Dorado ......... .

•

11

130 Northern Light ... 190 Millville ........... Shasta ... ...... ... •
131 Marin ........... 191 San Rafael ......... Marin .............
132 Santa Barbara .... 192 Santa Barbafa ..... Santa Barbara .....
133 Ferndale ........ 193 Ferndale ........... Humboldt ..........
134 Mountain View .. . 194 Mountain View .. .. . Santa Clara .. . .... ·.
135 :ijuckeye . .. : ..... 195 Wintere ........... Yolo .. . ...........•
136 · San Simeon ...... 196 Cambria ........... San Luis Obispo ....
• ·Paradise ........ 197 Haywards .... .. .. Alameda ......... ••
137 Wilmington . .... . 198 Wilmington
.. Los Angeles ........
138 Hartley ......... 199 Lakeport ··· ·· .. ... Lake . .............
139 Truckee ......... 200 Truckee ............ Nevada .... ... .....
140 Silveyville ...... 201 Dixon
..... Solano ...........•.
141 Pentalpha . . . . . . . 202 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
142 Confidence ...... 203 Castroville ......... Monterey
········
143 Salinas . . .. ...... 204 Salinas •........... Monterey
Glenn
..............
144 Newville . . . . . . . . 205 Newville ...........
145 Stanislaus ....... 206 Modesto ........... Stanislaus ·········
... .. .. Orange .. ..... .. ...•
146 Anaheim ........ 207 Anaheim
147 Rio Vista . ·...... 208 Rio Vista ........... Solano ............ ·.
148 King David's .... 209 San Luis Obispo ..... San Luis Obispo . . ...
·149 Friendship ...... 210 San Jose ........... Santa Clara ........
150 San Benito ...... 211 Hollister ........... San Benito .........
151 So. San Francisco.. 212 San Francisco ...... San Francisco .. ....
t Bodega .......... 213 Bodega ............ Sonoma ............
152 S. Buena Ventura 214 Ventura ........... Ventura ............
153 Oak Grove ...... 215 Alameda . .. .... .. . . Alameda ............
154 Doric .... . ....... 216 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ..... .
.. .. Monterey
155 Monterey ... ... . 217 Monterey
Alameda ......•....
156 Mosai.c .......... 218 Livermore
157 Speranza Italiana 219 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ......
158 Downey .. ....... 220 Downey ....... .... . Los Angeles ....... .
159 Inyo ............ 221 Independence ....... Inyo ....... ........
160 Granite ......... 222 Rocklin ......... .. . Placer .............
• Maui ............ 223 Wailuku ........... Hawaiian Ter .......

.

···· ··

········
....

..... .
...... ....

..
..........
.

"
"

11,

"
"

"

1866.

"
"

"

10,

"
"
1867.

"

"

"

1868.

"
"

"
"

"

"
"
"

Oct.

15,

1868.

"

"

"
"
1869.
"

"

Oct.

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"

15,

"

"

14,

"

"
"
"
'"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
" "
14, 1870.
" . ""
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
Oct.
14,
"
"
"
"
"'
"
"
"
"
"
"
..... ..... ""
"
Oct.
11,
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
Oct.
18,
Oct.

"
"
"
"

"

1871.

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
1872.
"
"
"
"
1873 .

·· ··· · ······ ······ ·········
50 .. ....
30 ... .. .

6

204

6

115

40
1
30
1
30 ......
30 ... .. .
30
2
50 .. .. ..
45 .. ....
30
1
. 50
1

6
6
6

208
71
·47

6

29

6
12
6
9
12

36
49
37
87
393

t:J

~
w
0

l'Xj

~trj

• • • •• • 1 • • • • • • 1 • • • • • • 1 • • • • • • • • •

. 35 ... .. .
50 ... ...
50 .... ..
40 .. . .. .
5
30
1
30
30 .. .. ..

6
12
6
9
6
6
6

48
137
109
89
57
76
31

······ ······6 ·········
33

30
30 .: ....
5
60
60 ......
75 20
36
.3

4-0 ......
1
35

5
30
30 ......
1
3
50 ......
50 .. .. ..
1
30
50 ......

6
6
9
6
6
6
6
6
6
12
6
6
6
12

85

108

60
513
23
131
44
64
54
.56
112
229
95
150

...... ... ... .........
50
6
2
50
9
75 ·. 25 12
1
40
6
50 ······
8
75 10 12
6
30 ······
1
50
6
21-2 · 6

91
403
388
59
88
148
56
49
60

······ ...... ···· ·· .........

42

!;i:I

>

zt:l
t"I

0

t:l

~
0

l'rj

a

>
t-1

t;tj

z~
~

.>

Ol
0

-:i

171 Surprise Valley ... 235 Cedarville ..... . .... \Modoc .... . ....... .
172 Hill's· Ferry ..... 236 Newman . . .. . ...... Stanislaus ......... .
173 Guadalupe . . ..... 237 Guadalupe ....... . . \Santa Barbara . .. . .
· * 'fyre . . ... . ...... 238 Gold Run . ... . ..... Placer . ..... . .. .. . .
* Pescadero ....... 239 P escadero .......... San Mateo ...... .. .
174 Colusa .......... 240 Colusa ... . .... . .... Col~sa . . ..... . . . . . .
175 Santa Ana ..... . 241 Santa Ana ........ . Orange ............ .
176 Magnolia . . . , .... 242 Santa Barbara ... . . . Santa Barbara ..... .
177 Eucalyptus .... . . 243 Haywards ... . ...... Alameda .......... .
178 Alcatraz .... . .... 244 West Oakland ...... Alameda ......... . .
179 Laurel .......... 245 Willows ............ i Glenn ...... . . ..... .
180 Pomona ... . ..... 246 Pomona . . .......... Los Angeles . ... ... .
181 Fresno .......... 24 7 Fresno ........ . .. . . Fresno . ........ . .. .
182 Alturas .. . ....... 248 Alturas ....... . .. . . 1Modoc ......... . .. .

,
183

*

184
185
186
187
188

II

189
190
191
192
193

II

194
195
196
197
198
199

t
200
201
202
203
204

*

205
206
207
208
209
210

Greenville ....... 249 Greenville .......... Plumas ....... . . . . .
Adin •........... 250 Adin . . ... . ........ Modoc .......... .. .
Brotherhood ... . . 251 Duncan's Mills ... . . Sonoma · ....... . . . . .
Bodie ........... 252 Bodie .. . ..... . .... . Mono ...... . ...... .
Landmark ....... 253 Madison .. . . . ..... . Yolo . . .... . . . .... .
Reading· ...... . . 254 Redding ....... . ... Shasta ........ . .. . .
Welcome .... ; ... 255 Lemoore ........... Tulare ............ .
Lodi ............ 256 Lodi ... . ..••....... San Joaquin ....... .
Arizona .. . ...... 257 Phoenix ........... Ar-izona '!'er .... . ... .
Penrhyn ......... 258 Penryn ..... . . . .. . . Placer ........ . ... .
Evergreen ....... 259 Riverside ........ . . Riverside .... ·. . ... .
King Solomon's .. 260 San Francisco . . . . . San Francisco .... . .
Tuscan .......... 261 Williams ........... Colusa ........... . .
Lompoc ......... 263 Lompoc ..... . .... . . Santa Barbara .... .
Tucson- .......... 263 Tucson . . .. .. .... . . Arizona 'fer ...... . . .
Hespeiran .... . .. 264 Santa Maria ........ Santa Barbara .... .
Orland ..... ... .. 265 Orland . . .. . . ... . . .. Glenn ..... . . . . ... ..
North East ..... . 266 Fort Bidwell . . ..... Modoc ............ .
Galt ....... . .... 267 Galt .......... . .... Sacramento .... . .. .
Durant .. .. .... . . 268 Berkeley ........... Alameda . . . . . ..... .
Olive Branch .... 269 Tulare ............. 'fulare ..... . ...... .
Fall River ....... 270 Glenburn . . ........ Shasta .... . ....... .
Snow Mountain ... 271 Stony Ford .. . .... . Colusa ............ .
Pasadena ...... . . 272 Pasadena ... . ...... Los Angelee .. . .... .
Anchor .......... 273 Compton .......... . Loe Angeles ..... . . .
Arroyo ... . .... . . 274 Arroyo Grande ... . . San Luis Obispo . . .. .
Oakdale ......... 275 Oakdale ............ Stanislaus ......... .
Westport . . ...... 276 Westport ..... . ..... Mendocino ........ .
Selma ........... 277 Selma . . ........... Fresno ........... . .
S'th 'n California 278 Los Angeles . . ...... Los Ane-eles ..... . . .
Hanford . . ...... 279 Hanford ........... Kings . . ........... .
Madera ......... 280 Madera ............ Madera ............ .
Mount Shasta ... 281 Anderson .......... Shasta ............ .
Callayo mi ........ 282 Middletown ........ Lake . ............ .

"
"
Oct.
"

"
Oct.
"
"
Oct.
"
"
Oct.

"

"

"

"
"12, 1876.
"
"
"

11,

1877. .

"

10,

1878.

"

"

"

"

-''

"
"

Oct.

10,

1878.

"

"

"
16,
"
"

"
"
1879.
"
"
"
.('

"
15,
"
"

"
1880.
"
"

"
Oct.
"

"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"

Oct.

"
Oct.
"

"
"

Oct.

"
"
Oct.
"

"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
Oct.
"

"
"

" 1881.
"
" "
12, 1882.
" "
" "
11, 1883.

15,

"
"
"
16,
"
"
"
"

6
6

50 .... . .

"

"
"14, 1875.

"
"

"

1884.

"
"
"
"

"
16,
"
"
"
14,

"
1885.

"

"

"

"
"
1886.

35 ······

···501::::::1···""6
501

1

g

501.. ····

12
6
6

~g ·····5 .

6

48

tj

36

~
w.

79

0

209
72
73

296

~1··· ··i i~

85
148
271
39

1

6

32

60 ......
30
1

12

42
31
112
.90

501
······
30 ··· ···

30

30 ......
30 ......

6
6
6
6

30 .. ....
50 .. ....
75 15
30 ... .. .
50
1

6
6
12
6
.6

47
212
485
53
76 .

35 ······
40
1
30 Hi
30 ..... .
75
5
30 .... . .

6
6
6
6
6
6

102
53·
35
31
319
94

30
1
50 ..... .

.6

27

3o ... ...

6

300

6

55

30 .... . .
30
1

6

6;

44

52

30 .... . .
75 15

6
6
6

87
607

~
6
6

82
38
35

50 ..... .

35 .. .. . .
55 ... ...
30 ... .. .
30 ..... .

9-1

>zj

1-3

p::
t>:l

~
z>tj
r0

~
0

~

a

~

0

~

1-1

?""

135
Ol

0

<:.o

221
222
223
224
225
226
227
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
235

236
237
238

Traver .......... 294 .t'raver ........ . .... Tulare ............ .
Mt. Jackson ..... . 295 Guerneyville ..... . . Sonoma ........... .
Silver Gate . ..... 296 San Diego .......... San Diego ......... .
Dunsmuir .. ..... 297 Dunsmuir .......... Siskinm .......... .
Mokelumne Hill ...298 Mokelumne Hill .....Calaveras ......... .
Liberty . .... ..... 299 Santa Clara ........ Santa Clara ....... .
Redlands ........ 300 Redlands ........... San B ernardino . ... .
Ontario. . . . .. • ~ .. 301 Ontario ........... . San Bernardino . . .. .
Santa Lucia .... .. 302 Kings' City ........ Monterey ...... '. .. .
Porterville . .... . . 303 Porterville ........ . 'fulare ............ .
Reedley ......... 304 Reedley ........... Fresno ............ .
Azusa . ..... .....305 Azusa ......... ... . Los Angeles ..... .. .
Ashlar .......... 306\Colton ... '. ......... San B ernardino .. .. .
Santa Monica . ... 307 Santa Monica .. ... . Los Angeles .. . . ... .

········
..
........
.. ...
········

Monrovia .. ..... . 308 Monrovia
Los Angeles ........
Delano .......... 309 Delano
Kern . ······· .. ....
Sisson .......... 310 Sisson ... ..
Siskiyou .. ... ... ...
Hueneme .. .. .... 311 HuenEme ........... V entura ............
239 Los Banos ....... 312 Los Banos ....... . . Merced ............
240 Tehachapi •...... 313 Tehachapi ....•....• Kern .... . ..... . ....
241 Temescal .. . ..... 314 Corona
Riverside .........
242 Norwalk · .........315 Norwalk ........... Los Angeles .... . ...
243 Sanger .......... 316 Sanger ............ Fresno .............
244 Fallbrook ........317 Fallbrook
San Diego ..... .. ...
245 Emmanuel . .. .... 318 Biggs .......... .... Butte . . . ...... . ....
246 Hollenbeck ...... 319 Los Angele~ ........ Los Angeles ........
247 · South Gate ...... 320 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
248 Alisa! ........... 321 Pleasanton ......... Alameda ........ ...
· 249 Alhambra ....... 322 Alhambra ..... ..... Los Angeles ........
250 Whittier ........ 323 Whittier . ...... . .. Los Angeles .. ... ...
251 Corona .. . .. . .... 324 Pasadena ...... .... Los Angeles . . . .....
252 Consuelo . ....... . 325 Escondido .... ... .. . San Diego ...........
253 Needles ......... 326 Needles ...•.... . ... San Bernardino .. . ..
254 Long Beach ..... 327 Long Beach •....•.. Los Angeles ........
255 Redondo ........ 328 Redondo ..... ...... Los Angeles ... .. .. .
256 Vallee de France 329 Los Angeles .. .. . .. . Los Angeles ..... ...
257 Kilauea ...•.... ,330 Hilo ......•........ Hawaiian Ter.......
258 Pacific Grove •... 331 Pacific Grove ....... Monterey ....... . . .
259 San Pedro ....... 332 San Pedro ...... -. ... Los Angeles ........
2'60 Alta •.....•..••• 333 Bridgeport .•....... Mono ... -. .. .. ......
261 Covina ...•...... 334 Covina ............. Los Angeles. .... .. . .
262 West Gate ....... 335 Los Angeles ......•. Los Angeles ........
263 Fruitvale ........ 336 Fruitvale .........• Alameda •..........
264 Carquinez · ... : ... 337 Crockett . ..... ··· · ·· Contra Costa .......
265 San Jacinto ..... 338 San Jacinto ........ Riverside ..... .....
266 Fullerton ........ 339 Fullerton . ... . . .. .. Orange . ... .. ..... .267 Santa Maria .. ... 340 Santa Maria ... . .... Santa Barbara ...•..
268 Oxnard .... . ..... 341 Oxnard .... ········ Ventura ..........-.

,

......... .. ..

........ ..

.

"

"
"
"

"

30 ..... .

"
"

30 .... ..
"
50 .... ..
"
50 .... ..
"
"
..
16, 1890.
I 505030 ....
.... ..
" "
.... ..
" "
. 30 ..... .
"
"
50 .... ..
" "
35 .... ..
" "
30 .... ..
14, 1891.
30 ..... .
" "
30 .... ..
50 ..... .
"" . ""

Oct.
Oct.

14,
12,

1891.
1892.

"
"
"
"
Oct.

"

"

"
"
"
Oct.

"

"
"
"
"
Oct.
"

50 . .....
35
50 ......

.

"

...... ......
"
50
"
i
50
"
11,. 1893.
~ ......
30 ......
" "
30 ······
" "
30 . .....
"
"

Oct.

11,

"
"
"

"

"
"

"

"
"

"

"

"
"
11,
"

Oct.

13,

Oct.

"

"

"

"

Oct.

15,

"
"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"
Oct.
Oct.

"

"

14,
1-4,

"
"
"
"
1895.
"
"
1896.
"
1897.
"
1894.

"
"
"
"

1898.
1899.

"
"
"" . "

"
"
Oct.

"
11, 1900.

"
Oct;

"

10,

"

1901 .

30 10
50 ......

w......

35
35 ......
30
3
50 .. ....
30
3
1
GO
50 ......
30 ......
5o ......
50 ......
40 ......
50 ......
53 ......
30 ......
50 ......
50 ......
30 ... ...

6
6

il

27
61
153
88
59
138

6

166

6

6
6

88
42
91
56
71
94
96"

6
6
6

73
34
64

6
6

35
77
64
38
67
26
47
339
348
39
69

6
6
6
6

9

6
6
6
12
6
6

6
6
6
6
6
'6

6
6
12
12

6
12
9
6

6

·6

30 ......

6
6

50 ......
35 ......
30 .... ..

6
6.

6

li4
214
50
58
203
78
45
117
40
102
41
60
267
97
58
57
89
60
158

~

0

\:j

~
00
0

>'.tj

1-3

~

ttj

~
z\:j>
~

0

\:j

~
0

":j

0

~

tzj
0

z~

1-1

t>'

OI
,_.
......

"
"
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
"

280
281
282
283
284
285
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293

Pinole .......... 353 Pine;Je ............ . Contra Costa .... ...
Presidio . . . . . . . . . 354 San Francisco ..... . San Francisco ..... .
Hollywood ...... . 355 Hollywood• ......... Los Angeles ........
Mill Valley ...... 356 Mill Valley ......... Marin .. ..... .... .
Buena Park . . . . . 357 Buena Park ........ Orange ......... .. .
Golden State .... 358 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
Loyalton ........ 359 Loyalton ........... Sierra ............. .
San Francisco .... 360! San Francisco . .. .. . San Francisco ......
Fort Bragg ...... 361 Fort Bragg ..... .. .. Mendocino .........
Charity . .. ...... 362 Campbell ........... Santa Clara ...... ..
Berkeley ........ 363 Berkeley .. ....... .. Alameda ..... . .....
Olivet . .......... 364 Corning . . .......... Tehama ............
Willi ts ........... 365 Willits . . .......... Mendocino .........
Las Palmas . .... 366 Fresno .... .... .. .. . Fresno . . . . . .. . .. . ..

294
295
296
297
298
!:l99
300
301
302
303
304
305
306
307
308

South Pasadena .. 367 South Pasadena .. .. Los Angelea ... .... ·I Oct.
Unity ........... 368 Glendale ...... .... . Los Angeles ..... .. .
"
Ocean Park . ..... 369 Santa Monica ... . .. Los Angeles .... ... .
"
Amity ...........370 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ..... .
"
Oceanic .. ...... . 371 Honolulu ........... Hawaiian Ter...... .
"
Gardena ......... 372 Gardena ........... Los Angeles ....... . Oct.
Veteran ... .... .. 373 Sawtelle . .......... Los Angeles ....... .
"
Jewel . ..... ..... 374 San Francisco .. .. .. San Francisco . ... . .
"
Richmond . ...... 375 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ..... .
"
Francis Drake ... 3761South San Francisco. San Mateo .. ...... .
"
Artesia ........ ..377[Artesia .. . ... ...... Los Angeles ....... .
"
Mizpah .•........ 378,Los Angeles ....... . Los Angeles .. '. · · · ·
"
Fillmore ......... 379,' Fillmore ........... Ventura ......... .. .
"
Huntington Beach 380 Huntington Beach .. Orange ........... .
"
Oceanside ....... 381 Oceanside ... . ...... San Diego .....· .... .

~

"

"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"

16,
13,

1904.

"

"

"
"

"

"

Oct.

"
12,

"

"

"
"
"
"
1905.
"

12,

1905.

"
"
"
"

"

"
"

50 ......
50
5
50 ......
50 .. ....
30 ·· ····
50 ......
50 ......
50 ......
30 ......

30 ... ...
50 ......
30 ......
50
1

o......

12
9
6
12
6
6
'6
12
6
6
6
6
6
6

53
126
82
62
43
127
34
J31
57
37
llO
37
38
87

r

0

t:I

Q

M

rFl

0

':tj

~

~

(:;

..

·1·

"

10,

"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
11106.
"
"
"
"
'"
"
"
"
"

50 . ... ..
50
3
50
5
5
50
50
5
30
3
30
3
.
..
50
50 10
50 ·5
30 ···· ··

.

I 50~1 ......J1

6
40
6
51
6
46
12
55
12
ll4
28
6
6 . 69
12
32
12
40
6
23
6
30
6
33
121
26
6
18
6
19
33.7fl9

0!;::;
>-

zCl

t"-1

0

Cl

-~
0

lzj

a

>
t"'

t;j
0

!;lj

....z .
>

CTI

.......

e..:i

514

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES.
Lodge .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES.

No.

Post Office .

County

Abell .............. 146 Ukiah ............... Mendocino.
Acacia ..•.......... 92 Coloma .............. El Dorado.
Adin .............. 250 A din ................ Modoc.
Alamo ............. 122 Walnut Creek ....... Contra Costa.
Alameda ........... 167 Centerville . .......... Alameda.
Alcatraz ........... 244 West Oakland ........Alameda.
Alhambra .......... 322 Alhambra ........... Los Angeles.
Alisa! .............. 321 Pieasanton ........... Alameda.
Alta ............... 333 Bridgeport .......... Mono.
Atluras ............ 248 Alturas .... .. ......... Modoc.
Amity ............. 370 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Amador ............ 65 Jackson ..... '. ....... Amador.
Anaheim ........... 207 Anaheim ............ Orange.
Anchor .........•.. 273 Compton .............Los Angeles.
·Anticich ............ 175 Antioch ............. Contra Costa.
Arcata ............. 106 Arcata .............. Humboldt.
Arroyo ............ 274 Arroyo Grande .......San Luis O.bisp0.
Artesia ............ 377 Artesia ...... ·........ Los Angeles.
Ashlar ............. 306 Colton ...............San Bernardino.
Athens ............ 228 Davisville ........... Yolo.
Azusa ............. 305 Azusa ............... Los Angeles.
Bakersfield ......... 224 Bakereficld ....... ; .. Kern.
Bear 11ountain ..... 76 Angels Camp ........ Calaveras.
Benicia . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Benicia ..............Solano.
Berkeley ........... 363 Berkeley ...•........ Alameda.
Bodie ........... .'.252 Bodie ............... Mono.
Brentwood ......... 345 Brentwood ...........Contra Costa.
Brooklyn .......... 225 East Oakland ........ Alameda.
Buckeye ........... 195 Winters ............. Yolo.
Buena Park .. . ..... 357 Buena Park .......... Orange ..
California . . . . . . . . . 1 San Francisco .. ... ... San Francisco.
Calaverae ......... 78 San Andreas ......... Calaveras.
Calla yo mi ......... 282 Middletown .......... Lake.
Calistoga .......... 233 Calistoga ............ Napa.
Carquinez .......... 337 Crockett ............. Contra Costa.
Cavite ............. 350 Cavite .. ., ........... Philippine Islands.
Charity ........... 362 Campbell ............ Santa Clara.
Chico .............. 111 Chico ............... Butte.
Claiborne .......... 185 Point Arena ......... Mendocino.
Clay ......... .'.... 101 Dutch Flat .......... Placer.

Lodge.

No .

Post Office.

County.

Clear Lake ........ 183 Lower Lake ......... Lake.
Clinton ............ 119 Igo ......... ·......... Shasta.
Concord ........... 117 Sacritmento .......... Sacramento.
Confidence ......... 203 Castroville .......... Monterey.
Consuelo .......... 325 Escondido ......... . . San Diego.
Colusa ............ 240 Colusa ............... Colusa. ·
Corinthian . . . . . . . . . 9 Marysville ........... Yuba.
Corona ............ 324 Pasadena ............ Los Angeles.
Covelo ............ 231 · Covelo '. .............. Mendocino.
Covina ............ 334 Covina ...... .... .... Los Angeles.
Crescent ........... 45 Crescent City ........ Del Norte.
Crockett ............ 139 San Francisco · ....... •San Francisco.
Curtis ............. 140 Cloverdale ........... Sonoma.
Delano ............ 300 Delano. .............. Kern.
Doric ....... , ..... 216 San Francisco .•...... San Francisco.
Downey ........... 220 Downey ............. Los Angeles.
Drytown .......... 174 Drytown ............ Amador.
Dunsmuir ......... 297 Dunsmuir ............ Siskiyou.
. Durant ............ 268 Berkeley ............ Alamed~.
East Gate ......... 290 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Eden ..... '. ........ 113 San Leandro ......... Alameda.
Eel River .......... 147 Rohnerville ......... . Humboldt.
El Dorado . . . . . . . . . 26 Placerville .......... .El Dorado.
Elk Grove ......... 173 Elk Grove ........... Sacramento.
Elsinore ........... 289 Elsinore ............. Riverside.
Emmanuel .. '. ...... 318 Biggs ............... Butte.
Enterprise ......... 70 Yuba City ........... Sutter.
Fullerton .......... 339 Fullerton ............ Orange.
Eucalyptus ........ 243 Haywards .. , ........ Alameda.
Eureka . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Auburn ............. Placer.
Evening Star ...... 186 Etna Mills ........... Siskiyou..
Evergreen .......... 259 Rivereide ............ Riverside.
Excelsior ... ·....... 166 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Fall brook ... : ..... 317 Fallbrook ........... San Diego.
Ferndale .......... 193 Ferndale ...... ; ..... Humboldt.
Fidelity ........... 120 San Francisco ......... San Francisco.
Fillmore ........... 379 Fillmore ............• Ventura.
Forbestown . . . . . . . . 50 Forbestown .......... Butte.
Forest . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66 Allegheny ... : ........ Sierra.
Fort Bragg ........ 361 Fort Bragg ...........Mendoc\no.
Franklin .......... 143 Courtland ......... ·..•Sacramento.
Francis Drake ..... 376 South San Francisco ...San Mateo.
Fresno ............ 247 Fresno ...............Fresno.
Friendship ......... 210 San Jose ............ Santa Clara.

515

516

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Fruitvale . . ........ 336 Fruitvale ............ Alameda.
Galt ............... 267 Galt ................ Sacramento.
Gardena .......... 372 Gardena .... , ........ Los Angeles.
Georgetown ........ 25 Georgetown ......... . El Dorado.
George Washington . 62 Chinese Camp .. . .. . .. Tuolumne.
Gibsonville ... . .... 158 Gibsonville ... ... ....•'3ierra.
Golden Gate ... .. .. 30 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Golden State ...... 3.3o Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Gold Hill . . . . . . . . . . 32 Lincoln . . ... .. ...... . Placer.
Grafton ........... 141 Grafton ............. Yolo.
Granite ....... . ... 222· Rocklin ..... . ....... Placer.
Gravel Range .. . . .. 59 Camptonville ........ Yuba.
Guadalupe ......... 237 Guadalupe .......... . Santa Barbara.
Hanford . .. ... .. .. 279 Hanford ............. Kings.
Harmony .......... 164 Sierra City .... .. .... Sierra.
Hartley ....... . ... 199 Lakeport ............ Lake.
Hawaiian ...... . ... 21 Honolulu . . . .. ..· .. . ..Hawaiian Islands.
'Henry Clay ........ 95 Sutter Creek ......... Amador.
Hermann .. , ....... 127 San Francisco ... ... ..San Francisco.
Hesperian ......... 264 Santa Maria .........Santa Barbara.
Hill's Ferry ... , . .. 236 Newman ............ ,Stanislaus.
Hiram . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 El Dorado ... .. ...... El Dorado.
Hollenbeck ........ 319 Los Angeles .. . ....... Los Angeles.
Hollywood .... . ... 355 Hollywood .... . ...... Los Angeles.
Hope .............. 234 Beckwith ............ Plumas.
Hornitos ........... 98 Hornitos .... ..... .. .. Mariposa.
Howard . ... .. . .... 96 Yreka ... . ......... .. Siskiyou.
Humboldt . . . . . . . . . 79 Eureka ............. Humboldt.
Huntington Beach . .. 380 Huntington Bea.eh ....Orange.
Illinoistown . . . . . . . . 51 Colfax .............. Placer.
Inyo .. ......... ... 221 Independence . .. .... .Inyo.
Ione .. . .... .. . .. .. 80 Ione ........ . .... . .. Amador.
Ionic .......... . ... 121 Iowa Hill ..... .. .. . .. Placer.
Jefferson ....... . .. 97 Laporte ...... . . . .... Plumas.
Janesville . . ....... 233 Jan es ville ....... . .. . Lassen.
Jewel . . .... ... .. .. 374 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Keith ............. 187 Gilroy .......... ... .. Santa Clara.
Keystone .......... 161 Milton .. . ....... .... Calaveras.
Kila uea ........... 330 Hilo ............. . .. Hawai~an Islands.
King David's ...... 209 San Luis Obispo . . . . . San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's .... 260 San Francisco .. ... .. .San Francisco.
La Fayette ... . .... 126 Sebastopol .... .. .. . .. Sonoma.
La Grange . . . . . . . . . 99 Me.reed .. ; ........... Merced.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

517

Lodge .
No.
Post Office.
County.
Landmark ......... 253 Madison ..... . ...... . Yolo.
Las Pal mas ........ 366 Fresno ... . .... . ......Fresno.
Lassen ........ . ... 149 Susanville .......... . Lassen.
Laurel ............ 245 Willows ..............Glenn.
Lexington ......... 104 El Monte .... ........ Los Angeles.
Liberty .. . ......... 299 Santa Clara '. . . ....... Santa Clara.
Live Oak ......... 61 Oakland . . ... .. .. .. .. Alameda.
Lodi .. .. . ... .. .... 256 Lodi . ... .. .... . ... . . Sa~ Joaquin.
Lompoc ........... 262 Lompoc ...... ... ..... Santa Barbara.
Long Beach .... . ... 327 Long Beach ..........Los Angeles.
Los Angeles . . . . . . . . 42 Los Angeles .. . .... . . Los Angeles.
Los Banos ...... . .. 312 .Los Banos ........... Merced.
Los Gatos ..... . ... 292 Los Gatos .. . ....... . Santa Clara.
Loyalton ....... . .. 359 Loyalton . . .......... Sierra.
Madera .. . ..... . ... 280 Madera .. . ........... Madera.
Madison ..... , ..... 23 Grass Valley ... .. . .. . Nevada.
Magnolia .......... 242 Santa Barbara . .. . .. . Santa Barbara.
Manila ............ 342 Manila ............ . . Philippine Islands.
Manzanita .. ... . ... 102 North San Juan ...... Nevada.
Marin .. . .......... 191 San Rafael .. . .. . ... . Marin.
Mariposa ... ... .... 24 Mariposa ............ Mariposa.
Martinez .. ... ..... 41 Martinez .. ..... ..... Contra Costa.
Maxwell ........... 288 Maxwell .. . ........ .. Colusa.
McKinley ..... . .... 347 Point. Richmond ... .'. Contra Costa.
Mendocino ......... 179 Mendocino .......... Mendocino.
Meriqian .......... 182 College City .. .... .. . Colusa.
Mill Valley ........ 356 Mill Valley .... . . .... Marin.
Mission ..... ..... .. 169 San Francisco ....... ;San Francisco.
Mizpah .. . ... .. .... 378 Los Angeles ...... .. . Los Angeles.
Mokelumne Hill .... 298 Mokelumne Hill •... .. Calaveras.
Molino . ... . ... . ... 150 Tehama .. .. .. . ... . ... Tehama.
Monrovia . . . . . .... 308 Monrovia .. . .... . .... L os Angeles.
Monterey . . . .. . .. . . 217 Monterey . .. .. . ... ... Monterey.
Morning Star . . .... 68 Stockton ... .. .. .. ... San Joaquin.
Mosaic . .. .. . .. . ... 218 Livermore ........... Alameda.
Mount Jackson .. ... 295 Guerneville .. .. .. . .. ..Sonoma.
Mount Moriah ... .. 44 San Francisco ....... . San Francisco.
Mountain Shade ... 18 Downieville .... .. . ... Sierra.
Moun t Shasta . . .. .. 281 Anderson . .. .. . . . . .. . Shasta.
Mountain View .. . . 194 Mountain View ... ... Santa Clara.
Mount Zion . . . ... . 114 Grizzly Flat .. . .... . . -E l D.orado.
Nator#:a .. . ........ 64 Folsom .. ... ... .. .' .. . Sacramento.
Naval ............. 87 Vallejo ............. .. Solano.

518
Lodge.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
No.

Post Office.

County.

Needles ............ 326 Needles ............. ·san Bernardino.
Nevada .. .... ..... 13 Nevada City . ........ Nevada.
Newville .......... 205 Newville ............ .Glenn. ·
Nicolaus .......... 129 Wheatland ........... Yuba.
North Butte ....... 230 Gridley ...... .. ..... Butte.
North East ........ 266 Fort Bidwell .........,Modoc.
Northern Light .... 190 Millville ............. Shasta.
North Star ........ 91 Fort Jones .......... . !3iskiyou.
Norwalk .......... 315 Norwalk ..... . ...... f..os Angeles.
Oakdale .. . ... ..... 275 Oakdale ............. Stanislaus.
Oak Grove ......... 215 Alameda ...... .......Alameda.
Oakland . .... ... ... 188 Oakland .............Alameda.
Occidental . . . . . . . . . 22 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Ocean Park .. .... . 369 Santa Monica ........Los Angeles.
Oceanic ..... . .. ... 371 Honolulu ............ Oahu.
Oceanside · .......... 381 0 .c eanside . . . . .... . . . San Diego.
Olive Branch .... .".269 Tulare .. . . ... ....... Tulare.
Olivet .... ..... . . .. 364 Corning .. ........... Tehama.
Ontario ... . ....... 301 Ontario .......... .. .. San Bernardino.
Ophir . , .......... : 33 Murphy's .. . ......... Calaveras.
Orange Grove ...... 293 Orange .............. Orange.
Oriental .. : .. ... ... 144 San Francisco ..... .. .San Francisco.
Orland ..... .. ...... 265 Orland ........ .. ... . Glenn.
Oroville .......... .. 103 Oroville .... .. ....... Butte.
Owen ....... ...... 108 Scott's Bar .......... Siskiyou.
Oxnard ........ ... :341 Oxnard .............. Ventura.
Pacific ...... .... . . 136 San ·Francisco ..... , . . San Francisco.
Pacific Grove ....... 3~1 Pacific Grove ....... .. Monterey.
Pajaro ...... ·: ... . 110 Watsonville ..........Santa Cruz.
·Palestine .. . ....... 351 Los Angeles . . ..... . ..Los Angeles.
Palmyra ..........• 151 Placerville . . ......... El Dorado.
Palo Alto , . .. ..... . 346 Palo Alto .... ... ... .. Santa Clara.
Parfaite Union ... . 17 San Francisco ..... . . . San Francisco.
Pasadena . ... . ..... 272 Pasadena ........... . Los Angeles.
Paso Robles ...... .. 286 Paso Robles ..........Sa~ Luis Obispo.
Penrhyn ........... 258 Penryn ......•...... ~Placer.
Pentalpha .. . .. , ... 202 :Lios Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Petaluma ........•. 180Petaluma .... . ........ Sonoma.
Phoenix ........... 178 San Bernardino ..... ,San Bernardino.
Pinole .............. 353 Pinole . . ............. Contra Costa.
Plumas ....... ." .... 60 Quincy ............. ,Plumas.
Pomona ........... 246 Pomona ............. Los Angeles.
Porterville ......... 303 Porterville .......... . Tulare.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
Lodge.

NO.

Post Office.

County.

Presidio ........... 354 San Frandsco ........ San Francisco.
Quitman ........... 88 North Bloomfield ..... Nevada.
Reading ..... ..... . 254 Redding ......... .. .. Shasta.
Redlands .... . .. ·. .. 300 Redlands ............. San Bernardino,
Redondo ........ .. . 328 Redondo .. ..... ...... Los Angeles.
Redwood City ...... 168 Redwood City ....... . San Mateo.
Reedley ....... . ... 304 'Reedley . . ...... ... . .Fresno.
Richmond .. , ..... . 3 75 San Francisco ....... San Francisco.
Rio Vista ..... . .... 208 Rio Vista ............ Solano.
Rising Star . . . . . . . . 83 Forest Hill ... .. .. .. .'Placer.
Rose's Bar .... .. . . . 89 Smartsville ...... .....Yuqa.
Russian River . ..... 181 Windsor .............. Sonoma.
Sacramento .. .. ... . 40 Sacram~nto ..... .... . Sacramento.
Sa~nt Helena ....... 93 St. Helena .. . .. . ~ .... Napa.
Sa1~t John's ..... .. 37 Yreka .... .. ........• Siskiyou.
Sahnas . . ..... .... . 204 Salinas ........ ...... Monterey.
San Benito ...... ... 211 H<lllister .. ..... ...... San Benito.
San Buenaventura ... 214 Ventura .. ... ........ Ventura.
San ta Ana . . .. . . ... 241 San ta Ana ... ........ Orange.
Santa Barbara . .... 192 Santa Barbara ....... Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz .... .. .. 38 Santa Cruz . ..... ... Santa Cruz.
San Diego . . . . . . . . . 35 San Diego ....... .... San Diego.
Sanger ............ 316 Sanger .... . .. . . ..... l!~resno.
San Bernardino . .. . 318 San Bernardino .. . .. . San Bernardino.
San Fernando ..· . . .. 343 Fernando ............ Los Angeles.
San Francisco ..... 360 San Francisco . .... .. , San Francisco.
San Jacinto ... . .... 338 San Jacinto .. .. .... . Riverside.
San Joaquin ....... 19 Stockton ..... . ... .. . San Joaquin.
San Jose ........... 10 San Jose . .. ....... .. Santa Clara.
San Mateo ..... ... . 226 San Mateo .......... . San Mateo.
San Miguel .... . .. 285 San Miguel ..... . .. .. San ·L uis Obispo.
San Pedro . . ....... 332 ·San Pedro . .. ....... . Los Angeles.
Santa Lucia . ..... . 302 Kings City ......... Monterey.
Santa Maria .. .. ... 340 Santa Maria ...... ... Santa Barbara.
Santa Monica .... .•.307 · Santa Monica ........ Los Angeles ..
Santa Paula ....... 291 Santa Paula ... ... ... Ventura.
San Simeon ....... 196 Cambria .. .... ...... . San Luis Obispo.
Santa Rosa .... .... 57 Santa Rosa ...... .. .. Sonoma.
Selma ............. 277 Selma ............... Fresno.
Sequoia ........ .. .. 349 _Oakland .. . ...... . ... Alameda.
Sierra Valley ...... 184 Sierraville .... .... .. . Sierra.
Silveyville ...... : . . 201 Dixon ............... Solano.
Silver Gate ........ 296 San Diego . : ........ . San Diego.

519

520

.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES.

Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Sincerity .. . . . . .... 132 Greenville .......... Plumas.
Sisson ............. 310 Sisson ............... Siskiyou.
Snow Mountain .... 271 Stony Pord . . .. .. .. . . Colusa.
Solano ........... . 229 Vallejo ......... .. ... Solano.
Sotoyome .......... 123 Healdsburg .. ...... . 8onoma.
Southern California. 278 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
South Gate ........ 320 Los Angeles ..........Los Angeles.
South Pasadena .... 367 South Pasadena .... . . Los Angeles.
South San Prancisco 212 San Prancisco . ....... San Prancieco.
South West ........ 283 National City . .. . .. .. San Diego.
Speranza Italiana ... 219 San Prancisco .. . ..... San Francisco.
"Stanislaus ... ... .. . 206 Modesto ............. Stanislaus.
Starr King .. ...... 344 San Francisco .. . . : ... San Francisco.
Suisun ... ·. . . . . . . . . 55 Suisun . . ........... . Solano.
Su'mmit . . . .. ...... 112 Knights Ferry .. .. . .. Stanislaus.
Sunset ............. 352 Los Angeles ... ... ... Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley .. .. 235 Ceuarville ... ... .. .. . Modoc.
'fable Mountain ... . 124 Cherokee .. .. .... . . .. Butte.
Tehachapi .. . .... .. 313 Tehachapi . .. . ... . ... K ern.
Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Sacramento .. . ... .. '. .Sacramento.
Temescal .......... 314 Corona ... . . ... . ..... Riverside.
Temple . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 Sonoma ........... . . Sonoma.
'l'a.Xas ... .... .... .. 46 San Juan .. ....... .. San Benito.
Traver . . . . ... . .. . . 294 Traver . . . .. ...... .. Tulare.
Trinity .. . .... .. .. : 27 Weaverville . ..... ... .'frinity.
Truckee . . ... ...... 200 'l'ruckee . ..... . .. .. .. Nevada.
Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . . 8 Sonora . , . ........ ... Tuolumne.
Tuscan ......... ... 261 Williams ... . ...... . . Colusa.
Tyrian .. . ......... 284 Dunnigan .. . .. . . .. . .. Yolo.
Union .. .... . . .. . . . 58 Sacramento ..... ... . . Sacramento.
Unity ......... . . .. 368 Glendale . .. . . ... .... Los Angeles,.
Vacaville .......... 134 Vacaville . .. .. ... .... Solano.
Vallee de Prance .. .. 329 Los Angeles .... .. . .. ,.Los Angeles.
Valley .. ...... .. . .. 135 Linden ... . .. ....... . San Joaquin.
Vesper . . . .. ... .. .. 84 Red Bluff ..... .. ..... T ehama.
Veteran .. ... . . . . .. 373 Sawtelle . . . . . .. ....... Los Angel es.
Visalia . ..... . ... . . 128 Visalia .............. Tulare.
Vitruvius .......... 145 Bloomfiel'd ........... Sonoma.
Volcano ........... 56 Volcano .... .. ... . ... Amador.
Washington ........ 20 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Welcome ..... . .... 255 Lemoore .......... .. Kings.
Western Star .. ·.... 2 Shasta ............ . . Shasta.
West Gate ......... 335 Los Angeles ....... .. Los Angeles.

Lodge.
No.
Post Office.
County.
Whittier ..... . .... 323 Whittier . ....... ..... Los Angeles.
Willits ............ 365 Willits . ... . . ........ Mendocino.
Wilmington . .. ..... 198 Wilmington .... . ..... Los Angeles.
Winnedumah · ... ... . 287 Bishop ........ .. .. . . Inyo.
Woodbridge ........ 131 Woodbridge .......... San Joaquin.
Woodland ....... . . 156 Woodland ......... .. Yolo.
Yolo . . .. .. .. ....... 81 Yolo .. .. . ............ Yolo.
Yosemite .. ........ 133 Coulterville ..........1Mariposa.
Yount ... .... .. ... . 12 Napa . •... . .......... .Napa:
Yuba ..... . .... . ... 39 Marysville . .. .. .. .... Yuba.

Z-1

521

522

LOCATION" OJ!' LODGES.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

LOCATION OF LODGES

Post Office.
Lodge .
No.
Cloverdale ... . ........... Curtis ...•................. . 140
Coulterville ...... .... ... .. Yosemite .. ..•.. .. ... : .. . , .. 133
College City .. r • ••••••••• •Meridian ... . .. •. . ... ... .... 182
Colfax . .. ........ . . ......Illinoistown . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Cor ona ...•...... .' ..... .. Temescal .. ....... ....... •. . 314
Courtland ................Franklin ... ..... ... .. ... ... 143
Covelo ........ .. .. .. ... . . Covelo . .. ........ . .... . . .... 231
Colusa ..... .... . ......... Colusa . .. .... ... ... ......... 240
Colton .....• ..•.. ....... .Ashlar ..... ·.. .........•.•...306
Covina ...................Covina .. .... . ........... ... 334
Compton ........ ..... . ...Anchor ·.. . : .. .,... .. ......... 273
Coloma • . .. ..•..... ..... . Acacia . .... . . . ..... . ..... . .. 92
Corning ... ..•...... .. . . . Olivet . . .... ......... . , . ..... 364
Crescent City .... ... ... .. Crescent ... . .... .. • ... .... . 45
Crockett . . . •. . •......... .Carquinez .. .... ... ... .. .. ·.. .337
Davisville .. ... ........ i .Athens ....... . .. . .. .. ... ... 228
Delano ....... .. ........ . Delano . .. . ... .. ... .. ...... . 309
Dixon .. . .. . ..... ...... .. Silveyville ...... ... ... . : . ... 201
Downey ..... ... ......... Downey . . . . .. ... . ..... .. , .. 220
Downieville . .•.....•..... Mountain Shade ............ 18
Drytown .................DTytown . ..... .... .. ..... .. 174
Dutch Flat . ... ... .. . .. .. Clay . . . . ...... ... .... ....... 101
Dunsmuir .•.•.... . .... . ..Dunsmuir .............. . . , .. 297
Dunnigan .... .. ..........Tyrian . ... ... ........ .. .... 284
East Oakland ..... ... ... . Brooklyn . .. ... ... . .. ...... . 225
East Los Angeles ..... . . .. Sunset . . .... .. .. .. .... . .. . ..290
Elk Grove ................ Elk Grove ... ..... .......... 173
Elsinore ................. . Elsinore .. .. .... ... ...... .. . 289
El Dorado . . .. •. ......... Hiram .................. .. . 43 ·
El Monte ................ Lexington . ......... ... . .... 104
Escondido •.. . ... .. .... . . .Consuelo .. .. .. ... ... ... .... 325
Etna Mill ....•..... .. .... Evening Star ..... .... . . .... 186
Eureka .................. Humboldt . ..... .... ., .... ... 79
Fallbrook ... ........ . . .. .Fallbrook ..... ; . .. . ... .. . ... 317
Fernando . ....... . . . .. . . . San Fernando .... .... . . . . .. . 343
Ferndale .. .. ........ .. . .. Ferndale ..... ....... . ...... . . 193
Fillmore .......... .. .. ... Fillmore ....................379
}'orbestown . .. ..... ; .. .. . Forbestown . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Folsom .. .. .. ... .• ....... . Natoma .. .... .. ........... .. 64
Fort Bidwell ..... .. . .... . North East ,. .. . .. .... .... ... 266
Fort Bragg . ...... . ...... Fort Bragg . .. . ... . ... .. .... 361
Fort Jon es ... , ... , ...... • North Star ..........•... , .. 91
Forest Hill .............. Rising Star . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83

Alphabetically Arranged

Post Office.

LOdge.

· No.

Adin ... ........ . .. ..... . Adin ' .. .. .. .. .... , ..... ... .. 250
Alhambra .. . .......... .. Alha~bra ............ .... . . 322
Alameda ...... ..... ... .. Oak Grove .. .. ...... ........ 215
Alleghany .. ...... ....... Forest .. . .... . .. .. . •.. . . . . . 66
Alturas ..... ... ... ·...... Alturas ........ . .... ... . . ... 248
Anaheim ........ . ..... .. Anaheim . . ...... ..... .... .. 207
Anderson .. . .. .. ......... Mount Shasta .. .. .. ......... 281
Angels Camp ............ Bear Mountain ............. 76
Antioch ............•... . Antioch ................. ... 175
f._rroyo Grande . .... . ..... Arroyo .. .. . .. ..... ......... 27 4
Auburn ......... .. ..... .. Eureka ........ .. •... .... . . . 16
Arcata .... . . .... .... ... . Ar cata ........ . .. . ... .. .... 106.
Artesia ...... .. . .. .. .. .. .. Artesia .......... ...... . .... 377
Azusa ... . . ............. •Azusa .............. ........ 305
Bakersfield .. ... ..........Bakersfield ................. 224
Beckwith .. ........ .. .... Hope .... .. .............. ... 234
Benicia ... . .... ... .... ...Benicia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Berkeley . ..... . ...... ... Durant .. ... . ..... .. ... . .. .. 268
Berkeley ...... ... . . . .. .. Berkeley .......... ..•.. . ... 363
Biggs ......... .. ........ Emmanuel ..... . ....... . .. .. 318
Bishop . .. .... .. . .' .. : . . . . Winnedumah ....... . ....... 287
Bloomfield .... ............ Vitruvius .. ... ..... , ........ 145
Bodie ... ........... ... ...Bodie . .. ...... '. .... .. ... .. . 252
Brentwood ......... •.... . Bi:entwood .... , .. , ... ...... 345
Bridgeport ..... . , ....... .Alta . ..... ... .. : ... ..... , .. 333
Buena Park ... . . .... .. ... Buena Park .. .. . ... ..... ... 357
Calistoga ... ... . ..... .. .. Calistoga ...... ...... .. .. .. . 233
Cambria ........... ...... San Simeon . .. .. . ..... . .. .. . 196
Campbell .. .... ..... ; .... Charity ..... . . .. ...... .,.... 362
Comptonville .... . . .. ..... Gtavel Range ... . . ....... . .. 59
Castroville . ..• .. • .. •. .... Confidence . ................. 203
Cavite, P. I. .............. Cavi te ... .'. ......... . . . .....350
Cedarville ............... Surprise Valley .. '. ...... .... 235
Centerville . . .. ...... .....Alameda ....... , ... . . ...... 167
Cherokee ................ Table Mountain .. . • . ... .... 124
Chinese Camp ....... ..... George Washington . . . . . . . . . 62
Chico ..... . . ....... ... ...Chico ........ . . ..... . .... .. 111

523

524
Post Office.

LOCATION OF LODGES.
Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF' CALIFORNIA.
No.

Fresno ...................Fresno ..................... 24 7
Fresno ...................Las Palmas ................. 366
Fruitvale .....•.......... Fruitvale . . ..... ... ......... 336
Fullerton ................ Fullerton ...........••••.... 339
Galt ....................•Galt ........................ 267
Gardena ................. Gardena . ... ................ 372
Georgetown .............. Georgetown ....... . .... •.. .. 25
Gibsonville .............. Gibsonville ........ .' ..... . .. 158
Gilroy ........ .. ..... ... . Keith .... .. ..... .. ......... 187
Glendale ................. Unity .. ...............• . ... 368
Grafton ................. Grafton .................... 141
Grass Valley ............. Madison ... .. .... .. ....... . . 23
Greenville ............... Sincerity ................... 132
Grizzly Flat ............. Mount Zion ................. 114
Gridley .. . .... . .......... North Butte ......... . .... . . 230
Guadalupe ............... Guadalupe ... , .... .. ... . .... 23·7
Guerneville .............. Mount Jackson ............. 295
Hanfoi:d ................. Hanford . .. ............. .. .. 279
Haywa.rds ... ............ Eucalyptus ................ . 243
Healds:t>urg ... : .... ....... Sotoyome ....... ... .•... ....123
Hilo, H. I. ............... Kilauea ......•..............330
Hornitos ................. Hornitos ................... 98
Hollister ........ .. . .. ... .San Benito .................. 211
Hollywood . .. . . ..... ... .• Hollywood .............•.... 355
Honolulu, H. I ... . ........ Hawaiian .................. 21
Honolulu, H. I. ........... Oceanic ......•.......•..... 37]
Huntington Beach ... ..... Huntington Beach •...... .•. . 380
Igo . ....... . ............. Clinton .... .. .. .....•........ 119
Independence ............ Inyo ·• ..............•........221
Ione .... .. .. . .•.........·.Ione ... ... ....... . ....... , . 80
Iowa Hill ..•...... .... .•. Ionic .. .... .. .........•• ·.... 121
Jackson ...... ........... Amador . .. .. . . . . . .. • . . . .. .. 65
Janesville ......... ..... .. Janesville .. ...... . ......... 232
Kings City .. .... ..... ..... Santa Lucia ..........•.•... 302
Knights Ferry ...... ..... Summit .....................112
Lakeport . . . .... .. ..... .. Hartley ................ , .... 199
Laporte ....... .. ........ Jefferson ................... ·97
Lemoore .. . .. .. ..• ..... •. W eleome •.............., ....... 255
Lincoln .................. Gold Hill ...... .. ........ ...... 32
Li.v ermore. . ...... . ..• .•... Mosaic ............... .... .... 218
Lind.e n .. ..... ....... . .•. Va1ley ..... . .... . .. . .. ·.. • . ;.135
Lodi .. , . . .. .. ........ . ... Lo.di .... .. .. . . . ...... • • : . .. 25.6
Lompoc .........•....•... Lompoc .....................262

Post Office.

LOdge.

525
No.

Lower Lake ... . ......... Clear Lake .................. 183
Long Beach ............ .. Long Beach ................. 327
Los Angeles .. ... ......... Los Angeles ......... .. ... ·.. 42
''
.. ... ....... . . Pentalpha .................. 202
''
............. . SoutherJl. .California ........ . 278
"
..... .' ....... . East Gate .................. 290
"
....... . ...... Hollenbeck ................• 319
''
...... . ....... Sou.th Gate ................. 320
''
.............. Vallee de France ............329
"
...... .. ...... vVest Gate .................. 335
.............. Palestine ................... 351
"
''
.... . ......... Sunset ......... .... ........ 352
...... . ....... Golden State ................ 358
"
... .... ....... Mizpah ..................... 378
"
Los Banos .... . .......... Los Banos .......•.. ... ..... 312
Los Gatos ................. Los Gatos .................. 292
Loyalton . . .•............ .Loyalton ... .. . .. . ......•... 359
Marysville ............... . Corinthian . . . . . . .. .. . .. .. .. . 9
"
.. .'...•........ Yuba ....................... 39
Madison ................. Landmark .................. 253
Manila ... ...... ... ...... Manila, P. I ..•.............. 342
Maxwell • .. .....•........ Maxwell .................... 288
Madera ....... .... ....... Madera ..... : ........ ~ ..... 280
Mariposa ................ Mariposa ................... 24
Martinez .................Martinez .................... 41
Merced .................. La Grange . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
Mendocino ...............Mendocino .................. 179
Middletown •.............Callayomi .................. 282
Milton ............•......K eystone ................... 161
Mill Valley ....... ... .... Mill Valley ... . .. ·..... .". .. .. 356
Millville ................. Northern Light ............. 190
Mokelumne Hill .......... Mokelumne Hill ............ 298
Monrovill. ................ Monrovia ................. . . 308
Monterey ................ Monterey· .......... .. ....... 217
Mountain View ...........Mountain View .............194
Modesto ................. Stanislaus ............ . ..... 206
Murphy's ................ Ophir ...................... 33
National City ..... , ...... South West ................. 283
Napa ....................Yount ............. .... ..... 12
Newman .................Hill's Ferry ..... .. .. . ...... 236
Needles .................. Needles ............ . ....... . 326
Nevada City ............. Nevada . " ........ .. ........ 13
Newville .................Newville .... . ........... ... 205

526 .
Post Office.

LOCATION OF LODGES.
Lodge .

527

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
No.

North Bloomfield ......... Quitman ................... 88
North San Juan .......... Manzanita ... ... . .. ....... .. 102
Norwalk ...............•• Norwalk . .. ..... . . . .. ...... 315
Oakland ................. Live Oak ....... ·. . . . . . . . . . . 61
''
.. : .......... , .. . Oakland ................ : . . 188
''
................. Sequpia ..................... 349
Oakdale ........•..•• ~ ••. Oakdale .................... 275
Oceanside ••.............. Oc.eanside ..... .. ............ 381
Ontario ...• . .•........... Ontario .................. .' .301
Orange ...•.....•.....•.. Orange Grove , .............. 293
Orland ... .... .....•....• Orland ......•.............. 26.5
Oro,ville ..•...........••. Oroville ....•............... 103
Oxnard .................. Oxnard ·......... : .......... 341
Pacific Grove ..• ..... . ... Pacific Grove ............... 331
Palo Alto ................ Palo Alto .... ... ....... .... 346
Paso Robles .............. Paso Robles ... .. ........... 286
Pasadena ................ Pasadena ...•. . ............ 272
Pasadena ........ .' ....... Corona ..................... 324
Penryn .................. Penrhyn ..... . .............. 258
Petaluma .... : ........... Petaluma ... ... ............. 180
Pinole .... .... .....•..... Pinole ..................... 353
Pleasanton ..............• Alisal .... ,. .................. 321
Placerville . ...... .... ..... El Dorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
''
. ..... ........ . Palmira .................. ... 151
Point Arena •... ......... Claiborne .................. 185
Point Richmond .....•.... McKinley .................. 347
Pomona .... ...... . . ..... .Pomona •.......•........... 246
Porterville ............... Porterville ..•.............. 303
Quincy .................. Plumas ..•.•..• ... .•....... 60
Redondo ................• Redondo ................... 328
Redding ........•.•....•. Reading .... ..... ........... 254
Redlands ...... ........... Redlands ................... 300
Reedley . .. .. ... .......... Reedley .................... 304
Redwood City ............ Redwood Ci.ty .............. 168
Hed Bluff ..• . . , .........• Vesper . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
Rio Vista . : . ............• Rio Vista .................. 208
Riverside ........• . .. . .• . Evergreen ...... ........ ... . 259
Rocklin ...... ........•.. Granite ..................... 222
Rohnerville .... .........• Eel River .....•............ 147
Sacramento .............. Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . 3
''
.............. Washington ................. 20
''
.............. Sacramento . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
.............. Union ...• :·. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
"
.............. Concord .................... 117
"

Post Office.

· Lodge.

No.

San Andreas ............. Calaveras .................. 78
San Bernardino . ......... Phoenix ........·•........... 178
''
......... . San Bernardino ............ . 348
San Diego... ..... .. . . .. .. San Diego .... ..... ... ..... 35
"
........... . . .. Silver (fate .................. 296
San Francisco ... . ... ..... California .• '. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
''
..... ...... . Parfaite Union .......... .. . 17
''
........ . ... Occide.Iltal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . 22
........ .... Golden Gate ............ .... 30
"
..... : ...... Mount Moriah ............ . . 44
"
....... ...... Fidelity .............. ...... 120
"
•........... Hermann ............... .. .. 127
"
•........... Paci.fie .......... :.. . ........ 136 '
'"
. .. ... . ...... Crockett .. . .. . ......... .. .. 139
"
•........... Oriental .. . ... . .. . .......... 144
"
.•.......... Excelsior ... . .. , ............ 166
............ Mission ... : ................ 169
"
.... . ....... South San Francisco ........ 212
"
.......... .. Doric ............... ....... 216
"
............ Speranza Italiana .... '. ...... 219
"
.........•.. King Solomon's •. .. ...... .... 260
"
....... ..... Starr King ......•...... .... 344
"
....... ..... Presidio ..................... 354
............ San Francisco .............. 360
"
.. ........ . . Amity ..................... 370
"
............. Jewel ...................... 374
"
........ .... Richmond .................. 375
"
San Jaeinto .............. San Jacinto ................ 338
San Josb •................ San Jose ................... 10
''
.................. . ~'riendship ..... .. ... . ..... ~. 210
San Juan .............. .. Texas ......•..•..... ....... 46
San Leandro ............. Eden ............... . ..... ... 113
San Luis Obispo ........ .,. King David's .......... .... : 209
San Mateo ............... San Mateo .................. 226
San Miguel ..•........... :.San Miguel ................. 285
San Pedro •............... San Pedro ...•. . ........ . .. . 332
San Rafael ......•........ Marin ....... .... .. .. ...... .. 191
Santa An°a. ............... Santa Ana .................. 241
Santa Barbara . .. ........ Santa Barbara .... .. . . ...... 192
''
........... Magnolia ................... 242
Santa Cruz ............... ':lanta Cruz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Santa Clara •. . . ... ....... Liberty ..... ........ ....... 299

528
Post Office.

Lodge.

529

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

LOCATION OF LODGES.
No.

Santa Maria .. . ......... . H esperian . ... . ........ ..... 264
''
. : .. .. .... . . . Santa Maria .. ..... ...... . . . 340
Santa Monica ... . ....... . Santa Monica .. . ............ 307
''
.. ... .. . .. .. Ocean Park . ... .... . ....... 369
Santa Paula . . .. .. . .. .... . Santa Paula .............. .. 291
Santa Rosa ..... ..... .... Santa Rosa ........ ........ "57
Salinas .. ... .... ... ...... Salinas ..................... 204
Sanger ....... . .. . ... . . ...Sanger .. . .. .... .. .. ....... ..316
Sawtelle . ..... .... .... . . . V eteran ........... . .. . . .... 373
Scott 's Bar .............. Owen . . . . .. . ... .... .. . . ... . 108
Sebastopol ... . . ... . .... . . La Fayette ... . .... .........126
Selma .. .... .... . .. ..... . Selma .. . .. .... . .. . . ... .. . .. 279
Saint Helena .... .. .. . .. .. Saint Helena .. . . .. . ........ 293
Shasta .. .. ... . ." .......... Western Star . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2
Sierra City .. .. .... .... .. . Harmony ... .. . ....... . .. ... 164
Sierraville .... .. ....... .. Sierra Valley .. ... ... .. : .... 184
Sisson .. ..... .. ... . .. . ... .Sisson ...... ..... . .......... 310
Smar tsville . .. .. .. .. ......Rose's Bar . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . 89
South Pasadena .. .........South Pasadena .. . ..... ... .. 367
Sou th San Francisco ....... Francis Drake ......... ..... 3 76
.Sonoma .... . ..... . .. . .. . . Temple . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . 14
Sonora . .. ........ . .... ... Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Stockton .. ..... ... ..... . . San Joa quin .. ... . .. ...... .. 19
"
.. ..... . ......... Morning Star .............. 68
Stony Ford . .. ...•....... Snow Mountain .... . .. . ... . . 271
Susa nville . ... . .... ... . . . Lassen . . . .. .. . .. .. . ... .. ... 149
Sutter Cr eek .... .. ....... Henry Clay .... ·, .. ....... ... 95
Suisun ......... .. . . ... .. .Suisun . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Tehama . ...... ........ .. .Molino ......... . . .. ... . . . . . 150
Tehachapi .. . . ...... .. ... Tehachapi ... ... . ... .. .. . .. . 313
Traver ..... ... . .. ... ... . Traver .... ... ..... . ........ 294
Truckee .. .. . .... . ... . . .. Truckee . ........•. . .. ... . . . 200
Tulare ... .. . . . ... .... . ... Olive Branch . ..... .. . . . , ... 269
Ukia h ............ .... . . . Abell . ... ... . .... . ... . ..... 146
Vallejo .. . .. .... .......... Naval ...... .. ....... .. .. ... 87
''
. . . .... . ......... . Solan o ... ...... .. . .. . ..... . 229
Vacaville . ...... ... .. .. . . Vacaville· . .. . . .... . ... .. .. .. 134
Ventura ................. San Buenaventura . . ... ...... 214
Visalia . . .. . . ... ..... ... . Visalia . . ... . ...... ... .. : . . . 128
Volcano .. ....... .. ...... Volcan o . . . ..... . .. . ... .. . . . 56
Walnut Creek . .. .. ... .... Ala mo .... .. .. .. ... . ...... . . 122
Watsonville ... ...... ... . . Pajaro ....... . .... ... . ... .. 110
West Oakland ... ... ...... Alcatraz ... ... .. . . ....... ... 244

Post Office .

Lodge.

No.

W eaverville ....... .. .. .. Trinity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
W heatland ... . .... .. . . ... Nicolaus ... .. . .. . .... ..... . 129
Whittier . . . ... .. , . . . .. . : . Whittier .... ... .... .. ... .... 323
Winters ................. Buckeye .... . . ... . ......... .195
Willits . . .. . ..... . ....... Willits ... . -. ..... . . ..... . .. . 365
Willows ..... . ....... .. .. ,Laurel · . .... .. : ..... . . . ..... 245
Wi~dsor .... .. ........... Russian River . . ... . .... . ... . 181
Williams . .... ...... .. . ...Tuscan .. . ... . ....• . .. . .... . 261
Wilmington ..... .. . . .. ... Wilmington .. . . . .... . . . ... . . 198
Woodbridge . .. .... .. .... Woodbridge ......... .. ..... 131
Woodland . . •......... , .. W oodlancl .................. 156
Yolo .... . .. .. .... .. . . ....Yolo ..... .. . ..... .. ... . .. .. 81
Yreka .... .... .... ..... .. St. John's ............ .. .... 37
''
.................. . Howard .. . .. ·. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
Yuba City .. • . ... • . ... ... Enterprise . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70

530

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES.

GRAND LODGES IN CORRESPONDENCE.

531

GRAND LODGES OF THE UNITED STATES
AND BRITISH AMERICA
In Correspondence with the Grand Lodge of California
Grand Lodges.

Grand Secretaries.

Residences.

Organized

Alabama ........•• George A. Beauchamp.Montgomery ...... June 15, 1821
Arizona ........... George J. Roskruge ... Tucson ............ Mar. 25; 1882
Arkansas ........•• Fay Hempstead ...... Little Rock ........ Mar. 25, 1882
British Columbia ... R. E. Brett .... ... .... Victoria ........... Feb. 22, 1832
Canada ...........•Hugh Murray ........ Hamilton .......... Oct. 10, 1855
2, 1861
Colorado .......••.. Charles H. Jacobson ... Denver ............ Aug.
Connecticut ....... John H. Barlow . .. .... Hartford .......... July
8, 1789
Delaware .......... Benjamin F. Bartram.Wilmington ........ June
6, 1806
D!st. of Columbia .. Arvine W. Johnston ... \Vashlngton ....... Feb. 19, 1811
5; 1830
Florida ............ Wilber P. Webster ..... Jacksonville ....... July
Georgia .......•... W. A. Wolihin ........ Macon.............. Dec. 16, 1786
Idaho ............... Theophilus W. Randall Boise .............. Dec. 17, 1867
Illinois ........•..•. Isaac Cutter .......... Camp Point ....... April 6, 1840
Indiana ... .. ....... Calvin W. Prather .... Indianapolis ...... ·Jan. 12, 1818
5, 1874
1ndlan Territory ... .Joseph Sam. Murrow .. Atoka ............ . Oct.
8, 1844
Iowa ............• . Newton R. Parvin ..... Cedar Rapiµs ..... .-Jan.
Kansas ........ ..... Albert K. Wilson . ..... Topeka .. ........ . . Mar. 17, 1856
8, 1800
Kentucky .......... Henry Ban. Grant. ... Louisville .......... Oct.
Louisiana ........• Richard Lambe rt. ..... New Orleans ...... June 20, 1812
Maine ............• Stephen Berry ........ Portland ........ . :June 1, 1820
Manitoba . .. ....... James A. Ovas ... . . ... Wlnnepeg ......... May 12, 1875
Maryland ......... ;williain M. Isaac ..... Baltimore ......... April 17, 1887
8, 1777
Massachusetts . . . . Sereno D. Nickerson .. Boston ............ Mar.
Michigan .......... Lou B. Winsor ........ Reed City ........ . Sept. 17, 1844
Minnesota .......•. Thomas Montgomery .. Saint Paul ........ Feb. 23, 1863
Mississippi ........ Frederick Speed ...... Vicksburg ......... July 27, 1818
4, 1821
Mlssour ........... John R. Parson ....... St. Louis .......... May
Montana ........•.. Cornelius Hedges ... .. Helena ............ Jan. 24, 1866
Nebraska .........• Francis E. White ..... Omaha ............ Sept. 23, 1857
Nevada ...........• Chauncey N. NotewattJCarson ............ Jan. 16. 1865
New Brunswick ...
Twining Hartt. .... Saint John ......... Oct. 10, 1867
8, 1789
New Hampshire .... Frank D. Woodbury.' .. Concord ........... July
New Jersey ......• Thos. H. R. Redway .. Trenton ... , ....... Dec. 18, 1786
7, 1877
New Mexico ....... Alpheus A. Keen ...... Albuquerque ...... Aug.
New York ......... Edward M. L. Ehlers.New York ......... Sept. 5, 1781
North Carolina .... John C. Drewry ....... Raleigh ............ Dec. 12, 1777
North Dakota ..... Frank J. Thompson ... Fargo .. ............ June 13, 1889
Nova Scotia ....... Thomas Mowbray ..... Halifax ........... Jan. 21, 1866
7, 1808
Ohio .............. John H . Bromwell. .... Cincinnati ........ J·an.
Oklahoma ......... James 8. Hunt. ... . ... Guthrie . .......... Nov. 10, 1892
Oregon .. .. .. ...... James F. Robinson .... Eugene ........... Sept. 15, 1851
Pennsy lvania ...... William A. Sinn ....... Philadelphia ...... Sept. 25, 1786
Prince Ed. Island .. Neil MacKelvle ....... Summerside . ..... June 24, 1875
Quebec ............Will H. Whyte . ...... Montreal ......... . Oct. 20, 1869
Rhode Island ..... S. Penrose Williams .. Providence ........ June 27,'1791
South Carolina .... Jacob T. Barron ... ... Columbia ... : ...... Mar. 24, 1787
South Dakota .... Geo. A. Pettigrew .... . Sioux Falls ........ July 21, 1775
Tennessee ......... John B. Garrett ....... Nashvllle .......... Dec. 27' 1813
•rexas ............. John. Watson ... .. ... . Houston ........... Dec. 20, 1837
Utah ............•. Christopher Diehl .... Salt Lake City ..... Jan. 17, . 1872
Vermont ..........• Henry H. Ross ....... Burlington ........ Oct. ·14, 1794
Virginia ............ Geo. W. Carrington ... Richmond ......... Oct. 13, 1778
8, 1858
W as hington ....... Horace W. Tyler ...... Olympia ........... Dec.
West Virginia ..... William R. Howard ... Charleston ........ May 11, 1865
Wisconsin ......... William W. Perry ..... M!Jwaukee ........ Dec. 18, 1843
Wyoming ..........Wm. L. Kuykendall. .. Saratoga .......... Dec, 15, 1874

:r.

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES.
In Correspondence with the· Grand Lodge of California.
With Names and Residences of Grand Secretaries. ·

Cuba, Grand Lodge of .....•.. ." .. A. Miranda ................ Havana
England, Grand Lodge of ........ E. Letchworth, F. S. A ...... London
Ireland; Grand Lodge of ......... Right Hon. Lord Castletown .. Dublin
New South Wales, United Grandi
. Lodge of ................. JArthur H. Bray ............ Sydney
New ·zealand ................... Malcolm Niccol .......... Auckland
Scotland, Grand Lodge of ....... Dave Reid .............. Edinburgh
South Australia, Grand Lodge of.James H. Cunningham ..... Adelaide
Victoria, Grand Lodge of ....... John Braim ............. Melbourne

532

LIST OF ELECTIVE GRAND OFFICERS:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

533

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE

.l.VI. ·. W. ·. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,

SINCE ITS, ORGANIZATION ON THE

18TH DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 5851.

Year

Grand Master.

1850
1851
1852
1853
1854
1855
1856
1857
1858
1859
1860
1861
1862
1863
1864
1865
1866
1867
1868
1869
1870
1871
1872
1873
1874
1875
1876
1877
1878
1879
1880
1881
1882
1883
1884
1885
1886
1887
1888
1889
1890
1891
1892
1893
1894
1895

•Jonathan D. Stevenson ...
•John A. Tutt.............
•Benjamin D. Hyam ......
•Charles M. Radcliff ......
*William H. Howard .....
*William ·H. Howard .....
*William H. Howard.....
•Nathaniel G. Curtis......
•Nathaniel G. Curtis ......
•Nathaniel G. Curtis ......
•Nathaniel q. Curtis......
•James L. English ........
*William C. Belcher......
•William C. Belcher......
*William C. Belcher......
Gilbert B. Claiborne.....
Gilbert B. Claiborne .....
William A. Davies .......
*Charles Marsh ...........
•Leonidas E. Pratt........
*Leonidas E. Pratt........
•Leonidas E. Pratt ........
•Leonidas E. Pratt........
•Isaac S. Titus...........
George C. Perkins ........
*John M. Browne .........
•John M. Browne .........
•John M. Browne .........
•John M. Browne .........
•William W. Traylor......
Samuel C. Denson ........
*Clay W. Taylor..........
*Clay W. Taylor ..........
•Jonathan D. Hines......
•Jonathan D. Hines......
Wiley J. Tinnin..........
Edmund C. Atkinson .....
*Hiram N. Rucker ........
•Morris M. Estee.........
*Morris M. Estee ... ,., ....
0Alvah R. Conklin ........ .
*William Johnston ....... .
*Charles R. Gritman .... .
Henry S. Orme .......... .
James B. Stevens ....... .
*Edward M. Preston ..... .

Deputy
Senior
Grand Master.
Grand Warden.
•John A. Tutt........ •Caleb Fenner.
•Benjamin D. Hyam.. *E. F. W. Ellis.
*Charles M. Radcliff .. •Adolphus Hollub.
•Townsend A. Thomas •John R. Crandall.
•Nathaniel G. Curtis .. •Rector E. Cole.
•Townsend A. Thomas •John A. Raymond.
John A. Raymond ... •Lemuel Lyon.
Charles Marsh ....... •Aaron D. Park.
*Philip W. Shepheard. •vVilliam McCormick.
*Philip W. Shepheard. *Ebenezer Lane.
*Philip W. Shepheard. •William C. Belcher.
*William C. Belcher .. •John W. Harville.
Gilbert B. Claiborne .. •John W. Harville.
Gilbert B. Claiborne .. •Louis Cohn.
Gilbert B. Claiborne.. William A. Davies.
William A. Davies ... •Isaac S. Titus.
•Henry H. Hartley ..... •wm. H. Peterson.
•Henry H. Hartley.... Thomas Beck.
•Leonidas E. Pratt .... *Theodore G. Cockrill.·
•Isaac S. Titus........ •John S. Ward.
•Isaac S. Titus ... .' .. ., *Charles L. Wiggin.
•Charles L. Wiggin ... •Benj. H. Freeman.
•Benj. H. Freeman... George C. Perkins.
George C. Perkins ... •John .M. Browne.
•John M. Browne ..... *William B. Parker.
*Charles L. Wiggin ... · Wiley J. Tinnin.
*Charles L. Wiggin... William S. Wells.
•Charles L. Wiggin ... *William W. Traylo •.
*William W. Traylor.. William H. Crane.
Samuel C. Denson .... •Clay W. Taylor.
•Clay W. Taylor....... John Q. Adams.
John Q. Adams ...... •Jonathan D. Hines.
•.Jonathan D. Hines... Edmund C. Atkl.nson.
Wiley J. Tinnin ..... : Edmund C. Atkinson.
Wiley J. Tinnin...... Edmund C. Atkinson.
Edmund C. Atkinson. •Hiram N. Rucker.
*Hiram N. Rucker .... *Morris M. Estee.
•Morris M. Estee ..... •Alvah R. Conklin ...•
•Alvah R. Conklin.... *William Johnston ...
•William .Johnston .... *Charles R. Gritman.
*William Johnston .... •Charles R. Gritman.
•Charles Ray Gritman. Henry S. Orme.
Henry ,S. Orme ..... . James B. Stevens.
James B. Stevens .. .. *Edward M. Preston.
•Edward M. Preston .. William T. Lucas.
William T. Lucas .... Thomas Flint, Jr.
•Deceased

Junior
Grand Treasurer.
Grand
Grand Warden.
Secretary.
•Sash'el Woods ....... . •Levi Stowell .......... •John H. Gihon .......
•Benj. S. Olds ........ . •Townsend A. Thomas. •Levi Stowell., ........
•John R. McConnelL .. Addison Martin ...... *Levi Stowell ..........
*Richard F. Knott. .. . Addison Martin ...... •Levi Stowell ..........
*Robert N. Wood .... . Addison Martin ...... •Levi Stowell .. , .......
•Samuel A. Merritt. .. Addison Martin ...... *Levi Stowell ..........
•Peter W. Randle .... . Addison Martin ...... •Alex G. Abell ........
•John B. Bope ....... . .Addison Martin ...... *Alex. G. Abell ........
•James W. Bicknell .. . Addison Martin ...... *Alex G. Abell ...•....
•Thomas P. Hawley .. Addison Martin ...... •Alex G. Abell ..... , •.
*Alvlnza Hayward ... . Addison Martin ...... *Alex G. Abell ........
*Caleb E. Wilcoxon .. . *James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ........
•John B. Hewson .... . •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ........
William A. Davies .. . •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ........
•Isaac S. Titus ....... . •James Laidley ........ *Ale;x: G. Abell ........
Henry H. Hartley ... . •James Laldley ........ *Alex G. Abell ........
Thomas Beck ...... . •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ........
*Leonidas E. Pratt. ..• •James Laidley ........ •Alex G. Abell ........
Frederick F. Barss .. . •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ........
*Richard Dale ....... . •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ........
*Benj. H. Freeman .. . •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ........
G00. C. Perkins ..... . •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ........
•John M. Browne .... , •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ........
C'has. E. Mitchell ... . •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ........
Wiley J. Tinnin ..... . •.James Laidley ........ •Alex G. Abell ........
Jacob H. Neff ....... . •James Laidley ........ *Alex. G. Abell ........
•Solon W. Craigue ... . •James Laldley ........ *Alex. G. Abell ........
Wm. H. Crane ...... . •Moses Heller ......... *Alex. G. Abell .. " ....
•Robert C. Broder ... . •Moses Heller ......... *Alex. G. Abell ........
John Q. Adams ..... . •Moses Heller ......... •Alex. G. Abell ........
•Orrin W. Hollenbeck. *Moses Heller ......... '°'Alex. G. Abell ........
*Thomas .J. Bowers .. . •Moses Heller ......... *Alex. G. Abell. .......
•George Hinds ...... .. •Moses Heller ......... *Alex. G. Abell ........
*Hiram N. Rucker ... . •Moses Heller ......... *Alex. G. Abell ........
*Hiram N. Rucker ... . •Moses Heller ......... *Alex. G. Abell ........
•Henry H. Knapp .... . •Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell ........
*Alvah R. Conklin ... . *Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell ........
•wm. Johnston ..... .. *Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell ........
•Marcus D. Boruck .. . •Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell ........
Henry S. Orme ...... . •Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell ........
Henry S. Orme ...... . •Nathan W. Spaulding. George Johnson ......
James B. Stevens ... . *Nathan W. Spaulding. George Johnson ......
*Edward M. Preston .. *Nathan W. Spaulding. George Johnson ......
Wm. T. Lucas ...... . Edward Coleman ..... George Johnson ......
Thomas Flint ....... . Edward Coleman ..... George Johnson ......
Frank M. Angellotti. . Edward Coleman ..... George Johnson ......
*Deceased.

Grand
Lecturer.

534

Year.
1896
1897
1898
1899
1900
1901
1902
1903
1904
1905
1906

LIST OF ELECTIVE GRAND OFFICERS.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

535

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE

M. ·. W. '. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE

18TH DAY · OF APRIL, A. L. 5851.

Granp Master.
William T. Lucas ....... .
Thomas Flint, Jr ........ .
Frank M. Angellotti ..... .
Charles L . Pattpn ..... .. .
James A. Foshay . .. ..... .
W111iam S. Wells ........ .
Orrin S. Henderson ... . .. .
Charles W. Nutting ..... .
George W. Hunter .... . . .
Motley H. Flint. ........ .
Edward H. Hart. ....... .

Deputy
Senior
Grand Master.
Grand Warden.
Thomas Flint, Jr .... Frank M. Angellotti.
Frank M. Angellotti .. Charles L. Patton.
Charles L. Patton .. .. James A. Foshay.
James A. Foshay .... . William S. Wells.
William S. Wells . ... • Orrin S. Henderson.
Orrin S. Henderson .. Charles W. Nutting.
Charles W . . Nutting .. George W. Hunter.
George W. Hunter .. . Motley H. Flint.
Motley H. Flint ..... . Edward H. Hart.
Edward H . Hart .... . George M. Perine.
Geo. M. Perine ...... . Reuben H. qoyd.
*Deceased.

Junior
Grand Warden.
Charles L. Patton ....
James A. Foshay .....
William s·. Wells ... :.
Orrin S. Henderson ...
Charles W. Nuttil)g ..
George W. Hunter ....
Motley H. Flint. ... . .
Edward H. Hart. ....
George M. Perine ....
Reuben H. Lloyd .....
Oscar Lawler .........

Grand
Grand Treasurer.
Secretary
Edward Coleman .. ... George Johnson .... ..
Edward Coleman ..... George Johnson ......
Edward Coleman .. ... George Johnson ......
Edward Coleman . .... Geo-rge Johnson ......
Edward Coleman ... .. George Johnson ......
Edward Coleman ..... George Johnson ......
Edward Coleman .. ... George Johnson ......
Edward Coleman ..... George Johnson .... . ,
Edward Coleman .... . George Johnson ......
Edward Coleman ..... George Johnson ......
Edward Coleman ..... George Johnson ......
•Deceased.

Grand
Lecturer.

Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards .
Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm . H . Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.

536

EXPULSIONS.

EXPULSIONS AND SUSPENSIONS
EXPULSIONS B Y LODGES A FFIRMED .

James Francis Braµham, by Manila Lodge, No. 342, Sept. 5, 1905.
Charles W. Koerner, by Marin Lodge, No. 191, Jan. 31, 1906.
Emil ,Julius Kanngiesser, by Presidio Lodge, No. 354, Mar. 1, 1906.
Frank Ridgeway Todd, Hartley Lodge, No. 199, April 7, 1906.
Hugh Kirkman, by Manila Lodge; No. 342, May 1, 1906.
William Silver Glover, by California Lodge, No. 1, May 3, 1906.
William Clawson, by Chico Lodge, No. 111, June 2, ·1906.
Ben,iamin Beatty Duncan, by Mission Lodge, No. 169, Aug. 1, 1906.
Harry Irwin (E. A.)·, by Acacia Lodge, No. 92, July 6, 1906.
Alexander Isaac Gray, by Elk Grove Lodge, No. 173, Oct. 7, 1905.
John Duncan Cummings, by Dunsmuir Lodge, No. 297, Mar. 13,
1906.
Charles L. Mulhollan9-, by L exington Lodge, No. 104, Jan. 6, 1906.

APPENDIX

..
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

EX PELLED BY GRAND LODGE.

L ester Clay McNulty, of Berkeley Lodge, No. 363, Oct. 11, 1906. ·
SUSPENDED BY GRAND LODGE.

Augustus Antoine Manuel, of Monterey Lodge, No. 217, Oct. 11,
1906.

25

REPORT
OF THE

Committee on Corr~spondence
FOR .TH E YEAR 1906

To THE M. ·. · W. ·. GRAND LoooE,
F. and A. M. of CALIFORNIA:

..

The str'enuous season' through which we have passed, and from
which we have hardly yet emerged, is a good reason for the brevity
of this Report, were it not for the additional and more weighty
reason, the wish of the Grand Lodge, as expressed in it s action of
the preceding session, when it not only cut off the nub of the story
and. denied it publication; but expressed its opinion of the value
of the work by ·a n appropriation of fifty dollars for the present
Report.
But as time is money, and money is scarce, without wasting niore,
we . will take up our friend, Beauchamp of Alabama, to stand at the
head. of the line and ask hii;n to lend us his countenance in the making up of a brief R eport.
ALABAMA.
The Grand Lodge of Alabama held its Eighty-fifth Annual, De·
.cember 5, 1905, under the direction of the M.-. W. :. Henry H.
Matthews, Grand Master; R.·. W.:. Geo. A. Beauchamp being Grand
Secretary, and Judge Wm. I. Titcomb, Chairman of Correspondence.
Three hundred and :fifty L odges were represented. Eleven new
Lodges were ,instituted, several weak Lodges were consolidated, eight
corner-stones of public buildings were placed, and five Representat i ves
near other Grand Lodges appointed.

4

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Bro. Titcomb presents a Report of two hundred and seventy pages,
-good, square work, closing his summary with this self-evident prop·
osition, which, we venture to say, no experienced Mason will deny:
''In some quarters the unworthy use of the black ball is greatly
deplored-and justly so. But as we have taken occasfon to observe
heretofore, the improper use of the white ball is vastly more injurious.
If a good soldier and ·upright man, is shut out of the citadel, ·a serious
deprivation is the result: if, on the other hand, a traitorous miscreant
is admitted, no end of disaster may ensue. Let us guard well the outer
door.
· "It strikes us that the use of cipher or printed Ritual is an ever
present source of trouble in those Jurisdictions in which it is allowednay, in which it is fondly cherished. The good old way is the best.
Let's keep the cipher out of symbolic Maso~ry.
.
"As a last word, we crave Heaven's abundant blessings for the
Guild and the. }'raternity."
The Grand Master and Grand Secretary were re-elected.
ARIZONA.
The Grand Lodge of Arizona held its Twenty-fourth Annual in the
town of Flagstaff, November 14, 1905,-The M.'. W.:. Grand Master,
George Shand, being absent, the R.'. w ... Edwin Seymour Miller,
Deputy Grand Master, presided; the v ... W. '.. George James Roskruge
.being Grand Secretary.
Arizona has nineteen Lodges on the Roll, of which number fifteen
were represented, together with twenty-one other Grand Jurisdictions.
The M.'. W.:. George Shand, Grand Master, sent his Address by
mail and it was read by the Deputy Grand Master. He sent affection·
ate greeting to Grand Lodge, regretting his unavoidable absence,
caused by · ill-health, ·obHging him to leave the .Jurisdiction for an
indefinite period.
The Representatives of other Grand Jurisdictions were introduced
and welcomed by the Grand Master, the response thereto being made
by Past . Grand Master Morris Goldwater, for himself and his asso·
eiate Representatives, as follows:
"Most Worshipful Sir and Brethren of the Grand Lodge:-For
myself and the Grand Representatives of Sister Jurisdictions, standing
before you, I thank you for the honor of our reception. Realizing that
by this ceremony it is the intention of this Grand Lodge to honor so
far as is in its power, those Jurisdictions with which it has fraternal
relations, we make bold to say, although we ·have no written authority,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

5

that our several Grand Lodges send you their good wishes and fra·
tern.a l greetings. They trust that peace and harmony may continue
to pre;vail among the Craft you govern, and that Masonry in Arizona
may ever merit and receive the approval of the Grand Architect of
the Universe.
· ·
"Permit me, sir, a few words as Grand Representativ~ of the
Grand Lodge of California, a position I have held since 1889. At the
formation of this Grand Lodge those who were active in the work
desiring to compliment California, which was the Masonic horn~ 0 ;
many of the brethren and w:hich Grand Lodge had first introduced
Masonry into Arizona, adopted her Constitutio-n By-Laws Rules
R egu1a t'10ns and even decisions and Work as our own.
'
'
Since that
time'
whenever any doub.t or difficulty has arisen in ou~ ·minds over Masonic
matters, it has been promptly settled by asking, 'What would Cali·
fornia do in _a like case ~'
. '' Fo~lowing California's example, we exchanged Grand RepresentatIVes with, the. Grand Jurisdictions which acknowledged and accepted
us as a sovereign Grand Lodge. In 1904, at its 55th Annual Session
Grand Master Nutting delivered his Annual Address, in which not ~
word was written referring to the Representative system. His
Address was referred to the usual committee for distribution and ref·
erence. When this committee reported, at the close of the Report it
said:

" 'It will be patent to any one who will give the matter of the
appointment of Representatives to and from other Grand Lodges
proper consideration that this custom is_ as useless as the ''appendix
. vermiformis" in the human body. It seems to us that the custom
must have originated in a desire to decorate members with a mere
·title. The only proper way for one Grand Lodge to communicate with
another ·is through the Grand Masters. Your. committee can see no
necessity for the continuance of the custom and therefore recom·
mend that it be abolished.'
''The report of the committee was adopted.

It was afterwards

~aid that this was done without consideration, the members sup~osing

it was the usual stereoty:ped report, and paying no attention to its
contents. The Grand Secretary of California took this action, how· .
ever, as conclusive, and, I understand, notified many Grand Representatives of it, and discontinued to publish the list. I did not receive
any notice nor did I receive any copy of the Proceedings. When my
1
attention was called to the matter I wrote to Grand· Master G. W.
Hunter, and asked him if I was or was not the Grand Representative
of California. In his letter of October 2d, conveying his good wishes

i
6

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

for the ·Craft in Arizona, he told me of the action taken, and that
I was down and out. But on October 23d I received from him ·a nother
letter in which he said that the 'Resolution' had been declared void,
as being in conflict with the Constitution.,, and that I still represented
California.
·
''The action tak,en at the Grand Lodge Session of 1904 caused
considerable comment in other Jurisdictions. Louisiana, fearing for
the safety of its Grand Representative, Bro. Frank W. Pierce, withdrew his commisssion. Past Grand Master Buck of Louisiana, in an
address to the Grand Representatives, when they were received with
the Grand Honors, said:
"'The .Grand Representative is not appointed for business purposes-he merely rises, if you will, as an' evidence, a tangible symbol
expressive of the friendship and fraternal relations which exist between the Bodies-a link in the chain of unity-oneness-identity
of being and purpose of all the Masonic Bodie.a on earth.'
"I have gone into this affair at some length; as it is probably the
last time I shall answer the roll call as t _h e Representative of California. I shall not resign, I hope I shall not be called hence; but I
presume that those who began the crusade will continue their efforts
until California discontinues the system. When that time comes I
trust that the Grand Lodge of -Arizona will disregard precedent and
not follow in California's footsteps. When that day comes, and we
call the roll of Sister Jurisdictions, when California is reached . our
GraI!d Pursuivant will answer, 'Non est inventus,' and I will add,
'Farewell, farewell, the pride_, pomp and circumstance. Othello's
occupation's gcine.'
"It is hard to conceive of the reasons which induced the California
Committee to make its remarkable report. But, sir, wben you look at
the brethren before you, bedecked with the jewels whicn are indicative. of their years of service to Masonry, it will not require much
stretching of the imagination to hear the small, envious voiCe misquoting Scripture and ~aying: 'Consider the "daisies" of the Lodge,
how they grow; they toil not, nei~her do they spin, and yet I. say
unto you, that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like •
one of these.' ''

The M. ·. W. :. Edwin Seymour Miller was elected Grand Master,
and Grand Secretary Roskruge was re-elected.
There was no Repo!'t on Correspondence. ·

j

)

/

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

7

ARKANSAS.
The Grand Lodge of Arkansas held its Sixty-third Annual. Communication in the City of Little Rock, November 21, 1905,-The
M.-. W. -. Styl~s T. Rowe, ?rand Master; the R.·. W.·. Fay Hempstead
being the Grand Secretary.
Arkansas has enrolled 460 live Chartered Lodges, and twenty-two
brand new ones Under Dispensation, with a tQtal of nearly 19,000
members. Four hp.ndred and· twenty-six Lodges were represented at
the present Annual, and thirty-seven other Grand Jurisdictions.
The Grand Master gives the condition of the Jurisdiction as excellent, with progress and prosperity on the right, left and front.
Two Emergent Communications were held, one for t he placing of
the .corner-stone of the St. Alban 's ·Episcopal Church, on May 2d1 at
Stuttgart, and t}le other for the same purpose at Hot Springs, August
15th.
A fine portrait of the present Grand Master, M.·. W.:. A. B. Grace,
appears on the opening• page, and a beautiful view of the home of
Albert Pike when he lived at Little Rock.
The Grand Orator, R.-. W. ·. Bro. F. G. Lindsey, delivered an excel·
lent Address, taking as his text from the Book of the Law: "In the
beginning God created the heavens and the earth.''
We note the appointment of a Committee on Correspondence, with
Bro. George H . Lyman of Fort Smith as Chairman, but fail to find
Report,
CANADA.
The Grand Lodge of Canada, in the Province of Ontario, held its
Fiftieth Annual in the City of Hamilton, July 19, 1905,-The M.-. W.·.
Benjamin Allen, Grand Master, on the Throne; the M.-. W.- . Bro.
H11gh Murray being Grand Secretary. There was a very full attendance of dfficers and members, Past Grand Officers and visitors. The ·
Grand Lodge of Canada has r egistered on its roll 386 Chart ered
Lodges, with five Under Dispen.s ation; of these, all except thirty-five
were represented, together with forty-four other Grand Jurisdictions.
· Bro. Past Grand M~ster ·J. Ross Robertson, in his intensely interesting historical Address before it at. the Fiftieth Annual, says of the
or~gin of Freemasonry in Canada:
''Canadian Masonry was founded in Nova Scotia between ·the years
1737-40. On the 13th of November, 1737, Erasmus James Phillips, an
officer of the Fortieth Regiment, who was stationed at Annapolis
Royal, visited Boston, · and was made a Mason in the first Lodge in
Boston.

8

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

"Bro. Phillips was a nephew of Colonel Richard Phillips, the first
Governor of Nova Scotia, and was Secretary of the Governor's Council.
Bro. Price, as Provincial Grand Master, also appointed Bro. Phillips
as his Deputy, with power to organize Lodges in that Province.''
And with apparent satisfaction he observes, in closing:

CONNECTICUT.

''And here we are to-day, with 390 Lodges on our roll, and a
membership of 35,0001 doing a work for Masonry that has earned for
us not only the good words of the Grand Lodges of the world, but the
esteem and respect of the people at large in this happy land that is
our home.''
The Grand Lodge of Canada is advancing in progress and prosperity.
On the opening page of the present number of .t he Journal is a fine
engraved portrait of the present Grand Master, the M ... ·w... James
H. Burritt, K. C.
Three Especial Communications were held during the year for the
placing of corner-stones of St. Andrew's Presbyterian Church, at
H anover, the public school at the village at Dunnville, and the Ascension Episcopal Church, at the village of Kinlough.
The present number also presents for the consideration of the
Brethren the Revised Constitution.
COLORADO.
The Grand Lodge of Colorado held its Forty-fifth Annual in
Denver, September 19, 1905,-The M.:. W.:. Benjamin L. James, Grand
Master, presiding; the V.·. W.·. Charles H . . Jacobson being Grand
Secretary.
The Jurisdiction consists of 107 Lodges, with a membership of
11,000.
Six Called Communications were held during the year, oj' which two
were Emergent. Nearly all the Lodges were represented, together
with fifty other Grand Jurisdictions. Of the condition of the Jurisdiction, Bro. Ernest Le Neve Foster, Grand Lecturer, says in his
Report: "The Lodges are working with great uniformity and conforming to the Standard Work of the Grand L odge.''
This number of the Journal contains the portraits of Grand Master
George Keith Kimball, of 1887, and the present M. " w... Charles
Fremont Painter.
The Report on Correspondence is from the pen of the ''ready
writer," Bro. Lawrence N. Greenleaf; he reviews sixty Grand Jurisdictions in a thorough and a ble Report of two hundred pages.
Tl1e Committees on Correspondence and Necrology were continued.

9

The Grand Lodge of Connecticut held its One Hundred and Eighteenth Annual in the City of Hartford, January 17, 1905,-The M... W.:
Asa P. Fitch,. Grand Master; the Veteran Bro. John H. Barlow being
the Grand Secretary.
An Emergent Communication was held in the City of Danbury,
September 5th, for the dedication of the n ew hall of "Union" Lodge,
No. 40, a Lodge holding a Charter under the Seal of the Grand Lodge
of Massachusetts, dated March 23, 1780. There are many items of
interest in this history of this Veteran Lodge of ''ye olden tyme, ''
which would be voted decidedly out of order in many of our modern
Jurisdictions. As t he record evidences:
' " In 1785 a worthy Brother was helped to the value of five dollars.
Inste11-d, however, of giving him the money, some of t he Brethren
were empowered to spend it in buying small shoes for his children.
In 'aiding a poor woman, who does not appear to have been a relative
of a Mason, one Brother agreed to board one of her children for one
quarter of the school year and another assumed the expense of the
tuition of one of the children for the same time. It is shown from
the reC'ords that it was the custom of the Lodge to buy a cow occasionally and to pass her around from time to time to Brethren who
were in need of lacteal sustenance. Whether the benevolence of t he
Order extended so far as to appoint a Brother to milk the cow does
not appear. There are one or two instances where the Lodge voted
to buy lottery tickets. In 1801 three tickets to the Episcopalian
church lottery were purchased. But, alas! they proved to be blanks.
"In.1779 a vote appears authorizing the purchase of 'a 1¥2-gallon
or 2-gallon stone jugg for . the use of the Lodge.' One Brother was
charge'1 with the duty of filling the jug. The names of the Brethren
who assisted in emptying the jug are n ot r ecorded. Probably the
jug contained only milk from the Lodge cow, although I confess
that this charitable conclusion is a little beclouded by a vote of the
Lodge accepting a b id of one of the Brothers to supply 'the Lodge
with liquors at prime cost.' '.
The roll shows 110 Lodges, with a · II)embership of 20,087. All t he
Lodges were represented. Bro. John H. Barlow, Chairman of Correspondence, submits an excellent Report of 200 pages, and the Journal
is enriched with a fine portrait of the late Grand Master, M.:. W.:. Asa .
P. Fitch.
M.·. w... Bro. Benjamin F. Turner of Middletown was chosen
Grand Master, and the Grand Secretary was re-elected.

10

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE:
BRITISH COLUMBIA.

The Grand Lodge of British Columbia held its Thirty-fifth Annual
in the Masonic Temple, Victoria, June 21, 1906,-The M.:. W.·. Bro.
Thomas J . Armstrong, Grand Master, presiding; the V.·. W .·. Bro.
R. E. . Brett being the Grand Secretary. There are thirty-eight constituent Lodges in the Jurisdiction. There was a full attendance at
the present Annual, and also the representatives of twenty-four Sister
Grand Jurisdictions; there were nine Past Grand Masters present.
We note fine portraits on the opening pages of M.·. W.•. Elie
Harrison Sr., Grand Master iii 1878-79-80; Coote M. Chambers, of
1881, and the . present one, Thomas J. Armstrong, in his full and elegant dress.
His Address -was brief. He announced the passing to rest of
beloved Brethren with whom they had been associated in their chosen
work, as also those of Sister Jurisdictions; he then reported his
official acts during the recess of the Grand Lodge. No important
decisions were reported. The Deputy Grand Master and also the
District Deputies reported the condition of the districts. The routine
business being conclude.d, the election of officers was held, and M.:.
W.·. Bro. James Hargrave Schofield was chosen Grand Master. The
V. ·• W. · . R. E. Brett, Grand . Secretary, was re-elected. All were in. stalled by M. ·. W. :. Bro. Angus McKeown. The Grand Master nam.e d
the Standing Committees, and, after prayer by the Grand Chaplain, the
Grand Lodge was closed in · Ample Form and Proclaimed by the
Grand Marshal.
An excellent Report on Correspondence, and an exhaustive one,
wherein all the legitimate Bodies of the Masonic World were r eviewed, was submitted by the Correspondent, M.·. A.:. DeWolf
Smith. The paper is an able and instructive one, and, had we at our
disposal more "leeway," ~ould not be Pl!-ssed over without a thorough examination. The 270 pages, however, is prohibitive.
DELAWARE.
As a preface to its Centennial, the Grand Lodge of Delaware
held two Special Communications: One on June 17th, at Wilmington; to place the corner-stone of Eastlake M. E. Church, and the
second to place the corner-stone of "Doric" Lodge, No. 30, of Millville.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

11

The Grand Lodge .of Delaware held its One Hundredth Annual
Communication in Masonic Temple, Wilmington, October 4, 1905,The M. ·. W. :. R. Henry · Young,' Grand· Master, presiding. Delaware
has twenty-two live Lodges on its roll, and nearly all were represented; there were also present thirty-two representatives of Sister
Grand Jurisdictions. There were eleven Past Grand Masters present.
The Grand Master made a brief Address, in which he announced·
~he death of Past Grand Master James S. Dobb, with an affectionate
and fraternal notice of his life a:id character.
. Visitors were present from the Grand Lodges of New Jersey and
Pennsylvania. No important business was transacted.
Bro. L ewis H. Jackson submitted the Report on Correspondence,
a faithful review of the Grand Lodge '.World and its doings, condensed within_ the space of one hundred pages. We are pleased to
find him at his old post, and in greatly improved health.
M.:. W.:. Levin Irving Handy, Grand Master; R.·. W.:. Benjamin
F. Bartram, Grand Secretary; W.: .. Bro. Lewis H. Jackson, Correspondent
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No less than eight preliminaries to the Annual Communication of
the Grand Lodge of •'The District,' ' held in December, 19D5, are
recorded in the Journal of this JurisdictionThe first on March 1st, for .the paying of the last sad rites to the
rem11:ins of a departed Brother .
On March.11th, for the ex emplification of work.
On May 10th, Reports of Committees and general business.
A Special on May 17th, for a placing of the corner-stone of an
Eastern Star building.
On the ·22d, to place the corner-stone of Kimmel Men;iorial Hall.
On May 25th, for the constitution of "King Solomon's" Lodge.
On the 26th, Reports of Committees, and on the 23d for the consider ation of gener al business an~ Constitutional Amendments.
Th_e Ninety-fifth Annual was h eld in Masonic Temple,- Washington,
December 20, 1905,-The M.·. W.:. L11rtin R. Ginn, Grand . Master,
presiding. The constituent Lodges of th~ District number thirty- .
one. All were r epresented, and -there was a full attendance bf offi:
('.ers, members and visitors.
The Grand Master, in his most excellent Address, gives the condition of the Jurisdiction, as all that could b e desired, progr ess and
prosperity, go hand in hand, and remain with them. Of the peddlers
he says:

12

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

'' T·he attempt during the year to form a Lodge in this Jurisdiction under the authority of the clandestine and spurious organization called the 'Pinney Grand Lodge of Ohio 1 resulted in failure.
I took such action at the time towards thwarting this ignoble effort
as seemed to me proper and in consonant:e with the dignity of this
Grand Lodge, with the result that the unscrupulous charlatans who
were intent on peddling the so-called 'degrees' of Masonry left the
Jurisdiction without any accomplishments to their credit."
A portrait of Grand Master Ginn appears on the opening page of
this numbe.r of the Journal.
An excellent Report on Correspondence. is submitted by Past
Grand Master George W. Baird, who gives a review of the doings
of seventy-five Grand Jurisdictions of the Masonic World in a paper
of 200 pages.
M.: . W.:. Bro. Walter A. Brown was chosen Grand Master, and
R." W." Bro. Arvine W. Johnston was re-elected Grand Secretary, of
course.
ENGLAND
The United Grand Lodge of England held a Quarterly Communication at Freemasons' Hall, London, March 7, 1906.
The R.'. Hon. the Earl of Amherst, Pro-Grand Master of the
Throne; the V.:. W.:. Sir Edward Letchworth, F. S. A., being the
Grand. Secretary.
There was a full attendance of Grand Officers, P ast Grand Officers,
Masters and Wardens of Lodges, and distinguished visitors.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample }'orm, with solemn prayer.
A letter was received from the Queen, in reply to a message of
condolence from Grand Lodge to He.r Majesty on a recent b ereavement.
The election of a Grand Master being :first in order, after being
nominated, .H. R. H. the Duke of Connaught and Strathearn was
unanimously re-elected by acclamation, and after his Proclamation
Bro. L. S. Winsloe was elected Grand Treasurer.
The Report of the Board of General Purposes was considered,
which, being mostly routine 'local business, will not b e commented
'on her!J.
'
No important business was transacted, and Grand Lodge closed in
Ample Form, with solemn prayer.
lts Second Quarterly was held June 6, 1906, the M.~. w... the
Right Hon. the Earl Amherst, Pro-Grand Master, on the Throne.
A full attendance of Officers and Past Grand Officers.

13

Reports were r eceived from the Board of General purposes, and
considered. Matters concerning the formation and r el ations with the
Grand Lodge of Queensland were considered.
Grand Lodge adjourned.
FLORIDA.
This Grand Lodge held its Seventy-seventh Annual in the City
of Jacksonville, January 16, 1906,-M,'. W.-. Charles W . Johnson,
Grand Maste~; the R.'. W.:. Wilber P. Webster b eing the Gr and
Secretary.
The Gra~d Lodge held :five Special Communications, four for the
placing of corner-stonas and one for dedication purposes.
Florida bears on its Grand Lodge roll 158 L odges, and of t hese
149 were r epresented at the present Communication. The total membership is about seven thousand. Six new Lodges wer e chartered at
the present Annual. Thirty-five ~ther Grand Lodge Jurisdictions
were represented.
Brother Silas B. Wright , Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence, submits his usual excellent Report.
The· Grand Master and Grand Secretary were r e-elected.

ILLINOIS.
The Grand Lodge of Illinois held its Sixty-sixth Annual Communication in Med:l\J.ah Temple, Chicago, October 3, 1906,-The M.-· W.- ·
William B. Wright, Grand Master, presiding; the R.-. W." J. H. C.
Dill being Grand Secretary. Seven hundred and twelve Lodges were
represented, together with forty other Grand Jurisdictions.
The Grand Master 's Address is an abl e paper, but he confines it
to the business record of this immense Jurisdiction, which has
reached t he record of 738 Chartered Lodges, with a membership of
74,741. A number of interesting portraits of honored members of
this .Grand Lodge appear ,. in this number of the Jourirnl-Grand
Master Wright's on the opening page, and Past Grand Masters H. P,
H. Bromwell of 1865, Jerome R. Gorin of 1866-67, Harmon G. R eynolds of 1868-69, Dewitt C. qreiger of 1870-71, and James A. Hawley
of 1872-73. Interesting views of the Masonic Homes at Sullivan and
in Chicago are also in evidence. Five Charters were granted to new
Lodges, the last number being 882, and ~everal Dispensations were
continued.

14

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

· ·One of the Grand Stewards, Bro. W.·. M.:. Burbank, was ill.. A
Committee was appointed to wait upon him, and convey to him the
sympathy of the Grand Lodge. That Committee, in its Report, called
upon a friend and Brother of the Steward, who had accompanied
them to point the way to Brother Burbank's home, to supplement
their Report, which he did ii\ the following words; which so impress
us that we place them on record here.. The chaperon in this case,
Bro. Edward Cook, said:
"I don't know that I can add an,rthing to the very touching and
appropriate Report that has been made by the Committee.
"It is perhaps proper to give a little further information as to
the conditions in this case. .

"The Brother's office and home have long been at 3035 South
Park avenue, at the corner of Thirty-first street, where he and his
· wife grew old together, until two or three years ago, when she went
to visit a son in California, and died there, since which time this
dear Brother, who is nc,w approaching his. eighty-fifth birthday, has
lived alone. The growing years have made it impossible for him to
remain in ·the active practice of his profession as a physician. His
income has dwindled. But the officers and members of ·'Lakeside'
Lodge, No-. 730, of which he is a Past Master, and its most hon(!red
member, have been true Brethren to him. They have looked after
his wants. 'l'hey have seen to it that he· was provided for. He has'
been kept in his dear old home to which he is much attaehed. They
have engaged the services of a capable and kind woman of mature
years, who spends her time in caring for him. All this the Brethren
of 'Lakeside' Lodge, the Chapter and Commandery have provided for.
He is in comfortable circumstances so far as environment and daily
wants are concerned, and he has the attention and heartfelt love and
sympathy of .his Brethren-all of which he abundantly . appreciates.
"I feel constrained, Most Worshipful Grand Master, to say a
word further. At the solicitation of the Committee which you ap·
pointed, they not being particularly familiar with that portion of
the city and its means of transportation, I went with them on this
visit as a sort of pilot, or, as they were pleased to term me, a
chaperon, and they being rather young ( f) needed some one to guide
their footsteps, and so it fell to my good fortune to go with them,
upon a mission such as rarely falls to the lot of man.
'_'Here were three Brethren, aged respectively 71, 76 and 77 year~.
who have not been honored because of their appointment to a place
in the official roster of this Grand Lodge, but who have honored us
and our institution by accepting the position of Grand Stewards,

GRAND LODGE OF 0.ALI)!'ORNIA.

15

going to visit the fourth member of that beautiful group who stand
as th.e noblest exemplars of what is best in life and best in Masonry,
and who so well represent the four cardinal virtues, Temperance,
Fo;rtitude, Prudence and Justice.
"Brethren, the scene which presented itself when these three
Brethren gath'e red about the couch of the fourth, was s~ch as mortals
seldom witness. It was a picture of Brotherhood, sublime in its
pathos; and most beautiful in its impressiveness. Just' think of it!
H ere was this once stalwart specimen of humanity, long so strong and
vigorous, but now stricken by age infirmities, laying prostrate upon
his b.ed, p})ysically disabled, but mentally strong, and . morally pure,
waiting, with clear inward vision for the future; his· eyes were growing dim; he was evidently listening for the 'knocking at the door! '
And shall we not say, 'He is already beginning to hear· the footsteps
o{ the angels! '
''But he is approaching the end :firm in the consciousness of
having lived an upright life; of having been a just and loyal Mason;
·one of the best exemplars of thll teachings of our institution, and,
having lived thus, he can view the end calmly, and with an abiding
faith.
''His physicians tell us he may make a partial r ecovery, and be
spare·d to us for some months, but they give no ground to hope for
strength sufficient to enable him to get about.
''He appreciated your remembrance and the visit of his colleagues
beyond anything that I have words to express. He wanted you all to
know how thoroughly he felt it, how much he tha.nked you, and how
dearly he loved you.
''And as we turned away· the unbidden tears would come to the
eye. And yet with faith and confidence we could but say: 'Let my
death be like_ that of the righteous man, and may my last end be
like' his r' "
The usual routine business closed with the election of officers for
the ensuing year. The M . ., W.-. Che~ter E. Allen was chosen Grand
Master, and the R.-. W.-..J,. H. Dill was re-elected Grand Secretary.
Past Grand Master Joseph Robbim3, as the Committee on Corre·
spondence, will continue to illustrate the importance of that Committee. We should like to publish the introduction to his · Report~ but
we must forbear this time. We will, however, quote his comment
upon the '' vermi{ormis '' Report of our Committee:

16

17

R EPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

"The Grand Representative system was abolished on the recommendation of the Committee on Address, who say that it is as useless
as the appendix vermiformis in the human body, a remark whereat
we protest because the Almighty may not have yet disclosed to the
California Committee the last word concerning the appendix against
which they take up the hue and cry. To vindicate the truth of
history we are also compelled to take exception to the statement
that many of the Grand Lodges are dispensing with the system, as
only a few of them have done so. For a more w eighty reason wt'l
desire to recur to an evil which t}lis incident serves to illustrate
just as well as though something more was at stake than the unimportant question whether a Grand Lodge. should k eep up the simulacrum of a diplomatic court or not. We ref.er to reporting by the
Committee on Grand Master's Address of recommendations involving
final legislative action. This is outside the proper function of such
a Committee, whose sole duty it should b e to r eeommend the proper
reference of the vari?us topics treated in the Address, that each
subject requiring action may be presented separately and in a digested
form to the Grand Lodge. This incident illustrates the widest possible
departure from their proper sphere of action by the Committee, b e.·
cause they dealt with a subject not referred to them, the Grand Rep·
resentative system not being so much as alluded to in the Address.''

"The Grand Secretary then presented the Annual Reports of t he
Grand Secretary and Librarian, together with the Financial Reports
of Grand Master, Grand Treasurer, Grand Secretary and Librarian,
in printed form.
''Ordered, That th~ Report of Grand Secretary b e referred to
Committee on Grand Master's Address, that of Library to the Com·
mittee on Grand Lodge 'Library, and t he Financial Reports, under t he
law, to the Committee on Finance:"
Bro. Parvin emb ellishes his work with affectionate memorial
tributes to the veteran Grand Secretaries and all-around Freemasons,
Bros. J. D. Vincil, Samuel Manning Todd and . Oliver A. Whittemore.
Green be the memories of the illustrious trio. Handsome portraits
accompany the .tributes.
His memorials ,also to the dead Grand Masters of Iowa, accom. panied with the portraits of such Past Grand M asters, Van Baun,
McClanhan and Dewey, is the enco uragement of the practice too often
neglected-remembrance of our dead.
The M ... w ... William H. Norris was chosen Grand Master.
The R.'. W.:. Newton R. P arvin was re-eiected Grand Secretary.
The "after pain ting," the last 200 pages or so, of the good
ship Iowa, is commanded by Admiral Joseph E. Morcombe, and for
.a diagnosis of the condition of the Craft wheresoever dispersed.
The writer is a b eliever in the ,progress and incr easing prosperity
of the organization of Freemasonry and its influence in the affairs
of nations and the people of all nations.

IOWA.
The Grand. Lodge of Iowa held its Sixty-second Anni{al Communication in the Grand Opera House, Davenport, Jun·e 6, 1905,-The
M.". W. :. Sumner Miller, Grand Master, the R.:. W.:. N ewton R.
Parvin being Grand Secretary. The Grand Officers were all present,
with the ·exception of the Senior Grand Steward, and there was a
large att endance of Past Grand Officers, and 454 of the 502 constituent
Lodges were represented.
The portrait of the Grand Master, Sumner Miller, on the opening
page of this fine book, is, in our opinion, a splendid portrait of a
handsome man, and, in fact, the book, as a whole, is a thing to be
admired.
The Grand Master 's Address was a practical r ecital of the past
year's business, advising no r adical departure from present progress..
The Grand Master of Iowa may be content with present condi·
tions, when· his Army rolls show a membership of 35,729 Master
Masons, of which tot·a1 1,146 were the accr edited net gain of the year.
As a matter of practice to be followed by Grand Lodges, we quote
the following from the Grand Lodge of Iowa's Order of Business:

'

Since writing the foregoing we have received the Iowa Journal
for 1906, a beautiful book, with one of "Bathers' " steel-engraved
portraits on the opening page. We think Grand Master W. H. Norris
· may well b e proud of tis surroundings.
The Grand Lodge of Iowa held its Sixty-third Annual in Des
·Moines, June 5, 1906,-The M.·. w ... William Henry Norris, Grand
Master, presiding; the R ... w... Bro. Newton Ray P arvin being t he
Grand Secr etary. l<'our hundred and sev\lnty-six of the 505 Lodges
in the Jurisdiction were represented.
We will not attempt to re view the proceedings at this late day,
and we only mention it to say that the· session was harmonious, t h e
Jurisdiction prosperous and a credit to Freemasonry.
The M.·. W.:. William Fiske Cleveland was el ected Grand Master,
and the R .. .' w ... N ewton Ray P arvin was re-elected Grand Secretary.
Bro. Joseph E. Morcombe continues his good work.
~6

18

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

19

INDIANA.
The Grand Lodge of Indiana h eld its Eighty-fourth Annual in
Grand Lodge Hall, Indianapolis, May 23, 1905,-The M. :. W. ·. George
E. Grimes, Grand Master, presiding. The number of Lodges enrolled
is 531, with a membership of 42,627, with four new Lodges under Dis·
pensation. Five hundred and seventeen of· the 531 chartered Lodges
were represented in the present Annual Communication, together with
thirty-one other Grand Jurisdictions. That the Grand Lodge of Indiana is progressive and prosperous its net gain of 2,428 in membership for the past year gives evidence.
The Grand Master compliments the Grand Secretary for faithful
' service. He says of Bro. p'rather : "Had it not been for his kind and
efficient help I would have b een tempted to have given a sign of distress and surrendered the office.''
Charters were _granted for the forming and opening of six new
Lodges.
A fine portrait of the Grand Master-elect appears on the opening
page. The Committee on Ways and Means, considering the proposition to establish a ''Grand Charity Fund,'' reported as follows, and
the R eport was concurred in :
"Your Committee are, therefore, of the opinion that the true
meaning and intent of Masonic Charity can be the better ex emplified by each of the Lodges in their r espective communities than by
any Committee appointed by this Grand Lodge so widely separated
from those who may b e in need of immedia t e assistance.''
Chairman Emerson E. Ballard of Committee on N ecrology, in
closing his Report, gives expression to his meaning in these beautiful
lines :
"The services of this hour demonstrate that we have not forgott en.
our dead; that our souls are thrilled afresh by recalling the virtues
of those for whom we now mourn. It would take only a little more
effort to ext end the same r espect and charity we give the d ead to all
the living; and how the world might thus be brightened! Take then
this suggestion, that from every coffin , mingled with the perfume of
the flowers spread by loving hands to hide its horrors from view, there
should rise a sweeter incense in the form of an inspiration to all the
living to weave into their lives with fresh vigor the virtues of the
dead. This is immortality her e and now. Let us seize hold of and
possess it."
The r etiring Gra nd Master was presented. with a Past Grand Master's J ewel by the Senior Grand Deacon, on behalf of the Grand
Lodge, in ·a most eloquent and impressive Address, and several Representatives of other Grand Jurisdictions addressed the Grand Lodge.

M.· . .W.·. Alfred W. Emery was elected Grand Master, and M.,.
W. ·. Calvin W. Prather, Grand Master in 1880·82, was re-elected
Grand Secretary, and M. ·. W. · . Daniel McDonald, Grand Master in
1875-76 _was continued as Chairman of· Correspondeµce. His present
Report is an elegant paper of 123 pages, in which the conditions of
the sev:eral Jurisdictions is placed before the inquirer intelligently and
without prejudice.
KANSAS.

~'

'

The _G rand Lodge of Kansas held its Fiftieth Annual Communication in Representative Hall, Topeka, February 21, 1906,-The M.·.
W.·. Samuel R. Peters, Grand Master, presiding, the R.:. W.:. Albert
K. Wilson _being the Grand Secretary.
This Grand Jurisdiction has registered upon its Roll of Lodges
373 chartered Lodges, with one under Dispensation, with a members~ip of. 27,167:, of the Lodges 305 were represented at the present Sess10n, with the Representatives of forty-four other Grand Jurisdictions.
Fourteen Past Grand Masters w ere in attendance.
'rhe Grand Master was kept l;msy with the placing of corner-stones
dedication of halls, and visiting his constituent Lodges-with an ey~
out for the Home at Wichita. We note no matter of special importance in the routine of legislation. The decisions of the Grand Master
were few and were approved "by the Committee on Jurisprudence, and
affirmed by the Grand Lodge.
An excellent address was delivered by Bro. Chas. G. Dunlap
of ''Acacia'' Lodge, No. 9. A Charter was granted "Dwight "
Lodge, U. D.
·
It was decided to hold the next, the Fifty-first Annual at .Wichita
the Session to commence l!'ebruary 20, 1907. A number of the Officers'
members and visitors to Grand Lodge assembled in the Auditoriu~
and cel ebrated the Semi-Centennial of the Grand Lodge. A brilliant
program included a fine program of musical exercises, and th~ reminiscences of eloquent brethren.
Bro. William M. Shaver, Past Grand Master and Chairman of
Correspondence, submits a nother of his most excellent Reports. A
complete review of the Masonic World, condensed within a paper of
two hundred pages. We quote his notice of our .legislation last year
as of interest to our i"eader s :
"We noted last year a r ecommendation, among others, of the
then Grand Master for the abolishing of the system of Grand Repre·
sentatives as a 'useless, cumbersome <iustom and promotive of inharmony.' ,No action was taken last year, but the Grand Secretary

20

~1

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

brought up this year the recommendations of the Grand Master as
'unfinished business.' The Special Committee on the Addlless of the
Grand Master and the R eport of the Grand Secretary take ' charge of
the questions o~ un:fimshed business, and recommend their re:l"llrence
to the Committee on Jurisprudence, but in the ne~ paragraph say:

Officer in some other Masonic Grand Bodies, and our experience has
been that some of the most pleasant correspondence in the office is ".
with our Grand Representat ives.
"The argument of the Committee that the 'only proper way for
one Grand Lodg.e to communicate with another is through the Grand
Masters' is amusing. The same argument .m ight dispense with Grand
Masters, as every practical Grand Lodge man knows t hat ninety per
cent of all the correspondence between Grand Lodges is conducted
through t he offices of the Grand Secretaries.
''It may be that' the office of Grand Representative is as useless
as the vermiform appendix in the human body, but we are skeptical
· as to the wisdom of many so-called medical authorities upon this latter proposition. We are just old-fashioned enough to prefer the judgment of the C.reator, who placed that little sac in our bo\}y, and no
meilical carver gets ours without a fight.''

'' 'It will be patent "to any one who will give the matter of the
appointment of Representatives to and from other Grand Lodges
proper consideration, that this custom is as useless as the appendix
vetmiformis in the l\_uman body. It seems to us that the Cll;Stom must
have originated in a d esire to decorate members with a mere title.
The only proper way for one Grand Lodge to communicate with an~ther is through the Grand Masters.
Your Committee can see no
necessity for the continuance of the custom, and therefore r ecommend
that it be abolished. Ma ny of the Grand Lodges are dispensing therewith, and we think the Grand Lodge of California should do likewise.'
'' 'The record states that the Report was concurred in and the
recommendations accompanying were unanimously adopted.
"We do not :find any record of Report on this matter by the Com•
mittee on Jurisprudence, and our guess would be that the adopting of
the recommendations of a Special Committee of r eference would
have no legislative force, especially in view of the fact that the office
of Grand Representative and the power of the Grand Master to appoint and accredit such Grand Representatives is recognized in the
Constitution of the Grand Lodge of California.
''Our attention, however, has been called to an official communication received by our Grand Secretary from the Grand Secretary of the
Grand Lodge of California, in which this recommendation is quoted as
the action of the Grand Lodge, and we therefore t ake it that the
Grand Secretary at l east is t r eating the system as legislated out of
California.
"We admit that we like the Grand Representative system and
arc not in sympathy with this expression of the Special Committee
out in California. Of course, the system makes some ad.d i tional work
for a Gr an d Secretary, and, if properly conducted, it costs a Grand
Lodge something to maintain it, but we are constrained to believe that
it is worth all it costs. It is possibly true that the custom originated
in a desire to decorate some Masons with a title, but many Masons
appreciate it, and the natural effect is to create · and· foster a strong
feeling· of interest and fraternity in the accredited representative
toward the Grand Lodge he 'represents. This in itself is worth the
work and the expense. The writer has the honor to be the Recording

A feature of this number of the Journal is the photographic group
of appointed Grahd Officers, ever y one a future .Grand Master.
M.·. W.:. Thomas L. Bond was chosen Grand Master; R.:. W.:.
Albert K. Wilson was r e-elected Grand Secretary, and Past Grand
Master William M. Shaver was continued as Chairman of Corre·
spondence.
KENTUCKY.
The Grand Lodge of Kentucky held its One Hundred and FifU1
Annual in Masonic Temple, Louis.v ille, October 17, 1905,-The' M.:.
W .:. Roland H . C. Rhea, Grand Master, presiding, R.-. W.:. Henry B.
Grant being Grand Secretary.
Kentucky has on its Roll 486 chartered Lodges ;i,nd eleven under
Dispensation, nearly all of which were in attendance by their Representatives. ·
The Grand Master was brief-few visitations reported and no dec1s10ns. Eight Charters wer e granted to Lodges under Disp e~sation
and thr ee Dispensations continued. We ar e pleased to r eport the fol'lowing action by the Grand Lodge:
"Resolved, By the Most Worshi-pful Gr and Lodge of Kentucky,
F. and A. M., in Annual Session.assembled, that we heartily endorse
the movement inaugur ated by 'Lexington' Lodge, No. 1, in arousing
the citizens of the State in the importance of restoring to its former
beauty the monume~t er ected to the memor y of Past Grand Master
Henry Clay in the cemetery at Lexington, and we would respectfully
urge the Governor of the State to bring this matter before t he next

22

23

REPORT ON . CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Legislature with the recommendation that it appropriate a sufficient
sum ~o repair the damage ·to this monument, thereby removing the
cause of criticism and censure which has been placed on the fair name
of our State. ''
"P.-. G.-. M.·. Thos. S. Petit offered the following amendment:
" 'That a Committee of five members of the Grand Lodge of Ken·
tucky be appointed by its Grand Master to wait upon the Governor
and attend th~ session of the next General Assembly and present this
resolution and inform them of the action and desires of this Grand
Body.'
''The amendment was adopted, whereupon the resolution, as
amended, was unanimously adopted.''
Past Grand Master William W. Clarke submits bis usual excellent
Report on Correspondence, in a paper of about one hundred pages.
California is r eviewed for the Administration of Grand Master
Nutting, which is noticed with approval.
The Lodge membership of Kentucky is about 27,000.
M.·. W.·. James Garnett of Columbia was elected Grand Master;
and, as a matter of course, R.- .' W. · .. Bro. Henry B. Grant is continued
as Grand Secretary.
Past Grand Master W. W. Clarke is also continued as Chairman
of Correspondence.

" Bro. Richard L ambert having retired t emporarily, the Grand
Master appointed R.·. W.·. Bros. Marsh and L. C. Allen to escort him
into the Grand Lodge room, and M:. W.:. Bro. A. C. Allen of 'Frank·
!in' Lodge, No. 57, P. G. M., then addressed Bro. Lambert, in sub·
stance, as follows:

LOUISIANA.
The Grand Lodge of Louisiana h·eld its Ninety-fourth Annual il1
the city of New Orleans,' F ebruary 5, 1906,-and remember Brother
Lambert, when you call the Roll on February 5th, rememb er that it's
our birthday. The M.·. W.·. L. P. Delabonssaye, Grand Master, presiding, R. ·. W. ·. Bro. Richard Lambert being the Grand Secretary.
The Grand Lodge bas registered on its Roll of Lodges 175 charter ed
Lodges, of which number ·125 were r epres·e nted, together with twenty.
six ·other Grand Jurisdictions.
This Jurisdiction has also eleven constitu ent Lodges under Dis·
pensation. The Grand Secretary reports a net gain in membership of
585 for the past year. Aside fr,om the routine business of Grand
Lodge, the Ses.s ion was occupied in the consideration of the creation
of a fund for the future relief of .aged and indigent Master Masons.
and the widows and orphans. of deceased brethren.
The Representatives of · other Grand Jurisdictions were received
and welcomed by the Grand Master, but the item of legislation giving
us the greatest satisfaction is contained in the following:

' ' 'Words are not adequate to expr ess .the full meaning of compliment and appreciation intended to you by this Grand Lodge of
Masons1 which you have seen grow from a small beginning to its
present proportions.
' ' 'For a number of years this Grand Jurisdiction has labored
under a burden of debt, consequent upon the building of this Masonic
Temple and its subsequent maintenance. We have it to say, and it is
a matter of record, that when you were approached in regard to·
· cer tain ·matters of retrenchment which would further t he interest of
the cause which we had most at heart that you had no hesitation in
including your own salary.
'' ' As a small' token of th,1; appreciation of this Grand Lodge of the
sacrifice by you then made, and under which you have labored for a
11-umber of years, I am directed by the Grand Master to state to you
that an appropriation of $1,000.00 has just been passed as a small
token and to show their deep appreciation of t he services which you
have rendered in the past to this M. " W.:. the Grand Lodge of
Louisiana.'
"Bro. Lambert r esponded and t hanked the Grand L odge very
appropriately and assured them of his <leep appreciation.''
Bro. H erman C. Duncan contributes his usual scholarly Report on
Correspondence, in which he gives a fund of information concerning
the various pranches of the Masonic free for the b en efit of ''seekers
after Masonic light.''
M. ·. W.·.. Bro. r,. C. Allen (of "Caddo" Lodge, No. 179) was
chosen Grand Master. · "How much better it would be if the M.: . W. :.
Bro. has a namii, say it was L eonidas, Luther, Lemuel, .Luke or Levi,
but our Limisiana brethren seem parren o(names." And the R.·. W.·.
Richard Lambert was re-elected Grand Secretary; R. :. W. ·. Bro. H er··
man Cope Duncan continues as Chairman, or, rather, as .Cor:r:espon dent.
0

IDAHO.
An Emergent Communication was held. by the Grand Lodge of
Idaho at Boise, December · 23, 1904, for the performance of the last
sad rites at the funeral ceremonies of Past Grand Master George
Laird Shoup, M.·. W.-. Jonas W. Brow:Il, formerly o( California, as
Grand Master.
·
·

REPORT ON CORR~lSPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

This Grand Lodge held its Thirty-eighth Annual at Boise, September 12, 1905,-The M.· .. W.:. Albert Gordon, Grand Master, presiding,
the R. ·. W.-. Theoph. W. Randall being Grand Secretary. Thirty-five
Lodges are registered on the Roll of Lodges, with one under Dispensation, all of which w ere represented, together with fourteen other
Grand Jurisdictions.
The Grand Master in his Address makes an interesting report of
the working condition of the Lodges, although he has been troubled
with matters concerning the arrest of a Charter a nd the settle-•
ment of its .financial affairs. In his closing he says, of assistance
received in his work:

''Official notice of. the death of these distinguished brethren has
been sent to the constituent Lodges and the Grand Lodges with which
we have fraternal relations, and the Charters and ·Great Lights or
Masonry have_ been ordered draped for · sixty days as a tribute of
respect to their memory.

24

''I desire to especially mention, and thank, Grand Secretary Theo.
W. Randall, Past Grand Master George Ainslie and Past Grand Master
Jonas W . Brown, whose counsels and assistance have been of imm1:!asurable help to me during the past year.''
·
The Roll of Lo<lge membership in the Jurisqiction records 2,056.
Geo. E. Keppner, Chairman cif Committee on Correspondence, gives
a v ery interesting review of the condition of the Masonic world in his
Report of one hundred pages.
. M.-. W.-. Jeremiah W. Robinson was elected Grand Master; R.-.
W.-. Theophilus W. Randall was re-elected Grand Secretary, and Geo.
E . Keppner of Moscow was reappointed Chairman of the Committee
on Correspondence.

MICHIGAN.
The Grand Lodge of Michigan held its Sixty-second Annual Communication in the city of Grand Rapid.a, May 22d, conimencing at
High Twelve,- The M.-. W." John Rowson, Grand Master, pres_iding,
the R.-. W." Lou B. Winsor being the Grand Secretary. Three hundred and eighty four of the 395 Lodges in the Jurisdiction were r epr esented, together with thirty-nine other Grand Jurisdictions. An
Address of Welcome on behalf of the city of Grand Rapids w elcome<l
Grand Lodge to the city. Bro. H. A. Thomas, Representative of the
Grand Lodge of New York, was r eceived with Grand Honors a nd
addressed Gr and Lodge.
The Grand Master in his Address referred to the unusual number
of brethren claimed by the Grim Tyrant since their last Annual, five
Past Grand Masters, two Past Grand Chaplains, and 804 members of
the Craft having been called to cross the river of death. In closing
his tribu'te to the absent ones he said:

25

"Never in the history of our Grand Lodge have so many distinguished members been called from us in so short a period of time,
·and it seems to me fitting that a memorial session should be held at
this time that brethren more eloquent than I may speak on the lives
of these good men. Therefore; I ask you all to be present in this hall
this even1hg at 8 :30 o'clock to listen to the special program that has
been arranged as a tribute to their memory. ''
He reported the constitution of seven Lodges under Charters here. tofore granted, and the granting of seven Dispensations for still
new er Lodges.
·
The Grand ¥aster reported visitations involving the travel of more
than 14,000 miles. He severely scol"ed the practice of electioneering
among the brethren.
·
· Grand Secretary· Winsor made an exhaustive Report, and the
Grand Lecturer 's Report gives evidence of intelligent, faithful, painstaking service. .
·The Board of Control of the Michigan Masonic Home presented a
detailed Report of the t ransactions at the Home.
The Grand Lodge met in evening session for Memorial Services in
r emembrance of the brethren who had passed to r est during the last
year. Addresses were made by Brothers Charles L. Stevens, Leo A.
Caro, Abraham T. Metcalf, Henry Chamberlin, Frank T. Lodge, Lou B.
Winsor, Roscoe W. Broughton, Hugh McCurdy, and John J. Carton.
In the routine of business many Committee reports were considered
and dispoBed of. The election of Officers being in order, M. ·. W. :.
Charles L. Stevens was elected Grand ·Master and R.·. W.-. Bro. Lou
Winsor, Past G~and Master, was r e-elected G~and Secretary. The
Officers were installed. Tl\£ r etiring Gr and Master was presented
with a Past Grand M aster's Jewel.
The Grand Treasurer reported having received and transmitted to
the M.-. W.:. Motley H. Flint, Grand M aster for the Relief l:<'und of
California, $3,990.77. The Standing Committees were appointed and
Grand Lodge closed.
Past Grand Master Lou Winsor, Chairman of the Committee on
Correspondence, or, rather ,. Corr espondent, submits an excellent R eport of 290 pages, a fair and impartial r eview of the various Juri_sdictions composing the Masonic World.

26

27

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GR.AND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

MANITOBA.

giving his decisions and rulings, visitations and the condition of the
Jurisdiction. Of the services of the Grand Secretary, Bro. Thomas
Montgomery knows best and he says:

The Grand Lodge of Manitoba ·h!lld five Special Communications
during the year. The first at Balgoine, July 5, 1904, for placing the
corn~r-stone of the Anglican church; the second in Masonic Hall, at
N ap1mka, to place the corner-stone of St. George's church; the third,
in Gladstone, August 18th, to place the corner-stone of All Saints·'
church; the fourth, to . place the corner-stone of the Presbyterian
church at Neepawa, August 26th, and the fifth, at Austin, April 26th,
to place the corner-stone of the Public School building at Austin.
The Thirtieth Annual Communication was held in the city of
Winnipeg, June 14, 1905,-The M. ·. W. '.. Andrew Chisholm, Grand
Master, presiding, the R.:. W.·. James A. Ovas being Grand Secretary.
There are seventy-nine Lodges on the Grand Lodge ·registry, with
a membership of 4,786, of which number forty-four were represented,
together with thirty-five other Grand Lodge Jurisdictions. Eleven
Past Grand Masters were in attendance.
The Grand Master's Address was confined to the business transacted during the recess of Grand Lodge. The District Deputies for the
twelve Districts reported the conditions and prospects in their respective Districts.
·
The Grand Secretary reported a net gain in the membership of
512, with a total of 4,786. The usual routine of business prevailed.
At the election of Officers for the ensuing year the M. ·. W. ·. William
G. Scott was chosen Grand Master, and Past Grand Master James A.
Ovas was re-elected Grdnd Secretary.
The Officers-elect were installed, the Standing Committees app.o inted, and the Grand Lodge closed.
There was no Report on Correspondence.

''The work of this office for the past year has been arduous and
exacting. I have done my best to serve you and hope my efforts have
been satisfactory to you. My relations with the Grand Master and
all the Officers of the Grand Lodge and the Officers and members of
the Lodges with whom I have come in contact have been of the most
pleasant character. It is a delight as well as honor to serve such
grand men and faithful craftsmen. I regret that the demands on my
time have prevented me from taking part in many Lodge functions to
which I have been in'Vited, although I have attended not a few. In
closing, I desire to thank my brethren of the Grand Lodge for their
past confidence and hope ever to merit. a continuation of the same.''
Preliminary measures were taken by the appointment of Commit·
tees to act with other Masonic organizations for the completion of
plans for the estalllishment of a Home.
An Oration was delivered by Bro. Elmer A. King, Grand Orator.
The usual routine of business was transacted, with no special
change of law, practice or custom.
The election of Officers for the ensuing year being in order, the
M. :. W. ·. Thomas Morris Crookston was chosen Grand Master, and the
R. ·. W. :. Thomas Montgomery was re-elected Grand Secretary. The
Committees reported, the appointed Officers were named and all were
installed. The Standing Committees were appointed and Grand Lodge
closed.
Bro. Irving Todd, of Hastings, submits the usual Report of the
Committee on Correspondence, of which he is Chairman, and the
present is no exception to the general excellence of his reports.

MINNESOTA.

MONTANA.

The Grand Lodge of Minµesota held its Fifty-third Annual Communication in St. Paul, January 17, 1906,-The M . :. W.·. Henry M.
Tusler, Grand Master, presiding, the R.·. W.:. Thomas Montgomery
being the G.r and Secretary. A fine portrait of the Grand Master appears on the opening page. Two hundred and twenty-one of the 241
Lodges in this Grand Jurisdiction were represented, together with
forty-four other Sister Grand Lodges. Eleven Past Grand Masters
were in attendance.
The Grand .Master reported the granting of five Dispensations for
the forming and opening · of new Lodges and the constitution of .two
heretofore chartered. His Address is· an exc.e llent 'business paper,

The Grand Lodge of Montana held a Special Communication in the
town of Sheridan, July 6, 1905, for the placing of the corner-stone of
the Methodist · Episcopal church at Sheridan..
A second. Special was held at Helena, July 10th, to perform the
last · sad rites over the remains of Past Grand Master Wilbur F.
Sanders.
The Forty-first Annual Communication was he1d in the city of
Butte, September 20, 1905, -The M. '.. W. ·. Lew S. Callaway, Grand
Master, presi<ling. Of the sixty chartered Lodges fifty-one were represent ed, together with thirty-one other Grand Jurisdictions. Eight
Past Grand Masters were in attendance.

28

29

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Fine portraits of the Grand Master and of the deceased Past
Grand Master Wilbur F . Sanders and of Past Junior Grand Warden
Callaway appear in this number of the Journal. In his Address the
Grand Master in eloquent words paid tribute to the lives and charac. · ters of the dead Past Grand Officers, and in spirit. dropped again his
sprig of acacia upon their last resting places in remembrance of former
friendship and sincere affection. No bus.i ness of special iinportance
was before the Grand Lodge for considerati-0n at the present Session.
Bro. Cornelius Hedges had the same careful supervision over the pro·
ceedings as ever and the Committees performed their accustomed
duties, not from choice, but from pure and simple habit. They didn 't
know any other way. The election of Officers being in order, the M.'.
W.·. H enry L. Frank of Butte was chosen Grand Master and the R.·.
W.:. Cornelius Hedges was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The appointed Grand Officers were named, all were installed and
the ·retiring Grand Master divested himself of "The Signet Ring,"
which, with elegant words, he presented to his successor. The Sta.nd·
ing Committees were appointed, with a Qommittee to procure and present a testimonial to the retiring Grand Master and Grand Lodge
closed its labors.
.
Our Brothe~ Hedges' Report on Correspondence . was as usual, a
little b etter than the last. We are so glad that he has recovered his
health, that we fear we could not judge him impartially even if h e
went wrong.

A Special was held September 28th, to place the corner-stone of a
Federal building, and on October 11th, for the .dedication of Masonic
apartments of " Ezekiel Bales" Lodge; again in Nov ember .16th, to
place the corner-stone of a new l!'ederal Building.
On .December 13th t he last Quarterly was held, the Grand Mast er
presiding. Two hundred and five Lodges were represented. There
were present four Past Grand Masters, nine Deputies and twenty-three
Past Grand Wardens. A fine steel-engraved portrait appears on t he
opening page. Photographic busts of John Paul Jones and a speak·
ing likeness of Benjamin Franklin appear in this number.
Grand Master Sanford delivered his Annual Address, a fine paper.
The Committees reported, the Finance Committee making a splendid
showing of the immense r esources of this Great Grand Lodge. The
election of Officers was held and R. ·. W. ·. John Albert Blake of Malden was chosen Grand Master, and ·R. ·. w... Sereno D. Nickerson was
re-elected Grand .Secretary. Prayer was offered by Rev. Bro. Chas. A.
Skinner, Grand Chaplain, and Grand Lodge closed.
On St. John the Evangelist's Day, December 27th, at the close of
the Masonic y ear, Grand Lodge assembled in Masonic Temple, Bost on,
for the purpose of of installing its Officers-elect and celebrating the ·
•Feast of St. John the Evangelist. Grand Lodge was opened in Ample
Form, proclamation was made and the Officers-elect were inst alled, t he
Annual Feast of St. John being held after the manner o:r Masons and
so closed the 172d anniversary of the Grand Lodge of Maesachusetts.
May her shadow never b e less.

MASSACHUSETTS.
The Grand Lodge of Massachusetts held its First Quarterly in the
Temple, Boston, March 8, 1905,-M. ·. W. '· Baalis Sanford, Grand
Master. One hundred and :fifty-seven Lodges were represented. The
Officers-elect and appointed not present at the Annual were installed.
Memorials were read and considered. A Special was held March 14th
for the dedication of Masonic apartments.
A Special was held June 6th for the purpose of assisting in the
celebration of the Centennial of ' 'Amicable '' Lodge. The Grand
Master presided. A Special held on the 10th for participation in the
Centennial of "Mount Carmel" Lodge; and
The usual Quarterly on June 14th,-The Grand Master presiding.
One hundred and twenty-eight Lodges were represented. Several
· memorials were presented. The Grand Master appointed a Committee
on Ritual.
The usual Quarterly was heltl September 13th,-The Grand Master
presiding. One hundred and thirty-two Lodges were represented.
The Committee on Ritual reported.

MAINE.
The Grand Lodge of Maine h eld its Eighty-sixth Annual Communication in Corinthian Hall, Portland, May 2, 1!!05,-M.·. W.:. Hugh. R.
Chaplin, Grand Master, presiding. One hundred and ninety-one of t he
200 charter~d Lodges were repre~nted, together with forty-two other
Grand Jurisdictions. A fine steel·engrirved portrait of Past Grand
Treasurer R. :. W. ·. M. F . King appears on t he opening page. The
Grand Master read his Annual Address.
The Address is an interesting recital of the b.usiness of the recess
with the Grand Master's rulings on matters presented to him for
decision thereon.
The Grand Lodge has registered on its Lodge Roll 200 Lodges, with
a membership of 25,397. . Splendid memorial addresse~ were presented and accepted of Past Grand Masters Horace H. Burbank and
·Margius Fayette King.

30

31

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

The M., , M.:. David H. Wright, Grand Master of the Grand
Lodge of Wisconsin, was introduced to Grand Lodge and welcomed
by the Grand Master.
At the annual election of Officers M.~. W.·, Hugh R. Chaplin was
re-elected Grand Master, and R. ·. W. ·. Stephen Berry was re-elected
Grand Secretary.
The Grand Master announced his appointments and all were installed by Past Grand Master Collamore and Proclamation made.
The Grand Master announced the Standing Committees and after
prayer by the Rev. William H. Fultz, Grand Chaplain, the Grand
Lodge closed.
Bro. Abro E. Chase, Grand Master in 1887-88 and Chairman of the
Committee on Correspondence, presented an excellent Report of 150 .
pages. Bro. Chase is an earnest, painstaking Correspondent and we
think · the present his best Report.

(with its band), and a platoon of mounted police, proceeded to the
site of the new bu~lding and placed the stone in accordance with
ancient forms and ceremonies. The Grand Lodge returned to the ·
Temple and at 5 o'clock p. m. resumed the transaction of business.
Dispensations were granted for the forming and opening of three new
Lodges. The Grand Lodge was called off at six p. m., proceeded to the
banquet hall and returned at 7:30 and called on.

MARYLAND.
The Grand Lodge of Mar~land held its Two Hundred nad Thirtyseventh Semi-Annual Communication May 9, 1905,-The M.-. W.-.
Thomas J. Shryock, Grand Master, presiding, the R.·. W.:. William
M. Isaac being Grand Secretary.
A due rllpresentation of Lodges being present, the Grand Lodge
was opened.
The Grand Master addressed the Grand Lodge orally. R eports of
Committees were received. A Committee to revise Constitution and.
Standing Regulation was appointed.
A fine portrait of Dep. Grand Master J ames R. Brewer appears
on the opening page.
A Special Communication was .held May 16th for the dedication
of the new hall of "Howard" Lodge, No. 101.
This Grand Lodge held its One Hundred and Nineteenth Annual
Communication November 21, 1905. The Grand Lodge was opened by
the Dep~ty Grand Master. The M.-. W.:. Thomas J . Shryock, Grand
Master, was received and presided. One hundred and six of the 213
chartered Lodges were · r epresented. After several reports had been
made and considered the Grand liodge was called off until the 22d,
at 2 o'clock p. m.,. when the Special Order would be the placing of the
corner-stone of the New Maryland Institute. The time of Wednesday too having arrived at 2 o'clock p. m. the Grand Lodge reassembled at its hall in the Temple, formed procession and under the escort
of the Grand Commandery of Maryland, the Mayor of the city, the
Governor of the State, the l<'ifth Regiment of the National Guarc1

Past Deputy Grand Master Fetting was called to preside. The
parts of the Constitution r eferring to the election of Grand Officers
was read.
M. ·. W. ·. Bro. Thomas J . Shryock was unanimously chosen Grand
Master. How time flies. At the Ninety-ninth Annual of this Grand
Lodge, held in November, 1S85, the aforesaid Thomas J. Shryock was
elected Grand Master of Masons in Maryland, and it 's been going on
ever since.

The R. ·. W. "! William M. Isaac was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The Grand Master made the appointments. They wer e all inst:Wled.
The· M.-. W. :. Grand Master by Past Senior Grand Warden Henry A.
Branch and the other by the Grand Master, and Grand Lodge closed.
The Report on Correspondence, as for the past many years, is the
product of the brain of the good Brother Edward T. Schultz, and is
a careful, painstaking analysis of the doings of the Masonic World
to date. The present is his Ninteenth Annual Report.

MISSISSIPPI.
The Grand Lodge of Mississippi held its Eighty-eighth Annual
Communication in the city of Brookhaven, F ebruary 20, 1906,-M.:.
W.'.. T.homas B. Franklin, Grand Ma~ter, presiding, the M.-. W.:. Bro.
Frederic Speed being the Grand Secretary. Three hundred of the
305 Lodges on the Grand Lodge Roll were represented, together with
twenty-seven other Grand Jurisdictions. Nine Past Grand Masters
were in attendance. 'rhe Grand Master in his Address made feeling
reference to the great loss sustained by the Masons of Mississippi in
the death of Brothers Andrew H. Barkley, Isaac Tobias Hart and
Franklin P. Jenkins and paid eloquent and affectionate tribute to
their memory.
A fine portrait of Grand Master Charles H. Blum appears on the
opening page, and of the departed brethren in the body of the number and engraved design of the beautiful monument erected by the
Masons of Mississippi in memory of Grand Secretary John Logan
Power. It is described by Brother Speed as follows:

32

- REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Power Monument.
"In compliance. with the order of° the Grand Lodge and of the
Grand Chapter and Grand Commandery, I contracted with the W. G.
Sharkey Stone Company of Atlanta, Ga., to make and up set a suitable
monument to John Logan Power, where he is interred in the cemetery
at Jackson, after a design, which was kindly dra~n for me by
Worshipful Brother William A. Stanton, of Vicksburg, at a cost of
nine hundred and ninety-five dollars. It is to be in the form of a
Masonic Altar and I think is very chaste and elegant, as · well as
appropriate. I regret that owing to the disturbing conditions caused
by the prevalence of the yellow fever ip the summer and fall months,
I was unable to procure the plans until it was too late to make the
monument and have it set up in time for the dedication by the Grand
Lodge at this Annual Grand Communication, but an engraving made
from a photograph of the monument, furnished by the contractor, will
be ready for distribution and show its beautiful proportions. While if
we were to build a monument; measured by our affection for Brother
Power, it would tower higher than the Capitol at Jackson and · cost
as much, I felt that it would be more in accordance with the simplicity
of his noble character to set up a monument of mod,erate cost and
proportions, but which would be as enduring as our love for him will
be lasting.''
The Committee on Law and Jurisprudence presented a Report on
constructi)lg the law on such questions as. had been referred to it. A
most intere.sting Report.
Five Emergent Communications were held during the year for the
placing of the corner-stones of public buildings, including a Confederate monument.
The routine business of ·the Session having been concluded ·and
the election of Officers being in order, M. ·. W. :. Charles H. Blum
was chosen Grand Master.
A Memorial Service was held in t.he afternoon, when addresses
were delivered in remembrance of the beloved brethren Andrew
Hanna Barkley, Frank P. Jenkins, Isaac Tobias Hart, John W.
Stephenson, and James A. Robertson.
The appointed Grand Officers having been named, all were installed
by Past Grand Master Frederic Speed. During the ceremony Brother
Speed, addressing the Grand Master-elect, expressed the great pleasure it gave to. him to be the . instrument of the Grand Lodge in inducting him into the office .o f Grand Master, a pleasure enhanced by the
long continued and intimate friendship of a service together in the
Grand Lodge and assured bim that the u·n animous vote of the

33

b~e.th:i'en which had elevated him to .the Grand East was but a recogmtion by them that he had ''merited the honor which we now
confer. ''
,
The Grand Master then installed Brother Frederick Speed into the
·office of Grand Secretary.
·
And the Grand Marshal proclaimed that the Grand Officers had
been duly and constitutionally installed.
The Grand Master appointed the Standing CCl1n:inittees and at his.
request .P~st G:r:and .Master Frederick Speed closed the Grand Lodge,
after givrng them rn his earnest, feeling' and eloquent manner an
Address that wil~ linger with them until next year's Annual.
The Report on Correspondence is the sixty pages left with Brother
~pe:d by Bro. Barkley, the Chairman of the Committee. The Repor~
1s his last message to his brethren. God give him rest.
NORTH DAKOTA.

,. ..

The Grand Lodge .o f N?rth Dakota held its Sixteenth Annual
Communication in the city of Grand Forks, June 28, 1905,-Tlre M.-.
W.: . James W. Foley, Grand Master, presiding, the R." W.: . }'rank W.
Thompson being the Grand Secretary. Sixty-six of the seventy-two.
chartered. Lodges were represented, with two under Dispensation, together with twenty-seven other · Grand Jurisdictions. Eight Past
Grand Masters were in attendance: The Grand Master in his Address
r eported the ·granting of Dispensations for the forming and opening of
two new Lodges, and the constitution of three heretofore chartered
No important decisions were reported.
.
·
The Grand Secretary submitted ;in exhaustive Report, in which
he reports the year as progressive .and prosperous. The Jurisdiction
havi?g a membership of 5,153 Master Masons, the transactions of the
Soss1on were entirely routine, requiring no comment. Grand Lodge,
however, broke some new ground in the matter of defining the duties
of Fraternal Correspondent. We quote the action and · will await
results:·
"The matter of what should or should not be incorporated in the
Review of Fraternal Correspondence was brought up by M.-. W.-·.
Bro. ~obert M. Carothers, writer of the Correspondence Report. The
quest10n was discussed, pro .and con, and the consensus of the members present ;v~s in favor of confining the Review to the reporting of
approved decisions made by the Grand Masters of the several Grand
Lo~ges. It was believed that the space which could be allotted to a
r~view of a~y .one Grand Lodge was too small, the expense of preparation and prrntrng too great, and the readers of the Report too few, to
Z7

34

35

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

make it worth the while. It seemed that with few exceptions 'the
greater number of Fraternal Reviews were largely devoted to compli·
ment:try remarks among Correspondent writers, or criticisms which
served no practica1 end; that through the r eporting of approved decisions, or making syllabi th.ereof, each year's Review would be of·
practical value as showing the true trend of Masonic thought and
the molding of Masonic law and precedents. Therefore,
"M.·. W.·. Bro. Robert M. Carothers moved:
" 'That the work of the Correspondent be modified and limited
to a compilation of the approved decisions and 1mportant legislation
of the various Grand Lodges. ' ''
·
The election of Officers being in 0°rder, the M.· . W.·. Louis A.
Jacobson was chosen Grand Master, and R.:. W.·. Frank J . Thompson
was r e-elected Grand Secretary.
'l'he Grand Master made his .appointments and all were installed
by Grand Master Foley, Past Grand Master James McDonald acting
as Master of the Ceremouies.
·
The Grand Orator M. :. W.:. Bro. Walter L. Stockwell delivered an
Oration .before Grand Lodge for which h e reeeived a vote of thanks.'
' 'Acacia'' Lodge, No. 4, was tend ered a ·vote of thanks for its
courtesy and hospitality in the ent~rtainment of Grand Lodge.
We quote the following as one of the events of the Sixteenth
Annual of the Grand Lodge of North Dakota.
''Just as the tellers had finished counting the ballots for Bro.
Grant S. Hager, Deputy Grand Master, an awful hail storm broke
over the city, destrdying all of the windows at the Grand East, and
the wind scattered the Grand Secretary's papers and the ballots
promiscuously over th e Lodge room. The brethren rushed to the
dining room for tables and barricaded the windows of the Lodge room
with them, holding them in place through great efforts. The streets
wer e filled for the time b eing with runaway horses, it being impossible for the drivers to li~e in the fusillade of hailstones which _fell.
The Grand Secretary had fortunately made a memorandum of the
ballot which he preserved from the ravages of the storm. Some were
unkind enough to say that the storm came as a result of Brother
Hager's election, but Brother Hager declared that it was the applause
of H eaven. Whatever the cause, it was an event which the members
of the Grand Lodge will not soon forget. It is needless to say that
confusion prevailed among the Workmen, and the dignity of the
occasion was forgotten in the excitement of the moment. In due
time order was ·restored, none of the brethren were injured, and
Peace and Harmony p revailed.''

·The Grand Master appointed the Standing Committees and the
Grand Lodge closed, Peace and Harmony prevailing. '
NOVA SCOTIA.
The Grand Lodge of Nova Scotia h eld an Emergent Communication at Glace Bay, C. B., June 13, 1905, for t)le purpose of placing
the corner-stone of the new Masonic Hall.
The Fortieth Annual Communication was held in Sydney, C. B.,
June. 14, 1905,-M.:. W ..·. Charles R. Smith, K. C., Grand Master,
presiding, the R. ·. W. :. Thomas Mowbray b eing Grand Secretary.
Forty-one of the sixty-.five chartoced Lodges were represented, togethe.r
with twenty-one other Grand Jurisdictions. Four Past Grand }.!asters
'were in attendance.
An elegant portrait of Grand Master Smith appears on the opening
page. In his full Masonic clothing he looks as one in all the strength
of manhood and the pride of beauty-a typical Grand Master.
The sixty-five chartered Lodges have a membership of 4,417.
The Grand Master delivered an excellent Address, in which he,
after paying an eloquent and affectionate tribute to the honored dead,
recited his official acts during the recess. Among his acts we note
the R. ·. W. :. Bro. Isaac Brock to represent California near the Grand
Lodge of Nova Scotia. 'Reports were received from the nine District
Deputy Grand Masters, giving a thorough account of the condition of
the Lodges in the respective districts. There was little new business
requiring comment.
·Fraternal telegraphic greetings were received from Manitoba and
Wisconsin, both Grand Lodges being at this time in session.
The Representatives of other Grand Lodges were ·introduced and
received a hearty greeting.
The routine of business bein'g completed, the election of Officers
for the ensuing year was in order and M. :. W. ·. Bro. Charles Reynolds
Smith was re-elected Grand Master, and R.:. W.·. Thomas Mowbray
was re-elected Grand Secretary. The Grand Master made his appointments and all were installed. . The national Anthem was sung and
after prayer by .the Grand Chapter the Grand L<tdge was closed.
The Report on Correspondence is a fine review of the transactions
composing the Masonic Wo.r ld by the Grand Secretary .Thomas Mow:
bray. It is a fine paper of 216 pages, and a credit to its author, as
it is to the Grand Lodge.

36

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
NORTH . CAROLINA.

'l'he Grand Lodge of North Carolina he.Id eight Special Communications during the year, of which number six were for the placing of
corner-stones of public buildings, one for the installation of Officers
of a Convention of Lodges and one for paying the last sad rites to
the remains of R. ·. W. ·. Bro. Wm. Simpson, Grand Treasurer.
The One Hundred and Nineteenth Annual was held in Raleigh,
January 9, 1906,-The M.:. W.:. Walter S. Liddell, Grand Master, presiding, the R. :. W. ·. John C. Drewry being Grand Secretary. Of the
338 chartered Lodges, 182 were represented, together with thirty-two
other Grand Jurisdictions. Twelve fast Grand Masters were present.
The 338 Lodges register a membership of 15,813.
The Grand Master in his Address referred feelingly to the death
of Bro. William Simpson, Past Grand Treasurer, paying an eloquent
tribute to his memory. No important decisions were reported and
no business out of the usual routine submitted for consideration.
The Grand Secretary reported sixteen new Lodges under Dispensation. The Superintendent submitted a detailed Report of the administration of the Oxford Orphan Asylum. The asylum had on its Roll,
November 1, 1905, 131 boys, 135 girls; a total of 266.
·
A stirring Address was delivered by the Grand Orator Bro. Andrew
J. Harris, for which he was thanked by a rising vote of the members.
Portraits of the Grand Master, the late Past Grand Trea surer
R. ·. W. :. Bro. Wm. Simpson, and the veteran, learned and zealous
Mason Bro. Bernice Walker, who died in Granville county in 1904 at
the age of 87 years, appear in this number of the Journal. The Committee on Charters recommended and Grand Lodge ordered the issu·
ance of sixteen Charters to the new Lodges, numbered from No. 417
to No. 533, inclusive.
The election of Officers for the .ensuing year being in order, the
M. ·. W. :. Ji'rancis D. Winston was chosen Grand Master, and the
R. ·. W. ·. Bro. John C. Drewry was r e-elected Grand Secr etary.
The Grand Master having made his appointments, all were installed
by Past Grand Master Charles H Robinson, M.·. W.:. B. S. Royster
acting as Master of the Ceremonies.
The retiring Grand Master was presented with a Past Grand
Master's Jewel. The Grand Master appointed the Standing Coinmittees, and after ·p rayer by the Grand Chapiain the Grand Lodge closed.
The Report on Correspondence by Bro. John A. Collins, of Enfield,
is another of his practical reviews of the Masonic Wo.rld. The present
is Bro. Collins' tenth Annual.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

37

NEW JERSEY.
The Grand Lodge of New Jersey held an Emergent Communication
in the hall of "Bergen" Lodge, No. 47, Jersey City, August 13,
1905, to pay the last sad tribute of love and affection to the remains
of Past Grand Master Thomas W. Tilden, who passed to rest August
10, 1905.
The One Hundred and Nineteenth Annual Communication was held
in Masonic Hall, Trenton, Wednesday and Thursday, March 21 and 22,
1906,-The M. :. W. ·. Benjamin F. Wakefield, Grand Master, presiding.
One hundred and seventy of the 176 Lodges in the Jursidiction were
represented, together with forty-oJ;J.e other Grand Jurisdict ions. Nine
Past Grand Masters were in attendance. Many visitors from the
neighboring Jurisdictions of Connecticut, Delaware, New York, and
Pennsylvania received a hearty welcome, were saluted with the Grand
Honors and seated in the East.
The Grand Master, in speaking, in his Addr~ss to the Grand Lodge,
of the dead Past Grand Master, the M. :-_ W.-. Thomas W: Tilden,
paused, laid aside his Address, and requested the R. ·. W. ·. and Rev.
William H. Morgan, D. D., to say a few words in memory. of the
beloved Brother. After a touching and eloquent tribute to the dead
Brother, that solemn and appropriate Ode was sung, "Friend After
Friend Departs. ' '
Elegant steel-engraved portraits (Bathers) of the Grand Master,
the Grand Secretary, the Deputy Grand Secretary, and "In Memoriam" Past Grand Mast er .Tilden appear in this number of t he Jouranl. .
The Grand Master recommended the repeal of the resolution of
non-intercourse with the Grand Lodge of Washington. Grand Lodge
did not concur, but substituted arbitration between the Grand Masters
of the respective Jurisdictions, which reminds us of the historic arbitration between the Governors of the Carelinas. May t his one have as
peaceful an ending.
The R epresentatives of other Grand Lodges were introduced and
welcomed by the Grand Master, and saluted by the Grand Lodge with
. the Grand Honors.
The routine business being completed, the election of Officers was
in order, and t he M. ·. W. :. Walter Chandler was chosen Grand
Master, and the R.:. W.·. Thomas H. R. Redway was re-elected Grand
Secretary.
The Grand Lodge adopted the following r esolution:
''Whereas, The first ProviBcial Grand Master of Masons in the
Provinces of America was Daniel Coxe, of New J ersey, who was commissioned to that office by Eari of Norfolk, the Grand M aster of
England, in 1730; and

38.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

''Whereas, The said Daniel Coxt<, who was a leading citizen of the
Province of New Jersey, its principal landed proprietor, and a Judge
of its Supreme Court, lies buried in the floor of St. Anne's Church, in .
Burlington, New J ersey, since 1739, without mark to indicate his distinguished position in the history of Masonry in the United States;
therefore,
"Resolved, Thi.tt the Grand Master of Masons of the S+<ite of New ·
·Jersey be authorized to provide a bronze ·tablet, with appropriate
inscription (to· be satisfactory to the Hector of the Parish of St.
Mary's, Burlington), and install the same on or near the grave of ~he
said Provincial Grand Master Daniel Coxe, to honor his memory and
to in di ca te his last resting .p lace."
The Grand Master having made his appointments, all were installed
by Past Grand Master Benj. F. Wakefield. Proclamation was made.
The Grand Lodge then directed that a Past Grand Master's Jewel be
procured and presented to the retiring Grand Master. The Closing
Ode was sung. The Grand Prelate offered prayer and the Grand Lodge
of New Jersey closed.
The Report on Correspondence is a goodly paper of 150 pages,
Bro. Robert A. Shirrefs, Chanrman. The Report is a full and complete
r eview of the several Jurisdictions forming the Masonic World.
NEW YORK.
The Grand Lodge of New York held its One Hundred and Twentyfifth Annual Communication in Masonic Hall in the city of New York,
May 1, 1906,-The M.··. W.:. Frank H. Robinson, Grand Master, pr.esiding, the M.:. W.•.. Edward M. Ehlers being Grand Secretary.
The Grand Officers, forty-one District Deputy Grand Masters, nine
Past Grand Masters, a constitutional number of Representi.ttives and
the Representatives of sixty-six other Grand Jurisdictions were present.
This Grand ,Jurisdiction has on its Roll 772 Lodges, .:Vith 139,203
members. The Address of the Grand Master is a lengthy paper, as it
necessarily must be for the amount of business to be considered in so
great a Jurisdiction. We quote his r efer ence to the great disaster.in
California as of interest to our readers:
"Week before last a great city was almost completely destroyed by
earthquake and fire. Thousands of our brethren, their families and
friends, were left homeless . and penni.less. No American city has
ever suffered such a shocking calamity. Starvation and death on
every hand .in the great city of San 'Francisco touched the hearts of
our people throughout the civilized world, unloosed the purse strings,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

39

and almost an unlimited supply of food, clothing and money have
been placed at the disposal of the proper authorities. for the relief
of the sufferers. In the very beginning of t his disaster, t he Grand
Master of New York tel'egraphed the Grand Master of California most
fraternal sympathy for the sufferers and invited him to draw on the
Grand Lodge of t his State for five tho11sand dollars as an advance
p ending voluntary contributions by our Lodges throughout the State.
Every Master was either telegraphed or written to collect and send
contributions to our Grand Treasurer and our brethren have been
prompt and most generous. The Craft of the State have again shown
in a most substantial way that they are ready for llond equal to all
emergencies and that the spirit of our Fraternity is not upon the
surface, but deep down in the hearts." .
The r esponse of the Lodges to the appeal of t h e Grand Master
amounted to the handsome sum of $439,108.22. The time of the session
seemed. to be mostly devoted to the consideration of reports · of committees. The great financial interests of Grand L odge i n its Home at
Utica, in its antiquities, its history, Board of Relief, in memory of its
dead, and tile guardianship of its ritual require a total that leaves but
few pages of the big book for the introduction of new ideas. Two
beautiful steel engraved portraits appear on the opening pages of this
number. The first of Bro. Wm. D. Milnor, whom we guess to be Grand
Orator. Wonder if he is not the son of Wm. H. Miinor, Grand Master
on our visit to Grand Lodge of New York in 1850, the year of the
union, and the second portrait is of Past Grand Treasurer John R.
Gardner. At the time of ·my visit James M. Austin, M. D., was
Grand Secre~ary, and he kindly guided me through the intricacies of
a Grand Lodge Session, but to me the most interest ing part of the big
book is the Historian's Report of fifty-seven p~ges, 175 to 232, reciting
the history of the early Lodges in the State, and my interest will
increase. as he approaches the Charter I surrendered, No. 336 I think,
or, rather, exchanged for the present Charter of "Little Falls" Lodge,
No. 181. Distinguished visitors were present from the Grand Lodges
of N ew Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Canada and the Grand Lodge
of New South Wales. The Representatives of other Grand Lodges
were welcomed by the Grand Master, and the re~ponse was made by
R.·. W.:. Thomas A. L ewis, Representative of t he Grand Lodge of New
South Wales.
The Report on Correspondence is a splendid paper of 100 pages,
a brilliant although brief review of the legislation of the Gr and
Lodges composing t h e Masonic World.
0

40

41

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

NEBRASKA.

Past Grand Master Charles J. Phelps submits an excellent Report
of one hundred pages, wherein he reviews the Masonic World as it is
of record up to the present .time.

The Grand Lodge of Nebraska held an Emergent Communication in
the City of Lincoln June 4th, 1905, for the observance of the last sad
rites to the remains of Past Grand Master Robert Wilkinson Furnas.
The Grand Lodge held its Forty-eighth Annual in l<'reemasons '
Hall, Omaha, June 6, 1905, the M .:. W.:. Charles E. Burnham, Grand
Master, the R.:. W.:. Francis E. White being Grand Secretary.
The Grand Lodge has enrolled 233 chartered Lodges on its Roll, of
which 213 were r epresented at the present Annual. Twenty-five Past
Grand Masters were in attendance.
Grand Lodge Roll shows the number of Master Masons, 14,190.
The Grand Master's Address was a lengthy paper, full and elaborate
as to all matters treated but r equiring no special comment.
From the following item we fear our representative near 11he Grand
Lodge of Nebraska, Past Grand Master Daniel H. Wheeler, is in .allhealth.
'•A Committee consisting of Brothers, Cheney, 100, Richards, 43,
and Murch, 46, was appointed to visit Past Grand Master Wheeler, and
present him with a bouquet of flowers in token of the sympathy of
the Grand Lodge, and to express the hope for his speedy r ecovery to
health and strength.''
The election of officers b eing in order the M.:. W. ·. Bro. Melville
R. Hopewell was chosen Grand Master and R. ·. W.:. Bro. Francis E .
White was re-elected Grand Secretary.
Many am~ndments to the organic law were considered. The several committees presented their reports, and Grand Lodge proceeded
to the installation of the Officers-elect. We read the following with
interest:
''Past Grand Master Lininger proceeded to install the Grand
Officers, selecting Past Grand Master Burnham to act as Grand
Marshal. In presenting the officers for installation, Brother Burnham
briefly recorded their services to the Grand Lodge, making special
mention of their assistance to him during the past Masonic year, Past
Grand Master Lininger following with words of commendation, and
admonishing the several officers as to their duties, and pointing out
how much the future success and prosperity of the Grand Lodge depends upon those whom it had so highly honored. While all of the
ceremony was informal, it was the unanimous opinion that it was the
most interesting and impressive ever witnessed in the Grand Lodge
of N ebraska.
A very useful member of the Fraternity, to the Grand Lodge of
N ebraska, is Past Grand Master Lininger.

NEVADA.
The Grand Lodge of Nevada held a Special Communication for
the purpose of paying the last sad tribute to the r emains of Past
Grand Master Tremnor Coffin, in Carson City, August 28, 19041 also
on the 3d of June, 1905, for the purpose of placing the corner-stone of ·
the Ny e County Court House. The Forty-first Annual Communication
was held in Carson City, June 13, 1905.
The M.:. W.·. George Gillson, Grand Master, presiding, V.:. W .: .
C. N. Noteware b eing Grand Secretary.
There are twenty-two constituent Lodges on the Grand Lodge Roll,
of which nineteen were ·represented, together with twenty-one other
Grand Jurisdictions.- No important business presented itself and the
transactions were of the usual routine. The M.:. W.:. Charles A.
Beemer, of Sparks, was chosen Grand ·Master, and the R.·. W. :.
Chauncey N. Noteware was re-elected Grand Secretary. Our W.·.
Bro. E. D. Vanderlieth was continued as Correspondent, under the n ew
and more elaborate title of ''Commissioner of Review.''
We expect to see Nevada, in the near fut ure, "shake herself" and
take the place appointed for Nevada in the Masonic column; with her
almost unlimited territory and the wonderful inducements presented
to population by t he development of her electrical, mineral and agricultural industries the result must be more people, progress and prosperity.
Bro. Vanderlieth submits another excellent Report of more than
two hundred pages, wherein he reviews the proceedings of the various
Grand Bodies composing the Masonic World, extracts the meat and
serves it up for the use of his brethren of the Round Table..
NEW BRUNSWICK. ·
N ew Brunswick eomes to us with the portraits of two of her
distinguished Grand Masters in their handsome clothing on the ope~­
ing pages,-the M.·. W.'.. Benjamin R. Stevenson, Grand .Master rn
1881-82, and the M. :. W. ·. Edwin J. Everett, Grand Master rn 1904-05.
The Thirty-eighth Annual Communication was held in t he city of
St. John, August 22, 1905,-The M.'. W.:. E dwin J. Ever ett in the
East, the V.:. ·w.:. J. Twining Harth l:)eing Grand Secretary . .

42

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The Grand Lodge has thirty-eight constituent Lodges in its Roll,
with a membership of 2,200. 0 these twenty-one Lodges were represented at the present Annual.
.
In the -Grand Master's Address he gave a detailed account of his ·
visitations to the several Chapters, commenting upon their condition
and -their skill and ability in the exemplification of the work.
The Grand Secretary reported a net inc;ease in the membership of
fifty-nine. In this Jurisdiction the brethren only elect the Master,
Wardens, Chaplain and Treasurer. All others are appointed by the
Master.
The M. ·. W. :. Edwin J. Everett was re-elected Grand Master the
V.:. W.:. J. Twining Harth was reappointed G~and Secretary. 'Ad·
dress, Ritchie's Building, St. John, N. B.

NEW HAMPSHIRE.
The Grand Lodge of New Hampshire held a Special Communication
on the 16th 'o f June, 1904, for the purpose of placing the corner-stone
of Pembroke Academy. A second Special was held at Laconia, June
20, 190_4, for the dedic9.tion of the Hall of ''Mount Lebanon'' Lodge,
No. 32, and a third for the celebration of the One Hundredth Anniversary of "Morning Star" ' Lodge at Wolfeborough, October 24th.
The Semi-Annual was held December 27, 1904,~The M. :.· W. :.
Henry I. Haselton, Grand Master, the R.:. W.-. Frank D. Woodbury,
Past Grand Master, being Grand Seci:etary.
There are seventy-nine constituents on the Grand Lodge Roll with
a membership of 9,565. Of these sixty-four Lodges were represented
at the present Semi-Annual. The Session was devoted to the exemplification of work.
.
(
·A Special Communication was held in Lebanon, April 14, 1905, for
the observance of the ~ad rites to . the remains of Past Grand Master
M.-. W.-. Bro. Alpheus Wooster Baker, Grand Master in 1882.
The One Hundred and Sixteenth Annual was held in the city of
Concord, May 17, 1905~-M.-. W.:. Henry I. Haselton, Grand Master,
R.:. W.:. Frank D. Woodbury being Grand Secretary. Fifty-five
Lodges wer e represented, together with twenty-seven other Grand
•Jurisdictions. Nine Past Grand Masters were in . attendance:
The Grand Master being absent from illness, the Deputy Grand
Master R.:. W.:. Bro. Ira A. Chase presided, and -read the Address
of the M.:. W.:. Grand Master. The Address is an able paper, reciting the transactions of the year, but without special importance. The
absence of the Grand Master caused the following expression from
Grand Lodge:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

43

· "Whereas, The Most Worshipful Grand Master, Henry I. Haselton,

is prevented by sickness from being present at this Annual Communication of the M.:. W.·. Grand Lodge A. F. and A. M. of New
Hampshire:
''Resolved, That we deeply regret the absence of our Grand Master
to-day; that we extend. to him our love and heartfelt sympathy in his
illness, and assure him that it. is the sincere "."'ish of every Mason in
this jurisdiction that his health may b e speedily restored to him.
''Resolved, That the Grand Secretary send a copy of these resolu·
tions to Most Worshipful Brother Hase! ton.''
The Session was without special incident. The usual luncheon was
enjoyed. The usual election held, which resulted in the choice of M. :.
W.:. Ira Arthur Chase for Grand M·a ster and Frank D. Woo.d bury for
Grand Secretary. The son of the retiring Grand Master received the
testimonial of his father's services and the appre.ciation of the
brethren thereof. The officer~ were installed and the Grand Lodge
closed.
Our R.'. W.-. Bro. Albert S. Wait presiints, as usual, a first-class
Report. In fact, we look upon Bro. Wait as a Masonic encycfope~ia,
and had we a Masonic nut to crack we should forthwith hand it to
Bro. Wait.
OHIO.
A handsome· portrait of a good-looking Grand Master invites us to
open the present number of the Ohio Journal. · ·
The · Grand Lodge held its Ninety-sixth Annual Communication in
the Scottish Rite Cathedral in Cincinnati, October 18, 1~05,-The M.-.
W.-. Clifford G. Ballow, Gral).d Master, presiding, the R.'.. W.-.. J. H.
Bromwell being the Grand Secretary. A .c onstitu.t ional number of
Lodges b eing 'represented, a Lodge of Master Masons was opened and
subsequ!lntly the Grand Lodge of Ohio was declared open and in o'r der
for business.
·
Grand Lodge was welcomed to Cincinnati by the Mayor of the city
and by the M,.:. W.-. Wm. B. Melish, on behalf of the Masons of
Hamilton county. Telegrams of co~gratul_atiOn were r eceived from
the Grand Lodge of ·Wisconsin and. Kentucky. At this point M.:. W.- .
Bro. William B. M elish raised a slight disturbance with the following
announcement:
M.'. W.- . Bro. William B. M elish announced to the members that
there was present a member of the Grand Lodge who had been sucp
for fifty years and had be!ln present at fifty-one consecutive sessions
of the Grand Lodge without a single. omission. H e then introduced

44

45

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

M.·. W.:. Bro. W. M. Cunningham, Past Grand· ¥aster of this Grand
Lodge, and also called upon Bro. A. D. Thomas, District Lecturer, to
explain 'to the Grand Lodge the reason for what was to follow.
After an eloquent speech by Bro. Thomas the Journal says:
"Bro. Thomas then addressed M.:. W.:. Bro. Cunningham as follows:
" 'Most Worshipful Brother Cunningham, this Grand Lodge appre·
ciates your long and faithful services in its behalf, and to more
fittingly commemorate this unusual event your friends, including the
Past Grand Masters, the present Grand Lodge Officers and District
Lecturers, with a few others, have had . struck a special gold medal
in your honor, and it is with extreme pleasure that I now pin th.at.
Jewel on your breast.
·
'' 'Accept it, not for its intrinsic value, but rather wear it as a
token of our love, esteem, and respect, and as an acknowledgment of
our high appreciation of your efficient services.' ''
And from the engraved likeness of said medal in the Journal
'Bro. William N. Cunningham is wearing a badge of beautiful workmanship in recognition of his long and faithful service in the Grand
Lodge of Ohio.
The Grand Master proceeded to deliver his Annual Address. In
his opening he quotes that beautiful poem, "O, a Wonderful Stream is
the River of Time.'' Re congratulates Grand Lodge on a net gain
of 3,393, making the total enrollment of Masons in Ohio 61,636, but
some are m1ssrng. Yes, 850 brethren have passed to the other side.
'Brethren;" he said, "in respect to their memory, let us atise, and
with bowed heads stand, while we silently offer a petition to our
Father who art in heaven.'' He read from the death roll of the year,
upon which was inscribed the names of many of the ablest sons of the
Fraternity.
T.here have been twenty:two Special Communications of the Grand
Lodge during this administration. In these Communications six corner-stones have been laid, ten Temples have been dedicated, three new
Lodges have been constituted, one new Lodge has been instituted, one
Communicatio:i;i for the District Lecturers has been held, and one
funeral service has been conducted.
A full account of these Special Communications, herewith submitted, will be found in the Proceedings.
The Grand Master made good use of his time during the recess of
Grand Lodge in the visitation of the constituent Lodges. We think his
remark comprehends the whole when he says: "In my Lodge visitations I h~ve met and macle the lasting acquaintance of some of the
noblest men on God's green earth."

The several Committees 'reported; the acts oi the Grand Master
were approved. The Committee on the Masonic History of Ohio reported its organization, with Past Grand Master William M. Cunningham as Chairman.
At the election of Grand Officers M.-. W.-. L. P. Schaus of Newark
was elected Grand Master, and the R.-. W.-. J. H . Bromwell was reelected Grand Secretary.
A Committee was appointed on Centennial Celebration.
The Grand Master having announced his ·appointments, all were .
installed by Past Grand Master Wm. B. Melish; the M.-. W.-. Bro.
W. A. Belt acting as Master of the Ceremonies.
The Grand Master named the Standing Committees and the Grand
Lodge closed in Ample Form.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Past Grand Master Cunningham, our Correspondent of the Grand
Lodge of 01:\io, furnishes a Report in keeping with the general excellence and extent of this mammoth review. The ·Report is a digest of
Masonry in Ohio and reviews ·not only the English but the non-English
speaking Grand Bodies in the Masonic World. The paper fills 375
pages of the· Journal.
OKLAHOMA.
The Grand Lodge of Oklahoma held its l<'ourteenth Annual Communication in Masonic Temple, Guthrie, February 13, 1906,-The M. :.
W.:. George H. Phillips, Grand Master, presiding. For the opening
of the Grand Lodge we quote from the Record:
''There being several of the Grand Lodge Officers absent, the
Grand Master made the following appointments to fill vacancies:
"Bro. H. R. Walling ('Medford,' No. 28), as Grand Chaplain.
"Bro. E. D. Meeker ('Lawton,' No. 75), as Grand Junior Deacon.
"Bro. Joseph H. Roberts · ('Medford,' No. 28), as Grand Senior
Steward.
"Br~. E.W. Milburn ('Tecumseh,' No. 13), as Grand Junior Stewar<l
"The Grand Secretary having announced that a constitutional
number of Chartered Lodges of the Jurisdiction were present, by duly
accredited representatives, the Grand Master proceeded, after prayer
by the Grand Chaplain, and opened the M.-. W.:. Grand Lodge of
Oklahoma in Ample Form.''
The past must have been a busy year in Oklahoma, for the Officers
and members of the Masonic organizations. Fifteen Dispensations
issued for the forming and opening of new Lodges, in addition to two

47

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Dispensations continued and ·the constit~tion of sixteen new Lodges
chartered at the preceding Annual Communication, answers for the
discharge of much official duty from the Grand Master to the Grand
Tyler. The Grand Master of Oklahoma must keep his working clothes
on, for he reports the receipt of seventy-six questions, involving all
kinds of practice and Masonic law, with his answers thereto.
From. the Report of the Grand Secretary we find the -number of
chartered Lodges is 156, with a membership of 6,777. One hundred
and seven Lodges were represented at the present Session, together
with eighteen other Grand · Jurisdictions.
"In the midst of our prosperity an unusual condition is approaching. With the coming of Statehood we will have two Grand Lodges
in one State. May our acts be guided by Wisdom and tempered with
Justice in everything that pertains to this condition when it confronts us.
''Our Lodges are prospering and the end of the year is as bright
and auspicious as was the beginning."
The above is the · only reference to the Statehood question in the
Grand Master's Address. At the· conclusion of the routine business
the Gri:tnd Lodge proceeded to the election of Officers for the ensuing
year.
M.:. W.·. Fred D. Sparks was elected Grand Master, and the R.:.
W.'... James S. Hunt was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The R.:. W.:. Bro. James S. Hunt, Grand Secretary, also fills the
place of Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence. He submits
the results of his labor in the present number of the J~urnal · in a
paper of 200 pages, in which he gives a faithful review of the transactions of the various Masonic Bodies composing the Masonic World.
Bro. Hunt gives notice in th.i s Report of his intended retirement from
the Round Table, and names his successor, in the person of Past Grand
Master Willi.am M. Anderson.

The Grand Master's Address is a well-written paper, without attempted ornamentation, and is .confined to the business interests of
the Grand Jurisdiction. Bro.' George Wall, Grand Orator, delivered
an excellent Address, ~is subject being the antiquity of Masonry
and connecting the operative ·with the speculative Mason. The Grand
Lodge exchanged telegraphic greetings with the Grand Lodge of
Washington, and at the conclusion of its routine busin.ess proceeded
to the election of Officers for the ensuing year, when the M. ·. W.'. Bro.
William H. Flanagan was chosen Grand Master, and the R. ·. W.·. Bro.
James F. Robi"nson was re-elected Grand Secretary.

46

OREGON.
The Grand Lodge of Oregon held its Fifty-fifth Annual Communication in Masonic Temple, Portland, June 14, 1905,-The M.·. W.·.
Thomas Gray, Grand Master, presiding, the R.·. W.·. James F. Robinson being Grand Secretary. This Grand Lodge h.a s upon its Roll 107
chartered Lodges, with a membership of ·7,322, of which number 102
Lodges were represented, with Delegates from two under Dispensation.
A handsome photogravure of the Grand Master appears on the opening page. We note the presence of eighteen Past Grarid Masters in
attendance at th_e present Convocation, with the Representatives of
fifty-eight other Grand Jurisdictions.

0

The Grand Lodge also exchanged greetings with the Grand Lodge
of Wisconsin, at the time in Session.
The several Committees having r eported, the Officers-elect were
installed, the Grand Master named the Standing Committees and the
Grand Lodge closed.
Past Grand Mastu and Correspondent John M. Hodson submits
his usual excellent Report, each one seeming to· us a little better t han
the last. In the present paper he exhausts 156 pages in the review of
the work of sixty Jurisdictions. In his conclusion he says in better
word~ than we have at hand just at this moment, just what we would
write : " There are few, if any,_ new questions discussed , but there is
greater unanimity than ever b efore, in striving to make Masonry, in
f ac t as well as theory, universal. The fundamental creed of t he }fraternity, 'The fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man,' is being
more deeply impressM by our teachers and writer~, than in years
gone by. The disposition to r ecognize and stand upon a higher plane
than that of a mere secular institution, devoted to the physical needs
of its members, is growing rapidly."
Since writing the foregoing we have received Oregon for 1906,
done up in Bro. Ro'binson 's n eat style, with the photogravure of the
M.·. W.:. W. H. Flanagan, Grand Master, on the opening page. The
Fifty-sixth Annual was held in the Masonic Temple, Portland, Ju·ne 13,
1906. The attendance was full, with. Grand Master Flanagan presiding. Nearly all the Lodges represented, wit h t wenty-s.e ven other
Grand Jurisdictions. Twenty Past Grand Officers were in attendance.
High tide continues in t he business affairs of the Grand Lodge of
O.r egon. The present r eturn shows a membership of 7,689. Progress
and prosperity is the :il:ey-note. The Session was harmonious and the
business conducted without friction. We were about to write, there is
no contention among t he brethren of Oregon, save the noble one of
who can best work and best agree, but the work, alas I that's t he only
thing they don't agree upon.

48

HEPORT ON CO:JIBESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

M.:. W.:. Bro. W. T. Williamson was elected Grand Master, and
Bro. James F. Robinson was re-eleeted Grand Secretary.
Bro. John M. Hodson submits another of his excellent Reports,
nearly 200 pages, reviewing the conditions in every part of the Masonic World.

A portrait of the late Past Grand Master George E. Wagner was
presen.t ed to Grand L'Odge by Past Master Graham of ''Harmony ' '
Lodge, No. 52.
·
The last Q.u arterly was held in the Temple, December 6, 1905,-The
Grand Master James W. Brown presiding. Three hundred and eightyfour Lodges were represented.
Splendid portraits of Grand Master T. B. Freeman of 1836 and
Grand Master John M. Read of 1837-38 appear in this number of the
Journal.
The present being the time prescribed by ·the '' Ahiman Rezon ''
for the election of Grand Officers, and Grand Master Brown having
declined· re-election, the R.., M. ·. George W. Kendrick, Jr., was chosen
Grand Master, and the R. ·. W. ·. William A. Sinn was re-elected Grand
Secretary.
The Trustees of the Grand Charity Fund of the Girard Bequest, of
the Thomas R. Patton Memorial ~'und, of the Stephen Taylor Bequest,
of the Charles Jackson McClary Memorial Funds, the Committee on
Appeals and the Finance Committee presented their reports, all of
which were considered and approved.
The Annual Communication was held December 27th-Grand
Master James w'. Brown presiding.
One · hundred and three Lodges were represented.
The Committees reported, the retiring Grand Master delivered his
Address, the new Officers were installed, Grand Master Kendrick delivered his inaugural, appointed the Standing Committees and Grand
Lodge closed at 1 o'clock p. m.
Bro. James M. Lamberton, Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence, presents the Report of that Committee, wherein he has
r eviewed the legislation of nearly all the Masonic Bodies in touch
with legitimate Masonry. The Report is worthy of .the Chairman, and
a credit to the Committee and to the Grand Lodge.

PRINCE EDWARD'S ISLAND.
This Grand Lodge held a Special Communication at Kensington,
for the purpose of dedicating the new Masonic · Apartments there to
Virtue and to Universal Benevolence, in accordance with the usage of
Freemasonry.
The Grand Lodge held its Thirti'eth Annual in Freemasons' Hall,
So.wns, June 26, 1905,-The M.·. W.·. Benjamin Rogers, Grand Master,
'presiding, the R.:. W.:. Neil MacK elvie being Grand Secretary.
All the fourteen Lodges were represented, together with twenty
other Grand Jurisdictions. Thirteen Past Grand Officers were in attendance. The reports show the membership of the Lodges to be
more than six hundred. The Grand Master delivered an earnest and
fraternal Address. There was little business outside of the usu.al routine, and with the election and installation of Officers for the ensuing
year, and there being no Report on Correspondence, the Grand Lodge
of Prince Edward's Island closed.
The M .:. W.:. Charles H. S. Sterns was chosen Grand Master, and
the R.:. W. ·. Neil Mackel vie was re-elected Grand Secretary.

PENNSYLVANIA.
The Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania held its First Quarterly for
1905 in the Masonic Temple, Philadelphia, March lst,-R.-. W.·. James
W. Brown, Grand Master, presiding. This Jurisdiction has register ed
on its Roll 448 Lodges, with a mempership of 71,249. One hundred
and forty-nine Lodges were represented at the present Quarterly. The
Session. was devoted to receiving Reports of Committees on By-Laws,
on Printing, and on Finance.
A second Quarterly was held June 7th,-Grand Master .Brown presiding. One hundred and thirty-five Lodges were represented. Committee on By-Laws and Amendments reported with petitions for warr ants for new Lodges.
A third Quarterly was held September 6th. One hundred and
thirty-two Lodges were represented.
The Grand Secretary reported the work of the Jurisdiction for
the· year 1904. Committee on Amendments to By-Laws reported.

49

QUEBEC.
The Grand ·Lodge of Quebec held its Thirty-sixth Annual Coiµmunication in Montreal, Province of Quebec, January 31, 1906,-The
M.- .· W.·. David Ames Manson, Grand Master, presiding in the Grand
East, the R.-. W.·. Will H. Whyte being Grand Secretary.
In this Grand Jurisdiction there are on the Grand Lodge Roll fiftysix warranted or chartered Lodges, with two under Dispensation, with
a total membership of five thousand. Of these all save two were rep·
resented at the .present Annual.
28

51

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

'flte Grand Master made an able Address, devoted almost entirely
to the business of the Grand Lodge. He was ih error concerning the
following, as the attempt did not succeed: "The Grand Lodge of
California has notified this Grand Lodge that it has adopted a resolution abolishing the custom of exchanging Grand Representatives.''
The business of the Session was almost entirely routine, no new
or important matters coming before Grand Lodge for consideration.
The election of Officers for the ensuing year being held, the M. ·.
w.~. David A. Manson was chosen Grand Master and the R..:. W.· .
Will H. Whyte of Montreal was re-elected Grand Secretary.
A :fine photo·g ravure of Bro. Whyte in official dress, with .an his
Jewels on, appears on the opening page of this number of the Journal.
Bro. E. T. D. Chambers writes the Correspondence for the Grand
Lodge of Quebec, and does it well. His present Report is ·a papA
of 132 pages, and deals with the legislation of the several Jurisdictions
in ·a strictly impartial manner. In commenting upon matters down in
Georgia, he expresse<l himself as a loyal son of Britain eve! would, that
Bro. Meyerhardt would better .be satisfied with "conforming with
cheerfulness" to the government of the country under which he was
living and let the brethren on the ''other side of the river'' close
their Lodges with "God save the king" if they so desired.

This prepares us somewhat for the Emergent· Communication o(
February 3d, when the Grand Lodge assembled,-Tbe R . ·. W.·. Joseph
W .. Freeman, Deputy Grand Master, presiding, to pay the last tribute
of respect and affection to .the memory of M.·. W.:. James Elisha Tillinghast, who died January 30, 1905. After the usual preliminaries,
the Grand Lodge is formed . in procession, and under the escort
of "Calvary" Commandery, No. 13, Knights Templar, proceeds to
the First Baptist Meeting House, where religious services are conducted by Rev. Henry M. King, pastor of the church, following which
the Templar funeral ceremonies are performed by Emi;nent Commander
John P. Thompson and the Sir Knights of "Calvary" Commandery.
After t.be services in the church the ·brethren again form in . line
and proceed to Swan Point Cemetery, where the Masonie burial rites
are performed aver the remains of our departed Brother in accordance
with ancient custom.
The One Hundred and Fifteenth Annual Communication was held
May 15, 1905, when the ''Grand Lodge of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations" assembled in Freemasons' Hall, Providence,-The
R.·. W.·. Joseph W. Freeman, Deputy Grand Master, presiding. All
the Lodges were repre~ented, together with twenty-seven other Grand
Jurisdictions.
·
A handsome pbotogravure of the Webb Memorial and grounds appears in this number of the Journal. The usual routine of business
prevailed. No ·important business demanded the attention of the
Grand Lodge.
·
.
The M.·. Vv.·. Joseph ''Vood l!'reeman was elected Grand Master,
and the R . .. W.-. S. Penrose Williams was re-elected Grand Se.cretary.

50

RHODE ISLAND.
This Grand Lodge assembled November 21, 1904, and held its usual
Semi-Annual Communication,-The R .·. W.·. Joseph W. Freeman,
Deputy Grand Master, presiding. The Grand Master was absent because of illness and Grand Lodge took the following action, on motion
of Past Grand Master Edward L. Freeman:
''Whereas, This Grand Lodge has been informed that our beloved
Grand Master, Most Worshipful James E. Tillinghast, is confined to
his home by severe sickness, and is therefore unable to be present
at this Semi-Annual Communication; therefore,
''Resolved, That this Grand Lodge hereby expresses its deepest
regret at the enforced absence of our Grarid Master from this Communication, and tenders its warmest fraternal sympathy to him in his
sickn,ess with the strongest hope that he may be restored to health
'
. usua1
and strength
at an early day and be permitted to pursue his
avocation as well as to guide and direct the Craft in this Jurisdiction.
''Resolved, That the Grand Secretary of this Grand Lodge be and
be is hereby directed to send a copy of this preamble and resolution
to our Most Worshipful Grand Master at bis earliest convenience."

SOUTH DAKOTA.
The Grand Lodge of South Dakota held an Emergent Communication in the city of Deadwood, September 7, 1904,. for the purpose of
paying the last sad rites to the remains of Past Grand Master Albert
Wells Coe.
The Thirty-first Annual Communication was held in the Masonic
Temple, Aberdeen, Jm1e 13, 1905,-M.:. W.-. Bro. Ivan W. Goodner,
Grand Master, p-residing. The Grand Lodge bas upon its Roll 103
chartered Lodges and two under Dispensation. Of these seventy-nine
were represented, with twenty-four other Grand Jurisdictions. Eight
Past Grand Masters were in attendance.
A :fine pbotogravure of the Grand Master appears on the opening
page: The Grand Master in bis Address reported the passing away of
beloved brethren. This sad duty he discharged in words of sympa-

52

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

thetic and eloquent meaning. He reported the placing of the cornerstones of the new Masonic Hall at Miller, of the new courthouse at
Faulkton and the fine government building at Pierre. His decil!f.ons
were well considered and met the approval of ·the Committee on Jurisprudence. In C!Jmmeilting on the Masonic importance of the Grand
Lodge of South Dakota, we must remember that in 1889 thirty-two
Lodges of its "bone and sinew" withdrew and formed the Grand
Lodge of North Dakota. After the routine work of the Session the
election was held of Officers for the ensuing year.
M. ;. W. ·. Edgar D. Brookman was chosen Grand Master, and the
R.·. W.:. Geo. A. Pettigrew was re-elected Grand Secretary. The
several Committees reported, the Officers were installed and Grand
Lodge closed.
We note in this number a portrait "In Memoriam" of the departed
Past Grand Master Albert Wells Coe.
Bro. S. A. Brown, Chairman of the Co=ittee on Correspondence,
submits a Report of unusual excellence. In his conclusion he enunciates so forcibly to Masons, the duties of the hour, that we take it
as a whole:
''The startling increase in numbers which is apparent in Masonry
everywhere, being no less than fifty thousand in the United States
alone, must give thoughtful Craftsmen food for serious reflection. It
shows that men are seeking Brotherhood in its unmodified characterBrotherhood ! and that alone . .And it behooves us to see that they get
it; for if they do not, shall .we not see the ebb which followsi Is not
Brotherhood the one thing needed in this world whereby we may
withstand the. destructive forces which instantly origi.nate to undermine every new development of human progressi Great prosperity is
upon us, and the mischiefs that come with it-are they not also apparenH Masonry, Brethren, must be ·the true Brotherhood. All other ·
societies have some divergence which makes them fail of the ideal of
Universal Brotherhood; and the danger is that we also shall fail, for
it may be that our Br·3tl;iren will not exemplify our noble principles.
Now is the time for every true Son of Light to bestir himself and be
in his . place in Lodge to show the seekers that which is being sought.
Many societies seek to cultivate the mind; it is ours to cultivate the
heart. Great is the glory of the mind; but the heart-that is the best.
The great mind may do great harm; but the great heart-it can do
naught but good.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

53

SOUTH CAROLINA.
The Grand Lodge of South Carolina held a Special Communication
in the hall, "Shibbolellh" Lodge, No. 28, at Orangeburg, for the purpose of placing the corner-stone of a school building, and another at
Chester, on May iOth, for the purpose of placing the corner-stone of a
Confederate monument. The One Hundred and Twenty-ninth Annual
was held in the city of Charleston, December 12th,-The M.·. W.·.
John R. Bellinger, Grand Master, presiding; 'M.·. W. :. Bro. J. T.
Barron acting · as Grand Secretary.
One hundred and eighty-four charter ed Lodges were represent ed
and five under Dispensation, together with twenty-three other Grand
Jurisdictions. Six Past Grand Masters were in attendance. We regret to learn from the Journal that our R. ·. W. ·. Bro. Charles Inglesby,
Grand Secretary, was affiicted with serious illness, and from a note
at the end of the Journal we are . informed that ·the end came in ·
March, 1906.
To the past go more dead faces
Every year;
As the loved leave vacant places
Every year;
Everywhere· the sad eyes meet us.
In the evening 's dusk they greet us,
And to come to them entreat us,
Every year.
M. ·. W. ·. Bro. Bellinger delivered an excellent Address, and the
eighteen District Deputies each made a detailed Report of the condition of the Lodges in his district. Of the general conditions Grand
Master Bellinger says:
"During an my thirty years' experience as a ·Mason, I have never
known Masonry to be in a more prosperous condition, or working upon
a higher plane. From every quarter of the State the same report
comes to me. The old Lodges are growing in membership and in
financial strength, and new ones are being formed. Better still; the
new members are composed of the finest and most intellectual members
of their several commanities-men who are honored and respected by
their fellows, and, therefore, men who must be of benefit to Masonry,
and to whom Masonry must do good. Brethren, I believe that the
hand of the Almighty is with us; that He is guiding and directing us,
and I pray that th e influence of the Holy Spirit may always abide
with us, and direct, strengthen, conti.rm and assist us in all that is
good. and noble and true. Thus influenced, Masonry will continue to
grow, and to spread its benign influences wider and wider over the

54

55

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

earth, until we realize in its fullest extent the truth of the Universal
Brotherhood of Mankind, and the Fatherhood of God.
At the conclusion of the routine business of the Session, Officers
for the ensuing year were elected, and then what would be an unusual
proceeding. in most Grand :J3odies follow ed: "The Grand Lodge having been closed on the Third Degree and opened' on the First, the elective Officers were duly installed, except R.-. W.'. Bro. Charles Inglesby, Grand Secretary, and R. ·. w... and Rev. Bro. W. P. Smith,
Grand Chaplain.''
A . Committee was appointed to procure a suitable testimonial for
presentation to Grand Master Bellinger for two years' faithful service
in the Grand East.
Owing to the last illness of Grand Secretary Inglesby there .was
no Report on Correspondence.
M ... W.·. Frank E. Harrison was elected Grand Master, and Past
Grand Master Jacob 'r . Barron was elected Grand Secretary.

The M. ·. W. :. S. M. Bradley of Denton was chosen Grand Master,
and the R.:. W.:. John Watson was re-elected Grand Secretary. The
Grand Master made t he appointments and all were installed by Past·
Grand Master John L. Terrell, who also presented the retiring Grand
Master M.-. w ... Bro. Campbell with a Past Grand :M:aster 's Jewel.
The present number contains the portraits of M.'. W.:. Bro. Norton
Moses, who was Grand Master ,in 1877, and of the present Grand
Master M." W. " S. M. Bradley. The reader may get an idea of the
extent of this immense Jurisdiction from the following:

TEXAS.
The Grand Lodge of Texas held its Seventieth Annual Communication in the city of Waco, December 5, 1905,-M.-. W.:. A. W.
Campbell, Grand Master, presiding. The registered Lodges on the
Roll number 723. Of these 464 were r epresented, together with thirtyfive other Grancl 'Jurisdictions. Twelve Past Grand Masters, all· the
Grand Officers and the District Deputy Grand Masters of forty dis
tricts were present.
The Grand Master's Address was a lengthy paper of nearly forty
pages, necessarily so, perhaps, from the extent, territorially, of the
· Jurisdiction, and the immense amount 9f business to be supervised by
the Executive Head. Many decisions were solicited in the form of
questions and answers, of which the Grand Master reports thirty-five.
From the Report of the Grand Secretary we l earn there are on the
Roll of Membership, 38,270 Master Masons. Charters were granted
to twenty-one new Lodges at the present Session. The Committee
on the Masonic History of TE)xas presented a deeply interesting Report
of sixteen pages, in the present number. The present chapter brings
the r ecord down to about the year 1850. Plans are provided and the
necessary funds in a great part contributed for the building of a
Home at Fort Worth for the Widows and Orphans of ·the Masons of
Texas.
The routine business of the Session being completed by the reports
and consideration thereof; of the reports of the various Committees,
the election of Officers for the ensuing y ear was in order.

''The Grand Secretary called for Bro. C. H. Thorn, of 'Rio Grande'
Lodge, No. 81, at Brownsville, in the extreme southern portion of the
Jurisdiction, and for Bro. ·o. J. Ingham, of 'Stratford ' Lodge, No. 874,
at Stratford, in the extreme northern part of the Jurisdiction, and
asked Bro. Thorn to state the condition of the weather when he left
BrQwnsville on Saturday, the second day of the month, and he stated
that it was spring-like weather and the grass was fresh and green,
and all kinds of flowers were blooming, and that he passed fields of
corn that were j;. roasting ear. Bro. Ingham ~tated that when he
left Stratford on Saturday there was an inch and a half of snow, and
the ground was frozen four inches deep. These two brothers, in order
to :e:i-ch Waco, jointly traveled over nine hundred miies."
The business of the Seventieth Annual Communication being completed, after prayer ·by the Grand Chaplain, the Grand Lodge ~losed.
Past Grand Master Thomas M. Matthews, Sr., Chairman of Correspondence,, submits his usual excellent Report, reviewing the condition
of Masonry in the several Jurisdictions of the .Masonic World, closing
his Report with the beautiful poem, " Life is Real! Life is Earnest!
etc.,'' and Bro. Matthews, after nearly four score years' experience is
willing to certify to the truth of the assertion.

UTAH.
'l'he Grand Lodge of Utah held its Thirty-fifth Annual Communication in Masonic Hall, Salt Lake City, January 16, 1906. This Grand
Lodge has on its Roll eleven chartered Lodges, with a membership
of 1,270,-The M.:. W.-. Charles Stetson Varian, Grand Master, and
the R.-. W.-. Christopher Diehl, Grand Secretary.
Eleven Past Grand Masters were in attendance. All of the constituent Lodges were represented, together with forty-five other Grand
Jurisdictions.
Portraits of Grand Master Badcon and Bro. John William Guthrie
appear in the present number of the J ournal.

56

57

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GilA.ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

The Grand Master in his Address noted·the Peace and Harmony of
the Jurisdiction and in its progress and general prosperity, and as
evidence of his right to judge thereof said. that .he had visited all the
Lodges and investigated their condition. He reported no decisions.
He reported the holding of a Special Communication of the Grand
Lodge last June, at Ogden, for the purpose of placing the corner-stone
of the Ogden Masonic Temple.
Bro. Diehl says in his Report, ''The Grand L_odges of California
and New Mexico have discontinued the Grand Representative system." Not yet, Bro. D.i ehl, it was undertaken last Session, but the
start was made at the wrong end.
·
The Grand Representatives of other Grand Jurisdictions were addressed and welcomed by the Grand Master and saluted with the
Grand Honors.
Bro. Henry Simon, Chairman of the Committee on Obituaries, made
a feeling and appropriate Report, which was adopted by Grand Lodge.
The usual routine of business was transacted and the election of
Officers for the ensuing. year being in order, M.·. W.;. Sidney Watson
Badcon was chosen Grand Master and the R. ·. W. ·. Christopher Diehl
was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The Grand Master made his appointments and all were installed
by the Grand Master, W. ·. Bro. Henry Simon acting as Master of the
Ceremonies.
The retiring Grand Master presented the Signet Ring to his successor with a few eloquent words. The Grand Master named the Standing Committees and the Grand Lodge closed. As usual, the Report on
Correspondence is by R. ·. W. ·. Bro. Christopher Diehl. The Report is
a paper of 119 pages and is the natural :riroduct of an enthusiastic,
just and upright Mason.

M.·. W.:. Bro. George 0. Tyler, Past Grand Master of the Grand
Lodge of Quebec, received the honors due his rank and was seated in
the East.
The Grand Master commenced his Address with a'n allusion to the
Israelites, who ·at stated intervals appeared at the Temple in humble
recognition and thanksgiving for the blessings abundantly received.
It stirs the blood to read the eloquent . words of the Grand Master in
his application of the historic custom.
The Address is an eloquent dissertatio£ uopn the uses and purposes of Masonry with a clear and comprehensive stateµient of the
business affairs of Grand Lodge. The 103 Lodges have a membership
of eleven thousand, five hundred and thirty-five. The Jurisdiction is
prosperous and progressive. . At the present Session no business out
of the usual routi'ne seemed to be presented for consideration. At
the election of Officers for the ensuing year, the M.·: . W. ·. Walter E.
Ranger w:as chosen Grand Master and the R. ·. W. ·. Henry H. Ross
was re-elected Grand Secretary. The Grand Master made his appointments and all were ins.talled by Past Grand Master Marsh 0 . Perkins,
the W. ·. Bro. Daniel S. Danforth acting a s Master of the Ceremonies.
An elegant photogravure of the Officers of the Grand Lodge,
twenty-seven in number, appears in the body of the Journal, while
the Grand Master in all his glory occupies the opening page. The
Grand Master named the Standing Committees and the Grand Lodge
closed after prayer by the Grand Chaplain;
'
The Report on Correspondence is by Past Grand Master Marsh 0.
Perkins, and is a thorough analysis of the transactions of the sixty
Grand Bodies reviewed, and worthy of its distinguished author.

VIRGINIA.
VERMONT.
The Grand Lodge of Vermont held on Emergent Communication in
Brandon, October 26, 19041 for the performing of the last sad rites
at the burial of Past Grand Master Ozro Meacham, and a Special at
Bakersfield for the constitution of "Barnes" Lodge, U. D.
The Grand Lodge held its One Hundred and Twelfth Annual at
Burlington, June 14 and 15, 1905,-The M.·. W.·. Olin . W. Daley,
Grand Master, presiding, R. ·. W. ·. Henry H. Ross being Grand Secretary.
Of the 103 chartered Lodges eighty-six were represented, together
with thirty-two other Grand Jurisdictions. Nine Past Grand Masters
were in attendance.

The Grand Lodge of Virginia held its One Hundred and Twentyeighth Annual Communication in Masonic Temple, Richmond, Feb·
ruary 13, 1906,-The M.·. W.~. Thomas N. Davis, Grand Master, preW. ·. George W. Carrington being the Grand Secretary.
siding, the
Two hundred and ninety-one Lodges in the Jurisdiction, nearly 'all
being represented, together with thirty-three other Grand Jurisdictions. )!'our .Past Grand Masters were in attendance.
A portrait ·of the Grand Master-elect appears on the opening page.
The Grand Master opened his Address with an expression of devout
thanksgiving to God for his protection in the past and invoking his
guidance in the future. He told the brethren in earnest words his
exalted opinion of the office of Grand Master of Masons. He reported
his official acts during the recess. No startlin.g i~novations were intro-

R:'.

59

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

duced and the Session passed with the transaction of its routine business, consisting in great part of the reports of the fifty District
Deputy Grand Masters. At the election of Officers M.·. W.:. l{osciusko
Kemper was chosen Grand Master and the R.·. W.·. Bro. George Wm.
Carrington was re-elected Grand Secretary. The Grand Master made
his appointments and all were installed. Five Charters were granted
and one Dispensation continued.
The Standing Committees were appointed and Grand Lodge closed.
The Report on Correspondence is again submitted by the R.-. W.:.
Bro. Joseph W. Eggleston, Chairman. The Report is a paper of 150
pages, being a review of sixty-two Grand Jurisdictions. The Report
is an excellent one, full of information,· outlining the progress and
prosperity of legitimate Freemasonry.

ton, and long may he Jive to represent us. The following incident explains its elf:

58

"E. H. Van Patten, Esq., Grand Master of Masons, Dayton, Wash.:
"Dear Brother Van Patten:-I received the following telegram
last 'l'hursclay (my 79th anniversary), which is very gratifying:
" 'Waco, Texas, December 8, 1904.
"'T. M. Reed, Grand Secretary:
'''Grand Lodge now in Session repealed resolution of non-intercourse.
"'JOHN WATSON, G. S.'

WASHINGTON..

"I have sent a suitable response, with our congratulations, for
the happy result. Kind regards.
"Fraternally 'yours,
.
"T. M. REED, G. S."

The Grand Lodge of Washington held its Forty-eighth Annual
Communication in the city of Bellingham, June 13, 1905,- M.:. W.:.
Edwin Hugh Van Patten, Grand Master, presiding. Washington has
a registry of 128 chartered Lodges, with a membership of nine thousand, and .in addition at the date of this Report nine Lodges under
Dispensation. Of these one hundred and eleven Lodges were represented, together with thirty-three other Grand Jurisdictions. The
portrait of the Grand Master Edwin Hugh Van Patten appears on the
opening page of this number of the Journal, and "In Memoriam" that
of Rev. Da,niel Bagley, Grand Master in 1861. The Grand Master appointed Horace W. Tyler Grand Secretary, in the absence of the Grand
Secretary Thomas Milburne Reed, prevented by illness from responding to the present Annual Roll Call. Thirteen Past Grand Masters
were in attendance and the Delegates from eight of the nine Lodges
under Dispensation.
The Hon. J. W. Romaine, Mayor, welcomed Grand Lodge to the
city of Bellingham and Junior Grand Warden McAlaster responded
on behalf of the Grand Lodge. The Grand Master in his Address paid
eloquent ancl affectionate tribute to the dead brethren who had
passed to rest during the recess of the Grand Lodge. 'In the Address
of the Grand Master we note the granting of a D~spensation for the
forming and opening of "Anvil'' Lodge at Nome, Alaska. We also
ncite in the Address tbe statement that the Grand Lodge of California
has abolished the system of Grand Representatives. Not so, Bro. Van
Patten; it has been attempted in a clumsy sort of a way, but has not
succeeded yet. Consequently, the M .·. W.:. William H. Upton represents the Grand Lodge of California at the Grancl Lodge at Washing-

The Grand Lodge may well appreciate our feelings upon this happy
consummation of an unpleasant incident, and the delicate compliment
paid our Worthy Grand Secretary, by the sending of such ~ communication on the anniversary of his birth.
M.·. W.-. P. G. M., Wm. H. Upton, introduced R.:. W.-. Brother
W. A. DeWolf Smith, Grand Historian and Com,iittee on Foreign Correspondence of the Grand Jurisdiction of British Columbia with a
fitting tribute to his worth and ability as a Masonic writer, to which
th<i R. ·. W. ·. Brother ably responded and. expressed his pleasure in
being present.
The Special Committee on Obituaries, Past Grand Master W. H.
White, Chairman, made a feeling and eloquent Report on the life and
character of Rev. Daniel Bagley, Past Grand Master, who passed to
rest in April, 1905.
The usual routine of business being completed, the election of
Officers was held and the H.:. W. :. Abraham Lincoln Miller was
chosen Grand Master, the M.-. W.:. Thomas Milburne Reed being reelected Grand Secretary.
On motion of Past Grand Master Upton, a Committee was appointed to visit the Grand Secretary in his illness and express to him
the love and veneration of all the members of this Grand Body for
him personally and their prayers for his future happiness.
·
The Grand Master having made his appointments, all were installed
except the Grand Secretary, the Grand Chaplain, Grand Marshal and
Grand Steward.
•
The Grand Master named the Standing Committees and Grand
Lodge closed. .

.

60

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The Report on Correspondence by Past Grand Master Wm. H.
Upton is one of his very best, and we regret very much our lack of
time and space to review it as it deserves, but what does the following mean 9
Farewell.
But the hour is at hand. Brethren of the Guild, I shall be with
you no more. In spirit I pass silently around the table where you sit
and tender to each of you the warm grasp of a hand that never knowingly did any man a wrong. May the work which we 'h ave all been
doing, in diverse ways and from different points of view, redound to
the good of Masonry; may you long be spared to continue that work;
may success attend all your efforts for. good; may happiness mark your
days ~nd the lives of those dear to you; and may our Father in
Heaven have you ever in His holy keeping. So mote it be.
''Fraternally submitted,
.''WILLIAM H. UPTON,
"Walla Walla, 5905.
''Committee.''

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

61

loss will be deeply felt by the Masonic organization he has so Jong
served with fervency and zeal. · The business of the present Session
is almost entirely the general routine business transacted as year succeeds year.
·
The Reports of Committees having been considered and disposed
of, the election of Officers was in order.
M. ·. W. ·. George W. McClintic was chosen Grand Master, and M, :.
W.:. Hiram R . Howard, Past Grand. Master, was elected Grand Secretary. The Grand Master made his appointments and all were installed
by Past Grand Master Luther H. Clarke. At the conclusion of the
installation exercises Past Grand Master George W. Atkinson pres~nted the retiring Grand Master ~th . a Past Grand Master's Jewel.
Past Grand Master Howard was named as Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence. The Grand Lodge closed at low twelve.
Past Grand Master and Correspondent Geo. W. Atkinson's last Report on Correspondence was a lengthy paper, 310 pages. It was the
twentieth Report of Bro. A. and an unlimited review of sixty-six
Grand Jurisdictions.

WEST VIRGINIA.
The Grand Lodge of West Virginia held thirteen Special Communications during the recess. Six for the placing of corner-stones
of public buildings, three for the constitution of Lodges, four for the
dedication of Masonic Halls, and an Emergent on the 25th of October,
1905, for the exercise of the miraculous power and Grand Master's
prerogative of · making a Mason at sight.
.
The Forty-first Annual was held in Masonic Temple, in the city of
Charleston, November 15, 1905,-M. ·. W. ·. Luther H. Clarke, Grand
Master, presiding.
The Grand Jurisdiction ha s registered on its Roll of Lodges 126
charter ed Lodges, with a membership of 10,121, with six under Dispensation. Of these 123 were represented, with two of the Lodges
under Dispensation. }'ifteeil Past Grand Masters wer e present and the
Representatives of twenty-eight other Grand Jurisdictions.
Portraits of Geo. W. McClintic, Grand Master, of M.·. W.·. Geo.
Walkinson, Past Grand Master, and Grand Secretary Edwin Leslie
Boggs, late Assistant Grand Secretary, and W.·. Bro. James Brown.
"In Memoriam" appear in this number of the Journal M.·. W.·.
George W. Atkinson, for many years Grand Master, Grand Secretary
and Correspondent of West Virginia, having received an appointment
in the Federal judicial family, will in the near future be domiciled in
the city of Washington, and has thought it his duty to retire from
official service with t he Grand Lodge of West Virginia. No doubt his

WISCONSIN.
' The Grand Lodge of Wisconsin held its Sixty-first Annual Com- ...
municl'ltion in the Masonic Building, Milwaukee, June 13, 1905,-The
M. :. W. ·. David H. Wright, Grand Master, presiding, the R.·. W.·.
William W. Perry being Grand Secr etary.
Wisconsin has registered on its Ro1! 254 Lodges, 239 of which were
tepresented at this Annual. The Lodge membership is 21,251. Fortytwo other Grand Jurisdictions were also represented. Fourteen Past
Grand Masters were in attendance.
In his Address the Grand Master reported a prosperous year. Peace
and harmony ruled within its Lodges, with progress and prosperity
on every hand. He reported the passing to rest of two Past Grancl
Masters, M. :. w ... Bro.there Oliver Libbey, who was Grand Master in
1884-85, and E. E. Chapin in 1 880 ~81. He announced a number of appointments of Representatives near other Grand Lodges. Under
Decisions, he reported' a number of answers to questions for the construction of certain laws, but made· no important decisions. The
Grand Master closed his Address with a brief statement that might
cause him to be dubbed the veteran Grand Master. We salute you
Grand Master Wright and wish you many years of refreshment after
'so much labor. We quote:
"I have witnessed forty-eight sessions of this Grand Lodge. I
first came to Grand Lodge in 1857, as Secretary of "Madison"' Lodge,

63

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 5, and in 1855 as its Senior Warden, and have not missed a session since. I have met here every Grand Master except Bro. Kavanaugh, and every Grand Secretary except ·Bro. Ben C. Eastman.'' A
:fi,ne record.
Eloquent memorials were reported to Past· Grand Masters · Oliver
Libbey and E. E. Chapin and adopted and placed of record in the
Archives of the Grand Lodge.
Most of the business before Grand Lodge having been concluded,.
the election of Officers for the ensuing year was . declared in order
and the M.'. w ... Jesse C. Bradly was chosen Grand Master, and R.'.
W. ·. William M. Perry, who, by the by, was Grand Master in l8!l5,
was re-elected Grand Secretary. ·
The several Committees reported and the Grand Master, having
made the appointments, all were installed by Past Grand Master
Nathan C. Griffin, Past Grand Master Aldro Jenks acting as Master
of the Ceremonies.
The retiring Grand Master was presented with a Past Grand
Master's Jewel in a most eloquent Address by Past Junior Grand
Warden Franklin P. Ainsworth. The Grand Lodge was then closed.
Past Grand Master and Chairman of Correspondence Bro. Aldro
Jenks. Bro. Jenks' Reports are never other than intelligent and able,
the present conclusion, the subject whereof is "The Recognition of
Grand Lodges and Their Effects,'' a generally neglected subject in
Masonic jurisprudence.

The Grand Master named the Committees and proceeded to deliver
his Annual Address. He congratulated Grand Lodge that although the
year just closed had been uneventful, yet Masonry had prospered with
them as never before in the history of Wyoming. No st.artling events
had occurred. He would express the thanksgiving they were in duty
bound to express that while other Jurisdictions nad been sadly afflicted
with the loss of leaders eminent in the Fraternity, they had been
spared, and not a member of the official household had been summoned. No impor~ant decisions were reported. The year had been
prosperous, although a quiet one, the Session consequently was confined
to the transaction of the routine business of the Jurisdiction. Bro.
Kuykendall submits his Report with the following cherry note:

'62

WYOMING.
The Grand Lodge of Wyoming held a Special Communication in
the town of Thermopolis, July 25, 1905, for the purpose of placing the
corner-stone of the Masonic Temple in course of erection for "Malta"
Lodge, No. 17, and in the town of Douglas, August 2d, in the Hall of
'' Ashler'' Lodge, No. 10, for the placing of the corner-stone of the
Converse county courthouse; and, again, in th~ town of Sheridan, assembling in the Hall of "Sheridan" Lodge, No. 6, to place the
corner-stone of the Sheridan county courthouse.
The Thirty-first Annual Communication was held in Laramie, Sep·
tember 6, 1905 1-The M. ·. W. :. Frank A. Luckfield, Grand Master,
presiding. ,
There are twenty-three Lodges in this Grand Jurisdiction, with a
membership of 1,819 Master Masons. Of these seventeen Lodges were
represented at the present Annual. Seven Past Grand Masters were in
attendance.

"In concluding this, my nineteenth Report as your Grand Secre. tary, it may not be out of place to say that in the roll of Grand
Secretaries I now rank as number twelve in length of service. My
name as Grand Secr13tary is attached to every Lodge Charter in the
State except the first· six. During my service membership has in.
creased from 493 to 1,809, and I have recei.ved in Grand Lodge funds
altogether the sum of $25,600.94, · every cent of which has been
promptly paid to Grand Treasurer, as printed Annual Proceedings
show. Of this record I am, as I believe, entitled to here say that I am
proud; and yet I am prouder still of the long-continued confidence I
have enjoyed at your hands, for which I thank you.
·'Respectfully submitted,
''W. L. KUYKENDALL,
''Grand Secretary.''
The election of Officers being in order, the M. ·. W. :. Bro. M. R.
Johnston was chosen Grand Master, and the R.-. w ... Bro. William.
L. Kuyli:end~ll was re-elected Grand Secretary and Correspondent.
A photogravure of the new Grand Master appears on the opening
page of this number of the Journal: The Grand Master made his
appointments and all were installed by Past Grand Master J. M. Rumsey, Bro. Hugh Hynds acting as Master of the Ceremonies. The
Standing Committees. were appointed and after prayer by the Grand
Chaplain the Grand Lodge closed in Ample Form.
Bro. Kuykendall submits his usual review of other Grand Jurisdictions composing the Masonic World'. That the Report is an excellent review of the transactiosn in Masonry for the year 1905 goes
without saying. Masvnry is both prosperous and progressive. "So
say we all of us. ' '

64

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
CONCLUSION.

We submit the fore.going as our Report on Correspondence. We
had not intended to write it, but the Grand Master,. having thought
proper to name us again for the work, and in delaying the explanation
to him of our reasons for not wishing to discharge the duty until too
late to give him a fair chance to select another, we have written
the paper we submit herewith as our :final Report.
Respectfully submitted,
WM. A DAVIES,
Chairman.
· Alameda, September 20, 1906:

INDEX
A
· .Account&--Of the Grand Secretary and Gran.d TreasurerRelative to ............... . . . ... .. : . ... 371-375, 382-385, 476-478
Address-Of the Grand Master-Report on-Relative to ..... .
. ............ .. . . ........ . ............... . . 188-224, 413-415
Alphabetical List of Lodges . .. . .. ·.. . ........ ...... . ... ...... 514-521
Alphabetical List of Location of Lodges . . ....... . ... . .... . : .522-529
Allowances-To Representatives of Lodges-Relative to .. . 427 -434, 470
Amendments-To By-Laws of Sundry Lodges-Relative to ... 193, 381
Amendments to Constitution-Realtive to ...... 219, 220, 465, 466, 499
Amendment to Gen. Regulation No. 57 .... ........ ... . . .413, 466, 499
Anchor Lodge-Censured .......... . .. . ... . .... ... ...... .. ..... 4.71
·Appointment-Of Grand Officers ........ . ... ... .. ... . .. ... .... . .482
of Committees and to Fill Vacanci€s · .. ... ....... : . .. .. 187, 224
Appropriations-For Sundry Purposes-Relative to ........ . . .473-475
Atkinson, Robert-Action of Lodge R eversed ....... .. ·" . ..... .. .472
Attendance-Of Delegates at this Communication-R,elative to .... 187
Auditing Committee .... .... ... ........... .... . .. ..•.. ... ..... .411

B
Boards of R elief-Masonic-Reports of-Relative to-Reports
on . . . . .. .. . .... ...... . ... .. . .. .. . .. . 194, 217, 385-406, 473
Burnett, Thomas T.-New Trial Ordered ... . ...... .. . ........... .455
By-Laws of Lodges-Amendments to-Report of Committee
OD • • , •••• , , , •••• •• , , , • , ••••• , , ; , ••••• , • • , • •• , • • 3811 45 1-454

c
Chartered L odges-Number of .. . ....... . ... . ...... . ..... .. 379, 380
Charters-Report of Committee on-Relative to .......... 193, 410, 451
Circular- Bi,monthly-Relative to · ....................... .. .. . . 415
Committees ~ppointed-Regular, Standing and Special. .... .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 187, 224, 371, 415, 439, 464, 483
Committees Reported- Regular and Standing. See Names of
Committees.
Special-On Annual Address of Grand Master . . .... f!S-415
On Annual Report 9f Grand Secretary . ...... .. .... 414, 415
On Annual Report of Grand Lecturer .... . ...... . ... .436-438
On Widows' and Orphans' Home ........... . .. • ....... 473
On Petitions and Applications-Reports on .............. 464

INDEX.

INDEX.

Constituting Lodges .................................. 190, 478, 479
Corner Stones-Laying of ................................. 191, 192
Correspondence-Report of .Committee ob-..,.See Appendix.
Credentials-Reports of Committee on . ........ ..... . 345-366, 376-378

G

11

D
Decisions'-Relative to ........ : ............ ·........ 201-207, 4.61-463
Dedications ............... : . ..... ... ... ... ... .. ..... ..... .... . 192
Dispensati:ons-For New Lo'dges Issued-Relative to ......... 191, 379
Special-Issued for Sundry Purposes-Relative to ... 192, 193
Dues to Grand Lodge-Relative to ................... ._ ...... 382, 383

E
Election-Of Grand Officers-Relative to .. . . .......... . .. ... 466, 481
Elective Grand Officers-Relative to-Expenses for Attendance.468, 469
Eulogies-Johnston and Rucker . . ... .. ............ . .. . '. ... 444-450
Employment Bureau .. ... ._ .. ...... . ....... . . .. ... . . . .. . .... 194-l97
Expenses-Of' Grand Lecturer-Relative to ................ .': . .. . 473
Expert-On Books of Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer Report of .... ... . .. . . ... ... .. . . ... . .... .. ... . ...... 476, 477
On Book!J of Home~Report of . ........................ .478
Expulsions-Relative to-List Affirmed . .416-422, 454-458, 471, 472, 536

111

General Relief Fund-Relative to-Report of ..... .. ........ .
. ........ . ... ... .... . 225-344, 383-385, 411-413, 435, 436, 464, 473
Goeritz, Robert E.-Lodge Action Reversed . .... .. ... ...... .. . . .419
Grand Lecturer-Annual Report of-Report of Committee on.
.... .. - ........................ . .......... 366-371, 436-438
Grand Lodges-Of the United States and British America-List of. 530
Grand Master-Annual Address of-Report of Committee on
. . .... .. . . . . ..... .. . ...... .................... 188-224, 413, 415
Grnnd 'Officers-Election, appointment and installation of . .. .481, 482
List of Elected Since the Organization of Grand
Lodge .... .. .......................................... 532-535
For tae Year Commencing October, A. L. 5906 . .... ... . . 184
Grand Orator-Annual Oration of-Relative to ......... .408, 440-444
Grand Seeretary-Annual Report of-Report of Committee on
.. .... ' ... . . ..... . . . ................ . .. .. ..... . 378-385, 414, 415
Grand Treasurer-Relative to-Annual Report of-Report of
Committee on ..... . . . .... . . . . .. .............. . 371-375, 476-478
Greenleaf, Geo. T.-Relative to ................................. 471
Grievances-Reports of Committee on ...... . 416-422, 454-458, 471, 472

H
Home-at D ecoto.:_Relative to ... . .... . . ... . ... 212, 213, 439, 475, 478
Home-at San Gabriel-Relative to . .. . .. .... . .. . . ...... 213-217, 439

F
Finances-Reports of Committees on~On Books, Etc., Grand
Secretary and Grand Treasurer ....... ................... 476, 477
On Appropriations for salaries of Grand Officers and
Expenses of Grand Lecturer . .. . . ... ... ....... . . . .... . 473
On Appropriations for the.Several Board of Relief ..... ... 473
On Appropriations for Attendance of the Elective
Grand Officers ................ .. .... .. .. . . .. . . . .468, 469
On Appropriation for Past Grand Master's Portrait .... . . 475
On Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home ... , ........ 475, 478
On Board of Relief at Manila ....................... 473, 474.
On General Board of Relief ....... . . . . ...... . . . . ... . ... 4 73
On Representative Manila Lodge .. . ...... ... . . . ....... . 474
.On Committee on Accommodation . ... . . ......... . .. . ... .474
ron Expense Deputy Grand Master ..... ._ . . . . . .. . . ..... ... 4 74
On Geo. Washington Lodge . . . ....... ... .... ... .. . .474, 475
On La Parfaite Union Lodge .. . ........ .. ... .. .. . . ... .. 475
On Rent Cavalry Church . ........... . . . . . . . . .. . . ... .... 47.9
Foreign Grand Lodges .... .. ..... . ... . .......... .. ........ .... . 531

I
Inspectors-Of Masonic Districts-Relative to ..... . .. 367-369, 437, 479
Installation . . . ......... .... . .. .. . .... .... .................... 482
Investigating Committees- Relative to Reports of ... .. . .. ....... 464
Ionic Lodge-Relative to .. .... . .. . . .. . ... . .. . . .. . ..... 381, 410, 411

J
Jurisprude.n ce-Reports of Committee on
Relative to Dispensations issued ........................ 459
Relative to Aged Members . . ... . ... . .. ... . . . . ..... .. 407, 460
Relative to Past Masters . .. . .. . .. . . . . ... . .. ..... ... . ... 461
Relative to Membe rship .......... . ........ . . .... .462, 463
Relative to Wine at Banquets . ............. . . . .... . . . .. 463
Relative to Amendments to Constitution . . . . .. .. . . . . 465, 466
Relative to War!lens of Lodges ...... .. ...... ...... ... . . .480
Relative to Decisions -o f Grand Master . . ...... . .... . . 461-463
Relative to Grand R epresentatives .......... : . . ....... .460
Relative to Committees of Investigat ion .............. . . .464

lV

lNDEX.
INDEX.

L

v

Life M embership ..... .... ..... . .. .. . . . ... ... .... ... .... ... 207-212
Lodges Constituted ........ . ... . .... .. .... , .. . .. . . ... . 190, 478, 479
Lodges-Chartered This Year-Statistical Tables-Alphabetical List of ....................... . ................ 484, 500, 521
Lodges-Number of in Jurisdiction . . . ..... . ............. ... 379, 380
List of Members-Relative to ..................... .. . .. : . .. 200, 415

Representation-In t he Grand Lodge-Relative to ....... .. . . . . . .. 187
Representative Fund-Relative to Dues for Account of ... .. ..... . . 470
Representatives-To and from Grand Lodge-Relative to ..... .. . .460
REturns-Report of Committee on .... .. ..................... 423-435
R~ster of Lodges-Relative to .... . . ... ... . ... . ... ....... . . .. 200-415

M

Salaries-Of Grand Officers-Relative to .... . ....... . ... . .. ...... 473
Sisson Lodge-Censured . ... .... . ................ . ...... . . · · · · .471
Special Communications ....... . ... . . .. .......... .. ..... . . · i91, 192
Special Dispensatione--Issued by the Grand Master-Relative
to .. ...... .... . . . ..... . .... .... .. .. . . ...... .......... 192, 193
Statisticai Tables-Of Returns of Lodges for the Year, etc ... . . 500-513

s

Manila Lodge-Relative to B. of R. of .............. 407; 408, 473, 474
Membership--Total in Jurisdiction-Relative to .. .. . ........ . 379,. 380
Mourning Pages-In Memory of Past Masters of Jurisdiction,
Deceased .. .. .. .... . ........ ... ................ . ... : .. .493-498
Mugridge, Charles F.-New. Trial Ordered .... .. .. ... .. ..... .. .. 420

N- ·

T

Necrology ....... . ............. .. ... .. ... ... ... .' .. 189, 190, 493-498

Temple-New Masonic-Relative to.197-200, 408, 409, 415, 439, 467, 468
Testimonial-To Past Grand Master-Relative to . .. . . ......... . . .483
'lhanks-Of Grand Lodge .. ... . ............ . . .... . ..... 224, 444, 479
Trial Records-Transcripts of-Relative to .. ... . . .. .... . ........ 380
Trustees Masonic Widows' and Orphans ' Home-Appointment
of-Relative to .... . ....... . ......... .. ........... .. .. 439, 483

0
Oration-Relative to .. ... .... . ........... , ... ... . ..... 408, 440-444

p

'

Past Masters-Relative to ............ . .... . ..... . : .... .461, 493-498
Pay of JYiembers- Report of Committee on-Allowances byCommittee ................ .. .. : ..... ...... ... . .... . ... 468-471
Per Capita Tax-;-Relative to ............ . . . .. .... . ... : . .... . .. . 475
Petitions and Applications-Reports of Committee on ... ... ... .. . 464
Philippines-Masonry in-Relative to .. 217, 218, 222, 407, 408, 439, 482
Portrait of Retiring Grand Master- Relative to .. . ... ... •..... . .. 475
Presentation-Of T estimonial to Retiring Grand Master .. .. ..... . 483
Proceedings_:_Relative to Publication of . . . . .... . . .. . ... 200, 201, 415

v
Yacancies-Appointments to fill ...... . . .. .. ... . ... . . . . .... .... . 187

w
Wardens of Lodges-Relative to ... ...... .... .. ............. .. .. 480

R
Receipts- By the Grand Secretllry and Grand Treasurer-Relative to .. . ........................... . ............ . .... 371-385
Redlands Lodge-Censured ... . . ... . . ... . ... ... , .... .... . ....... 471 .
Relief Fu11;cl-Report of ...... , ..... . .. .. .... .. . .... ...... . . 225-344
Regalia-Relative to . .... . . : .... . .. . ... ... ...... ·.. . . .... ... . . . . 193
Reports-Of Regular, Standing and Special Committees-See
''Committees Reported.
Of the Grand Secretary-Report of Com. on .. 378-385, 414, 415
Of the Grand Treasurer ..... .. ... . . . ... .. . . 371-375, 476-478
Of the Grand L ecturer-Report of Com. on . .. 366-371, 436-438
Of the Home Trustees . . . .. . . .... .. . . ..... ... . . . . ... . .. 385

(

}

