GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

JOSEPH LIEB SHELL
GRAND MASTER

JOEL. SHELL
Grand Master
October 2, 1959 ~September 30, 1960

Joseph Lieb Shell, Grand Master in California for the term ending
September 30, 1960, has devoted his full time during his term of office
to the affairs of the Grand Lodge, having retired from the bench of the
Superior Court of California, in and for the County of San Diego, on
January 6, 1960.
He was born on February 18, 1892, a few miles from Chapman,
Kansas. His parents were Charles Ellsworth Shell and Ida A. Robinson
Shell. His father, an alumnus of Otterbein College in Westerville,
Ohio, was a rural school teacher, and became the first Principal of the
Dickinson County High School. In 1895 he entered the United States
Indian Service and was assigned to the Rosebud Indian Reservation
in South Dakota.
After some years of service there, the family was transferred to a
school near Greenville, California. Charles Shell became a Mason, and,
after serving as Junior Warden of Sincerity Lodge No. 132, was
elected Senior Warden but was again transferred and unable to serve
as such. The transfer, in 1905, was to the Pala Indian Agency in San
Diego County. In the meantime, our future Grand Master, together
with his two older brothers, was for two years a cadet at the Los
Angeles Military Academy, situated in the vicinity of First and Com~
monwealth Streets in Los Angeles.
When the family moved to San Diego County, the three boys
enrolled at San Diego High School, but another transfer took them to
the Cheyenne and Arapahoe Agency near El Reno, Oklahoma. There
Joe attended high school for three years, graduating from El- Reno
High School in 1909, and in the fall of 1909 enrolled at the University
of Colorado at Boulder. During his first college year he was tackle on
the freshman football team.
When the family was transferred to Kingman, Arizona, Joe enrolled
at the University of California at Berkeley, graduating therefrom in
1913 with the degree of Bachelor of Arts.
After working on surveying projects for six months he entered
the School of Law at the University of California and pursued his legal
studies there for one semester. Lack of finances resulted in his return
to employment at surveying.
His marriage to Nell Schunemann, an Escondido girl, on February
18, 1915, was the beginning of a long and happy life together. Shortly
the Shells, on Joe's entry into the Indian Service, went to La Conner,
Washington. It was there that their two children, Cheryl Ann and
Joseph C., were born, and it was there that Joe received the degrees
of Masonry in Garfield Lodge No. 41. He was initiated on October 26,
1918, passed November 23, 1918, and raised January 24, 1919. It is
interesting to note the coincidence that his son, Joe, received his Masonic

2

3

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

degrees in James A. Garfield Lodge No. 566. in Los Angeles, in September, 1958. The daughter is a Past Matron of San Diego Chapter No.
264, Order of the Eastern Star, of which Chapter Mrs. Shell is also a
member.
Believing that his ambition to be admitted to the practice of law
would be furthered thereby, Joe resigned from the Indian Service and
returned to San Diego, where he was soon employed as Deputy County
Probation Officer and then as Deputy County Clerk, where he was
in constant contact with the Courts while pursuing his study of law.
He was successful at the 1922 summer bar examination and was admitted to practice law in September, 1922. He was soon thereafter
appointed City Prosecutor of the City of San Diego and, after a year
and a half 1n that office, became Deputy District Attorney for the
County of San Diego. leaving that office after two years. He then
engaged in the private practice of law for eight years.
In 1934, with the endorsement of the Bar Association of San Diego,
he ran for, and was elected to the office of Justice of the Peace of San
Diego Township. This court shortly thereafter became the Municipal
Court of the City of San Diego. He served in that court until January.
1945, when , having been elected Judge of the Superior Court, he assumed that office, was re-elected without opposition in 1950 and in
1956. The latter election was for the term which would have ended in
January, 1963, but for his retirement on January 6, 1960.
On April 2, 1926, he affiliated with San Diego Lodge No. 35, served
as Junior Steward in 1926, Senior Steward in 1927, Junior Deacon in
1928, Senior Deacon in 1929, Junior Warden in 1930, Senior Warden
in 1931, and Master in 1932.
He was a member of the Masonic Homes Endowment Board for
eight years, served as Senior Grand Steward of this Grand Lodge in
1940, was a member of the Grand Lodge Committee on Appeals and
Grievances from 1941 to 1956, being Chairman of that Committee during
the last four years of such service. He was elected Junior Grand Warden
in 1956 and has successively served as Senior Grand Warden, Deputy
Grand Master and Grand Master.
He is a member and Past High Priest of San Diego Chapter No.
61, Royal Arch ·Masons, a member of San Diego Council No. 23. Roya l
and Select Masters, San Diego Commandery No. 25, Knights Templar
and the San Diego Scottish Rite Bodies. He was Knighted a K. C. C. H.
in October. 1947, Coroneted an Honorary 33rd Degree Mason in
January, 1956, is a member of Al Bahr Temple, A. A. 0. N. M. S., and
is a Past Soverign of the San Diego Conclave, Red Cross of Constantine.
He is a dual member of Garfield Lodge No. 41, State of Washington,
and of San Diego Lodge No. 35, of California, as well as being a member
of Southern California Research Lodge.
Work with boys has always interested him. He has been for many
years Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Breitbard Athletic

Foundation of San Diego. His interest in youth was strengthened by
his service as Deputy Probation Officer and two years as Judge of the
Juvenile Court of San Diego.
He is also a member of San Diego Chapter No. 264, Order of the
Eastern Star, which he served as Worthy Patron in 1936. His son,
Joseph C., has been for seven years a member of the California State
Assembly and is now Minority Leader in the Assembly.
Joe and Mrs. Shell are proud of their six grandchildren and their
one great-granddaughter.
This man says that he has been most fortunate-because of his
modest success in life, because of his 6ne family, and because o f the
affection which his Brethren have always displayed toward him. H is
hobbies are ·golf, pictures and travel. May his future life be even happier
than it has been in the past. We know his devotion to Masonry will
be continued with the same vigor which has always imbued him.

I. EDWARD H. SIEMS, Grand Secretary of the M.".W.". Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of C alifornia, do
hereby certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcript of the proceedings of that body at its one-hundred eleventh
Annual Communication , commenced at the city of San Francisco, on
Monday, the 26th day of September, A. L. 5960, and terminated on
Friday, the 30th day of September, A. L. 5960.

I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have affixed
the seal of the M.".W.". Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of California, at the office of the G rand
Secretary, this second day of November, in the year of Lig ht, five
thousand nine hundred and sixty.

PROCEEDINGS

of

THE M:.W:.GRAND LODGE
of

lfl'rrr au~ Arrrptr~ :!la.anus
OF THE

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
AT ITS

lllTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
HELD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26 A.O. 1960, A.L. 5960
AND TERMINATING ON
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30 A.O.

1960, A.L. 5960

Copyright 1960 by Grond Lodge F. & A. M. of Co lifornia
Printod in the United States of Americo. All righh. in this book ore reserved.
No part thereof may be reproduc~d in any manner whatsoever with out written

perminion fro m the Grond Lodg e of Colifornia, exce pt that quotations moy
be embodied in reviews by such other Grond Ju risdictions os hove been
recog nized officiolly by this Grond Lodge. For information addreu Grand
Secretory, 1111 Colifornio Street, Son Francisco 8, Californio.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

9

ONE HUNDRED ELEVENTH
ANNUAL COMMUNICAT ION
The M ost Worshipful Grand Lodge o f Free and Accepted Masons
of the State o f Californ ia commenced its One Hund red Eleventh Annual
Communication in the Ca lifornia M asonic M emorial Temple on September 26th. A. L. 5960 , at 10: 00 a .m.
Roll Call disclosed the presence of the following :
O FFI CERS OF T HE GRAND LoDGE

M. ·. W . · .JOE L. SH ELL .•. ·----······-· ··· ····-· ·· ···-----··· ·· ·· · ···· ········· Grand Master
R.·.w

. · . ALFRED F. BRESLAUER......... .. ....... .•.... ....D eputy Grand M aster

R.· . w .· . GuY B. M1zE. .......... ......... ....... . ................S enior Grand W arden

R. ·.w. · . IRA W. CoBURN .......... .•......... . .....•...... .•. .Junior Grand Warden
v:.W.'.EDWARD H. SIEMS, P. G .M. .... ........... . ........... ... Grand Treasurer
v.· . w. · . LLOYD E . WILSON. P.G. M ... .... ..... ...... ... ........ . .Grand S ecretary
W ." . H ENRY C. C LAU SEN . P .G .M ... ............ ......... ..... Judge Advocate
W.' . CLARE B . CAMPBELL..... . ............ ..... ...A ssista nt Grand Lecturer
W. ·.HAROLD N. R1c HARDS . .... .. . . ........... .... A ssistant Gran d Lecturer
W .' . ART HUR J. KAHN ........ .......... ... ........... Assistant Grand Lecturer
W . '. RAYMOND G . TAYLOR .... ...... ........ .. ... . Assistant Grand Lecturer
W .' . RALPH W . CoLLIN S..... ... . .... ............. Assistant Grand l ecturer
W . ·. W . BEN SoRRELLS...... ..................... ...A ssistant Grand lecturer
W . ' . PAUL A . PFLUEGER ..... ..... ................ Assistant Grand Treasurer
W . · . HENRY D . 0 LIPHA N T ... . ................ . ... A ssistant Grand Secretary
w : . FRED J. H . R.i c K ON ........................ ................... ... Grand M arshal
W . ·. JAMES B. BAKER ............. .. ..................... G rand Stand ard Bearer
W .'. MAURIC E C EL LAR.......... ...... ....... ........ .........Grand S word Bearer
W . ' . A RNE DJGERUD..... ................................. . ....... Grand Bible Bearer
W . '. REXFORD L. HAL L. ....................... ..... ... ......Senior Grand Deacon
W .'. JAMES R. YOUNG ........... ......... ........ ......... .funior Grand Deacon
w . · . WAYN E E . PHILIPPI... ..... ............... .. ..... ..S enior Grand Steward
W . ' . LEA ARNOLD... .•.............. ... ......... .. ......•. .. ...Junior Grand Steward
W . " .GJLBERT A . BEN OIT...... .. . .. . .. . ........... . .......... .... .Grand Pursuivant
W . · .HAROLD M UELLER ................................ .............. Grand Organist
W. ' .DAvrn WRIGHT ... ....... ...... ....... .... ...... . .. . . ...... ............ . .Grand Tiler

10

11

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PAST GRAND MASTERS

APPOINTMENT S

M:.W.-.CHARLES ALBERT ADAMS

The Grand Master announced the following appointments of acting
Grand Lodge Officers:
Very Worshipful Elbert W. Davis. Past Grand Lecturer, in place
Worshipful Donald G. Campbell who is confined to his home
Very
of
under doctor's orders.
Edward D. Kohlstedt, Grand Chaplain at the 1959 Communication.
in place of the Very Reverend Robert B. Watts whose hospitalization
prevented his attendance, in order that Brother Kohlstedt might present
the Devotional Service which had been prepared and forwarded to him
by the Very Reverend Robert I3. Watts.
The Most Worshipful Charles Albert Adams, Past Grand Master,
replacing for this day the Worshipful Gerald S. Levin, Grand Orator.
whose absence was caused by his responsibility at Los Angeles in connection with the Judges' Conference.
Grand Master Joe L. Shell reported to the Brethren that this
Annual Communication marked the 50th Anniversary of the delivery
by Past Grand Master Adams of the Annual Oration. H is s ubject a t
the 1910 Communication was "Masonry in Business and Politics." The
Grand Master presented to Brother Adams a copy of that oration bound
in gold and appropriately emphasized the appreciation of the Brethren
for the continued and effective service which Brother Adams has rendered to this Grand Lodge and to Masonry in general.
The Grand Master announced the following appointments to fill
Committee vacancies:
On Policy and General Purposes Arthur M. Warren , Past Grand
Master, and Theodore M. Meriam, Grand Orator at the 1959 Communication.
On the Committee on Credentials Jesse M. Few.
The Grand Secretary announced t hat the Deputy Gra nd Master
had appointed Adolph Franzen, Samuel Steelman and A lex Barkoff to
serve as the Committee on Distribution.

M:.w:.CHARLEs M. WoLLENBERG
M:.w:.LEoN

o. WmTsELL

M:.w:.LwYD E. WILsoN
M.·.w. · .LEsLIE E. WooD

M:. w : . JoHN R. MOORE
M.'.W.'.CHESTER H. WARLOW
M:.w:.EDwARD H. SrnMs
M:.w:.Loms C. DRAPEAU
M:.w:.ARTHUR M. WARREN
M: . W .' .FRANK HARWELL, JR.

c. CLAUSEN
M: .W.'.EDGAR v. STEWART, JR.
M:.w:.HENRY

M:. \.V:.L. HAROLD ANDERSON
M.'.\V.' . LEO E. ANDERSON
M.'.W.'.PH!L N. MYERS

One thousand four hundred thirty-one officers and representatives
from 677 chartered Lodges and 5 Lodges under dispensation, I 087 Past
Masters. and 20 distinguished guests from other jurisdictions were
~eported as present. and the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge was opened
m ample form, following which the Flag of our Country was received.

TELEGRAMS SENT

The Grand Master directed the Grand Secretary to send an
appropriate telegram to the absent Past Grand Masters.

12

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

DEVO TIONA L SERVI CE
OPENING PRAYER
Great Archite ct of the Universe:
As the celestial bodies move on in their appoint ed
course, and as with the passing of another year the
Grand Lodge of Masons of California convene s for its
deliberations. we ask Thy blessing upon our beloved
Fratern ity and upon all of its officers and member s,
withers oever dispersed.
W e most humbly beseech Thee, of Thy goodne ss, to
comfort and assist all those who are in trouble, sorrow,
need. sickness, or any other adversity. And we ask that
Thou wilt grant to this assemb ly wisdom in all its doings,
strength of mind in all of its difficulties and the beauty of
harmon y in all its underta kings-that its decisions and
selections may be worthy in Thy sight. Amen.

THE POWE R OF FAITH
THE VERY REVEREND ROBERT B. WATTS, D.D .. LL. D.
Grand Chaplain
Most Worshipful Grand Master and Brethre n of the Grand Lodge:
Before proceed ing with the more formal portion of our devotio na l
service, I beg your indulge nce for the express ion of some of the
persona] feelings with which my heart is filled on this occassio n.
First of all, I shall forever be indebte d to the Grand Master for the
opportu nity which he gave me to serve as Grand Chapla in during the
y~ar which has passed so swiftly. Second ly, I cherish very deeply
the
friendsh ip and affection with which my brother officers of the Grand
Lodge have received my efforts. And finally, I thank you, my brethre n of
the Craft. for the rich experie nces and new appreci ation of the depths of
our brother hood which you have revealed to me from one end of
Califor nia to the other, and through the lovely Islands of Hawaii.
Sometim es. I admit, there have been unexpec ted occurre nces-bu t
no clergym an is usually too much surprise d by the unexpec ted. There
have been, for example, such ordinar y vicissitu des as tidal waves,
automo bile wrecks, missed airplane s, gusts of wind sweepin g away
notes during public ceremon ies, flags falling at inoppor tune times, and
heavy concent rations of creamed chicken as the Grand Chaplai n has
accomp lished his appoint ed rounds. Indeed, there have been even more
hilariou s moment s when the Grand Chaplai n has sent charmin g hostesses flying in dismay to their husband s to find out what a Roman
Catholic Priest was doing with a group of Masoni c Grand Lodge
officers.
But as any of my predece ssors will join me in affirming, the wealth of
friendsh ip and the deeper appreci ation of Masonr y which comes from

13

acting as your Grand Chaplai n is a thing for which we are in your debt
forever.
As early in the past Masoni c year as the Sunday following his installatio n, the Grand Master struck a keynote which, to his honor, he
has constan tly develop ed in his talks to the Craft through out the year.
He used, as that keynote . the first of the ancient charges : "You agree to
be a good man and true, and strictly to obey the moral law."
You will see how the develop ment of that injuncti on has served to
prepare the way for my own endeavo rs which I have sought to build
upon the exhorta tion prescrib ed for a newly appoint ed Chaplai n :
"That Holy Book which adorns our sacred altar is the great light
in Masonr y, and forever sheds it benigna nt rays upon every lawful
assemb lage of Free and Accepte d Masons . Teach us from its life-giving
precept s; invoke upon our labors the blessing of that Divine Being whose
infinite goodne ss it so fully reveals and unfolds to us; and guide us by
its lessons of wisdom and truth-. "
So, in great humility . I have sought to do-and so again in this
period of devotio n, in the na me of God the Father of all mankin d. I
invite your attentio n to certain basic and practica l applicat ions of that
·'great light in Masonr y."
In Lord Tennys on's "Idylls of the King," Ambros ius the monk says
of the Knights of the Round Table:
"For good ye are, and bad, and like to coinsSome true, some light, but every one of you
Stampe d with the image of the King."
And so it might be said of us, mixture s as we are of good and bad
but every one of us made in the image of God and possess ed of the
power. if we will but use it. to bring our lives into harmon y with His
immuta ble laws and to enjoy the peace and power which come to us as
we achieve that harmon y. As Master Masons we conceal these truths
in many places in and about the Temple- not the least of which consists
of the teachin gs of our three degrees themse lves-wi th the materia lism
of the First Degreee , and the intellec tualism of the Second Degree
brough t into Divine harmon y and balance by the spiritua l teachin gs of
the Third Degree.
Stated more bluntly . we are in despera te need of some effective
spiritua l power if we are to find the remedy for our modern day tensions, concern s and worries as they assail us on the everyda y levels of
things and thought s.
As I have travelle d about the country , a nd come into contact with
men and women of all ages. and all sorts of backgro unds, if there has
been one common note in the experie nces of all I would unhesit atingly
say that that common note was and is fear.

14

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

True indeed is the old French proverb which runs:
"Some of your griefs you have cured,
And the sharpest you still have survived;
But what torments of pain you endured
From evils that never arrived."
Despite this truth, all of us are constantly assailed by fear- which
strikes us from many sides.

1£ we have but the slightest knowledge of the awesome power of
nuclear energy. and if we but scan the largest headlines describing the
incredible weapons now capable of hurling terrestial destruction through
trackless space, we shall know the fear of imminent destruction. Beyond
this, we all too often see and fear in our personal affairs what has been
described in poetic language' as "The black and awful chaos of the
night." We fear the loss of hard-won security, through illness. loss of
jobs. and forces of technology. We fear the loss of friends-and most
of all we fear the unknown, the very essence of mystery and concern.
These fears cripple us. They destroy our minds and bodies, sometimes far beyond repair. Failing this, they darken our lives, subject us
to tensions and make us slaves to our worries. Shakespeare said 2 :
"Our doubts are traitors,
And make us lose the good we oft might win
By fearing to attempt."
What, then, do we find men doing when these gnawing fears attack
them. Do some sturdier or more fortunate ones face their fears squarely
and. by an exercise of their unaided will, successfully command them to
disappear? The answer is "No, not without some further power to aid
them," for no "operation bootstrap" will ever succeed in talking oneself
out of his fears.
Faced with this fact, unhappily we see worried, tense ,and fearful
men and women turning blindly to all sorts of nostrums in their search
for relief and freedom of mind. The crudest attempts of tltis sort lie in
seeking to deaden the mind, with alcohol or narcotics, to the point where,
as I have frequently pointed out, we now see countless lurid advertisements for tranquilizers-including tranquilizers for our pet cats and
dogs. But neither drunkenness nor insensibility touch our fears. Instead ,
they multiply them by constituting in themselves additional valid reasons
for worry and fear.
'Robinson's "Credo."
•"Measure for Measure."

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

15

Many of us look for relief from our desperate tensions in the
acquiring of things. We devote ourselves, often with considerable
ruthlessness, to the accumulation of wealth as a means of security and
peace. We think that everything will be solved if we have enough
money. insurance, stocks, bonds, and real estate. But this resort is also
sterile-as witness the total inability of wealth to sustain us in the loss
of health, or the deep sorrows of personal bereavement.
Long ago , our Biblicill great light revealed the uselessness of this
approach in its recital of the experience of the rich man. Here was a man
who had apparently come to within a step of his goal of security. His
crops and material wealth were so huge that he decided to pull down his
old barns and to build huge new ones-in which he would store all his
riches. And then, the Great Light tells us. he said to himself, "Soul. thou
hast much goods laid up for many years; take thine ease, eat. drink and
be merry." But God said to him, "Thou fool. this night thy soul shall be
required of thee; then whose shall those things be which thou hast provided?" And the account speaks straight to us. as well as to the rich
man, when it concludes: "So is he that layeth up treasure for himself.
and is not rich toward God."
Where, then, if these material resources fail us, must we seek for
Man's most-sought prize of freedom from fear? Listen to these revealing
words of Cowper's 8 :
"Ye fearful saints fresh courage take,
The clouds ye so much dread
Are big with mercy. and shall break
In blessings on your head.
Judge not the Lord by feeble sense.
But trust him for his grace;
Behind a frowning Providence
He hides a smiling face."
Here indeed, and not in self-help, lies the road to recovery from
the negative fears of Life which possess us. That road replaces negative
fear by positive faith in some power. outside ourselves. higher than hope
and deeper than fear-a faith which the poet's intuition sees in the
purpose of God for the world.
"Faith is not sig ht, faith is not feeling. nor is it credulity, nor is it
superstition, nor any dodge of bribing God or drugging self, but it is
deep, sure confidence in the character of that God Who has come to the
rescue of the character of Man-.' '•
'"Olney Hymns."
"'The Adventure of Faith," Father Andrew.

16

17

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

It is the kind of mangnificent faith in God, the Supreme Architect
and Ruler of the Universe. which is described in a famous passage of
Paul's letter to the Hebrews:

unworthy, and that anyway as a man accustomed to command he knew
that Jesus needed only to utter a command to accomplish the healing.

"And what shall I more say? for the time would fail me
to tell of Gideon. and of Barak. and of Samson, and of
J eptha; of David also, and Samuel. and of the prophets,
"Who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness,
obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions.
"Quenched the violence of fire. escaped the edge of the
sword, out of weakness were made strong, waxed valiant
in fight, turned to flight the armies of the aliens."
We need an acceptance of belief in that kind of positive action and
power of Almighty God. That's what we mean when we talk about
faith.
And then we need to back up that faith and express our belief in it
by positive action in our lives.
First we must have the faith. And then we must act upon the faith.
Both must go together.
Right here we encounter a great truth which Jesus of Nazareth
revealed to us many times in the recorded instances of the miracles of
healing. Yet it is a truth which frequently never occurs to us as we read
our Bibles.
In instance after instance in the miracles of healing, there was first
an expression of the sick person's faith-cf belief in the supreme healing
power of God. And in every instance of healing, that faith-that belief
-was followed up and expressed by action on the part of the afflicted.
Only then were the healings effected.
Take the instance recited by Matthew concerning the healing of the
woman long ill of an issue of blood. She believed, and then acted on
her belief, that if she could but touch the hem of the Master's garment
she would be healed.
"And Jes us turned him about, and when he saw her, he
said, Daughter, be of good comfort; thy faith hath made
thee whole."
And the woman was instantly healed.
There we have the triple action. First, her complete faith in the
power of God. Second, her action in touching the garment. And third,
the swift response of healing.
Th en there is the thrilling story of the healing of the centurion's
servant. You recall how the centurion came to Jes us and asked him to
heal his sick servant who was at home. Jesus said he would come-but
the centurion told him that that was not necessary- that his house was

Jesus marvelled, we are told, and said to his followers:
"Verily I say unto you, I have not found so great faith,
no, not in Israel.
"And Jesus said unto the centurion, Go thy way, and as
thou hast believed, so be it done unto thee. And his servant
was healed in the self-same hour."
These recorded instances could, of course. be multiplied time and
again from the Scriptures. Always the pattern and the great truth
revealed are the same.
Faith-action in reliance upon that faith- and the power of God
coming in swift response-these are the forces which overcome fear.
Nor are these by any means purely historic events, with no personal
relation to us and to our lives. We too, can have and use just such
faith to defeat our fears of Life if we will only believe and act on our
belief in the power of God to flood our lives and strengthen us with His
limitless power.
Do we say that we lack the power to have such faith? Do we think
that in our particular lives there just isn't that much belief?
That is a fair question-and the answer is direct and crystal clear.
We have an amazing amount of faith, on which we act and ·i ndeed bet
our very lives day after day.
We have faith each day that hundreds of persons unknown to us
will perform tasks which will bring us our food, without which we
would starve.
We have faith in the arbitrary value printed upon pieces of paper-and depend upon money to return th e equivalent of our labor.
We venture upon bridges, elevators, highways--1n tunnels, airplanes, and automobiles-we drink medicines, accept anesthesia and
undergo massive surgery-all in faith of our fellow man.
Faith? We live by faith in unknown men at every turn. We are full
of faith, and what's more, we act and depend upon that faith every day
of our lives.
Are we then a fraid to accept and to act upon a faith in God, the
mighty Creator of the Universe? Time and time again throughout the
ages He has demonstrated His quick response with the flood of His
power-whenever men have tapped that power by faith and by action
in that faith.
Once we realize the availability in our own lives of the power which
springs from our faith, certainly we should, as master builders, promptly
use this knowledge in the designs upon our trestle boards. And let us
be mindful that;

18

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

"There is no noble height thou canst not climb;
All tl'iumphs may be thine in Time's futurity,
If. whatsoever thy fault, thou dost not faint or halt;
But lean upon the staff of God's security."
Indeed, wherever we look in our M asonic surroundings, throughout
all the sweep of this Grand Jurisdiction, we see the power of faith in
God in action. And it is a thrilling and heart-warming vista.
This beautiful Memorial Temple in which we meet is itself the
confirmation and reality which crowns the faith of those Past Grand
Officers who had the vision of its possibility and the faith that it could
be achieved-just as it reflects the supporting and creative faith of the
members of the Craft whose imagina tions and outpouring generosity
were activated by that vision of its leaders.
And time after time during the past year. as the officers of this Grand
Lodge have met to lay the cornerstone of. or to dedicate, new Masonic
Temples, they have been deeply moved to see well-planned, wellconstructed and beautiful edifices which-with the devoted physical
labor of the members of a Lodge-have triumphantly come into being
despite what had often appeared hopeless financial limitations. The
brethren had faith, and they acted upon that faith, and through the
power and grace of God they succeeded magnificently.
We have seen the faithful efforts of devoted brothers bring about
priceless results in the lives of young men and young women with
whom they have worked in Masonically sponsored organizations.
These fine young people have been helped to mature, to become responsible members of their group and of their community. and to catch
a vision of unselfishness and of high ideals which will serve them, and
our nation, all their lives.
We have seen-in our Masonic homes-perhaps the purest reflection
of the Divine laws of love and brotherhood. Here indeed is the rare
flower of faith renewed in the hearts and minds of those unable, because
of youth or old-age, to protect and care for themselves. And the great
truth is again revealed to all whose giving has made possible these acts
of brotherhood-that unto him who gives of his substance to relieve the
want of others. there returns a joy and satisfaction a thousand-fold
greater than the gi ft.
We have seen-and perhaps more especially so in the confidences
which are opened to us in our capacity as minister and Grand Chaplain
-faith in God's goodness and power and forgiveness as it has renewed
the courage of the sick and the distressed, as it has strengthened the
dying. and as it has flowed secretly through the handclasp of one brother
reaching out to another in times of stress and adversity.
These are but samples of the product of faith. Others surround us,
if we will but look for them.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

19

For the priceless truth of the power of God which each one of us
can bring into our personal lives by faith , and action upon that faith,
I commend to your constan t reading "that Holy Book which adorns our
sacred altar." never as a mere ornament, but as "the great light in
Masonry"-ever ready to "guide us by its lessons of wisdom and truth."
Therein are to be found the true secrets of a Master Mason, tha t
knowledge which sets him apart and which permits him, however dark
and fearsome the way, to look up and see "the star-dust, that is whirled
aloft and flies from the invisible chariot wheels of God."

20

21

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

GRAND MASTER'S MESSAGE

in a position which would permit them to retire therefrom, and who,
knowing the demands which would be made upon them for their time
have, upon inquiry, necessarily refused the distinction of election to a
line office. I do not propose that action be taken at this time to afford
immediate relief. but I do suggest that the appropriate committees of the
Grand Lodge. particularly the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and Jurisprudence, give consideration to the problem.
My brethren. I do not complain. I have thoroughly enjoyed the year.
The compensation in satisfaction has been immeasurable. but I honestly
extend my sympathy to successive Grand Masters. knowing that they
will be called upon to make sacrifices beyond any I have been required to
make. I am retired from the bench and have had my full time to devote
to the activities and the voluminous correspondence, but the full time
of other Grand Masters may not be available.
It has been suggested to me that some confusion has arisen by reason
of misunderstanding of the respective fields of activity of the Grand
Lodge Committee on Research and of the several Research Lodges.
I believe that the designation of the Grand Lodge Committee on
Research as The Committee on Masonic Education would more accurately describe the field of activities of that Committee, and would
avoid the misunderstanding to which I have referred. I therefore recommend such change.

JoE L. SHELL, Grand Master

My Brethren of California and Hawaii:
The term of office of the presently acting elective and appointive
officers of your Grand Lodge is about to expire. In accordance with
custom I shall, without too much detail. make this report to you for your
consideration and, where appropriate, your action.
It has been my privilege to be received formally by districts or Lodges
on 58 occasions. The hospitality and fraternal affection extended everywhere has been outstanding. No one serving as Grand Master could be
mistaken in his belief that our brethren love this fraternity and are proud
of its accomplishments, and that this affection and pride are reflected in
the attachment to. and affection for, those who represent the Grand
Lodge.
In addition to the formal receptions tendered to the Grand Master.
your Grand Lodge officers have on 28 occasions opened the Grand
Lodge in Special Communication for the purpose of Constitution of five
new Lodges, the Dedication of twelve new Masonic Temples, the laying
of flve cornerstones for new public school buildings or new civic buildings, and for one most unusual cornerstone ceremony, that of laying
the cornerstone for a new Church building. The latter ceremony, at the
request of the authorities of the California Heights Methodist Church
in Long Beach, was a most gratifying one by reason of the display of
cordial feeling between our brethren and those of the Church.
In addition to the ceremonies for which Special Communications of
the Grand Lodge were called, we have this year instituted six new
Lodges, some of which, no doubt, will be granted Charters at this Annual Communication, and we have dedicated seven new public school
buildings at the request of school authorities.
We have also been graciously received on sixty-two other occasions.
A detailed report of the activities mentioned is attached hereto as appendant exhibits.
The year has been a busy one. I have no doubt that as time passes by,
the number of appearances by the Grand Master will necessarily increase, as has been true in the past years.
In this respect, I humbly express to the Grand Lodge the opinion
that the affairs of Masonry in this Grand Jurisdiction have grown in
volume and importance to the point where we should begin to think
of relieving our Grand Master of much of the detail attendant upon the
office. I think I may safely say that the Fraternity has, in recent years,
been deprived of the service of several of our outstanding brethren who
are very active in their respective occupations or professions and so not

VtSITATION TO STATE OF HAWAII

It is difficult to express my warm appreciation for the hospitality
displayed to us by our brethren and their ladies while we made the
annual visitation to the beautiful Hawaiian Islands, which, as our newest
State, yet remains a part of the territorial jurisdiction of this Grand
Lodge. In passing I would also like to express our gratitude to our
fine and devoted Brother. Captain Verne Johnson, of the steamship
Matsonia, which conveyed us to Hawaii and returned us therefrom.
Captain Johnson showed us every courtesy possible.
Our Lodges in the State of Hawaii are proud of their association
with this Grand Lodge. They apparently are desirous of continuing that
relationship. This Grand Lodge is, in fact, if not in name, the Most
Worshipful Grand Lodge of the States of California and of Hawaii.
At my instance, our former Grand Lecturer, Worshipful Brother
Elbert W. Davis, who is familiar with the masonry of the Hawaiian
Islands, has presented a Resolution to formally modify the name of this
Grand Lodge by adding thereto the words "AND HAW AIL" Since
the former Tertitory has attained status as a State, there would seem
to be reason for considering such modification.
I fully realize that before such change should be made, a careful

23

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

study should be made of the consequences thereof and I therefore recommend to the incoming Grand Master that he appoint a Special
Committee to study the propriety and feasibility of such change and
report to this Grand Lodge at the next Annual Communication.

some of the brethren in the San Jose area I called into consultation the
leaders of the group which was asking for relief from the Edict, together
with our Deputy Grand Master, our Grand Wardens, Past Grand
Masters Anderson and Phil N. Myers, and heard the statements of
the applicants. I then required assurances in writing that all concerned
would fully comply with our masonic law and regulations, as well as
admissions in writing that the abuses referred to in Past Grand Master
Anderson's edict had been indulged.

22

RESIGNATION OF GRAND LECTURER
During the month of December. 1959, I reluctantly accepted the resignation of the Very Worshipful Elbert W. Davis. who has faithfully
and devotedly given his time and talent to this Grand Lodge as Grand
Lecturer for many years.
The reasons for his submission of his resignation did not seem to me
to be compelling, but to him they seemed so. He is well aware of my
warm regard for him. I feel that this Grand Lodge is deeply indebted
to him for his service to it, and will show its appreciation to him by the
warmth of its expression of gratitude.
It then became my duty to appoint to the office of Grand Lecturer.
In doing so I was fully aware of the importance of the appointment. I
gave full consideration to the requirements of the office and appointed
to succeed Brother Davis an outstanding member of the Ritual Committee, Worshipful Brother Donald G. Campbell, who has rendered great
service as Assistant Grand Lecturer, of the 5th Division. The now, Very
Worshipful Donald G. Campbell whose appointment became effective
on January 1, 1960. has shown, in his nine months of service as such
Grand Lecturer that his appointment was fully justified. I am completely
satisfied with his service as such.
His appointment resulted in a vacancy in the office of Assistant
Grand Lecturer in the 5th Division, and I therefore appointed Worshipful Brother Ralph W. Collins, who had been serving as Inspector of
the 5 l 5th Masonic District for some years, and in whom I have great
confidence.

REVOCATION OF EDICT OF MARCH 25TH, 1957
On March 25th, 1957, the Grand Master, M.W.L. Harold Anderson, issued an Edict enjoining masons in California from becoming. or
remaining, members of a certain Shrine Club of San Jose, "until this
order shall be modified, revoked or rescinded by the Grand Master or
by the Grand Lodge of California ... "
This Edict was approved by the Grand Lodge at its 1957 Annual
Communication.
Upon representations to me that the conduct of the brethren involved had been corrected and the abuses terminated, at the request of

After the receipt of the written statements required by me. and with
the approval of Past Grand Master Anderson. and of the Deputy Grand
Master and the Grand Wardens, by edict on February 10th, 1960. I
undertook to rescind the injunction pronounced by Past Grand Master
Anderson.
My authority to so rescind the Edict aforesaid has been questioned
by the Chairman of the Committee on Jurisprudence, and I believe that
this Grand Lodge should determine the matter. If. in his Edict of March
25th, 1957, the then Grand Master had not used the language: "until
this order shall be modified, revoked or rescinded by the Grand Master,
or by the Grand Lodge of California" I certainly would not have presumed to terminate it. But the Grand Lodge, with the approval of the
Committee on Jurisprudence, adopted it with that very language in the
Resolution presented by the Committee on Jurisprudence, and in my
opinion, by retaining that language, the Grand Lodge authorized the
Grand Master to modify, revoke or rescind the Edict. I feel therefore
that the Grand Lodge would be wise to adopt one of two courses of
action: I. Approve my Edict of February I 0th, 1960, or 2. Revoke and
rescind the Edict of March 25th. 1957.

DECISIONS
During the course of the year many problems have been presented
to me which required interpretations of our Masonic law. I list herein
those of my decisions which may be of interest or assistance to my
brethren.
(Decisions 5, 6, I 0, 11, 13. and 20 were withdrawn by the Grand
Master.)
1. May a Lodge pay fees to brethren of the Lodge or to brethren of
another Lodge as compensation for their services as Acting Master
or Acting Chaplain in conducting a masonic funeral service for a
deceased mason?
My answer was no. I noted an exception that if the Acting Chaplain be an ordained minister, and if he be requested to officiate as
such minister, it would be proper to pay him a reasonable sum for
his services.

24

25

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

2. May the Master of a Lodge appoint to the office of Chaplain of
the Lodge, a Mason who is not a member of the Lodge?
My answer was no. The Chaplain must be a member of the Lodge
which he serves as Chaplain.

14. Mus t the auditing committee appointed by the M aster, a t each
stated meeting, audit the bills presented for payment, or may the
bills be paid with the consent of the Lodge, without audit by such
committee?

3. May a Lodge, in lieu of providing flowers for an ill brother , or for
the funeral services for a deceased brother. make a contribution of
an amount equal to the cost of such flowers to a Shrine Hospital?
My answer was no.

I ruled that the bills must be examined and reported on by the
auditing committee before they could be authorized paid. The
Lodge has authority to order that the bills be paid or not paid,
contrary to the recommendation of the said committee, but must
have the report of the committee before acting upon the bills.

4. Is a Board of Trustees, elected by a Lodge under the authority of
Section 405, California Masonic Code, authorized tG dispose of
Lodge funds without reference to or control by the Lodge?
My answer was no. Such a Board of Trustees must. in its administration of Lodge funds or property remain completely under the
control of the Lodge.
7. I was asked if it would be in contravention of Masonic law for
members of the Jobs Daughters to sell tickets to a public event,
when each purchaser of a ticket at the price of $1.00 would become
entitled to a chance to win merchandise of val ue from $50.00 to
$300.00, as a result of a drawing by chance.
I ruled that such a project was a lottery and would be in violation
not only of our masonic law but also of the California Penal Code
and could not therefore be countenanced by the Grand Lodge.

8. Is an applicant for the degree of masonry disqualified because of
a prior conviction of a felony, even though after serving a prison
term for such felony he had received an unconditional pardon from
the Governor of Cali fornia?
My answer was that he is disqualified.
9. I was asked i.f a man who had been raised to the sublime degree
of M aster Mason in a California lodge by courtesy request from
the Grand Lodge of Germany, which Grand Lodge was a t that
time in fraterna l relationship with our Grand Lodge, could be
received by that California lodge by a ffiliation, his petition for
affiliation having been presented to the lodge subsequent to the
termination of our recognition of the Grand Lodge of Germany.
My answer was that the Lodge could not elect him and that until
fraternal relations with the United Grand Lodge of Germany be
restored, his only course to obtain membership in a California
Lodge would be to sever his relation with the lodge in Germany and
petition the California Lodge for the degrees.
12. May printed or written invitations be sent to the brethren to attend the conferring of a degree upon a named candidate?
My answer was no. The candidate's name must not appear on any
such notice.

15. Is it contrary to masonic law or regulations to manufacture and
sell ash trays bearing the square and compass or other masonic
emblems?
I held that such conduct would be in contravention of our law and
that even though such merchandise be given away it would be in
the utmost bad taste.
16. May a Lodge collect funds from its members and hold such funds
in trust for scholarship grants?
My answer was no. Lodges may establish trust funds only for
purposes which have direct connection with the business and welfare of the particular Lodge, and a trust fund fo r scholarship
grants does not operate for such purpose. Such a course would,
no doubt, result in many conflicting variations in handling such
trust funds among the many Lodges throughout the Jurisdiction
and result in grave con fusion and embarrassment. A brother desiring to make contributions for scholarship awards may satisfy
that desire by making them to the Tru stees of the Masonic H omes
who are already in a position to sequester and administer such
contributions for such a purpose.
17. I was asked if our Grand Lodge could properly enter into a project
to establish a home for the a ged, in which aged masons, their
wives and widows might be cared for upon payment by them of
amounts of money sufficient, or more than sufficient to care fo r
them during their lives.
My answer was that while such projects have been sponsored by
several other organizations, possibly with considerable success
and profit to the sponsors. such projects are probably not charitable ones, at least not in the sense of our understanding of the
meaning of the words "masonic charity." The Grand Lodge of
California operates the Masonic Homes of California as Masonic
Charities , and the Grand Lodge should not become financially
involved in such a project as that suggested by the brethren who
propounded the question.

26

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

18. Whe n the Mast er and both Ward ens of a Lodg
e find it impossible
for any of them to be prese nt at an imminent State
d Meet ing of
the Lodge. what cours e can be taken in order that
the neces sary
business of the Lodg e may be disposed of?
I directed the Inspe ctor of the District to be prese
nt on the date
of the State d Meet ing. that he preside there at, that
the only business conducted shoul d be the paym ent of the curre
nt bills of the
Lodge. and that all other business of the Lodg e
be postp oned to
the next State d Meet ing.
19. For reaso ns which seemed to me to be just
cause therefor, and
believing that the welfa re of the Lodge woul d be
served by such
action, on Augu st 24th, 1960, I order ed the remo
val from office of
the Mast er of Koolau Lodge, Unde r Dispe nsatio
n, and appo inted
anoth er qualified broth er as Mast er thereof. The
Gran d Lodge
shoul d appro ve or disap prove of this order .
EDICT

POLIT ICAL ACTM TY

To all Masons within the Jurisdiction of the Grand
Lodge of California:
It is with grave appre hensi on that I have received
repor ts from several sources that certa in of our breth ren have organ
ized, or are contemplating organizing, political group s in the name
of Maso nry for the
purpo se of assisting one or the other of the politi
cal partie s during the
cours e of the prese nt presidential campaign. Such
cond uct is clearly in
violation of our Masonic law and regulations.
I there fore hereb y enjoin every Maso n withi n our
none shall use the word "Mas on," "Mas ons," "Mas Jurisdiction that
word or word s indicating a relationship to Maso onic" or any other
nry,
name of any organization having any partis an politi as a part of the
cal purpose what soeve r.
Ever y individual Maso n should, as a good citizen,
hone stly arrive at
an opinion after considering all aspects of partis an
political matters, and,
as a good citizen, shoul d make that opinion know n
to others; but he must
not in any way repre sent that opinion to be the opini
on of his Lodge or of
his Frate rnity . To do so woul d subject him to the
disciplinary processes
of our Gran d Lodge. Any violation hereo f shoul d
be prom ptly repor ted
to the Gran d Mast er.
This injunction shall be read at each State d Meet
ing of each of our
const ituen t Lodges held after its receipt, and inclu
ding the November,
1960 State d Meeting.
JoE L. SHEL L

Attes t:
LLOY D E. WILS ON

Grand Secretary

Grand Master

27

And now, my i>rethren. I fear that I wear y you.
Whe n I bega n to
compile this repor t I determined that it woul d be brief.
It is not. I cann ot
refra in however, from expressing my lasting gratit
ude to every one of
the Gran d Lodge Officers, elective and appointive,
to all Committeemen,
the Ritual Committee, to the Inspectors and office
rs of the Lodg es for
their help to me, and for their devotion to Maso nry.
Our fine masonic projects, the Maso nic Homes, the
Memorial Temple, our Public Schools project, the Calif ornia
Freem ason and our
Constitutional Obse rvanc e, have all been vigor
ously suppo rted and
great progress made by reaso n of your devotion.
I not only thank you
all most warmly, but I offer to you my heart iest cong
ratulations.
Thro ugho ut the year, wher eever I have gone I have
dwel t upon a
simple basic theme. Let every mason live his maso
nry at all times and
towa rds all persons, so that the public reput ation
of our craft will be
elevated to that plane wher e it so richly deserves to
be:
You walk the path the great have trod,
The great in heart, the great in mind,
Who looked throu gh Maso nry to God,
And looke d throu gh God to all Mank ind.
Foun d more than word, or sign or grip,
Foun d God' s and Man' s relationship.
And so we say, a sacre d trust
Is yours to share , is yours to keep.
You hear the voice of men of dust,
You hear the step of men asleep.
And throu gh the endless ages too,
Your own will echo after you.

fin-;;'_~
Gran d Mast er
The message was received with a stand ing ovation
and the Depu ty
Gran d Mast er refer red it to the Committee on Distr
ibution.

28

29

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ExHIBIT "A"

July 23-Cornerstone Ceremony, Masonic Temple, Lemon Grove Lodge
No. 736, Lemon Grove-Grand Master.
July 30-Dedication, New Medical Facility Building, Masonic Home
for Aged, Union City-Grand Master.
August 6-Comerstone Ceremony, Civic Center Building, Escondido
-Grand Master.
August 13-Dedication, Masonic Temple, Liberal Arts Lodge No. 677,
Los Angeles-Grand Master.
August 27-Dedication, Masonic Temple, Redwood Empire Lodge No.
683, Garberville-Grand Master.
September I-Dedication, Masonic Temple, Lamanda Park Lodge No.
627, Pasadena-Grand Master.
September 9-Dedication, Masonic Temple, Consuleo Lodge No. 325,
Escondido-Grand Master.
September IO-Cornerstone Ceremony, Masonic Temple, San Gorgonio Lodge No. 688, Banning-Grand Master.
September I 7-Comerstone Ceremony, Masonic Temple, Las Palmas
Lodge No. 366, Fresno-Grand Master.

SPECIAL COMMUNICATIONS OF GRAND LoDGE

1959
October 17-Constitution, Mount Wilson Lodge No. 794, PasadenaGrand Master.
October 23-Constitution, Golden Valley Lodge No. 796, San Bernardino-Grand Master.
October 24-Cornerstone Ceremony, Colton High School, ColtonGrand Master.
October 31-Constitution, Millbrae Lodge No. 792, South San Francisco-Grand Master.
November 7-Dedication Masonic Temple, El Rancho Lodge No. 759,
Pico Rivera-Grand Master.
November 14-Dedication Masonic Temple, San Pedro Lodge No. 332,
San Pedro-Grand Master.
November 21-Constitution, American River Lodge No. 795, Sacramento-Grand Master.
November 28-Constitution, Maya Lodge No. 793, Los AngelesGrand Master.
December 12-Comerstone Ceremony, Masonic Temple, Salinas Lodge
No. 204, Salinas--Grand Master.

ExHIB1T"B"
SPECIAL CEREMONIES

1959
1960
January 23-Comerstone Ceremony, Masonic Temple, Belvedere Lodge
No. 539, Monterey Park-Grand Master.
March 5--Dedication, Masonic Temple, Kaweah Lodge No. 665,
Woodlake-Grand Master.
April I-Dedication, Masonic Temple, Reseda Lodge No. 666, Reseda
-Grand Master.
April 2-Comerstone Ceremony, California Heights Methodist Church,
Long Beach-Grand Master.
April 30-Dedication, Masonic Temple, Salinas Lodge No. 204, Salinas
-Grand Master.
June 11-Comerstone Ceremony, San Bernardino County Building,
Yucaipa-Grand Master.
June 13-Dedication, Masonic Temple, York Lodge No. 423, Walnut
Park-Grand Master.
July 9-Cornerstone Ceremony, Hemet Junior High School, HemetGrand Master.
July 9--Cornerstone Ceremony, Hemet Civic Building, Hemet-Grand
Master.
July 16-Dedication, Masonic Temple, Ionic Lodge No. 522, Los Angeles-Grand Master.

October 17-Dedication, Charles Albert Adams School. RichmondDeputy Grand Master.
October 24-Dedication, Petaluma High School and Cook Junior High
School, Petaluma-Deputy Grand Master.
October 3I-Groundbreaking, New Masonic Temple, San Gorgonio
Lodge No. 688, Banning-Past Grand Master Phil N. Myers.
1960
January 20-Dedication, Pliny Fisk Haskell School. Artesia-Grand
Master.
April 14-Dedication, Public School Monument and Plaque. BurbankGrand Master.
April 28-Dedication, Public School, Travis Air Force Base-Junior
Grand Warden.
June I-Laying Memorial Wreath, U. S. S. Arizona, Pearl HarborGrand Master.
June 4-Dedication, Banning Junior High School. Banning-Senior
Grand Warden.
June 12-Annual Flag Day Breakfast and Flag Ceremony, San Diego,
-Junior Grand Warden.

30

3I

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT"C"

December I 2-Reception, Masonic Club, University of California,
Berkeley, Grand Lodge represented by Junior Grand Warden.
December I 6-lnstallation officers Southwest Lodge No. 283 by Grand
Master.
December I 9-lnvestiture K.C.C.H. and 33rd Deg., Scottish Rite, San
Diego.
December I 9--lnstallation officers, La Mesa Lodge No. 407, by Grand
Master.
December 2I-Visitation to Masonic Home for Children, Covina.
December 26-lnstallation officers, San Diego Lodge No. 35, by Grand
Master.

NEW loDGES INSTITUTED

I959
November 20--Central California Research Lodge, U. D. Fresno-Grand Master.
I960
March I 4-,Ashland Lodge, U. D., San Lorenzo-Grand Master.
April I I-Bay Claire Vista Lodge, U. D.-Grand Master.
May I 2-Rio Hondo Lodge, U. D., Rio Hondo-Senior Grand Warden.
May 28-Koolau Lodge, U.D .. Oahu, Honolulu-Grand Master.
June I I-Yucca Valley Lodge, U. D., Yucca Valley---Grand Master.
EXHIBIT "D"
RECEPTIONS AND MISCELLANEOUS

I959
October 2-Meeting, Board of Trustees, California Scottish Rite Foundation, San Francisco.
October 4-Annual Breakfast, San Francisco Masters and Wardens
Association.
October 9-Reception, San Diego Lodge No. 35, San Diego.
October I 0-Reception, Lodges within City of San DiegQ.
October I3-Meet:ing, San Diego Masonic Board of Relief and Employment Bureau.
October I 5-Reception, Hollywood Lodge No. 355, Hollywood.
October I6-Annual Convention, Hi-I2 Clubs, San Diego.
October 18-Annual Breakfast, Council Aviation Square Clubs, Culver
City.
October I 9--Annual Communication, Grand Chapter, Order of Eastern Star, Long Beach.
October 22-Receptfon, District No. 602, San Bernardino.
November I-Annual Breakfast, District No. 307 and 308, Santa Rosa.
November 12-Grand 'Guardian Council, Order of Jobs Daughters,
Sacramento, Grand Lodge represented by Junior Grand Warden.
November 13-lnstitution two new Chapters, Order of DeMolay, San
Diego.
November I 6-Reception, Peace Officers Shrine Club, Biltmore Bowl,
Los Angeles.
December 3-Reception, East San Diego Lodge No. 56I, San Diego.
December 5-San Gabriel Chapter, Red Cross of Constantine, Los
Angeles.

1960
January 9--lnstallation officers, San Diego Chapter No. 61, R.A.M.
January I 4-Reception, Districts No. 3I 9, 320, Richmond.
January I9--Reception for Senior Grand Warden, Unity Lodge No.
368, Glendale.
January 27-Reception, Solar Aircraft Masonic Club, San Diego.
January 30--Reception and Visitation, Masonic Home for Aged, Union
City.
January 3()....-...Meeting Trustees Masonic Homes, Union City.
February 6-Reception, Districts No. 3IO, 3I6, Napa.
February 8-Reception for Grand Chaplain, La Jolla Lodge No. 5I8,
La Jolla.
February I3-Meeting, Past Grand Masters, Los Angeles.
February 16-Reception, Districts No. 638, 639, 640, 642, 644, San
Diego.
February I 7-Reception, District No. 634, Newport Beach.
February 27-Reception, Masonic Club, University of California at
Los Angeles.
February 28-Masonic Church Service, Westwood Hills Christian
Church, Los Angeles.
March 8-Reception, Districts No. 5I 4, 5I 6 and 564, Temple City.
March I I-Reception, Masonic Officers Association, Santa Clara Valley, San Jose.
March I2-Reception, Aahmes Temple, A.A.O.N.M.S., Oakland.
March I 3-Annual Breakfast, East Bay Masters and Wardens Association, Oakland.
March I 5-Legislative Dinner, Sacramento.
March I 6-Reception, Districts No. 520, 522, 530, 542, 556, 558, 570.
Los Angeles.
March I 7-Reception, Districts No. 6I 4 and 628, Fullerton.
March I'8, I9--lnspectors Spring Conference, 6th Division, La Jolla.
March 2I-Reception, Masonic Press Club of Los Angeles.
March 22-Reception, District No. 548, Santa Monica.

33

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

March 23---.Reception, District No. 629, Yorba Linda.
March 26---Reception, Al Malaikah Temple, A.A.O.N.M.S .• Los Angeles.
.
March 27-Annual Breakfast, Los Angeles Board of Relief, Palladium,
Los Angeles.
March 28-Reception, District No. 607, Palm Springs.
April 2-Reception, Southern California Past Masters Association, Los
Angeles.
April 3-Annual Breakfast, Long Beach Board of Relief. Long Beach.
April 8-Reception-District No. 314, Mill Valley.
April 9-Dinner, Sacramento Board of Relief.
April 10-A:nnual Breakfast, Sacramento Board of Relief, Sacramento.
April 12-Reception, Districts No. 536 and 551, Los Angeles.
April 13-Reception, Districts No. 606, 608, 610 and 618, El Monte.
April 15-Reception for Senior Grand Deac~n, El Cajon Lodge No.
576 and Lakeside Lodge No. 760, El CaJon.
April 16---Reception, District No. 646, El Centro.
April 18-Reception (Sojourners Night). Centennial Lodge No. 729,
Compton.
April 17, 18, 19, 20, 21-Annual Sessions, Grand York Rite Bodies.
San Diego.
April 22, 23, 24-lnspectors Spring Conference, 5th Division, Ventura.
April 24-Public Schools Week Service, First Congregational Church.
Pasadena.
April 25--Conference, Masonic Homes Executives Association, Los
Angeles.
.
May 6---Presentation Fifty Year Buttons to Rupert W. Whitc?mb and
Frank Robert Belville in San Diego Lodge No. 35, San Diego.
May 8 to 13-Enroute to Honolulu.
May 13-Visitation by Senior Grand Deacon, representing Grand
Lodge to Grand Lodge Baja California, Tijuana, Mexico.
May 14-Reception, Hawaiian Lodge No. 21, Honolulu.
May 16---Enroute to Kauai.
May 17-Reception, Kauai Lodge No. 589.
May 18-Enroute to Hilo, Hawaii.
May 19--'Reception, Kilauea Lodge No. 330, Hilo, Hawaii.
May 20-Enroute to Kona.
May 22-Enroute to Maui.
May 23-Reception, Maui Lodge No. 472.
May 24, 25 and 26---At Hana, Maui.
May 27-Reception,Scottish Rite Bodies, Honolulu.
May 29-Reception, York Rite Bodies, Honolulu.
May 30-Host Lodge, Le Progres De L'Oceanie Lodge No. 371,
Honolulu.
May 31-Host Lodge, Honolulu Lodge No. 409. Honolulu.

June 2-Host Lodge, Waikiki Lodge No. 774, Honolulu.
June 3-Reception, District No. 384, Honolulu.
June 4 to 9-Enroute, Honolulu to Los Angeles.
June 16---Reception, Districts No. 119 and 120, Truckee.
June 17-lnspectors Spring Conference, Divisions I and II, Lake Tahoe.
June 18-State Convention, Order of DeMolay, Oakland, Grand Lodge
represented by Junior Grand Warden.
June 20, 21, 22, 23-Visitation to Grand Lodge of Washington,
Yakima, Washington.
June 23-Reception to Ed Lohmeyer, California Lodge No. 1, Grand
Master represented by Deputy Grand Master and Junior Grand
Warden.
June 24~Grand Bethel. Order Jobs Daughters, Oakland, Grand Lodge
represented by Junior Grand Warden.
June 26---Annual St. John's Day Breakfast, Anchor Lodge No. 273,
Compton.
June 27-Luncheon with Grand Master of Free China, San Francisco.
June 28-Luncheon, Public Relations Representatives. At San Francisco.
June 28-Reception, Districts No. 346 and 348, Berkeley.
June 28-Annual Convention, Hi-12 Clubs, Carmel. Grand Lodge represented by Deputy Grand Master.
June 29-Reception, District No. 110, Redding.
June 30-Reception, Districts No. 114, 116, 117, 206, Chico.
July I-Reception, Districts No. 109 and 112, Susanville.
July 2-Reception, District No. 118, Greenville.
July 8-Reception, District No. 637, Escondido.
July 15--Reception, District No. 562, Torrance.
July 29-Meeting, Board of Trustees, Masonic Homes, San Francisco.
August 9-Reception, District No. 388, Santa Cruz.
August 12-Reception, Districts No. 5H and 560, Los Angeles.
August 16---lnaugural Dinner Meeting, Orange County Board of Relief, Fullerton.
August 17---.Annual Convention, International Order Jobs Daughters,
Long Beach.
August 22-Reception, District No. 519, Compton.
August 23-Reception, District No. 550, Hawthorne.
August 26---Reception, Districts No. 318, 360 and 361, Martinez.
August 27-Reception for Worthy Grand Matron, Order of Eastern
Star, Grand Lodge represented by Grand Pursuivant.
September 2-Reception, District No. 612, Fontana.
September 3--Reception, District No. 510, Santa Paula.
September 7-Reception, District No. 642, Presentation 50 year button,
Silver Gate Lodge No. 296, San Diego.
September 8-Reception, San O.iego Council, R.&S.M., San Diego.

32

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

September 12-Reception, Harmony Commandery, K.T., San Diego.
September 18-Annual Breakfast, Masters and Wardens Association
of the 1l8th Masonic District, Fresno.
September 21 to October 1-Annual Communication. Grand Lodge of
California.

EXHIBIT "G"
GRAND REPRESENTATIVES

31

ExHIBrr"E"
ANNIVERSARIES DURING 1959-1960
1959
October 21-Seventy-Fifth Anniversary, Selma Lodge No. 277, Selma
-Assistant Grand Lecturer Raymond G. Taylor.
November 9-Centennial. Curtis Lodge No. 110, Cloverdale-Deput y
Grand Master and Junior Grand Warden.
1960
January 12-Centennial, Franklin Lodge No. 113, Courtland-Grand
Master.
May 6-Centennial, Colusa Lodge No. 210, Colusa-Deputy Grand
Master and Junior Grand Warden.
May 2i-Fiftieth Anniversary, Llndsay Lodge No. 116. UndsayDeputy Grand Master.
May 26-Fiftieth Anniversary, Elysian Lodge No. 118, Los AngelesSenior Grand Warden.
June 29-- Fiftieth Anniversary, Silver Trowel Lodge No. 115, North
Hollywood-Senio r Grand Warden.
Eel River Lodge No. 117, Fortuna-Deputy Grand
6-Centennial,
July
Master and Junior Grand Warden.
ExHIBIT"F"
VISITATIONS BY GRAND OFFICERS TO OTHER GRAND JURISDICTIONS
1960
Conference, Washington, D. C.Masters
February 21-21-Grand
-Grand Master, Deputy Grand Master and Grand Secretary.
April 25, 26-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of ArizonaDeputy Grand Master.
9,
June 10--Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Nevada. RenoSenior Grand Warden.
June 15, 16, 17-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Oregon,
Portland-Junior Grand Warden.
June 20-23-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Washington,
Yakima, Washington-Gran d Master.

35

Representing Other Jurisdictions in California:
Ne:w Jersey.·-·········-·······························Rohert B. Watts
New Y ork................................................ Glenn C. Holmes
Columbia (Gran Logia Occidental) ...... Gilbert A. Benoit
Representing California in Other Jurisdictions:
Columbia (Gran Logia Occidental) .... Henry Benveniste
Dominican Republic................ Milciades D. Herrera-Baez
Saskatche:wan............................................Roger H. Strum
ExHIBIT "H"
SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS APPROVED
FoR FISCAL YEAR ENDED JuNE30, 1960
Social Security & Unemployment Taxes....................... _........... $ 250.00
Grand Lodge Officers Travel Expense...................................... 2000.00
600.00
Grand Master's Travel Expense................................................
500.00
Ritual Committee.·-·····································································
Board of Control.......................................................................... 300.00

Total....................................._.............................. _........... $3650.00

36

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
EXHIB IT

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

"J"

37

PROCL AMATI ON
FORTY -FIRST ANNU AL PUBLI C SCHOO LS WEEK

PROCL AMATI ON
MASO NIC HOME S ENDOW MENT MONT H

If our Gover nment by the people and for the people is to contin
ue,
the people must be educa ted well enoug h to intelli gently govern
throug h
their elected repres entativ es.
With Wash ington , Adam s, Jefferson, Madis on and Lincoln,
Mason s
believe free, public educa tion to be the most impor tant activit
y in which
a free people can be engag ed. It is only by free public educat
ion that
we are prepar ed to govern ourselves and mainta in our freedo
m.
Ignora nce is the weapo n which tyrant s and demag ogues
use to
destro y liberty. As an enligh tened and united people our
liberties will
be safe.
Equal ity unites. Inequa lity divides. In our public school,
youth of
every race and creed are broug ht togeth er withou t distinction
as to their
beliefs. All, regard less of material wealth , are offered the
same knowl edge and the same opport unities , witho ut any effort to alter
their religious beliefs.
I hereby proclaim that the last week in April. 1960, being April
25th
to April 30th, inclusive, is design ated as Public Schools Week
.
I hereby urge upon all Mason s within the jurisdiction of
the Most
Worsh ipful Grand Lodge of the State of Califo rnia, that
each shall,
to the extent of his ability, suppo rt and partic ipate in the public
schools
progra m by visitations to the public schools and becoming
familiar with
the work of the public schools. I urge the Maste rs of the severa
l Lodges
within our jurisdiction to appoin t and activa te committees
whose objectives shall be to enligh ten every member of such Lodge
s as to his
duty to fully suppo rt our public schools.
This proclamation is to be read at the stated meetings of each
Lodge
in the month of March and April, 1960.
Dated : Febru ary 1, 1960.

To all Masonic Brethren within the /urisdiction of the Most Worsh
ipful
Grand Lodge. Free and Accep ted Masons of the State of Califo
rnia:
I do hereby proclaim and set aside the month of May,
1960, as
Mason ic Home s Endow ment Month , and I direct that
during that
month the oppor tunity be offered to every Mason within
this jurisdiction to make contri bution to the perma nent Endow ment Fund
for our
Mason ic Homes.
My Brethren, few of us can attain undyin g fame in histor y
as great
statesmen, great military leaders, or great scientists, but
every one of
us can really achieve immortality, in some small degree, in
the hearts of
those we serve and those who follow them.
Like the ladder which Jacob. in his vision, saw reachi ng from
earth
to heaven, there is now before each of us a ladder of service
to our aged
guests and to our childr en. Let each of us ascend the first three
steps of
that ladder of service. Let us take the step of faith in the Great
Archit ect
of the Universe, in our high undert aking of ours, and so
arrive at the
third step: Charit y, which is really affection for our fellow
men. Inspired thereby, let us each give to the full extent of our
individual
ability.
Let us, this year, demon strate our love for our aged and for
our children. Let us pour out our means to bring the bright est
of hope and
promise to those who look to us for peace and security.
This proclamation is to be read at the stated meetings of each
Lodge
in the month of April and May, 1%0.
Dated : Febru ary 15, 1960.

Jog L. SHELL

Attest :

Grand Master

LLOYD E. WILSO N

Grand Secretary

JoEL. SHELL

Attest :
LLOYD E. WILSO N

Grand Secretary

Grand Maste r

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

38

RESOLUTIONS

PROCLAMATION
CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE

To all Masonic Brethren within the Jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge
of California:
To commemorate the one hundred seventy-third anniversary of the
signing of the Constitution of the United States of America, that
momentous event on September 17th, 1787, I do hereby designate the
month of September, 1960 as Constitution Observance Month.
I direct that each Lodge in this Grand Jurisdiction shall, during the
month of September or October, 1960, preferably during September.
either independently or in conjunction with other Lodges set apart at
least one day to memQrialize this occasion.
I direct that when more than one Lodge shall join in the same program for the purpose stated. none of said Lodges shall hold a meeting
or schedule any event for the Lodge on the day appointed for this
observance.
I suggest that it is desirable that the program or programs planned
shall be community events, open to the public, and held in such suitable
building. park or place available and appropriate for such observance,
and which may be readily accessible to the public.
Emphasis should be given to the history, origin and interpretation
of the provisions, as well as the language of the Constitution, and the
intent of lits framers.
This great document which outlines the system for the preservation
of human liberty and human rights. the written guarantee of American
free institutions and American liberties is the greatest political document of all time.
Edmund Burke. the great English champion of liberty is credited
with the statement:
"ALL THAT IS NECESSARY FOR THE TRIUMPH OF
EVIL IS FOR ENOUGH GOOD MEN TO DO NOTHING."
My brethren, let us each be vigilent.
Dated: June l, 1960.
Attest:
LLOYD E. WILSON
Grand Secretary

39

JoEL. SHELL
Grand Master

The Grand Secretary presented the following resolutions which were
referred by the Grand Master to the committees as noted:

MASTER MASONS' ATTENDANCE
(A-2)

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. under the present provisions of Section 103 of California Masonic Code, Master Masons are prohibited from attending the
opening of Grand Lodge at the Annual Communication; and
WHEREAS, our Temple facilities at the present time now make it
possible to have a larger group in attendance: and
WHEREAS. Grand Lodge consists of representatives of all the
Master Masons in this jurisdiction,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: That Section 103 of
California Masonic Code be amended to read as follows:
"Section 103. Who may be present at opening and election. None but
members of the Grand Lodge, the Grand Officers, Past Grand Officers
and Representatives of other Grand Lodges, shall be present during an
election at the Annual Communication. Master Masons may be present
at all other times during the Annual Communication and at all Special
Communications."
Respectfully submitted,
ALFRED F. BRESLAUER, Past Master, Lodge No. 344
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

RESEARCH REPRESENTATION
(A-3)

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
RESOLVED the Section 385 - 8th, depriving the Research Lodges
of representation in Grand Lodge, be repealed.
Respectfully submitted,
A. R. MOBERG, JR., Past Master, Lodge No. 504
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

ENDOWMENT BOARD
(A-4)

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
WHEREAS the number of members of the Masonic Homes Endow-

40

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ment Board has not been increased since the Board was established in
1933,and
WHEREAS the number of Lodges and number of members of the
Lodges have greatly increased since 1933, thus increasing the volume
of work for the Board, and
WHEREAS it is impractical, inefficient and burdensome for Board
Members to serve the large number of Lodges necessarily assigned to
them, and
WHEREAS the Masonic Homes Endowment Board at its last
regular meeting voted unanimously to recommend that the Board be increased to a maximum of twenty~one members, now
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the number of members of
the Masonic Homes Endowment Board be increased to twenty-one, and
THAT the Grand Master appoint the six additional members to the
Board, and
THAT two of the new members shall be appointed for a term of one
year, two shall be appointed for a term of two years and two shall be
appointed for a term of three years, for the initial appointments, and
thereafter all members shall be appointed for terms of three years, and
THAT at the next regular meeting of the Masonic Homes Endowment Board the six new members so appointed shall draw lots to
determine which ones shall serve for one year, two years and three
years, respectively.
Respectfully submitted,
JoHN M. GORDON, Past Master, Lodge No. 202
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

CAUFORNIA FREEMASON

DEADLINE EXCEPTIONS
(A-7)

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
RESOLVED: That § 781 CMC be amended by adding thereto
the following:
"Neither the 90-day deadline for presenting amendments, nor the
provisions of § 150 - 19th, shall apply to amendments proposed by the
Grand Master or the committees appointed by the Grand Master, but
the same shall be filed with the Grand Secretary in time for adequate
study by the committee or committees involved and in no case later than
the first day of registration for the Annual Communication."
Respectfully submitted,
EVERETT HousER, Past Master, Lodge No. 504
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

41

(A-8)

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
RESOLVED THAT, by appropriate legislation Grand Lodge send
the quarterly California Freemason to all members of the constituent
Lodges.
Respectfully submitted,
NEWCOMB CoNDEE, Past Master, Lodge No. 614
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Finance.

REQUIREMENTS FOR CHARTER
(A-9)

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the formation of new lodges in California is for the
purpose of advancing Freemasonry: and
WHEREAS, it is not advisable to start a new lodge in areas in
which the number of potential members is too small to support a regular
lodge: and
WHEREAS, a lodge under dispensation should establish its ability
to perform the quties of a regular lodge before applying for a charter:
and
WHEREAS, a lodge should be situated in an area where it can
expect to continue to show a desirable growth in membership:
NOW THEREFORE IT IS RESOLVED: That the California
Masonic Code be amended by striking from Section 62 the words:
··No charter shall be granted to any lodge until it shall have worked
a time under dispensation."
and substituting therefor the words:
"No charter shall be granted to any lodge until it shall have worked
under dispensation for a minimum of six ( 6) months and have initiated,
passed and raised at least two ( 2 ) candidates."
Respectfully submitted,
HARRY E. HART, Master, Lodge No. 749
HARRISON F. TAYLOR, Master, Lodge No. 658
ELMER G. NORDMAN, Master, Lodge No. 99
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

NATIONAL ANTHEM

INSTALLATION REQUIREMENT S

(B-1)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. by an act of Congress on March 3, 1931, The StarSpangled Banner was designated as our National Anthem, and
WHEREAS. we should be proud of our National Anthem, and
WHEREAS. this should be the only proper musical piece that
should be played or sung when our National Emblem is displayed,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: That our ritual be
amended, Monitor page 56, Sec. 554 of CMC, that "The Brethren will
join in singing one verse of America," be deleted and there be inserted
in its place the following, "The Brethren will join in singing one verse
of our Nation Anthem, The Star-Spangled Banner."
Respectfully submitted,
MILTON E. AMMANN, Master, Lodge No. 600
HENRY L. PALMER, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 600
ROBERT C. EuLBERG, Junior Warden, Lodge No. 600
JOHN L. UBSACK, Past Master, Lodge No. 600
RALPH A. HERBOLD, Past Master, Lodge No. 600
JoHN D. KEEN, Past Master, Lodge No. 600
MERLE R. FELKER, Past Master, Lodge No. 600
Referred to Committee on Ritual.

(B-3)

42

INSPECTORS' DUTIES
(B-2)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, subdivision 10th of section 161 of the California
Masonic Code makes it the duty of the Inspector to examine the books
and records of each Lodge to determine if its manner of transacting business, making its returns; and paying its Grand Lodge dues conform to
our laws, and to report to the Grand Master the result thereof at the
same time as he makes his annual report to the Grand Lecturer: and
WHEREAS, the sufficiency of the Lodge's returns and payment of
Grand Lodge dues have been supervised by the Grand Secretary for
many years,
BE IT RESOLVED, that subdivision 10th of section 161 of the
California Masonic Code be amended to read as follows:
"To examine the books and reports of each Lodge to determine if
its manner of transacting its business conforms to our laws, and to report
to the Grand Master any violations of law."
Respectfully submitted,
ELBERT W. DAVIS, Past Master, Lodge No. 571
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Ritual.

43

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, Section 324-A Ordinances, reads as follows:
"Where the installation of Officers is to take place in a building other
than where the Lodge regularly meets, the Lodge should open in the
Lodge room and repair to the place of installation."
WHEREAS, some Lodges meet in a small Lodge room, being inadequate to accommodate the members and friends who wish to attend
the installation ceremony.
WHEREAS, a Lodge opens in its regular rooms then repairs to the
place of installation, after the ceremony is over journeys back to the
regular Lodge room to close Lodge, this means many miles of unnecessary travel, as usually the Officers and members again journey back to
the place of installation to enjoy the rest of the evening with their family
and friends and to see that they get home safely.
WHEREAS, many installations are held on a night other than the
regular Lodge night and their regular room is not available on that night.
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED. that Section 324-A, Ordinances, be amended, by adding after the word installation, "a Lodge
may open and close in the room designated as the place of installation."
Respectfully submitted,
JoHN D. BOWMAN, Past Master, Lodge No. 764
C. THOMAS LouDON, Past Master, Lodge No. 764
PAUL A. BASTING, Master, Lodge No. 764
JOHN H. Cox.Past Master, Lodge No. 764
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

FUNERAL SERVICE LIMITATION
(B-4)

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, Lodges and Masters of this jurisdiction are being requested to conduct Masonic funerals for suspended members, and
WHEREAS, Section 740 of the California Masonic Code defines
suspension of a Mason as being "A deprivation of all his rights and
privileges as such, and prohibits all Masons and Lodges from holding
any Masonic intercourse with him until he shall be legally restored," and
WHEREAS, Section 581 (d) CMC states, "A Mason dying
under sentence of suspension, cannot be restored by any action subsequent to his death," and

44

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

WHEREAS, Section 604 CMC states, "Every Mason who dies in
good standing is entitled to burial with Masonic honors," and

PROFICIENCY REQUIREMENT

WHEREAS, the latter part of the same section ( 604, CMC) and
Section 605 ( i.) CMC states, "One suspended for non-payment of dues,
nothing else appearing against him may be buried with Masonic honors.
The Master may call the Lodge together, at the request of any number
of brethren to determine if such action should be taken, or without such
request if he believes such action should be taken, etc."
WHEREAS, these statements would appear to be contradictory and
would tend to validate a double standard, and
WHEREAS, the Masters and brethren are put in an arbitrary position of deciding on the suitability of a suspended member's past conduct
on short notice, particularly where the member in question is not a
member of the Lodge in the place where he resides or a member of this
jurisdiction, and
WHEREAS, the reasons for a Master Mason's suspension are due
to his neglect and refusal to live up to his obligations, and
WHEREAS, there is little reason for his suspension for N.P.D. in
that he is required only to contact the Master or Secretary of his
Lodge and inform them of his reasons for his inability, and
WHEREAS, his dues can be remitted or paid by the members of his
Lodge in order that a worthy Brother Mason will not be lost to the
Craft, and
WHEREAS, the families of suspended members request Masonic
funerals for members who have been under suspension for periods up to
ten years for N.P.D., and said requests place the Master of a Lodge
in an arbitrary position should he refuse, therefore
BE IT RESOLVED, that the portion of Section 605. i, and Section
604 relating to the burial of members suspended be stricken from the
CMC in order that deserving Brethren may receive proper respect at the
final call.
F. E. FINLEY, Master, Lodge No. 45
GusTAVE W. KLOTZ, Past Master. Lodge No. 45
LoRNE E. WEAVER, Past Master, Lodge No. 45
CHRIS P. MATHES, Past Master, Lodge No. 193
ALEX DUNCAN, Past Master, Lodge No. 552
RICHARD K. HuLL, Past Master, Lodge No. 193
GEORGE W. CORNWELL, Past Master, Lodge No. 106
}AMES E. MORTON, JR., Past Master, Lodge No. 106
SIDNEY WEBSTER, Past Master, Lodge No. 106
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

45

(B-6)

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, question fifteen on the Application for Degrees requiring the applicant to promise that he will not apply for or receive any
degree or be initiated in any Lodge, Order or Organization, the prerequisite of membership wherein is that a person be a Master Mason,
until he has given satisfactory evidence, by strict examination in open
Lodge, that he is entirely proficient and well-qualified in the Candidate's
Lecture of the Degree of Master Mason and in no event within twelve
months after he has received the Degree of Master Mason, has not
accomplished the true purpose, and
WHEREAS, we feel. that the Third Degree proficiency should be
mandatory before a member is entitled to a dues card or the rights and
privileges of a Master Mason,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that question fifteen be omitted from the Application for Degrees.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a member is not entitled to
a dues card or the rights and privileges of a Master Mason (except
funeral services) until he is entirely proficient and well-qualified in the
Candidate's Lecture of the Degree of Master Mason, and that this must
be accomplished within six months, or automatic suspension will prevail,
unless further time shall be granted by a vote of the Lodge.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Master's Congratulation
be required at 'the completion of the Third Degree proficiency, rather
than following the Third Degree Charge.
Respectfully submitted,
JoHN R. GREGORY, Master, Lodge No. 736
ROBERT HousH, Senior Warden. Lodge No. 736
CHESTER T. HOBBS, Junior Warden. Lodge No. 736
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

RESEARCH LODGE OFFICERS
(C-1)

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
RESOLVED that Section 385, relating to Research Lodges, be
amended by adding thereto the following:
"18 None but a Past Master of a California Lodge is eligible for
electio~ as Master, Senior or Junior Warden of a Research Lodge."
Respectfully submitted,
ARTHUR R. MOBERG, JR., Past Master, Lodge No. 504
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

46

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

RESEA RCH LODGE OFFICERS

REVOL VING FUNDS

(C~2)

To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
BE IT RESOL VED, that the appropri ate ordinanc es of the Grand
Lodge be amended to provide that only a Past Master of the jurisdiction
shall be eligible to hold the office of Master of any Research Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,
JoHN T. BOND, Past Master, Lodge No. 355
Ref erred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

HAW AilAN SECUR ITIES
(D~l)

To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHERE AS, it is desirable that the Lodges in the State of Hawaii
be permitte d to invest in securities listed and traded on the Honolulu
Stock Exchang e, and
WHERE AS, under the Regulations, this cannot be done because the
Honolulu Stock Exchnag e is not a registered exchange, and
WHERE AS, the Honolulu Stock Exchnag e might some time in the
future become a registered exchang e,
NOW, THERE FORE, BE IT RESOL VED that the requirement
respecting a registered exchang e be waived as the Regulations pertain
to the Lodges in the State of Hawaii, and
BE IT FURTH ER RESOL VED that this investment policy as it
relates to the Lodges in the State of Hawaii be continued in force until
the Honolulu Stock Exchnag e becomes a registere d exchang e unless
sooner rescinded by the Grand Master or the Grand Lodge.
The above Resolution was authoriz ed at the June stated meetings of
the following:
Respectfully submitted,
JoHN C. SIMPSON, Past Master, Lodge No. 371
JOHN HOLDEN, Past Master, Lodge No. 21
HOWARD BERTRAM WEST, Past Master, Lodge No. 589
AHOON HUGH WONG, Past Master, Lodge No. 774
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Investment.

47

(D~2)

To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHERE AS, the Junior Warden of each constituent Lodge of this
jurisdiction, by tradition , general usage, and ritualistic direction at the
time of his installation, has been entrusted with the superintendence of
the Craft during the hours of refreshment, and
WHERE AS, such superintendence customarily included the proper
expendit ure of refreshm ent funds for the purpose not only of actual
refreshments but also for fraternal intercourse with other Lodges and
other social purposes, and
WHERE AS, the Junior Warden , by virtue of his required knowl~
edge of Masonic law and by his years of previous experience as a line
officer is suitably equipped to administer Lodge funds for the above
purpose, and
WHERE AS, this Grand Lodge in 1958 established a "revolvin g
fund of not more than $100.00 for the use of the Steward s in providing
refreshments for all regular Lodge functions," and
WHERE AS, many Lodges have continue d to entrust this responsi~
bility to their Junior Warden s as proper and responsible senior officers,
and
WHERE AS, such financial responsibity without revolving funds
has in many cases caused financial hardship s to those Junior Warden s
without ample resources,
THERE FORE, BE IT RESOL VED: That Section 401 of the Cali~
fomia Masonic Code be amended by inserting in line eleven after the
word "Stewar ds" the following, "or Junior Warden as the Master may
determine.''
Respectfully submitted,
LowELL H. BECKENDORF, Past Master, Lodge No. 462
MELVIN S. SPRINGER, Past Master, Lodge No. 462
KENT S. MASON, Master, Lodge No. 462
WALTER HEILMANN, Past Master, Lodge No. 127
NELSON V. CARDINAL, Senior Warden , Lodge No. 354
LAWRENCE T. ELLESON, Master, Lodge No. 354
RICHARD L. WHITESIDE, Master, Lodge No. 525
WILLIAM BUTCHER, Past Master, Lodge No. 464
ROBERT P. HuLCE, Master, Lodge No. 514
FLOYD B. SCULLIN, Master, Lodge No. 550
CLAUDE J. PALMER, Master, Lodge No. 212
LESLIE 0. GINSBERG, Senior Warden , Lodge No. 454
RusH MANBERT, Past Master, Lodge No. 549
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

49

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

DE MOLAY SPONSORSHIP

LIFE MEMBERSHIP INVESTMENTS

(D-4)

(D-5)

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the International Order of DeMolay is an Institution
established for the purpose of teaching young men to become Leaders
and endeavors to build and develop character and responsibility in
young men; and

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of California:
With the approval of the Grand Lodge Committee on Jurisprudence,
and in cooperation with Brother Wakefield Taylor of that Committee,
the Grand Secretary presents the following for consideration by the
1960 Annual Communication:
Section 574 of the 'Masonic Code be amended in paragraph 3 by
substituting the words "in accordance with the provisions of Section
404 of this Code" in place of the words "in securities legal for savings
banks, under either the laws of the State of California or the laws of
the State of Hawaii."
Respectfully submitted
LLOYD E. WILSON, Past Master, Lodge No. 630
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

48

WHEREAS, the Principles upon which it is founded are of the
highest, religious, moral. ethical. and patriotic nature in that it teaches
Belief in a Supreme Being, Love and Honor to Parents, Honest Toil,
Loyalty to Ideals and Friends, Courteousness, Gentlemanliness, Patriotism in Peace as well as War, Cleanliness in Mind and Body, Good
Citizenship, and
WHEREAS. a number of Constituent Lodges within the Jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California have indicated an enthusiastic
interest in sponsoring a chapter or chapters of the Order of DeMolay,
and
WHEREAS, Freemasonry and Freemasons are and always have
been devoted to the Building and Development of Character, Leadership and Good Citizenship among men and Nations;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that any Constituent
Lodge or group of Lodges within the Jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge
of California be hereby authorized to sponsor a chapter or chapters
of the Order of DeMolay: and
That such Lodge or Group of Lodges Sponsoring a Chapter or
Chapters of DeMolay be hereby authorized to expend, with the approval
of the Lodge, such sums as are reasonably necessary to assist a Chapter
or Chapters, such expenditures to be taken from current Lodge funds
only, and not to exceed one third ( Y3) of the amount of the refreshment
fund currently allowed by Grand Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,
JAMES E. CALHOUN, Past Master, Lodge No. 422
MARCUS A. WOODWARD, Past Master, Lodge No. 647
CHARLES D. MORRISON, Past Master, Lodge No. 324
ALFRED L. GERRIE, Past Master, Lodge No. 599
NORMAN B. HUME, Past Master, Lodge No. 452
A. T. HARLESS, Past Master, Lodge No. 605
W. H. HODSON, Past Master, Lodge No. 322
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

MEMBERSHIP TRANSFER TO NEW LODGE
(D-5)

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of California:
With the approval of the Grand Lodge Committee on Jurisprudence,
and in cooperation with Brother Wakefield Taylor of that Committee,
the Grand Secretary presents the following for consideration by the
1960 Annual Cd'mmunication:
Section 301 of the Masonic Code be amended by substituting in
subsection 3 the words "demand for transfer of membership" in place
of the words "demand for a dimit."
Respectfully submitted,
LLOYD E. WILSON, Past Master, Lodge No. 630
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

TRIAL FINDINGS ANNOUNCEMENT
(E-1)

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Resolved that the third sentence in Section 692.4 of the Masonic
Code be amended to read as follows:
"At the next stated meeting of the Lodge the Trial Master shall
announce his findings and the penalty imposed by him."
This amendment adds the word "stated" before the word "meeting."
Respectfully submitted,
ALBERT F. Ross, Past Master, Lodge No. 254
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

50

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

FRE EDO M OF DIS CUS SIO N
(F-1 )

To the Mos t Wor shipf ul Gran d Lodge F. & A.

M. of California:
Perm itting , if a lodg e so desires, the discussion
(but with out any
actio n there on) of public questions: and forbi
dding contributions to any
political campaign fund, or other wise enga
ging in "politics," in the
ordin ary acceptance of that term.
WH ERE AS: Amo ng the dutie s which devolve
upon us as Maso ns
is that we owe the State as citizens: and beca use
it becomes incre asing ly
evide nt that the prese rvati on of the Republic depe
nds upon an intelligent
electorate, one of the high est dutie s which conf
ronts the American citizen is that which requi res him to take an activ
e and intelligent inter est
in those great public ques tions which so vital ly
affect us as citizens, and
to vote there on when they are submitted to the
people; and that he may
vote with intelligence, he shou ld become as
fully informed as he can
be with reference there to: and,
WH ERE AS: One of the historic methods in
Ame rica of developing
and imparting factual infor matio n is by discu
ssion and the prese ntati on
of all sides of public ques tions in groups, churc
hes, forums and similar
organ izatio ns: and, for a Maso n, there is no
bette r place than his Masonic lodg e to obtain that hone st information,
enlig htenm ent and inspi ration whic h will bette r enab le him to disch arge
his duty as a citizen:
and,
WH ERE AS: Not only in this, but in othe r Juris
dictions, the Anci ent
Char ges and Regu latio ns have been differentl
y cons trued and inter prete d at diffe rent times, and it seems prop er
that Gran d Lodge shou ld
now cons true and inter pret them as they relat
e to a citizen's duty toda y
and thus make clear the confusion which appa
rentl y exists in the Gran d
Lodg e of California;
NOW . THE REF ORE . BE IT RES OLV ED:
That none of the
Anci ent Char ges or Regu latio ns ( specificall
y including the Char ge
appr oved in 1702 with respe ct to "Beh avior
after the Lodg e is Clos ed
and the Breth ern not Gone " )-an d no edict
or decision of any Gran d
Mast er, or any edict or regulation, or othe
r action of Gran d Lodg e
heret ofore given, made, taken or adop ted-s
hall be so cons trued or
inter prete d as to prev ent a free, full and open
discussion in Gran d
Lodge, or in any cons tiuen t lodge, of any ques
tion direc tly or indirectly
affec ting Maso nry, or any object, purp ose
or activity of the Gran d
Lodg e of California, or the discussion of any
public question to be submitte d to the people, and upon which Maso
ns, as citizens, in the dischar ge of their civic dutie s will be requ ired to
vote for or again st: PRO VID ED HOW EVE R,

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

51

That there is to be no discussion of sectariani
sm, as such , or of
parti san politics, or of any cand idate for publi
c office: and no federal,
state or local pend ing or prop osed legislation
is to be endo rsed or disapproved: nor shall any othe r action of any sort
be taken with refer ence
there to by Gran d Lodge, or by any cons titue nt
lodg e-th e sole purp ose
of the discussion being to enable the individual
Maso n to obtai n such
information as will bette r enab le him to disch
arge his duty as a citizen
solely according to the dicta tes of his own
conscience, and with out
any refer ence to any expr ess or implied duty
to vote in acco rdanc e with
the views expr essed in the discussions hereb y
permitted; and
BE IT FUR THE R RES OLV ED: That Gran
d Lodg e will not (nor
shall any of its cons titue nt lodge s be perm itted
to) pay, expe nd or approp riate any sum or sums of money, howsoeve
r raise d or obtai ned, or
to contr ibute to any fund, to be used in any
camp aign for the adop tion
or rejection by the peop le of any prop osed feder
al, state or local legislation, or for the election of any cand idate for
public office: nor shall
there be any solicitation by Gran d Lodge, or
by any cons titue nt lodge,
for contributions by individual Maso ns for
any such purpose, unless
there be a prese nt imminent dang er that such
prop osed legislation, if
adop ted, might imperil the existence of Maso
nic lodges, or impose
restrictions thereon: and even then only by a
vote of five-sixths of the
members prese nt, and entit led to vote, at a
Communication of Gran d
Lod ge-o r in the case of a cons titue nt lodge,
by a vote of five-sixths of
the members prese nt at a meeting of whic h writt
en or print ed notice, and
of the purp ose thereof, shall have been given
to each of its members at
least thirt y ( 30) days prior to the date of such
m~eting; and,
BE IT FUR THE R RES OLV ED: That this
resolution be recor ded
among the Ordi nanc es of Gran d Lodge.
Resp ectfu lly submitted,
CHARLES ALBERT ADAMS, Past Master, Lodg e
No. 166
Refe rred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and
on Polic y and Gene ral
Purp oses.
·

SUP POR T OF PUBLIC SCH OOL S
(F-3 )

To the Mos t Wor shipf ul Grand Lodge F. & A.

M. of California:
WH ERE AS, all Maso ns of the State of Calif
ornia, cons ider our
"Fre e Public Scho ols" to be the foun datio n
of the Ame rican way of
life, and the only instr umen t oblig ated to incul
cate Patri otism and respec t for Law and Orde r in the minds and hear
ts of all the child ren of
all the ~ople, and
WH ERE AS, "Ou r Free Public Scho ols" are

universally recog nized

52

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

as an American Institution, as unique and peculiar to the United States
of America, as our form of government and Old Glory herself, and
WHEREAS, this system of education has elevated our people to
the leadership of "Freedom Loving Peoples" throughout the world.
THAT WE THEREFORE: Declare all other systems and efforts
to educate our youth as competitive. and will henceforth dedicate the
resources of The Grand Lodge Free and Accepted Masons of the State
of California to the maintenance and support of "Our Free Public
Schools," and a jealous regard for their welfare.
Yours respectfully,
IRWIN W. LAUPPE, Master, Lodge No. 460
JAMES M. PAIGE, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 460
ALFRED N. AeERSOLD, Junior Warden, Lodge No. 460
FRANCIS K. DENNETI, Past Master, Lodge No. 460
NEIL B. FABIAN, Past Master, Lodge No. 460
ALFRED B. PATTERSON, JR .. Past Master, Lodge No. 460
Roy W. WATSON, Past Master, Lodge No. 460
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

MULTIPLE MEMBERSl-IlP
(F-5)

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
With the approval of the Grand Lodge Committee on Jurisprudence,
and in cooperation with Brother Wakefield Taylor of that Committee,
the Grand Secretary presents the following for consideration by the
1960 Annual Communication:
Section 432 of the Masonic Code be amended so that provisions
6 and 7 will read as follows:
"Suspension for non-payment of dues or otherwise or expulsion of a multiple member shall immediately, and of itself, terminate his membership in all Lodges in this jurisdiction, and the
Secretary of any Lodge in this jurisdiction suspending or expelling such a member shall immediately notify the Grand Secretary
and also every other Lodge in which the multiple member holds
membership. Like notice shall be given in case of reinstatement,
which shall immediately and automatically restore him to membership in every other Lodge in this jurisdiction of which he was
a member."
"Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent a multiple member from receiving a certificate of discontinuance of
multiple membership as provided in Section 453 if otherwise entitled to the same."
Section 432 be amended by substituting the word "multiple" in place

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

53

of the word "plural" in provisions 4, 5, and 9: and by adding to provision 8 the following: A multiple membership as used in this section
means and is defined to be either dual or plural membership.
Section 447 be amended by substituting the word "multiple" in
place of "plural" in the last paragraph.
Section 453 be amended by substituting the word "multiple" in
place of the word "plural."
Respectfully submitted,
LLOYD E. WILSON, Past Master. Lodge No. 630
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

RESOLUTIONS WITHDRAWN
The following resolutions, previously circulated, were withdrawn
from consideration:
A-1

A-5
A-6
B-5
D-3
F-4

NON-EMERGEN T MATTER
A resolution presented by several of the Lodges located in Sacramento, relative to liability insurance procedure, had not been received
by the Grand Secretary in l:ime to comply with Section 104. The Grand
Master declared the matter not emergent and, therefore, not subject
to consideration at this Communication.
At 11 :55 a.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 1 :30 p.m.

54

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

AFTERNOON SESSION-Monday, September 26, 1960
At 1 :30 p.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding.

DISTINGUISHED GUESTS
The following distinguished guests were received with private
Grand Honors, appropriately welcomed by the Grand Master and
seated in the seats reserved for them:
M.'.W.'.JuL1us M. SWANSON,

Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Oregon.
M:.W.'.STANLEY D. SUNDEEN,

Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Nevada.
M:.w:.CHARLEs HERDON,

Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Idaho.
M:.w:.J. PARKER cooMBs.

Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Utah.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

M:.w:.c. A. CARLSON. JR..
Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Nevada.
M.".W.".WILL H. TAYLOR.

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of the Philippines.
M:.w:.STANToN YouNGBERG.

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of the Philippines.
w. '.STEWART A. SHAPER,

/unior Grand Steward of the Grand Lodge of Colorado.
W.".WILLIAM c. PROCTOR.

Past Grand Tiler of the Grand Lodge of Colorado.
The following distinguished guests, who were not present at the
time the above were received, were in attendance at this Annual Communication:
M ••• w ••• CLARENCE PHILLIPS,

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Oregon.

M.'.W.'.EARLA. SPITLER,

Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Arizona.
The following distinguished guests were escorted into Grand Lodge
and, after being welcomed by the Grand Master, were accorded public
Grand Honors and then escorted to the seats reserved for them:
R.'.W.'.ELMER C. HUNTLEY,

Deputy Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Washington.
R:.W.'.LEON H. SNYDER,

Deputy Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Colorado.
R:.w:.J. R. P. REINEMER.

Deputy Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Montana.

W.'.ALPRED

s. LEE,

Past Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of China and now a
member of SanFrancisco Lodge No. 360.
At various times during the Communication the following distinguished guests addressed the Brethern at the invitation of the Grand
Master. Each ol the addresses was enthusiastically received. In each
instance the warmth of the fraternal greetings was sincerely appreciated.
R.".W.".WILLIAM J. EICHORN.

Senior Grand Warden of the Grand Lodge of/apan.
M:.w:.JuLlus M. SWANSON,

Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Oregon.

R.'.W.'.WILLIAM J. EICHORN.

Senior Grand Warden of the Grand Lodge of Japan.
M. ·.w. ·.HARRY

n. PRouDPooT.

Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge
of Oregon.
M.'.W.'.HERBERTT. WHITE,

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Nebraska.
M:.w:.J. W1LL1AM J. STEDMAN.

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Washington.
M.·.w.·.RoBERT H. PARKER.

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Nevada.

55

M:.W.'.STANLEY D. SUNDEEN,

Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Nevada.
w ••• STEWART A. SHAPER,

Junior Grand Steward of the Grand Lodge of Colorado.
R.'.W.'.ELMER C. HUNTLEY,

Deputy Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Washington.
M ••• w

••• EARL A. SPITLER,

Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Arizona.
M.'.W.'.CHARLES HERDON,

Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Idaho.

56

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

57

GRAND LODGE F. & A, I. OF CALIFORNIA

P1ge l

REPORT OF GRAND TREASURER
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
In presenting my sixth annual report as your Grand Treasurer covering the fiscal year ended June 30, 1960, I do so with continued gratitude
and appreciation to this Grand Lodge for allowing me the privilege of
serving in this capacity.
In compliance with Section 146 of the California Masonic Code, the
Grand Treasurer is required, in addition to other duties:
To make at each Annual Communication, a detailed report of his
receipts and disbursements, supported by proper vouchers for the
latter, and to present a statement of the existing condition of its
property and finances.
Supporting vouchers are available in the Grand Secretary's office.
This year again, through the cooperation of all concerned, we have
combined all published flnancial reports into one report. The financial
reports included herein cover:
1. Summary of Receipts and Disbursements - Comparative year
ended June 30, 1960, and year ended June 30, 1959.
2. Grand Lodge F. & A. M. and Exhibits.
3. Grand Lodge F. & A. M. Statement of 1960 Annual Returns.
4. Masonic Homes of California, including the Permanent Endowment Fund.
5. California Masonic Memorial Temple.
Respectfully submitted,
EDWARD H. SIEMS,
Grand Treasurer
Referred to Committee on Distribution.

AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS

SIJllARY OF RECEIP!S AND DISBURSEllEN'IS -

toiii'AKATM

INCOllE RECEIP!S :
-Urand t:Odye:
Per cap ta, contributions, and fees
Interest, diYidends, and •iscellaneous
lasonic BOiies - General Fund:
Grand LOdge per capita and contributions
Payments through Lodges for Homes
Interest, dividend•, and miscellaneous
lasonic Homes - Permanent End-nt Fund:
Interest, dividends, and miscellaneous
lasonic Homes - Other End-nt Funds:
Contributions
Interest and dividends

DATES AS SROWN

YEAR ENll!D

YEAR ENIED

JUNE 30 I 1960

J1JNE 30 t 1959

$ 318,109.22
32,373.50
$ 350,482.12

$ 317,524.95
28,154.21
$ 345,67'1.16

$ 320, 145.l!O
37,434,24
108, 967. 76
$ 466,547.50

$ 324 I 40() 1 !!()
35, 791.40
115,696.57
$ 475,BM.47

$ 388,996.24

$ 323,513.61

$

1,378,44
$
113,849.35
$ 115,227. 7IJ

$

$1,347,987.85

$1,276,890.54

$
lasonic Temple:
Interest
Memorial Temple operations
Total Inc- (Exclusive of Capital Gains)
CAPITAL RECEIP'l'S 1 INCUJDING LOANS AND CAPITAL GAINS:
Grand t:Odqe:
Gain on sale of securities
Bequests and co'ltributions

$
$

las onic BOiies - General Fund :
Gain on sale of securities
Bequests and contributions
Assignments by residents
Masonic R-s - Permanent Endowment Fund:
Bequests and contributions
Gain on sale of securities and real estate
..sollic Ho.es - Other EndOIWllent and Trust Funds:
securities
Gain on sale
Received from residents !or deposit

or

Tatel Income and Capital Rece12t• - Forward

29,971,17
21,666.66
51,637.83

$

4,098. 77
104,118,07
$ 1!!1! 1 216. !J4

$

34,4'lll.52

$

34,41)b.52

$ 294,992,83
262, 766. 77
409,510,20
$ 967,269.l!O

$ 109,338.50
272,544. 70
325,204,40
$ 707,087.60

$ 738,671.44
213,456,05
$ 952,127.49

$ 596,830.08
348,936.24
$ 945, 766.32

$
$

lle•orial Temple:
Grand LOdge per capita and contributions
Bequests and individual contributions
Loan frOll banks
Additions to Reserve for Renewals and Replacements

13.50
23,578.96
23,5112.46

335.50
26,398,10
26, 733.60

$

41,327.16
34,149.56
75,476. 72

$
$

7,349, 70
32, 193, 79
M,543.49

$ 301, 788.00
40, 704,41

$ 301,123,00
128, 736.12
348,000,00

1,152.00
$ 343,6U.4l

$ 777,8511.12

$3, 738, 144.10

$3, 781,637,59

58

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LDDGE F. & A. If. OF CALIFORNIA
SlllDIARY' OF RECEIPTS AND DISBUllSElfENTS -

COllPXRXTIVE

DATES AS SHOWN

YEAR ENIED

EXPENSE DISBURSEllENTS :
Grand LOdge:
Operating expense
llnoaic R011es - General Fund:
Operation of Homes and outside relief
Administrative and general expense
Retirement income plan

ff-• -

llasonic
End-ent and Trust Funds:
Scholarships
lliscellaneous
Withdrawn by residents
Memorial Temple:
Admln1strat1ve and general expense
Memorial Temple operations
Interest on notes payable
Transferred to Reserve tor Renewals and Replaceaents

:J!JNE 30 I 1960

YEAR ENIED
JONE 30,. 1959

$3, 738, 144.10

$3, 781,637,59

$ 295, 786, 11

$ 3115,902.23

$ 911,111, 76
127,354.65
17,606.61
$i,o!li'j 1 0'3.D'2

$ 805,604. 70
108,502.82
31,261,81
9H,:ll;17,:J:!
$

$
$

:m,

$
$

3,556.:IO
1,378.96
28,976. 70
:J:J,17I2.ii;

6,968.23
111,651,44
75,951.60
1,152.00
117!!, t.!:J. 2'7

$ 2:i!l 1 ~:n.'7'7

$1,585,684. 72

$1,519,825.51

99,858.94
11,020. 78
10, 760,62

.$ 119,875.23
7,561,23
11,492.13
51,504.00
19,809, 70
$ 210,242.217

$

$
Total Operating Expenses

2,057,00
1,350.00
34,695.32
102,:!2

$

13,835.65
138,214.86
83,591.28

EXPENSES CHARGED TO RPSl!RVES FOR SPECIAL PORPaiES:

i11onlc ff-•:
Replace•ents to Homea
Funeral expense
Entertainment expense
Grants to residents
lllscellaneous

l!XPENSES CHARGED TO FOND BALANCE:
Grand LOdge:
Retirement pension plan costs

Tota 1 Expenses
Exc11ss of Receipts over Disbursements

$

so,m.oo

$

8 1685,45
1111,0'7'7. '717

$

42,300,00

$1,809,082,51

$1, 730,067.80

$1,92'1,061,59

$2,051,569. 79

!:!.!!,: Loan from banks - Memorial Temple
NET INCREASE IN FOND BALANCES

348 1000.00
$1,929,061.59

$1, 703,569. 79

Page 3

GRAND LODGE F; & A; If. OF CALIFORNIA

Page 2

AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS

Total Income and Capital Receipt• - Forward

59

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

AND AFFILIAitD ORGANlZATMS

~ OF RECEIPTS AND DlSBUllSl!llEN'l'S. -

DATES AS SH<MN

dJIPAl!AfM!

The foregoing net increase in fund balances during the year ended June 30, 1960, and
year ended June 30, 1959 is accounted for as follows:

Chan ea increasln fund balances:
ncrease n cash on epos t n banks
Increase in securities owned
Increase in buildings, equipment and furniture
Decrease in loan from banks
Changes decreasing fund balances:
Decrease in m1sceUaneous assets, net
Increase in contract payable
Increase in loan fro• banks

NET INCREASE IN FUND BALANCES 1 AS ABOVE

YEAR ENIED
JONE 3J. 1960

YEAR ENDED
JONE 30, 1959

$ 107,096.21
294,102,51
1,372,115.28
300,000.00
$2,0'73 1 314.oo

$ 205. 393. 40

$

25,496.41
118, 756.00

802, 720.34
818,264.88

$1,1126,3'711.62
$

14,808.83

$ 144,2!!2.41

108,000.00
$ . 122,8011.113

$1,929.061.59

$1, 703.569. 79

60

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPOR T OF THE GRAN D SECRE TARY
To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
I have the honor to present to you herewith my Nineteen th Annual
Report as your Grand Secretar y.
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
The following matters were continued from the last Annual Communication to the present one:
1. Cemeter y Recommendations, pages 205 and 209, 1959 Proceedings.
2. Grand Lecturer 's Recommendations, page 75, 1959 Proceedings.
3. Research Recommendations, page 200, 1959 Proceedings.
4. Resolution on Indemni ty, page 32, 1959 Proceedings.
5. York Rite Sovereig n College, page 19, 1959 Proceedings.
CHANGE OF MEETING PLACE
York Lodge No. 423 has changed its meeting place from South Gate
to Walnut Park. Sunrise Lodge No. 522 has changed its meeting place
from Los Angeles to Montere y Park. Jordan Lodge No. 654 has
changed its meeting place from Los Angeles to Walnut Park.
It is recommended that the Charters of the nine Hawaiia n Lodges
which were located in the Territor y of Hawaii at the time the Lodge
was constitut ed be endorsed to show the location as the State of Hawaii.
These change of meeting places have been officially approved under
the authority of the Grand Master, and the Grand Secretar y now requests authority to properly endorse their Charters .
LoDGES UNDER DISPENSATION
The following Lodges under dispensation were instituted subseque nt
to August 1, 1959, and prior to June 30:
Ashland , Bay Claire Vista, Rio Hondo, Koolau and Yucca Valley.
Each of these Lodges collected only an equal or a less amount of dues
than the per capita tax, and in accord with preceden t the Grand Master,
at our suggestion, directed that they be not required to pay the per
capita tax. It is respectfully requeste d that this be approved .
MEMBERSHIP ANALYSIS
Again as in past years I present an analysis of the applications for
Degrees accepted during the year. As far as possible the same standards were used for arriving at the occupations, and it is interesting to
note the changes over last year.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1959
Occupations
12%
Professional
14%
Executive
Sales & Clerical
20%
Skilled Craftsme n
36%
Armed Forces
5%
1%
Retired
Police & Firemen
3%
Public Utilities
4%
Government Service 2%
Student
2%
Farmer
1%
Unskilled

1960
12%
16%
16%
34%
4%
1%
4%
3%
3%
2%
3%

Age Groups
21-29
30-39
40-49
50-59
60 and over

61

1959

1960

17%
37%
30%
13%

18%
38%
29%
12%
3%

3%

3%

MEMBERSHIP
Those who carefully read the Proceedi ngs know that for the past
several years I have analyzed our membership experience with ~he
thought in mind that we will not only know what has been happenm g
but what we may reasonab ly anticipate.
This year I J'resent comparison figures for the last forty years by
ten year periods commencing with 1920.
In 1920 and again in 1950, which are immediate post war years, we
initiated the largest numbers, but even so in 1960 we initiated more than
in 1930 and 1940. The same general proportio n holds true for the
number raised. One of the encouraging signs is that we have the largest
number of affiliates of any time in this block of years, and it may well be
due to the excellent -work of the Sojourne rs Committee of Grand Lodge.
The number suspende d for non-paym ent of dues gives cause for
concern, because while it is less than 1930 and 1940 it is within 100 of
being twice as many as in 1950. The loss by death is at its highest peak
and that, of course, can be expected with the greater number of members
and advancin g years.
The net gain is the lowest of the years with the exception of 1940
when it was an actual loss of 554. Many Grand Lodges have been suffering losses for years. Taking into account all the factors which I reported
last year, on page 52 of the 1959 Proceedings, I think we may take comfort in the fact that we still show a gain.

62

1920
20
New Lodges Formed....
Initiated ........................ 10,54 7
Passed .............................................. 9,903
Raised ............................................ 9,336
Affiliated ...................................... 1,644
Gained by Error....... ____
323
Reinstated ...................................
Withdra wn ................................. 1,378
Suspended for Non460
Paymen t of dues........
Suspended or Expelled
19
for Cause ..................
Loss by Error................
949
Died ..............................
Number of Members.... 76,873
672
Dues Remitted ..........
Gain .............................. 8,983
Loss ...................................................
400
Number of Lodges. .......
*Plural Members
(Included in total) ....

1960
6
7,056
6,755
6,805
2,308

1,128

1950
6
9,183
9,125
9,406
2,021
12
391
1,623

1,804

776

1,413

1930
2
6,650
6,275
6,215
1,571

1940
3
3,143
3,063
2,995
1,057
21

279
1,220

456

I.734

34
1.638
142,062
1,456
3,410

17
29
2,105
126.185
4,513

320
1,878

40
23
7
4,411
3,144
196,800 241.819
3,381
2,506
1.691
6,257

554
580

63

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

PROCEED INGS OF THE

582

605

696
1,372

FEES FOR DEGRE ES
1959
1958
1957
No. Lodges No. Lodges No. Lodges
99
102
107

Amount
$ 50.00
5
55.00
2
60.00
8
65.00
1
70.00
201
75.00
27
80.00
3
85.00
8
90.00
1
95.00
195
100.00
6
105.00
3
110.00
23
115.00
2
120.00
66
125.00
I
130.00
135.00
3
140.00
6
150.00
7
175.00
2
215.00
Total Lodges· 677
$87.65
Average

5

5

4

2
9
1
189
25
3
14
1
201
7
2
27
3
72
1
1
2
6
7
2
682
$88.80

1
11
1
186
22
3
15
1
208
6
2
32
3
77
1
1
1
7
7
2
691
$89.58

2
11
1
182
22
3
17
1
215

ANNUA L DUES
1959
1958
1957
No. Lodges No. Lodges No. Lodges
188
249
320

Amount
$ 12.00
13.00
1
14.00
259
15.00
27
16.00
17.00
65
18.00
2
20.00
2
24.00
1
25.00
Total Lodges 677
$13.96
Average

1960
No. Lodges
92

1
293
45
86

4
3
1
682
$14.45

1
316
52
1
117
10
3
2
691
$14.91

5
3
35
3
78
1
1
3
6
8
3
696
$90.83

1960
No. Lodges
140
1
320
62
2
151
16
3
1
696
$15.31

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

64

PROCEED INGS OF THE
NEW LoDGES

The following new Lodges were formed during the year:
Central California Research Lodge U.D .• located at Fresno. Dispensatio n granted August 12, 1959. The Lodge was instituted Novem ber 20, 1959, at Fresno, Most Worshi pful Joe L. Shell, Grand Master,
presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: Edward Leslie Kellas
(Maste r), Harold Wilfred Madden (Senior Warde n), Leo James
Green, Jr. (Junior Warde n), Paul Lorton Yager, John Henry Dyer,
Guy Langwo rthy Grange r, Darden Barnes La Marsna , Vernon Tobias
Fike, Herber t Curtis Kinder, Ivan Patrick Doss, William George Jackson, Frank Perry Pearson , George Edward Cartwri ght, Wayne Eliot
Burk, Alva Adams Daniells, Carl Elmer Christe nsen, Henry William
Overga ard, Walter Christa in Petersen, Herman Mathia s Ritter, Samuel
Edward Dollar, Earl James Wallac e, Jesse Walter Warner , John Loren
Stewart , Jr., Fred Pete Roullard, Marsha ll Dey Mortla nd; Bertram
Harry Hunter, John Elmer Canoose, Jr., Keith Merton Emmert, George
Elliot Hiatt, Jack Lee Krieger, William Chester Hardy, Edgar Edward
Choate, Jr., Edward Vincen t Barrett, Clarenc e Arthur McCollister,
Robert Burnham Shuman , Mason Albert Bailey. Ned Jenks Harnish ,
Clarenc e Lynne Fraser, Leonard Risdon Ward, Edgar Christia n Smith,
Vernal Glenn Dom, Stephen Anders on Gerrard , Paul Wesley Rich,
Harold Dale Wooten , Herbert Rutledg e Hargrav e, Roy Herber t
Gerard, David Hart Laughlin, Delmer, Avon Murdoc k, Sherida n Emuel
McAlli ster and Wayne Wilbur Hearn.
Ashlan d Lodge U.D .. located at San Lorenzo. Dispensation granted
January 25, 1960. The Lodge was instituted March 14, 1960, at San
Lorenzo, Most Worshi pful Joe L. Shell, Grand Master, presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: Harold Everett Short
(Maste r), Merle Jay Fisher (Senior Warde n), Edward Daniel Fernandes (Junior Warde n), Eugene Weldon Armstro ng, David William
Beeby, Val Norman Beyelia, William Arthur Brennan , Alfred Hiram
Brown, John David Burris, John Henry Carlson , Howard Ray Carriga n,
Marvin Dee Carriga n, Edward Henry Clark, Lloyd Daniel Cowdin ,
George Donald Eide, Louis Gregoris, James Isham Gardne r, Charles
Hall, Jack Gasper Hanlon , Albert Samuel Hennell, Miles Thoma s
Hopkin s, Floyd Richard Johnson, William Bernard Mathise n, James
Carroll Nixon, Leo Clare Paulos, James Levi Nicholson, John Richard
O'Keef e, Joseph Alfred Polley, Harold Raitt, Troy Everett Scott,
George Grinley Sharpe, William Irving Short, William Estell Strain,
Ferdina nd Ame Stromb erg and William Atwate r Wallac e.
Bay Claire Vista Lodge U.D., located at San Diego. Dispensation
granted Februa ry 26, 1960. The Lodge was instituted April 11, 1960,
at San Diego, Most Worshi pful Joe L. Shell, Grand Master, presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: Thoma s Francis McAlee r, Jr.

65

fMaste r) , Henry Ream Price (Senior Warde n), Frank Ross Davis
(Junior Warde n), William Buchan, Jay Royce Cooper, Peter Corgiat ,
Daniel Miles Crosno, Eaton Pleasan ts DeCott es, Lyman LeRoy Dixon,
Thomas Russell Dukelow, James Arthur Falls, Sammy Weldon Fife,
Francis Stilwell Firkins, George Ellard Goodman, Carl Sven Hallqui st,
Earl Leonard Hawkes , George Robert Klahn, Waldo Irvin Lane, John
Richard Mackenzie, Irwin Joseph Naus, Arthur Fredric k Peterso n,
Edgar Shaw, Robert Kennet h Sheestag, Norris Smith Shirley, Robert
Frankli n Snell, William Snell and Frederi ck Russell Stafford.
Rio Hondo Lodge U.D., located at El Monte. Dispensation granted
April 22, 1960. The Lodge was instituted May 12, 1960, at El Monte,
Right Worshi pful Guy B. Mize, Senior Grand Warden , presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: Elie Mario Ami el (Maste r) ,
Sammie Conard Phipps (Senior Warde n). Evert Alfred Carter (Junior
Warde n). Frank Mendez , Jr., Howard Marqui s Magill, Leslie Esrom
Frampt on, George Curtis Pollet, June Tucker , John Dexter Hudson ,
Joseph Edward Siwicki, Irvin Earl Kaufman, Jack Morris Malone, Gay
Gardne r Ganes, Alfred I. Grumet, Henry Grumet, Paul Grumet ,
Sanford Grumet, Jack Flint Rudy, Junior D. Dunnin g, Edwin Horatio
Nelson, Lee Doran Runnells. Ernest Merwy n Thomas , Irving Zuckerman, Charles Robert Jones, Frank Konza, John Thoma s Strayho rn,
Irving Noah Rubinstein, Peter Alva Brogan, Thoma s Jack Fletche r,
Richmond Clifford Hill, William Carl Warner , Harry Peel, John Julian
Francis Herman , Lorin Marsha ll Austin, Charles Foster Markwi th, Roy
Mahlon Rice and Francis Woodr ow Townse nd.
Koolau Lodge U.D., located at Kaneohe. Dispens ation granted May
18, 1960. The lodge was instituted May 28, 1960, at Kaneohe, Most
Worshi pful Joe L. Shell, Grand Master, presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: George Worste r Wilson
(Maste r), Joseph Peter Denneh y (Senior Warde n). William James
Thoma s (Junior Warde n). Hemme George Abbas, Robert Sterling
Eddy, Arthur John Pancook, Cyrus Palmer Collings, William Inman,
William Silas Slack, Daniel Herman Oblinge r, Dwane Owen Baer,
Gordon Sawyer Pearsal l, Donald Worste r Wilson , Robert Grant
Fifield, William Howard Vick, Grover Adougl ass Godfrey , Jesse Dexter Kornegay, Mortim er Brando w Aldridge, Elmer Macleo d Chadse y,
George Mamor u Eguchi, Raymon d Davis Wygan t, Roy Leslie Harmon ,
Lawton Turner Ripsom, Louie Charles Ondo, Ralph Mundo n Neal,
William Francis Ziegler, Harriso n Francis Thrapp . Karl Wiktor Hermanson, Reginald Everret Gulliver, Michae l Morgan , James Witt
Dyson, Raymon d Gilbert Davis and Glenn McDon ald Hoppus .
Yucca Valley Lodge U.D., located at Yucca Valley. Dispens ation
granted May 19, 1960. The Lodge was instituted June 11, 1960, at
Yucca Valley, Most Worshi pful Joe L. Shell, Grand Master, presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: Clarenc e E. Miller (Maste r).

66

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Donald Burke Blood (Senior Warden), Alexander Frank Furton
(Junior Warden), Carl Orland Greene, Harold Stronach Briggs,
George William Hurter, Fred Daniel Stratton, Robert Woodring Coppock, Raymond Kenton North, Julius Milton Holub, Jesse Guy
Marshall, Arthur Katje, George Samuel Lyall, Harry Clem Rocque,
Arthur Lee Hoskey, Louis Alfred Omundson, Dwight Lewthwaite Rawson, Wilson Cloyde Lindsay, General Edgar Dunlap, Herbert J. Reed,
Arthur Edwin Miller, Charles Stuart Watkins, William Dean Howell,
Charles Horace Valentine, Theodore Escar Morton, Luther Howard
Colvin, John Glenn Coffman, Sam Rosenbaum, John Joseph Waysilk,
Lawrence Wright Tipton, Fred J. Bishop, Sr., Edward Eben Harding,
Daniel Howard Gifford, Andrew James McCoy, Frank Joseph Newman, Harvey Eugene Todd, Francis Callahan, Ollie Mack Donald,
Dewey E. Page, Royce L. Dreyfus, Morton Nat Rosenbaum, Richard
Edgar Miller, Bates Albert Marriott, Kelita J. Shugart, Hugh F.
Leonard, William Cole Bertrand and Leo Andrew Higgins.
,LIFE MEMBERSHIP

Increasing fee: Mariposa No. 21, to $312.50: Northern Light No.
190, to $325.00: Wilmington No. 198, to $350.00: Hartley No. 199, to
$312.50; Stanislaus No. 206, to $325.00; Silver Gate No. 296, to
$375.00: Hollenbeck No. 319, to $312.50: Redondo No. 328, to $335.00:
South Pasadena No. 367, to $333.33: Palos Verdes No. 389, to $350.00;
Apollo No. 396, to $333.33; Y erba Buena No. 403, to $375.00: Standard
No.110, to $500.00; Schofield No. 413, to $312.50; Montebello No. 151,
to $335.00: Mount Oso No. 160, to $150.00: Harbor No. 502, to
$312.50: Euclid No. 519, to $325.00; Forest Hill No. 531, to $375.00;
Belvedere No. 539, to $500.00; Security No. 581, to $150.00: Pearl Harbor No. 598, to $315.00: Granada No. 608, to $312.50; Menorah No.
623, to $335.00; James A. Foshay No. 611, to $350.00: Jordan No. 651,
to $325.00.
Fixing fee: Dana R. Weller No. 765, at $150.00.
Rescinding fee: West Los Angeles No. 373.
DISPENSATIONS ISSUED

To elect Officers at a time other than that fixed by law: La Parfaite
Union No. 17; San Diego No. 35: Union No. 58: Sincerity No. 132:
Mendocino No. 179: Rio Vista No. 208: Adin No. 250: Maxwell No.
288: Alisa} No. 321: Fullerton No. 339; Richmond No. 375: Midway
No. 426: McCloud No. 430: Argonaut No. 461: Euclid No. 519: White
Pine No. 555: Carmelita No. 599: Normal Heights No. 632: Monte
Vista No. 655: Pohona No. 689: Claude H. Morrison No. 747: Mission
Bay No. 771; Avenal No. 772; Mojave No. 783.
To receive and act upon the application of a member of the Armed
Forces who lacks the qualification of residence: Suisun No. 55: Anaheim No. 207: Schofield No. 443: Mount Vernon No. 517: Military

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

67

Service No. 570: Rosemead No. 702: Lawndale No. 753: Riviera
No. 780.
To receive and act upon the application of a rejected Candidate
within twelve months: Victorville No. 634: Composite No. 639.
To open Lodge elsewhere than in regular meeting place: Los Gatos
No. 292; Starr King No. 3H; Moneta No. 405; Garvanza No. 492: Los
Cerritos No. 674.
Special permission for conferring of degrees: La Parfaite Union No.
17: Clovis No. 417: Inglewood No. 421: York No. 423: Hammonton
No. 433; America No. 475; San Gabriel No. 546: Atwater No. 622.
Miscellaneous: Gold Hill No. 32: Silver Gate No. 296.
AMENDMENTS TO BY-LAWS

Increasing fees: Salinas No. 204, to $105.00; South Pasadena No.
367, to $115.00; Glendora No. 401, to $110.00; Tyrian No. 439, to
$75.00; Schofield No. 443, to $140.00; Capital City No. 499, to $100.00;
La Jolla No. 518, to $115.00: Livington No. 658, to $90.00; San Juan
No. 732, to $100.00: Heritage No. 761, to $125.00.
Decreasing fees: Chowchilla No. 485, to $75.00; Bellflower No. 523,
to $125.00; San Antonio No. 694, to $100.00: Verdugo Hills No. 727,
to $100.00.
Increasing affiliation fee: El Rancho No. 759, to $25.00.
Decreasing affiliation fee: Live Oak No. 61, to $1.00; Excelsior No.
166, to $5.00.
Rescinding affiliation fee: Hollywood No. 355: Arabic No. 763:
Lake Chabot No. 770: Silverado No. 782.
Increasing dues: Benicia No. 5, to $18.00: Nevada No. 13, to
$16.00: Mariposa No. 21, to $15.00: San Diego No. 35, to $20.00:
Alamo No. 122, to $18.00: Lassen No. 149, to $15.00; Mendocino No.
179, to $15.00: Russian River No. 181. to $15.00; Wilmington No. 198,
to $16.00; Hartley No. 199, to $15.00; Salinas No. 201, to $21.00;
Stanislaus No. 206, to $15.00; Inyo No. 221, to $18.00: Eucalyptus No.
243, to $18.00: Galt No. 267, to $15.00: South West No. 283, to $16.00;
Elsinore No. 289, to $18.00: Los Banos No. 312, to $18.00; Needles No.
326, to $16.00; Redondo No. 328, to $16.00; Buena Park No. 357, to
$15.00; Charity No. 362, to $1·8.00; South Pasadena No. 367, to $16.00;
University No. 394, to $18.00: Apollo No. 396, to $16.00: Bay View
No. 401, to $14.00: Yerba Buena No. 403, to $18.00; Burbank No. 406, ·
to $18.00: Perris No. 411. to $18.00; Calexico No. 412, to $18.00: McCloud No. 430, to $15.00: Standard No. 440, to $20.00: Schofield No.
443, to $15.00: Ramona No. 457, to $18.00; Mt. Oso No. 460, to $18.00;
Thousand Oaks No. 478, to $18.00; Capital City No. 199, to $15.00;
Harbor No. 502, to $15.00: Mt. Olive No. 506, to $16.00; El Segundo
No. 507, to $15.00; Palms No. 512, to $18.00; Covenant No. 527, to

69

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

$18.00; Loyalty No. 529, to $18.00; Smyrna No. 532, to $15.00; Arcadia
No. 547, to $15.00; Francis K. Shattuck No. 571, to $15.00; Hillcrest
No. 573, to $20.00; Escalon No. 591, to $15.00; Alexander Graham
Bell No. 595, to $18.00; Elmhurst No. 610, to $18.00; R. E. Dolley No.
616, to $16.00; Menorah No. 623. to $16.00; Damascus No. 648, to
$15.00; Jordan No. 654, to $15.00; Monte Vista No. 655, to $15.00;
Livingston No. 658, to $18.00; Reseda No. 666, to $18.00; Los Cerritos
No. 674, to $18.00; San Marino No. 685. to $18.00; Meudell No. 695. to
$18.00; Saint Elmo No. 697. to $18.00; Hunters Point Naval No. 706, to
$18.00; Los Altos No. 712. to $15.00; Estero No. 719. to $15.00; Yucaipa
No. 726. to $15.00; Centennial No. 729, to $18.00: San Leandro No.
744, to $20.00; Hamilton No. 751, to $20.00; Channel No. 757, to
$15.00; El Rancho No. 759, to $16.00; Lakeside No. 760, to $18.00:
Heritage No. 764, to $18.00; Tejon No. 773, to $18.00.
Decreasing dues: Humboldt No. 79, to $1 7 .00; Crescenta Valley No.
652, to $16.00.
Changing date of Stated Meeting: San Diego No. 35; Santa Rosa
No. 57; Snow Mountain No. 271; Silver Gate No. 296; Long Beach No.
327: Hollywood No. 355: San Francisco No. 360: Upland No. 419:
York No. 423; Sunrise No. 522: Melrose No. 602: Benevolence No. 631;
Crescenta Valley No. 652: Dos Palos No. 681: Belmont Shore No. 716:
Opportunity No. 740: El Rancho No. 759; Dana R. Weller No. 765.
Changing time of Stated Meeting: Coalinga No. 387; Corcoran
No. 490.
Provisions for legal holidays: Doric No. 216; Hesperian No. 264:
Livington No. 658.
Uniform Code of By-Laws: Victory No. 474: Chowchilla No. 485:
Big Bear No. 617: Central California Research: Ashland U.D.: Bay
Clair Vista U.D.; Rio Hondo U.D.; Koolau U.D.; Yucca Valley U.D.

No. 1394-Petiti on for restoration. A member of Fresno Lodge No.
247. Expelled July 9. 1954.
No. 1407-Petiti on for restoration. A member of Bixby Knolls Lodge
No. 699. Expelled August 4, 1954.
No. 1473---->Petition for restoration. A Fellow Craft of Anchor Lodge
No. 273. Expelled October 3, 1955.
No. 1498-Petiti on for restoration. A member of Lebanon Lodge No.
495. Expelled May 1, 1956.
No. 1514-Petit ion for restoration. A member of Metropolitan Lodge
No. 646. Expelled September 26, 1957.
No. 1554-(Ret rial). A member of Mendocino Lodge No. 179. Expelled September 14, 1957.
No. 1559-Petit ion for restoration. A member of Poinsettia Lodge No.
633. Expelled December 5, 1957.
No. 1560-Petit ion for restoration. A member of La Mesa Lodge No.
407. Expelled December 2, 1957.
No. 1570-(Ret rial). A member of Patterson Lodge No. 488. Acquitted April 14, 1960.
No. 1571-Resto red by Lodge. A member of Livingston Lodge No.
658. Suspended March 5, 1958.
No. 1576-(Ret rial). A member of Ferndale Lodge No. 193. Expelled
February 8. 1960.
No. 1578-(Ret rial). A member of Richmond Lodge No. 375. Suspended July 11, 1960.
No. 1592-Resto red by Lodge. A member of Glendale Lodge No. 544.
Suspended September 3, 1959.
No. 1595-(Retr ial) A member of Loyalty Lodge No. 529. Expelled
November 5, 1957.
No. 1599-(Ret rial). A member of Palms Lodge No. 512. Expelled
July 7, 1960.
No. 1602-(Ret rial). A member of Selma Lodge No. 277. Expelled
September 10, 1958.
No. 1613-Resto red by Lodge. A member of Service Lodge No. 594.
Suspended November 7, 1958.
No. 1623-(Ret rial). A member of Norwalk Lodge No. 315. Expelled
September 6, 1960.
No. 1628-( Retrial). A member of Ashlar Lodge No. 306. Expelled
March 5, 1959.
No. 1632-(Ret rial). A member of Arcata Lodge No. 106. Expelled
January 4, 1960.
No. 1633-(Ret rial). A member of Canoga Lodge No. 611. Expelled
April 1, 1960.
No. 1641-A member of Lebanon Lodge No. 495. Expelled September
1. 1959.
No. 1642-A member of Service Lodge No. 594. Expelled September
4, 1959.

68

RESOLUTION S

Change of Meeting Place: Arbuckle No. 182: Salinas No. 204: San
Francisco No. 360; Moneta No. 405: Upland No. 419; York No. 423;
Garvanza No. 492; Ionic No. 520; Sunrise No. 522; Belvedere No. 539;
Lamanda Park No. 627; Fairview No. 629; Jordan No. 654; Reseda No.
666; Liberal Arts No. 677: Coastside No. 762; Palmdale No. 769.
Changing date of Annual Meeting: Sierra No. 788.
TRIAL RECORDS

921-Petitio n for restoration. A member of Solano Lodge No.
229. Expelled August 2. 1937. (See also Trial Record No.
804.)
No. 1078-Petit ion for restoration. A member of Mt. Diablo Lodge No.
448. Expelled November 13, 1945.
No. 1333-Petit ion for restoration. A member of Palo Alto Lodge No.
346. Expelled July 6, 1954.

No.

70

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No. 1643-A member of Charity Lodge No. 362. Expelled September
14, 1959.
No. 1644-A member of University Lodge No. 394. Expelled September 14, 1959.
No. 1645-A member of Fruitvale Lodge No. 336. Expelled October
1, 1959.
No. 1646-A member of Foohill Lodge No. 564. Acquitted September
3, 1959.
No. 1647-A member of Occidental Lodge No. 22. Expelled October
5, 1959.
No. 1648-A member of Vallejo Lodge No. 487. Expelled November
4, 1959.
No. 1649-A member of Sequoia Lodge No. 349. Suspended October
6, 1959.
No. 1650-A member of San Juan Lodge No. 732. Expelled September
16, 1959.
No. 1651-A member of The Gardens Lodge No. 621. Expelled
November 4, 1959.
No. 1652-A member of The Gardens Lodge No. 621. Expelled
November 4, 1959.
No. 1653-A member of Patterson Lodge No. 488. Reprimand November 12, 1959.
No. 1654-A dimitted member of Penrhyn Lodge No. 258. Expelled
December 3, 1959.
No. 1655-A member of Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674. Expelled
November 2, 1959.
No. 1656--A member of Ponderosa Lodge No. 700. Reprimand December 9, 1959.
No. 1657-A member of Bixby Knolls Lodge No. 699. Expelled December 2, 1959.
No. 1658-A member of Presidio Lodge No. 354. Suspended December 3, 1959.
No. 1659-A member of Hollywood Lodge No. 355. Acquitted
September 3, 1959.
No. 1660-A member of Torrance Lodge No. 447. Expelled November
6, 1959.
No. 1661-A member of Gold Hill Lodge No. 32. Expelled November
4, 1959.
No. 1662-An Entered Apprentic" of Evening Star Lodge No. 186.
Expelled December 2, 1959.
No. 1663-A member of Center Lodge No. 465. Suspended January 6,
1960.
No. 1664-A member of Foothill Lodge No. 561. Expelled November
5, 1959.
No. 1665-A member of Normal Heights Lodge No. 632. Expelled
February 1, 1960.

No. 1666-A member of Ophir Lodge No. 33. Expelled February 13,
1960.
No. 1667-A member of Blackmer Lodge No. 442. Expelled February
1. 1960.
No. 1668--A member of Morning Star Lodge No. 68. Acquitted
February 4, 1960.
No. 1669-A member of Florence Lodge No. 649. Suspended March
3. 1960.
No. 1670-A member of Torrance Lodge No. 447. Suspended December 4, 1959.
No. 1671-A member of South Park Lodge No. 563. Expelled April
7, 1960.
No. 1672-A Fellow Craft of Greenleaf Lodge No. 670. Expelled
April 6, 1960.
No. 1673-A member of Garden Grove Lodge No. 586. Acquitted July
13, 1959.
No. 1674-A member of Evergreen Lodge No. 259. Expelled May 4,
1960.
No. 1675-A member of Garvanza Lodge No. 497.. Reprimand May
3, 1960.
No. 1676-An Entered Apprentice of Kit Carson Lodge No. 734. Suspended December 2, 1959.
No. 1677-A member of Sierra Lodge No. 788 (plural member-Van
Nuys No. 450). Expelled April 4, 1960.
No. 1678-A member of Parnassus Lodge No. 388. Expelled June 7,
1960.
No. 1679-A member of Monte Vista Lodge No. 655. Expelled June
6. 1960.
No. 1680-A member of Bixby Knolls Lodge No. 699. Expelled July
6, 1960.
No. 1681-A member of Ingleside Lodge No. 630. Expelled July 5,
1960.
No. 1682-A member of Elysian Lodge No. 418. Expelled July 6, 1960.
No. 1683-A member of a Massachusetts Lodge. Expelled August
3, 1960.
No. 1684-A member of Eucalyptus Lodge No. 243. Suspended August 3, 1960.
No. 1685-A Fellowcraft of Illinoistown Lodge No. 51. Expelled
August 5, 1960.
No. 1686-A member of Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458. Expelled
August 4, 1960.
No. 1687-A member of Ingleside Lodge No. 630. Dismissed December
1, 1959.
No. 1689--A member of America Lodge No. 475. Expelled July 11,
1960.

71

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

72

73

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
NAME AND LODGE

FIFTY YEAR BUTTONS

Issued September l, 1959 through August 31, 1960
Issued to Date 6801
NAME AND LODGE

DATB AND RAISING

Acker, Geor~e Racine, Welcome No. 255....•........ -------------------------------·--November '), 1909
Ackerman, eorge Loms, Oroville No. 103..-----------·------------···-----------···-September 14, 1909
Ackerman, Harry William, Presidio No. 354..------------------------··-------------.May 26, 1910
Allen, Benjamin, Capital Qty No. 499____________________________________________________ .0cfober 24, 1907
Allen, Herbert DunninK:i Morning Star No. 68..... -------------------·----------·-··iinuary 30. 1909
Allen, William James, ission No. 169·-·---·-----------------------------------------·-- une 23, 1909
Allison, Herman, Covina No. 334..---------·--··-·---------------·---------·-·------------- ay 27, 1907
Anderson, Elmer Warner, Mt. Jackson No. 295---------·------------·--------------June 22, 1910
Anderson, George Howard, Monrovia No. 308..... -------------------·-----------··May 3, 1910
Anderson, Harry Leslie, Guadalupe No. 237.----------------------------------------·November 26, 1909
Anderson, Martin Gideon, Beverly Hills No. 528 __________________________________ April 29, 1908
Anderson, Roscoe James, Reading No. 254. ____________________________________________ May 3, 1910
Amdichou, Maximien, La Parfaite Union No. 17... ---------------------------------June 10, 1910
Angell Algernon, Durant No. 2'68 ................•......................................... uly 20, 1909
Arbogast, Glen Elven, West Lake No. 392·-----··----------------------·-------------·July 21. 1909
Armbruster, Rudolph Herman, Amity No. 370....... ----------------------------·---September 10, 1909
Arnold, Carl Frederick, Pajaro No. 110...------------------··----·--------------------···August 11, 1909
ASlh, George L. Henderson, Santa Ana No. 241... ................................••March 24, 1909
Ast, William Charles, Tuscan No. 26L..·-··--·····---····--·---·-············-··--·May 23, 1910
Auger, Harry Leon, Excelsior No. 166........·-·······---····-----·--····--·-··-----····July 28, 1909
Austin, Robert Edward, Atascadero No. 493......... --------------------··----·······September 24, 1909
Ayre, Leland Stanford, Roseville No. 222............................................•..Marcli 12, 1910
Bailey, Richard Kenneth, West Lake No. 392.......... -------------------·-----·····September l, 1909
Ballard, Lynn Walter, Palos Verdes No. 389 ____________________ ,, __ .. _____ .........April 3, 1900
Barnard, Charles Robert, Las Palmas No. 366..·------------------·--------------···May 6, 1909
Barney~ Rolland E., Mission No. 169.·-···-·----·-··-------·------------------------------·November 12, 1909
Barr, Harve:6 Andrew, Monte Vista No. 655...·----------·----------------------·····Febn.iary 24, 1910
Barr, Louis e Camp, Orinda No. 704••·-···········----------··----·-----····---······November 27, 1908
Barrows, George Louis, Phoenix No. 178.....-------------·-----------·····--------···March 9, 1908
Bascom, Jesse Percival, Union No. 58..••.••.......... ·-------·------------------------···-February 16, 1910
Baum, Jacob, East Gate No. 290••·-····-··············--·----------------------··--------···April 9, 1910
Bean, Le Roy, San Jose No. 10.....------··············----·-------------------------------·-APril 18, 1910
Beardmore, Stanley, Honolulu No. 409 ......------------.. ---·-----· ... ------------·---June 29, 1909
Beatie, Daniel Webster, San ~quin No. 19--------·----·----·-.. ·----·-----------···December 13, 1909
Bell, Harry Garfield, Salinas o. 204.. ·-·----·······-------------------------···-------···August 26, 1907
Belville, Frank Robert, San Diego 35 ...·----········-·---------··--------------------------0ctober 28, 1909
Bendel, Roland, Sequoia No. 349......----·-···------------------·-·--........ ...... ________ .October 25, 1909
Bendel, William Carl, Mission No. 169..·-·-·········--------------------------·-····---·July 13, 1909
Berglof, Alfred, Balder No. 393..------···-·········--····-············---·······--·------··--0ctober 8, 1909
Bethe, Reinhold, South San Francisco No. 212 ______________________________________ .December 16, 1909
Biggs, John C., Phoenix No. 178.. ----·-····-·-······---·----------------------------------···December 14, 1908
Bittenbender, Lloyd, Abell No. 146_________________________________________________________ August 11, 1909
Black, Dudley Frank, Hollyv.rood No. 355 ........ ---··--------------------------------·April 10, 1905
Black, Leslie Alexander, McKinley No. 347____________________________________________April 27, 1910
Blair, Charles A., Sunset No. 352·---··-·······-------------------------------------------·-December 21, 1909
Boger, Roger Frank, San Bernardino No. 348 ________________________________________ August 22, 1909
Bonetti, Marino, King David's No. 209.......·------------·-·----------------------------June 14, 1908
Boonstra, Peter John, Park No. 449......-------------------------------------·--------------September 4, 1909
Borgelt, Carl, Palms No. 512·----·-····-·······-----------------------------------·------------.December 20, 1909
Borton, Earl Cifford, Live Oak No. 61...•....... _________________________________________January 31, 1908
Bowler, John Dunlap, Sunset No. 352..·---·-----·----------------------------------------- anuary 28, 1910
Boxton, Charles Wynell, Presidio No. 354.·-·----------------·-------·----------··--··0ctober 28, 1909
Brakeman, Chas. Warren, Silver Cord No. 505 _____________________________________ December 16, 1909
Bratager, Leon J., Wilmington No. 198..·--·····-··--------------------·-···---------·February 18, 1910
Briggs, Walter David,
No. 370..•............·--·-----------------------·-------·August 27, 1909
Brigham, Edward Belmont, as Palmas No. 366...·---------------------------·--·-January 29, 1910
Brink, Percy Arthur, Unity No. 368...-------------·----------------------··--------------June 25, 1904

Am.ii:'.

DATE AND RAISING

Brizard, Etienne Dupuy, Arcata No. 106..........------··-·-·--······-·------------·-December 13, 1909
Broaded, George Dcibyns, Lexington No. 104... ------------··------------····--···-December 11, 1909
Brooks. Otto Wellington, Foot'hil No. 564.......----------------------------------·----January 22, 1910
Brown. Alexander, Bell No. 483·-----··-··--··----··---------------··------------------····February 3, 1909
Brown. Oharles ·Lee, Westwood No. 501 ......----------------·····-----·---------·---··March 29, 1909
Brown. Frederick Allen. Eucalyptus No. 243·-···--·--------·--··-··----------··---August 20, 1909
Brown. Lloyd H., Selma No. 277....---··------·---------------·--·--------------····--···-July 29, 1910
Broy, Delbert Matthew, Excelsior No. 166....---------------------------------·-····November 17, 1909
Bruce, Frank Leander, Mizpah No. 378.....-----···-----------····---------···-------July 29, 1910
Bruce, Harry Walker, Highland Park No. 382·-------·---------··----·------··--·Tune 2, 1910
Bruckerman, Frederick William, Amity No. 370..--·-----···---··-·--··---·----···.July 15, 1910
Brunner, Leon V., West Lake No. 392 .. ----·-·---------------------------·----------···--0ctober 18, 1909
Buchanan, Charles Foster, Southern California No. 278 ______________________ January 19, 1910
Burger, Frank E., Hollenbeck No. 319..----··---·····--···--·--····-----·-·-------------.September 28, 1909
Burger, Howard Preston, Southern California No. 278 _________________________ November 21. 1907
Burgess, Shadrack Lamar, Citro! No. 656·--·-··----·-··--·-·-·------------------------·0ctdber 2, 1909
Burola, Israel Martin, Guadalupe No. 237•... -------·--······-·········----·--·····-luly 22, 1907
Burt. John Paterson, Hunters Point Naval No. 706••·-······-···············--·'May 4, 1909
Burton, Ray 0., Selma No. 277•....·--··-····------···························-··········March 3, 1910
Butler, Chester Orville, Hanford No. 279.·-····-········-·······-········-··-·········May 26, 1906
Caldwell, Robert Craddock. Table Mountain No. 124....................... _..November 27, 1909
Callahan, Walter, Southern California No. 278.. -----··-----------·----------------June 29, 1906
Calvert, Reginald Alton, Oceanside No. 381 ..------·-·-------------------·-------·---·September 25, 1909
Cameron, Sr., John Alexander, Palo Alto No. 346.. -----------------------------·-September 23, 1909
Cannon, Richard. Starr King No. 344..........---------------·-·----··-···----····---··--·March 25, 1910
Carlisle, Robert John, Bakersfield No. 224...----------------------···--·----------·---·.March 31, 1910
Caro. Jacob, Pacific No. 136... ---······----····---------------------·-----------------·-------··-January 25, 1910
Carroll, Gustave Millingiton, Starr King No. 344... --------------··----------------June 8, 1910
Carter, Ralph W., Burbank No. 406... ---····---------··---------------···--·----·--·--···January 22, 1901
Casey, Walter P., Brawley No. 402.---········--··-----------------···--·------------·-·-.September 21, 1909
Castle, Maurice Jay, Unity No. 368·-··········-···-·······----··················----·--·April l, 1910
Castle, Walter Price, Santa Cruz No. 38-------············----······----··-··--····-··November 9, 1909
Catlin, Charles William, Burbank No. 406.............................................December 19, 1905
Cavalier, Lewis A,-thur, Burlingame No. 400.. ------------····-----·------------·····February 22, 1910
Caylor, John J., Clairborne No. 185....·-····---·---··----------------------·-·-------·----·0ct:ober 9, 1909
Cheever, Roy R., Corona No. 324.......... ---------------··------------------------------March 17, 1910
Church, George Franklin, Fruitvale No. 336.------------------------------·----------·September 18, 1909
Clark, Alba Ezadore, Fruitvale No. 336...----------------------·---------------··---···April 23, 1910
Clark, Aurelius, Molino No. 150.. ---------··------···-------------·--------·-----------------Aprll ll, 1908
Clark, C. Todd, Clovis No. 417..·-----····-··-·····-·-----··-······------·······--·-·September 14, 1906
Clark, Ernest Pier, Molino No. 150-------------------------------·----------------------·--September 11. 1909
Oark, Fred Adam, Riverside No. 635...........---------·-----····--·--·-·----------·----December 27, 1909
Clausen, Charles Oliver, Starr King No. 344 _________________________________________March 30, 1910
Cline, Bertram Foster, Henry_ S. Orme No. 458.............................•.•...•..February 20, 1905
Clodi, Louis Charles Julius, King Solomon's No. 260............................ November 29, 1909
Closson, Elliott M., Covina No. 334 ..----------··--····--------------------------------·--December 3, 1902
Cobb, John Patton, San Joaquin No. 19..............---···--··-·-------------------------January 17, 1910
Cobb, William J., Porterville No. 303.........----·--·-··-----------·---·--·----·----------0otober 20, 1909
Cochrane, William E., Albany No. 686.... ------··--·--------------------------·-··-··April 10, 1910
Cocking, William Joseph, Rose's Bar No. 89....--------------------------------··-··-May 14, 1910
Coffey, Robert Newsom, Compass No. 590..·---····-·--·-·---·---------------------·-January 7, 1909
Coffin, Perlis Eugene, Arcadia No. 547.... ------·-·-·--·--·---·····---------·--·---------.July 7, 1903
Cole, Hilliard Roblin, San Joaquin No. 19..... ----·----··-----··-··-·-----·---·----····February 14, 1910
Coleman, Howard Cleveland, Universiity No. 394.. -----------------------···----March 31, 1910
Coleman, Simeon Waldo, Santa Cruz No. 38..-----------------------------------····November 16, 1909
Collins, Sr., Burton Wallace, Silver Gate No. 296.----------------·-··--------·---June 24, 1908
Columbus, Joseph, Los Angeles No. 42.----·--·-··---···---------------·------------------February 21, 1909
Cook, Milton Marcus, Alcatraz No. 244.......---·-······················-·-·-------··-.January 27, 1910
Cook, Thomas Henry Jackson, Anchor No. 273............•••...................•.April 23, 1910
Cornwell, Albert Glenn, Unity No. 368....·-···················-----···-····------June 14, 1910
Crede, Henry William, San Fernando No. 343•...·--···························-Septemher 21, 1907

74

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
NAME AND LODGE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
DATE AND RAISING

Crichton, Stanley Edgar. Fratern!ty No. 399 _______________________________________August 14. 1909
§ronin, James Arthur, McKinley No. 347·-----···--------------····-·--------·--------January 27, 1910
ropser- Errol Dexter. Yerba Buena No. 403·----····--···········-------------····April 28, 1910
§rowel • Henry Edward, Lakeshore No. 55L.·-----···············----------·------.August 23, 1909
Culp, Clare, Redondo No. 328.... ·------·--····---------------··--·--·····--------------------March 31. 1910
urrier, HenrKFharles, Eureka No. 16·--··-···--------···--------···-----------·-------Fe'bruary 24, 1910
Curry, James allhew Walter, Santa Monica No. 307..........................September 25, 1909
Custer, Rolla Johns, Lodi No. 256·-·---···-------------------····-----····-----·····--------·0ctober 24, 1909
gav~nj1i, Charles Edward Vernon, McC!oud No. 430....... _________________April 7, 1910
399......----···----·---------···-·-----···------··-------February 13, 1909
FraternitMNo.
rank,William,
D av1s onald
ission No. 169...._____________________________________________ June 16. 1909
ay, 0
1909
----·November
Rosvordan
Omar
Deam,
1909
0ctober 30,19.
145 _______________________________________________________
No.654·-·········-·········-----····--······--·············itruvlusNo.
Henry,
De ~ark,
De ng, Maurice Gordon, San Lorenzo Valley No. 718...........- ........ November 22, 1909
Del Vecchio, Emilio G., Speranza Italiana No. 219... ____________________________ September 24, 1909
Dennee, Fred Vincent, Ocean Park No. 369-------·-···----·-··-----------------------September 28, 1906
Deverts, Charles Oliver, Ontario No. 301___ ___________________________________________ .July 15, 1910
De Waard, Hartman, Corona No. 324 ....·-----------·-·-----·····------------------·---.May 20, 1910
g~yl. w~~ai CHI. Occidental No. 22......·------·-··············--·-···---Marcb 21, 1910
1910
No. 126..........·-····-··········-----·-·-March 9, 1910
Dittmer, C jfi es erman, La Fayette 117
....._____________________________________ .April 19,
Jules, Concord No.
~Hg(j;
D • Er es E a entine, Corinthian No. 9..................·-·······················-Auguat 11, 1909
D ffn, Wll mBy,Jeaside No. 504_·····-··-------------···----···-··-----·--------····November 24, 1909
~ ey, GI llam .Ah, ardena No. 372....... ·----------··-----···-··-··-···----·---··-----April 18, 1910
D ggan, Leeo}fil · ert, Long Beaoh No. 327-------------------·---·--····--·-···-·December 2, 1907
Dunc~ e Edn, Coalinga No. 387___····----··-----------···---···--·-········-------.July 31, 1909
ward, Corinthian No. 9------···-····------·-··········---------------July 31, 1909
tone
utra,
Corinthian No. 9--·······················-·······················-···March 4, 1910
Otto,
~eler~l'L:s
E 1iaAs.h ~y Mallory, West Lake No. 392.....................................February 21. 1910
Ee 1s, rt w- wls, Orange Grove No. 293...·--------------················--·----·July 13, 1909
Ef estEn, John Valentine, Berkeley No. 363·-·-····--··-··············-·---··-·····-··July 25, 1907
Eliot, t:rd Ludington, Corona No. 324·---------·-·················--··--··········November 18, 1909
Eil~soch urence, Humboldt No. 79... ·--·-·-----·-··-··--·--···--····--·-····--------.December 22, 1909
a£,es LeRoG, Oroville No. 10.3.............- .............................._0ctiaber 4, 1909
E is,
E merso'te ouglas ee, San Joaquin No. 19.........·-··------··················--...December 21, 1909
Eri,erC, e Roy, Sunset No. 352.·----····--·····--····-------------···-···----·-----------·0ctober 29, 1909
E • eorge Alfred, Stanislaus No. 206.... _____________________________________________ February 16, 1909
Eries.son, William Leonard, Pacific No. 136..·---------··---······-···-···--····-··...Ma.rch 29, 1910
Eriksdn. Edward, Balder No. 393·-·--··-···-····----····················--A......_May 20, 1910
tzol • Fritz W., Hermann No. 127..... ·-·--·····--····----··········----------·-..November 29, 1909
~abbr, Sfvio, Speranza ltaliana No. 219.....•.·-·-··-·······················--·....May 26, 1910
Farmer, yman Dwi·ght, Hanford No. 279..·-··--····························-···.Auguat 20, 1909
Fam_swt~· GeorW Howe, Hawaiian No. 2L..·-·····-·················--·-..Marc:h 19, 1910
F allns, uc1an P ., nterprise No. 70.......................·-····----·-·····---··········----September 1906
Fe ows, George Warren. Mariposa No. 24.·--··------------··------··--·----·········December 31, 1909
Ferguson, Daniel Webster, West Lake No. 392--·················-----·····-·..April 26, 1910
F ergusoR, Thomas James, Mariposa No. 24..·-···-····-···········-·--··-·-----0ctaber 9, 1909
illius, alph Rolland, Hesperian No. 26·L···-···-···------··-·······--·-----·······-February 27, 1909
~!nk~nstedt, George, Fruitvale No. 336....·-·-··-·-----·-····-·····-·-···············-·April 25, 190.3
F1rm1ftr, Bert J., Beverly Hills No. 528......·-·······---··-·····--········-----·-·····.December 21, 1909
n Cameron, Wilmington No. 198·-····------···-------·········-··-···-------·November 30, 1909
oh),
~oulkes, Edward Thomas, Yeri>a Buena No. 403_·-·····---········------------·---June 23, 1910
raser, Samuel George, Antioch No. 175.......·--·····-----···········-·----------····-July 3, 1909
Fraser", William Sutherland, Honolulu No. 409...................................... March 16, 1910
Frost, Horatio Terrill, California No. J _______ ,................... _______January 25, 1910
Fryer, ~y Montgomery, Pomona No. 246.....·-····-···------·········-··········-0ctober 22, 1901
~uller, arles Rerford, Sunnyvale No. 51 L------·········-········-··---··-·.Aprll 26, 1910
urness, Gilbert B., Visa:lia No. 128....·-····-·····-··········-··-·············--···--Janu ary 17, 1899

t vi

gabbe, Henry, Silver Gate No. 296·---···········-··-·················-······- ··May 25, 1910
abbert, JohD Raymond. Ever"green No. 259-·-----····-···--- --Novelllber 16, 1907

•

NAME AND LODGE

75
DATE AND RAISING

William Edward. Elysian No. 418...... ----·-···-·-············--···---.June 17. 1910
, Jr., Alfred Russell, Union No. 58... ·------·------·-··---·······--···--···September 15, 1909
seph M., Oriental No. 144-................------------------------·-··----·-·0ctober 15, 19CYT
Gercfn~. Raymond Charles, Amity No. 370....·-----··------·--------·····----------September 8, 1909
Glbaoo Clare Ellis, Lexington No. 104.. ---·······-··-------·····----················-.June 4, 1909
Alrien Wilson, Mizpah No. 378 ......... ·------·-·----···----······-----------August 23, 1909
GlJbert:Earl Black, El Segundo No. 507·-········-····--··-------····--·······---······-June 9, 1910
G1Jbert George HenrY• Oroville No. 103........ ________________________________________ June 7, 1910
Gdmor~ Earl Bell, West Lake No. 392.... ·-······-·········-················--········-August 30, 1909
G)aacoclc. Raymond K., Oxnard No. 34L...·-·-----·----··-···-····-·······----····April 3, 19091909
Glazier, Theodore Edward, Indian Rock No. 638...·--·-·······-----August 20,
Godden, William C., Granada No. 608 ......------····-····-······-····-··-···-·..May 13, 1910
Good. Clarence Milton, Golden State No. 358·---------·······-········------··-···February 24, 1910
Goodwin. Henry Pooley, Unity No. 368---------·----------------------·-·····-·-·······July 8, 1910
Goold James Hamilton, Brooklyn No. 225..............................................November 16, 1909
1904
Gorclo°n, Charles F., Glendora No. 404 ... ·--····- -·····-······------··-·-··-······--····.March 25,
Gordon. Jr .• Hugh T., Glendora No. 404.......... _______________________________________ August 3, 1906
Graham. William Harry, San Gabriel No. 546 .. ----·-·····-·---------····-····---·February 24, 1908
Grapengeter, Harry William, Cahuenga No. 513·----------------·······----------June I. 1904
Greenlaw, Charles Rutherford, Willits No. 365·----·-·····--····-··--···-·--------.March 2, 1910
Griffith, Griffith Henry, Vista No. 687·---·········-········-·············~··-·.May 24, 1909
Groninger, Cloyd E., Glendora No. 404.......... ·------------····-------·-···--········-Fe'bruary 7, 1910
Groves, Harry L., Oriental No. lH.......... ·-·····--··········-·······----······--------·February 16, 1909
Guild, Archibald Smith, Honolulu No. 409.. ·-··--·---·--···-----------······---------·July 15, 1910

E

Gifford

Haberlein, Carl Louis, Hemet No. 615.·-·-····-····-····················------F ebruary 11, 1910
Hair, Arthur Martin, Mariposa No. 24.---·-·····························-···-·De cember 22, 1909
Hall, Cloyd Crouch, Palisades No. 637.•·-····-············-···-····················-JdlY 29, 1909
Ham, Whitcomb H .• Covelo No. 23L...·-·····-····························-·····-··· arch 21, 1910
Hansen, Chris Hans, Surprise Valley No. 235·-·····--········-·······-···-··--····--June 10, 1910
Hansen, John Henry, Surprise Valley No. 235......------------····---····----------January 28, 1910
Hansen, Louis, Surprise Valley No. 235 ....·-·······----···--········---·······-------··March 5, 1910
Hargrave, Arthur C.. Ontario No. 301... ................................................. July 16, 1909
Harkins, Charles John, Pearl Harbor No. 598...... -------------·----······--······--.December 7, 1909
Harlow, Albert Sylvester, South San Francisco No. 212·-----·····-----------January 27, 1910
Harmer, Daniel Perry, Silver Gate No. 296................................. _________ June 8. 1910
Harrington, Arnold Amie, Livingston No. 658........--------··--·--···-············June 29, 1910
Harris, Allyn Frederick, Wilming-ton No. 198..·--·--·-··············-····-··-·····.March 24, 1908
Harvey, John Richard, Southern California No. 278................._______ 1907
Hattan, Roy Ellson, Santa Rosa No. 57 ..·-·······-·······------·······-·········-·-·--.April l l, 1910
HattOll, William John, Naval No. 87·----- ···-·······-----···········-··-····-··------··-.January 27, 1910
Haverly, Gustave, East Gate No. 290... -----·····-···-·······-------·--·-·····--·-----·-··March I. 1909
Hawkins, Isaac Horace, Redondo No. 328...·----------------·---·-··--·····---------·August 6, 1909
Hays, Ralph E .• San Fernando No. 343..----····-····-·--·-··-··---··-----······-····-·May 6, 1909
Hayward, William Frank, Liberty_ No. 299.·-··-······-··------·····--··-··········--·July 30, 1910
Hepler, Marvin Cooper, Service No. 594................................................ November 4, 1909
Herbst, Maurice Henry, Starr King No. 3H ..........·---··-··-··-····-·····--·····June 22, 1910
28, 1907
Herkelrath, Frank, Evergreen No. 259... -----··------·······-······------·-···-·····----June
Herr~gton, Edward Lee, California No. L.. .... _____________________________________June 18, 1910
Hill, William Edmond, Surprise Valley No. 235.·--·····------------············--·February 4, 1910
Hiller, Frederick Michael, Amity No. 370....·-········--·-··········-····-----·-···-June 17, 1910
Hoeye, Alfred Marion, Palos Verdes No. 389...·---·-···--···-····--·-·········----0ctober 15, 1909
Hogan, Howard Whittelsey, California No. 1............ -----····--······-········August 12, 1909
Hokom, John, West. Lake No. 392..-----·············--···-······················-··-····.September 18, 1909
Holmgren, Carl, Mill Valley No. 356..........·-····--·----····-···············-······--·July 25, 1910
Holz.muller, Karl Frederick, Mount Moriah No. H--------·····---·····--····-·--September 15, 1909
Homer, Harry Fred, Searchlight No. 567............--------···---···-·-·····----------January 24, 1908
Hook, Chester Classen, Alamo No. 122..·--·······--········-·-···------·······--·······September 4, 1909
Hoover, Roy W., Oceanside No. 381................. -----------···············-···-·····-January l, 1910
Hopper, William Wesley, Alisa) No. 321............ ------····-···-·-···-···-------·---March 19, 1910
Howenstein, Claude Mellnotte, Santa Ana No. 241------············-···--·-···.May 11, 1909
Hubbel, John Harvey, Fruitvale No• .336......... ______ ............... ---------------January 29, 1910

76

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
NAME AND LODGE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
DATE AND RAISING

~uffter, Ernest C., Pacific No. 136........................................................• March 23, 1909

Hu • William Conrad, Presidio No. 354............................................... -June 17, 1909
Huffman, Conrad W., Bi~Bear No. 617................. ..... ........................... February 15, 1910
Hughes, Scott, Yosemite o. 99 __···-························· .........................•October 21, 1909
Humphrey, Floyd Lawrence, Oroville No. 103...................................... September 8, 1908
Humphries, Thomas Frank, Bellftower No. 523 ........................... ........ _.January 7, 1910
unnacutt, James Jefferson, Humboldt No. 79........................................March 19, 1910
Ide, Wilson T., La~lla No. 518·-·-·-·-····------······························--Febr,uary 19, 1910
Isenstein, Charles, yal~ No. S29-·-·-·-····································Peb~ 15, 1910
Israel, David, Pittsburg o. 429_________......................................May 12, 1909
Jamieson, George Mitchell, Willits No. 365 ..................... ....................... April 24, 1907
Jenkins, Morris Arthur, Union No. 58......................................................December 16, 1908
ennings, Edward Paul, Burbank No. 406..... _......................... ... ............July 24, 1908
Jepsen, Hans P., San Diego No. 35·-·············--····················-··················-July 30, 1910
Johanson, Elis Rag·nar, South San Francisco No. 212 ......... .................. December 16, 1909
ohns, James Simpson, Eureka No. 16-················-·-······························Tune 22, 1910
Johnson, Edwin Henry, Seq11ola No. W-········--·········-····················--'November 22, 1909
Johnson, Ludwig Ma_qnus, Harbor No. 502...........................................-July 2, 1910
Johnston, Archibald Hol'e, Pamassus No. 388_........................ ········---Prior to 1910
ohnston, k'.fwett Miner, King David's No. 209............................. ......... December 8, 1909
Johnston, arvin Ray, Glendora No. 404............................................... April 28, 1910
Jones, Bruce K., Alpha No. 431... .............................................................December 14, 1909
Jones, Edward Everett, El Dorado No. 26.............................................. September 8, 1909
Jones, Jarrard Ellis, Naval No. 87......·-······························· ···················-February 14, 1910
ones, Kenneth lnskip, Suisun No. 55.......................................................December 13, 1909
Jones, William, Los Gatos No. 292.-....................... ................ ...........May 9, 1910
ones, William Thomas, Naval No. 87.................................................. July 16, 1910
Kees, Walter C., Alban~o. 686·-··-················· ····································.January 13, 1910
Kellum, Earl Junius, Te
a No. 3.......................................................... July 19, 1909
Kennedy, Nathaniel, Hollenbeck No. 319................................................March 21, 1910
Kent, [ohn Earl, Two Rivers No. 731......................... - ............ .............. March 2, 1910
Kerr, awrence Alfred, Le Progres de l'Oceanie No. 371.. ................. _July 8, 1910
Kingsley, Lewis Edwin, Mount Jackson No. 295 ....................................January 29. 1910
Kinmore, Elmer Winship, Chula Vista No. 626 ........................... ...........December 9, 1909
Kipp, Ernest Paul, Golden Rule No. 479................................................. April 23, 1909
Klaus, Fred James, Berkeley No. 363·-········-·········································-June 24, 1909
Knapp, John Frederick, Sequoia No. 349................ .................................March 11, 1910
~?PP· Joseph Roscoe, Albert Pike No. 484 ........................................ _November 30, 1909
He:-WG., Yount No. 12..........·-····················································July 7, 1908
K II, Dan ilhelm~, West Lake No. 392 ............................................. une 27, 1910
och, (;eQfl3e Adolp , San Jose No. 10....................................... .......... April 18, 1910
~ohlbeef; fred, Fidel!p; No. 120·-················-········ .............................. February 11. 1909
ress,
arles Brooks, emescal No. 314 ............................................... June 29, 1909
Kull, Howard Milton, Silver Gate No. 296 .............................................. January 19, 1910
~uns, Harvey Allen, Queen Beach No. 540............................................ May 6, 1910
upser, Herbert Milton, Live Oak No. 61... ............................................ November 26, 1909
[1ffranc-hini, Charles D., Hope No. 234....·-········ ...................................March 18, 1910
Lange, William Fred, Amity No. 370...................................................... 0ctober 22. 1909
J:.!dyard, Benjamin Cory, Fraternity No. 399.........................................July 27, 1908
L e, Augustus Leander, Santa Rosa No. 57............................................ February 10, 1910
ehnhardt, H~Aloyisus, Apollo No. 396..........................................March 17, 1910
Leonard, Hervy art, Live Oak No. 61... ...............................................January 29, 1909
tevy, Armand David, Doric No. 216...................................................... September 30, 1909
evJ;• Silmund, Fresno No. 241·-··-··········-··················· ....................... .March 18, 1910
Lin sey, awrence Leasel, Hennosa No. 557........ ................................. February 23, 1910
tarenzen, Hiram Abif, Ar9ponaut No. 461... .................. . .............. .. ........ July 30, 1907
ucas, Julius Robert, John . Jarman No. 669.........................................March 24, 1910
Luhrs, Carl August, Marin No. 191...................................... ...................0ctober 27, 1908

J<!:f,

~cCowen, Hale, Abell No. 146..·-··--·······--·····································..November 20, 1909
cDonald, Frank Poole, Justice No. 549·-··-·································--June 27, 1910

NAME AND LODGE

77
DATE AND RAISING

McGahie, Robert John, Excelsior No. 166..............................................April 20, 1910
McGill. James Cook, Honolulu No. 409............... ...... ..........................July 5, 1910
McKinne. Andrew Baruia. Amity No. 370.............. .................................March 25, 1910
McMillan, James, Humboldt No. 79........................................................ December 14, 1909
McPhetres, Daniel Morten, Santa Cruz No. 38...................................... January 19, 1909
Macconel, James Murray, Hawaiian No. 21............................... ......... February 26, 1910
Mac Diarmid, Frank Chauncey, Arorn No. 494.....................................March 11, 1910
Mallet, Richard Edward, Ocean Park No. 369.................................... September 21, 1909
Manohester, Paul Henry, Presidio No. 354............................ . .......... September 23, 1909
Mandie, Alfred Walter, Golden State No. 358................ .......... .... ...... September 22, 1909
Marsh, Arthur Orio, Azure No. 533........................ . ............................ .August 30, 1909
Marsh, Frederick Taylor, Eureka No. 16................... ............................ December 22, 1909
Marshall, William Thomas, California No. L ......................................July 29, 1909
Martignoni, Walter Louis, Rockridge No. 468....................................... Augi:st 7, 1908
Martin, Leonard Leander, Mount Diahlo No. 448.................................April 6, 1910
Mathieson, Robert, Greenleaf No. 670.............. ·-······················· ..........March 7, 1908
Matteson, Walter Marshall, Madison No. 23.............................. ... ......May 4, 1910
Mauch. Herbert Andrew, Occidental No. 22·-······················ ······ ...... -October 25, 1909
May, Fred Hicks, Visalia No. 128.............................................. ...........July 8, 1910
Mellenthin, Alfred Ira, Sojourner No. 607................. .............................June 14, 1907
Mendelsohn, David, West Lake No. 392..•.·-····-····· ............................. February 28, 1910
Merchant, David Nelson, Moneta No. 405............................................. April 25, 1910
Meredith, Frank Waite, Culver City No. 467........................................ September 26, 1901
Miano, John Norton, Howard No. 37..................................................... July 11. 1910
Michel, Herman, Ocean Park No. 369 ........... _........... .........................October 11. 1909
Middour. William Louis, Santa Cruz No. 38.........................................September 12, 1907
Mighetto, Demetrio, Speranza 1-taliana No. 219..................... ...............August 20, 1909
Miller, Frank William, Brooklyn No. 225............................................... April 26, 1910
Miller, Frederick Wallace, Travelers No. 692 .......................................July 28, 1909
Miller, James Andrew, Mount Moriah No. 44._..................................... 0ctober 28, 1909
Miller, Royal, Berkeley No. 363..·-·-·····················-······························-·· September 23, 1909
Mills, Everts Freeman, Woodbridge No. 131...................................... -July 16, 1910
Minor, Clarence, Oceanside NIO. 381.. ............................ ..... .................becember 9, 1902
Mollenhauer, John Louis, King Solomon's No. 260............................ -.May 24, 1909
Monson, Charles, Balder No. 393.-.................................. .. ....... .......... October 29, 1909
Mooney, Franklin Proctor, Redlands No. 30CL.................................... July 28, 1909
Moore, John, Santa Cruz No. 38.............................................................. August 19, 1909
Moore, Samuel Bums, Salinas No. 204.................................................... AJ,ril 1, 1909
Morgan, Laurence William. Golden State No. 358............... ................May 19, 1910
Morris, Clair Dan, West Lake No. 392 ................................................. September 1, 1909
Muller, Martin, Hermann No. 127............................................................May 9, 1910
Munro, Henry, Mission No. 169.. ------··········-··········-······················--·March 17, 1909
Myer, Arthur Henry, Libertas No. 466................................................... April 19, 1910
Myers, Charles Frank, Redondo No. 328................................... .......... May 21, 1910
Napier, Jr., John, Kilauea No. 330............................................................0ctober 2, 1909
Nauth, Oliver Lewis. Golden State No. 358............................................Septemher 23, 1909
Neuman, James Vincent, Redwood City No. 168...................................August 6, 1910
Newman, Marion, Fidelity No. 120....·-··········-····································-·November 18, 1909
Nibbe, Henry Berthold, Excelsior No. 166..·-··············· .. ......................August 25, 1909
Nice, Charles Evert, Brawley No. 402 ....................................... ..............June 15, 1909
Nicholas, Tames Stewart, S~quoia No. 349...........................................-.December 20, 1909
Nickson, fierbert William, Hesperian No. 264.......................................March 19, 1910
Norwood, Albert Manning, South Park No. 563....................................May 22, 1908
Oakley, Charles Wilder, Nicolaus No. 129.............................................December 17, 1909
Obradovich, Mttar, Presidio No. 354.......................................................September 16, 1909
Odell, Glenn E., Glendora No. 404...........................................................September 30, 1909
Ogden, Thomas Albert, Corona No. 324 .................................................0ctober 4, 1909
O'Neil, Veo Erwin, Palos Verdes No. 389........ ---········-························November 19, 1904
Palmer, Fred Harlow, Yerba Buena No. 403..........---···-····-················-June 21, 1910
Parker, Ben Baurs, Reading No. 254·-····················-·····························-.May 31, 1910
Parry, Harry, Morgan Hill No. 463-....................----···-···-····-·····-..December 12, 1907

78

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
NAME AND LODGE

DATE AND RAISING

Paterson, Nelson James, Parnassus No. 388·-··-·········--····--··-··········-·December 4, 1909
Peak, James Hoadley, Silver Gate No. 296·-·········•··················-············1'4>ril 18, 1910
Peake, Harry Garfield, Hillcrest No. 573....·-····-····-················-············February 22, 1910
Peet, Floyd Augustus, Crescenta Valley No. 652 ................................... November 27, 1909
Perry, Irvin David, Pentalpha No. 202..................... ---···········-····-·········July 19, 1910
Person, Ole, Balder No. 393......·-··············-······················-·····················March 11. 1910
Pfau, Jr., Louis Jacob, California No. L ... ·-········--········-··················--.January 23, 1909
Philliips, John Andrew, San Pedro No. 332...... ·-·····································April 28, 1910
Pickering, George Walter, Stockton No. 498......................................... June 3, 1909
Pierce, Francis Ogden, Hesperian No. 264.........·-····-····-·····················December 8, 1905
Pierce, William, Oakland No. 188........................................................... August 21, 1909
Pierron, Emile J., La Parfaite Union No. 17.......... ·-··········-················-·July 16, 1909
Pinney, Milton Edmonds, Yerba Buena No. 403.................................... April 11, 1910
Pinout, Francois, La Parfaite Union No. 17....·-······················-·········--·July 9, 1909
Pirdy, Adelbert James, Pomona No. 246.................................................. August 31, 1908
Porter, Charles Brown, Visalia No. 128·-········-····-······················-········0ctober 2, 1909
Porter, Robert D., Pacific No. 136...... ·-······················-···························March 24, 1908
Post, Maurice Eaton, Francis K. Shattuck No. 571................................Maroh 2, 1909
Potter, Walter P., Unity No. 368.-.......................................................... March 30, 1908
Prastka, Anthony, Solano No. 229........................................................... February 15, 1910
Pratt, Lee S., Florence No. 649·-·-··-·······-·-······--·--········-····- -··-··-November 11, 1909
Primet, Edward L., Oriental No. 144.·--·········--··········-························February 8, 1910
Pyle, Joshua Oscar, Hunting·ton Beach No. 380......·-·····················-·-··August 27, 1910
Quade, Henry Otto, San Francisco No. 360....·-····-·····-····-····-·····-February 22, 1910
Rankin, Robert Ray, Hollywood No. 355................................................February 25, 1910
Rathke, Otto P., Yount No. 12.........:·-····-········································-···-.June 7, 1910
Rawson, John Sidney Gascoign, Bay_ View No. 401... ..............- ...........September 27, 1909
Reed, Arthur Lanfear, Mt. Jackson No. 295 ............................................ May 18, 1910
Rhea, Oscar Sunderland, Thousand Oaks No. 478............................. _.Novemher 28, 1905
Rhein, Sidney, Santa Cruz No. 38......·-····-·············································August 29, 1908
Richards, Howard Webster, McKinley No. 347.....................................December 9. 1909
Richar~n. Theron, Riviera No. 780......................................................June 5, 1909
Rico, George Basserman, South Gate No. 320........................................November 20, 1909
Riedemann, John H., Acacia No. 538 ...................................................• November 27, 1908
Rintoul, De Witt Talmadge, Bakersfield No. 224.................................. April 30, 1908
Roberts, Frank Henry, Patterson No. 488............................................... March 7, 1908
Roberts, William Edward, Silver Gate No. 296..................................... January 17, 1908
Robinson, Edward Oscar, Bay View No. 401.. ....................................... Februai:-y 2, 1905
Robinson, Franklin John, Stanislaus No. 206..·-····-··········--·················September 3. 1909
Roddan, Charles Hugh, Union No. 58.. ·-········-······································MMCh 19, 1910
Rogers, Herbert Thomae, Bakersfield No. 224... _................................... March 17, 1910
Rogers, Warner Ode!, Whittier No. 323................................................December 9, 1909
Romine, Clemeth Ottorbin, Poinsettia No. 633.......................................August 26, 1909
Rosenberg, Fred Sig, Santa Rosa No. 57................................................. November 23, 1909
Ross, Clarence Newton, Santa Cruz No. 38............................................April 19, 1910
Rothschild, Samuel. South Pasadena No. 367................................. _...... June 19, 1909
Rowe, George David, Liberty No. 299............ ·-············-······················.April 9, 1910
Rowe, Ward Cleveland, Stanislaus No. 206 ........................................... May 20, 1910
Rowland, David Hobart, Exeter No. 424........•......·--·-·········-····--···-May 21, 1910
Sams, Homer L., Los Gatos No. 292..................................................._..• March 26, 1910
Sanborn, Alphonso Henry, Chico No. 111...........................- ..............• Maroh 26, 1910
Sandercock, William Frederick, King David's No. 209.......................•November 26, 1909
Sawye~ James <;bester, Cakital City No. 499..·-··········---············-···..April 10, 1909
Schaac ey, Louis John, Oa land No. 188..·-··--·----·······-·-····-··Noveni>er 13, 1909
Schad, George Edward, Mount Diahlo No. 448·--····-·······--··········.April 3, 1909
Schakow, Charles John, Porterville No. 303..·-··········-····-····················November 5, 1909
Schinneller, John Harold, Occidental No. 22.........................................•November 20, 1909
Schmidt, Ernest Alfred, Southern California No. 278........................... December 11. 1909
Schoenwald, Emil, Starr King No. 344......·-···········································Decemher 15, 1909
Schubert, A. Richard, Hermann No. 127•.·--·--······································March 28, 1910
Scott, John K., Culver City No. 467...·--·-··--···················-······-··········June 17, 1908

NAME AND LODGE

79
DATE AND RAISING

Scott, Minor Blake, Sout>h West. No. 283..·-······································-···May 13, 1908
Scoville, Henry Franklin. Sojourner No. 607_·-····-······························.August 17, 1905
Scrivner, Chester, Van Nuys No. 450..·-··········-··--······························.August 17, 1908
Seamans, Carl Horace, Yorba Linda No. 469.. ·-··········-···············-····-.June 30, 1910
Selph. Ewald Edward, Southern California No. 278..- .........................0ctcber 27, 1909
Sexton, Leo Lloyd, Honolulu No. 409..·-··-··········-····-··························Jllovember 29, 1910
Shaffer, Dan Eugene, San Diego No. 35........·-····-································We 26, 1909
Shappell, Harold Metheany, Taft No. H6..·-··········-··-····-··-············- ovember 5, 1909
Shepherd, Howard Franklin, Beverly Hills No. 528..·-·························December 17, 1909
Sheppard, William Edward, Golden State No. 358....................·-····-November 24, 1909
Sherriffs, Alexander, Ingleside No. 630.............--··-····--········-······--·Febl'UaO' 13, 1909
Shinkle, James William, Union No. 58..·-··············-······························-November 27, 1907
Shinn, Clement Lawrence, West Lake No. 392...................................... November 27, 1909
Shostrom, Emil, West Lake No. 392..·-····-··········-···········-··-·················Novemher 29, 1909
Shrouf. James Shannon, Victorville No. 634...........................................0ctober 6, 1909
Siebert. John Clute, Amity No. 370......................... -··········-···················May 20, 1910
Siefert, Frederick, Santa Ana No. 241..._ ................................................ December 3, 1904
Silliman, Charles Perrine, Acorn No. 494.........---···-····························-·November 13, 1909
Skopecek, Georg_e Randolph, Illinoistown No. 51... ............................... 0ctober 30, 1909
Slater, William R .. South Gate No. 320·-······················-·····----··--·-.M ay 22, 1909
Sleeth, Edgar Langdon, Mizpah No. 378..........................•.................- ..March 28, 1910
Smith, Earl Spencer, Lexington No. 104................... - .............................April 7, 1910
Smith, Frank Barton, Rio Vista No. 208......................... _.......................January 22, 1910
Smith, William John, Vermont Square No. 515 ......................................September 14, 1908
Snyder, Ralph Leonard, Las Palmas No. 366.........................................April 7, 1910
Solomon, Edward, North Hollywood No. 542 ...............................- ......May 19, 1910
Sparks, Jr.. William Martin, Gold Hill No. 32........·-····-·····················.January 22, 1910
Spencer, Allen H., Guardian No. 596...·--············-··-··········-····-··········-Noveolber 17, 1909
Stadfield, Clayton Grube, Cahuenga No. H3·-·······-········-··---········--.February 28, 1908
Stalder, Edward Cutter, Yerba Buena No. 403..·-····-··················-······-July 1'4, 1910
Stalder, John R .. Pacific No. 1.36...••....•..·-··········································--·-.May 25, 1909
Stanford, Wllliam T., Solano No. 229..·-··-·······-·--···-··········-········-April 30, 1910
Stange, Herman, Crossroads No. 696.............................................- ........June 16, 1910
Stap_p, Clyde Wel\ley, West Gate No. 335 ...........................................-.September 30, 1909
Starbuck, Maurice Bailey, Whittier No. 323 .......................................... November 19, 1909
Steiger, William Joseph, Bay View No. 401... ........................................December 30, 1909
Stein, John Albert, Lodi No. 256...............................................................0ctober 21, 1909
Steinbach, Henry Charles, Yerba Buena No. 403............................. _....July 14, 1910
Steineman, Samuel S., Azure No. 533...................................................... February 27, 1909
Stelzner, William, Truckee No. 200......................................................... December 3, 1908
Stillwell, Charles Wllliam. Southern California No. 278. ___ ................. February 9, 1910
Stonf!, Edwin Harry, Porterville No. 303 ... _......................................... .December 12, 1907
Story, Walter Francis, Mt. Jackson No. 295................................. _........ November 10, 1909
Stover, Abram C., East Gate No. 290......................................................March 4, 1910
Stover, Cleme Earl. Las Palmas No. 366................................................ .August 16, 1909
Straford, Francis Corni'sh, Sequoia No. 349............................................1903
Stull, Karl Madsen, Fraternity No. 399--·-··--·······················--·········March 30, 1910
Summers, Thomas Holden, McKinley No. 347......·--····-···-····-··-·····May 5, 1910
Sutter, Louis, Brooklyn No. 225····----····--···-··-··················-···· ····-······se 21. 1910
Swanfeldt, John, Hollenbeck No. 319........................ ·-················--··-···· uly 19, 1910
Swantz, Joseph Florance, California No. L--········-·················-··········· une 9, 1910
Swartz, Frederick Lloyd, Las Palmas No. 366-··-····-··············-············· arch 17, 1910
Sweet, Lewis Stephen, South Gate No. 320.............................................September 11. 1909
Swing, Philip David, El Centro No. 384...........---······-········-················April 4, 1909
Swingle, Orry James, Drytown No. 174..._____ ............·-············--·----AJ>ril 23, 1910
Tannar, Luther Lee, Azure No. 533...........................·--······-····-······-··Fd>ruary 21, 1910
Taylor, Clement Edwin, Sequoia No. 349.........- ....................................Fd>ruary 28, 1910
Taylor, Lon J., Patterson No. 488...·-········-··-···---····-··-··············.No vember 20, 1909
Tebbs, Arthur Glenn, Hollenbeck No. 319.......·-···-·····························--January 30, 1909
Thias, Edward Warren, C.Om.J>ass No. 590---····-····-··-·····················-·0otober 7, 1909 ·
Thompson, Herbert Le Roy, Everogreen No. 259..·---···----January 27, 1910

80

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
NAMB AND LODGB

DATB AND RAISING

Thompson, Roy Burton, San Jose No. 10..·- ····-·····- -··························August 30, 1909
Thompson, William Smith, Huntington Beach No. 380........................ May 25, 1910
Todd, Frank G., Oriental No. 144............. ___ ...........................................September H. 1909
Toothman, Roy Edward. Ascot No. 538..................................................September 7, 1909
Tremoureux, Roy Eugene, Madison No. 23............................................March 29, 1910
Tripp. Frank Leslie, Eureka No. 16... _.................................................... April 20, 1910
Trotman, Wesley Brynjollf, Ami't y No. 370........................................... June 17, 1910
Truitt, Samuel Paul, Lamanda Park No. 627..........................................September I. 1905
Tyler, Guy Whittier No. 323................................................. ...................June 9, 1904
Van Prooyen, Fortune, Solano No. 229.......- ........................................February 14, 1910
Varney, Frank L., Palos Verdes No. 389..._..........................................•January 12, 1910
Vincent, George Kelsey, Stanislaus No. 206...........................................June 24, 1903
17, 1910
Wahlin, Fritz, Balder No. 393 ...---·····--·----······· ····--·--·-------------········-------~une
Waite, Charles W., San Fernando No. 343......................... ................... anuary 31, 1910
Wakeman, {_vse D., Citro! No. 656........................................... .............. ecember 29, 1909
ilhelm, Pacific No. 136.......- .............................................. February 22, 1910
Waldeyer,
Walkup, Ward Gale, Excelsior No. 166.................................................March 30, 1910
Walsh, Gilbert. le Progres de l'Oceanie No. 371..._.. _...........................February 5, 1907
Ward Wendell William, Clarence P. Smidt No. 4-82..........................•0ctober 23, 1909
Warren, John Edgar, Olive Branch No. 269 ....................................... _.November 16. 1907
23, 1909
Warren, Leslie A., Glendora No. 404............·--·····································September
Weaver, Roscoe B.• San Bernardino No. 3i8 ......................................... June 27, 1910
20. 1909
Wechter, Abraham, Paci.fie No. 136..·-······-···········--· ····························-July
Wedekind. Edwnrd, Oxnard No. 341......................................................February 18, 1909
Wehrman. John, San Pedro No. 332.. ·-·············································· ·····May 26, 1910
Werner, William Michael, Azure No. 533... _........................ .................January 23, 1907
Werntz, Harry David, Ma9nolia Park No. 715...____.............................. February 6, 1909
We'l!k., Edward Earle, Sojourner No. 607......................... ..................- ...December 21, 1905'
West, Harvey Logan, Palisad\?s No. 637........................ ........................ November 26, 1908
Weston, William Penroy, Mount Oso No. 460......................... .............February 16. 1905
Whitalmb, Rupert W., San Bernardino No. 348....................................January 28, 1909
Whitney, Frank Hamlin. Willits No. 365................................................December 8, 1909
Widenmann, William Adolph, Naval No. 87........................ .................March 6, 1909
Wiester, Edward Calvin, Alamo No. 122...............................................,September 11, 1909
Wight, Albert Obando, Blydie No. 473.................................................. .July 5, 1910
Wildenmdt, Herbert Louis. Mission No. 169........................ ..................February 24, 1909
Wilder, William Jones, Wilshire No. 445......................... ...................... November 2, 19()7
Wildman, Holland R., Azure No. 533......................... .............................May 20, 1910
Williams, tmes Perry, Highland Park No. 382........................ .............1908
William&, eonard Arch, San Gabriel No. 546......................... ..............May 8, 1909
Williams, Walter Scott, Santa Rosa No. 57........................ ................... November 29. 1909
Williams, William S .• Pacific No. 136..................................................... August 25, 1908
Wills, Frank, Piedmont No. 521......._................................................. .....Januaa-y 1, 1909
Wisler, Lester Orville, Stockton No. 498... _........................................... November 20, 1909
Wood. Willard S .• Glendora No. 4-04...- ........................ .........................September 23, 1909
Woodson, Larue Jamieson, Lakes.bore No. 551...................................... May 8. 1909
Woodworth. Leslie E., Madison No. 23................................................ ..March 22, 1910
Woolf, Ambrose Warren, Vesper No. 84...............................................Iune 15, 1910
Worrell, Clana Vernon, Reedley No. 304...... ·--················- ················· anuary 20, 1910
Wright. Clifford Andrews, Mwpah No. 378........................................... uly 12, 1909
ary 12, 1910
Wright, Gail, Midway No. 426..·-········-······----------------------------------------··-Febru19,
1910
Wright, Harry Everett, Lodi No. 256....................................................-May
1909
29,
....,April
Wright, James William, Doric No. 216................................................
1909
15,
_March
..............
........................
...
578
No.
Progressive
Roy,
Yarrow, Lloyd
Yeager, Matthias Sylvester, Wilshire No. 4-45................................... ,J)1Y 19, 1909
ei:ember 4, 1909
Yocum, Wm. Kendall. Concord No. 117-·---·-····················--···--·····
Zobel, Newton Robert, Richmond No. 375..........................._..........- .....Auguat 5, 1909

81

REPORT OF THE GRAND LECTURE R
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A . M. of California:
The report of the Grand Lecturer is not an individual report of his
activities or of the Ritual Committee itself. It is, rather, a report to the
Grand Lodge of its own progress in maintaining the purity of our work
in the conferring of the degrees of Masonry.
The Masters and Wardens of the Lodges are. in the last analysis,
the true custodians of the ritual. The manner in which the light of
Masonry is brought to our initiates rests ultimately with them. A knowledge and appreciation of the beauties of Masonry is a prime requisite
for the officers of a Lodge. Through them, and through the Coaches,
the Master spreads the light of Masonic education. If they are not
schooled, if they are not proficient, if they do not possess a knowledge
of the art, they cannot do a proper job of inculcating those wise and
serious truths which have been our bulwark through generations.
To guide, counsel and direct this teaching is the assigned task of the
Ritual Committee. The Grand Lecturer and the Assistant Grand
Lecturers met in San Francisco on December 4th to 6th. 1959, under
the direction of Very Worshipful Elbert W. Davis, now Past Grand
Lecturer. All the work of the three degrees, including the Masters and
Candidates Lectures, was exemplified. Most Worshipful Arthur M.
Warren. Past Grand Master and Past Grand Lecturer, was present,
as he has been in the past, and consented to act as candidate. We all
hope that he w,ill be joined in the future by the Junior Past Grand
Lecturer.
In view of Bill's then announced retirement and the impending appointment of a new Grand Lecturer, Worshipful Ralph W. Collins,
Inspector of the 515th District, was in attendance. He and Worshipful
Harold N. Richards, newly appointed to the Second Division as Assistant Grand Lecturer. proved their qualifications for the appointments.
On January I. 1960, it became my privilege to serve by appointmen t
balance of Bill's term as Grand Lecturer.
the
for
In order to further develop a close and harmonious understandi ng
among the members of the Committee and to discuss problems which
might be of general interest, a meeting was held in Bakersfield, arranged
by Assistant Grand Lecturer Raymond G. Taylor. on February 20th
and 21st. The scope of problems brought for discussion illustrated
clearly the manifold duties of the Assistant Grand Lecturers. In addition to the ritualistic schools, the Assistant Grand Lecturers have, for
several years, been charged with the responsibility of supervising the
arrangemen ts and appointing qualified members of Grand Lodge to fill
vacancies for the various ceremonies requiring the opening of Grand
Lodge. Perhaps of greater importance is the availability of the Assistant

82

•

83

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Grand Lecturer, in his division, to work with the Inspectors and Lodge
Officers to maintain that good order so essential to the peace and
harmony of our Lodges.

feeling that in the divisional and district organization we have untapped
resources for bringing the Grand Lodge program to fruition. We are
fortunate in having the services of these dedicated men as the Masonic
leaders in each Division. I am certain that the Inspectors feel too that
in this group are men who can be relied upon as problems are confronted.
I have been impressed by the reports of schools held, of lod.se visitations. and of District Officers Association meetings held by our Inspectors. An average of two schools for each degree has become the
expected number and those who conduct fewer are a small minority.
Officers Associations exist in all but a few scattered districts. In addition to these matters, full support is being given the Endowment
Fund, the Memorial Temple Campaign and all other programs of Grand
Lodge. The results are apparent and the truth that leadership begets
leadership is apparent in the results, both ritualistic and in the health
of the Lodges. To be an Inspector in the Grand Lodge of California
is a consuming task and I pay homage to those men who are truly the
backbone of Masonry.
The challenge of Masonry today lies not in the revolution of our
system but rather in its perfection so that the man who knocks on our
door receives an opportunity to grow in moral understanding. The
continuing zeal of the Masters and the officers whom they direct, the
Coaches, the Inspectors and the Ritual Committee will not only maintain the present high standard but will carry our institution to new
heights.
To have had the opportunity of serving as Assistant Grand Lecturer
under Bill Davis was a rare privilege. As friendship and understanding
grew, I found him to be a warm and real person, without pretense or
subterfuge. Courage in great measure, an ability to inspire his subordinates, and, above all, a knowledge of and love for our ritual and the
craft made his tenure as Grand Lecturer a memorable one. To continue to have his wise counsel will give his successor and the Ritual
Committee added strength. As Junior Past Grand Lecturer, he joins
a distinguished group and adds his measure of lustre to it.
The courtesies and help extended the Ritual Committee by the
Grand Secretary, the Assistant Grand Secretary and the entire office
are too many to enumerate. Without this understanding assistance we
could not function properly.
To our Grand Master and friend, Most Worshipful Joe L. Shell,
goes the hope that our assignments have been carried out in a creditable
manner and the thanks of the Ritual Committee for his trust and
support.
Respectfully submitted,
DoN G. CAMPBELL
Grand Lecturer

Divisional Conferences were held as follows:
Divisions 1 and 2 at Bijou, Lake Tahoe, June 17th to 19th, 1960.
conducted jointly by Worshipful Clare B. Campbell and Worshipful
Harold N. Richards. Assistant Grand Lecturers.
Division 3 at Guerneville. May 20th to 22nd, 1960, conducted by
Worshipful Arthur J. Kahn. Assistant Grand Lecturer.
Division 4 at Yosemite, June 3rd to 5th, 1960, conducted by Worshipful Raymond G. Taylor, Assistant Grand Lecturer.
Division 5 at Ventura, April 22nd to 24th, 1960, conducted by
Worshipful Ralph W. Collins, Assistant Grand Lecturer.
Division 6 at La Jolla, March 18th to 20th, 1960, conducted by
Worshipful W. Ben Sorrells, Assistant Grand Lecturer.
The annual Grand Lecturer's school was held on Saturday, September 24, 1960, with 163 of the 176 Inspectors present.
In each of these Conferences, the work was ably and correctly exemplified by the Inspectors.
The Grand Lecturer held a series of schools for the Lodges of our
50th State from March 21st to March 29th, 1960, covering not only
the Lodges of Oahu, but Kiluea No. 330 at Hilo on Hawaii, Lodge
Maui No. 472 at Kahului on Maui and Kauai No. 589 at Lihue on
Kauai. The eager desire of our Hawaiian brethren for perfection in the
ritual is proof of the high state of Masonry in the Islands. The outer
Islands are still feeling the effects of lessened population but are maintaining, in their leadership, a splendid zeal for Masonry. I am sure
that the rising tide of population now so apparent on Oahu will be felt
soon on the other Islands and will find the Lodges ready for their appointed task.
Le Progres de L'Oceanie Lodge No. 371 not only exemplified in the
Second Degree but performed the Second Section of the Third Degree
for the Grand Lecturer. Those matters of deviation about which agreement was reached last year were reviewed and substantial compliance
with established ritual is now being observed. Credit should go to
Worshipful Curtis Heen, Master, and to Worshipful John C. Simpson,
Past Master and Officers Coach, as well as to their Inspector, Worshipful Robert Edgar, for an understanding approach to the problem and
an equitable solution of it.
In addition to the Inspectors Conferences, at which meetings of the
Ritual Committee were called. and those meetings heretofore reported,
individual contact has been had with the Assistant Grand Lecturers
on occasions of Grand Lodge Ceremony, giving opportunity to discuss
problems of the Divisions. Each of these contracts has strengthened my

84

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES OF THE
MASONIC HOMES

TRIBUTE TO RALPH H. HEAD

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge. F.8A.M. of California:
The Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California herewith present
the Sixty-Eighth Annual Report for the year ending June 30, 1960, together with the reports of the Superintendents of our Homes and the
financial reports of the Treasurer and Secretary.
The Board of Trustees met in San Francisco, California on October
2, 1959, for the purpose of organization. The election of Alfred F. Breslauer, Deputy Grand Master: Guy B. Mize, Senior Grand Warden and
Ira W. Coburn, Junior Grand Warden was formally reported to the
Board and on motion duly made, seconded and carried they were elected
members of the Board.
Trustee Warren reported the appointment by the Grand Master of
James Leo Halley, vice Charles M. Wollenberg, retired, and on motion
duly made, seconded and carried he was elected member of the Board.
The appointment by the Grand Master of Phil N. Myers vice Leo
E. Anderson, retired, was announced and on motion duly made, seconded and carried he was elected a member of the Board.
It was moved, seconded and carried that Charles M. Wollenberg be
elected Trustee Emeritus.
On motion duly made, seconded and carried Arthur M. Warren was
elected President of the Board.
On motion duly made, seconded and carried Ralph H. Head was
elected Vice-President of the Board.
By virtue of his office as Grand Treasurer of Grand Lodge,
F. & A. M. of California, Past Grand Master Edward H. Siems is
Treasurer of Masonic Homes of California.
By virtue of his office as Grand Secretary of Grand Lodge. F. & A.
M. of California, Past Grand Master Lloyd E. Wilson is Secretary of
Masonic Homes of California.
In addition to the Deputy Grand Master, Senior and Junior Grand
Wardens, the Board is composed of the following Trustees:
Arthur M. Warren ....................... .1960.............................. Ralph H. Head
L. Harold Anderson ...................... 1961.. .................. Edgar V. Stewart, Jr.
James Leo Halley.......................... 1962.............................. Phil N. Myers
Charles Albert Adams, Trustee Emeritus
Charles M. Wollenberg, Trustee Emeritus
RETIREMENT COMMITTEE:

The following members were appointed on the Committee for
Masonic Homes Retirement Plan:
ARTHUR M. WARREN

L. HAROLD ANDERSON
}AMES LEO HALLEY
JoHN T. MARTIN
LEO SIEVERT

85

This Communication will conclude the term of Brother Ralph H.
Head as a member of our Board of Trustees.
Legislation adopted in 1948 increased the Board to nine members
and placed a limitation on the number of consecutive terms of service.
Past Grand Master Edward H. Siems, the then Grand Master
selected Brother Head to serve on the newly expanded Board. Since
that time he has given yeoman service and is responsible for many of the
constructive policies which have made our Homes operation a model to
which other Grand Lodges aspire. Since 1958, he has served as Vice
President.
In addition to his manifold duties as Trustee he has acted as our
representative on the Investment Committee which has done such an
outstanding service in handling the funds of Grand Lodge. His administrative ability and knowledge of finance and real estate have been of
tremendous value to those in charge of this important function.
As a further recognition of his ability Brother Ralph served as
Grand Orator during the term of Past Grand Master L. Harold Anderson in 1957.
We thank Brother Ralph for his unselfish service, confident that
future Grand Masters will find a place for the talents of this faithful
servant.
MASONIC HOME AT UNION CITY ( DECOTO)

The Masonic Homes of California received bids for a Hospital
Facility at the Masonic Home in Union City (formerly Decato) from
a selected list of six contractors on March 25, 1959. Swinerton and
Walberg contractors of San Francisco and Oakland with a low bid of
$1,183,3~5.00 were awarded the Contract on April 9th. The Contract
for the Hospital included a new adjoining transformer vault and switch
board room, changes in electric services, changes in main water service,
a new stainless steel range hood, stack and fan in existing kitchen, and
a new fire alarm system in all the buildings of the Home. The area of
the building not including terraces was approximately 50,000 square
feet, or approximately $22.00 per square foot. The total number of
beds was 131 of which number, 7 were in single bedrooms and 124 were
in two bed wards. The cost per bed was approximately $8,400.00. Construction work began April 20, 1959 and the final date of completion
and acceptance was June 8, 1960, the Contractor having been allowed
six weeks extension of time lost due to strikes, rain, etc.
The Masonic Home is located on a 267 acre site but the buildings
were placed on an area of high ground which is limited in size. In the
interest of economy and convenience, it was necessary to locate the
hospital with respect to access from the main kitchen, from the Home
itself, from the Nurses Home, and for deliveries. ambulance and auto-

86

87

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

mobile. Availability of main service lines for gas, water and electricity
was considered. To meet all requirements, it was necessary to carve
the site out of a broken rock hillside with extreme variations in elevations of grades of over 50 feet. Advantage was taken of the grades,
however, to produce outdoor protected terraces at the first, second
and third floor levels. Service entrances were provided at the ground
floor level, a nurses entrance and entrance from the existing home via
a covered bridge at the second floor level and a terrace entrance at the
third floor level.
Patients arrive by car or ambulance at the first floor street entrance
or by wheel stretchers or wheel chairs from the Home across the
covered bridge, and are taken to the assigned floor by a hospital
elevator.
Food is prepared in the main kitchen for the Home, across the street,
transported in heated food carts to the hospital second floor diet kitchen
where it is served and transported in heated tray carts to the rooms.
Each floor has a small diet kitchen for the preparation of snacks between
meals.
The average age of patients in this hospital is well over 80 years.
Their ills are mostly such as associated with people of that age. Medical
care for the institution is provided by contract with the Palo Alto Clinic
at Palo Alto, California. Any cases requiring major surgery are transported to the Palo Alto-Stanford University Hospital Center. Doctors
visit the institution at regular intervals during the week and upon call.
In this new unit, space is provided for a medical unit on the first floor
consisting of a doctors consultation room, two examination rooms with
four dressing cubicles, a minor surgery or treatment room of major
surgery size and complete with doctors' scrub-up. sterilizers, portable
x-ray, developing cabinet, view box, cast room, table, instrument
storage cabinet, and spot light. Adjacent to the treatment room is a
dental room and a Laboratory.
The buildinq is five stories, Type 1 construction, fireproof, and earthquake proof. The ground floor has an equipment room, clean and
soiled linen rooms, garbage, and general storage space. The first floor
has a nurses lounge, men and women visitor's toilets, nurses station,
medical rooms, patient rooms. baths with lifts, tubs and showers and
necessary utility rooms and linen closets. The second, third and fourth
floors are bed room floors with all the necessary service rooms, such as
baths, utility, storage, and day rooms.
Each day room has a TV, an aquarium, pictures and colorful chairs.
Each patient bed has a head or pillow phone connection for choice of
two radio stations. Each room has glass and screen sliding doors opening upon either a terrace or a 4'-6" wide balcony. The first floor has
16 beds, the second 31, the third and fourth floors 42 beds each. Each
bed room and ward is equipped with new, modern hospital furniture

consisting of Simmons hospital beds with Serta mattresses, over-bed
cable with dressing and shaving compartments, night stands and colorful
chairs. Each patient has a small wardrobe for clothes and personal
effects. Each bed can be enclosed with pastel-colored cubicle curtains
for privacy if so desired. Rooms are painted in pastel colors and have
spun glass draw drapes.
All rooms are air conditioned to maintain as nearly as possible a
constant temperature during summer and winter. In case of a power
failure, a Diesel engine power plant will produce emergency lighting
for corridors and elsewhere as required. The water for the entire home
is supplied by wells on the property and pumped to a tank on an
adjacent hill. Due to hardness of this water, softners were installed
under this Contract.
Furniture and equipment for the hospital was purchased in March
1960 but due to factory conditions, delivery on some items was delayed.
This, together with a break-in period for equipment, delayed the occupancy of the building until August 23, on which date 80 patients
were moved from the old hospital.
fo recent years the Codes and Regulations governing hospitals and
homes for the aged have been materially changed. Each year before
9ranting a permit to operate the Home an examination and inspection
of the Home buildings was made by the State Authorities. After several
criticisms of some conditions, the demand was made by the licensing
authorities that certain changes be made this year in the Home. Drawings and Specifications for the necessary changes were made, submitted
to the State for approval and a contract signed with the lowest bidder,
M. H. Sjoberg and Son, of Oakland, at a cost of $83,771.00. The
changes required were the enclosing of the main central stair way in the
Administration Building with fireproof walls and doors to form a smoke
free tower in case of fire, the installation of emergency lighting in
corridors and the installation of an intercommunicating system for each
room in the home, with the exception of the old hospital unit which
would be subject to changes when vacated. It is now possible with
this system installed for each room to call the attendant in the Main
Lobby in case of illness or emergency. In order to complete the additions and alterations, it was necessary to make changes in conduits
and electrical wiring as well as changes in doors and closets in some
rooms. Electrical panels were installed in the Administration Building
lobby to record calls from rooms. It also became necessary at this time
to add additional telephone lines in the plant. This contract was completed and accepted on the same day as the Hospital acceptance.
A circular terrace on the front of the Administration Building had
settled during a period of years, opening up a horizontal crack approximately i inches wide in the masonry. The Main Building wall showed
no distress and the assumption was that the foundations of the main

88

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

building were carried to fl.rm bearing but the terrace foundations were
on fill. It therefore became necessary to underpin the terrace with
caissons carried down approximately 20 feet and rebuild the masonry
wall above grade. The metal railing around this terrace had rusted
at the level of the concrete floor slab and this was repaired, replaced,
and painted.
After the completion of the above additions and alterations the
State approval was granted on all the work without criticism.
COVINA

Over forty years ago far-sighted Masonic Homes Trustees selected
the present location of the Home for Children at Covina, green acres
on the far outskirts of a sleepy little town miles from downtown Los
Angeles. With the natural growth of such things the Masonic Home
location became a suburb of Covina, and is now an urban part of the
great growing community called Greater Los Angeles.
The forty acres of the Home are now almost completely surrounded
by bright new homes from which emit each morning a stream of
children which fill the local public schools to over-flowing. Because of
the affinity between California Freemasonry and the public schools,
some of these children head for that portion of the Home which has
been set aside as temporary public school class rooms. The capable
superintendent, of the Home, Robert M. Henry is, quite coincidentally,
the President of the local Board of Education. This great spirit of cooperation has helped the district avoid half-day sessions and reduced
educational schedules.
Outside of having a built-in public school system at home, our
young citizens at Covina live perfectly normal lives, swim in a new
swimming pool courtesy of generous California Masons, spend vacation weeks camping in Yosemite, packing into the High Sierras, and
providing the local schools with student leadership, scholarship, and
athletes.
The farm program continues, our children do their daily chores,
partly as a duty and partly to earn spending money. This is the life
that certain men, practicing operative Masonry as well as speculative,
have provided for the future leaders of California.
FINANCE

A review of the annual audit will reveal a substantial reduction in
resources and investments. This is, of course, due to the construction
program reported last year and elsewhere in this report. Upwards of
$1,300,000 was expended to comply with regulations of the State
Welfare Department, Fire Marshal and other regulatory agencies. Our
properties are now in excellent condition and all of our bills are paid.
For the benefit of Grand Lodge we stress that all of this work was

89

done through the use of reserves which had been carefully accumulated
from bequests and contributions. No part of the per capita tax nor any
operating funds have been used. Likewise no portion of the Endowment Fund has been put into this program. We urge this information
be given to our membership.
We have reached deeply into our reserves and have transferred
from other earmarked funds to do this work. Appreciation is here expressed to those who have made direct contributions to the New
Hospital Fund. We urge those so disposed to continue to make contributions for this purpose in order that we may restore the transferred
funds to the original purposes for which they were intended.
Special credit should be given to the Grand Lodge Investment
Committee of which W. Paul A. Pflueger, Assistant Grand Treasurer,
is Chairman. They have given careful and dedicated service to their
assignment. A substantial portion of the funds provided for the New
Hospital came from profits resulting from the sale of securities. We
have enjoyed a healthy return on our investments plus a substantial increment in value. While it is true that the security markets have been
favorable, we have enjoyed good returns and profits without sacrificing
the conservative principles upon which this Committee operates. The
members of the Homes Board are unanimous in expressing their appreciation for this outstanding service.
Operating costs continue to rise and with the opening of our New
Hospital, we will be faced with additional expenses due to State requirements. We are meeting hourly wage rates and other working
conditions prevafent in both the East Bay and Southern California
employment markets. The operation of our Homes today is big business
and payrolls and services constitute our major expense. We are subject
to the pressures of industry and labor and the fact that we operate as
a charity does not relieve us of this heavy load. Strict attention to costs
is being initiated and we are making surveys into every operation to
keep down expenses without sacrificing the service and comforts which
we extend to our residents.
As anticipated, the fiscal year ending June 30, 1960, resulted in a
deficit of $196,830.36 before a $294,992.83 non-recurring gain from
eecurity sales. On the basis of last year's projection of a $200,000 operating deficit, we requested a per capita tax of $1.00 payable July 1 of
this year. This will provide approximately $120,000 of additional revenue for 1961. Even with this added income we will face an estimated
operating deficit of $150,000 for the coming fiscal period. The nonrecurring 1960 surplus of $98.162.47 will be carried forward to supplement operating revenue for the same period, thus reducing the anticipated deficit by that sum.
It must be borne in mind by reason of the sale of a good portion of
our securities, a marked decrease will take place in revenue from invest-

90

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ments. This may result in a larger deficit than anticipated. However,
during the past two months some sizeable bequests have been received.
They have been added to our holdings and will replace some of the
investments sold to build the hospital.
There is no doubt in our minds that costs will not decline, and inasmuch as investment revenue is difficult to project, we request that a per
capita tax of $1.00 again be levied at this communication payable July
1, 1961.

women average age of 85.00 years who passed away. There were 4 men
and 3 women withdrawn. Our population on June 30. 1960, was 353
consisting of 134 men and 219 women, including 14 couples.

ARTHUR M. WARREN, Pres.
RALPH H. HEAD

L. HAROLD ANDERSON
EDGAR

v. STEWART, JR.

PHIL N. MYERS
}AMES LEO HALLEY
ALFRED F. BRESLAUER
Guy B. M1zE
IRA

w. COBURN

Ref erred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT - MASONIC HOME
AT UNION CITY (Decoto)
To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
It is a pleasure and a privilege to submit my fifth annual report as
Superintendent of the Masonic Home at Union City (Decato) for the
year ending June 30, 1960.
This has been a most eventful year in the history of the Home, one
that will, I am sure, be remembered for years to come. The new Hospital
Facility was completed and the keys given to us on June 16, 1960. Immediately we started preparing for occupancy. The Trustees designated
July 30, 1960, as the date for dedication of the new Hospital Facility
with occupancy to be completed as promptly thereafter as possible.
The other work required by the State Welfare Board in the Home
itself has all been completed. This consisted of a communication system
to each room, a fire alarm system throughout all buildings, fire doors and
special fire retarding glass in central stairway. This work also required
remodeling the office and installation of a new and larger switchboard
which is necesary to have coverage 24 hours a day; also to answer emergency calls on the communicating system.
At the beginning of the fiscal year, there were 359 members in the
Home, consisting of 138 men and 221 women. During the year 37 men,
average age of 79.08 and 43 women, average age of 77.51 years were
admitted to the Home. There were 37 men, average age of 82.10 and 42

Age groups
50-59
60-69
70-79
80-89
90-99

Men
0
10
56
54
14
134

Women
0
13
85
108
13
219

91

Total

353

There were 81 members confined to our Hospital on June 30, 1%0, of
which 70 are considered permanent. In addition there are 40 women on
the fourth floor north and east wings, who receive assistance with their
daily needs and under the Hospital supervision.
We are happy to report no changes in the Supervising Staff. Mrs.
Evangeline Adams, R.N., Hospital Supervisor; Mrs. Sara Paris, Matron:
Brother Roy Cain, Assistant to the Superintendent: Brother Fred Boyle,
Office Manager: Mr. Paul Reichert, Purchasing and Stock Control; Mr.
William Emmal, Chef; all have been cooperative and guided their various departments most efficiently and satisfactorily.
Rev. Martin L. Tonner has supervised our devotional services and
given spiritual guidance to all in the Hospital and the Home.
We are happy to report that Dr. Wayne Collins, Chiropodist began
giving the folks care of their fed on May 1, 1960. The members in the
Home are very happy with this service and well satisfied.
We have enjoyed entertainment in the auditorium, arranged by the
Lodges, Job's Daughters, DeMolay, Rainbow Girls and Eastern Star
Chapters, as well as other groups and organizations. To all of them we
extend our sincere appreciation. In addition 24 Lodges have conferred
degrees in the Temple for the benefit of our Brethren.
One of the high lights of the year was the visitation by and the reception for our Most Worshipful Grand Master Joe L. Shell on January 30,
1960. On this date also the Board of Trustees held their quarterly meeting and annual visit at the Home. It is always a pleasure to have them
with us.
On September 30, 1959, we had the pleasure of welcoming approximately 1400 members of Grand Lodge and wives. Also included were our
Most Worshipful Grand Master Phil N. Myers and several Grand
Lodge Officers to perform the ceremony of Laying the Corner Stone of
the Hospital Facility. During the year many of the Trustees on various
occasions visited the Home for an inspection and to view the construction
of the new building.

92

93

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

We are grateful to the booking compan ies for the Columb ia,
M.G.M. , R.K.O .• Twentie th Century Fox, United Artists and Universa l
Studios for their wonderf ul cooperation in furnishing movies to the
Home on a gratis basis and to them we extend our sincere thanks.
We are also indebted to the Grand Pyramid of Sciots for a very
beautiful radio and stereophonic record player presente d to the Home on
Saturday , July 18, 1959. This is truly a wonderf ul and beautiful set, our
members have had many hours of enjoyme nt from it. We wish to express
to them on behalf of the members of the Home our sincere and heartfelt
thanks.
To the East Bay Past Matrons Association and all the members of
the various chapters who visited the Home on August 15, 1959, we wish
to express our appreciation. This was their annual visitation and reception for their Worthy Grand Matron and Patron. They contribu ted
11,042 jars of jams and jellies, 655 quarts of fruits and jams. Also, $47.00
in cash as well as many items of clothing and other items too numerous to
mention. On behalf of the members we express our thanks for their generosity.
We are deeply grateful to all the Lodges, individuals and various
organiza tions for their thoughtf ulness. generosi ty and for all their contribution s to the Home for the benefit of our members.
There were 5,128 visitors who signed our register. These represen ted
445 Lodges in Californ ia and 28 foreign jurisdictions and 5 foreign
countries.
Many of our men made trips to visit Lodges and enjoy dinner in
Gilroy and Hollister this year. On Septemb er 3, 1959, some 35 men and
women traveled by bus to San Francisc o to witness the Giants baseball
team play. Again on May 23, 1960, about the same number saw the
rodeo in Hayward . Both outings were thorough ly enjoyed by all in at;
ten dance.
To the members in the Home I express my sincere thanks and appreciation for their very wonderf ul cooperation and assistance. All the construction and remodeling has been trying on them at times. I'm sure they
are happy in their surround ings and can relax to enjoy life free of troubles and worries.
I wish to express thanks and appreciation to all the employees for
their fine cooperation and efforts extended in caring for our large family.
To the Board of Trustees my sincere gratitude for both their confidence
and great assistance during the year, also for their complete understa nd·
ing and interest in the members and the Home.

REPOR T OF THE SUPER INTEN DENT - COVIN A HOME

Respectf ully submitted,
GAIL H. DAVID, Superint endent

To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
It is with great pleasure that I present my twelfth annual report as
$uperint endent of the Masonic Home for Children , at Covina, for the
year ending June 30, 1960.
HOME MEMBER SHIP

As of June 30, 1960, the population of our Masonic Home Family
numbers forty-seven children -twenty- nine boys and eighteen girls.
During the fiscal year of 1959-60, six children have been admitted to the
Home. two boys and four girls. Fourteen children left the Home, three
graduati ng from high school and ten returning to their families. One
joined the Air Force. Two graduate s plan to continue their educatio n,
and the other graduate is planning to work temporarily, with the goal in
mind to save money to further her chosen professio n as a buyer of women's apparel.
Family Status
Children
Families
Orphans
11
6
H/0 Fathers living
12
6
H/0 Mothers living
9
6
Both Parents living
15
8
Family relations hips in the Home consist of the following:
Two families of four children: three families of three children: nine
families of two c)lildren and twelve families of one child each. Seven children, representing four families, are in the Home under the membership
of the grandpar ent. Of the forty-seven children. twenty-n ine will attend
Charter Oak High School this Fall, and eighteen will attend Badillo
Element ary School. Twenty- six Masonic Lodges have residents at the
Home, representing twenty-s ix families.
HOME, SCHOOL AND COMMUN ITY ACTIVITI ES

One of our Senior Boys is a member of the Future Farmers of America. Our children showed their animals at the 4-H Fair in Pomona, returning with many fi·r st and second ribbons. Georgia Cox, an Intermed iate girl. won the first place for Showma nship, and all of our Masonic
Pioneers 4-H Club Member ship won prizes. Our children again participated in presentin g a program to members of the Fraterni ty attendin g
the Los Angeles Board of Relief Meeting in June. The children always
look forward to the awardin g of the two most coveted awards at the
Family Christma s Party. The Leonard Gross Memoria l Award for the
"Boy of the Year" was awarded to Bruce Warrick , in 1959. The Adolph
Koshlan d Award for "Good Citizensh ip" (awarde d to either boy or girl)
was won by Beverly Werner and Douglas Yungling . (Dougla s Yung-

94

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

ling was also the winner in 1958.) Tom Henry was elected to represent
the Charter Oak High School at the California Boys State, sponsored by
the Sunshine Post No. 251, of the American Legion, held June 18 to 25,
1960, at Sacramen to. Tom has served as Student Body President of
Charter Oak High School. and Susan Farmer has served on the Legis.lative Body of the Self-Gove rnment. Every effort is made to afford our
children a variety of interest with the resultant accomplishment of a
broader foundation for intellectual and spiritual growth, and personalit y
development. They are encourage d to take an active part in school.
Church and Home activities. Many of our children have represente d the
Home at Covina High School, Charter Oak High School, and at Badillo
Elementar y School, as class officers and members of the student body, in
school clubs, and athletics.
Suppleme ntal tutoring is given wherever there is need. Mrs. Norma
Robinson comes to the Home three days a week to instruct the younger
children in remedial reading, and two teachers from the area have assisted in tutoring the high school children in specialized areas. The children attend the Church of their choice in our community. They are encouraged to have their friends visit on weekends . go swimming. or visit
over night. Piano instruction as well as other cultural activities are op.tional. The children participat e in numerous planned activities such as
hikes, picnics, dances, fishing in the Home lake. weekend camping and
fishing expeditions, horseback riding, swimming and skating. Our boys
are active in the George Washingt on Chapter of De Molay. and the girls
are members of Bethel No. 98, of the Internatio nal Order of Jobs Daughters. We are deeply grateful to the five major picture studios for the ex.cellent movies they send out each week for the children's pleasure-- -Columbia Pictures Corporati on, Loew's Incorpora ted, Twentieth Century
Fox Film Exchange , Universal Films Exchange , Warner Brothers, and
the Bliss Pickup and Delivery Service of Alhambra .
The older boys and girls spent an education al and enjoyable time
touring the National Parks as their camping activity this past year. The
junior children camped at the Home on the island known as Camp Fort
Duck. All the children rounded out the summer with the usual variety of
outdoor activities.
We are again grateful to Dr. W. P. Magan, Sr., and his associates
for the supervision and care given our children over the years. We have
had the usual contagiou s diseases characteri stic with young children. The
childrens' optometry is under the supervision of Dr. McCormick. Dr.
Teal of Covina, continues to take care of the orthodont ia work, and Dr.
Galliano performs any necessary extraction s.

farm machinery, as well as the safety and conveniences for the children.
J>articipation in the 4.-H Program is on a voluntary basis, but the Ma ..
90nic Pioneers 4-H Club has always been sought after by the children,
and enjoyed a good membership. Its record in the Club work and participation in shows, has been a credit to the Home and to the Fraternity .

FARM AND MASONIC PIONEERS 4.-H CLUB

This year the farm and service buildings have been in full operation
since their completion in the early part of the last fiscal year. They have
added much to the efficiency in the care and protection of the animals and

95

VISITATIO NS

The visitations of Masonic Lodges and other organizati ons continues
under the visitation program established in previous years. Reservatio ns
for a maximum of four hundred visitors are made every Visitation Sun.day. which is the third Sunday of each month. Reservatio ns are filled not
further than a year in advance. The visitation program has been well received by the hundreds of Lodges making use of this medium to tell its
JDembership the true meaning of Masonic Benevolence. It is worthy of
aote that the policy of visitations on the Third Sunday of each month is
of immeasurable value in guarantee ing and providing the children the
benefits of relaxation and diversion from routine programs.
ALUMNI OF THE COVINA HOME

The Covina Alumni Reunion is observed on the Second Sunday in
September, and the Alumni Reunion Dinner in San Francisco is on the
Saturday preceding Grand Lodge. Sacramen to Alumni have participate d
with a picnic in June of this year. It is most enjoyable to meet on these
occasions which are especially set apart for the Alumni, and for fellowship with one another listening to the Alumni review old times with the
heart.-warming experiences, and to see so many in attendanc e is indeed
inspiring. A copy of the 1960 Masonic Home Newslette r No. 34 was
sent to all active Alumni and to Masonic Lodges currently sponsoring a
child in the Home, as well as to all Grand Lodge Officers.
The association with the children, the staff, and the magnitude of
friends of the Home continues to be richly rewarding . To the Craft and
to the various members of the Board of Trustees through these years. I
should again like to express my sincerest appreciati on for the confidence
and faith that has been tendered me in this joint service to the children of
our Brethren.

Respectfully submitted,
ROBERT M. HENRY, Superinte ndent

96

97

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF TRUSTEES, CALIFORNIA
MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE CORPORATION

year to each Lodge which had not attained Merit Roll status. The names
of the Lodges also appeared in that issue.
Your Committee had some reservations when authorizing this action,
but actually was motivated by the request of many brethren visiting the
Temple. Since that publication, 32 additional Lodges have attained
Merit Roll status, and from the inquiries coming into the office, many
more Lodges are actively at work with Merit Roll status their goal.
This is most gratifying inasmuch as a recapitulation shows that if all
the non-Merit Roll Lodges reached this status, it would result in elimination of the $1 Per Capita Tax for all Lodges approximately two years
earlier than is now contemplated.
This is a Grand Lodge activity and every Lodge should want to
accomplish at least the minimum average of $10 per member. Many,
many have "trod the extra miles" and brought their averages up to far
in excess of the minimum.
The financing of the Temple is on a sound basis. Costs are known.
Payments to the banks are well in advance. At this writing it is more
important that every Lodge get its name on the Merit Roll than is the
amount of money involved (as important as this is) . When the debt is
finally paid, the opportunity to have the Lodge name inscribed on the
Bronze Plaque along with others who have done their rightful share
will have passed. The Merit Roll Plaque is a permanent part of the
building. It will continue to record the achievement of those Lodges who
have become "Builders of the Temple".

This is the Sixth Annual Report issued by the Board of Trustees of
the California Masonic Memorial Temple.
The Board of Trustees met following the close of the 1959 Annual
Communication of Grand Lodge, as is required by the By-Laws, for
the purpose of organization. The election of Brother Alfred F. Breslauer,
Deputy Grand Master; Brother Guy B. Mize, Senior Grand Warden;
and Brother Ira W. Coburn, Junior Grand Warden, was formally reported to the Board, and on motion duly made, seconded and carried,
they were elected members of the Board of Trustees. All officers were
re-elected to their respective offices.
The President also announced the appointment by the Grand Master
of new trustees John W. Davey and Rexford L. Hall to fill vacancies on
the Board for terms expiring in 1960 and 1961 respectively.
As a part of this report we have again included the Certified Public
Accountant's report, and the report of the Building Manager, Brother
Alvin A. Horwege. In addition to the capital expenditures as outlined in
the report of our manager, the screen to protect the endomosaic window
(referred to in our last annual report) has been installed.
OPEN BooK

Your Board of Trustees, through the cooperation of Kohnke Printing Company, has the Open Book on display in the entrance foyer. It is
contemplated that the original copy will be under security on the table
provided for that purpose. Pages will be turned from time to time. A
duplicate copy of all names is on file in the Grand Secretary's office, and
may be inspected by those interested in doing so.
MEMORIAL GIFTS

Provision has been made for the addition to the Open Book of the
names of those in whose memory gifts are made. Brother Washington
Kohnke has assured us that these names can be added at a later date.
CURRENT DONORS

Since the closing of the Open Book our staff has maintained a separate file of current donors. It is anticipated that some form of recognition
of these gifts will be made at a later date, or at any rate when the debt
is finally paid. Just what form such acknowledgment will take has not
been determined-it will depend on the number of names involved.
MERIT ROLL PLAQUE

As of September 15, 1960 (the date this report was released for print~
ing) 457 Lodges have made the Merit Roll. A year ago, this number
totalled 412 Lodges-an increase of 45 Lodges.
There was published in the summer issue ( 1960) of the California
Freemason (pages 122 and 123) a copy of a letter written earlier this

OuR GoAL: "EVERY l.oDGE A MERIT RoLL LoDGE"

Since our last annual report, 15 additional lnspectorial Districts have
become "Honor Districts". Our congratulations to the following:
HONOR DISTRICT

328
361
365
384
424
428
432
511
512
514
517
546
551
620
637

INSPECTOR

LoDGES

James E. Finley
344: 375: 388; 545
Alfred Johnson
704; 723: 724; 725
E. Ross Baylis
168; 651; 690
371; 409; 774; Koolau, U.D.
Robert Edgar
Clarence L. Fraser
277; 294; 304; 383; 385
Fred C. Pritschke
309; 466; 581; 583
Carl E. Moore
426; 434; 477: 516
James E. Bacon
437; 769; 783; 791
Harold S. Morrison
450; 611; 666; 768
272; 324; 452; 599
Gordon F. Porter
T. William Heidner
408; 627; 678; 794
Frank W. Raddatz
368; 544; 667; 727
William Robusch
421; 629; 742; 766
Alton T. DuRant
198; 524; 644; 781
Lewis H. Field
325; 580; 687

98

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

It is most gratifying to watch the continued interest shown by
Officers of the Lodges and by Inspectors of the Districts. The Grand
Lecturer and his six Assistant Grand Lecturers have been most helpful
in keeping before the general membership of the several Lodges the importance of having "Every Lodge a Merit Roll Lodge". For this excellent cooperation, your Board of Trustees is most grateful.
We give you below a table (by Divisions) showing the standings of
the Lodges as relates to the Merit Roll. For example, Division No. 1 has
a total of 11 Districts. Of these, 3 are HONOR DISTRICT S (meaning, of course, that every Lodge is on the Merit Roll). Five Districts in
this Division lack but 1 Lodge each of attaining Merit Roll status: 1 lacks
2 Lodges; 1 lacks 3 Lodges: and 1 lacks 4 Lodges. In this Division the
percentage of Lodges on the Merit Roll is 27.2%.
"A"= 1 Lodge not on Merit Roll
"B" = 2 Lodges not on Merit Roll
"C" = 3 Lodges not on Merit Roll
"D" = 4 Lodges not on Merit Roll
"E" = 5 Lodges not on Merit Roll
Division
Total Di1ts.
HonorDi.stl.
A
B
c D E
% Honor Distl.
1
11
3
5 1 1 1
27.2
2
' 16
3
3 4 4 2
18.75
3
54
22
12 7 10 3
41.
4
18
7
3 5 1 1
38.8
5
46
20
6 11 4 5
43.5
6
31
10
5 12 3 2
32.3
RECAPITULA TION OF BANK LoAN

Original Bank Borrowing ............ $2,303,790.00
Retired through June 30.1960 .... 540,000.00
Balance owed July 1, 1960 ..........
Payment made August 1, 1960....

$1.763,790.00
180,000.00

Notes payable to Banks ..............
$1.583,790.00
Your Board of Trustees and Managemen t are continuing the policy
of encouraging the use of your California Masonic Memorial Temple by
desirable tenants.
Respectfully submitted,
EDWARD H. SIEMS

Officers and Trustees:
EDWARD H. SIEMS, President
FRANK HARWELL, JR., Vice-Presid ent
PAUL A. PFLUEGER, Treasurer
LLOYD E. WILSON, Secretary
ALFRED F. BRESLAUER
EDGAR V. STEWART, JR.

President
ARTHUR M. WARREN
KEITH W. ScHLAEGEL

Guy B. M1zE

w.

IRA
COBURN
JOHN W. DAVEY
REXFORD L. HALL

99

REPORT OF BUILDING MANAGE R
To the Trustees of California Masonic Memorial Temple:
Brethren:
In presenting this, my second annual report as manager of the California Masonic Memorial Temple, I express my pleasure for the cooperation and counsel of the Board of Trustees. who are ever alert in
eideavoring to place the operation of the Temple facilities in the best
light to the public. Two such examples are given below:
The ladies' rest room facilities (which were found inadequate) were
enlarged by eleven units:
The hydraulic ramp at our Pine Street loading dock (completed
during the year) has proved to be up to our fondest hopes. During sessions in the auditorium when we have about four hundred cars in the
garage. operation is put on a "park yourself' basis. A number of
attendants are stationed on the various floors, and at closing time
parkers may take the elevator directly to the floor on which they have
parked--dri ving their own cars out. The two lower decks are channeled
out to Pine Street without stop-using the hydraulic ramp. Since the
ramp has been in operation, we have never failed to empty the garage
in a maximum of thirty minutes. All who have used it are loud in their
expressions of approval.
During the year, the garage operation has reached a new high in
revenue, having grossed $41.347.24 in total income-an increase of
$6,269.06 over)ast year's revenue.
Our rental of the auditorium and exhibit space for the year covered
95 days of occupancy. Included in this occupancy were 58 days given
over to national and state conventions. It is estimated that attendance
during these 58 days amount to approximate ly 100,000 persons from all
over the United States. The other 37 were accounted for by shows, concerts, and church services, with an estimated combined attendance of
175.000.
With additional convention space becoming available in the hotels
of the city, we may expect heavy competition in this field during the
coming years. We are, however, receiving an increase in interest in our
auditorium for concerts and shows-for which it is ideally suited. While
convention competition promises to be heavy, the city's added facilities
are bound to increase the total business, and we may expect to share in
some of this increase.
In the interest of a better understandi ng of our facilities, and in order
to acquaint men in the convention and public relations field with what
we have to offer, we were host to two groups during the past year. The
San Francisco Covention & Visitors' Bureau directors, and the San Francisco Public Relations Forum were our guests at luncheons and tours of

100

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

our building on different occasions. President Siems outlined to these
men the many features of the auditorium and the exhibit Boor. One very
interesting use of our facilities was made by Westinghouse Electric
when they held their annual stockholders' meeting here.
A new brochure has been published-aimed at selling our facilities,
and plans are being made to place these in the hands of concert and convention managers.
Our guest register ihows that 4800 visitors signed the register. These
represent visitors from 47 states, and 36 foreign countries. Literally
thousands of visitors come to the Temple each year. Among them are
many distinguished in Masonry. We have had the pleasure this year
of having with us:
James W. Stubbs, Grand Secretary, United Grand Lodge of England, and Mrs. Stubbs.
Ralph E. McWhinnie, P.G.M .• Grand Lodge of Wyoming.
Henry Collis, Headmaster of St. Paul's School. London, and Mrs.
Collis.
Lawrence Meyer, District Deputy. Grand Lodge of New York and
Mrs. Meyer.
Clarence Macleod Pitts, Grand Master, Grand Lodge of Canada
in the Province of Ontario.
Walter McAllister, Grand Secretary, York Grand Lodge of Mexico,
and Grand Representative of the Grand Lodge of California
near the York Grand Lodge.
Nohea 0. A. Peck, Grand Junior Warden, Grand Lodge of Japan.
Ford Q. Elvidge, P.G.M., Grand Lodge of Washington.
William Eichorn, Grand Senior Warden, Grand Lodge of Japan.
Keh-Ti Kwo, Grand Master, Grand Lodge of China.
David Robles, P.G.M .• Grand Lodge of Panama.
Kiyoski Togasaki, Grand Master, Grand Lodge of Japan.
Respectfully submitted.
ALVIN A. HORWEGE,
Building Manager

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

101

REPORT OF THE
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD
This is the 28th Annual Report of the Masonic Homes Endowment
Board, covering the period of July 1, 1959 to June 30, 1960. A careful
and thoughtful study of the report will reveal many outstanding records
established by the Lodges during the past year.
PERCENTAGE OF PARTICIPATION
During the past year, cash contributions were received from 100,220
brethren throughout the Jurisdiction. This number compares with 93,425
individual contributions for the previous year for a net increase of 6,795
contributors. This number raised the "Percentage of Participation" from
39.2% the previous year to 41.4% this year. With the assistance of the
brethren we sincerely hope that this "Percentage of Participation" will
increase to at least 50% in the near future.
CASH CONTRIBUTIONS
Individual contributions through the Lodges this year totaled $551,150.34 for a net increase of $49,029.91 over the previous year. These
individual contributions through the Lodges do not include bequests,
memorials, special gifts, etc., which are shown on another page of this
report. Receipts from all sources to be added to the Endowment Fund
totaled $952, l 27. 49 for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1960.
HONOR ROLL LoDGES
This report lists 502 Lodges on the Honor Roll for 1960, as compared to 453 a year ago, for a net increase of 49 Honor Roll Lodges.
Unfortunately, some Lodges which were on the Honor Roll a year ago
did not maintain Honor Roll status for this year. However, it is encouraging to report that 54 Lodges attained the Honor Roll this year for the
very first time. Percentage-wise, 72% of the Lodges are now on the
Honor Roll whereas 5 years ago only 36% of the Lodges were enjoying
that distinction. These figures further demonstrate that "it can be done".
$3.00 OR MORE AVERAGE
Again, we give special recognition, congratulations and thanks to the
following 119 Lodges which not only attained the Honor Roll by an
average of $2.00 per member, but "went the second mile or more" by
sending in contributions averaging $3.00 or more per member:

102

PROCEEDING S OF THE

No.

Average
amount
per member

Lodge

763 Arabic ·······························--$12.32
698 Wm. D. Stephens........ ______ 12.25
780 Riviera ·········-······················· 10.80
264 Hesperian -·············-··········· 9.87
200 Truckee................................ 7.55
418 Elysian ···········-··················· 6.89
767 Wm. Rhodes Hervey....•.-- 6.44
H5 Wilshire .............................. 5.31
707 Lake Tahoe ........................ 5.30
760 Lakeside .............................. 5.11
421 Inglewood ............................ 5.08
727 Verdugo Hills .................... 5.02
378 Mizpah ................................ 4.83
733 Golden Empire .................... 4.75
455 Golden West ...................... 4.69
623 Menorah .............................. 4.68
790 Granada Hills ...................... 4.59
766 James H. Kew...·-···-·····-··· 4.55
95 Henry Clay ····-·········-·····-·· 4.53
697 St. Elmo .............................. 4.52
786 Rio Linda ······--·······---········· 4.51
589 Kauai ····-···----·- ·····------········ 4.50
734 Kit Carson ···········-············· 4.44
793 Maya .................................... 4.38
745 Peninsula ···-·--···········--·····---- 4.35
566 James A. Garfield................ 4.32
778 La Mirada ............................ 4.29
242 Magnolia ···············-··-·····-·· 4.24
737 Hilllix>rough •..................... 4.24
781 Rolling Hills ........................ 4.18
776 East Whittler···-··· -·······-· 4.09
502 Harbor ·········-······················· 4.07
512 Palms .................................... 4.03
614 Larchmont ............................ 4.03
237 Guadalupe ............................ 4.02
21 Hawaiian.............................. 3.91
732 San Juan.............................. 3.89
739 La Canada .......................... 3.88
792 Millbrae ···················-··········· 3.88
143 Franklin ·················-······- -- 3.87
35 San Diego ............................ 3.82
533 Azure ···-····················-········· 3.78
768 Zenith ·························-··-··· 3.74
715 Magnolia Park .................... 3.73
729 Centennial····-·-·················-· 3.71
452 San Pasqual ············-······-·· 3.70
712 Los ALtos ···········-···············- 3.58
637 Palisades .............................. 3.57
345 Brentwood ····················-· ··- 3.55
714 Blue Lakes .......................... 3.55
642 La Cumbre .......................... 3.54
40 Sacramento ........................ 3:53
616 R. E. Dolley.....- ..---·········-··· 3.53
764 Heritage ·····················-······· 3.52
730 Polaris ···-··················· ·········· 3.51
272 Pasadena·················-··········· 3.49
662 Henry Knox ........................ 3.47
522 Sunrise·········· ·-····················· 3.46
529 Loyalty ································ 3.43

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Average
amount
per member

Lodge
No.
475 America ................................ 3.41
612 Temple Q .ty ............•........... 3.41
26 El Dorado ··-·····-················· 3.39
254 Reading ···················-··········· · 3.39
330 Kilauea ................................ 3.39
789 Oak Plains ·········-··············· 3.39
3 Tehama ···-············-············· 3.36
144 Oriental ·····················-········· 3.34
384 El Centro ............................ 3.34
599 Carmelita ............................ 3.34
202 Pentalpha ............................ 3.32
290 East Gate ............................ 3.31
600 Lynwood ···-··-··············-····· 3.30
278 So. California ·······-············· 3.29
173 Elk Grove ............................ 3.27
300 Redlands .............................. 3.27
470 Lincoln ·············-···············- 3.27
795 American River ·········-······· 3.26
779 Five Points ···-····················· 3.23
268 Durant ·····-··························· 3.22
742 Morningside Park .............. 3.22
402 Brawley···-············-············· 3.20
415 Silver Trowel ...................... 3.20
685 San Marino.......................... 3.19
462 Paul Revere ........................ 3.18
493 Atascadero .......................... 3.18
580 Santa Maria ·········-············· 3.17
755 Golden Bowl···-·················- 3.17
64 Natoma................................ 3.16
219 Speranza ltaliana .............. 3.16
320 South Gate ···-···-··············- 3.16
516 Taft ····-················-·············· 3.15
352 Sunset ···················-············· 3.14
615 Hemet ···················-············· 3.14
595 A.G. Bell.....·-····················· 3.13
726 Yucaipa·········-····················· 3.13
346 Palo Alto -···-····················· 3.12
368 Un~ty .................................... 3.11
641 James A. Foshay.................. 3.11
4H Carpinteria ·····-········-········· 3.1 a
56 Volcano ................................ 3.09
1 California ......•..................... 3.08
513 Cahuenga ····-·········-··········· 3.08
703 W cstchester ·····-················· 3.08
174 Drytown ········-···················· 3.07
307 Santa Monica ·-··················· 3.06
373 West Los Angeles................ 3.06
H8 Mount Dtablo ···············-··· 3.06
481 Mount Davidson --···········- 3.06
504 Seaside ................................ 3.06
192 Santa Barbara .................... 3.03
247 Fresno ···········-·········-·········· 3.03
327 Long Beach .......................... 3.02
6H Lomita .................................. 3.02
769 Palmdale ···-························ 3.02
720 Mineral King ·-··················· 3.0 I
80 lone ···············--············-····· 3.00
546 San Gabriel ···-····-···-······· - 3.00
747 Claude H. Morrison............. 3.00

103

Last year there were 79 Lodges in the above listing. This year there
are 119. To these 119 Lodges, the Honor Roll of $2.00 per member
average is but a stepping-sto ne or mile-post to a greater accomplishment, but not the ultimate goal. Again, our special congratulati ons and
thanks to these 119 Lodges for their outstanding accomplishment.
WILLS AND BEQUESTS

During the .fiscal year ending June 30, 1960, $174,167.38 was contributed to the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund through Bequests
left to this Fund by the Estates of those who have been called from
labor in this life. the .final and most lasting expression of their Masonic
love and affection. We hope all Masons may give serious thought to
this method of creating a loving and living Memorial by providng
a Bequest to the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund in their Will. Any
member of this Board will gladly furnish further information about this
important phase of our work and a special pamphlet is available which
gives much factual information on this subject. These pamphlets are also
available free to the Lodges for mailing to members.
PRINTED ITEMS

Again this year. the Homes Endowment Board has furnished more
than a million printed items, such as pamphlets, Stop-Think -Consolidat e
cards. Grand Master's Proclamations re Homes Endowment Month,
and various other printed forms, the items having been ordered by the
Lodges for mailing to members . .Jn addition, many Lodges have sent out
letters, post-cards, etc., to their members regarding contributions to the
Endowment Fund, and such items have been proven to be very effective
in stimulating contributions.
CHANGES IN ENDOWMEN T BOARD PERSONNEL

A year ago, the terms of Dr. Ernest G. Bashor, Norbert W. Mixter
and John W. Davey expired. Brother Bashor requested that he not be
reappointed for another term so he could devote more time to his many
other activities in professional, fraternal and social life. He had been
a member of this Board for nearly 25 years and was Chairman of the
Board for some 14 years. Those many years of service are self-evident
of his interest and devotion to this most worthy Masonic cause.
Brother Mixter requested that he not be reappointed to the Board
because of the pressure of business in his Drug Store which he owns
and operates in Exeter, California, and which made it increasingly difficult to devote the necessary time to the work of this Board.
Brother Davey was appointed by the Grand Master to serve on the
Board of Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple in lieu
of another term on the Endowment Board. He replaced John M. Gordon

104

on the Temple Board, who had been serving on both Boards for a
number of years but who resigned from the Temple Board in order to
devote more time to the Homes Endowment Board.
Our sincere thanks go to Brothers Bashor, Mixter and Davey for
the many years of service they devoted to this work and though their
activity on the Board ceases we know that their interest in the Homes
and the Endowment Board will continue for a long time to come.
To fill the vacancies on this Board left by these three members,
M. W. Joe L. Shell, Grand Master, appointed Brother Fred H. Blanchard of Los Angeles, Brother Harold R. DeTuncq of Arvin, California,
and Brother Howard L. Rose of Turlock, California, each to serve a
term of three years on the Homes Endowment Board. They assumed
their new duties in October of 1959 and have been working diligently
in their respective localities for the interests of the Endowment Board.

Our special thanks to the Masters, Wardens and other Lodge
Officers, and to the Lodge Endowment committees for their untiring
efforts and interest and in their pride in wanting to accomplish a fine
record for their Lodge and for the Homes Endowment program.
Last, but not least, our sincere thanks to the more than 100,000
brethren who made a contribution of their financial means that others less
fortunate might continue to have a home and loving care.
THE MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD
JoHN M. GORDON, Chairman
KERMIT A. JACOBSON, Vice-Chairman (South)
BYRON COLEMAN, Vice-Chairman (North)
EDWARD H. SIEMS, P.G.M .. Treasurer
LLOYD E. WILSON, P.G.M .. Secretary
Terms Expiring

1961

1960
OuR THANKS To ALL

As usual, it is impossible to appropriately and adequately thank the
hundreds of brethren who had a part in the work of the Homes Endowment during the past year. Our special thanks go to the Grand Master,
M. W. Joe Shell, for his untiring assistance and for his so kindly mentioning the Homes and the Endowment in all of his talks to Masonic
Meetings, as well as the courtesies and encouragement he extended
to the Members of the Board in general and to its Chairman in particular. Likewise, our thanks and appreciation to the other Grand Lodge
Officers and Past Grand Masters; To Brother Don G. Campbell, Grand
Lecturer, and his corps of Assistant Grand Lecturers and Inspectors, all
of whom have given so freely of their time and efforts to encourage and
assist in our work, and without whose assistance we could not have
established the fine records which are shown elsewhere in this Report.
Again, the Secretaries of the Lodges have done an outstanding job
for the Homes Endowment and we wish we could find some method of
adequately thanking them. It is they who usually order and send out
the printed material furnished by this Board as well as letters and cards
written by the Secretaries to their members. Also, they are the ones who
do the work of receiving the contributions, issuing receipts, keeping the
records of contributions and remitting the funds to the Grand Secretary.
In many Lodges, we feel that the success of the Endowment program
rests with the Secretary.
In addition to the Lodge Secretaries, we give special thanks to the
Grand Secretary, M. W. Lloyd E. Wilson: the Assistant Grand Secretary, Henry D. Oliphant, and their entire office staff, all of whom are
always so willing to assist the members of this Board and who cooperate
100% at all times.

105

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

KERMIT A. JACOBSON
MELVIN A. PIXLEY
BYRON COLEMAN
BROKAW
RALPH
PAUL A. BROM

s.

1962

FRED H. BLANCHARD
0RNO E. TYLER
HORACE R. LA FORTUNE HAROLD R. DETUNCQ
LESTER A. PRICE
JOHN M. GORDON
HowARD L. RosE
CHARLES H. GRACE
WILLIAM H. SCHOOLER HENRY G. VAN DYKE

ENDOWMENT REPORT
CONTRIBUTIONS THROUGH THE LoDGES

1956 ················································ $328,494.09
1957 ................................................ 372,083.61
1958 ................................................ 421,633.62
1959 ................................................ 502,120.43
1960 ................................................ 551,150.34
RECEIPTS FROM ALL SOURCES

1956 ................................................ $589,367.97
1957 ................................................ 448,565.28
1958 ................................................ 589,730.78
1959 ................................................ 945,762.32
1960 ................................................ 952,127.49
INDIVIDUAL PARTICIPATION

1956 ...................................................... 69.213
1957 ...................................................... 79,995
1958 ...................................................... 81,686
1959 ...................................................... 93,425
1960 ...................................................... 100,220
HONOR LODGES

1956 .............................................................. 237
1957 .............................................................. 285
1958 .............................................................. 365
1959 .............................................................. 453
1960 .............................................................. 502

106

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ENDOWMENT FUND

107

ENDOWMENT FUND

GIFTS AND DONATIONS
MEMORIALS

Bequests and gifts have been received up to June 30, 1960, as follows:
Estate of:

~ton T. ~a';n (N~ 669) ...·-·-····-···-·······--·········-·-·--···········$ 1,001.44
E~~:!~ J." c~~rli~

6tJ) ................................................................

12.50
237.75
13_21
AlbinnieE ~ehner (No. 372)------················- ······-············-·······::
420.00
ert . 1sston (No. 375) ....-.........................................
~a~d (No. 113) ........................................................:::::::::::::::::: 2,793.28
Bosz She1erzedt (~o. 356).................................................................. 2,063 .78
896.47
erwood ( rust) (No. 278) --...........................
~ a
2,100.00
Jo::r{J~!~~~JT~~) (No. 354) ......................................
1,175.19
672)....................................................................
(
F kW
6.37
d ;J;.er (No. 228)........................................................................
E an R ~ill (No. 188) ........- ........................................................... 133,325.22
elnspach (No. 320) .......................................................... 4,930.35
Win .
alter W. Wochinsky (No. 608) ...................................................... 25,191.82

w

c

r Lh 0

( 0 • I) ..........·-·········-···········-····-········-·

:==:=:::::=:=

A:::

Organizations and Individuals:
Aerojet-General Corporation
Employees
Al Malaikah Temple, A.A.O.N.M.S.
Bud Antle, Inc.
Alden A. Baham
Jacob W. Balley
Eva P. Barnes
Warren G. Barrett
Cameron R. Brunett
James Albert Colley
Clarence C. Cromwell
Mrs. Ethel Emma!
Herbert L. Hatfield
Hughes Employees Give Once Club
Carl F. Isaacson
Job's Daughter Arcadia Bethel No. 121
Bell-Maywood Bethel No. 203
Hemet Bethel No. 145
Charles L. Jones
Henry W. Klee
F. M. Knight

Harold W. Knoll
David E. Lewis
Roy E. McDaniels
Mobil Oil Co. Employees and
Tuscan Club
S.S. Oronsay-Masonic Dinner
Pacifk Electric Masonic Club
Paramount Square Club
Mrs. Sara Paris
R.R. Pieper
J. Leon Roberts
San Marino Foundation, Inc.
Harold W. Sharpe
Francis W. Small
R. L. Stephens
Taft Masonic Tel!lp_le Assn.
Thompson-Ramo Wooldridge,
Inc., Employees
W. A. Thompson
Chester T. Thrush
W. J. Voit Rubber Corporation
Employees

William B. Allin
Mrs. Leo E. Anderson
Martin G. Anderson
W. B. Anderson
Alvin E. Austin
Fred Baatz
Fred O. Ball
William Ball
William 0. Barnes
Norman Barnett
Walter M. Barr
Carlo Basch
George Alexander
Beans ton
Ferdenand Beard
Hans Peter Larsen Beck
Walter Bell, Sr.
Ed Berlin
Mrs. Ralph (Lucy)
Berringer
Fred Bishop
Leslie N. Bishop
Pete Blaauw
George Boien
Stanley S. Boldt
Roland Albert Boston
Fred L. Bower
Arthur Brannon
Dora R. Brinck
Arthur Broiles
Marcus Brower '
Adin Brown
Linda Audrey Brown
Mark A. Brown
Mrs. May Brown
Dr. William D. Browne
Julius Otto Bruehl
William F. Buhllnger
Elbert C. Burlingame
Preston Ray Burris
Arthur Casper Burritt
John Ellsworth Buzby
Alfred Bertram Calver
Alfred Duncan Campbell
Wilfred H. Capell
Murry J. Carpenter
Fiorello Henry Cavagnaro
Harold Chalfant
Neville B. Challoner
Kin Hon Chew
John H. Cla.inoont
Lottie A. Cleveland
Stanle_y Edward Coffey
Jack Comfort
Edward Cominl
William H. Conradi
Louis R. Coote
T. B. Copeland

C. 0 . Coughlan
Mrs. L. W. Coughlan
Casey Aldrich Cox
Gabe Wiley Cox
Mrs. Katherine
Martha Cox
Jay Hamilton Crawford
Mrs. Dora Crockett
Manuel E. Davis
Stephen John Dean, Sr.
Burton Charles Decker
Herbert Lee Decker
Milton DeLano
Egbert Denton
Mrs. Carrie Dilly
Mrs. Wilhelmine Dold
Mrs. Josephine Dorstewitz
Dr. J. Park Dougall
Edwin E. Douglass
Marvin Eu.Ilene Dowell
Lynne 0. Downs
Frank L. Drew
Isaiah L. Driver
Nathan H. Dryer
Charles B. Dunham
Richard Ford Eaton
Carl G. Eckert
Mrs. Doris Eichelberger
Victor Hu.110 Elfendahl
Elizabeth Elledge
Edward Art Emanuel
William E11SJleheart, Sr.
Mrs. Faye Evans
Plyod A. Fenn
Mrs. Evelyn P. Finley
Harry Finn
Edward W. Fish
DO!'othy Fhthrer
Samuel Alger Follett
Charles A. FO!'bes, Sr.
Elida Eleanor Ford
Hardiman Fowler
Christian James Francis
Louis H. Frembling
J. Jose_ph Friedman
Mrs. Carrie Frohberg
Jack Frost
Carl Gaumnitz
Charles Francis Gibbson
F. E. Gibson
Mrs. Georgia Gillespie
Mrs. Kate Gillette
William W. Godwin
Dain Goin
Abraham Goldman
Leon E. Goldstein
Llewellyn George Graves
Harold E. Hacker

Holland Geo. Hambleton
Andrew A. Hammond
John D. Hann
Fred W. Hansen
Henry Harde
Delbert E. Harris
Arthur P. Harth
Clarence R. Hasemeyer
Frederick Q. Hazleton
Harold Yaeger Heckman
George Theophil Helms
Chris B. Hensley
Walter H. Herlitz
Charles W. Hicks
Frederic Waldorf Hild
Dolph B. Hill, Sr.
Murph Richard Hinton
Marcel Hochede
Brodie Wilson Hodges
Freedom Hoffman
William Hohn
Ralph N. Holden
Carl Hooper
Harry H. Houston
Dr. Euphra C. Hubbs, Sr.
Arthur Edwin Hurt
Noah James
Clarence W. Jenkin
Mrs. Dell Johnson
Edward Enoch Johnson
Francis Lacey Johnson
Edward M. Jones
Maxwell Jourdan
Royal T. Jumper
Henry Kanem .
Mrs. Haidee G. Keesling
Mrs. Vera Klngren
Henry J. Kinnison
Gary Koehler
Paul C. Kondla
Alma Kraus
Mrs. Otilia Krejcik
Gustav Krogh
Gertrude Kumle
John M. Kyte
Thomas M. Landrum
Percy Larsen
Robert T. Legge
Ernest W. Liebert
Gordon LittleAeld
Mrs. Louis Loewe
W. H. Lorenz
George W. Lucot
John Roderick MacDonald
John MacGrath
Tohn E. Madocks
Martin Julius Madsen
Charles T. Manifold

108
Dr. J. Miles Martin
John Leslie Mason
Nelson G. Mathews
Neil Weldon McCown
Byron D. McDonald
Frank Hugh McGuire
Mrs. Gladys L. McLees
Edmond C. McMillan
Charles J. McQuillan
Joseph Meierzedt
Percival Inman Merithew
Otto W. Middleton
Richard Millburn
Dr. Chauncey B. Miller
Frank G. Milne
Joseph Lewis Monaco
Hugh D. Moncur
Benson Moore
Fred C. Morgan
Clyde H. Morrill
Delmar Albert Mote
Edward Peter Murphy
Charles Taylor Nounnan
Captain Einar Olsen
Captain Oskar J. Olsen
Fred Olson's Mother
Mike O'Reilly
Carl Overaa
Elsie Park
Elisha Parker
Dr. Lawrence E. Parkinson
William P. Peacemaker
Lillian Peairs
Mrs. Jenny Perry
Mrs. Jessie Phillips
Freal Franklin Pollock
Sam PoncinJ
Harlow Beach Potter
William McKinley Powers
Pies Poynor

Mrs. Pies G. Poynor
Mary Nell Pratt
Daniel Joseph Raessner
William John Ralston
William Max Ramel
Denton Orr Randall
Annamay De Grau Reed
Lloyd DUrlin Reeks
Mrs. Alice A. Riggio
Rollin P. Rodolph
Fred C. Roebke
Wilma F. Rogers
Gale D. Rohrdanz
Harry A. Roth
Mrs. Marion L. Rowins
Hiram Rubin
Mrs. Roy R. Russell
Edward E. Sampson
Walter F. Sanborn
Charles F. Sattler
Ward B. Saunders
Earl Morton Savitt
Rita E. Saxton
P. C. Scampinl
Joseph Philip Schaefer
Mrs. Elenora Scharrenberg
Mrs. Rose Schlingman
Max E. Schumacher
L.A. Scott
William Seright
Leland B. Servis
Harry Max Shane
Frank Harold Shepherd
Ra1ph H. Simonson
Esta Sisson
John H. Skeggs
Delbert Tice Slocum
George W. Sohler
William A. Sohler
Merritt C. Speidel
Arthur Lee Spencer

109

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Charles Lawrence Straib
Darcy Stewart
Mrs. Ellen Gutzman
Stokers
Mrs. W encil Storek
Harold S. Sutton
Clarkson Swain
Robert C. Talbert
Mrs. Perood Terzian
Edwin Millard Tilley
Charles Calmeas Tilton
Frank C. Tozer
Norman Alfred Tulk
Phineas B. Tyler
William C. Vance
Mrs. Effie Vanderbilt
Oran Francis Vetterli
Mrs. Clara von Konsky
Adolph H. Wagner
Shirley Cyrus Walker
W . C. (Dad) Wallace
Carl Wamser
William L. Watt
Mrs. Maude Wells
Ralph Westfall
Eva B. W estrnan
William H. Whisler
William J. White
Lloyd Baker Whitney
Mrs. Anna S. Wiander
David E. Wilkinson
Harley Davidson Williams
Edgar Levi Wilson
William G. Willlter
Harry K. Wolff, Sr.
Samuel F. Worswick
Harold J. Wrigley
Ronald E. Wylie
Walter M. Young
Harry George Yount

REPORT OF CONTRIBUTIONS TO
ENDOWMENT FUND
•Denotes 1960 Honor Roll
1959

1960

No.

l
2
3

5
8
9
10
12
13
14
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
30
32
33
35
37
38
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
50
51
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
64
65
68
70
76
78
79
80
81
84
87

Lodge

Membe,,_
amp

California ................. 485
Western Star ........... 201
Tehama ···-··- ··-·· ..... 824
Benicia ................ ..... 240
Tuolumne ................. 275
Corinthian ·······--···· 468
San Jose ···-··-··-······ 541
Yount ............... _....... 565
Nevada ..................... 177
Temple ...................... 246
Eureka ...................... 370
La Parfaite Union.... 117
Mountain Shade ..... 53
San Joaquin ............. 814
Washi;r:gton ............. 927
Hawauan ............ ..... 418
Occidental .......... ..... 643
Madison ................... 328
Mariposa ................... 201
Georgetown ········-··· 61
El Dorado ................. 280
Trinity ··-·················· 162
Golden Gate............. 574
Gold Hill ................... 116
Ophir ......................... 89
San Diego ................. 1069
Howard ..................... 263
Santa Cruz ............... 574
Sacramento ............. 816
Martinez ................... 425
Los Angeles ............. 949
Hiram ....................... 117
Mount Moriah ......... 354
Crescent ................... 228
Texas ......................... 54
Forbestown ............. 120
lllinoistown ............. 82
Suisun .......................

288

Volcano ..................... 106
Santa Rosa ............... 677
Union ·-······················ 751
Gravel Range ......... 96
Plumas ..................... 191
Live Oak ................... 951
Natoma ..................... 350
Amador..................... 91
Momin~ Star ........... 672
EnterprlSe ............... 375
Bear Mountain .•..... 70
Calaveras ·······-········ 122
Humboldt ................. 547
Ione ·····---·····----···--·--· 100
Yolo --·-·············------ 119
Vesper ···-···········--·---- 242
Naval ·····-···-·······----·· 1192
89 Rose's Bar................... 48

1959
Contri·
batlona

$1,660.00
290.00
3,417.35
710.00
197.00
602.00
1,126.50
1,144.10
72.00
228.00
334.50
176.50
115.00
561.00
2,288.25
1,043.00
1,410.00
672.05
428.00
155.75
759.51
54.00
779.00
94.50
3,484.00
415.50
475.00
3,651.50
1,665.13
1,893.80
13.00
496.50
488.00
34.00
266.00
65.00
606.91
244.50
1,031.00
1,800.00
272.12
648.05
2,306.00
826.00
66.50
1,398.00
472.50
50.00
68.50
1,112.00
201.00
99.00
8.00
2,951.50
27.00

Member·
•hip
Partlelpatlon

Contri-

34%
41%
71%
54%
19%
35%
28%
42%
7%
20%
19%
33%
76%
11%
38%
43%
43%
37%
34%
50%
43%
8%
29%
0%
20%
36%
23%
19%
74%
75%
22%
3%
20%
46%
8%
42%
20%
34%
47%
18%
44%
53%
66%
28%
52%
14%
24%
24%
11%
17%
47%
57%
22%
1%
55%
20%

1,495.00•
156.00
2,767.oo•
637.00·
119.00
333.11
1,408.31•
1,165.50•
484.17•
325.50
403.00
239.00•
103.00
701.50
2,262.68•
1,636.00•
1,410.00•
727.00·
485.25•
157.00·
948.50•
136.00
1,309.57•
26.00
27.50
4,084.50•
435.50
465.00
2,881.75•
469.85
2,502.00·
175.00
639.00
446.32
109.00•
286.00·
110.00
791.18•
328.00·
1,423.50•
1,500.00•
184.41
408.00·
2,100.00•
1,105.25•
229.50*
1,382.30•
618.00
47.00
80.00
913.50
300.00*
286.50•
180.50
2,789.25•
15.00

1960

ballona

1960
Partleipatlnir

Memben %

169
37
467
139
34
125
204
277
109
61
89
44
15
85
362
227
207
128
81
25
141
23
284
11
7
539
78
122
460
81
306
49
105
110
16
50
30
119
77
151
333
34
134
331
221
38
207
112
12
22
276
70
43
33
574
4

35
18
57
58
12
27
38
49
62
25
24
38
28
10
39
54
32
39
40
41
50
14
50
9
8
50
30
21
56
19
32
42
30
48
30
42
37
41
73
22
44
35
70
35
63
42
31
30
17
20
50
70
36
14
48
8

110

No.

PROCEE DINGS OF THE

1960
Memh•rUip

Lodce

91 North Star ................
80
93 St. Helena -·-··········· 136
95 Henry Clay •.............
78
98 Hornito s ........................... 107
99 Yosemi te ···-········
····· 516
\01 Clay ···············-··-······
· 103
103 Orovill e -·-···-···
377
········
104 Lexing ton ·····-··-······· 647
106 Arcata ........................ 353
110 Pajaro ·-··-····-··········· 419
111 Chico .......................... 592
112 Summi t ···--····-········· 64
113 Eden ···········-····-······· 459
117 Concor d ··········-·
388
······· 575
120 Fidelit y --·--··· ······
122 Alamo ................................ 465
123 Sotoyo me --·-·······
241
···· 292
124 Table Mounta in .......
126 Lafaye tte ···-········
236
127 Herma nn ···-··········· 178
·····
128 Visalia ·················-····· 577
129 Nicolau s ·····-······
-····· 112
131 Woodb ridge
·······-····· 198
132 Sinceri ty •...................
98
13-f Vacavi lle ···-····--- ····· 288
135 Valley .....·-·····----·-·--·95
136 Pacific ................... ... ......... 550
139 Crocke tt ................. ....... 502
140 Curtis···············-·········
93
141 Grafton ___________ ............ 111
143 Frankli n ·········--·----··· 140
144 Orienta l ·············
338
145 Vitruvi us ···-··········-·····
-····· 130
146 Abell
366
147 Eel River ·-··-··--· ···· 255
149 Lassen ·················-····· 240
150 Molino ···········-····-····· 165
156 Woodla nd ···-······· -··· 308
161 Keysto ne .................... 40
164 Harmo ny ·····-···- ··-·· 29
166 Excelsi or ·····-······-····· 434
167 Alamed a ·····-······-····· 249
168 Redwoo d City ···-····· 670
169 Mission ···············-····· 627
173 Elk Grove ...- ............ 142
174 Drytow n ·········-·········
61
175 Antioch ..•................... 404
178 Phoeni x ·····-··--······· 758
179 Mendoc ino .............. ......... 121
180 Petalum a
340
181 Russian Ri~er··::::::::: 122
182 Arbuck le ·············-·····
85
183 Clear Lake ···--··-··· 132
184 Sierra Valley ............
35
185 Claibor ne ···--····-····· 78
186 Evenin g Star ............
70
187 Keith ···--·················· 191
188 Oaklan d ..... ........ ....... 803

--

-

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . a. .......

-

_-

19$9

Contribatlona

266.50
203.00
75.00
709.75
164.50
686.50
1,391.28
780.50
865.00
1,326.77
45.00
475.50
802.00
1,311.00
728.90
154.00
418.58
104.00
389.50
1,198.52
67.00
288.50
198.00
39.00
266.50
634.00
47.00
327.50
391.00
1,098.00
130.50
726.00
333.50
510.00
106.00
665.00
58.00
966.00
514.00
1,460.00
1,327.50
396.50
130.00
989.73
1,640.00
91.00
369.38
86.00
173.24
32.00
100.00
27.00
117.50
125.00
1,385.50

1159
lllamber•hiP
Partlcipation

0%
51%
38%
13%
20%
30%
56%
56%
27%
40%
62%
35%
18%
39%
34%
23%
15%
30%
54%
52%
38%
27%
43%
32%
3%
0%
5%
20%
14%
43%
55%
39%
23%
46%
28%
41%
11%
52%
0%
41%
37%
33%
48%
31%
51%
29%
43%
53%
21%
23%
28%
40%
5%
43%
8%
64%
20%
19%

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA
1960
Contrilratlom

221.00·
282.45•
353.50*
43.00
577.00
246.00·
625.50
1,421.79*
916.40•
867.00*
1,369.00*
77.50
677.20
841.00·
1,475.50*
515.90
320.51>
583.75
160.00
409.00*
1,224.00·
451.50*
249.00*
82.85
52.00
207.00
347.50
139.00
542.25*
1,129.50*
196.50
553.50
527.50*
495.00*
219.50
631.00*
10.25
58.00*
931.50•
532.50•
1,665.28*
1,321.50•
465.00*
187.50•
731.10
1,835.81*
75.50
457.00
246.00*
179.00*
81.00
34.08
23.00
59.00
377.50
1,803.00*

1960
Partlcipa tinc
M-ben %

76
95
78
57
57
73
12
11
15
75
46
45
188
50
259
40
100
28
153
37
737 100
22
34
94
20
147
38
201
35
71
15
78
32
179
61
29
12
102
57
224
39
100
40
19
11
26
58

50
41
7
12
5
12

12
11
98
70
144 43
39
30
140
38
105
41
49
117
53
32
146
47
2
5
29 100
180 41
78
31
317
47
193
31
75
53
32
52
226
56
286
38
21
17
90
26
64
52
35
41
19
14
4
11
7
9
29
41
105
55
301
37

No.

Lodge

1980
Membe!'•hip

190 Northe rn Light·- ····· 109
191 Marin ·····-··-········-····· 545
192 Santa Barbar a ···-····· 351
193 Fernda le ·····-······
93
-····· 382
194 Mounta in View .•.....
195 Buckey e ·············-····· 147
196 San Suneon .......•.....
96
198 Wilmin gton ····--····· 667
199 Hartley ...............•..... 234
200 Trucke e ·····-··-····-····· 143
201 Silveyv ille ···-··-··· ·· 156
202 Pentalp ha -···-····-····· 462
203 Confidence
90
204 Salinas ···--·:::: :::::::: 664
205 Olivet ·······-- ·---..... 137
206 Stanisl aus -·--··-·· ··· 662
207 Anahei m ·-··-······-····· 491
208 Rio Vista ·-----······· 185
209 King David's ............ 436
210 Friends hip ····-·········· 746
211 San Benito ·······-······· 182
212 So. San Francis co .....
232
214 San Buenav entura.. 436
215 Oak Grove -·-···-··· ·· 567
216 Doric ----·-····
454
··········· 306
217 Monter ey
218 Mosaic ·······--·· ··--.. ··· 252
219 Speran za Italiana
..... 247
220 Downe y ········-····-····· 883
221 Inyo .....................•...
.. 162
222 Rosevil le ···----- ····· 458
224 Bakers field ~---········· ·· 789
225 Brookl yn
····· 512
226 San Mateo·-··-··-····-··-··· ·· 634
228 Athens ···-··--· -······· 196
229 Solano
............ 562
230 North Butte ···-········· 248
231 Covelo ···-····-··-~·····
77
232 Janesvi lle ···-···- ·-··· 168
233 Calisto ga ·-·--··--~····· 132
234 Hope ······-·-·· --··-····· 115
·
235 Surpris e Valley
........ 71
236 Hills Ferry ···-··········· 157
237 Guadal upe --······ ·· 199
240 Colusa
156
241 Santa Ana·- ········· 578
242 Magnol ia
····· 474
243 Eucaly ptus···-····-··
-·-··-~···
·· 538
244 Alcatra z ··--·-......
568
245 Laurel
257
246 Pomon a··:_== :::::: 440
247 Fresno ·····-··-··
--······· 732
24a Alturas
195
250 Adin ___
103
253 Landm ark
111
254 Readin g
278
255 Welcom e ·----· ··· 206
256 I..odi
402

-·--- -

··-----···------···

_:::==:::::::
···--==:::::::

--------·--·-··'"

1959
Contribatlona

48.00
1,355.75
938.57
143.00
760.58
301.72
50.00
1,597.50
126.00
664.50
168.00
1,400.00
254.00
949.40
159.52
985.50
1,036.75
388.50
870.00
638.50
374.50
489.75
1,032.25
1,284.00
177.00
452.00
295.00
581.50
2,317.67
326.00
556.25
1,451.50
819.00
1,800.00
402.50
274.00
321.50
50.00
270.00
260.00
212.00
342.00
948.00
144.00
1,274.95
1,179.50
1,358.50
965.00
281.00
748.00
1,669.66
13.00
25.00
93.10
603.00
221.48
646.60

1959
Member•hip
Parttdpatlon

22%
42%
69%
15%
37%
53%
11%
37%
11%
73%
25%
38%
77%
36%
20%
28%
26%
60%
62%
15%
43%
47%
36%
31%
5%
27%
25%
29%
42%
42%
22%
22%
25%
50%
36%
10%
62%
1%
35%
52%
47%
0%
50%
63%
17%
33%
60%
53%
29%
20%
46%
32%
3%
6%
35%
33%
26%
27%

111

1960
Contributions

47.00
1,216.35*
1,061.80*
1,003.25*
341.00*
228.00*
1,198.29
181.00
1,079.15*
86.50
1,535.32*
187.oo•
769.00
236.80
979.75
1,063.51*
417.50"
821.11
982.00
445.50*
564.00*
1,037.40*
570.50
599.50
653.00*
578.00*
781.50*
2,511.57*
372.25*
1,041.25*
1,309.00
860.50
1,756.50*
483.oo•
429.30
539.00*
73.00
324.00
130.00
168.00
53.00
375.50*
800.50*
123.50
1,522.50*
2,011.50*
1,112.00•
1,396.50*
646.50*
545.15
2,216.12*
333.00
258.00*
208.35
941.50*
196.10
813.00*

1960
Partlclpa tlnir
Memben %

15
277
307

14
51
87

121
78
50
148
30
121
22
175
56
162
71
149
128
102
186
105
92
95
170
76
64
142
111
91
384
78
173
220
105
290
77
90
176
14
72
37
45
13
69
124
20
200
298
224
250
121
137
380
92
52
104
146
51
149

32
53
52
22
13
85
14
38
62
24
52
23
26
55
43
14
51
41
39
13
14
46
44
37
43
48
38
28
21
46
39
16
71
18
43
28
39
18
44
62
13
35
63
42
44
47
31
52
47
50
94
53
25
37

112

No.

Lodge

1960
Membership

258 Penrhyn ·········-········· 146
259 Evergreen .................. 748
260 King Solomon's........ 437
261 Tuscan........................
98
262 Lompoc ...................... 213
264 Hesperian ····-············ 405
265 Orland ·····-··-············· 156
266 North East ···-····-·····
58
267 Galt ·················-··-·····
92
268 Durant ·····-····-··········· 440
269 Olive Branch ·····-····· 318
271 Snow Mountain ........
43
272 Pasadena .................... 550
273 Anchor ····-····-··-····· 630
274 Arroyo ·················-····· 178
275 Oakdale···········-········· 214
277 Selma ···············-··-····· 240
278 So. California ............ 454
279 Hanford ···--··-········· 236
280 Madera ...................... 275
281 Mount Shasta ............ 156
282 Callayomi ·····-····-·····
69
283 South West................ 579
77
285 San Miguel ................
286 Paso Robles .............. 304
287 Winnedumah ·····-····· 253
288 Maxwell ·········-·········
67
289 Elsinore ···············-····· 144
290 East Gate .................. 703
291 Santa Paula .............. 418
292 Los Gatos .................. 393
293 Orange Grove .......... 333
294 Traver ........................ 143
295 Mt. Jackson .............. 110
296 Silver Gate ·····-········· 1285
297 Dunsmuir ·····-····-····· 267
299 Liberty ...................... 367
300 Redlands .................... 503
301 Ontario ·····-····-········· 523
302 Santa Lucia .............. 170
303 Porterville ·····-········· 511
304 Reedley ...................... 168
305 Azusa ···········-············· 342
306 Ashlar ·················-····· 342
307 Santa Monica ·····-····· 393
308 Monrovia .................. 334
309 Delano..·-··-··············· 246
310 Sisson.......................... 116
312 Los Banos .................. 153
313 Tehachapi .................. 205
314 Temescal ·············-····· 286
315 Norwalk .................... 409
316 Sanger ·················-····· 343
317 Fallbrook .................. 164
318 Emmanuel ·····-·········
93
319 Hollenbeck ................ 828
320 South Gate ................ 542
321 Alisa! ···············--······ 178

1959
Contributions

21.00
1,685.46
403.50
437.40
3,398.00
102.50
195.50
806.95
372.50
27.00
1,233.55
1,425.36
408.91
261.50
568.50
1,953.29
253.00
599.00
313.00
25.00
1,713.79
427.00
563.43
130.00
309.50
1,899.56
939.62
882.35
412.50
231.50
285.50
2,698.80
392.50
825.00
1,473.90
674.85
330.00
895.25
249.00
720.96
345.04
885.71
1,016.00
510.50
138.50
165.00
410.00
222.50
841.34
351.50
122.00
2,961.21
1,717.41
344.00

113

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
1959
Membership
Participation

1960
Contribution•

1960
Participating
Members %

3%
29%
14%
0%
49%
35%
12%
0%
34%
20%
22%
16%
30%
45%
53%
49%
35%
38%
20%
41%
45%
7%
45%
0%
81%
69%
39%
36%
31%
38%
49%
29%
24%
52%
35%
41%
35%
50%
21%
32%
30%
13%
55%
48%
60%
80%
45%
26%
44%
44%
15%
58%
33%
0%
45%
34%
39%
100%

27.00
1,931.59*
1,120.75*
196.00*
459.25*
3,996.50*
141.50
23.00
195.oo•
1,415.50*
477.50
88.00*
1,921.38*
1,874.03*
258.50
185.00
506.00*
1,495.39*
248.00
622.75*
152.50
8.00
1,228.37*
184.00*
652.75*
507.03*
74.00
151.50
2,325.75*
843.96*
974.25*
688.73*
107.00
219.50*
2,798.00*
634.50*
896.00*
1,644.85*
1,057.oo•
342.00*
1,137.50*
128.00
783.06*
299.82
1,200.66*
848.00*
605.00*
128.25
186.00
588.50*
610.75*
827.51*
485.50
37.00
190.00*
2,156,38*
1,714.75*
356.00*

7
5
220
29
204
47
98 100
99
46
193
48
23
36
6 10
33
36
156
35
82
26
44 100
47
259
397
63
59
33
69
32
35
85
136
30
37
16
121
44
47
30
1

212
37
48
62
195
64
65
164
19
28
26
18
275
39
148
35
45
177
150
45
19
13
43
39
463
36
104 39
45
166
227
45
171
33
65
38
33
171
17
10
168
49
57
17
175
45
138
41
135
55
32
28
74
48
92
45
116 41
174 43
139 41
17
10
59
63
243
29
217
40
178 100

No.

322
323
324
325
326
327
328
329
330
331
332
333
334
335
336
337
338
339
341
343
344
345
346
347
348
349
351
352
353
354
355
356
357
358
359
360
361
362
363
365
366
367
368
369
370
371
372
373
374
375
376
377
378
379
380
381
382

Lodge

1960
MemberRip

Alhambra .................. 632
Whittier ···-········-····· 817
Corona ·····-················· 438
Consuelo .............•..... 338
Needles ···········-········· 352
Long Beach .............. 622
Redondo ···-······-······· 721
Vallee de France...... 128
Kilauea ····-··············· 196
Pacific Grove ···-······· 295
San Pedro ···-····-····· 500
Alta ·····-··-················· 134
Covina ·····-···-··········· 482
West Gate·····-··········· 1224
Fruitvale ···········--·-··· 807
Carquinez ................ 195
San Jacinto .............. 120
Fullerton ·····-······-··· 392
Oxnard ···--····-········· 451
San Fernando .......... 731
Starr King ................ 516
Brentwood ................ 149
Palo Alto ···-··--······· 760
McKinley ·········-······· 490
San Bernardino ........ 926
Sequoia ...................... 991
Palestine .................... 502
Sunset ·····-····-··········· 334
Pinole ........................ 183
Presidio ...................... 456
Hollywood --····-····· 1256
Mill Valley ~--·····-····· 448
Buena Park .............. 320
Golden State ... . ...... 669
Loyalton .................... 98
San Francisco .......... 27 4
Fort Bragg ................ 159
Charity ...................... 181
Berkeley .................... 614
Willits ···-···-··········· 159
Las Palmas ................ 1064
South Pasadena ...... 619
Unity ·····-····-············· 607
Ocean Park ·····-······· 531
Amity ························ 387
le Progres de
l'Oceanie ···-·····-····· 709
Gardena ·····-····-······· 494
West Los Angeles...... 495
Jewel .......................... 200
Richmond ···········-····· 462
Francis Drake ···-····· 440
Artesia ·····-··············· 243
Mizpah ...................... 386
Fillmore ·········-········· 245
Huntington Beach.... 336
Oceanside .................. 512
Highland Park ........ 598

1959
Memberabip
Partld·
patlon

1960
Contribution•

630.50
40.75
388.50
437.50
52.00
2,362.50
1,273.87
1,875.65
1,163.76
805.00

42%
21%
41%
42%
100%
24%
32%
100%
60%
24%
33%
45%
47%
38%
90%
38%
45%
33%
27%
55%
43%
9%
51%
29%
18%
30%
42%
65%
20%
25%
31%
33%
100%
30%
0%
43%
6%
30%
9%
9%
38%
27%
60%
29%
42%

1,270.00*
1,809,06*
1,086.41 *
861.70*
4.00
1,878.70*
1,517.09*
335.50*
664.00*
512.13
1,045.37*
315.00*
28.80
2,797.50*
1,679.00*
416.00*
255.75*
815.78*
586.50
1,800.52*
1,180.00*
529.50*
2,369.00*
567.75
1,991.19*
2,545.20*
1,027.54*
1,047.90*
223.86
794.50
2,867.75*
990.oo•
669.60*
1,540.40*
76.00
726.00*
238.50
448.50*
552.00
5.00
2,164.30*
1,328.89*
1,889.05*
1,375.91 *
801.00*

1,470.00
1,019.80
1,409.00
212.00
349.00
881.50
325.25
1,881.25
534.50
369.46
1,054.81
1,284.10

37%
36%
42%
24%
10%
37%
35%
52%
34%
22%
44%
37%

1,452.50*
1,132.42*
1,512.12*
178.00
748.00
923.00*
657.00*
1,863.58*
712.75*
267.62
1,101.00*
1,231.18*

1959
Contributions

1,261.60
2,356.20
983.24
558.00
875.50
1,359.97
1,565.85
292.70
662.50
343.50
1,061.54
266.00
1,056.80
2,636.00
1,684.95
414.50
231.00
871.50
821.00
1,647.04
1,086.50
44.00
1,886.50
784.00
1,178.05
2,208.50
1,078.33
1,127.21
175.50
601.00
3,209.25
932.50
647.50
1,521.26

1960
Participating
Memben %

250
223
279
166

40
27
64
49

1

239
210
128
111
68
187

66

38
30
100
57
23
37
49

2

617
594
85
56
132
106
422
220
126
487
101
262
356
224
186
62
139
367
144
212
225
18
147
46

64

102

50
74
44
47
34
24
58
43
85
64
21
28
36
45
56
34
30
29
32
66
34
19
54
29
35
17

1

366
182
405
185
155

34
29
67
35
40

208
187
227
42
105
143
124
215
136
61
218
192

29
38
46
21
23
32
51
56
56
18
43
32

114

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

1960

No.

Lodiie

Memberahlp

383 Orosi ·····-··················· 151
384 El Centro ···-····-······· 523
385 Dinuba ··-············-····· 294
387 Coalinga ····-······-····· 394
388 Parnassus ···········-····· 721
389 Palos Verdes ···-······· 678
390 Imperial ·········-········· 150
391 East Belt···---·- ·-····· 117
392 West Lake ···-·········· 794
393 Balder ........................ 495
394 University ···-···-······ 538
395 Turlock ·-----··-····· ·· 424
396 Apollo ........................ 453
'397 Rtsing Light--··· ······ 1024
399 Fraternity ..•............... 432
400 Burlin~ame ·····-······· 676
401 Bay View ····-··-······· 675
402 Brawley .................... 243
403 Yerba Buena···-- ····· 902
404 Glendora -····-············· 256
405 Moneta ···-····-····-····· 588
406 Burbank ·····-············· 850
407 La Mesa ...................... 638
408 Sierra Madre -·-······· 196
409 Honolulu ·····-··········· 411
410 Charter Rock ............ 290
411 Perris ···········-······ ······· 161
412 Calexico ··--··-········· 145
414 Arlington ····-··········· 329
415 Silver Trowel .......... 421
416 Lindsay -·-····-······· ·· 222
417 Clovis ................... ,..... 548
418 Elysian ·······-······-····· 436
419 Upland ···-·······--······· 281
420 Kerman ···············-····· 147
421 Inglewood ................ 774
422 Eagle Rock ·····-········· 523
423 York ·············-············· 356
424 Exeter ·····-················· 234
425 Holtville .................... 156
426 Midway ···-····-··-··· ·· 488
427 Chino Valley ···-······· 206
428 San Dimas ···-··--····· 169
429 Pittsburg -·--··---····· 348
430 McCloud ···-······-······· 107
431 Alpha-- ----····· 524
433 Hammonto n .............. 101
434 Maricopa ···-······-······· 202
435 Fairmount ····-········· 433
436 Claremont ···--··-······· 167
437 Lancaster -----·-······· 541
439 Tyrian ····-···-···-··· ···· 220
440 Standard ···-··············· 359
441 Coronado ·····-··-······· 408
442 Blackmer ···-············· 1207
443 Schofield ·---··--····· 319
444 Carpinteri a ···-······· 128
445 Wilshire -··--··-······· 503

1959
Contrl-

button1

451.00
1,559.00
351.50
1,108.00
1,505.00
539.50
195.50
237.00
2,530.87
1,229.50
1,258.18
897.00
932.00
2,546.74
1,011.50
1,818.00
1,544.61
940.25
832.63
117.00
1,709.34
1,935.40
1,570.86
166.53
1,466.00
464.00
201.00
507.00
608.50
1,024.00
592.00
1,348.75
1,261.76
585.00
300.00
1,861.18
1,248.86
202.96
555.50
693.40
234.00
306.75
306.59
229.00
51.00
106.00
488.12
531.00
331.50
1,300.00
18.00
416.50
974.00
2,752.45
654.25
329.00
2,438.00

115

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

lHI
llembvahlp
Partlel·
pation

butiona

68%
53%
22%
55%
33%
10%
32%
44%
37%
43%
24%
46%
37%
26%
44%
31%
41%
57%
11%
12%
45%
35%
41%
11%
57%
28%
29%
37%
39%
29%
48%
37%
38%
41%
54%
42%
43%
10%
38%
0%
27%
23%
60%
23o/e
47%
2%
28%
52%
21%
42%
44%
40%
2%
51%
43%
36%
50%
57%

326.60*
1,745.64*
252.00
884.22*
1,469.75*
743.00
219.00
242.oo•
2,212.17•
1,004.00*
1,164.46*
851.00*
1,102.25•
2,110.50*
726.00
1,577.oo•
469.07
778.oo•
2,147.00*
512.63*
1,673.00*
2,297.50*
1,473.68*
538.44*
1,086.50*
782.50*
169.00
123.50
717.52*
1,347.38*
33.00
1,542.50*
3,005.00*
620.24*
307.50*
3,932.65*
1,342.32*
238.00
476.50*
325.50*
839.18
206.50
444.91*
329.24
230.50*
1,439.70*
154.00
457.26*
969.30*
217.50
1,580.24*
142.00
491.72
830.00*
3,015.63*
645.25*
397.oo•
2,669.04*

1960
Contri-

1960
Partldpatlns
Members %

76
351
45
151
257
100
51
46
338
192
131
176
201
316
118
235
106
130
209
135
280
409
305
111
176
108
48
26
116
213
4
208
159
131
67
265
256
51
76
48
173
38
115
115
47
234
38
73
107
67
270
30
237
117
461
160
83
276

50
67
15
38
36
15
34
39
43
39
24
42
44
31
27
35
16
53
23
53
48
48
48
57
43
37
30
18
35
51
2
38
36
47
46
34
49
14
32
31
35
18
68
33
44
45
38
36
25

40

50
14
66
29
38
50
65
55

1960

No.

446
447
448
449
450
451
452
453
454
455
457
458
459
460
461
462
463
464
465
466
467
468
469
470
471
472
473
474
475
476
477
'78
479
460
481

482

483
484
485
486
487
488
489
490
491
492
493
494
495
497
498
499
500
1101
502

~~
505

Lodge

Memberahlp

La Puente ·····-··········· 232
Torrance ···--··-··-····· 562
Mount Diablo ···-······· 445
Park ···-····-··--·· ······· 434
Van Nuys ·····-···--······ 1151
Montebello ·········-····· 724
San Pasqual .............. 577
Bethlehem ·····-········· 234
Crocker ···········-········· 423
Golden West ............ 560
Ramona ·····-······-······· 542
Henry S. Orme ........ 624
Riverbank .................. 151
Mount Oso ···-··········· 361
Argonaut .................... 387
Paul Revere ·····-······· 611
Morgan Hill .............. 163
Alta Vista .................. 245
Center ·····-········-······· 557
Libertas ········-············ 729
Culver City .............. 442
Rockrid~e .................. 459
Yorba Linda .............. 183
Lincoln ·····-···-········· 340
Delta ·······-··-············· 511
Maui ·········-················· 213
Blythe ·····-····-··-······· 168
Victory ····-··-··-······· 252
America ·-·-··-········· 462
Coachella ····-··-······· 243
Temblor ···········-······· 152
Thousand Oak!i ........ 531
Golden Rule ·····-······· 701
Fellowship ···-··········· 300
Mt. Davidson ............ 385
Clarence F. Smith_.. 354
Bell ···········-····-········· 811
Albert Pike .............. 247
Chowchill a ................ 179
Caledonia ···-············· 542
Vallejo···--··-····-······· 394
Patterson.................... 162
East Bay ·····-······-····· 345
Corcoran ·············-····· 141
Woodstock ·····-··-····· 433
Garvanza ···--····-····· 335
Atascadero ·········-····· 145
Acorn ·····-··················· 667
Lebanon ·············-····· 433
Fremont -·-····-··-····· 530
Stockton ·-·-··--······· 195
Capital City ·····-······· 647
Roosevelt ·········--····· 216
Westwood ·····-····-····· 273
Harbor ·······-···-·--····· 607
Point ···--····-··-- ····· 333
Seaside ····-······-······ 559
Silver Cord ···-········· 549

1959
Contri-

buttona

345.00
1,145.72
1,003.00
845.50
2,294.33
1,448.61
1,783.91
553.00
751.50
844.50
1,604.43
1,701.47
329.75
605.00
1,575.50
186.50
584.10
1,157.50
654.77
1,189.59
372.00
384.35
913.30
1,052.00
170.50
274.50
1,678.27
579.65
313.50
586.00
1,487.00
170.50
1,038.75
905.00
1,873.90
501.58
218.50
606.00
369.21
543.50
385.50
555.50
907.62
309.34
1,431.25
854.00
1,351.15
292.00
1,385.00
440.50
703.50
623.25
586.00
1,334.57
1,134.79

1959
Member1hlp
Partlel·
pation

1960
Contri-

41%
26%
29%
35%
37%
35%
35%
46%
63%
35%
18%
0%
16%
30%
42%
31%
34%
42%
39%
41%
15%
53%
20%
59%
48%
35%
0%
24%
56%
72%
54%
36%
16%
38%
13%
47%
47%
37%
27%
23%
32%
17%
0%
19%
67%
23%
32%
43%
41%
37%
42%
31%
55%
33%
61%
24%
34%
27%

223.00
1,435.64*
1,361.50*
641.00
2,530.92*
1,653.58*
2,132.53*
425.50
890.50*
2,627.00*
1,338.97*
1,628.62*
177.75
750.00•
804.72*
1,943.50*
304.00
2.00
1,229.49*
1,112.25
1,170.79*
550.50
389.91*
1,111.80•
1,035.25*
487.50*
306.00
236.82
1,575.98*
637.01*
310.50*
1,163.50*
1,805.00*
618.67*
1,179.50*
900.00*
2,050.46*
537.26*
182.50
818.95
473.00
388.50*
284.50
201.00
366.50
676.42*
460.83*
882.50
870.00*
1,214.36*
320.00
1,437.50*
491.00*
597.10*
2,471.10*
728.25*
1,711.00*
1,362.49*

bution•

1960
Partldpatlns
M-bera

%

65
212
205
135
449
319
308
75
174
300
245
242
60
130
172
321
59

28
38
46
31
39
44
53
32
41
54
45
39
40
36
44
53
36

1

253
187
95
132
96
181
175
129
56
54
201
124

44

175
354
111
19!1
158
320
84
43
224
78
88
40
50
59
98
76
213
138
209
62
320
77
152
465
141
282
254

45
26
21
29
52
53
34
61
33
21
44
51
29
33
50
37
52
45
40
34
24
41
20
54
12
35
14
29
52
32
32
39
32
49
36
56
77
42
50
46

116

PROCEED INGS OP THE
1959

1960

No.

Lodge

Member1hip

506 Mount Olive .............. 962
507 El Segundo ................ 497
508 Joppa ·········-········-····· 97
509 Benjam in Franklin .. 343
510 Cupertin o ···--··-··· ··· 228
511 Sunnyv ale ····-········· 414
512 Palms··· ········-··· -······· 520
513 Cahueng a .................. 559
514 Argonne ·····-············· 352
515 Vermon t Square ...... 491
516 Taft ··················-······· 318
517 Mount Vernon. ......... 218
518 La Jolla ...................... 349
519 Euclid ···-·····-······-····· 388
520 Ionic ·············-···-······-··
521 Piedmo nt .................. 1127
244
522 Sunrise ·········-········-·· 307
523 Bellflow er ................ 640
524 Catalina Island ........ 150
525 George Washing ton.. 453
526 Bay City ···-··············· 431
527 Covenan t .................. 284
528 Beverly Hills ............ 581
529 Loyalty ..................... 621
530 Sun Garden ....... ...... 556
531 Alexand ria ................ 179
532 Smyrna ·······--············ 191
533 Azure ........................ 353
534 Forest Hill ................ 203
535 Alexand er Hamilto n 298
536 Seal Rock .................. 202
537 Utopia ........................ 667
538 Ascot .......................... 357
539 Belvede re ·····-···---····- 201
540 Queen Beach ............ 192
541 Henry M. Stephen s. 330
542 North Hollywo od...... 1070
543 Signal ···-··-···- ······· 547
544 Glendal e ·····--············ 814
545 Jonatha n .................... 201
546 San Gabriel .............. 568
547 Arcadia ·····-··-··········· 610
548 Triangle ·······-·-········· 346
549 Justice ···--··-·······-··-·· 403
550 Seaport ···-··········-·-··· 226
551 Lakesho re ····-······-···-· 268
552 Semper Virens .......... 339
554 Educato r .................... 398
555 White Pine ................ 104
556 Fairfax ···-··········-····· 484
557 Hermos a .................... 434
558 Point Firmin ·····-····· 354
559 Craftsm en .................. 381
560 Plymou th .................. 414
561 East San Diego......... 843
562 Pyramid ···-··-·····-···-· 316
563 South Park................ 414
564 Foothill ···-··-·- ······ 998

1959

lrlember1959
Contribution•

2,037.16
675.50
164.75
778.66
263.00
493.50
105.89
1,418.85
363.00
1,028.88
680.00
319.50
96.50
790.74
2,300.00
508.00
1,422.77
1,583.63
336.69
919.50
399.85
517.46
1,192.99
1,581.00
1,047.76
366.02
65.00
900.15
240.00
646.60
512.50
1,457.47
800.12
231.25
405.00
437.50
3,587.21
1,110.65
1,770.14
357.00
1,6711.79
1,158.24
764.39
595.60
475.00
617.30
688.00
556.00
170.00
980.45
338.08
805.00
558.54
858.00
1,180.10
461.32
931.64
1,229.00

1hip
Particl·
uoiivd

45%
31%
26%
46%
23%
21%
24%
1%
88%
12%
39%
44%
34%
7%
27%
43%
23%
65%
40%
62%
40%
15%
26%
28%
28%
27%
57%
6%
48%
22%
32%
44%
30%
35%
36%
40%
20%
42%
29%
84%
41%
52%
31%
76%
21%
53%
29%
44%
27%
38%
48%
8%
40%
20%
41%
33%
35%
32%

117

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA

1960
Contri·
bution1

Partlcipa tiq
Memben CJfo

1,861.50
1,131.16*
212.00•
805.00*
317.50
537.00
2,093.96*
1,724.25*
332.00
1,090.07*
1,002.00•
445.50*
413.50
849.42*
2,300.oo•
729.50*
1,060.96*
1,376.66*
328.oo•
932.75*
581.75
633.04*
1,223.50*
2,130.50*
758.64
397.oo•
284.50
1,335.10•
455.oo•
679.25*
499.oo•
1,468.55*
757.oo•
415.23*
515.oo•
315.00
2,762.11*
1,110.00•
2,008.81*
428.50*
1,702.00*
1,662.37*
939.14*
559.70
462.00*
538.oo•
795.60*
519.50
230.00•
985.00*
251.36
540.58
310.50
730.75
1,708.50*
647.50*
1,022.00•
1,221.25

313 33
218
44
85 88
99
29
67
29
116 28
419
81
495 89
32
9
164 33
236
74
97
44
74 21
99
26
400 35
88 36
170 55
193 30
73
49
173 38
116 27
125 44
269
46
311
50
90
16
100 56
44 23
253
72
91
45
105 35
87 43
194 29
95
27
71
35
77
40
31
9
414 39
152 28
624 77
104 52
276
49
265
43
257
74
87 22
115 51
135 50
151
45
91
23
75 72
218
45
25
6
94 27
68
18
124 30
355 42
98 31
144 35
269
27

1960

1960

No•

Lodge

Member1hlp

565 West Adams.. ............ 352
566 James A Garfield.... 247
567 Searchli ght ................ 449
568 Park Bouleva rd ·-····· 438
569 Chateau Thierry ...... 362
570 Military Service ...... 328
571 Francis K. Shattuc k 245
572 James Madison ........ 374
573 Hillcres t ....................
83
574 S. W. Hackett............ 625
575 Fort Crook ····-·-········ 203
576 El Cajon Valley........ 514
577 Sunnysi de ···-··-··-····· 429
578 Progress ive ···--········ 531
579 Warren G. Harding .. 634
580 Santa Maria ···-········· 120
581 security ---··-········· 419
582 Rialto ···········-············· 304
583 Wasco ·········-········-·· 348
584 Harding ...................... 305
585 Manche ster ............... . 373
586 Garden Grove .......... 388
587 Valley Forge ............ 411
588 El Sereno .................. 437
589 Kauai ................... ...... 111
590 Compas s .................... 349
591 Escalon ...................... 163
592 Tujunga ··--··············· 374
593 All States .................. 543
594 Service ···············-····· 924
595 Alexand er G. ~ell.... 287
596 Guardia n ···-··-········· 996
598 Pearl Harbor ............ 605
599 Carmeli ta ···-··-·· ...... 378
600 Lynwoo d .................... 562
601 Grizzly ·······-············· 130
602 Melrose ···--·-······-····· 252
603 Dimond ····-········-····· 290
604 Jubilee ···-··-··-·· -····· 418
605 Glassell Park ............ 412
607 Sojourn er ···-··-··-····· 305
608 Granada ···-········-····· 843
609 Provide nt ···-······-·· ··· 504
610 Elmhurs t ·····-······-····· 285
611 Canoga ·····-········-····· 413
612 Temple City .............. 563
613 Three Pillars ............ 465
614 Larchm ont ···-···· ·-··· 420
615 Hemet ·····-··-··· ·-····· ia7
616 R. E. DolleY···-··········· 251
617 Big Bear .................... 167
618 Southla nd ···-············· 364
619 Neptune ···-··-··········· 3
620 Pomt Loma ···-········· 7
821 The Gardens ............ 532
622 Atwater ···-····-·····-··· 387
823 Menora h ···-····-········· 1083
624 Fortitud e -···········-··· 217

M

Member·
1959
Contrl·
butlon1

1hip
Partlcl•
patlon

1960
Contrl·
button•

711;43
1,320.00
773.50
915.75
366.91
354.75
234.50
467.50
60.00
1,263.25
400.00
1,207.81
947.99
1,141.01
1,342.50
300.83
871.75
617.29
767.75
620.00
922.50
913.25
1,021.16
1,105.24
428.00
753.25
156.50
1,011.56
1,122.75
1,891.00
1,772.63
2,324.33
1,446.50
930.29
1,697.97
266.00
581.73
630.22
963.25
864.88
420.91
1,806.64
1,022.50
569.00
855.38
1,610.00
925.00
1,019.50
548.25
858.80
354.50
858.00
628.00
1,012.00
661.94
956.32
4,592.10
171.00

20%
52%
25%
35%
21%
18%
22%
16%
24%
32%
67%
46%
34%
38%
62%
91%
39%
37%
47%
25%
44%
48%
29%
49%
48%
51%
32%
51%
30%
44%
71%
60%
43%
32%
57%
83%
32%
40%
40%
47%
29%
32%
39%
38%
38%
43%
39%
48%
59%
75%
42%
31%
33%
28%
18%
47%
50%
21%

596.55
1,066.50*
664.30
882.00•
403.00
667.50•
197.50
1,087.00*
205.50*
1,664.82*
408.00•
1,034.25*
915.81 *
1,290.51 *
1,317.50*
380.63*
1,005.50*
650.25*
838.50*
837.15*
820.48*
1,085.25*
1,048.97*
1,027.63*
499.50*
793.00·
78.50
990.80*
1,191.60*
2,178.21 *
898.47*
2,273.00·
1,633.50*
1,262.52*
1,854.52*
266.00*
566.98*
694.97*
837.02*
851.78*
408.80
1,731.57*
1,195.25*
579.50•
804.82
1,921.73*
1,074.00·
1,691.64*
744.75•
885.04*
362.50*
890.00•
669.92*
1,520.00*
1,070.02*
884.75*
5,066.08*
179.50

1960

Partlcipatl .ns
Memben %

80
94
119
164
81
98
82
133
28
259
145
188
137
228
376
109
197
133
194
104
126
168
234
160
65
244
27
164
166
425
141
688
317
195
535
107
74
151
143
207
63
310
223
115
144
251
211
147
164
175
58
131
103
270
165
195
539
50

23
38
27
37
22
30
33
36
34
41
71
37
32
43
59
91
47
44
56
34
34
43
57
37
59
70
17
44
31
46
49
70
52
52
91
82
29
52
34
50
21
37
44
40
35
45
45
35
69
70
35
36
33
37
31
50
50

23

118

PROCEED INGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA
1959

1959

1960

No.

Lod&'e

Membership

625 Angeles Mesa ····-····· 729
626 Chula Vista ·······-····· 652
627 Lamand a Park ........ 293
628 Truth .......................... 245
629 Fairview --·-·-----··----· 306
630 Inglesid e .................... 222
631 Benevol ence ....... _... .. 266
632 Normal Heights ........ 821
633 Poinsett ia ........... _..... 755
634 Victorvi lle .............. .. 274
635 Riversid e ........... _..... 587
636 John Marshal l ......... . 292
637 Palisade s ................... . 459
638 Indian Rock ...._ ...... . 220
639 Compos ite ................. . 637
640 Veritas ...............- ··--· 151
641 James A. Foshay...... 228
642 La Cumbre ............. . 337
643 Alta Loma .............. .. 410
644 Lomita ...................... 381
645 A. F. E. Irwin. ........... 277
646 Metropo litan .......... .. 177
647 Hawtho rne .............. .. 592
648 Damasc us .................. 704
649 Florence .................... 444
650 La Brea ··-···-··--···--· 280
551 Menlo Park ";--·-·--··· 333
652 Crescen ta Vauey .... .. 601
653 Fontana .................... 396
654 Jordan ...................... 435
655 Monte Vista .............. 836
656 Citro! ··----·--·- ·------ 249
657 John D. Sprecke ls .... . 679
658 Livingst on ............... . 226
659 La Habra ................ .. 241
660 Baldwin Park ........ .. 308
661 Malta ........................ .. 266
662 Henry Knox .......... .. 436
663 Ojai ........................... . 162
665 Kaweah ................... . 142
666 Reseda ..................... . 692
667 Meridia n ................... . 530
668 San Gorgoni o ......... . 261
669 John P. Jarman....... . 299
670 Greenle af ................ .. 830
671 San Clement e .......... 138
672 Laguna Beach .......... 206
673 Far West .................. 353
674 Los Cerritos .......... .. 499
675 Modesto .................... 521
676 Willow Glen ............ 408
677 Liberal Arts ............ 384
678 Altaden a .................. 560
679 Canby Cross ............ 162
680 Carmel .................... .. 246
681 Dos Palos ................ .. 163
682 Barstow --------- ---- 409
683 Redwoo d Empire...... 122

1959

Contributions

1,512.50
1,367.75
25.96
765.80
925.00
215.00
628.10
1,651.90
1,544.00
228.50
1,160.12
610.00
1,881.78
200.50
1,302.50
230.00
704.40
1,155.50
567.25
766.23
525.61
352.75
1,321.22
437.50
949.15
635.04
648.52
1,207.28
252.79
861.0b
1,387.62
539.50
1,152.00
276.00
485.93
659.40
577.58
1,250.00
498.76
275.00
1,683.04
1,150.80
526.50
365.00
876.20
123.00
267.50
461.25
1,337.00
767.75
393.00
817.03
1,238.83
492.50
398.50
1,018.20
240.00

llember1hip

Participation

84%
41%
0%
45%
36%
21%
36%
37%
45%
17%
54%
31%
60%
17%
40%
36%
47%
59%
16%
33%
31%
51%
38%
11%
28%
41%
37%
32%
28%
42%
28%
81%
21%
37%
37%
28%
34%
26%
56%
43%
44%
33%
40%
24%
13%
34%
64%
32%
89%
31%
62%
80%
41%
0%
33%
77%
74%
58%

119

1960

Contribution•

1,500.42*
1,462.00*
697.96*
708.50*
666.59*
555.50*
536.oo•
1,673.06*
1,627.36•
633.44•
1,332.46•
664.57•
1,640.25•
510.00•
1,263.50
261.00
710.00•
1,192.50•
1,021.45•
1,149.75•
687.oo•
435.48•
1,279.26•
489.81
506.50
573.85•
716.30•
1,463.90•
382.10
873.02•
1,771.18*
542.08•
1,527.50•
335.50
681.00·
795.43•
561.45•
1,513.50•
326.70•
297.oo•
1,663.31 •
1,141.59•
537.10•
710.50•
1,141.06
119.00
424.00*
588.00
1,055.oo•
728.00
290.50
1,019.75•
1,318.50*
474.66•
181.50
330.00•
911.50·
2.50

1960
Partldpat tna

Member.

'lf!.
88
39
62
41
36
59
80
26
35
51
65
49
50
43
36
36
46
59
31
54
52
62
63
21
20
39
42
30
24
34
38
31
32
41
55

642
253
180
100
109
132
213
215
262
139
379
142
228
95
229
54
106
199
126
206
143
109
371
145
91
110
140
178
97
146
315
77
214
92
132
134 44
144 54
173 40
60
37
64 45
307
44
274 52
87
33
116 39
296
36
36
26
188 91
151
43
286
57
178 34
143 . 35
374 97
236
42
95
59
44
18
115
71
237
58
1

1

No.

1960

1959

•hlp

Contribution•

MemberLodre

Trona ........................ 158
San Marino .............. 456
Albany ----------------· 225
Vista .......................... 322
Oildale ...................... 264
Pohona ....................... . 85
San Carlos .............. . 438
Indian Wells Valley 419
Travele rs ................. 218
Palm Springs ....... .. 219
San Antonio ............. . 260
Meudell ...................... 191
Crossroa ds .............. .. 340
Saint Elmo ................ 224
Wm. D. Stephen s ..... . 164
Bixby Knolls .......... .. 345
700 Pondero sa ................ . 358
701 Santa Ynez Valley .. . 122
702 Roseme ad ............... .. 211
703 Westche ster .....-.... . 439
704 Orinda ...................... . 187
705 El Cerrito ................ .. 206
706 Hunters Point Naval 247
707 Lake Tahoe ............. .
81
708 Seafarin g ................. . 399
709 Lorenzo ..................... . 332
710 Anaca-p a .................. . 227
711 Rim of the World .... . 144
712 Los Altos ................... . 195
713 Castro Valley·- -·-·--·· 259
714 Blue Lakes ............. .. 188
715 Magnoli a Park•......... . 219
716 Belmon t Shore.......... . 323
717 Wayfare r .................. .. 189
718 San Lorenzo Valley ..
87
684
685
686
687
1188
1189
690
691
692
693
1194
695
696
697
1198
699

134
~~~ ~~lit~::::::::::: 106

~~~ ~~~--E::-T\iit.·:.:::::: 396
154

723
724
725
726
727
728
729
730
731
732
~~~

735

736
737
738
'139
740

Acalane s............... _.... . 170
San Ramon Valley .. .. 156
Saint John's......... _.... . 204
~caipa. .................... .. 166
Verdugo Hills..... ., ... .. 93
Lakewo od .................. . 217
Centenn ial..........., ... .. 134
Polaris.......................... 131
Two Rivers............... .. 164
San Juan. ................... . 166
Golden Empire......... . 127
Kit Carson...._ ........... 167
Oasis of Mara............ 114
Lemon Grove............ . 315
Hillsbor ough............. .. 150
Arvin. .......................... . 111
La Canada.................. . 135
Opportu nity.............. . 189

141 Tyre. ............................ . 166

438.50
1,935.50
550.00
128.00
147.25
187.00
894.64
1,062.00
527.50
555.55
547.00
431.00
743.00
778.90
961.50
1,020.00
761.00
301.50
491.27
1,167.90
1,216.50
428.75
627.25
453.00
1,097.15
637.07
458.64
282.00
576.00
545.50
517.79
493.00
600.00
528.96
187.00
354.00
240.50
806.00
298.00
405.00
336.50
487.75
223.50
287.16
664.90
625.64
324.00
378.79
588.50
406.00
633.25
94.00
988.37
626.40
321.00
572.00
412.00
304.20

Membership
Participation

62%
73%
54%
15%
12%
71%
48%
81%
43%
46%
36%
76%
97%
78%
59%
59%
56%
69%
62%
58%
41%
48%
58%
75%
88%
74%
42%
36%
56%
77%
76%
45%
27%
41%
56%
74%
54%
64%
68%
48%
30%
54%
40%
71%
60%
84%
62%
68%
62%
46%
67%
20%
59%
65%
65%
73%
98%
63%

1960

1960

Contribution•

Partldpati nir
Memben %

381.00*
1,454.42•
555.00*
855.50•
345.50
252_50•
1,042.00•
849.19•
590.5o•
494.oo•
717.60•
444.25•
808.50•
1,013.35*
2,008.84•
948.67•
740.00•
337.oo•
597.63•
1,350.44•
474.50•
456.75•
716.30•
429.50•
820.00•
815.50•
480.31•
389.oo•
698.37•
553.oo•
667.89•
816.oo•
720.45•
443.46*
187.oo•
338.50•
318.75•
901.60*
315.50•
262.50
312.00*
540.5o•
519.oo•
466.62•
646.25*
496.73•
460.10*
400.00•
645.25*
603.oo•
740.75•
148.00
935.09*
635.30•
299.50•
524.26*
59.97
435.59*

73
46
255
56
130
58
246
76
72
27
65
76
203
46
388
93
102 47
124 57
114 44
147
77
232
68
139
62
164 100
195
57
193
54
89
73
132
63
264
60
65
35
82
40
165 67
47
58
310
78
254
77
97
43
93
65
87
45
221
85
121
64
131
60
108
33
66
35
67
77
76
57
60
57
241
61
101
66
42
25
55
35
99
49
140
84
94 100
115
53
88
66
84 64
108
66
122 67
91
72
135
81
67
59
170 54
82
55
103
93
93
69

2

95

1

57

120

No.

Lodire

1981
lllember1bip

742 Morningside Park..... . 173
743 Oakwood.................... . 90
744 San Leandro .............. . 148
745 Peninsula........... _...... . 121
746 SoqueL. ...................... . 127
747 Claude H. Morrison .. 104
748 Highland.................... . 187
749 Merced...............- ........ 127
750 Mother Colony.......... . 139
751 Hamilton ..·-··-··-········ 129
752 Luther Burbank........ . 161
753 Lawndale................... . 166
754 San Pablo..........·-······· 100
755 Golden Bowl.. ........... . 143
756 Clayton Valley.......... . 196
757 Channel ..................... . 94
758 West Covina·····-······· 157
759 El Rancho·-··············· 171
760 Lakeside ·············-····· 90
761 Josiah W. Roller....... . 163
762 Coastside ···-··············· 81
763 Arabic ···-··-··-··········· 127
764 Heritage ................... . 113
765 Dana R. Weller......... . 118
766 James H. Kew ... _...... . 122
767 Wm. Rhodes Hervey 117
768 Zenith·······-··········-····· 185
769 Palmdale···-······-····--· 190
770 Lake Chabot-············ 92
771 Mission Bay •.............. 141
772 Avenal···-·-··-----····· 54
773 Tej?~ ··:····-··-·-··-······ 136
774 Waikiki ...................... . 79
775 San Dieguito ·······-····· 147
776 East Whittier .•........... 131
777 Pinnacle ···-··-·····-······· 55
778 La Mirada ···-····-········ 107
779 Five Points ·····-····-····· 65
780 Riviera ·······-··············· 101
781 Rolling Hills ···-··-····· 94
782 Silverado.......- ........... . 84
783 Mojave........................ . 65
784 Leland Stanford. .•..... 95
785 Paramount......·-········· 71
786 Rio Linda.................... . 67
787 Wesiminster............... . 74
788 Sierra. .......................... . 69
789 Oak Plains.................. . 73
790 Granada Hills............. 80
791 Gen. Heney H. Arnold 70
792 Millbrae...................... . 58
793 Maya.·-··-··················· 54
794 Mt. Wilson............-.... . 79
795 American River......... 72
796 Golden Valley........... . 73
U.D. Tila Pass ···-··-············ 43
U.D. Ashland ..................... 35
U.D. Bay Claire Vista ...... 31

1959
Contributions

695.77
322.42
363.45
255.50
247.00
258.25
479.88
315.50
251.63
260.50
351.10
404.50
189.00
383.58
411.50
259.00
361.76
24.00
283.50
580.20
146.00
1,265.00
254.75
251.00
407.85
669.00
488.00
683.20
182.00
244.50
88.00
232.08
171.00
211.75
254.10
94.00
315.65
132.25
588.00
414.91
175.00
198.00
158.50
124.00
221.50
133.00
274.50
139.00
96.00
114.00
62.00
77.50
124.00
113.50

1959
Memberabip
Participation

100%
54%
57%
48%
85%
68%
64%
40%
52%
49%
64%
58%
27%
65%
50%
59%
57%
1%
73%
100%
100%
85%
49%
79%
69%
85%
63%
99%
81%
100%
28%
99%
71%
22%
70%
83%
99%
74%
76%
61%
66%
55%
59%
90%
97%
100%
98%
52%
31%
47%
82%
66%
100%
0%
56%

121

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1960
Contributions

557.oo•
262.00•
357.62•
526.50•
318.50·
312.25•
353.00
340.65•
61.80
354.13.
392.95.
441.00•
121.50
453.87•
475.15.
232_50•
426.30•
252.75
459_99•
427.30•
171.00·
1,565.oo•
397_50•
257.oo•
555_50•
753.50•
692.60•
574.oo•
194.50•
380.00•
108.oo•
287.02•
173.50•
149.00
536.33•
110.oo•
459.24•
209_55•
1,090.80•
392.67•
33.00
111.50
247.oo•
143.oo•
302.50•
182.00•
104.26
247.30·
367.57•
158.oo•
225.00•
236.50·
191.90•
234_50•
9.00
94.oo•
33.25
71.50•

1911
PartlcipaW..
Memben %

171
40
77
86
85
64
76
64
3
104
78
137
23
120
90
55
93
43
68
99
58
130
79
93
100
117
114
190
69
111
28
124
40
24
70
55
109
47
111
39
15
21
73
61
72
68
22
46
71
56
36
39
45
49

99
44
52
71
67
62
41
50
2
81
48
82
23
84
46
59
59
25
76
61
72
100
70
79
82
100
62
100
75
79
52
91
51
16
53
100
100
72
100
41
18
32
77
86
100
92
32
63
89
80
62
72
57
68

3

4

32
11
19

74
31
61

)'lo.

1960
Memberahlp

Lodire

1959
Member·
ahlp
Participation

19'8
Contribution•

1910
Partlclpatlns
Memben %

37
33
47

74.00·
66.oo•

26
30

70
91

241,819

550,937.94

100,220

41

U.D. Rio Hondo .................
U.D. Koolau .......................
U.D. Yucca Valley .............

TOTAL

1959
Contributtons

Average Contribution-$5.50

No. Calif. Research............. 92
50. Calif. Research.............. 100
EI Camino Research........... 74
Central Calif. Research.....
55

210.00

0%
48%
0%

46

212.40•

46

Overall Average Contribution-$5.50
GRAND TOTAL

242,140

551,150.34

100,266

41

REPORT OF BOARD OF CONTROL
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
The Board of Control submitts herewith its annual report covering
pertinent data on the activities of our Boards of Relief and their Employment Bureaus.
We are pleast;d to report that the work being carried on by our Executive Secretaries and employees continues to reflect credit and honor
on our ancient Institution. These devoted brethren and their employees
continue to go far beyond the call of duty, on foot and out of their way,
in carrying out their work. The Board of Control appreciates, as we are
sure this Grand Lodge does. their unselfish devotion and dedication to
their duties. No money can buy that kind of devotion, brethren; it can
only be acquired by the application of the tenets of Freemasonry to the
hearts of men.
We now have in our Jurisdiction nineteen Boards of Relief, five of
which operate Employment Bureaus. During the past year one new
Board of Relief has been organized in Orange County consisting, originally, of ten Lodges. These Lodges and their brethren have embarked
upon their new undertaking with an enthusiasm and determination
which can only bode a long and successful association together.
The activities of all of our Boards of Relief are supervised by the
Board of Control, directly. Uniform standards have been established
for operations, reporting, and auditing, by which we are able to keep
a watchful eye upon all of the operations for which we are responsible.
The Board of Control holds at least three meetings each year at
which times we meet with our Board of Relief Secretaries in order that

122

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

we may have a more personal contact with them and they with each
other, and that we all may have a better understanding of our respective
problems and responsibilities.

Of course, our Employment Bureaus operate without charge. If fees
for our services had been charged on the basis of rates fixed for comsnercial agencies, such employment opportunities would have cost our
Masonic family $101,973.14. In other words, our Fraternity has actually
saved over $100,000.00 by using our facilities.

After carefully analyzing the audited reports which have been submitted by our nineteen Boards of Relief. we ask your brief indulgence
in the following condensed statistics covering their operations during
the Masonic Year ended June 30, 1960:
Advanced for RelieL ................................. $40,690.18
Funerals conducted .............................................. 1,022
Total calls made-............................... - ...............29,780
Calls on the sick. ...........................•................... -9,772
Investigations conducted...................................... 2,212
Relief calls made..................................................8,043
Miscellaneous calls made....................................9,753
Obviously, these activities cannot be carried on without untiring
and dedicated devotion and work, much of it necessary after the hours
when most of us have locked our desks for the night. These heroic
Masons deserve and should have the undying gratitude of the entire
Craft.
BLOOD BANKS

Many of our Boards of Relief operate Masonic Blood Banks, and
those which do not usually have some other provision for providing
blood to Masons or their dependents when necessary. The following
figures indicate the extent of our blood donation activities during the
past year:
Units of blood donated........................................ 3, 491
Units of blood withdrawn ....................................3,403
Actual cost saved to our Masonic family ........ $84,185
EMPLOYMENT BUREAUS

As stated above, we now have Employment Bureaus within five of
our Boards of Relief. Their purpose, of course, is to assist our Masonic
family to obtain gainful employment. The increasing competition of our
public placement agencies in this field, as well as other factors, has occasioned a rapid decline in our placements over the years. and a corresponding rise in the cost of each placement. The Board of Control
has been keeping a concerned and watchful eye on this trend for a
number of years with the fear that if it continued, there might somewhere come a time when the results in this field might not justify their
cost. The following figures briefly cover the operations of our Employment Bureaus during the past Masonic Year:
Registered for employment.................................. 6,184
Positions actually secured.................................. 1, 161

123

APPROPRIATIONS

From time immemorial it has been a custom of this Grand Lodge to
Bnancially assist our Employment Bureaus. when deemed expedient.
The Board of Control has made a careful analysis of the appropriations
being requested by the various Bureaus and makes the following recommendations aggregating $11.800.00 for the current Masonic Year:
East Bay........................................................ $2,500.00
Long Beach......................................................2,600.00
Los Angeles ...................................................... 1,000.00
San Diego........................................................ 3,200.00
San Francisco .................................................. 2,500.00
We have referred the matter of these appropriations to the Chairman
of the Finance Committee as required by Section 265 of the California
Masonic Code.
REINBtJRSEMENTS TO MASONIC BoARDS OF RELIEF

It has long been the policy of this Grand Lodge that no worthy
sojourning brother, or his immediate family. shall suffer in our Jurisdiction for the necessities of life, or shall have other than a decent burial
upon their demise, regardless of the willingness.or ability of the brother's
own Lodge to make us whole. Grand Lodge undertakes to reimburse
any Board of Relief for such unrecoverable advances. During the past
Masonic Year our Boards of Relief advanced more than $40,000.00
to sojourners and their dependents. All such advances were carefully
scrutinized by one of our Executive Secretaries and efforts were made
to obtain reimbursement from the sojourner's home Lodge. It is gratifying to report that out of $40,690.18 advanced during the year, only
$577.01 was not repaid, in accordance with the following requests to
Grand Lodge for reimbursement:
REIMBURSEMENTS TO THE SAN FRANCISCO BOARD OF RELIEF

The San Francisco Board of Relief has requested $552.01 which
covers two cases. One is a continuing case over many years of a very
worthy brother from Scotland for whom the Grand Lodge of Scotland
makes some provision, but not sufficient for his essential needs. The

124

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

other is the cost of a funeral for b h f
r?tber rom one of our Southern
States for which his Lodge refused tao re1m
urse us.

REPOR T OF COMM ITTEE ON COMM ERCIA LISM

REIMBUR SEMENTS TO THE SACRAM ENTO BOARD OP RELIEF

.
The Sacrame nto Board of Relief h as requeste d reimburs
ement in the
amount of $25 00 h. h
. w tc represen ts relief extended t o a b rot h er from a
mid-western state It is clear]
nto Secretar y
dy appa~ent that the Sacrame
.
used diligence d· ·
t . h.
• 1scretton an good Judge
be commended for his handling of the case. men m t is matter and is to
. The Board of Control has recommended that the Finance Committee approve these reimbursements totaling $577.01 .
The Board of Control has receiv d th
~. f ~tmost cooperation during
this past year from the Mo t W
rand Master, the Grand
Sp u
Gra:~s
ts
Secretar y and the Assistan
ecretary, as well as from their
officers and associates We a
re most grateful for all of their assistanc e
and their kindnesses. .

t

Respectf ully submitted,
REGINAL D M. MILLS
IRVING MAGNES
ARTHUR DvoRIN
}OHNSW AN
NORMAN E. HALE

EXPIRAT ION OP TERM OP OFFICE OP BOARD OP CONTROL MEMBER S

Arthur Dvorin........................................................ 1960
Reginald M. Mills................................................ 1961
Norman E. Hale.........................•....................- .... 1961
Irving Magnes.................•...................................... 1962
John M. Swan.......... ~ ............................................. l 962
Referred to Committee on Finance.

125

To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Commercialism is indeed happy to advise that
reported violations of our law are diminishing in number, scope and
seriousness. Obviously, as you will note from that which follows, continued vigilance is necessar y to prevent the taint of Commercialism from
again rearing its ugly head in our midst.
SHRINE

This Appenda nt Organiza tion generally has been most cooperative.
The several football games which they sponsor, also a basketba ll game
in Hawaii have been handled strictly in line with Grand Lodge's requirements. We have had discussions with Imperial Potentat e Andrews ,
relative to their activities in this jurisdiction, and have his assuranc e
that our law will be strictly observed . We must report, however , there
have been two instance s where Shrine Clubs, one in the southern part
of the state and the other in the north, violated our law. Both violations
were called to the attention of our M . W. Grand Master. His prompt
action in regard thereto has, we are sure, satisfact orily disposed of these
situations.
Early in June this year there was held in San Francisc o a Pollack
Bros. "Shrine" Circus sponsore d by the Knights of Columbus. Obviously, the use of the word "Shrine" in connection with this circus
has good advertisi ng value. Our Grand Master wrote the Imperial
Potentate . This resulted in a letter from the Imperial Recorde r dated
August 2 at the instance of the Imperial Potentat e to the manager of
Pollack Bros. Circus stating that any such future violations would place
his, Stern's, and others in his organiza tion who were Shriners , membership in the Shrine in jeopardy. In his response of August 9, Mr. Stern
admits the error stating it was made inadvert ently by the printer of
the tickets and assured the Imperial Potentat e that it would not be
repeated.
OTHER APPENDA NT BODIES

ns involving
Daughte rs
Job's
and
h
JJe~~folay, Eastern Star, Order of the Amarant
of those
Officers
le
responsib
the
of
which, when called to the attention
ns
infractio
other
of
number
A
rectified.
promptly
were
erganiza tions,
our
when
who
,
involved
group
the
of
inquiry
upon
d,
;vere prevente
aw and regulatio ns were made known, abandon ed the proposed projects.
T'\_ There have been a small number of inadvert ent infractio

126

127

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GifAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

PuaucA noNs

above ref erred to. This is being followed. We are hopeful of being
able to curtail their activities.
We have learned of similar activities in Crescent City and in Placer~
ville. This matter is in the hands of our Grand Master for such action
as he deems necessary.
It would be most helpful if copies of any such magazine or publications could be picked up and forwarde d to this committee for follow-up.

Attempt by an Author, member of the Craft in Californ ia, to sell a
book he had written by mailing a card addresse d "TO ALL MASTE R
MASON S, EASTE RN STAR, DE MOLA YS AND THE SHRINE ,"
has been conc:luded by the Author's assuranc e that the unmailed balance
of the cards have been turned over to one of our Assistan t Grand Lecturers. There is another situation, involving an Author who is a Member
of a Lodge in New York, and a Publishin g Compan y's Presiden t who
is a member of the Craft in Minneso ta. The latter, after having met with
the Grand Master of Minneso ta, with whom we had correspo nded, has
given a written statemen t wherein he voluntar ily stated he would stop.
cease and desist the un~Masonic activities which he had unwittin gly
carried on. As to the Author who is a member of a Lodge in New York.
the M. W. Grand Master of that Jurisdiction, with whom we have also
been in correspo ndence, has referred this matter to their committee of
law enforcement, and we should in due time be advised of the results.
At this time our greatest problem is the attempt by Publishe rs of
certain Eastern Magazin es, apparent ly centralized in Chicago to sell,
by high pressure long distance phone, advertisi ng in their magazine,
basing their call on the fact that it is an official Masonic Publication.
The Grand Lodge of Illinois is greatly distressed as result of these
activities and is moving to eliminate this continuing source of trouble.
We are combatting this situation as much as is possible and in a manner
which should not place this Grand Lodge in jeopardy .
Recently we were informed of two men who called on a Service Station Man - not a member of the Craft, in Redding . Californ ia. They
approach ed him as follows: "We are with the Freemas on Magazin e.
You have several members dealing with you and, since you do not pay
dues to the Lodge, these members feel you should take out a good ad
in their magazine, so we have put you down for $100.00. This magazine,
with your ad, will be distribut ed free to each member from all over the
State that attends this Grand 1Lodge Convent ion here in Redding ." It
so happene d that a member of the Craft, known to the Service Station
People, arrived on the scene at this time. This Brother ran the salesmen
off the premises. He also contacte d one of the local Judges who sent him
to the District Attorney , who in turn sent him to the Chief of Police.
With the Chief of Detectiv es this Brother went to the hotel where they
talked to both men, looked at their Sales Book, after which they were
placed under arrest. In their attempt to arrange bail, they exposed their
headqua rters in Portland . Oregon.
Additionally, we have had called to our attention several instances
of solicitation for advertisi ng by salesmen of Masons and non~Masons
for a magazine call "Freema son," presuma bly the same publication

"M1scEL LANEOu s"

There have been some other items called to our attention . One was a
"Brother Henders on" represen ting a Life Insuranc e Compan y using
radio broadcas ts in attempti ng to secure clients. This man's card carried
a Masonic Emblem, the Square and Compass . It was found that he
apparent ly is an irregular Mason. He was contacte d, and the .Pr?blem
has been solved by his assuranc e that the Emblem has been ehmmate d
and will not be used.
One nationall y organize d firm wrote for authority to manufac ture
a steel tape rule carrying a Masonic Emblem and called attention to
cigarette lighters, desk sets, etc. marked in this manner. We advised
them that our name and emblem were registere d under the Californ ia
Corporat ion Code, and the unauthor ized use was prohibite d for which
reason the authority requeste d could not be granted. An Eastern
manufac turer wrote to the Secretar y of some of our Lodges. enclosing
a reflector emblem to be placed on automobiles. and in this manner
tndeavor ed to sell the Lodge on the idea of raising funds by selling
reflectors at a profit to the members. We informed the manufac turer
of the Californ ia Law referred to in the precedin g item and requeste d
them to desist from their activities. Further. that any orders received
would not be filled and any checks received would be returned with
latisfact ory explanat ion. There have been some other matters called
to our attention , none of which is of particula rly great importance and
so will not be commented on. Suffice it to say that either by word of
mouth or by letter all such matters have been successfully concluded
in accordance with requirem ents of our law.
We have had called to our attention an item which appeared in a
Californ ia newspap er, in regard to a member of a Lodge of this Jurisdiction, which stated that this member is also a member of the Royal
Order of Caritas, which is forbidden under Grand Lodge edict adopted
in 1957. In replying to our Grand Master's letter concerning this,
the Brother stated that the news item was in error as his resignati on had
been tendered in compliance with Grand Lodge edict of 1957.
It was reported that a group of Amarant h members in Los Molinas,
California, calling themselves "The 122 Club" last year operated a
ttfreshm ent booth at the Tehama County Fair and planned to do so

128

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

again this year. The information came rather late to forestall any such
activity. However, our Grand Master nevertheless communicated with
the Royal Grand Matron who was surprised to learn of this activity.
She immediately phoned the Court informing them they could not accept
any money made in that manner and further authorized one of their
Commissioners of Appeals to investigate the matter and report as soon
as possible. Upon receipt of which a copy of the investigation is to be
forwarded to our Grand Master.

REPORT OF INVESTMENT COMMITTEE

~

Some confusion has developed in one of the High 12 Clubs in the
State which was called to our Grand Master's attention. He immediately
placed such information as was available in the hands of the Inspector
in whose district the situation developed to investigate. As of this writing, matters seem to be under control.
In accordance with the approval given at the 1959 Annual Communication, the regulations formulated by the Committee were mailed
by the Grand Secretary's office to all organizations which had been
registered under the requirements of Section 332.2. Their receipt and
the observance thereof should further reduce the opportunity of violating
our law, though as observed above, continued vigilance is required.
CONCLUSION

,,

The members of your committee feel honored for having been given
the opportunity to be of service to this Grand Lodge. Our appreciation
and thanks go to our M . W. Grand Master, Joe L. Shell, who has been
most understanding of our problems and helpful in assisting us to arrive
at the proper solutions. It has been a great pleasure to have worked
and served under him.
Respectfully submitted,
V1NcENT P. McMuRDO
WILLARD A . BRAASCH
}ACK L. BLAINE
HARVEY HARKNESS
ALBERT R. BENNISON

Referred to Committee on Finance.

129

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. 6 A. M. of California:
The Investment Committee concludes its tenth year of activity, and
herewith renders its report for the twelve months ending June 30, 1960.
Each year's report gives a certain amount of historical background and
basic information, which should be helpful to those attending Grand
Lodge for the first time.
The Prudent Man Rule in modified form was adopted by Grand
Lodge at its 1950 Communication. For the Constituent Lodges a Prudent Man Rule was adopted :in 1951.
The Investment Committee of Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California
was formed for the purpose of administering the investable funds of
Grand Lodge, the Masonic Homes of California, and the Masonic
Homes Endowment Fund. The Committee does not supervise the investments of Constituent Lodges. Grand Lodge makes the services of its
investment advisor available to the Lodges. Many Lodges are now making use of this service, as evidenced by the fact that 245 Lodges with over
$5,000,000 of investments are now consulting with our investment advisor.
The Investment Committee is composed of the Grand Treasurer,
the Assistant ·Grand Treasurer, the Chairman of the Finance Committee,
the President of the Masonic Homes Board of Trustees or a Trustee of
that Board designated by him, and the Chairman of the Masonic Homes
Endowment Board or a member of that Board designated by him. Past
Grand Master Charles M. Wollenberg, former President of the Masonic
Homes Board of Trustees, had appointed Brother Past Master Ralph H.
Head as his representative. Henceforth, the new President of the Board
of Trustees, Past Grand Master Arthur M. Warren by virtue of his
office will personally serve as a member of the Committee. John M .
Gordon, Chairman of the Endowment Board, also serves as a member
of the Committee.
By Ordinance, under .Section 246 ( formerly 86) with respect to investment of Grand Lodge funds, and Section 403 (formerly 152.1)
respecting investments by Constituent Lodges, the following provisions
prevailed as of June 30, 1960:
GROUP I. At least 20% of the funds available for investment
must be in:

130

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

A) Cash and/or bank accounts.
B) Obligations of the United States.
C) Obligations of the State of California and its political subdivisions.
D) Such other securities as are legal invesments for savings
banks in California or Hawaii (As amended 1959).
GROUP II. Up to 20% may be invested in:
A) Other evidences of indebtedness, which are or will be fully
listed and registered on an Exchange registered with the
Securities and Exchange Commission as a National Securities Exchange, except that this listing requirement shall not
include railroad equipment trust issues ( 1955.).
B) Preferred stocks, which are or will be fully listed and registered on an exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a National Securities Exchange, except that full listing and registration of preferred stock shall
not be required whenever the common stock of the corporation issuing such preferred stock is fully listed and registered
on such an exchange, provided that such preferred stock is
traded on such an exchange ( 1956).
GROUP UL Up to 60% may be invested in:
A) Common stocks, which must be fully listed and registered
on an exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission as a National Securities Exchange, except that
this listing requirement shall not apply to bank and insurance
stocks.
B) Shares of Investment Trusts.
C) Shares and/or certificates of insured Federal or State Savings
and Loan Associations ( 1957 and 1959). The amount invested in any one Association shall not exceed the amount
covered by insurance.
(THIS AMENDMENT APPLIES ONLY TO CONSTITUENT LODGES AND DOES NOT APPLY TO
THE INVESTMENT OF GRAND LODGE FUNDS.)
With respect to the authority to invest in Groups II and Ill. the
Ordinances read as follows: "No such investments, however, shall be
made which at the time of purchase will result in the total market value
of the securities referred to in this section exceeding twenty per cent
(or sixty per cent) of the total market value of all the cash, bank accounts
and securities held,"-the controlling point being that there cannot be

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

inore than 20% or 60% invested in Groups II and HI. respectively, at
the time of purchase.
Should a Lodge elect to invest its funds under the provisions of
Group II or Ill hereof. it shall confer and counsel as to any such propased or contemplated investments with the professional Investment
Advisor used by Grand Lodge, whose fees will be paid by Grand Lodge.
At the 1959 Communication certain amendments were passed with
respect to the percentages which could be invested in Groups I and III.
Group I was reduced to 20% and Group III was increased to 60%. In
this connection, it is very important to call attention to the following,
which is contained in the Reports of the Committee on Jurisprudence
and the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
"Your Committee on Jurisprudence respectfully calls attention to
the fact that this proposed amendment is permissive only and is not a
directive. Great care should be exercised in making investments under
the authority granted by this pr~osed amendment."
"Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends the
adoption of Resolution D-7 but with this admonition to the Lodges:
"A) The authority granted is permissive only and is not suggested
as an investment guide under present economic conditions.
"B) That in making investments in Group III the Lodge be most
circumspect in taking advantage of this additional authority.
"C) And that they strictly comply with the provisions of the last
paragraph of Section 403-3B of our ordinances, consult with and heed
the advice of the professional investment advisors used by Grand Lodge,
and made available to the Constituent Lodges without charge to the
individual Lodge."
The above comments are included in the reports of the Committees
as they appear on page 282 of the 1959 Proceedings.
Since its formation the Investment Committee has met regularly every
three months. Between quarterly meetings the business of the Committee
is handled by correspondence or telephone.
As stated, we have just completed ten years of operation. The following is a summary of the consolidated market value of securities
owned, plus investable cash, together with a record of dollar income on
these investments, beginning with November 30, 1950, and for each
aucceeding fiscal year, through June 30, 1960, including the percentage
income on the market value of each year.

PROCEED INGS OF THE

132

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

BLE CASH*
CONSOLI DATED MARKET VALUE OF SECURIT IES AND INVESTA
s)
(BY GROUPS AND TOTALS) AND DOLLAR INCOME (In Parentheae

Oatea
11/30/60
8/18/61
8/4/62
7/81/68
7/81/64
7/81/66
7/31/56
6/80/67 ..
6/30/68
6/30/69
6/80/60

GROUP II
GROUP I
Amount Per Cent Amount Per Cent
1.7
• 102,140
92.4
$5,668,829
4,262)
($ 94,280)
6.6
889,000
76.8
4,668,243
('16,662)
74,084)
8.7
674,096
63.4
4,218,637
('20,882)
86,827)
6.6
479,627
68.6
4,698,120
($19,394)
($102,881)
9.2
771,147
61.8
4,861,294
($27,963)
96,268)
6.7
678,610
66.6
6,680,942
($24,894)
($126,621)
14.4
1,696,652
64.1
6,011,460
($68, 688)
(Sl67,122)
17.0
1,928,881
46.0
6,206,936
(S89,399)
($168,234)
17.9
2,258,739
48.1
6,897,647
($96,946)
(Sl74,662)
18.6
1,854,636
48.8
6,664,916
(S87,858)
($242,713)
17.7
2,879,060
63.8
7,249,780
($117,081)
($282,674)

<•

<•
<•

<•

GROUP ID
Amount Per Cent
6.9
• 864,008
22,066)
17.2
1,026,725
68,203)
27.9
1,866,121
98,614)
29.9
2,208,668
(S114,815)
89.0
8,278,814
('162, 076)
87.8
8,820,092
('158,330)
81.6
8,606,096
(Sl60,697)
87.0
4,192,291
('197,673)
88.9
4,878,839
($226,340)
88.2
5,270,217
(Sl86,854)
28.5
8,887,628
($142,288)

<•
<•
<•

Inc-•
Percentage
TOTALS
Amo ant
Returnt
1.97
• 6,124,471
(Sl20,698)
2.68
6,972,968
($168,989)
8.09
6,648,864
(S206,272)
8.21
7,881,806
($286,690)
8.28
8,401,266
($276,296)
3.06
10,129,644
('809,345)
8.34
11,118,108
(S871,407)
8.92
11,326,608
(S440,306)
8.97
12,529,625
($496,948)
8.75
18,789,767
($617,425)
18,466,468 tf 4.02
($641,838)

GRAND LODGE F. Be A. M. OF CALIFO RNIA
CONSO LIDATE D PORTFO LIO - JUNE 30, 1960
(Market Value"" )
SUMMA RY
GBOUP I
Amount

Cash~·--·-·······················-··········-$ 557,800
verrunen t Bonds ................ 3,054,620
U. S.
102,000
Municip als ····:·····································
750 000
Railroad Equipm ent ........................
2,785:360
Public Utility ....................................

Total Bonds ·····-·-······-······-······-$

Ineom&

Per Cent

Return
on
Market

$ 16,734•
105,181
3,095
2,628
134,036

TOTAL GROUP I·······-··············-$ 7,249,780
GBOUP II
Bonds:
2,000
Municip als ···-····················-···········$
50,000
Railroad Equipm ent ................... .
.
.
108,240
Public Utility ..............................
34,600
Railroad ......................................... .
125,000
··-·····
Industri als ·······-·······-············.........
.
4,950
Financial ..............................

In Group I.
•Savings bank deposits with Interest earned thereon are Included
tOn market value •
..F!scal ;year changed to June 30.
Masonic Homea General Fund
ttit should be noted here that $1,180,000 was withdrawn from the for the new hospital at Decoto.
and $86,000 from the Flint Fund, (or a total of $1,215,000 ), to pa;y

Net pro.flts of $579,658 were taken during the past year, and total
net pro.flts of approxi mately $2,000,658 have been taken since the inaug~
uration of the Pruden t Man Rule in 1950. Profits always remain a part
of principa l and are never include d in income totals. With respect to
the Endowm ent Fund. neither profits nor capital are ever withdra wn
from the Fund.
Endowm ent Fund contribu tions made through the Lodges amount ed
to $551,15 0 for the year ending June 30, 1960. Other gifts and bequest s
for the Masoni c Homes amount ed to $602,332. The Masoni c Homes
Board of Trustee s determi nes how these gifts and bequest s shall be
allocat ed-thes e allocati ons are in accorda nce with speci.flc bequest s, or
in the absence of such, at the directio n of the Trustee s. The Endowm ent
Fund contribu tions remain in that Fund, and only the income can be used.
In passing , may we also mention that the total portfoli o has increase d
since Novemb er, 1950, from $6,124,471 to $13,446,458, or 119.88% . and
at the same time the income, based on present holding s, has increase d
from $120.598 to $541,838, or 349.29% . As mention ed above, $1.215,000
was withdra wn for the new Decato hospital •
. The following is the consoli dated investm ent portfoli o of Grand
Lodge, with the market values as of June 30, 1960, divided into the
r
various groups. and showing the percent age of each group, togethe
with the income return for each group on the market value:

133

$282,574

53.83

$

3.90

80
1,750
5,160
2,076
5,650
194

324,790

$ 14,910

74,400
RaiII:oad ···:·················-·········-·········$
762,400
Public !Jtihty ................................
Industri als ...................................... 1,217,406
Total Preferre ds ........................$ 2,054 260
TOTAL GROUP ll ..................$ 2,379:050

$ 3,720
38,259
60,142

Preferre d Stock:

17.67%

GBOUP III
Public !Jtility ....................................$ 850,835
~dustnals •......................................... 1,584,199
Finance·········--····-······························· 1,402,594
28.50%
TOTAL GROUP II ......................$ 3,837,628
GRAND TOTAL ..........................$13,466,458 100.00%
0
00

$102,121
$117,031

4.92%

$ 37,174
56,625
48,434
$142,233

3.70%

$541,838

4.02%

At8%.

A) are figured
~e;e: ~~rllnvestment Serlesequipment
~~. aJi::•~:~~f.!~1!11;0~~~~~·~~1d.,
!:luues
trust
and t~e municipal issues are figured at par. If the no~m'-!?:.ke~j8d
redemptio n values and If th

·1

d

I

e governmen ts were

taken at their present
e rai roa eQU pment trust and municipal
'
k t h
were fi red t
mun
tely $48,970
the :J;ove fiiru'::~/si3:4~6t1ts1_ value of the portfolio would he approxima

1- than

We have three principa l account s, the Masoni c Homes Endowm ent
Fund, the Masoni c Homes General Fund, plus the several smaller funds
of the Masoni c Homes, and the Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of Californ ia.
The record is kept by Moody 's as one total fund, thereby reducin g our
c:ost very materia lly. Howeve r, Grand Lodge records are kept separat e
:.:to each fund, as are the records of the Investm ent Commit tee. As a
tt~r of interest , we list here the market value of the portfoli os of the
llDdivtdual funds, togethe r with the income and yield at market prices:

134

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Total Value•
76
$10,548,922.
............
Fund
Masonic Homes Endowment
Masonic Homes General Fund.................. 1,716,329.91
340,837.25
Masonic Homes Flint Fund........................
Masonic Homes Brigham
33,561.50
Scholarship Fund ................................. .
Masonic Homes Resident's
24,625.00
Deposits Fund ........................................
59,765.13
Masonic Homes Luckenbach Fund ......... .
4,368.75
Masonic Homes Wadleigh Fund ................
18,180.00
Masonic Homes Perine Fund ..................... .
675,898.62
Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California ....

Income
$407,231.46
67,123.09
14,911.55

Yield•
3.86%
3.91
4.37

1,177.50

3.51

1,215.00
2,763.05
125.00
700.00
31,117.91

4.93
4.62
2.86
3.85
4.60

(* as of .June 80, 1960, including Invest.able cash. Interest on savings accounts (lnvestable cash
only) Is figured at 3%. In this table governments, railroad equipments and municipal issues are
figured at present redemption or market values. All of these figuree are as of .June 30, 1960, and
the yield on the inve1tments would vary during the year, depending upon the many factors which
are involved).

In the fiscal year 1959-1960 there was liquidated from the Masonic
Homes General Fund and Flint Fund securities to the extent of $1.109,000, and in the previous year to the extent of $106,000 (or a total of
$1,215,000) , in order to pay for the new hospital and facilities at Decoto.
The hospital was dedicated on July 30, 1960, and the total cost was approximately $1,300,000.
We have had practically one hundred per cent attendance at our
Investment Committee meetings. P. G. M. Arthur M. Warren attended
the November 1959 and February and ,May 1960 meetings, as a member
of the Board and later President of Masonic Homes Board of Trustees.
The entire portfolio is listed in the Auditor's Reports and is, therefore, not included herein. The securities are held in safekeeping by the
Trust Department of the Crocker Anglo National Bank, at its One
Montgomery Street Office, San Francisco.
With respect to Constituent Lodges, Moody's reports that the latest
record indicates a total of 245 Lodges making use of their service, which
is an increase of 19 over a year ago. The Committee was pleased to note
that some of the Lodges are making good and continuing use of the
service. The varying size of the investment portfolios would of course
have a bearing on the activities of the Lodges. A calculated total would
indicate that the funds reviewed are well in excess of $5,000,000. The
reviews are completely up to date and have been so maintained. The contact with the Lodges is carried out on a continuing basis, thereby indicating that the service rendered to the Lodges, both by Grand Lodge and
its Investment Advisor, has been very useful.
The Hawaiian Lodges have a resolution to present respecting Hawaiian securities and the listing thereof, with which the Committee
agrees.
The Committee endeavors to keep in as close touch with economic

135

conditions as is humanly possible. These are ever changing. Now we
are confronted with different factors , and the law of supply and demand
is again operating. Increased costs of doing business cannot be passed
along as in recent years. Therefore, competition again gets into full
swing and the margin of profits declines. This competition comes not
only within the United States, but from all over the world. How quickly
things change-a year ago the Investment Committee asked for a change
in percentages, which was done for protection against inflation, should
it become more rampant. Fortunately. it was not necessary to use this
authority, inasmuch as the inflationary forces were held in check. Instead,
the Investment Committe has become more conservative, as exhibited by
the fact that we have less invested in Group III than we did a year ago.
But we now have the authority to be more flexible if need be.
Let it also be mentioned that our course of action can be quite different from that of an individual investor. This is said so as not to influence
you with respect to your personal actions.
The Investment Committee, to repeat, continues to pursue a conservative policy, as evidenced by the fact that we have 53.83% invested in
Group I. 17.67% in Group II, and only 28.50% in Group III, of which
11 %% is in industrial stocks, the balance being in finance and utility
stocks.
Our thanks to the Grand Secretary, the Assistant Grand Secretary,
and my thanks to the members of the tl nvestment Committee for their
wholehearted and generous cooperation at all times.
Respectfully submitted on behalf of the Investment Committee JOHN M . GORDON
•
FRANK HARWELL, JR ..
RALPH H. HEAD
EDWARD H. SIEMS
PAUL A. PFLUEGER, Chairman

136

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON DISTRIBUTION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Committee on Distribution, to which has been referred the
annual message of the Grand Master, reports of the Grand Treasurer,
Grand Secretary, and Grand Lecturer, submits the following report:
GRAND MASTER S MESSAGE
We recommend that the portions of the Grand Master's Message
herein listed be referred to the committees indicated:
1. To the Committee on Jurisprudence:
a. The recommendation regarding edicts of February 10, 1960,
and March 25, 1957, relative to a certain Shrine Club of San
Jose.
b. Decisions 2, 4, 5, 8, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 18, 19 and 20.
2. To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
a. The recommendation relating to the change in name of the
Grand Lodge Committee on Research.
b. The recommendation to appoint a special committee to study
the propriety and feasibility of changing and modifying the
name of this Grand Lodge to include the words "and Hawaii."
c. Decisions 1,6, 7, 13, and 17.
3. To the Committee on Jurisprudence and to the Committee on
Policy and General Purposes:
Decisions 3 and 9.
The Grand Master's Message reflects those qualities of leadership
and the love of the craft which throughout the years have endeared him
to all Masons withersoever dispersed.
GRAND TREASURER' s REPORT
We recommend the referral of this report in its entirely to the
Committee on Finance.
The continued efficiency and outstanding service of this Grand Lodge
office is highly commendable.
GRAND SECRETARY S REPORT .
1. We recommend that the portion relative to changes of meeting
place be referred to the Committee on By-Laws.
2. We recommend that portions thereof relative to Lodges under·
dispensation be referred to the Committee on Finance.
3. We recommend the portion relative to endorsing the Charters
of Hawaiian Lodges to show their locations as the State of
Hawaii be referred to the Committee on Charters.
GRAND LECTURER'S REPORT
We recommend the report in its entirety be referred to the Commit~
tee on Finance.
Respectfully submitted,
ADOLPH H. FRANZEN
SAMUEL STEELMAN
Adopted.
ALEX BARKOFF
1

1

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

137

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
OLD MASONIC HALL AT LOS ANGELES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Reference is made to previous reports of this committee for information on this first Masonic Hall in Los Angeles.
Under the direction of Brother Orvel B. Johnson, Direct Construction Supervisor for the State, the work of restoration of this Hall is
proceeding rapidly, with a schedule of completion in 1961.
The State of California, owner of El Pueblo de Los Angeles State
Historical Monument, of which this old Masonic Hall is a part, has
entered into a franchise agreement with the City of Los Angeles under
which the City will be the operators of the Monument. A lease is in
preparation between the State and the City on one hand and the
Grand Lodge of California under which the second floor Lodge room
of the Hall will be leased to Grand Lodge for a term of years at nominal
rental. The form and terms of this lease will conform in all basic respects
to that which exists between the State and Grand Lodge on the Columbia
Temple. It was not possible to have the lease in shape for approval by
Grand Lodge at this Communication, but it should be ready within the
next ninety days. Because the Hall may be ready for occupancy before
Grand Lodge convenes in 1961, this Committee recommends that authority now be given to the proper officers of Grand Lodge to execute
this lease as submitted in final form.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution:
"RESOLVED, that the proper officers of Grand Lodge are
hereby authorized and empowered to execute a lease on the Old
Masonic Hall at 416 North Main Street, Los Angeles."
You will be pleased to know that in the entire program for the preservation and restoration of this Masonic Landmark, which has covered the
last eight years, Grand Lodge has not been involved in any expense.
Nor do we anticipate any until we occupy the second floor Lodge room
and furnish jt. We have been informed that Los Angeles Lodge No. 42,
which first occupied the Hall in 1858, will underwrite that expense.
We recommend the continuation of a Special Committee and the
authority, previously granted, for the Grand Master to make nominal
expenditures, if necessary.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK HARWELL, JR.
MATIHEW M. CODON
GuYB.M1zE
Resolution and entire report unanimously adopted.
At 4:00 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 10:00 a.m. Tuesday.

138

139

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

IN GRAND LODGE

Master, and the Public Schools Committee for 1960, go the respectful,
appreciative, and fraternal gratitude of the Committee.

MORNING SESSION, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1960

Grand Lodge was called on at 10:00 a.m., the Grand Master pre~
siding. The invocation was delivered by the acting Grand Chaplain.
The minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions of Monday, Sep~
tember 26, were read and approved.
The Grand Master then recognized the representatives of 22 California Chapters of the National Sojourners who explained the purpose
of the organization. A color guard then presented a new 50 star flag to
Grand Lodge which was appropriately received by the Grand Master.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SCHOOLS
To the Most Worship{ ul Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:

I. PREFACE
This preface to this 1960 report for the Public Schools Committee
must do one thing with real zest. That one thing is to thank those who,
with dedication, devotion, conviction, and clear concepts, gave the
Grand Lodge Public Schools activity during 1960 its greatest year.
To our Grand Master, Most Worshipful Joe L. Shell. to the officers
and the staff members in Grand Lodge hea dquarters go our first and
greatest expression of thanks. The Grand Lodge influence throughout
the family of Masonic Lodges and the related bodies in California is
the spark which stimulates the zeal with which those who serve the
Public Schools Committee program are fired. 1960 has been a year of
extra effort on the part of Masons in their loyalty and faithfulness,
helping to extend the ideals and sustain the personnel in every position
and relationship to Public Schools in California.
The good feeling, the success and the results accomplished in California Public Schools a re the awa rds and rewards for Masonic support
for Public Education.
We thank Lodge Officers and Committeemen in each Blue Lodge
in California for their excellent efforts. Appreciation is extended to
every state and local community organization, group, and agency which
rallied to the call tha t was expressed up and down California to strive
for the best for Public Education.
Results were achieved worthy of the efforts extended. The program
of public interest in and loyalty to Public Education in the areas of
influence of the Grand Lodge of California have been noteworthy in
our two states, California and Hawaii.
To those who worked, who followed the directions of our Grand

To those who have prepared, brought. and displayed their exhibits
- a special word of compliment and commendation. It is you who
demonstrate the "know-How" - you prove that results are a ttained,
that "work" will do the job. Thank to you.

IL THE PURPOSES GUIDIN G THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS COMMITTEE 1960
Our purposes for the 1960 activities thro ughout the entire year in
every Lodge in California and Hawaii centered in the 1960 theme " Our Public Schools - Know Them - Support Them - Strengthen
Them."
When we speak of "Knowing the Public Schools" we refer not
solely to the physical plants, the personnel. and the students. We refer
to the basic principles which are the foundation for Public Education
in our country, in its several states . and even in its various communities.
We are firm in our belief that a true principle of Masonic expression in
practical living in our society has unceasingly bound our fraternit.y
to the ideals. the operation. the strength, and the advancement of Pubhc
Education, Public Schools, public school teachers and teaching.
1960 has been a year of study and presenta tion of the histor y of
Public Education in our States of California and Hawaii.
We have emphasized the importance of. the ve ry indispensability
of good Public Education in the American system of gov~rn m~~t in
the United States. It is a basic truth that knowledge of the why and
the "how" of Public Education is a foundation for the security of Public
Education, the security of the understanding of the meaning of F reedom as we know it, and of its preservation.
It has been a vigorous purpose, which 1960 efforts have served, to
keep the members of all phases of Masonic life within Blue Lodges,
within related Masonic bodies . in the family and households of M asons
and their friends, informed, alert, active, and united in behalf of better
Public Schools, better, happier, and more secure public school teachers.
We have adhered to the purpose tha t our fraternity must not stand
alone in support of the ideals and safety of our Public Schools a~d
Public Education. We have worked with and have been supported m
staunch fas hion by such faithful and loyal interpreters of the public
schools as The California Teachers Association, The California Congress of Parents and Teachers, Churches of many faiths. all groups
of organized labor. every Veterans organization, professions related. to
public education, such as Welfare bodies, Playground and Recreati.on
agencies, Health societies, all media of ~ommunication and cultural mterests in every community. The Womens groups th roughout our states

141

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

as well as Business. Professional. and Chamber of Commerce organizations have taken and given strength to the cause of Public Education
and our Public Schools. This purpose is one of our finest.
Another purpose which has advanced the cause of our responsibility
to Public Education is that of having each Lodge draw closer to local
Public Schools as institutions which serve the ideals of Americanism as
does no other agency. Our purpose of having each Lodge have a Public
Schools Committee to act as an alert body of M asonic Brethren in the
Lodge who will present reports. information, literature; offer discussions and s uggestions in matters is a vigorous. valiant. and succesful
purpose. In a constructive and welcome manner such committees keep
all members of the fraternity in close touch with Public Schools. Our
Public Schools become crentures of society into which Masons have
always desired that the Public Schools add greatest ideals and strength.
A great purpose which Grand Lodge Committee on Public Schools
has served to advance during 1960 is the proposition that each and every
Mason know of the beginnings of Public Education in the United
States of America. That every Masonic citizen know the reasons why
there is no possible substitute for Public Schools in our way of life.

The many publications which in recent months have issued from
the several bodies of the Masonic Fraternity have constituted valuable
materials which local Lodge Public Schools C ommittees could present
and discuss with Lodge membership. S uch ma terial has been of great
interest and appeal and its presentation in a n enthusiastic and constructive way has appealed to Lodge members. A brief fi ve to ten minute
report presented upon suitable occasion introduces living matter for
Masons to know and to interpret.
Such materials as local Lodge Committees desired for presentation
have been made available by the Grand Lodge Committee on P ublic
Schools. by the various Masonic Libraries. by Research Lodge panel
discussions and by speakers invited to attend Lodge meetings. Visual
Education materials which are of extraordinary appeal and interest are
available for brie f showings and discussions in Lodges. All this to make
more vivid the valuable support for Public Schools as Masonic loyalties
to Public Education would stress.
M any times Public Schools Committee material has taken written
form in the official organ of the Lodge. Many inspired speakers have
gone to school and community sessions with an expression of good
will, friendship, and confidence in public schools and their personnel.
This has been no political. personal. or self-seeking expression. It is in
the realm of faith in our country as attained through Public Education. We herein manifest our faith in youth a nd serve to inspire them
to complete their education.
Throughout the year service has been rendered by the Public Schools
Committee in the building up of public rebtions con tacts for P ublic
Schools. More than 300 speeches and talks have been given to Teachers
Institute sessions, Parent Teacher Associa tion. Service Club. and other
community groups on the theme "Good Public Education. Indispensable
in a Democracy." Background and basic principles for such presentations are found in and well supported by Masonic lessons. These contacts have been made by the Grand Lodge Public Schools Committee
in one year.
We have carried to the youth of our schools the fundamental meanings of good education and better learning as a n objective which they
as young citizens should accept.
The annual publication of the Grand Lodge Committee was more
popular and in greater demand during 1960 than ever before. There
were more requests for the copies to be supplied after they were d istributed than were available in the original printing.

140

III. THE PROGRAM DEVELOPED IN ORDER TO A c:c:OM PLISH
THE 1960 PURPOSES
In the very beginning of this effort for 1960. the Grand Master gave
great force of support to the Public Schools Committee and as well
made presentations of the interest and determination of his administration to emphasize the theme of Public Education in all proclamations and
pronouncements issuing from his office and his voice.
The valuable meaning of this forthright interest on the part of our
Grand Master was a great stimulus to all who were serving the cause.
During 1960 all Committees of Grand Lodge and the vari~us Research Lodge studies nnd presentations have been invaluable, stimulating, and great additives to the work of the Public Schools Committee.
The firm direction to Lodge officers that each Lodge designate a
Public Schools Committee has been a substantial strength in the year
of Masonic concern and support of the ideals and principles which back
Public Education and Public Schools.
These committees have worked with a two-way effectiveness.
Through the channels of these committees there has flowed into the
Lodges. to the Grand Lodge Committee on Public Schools. and to
Masonry as a whole. the knowledge of needs of Public Schools, conditions. growth, and all phases of progress in Public Education. Likewise.
there has gone forth to the community through expressions of local
Lodge Public Schools Committees an expression of faith in Public
Education. readiness to interpret Public Education, and a stand of loyal
support for the work and workers of Public Schools.

IV. BRIEF STATEMENT OP ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED IN THE 1960 PROGRAM
The publication of the Grand Lodge Public Schools Committee and
its distribution was the foremost activity in 1960.
The publicity program for "Public Schools Week," the suggestions.

14J

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRA ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the programs to be conducted in Lodges, schools, communities, the press
rad.io, tele:ision, servi:e clubs, churches, and nearly every group organizat~on of importance m the State was a tremendous success this year.
This was the year of universal acceptance of "Public S chools Weeks."
V isita tions to schools by parents, citizens , patrons. the children. in
numbers exceeding one million, were outstanding in 1960. The numbers
of people who attended and participated in some Public Schools Week
affair was only exceeded by the intensity of interest in, and study of the
school life of the children by their parents. Real determination to know
the school. know the child's teacher a nd be active in education of youth
became an active interest in the minds a nd hearts of many parents.

Teachers accepted invita tions to come a nd speak, put on demonstrations and displays at Lodge meetings, dinners and gatherings. P eople
enjoyed meeting public school teachers in this atmosphere. F iner support, better understanding, and truly interesting hours were the result.
Masons came to en joy and like teachers and public school teachers
thrilled at knowing how many great friends the Public Schools and the
public school teachers have among the important people in the community.
The exhibits brought to this ann ual Grand Lodge, tell a magnificent,
constructive a nd forceful story of wha t the recognition of the Public
Schools work o f Grand Lodge offers .

The grea t number of Lodges which held a special dinner meeting
honoring. public school officials and personnel was impressive. This type
of function serves a s a type of recognition which our fraternity is
peculiarly worthy of advancing in behalf of public school personnel.
How the guests enthused at their reception by the Masons and their
families! An occasion when good citizens welcomed and honored and
inspired public school teachers and their work.

v.

142

1960 saw increased student participation in the year-round M asonic
Public School activity. Students were speakers and program participa nts
at thousands of meetings during Public Schools Week. Students arran~ed demonstrations a t school and in community centers showing
their work and efforts in Public Schools. Students prepared special issues
of publications, programs for platform , for radio and television. Students
took m·er places of leadership in the community.

~II du~ing the year students were invited to Lodges to present
music, orations, debates, and discussions . Great benefit and interest was
evident on the part of Lodge groups, yet the greatest value was for the
students. They gained recognition, they were important, they were
honored. The Masons believed in them and recognized them for the
good in them.
The exhibits of student work presented in public places were adv_a ntageous in the matter of restoring confidence in the younger generation.

~he music and ar~ presented by students gave evidence that good
Public Schools sustain and advance the cultu re of our civilization.
Masonic interest and s upport makes possible many of these artistic
offerings just because we are strong for Public Education.
~ eachers took prominent part in school visitation programs, community meeting activities. The spirit, talent. ability, a nd personality of
the teacher we re brought out into the open w here parents, citizens. a nd
comm.u~ity folk could know teachers as real participants in life, culture ,
and c1v1c leadership in the community as a whole.

RESULTS

The results are briefly stated though they a re real in their meaning
to Public Education and they are unsurpassed by the efforts of any other
like number of citizens in our society.
The greatest result we a ttained in 1960 was the visitations to P ublic
Schools and the meeting by parents with "their child's teacher." One in
every two families from whom children come to attend our p ublic elementary schools, visited a public school during Public Schools Week
1960.
The participation by students in the high school was great in 1960.
The high school student's participation was of a diffe rent nature from
elementary children. It was, however, one wherein no high school studen t in our Public Schools missed having special emphasis presented on
the reason for Public Schools. E ach high school student again was told
why good school work was recognized as a fi rst qua lifi cation for fi nest
citizenship.
Teachers cooperated and participated in a richer, more emphatic interpretation of Public Education during 1960 than ever before. Our
suggestions presented through the 1960 Public Schools C ommittee
fo und their universal approval and cooperation.
Lodges and Masonic groups were more cooperative than heretofore.
Masonic activity in the s upport. interpretation and sponsorship of Public Education is directly related to the directions, aid, encouragement,
assistance and "know-how" w hich is made available to them. In rea lity
our work with the Lodges is in its infancy compared w ith progress we
ma ke with public school leaders and personnel. W e are really just
starting in this " In the Lodge" activity supporting the ideals of Public
Education.
T he greatest result attained by the G rand Lodge Com mittee work
during 1960, outside the "in-school" and " in- Lodge" efforts, had to do
with community participation. Placards; public school special editions

144

145

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of publications; art exhibits; window displays in downtown windows;
street-car, bus and public showings of posters; special post-office stamp
cancellations, and notices to "visit Public Schools" accompanying regular mailings by public and commercial mailing groups were productive
of great interest.
We conclude this expression of "results" with a forceful expression.
"Public Schools Week is completely and universally accepted!" Public
Schools interest and concern by the public at large is an accomplished
result of our 41 years of dedicated work.
Acceptance is just the beginning. There is no stopping place in the
advancement of the cause of Public Education.
We vow to carry on.

proved by Grand Lodge in the expression of Masonic support for the
advancement of Public Education.
Such decisions or recommendations as would seem in order to the
Committee may have consideration at the I 961 meeting of Grand Lodge.
unless previously approved.
This report is respectfully presented. The appreciation of the Chairman is gratefully offered.
Respectfully submitted.
VIERLING KERSEY
GEORGE E. PALMER
CLYDE E. CRAWFORD
PERRY BARRETT
JESS SHEEGOG
IRVING A. BERLINER
GEORGE HIATT
LAWRENCE Eo. CROW
ROLLAND F. ATWOOD
Referred to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Finance.

VI

RECOMMENDATIONS TO GRAND LoDGE -

1960

A. That early proclamation of the Theme. the suggestions and the
dedication to purposes for 1960-61 be made to all Masonic Lodges in
California and Hawaii.
This should be done in January 1961 so that new Lodge officers may
at once hit their stride in support of this cause served by Masonry.
B. That each Lodge be inspired or directed to designate a Public
Schools Committee and a vigorous Chairman for 60-61.
C. That the Chairman of the Public Schools Committee of Grand
Lodge and the Com mittee members be directed to confer on a regional
basis during January and February 1961. Such conferences to bring
together representative Masonic leaders of Grand Lodge in limited number so that early planning be accomplished. In order to accomplish this
meeting program, proper authorization to draw upon funds budgeted
to the Grand Lodge Public Schools Committee be designated to cover
expenses.
D. It is urgently recommended that added funds in the amount of
$800 be assigned to the budget of the Public Schools Committee to pay
for sufficient additional printing of the regular Public Schools Week
Bulletin to distribute these to Public Schools Systems who urgently
request them. Public school personnel rightfully may become impatient
with us as we continue to report no Bulletins available.
We may be extremely proud of the nation-wide and general acceptance and use of our publication. We confine our intensive distribution
to our Lodges and Brethren though we must respect a limited demand for
distribution beyond our Fraternal family.
E. It is recommended that Grand Lodge authorize the Public Schools
Committee or designate such Committee as it may desire to study,
discuss, and consider a way to make available suitable awards, certifkates, recognitions to be given to students, pupils, teachers, Lodges, or
members of Lodges w ho make unusual contribution to the purposes ap-

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC HISTORY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee is pleased to see the continued interest in the illustrated lecture of old. pioneer Lodges, entitled "SOME CAME BY
LAND AND SOME CAME BY SEA," which is still being shown
among the Lodges. Although engagements have tapered off somewhat
from I 958-59, requests continue to come in. As an example, three showings are scheduled for this coming month of October. Although we ~till
feel that the greatest benefit will be derived when Lodges and districts
join together in their requests for a showing, we are willing to appear
before individual Lodges.
Requests for dates should be addressed to the Chairman, Grand
Lodge Committee on Masonic History. To facilitate assignment of dates,
please submit a choice of three dates with your request and, if your
Lodge is located more than an hour's drive from the Bay Area or from
Los Angeles. then you should select a Friday or a Saturday evening
as our lecturers generally are unable to accept mid-week engagements.
If you cannot secure your Lodge Hall on a Friday or Saturday evening .
say so in your request, indicating the evenings when the Hall will be
a vailable, and the Committee will make every effort to accommodate you.
When the lecturer is required to travel any considerable distance from
his home, or to remain overnight, there is a small charge for the expense incured. depending on the distance traveled. We wish also to
point out that the presentation of this lecture requires a full evening
so plans should not be entertained to use it in combination with other

146

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

program matters. The Committee will gladly counsel with you on the
planning, if you so desire.
It has been proposed that the following letter from the History
Committee be sent to the Worshipful Masters of the several Lodges in
California, to-wit:
Dear Worshipful Master and Brothers:
In order to bring the history of Freemasonry in California up to
date, the History Committee has been assigned the pleasant duty of
preparing the complete history of Freemasonry in California for the
ten year period from 1950 through 1960.
This history is to include the following events which have taken
place in your Lodge within the ten year period above stated:
I. Observance of a Centennial and other Anniversaries, including
the entire programs thereof.
2. Lodge dedication.
3. Cornerstone laying.
4. Formation of a Lodge made up of members from your old Lodge.
5. New Temple.
6. Mortgage burning.
7. Unusual and distinctive events and unusual happenings in the
history of your Lodge and its members .
If there is any doubt in your mind as to the advisability of including
any additional information not enumerated in the above categories. feel
free to send same. It may be that we have failed tci include facts highly
essential to our main objective.
Will the present Master kindly undertake the task of assembling
the above facts. If for any reason the present Master finds it inconvenient, or does not desire to identify himself with this work, will he
please appoint some competent member of the Lodge who will assist
us in the compilation of this work, and forward the name and address
to the undersigned at the above address. We suggest that the person
designated be given the title of "Lodge Historian," and that he send
preliminary material as soon as possible so that the work of sorting and
organizing may begin.
Fraternally,
LEON 0. WHITSELL. Chairman

We respectfully request that the sum of $3,000.00 be appropriated
for our use for the ensuing year.
Respectfully submitted ,

o.
w.

LEON
WHITSELL
CARL
BRAINARD
FRANK EVERETT

KENNETH H . DOWNS
HORACE H. BLAIR
W.G.BRILL
CUTHBERT MEN GE

Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on
Finance.

GRA ND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

147

REPORT OF
SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON DE MOLAY
To the M ost Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
Your Committee on DeMolay has just concluded a most interesting
and rewarding year. We are pleased to submit the following report to
you for your approval. There is a continuing active interest in the
sponsorship of DeMolay Chapters by constituent Lodges. With reports
from only two-thirds of t he State of California, we have confirmation
of I 09 Lodges sponsoring Chapters of the Order of DeMolay. The list
attached to this report records those Lodges that have assumed sponsorship during the Masonic Year just concluded.
This Committee has received complete cooperation from DeMolay
leadership. As a result . the policies of this Grand Lodge ha ve been
unequivocally accepted. In fact. we have been called upon many times
to address groups of DeMolays and their Advisors on the subjects of
Masonic regulations and customs. There have been no reports during
the past year of any actions by DeMolay Chapters, inadvertent or
otherwise, which were not consistent with Grand Lodge policies.
That there is a marked increase in Masonic interest in DeMolay is
evident by the number of requests that we have received to speak on
the subject before Lodges. District Officers' Meetings and Masonic
Groups of all kinds. One of our cherished memories of this past year
was the reception given to a talk on DeMolay delivered to a dinner
meeting sponsored by the Southern California Research Lodge prior
to one of their well attended popular seminars .
Many outstanding activities were observed by your Committee. These
included the Annual DeMolay Week Observance by the Sa n Diego
County Masonic Officers' Association, the Bright Side of Youth program in Oakland. DeMolny Days at the State and Los Angeles County
Fairs. State and Jurisdictional Conventions, workshops and a host of
public ceremonies. Every activity was conducted in such a manner as to
win the praise of the communities involved . Masonry can be very proud
of the accolades earned by them. Whether it is by our choosing or not.
the average citizen has come to regard DeMolay as the product of
Masonry. We should be grateful that this rega rd has reflected credit
upon us. and we should do everything in our power to insure the continuation of the outstanding record being compiled by the Order of
DeMolay.
We were surprised to find that a portion of our membership does
not have an understanding of the Order of DeMolay. In some instances
we noted considerable misinformation on the subject. This has prompted
the committee to begin compiling material for an informational brochure
on DeMolay. We had hoped to have this task completed by the time
that this report was prepared. However, there is still some work that

148

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

needs to be done and we commend the completion of this project to the
committee that may be appointed for next year.
Our Grand Master has been most generous in his support and encouragement of the work of this committee. We wish to express to him
our most sincere thanks and appreciation.
It is our recommendation that this committee be continued and that
the sum of $750.00 be appropriated to cover its necessary expenses.
In closing, let us remember what the poet has written, "Who touches
a boy. by the Master's Plan, shapes the course of the future man ."
Respectfully submitted.
HOMERE. RATHBUN
CLARE R. NELSON
LESTER G. BRUNO
Roy H. GERARD
CARL 0. OLSEN
WILLIAM c. GOVER
HAROLD S . MEDO
WILLIAM w. DEWGAW
NOEL w. ROSER
WILLARD WILL
TROY ANDERSON
Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON LODGE FINANCING
To the Mo st Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:

Chapter
Lodge
Arcata No. 106..................................................................................Arcata
Marin No. 191 .................................................................................... Marin
P aso Robles No. 286................................................................ Paso Robles
Elsinore No. 289.................................................................. Elsinore-Perris
Mill Valley No. 356.................................................................. Mill Valley
Oceanside No. 381 ................................................ ......................0ceanside
P erris No. 411 ...................................................................... Elsinore-Perris
Eagle Rock No. 422 .................................................................. Eagle Rock
Ramona No. 457.................................................................. Monterey Park
Thousand Oaks No. 478 ............................................................ University
El Segundo No. 507.................................................................. El Segundo
Charter Rock No. 510................................................................ University
Semper Virens No. 552 .................................................................... Eureka
Canoga No. 611 ................................................ ................................Canoga
Chula Vista No. 626...................................................... .......... Chula Vista
Indian Rock No. 638 .............................................. .................... University
Fontana No. 653.............................................................................. Fontana
Baldwin Park No. 660......................................................................Valley
San Gorgonio No. 668 .................................................................... Banning
Rim of the World No. 71 L ............................ ................ Rim of the World
Home No. 721 .................................................................................. FideUty
Centennial No. 729........................................................................ Compton
Paramount No. 785 ............................................... ..................... Paramount

149

The Committee on Lodge Financing respectfully submits its report
of the transactions of the several Lodges and Temple Associations operating Temple properties within the jurisdiction, together with a brief
comparison of the las t two years financial status of the operation of the
properties which shows considerable improvement for the I 959-1960
Masonic year.
During the past year the Committee on Lodge Financing has assisted
in and has approved the formation of seventeen ( 17 ) new Masonic
Temple Associations which were incorporated as non-profit corporations under the Laws of the state of California; has approved the purchase of seven ( 7) new building sites for Masonic Temples; has approved the purchase of five ( 5) existing buildings which were found
to be suitable for use as Masonic Ti!mples; has approved seven ( 7) applications for consent to commence construction of new Masonic Temples; and has approved eighteen ( 18) applications for consent to make
capital improvements in existing Masonic Temples. The above are only
the major items of business conducted by the Committee. Many other
transactions were made which are far too numerous to report.
For the past three ( 3) years. the Committee has carried on a vigorous campaign to assist the Brethren operating Temples in improving
financial operations. This included assisting the Brethren to secure
adequate rental for use of the Temples, assistance in financial improvement, help in methods of proper financial accounting, and the setting up
of adequate cash reserves for future obligations and depreciation. The
Brethren have cooperated fully with the Committee and exemplary
results have been achieved. The report of the Committee at the meeting of Grand Lodge in September. 1959 showed great improvement in
the financial status of the Temple Associations. This past year, the
Brethren have really taken over and have made even greater improvement. The results of operations for the past year are astounding.
The following comparison of the past two years of operation will
more graphically show the specific improvement:
1959-60
1958-59
17
14
formed
Associations
New Temple
12
9
New Temple Sites Purchased
Construction started on
7
6
New Temple Buildings
Number of Temples submitting
273
239
Financial Reports
$17,784.585.00
$22.055.608.00
Reported
Total Assets
189
146
Temples Showing profit
$427,591 .00
$251.213.00
Total Profit
63
84
T em pies Showing Loss

150

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Total Loss
Depreciation as a Cash Reserve
Capital Improvements

1958-59
$107.698.00
$107.297.00
$116,000.00

1959-60
$76.000.00
$309.537.00
$567,000.00

The above shows an increase of the gross profit of all Temples of
over $175.000.00 during the past year; an increase of cash reserves in
excess of $200,000.00. In other words, the Temples have improved thei r
financial status the additional amount of over $375,000.00 over the
previous year.
During the next years, it is the intention of the Committee to secure
through the Brethren, even greater improvement by concentrating on
those groups who have shown a loss in operation in the past. The road
to improvement is always a rough one, and sometimes can only be
travelled by the use of great fortitude and courage, but as those who
have made improvement will report, the resulting satisfaction of achievement more that makes up for all the grief and trials encountered.
On the following pages are reports of individual transactions of the
Temple Associations with the Committee. These are in addition to the
hundreds of other pieces of business which include conferences. extended travel to meeting with the Brethren, meetings w ith personnel of
certain governmental a gencies to obtain specific answers to questions
propounded by the Brethren, and legal and accounting research.
SANTA CRUZ LODGE N o. 38

Santa Cruz Lodge requested consent to transfer $700.00 of its general fund to Santa Cruz Masonic Temple Foundation to reduce the indebtedness on the Temple building. A worthwhile endeavor and good
long range p lanning. Consent granted.
HUMBOLDT L ODGE No. 79

Humboldt Lodge in revamping its investment program with the
Humboldt Masonic T emple Association requested permission to exchange its income participation Bonds. issued by the Temple Association, for 3900 s hares of Capital Stock at $10.00 per share. Upon review
found to be advantageous to both the Lodge and Temple A ssociation.
Consent granted.
OROVILLE LoDGE No. 103

Request was ma de and consent granted to form a nd incorporate the
Oroville Masonic Building Association and trans fer $2500.00 to the
Building Association for operating capital.
168
Redwood City Lodge requested consent to tran sfer $6000.00 of its
general funds to Redwood City Masonic Hall Association for the purpose of purchase and installation of a heating and ventilating system.
Consent gran ted.
REDWOOD CITY L ODGE No.

151

M1ss10N LoDGE No. 169

Mission Lodge Masonic Hall A ssociation requested consent to spend
$450,000.00 for extensive alteration and renovation of their existing
property to ma ke the property suitable for use by a commercial tenant.
Financing the project included issuance of $225.000.00 in stocks; the
borrowing of $150.000.00 from a qualified lending institution at reasonable interest and the use of other funds as needed to complete the work.
Review of the plan , which involved a lease for 25 years at adequate
rental, indicated that Committee consent s hould be given.
Consent granted to enter into the lease for 25 years; to issue stock
of the value of $225,000.00; to borrow $150,000.00; and to commence
work on the renovation.
HARTLEY LoDGE No. I 99

The Trus tees of Hartley Lodge requested consent to spend $5500.00
to remodel the present Lodge building. Finances of the Lodge were
adeq ua te and consent thereto was given.
MONTEREY LooGE N o. 21 7

Monterey Masonic Temple Association req uested consent to renovate and modernize its present temple facilities and spend the sum of
$6000.00 therefor. Since the project was to be financed through the
use of borrowed money, further details were requested. N one ha ve yet
been furnished to the Committee and therefore consent has not yet been
granted.
M o z A1c LoDG E No. 218

Mozaic Lodge formerly managed its own Temple property and requested consent to incorporate the M aso nic Temple Association of
Livermore. Consent to form the Temple A ssociation was granted. The
Lodge was also granted consent to transfer a ll the real property assets
and the sum of $500.00 to the T emple Association in exchange for a
Regular M embership of the value of the property so transferred.
D owNEY LoDGE No. 220

The Square and Compass Building Association of Downey requested
consent to remodel the present Temple at an estimated cost of $6000.00.
The applica tion is now in the process of being completed and consent
will be granted as soon as the required additional information is presented to the Committee.
RosEv1LLE LoDGE No. 222

Roseville Lodge has b een acquiring stocks issued by the Roseville
M asonic Temple Association to other person s. The Lodge plans to
ultimately hold l 00 % of the stock. In accordance with the plan set
up, the Lodge requested consent to purchase 25 shares during 1960 at a
maximum of $150.00 per share or a maximum expenditure of $3750.00.
Fina nces of the Lodge were adequate and consent was granted.

152

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

WELCOME LoDGE No. 255

Welcome Lodge requested an opinion re tax problem on the sale of
lots. Upon reference to our ta x consultant, Welcome Lodge was informed that under the facts of the case, that the sale of these lots alone
was not subject to Federal Income Tax.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

153

eral funds to the Masonic Hall Corporation. The building of the new
Temple is to be accomplished largely through the use of donated labor
f m the members of Liberty Lodge. Upon review of the plan and the
;:rn.onstration of good Masonic leadership being very evident, the
Committee granted consent to the transfer of Lodge funds . to the Hall
Corporation and also granted consent to commence construction.

ANCHOR L oDGE No. 273

Anchor Lodge requested consent to transfer $5000.00 of its general
Punds to Anchor Incorporated Temple Association so that the indebtedness on the Temple could be reduced. The Brethren of Anchor Lodge
are to be commended for their foresight and their endeavor to clear the
Temple as soon as they can. Finances were adequate and consent was
granted.

Azusa Lodge requested consent to transfer $3125.00 to the Azusa
Mason ic Building Association for the purpose of assisting in purchas~ng
and installation of an air-conditioner for a total cost of $8500.00. It bemg
found upon review that the finances were adequate and the plan wor kable consent thereto was granted.

SouTHWEST LODGE No. 283

T EMESCAL LoDGE No. 314

Southwest Lodge requested consent to purchase 2 acres of land in
a very desirable location for use as a site for a new Temple. Cost thereof
of $68,000.00 to be financed through the sale of 2 other lots owned by
the Lodge. Consent granted.
Southwest Lodge is also in the process of forming an incorporated
M asonic Temple Association. This will be completed in the very near
future.

AzusA LoDGE N o. 305

Temescal Lodge has been leasing a building for the use of a Temple
and requested consent to renew the lease for a further period of 5 years
at a rental of $175.00 per month for the first 30 months and $200.00
per month for the remaining 30 months. T he ability to pay such. being
clea rly evident consent thereto was granted. Temescal Lodge is also
in the process of formation of a new Temple A ssociation w hich no doubt
will be completed in the very near future.

S1LVERGATE LODGE No. 296

Silvergate Lodge requested consent to take over and assume the
expense of a small building used as a youth center. Since the Lodge
would have had to use its funds for this separate undertaking not connected with the operation of a Temple, and such a project was not
sanctioned by Masonic Law, the Brethren were so informed and referred
to the Inspector of the District.
DUNSMUIR L ODGE No. 297

Dunsmuir Lodge has for the past year been in the process of dissolving its present stock corporation with a view that when that is
completed a non-profit Masonic Temple Association will be formed
to take its place. Due to the multitude of problems that have arisen, the
Committee is in the process of an intensive investigation with a view
to assisting the Brethren of Dunsmuir in completing this project in the
most advantageous manner.
LIBERTY LoDGE No. 299

The Masonic Hall Corporation of S anta Clara has requested consent
to build a new Temple for a total cost of $105,000.00. In addition to
funds presently on hand in the Hall Corporation additional funds were
needed and the Lodge also requested to tra nsfer $15,000.00 of its gen-

NORWALK LODGE No. 315

Norwalk Lodge requested consent to trans fer $8000.00 of its general
funds to the Temple Association to enable the T emple Association to
have sufficien t funds to commence buildin g a new Temple. The total cost
of building the new Temple was estimated to be approximately $160,000.00 but with the use of donated labor the cost thereof was estimated
to be considerably less. A further estimate was made that it would
cost $36,000.00 to enclose the building and the plan being well supervised and well thought out and planned consent thereto was given to
the Lodge to transfer $8000.00 of its funds to the Temple Association
and the Temple Association was granted consent to commence the construction of their new Temple.
This project is a good example of what ca n be accomplished when
Masons work harmoniously together.
CovINA LODGE No. 334

Covina Lodge requested consent to form a T emple Association but
the application submitted was not complete. Upon failure to furnish
the Committee with the additional required information the project has
evidently been abandoned.

154

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

FRUITVALE LoDGE No. 336

Fruitvale Lodge has also been purchasing shares of stock in the
Fruitvale Masonic Temple Association for some years past and again
requested this year to purchase $300.00 worth of the stock so that
evidentually the Lodge would be the sole owner of all the existing
stock. Consent was granted.
SAN }Ac1NTO LODGE No. 338

San Jaci nto Lodge requested consent to form a Temple A ssociation
and to transfer its real property to the Temple A ssociation when formed,
in exchange for Regular Membership of the appraised value of the
property which was $42,000.00. Consent was granted.
SEQUOIA LODGE No. 349

Sequoia Lodge is another group of foresighted Brethren who are purchasing the outstanding stock of the Temple A ssociation. In this instance it's the stock of the Masonic Temple A ssociation of Berkeley.
Request was made this year to purchase available shares at $5 .00 per
share for a total expenditure of $750.00. Finances being adequate consent was granted.
LAs PALMA.S LooGE No. 366

Las Palmas Lodge requested consent to commence construction on
a new Temple estimated to cost $160,000.00. In order to finance the
project the Lodge requested consent to transfer $55.000.00 of its general
funds to the Las Palmas Building Association in exchange for regular
membership of like value therein and the Temple Association requested
consent to borrow $75,000.00 from a qualified lending institution to
further finance the project.
The title to the building site upon which the Temple was to be
erected was in the name of the Lodge and the LodHe therefore requested consent to transfer the real property also to the Building Association.
Upon review of the entire plan which was set up and executed in an
exceedingly fine manner and the a rrange ments for the finances being
adequate and financia l data indicating that the organization could pay
off the indebtedness without handicap from earnings consent thereto
was granted.
COALINGA LoDGE No. 38 7

Coalinga Lodge requested consent to form a non-profit Masonic
Building Association and when formed to transfer its real property to
the Building Association in exchange for regular membership in the
new corporation valued at $206,000.00.
Consent was granted to form the corporation and to transfer the
real property to the new Building Association when formed.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

155

WESTLAKE LooGE No. 392

Westlake Masonic Temple Association requested consent to remodel and alter its present Temple facilities a t an expense es timated at
$7500.00. Finances being more than adequate consent thereto was
granted.
TURLOCK LooGE No. 395

Turlock ran into difficulties with the electric wmng system of its
existing Temple and it was necessary for them to request consent to
install a new electrical wiring system estimated at a cost of $6444.00.
Sufficient cash being available for the purpose consent thereto was
granted.
U NIVERSITY LoDGE No. 394

The Masonic Lodge Building Associa tion requested consent to
spend a sum of $6500.00 for alterations and removal of condemned
cornices on the existing Temple building. In order to spend that amount
it was necessary for the Building Association to borrow $3500.00. The
plan being adequate and repayment being well taken care of consent
thereto was granted.
GLENDORA LoocE No. 404

Glendora Masonic Temple Association requested consent to purchase property for $35.000.00 to be used as a building site. In addition
to funds presently on hand it was necessa ry to request consent to borrow
$20.000.00 from the Lodge at 6% interest on a note and to borrow
an additional $10,000.00 from a qualified lending institution. The plan
being adequate and the finnncial structure of the Temple Association
indicating that the borrowed money could be repaid without encountering serious problems consent thereto was granted.
L A MEsA LooGE No. 407

La Mesa Masonic Building Corporation was in the process of dissolving its stock corporation and forming a non-profit Masonic Building Corporation . Upon completion thereof the Lodge requested consent to invest $2.870.00 in the corporation. Finances being adequate
consent was granted.
U PLAND LooGE No. 4 I 9

The Upland Masonic Building Association requested consent to purchase a church building for use as a Masonic Temple at a cost of
$26,500.00. The Lodge requested consent to transfer $I 8,000.00 general
funds to the Temple Association to assist in the purchase. Information
disclosed that this was a good investment and that financial arrangements for the payment thereof were adequate. Consent therefore was
given for the purchase and the transfer of funds.

156

157

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

YORK LoocE No. 423
York Lodge through the York Masonic Temple Association requested consent to form a new joint Temple Association with Jordan
Lodge and Jordan Masonic Temple Association to be known as the
Walnut Park Temple Association . The York Ma sonic Temple Association reques ted and was granted consent to transfer $! 0.000.00 to the
Walnut Park Temple A ssociation and York Lodge additionally requested consent to transfer $6500.00 from the Lodge to the Temple Association in order to effect the completion of the building and pay its
share of the expenses. Later in the year York Masonic Temple Association requested consent on two occasions to transfer additional sums of
$2000.00 and $3000.00 to the Walnut Pa rk Temple Association to
complete the new Temple building. Review of the financial statements
and the plan indicated that consent should be granted. Consent granted.

ent to add a banquet room onto the present Lodge facilities at a
by the
cons t to exceed $8000.00. This could be deffected hadequately
f
cost no
or.
ere
t
equate
a
were
hand
on
s
Fund
labor
.
use o f dona ted

CH1No LoDGE No. 427
Chino Valley Memorial Masonic Temple Association requested and
was granted consent to refinance the present indebtednes s of $8584.29
which carried monthly payments of $197.00 by securing a different loan
of $18.000.00 which carried payments of $180.00 per month. In order
to further assist the Lod~e requested consent to tra nsfer $I 000.00 to
the Temple Association. Since all transartions were made in view of
building a new Temple consent was granted.
ALPHA LoDGE No. 431
Alpha Lodge requested and was granted consent to purchase
$2000.00 worth of shares in the Richmond Masonic Temple Association from individual holders the,eof in order to ultimately be the sole
owner of the shares of the corporation. Cost of individual shares not
to exceed $I 0.00.
CLAREMONT LoocE No.136
Request was made and consent granted to form the Claremont Masonic Temple Association and to transfer the sum of $100.00 to the
Temple A ssociation when formed.
S<::HOPIELD LoDcE No. 444 - HoNOLULu
Schofield Lodge reques ted consent to purchase a Temple site in an
advantageo us location for the price of $30.000.00. C ash on ha nd being
adequate consent thereto was granted.
CARPINTERIA LoDGE No. 444
Carpinteria Lodge requested consent to form a Carpinteria Masonic
T emple Association . This is presently in the process of being formed.
MT. O so LoDGE No. 460
Mt. Oso Masonic Building Association requested and was granted

h' h
.
.
YoRBA LINDA LoocE No. 469
Matters were referred to the Committee on Lodge Fmancmg w 1c
fore these
lely W ithin the 1·urisdiction of the Inspector. There
f h o· .
were so
1stnct.
e
t
o
Inspector
the
Cross,
B.
A.
to
referred
were
problems
THOUS/\ND OAKS LooGE N o. 478
Thousand Oaks Lodge requested consent and was granted co.ns~nt
stock of Thousand Oaks M asonic T emple Ass~c1at 1on
purchase
to
held by individuals at a cos t thereof not to exceed $5000.00 dunng the
year 1960.
h
BELL LoDGE No. 483
e
t
to
0
.
0
$620
of
sum
the
r
fe
trans
to
Bell Lodge requested consent
and
purchasing
of
purpose
the
for
ssociation
A
Temple
Bell Masonic
installing a n air conditioning system. F inancial statements revealed
present ability to make the trans fer and consent thereto was granted.

?

CAPITAL CITY LoocE No. 499
Capital City Lodge requested and was granted consent to form the
Capital City Masonic Temple Association and to transfer $1000.00
general funds of the Lodge to the Temple Association when formed
in exchange for regular membership of like amount.
TAFT MASO NIC TEMPLE A SSOCIATION
M mwAY LODGE No. 426
TAFT LODGE No. 516
Request was made and consent granted to . desolve the prese~t
M asonic stock corporation and form a new Mnson1c Non-profit Association.

I ·
loN1c LoocE No. 520
Ionic Lod ge requested and was granted consent to form the omc
M asonic Building Association and to transfer the sum of $~ 000.00 .to
the Temple Association in exchange for regular membership therein.
Thereafter the Temple A ssociation requested and was granted consent
therefor
to b arrow $7 4 ,000 ·00 from the Lodge and giveh in ~exchange
]
t T
·
its judgment no te to repay the same together wit 4 10 mteres . emp e
Association also requested consent to borrow the sum of ~85,000.00
from a building and Joan association in order to secure su~c1ent funds
for the purchase of the building to be used as ~ Masonic Temple at
a total cost of $1 87,500.00. The balance was ra1s~d among the me mbership of the Lodge by means o f private donations to the Temple
Association and upon consent they requested to purchase the property
on the above plan. Consent thereto was granted.

158

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

159

BELVEDERE L ODGE No. 539

Po1NT LoMA L ODGE No. 620

The Masonic Building Association of Belvedere requested and was
granted consent to borrow the sum of $7000.00 to finish their T emple.
The terms thereof were $80.00 per month at 6 % interest.

Request was made and consent granted to enter into a contract
to pave the parking lot adjacent to the T emple Building at a cost of
$2300.00 and to spend an additional sum of $500.00 to repair the roof.

ARCADIA LoDGE No. 547

Arcadia Lodge requested consent to transfer $3000.00 from its
general funds to the Arcadia Masonic Temple Association to discharge
its proportionate amount of the cost of refurnishing the Temple. The
tota l cos t of the furnishings was $5000.00 and the ratio o f ownership
being 7J in the Lodge and ,Y3 in the Star the amount w as proper the
Star having previously transferred $2000.00 as its share. Consent was
granted.

FAIRVIEW LooGE No. 629

Request was made and consent given to enter into a 5 year lease
for Lodge facilities at the monthly rent of $140.00.

Fairview Masonic Building Association requested consent to purchase a church property for a cost of $62.500.00. The down payment
required was $22,500.00 a balance o f $40,000.00 on a first trust deed
at $350.00 a month for 15 years. The Fairview Lodge requested consent to transfer $3000.00 of its general funds to the Temple Association
as a nucleus for the down payment and, after a vigorous campaign,
the to tal amount of the down payment was raised from contributions
received from the membership. This is a ma rvelous example o f what
can be accomplished when a plan is well thought out and vigorously
executed. Consent was granted.

R1ALTO L oDGE No. 582
A SHLAR LODGE No. 306

HAWTHORNE LODGE No. 647

PARK BLVD. LODGE No. 568

Request was made and consent granted to the Colton Rialto Masonic T emple A ssociation to purchase a building site for $15,000.00 subject to securing a zoning variance from the proper authorities. The
purchase of the building site was financed by the sale of other real
property.
MANCHESTER L ODGE No. 585

The Manchester Masonic Temple Association requested and was
granted consent to purchase two store buildings for use as a Lodge Hall
and a banquet room at a total cost of $36,500.00 the terms of which
were to be $16,500.00 down and the balance financed on a $20,000.00
loan at reasonable payments. The Lodge also requested and was
granted consent to transfer $6500.00 to the Temple Association to add
to available funds of the Temple Association to make the down payment.
SERVICE LoDGE No. 594

Service Lodge requested and was granted consent to form a Temple
Association and to transfer $500.00 o f its general funds to the Temple
Association when formed.
TEMPLE CITY LooGE No. 612

Temple City Lodge requested and was granted consent to transfer
$6000.00 of its general funds to the Temple City Masonic Temple
Association to finance the purchase and installation of an air conditioning system.

H awthorne Lodge requested consent to transfer $5000.00 to the
Temple Association in exchange for a judgment note of like amount
and the Hawthorne Masonic Temple Associa tion requested consent
to sell stock, after securing permit therefore, in the amount of $25,000.00.
The total of all fu nds to be used to alter and modernize the Temple
a t a cost of $25,000.00 and additional amounts for the improvements
of the furnishings. The financial structure of the Corporation and the
Lodge were more than adequa te and consent thereto was granted.
JoRDAN L ODGE No. 651

Jordan Lodge requested and was granted consent to transfer
$7000.00 from general funds to Jordan Masonic Temple Association
in return for judgment note of like amount. Jordan Masonic Temple Association requested and was granted consent to form the Walnut Park
Masonic Temple Association in conjunction with York Masonic Temple
Association and to transfer the sum of $10,000.00 to the joint corporation
in exchange for regular membership, therin valued at $10,000.00. Later
in the year Jorda n Masonic Temple A ssociation requested and was
granted consent to transfer further the sum of $2000 to the Walnut
Park Masonic Temple Association . Later Jordan Lodge requested and
was granted consent to transfer a further sum of $6000.00 to the Walnut
Park Masonic Temple Association for the purpose of completing its
share of the building program with York Lodge. This is a further
example of what can be accomplished when two Lodges get together
and work in harmony to accomplish a worthwhile project.

160

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

LA HABRA LODGE No. 659

Request made and consent granted to La H abra Masonic Holding
Corporation to borrow the sum of $7000.00 from a local building and
loan association to refinance its present indebtedness. Adequate income
was shown by financial statements.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

161

started. Request therefore was made to borrow the sum of $36.000.00
from a local bank and adequate financial arrangements being evident
for its repaymen t consent was granted thereto.
SEAFARING LoDGE No. 708

The Baldwin Park Masonic Temple Association requested and was
granted consent to purchase .85 acres of land adjacent to the presently
owned T emple site for the sum of $5100.00. The Temple Association
had adequate funds on hand to effect the purchase.

Seafaring Lodge requested consent to transfer $2000.00 to Seafaring
Masonic Temple Association to assist in the purchase and installation
of an air conditioning system for the Temple. Total cost thereof not to
exceed $4000.00. Adequate means of repayment were evident and consent was granted to transfer the money and a lso the Temple Association
was authorized to commence installation.

KAWEAH LODGE No. 665

LORENZO LooGE No. 709

Kaweah Lodge requested and was granted consent to transfer
$2500.00 of its general funds to the Kaweah M asonic Temple Association and take in exchange a regular members hio certificate of like
amount. The money to be used to reduce the indebtedness on the
T emple.

Lorenzo Lodge requested and was granted consent to transfer
$500.00 of its general funds to the Lorenzo Masonic Temple Association for purpose of carrying on current business.

BALDWIN PARK LODGE No. 660

RESEDA LoDGE No. 666

Reseda Masonic Temple Association requested and was granted
consent to increase its present indebtedness by $9000.00 by securing
a $9000.00 loan the proceeds of which were to be used in the completion
of construction of its new Temple. Adequate financial a rrangements
for repayment were shown in the financial statement presented.
SAN GoRGONIO LooGE No. 668

San Gorgonio Masonic Building Association requested consent to
spend an additional $3500.00 to enclose the dining room area of its
new Temple. Adequate funds were on hand to complete the project
and consent wa s granted.
LAGUNA LODGE No. 672

Laguna Masonic T emple Association requested consent to purchase
a new building site for the sum of $14,000.00 and to assume a trust
deed thereon in the amount of $9300.00 which carries payments of
$ 100.00 per month including interest of 6%. Adequate financial arrangements were shown for repayment o f the trust deed. Consent granted.
ORINDA LooGE No. 704

Orinda Masonic Building Association requested and was granted
consent to start construction of a new Masonic Temple. The total cost
of the enclosure only was estimated to be $36,000.00 which could be
effected by the use of donated labor. This amount was to be raised
entirely by pledges. Thereafter having secured the pledges a bank
offered to lend the amount of the pledges so that the Temple could be

ACALANES LoDGE No . 723

The Acalanes Masonic Building Association requested consent to
purchase property for the sum of $50.000.00 for use as a new Temple
building. Fina ncial arrangements were a $30,000.00 loan from a local
bank and the balance to be raised through the membership of the Lodge.
The Acalanes Lodge requested consent to tra nsfer $1600.00 to the Building Association in exchange for a regular membership. Adequate financial a rrangements being made and the consent conditioned upon the
raising of money through subscription of contributing memberships and
the securing of proper zoning variance consent was granted to the purchase.
LAKEWOOD LODGE No. 728

Lakewood Masonic Building Association requested and was granted
consent to purchase a building site for $13,500.00. Terms $3500.00 down
balance $100.00 monthly until fully paid. The Lodge requested a nd was
granted consent to transfer $4500.00 of its general funds to the Temple
Association to assist with the down payment and enable the Building Association to have adequate working capita l on hand.
LEMON GROVE LoDGE No. 736

Lemon Grove Masonic Temple Association requested and was
granted consent to commence construction on a new Masonic Temple,
cost of enclosure to be $36,000.00 through the use of donated labor.
SoauEL LooGE No. 746

Soquel Lodge reques ted and consent was granted to form a Masonic Temple Association and transfer $1000.00 to the Temple Association when formed.

162

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Merced Lodge requested and consent was given to form a Masonic
Temple Association.

progress made in the financial status of the individual temple association is evidence of that fact.
Respectfully submitted.

MERCED LooGE N o. 749

HER BERT HARGRAVE, J R.
MARK A . GREEN
RI CHARD R. KENNEDY

CoASTSIDE LoDGE No. 762

Coastside Masonic Temple Association requested and was granted
consent to secure a loan of $10.000.00 to enable it to complete the construction o f its T em ple building. Adequate financial arrangements for
repayment of the loan were shown.

}OHN T. BONO
WILLIAM H . ADAMS
MARTIN ORTLIEB
IVAN T. CRASE
GEORGE
STURM
ARTHUR
BECKER

w.

PALMDALE L ooGE No. 769

The Palmdale LodHe requested consent to trans fer $3000.00 of it":,
general funds to the Palmdale Masonic Building A ssociation in exchange for regular membership. Purpose to assist in defraying the cost
of construction of new Temple. The Building A ssociation requested
consent to borrow $9000.00 from a local bank at 6Yi% interest to
further defray the expenses of construction. Adequate arrangements
were made for repayment of the loan. Consent g ranted.
SAN D1EQUITO LoDGE N o. 775

Request made and consent granted to the San Diequito Masonic
Temple A ssociation to purchase a building site on which was an existing
building for total price of $11,500.00. Adequate funds were on hand
to complete the purchase.
PARAMOUN T LoDGE No. 785

Paramount Lodge requested and was granted consent to form a
Masonic T emple Association and to transfer $250.00 to the Temple
Association when formed in exchange for a regular membership of like
amount.
OAK PLAINS LODGE N o . 789

Oak Plains Lodge requested and was granted consent to form a
Masonic T emple Association and to transfer the sum of $250.00 to the
Temple Association when formed.
The Committee on Lodge Financing expresses its appreciation for
the assistance and encouragement given by our Grand Master. Joe
Shell, and the other members of Grand Lodge during trying situations
in the past year. We a lso are extremely grateful for the help given us
by the Grand Secretary and his staff for, without their wonderful cooperation, the Com mittee could not carry out its functions.
The members of the Committee, both individually and collectively,
congratulate the Brethren for the cooperation given to the C ommmittee
in all transactions. The record contained in this report of the exemplary

163

s.

Referred to Committee on Finance.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RITUAL
( B-1)

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
This resolution, presented by the Master. Wardens and certain
Past Masters of Lynwood Lodge No. 600, proposes to substitute for the
singing of the national hymn "America," the singing of the national
anthem, in connection with the retirement of the Flag.
The Masonic ceremony of presenting and of retiring the Flag is
not a public ceremony; it is strictly a private and Masonic one, performed only in a tiled lodge. We do not attempt to conform to the
requirements of a public Flag ceremony.
When the Flag is presented, under our adopted ceremony. only the
Pledge of Allegiance is given. It is only in the retirement of the Flag
that any verse is sung. At such time, in retiring the Flag . this Committee
feel s that the national hymn-actually a prayer for Divine protection
of our Country- is more appropriate than the anthem. It has been used
in our Flag ceremonies for 30 years.
Very few of the members of any lodge can carry the high range
required for the national anthem. without music or the assistance of
trained voices. Consequently. the use of the verse of "America" is much
more practical.
However, in view of the earnest desire of some lodge to use " The
Star Spangled Banner" instead of " America," we propose the following resolution:
RESOLVED. that the Monitor and Officers' Manual be amended
at page 56 thereof to delete the paragraph reading as follows: "The
~.faster then says: 'The Brethren will join in singing one verse of
~m~ric~".'.(One verse of "America" should then be sung.), by substitutmg m heu thereof the following:
"The M aster then says: 'The Brethren will join in singing

164

165

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

one verse of " America"' (or) 'The Brethren will join in singing
one verse of "The Star Spangled Banner".' (The verse is then
sung.) (The verse of "The Star Spangled Banner" should be
sung only where there is musical accompaniment.)
Respectfully submitted,
COMMITTEE ON RITUAL
By ELBERT w. DAVIS,
Acting Chairman
Adopted.

Decreasing fees: Chowchilla N o. 485. to $75.00; Bellflower No. 523.
to $125.00; San Antonio No. 694, to $100.00; Verdugo H ills N o. 727,
to $100.00.
Increasing affiliation fee: El Rancho No. 759, to $25.00.
Decreasing affiliation fee: Live Oak No. 61, to $1.00; Excelsior No.
166.. to $5 .00.
Rescinding affiliation fee: Hollywood No. 355; Arabic No. 763: Lake
Chabot No. 770; Silverado No. 782.
Increasing dues: Benicia No. 5, to $18.00; Nevada No. 13, to
$16.00; Mariposa No. 24, to $15.00; San Diego No. 35, to $20.00;
Alamo No. 122, to $18.00; Lassen No. 149, to $15.00; Mendocino No.
179, to$15.00; Russian River No. 181. to $15.00; Wilmington No. 198.
to $16.00; Hartley No. 199. to $15.00; Salinas No. 204, to $24.00; Stanislaus No. 206 . to $15.00: Inyo No. 221 , to $18.00; Eucalyptus No. 243,
to $18.00: Galt No. 267, to $15.00; South West No. 283 . to $16.00: E lsinore No. 289. to $18.00; Los Banos No. 312. to $18.00; Needles No.
326. to $16.00; Redondo No. 328. to $16.00; Buena Park No. 357, to
$15.00; Charity No. 362, to $18.00; South Pasadena N o. 367, to $16.00;
University No. 394, to $18.00; Apollo No. 396, to $16.00; Bay V iew
No. 401, to $14.00; Yerba Buena No. 403, to $18 .00; Burbank No. 406,
to $18.00; Perris No. 411. to $18 .00; Calexico No. 412. to $18.00;
McCloud No. 430. to $15.00; Standard No. 440, to $20.00; Schofield
No. 443. to $15.00; Ramona No. 457, to $18.00; Mt. Oso No. 460. to
$18.00; Thousand Oaks No. 478, to $18.00; Capital City No. 499. to
$15.00; Harbor No. 502. to $15.00; Mt. Olive No. 506, to $16.00; El
Segundo No. 507, to $15.00; P alms No. 512, to $18.00; Covenant No.
527, to $18.00; Loyalty No. 529, to $18.00; Smyrna No. 532, to $15.00;
Arcadia No. 547, to $15.00; Fra ncis K. Shattuck No. 571. to $15.00;
Hillcrest No. 573. to $20.00; Escalon No. 591. to $15.00; Alexander
Graham Bell No . 595, to $18.00; Elmhurst No. 610. to $18.00; R. E .
Dolley No. 616. to $16 .00; Menorah No. 623 . to $16.00; D amascus No.
648. to $15.00; Jordan No. 654. to $15.00; Monte Vista No. 655 to
$15.00; Livingston No. 658. to $18.00; Reseda No. 666. to $18.00; Los
Cerritos No. 674. to $18.00; San Marino No. 685. to $18.00; Meudell
No. 695. to $18.00; Saint Elmo No. 697, to $18.00; Hunters Point Naval
No. 706, to $18.00; Los Altos No. 712. to $15.00; Estero No. 719. to
$15.00; Yucaipa No. 726. to $15.00; Centennial No. 729. to $18.00; San
Leandro No. 744 , to $20.00; Hamilton No. 751. to $20.00; Channel No.
757, to $15.00; EI Rancho No. 759, to $16.00; Lakeside No. 760. to
$18.00; Heritage No. 764, to $18.00; Tejon No. 773, to $18.00.
Decreasing Dues: Humboldt No. 79, to $18.00; Crescenta Valley
No. 652. to $16.00.
Changing date of Stated M eeting: San Diego No. 35; Santa Rosa
No. 57; Snow Mountain No. 271; Silver Gate No. 296: Long Beach No.
327; Hollywood No. 355; San Francisco No. 360; Upland No. 419;

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on By-Laws has had under consideration 153
amendments and resolutions affecting by-laws and meeting places of
Lodges.
AMENDMENTS TO BY-LAWS

10 Lodges increased their fees.
4 Lodges decreased their fees.
1 Lodge increased its affiliation fee.
2 Lodges decreased their affiliation fees.
4 Lodges rescinded affiliation fees .
74 Lodges increased their dues.
(One Lodge increased their dues to $14.00; 24 Lodges increased their
dues to $15.00; 11 Lodges increased their dues to $16.00; 32 Lodges
increased their dues to $18.00; 5 Lodges increased their dues to $20.00;
one Lodge increased its dues to $24 .00.)
2 Lodges decreased their dues.
(One Lodge decreased their dues from $24 .00 to $18.00; one Lodge
decreased their dues from $25.00 to $16.00.)
18 Lodges changed the date of Stated Meetings.
2 Lodges changed the time of Stated Meetings.
3 Lodges made provision for legal holidays.
9 Lodges adopted the Uniform Code of By-Laws.
RESOLUTIONS C ONSIDERED

17 Lodges changed meeting places.
l Lodge changed date of annual meeting.
All of the following amendments and resolutions have been approved by the Grand Secretary and the Grand Master as to form and
Code requirements:
Increasing fees : Salinas No. 204. to $I 05.00; South Pasadena No.
367, to $115.00: Glendora No. 404. to $110.00: Tyrian No. 439, to
$75.00; Schofield No. 443. to $140.00; Capital City No. 499, to $100.00;
La Jolla No. 518, to $115.00; Livington No. 658. to $90.00; San Juan
No. n2, to $100.00: Heritage No. 764, to $125.00.

166

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

York No. 423; Sunrise No. 522; Melrose No. 602; Benevolence No. 631:
Crescenta Valley No. 652; Dos Palos No. 681: Belmont Shore No. 716:
Opportunity No. 740: El Rancho No. 759; Dana R. Weller No. 765.
Changing time of Stated Meeting: Coalinga No. 387; Corcoran
No. 490.
Provisions for legal holidays: Doric No. 216; Hesperian No. 264;
Livington No. 658.
Uniform Code of By-Laws: Victory No. 474; Chowchilla No. 485;
Big Bear No. 617; Central California Research; Ashland U.D.; Bay
Clair Vista U.D.; Rio Hondo U.D.; Koolau U.D.; Yucca Valley U.D.
RESOLUTIONS
Change of Meeting Place: Arbuckle No. 182; Salinas No. 204; San
Francisco No. 360; Moneta No. 405; Upland No. 419; York No. 423;
Garvanza No. 492; Ionic No. 520: Sunrise No. 522; Belvedere No. 539;
Lamanda Park No. 627; Fairview No. 629; Jordan No. 654; Reseda No.
666; Liberal Arts No. 677; Coastside No. 762; Palmdale No. 769.
Changing date of Annual Meeting: Sierra No. 788.
Your Committee is pleased to report that the vast majority of the
amendments. when presented, were in proper form as outlined by the
California Masonic Code. We would, however, again emphasize the
importance of conforming to the Code in order to avoid personal embarrassment before the membership of your Lodge.
Your Committee suggests the following:
I st - That all incoming Masters REVIEW THE BY-LAWS with
the Secretary at the beginning of their term.
2nd - If an amendment is necessary for the benefit of your Lodge,
consult the California Masonic Code.
Remember, it is the duty of the Master and Secretary to see that the
procedure of the Code is followed to the letter and properly certified
to the Grand Lodge.
We approve and recommend the adoption of this report.
Respectfully submitted,
ROBERT c. PEYTON
JEss Scorr
COLTON B. DAVENEY
SANFORD J. ROBERTSON, JR.
ALDEN J. Fu LKERSON
VIRGIL R. SHOEMAKER
Adopted.
EuGENE C. QmcK
The Grand Master requested Past Grand Master Charles Albert
Adams to address Grand Lodge, which he did, recalling some of the
early days of Masonry and expressing his thanks for the consideration
shown him and for the gold book which was presented on Monday.
At 11 :45 Grand Lodge was called off until 1 :30 p.m.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

167

AFTERNON SESSION-Tuesday, September 27, 1960
At 1 :30 p.m . Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding.

GRAND ORATION
"THE SPIRIT OF FREEMASONRY IN A
TIME THAT TRIES MEN'S SOU LS"
JuDGE GERALDS. LEVIN, GRAND ORATOR

Tribute to Grand Master
"Render therefore to all their dues: tribute to
whom tribute is due; * * * honour to whom honour."
-ROMAN S C. 13, V. 7.
It seems appropriate, not simply because of my gratitude to the
Grand Master for the opportunity to serve the Grand Lodge of California as Grand Orator but principally because of his characte r a nd
outstanding contribution to Freemasonry. that before launching into the
Grand Oration I should pay tribute in the presence of this honorable
and illustrious company to a great Mason. our Grand Master, Joe L.
Shell. I know you will forgive me for taking advantage of this appearance to do so. I believe my remarks may be given some measure of
credence, since they are based on my observation of the Grand M aster
in action in many parts of this State through a most interesting a nd
challenging Masonic year.
Our Grand Master, affectionately known by thousands of M asons
as just plain "Joe", is decidely a personality that no robes or insignia of
office can bemask. His individuality is so strong that he is incapable o f
masquerading or a ssuming a role other than the real part he plays in
daily life. His every thought and action has been mellowed by gentleness,
humility of spirit and purity of soul. No prejudices. no desire for popular
acclaim, no unworthy motive has distorted his judgment. He has been
guided by wisdom and an abiding passion to serve his Brethren in
Masonry. The distillate of his mind and spirit has inspired confidence
in his work and has given to it enduring worth. His unfailing friendliness, charm o f manner, abundance of energy. eloquent rhetoric, and
keen sense of humor unite to form an inspiring disposition. He meets
the final test of a great leader, for he leaves behind him in other men
the conviction and will to carry on the prodigious work of Freemasonry.
He is every inch of him , in every fiber , a true Mason.
In the words of Shakespeare, he "Bear ( s) his blushing honours
thick upon him."

168

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Prologue
"'" * *a still small voice."
- I KJNGSc.19,v.1 2.

The ritual of this august body prescribes that it is the duty of the
Grand Orator "to deliver at each annual communication an address to
the Grand Lodge upon matters appertaining to the Craft." The performance of this duty is a pleasant privilege and a high honor for me,
but it is with utmost humility that I discharge the task. The foregoing is
stated with deep sincerity, for a reading of the Grand Orations since the
establishment of this Grand Lodge in 1850 has impressed upon me the
clarity of thought and brilliance of expression by many erudite predecessors. I am comforted by one of the noteworthy precepts of our noble Fraternity; that when we are cloaked as Masons we meet on the same level
-where brotherly love prevails-and I know my Brethren are too charitable and too gracious not to accept my humble efforts in real Masonic
spirit. A Scottish cleric ( Nor man Macleod) truly said: " There's a star
to guide the humble .... *." I hope that I may not be considered too audacious in reaching for that star and in seeking to •invoke the blessing set
forth in the Book of our faith: "Blessed are the meek: for they shall
inherit the earth" (MATTHEW c. 5, v. 5; see also. PSALM 37, v. 11 ).
During past years, at occasions of this nature, there have been orations by Masons of great stature which may be classified as brilliant.
learned, lucid and scintillating. The Grand Orations during the existence
of this Grand Lodge disclose that in general they deal with the origin
and mysteries of our Order. the beauties of our ritual and our symbols,
the benign influence of the Masonic Order in the establishment of freedom
in this nation and elsewhere, the contribution of Freemasonry to public
welfare and the progress of human institutions, the moral force of our
Craft a nd its members in the development of human character and in the
dissemination of truth and justice. the motivation for the confidence of
true Masons in the Golden Rule. the obedience of Masons to the rule of
law, the belief of Masons in the dignity and rights of the individual. and
above all, the firm conviction of Masons in the brotherhood of man and
the fatherhood of God.
Such encomiums cast upon Freemasonry may be justly deserved and
inspirationa l; however, I am remindea of the saying of Ralph Waldo
Emerson that "What you do speaks so loud that I cannot hear what you
say." In short, we live in an age of technologica l marvels where scientific
accomplishmen ts, unbelievable a few years ago. demand impelling action.
Americans once again are battling for their very existence, but this time
on a world-wide battlefield. We are in a life-and-death struggle with

169

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Communism. We are confronted with the supreme test of our spiritual.
moral. mental and physical strength. It is a test to determine whether
free men are fitted to govern themselves or whether a despot or insignificant minority shall direct the destinies of mankind. It is a conflict between
a tota lly materialistic philosophy and one which is based upon the principle that materialism must be guided and controlled by moral law. It is
not a new conflict; it extends back to the very beginning of human relations. But today the amazing technological and scientific achievements
have given man the power to destroy civilization and place the two
opposing ways of life in a real fight for survival. We must recognize that
we must meet our adversaries on all fronts where our free way of life is
challenged. We must recognize that, really, the cold war is a part of
World War III. This is the overriding problem of our generation and
of generations to follow.
This is a time when the proper and practical application of the
Masonic principles we all cherish may aid in the perpetuation of our
American way of life. This is a time when the spirit of Freemasonry
should be actuated in everyday life for the good and welfare of all of the
democratic human institutions without which our lives would be but a
desultory existence. We have truly reached "the times that try men's
souls."
Rather than again discuss the origin, history. philosphy, traditions or beauties of Freemasonry, it seems timely that pertinent phases
of this transcendent problem should be the subject of the Grand Oration
in the year 1960. It is not because of any lack of admiration or regard for
the history, philosophy and traditions of our beloved Fraternity, but because of an absolute trust in the principles of our Craft. that I seek to
encourage mature meditation and judicious reflection by this leading
group of Masons upon the real problem of our age-our survival as free
men.
There is precedent for such a practical approach in the peerless
Grand Oration of Past G rand Master Charles Albert Ada ms in 1910.
Fifty years ago, when he served this Grand Lodge 1s Grand Orator, he
delivered a sterling address on the subject, " Masonry in Business and
Politics." It is fitting and right that he should be honored at this Communication in recognition of his inspiring service in Masonry and also in
the community where he is so highly respected.

Another Sodom and Gomorrah?
"Where there is no vision, the people perish '" *
-

.. "

PROVERBS C. 29, V. 18.

Brethren! What if I were to tell you that this is your last d ay on
earth? What if I were to say that tomorrow the sky will open and nuclear

170

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GR AN D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

bombs and missiles will rain down on your homes and families and veritably crush and destroy civilization? Unbelievable, you say? Perhaps so
fifteen years ago. But today, a decade and a half away from Hiroshima
and Nagasaki, even the most incredulous must acknowledge the dangers
that exist. For today it is an inescapable fact that almost half the human
race is now under despotic control; that the scientific knowledge of
nuclear fission is not possessed alone by the United States; and that
Communistic doctrine and tyrants pose an ever-present threat to the
peace and welfare of this nation as well as all the free people of the
world.

causes, there are seemingly reliable scientific explanations for the catastrophe. Dr. Werner Keller, in a recent book entitled The Bible A s History, apparently agrees with the American scholar Jack Finegan that
the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah probably took place about 1900
B. C. and that it "came about through a great earthquake which was
probably accompanied by explosions, lightning , issue of natural gas and
general conflagration."

For the skeptic or unbeliever, it is well to look to the events of the
past. The contemporary philosopher George Santayana said, "Those
who forget history are bound to repeat it." Let us not forget, but recall
to memory the account of the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah-a
narrative with a moral.
We read in the Holy Scriptures, in Chapter 18 of Genesis, that the
Lord came to Abraham and told him that he was going to destroy Sodom
and Gomorrah because they were such wicked cities. South of the Dead
Sea lay an extremely fertile plain, "the vale of Sodom, which is the salt
sea" (Gen., c. 14, v. 3). The Bible lists five towns in this valley-Sodom,
Gomorrah, Admah, Zeboiim, and Bela or Zoar (Gen. c. 14, v. 2), These
"cities of the plain" (Gen., c. 19, v. 29) were inhabited by people who
were corrupt, openly defying God and His law, and delighting in deeds
of violence. The profusion of wealth of the inhabitants of both Sodom
and Gomorrah gave birth to luxury and pride. The vilest and most brutal
passions were unrestrained and produced licentiousness ( Eze., c. 16, vv.
49-50). The fatal consequences of this were irreverence to God, inhospitality to strangers, and the indulgence in the most abominable vices.
These enormities highly offended the Almighty, who, in order to punish
the people, announced His vengeance both against them and against their
country. Persistent pleas by Abraham for the righteous in Sodom and
Gomorrah brought a final response from the Lord: "I will not destroy it
for ten's sake" (Gen., c. 18, v, 32). But there were not even ten righteous
people in all Sodom. "Then the Lord rained upon Sodom and upon
Gomorrah brimstone and fire from the Lord out of Heaven; And He
overthrew those cities, and all the plain. and all the inhabitants of the
cities, and that which grew upon the ground ... * * and lo, the smoke of
the country went up as the smoke of a furnace" (Gen., c. 19, vv. 24-28).
The story of Sodom and Gomorrah has been doubted, but extensive
exploration and archaeological research have disclosed evidence of
the trustworthiness of the Scriptures. Whether one believes the destruction resulted from divine action or was due to natural physical

171

The flames that consumed the cities of the plain shed their warning
light even down to our time. We are taught the fearful and solemn lesson
that, while God's mercy bears long with the transgressor. there is a limit
beyond which men must not go in sin. When tha t limit is reached , then
the offers of mercy are withdrawn and the ministration of judgment
begins. In all ages Sodom and Gomorrah have been synonymous w ith
immorality, wickedness and godlessness. The frightful disaster has made
a deep impression on men's minds and has served as a symbol of the
vengea nce of God for unrighteous living. The moral of the story is the
crowning virtue of righteousness.
Our American democracy is threatened not only by foreign ideologies
and vicious propaganda, but also by the unrighteous actions too frequently happening in private transactions and public life. America should
never come to the point where there should not be ten righteous men.
There should be always millions of honornble and unselfish men in th is
nation of abundance and freedom who are dedicated to the principles o f
equality under law; men who will nurture and sustain and strengthen our
American way of life. Yet the evident deterioration of public morality in
our land has caused acute and anguished apprehension among those who
realize that our strength and power as a free people come from respecting individual dignity, human rights and equal justice under law.
Our future survival has a basic dependence upon individual human
conduct. It poses for each American the question: How may I contribute
to the perpetuation of the American way of life. or indeed, our civilization? It presents to this audience of prominent Masons the question:
Have we a special task to perform in order to save our very lives and
humanity? An answer may be provided for each of you in what I call
The Spirit of Freemasonry in a Time That Tries Men's Souls-the subject of this Oration. That subject will be considered, albeit in the limited
time only briefly, to suggest salient factors, under four categories: first,
Freemasonry, Liberty and the Rule of Law; second, Freemasonry . T echnology and Public Education; third, Freemasonry. Politics, and the National Purpose; and, fourth, Freemasonry, Morality and Religion.

172

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

I. Freemasonry, Liberty, and The Rule of Law
"That which you have inherited from your forefathers, achieve it if you would possess it.''
--GOETHE.

We are Americans. We are Freemasons. Not only because we are
Americans but especially because we are Masons. we have the duty to
do all in our power to perpetuate our American way of life. Such "blood,
tears, toil and sweat" as mentioned by Winston Churchill established the
liberty which is our precious heritage, and "blood. tears, toil and sweat"
have preserved and strengthened the spirit of our democracy. In 1787
Thomas Jefferson wrote: "The tree of liberty must be refreshed from
time to time with the blood of patriots and tyrants." Seven major wars
since the American Revolutionary War, and many other battles, attesr to
the farseeing wisdom of Jefferson.
Freemasons have demonstrated their love of liberty and willingness
to sacrifice their homes, their worldly possessions and even their very
lives for its establishment and preservation. Reflect upon the h istorical
facts that indicate the major part Masons played in the creation of this
nation as participants in the Boston Tea Party. as leaders in the American Revolution, as statesmen in the drafting and adoption of the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States. Masons point with pride to evidence that the majority of the signers of both
the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution were members of
our Fraternity. Masons point with pride to the fact that George Washington, the guiding spirit of the Revolution and the first president of our
country, a fervent and sincere Mason, skilled in the Craft, placed great
reliance upon his Brethren for the performance of tasks of the highest
order in the creation of this country.
Our Constitution, declared by the British statesman Willia m Gladstone to be " the most remarkable work known • * "' in modern times
to have been produced by the human intellect," still provides the guideposts of our destiny as a nation. Why? Because, Brethren, such men as
George Washington, Benjamin Franklin, Paul Revere, John Hancock.
John Marshall , and thousands of other distinguished statesmen, soldiers
and patriots learned early at the a ltars of Freemasonry of the three principal tenets of Masonry-brotherly love, relief and truth; and its cardinal
virtues- temperance, fortitude, prudence and justice.
All Americans recognize the immortal words written into the Declaration of Independence by Thomas Jefferson, "We hold these truths to
be self-evident: that all men are created equal; that they are endowed, by
their Creator with certain unalienable rights ; that among these are life,
liberty, and the pursuit of happiness."

173

Th e significance of the words , "life, liberty. a nd the pursuit of happiness." gives us our philosophy of law, that is, profound concern for the
individual-his rights. his duties. his dignity. his equality. It is our way
of life which stands in bold contrast with the totalitarian view of the
human being as expendable raw stuff for the building of a material
society. Consider for a moment these concepts:
Life is esteemed lightly in many places of the world but it is of the
highest value in our country. We enjoy every assurance of life that it is
possible for our government to give us under a system of law which
grants a defendant in a criminal action the right to a jury trial and the
benefit of a presumption of innocence.
Liberty is, in the words of Justice Learned H and, "the spirit which
is not too sure that it is r-ight; * * * the spirit which seeks to understand
the minds of other men and women." It embraces all the rights under the
rule of law emanating from our written laws and given to us as the law of
a free people springing from custom, responsive to their sense of justice.
The right to pursue happiness is set forth not only in the Declaration
of Independence but in the Constitution of the State of California and in
other state constitutions. Happiness is an elusive thing. Obviously it is
not the business of the state or the nation to give us happiness. but only
to see that our right to pursue it is not improperly restrained.
These concepts are the basis of our American democracy and of our
self-government by law. They had their origin in the minds of our forefathers. The pilgrims who came to Plymouth Rock in 1620. and our first
settlers at Jamestown in 1607, sought escape from the arbitrary power of
an English king who ruled without the law's restraining influence. In the
Mayflower Compact there is a provision for the enactment of "such just
and equal laws • * * as shall be thought most meet and convenient for
the general good of the Colony." These ancestors of modern-day
Americans carried in their minds a dream of re-establishing the individual liber ty under law which King John had promised more than
400 years earlier when he affixed his seal to the Magna Carta in 1215
at Runnymede.
The roots of our American democracy are buried deep in the common
conception of law and order which possesses a universal validity-that
there is law above the ruler and the sovereign people to be obeyed by
man. This principle of a universal rationale transcending earthly power.
termed natural law, became substantial and effective in the development
of an orderly society for 2.000 years. Zeno and the Stoics first formulated
the common conception of law and order as a theory. It included as its
three great values : liberty, equality and the brotherhood or fraternity of
all mankind. The Stoics contended that natural law was the projection of

174

175

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALI FORNIA

the Divine Reason. The concept of natural law was adopted by the
Greeks and the Romans. It was respected by European States in the
Middle Ages. It was observed with greater intensity during the Renaissance and the Reformation. It provided a philosophy in the English
Revolution in 1688, the American Revolutionary War in 1776, and the
French Revolution in 1789. It provides a greater understanding of the
political thinking during the period of the America n Revolution; of the
me;:ming of the "unalienable rights of man" in the Declaration of Independence. of the Bill of Rights of 1689; of the first ten amendments to
the Constitution of the United States; of the fearless patriotism of John
Hancock, who in 1774. said: "We fear not death* * *we dread nothing
but slavery; * * * 'tis immortality to sacrilke ourselves for the sal- ·
vation of our country"; of the impassioned speech of Patrick Henry in
1775. concluding with the immortal words: "Is life so dear, or peace so
sweet, as to be purchased at the price of chains and slavery? Forbid it,
Almighty God! I know not what course others may take: but as for me.
Hive me liberty, or give me death!"; and of the enduring utterance of
Abraham Lincoln in 1863 at Gettysburg: "That we here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain; that this nation under
God, shall have a new birth of freedom; and that government of the
people. by the people, and for the people, shall not perish from the
earth."

The contribution of the Frenchman Lafayette, a devout Mason, in
the American Revolutionary War is common kn owledge. Not so commonly known is that the theory of the natural law as a basis of our
American democracy has found expression in the writings of at least two
other na tives of France. Baron de Montesquieu, in The Spirit of Laws.
publis hed in 174.8 a brilliant comparative s tudy of the three types of
government- republic , monarchy and despotism. That discourse had
a far-reaching impact in the form ation of the American Constitution.
Alexis de Tocqueville, in Democra cy in America, published in 1835184.0. displays original insight and vision, justifiies democracy and predicts its ultimate triumph. The consequence of the view of the natural
law a s the foundation of good citizenship is contained in The Public
Philosophy. written recently by the internationally famous political
commentator and columnist, Walter Lippman. In his longuage, "The
public philosophy is known as natural law " * •. This philosophy is the
premise of institutions of the Western Society .. " ... " Masonic faith in
God brings Masons into rapport with that philosophy underlying the
natural law.
In retrospect. the four millions of Masons in this nation and the
quarter-million in this state. of which we are a n integral part, should
recognize that there is an indestructible bond between the establishment
and perpetuation of our American way of life a nd Freemasonry.

The concept of the natural law is the progenitor of the influential
writings of Thomas Paine, a tremendous figure in the fight for freedom ,
the author of Common Sense, The Crisis Papers, and The Rights of
A1an, and incidentally. of an essay on the origin of Freemasonry. published posthumously in 1811. He was the first to offer the world in his
The Rights of Man the idea of a league of nations in the modern sense
for the preservation of international peace. Who in this assembly has not
heard the words of Thomas Paine, as an Englis hman, commencing his
first Crisis paper:

We may be proud of the performance of our ancestral Brethren in
the history of our country. but such pride should serve solely to actuate
par ticipation of Masons of this day in civic undertakings with similar
spirit and selflessness.
The concluding words of the noted poet C arl Sandburg in a ceremony without precedent before a Joint Session of Congress in honor of
Abraham Lincoln, "men and women * * .. understand that whenever
there is freedom there have been those who fou ght, toiled and sacrificed
for it," echo the famous statement of Daniel Webster that "God grants
liberty only to those who love it, and are always ready to guard and
defend it."
Complacency is not the badge of a Mason. We must not be content
with the great deeds of our ancestral M asons but we also must be strong
in body and spirit. Charles Evans Hughes gave expression to this
thought as follows : "You cannot be saved by the valor and devotion of
your ancestors. To each generation comes its patriotic duty; and upon
your willingness to sacrifice and endure, as those before you sacrificed
and endured, rests the na tional hope."
The contributions of Masons in two world wars and the Korean War
attest to the fact that our generation as well as generations of former eras

"These are the t.imes that try men's souls. The summer
soldier and the sunshine patriot will in this crisis shrink
from the service of his country; but he that stands it
NOW, deserves the love and thanks of man and woman.
Tyranny, like hell. is not easily conquered; yet we have
this consolation with us. that the harder the conflict, the
more glorious the triumph. What we obtain too cheap, we
esteem too lightly; 'tis dearness that gives everything its
value. Heaven knows how to put a proper price upon its
goods; and it could be strange indeed, if so celestial an
article as FREEDOM should not be highly rated."

176

177

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CA LIFORN IA

holds fast and firm to the teachings of our Fraternity-brotherly love.
relief, truth, honor, justice and liberty. The memorial script on our
beautiful Masonic Temple evidences the spilling of blood of Masons to
nourish the tree of liberty in support of those principles.
Recently our Past Grand Master, Chief Justice Earl Warren, said:
"The basic issue today is whether mankind will live under the rule of
law-and whether that rule of law is to be the law of freedom or the
law of command. " The issue was stated clearly by President Eisenhower: " [A] free people can assure the blessings of liberty for themselves only if they recognize the necessity that the rule of law shall be
supreme, and that all men shall be equal before the law."

world are rockets and bombs of such terrific intensity that they could at
any time cause a nuclear cataclysm. With such strength pitted against
one another and continual pressures for recognition around the world.
we are indeed in a fight for survival. That fight requires of us productive
and useful lives and sacrifices at home. It requires of us moral strength
and integrity. It requires of us unity in thought and action against the
insidious and dangerous Communist ideology spreading about the world.
The amazing technologica l and scientific achievements have led to
a cry throughout this land for improvement in our system of education.
There has been increasing demand in our nation for ex cellence by American students in their studies rather than adjustment to mediocrity. I t has
resulted in a searching investigation of the educational systems of the
Soviet Union and other European countries. It has induced a rigorous
examination of instructional programs in effect in the United States and
a critical a nalysis and re-evaluation of our teaching methods.
Contemporary thought on the importance of the acquisition of knowledge has been expressed in publications of this month by two Pulitzer
prize-winners-novelist Ernest Hemingway. who writes that "knowledge is the least perishable thing." and historian Arthur M. Schlesinger.
Jr.. who states, " if the record of American history suggests anything, it
suggests that knowledge has generally been the indispensable means to
wise decision."
It is to be regretted that not all graduates of our public schools become good citizens, but statistics assign criminality overwhelmingly to
the class of the illiterate. Crime and delinquency cost six times the price
of public education, yet there is reluctance on the part of some citizens
to make additional funds available for educational purposes. Such reluctance impels reference to a stanza from " A Song for the Ragged
Schools" written by Eliza Cook in the last century:
"Better build schoolrooms for 'the boy'
Than cells and gibbets for 'the man.' "
Masons, realizing that the freedoms all Americans enjoy are indissolubly linked with our public schools, have awakened the people o f this
nation to the importance of maintaining inviolate a system of free public
education in schools throughout this land.
The observance of Public Schools Week. which is now a community
affair, was in its inception a Masonic project. It originated with a proclamation in 1920 by Brother Charles Albert Adams, Grand Master at the
time. During each of the succeeding forty years the public has been
urged by Freemasonry to know, visit and support their public schools.
As long as Freemasonry exists we may anticipate that free public
school education shall receive such attention. Since the public has been

II. Freemasonry, Technology, and Public Education
" Those who educate children well. are more to be
honored th an they who produce them; for these
only gave them life, those the art of living well."
-ARISTOTLE.

Speaking as United States Representative to the United Nations
Atomic Energy Commission in 1946, Bernard M. Baruch said:
"We are here to make a choice between the quick and
the dead. That is our business.
Behind the black portent of the New Atomic age lies
a hope which, seized upon with faith. can work our salvation. J£ we fail. then we have doomed every man to be the
slave of fear. Let us not delude ourselves: We must elect
world peace or world destruction."
The myriad of technological discoveries and developments since Mr.
Baruch's remarks have served only to emphasize the truth of his
statements.
We live in a time when the whole world is in a state of turmoil and
flux. New thoughts and ideas have caused precedents to be shattered and
have altered the manner of our very existence. Such dramatic attainments
as flight faster than sound, the splitting of the atom, miracle drugs and
satellites in space are but a few marks of this new age of civilization.
Scientific. economic, social and intellectual accomplishments challenge
our understanding on the basis of prior standards and experience. Man's
horizons have widened to encompass the universe. The strengths and
weaknesses of our nation and its people. as well as other nations and
peoples in this world, demand continual observation and evaluation.
Presently a struggle exists between the Soviet Union and the United
States for supremacy in the space race and in the development of nuclear
weapons. Piling up in the free Western world and in the Communist

178

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

awakened to the importance of stepping up our standards of education,
curricula have been s trengthened and requirements for students in academic subjects have become more stringent. We may expect superiority
in the scholastic achievements of a greater number of our students in the
future.
To those who have expressed grave doubt about our ability to meet
the educational challenge of this age. the a nswer provided by Herbert
H oover in 1935 is apposite:
"Many. in honest belief, hold that we cannot longer
accommodate the growth of science, technology and
mechanical power to the Bill of Rights a nd our form of
government. With that I do not agree. Men's inventions
cannot be of more value than men themselves. But it would
be better that we sacrifice something of economic efficiency
than to surrender these primary liberties. In them lies a
spiritual right of men. Behind them is the conception which
is the highest development of the Christian faith- the
conception of individual freedom with brotherhood.
From them is the fullest flowering of individual human
personality."

Ill. Freemasonry, Politics and the National Purpose
" Those who treat politics and morality apart
will never understand the one or the other."
-ROUSSEAU .

Of the subject of politics and religion the Jurisprudence Committee
in 18 75 said (California Masonic Code. sec. l 6j) :
"It is an inflexible rule of this Grand Lodge not to
interfere or meddle with political or religious matters, at
home or abroad. Its members may represent all shades of
political and religious opinions, but when they are assembled in constituent or Grand Lodge, they cannot so
much as discuss such opinions. '* • • 0 f religion we only
desire to know that each one asking admission is a sincere believer in God and a future existence. 0 f politics
we only ask if the applicant is a good citizen."
Certainly there shall be no attempt to violate in word or spirit the
above rule by indulging in the slightest in interdicted controversy. The
reason for the rule is as valid today as in 1875. The harmony that exists
among Masons assembled in the constituent Lodges and in the Grand
Lodge might be disrupted were either subject admitted. Masonry places
emphasis on agreement rather than disagreement. Therefore, the rule is

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

179

a salutary one. Nevertheless. the rule most assuredly does not mean that
a Freemason is expected to be either apolitical or irreligious.
Our highly respected and admired Past Gra nd Master Charles
Albert Ada ms dared with characteristic courage and sagacity to touch
upon the subject of politics in his Oration fifty years ago. He stated:
.... " • there is no higher duty devolving on us as Masons than the duty
we owe the state as citizens; and one of the highest duties devolving upon
an American citizen is that which requires him to concern himself with,
and take a part in, politics." It is interesting to note the problems of fifty
years ago referred to by Brother Adams: "The tyranny of wealth,"
"radicals obsessed with the idea of universal corruption," encouragement
of "popular discontent" with our courts, "bribery and corruption" in
public office. Undoubtedly these were the serious matters of that day.
Contrast these. however, wit h the world-shaking problems of this day.
but fifty years later. when life itself totters in the balance and civilization
is on the brink of disaster. How much easier it is to solve the problems of
corruption at home than abroad. How much better it is to face the peril
of the "tyranny of wealth" than the danger of the "tyranny of Communism."
Pre-eminent is Brother Adams' significant statement that "what a
government is, and whether truth and justice prevail, depends upon the
individual. beca use every government is, after all, but the reflex of the
individuals of whom it is composed." This is as certain today as it was
in all times since the existence of governments and it s hould continue
to be true as long as governments exist.
It is because of this fundamental truth that Masons must interest
themselves in politics. The word "politics" is used in the idealistic sense
expressed by Woodrow Wilson : "Politics I conceive to be nothing more
than the science of the ordered progress of society along the lines of
greatest usefulness and convenience to itself."
Masons of America pledged their lives and fortunes for the establishment of the American system of democratic government. They must
not do less if they are called upon to preserve it. As a citizen each Mason
is enjoined never to countenance "any act which may have a tendency
to subvert the peace and good order of society." M asons should study
and be fully cognizant of governmental activities. Masons must direct
their energies to the regeneration of society for the common good.
It appears proper in this year, when we, a s citizens of this wonderful
land along with other citizens, must elect for America a leader who will
be charged with guiding the destinies of our nation through a challenging
period of utmost gravity. to suggest earnest study by American Masons
of the views of the political candidates and their respective parties.

180

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Senator Kennedy, in his acceptance speech at the Democratic National
Convention, summed up the issue as follows: " Can a nation or ganized
and governed such as ours endure? * * * Can we carry through in an
age where we will witness not only new breakthroughs in weapons of
destruction-but also a race for mastery of the s ky a nd the rain. the
oceans and the tides, the far side of space and the inside of men's
minds?" Vice President Nixon, in his acceptance speech at the Republican National Convention succinctly stated: "The problems which confront our next president will be even greater than those that confronted
him [Abraham Lincoln]. The question then wC1s freedom for the slaves
and survival of the nation. The question now is freedom for all mankind
and the survival of civilization * * * ."
The issues are clear. It remains for you and other Masons as loyal
Americans to exercise your right to vote for the leader you believe
most capable of fulfilling the difficult task. The choice is for each to make.
but whatever the decision it should be accompanied by action. Bear in
mind the saying of Sophodes: "Heaven ne'er helps the man who will
not act."
United with the subject of politics is the accomplishment of the
primary objective of democra tic government. Tha t objective is what we
as citizens and as a nation wish and hope to achieve. It is referred to by a
phrase now in common use-our national purpose. It seems obvious that
correct political thinking and action should lead unalterably to the
achievement of our national purpose. It remains for the citizens of the
United States to define our national purpose. Current writers express
the view tha t we may continue to enjoy our freedoms and system of
democratic government only if we prove by active interest and participation that we are deserving of them. They agree that in the present
world-wide hostility between the ideas of the Western world and the
Communistic countries a direct conflict is presented which requires of
America and its people the strength, endurance, judgment and responsibility exhibited by our forebears in the founding of this nation. In
brief. our national purpose is the maintenance of our American way of
life, and that requires the steady exercise of our rights as citizens.
Such thoughts were concisely expressed over a half-century ago by
a great America n and Mason, Theodore Roosevelt, as follows:
"Above all, let us shrink from no strife, moral or physical. within or without the nation, provided we are certain that strife is justified; for it is only through strife,
through hard and dangerous endeavor, that we shall ultimately win the goal of true national greatness."

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

181

IV. Freemasonry, Morality, and Religion
"Morality is religion in practice; religion is
morality in principle."
-WARDLAW.

Our Brother George Washington in his Farewell Address to the
Citizens of the United States, regarded as one of the world's greatest
political testaments, said: "Of all the dispos itions and habits which lead
to political prosperity, Relig ion and morality are indispensable supports.
* * *'Tis substantially true tha t virtue or morality is a necessary spring
of popular government." We should recognize in these remarks the
philosophy Washington learned as a Mason.
The moral duties owed by the individual as a member of society are
impressed upon each Mason. Moral virtues form the very foundation of
Freemasonry.
Public morality is the aggregate of the behavior of individuals. The
eminent psychiatrist, Dr. Cad Gustav Jung . in his recent book. T he
Undiscovered Self. expressed this thought as follows: "A million zeros
joined together do not, unfortunately, add up to one. Ultimately. everything depends on the quality of the individual * * *. It is, unfortunately.
only too clear that if the individual is not truly regenerated in spirit.
society cannot be either, for society is the sum total of individuals in
need of redemption." Arnold J. Toynbee, universally acknowledged
as one of the greatest living historians writing at the present time, in
his recent book. The World and the West, expressed the same idea as
follows : " * * * that any civilization, any way of life, is an indivisible
whole in which all the parts hang together and are interdependent." In
his last message to the world the renowned Russian poet, Boris Paster~
nak, who died last May. was asked. "Can a man control his future? " He
answered: "Yes. Despite the system he lives under I believe that men
everywhere have more power over the future than ever before. The
important thing is that we must choose to exercise it."
Public morality embraces the term " righteousness" as that term
is used in connection with the dramatic and thought-provoking fate of
Sodom and Gomorrah. Williams Jennings Bryan once said that to be
clad in the armor of righteousness will make the humblest citizen of all
the land stronger than all the hosts of earth (Speech at Democratic National C onvention, Chicago. 1896).
Moral deterioration of individuals in responsible government offices
and also among private individuals has caused the American public
increasing concern. A few of the Congressional hearings in the past
decade with which you should be familiar will point up the problems :
the "five per-centers"; the Reconstruction Finance Corporation pro-

182

183

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

curement practices of the Government; the Internal Revenue Department; gambling and crime; cheating at West Point; bank embezzlements;
television quiz shows; campaign costs and contributions; and the activities of a number of officials of labor unions. Presidential assistants in
this and in preceding administrations have been subject to public criticism
because of actions not conforming with the ethical standards required
of persons in public office. Investigations of practices violative of moral
principles have been made not only on the national level but also on
state and local levels. The continual increase of criminal offenses and
juvenile delinquency presents problems of an <ilarming nature. If our
rise in juvenile delinquency can be attributed to a single cause, that
cause is a general deterioration in public and private morality.
No more dramatic illustration of the lack of public morality can be
noted than the television quiz revelations. It w::is b<id enough to destroy
with disillusionment an apparently healthy interest in the pseudo-intellectual type of entertainment as opposed to the prevalent blood-and-lust
piped over the ether waves. But the assertion by District Attorney Frank
Hogan of New York that. of the 150 witnesses who testified before his
Grnnd Jury. 100 lied under oath, was more distressing. These witnesses
were not illiterate, stupid people. They were some of our so-called leading citizens, examples to our youth, intellectually endowed, successful
by the standards of Wall Street and Madison Avenue. They are the
men wh·o determine business usages and influence political opinions in
this nation. Nevertheless. the solemn oath to tell the truth was meaningless to I 00 out of 150 of them. If caught in a falsehood by subsequent
revelations, their single expedient was to return to the Grand Jury for
"correction."
The misbehavior of public officials is especially disturbing to the
public because, as said by Thomas Jefferson, "When a man assumes a
public trust, he should consider himself public property."
Herbert Hoover in his address at the Republican N a tional Convention on July 25th of this year referred to the "moral forces * * * in the
soul of America [as} more important than all of our other issues."
Public morality should be fundame nta l in the thinking of all Masons .
In our several charges we r ecite that "Masonry is a progressive mora l
science," and of our ancient and honorable Fraternity, "It is an institution having for its foundation the practice of the social and moral
virtues." Entered Apprentice Masons are admonished: "As a Mason,
you are to regard the volume of the Sacred Law as the great light in
your profession; to consider it as the recurring standard of truth and
justice; and to r egulate your actions by the divine precepts it contains.
In it you will learn the important duties you owe to God, your neighbor,
and yourself."

Upon the closing of Masonic Lodge meetings Masons pray that the
Supreme Grand Master will "be pleased so to influence our hearts and
minds that we may each one of us practice out of the Lodge those great
moral duties which are inculcated in it, and with reverence study and
obey the laws which Thou has given us in Thy Holy Word."
Basic in our Order is the belief in God and a future existence. This is
stated in so many words in the California Masonic Code (sec. 51 I ) as
follows: "An applicant for the degrees of Masonry must be * * * a believer in God and a future existence * * * ." These two concepts are expressed in Landmarks Nineteenth and Twentieth in the following manner: "A belief in the existence of God as the Grand Architect of the
Universe" and "The belief in a resurrection to a future life." Landmark Twenty-first adds: "The 'Book of the Law' [Holy Bible] shall
constitute an indispensable part of the furniture of every Lodge."
The sacred law contained in the Bible is woven into the Masonic
ritual fr om beginning to end. In the three degrees more than one hundred
passages make direct reference to it. It is on the Bible that a candidate
seals his obligations. It is the guiding light in all our proceedings. It is
the greatest of the three great emblematical lights of Freemasonry. It
has occupied the central place in the Lodge from the beginning of our
Order.
The acknowledgment of God as the Supreme Being is the first
requisite of any candidate for the objectives of our Fraternity. Perhaps
you may recall how Don Quixote beat on the gates of the temple with
his fists and exclaimed, "Let God out to H is people and open the gates."
That thought might well be expressed by Maso ns by saying: " Open
the gates and let the public know that we pin our faith on the teachings
of the V olume of the Sacred Law without affiliation to any creed,"
The sinews of Freemasonry are the degrees which depict in a beautiful manner the moral lessons of life and make manifest the way to the
lig ht in search of truth. Masons should ever bear in mind the purpose
of seeking the truth. Heed the words of the great Masonic philospher
Albert P ike :
"The practical object of Masonry is the physical and moral
amelioration and the intellectual and spiritual improvement of
individuals and Society. Neither can be effected, except by the
dissemination of trut h.

*

*

•

*

*

Masonry is action, and not inertness. It r equires its Initiates
to work, actively and earnestly, for the benefit of their brethern,
their Country, and Mankind."

185

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Dean Roscoe Pound. a distinguished Mason, in a recent article entitled What is Truth? brings the subject to date in the following conclusion:
"We need not seek for miracles in the field of physics in order
to believe in the substance of things hoped for. i.e. an ideal relation among men; in adjustment of relations among men and ordering of men's conduct toward an ideal of righteousness and an
Eternal outside of us that makes for righteousness."
Although Freemasonry is not a religion and the Craft makes no
attempt to interpret the Holy Bible in a theological sense or to bind a
Mason to any creed. Masons are committed to a belief in God and the
immortality of the soul. The Fraternity seeks only to strengthen its
members, as well as Freemasonry. by endeavoring to confirm each man
in the faithful observance of whatever religious course he chooses to
pursue in the light of his own conscience.
M asons recognize that this is a time when strong religious beliefs
are needed if civilization is to survive, for no civilization has outlasted
the demise of religious faith. Religious conviction is a great force because
it motivates a person to do the will of God. That motivating force is
founded upon the Holy Bible, which represents that which is sacred in
a man's spiritual life and in his relationship with God.
The objectives and fundamental principles of Freemasonry have
never changed. Freemasonry's purpose today is the same as it was in
olden times. That purpose is to help men build in themselves convictions
based securely upon moral integrity. Men with characters so molded will
not equivocate; they will not lie; they will not cheat; they will not steal;
they will not commit acts of violence or immorality; and they will never
sacrifice a principle for any kind of gain.
Paramount in assuring the perpetuation of our freedom is the
strengthening of the moral fiber and courage of the citizens of this
nation. The increasing crime rate and moral decay should stir individual Masons to act in support of the moral forces of America. Masons
must by conduct and example create a moral climate which will sustain
our free institutions.

author allow only a few broad strokes on the beautiful canvas of Freemasonry.
Without intending to be presumptuous in any manner, I am setting
forth several suggestions of practical opt-ration in summary :
1. Observe in thought and action the rule of the law as the law
of freedom by showing respect yourself and encouraging in others regard for the institutions of our American democratic government.
2. Strengthen your moral integrity and courage in your determination to live your Masonry. It has been the proud preachment of our
Grand Master, Joe L. Shell. that each Mason must practice Masonic
principles toward all men. Follow his admonition by being kind to family. friend and foe. Recognize that Masonry is more than a ritual. It is
a way of life. Translate our r itualistic work into practical application by
performing in daily living brotherly love and charity for the benefit of
all fellow men alike. Remember that the destiny of Masonry begins with
each of us by our actions in everyday life. A s noted in the charge to
Entered Apprentices: "Be faithful to the trust committed to your
care • * * ."
3. Don't sell America short but insist on the adj ustment of the perplexing problems pressing from all sides by understandin!J the political
issues of the times and the national purpose. Be direct and forthright in
dealings with your fellow men and a leader in promoting good citizenship.

184

Summary of Purposes
" Behold. how good and how plea sant it is for
brethren to dwell together in unity!"
-PSALMS 133, V. l.
There are reviewed in this dissertation a few of the elements that
together represent the "Spirit of Freemasonry." There is much that remains unsaid. Limitations of time. space and ability of ex pression of the

4. Participate to the extent of your ability in enterprises of a public
nature. Ex press confidence in and encourage other Masons in such
endeavors.
5. Contribute through encouragement and in any other way within
your power to the technological and scientific a dvances of our nation.
6. Promote and support the public schools of America by participation in public school programs. by serving on public school boards and
by aiding in raising the standards of public education.
7. Respond to the summons of the Supreme Grand Master, our ultimate a uthoritY'. found in the GUIDEBOOK of our lives :
"Be strong and of good courage; be not afraid. neither
be thou dismayed: for the Lord thy God is with
thee, withersoever thou goest" (JOSHUA, c. 1. v. 9).

186

187

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR N IA

Epilogue

In my opinion that statement is prophetic. I think tha t this is the
generation of Americans that in Roosevelt's words has a " rendezvous
with destiny."
May God grant that each one present here today, and your counterparts in all parts of this groaning earth , may have the spiri t, courage
and competency to di!!icharge responsibilities w ith such honor , dignity
and effectiveness that we may give assurance to this generation and to
s ucceeding generations that the conditions w hich provoked the annihilative verdict upon Sodom and G omorrah never again shall prevail on
this turbulent planet and that our destiny may be of peace and happiness
under the rule of law.
I leave you with a prophecy made by V ictor Hugo some hundred
yea rs ago: " In the Twentieth Century war will be dead. the scaffol d will
be dead, hatred will be dead, frontier boundaries will be dead, dogmas
will be dead; Man will live. He will possess something higher than all
these-a great country. the whole earth, and a great hope, the whole
heaven."
There still remain forty years in this Twentieth Century for such
a prophecy to come true. It is my hope that many of us may live to bear
witness to its fulfillment.
The oration was received with a standing ovation.
On motion o f Past Grand Master Henry C. Clausen, the Grand
Secretary was authorized to have the oration pr inted and distributed to
the Lodges.

" '* '* '* they s hall beat their swords into plowshares, and
their spears into pruning-hooks: nation shall not lift up
sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any
more."
-ISAIAH, c. 2, v. 4.
Americans, historically complacent in time of peace, now have an
awareness of the dangers that confront them at home and abroad to
destroy the freedom of American democracy established under our Cons titution. In the history of the entire world mankind has known but a
few moments of freedom. Most of these moments have been ours. But
this freedom is never more than one generation away from extinction.
Our liberty, our faith and our ideals face daily threats of destruction. We
must meet the challenge now or perhaps spend the rest of our lives
telling our children or our children's children what it was once like
when men were free.
The serious anxieties of the peoples of the world, because of the
possibility of "Another Sodom and Gomorrah," suggest reference to
the passage in the Bibl e that "there is no new thing under the sun"
(Ecclesiastes, c. 1. v. 9). Consider, for example, the remarkable, terse
and trenchant lines written in 1732 by the English classical poet, Alexander Pope, in An Essay on Man, a popular poetical summary of philosophical speculation at that time:
"See worlds on worlds compose one universe,
Observe how system into system r uns,
What other planets circle other suns,
*

*

...

*

Who sees with eq ual eye, as God of all,
A hero perish, or a sparrow fall,
Atoms of system into ruin hurled,
And now a bubble burst, and now a world (emphasis added).
* * * *
Hope springs eternal in the human breast:
Man never Is, but always To be blest:
...

*

...

•

All are parts of one stupendou s whole,
Whose body N ature is, and God the soul; '* '* '* ."
You may recall hearing F ranklin D . Roosevelt say in 1936:
" There is a mysterious cycle in human events. In some generations much is given. Of other generations much is expected.
This generation of Americans has a rendezvous with destiny."

188

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE
ON CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE
To the Most Wor shipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Our very grand Grand Master in his Constitution Observance Proclamation directed that each Lodge in this Grand Jurisdiction shall
during the months of September or October set apart at least one day
to memorialize the one-hundred seventy-third anniversary of the signing
of the Constitution of the United S tates of America, that momentous
event occurring on September 17, 1787. Our Grand Mas ter concluded
this proclamation with a quotation from the great English champion of
liberty, Edmund Burke. We would like to repeat it for you now:
"All that is necessary for the triumph of evil is for enough
good men to do nothing."
My brethren, how appropriate this quotation is today as it applies
to this great document which we honor each year. Today, America is
in the midst of a frightening moral slump. Too many good men are doing nothing to prevent the onslaught of transgressions which are being
made in the rights and privileges guaranteed by the Constitution.
That great American. former President Herbert Hoover. in his
address to the Republican National Convention, held this summer in
Chicago, took as his theme this national apathy which has overtaken
our moral fiber : Whether you be Democrat or Republican. Prohibitionist
or Constitutionalist, the truths he spoke hit every one of us right between
the eyes. Quoting from his address:
"During the 14 years since the end of the war, Communist conspiracies and their 'fronts' have poured their Marxist poisons
into our people. We have also been brainwashed with another
Communist basic tenet. They insist that love of country. pride
of a people in their history. their ideals and their accomplishments is wicked nationalism."
Quoting further:
"This nation needs a rebirth of a great spiritual force which has
been impaired by cynicism and weakened by foreign infections.
Call it nationalism if you will. But there is neither isolationism
nor aggression and imbedded deep within it is compassion for
distress both at home and overseas. It is a kind of nationalism
which recognizes changes in the world and requires that we
meet them with forward-looking measures."
And that the Masons of California are no exception from this
apathy which has become so infectious, let us read you a few remarks
made by Masters of Lodges in their reports of 1959 observances.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

189

t. " .. , but the public and Masons also are just too apathetic toward
an event such as this. Only six of the twelve officers attended."
RoBERT C. EuLBERG , f unior Warden , Lodge No. 600
2. "The big problem seems to be that of attendance. "
3. "A tendency for officers and family in attendance only."
4. "Some means should be devised to stimulate public interest."
5. "The public does not seem to be sufficiently interested in our
Constitution or the liberties they enjoy. In my opinion, prosperity
and full bellies has dulled the senses. Perhaps the fact that I am
a naturalized citizen causes me to be critical."
6. "Make it a recommended program but not compulsory."
Fortunately there are Masons in California, good men, who are
doing something to promote th is Grand Lodge sponsored program in
their lodges and in their communities. They are giving their fellow men
a spiritual transfusion that can restore our America to the strength and
idealism which made us the greatest nation on earth. The heart of
America is basically sound, but its bloodstream is being poisoned with
the apa thies of modern life.
We believe the Constitution Observance program of this Grand
Lodge must have for its purpose the following:
First:
We must recapture the "Spirit of '76." While we encourage
nationalism for ambitious smaller nations abroad. we discourage it at home. P atriotism in America seems to be "old
hat." If a man gets out and waves the American flag, he is now
a "suspect" or called a "reactionary." We applaud the nationalistic demonstrations in other countries. Perhaps we need
a fe w demonstrations for America, not against it.
Second: We must recapture the courage of our forefathers. One great
American has said, "We have become a na tion of cowards."
We have seen the disappearance of the will to fight for what
we believe. We are content to sit within the security of our
homes and watch the brave western heroes on TV. We have
become reluctant to follow a course that isn't popular, even if
deep inside us we know it is right. We as individual Masons
must be unafraid to stand up and be counted.
Third: We must recapture the American challenge. We need a chal ~
lenge such as our forefathers had when they trans form ed this
wilderness into a civilized nation. What is this American challenge? We believe it to be this:
I. The challenge to throw political expediency to the wind if
necessary and do what we know is morally right because
it is right.
2. The challenge of electing men with moral courage to political office. To support them with our time and money. Parti·

190

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

cipate in the legislative process. Give vocal expression to
the fundamentals we advocate.
This program must be a program for each and every Mason as an
individual. It must be a program for every day in the year for each one
of us not a single program held by a lodge during the months of September and October. It must be a program based on a real desire to
promote and recapture the real meaning of the word - America, not
a program held for a handful of faithful members and held only because
the Grand Master has made such a proclamation.
A complete analysis of all the observances held during the months
of September and October of 1959 revealed a decided improvement
over previous years as to the number and types of programs held, number of persons in attendance. community-wide participation, etc. Because of the latitude of allowing the lodges to hold their Observance
celebrations during September and October, for 1960 we can only
report on those lodges which have already held their programs and the
Master's Reports have been mailed to the Committee. We believe that
real progress has been made again this year.

program of its own. A "Guide" was distributed to each Master of the
jurisdiction.
We request that the s um of $1000 be allocated for committee use
during the ensuing year. This is a decrease of $200 under the amount
allotted this year.
For the rare privilege and great honor of serving on this committee
of Grand Lodge. we would like to take this opportunity to express the
sincere appreciation of your chairman and all the enthusiastic members
of the committee.
To our Grand Master, we have been most proud to have been a
member of your official family. Your very humane and friendly conduct
of the office of Grand Master has been an inspiration to all California
Masons.
To the Grand Secretary's Office and particularly the Assistant
Grand Secretary, Henry Oliphant, we extend our tha nks for your very
efficient and helpful service, without w hich this committee and all other
committees of this Grand Lodge could not long survive.
Respectfully submitted,

We further recommend that the Constitution Observance Guide
booklet be revised and be made even more useful. It has proven itself
most valuable in the past four years of its existence and by its use each
lodge, even the smallest, should be able to conduct a very successful

c. MUDGETT
w. HENDRIX

HAROLD

We would like to call your attention to a most commendable program instituted last year by the 5 lodges of Whittier. They had the
Preamble of the Constitution printed on small parchment sheets. These
were then made into a small roll, secured by a rubber band, and a silk
flag attached. On street corners. in parking lots. at supermarkets and
wherever people assembled, 8000 of these symbols of America's greatness were handed out on a Saturday afternoon in September. The
cost - only $19.05 per lodge. A very paltry sum expended to make a
very big sale of Americanism and Masonry. We understand that this
year the program was continued on an even greater scale with other
community organizations joining hands. Further information en this
program will soon be available from your committeemen.
Your Constitution Observance Committee again this year attempted
to visit as many of the district Officers Associations as possible. Letters
were sent to Inspectors requesting permission to visit one of their district
Officers' meetings to discuss the program and to offer any assistance
needed. Such meetings as were attended by a committeeman were to the
man most graciously received. A study of the Masters' Reports received
indicates most clearly that where advice and counsel were personally
given. the observances were greatly improved over previous years. Your
committee most enthusiastically recommends that this program be continued by the incoming committee.

I 91

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

VERNE

RALPH E. ELLIS
ROBERT A. M ILLER
JoHN M. LEE
GEORGE

w. FISHER

JESSE J . BELL
REYNOLD
WILLIAM

c. MACDONALD
z. FAIRBANKS

SERGEI N. IVANOFF
HENNING J. LUEDERS
ANDREW L. SPINAS
PETER M. TRIPP
EVERETT S. TooD

Referred to Committee on Finance.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

192

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & AM. of California:
CHARTERS RECOMMENDED

At the 1959 Communication, the dispensation of Tila Pass Lodge,
U. D. was continued. During the current Masonic year six new Lodges
were instituted. including a Research Lodge.
Of the seven Lodges under dispensation, six have applied for
charters.
We have examined the work and proceedings of these Lodges and
(subject to qualification hereinafter stated) have conferred with their
delegates, accompanied by their Inspectors upon our invitation. We
found the work and proceedings of five out of the six petitioning Lodges
to be satisfactory, and that they were clear of all indebtedness. In some
of the five cases there were errors or omissions of a minor technical
nature in keeping records and presenting same as prescibed by the
Masonic Code. Your Committee was assured that these items would
be rectified. Among these five, there were no errors of omissions of a
major nature.
We, therefore, recommend that charters be granted and numbers assigned to these five petitioning Lodges as follows:
Tila Pass Lodge No. 797 at Los Angeles. in the County of Los
Angeles.
Ashland Lodge No. 798 at San Lorenzo, in the County of Alameda.
Central California Research Lodge (no number) at Fresno, in the
County of Fresno.
Bay Claire Vista Lodge No. 799 at San Diego, in the County of San
Diego.
Rio Hondo Lodge No. 800 at EI Monte, in the County of Los Angeles.
Respectfully submitted,
HERBERT A. HUEBNER
KENNETH R. FORD
BROWN ZARLEY
ROBERT A. SMITH
IRA G. SILVER
PHILIP B. STONE
KENNETH L. HEMPHILL
WAYNE E. BURK

c. w ARREN
w. WEYGANDT, JR.

CHARLES
HAROLD

EUGENE N. DRISKILL

Adopted.

193

YuccA VALLEY LODGE U.D.

Yucca Valley Lodge U.D., at Yucca Valley in the County of San
Bernardino, was instituted June 11, 1960, and desires to be continued
under dispensation. In conformity to this request. the Lodge did not file
a petition for a charter. The Committee concurs in the Lodge's request,
and recommends that it be continued under dispensation for the ensuing
Masonic year.
Adopted.
KooLAU LoDGE U.D.

Koolau Lodge U.D. was instituted on May 28, 1960, on the Island
of Oahu in the State of Hawaii to serve the windward side of the island
in the vicinity of Kaihua.
While this Committee has not been able to follow its normal procedure of working closely with this Lodge while under Dispensation, we
have received most favorable reports as to their enthusiasm and their
devotion to the Craft.
During the period under Dispensation the Secretary resigned and
was replaced, and on August 24, 1960, the Worshipful Master was
removed from office by order of the Grand Master. On August 31, 1960,
the Lodge received word that the Senior and Junior Wardens had been
appointed Master and Senior V./ arden respectively, and a new Junior
Warden was appointed. As the Dispensation was returned to Grand
Lodge as of September 1, 1960, no further meetings have been held
since these officers have officially assumed these stations.
Unfortunately. none of the officers were able to attend Grand Lodge
and appear before this Committee. Brother Edgar, their Inspector,
though not a member of their Lodge, was delegated to represent them
and speak in their behalf.
While we find no requirement in our ordinances for such an appearance by the officers, the charges to the Master and Wardens in the
Institution C eremony do require them to "promise to attend the committees and communications of the Grand Lodge upon receiving proper
notice, etc." Such meetings with the officers have always proven most
helpful to the Committee and we believe to the Lodge.
An inspection of the minutes and records of the Lodge discloses some
errors, omissions, and irregularities - some minor and some of a more
serious nature.
1st. None of the members have signed the By-Laws. This is required
by our ordinances - Section 683 a-i.
2nd. There is no Treasurer's Ledger.
3rd. There is no Certificate of Proficiency of the present Junior
Warden.

19'1

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CA LIFORNIA

4th. Minutes were signed by the Master prior to approval by the
Lodge.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRIEVANCES

Your Committee recognizes that these and similar technicalities can
be remedied.
We do find. however, that at their meeting of August 31, 1960.
with ten officers and four other members present, Lodge was opened
in the First Degree and after the conferring of degrees, Lodge was
closed. The Entered Apprentices and Fellowcrafts were then excused
and the Lodge held a business meeting, in which business was transacted
and Lodge funds voted for various purposes. While we are convinced
that there was no improper motive, and that their actions w ere the
result of their zeal, we do feel it reflects unfamiliarity with our ordi~
nances as such unauthorized business meetings are prohibited in Sections 320 and 323 of the C.M.C. Even this can no doubt be rectified by
action at a Stated M eeting.
The Inspector of this Lodge has been operating under the handicap
of having seven Lodges under his jurisdiction in a widely scattered district. This district has been recently divided and he now has only four
Lodges.
Your Committee feels that, because of its inability to adequately review the work and proceedings of the Lodge under its present line of
officers, as required by Section 311 of C.M.C .. the Committee is prevented from making a favorable recommendation. We feel that the
Lodge would be strengthened by an additional year of operation under
dis pens a tion.
Therefore, we are constrained to a recommendation that the charter
be denied without prejudice, and that dispensation be continued until
the next Annual Communication of Grand Lod ge.
The recommendation of the Charters Committee was not adopted .
By motion, then regularly seconded and carried, the granting of a
charter to Koolau Lodge No. 801 was approved by Grand Lodge.

HAWAIIAN CHARTERS
The Committee on Distribution has referred to the Committee on
Charters that portion of the Grand Secretary's Report which dealt with
the endorsement of charters applying to Lodges in the State of Hawaii.
Your Committee on Charters is in complete accord with this recommendation and unanimously urges its adoption.
Adopted.

195

To the M ost Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Grievances reports as follows:
The committee has considered 72 trial records, of which 45 will be
covered by th is report and the others will be subj ects of special reports
by committee members.
We again ta ke notice of the fact that there seems to be a tendency
to delay disciplinary proceedings. The junior wardens or others delay
too long in filing charges after receiving accurate information on the
commission of unmasonic acts by a member. The charges are sometimes
held too long before the notice to the accused is served and. if a trial
is demanded. too long a time passes in taking the necessary procedure
of electing a commission, setting a date, serving summons, and holding
the trial. A n unpleasant job s hould be disposed of promptly.
It is not necessary that this committee or Grand Lodge pass on
restoration of members who were suspended by a lodge, but three
such cases were ref erred to us. We report that proper procedure was
followed by each lodge in Tria l Records Nos. 1571. 1592, and 1613.
In the following trial records we find no prejudicial errors nor miscarriages of justice. All procedure has been substantially proper, and
the evidence in each case supported the res ult obtained:
No. 1570- A member of Patterson Lodge No. 488. Acquitted April 4,
1960.
No. 1576-A member of F erndale Lodge No. 193. Expelled Feb. 8,
1960.
No. 1599- A member of Palms Lodge No. 512. Expelled July 7, 1960.
No. 1632- A member of Arcata Lodge No. 106. Expelled Jan. 4, 1960.
No. 16'11-A member o f Lebanon Lodge No. 495. E xpelled Sept . I.
1959.
No. I 6'12- A member of Service Lodge No. 594. Expelled Sept. 4, 1959.
No. l 6'13- A member of Charity Lodge No. 362. Expelled Sept. I'!,
1959.
No. 1644-A member of University Lodge No. 394. E xpelled Sept. 14.
1959.
No. 1645- A member of Fruitvale Lodge No. 336. Expelled Oct. I ,
1959.
No. I 6'17- A member of Occidental Lod ge No. 22. E xpelled Oct. 5,
1959.
No. 1648- A member of Vallejo Lodge No. 487. Expelled Nov. 4,
1959.
No. 1650- A member of San Juan Lodge No. 732 . Expelled Sept. 16.
1959.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIPORNIA

No. 1651-A member of The Gardens Lodge No. 621. Expelled Nov.
4,1959.
No. 1652- A member of The Gardens Lodge No. 621. Expelled Nov.
4. 1959.
No. 1653-A member of Patterson Lodge No. 488 . Reprimand Nov.
12, 1959.
No. 1654-A dimitted member of Penrhyn Lodge No. 258. Expelled
Dec. 3, 1959.
No. 1655-A member of Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674. Expelled Nov.
2, 1959.
No. 1657-A member of Bixby Knolls Lodge No. 699. Expelled Dec.
2, 1959.
No. 1659-A member of Hollywood Lodge No. 355. Acquitted Sept.
2, 1959.
No. 1660-A member of Torrance Lodge No. 447. Expelled Nov. 6.
1959.
No. 1661-A member of Gold Hill Lodge No. 32. Expelled Nov. 4,
1959.
No. 1662-An Entered Apprentice of Evening Star Lodge No. 186.
Expelled Dec. 2, 1959.
No. J 664-A member of Foothill Lodge No. 564. Expelled Nov. 5.
1959.
N o. 1665- A member of Normal Heights Lodge No. 632. Expelled
Feb. 1. 1960.
No. 1666-A member of Ophir Lodge No. 33. Expelled Feb. 13. 1960.
No. 1667- A member of Blackmer Lodge No. 442. Expelled Feb. I ,
1960.
No. 1668-A member of Morning Star Lodge No. 68. Acquitted Feb.
4, 1960.
No. 1670-A member of Torrance Lodge No. 447. Expelled Dec. 4,
1959.
No. 1671-A member of South Park Lodge No. 563. Expelled April
7. 1960.
No. 1672-A Fellowcraft of Greenleaf Lodge No. 670. Expelled April
6, 1960.
No. 1673-A member of Garden Grove Lodge No. 586 . Acquitted July
13, 1959.
No. 1674-A member of Evergreen Lodge No. 259 . Expelled May 4.
1960.
No. 1676- An Entered Apprentice of Kit Carson Lodge No. 734.
Suspended Dec. 2, 1959.
No. 1677-A member of Sierra Lodge No. 788. Expelled April 4, 1960.
No. 1678-A member of Parnassus Lodge No. 388. Expelled June 7,
1960.
No. 1679-A member of Monte Vista Lodge No. 655. Expelled June
6, 1960.

No. 1680--A member of Bixby Knolls Lodge No. 699. Expelled July 6
.
1960.
No. 1681-A member of Ingleside Lodge No. 630. Expelled July 5
'
1960.
No. 1682-A member of Elysian Lodge No. 418. Expelled July 6, 1960.
No. 1683- A member of a Massachusetts Lodge. Expelled Aug 3
. '
1960.
No. 1686-A member of Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458. Expelled Aug.
4. 1960.
No. 1689-A member of America Lodge No. 475. Expelled July 11
'
1960.
resolution:
following
the
offer
We
.RESOLVED, that in each of the trial records above~mentioned the
action taken be ratified, affirmed and approved.
Respectfully submitted,
ALBERT F. Ross
RALPH E. HOYT
ELMER w. HEALD
ALBERT c. WOLLENBERG
BYRON C. MORTON
JoHN D . JORGENSON
JAY A. ROBINSON
Adopted.

196

197

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1687
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
A member of Ingleside Lodge No. 630, was tried upon specifications
b~fo~e the Master sitting as Trial Master and a duly elected trial com~
m1ss1on. At the conclusion of the accuser's presentation and before
any eviden.ce was presented by the accused. the Master, at the urging
of acc~sed ~ attorney, made an order dismissing the case. thus taking
the entire trial away from the commission.
Mas~nic Law does not provide for any dismissal of a charge of
unmasomc. conduct upon a trial or hearing, but in the plain language
of the ordinances, the commissioners must determine the question of
gui~t or innocence of the accused. (See 721, Note q, Masonic Code).
This ha~ ~een our consisten~ ruling in such matters. The Master is only
the p~esidmg officer at a trial, he cannot decide facts. This is the sole
funct10n of the trial commission ; the case should have been submitted
to the commissioners.
Your committee respectfully presents the following resolution :
RESOLVED: That the action of the Master in Trial Record No.
1687. finding that there was not sufficient evidence and dismissing the
charges ~e reversed and the matter remanded to the Lodge for trlal in
accord with the California Masonic Code.
Adopted.

198

199

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODG E OF CALIFORNIA

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1675

of the specification but held that it was not unmasonic conduct, and
acquitted him .
Our committee has carefully considered this case and has weighed
the defense of good faith. However. the court record indicates that the
case was more serious than accused claims, evidenced by the fact that
the judge imposed a sentence of two years imprisonment, of which
accused served one year and was paroled for one year. There is an intimation that accused may have received more from the addict than
mere information about peddlers.
We therefore offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED. that the finding of the specification in Trial Record
No. 1646 be affirmed, that the finding of not guilty of unmasonic conduct
be reversed, that Grand Lodge furnish a finding of guilt of un masonic
conduct and fix the penalty as expulsion, and that the accused be expelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Grievances. to which was referred Trial Record
No. 1675, reports as follows:
A member of Garvanza Lodge No. 492 was charged with five counts
of forging a prescription for a narcotic, a violation of Section 11715 of
the Health & Safety Code of California.
The accused was properly served with a copy of the charges, and
the accused having failed to enter a plea the Master made an investigation and announced that the accused had been found guilty on all specifications and of unmasonic conduct. Whereupon the penalty of reprimand was imposed by the Master.
A review of the trial record reflects that the accused has been a
registered pharmacist in the State of California for 33 years. He was
convicted of all five counts in the Superior Court of the County of Los
Angeles. The facts of the case indicate that the accused wrote some 60
prescriptions in all, using a doctor's name without his authorization. The
accused not only involved himself but two other members of his family
to the point where there could have been a possible addiction.
It is the opinion of your Committee that, based on the entire record
and the gravity of the offense involved, the penalty should be suspension.
Your Committee therefore offers the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that the findings of the Master as to the guilt of the
accused be approved. but that the penalty be raised to suspension and
that the accused be suspended from all the rights and privileges of
Masonry.
Adopted.

Adopted.

ADDITIONAL TRIAL RECORDS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
The reports of the Committee on Grievances in the followin g trial
records contain no matters that would be of interest to others than t hose
directly concerned, and copies of the reports will be sent to them. The
principles of M a sonic law and procedure involved are all set out in
our code. and these reports only point them out.We deem it unnecessar y
to print these reports in full in the published Proceedings of Gra nd
Lodge.
No.

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1646
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
A member of Foothill Lodge No. 564 was charged with a violation
of federal narcotic laws (illegally dispensing narcotics). He was convicted in the United States District Court of that offense.
The evidence shows that accused was a state narcotic agent and
that he stated that he was dispensing the narcotics to an addict whom
he was using as an informer to establish cases against narcotic peddlers.
He said this was an old and necessary custom in the enforcement circles,
although technically Ll violation of the United States Code.
On the Masonic trial the accuser presented the certified copy of the
judgment of conviction in the United States District Court. The accused testified in his own behalf. The Commissioners found him guilty

921 - Petition for restoration denied. Former member of Solano
Lodge No. 229.
No. 1078-Petition for restoration granted. Former member of Mount
Diablo Lodge No. 448.
No. 1333-Petition for restoration granted. Former member of Palo
Alto Lodge No. 346.
No. 1394-Petition for restoration denied. Former member of Fresno
Lodge No . 247.
No. 1407-Petition for restoration granted. Former member of Bixby
Knolls Lodge No. 699.
No. 1473-Petition for restoration denied. Former member of Anchor
Lodge No. 273.
No. 1498-Petition for restoration denied. Former member of Lebanon
Lodge No. 495.
No. 1514-Petition for restoration denied. Former member of Metropolitan Lodge No. 646.

200

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

No. 1559-Petition for restoration denied. Former member of Poinsettia Lodge No. 633.
No. 1560--Petition for restoration denied. Fonner member of La Mesa
Lodge N o. 407.
No. 1578-A member of Richmond Lodge N o. 375. P enalty raised from
suspension. Expelled by Grand Lodge.
No. 1633- A member of Canoga Lodge No. 611. Expelled April 1,
1960.
No. 1649-A member of Sequoia Lodge No. 349. Penalty raised from
suspension. E xpelled by Gra nd Lodge.
No. 1656-A member of Ponderosa Lodge N o. 700. Penalty raised from
reprimand. Expelled by Grand Lodge.
No. 1658- A member of Presidio Lodge No. 354. Penalty raised from
suspension. Expelled by Grand Lodge.
No. 1663-A member of Center Lodge No. 465 . Penalty raised from
suspension. Expelled by Grand Lodge.
No. 1669-A member of Florence Lodge N o. 649. Suspended March
3, 1960.
N o. 1684- A member of Eucalyptus Lodge No. 243. P enalty raised
from suspension. Expelled by Grand Lodge.
No. 1685- A member of lllinoistown Lodge No. 51. Finding of unmasonic conduct supplied. Expelled Aug. 5, 1960.
W e therefore offer the following resolution :
RESOLVED. that the reports in the trial records above set out
be not printed in the published Proceedings of Grand Lodge.
Adopted.

T RIAL RECORDS CONTINUED
To the M ost Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. & AM. of California:
Your Committee on Grievances has had before it the following Trial
Records:
No. 1554- Mendocino Lodge No. I 79
N o. 1595- Loyalty Lodge No. 529
No. 1602- Selma Lodge No. 277
N o. 1628- Ashlar Lodge No. 306
These were sent back to the lodges in former years for new trial or
further proceedings, but none haYe been reported, although we have
hea rd that some progress is being made in some o f them. They will be
continued on our list of trial records and we urge the lodge to act promptly on them.

GRAND LODGE OF CA LIPOR NIA

201

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON SCHOLARSHIP
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A . M. of California:
Your Committee on Scholarships reports as follows:
When Most Worshipful H enry C. Clausen was G ra nd Ma ster in
1955 he recommended the creation of a Scholarship Fund whereby two
annual awa rds of $1, 000.00 each would be made by the Grand M aster,
one in the North and one in the South , for the best thesis and dissertation on the subject of Publ ic Schools by g radua te students working
for doctorial decrees in the field of education , and he stated that among
other benefits this would provide fr uitful source material for use in
curricular and comparative studies.
The program w as initiated during the year 1956, in which Most
Worshipful Edgar V. Stewart was Gra nd M aster, and du rin g that yea r
announcement of the Scholarsh ip P rogram was made at the University
of C a lifornia, Stanford University. a nd the College of the Pacific in
Northern California, and the University of California at Los Angeles.
U niversity of Southern C alifornia and The Claremont Graduate School
in Southern California. C andidates were to submit an essay to the
Public Schools Committee of Grand Lodge on the subject , "The
Origin, Development a nd Purpose of our Public Schools." During that
yea r two $1.000 Scholarships were awarded.
During the year 1957, in w hich Most Worshipful L. Harold Anderson was Grand Master . only one Scholarshi p was awarded, most
of the papers submitted being inadequate. During the year 1958. in
which M ost Worshipful Leo A nderson was Grand Master. no Scholarships were awarded.
M ost W orshipful Leo Anderson reported in his message as Grand
Master tha t "it seemed to be the general feeling that the Scholarship
Program was not accomplishing what was intended and it seemed best
to hold up any further scholarship awa rds" until a study was completed.
He also stated in a letter to the G rand Secretary that from his own experience with the Scholarship Program for over a two year period, he
had the feeling tha t the F raternity was not getting out of the program
the results originally hoped for and that none o f the papers presented
during that period came within shooting distance o f the subject which
was presented as the basis fo r the applicant's research. He concluded
that no papers should be asked for during the year 1958, and that the
time should be taken to study a nd evaluc:ite the progra m and determine
whether or not the Fraternity was on the right course or whether the
funds should be used to do the job originally intended in another way.
He also requested the Southern California Research Lodge to undertake resea rch into various s ubjects concerning the Public School System, both in America and in California, and to prepare papers on the
history and development of the Public Schools in America and Cali-

202

203

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CA LIFORNIA

fornia, on what the Public School System has contributed to the American way of life and on the contributions of the Masonic Fraternity and
its members to the Public School System in California.

gestions of Dean William A. Brownell of the School of Education at
the University of California are attached to this report as Exh1b1t A.
If this type of program is adopted. it is the recommendation that a very
thorough application form be used (a suggested form is attached to
this report and marked E xhibit B), that the only written materiaJ required be a single-spaced type-written statemen t of the views of the
applican t on a subject such as "Public Schools In A Democracy," and
that emphasis be placed on a personal interview, where a mixed committee of educators and laymen would interrogate the applicant and
in a subtle way put over to him the interest of the Fraternity in the
Public School System.
School administrators and curriculum supervisors who have been
convinced of the merit of our philosophy of public education, hold, or
may secure. positions of leadership in which they can be most effective
in achieving our educational goals. Such positions of leadership within the profession s hould influence the teaching body as a w hole.
One practical matter must not be overlooked. When only two awards
are made each year, perhaps those who are refused scholarships may be
resentful and become hostile, or at least indifferent, to the Fraternity.
3. If the object of the program is merely to grant scholarships to
future teachers or administrators with no a ttempt to acquaint them with
the philosophy of our Fraternity concerning Public Schools it would
seem to the Committee that although such a motive would be worthy,
we could find other projects that would be more worthwhile.
In reviewing the whole program, the Committee feels that it would
have to strain at reasons to support its justification. If left to the Committee it would recommend abandoning the program. but if the Grand
Lodge feels that it should be continued. we recommend that it take the
form outlined in Paragraph 2 of our recomm endations.
Respectfully submitted,
SAMUEL I. JACOBS

During the year 1959. the present Committee had several meetings
and studied the various submissions of applicants during the years
that the program was in operation. The Committee found them wanting
in many respects and leaving much to be desired. The Committee also
felt that the Fraternity had not received from the program any of the
results originally hoped for. and also found that the program as set up
did not have the cooperation of the Universities having Graduate
Schools in Education.
Your Committee has had several meetings during 1960 to date. It
has had correspondence and conversations with the Dean of the School
of Education at Stanford. and has had a conference with Dean William
A. Brownell of the School of Education at the University of California.
As a result of the Committee meetings a nd the conversations with the
Deans of the Schools of Education at these Universities, the Committee
makes the following recommendations:
1. If the object of the program is to obtain source material. the
results would be unsatisfactory. The thesis written for the scholarship
would have to be independent from the thesis written for the doctorate
degree. The la tter thesis involves an original study approved by the
Dean and the subject is of necessity limited. Independent theses on a
subject selected by the Fraternity would by their very nature be inadequate because they would be extracurricula. The Committee believes that this accounts for the poor submissions while the program
was in operation.
If the object of the program is to obtain source material, the Committee feels that for less money in the long run a textbook or pamphlet
could be written by a competent authority published by Grand Lodge
and placed throughout the State in Public School libraries and in the
hands of persons connected with, or interested in, the Public School
System. Copies could also be sent to those persons in the Administrative Departments of the various School Districts who are in charge of
curricula.
2. If the object of the program is to put across to those who are making a life's study of teaching in the Public Schools our Masonic philosophy concerning Public Schools, it is the feeling of the Committee
that the program should be more limited and that the field of applicants
be limited to candidates for a doctor's degree who are specializing in
the field of School Administration and Curriculum Development. The
Committee has assurances that the Schools of Education of Stanford
University and the University of California would cooperate with this
type of program. So that this report will not be too lengthy some sug-

GEORGE D. GAVIN
WARD M. NICHOLS

Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

EXHIBIT A

The following is a summary of the recommendations of Dean William A, Browne]] of the School of Education at the University of California concerning the scholarship program:
( 1 ) He suggests the use of the word "Fellowships."
( 2) He suggests that the applicants be enrolled in the graduate
schools at Stanford and California in Northern California and UCLA
and USC in Southern California. He states that Claremont College
would also b e eligible in Southern California, but that there is no third

204

PROI EEDINGS OF THE

university or college in Northern California having a school of education able to concentrate on awarding doctorates in education.
( 3) He suggests that the personal interview is the best way to
achieve the objective, but that the field should be narrowed so as not
to make selection burdensome. He states that the School of Education
and the Dean's Office at the University of California would assist in
screening the list so it could be narrowed to five or six.
( 4) In order to limit the field , Dean Brownell suggests that the
applicants be limited to candidates for a doctor's degree specializing in
school administration and curriculum development.
( 5) If need is to be a criterion, there should be some statement in
the brochure.
( 6) With the above limitations and qualifications in mind, the Dean
suggests that applicants be limited to those admitted to the Graduate
Division of the University of California, Stanford University, University of California at Los Angeles and University of Southern California
and accepted by the Department of Education in those universities as
candidates for a doctor's degree in the field of school administration.
He suggests that qualifications must be certified by the Dean of the
School of Education of the particular university. He also suggests that
applicants must be enrolled in a minimum of ten units of work during
each semester (this would have to be modified if the university was on
a quarter system such as Stanford).
( 7) He suggests that announcements of the scholarships be made
not later than December 1; that applications be on file not later tha n
February; and that awards be ma de not later than April 1.
( 8) The Dean also suggests three letters of recommendation be
forwarded directly to the committee (not through the applicant) from
some person in the college where the applicant did undergraduate work
or from persons in the community of the residence of applicant.

205

GRANO LODGE O P CALIFORNIA
EIBlBfr B

(SUL)

GRAND LCDOE
FREE All!l ACCEP!'ED HA.SONS
OF CALIFORNIA

Orard Lodge Coimtitt ee
on
Sc hol.are~

Masonic T""'Ple
llll California Street
San Francieco, California.
l<.asonic Scholarship ! or Graduat e St udy

in

Fducat ional Admini11t ration, CUrricu l tDn, or Teacher Trainini;
The Grani Lodge ot Free and Accepte<I Masons o£ t he State of California , desiring to
encourag" the preparatio n or outatan:ling l eade l"ll !or cur ~bl ic schools, 1'I offering t wu
scholarships an nually o! t l , 000 each to ren who ineet t he following reqiircments:

l. Anler1can citi Mnship
2 . At l.eaet tvo years of publio s chool taa.c hing
experience
J . Acceptance •• a graduate otudent by the School of Education at one of
t he following wlivel"lli ties (a ) St anford, (b) Univusity or Califor n ia. (Berkeley ),
(e) University of California ( Loe Angele s ), (d ) Univer sHy of Sout h<: m California.
Interest ed cardid a tes mus t subci t tit!.~ applicat~~n , "1th all 11Upportins l!llteri.al,
before ~ !. t o :
Cmmdtteo on Scll olal"llhips
Grand. Lodge, F. & A. M., of California
lJ 11 California. Street
Sa n n-a rci sco , California
Awards vill be announced on Apr:il J5
APPLICATION RIR GRAD UATE SCHOLARSHIP
Phot ograph
{Telephone No, J

Attach
Here

street Xddiess
Birthplace_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

City

Pleas e

-----

Birtblate

Father'e Naine, Birthplace, and Vocation_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ - - - - - - - - -

Mother's llaidEn Name, Birthplace, and Vocation (if Aey ) _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

Deperdento (if a ny) Give nor.es, a ges , en:I r elationship o! all iroividuals recei ving more
t.han so:r; of their support from y-our income.
I

I

206
2.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS O F THE
Fducat 1on am EY.pericnce - Accou nt for all time since Hig h School Gradua t ion either aa
in echool, at wor k , unemployed, etc., rua>ept f or ~r Vacation...
(a ) F.ducation

207

6. What resources han you !or financing your !llrtber stud,y? (Pleue gi•e a fairlt tull
etat-ot of your financial needs am re•ources.)

(Attach Transcripts of Undergra.dllate Stu d¥)

llu1e o! Sohool

•Degree:!9t

• Dates Atterned

;aranted'

Major SUbjeet '

Minor Subject

(b ) Elnployment Experience (I,.,lude military service, attaching evidmce OS: honorable
'
ApproriJllat e
•
service)
Dates of ~ent: Your Poaition
ll8lN! ofDnrl oying~' Addreee of Fino

7.

Will thl.s acad..Uc year enable you to complete a i;pecific education al goai, such ••
If so, plea11e expl.l.ia.
a DBI< credential , dec ree, the si s, etc.?

8, What profesoi oral goa.ls do YOU hope to ac hi OYO withi n the De.rt five years?

9. What is 7a.>r ult.inie i;oal in t he .field o!

~'1ucation?

(Attach anot her sheet, if required)

J. J..ie t Civic, r'ra t ernal, l!eli.gi»us ar:ii Pro!eosional OrgMilations to whic h yoo. have
bel onged, and aey l eaders hip r esp:ms ibilit i es accepted 1n t hem.

'

u. Report any previous res earch or professiona l writ i ng you have done.

10.

Have you ever beloflled to the Co=nkl t Party or to a ny organization which advocatea the
overthrow of t he Unite<i Sta.tee goYernrrent by for ce or vi olence? - - - - - -

U,

HaTe you ever be<'ll arrested for any caus e ot her than minor tx-affic violations?
I.f ao, please explain in full .

12.

Plea•e use t lrl• ei:ace to repo rt a n;; addit i onal :!nfonna t ion , of ;my k:l.rrl, ltxich JM.Y
Include aey special
aae~t the C""'1littee to evaluate the ""rit of this application.
qualifications which would s et your applica t.ion apart from others.

CER'l'!FICATION: a.

$. Report any irizes, awards, decorations, honors or distincti ons y ru have r eceived.

b.
c.
d.

Grand Lodge Refe r ence fol'T:ls ha ve been delivered to three i ndi.viduale

having personal kna...l edge of Ill)' abilitiea and ct:aracter wit h a request
that they report to Gral1d Lodge their ooti l16te of 111)1" potent1.alitie• in
the field of Educati on.
Trall!lcripts of Und..r graduate Stwfy a nd evide nce of honorable military
• •rvice ( if aey ) nre att a ched her eto.
Evidence o! nl)' adllt:i.ssion t o Gr ad uate Study in the fie ld or F.ducati on,
at one o! t he Universities 118.lned , is at tached ooreto.
I:f awarded the Masonic Schobrs hip for Graduate Stuiy , I will diligently
pursue a full-time program o! stud,y approved by the Scl:ool of Educatio n.

208

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Plea5e write, on thi5 !B&e, & 5irl8le-spaced typeYri.tten ota tenmt o! your vievs on tbe
!ollowiag topic.

REPORT OF LIBRARY COMMISSIONERS

PlJ!ll.IC SCHOOIS IN A DEl'!OCRACY

Their Pl.ace in American Societ7

209

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Board of Library Commissioners herewith submits its report
for the year 1 959-60 :
As authorized by the Grand Lodge last year, the Commission issued
an appeal to individuals and constituent Lodges for books on Masonic
and related subjects, and for Masonic memorabilia of all kinds. A number of Lodges took note of this in their bulletins. As a result. we have
received gifts of a value of more than $4 ,000 and some additional gifts
whose value cannot be stated in terms of money. Among these gifts are:
A watch presented by Grand Lodge to Grand Master Clay Webster
Taylor in 1882, which has been valued at $3.500 or more. This is a
gift of Brother vVilliam Stromberg, of Mount Olive Lodge No . 506 .
Two Masonic aprons belonging to Samuel Hopkins. a signer of
the Declaration of Independence. These aprons, incidentally, supply
proof that Brother Hopkins was a member of the craft; it has been
supposed, but not certainly known heretofore, that such was the case.
They are the gift of a descendant of Brother Hopkins, Brother Perry
Davis, of San Francisco.
An apron presented by George Washington to a brother.
A number of aprons and badges, and most of the officers' jewels, o f
the extinct Mokelumne Hill Lodge No. 298.
A set of bound volumes of the California Freemason.
About 50 volumes of other works, some quite valuable and one or
two out of print.
FINANCING

Through the activities of certain public-spirited Masons cer tain
limited funds have been made available to the Commission, which have
been used as follows:
The cataloguing of the books now in the library, and which are on
the shelves in the conference Room in this Temple, has been completed.
A beginning has been made. with the purchase of about 30 books, of
providing a circulating library for the benefit of newly raised M asons
or ambitious Masons of longer standing. None of these are reference
books; they are all intended, along with other suitable volumes we
now have, to be borrowed and used by individual brethren who wish
to know more about our Ancient Institution.
These books deal with the history of Freemasonry. both general
and as concerned in the founding of the United States, Masonic
philosophy, the careers of such outstanding Masons as George Washington, Benjamin Fran kli n , Paul Revere and others ; the Morgan Affair,
Mormonism and Masonry, and others.. ,.

211

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

W e have purchased a number of "bookmailers," special packages
for sending books to brethren in distant locations.
Some funds have been set aside for postage on the above.
Mailing labels, cards for keeping records, reminders that a book is
overdue and s tationery for the C ommission have been printed. It might
be stated in passing that so far stationery and posta ge for the Commission's business has been provided by individual members.
A specia l case has been made for the T a ylor W a tch ; this was a
condition of its gift to the Library and Museum.

other Lodges, still active, we believe opportunity s hould be give n them
to place their records in our fireproof library, each group of records
being catalogued and known by the na me of the respective Lodge.
A very substantia l nucleus for such a collection of historical material
has a lready been made available, P ast Grand Master Leon 0. Whitsell
promising us the more significant portions of the books, docu ments,
pictures and records collected by the His tor y C ommittee in preparation
for the fou r volu mes of " One Hundred Y ears of Freemasonry in California." Individu al brethren have also given or promised other items
suitable for t his collection.
F ACILITIES AND SHELTER
The space on the second floor of this Temple which has been set
aside for a Library and Museum is adeq ua te for carrying on the activities outlined but is entirely bare. There is no shelving, nor any fil in g
cases in which the Whitsell and other collections can be placed a nd protected. Not all the s helving . nor all the filing cabinets which we hope and
anticipate we will need, should be provided at present; we can get along
with shelves for one wall and three or four stands of filing cabinets.
More can be added later , as required and as the service of the Library
a nd Museum justifies. We should like to sta rt with shelving for one
wall. leaving downstairs in s torage most of the 5,000 volumes of Grand
Lodge proceedings covering the transactions of every Grand Lodge in
the United States since 1850 which are owned by this Gran d Lodge
and which are a veritable mine of val uable information.
T o accomplish this , and to carry on the activities already mentioned,
we have consulted various author ities and suppliers and have prepared
a budget as follows:
CAPITAL EXPENSES ( non~recurring)
S helving ( one wall only) ................................. ... $! 000
Table and chairs.................................................. 575
F iling cabinets for documents , etc..................... 150

210

CIRCULATING LIBRARY
Your Commission is now in position to begin redemption of the
promise it made to Grand Lodge last year - namely, that books would
be made available, by mail, to any brother of any California Lodge
desiring them , no matter how remote his residence, a t no cost beyond
that of the postage for returning them after use.
We have the books, though as yet in limited numbers only; we have
worked out the system for sending them out and ge tting them back,
we have paid the postage for a starting operation, and we propose to
begin this ser vice as of this moment, using our own personnel for a
limited ti me, to make a start, but with the idea that a volunteer will
be obta ined to take on this work shortly, with compensation limited
approximately to the cost o f his carfare or parking fee a nd mileage.
CALIFORNIA HISTORICAL MASONIC LIBRA RY
At the suggestion of our Deputy Grand Master, Right Worshipful
Alfred F . Bresla uer, your Commission has decided that this Grand
Lodge Library and Museum shall devote itself particularly to items related to California Masonic history. It is our aim to collect a nd protect
every pertinent document or book on this subject that we can obtain.
This will be an unique and extremely va luable collection; no other
Gra nd Lodge has, or can have, anything like it. Also, it is a responsibility which we feel our Commission should accept and discharge for
the benefit o f future ages of student and historians. It is already late
to begin such a task; many priceless items have been lost or destroyed;
at least one has been stolen.
It is our intention to offer the protection of our fireproof libra ry
room to all Lodges whose historical papers and records are not now
safe from da ma ge by roof leaks, rats, mice , bats, fire a nd other hazards.
Some of these old records, ext remely valuable from an historical viewpoint. have been found in attics . old closets. the homes of former Lodge
officers and even the homes of Lodge members. So little care has been
taken of them that your Commission was actually offered, for purchase,
two bound volumes of the records of one extinct Lodge and, to save
them from loss, paid a secondhand book dealer $50 for them.
In the case of extinct Lodges such records are. of course, the property
of Grand Lodge, and can be reclaimed where found . In the case of

$1,725
OPERATING EXPENSE, 1960-61
Librarian's expense ............................................$ 100
50
Pos tage .......................................... ......................
15
Bookmailers ................... ................. ....................
45
Record cards, etc.............................................. ...
Purchase o f books................................... .... ... ...... 150
50
Subscriptions to research publications..............
Set of slides from History Committee................ 120

530
Contingencies ···············-·· ·······-····························

145

TOT AL .................................................. .............. .............. $2,400

212

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We have also asked for $200 for purchase of a display case to
house a special gift. whose presentation was conditioned on suitable
display, making a total of $2,600.
We recommend to this Grand Lodge the provision of an appropriation of this amount-that is, $2,600-for the purposes outlined above.
Your Commission wishes to express its sincere thanks to Most Worshipful Brothers Leon 0. Whitsell and Lloyd E. Wilson, Right Wors hipful Brother Alfred F. Breslauer, Worshipful Brothers Henry D.
Oliphant and 0. J. Wohlgemuth, to all the Worshipful Masters who
publicised the aims and needs of the Library and Museum in the Bulletins and by no means least to the many brethren who have so generously given books, relics and memorabilia to the Library and Museum.
Respectfully submitted,
BOARD OF LIBRARY COMMISSIONERS.

There is still much to be accomplished with regard to abandoned
cemeteries, but we feel that the sound approach in this matter is to
handle each location on an individual basis and see if this problem
can be resolved over a period of time.
Of course the problem of commercialism can be taken care of as
these problems arise in conjunction with the Committee on Commer~
cialism.
Our immediate problem is that of providing for proper care and
maintenance o f cemeteries owned by our Lodges, together with the
problem of controlling the purchasing of new plots or lots for the purpose
of establishing cemeteries, together with keeping a running reservoir of
information with regard to the operations of all cemeteries under our
jurisdiction. •
At this time the Committee withdraws those recommendations
which were included in the 1959 report and which were carried forward to this Communication as unfinished business.
In closing. the Committee would like to express its appreciation to
the Grand Master, the Inspectors, the Secretaries, as well as the Grand
Secretary's office and staff who have been most helpful in making this
year so much easier for our Committee than it would have been without
their gracious help.
Respectfully submitted ,

D.R. LANE
EUGENE
HOPP
ALEXANDER HORN
HENNING
LUEDERS
ROBERT H. BURROWS

s.

J.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC CEMETERIES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lcxlge F. & A. M. of California:
This year has been a year of attempting to formulate plans and
definite approaches to handling problems that are unique to this Committee. At the outset I should like to say that while I have been a member of this Committee since its inception , it never occured to me, until
I became Chairman. the amoun t of work and research that this Committee has accomplished in a three or three and one-half year span. At
this time. I would like to pay tribute to a Brother for whom I have the
greatest respect; and s ince I have attempted to fill his position this year,
I am doubly convinced of the tremendous job that he has done, not only
for this Committee, but through serving in many other capacities in the
Grand Lodge. Brother Jack Butler accomplished in three years what
I believe, in my humble opinion. should have required some five or six
years in the general course of events. When we consider that some 81
cemeteries have been categorically set up in the following divisions:
23 cemeteries owned by Masonic Lodges.
8 cemeteries jointly owned with other bodies.
27 former Masonic cemeteries now operated by public funds.
23 lodges now owning plots within private or public cemeteries,
all this has been done in a very concise and well planned manner. As
Chairman of this Committee, may I extend my sincere appreciation in
behalf of our Committee and the Grand Lodge to Brother Butler for
doing an excellent and thorough job.

213

SAMUELE. LEDDEL
HAROLD
SCHRODER
THOMAS E DWARDS
FREDERICK H. CHAPMAN
BASIL R. GtLLETT

c.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON SOJOURNERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lcxlge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Sojourners Committee is happy to report that our Lodges are
continuing to give their attention to the sojourners in our midst.
Records of the past year show that 857 sojourners affiliated with
the California Grand Jurisdiction, indicating that some Lodges. at least,
were gaining important new members from this source. When we note
that the total net gain for California was only 1691 , we can see how
important a segment of our program the sojourner is because the number of such affiliates is equal to half of the total net gain. The Committee
concentrated, as in years past. on encouraging Lodge officers to give
their attention to sojourners and to initiate programs w hich would be
of benefit both to the sojourner and to the Lodge. Our committee members spoke before many of the boards of relief in this state, as well as
at district councils and local Lodges. Particular attention to this type
of Lodge activity was noted by our committeemen in Southern California. The San Diego County Lodges , in booklet form, set forth a

214

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Directory of meeting nights for the various Lodges showing the contemplated programs and specifically urging sojourners to come to the
affairs. This booklet was printed for sojourning Master Masons. District No. 550 in the Hawthorne area printed a booklet welcoming sojourning visitors, setting forth facts about California Masonry and inviting further inquiries. Our committeeman in the Long Beach area,
through the cooperation of a number of Lodges, distributes return-mail
cards and. on the basis of responses. writes letters to those brethren
interested in any phase of California Masonry. Then, of cou rse. we
have the individual Lodges where Sojourner Nights have become part of
the annual programming. We receive word that these are very successful. Our Committee has participated in a large number of these nights.
To name two widely separated Lodges showing what can be done,
Centennial Lodge No. 729 in Long Beach, and Pearl Harbor Lodge
No. 598 in Honolulu have instituted Sojourners Nights which have
become annual affairs, with much advance planning and publicity.
A resourceful M aster in a fast-growing area found out he had four
mail carriers on his membership roster. He asked these brethren to note
any residents receiving out-of-area Masonic mail. By this method he
received the names and addresses of over 600 sojourners whom he then
contacted. As a result many of these brethren came to Lodge and some
have affiliated.
We have attempted to lay the groundwork with other Grand
Jurisdictions to learn the location of the many sojourners in California.
To date, this s uggestion has not been enthusiastically received in
the other jurisdictions on the grounds they might lose members to
California. This is unfortunate because we feel that to do himself and
the Fraternity any positive good by virtue of his Masonic membership
the brother should actively associate himself with a Lodge in his residence area. Perhaps some day we may make progress in this direction.
In closing, may we reiterate our feeling that a personal interest in
this program on the part of the officers of each Lodge is necessary for
it to prosper. W e realize that the average Master already has more to
do than he thinks he can handle . However. we feel that it is in the
direct interest of each Lod ge to hunt out and cultivate sojourners. and,
for this reason, we urge the Lodge leaders to look into this potential.
Respectfully submitted.
WILLIAM A. CoHENDET

BEN T. SALMON

FREDG. DOAN

WALTER D. RAN DALL

WESTLEY P. JONES

JoHN Ric HMOND

FRA!\ CIS H. GENTRY

Lows B. SMITH

ELMER E. Ross

V. V. KoLOMBATOVIK

THOMAS A. CARTER

ARTHUR ConBETT

EDWARD M. DOWNS

DANIEL M . CAMERON

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

215

REPORT OF CODE COMISSION
To the Mo st Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
Your Code Commission is pleased to report that a cumulative supplement covering the decisions approved and changes made in our laws
at the 1957, 1958 and 1959 Communications was compiled and published
following the close of the last Communication. Plans have been made
for the prompt preparation of a similar cumulative supplement which
will include the changes made at the present Communication together
with the prior changes. As evidence of the popularity of the code it is
interesting to note that it became necessary this spring to have a third
printing.
It is requested that an appropriation of $150.00 be made to cover
the anticipated travel and other expenses of your Commission.
Respectfully submitted.
WILLIAM NANKERVIS, JR.
EDWARD T. KoFORD
DAVID P. RUSSELL
EVERETT HOUSER
L EONARD S. LURIE

Referred to the Committee on F inance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON INSURANCE
To the Mo st Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Recently. a survey of the insurance program of Grand Lodge was
made by the Insurance Committee.
We checked the coverage against records previously set up by us
and accoun ted for all the policies except the Binders for fire insurance.
These we were assured by Lloyd E . Wilson. Grand Secretary. are in
existence and are being maintained while policies are being issued.
We are of the opinion that the Fidelity Bond s hould be reviewed as
to the adeq uacy of coverage.
Our survey finds the insurance being maintained in good order and
fully covering any foreseeable risks of Grand Lodge.
We appreciate the fine cooperation from your staff in making this
review.
Respectfully submitted,
T. JAMES CARLILE
ALLERTON B. EBERT

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

216

217

PROCEEDING S OF THE

REPORT OF COMMIT TEE ON TAXATIO N
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Since our last report, there have been no changes in the various payroll tax laws which apply to our various Masonic organization s.
For reference purposes, there is presented a schedule of rates and
tax bases for various payroll taxes which under present laws will be
effective January I, 1961. and thereafter.

Federal Insurance Contribzrtions (Social Serurity)
Tax rates applicable to first $4,800 of wages paid to each employee
during the calendar year - to be paid at the same rate by both employer and employee.
Per Cent
Calendar Year
196 1 through 1962 ...................................................... 3
1963 through 1965 ...................................................... 3!/i
1966 through 1968 ...................................................... 4
1969 and thereafter .................................................... 4!/i
Federal Unemploym ent Tax
not subject to this ta x unless they employ four
are
Lodges
Masonic
or more employees in non-ritualist ic services and each employee is
paid $50, or more, per calendar quarter.
California Unemploqm ent Insurance Tax
Tax rate applicable to first $3.600 of wages paid to each employee
during the calendar year - to be paid only by employer.
Rates based on employment experience.
Graduated from 0.3 % to a maximum of 3%.
State will furnish notification of rate.
California Unemploym ent Insurance Tax - Extended Benefits
Rate applicable to taxable wages paid to each employee during
calendar year - to be paid only by employer.
Rates vary depending on State's employment experience.
Graduated from 0.05 % to 0.2 7c with reduction when fund reaches
specified level. Determinati on of rate will be made by State.
State will bill employer annually.
California Disability Insurance Tax
Tax rate applicable to first $3.600 of wages paid to each employee
during the calendar year - to be paid by employee.
Rate I% .
Respectfully submitted,
ALEXANDER L. CROCE
JAMES E. HAMMOND
ROBERT R. YoRK

REPORT OF COMMIT TEE ON RESEARC H
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
At the outset, we wish to express our appreciation to the Grand
M aster for having been accorded the privilege of serving the Grand
Lodge in furtherance of the objectives of Masonic education. While
the committee this year has not established any new records for
achievemen t, we have worked conscientiou sly and diligently and believe
we have laid the foundation for real progress in the very near future.
The committee has worked extremely well together and everything we
undertook as a committee project has been entered into sincerely and
seriously with every member participating . No chairman could ever
ask for better, more loyal support nor more willing workers. The work
of the committee has been completely harmonious and inspirationa l.
It is with deep regret that we report the death o f Bro. Robert
Campbell, of Ventura. a member of this committee until his accidental
pass ing on August 8, last. Bro. Campbell was a fine committee member. H is attitude was most co-operative . He was loyal a nd hard-workin g
and above all, anxious to make his contribution . His enthusiasm. inte rest
and personality is a great loss to this Grand Lodge, from whose hall s
he will be greatly missed.
Since there is no other place among the Reports to this Grancl
Lodge for word of the activities of the Research Lodges. it does not
seem out of place to briefly comment here on this phase of educational
endeavor in California . even though this committee and the Research
Lodges have no official connection whatsoever other than the fact that
both we and the four Lodges are working towards the same objectives.
i.e .. the spread of M asonic knowledge and understandi ng.
All four Research Lodges have performed well in their respective
areas of influence. All have been busy and have made contribution s
toward advancemen t of Masonic knowledge. The work of Southern California Research Lodge, for example, has been most gratifying and outstanding. Since the las t Grand Lodge Communica tion. its members
have conducted three seminars in addition to which they made over
ninety appearances a t Lodges and Masonic groups in Southern C alifornia. The gross audience at these appearances is estimated at just
under 10.000 people. Their members traveled over 20.000 miles to
reach this audience at their own out-of-pock et expense. Out of a membership of approximate ly I 00. 41 members took part in their presentations. The work of all the Research Lodges justifies the confidence
reposed in this type of educational endeavor by this Grand Lodge when
it decided to issue: Charters for educational Lodges. Although this committee feels that there will always be a need for a Grand Lodge Committee on Masonic Education , the work of our Research Lodges demonstrates that such Lodges, geographica lly well placed, can ma ke a

218

PRO C EEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

·
tremendous. dynamic contribution in the field of local Lodge Ma sonic
.
I
·
e d ucat1on. n our c?ns1dered opinion, if there ever was a doubt as to
the value of educational Research Lodges, it should now be dispelled.
One of the outstanding achievements of both Northern California
Research_ L_o~ge and Central California Research Lodge, U . D., has
been their JOmt sponsorship of two lecture appearances of the W
shipful Harry Carr, Prestonian Lecturer. in 1957, of the United Gra~rd
Lodge of England. He was brought to California through the efforts
of ~orthe_rn California Research Lodge. Bro. Carr lectured to large
audiences m San Francisco, Fresno, and North Hollywood. He appeared
at the last named place under the sponsorship of the San Fernando
VaHey Officers Association. His audience in North Hollywood was
estimated at over I 000. It is estimated that over 400 attended in San
Francisco and over 600 in Fresno. Considering that Central California
Research Lodge, at Fresno. had been dispensated but a few months
previous to Bro. Carr's appearance there, the response to their initial
major effort is considered signincant. This committee most whole~
heartedly, endorses the application of Central California Resea rch
~odge, ~or a Charter, which we hope this Grand Lodge will vote to
issue. Time does not permit greater detail of the efforts of the other
Rese~rch Lodg es _as this report could well be devoted entirely to a
description of their total efforts. Finally, we call your attention to the
fact that all four Research Lodges have furnished the faculty members
for t_he Research S~minar. to be held in this Memorial Temple this
evening. Each panel is under the auspices of one of the Research Lodges.

were to be purely voluntary in character, leaving it up to the discretion
of each Lodge as to the extent of its participation in the program . if
any at all. In January. we advised the Lodges that they could look
forward to the publication of the H andbook. However. it was not published due to the fact that we were unable to achieve unanimity among
those responsible for the welfare of the era ft in this Grand Lodge. as
to just what plans should be recommended. It was our conclusion that
more work and more studies needed to be undertaken before that
unanimity we so much desired could be obtained. These latter studies
and the preparation of material could not be finished in time to publis h
the booklet before this communication. Your committee has continued
to apply itself to the project and we now feel that the work can be
submitted for approval. leading to what we hope will be publication
in time for the new year. It is recommended that the incoming committee
submit the revised manuscript for review and approval a nd if approval
is forthcom ing that the Handbook be published and distributed among
the Lodges.
In spite of not being able to accomplish our major objective, the
committee is pleased to report some progress in its other endeavors.
For some time there has been under consideration a revision of the four
booklets which each Lodge presents to the candidates as they progress
through the degrees. These booklets are: "Address to the Candidate;"
"The Book of the Entered Apprentice;" "The Book of the Fellow
Craft;" and, " The Book of the Master Mason." Lodges obtain these
booklets without charge. by requesting them of the Grand Secretary's
office. They were first authorized in 1937, as part of the materials
needed for what was then called " The Lodge Room Plan of Education." and modeled after the New York plan which had then been
in effect since 1929. For some reason. they were not printed until 1948,
in the form we have known them . The first plan we proposed in the
contemplated Handbook, called for the use of these four booklets in
conjunction with candidate education by the local Lodge Research
Chairman and also with the Coaches. Accordingly, the four booklets
were revised during the months immediately following Grand Lodge
last year and we heartily recommend their use by every Lodge in the
jurisdiction.
Nearly every month, we issued "RESEARCH NOTES." which went
out to the Research Chairman of all the Lodges. Several of the issues
received very favorable commendation. In addition, we were happy to
participate with the Research Lodges in promoting Bro. Harry Carr's
appearances. which we feel were valuable in result a nd con stituted a
milestone in the history of California Masonic education. Prestonian
Lecturers are invariably the most outstanding Masonic scholars in
England and we believe a jurisdiction such as ours ought to make
a n attempt each year to bring the Prestonian Lecturer here. Certainly,

~our Research Committee considered <tS its major project this year
the issuance of a H andbook on Masonic Education for the use of the
local Research Chairman. Accordingly. we began at the close of Grand
Lodge. last year. to commence the studies leading to the preparation of
such a Handbook. Several members of the committee undertook to enter
into correspondence with the Education Chairman of a number of
~ister Grand Lodges. leading to a comprehensive understanding of what
is deemed successful educational efforts in other parts of the United
States. A mass of material was accumulated out of which there evolved
one certai~ pattern being followed in several grand jurisdictions-that
of embracing an intensive plan of education for the candidates as they
progres.s through the degrees. We proceeded on the assumption that
much time a~d effort could be saved this Grand Lodge by profiting
by the expenences of our Masonic brethren elsewhere. The result of
these studies were reduced to a manuscript for a Handbook for the
use of local Lodge Research Chairmen. which embodied the best ideas
amo~g the education plans we considered. The plans we proposed were
:ill tu~e-tested. There were no innovations. All four plans were tried.
expenmentally, by a number of Lodges and the reports we received were
glowing and enthusiastic. The four plans described in the Handbook

219

220

PROCEED INGS OF THE

great would be the gains in the storeho use of Masoni c knowled ge
among our member s. In addition , we have encoura ged the formatio
n
of Masoni c study groups in Sacram ento, San Diego, and Honolu lu
with the hope they will eventua lly materia lize into new Researc h Lodges:
The group a t Honolu lu seems to be particul arly a ggressiv e in their
efforts, for which they should be commen ded.
Our Grand Lodge Proceed ings are replete with referenc es to Masonic educati onal endeavo rs. From them, it appears that Grand Lodge
Commit tees on Educati on have been function ing at least since 1918,
if not before. An analysis of the Proceed ings back to 1918 reveals that
altogeth er a sum in excess of $86, 413.56, has been expende d by the
Grand Lodge for Masonic educati on from 1919 up to and includin
g
I 960. The commit tee has been called by various titles: sometim es
"Education," sometim es "Inform ation" or "Resear ch," as we are today.
Certain ly so much money and the time of dedicat ed workers has not
been entirely in vain and perhaps with more unanim ity of opinion regarding directio n of the educatio n program s. more could have been
accomp lished. In reading the Proceed ings for these 42 years, it is easy
to see that the slow progres s of Masoni c educati on in Californ ia
is
directly attribut ive to a deep and serious disagre ement among everyon
e
concern ed with plans, method s and techniq ues.
This commit tee is unanim ously of the opinion that until the Grand
Lodge Commi ttee on Masoni c Educati on is permitt ed greater discretionary powers and la titude in experim enting . purely on a volunta
ry
basis, with various ideas and plans, the progres s of educati on so far as
a Grand Lodge commit tee is concern ed, will make little more progres
s
in the next 42 years than it has in the past. We are also of the opinion
that if the commit tee has to please all of the well-me aning friends
it has in Grand Lodge and receive their prior consent a nd approva
l
to each step in develop ment, that little progres s, if any, is going
to
result. It is ironic that in educatio n general ly, among the free public
schools and here also, there is so little unanim ity of opinion as to plan
and procedu re. When a Grand Master appoint s a commit tee. it is presumed that he selects brethre n to serve who are well qualified in their
respecti ve fields. With all humility and respect , we submit that such
a commit tee should be permitte d to carry on its work with the confide nce
that its member s are well qualifie d by experie nce to dischar ge their
duties without doing violence to our laws or to our traditio ns. If it
is
apparen t that a commit tee cannot do so. then the most expedie
nt
of remedie s is availabl e to the Grand Master : he can dischar ge the
committ ee!
Because we feel that 42 years of effort s hould produce somethi ng
tan\:)ible in the way of marked progres s, we therefo re offer for considerati on and study during the next year the followin g recomm endation:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

221

"That this Grand Lodge shall establis h and maintai n a Standin g
Commit tee of at least nine member~, to be h.cnceforth known as t.he
Grand Lodge Commi ttee on Masoni c E ducatio n, and that the duties
of such commit tee, but not limited thereto, shall be:
t. To publicize the work of the Researc h Lodges to e~ch other and
to the constitu ent Lodges whenev er it is conside red expedie nt to do so.
2. To develop and make availabl e to the Lodges a Masoni c e~u­
cation plan which they may accept or reject as they choose; to publish
and distribu te the same among the Lodges.
3. To encoura ge and promote educati onal meeting s within the
Lodges. the Districts, and at each commun ication of the G~and Lodge.
and to assist the Lodges in the prepara tion and present ation of s uch
meeting s when called upon to do so.
4. To assist the local Lodges with their educati on program in any
way possible to the fullest extent deemed expedie nt under our law
and consiste nt with our policy."
In order to eliminat e confusi on arising out of the title, "Comm ittee
on Researc h ," that this commit tee, if activated by the incomin g Grand
Master, be known as the "Grand Lodge Commi ttee on Masoni c Education."
In order to finance the work during the coming year, this committ ee
respectf ully request s that the sum of $2000 be appropr iated for its use.
Respect fully submitt ed,

0. J. WOHLG EMUTH

c.

LEONEL
PANOSH
EUGEN E S. HOPP
PER CY E. PALMER
FORRES T R. HASSEL L
HARRY G. WILSON
A LVIE 0. HoLTON

Referer d to the Commi ttees on Policy and Genera l Purposes. and
on Finance .
At 5:05 p.m. Gran<l Louge was called off until 10:00 a. m. Wedne sday.

222

223

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAr..'D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

IN GRAND LODGE

We are happy to report that the Grand Lodges in Italy have now
reuni ted a nd have formed a new United National Grand Lodge, Grand
Orient of Italy. This unification has only been recently accomplished,
and w e have not yet received a formal request for recognition of the
new Grand Lodge. Under the circumstances , the Committee suggests
that the Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of California indicate
to the new Grand Lodge that we will be glad to receive an application
from them for recognition .
The situation with regard to the Grand Lodge of France, which we
recognize. has received the attention of the Committee throughout the
year. Officially, at least, the Grand Lodge of F rance has now achieved
regularity by severing relations with the Grant Orient of France, which
is irregular and is not recognized by this Grand Lodge. From information furnished us, it appears that while some of the constituent Lodges
of the Grand Lodge of France may not be entirely regular, the Grand
Lodge itself is making every effort to achieve regularity in all of its
constituent Lodges, and we believe this effort should be encouraged.
At the last Communication this Grand Lodge adopted your Committee's
recommendation that recognition be withdrawn from the Grand Lodge
of France at the close of this Communication . ln the light of the foregoing. however, the Committee believes that a further period of grace
should be granted, and we therefore recommend that recognition of
the Grand Lodge of France be not withdrawn at this time but that it
be w ithdrawn at the close of the next Annual Communication. lt is
your Committee's sincere hope, and indeed belief. that at the next Com~~nication we will be able to inform you that the Grand Lodge of France
is m a ll respects regular and that we can continue fraternal relationship.
The Committee has had before it the request for recognition of the
new United Grand Lodges of Germany- Brotherhood of German Freemason s. This question was held over at the last Communication; however. it would appear now that the new United Grand Lodges of Germany are on a sound foundation and warrant recognition by this
Grand Lodge. Some 15 other American Grand Lodges have now accorded recognition to the United Grand Lodges of Germany. We
therefore recommend that the Grand Lodge of C a lifornia extend fraternal recognition to the United Grand Lodges of Germany-Brother~ood of German Freemasons, which has jurisdiction over all Lod ges
m West Germany.
We therefore move the adoption of this report, suggestions and
·
recommendations contained therein .

MORNING SESSION-WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28,

l 960

At I 0: 00 a.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. The acting Grand Chaplain delivered the invocation. The minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions of Tuesday, September 27th,
were read and approved.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
RECOGNITION OF FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
To the Mo st Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges has had
under consideration several requests for recognition, as well as other
information from foreign Grand Lodges. and submits the following
report and recommendations:
Mention was made in the report of the Committee at the last Communication of the request for recognition by the Grand Lodge of Lebanon. From information which we are able to secure, it appears that the
situation as to Freemasonry in Lebanon is still in some confusion, there
apparently being several Grand Lodges in that country, no one of which
is supreme or exclusive. We therefore recommend that no action be
taken by the Grand Lodge of California at this time, but that the
question be held over for further study.
W e are in receipt of verified information that the two Grand Lodges
in the State of Sao Paulo, Brazil. have now reun ited as the Grand
Lodge of Sao Paulo which we recognize. This is a happy conclusion
and a further step in the unification of Masonry in Brazil. Under these
circumstances, no further action by the Grand Lodge of California is
required in this matter.
In connection with the request of the Grand Lodge of Pernambuco,
Brazil, for recognition. the Committee is still awaiting further informa~
tion from that Grand Jurisdiction, hence recommends that the question
be continued for further study and recommendation.
A new Grand Lodge has recently been formed in Belgium. and
we have before us a request for recognition. We have not heretofore
recognized any Grand Lodge in Belgium. and from advance information it appears that the new Grand Lodge will be entirely regular. We
recommend. however, that the question of recognition be held over until
the . new Grand Lodge ha s had opportunity to fun ction for a longer
period and establish its regularity and permanence.
There has been no significant change in the situation in Guatemala
during the past year, there being a so-called new Grand Lodge as well
as the older Grand Lodge which we recognize (Proceedings 1959. pp.
263-264).

Respectfully submitted,
PHIL N. MYERS

CHESTER H. WARLOW
WILLIAM RH ODES HERVEY. JR.

Adopted.

224

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee has completed the publication of volume 7 of California Freemason and has continued its review of the proceedings of
sister Grand Lodges.
The present format is a 48-page lithographed 6-inch by 9-inch
mngazine with the first eight pages and last eight pages in two colors.
There is a libernl use of pictures.
The California Freemason is an official publication but its articles
do not necessarily present the opinion of Grand Lodge. Only the ritual
and the pronouncements adopted at regulnr Communications are official
and if restricted to these subjects the magazine would have a most
limited reader appeal. It is our endeavor to give our readers Masonic information and inspiration.
Articles which are educational, informative, stimulating and sometimes provocative are presented.
Nearly everyone connected with California Masonry ag rees that
our publication s hould be in the hands of every member in the state.
The only thing which prevents our Grand Lodge joining the company
of New York. Virginia, Oklahoma and other states which have a
"house organ" for their membership is the cost, which would be less
that 50 cents a member.
This is n question for Grand Lodge and not one for your committee.
It will be noted. however, in the fina ncial report which follows that
over one-third of o ur expenses is in securing and renewing subscriptions. The problem is largely one of inertia. The large national magazines
have the same problem as is witnessed by the stacks of direct mail
solicitation we all receive.
If nnd when Grand Lodge decides to grasp the opportunity of reaching all of its members the committee should be given a reasonable time
to make the change-over. For example, if the present session of Grand
Lodge should make such a decision it would be well to start the operation of the plan for volume 9 for the year 1962.
The number of forward looking Lodges which send the magazines
to their entire membership has increased. This arrangement is that if
a Lodge adopts a resolution so to do. each member will be mailed the
quarterly and, in J nnuary of each year, Grand Lodge will bill the Lodge
at the rate of not to exceed 60 cents for the number of members shown
on its last annual return. Changes in membership during the year do
not affect this charge.
The Lodges now opera ting under this group plan are, I 0, 12, 17, 25.
27, 33, 44. 55, 57, 60, 68. 78, 79, 80. 95, 99. 101, 106, 110, 123, 124,
131, 164, 169, 173, 175, 180. 195, 196, 203, 205, 207, 208, 211, 218.
220, 228. 231, 233, 236, 240, 254, 255, 256. 259, 262. 266, 271, 273,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

225

277. 281. 285, 293. 295. 300, 303, 306. 309. 314, 317, 318. 320, 321,
328. 329. 333, 334, 338. 339. 354, 361, 362. 372, 383, 384, 385. 391.
393. 394, 395, 402, 409, 421. 425, 428. 436, 453, 458, 459, 465, 469,
473. 493, 504, 519. 524, 531, 532, 538, 546, 552, 555, 573, 580, 582,
583, 585, 586, 587, 589, 596, 598, 611, 617, 622, 628, 635. 636, 637,
644. 645, 647. 650, 656, 658. 659. 666. 677, 680. 687, 689, 692, 693,
702. 707, 71 o. 714, 717. 719, 720. 722, 731, 732, 735, 739, 742. 746.
750. 751 , 758, 765, 766, 767, 769, 770. 771. 772, 774, 776, 777,
779. 780. 782. 783, 786. 790. 791, 794.
These 168 Lodges have a membership of 44.625.
As of June 30, l 960, there were 34,258 regular s ubscribers at the rate
of $1 .00 per year (reduced 25 cents per year after the first for additional
years paid in advance).
This is our financial report for the year ending June 30. 1960.
EXPENDITURES
CosT OF 0BTMNING SuascRIPTIONS:

~:~~~:; ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::$ 2.222.77
4,754 .44

Clerical ······-···········---···-·····-·············· ·········-·
Address Plates ........................................... .

6.007.07
5.331.08
$18.315.36

C oST OF PRODUCING MAGAZINES:

954.17
Editorial expense ............................ ............
255.69
Pictures and art work ................................
Printing ····································-············-···· 28,953.32
30.163.18
Cos T OF DI STRIBUTION:

Mailing expense ···--·····································
Postage ········-········-··--··-···········-···············-···

2.267.16
1,198.02
3,465.I 8
$51,943.72

SOURCES OF PAYMENT:

Collected from Lodge subscriptions .......... 27.855.96
Collected from individual subscribers ........ 31,586.45
$59.442.41
This leaves an excess of cash received of $7.498.69. We ask that the
Finance Committee follow its practice of placing this plus the $2.000.00
appropriation for the year in the reserve for unexpired subscriptions.
When this $9,498.69 is added to the amount now in said reserve fund

226

PROC:EEOINGS OF THE

GRA N O LODGE OF CALI FO RN IA

of $12.683.97 the total reserve held will be $22 .182.66. The minimum
for a sound reserve is actually $34.789.95 although the accountan ts suggest an even higher figure. It must be remember ed that until t~o years
ago our annual excess was taken directly int~ Gran~ Lodge s ~unds.
Until our reserve is brought up to par there exists a hidden contingen t
liability for the difference .
Again your Committe e thanks the Freemaso ns of California for the
widesprea d praise. commenda tion and appreciati on they have expressed. We are proud to inform you that we have been commende d
and praised from jurisdictio ns throughou t the world.
We reques t the continuati on of the nominal appropriat ion of
$2.000.00 with the understan ding that if it is not used it pass into the
reserve for unexpired subscriptio ns.
Respectfu lly submitted ,

Henry Morse Stephens Lodge, D eM olay. a nd other Masonic affiliated
organizati ons .
Investmen t of reserve funds, which were formerly carried in savings
accounts. is as follows :
Massachu setts Investmen t Trust.. ................. .....$ 5.129.84
Boston Fund . Inc................................................. 3,765.80
U.S. Treasury Note 4Ya % Ser. Cl 963
(Par Value $10,000) ... .............. ................. 10.012.50
Federa l Land Bank 3Y-l % Bonds due 5-22-66
(Par Value .$10.000) ........................ ...... .... 9,762.50

NEWCOMB CoNDEE
GEORGE
BURCH, JR.
Jmrn WuLLSCH LEGER
MAURICE B. Ross
RALPH T. MERRIAM
BURTON MEYER. JR.
WILLIAM R. MACE

w.

Referred to the Committe es on Policy and General Purposes. and on
Finance.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECT ORS
MASON IC CLUB
UNIVER SITY OF CALIFO RNIA, BERKELEY
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
your Board of Directors is pleased to submit its Annual Report
for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1960.
We are continuing our efforts to encourage and promote an increased use of the clubhouse by a greater number of Masonic affiliated
students and faculty on the University ca mpus. A special committee of
the Board continues to work with a committee of active student club
members. A number of improvem ents to the facilities of the clubhouse
has resulted from this close associatio n between the active student group
and the Board. Also. we feel that a better understa nding of the objectives
of Masonry and the potential of the clubhouse is a by-produc t of this
closer association . The progress toward our goa l of greater use of the
clubhouse is slow but we feel our efforts are beginning to show results.
In addition to its use by the students. the clubhouse facilities have
been extended to the East Bay Masters and Wardens Associatio n, the

227

Total investmen ts (not including
savings accounts) .......... .............................. $28,670.64
There were no replaceme nts of property during the year. Painting
and repair costs, amounting to $875.76. were charged to current expense
of operations . In addition. a commitme nt has been made for interior
and exterior painting that will cost $1.574 . and for replacing the
carpet in the office a t a cost of $367. Also, expenditu res will be involved
in repairing and replacing sections of the balustrade . This work is now
in progress .
The Board accepted with regret the resignatio n of Carl B. Munck
( 564) , whose term expired in January. 1960. C arl was very prog ressive
in his ideas and contribute d generousl y to the work of the Boa rd during
the many years he served as a Director. The pressure of business
caused his decision to resig n. We are very fortunate to have O rville
J. Sipe, a member of Sequoia Lodge No. 349, as an addition to the
Board to succeed Brother M unck. Orville is close to the problems of
the clubhouse as a result of his activities with the Berkeley public
school system .
It is the hope of the Boa rd that many Masons attending their G rand
Lodge Communi cation may find time to visit the clubhouse .
The budget for the fi scal year ending July 31 , 196 1, adopted by
the Board and previously submitted to the Finance Committe e, is as
follows:
Executive Director .. ......................... .... ................. $3,600.00
Assistants ......................................... ................... 3.000.00
Accountan t ................................................... .......
480.00
Promotion al Activities ................................. .......
500.00
Ja nitors and Gardener ............................. ........... 1.500.00
Buildin g Maintenan ce & Repair ........................ 1.000.00
Heat, Lig ht. Power, Water ...... ...................... 1.300.00
Annua l Cleaning ..................................................
200.00
Furniture Replacem ent.......... ............ ................ .. l .000.00

228

PROCEED INGS OF THE

GRA ND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

Taxes, Property ................................................. . 4,100.00
200.00
Payroll ···---·······---·················---····--- ---··--·--·-·-·······-·
300.00
Janitoria l Supplies ...................................... ········ ··
100.00
Garden Supplies ....................................................
175.00
Auditing ................................................................
870.00
Ins urance .............. ............... ................. ........... .....
250.00
Telepho ne ............................................................. .
Office supplies, stationer y. printing and
200.00
periodicals ....................................................
75.00
Garbage Disposal ................................................
150.00
Miscella neous .............. ....................................... .
Deprecia tion ......................................... ................ . ........................._
.. 4,010.00
Total Budget
$23 ,010.00

____

your Board of Director s deems it a privilege for the opportun ity
to serve this worthy Masonic activity.
Respectf ully submitte d,
WALLAC E E. YoRK, Presiden t ( 1963}
GORDON F. BLACK, Vice Presiden t ( 1961 )
RU SSELL C. H ORSTMAN N, Treasure r ( 1963 )
CARLISL E D. NIELSEN , Secretar y ( 1961)
GENE C. OTWELL , Assistan t Secretar y ( 1962)
PAULS. BoREN ( 1962)
)aHN L. W1xo N (1961)
CHARLES F. DALZIEL ( 1961 )
ORVILLE

J. SIPE ( 1963)

Referred to the Committ ee on Finance.

REPOR T OF THE BOARD OF DIREC TORS
MASON IC CLUB
UNIVE RSITY OF CALIFO RNIA, LOS ANGEL ES

229

To The Most Worship full Grand Lodge F . & A.M. of California
In our reports since 1956 we have mentione d the producti on of a
motion picture depicting the club activities , for presenta tion to Grand
Lodge and the subordin ate lodges. Althoug h we have been several
years in its presenta tion. the picture is now being edited and it is hoped
that it will be ready for presenta tion in both black and white and in
color around the first of 1961.
Parking has become increasin gly acute around our clubhous e a nd
we finally had the lot, formerly used for the growing of flowers, paved
to accommo date the cars of the people employe d by the club, also the
members of the Standa rd Council.
During the summer vacation we are having the clubhous e complete ly
repainted .
Our 1960 Budget listed below is in excess of last year's due primarily to increased expense fo r building repairs, supplies, replacem ents,
and taxes.
BuoGET 1960-61
Director ............................ ..............$ 3454 .21 $ 4800.00
Associat e D irector .............. ............ 1275.44
1200.00
Bldg. Assistan ts .............................. 1213.52
1440.00
Gardenin g & Garden Supplies ......
699.58
700.00
N ewspape rs & Magazin es ..............
77.37
100.00
Bldg. repairs, supplies .
replacements ............................ 3998.35
3500.00
Heat, Light, Water & Power ......... . 1128.20
1200.00
Telepho ne ···-·······--·····-·····················
424.85
450.00
Office supplies ............................... .
59.68
100.00
Postage ............................ ............... .
148.33
150.00
Taxes:
Property .................................... 3502.44
3700.00
Withold ing ·--·····-···········---·····- 993.32
Payroll .............. ......................
509.34
300.00
Insuranc e ·············· ······---·················-90.00
200.00
Safe Deposit Box Rental ................
5.50
6.00
Auditing ·-·················-··-········-········-- ·· 150.00
150.00
Statione ry & Printing ·-·-··-·---·-·--····-·-· 265.71
150.00
Refuse Service .................................. 144.00
144.00
Retireme nt Fund Payment (Faith
C. Sheldon ) ----- ··-·········-···· .. ···151 .80
Masonic Club Movie ..................
596.86
Deprecia tion ............................ ........
6100.00
Miscella neous .................................... 216.99
200.00

- - - --

$19.075.49 $24.590.00

230

PROCEEDI NGS OF THE
Our depreciation is determined a s follows:
Building and landscaping
(less depreciation) ________________ $48,639.49
Depreciation on basis of seventeen
years ·············-··----····--·-············-···········----···-$ 2860.00
Furniture and equipment (less
depreciation) ······------·---------···· 9 ,719.22
Depreciation on basis of
three years ····-----·-·---···---··--·----···········-··-----· 3240.00
Total Depreciation ····-······-----$ 6100.00
Respectfully submitted.
F RANK H. REI NSCH ( 1963) Chairman
CLYDE C. SHOEMAKER ( 1962) Vice-Chairman
C. EARLE CRANE ( 1963) Secretary-Treasurer
HERBERT H. COOPER ( 1961 )
ELVIN C. DRAKE ( 1961)
M ARIO N A. DUNCAN ( 1961)
GEORGE E. HALL ( 1963)
S. Rov HowELL ( 1963 )
F RANK M. JENKINS ( 1962)
Jo tt N A. KLARQUIST ( 1962 )
GEORGE KUSSMAN ( 1962)
BATES MASON ( 1963)
PAU L R. NICHOLS ( 1961)
A . CURTIS SMITH ( 1962)
EDWIN w. WADE ( 1961)
Referred to the Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. cS A. M. of California:
Your Committee on C redentials submits the following report covering the 111 th Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge.
First. we desire to express our appreciation for the assistance a nd
cooperation given us by the Grand Secretary. the Assistant Grand
Secretary and their staff's. as well a s that of the Building M anager and
the Grand Tiler. Without this cooperation our chore would have been
more difficult.
We respectfully report:
That of the 690 C hartered Lodges 677 are represented . Five o f the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

231

six Lodges under dispensa tion are represented. The total registration is
made up as follows:

~::~~;;~gM~:;::.~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~
Officers and Representatives--········---------------··················-·-··--------·----···1431
Past Masters and Inspectors .......... .. _...... _...... ___ .......... ................ ---···--- 163
Past Masters and Committeemen .... ........ --------------------··---······------------- 122
Past Masters and Secretaries.................·------·---·------··-··-· -------·-·---------· 163

~=~!et~~::~~-- - -:.·:_-_-_-_-_-::::::_·_·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 6~~
Grand Masters of other jurisdictions ...... ... -········--------···--·· .. ······---- ------Grand Secretaries from other jurisdictions__________ ____ ·······-----·--·-------·-·
Grand Officers and Past Masters of other jurisdictions
(Including eight Past Grand Masters)·-······· ---·-·················--------Special Guests ............................. ............... --------------·······--------· -··-----·---

5
1
14
4

TOT AL ..................................................... ...................................2648
In addition there were 248 Master Masons visiting Grand Lodge___ _ 248
GRAND TOT AL ............... ............................................... ____ ______ 2896
Respectfully submitted,
Tttos. F. MASON
DoN E. BERRY
E MIL w . T REFTS
CHARLES E . SONES
MERVIN w. TONKIN
JESSE M. F EW
KENNETH A. BENSON

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PAY OF MEMBERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
Y ?ur Committee on Pay of Members submits th e following report
covenng the l 11th Communication of Grand Lodge.
Those entitled to mileage compensation are the Master, or in his
absence the ranking Warden . or in the absence of the Master and
:Vardens. the duly elected representa ti ve; each Inspector. provided he
is repor ted present on the certificate filed wit h the Committee on Pay of
Members by the Grand Lecturer; Past Grand M asters. Officers of the
Grand Lodge, Chairman of Committees enumerated in Section 192 of
the. C a lifornia M asonic Code; members o f the following Committees :
Jurisprud ence. Policy and General Purposes, Grievances . Finance.
Credentials, Lodge Financing, Pay of Members. Code Commission,
Charters. Correspondence, and By-Laws, who are actually in at~endance at G rand Lodge, and who comply with a ll provisions as noted
m Section 176 of the California Masonic Code.

232

P~O C EEDINGS

OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Compensation of members from the State of California has been
computed on the basis of twice the one-way first class railroad fare plus
Pullman sleeper, when required. Compensation for the representatives
from the State of Hawaii is figured on the basis of the round-trip first
class air rate. No compensation is allowed to members from San Francisco or the immed iate vicinity, or where the prescribed compensation
does not exceed $1.00.
Transportation rates have been computed from all points in California and Hawaii to S :m Francisco. The payroll has been checked with
the registration records as submitted to us by the Committee on Credentials. and the amounts required to meet the transportation costs for the
1960 Communication are as follows:
Grand Lodge Officers .......................................... $ 993.21
372.52
Past Grand Masters........................................... .
Inspectors ........................................................... . 6.421.15
Committees .......................................................... 1,964.12
Representatives of Lodges .................................. 25.527. 56
TOTAL ...................................................... $35,278.56
Checks will be ready for distribution at the ReHistration Desk.
Friday morning. immediately following the election of the Junior Grand
Warden. Brethren. if you are the Master. or Warden , representing your
Lodge. or the elected representative of you r Lodge. the Pay of Members
Committee is insisting that you please pick up your mileage check, thereby saving our Grand Secretary the extra task of mailing it to your Lodge.
The necessary arrangements have been made so that those who desire to cash their checks may do so at the First \.Vestern Bank and Trust
Company, Fairmont Hotel Branch, located on the California Street side
of the Fairmont Hotel. Your Grand Lodge Credentials will serve as
suitable identification.
Respectfully submitted.
KEIT H W. ScHLAEGEL
JottN V . BACIGALUPI
MATTHEW M. CODON
CHARLES R. RATKOVICH
GLEN

c. HOLBERT

MARTIN R . SORENSEN
RU SSELL K. BRAASCH

Referred to Committee on Finance.

233

MEMORIAL SERVICE
In Memoriam .................................................................. .................... Nevin
Harold, Mueller, Organist
Recessional ....................................................................................de Koven
Friend O ' Mine ................................................. ...........................Sanderson
Austin Mosher, Baritone
Taps .............................................................................................. Constance
Austin Mosher. Baritone
Harold Mueller, Organist

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON NECROLOGY

To the Most W orshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The usual reaction to the incidence of death is a feeling of loss and
sadness. Death seems so final . Those with whom we have shared life
have passed on, and we know we shall see them no more here on earth.
The closer we have been to the deceased , the deeper the sense of loss.
The report of the C ommittee on Necrology brings home to us the greatness of our loss.
Most of us come to the Annua l Communication with the knowledge
of perhaps a few of our brethren who have been raised in the Celestial
Lodge above, but here we learn of the magnitude of the loss of Grand
Lodge. As is natural in a growing organization such as ours, the trend
is for the number of our annual losses to increase. This year, again,
there has been an increase. For three hundred and seventy of our
brethren. "the brittle thread which bound them to eMth has been severed
and their liberated spirits have w inged their fl ight to the unknow~
world."
These losses have been distributed among two hundred and sixtyfour of our lodges. One hundred eighty-one lodges lost one Past
Master each; sixty-five lodges lost two; ten lodges lost three; si x
lodges lost four; one lodge, Marin Lodge No. 191 , lost five of its Past
Masters during the past year.
Among those who have gone are some whose names are well known
in this Grand Lodge and throughout the State, and some who have
been particula rly effective in their Masonic labors in those areas of the
State in which they have lived. Among the names of the departed are
Past Grand Master Roll ie Webster Miller. for whom a suitable eulogy
will be presented by Brother R alp h H. Head: Brother Edward Allen
Johnson. Senior Grand Deacon; Brother Tully Cleon Knoles. former

235

PROIEEDINGS OF Tl!F.

GRAND LODGE OF r ,\ 1.JFORNIA

Grand Orator and famed educator; Brother Manley J. Clarke. tormer
Inspector of District No. 367; and Brother Carl C. Mikesell, former
Inspector of District No. 601.

In his life and in his search for freedom . Rollie can well rem ind us
of the words of the poet:

234

ROLLIE WEBSTER MILLER

Few men loved freedom of thought and action more than Rollie
Webster Miller.
Our beloved and illustrious brother passed on to a better land on
July 18. 1960. and was buried with due Masonic honors by Sunset Lodge
on Friday. July 22, at the Los Angeles Scottish Rite Temple. He was
laid to rest in the Masonic Garden at Valhalla Memoria l Park.
Rollie was born in Smithland . Kentucky. on October 17, 1884.
Shortly after coming to Califo rnia in 1907 he became associated with
the Los Angeles College of Osteopathy , becoming its secretary and
general manager. In his later professional life Rollie became a special
agent for the New England Mutual Life Insu rance Company and many
Los Angeles famili es are better protected today beca use of his sales
ability.
His Ma sonic career began in 1911 when he was initiated. passed,
and, with four other close friends, was raised on March 31, 1911. What
happened thereafter is what you might expect of an energetic, capable
ambitious and generous man. He became Master of Sunset in 1918.
inspector of the old ?3rd Dist rict, served on Grand Lodge committees
and then received the highest honor which M asons can confer - election as Grand Master of Masons in California in 1936.
His Masonic activities extended to other affiliated orders in the
Y ork Rite a nd Al Malaikah Temple of the Shrine. In the Los
Angeles Bodies of the Scottish Rite he served as Wise Master and received the 33rd honorary degree.
Rollie is survived by his loving wife, Catherine. who is one of the
most valuable assets the Fraternity has at the Masonic Horne at Decato.
It can certainly be hoped that every member of Sunset Lodge who knew
Rollie w ill eventually write a note of best wishes to Mrs. Miller.
Yes, Rollie loved his freedom. At times. like many of us. he was
dogmatic and enjoyed opinions that allowed for little change, but he
was cheerful. optimistic, friendly, and above all. interested in the
welfare of his brothers and his friends.

If Rollie lived his life the way he wanted to. it can be said that he
did so in such a way that he injured no other man . He was the envy of
men who are so tied down by tradition, stuffy conventions . and obligations that they cannot call themselves free.

"Keep heart. 0 Brother,
God may be delayed by evil,
But He suffers no defeat.
E ven as a chance rock in an upland brook
May change a river's course,
rock, nor the baffling mountains
no
But
of the world.
C a n keep it from its destiny, the sea.
God is not foiled.
The drift of the world is stronger
Than all wrong.
E arth , in her years, down joy's bright road.
Our sorrows long apart,
Is drifting toward the purple in the sky."
EDWARD ALLEN JOHNSON

Sickness and death came early in the ranks of Grand Lodge Officers,
when Senior Grand Deacon Edward A. Johnson of San Diego passed
away on December 30. 1959.
Brother Johnson was sixty four years of age. He was born at
Jerome. Arizona. on May 8, 1895. In 1909 he moved to Phoenix, Arizona, and graduated from Phoenix High School in 1913. He later
completed a course in accounting at Lamson Business College and
ent~red the employ of Swift & Company at Phoenix. Transferred by
Swift & Company to San Diego in 191 3 as Bookkeeper, he became
Manager in January, 1929. In 1933 he became a partner in M arkelJohnson Poultry Company and was actively associated with that Company until his death.
Edward A. Johnson was raised a Master Mason in Sa n Diego
Lodge No. 35 .on July 25 , 1925, and served as M aster of his Lodge in
1930. He contmued an active participant in the Lodge until the end.
In 1940. w hen Claude H. Morrison was elected Junior Grand Warden,
Brother Johnson s ucceeded him as Treasurer o f San Diego Lodge and
served continuousl y in that office until his death. He was a member of
the Board of Control of this Grand Lodge for some years and at the
last Annual Communica tion of Grand Lodge he was appointed Senior
Grand Deacon by Grand Mas ter Joe L. Shell. but was soon overtaken
by sickness and death, and was early prevented from participating in
the duties of that office.
In spite of his many activities in San Diego Lodge No. 35 , and in this
Grand Lodge, Brother Johnson was a member of, and active in, other

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CA LIFO RN IA

Masonic bodies. He was a member of the three San Diego York Rite
Bodies and was Past Soverign of San Diego Conclave 62 of the Red
Cross of Constantine. An active member of San Diego Scottis h Rite. he
was coroneted 33rd Degree Honorary on January 7, 1956. He was a Past
Worthy Patron of San Diego Chapter No. 264 of the Order of Eastern
Star a nd was a member o f Al Bahr Shrine.
Edward Johnson believed in Masonry a nd gave of himself unstintingly in its service. He was beloved and greatly honored by his Brother
Masons. We are saddened that he was not spared to complete the
service in the office to which he was appointed last September but God
decreed it otherwise and "He can do no wrong." We reverently bow
before His will and are deeply thankful for fellowship with, and the
abundant Masonic services of our departed Brother.
Masonic Funeral Services for Brother Johnson were conducted by
San Diego Lodge No. 35 on January 2, 1960. The Chapel was filled to
overflowing with those who wished to honor a beloved Brother and
friend.
He is survived by his wife, Helen, to w hom he was married on
June I 5, I 918, a brother in San Diego, and two sisters, to whom we
extend our sincerest sympathy.

restored, he returned to the H istory Department of U .S.C. In 1919
he was elected President of the College of the Pacific, then located in
San Jose. He was instrumental in moving that School to Stockton, where
it opened in 1924. He remained as its President until 1946. when he
retired and was appointed Chancellor. This to him was not just an
honora ry role but he continued as Councellor and guide in the work of
the College. To many he was known as "Mr. Pacifi c" and even after
retiring as Chancellor two years ago. he continued his deep interest
in all the affairs of the College. In C.O.P.'s two- thirds of a century
before 19 19. it conferred 899 degrees. In Dr. Knole's 27 years as President, it gran ted 2.679 degrees.
Tully Knoles was a most versatile man. As a scholar he was a
highly respected historian and philosopher. In his honor C.O.P. established a Knoles Foundation in Philosophy. As an administrator the College of the Pacific stands as a monument to his foresight and leadership.
Under the guidance of one of his former pupils, Dr. Robert E . Burns.
a former Grand Chaplain of this Grand Lodge, that school is even now
going forwa rd in a most unique and dynamic way. A s a lecturer Tully
Knoles w<is in great dema nd throughout the State and had become an
institution as the New Year's "Crystal Ball" speaker for the San Francisco Commonwealth Club, speaking in that Club for the last thirteen
years. He never used transcripts or notes.
A~ a minister he was much sought after as a preacher for special
occasions. He was respected and beloved by his fellow ministers and
was elected a representative to fi ve Quadrennial General Conferences
of the M ethodist Church.
He was a member of numerous educational societies and the recipient of many honors.
~~ was ~aised <i Master M aso n in University Lodge No. 394, later
affiha tm~ with Friendship .Lodge No. 210. and then with San Joaquin
No. 19 m S tockton, of w hich he remained a member till his death. H e
was the distinguished Grand Orator of this Gra nd Lodge in 1929. A
member of San Jose Scottish Rite Bodies. he received the 33rd Degree
on Saturday, November 28th. the night before his dea th .
He is survived by his wife. Emily, with whom he celebrated their
s ixtieth Wedding Anniversary last August. and eight children. s ix of
whom are active in the educationa l field in California.
Th_e goateed horseman, so familiar a figure on the campus at Stockton, will not be seen again; the voice we loved to hear is stilled forever,
but the spirit of Tully Knoles lives on. It is alive in the Institution he
served so ably and faithfully. It is enshrined in the hearts of hundreds
of students who s tudied at his feet. It will rem ain a n inspiration to
thousands who hea rd him speak on many occasions. It shines in the
~.ervice of the sons and daughters he left behind. We can truly say,
Servant of God, well done."

236

TULLY CLEON KNOLES

California lost one of its most widely known Citizens when Dr.
Tully C. Knoles passed away at his home in Stockton on Sunda y morning, November 29, 1959. Dr. Knoles, who was 83 years of age , had
appeared to be .in his usual good health. The previous evening he had
attended a Scottish Rite meeting in Oakland, at which he had been
coroneted a 33rd degree Mason. A few minutes before his death he
had been chatting cheerily w ith his wife and daughter and had
listened to a Church radio broadcast in which he had often participated.
D eath came without warning from a corona ry seizure.
Tully Knoles, w ho was a truly remarkable man. had a rea lly distinguished career. Born in Illinois on January 6, 1876, he came to
California while quite young. He became a student at University of
Southern Ca lifornia and graduated in 1903. During his student days
he was received into the M ethodist M inistry and served as a student
pastor. He also was deeply interested in sports and was quarterback
on the football squad. Later in life, while President of the College of
the Pacific, he brought the 71 year old Amos Alonzo Stagg to be coach
at tha t school. After graduation in 1903 Tully Knoles remained at
U.S.C. as instructor. In 1906 he was made full professor in the Chair
of History, where he remained until 1913 w hen his health broke and
doctors gave him only a few months to live. He moved to a ranch in
Owen's Valley and turned to breaking horses. He remained an enthusiastic horseman for the rest of his life. Two years later, with health

237

238

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE
MAN LEY JAMES CLARKE

This Grand Lodge lost a valuable member when M an ley J. Clarke
of Livermore passed away on January 11, 1960. This loss will be most
keenly felt by Mosaic Lodge No. 218. of which he ·was a Past Master
and in whose affairs he has been so keenly active.
Manley J. Clarke was almost 78 years of age at the time of his death,
having been born in Newark, New York. on February 7, 1882. His
early life was spent in Buffalo, New York. He received his law degree
from Georgetow n University in W ashington , D . C. in 1908. Living
in Livermore for many years. he was raised in M osaic Lodge on April
4, 1922 and served as Master of that Lodge in 1925. He was appointed
Inspector for that Dis trict in 1928 and continued to serve as such until
1943. Until his death. he continued active in the affairs of Mosaic Lodge,
guiding it in all legal matters and often acting as Installing Officer at
its Annual Installa tions.
Manley J. Clarke served as Judge of the Livermore Court from 1930
until 1953 and was a ctive in many communit y affairs. H e will be greatly
missed. not only by his Lodge, but by the communit y he served so
faithfully.
He is survived by his wife in Livermore , to whom our sympathy goes
out, and by a brother livi ng in Oakland.
CARL CURTIS MIKESELL

A Mason beloved by his brethren passed away when the messen ger
of death summoned C arl Curtis M ikesell of Needles on June 20. I 960.
Brother Mike. as he was affectiona tely known to his brethren , was 81
yea rs of age . C arl Mikesell was a long time resident of Needles, having
lived in that City since 1917. U ntil his retirement in 1949 he was in the
employ o f the Santa Fe Railway and a member of the Brotherhood of
Locomotiv e Firemen and Engineme n. A s a Mason he was in labors
most abundant. He was raised in Needles Lodge No. 326 on January 26.
I 920 and served as M aster of that Lodge in 1924. 1925. and 1927. H e
was elected Secretary of the Lodge in I 927 <1nd for the past thirty-thre e
years has continued to serve in that office. H e was appointed Inspector
of District No. 601 in 1935 and held that pos ition till 1957 - for twentytwo years. H e was a member of York R ite Masonry, being the first
High Priest of Havasu Chapter No. 148 R.A.M. and a member of S t.
Bernard Command ery No. 23. H e was also a member of Al M alaikah
Shrine and of Needles Chapter of the Eastern Star. For twen ty-five
years he was Associate Guardian of Bethel N o. I 05 Order of Job's
Daughters . He was also a n active member of the M ethodist Church of
N eedles and of the Senior C itizens' Club of that City.
With a record of service such as that compiled by Mike Mikesell.
we can appreciate the words of Officers of his Lodge who w rote. " This

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

239

was a great loss to us , for he was not only our Secretary, but a personal
friend to every Mason in th is District," and " We will miss Mike more
than words can express."
He is s urvived by his wife , Myrtle, th ree sons, two daugh ters, three
gra ndchildren and two great grandchild ren.
Mi ke Mikesell helped to make Masonry loved in Needles and
honored in the lan d. W e are proud to ha ve known him as our brother
and are assured that he now inherits "the Kingdom prepared for him
from the foundation of the world."
Time will fail us to mention others of th e three hun dred and seventy,
or even to read their names in this Grand Lodge. A complete list is
attached to a nd made a part of this report . On the list we shall all find
names of men whose fellowship we have ri chly enj oyed and whom we
loved. There are names of men of many talents. who have served out
in front of their fellowmen. and men of few talents. whose fie lds of
activity have been mo re limited. But whether of many or few tale nts,
each has been faithful and according to the measure of his ability has
served his God, his Country, his Lodg e. and his fe llows, and for his
faithfulne ss has merited his Maker's "Well done, good and faithful
servant. Enter into the joy o f thy Lord."
We who are left behind feel the loss keenly. but find comfort in the
realization that the spirits of our brothe rs are happy in their Father's
House, where "God shall w ipe all tea rs from their eyes, and where
there s hall be no mo re death . neither sorrow nor crying, neither sha ll
there be anymore pain. for the former things are passed away." In
memory of their fai thfulness . we consecrate ourselves anew to the
great tenets of Brotherly Love, Relief. and Truth.
ADAM B. M O RTEN

Ross K. ROP ER
LEONARD D. BABCOCK
R OBERT F. BERGMAN N

Rov S cH NAU ER

240

PROCEED INGS OF THE

PAST MASTER S OF CONSTIT UENT LODGES
Western Star Lodge No. 2
John Warren Strode, died October 23, 1959
Tehema Lodge No. 3
Frank Enos, died July 25, 1959
Carl Eugene Miller, died J anuary 5, 1960
Louis Reignhar dt Plate, died January 30, 1960
San Jose Lodge No. 10
Fred Doerr, died June 29, 1960
Yount Lodge No. 12
Edw in Ellsworth Douglass, died August 18, 1959
Alvin Nelson Munk, died Septembe r 12, 1959
Nevada Lodge No. 13
J oseph Floyd Stenger, died July 6, 1959
Eureka Lodge No. 16
Guy Woodham s Brundage , died October 24, 1959
Denton Orr RandaJI, died June 2, 1960
Madison Lodge No. 23
William James Merrifield, died March 28, 1960
Henry Dreith. died June 19, 1960
El Dorado Lodge No. 26
Arthur J ames Koletzke, died J uly 13, 1959
David Ernest Fickel, died July 30, 1959
Golden Gate Lodge No. 30
Fred J ohn Schultz, died J uly 4, 1959
Gold Hill Lodge No. 32
Barney G. Barry, died April 22, 1960
Ophir Lodge No. 33
John A. Manuel, Sr., died April 10, 1960
San Diego Lodge No. 3S
Edward Allen J ohnson, died December 30, 1959
DeRoy Saum, died J anuary 8, 1960
John Burchard Osborn, died March 18, 1960
David Albert Loebenst cin, died J une 26, 1960
Howard Lodge No. 37
Charles J ames Luttrell, d ied January 20, 1960
Robert Milton Martin, died January 23, 1960
Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38
Hugh Samuel Youngma n, died October 7, 1959
Sacramen to Lodge No. 40
William Edward Kl einsorge, died April 7, 1960
Los Angeles Lodge No. 42
Winfred Luke Brown, died July 2, 1959
Harry L. Ke1-r, died October 14, 1959
Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44
Roy Allen Pratt, died Septemb er 30, 1959
Forbesto wn Lodge No. 50
Arthur Truman Gould, died January 6, 1960
Suisun Lodge No. SS
William Boyd Sheldon, died January 18, 1960
Santa Rosa Lodge No. S7
William Bertram Corrick, died Novembe r 9, 1950
Union Lodge No. SB
J ohn Walter Tyer, died March 14, 1960
Gravel Range Lodge No. 59
Martin Elmo Trewhell a, died January 15, 1960
Plumas Lodge No. 60
Gu y Carroll Coykend all, died July 5, 1959
J ohn Henry Knight, died February 20, 1960

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

.Natoma Lodge No. 64
Alexande r Dickson, died August 1, 1959
Edmond E. Payen, died August 15, 1959
Marshall Brown Surbaugh , died Novembe r 26, 1959
Wendell J ackson Van Winkle, died January 14, 1960
Morning Star Lodge No. 68
Edward Clement S tewar t, died January 24, 1960
Enterpris e Lodge No. 70
Hugh Dixon Moncur, died July 10, 1959
Humbold t Lodge No. 79
Herbert Rowland Inskip, died April 2, 1960
H arold Peter Johnson, died June 13, 1960
Vesper Lodge No. 84
Arthur H . Fickert, died Oct ober 31, 1959
North Star Lodge No. 91
Carl Nesbitt Crawford , died March 13, 1960
Clay Lodge No. 101
George Walter Hager, died August 2 1959
Hubert B ond, died J anuary 14, 1960'
Oroville Lodge No. 103
. J ames Wilmer Grace, died April 27, 1960
Chico Lodge No. 111
Fred Hunt Groat, died February 14, 1960
Eden Lodge No. 113
L ewellyn Griffith Morgan, died July 5 1959
H arold L eaman Evans, died Decembe ~ 3, 1959
Nicolaus Lodge No. 129
Linden Stanley Pritchard , died August 17 1959
'
Pacific Lodge No. 136
Norman Barnett, died June 4, 1960
Harry K. Wo11:I, Sr., died October 28, 1959
Ernest Walter L iebert, died J une 13, 1960
Lassen Lodge No. 149
Nelson G. Mathews , died Septemb er 10, 1959
Harmony Lodge No. 164
Richard J. Thomas, died May 8, 1959
Excelsior Lodge No. 166
Edmond Charles McMillan , died Septembe r 8, 1959
Mission Lodge No. 169
Frederick Waldema r Appelgre n, died January 24 1960
'
Antioch Lodge No. 17S
Lewis Blucher Weatherb ee, died February 4, 1960
Petaluma Lodge No. 180
Arthur Livingsto ne T ibbitts, died Decembe r 14, 1959
Russian River Lodge No. 181
Herbert Augustus A nderson, died August 1 1959
Lawrenc e Henderso n Wilso n, died April 13; 1960
Clear Lake Lodge No. I 83
Clarence Edwin Coru m, died March 19 1960
'
Sierra Valley Lodge No. 184
H~rl.ey J . Richards on, d ied August 9, 1959
Wllham J. Copren, di ed October 16, 1959
Keith Lodge No. 187
Paul Robert Colson, died September 11, 1959
Oakland Lodge No. 188
Harry Victor Davi dson, died J une 26, 1960
Northern Light Lodge No. 190
Th~mas Brantley Copeland , d ied August 15, 1960
Juhus Motoska, died Septemb er 9, 1959

24 1

242

PRO C EEDINGS OF TH E

Marin Lodge No. 191
Carson C. Hansen, d ied Augus t 26, 1959
Truel Francis Tourtellottt?, died October 11, 1959
R aymond Isaac S haver, d ied J anuary 12, 1960
Charles Thom as Smith , d ied January 16, 1960
Wa lter Michael Young, died March 9, 1960
Mountain View Lodge No. 194
J ames Bennett Bartle. died A pril 9. 1960
Sam J ohn Poncini, d ied Ap ril 14, 1960
San Simeon Lodge No. 196
Edward J . R ighetti, died March 2, 1960
J ohn Maggetti, died April 3, 1960
Wilmington Lodge No. 198
Clar en ce Arthur S tark, died Nov ember 28, 1959
Truckee Lodge No. 200
Ha lford Lemoin Hack ley, died August 22, 1959
Pentalpha Lodge No. 202
Joh n P ark Douga ll, died March 31 , 1960
Alfred Martin McLa re n, died December 5, 1959
Mord eca i Bruce McKinscy, died March 13, 1960
Constantin e Nicholas P erkins, died Janu ary 12. 1960
Confidence Lodge No. 203
Paul Charles K ondla, died December 14, 1959
Olivet Lodge No. 20S
Joseph E. Hill, died F ebruary 27, 1960
Stanislaus Lodge No. 206
A xe l Edwin G ust afson. died J une 2, 1960
Anaheim Lodge No. 207
John Melvin Casey, died February 22, 1960
San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214
Theodore Christian Tychsen, died July 21. 1959
G len n Dcloy d Corey, died S ep tember 3, 1959
Thomas Clarence Wallace, d ied S ept ember 30 1959
Hugh MacMillan Wood, d ied J a nuary 11, 1960'
Oak Grove Lodge No. 215
F rank George Teak lc, died December 28, 1959
Wa lter Henry Oehlma nn, died February 7, 1960
Doric Lodge No. 216
Ralph J . L ach m und, died November 8, 1959
Clarence L. Badt, died December 7, 1959
Mosaic Lodge No. 218
Ma nley J ames Clark, died January 2, 1960
Downey Lodge No. 220
Virgil Marvin McCown. d ied December 12, 1959
Inyo Lodge No. 221
Benjamin Harrison Lawrence , d ie d July 10, 1959
Brooklyn Lodge No. 225
T yler Cly de Drennan. d ie d April 30, 1960
C h arles Edward Stowe, d ied January 4, 1960
Solano Lodge No. 229
R olla Rensal McMillin, died March 8, 1960
Surprise Valley Lodge No. 235
Harr y Lyle Cook. d ied January 9, 1960
Guadalupe Lodge No. 237
Thurston McFarland, d ied March 9, 1960
Santa Ana Lodge No. 241
Fred eric Clayton R owland. died Septembe r 5, 1959
Alcatraz Lodge No. 244
Vernon J . Coley, Sr., died January 18, 1960

GRAND LODGE OF CA LIFORN IA

Fresno Lodge No. 247
W illiam Ch arles Sheppard, died May 4, 1960
Alturas Lodge No. 248
Dalph E lm er Van Loa n, died May 2, 1960
Lodi Lodge No. 256
R ichard Del McClu r e, died Februar y 5, 1960
Penrhyn Lodge No. 258
Arthur E ugene F lin t, d ied Sep tember 18, 1959
Herbert Nelson Leak, ctied December 18, 1959
King Solomon's Lodge No. 260
David Kerr, died December 6, 1959
Hesperian Lodge No. 264
Paul Harry Bailey, d ied March 8, 1960
Durant Lodge No. 268
Alexander Gillion McCloskey, died August 11, 1959
Doz ier Finley, died May 25, 1960
Pasadena Lodge No. 272
Dona ld L eRoy Butterfield, di ed J uly 17, 1959
Hanford Lodge No. 279
Almu n Burton Wash burn, died August 27, 1959
Mount Shasta Lodge No. 281
J ames Martin, died J une 21 , 1960
South West Lodge No. 283
Charles Raymond Costello, J r., died August 2, 1959
East Gate Lodge No. 290
Clarence Ke nneth Brodie, died August 11, 1959
Catesby Charles Thorn, d ied Feb ruary 21, 1960
Traver Lodge No. 294
Vance Clare Raoul Nelson, Sr., d ied J anuary 26, 1960
L orenz Walter Christian sen, d ied June 25, 1960
Silver Gate Lodge No. 296
B. E wing Crain, died J anuary 7, 1960
Hans P eter L arson Beck , died J a nu ary 14, 1960
Liberty Lodge No. 299
R alp h Waldo Joh nson, died J uly 3. 1959
Edgar L evi Wi lson, died December 24. 1959
Robert Marion Moore, died February 16, 1960
Ontario Lodge No. 301
K enn eth Dunbar Blaik ie, died November 6, 1959
F rank Hunt, died April 10, 1960
Monrovia Lodge No. 308
Walter Edw ard Irw in, d ied Februa ry 2, 1960
Delano Lodge No. 309
C la ude Thatche r Ham lin, d ied Ju ly 16, 1959
Los Banos Lodge No. 312
E dward Thompson Stewart, died October 29, 1959
Temescal Lodge No. 314
E mmett Alfred Boylan, d ied March 9, 1960
Norwalk Lodge No. 315
Arthur Mau rice O kell, d ied October 28, 1959
Albert Alonzo K en nedy, d ied J anuary 20, 1960
Albert 0. S iverson, died Apr il 22, 1960
J ohn B. Maier, died J u ne 25, 1960
Sanger Lodge No. 316
Albert H. Gammons, died April 19, 1960
Emmanuel Lodge No. 318
Natt hias Osse nbrigen, d ied July 20, 1959
F rank H. Watson, J r., d ied July 4, 1959
Leon Brink , died J anuary 14, 1960
Whittier Lodge No. 323
Herbert Leslie Plannette, died Ja nuary 12, 1960

7. 43

244

PROCEED INGS OP THE

Corona Lodge No. 324
Ralph Harris, died June 25, 1960
Needles Lodge No. 326
Guy Wentwor th Austin, died January 29, 1960
Carl Curtis Mikesell, died June 20, 1960
Long Beach Lodge No. 327
Max Emil Schumac her, died April 5, 1960
Kilauea Lodge No. 330
Samuel Mahuka Spencer, died February 28, 1960
Charles Alfred Shepherd , died April 27, 1960
Pacific Grove Lodge No. 331
Thomas Hende rson, died July 29, 1959
San Pedro Lodge No. 332
John Courney Swinford , died June 7, 1960
Covina Lodge No. 334
William Joshu a Evans, died January 4, 1960
Andrew Reich. died June 27, 1960
West Gate Lodge No. 335
Bela Petyan, died October 18, 1959
Clyde Harrison K ettering, died Novembe r 23, 1959
Marco Ross Newmark , died Novembe r 3, 1959
Milton Lewis Lappin, died April 23, 1960
Fruitvale Lodge No. 336
Walter Michael Young, died March 9, 1960
Carquine z Lodge No. 337
Richard Parry Jones, died June 3, 1960
Thomas Hopwood Cotton, died May 3, 1960
Harry Dinsmore , die d August 26, 1959
Oxnard Lodge No. 341
Richard Barrett Haydock , died January 3, 1960
Starr King Lodge No. 344
Rudolph Rosenber g, died August 30, 1959
Harry L ewis Simon, d ied Novembe r 11, 1959
Palo Alto Lodge No. 346
George Washingt on Harms, died July 17, 1959
San Bernardi no Lodge No. 348
Adam Ora Miller, died April 2, 1960
William W. Brison, died June 1, 1960
Palestine Lodge No. 351
Virginius Walke Croxton, died June 29, 1960
Sunset Lodge No. 352
Ronald Herman Loenholm , died March 10, 1960
Pinole Lodge No. 353
Robert Annand, died Septem ber 23, 1959
Presidio Lodge No. 354
Frank Hugh McKevit t, died Novembe r 22, 1959
Hollywoo d Lodge No. 355
Oskar Eugene Kopperu d, died J une 17, 1960
Herbert Leander Lyons, died April 25, 1960
Mill Valley Lodge No. 356
Preston Ray Burris, died J anuary 7, 1960
George Hillary Harlan, died May 7, 1960
Golden State Lodge No. 358
Carl Bergenha gen Ehlert, died April 29, 1960
Berkeley Lodge No. 363
C harles Victor Leide n, died F ebruary 27, 1960
Frank Cornelius Bishop, die d May 24, 1960
Willits Lodge No. 365
Hugo Fred N elson, died August 9, 1959
George Mitchell Jamieson , died June 12, 1960

GRAND LODGE OP CA LIFORNIA

Las Palmas Lodge No. 366
Arthur Lee Hilderbra nd, died January 22, 1960
South Pasadena Lodge No. 367
John Wesley Shenk, di ed August 1, 1959
Frank Holbrook Bus h, died F ebruary 8, 1960
Unity Lodge No. 368
Norman Gladston e Davidson , died May 5, 1960
Ralph Loyal Webster , died July 5, 1959
Ocean Park Lodge No. 369
Robert J. Haney, died Novembe r 25, 1959
Le Progress De L'Oceani e Lodge No. 371
Harold Schjoth Palmer, died October 24, 1959
Gardena Lodge No. 372
James K. Lawler , died Novembe r 8, 1959
Richmon d Lodge No. 375
William Adam Smith, Jr., died May 9, 1960
Francis Drake Lodge No. 376
Joel Henry Holbrook , died October 12, 1959
Paul C. Kondla, died Decembe r 14, 1959
E verett Wayne Fortine, died March 24, 1960
Artesia Lodge No. 377
Clarence Elmer Stormes, died April 5, 1960
Mizpah Lodge No. 378
Michael Roy Raftery, died July 21, 1959
Huntingt on Beach Lodge No. 380
Vernon Emphrey L angenbeck , d ied June 15, 1960
Orosi Lodge No. 383
William M. Beinhorn, died April 20, 1960
El Centro Lodge No. 384
John Ward Tyler, died February 5, 1960
Coalinga Lodge No. 387
William Clarence Wallace, died July 24, 1959
Robert Lee Abell, died Novembe r 28, 1959
William S. J ohnson, died Novembe r 17, 1959
Parnassu s Lodge No. 388
Frank Edward Meadowc roft, d.ied June 22, 1960
Imperial Lodge No. 390
George Ernest Heber, died May 11, 1960
East Belt Lodge No. 391
Clarence Arthur Smith, died May 8, 1960
West Lake Lodge No. 392
Allan Herman Osterholt, died Au gust 13, 1959
Robert Churchill Allison, died Septembe r 15, 1959
Universit y Lodge No. 394
Howard Wesley Greene, Jr., died May 27, 1960
Burlingam e Lodge No. 400
Luther Eli Pennima n, died July 24, 1959
Bay View Lodge No. 401
Joseph Dempsey Moore, died August 21, 1959
Brawley Lodge No, 402
Clark Ple mons, died Novembe r 26, 1959
Yerba Buena Lodge No. 403
George "T" Walker, died June 25, 1960
Moneta Lodge No. 405
Arthur Lawrence Bell, d.ied April 28, 1960
Frank Charles Schytf, died May 7, 1960
Sierra Madre Lodge No. 408
Joh n Charles Mead, died Novembe r 14, 1959
Honolulu Lodge No. 409
Ferdi nand John Henry Schnack, died April 24, 1960

245

246

PROf:EEDINGS OF TTTE

Calexico Lodge No. 412
Orlo A. Pratt, died October 26, 1959
Andrew Knaftitch, died February 4, 1960
Elysian Lodge No. 418
Henry Daggett Coley, died May 31, 1960
William Thayer McNeely, died June 22, 1960
Upland Lodge No. 419
Roy Creighton, d ied November 2, 1959
William Roy Farm er, died August 14, 1959
Inglewood Lodge No. 421
Matthew Warren Hall, died April 29, 1960
Edward Sumner Lawrence, died August 15, 1959
Eagle Rock Lodge No. 422
J ames Henry Moshier, died September 12, 1959
York Lodge No. 423
James White Lanyon, died September 19, 1959
Exeter Lodge No. 424
L ouis Ralph Coale, died August 9, 1959
Harold Hart Anderson, died September 2, 1959
P ittsburg Lodge No. 429
Sidney Francis Spurgeon, died August 27, 1959
Alpha Lodge No. 431
J ohn MacGrath, died January 25, 1960
Henry Johns Hill, died March 16, 1960
Hammonton Lodge No. 433
Leslie Davis Gassaway, died January 30. 1960
Tyrian Lodge No. 439
Edw. Carl Dav is, died April 22, 1960
Standard Lodge No. 440
Edward Morgan J ones, died May 19, 1960
Coronado Lodge No. 441
Arthur Adelbert Mathewson, died January 14, 1960
Carpinteria Lodge No. 444
Henry Milne, died February 20, 1960
Wilshire Lodge No. 445
Lloyd Durlin Reeks, died April 8, 1960
Mount Diablo Lodge No. 448
John Abner Kasch, died July 21, 1959
William Bradbury Thrasher, died December 21, 1959
Van Nuys L odge No. 450
Fred C. Morgan, died January 17, 1960
Victor Maurice Kimble, died May 2, 1960
Montebello Lodge No. 451
Herbert C. Boultinghouse, died September 25, 1959
Crocker Lodge No. 454
James Syme, died February 4, 1960
Ramona Lodge No. 457
Frederick Harvey Vercoe, died April 19, 1960
Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458
Merwyn Newton Hollister, died August 28. 1959
Harold Whittier Bailey, died March 23, 1960
Paul Revere Lodge No. 462
Robert Lee Duncan, died February 25, 1960
Alta Vista Lodge No. 464
Harold Yeager Heckman, died January 19, 1960
Center Lodge No. 465
George Edward Cartwright, died April 14, 1960
Rockridge Lodge No. 468
Edward Ernest Sparhawk, died November 7, 1959
Yorba Linda Lodge No. 469
Walter Braxton Summers, died May 13, 1960

GRAND LODGE OF C:Al.IFORNIA

Delta Lodge No. 471
Philip Charles Kramm, died November 2, 1959
F rederick Cur tyn Broderick, died April 19, 1960
Maui Lodge No. 472
Apau Pa ul Low, died June 4, 1960
America Lodge No. 475
Francis C. Fuhrmann, died May 19, 1960
Temblor Lodge No. 477
Howard J. McKibben, died June 20, 1960
S tanley Frank Shane, died April 12, 1960
Mount Davidson Lodge No. 481
Marcel Ronald Hochede, died February 15, 1960
Bell Lodge No. 483
Donald Grover J ohnson, died July 17, 1959
Albert Pike Lodge No. 484
Harmon McCoy Aytes. died J uly 8, 1960
Chowchilla Lodge No. 485 ·
Henry Wallis Hampton, died April 21, 1960
Caledonia Lodge No. 486
Russell Vane Ash. died February 8, 1960
East Bay Lodge No. 489
William James Merri.field, died March 28, 1960
Acorn Lodge No. 494
John Clifford Wickland, died October 8, 1959
Samuel Friend Worswick, died S eptember 10, 1959
Stockton Lodge No. 498
Lester Orville Wisler, died January 4, 1960
Westwood Lodge No. 501
Raymond E van s Crawford, died May 8, 1960
Silver Cord Lodge No. 505
Ralph Elmor Graves, died March 1, 1960
Mount Olive Lodge No. 506
Harry Fred Mancke, died May 23. 1960
William He nry Whis ler, died June 25, 1960
Palms Lodge No. 512
Everett G rier Marks, died December 21, 1959
Taft Lodge No. 516
Charles Ernest Allen, died February 28, 1960
Simon J ames McKinnon, died March 27, 1960
Piedmont Lodge No. 521
George Henry Bragg, died December 21, 1959
Harold Edwin Hacker, died January 3, 1960
Sunrise Lodge No. 522
H ubert Leonard Hall, died March 15, 1960
Catalina Island Lodge No. 524
J ames Carl Davis, died August l, 1959
George Washington Lodge No. 525
Fabian Henry S turken, died September 23, 1959
Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528
James Franklin, died April 11, 1960
Smyrna Lodge No. 532
Leonard John Foit, died October 2, 1959
Utopia Lodge No. 537
Oscar Leymour Larabee, died September 13, 1959
Belvedere Lodge No. 539
L ela nd E . Batcheller, died February 10, 1960
Oueen Beach Lodge No. 540
Cecil Orbin Northrop, died November 8, 1959
North Hollywood L odge No. 542
W illiam Alexander Fullerton, d ied J anu ary 6, 1960
Roy Elvin Tarr, died January 7, 1960

247

248

PROCEEDINGS OF THE.

Signal Lodge No. 543
R obert Alfred Long, died November 29, 1959
Glendale Lodge No. 544
George Evans Harker, died S eptember 11, 1959
Edw. S. Miller, d ied March 28, 1960
Azcadia Lodge No. 547
J ames M. Nellis, died June 2, 1960
Fred Curtis Post, died October 27, 1959
Hermosa Lodge No. 557
L awrence L ease! Lindsey, died May 25, 1960
Craftsmen Lodge No. 559
Bruce Frederick Berkshire, died February 20, 1960
George Edgecombe, died February 24, 1960
Albert T ansley Luck, died December 27, 1959
East San Diego Lodge No. 561
J ohn Paul F addis, died June 18, 1960
Pyramid Lodge No. 562
Clifford Ruffner Ward, died December 29, 1959
James A. Garfield Lodge No. 566
L eonard Ewing Thomas, died J uly 24, 1959
Military S ervice Lodge No. 570
J am es Bruce Millik in, died J anuary 3, 1960
Francis K. Shattuck Lodge No. 571
Bruce Bartholomew, died November 9, 1959
James Madison Lodge No. 572
John Oliver J ohnson, died July 31, 1959
Sunnyside Lodge No. 577
Percy Lynwood Bruner, Sr., died April 16, 1960
Progressive Lodge No. 578
Orval Abrams Richmond, died August 3, 1959
Warren G. Harding Lodge No. 579
George W . Neeley, died July 23, 1959
Security Lodge No. 581
Willis Elmer Cornis h, died June 21, 1960
Rialto Lodge No. 582
J erom e Alle n, died September 13, 1959
Theodore Roos evelt Benjamin, died October 5, 1959
Garden Grove Lodge No. 586
Lawrence Leslie Trickey, died J anuary 28, 1960
El Sereno Lodge No. 588
J ames Elijah Cohee, died January 31, 1960
J . Paul Swickard, died March 18, 1960
Kauai Lodge No. 589
John Alfred Marks Eldon, died January 12, 1960
Compass Lodge No. 590
Samuel Mars hall Fields, died July 27, 1959
Arthur Harold Lawrence, died March 14, 1960
Service Lodge No. 594
Casey Aldrich Cox, died July 26, 1959
Walter Allen R yerson, died October 29, 1959
Claren ce J ohn Crea sey, died June 25, 1960
Melrose Lodge No. 602
Thomas Arnold, died December 31 , 1959
Dimond Lodge No. 603
Frederick Edward Mark Jones, d ied November 21, 1959
Sojourner Lodge No. 607
Lawrence Murley Larimer, died August 14, 1959
Provident Lodge No. 609
Isaiah Lang Driver, died November 14, 1959
Temple City Lodge No. 612
Pa ul Pierson Lyon, died March 3, 1960

GRA N D LOUGE O F CALI FORN IA

Larchmont Lodge No. 614
George P eter Salm, d ied J anuary 5, 1960
Hemet Lodge No. 615
Benjamin Raymon d Spragu e died November 3 1969
Charles E lliott McManigal, dled May 25, 1960 '
Neptune Lodge No. 619
J esse Josiah Taylor, died August 25 1960
'
Point Loma Lodge No. 620
Fred William Rei d , d ied February 16, 1960
Fred W ilham Sohnle in, died April 9, 1960
Atwater Lodge No. 622
John George Gregory, di ed July 2, 1959
Seth James Joh nson, d ied J u ly 16. 1959
Truth Lodge No. 628
Ralph Wayne Bross ius, di ed S eptember 29 1959
Os kar Eugene K opp e ru d , d ied J u ne 17 19BO
'
Fairview Lodge No. 629
William Albion Curt is, died May 15 1960
'
Normal Heights Lodge No. 632
Robert Steele Hoyle, d ied Janua ry 19 1960
'
Poinsettia Lodge No. 633
Clarence Fredrick Carlis le, died February 15 1960
'
John Marshall Lodge No. 636
Oscar L eonard Lun dberg, died September 30 1959
'
La Cumbre Lodge No. 642
William Wallace McKee, died July 25, 1959
Hawthorne Lodge No. 647
Edward J ones Pa rker, died October 18, 1959
Menlo Park Lodge No. 651
Edward Chesley Buchana n, died March 15, 1960
Fontana Lodge No. 653
J oseph Kirk S ichley, died April 30, 1960
Jordan Lodge No. 654
William Freder ic Schaaf, died August 9, 1959
Monte Vista Lodge No. 655
R aymond Moore, died December 13 1959
Willard Ear l Campb ell, died Novem'ber 17, 1959
L ivingston Lodge No. 658
Gordon H a rvey Winton , died July 25, 1959
Henry Knox Lodge No. 662
R obert S oule Dicey, d ied Mar ch 24, 1960
Kaweah Lodge No. 665
Dolpha Harold Beam, d ied April 22, 1960
Beseda Lodge No. 666
Gerard G raham McCormick, died August 21, 1959
Meridian Lodge No. 667
James Will iam H emstreet, died J uly 23, 1959
San Gorgonio Lodge No. 668
Horace L eslie Roberts, Jr., died J uly 21 1959
Thomas Calley Ackley, died Au gus t 26,'1959
John P. Jarman L odge No. 669
Clarence Edmond Sheffer, died December 31, 1959
Greenleaf Lodge No. 670
J ack Eugene W ells, died October 18, 1959
Canby Cross Lodge No. 679
Thomas Ca lvin Hagerty, died April 30, 1960
San Marino Lodge No. 685
J. Paul S w ickard. died March 18, 1960
Albany Lodge No. 686
Ambrose Rae Graham, died October 8, 1959

249

Pl<OCEEDINGS OF THE

250
Po hon a Lodge No. 689

Oren Dar1 Abbott, died November 29, 1959

Travelers Lodge No. 692

Harry Leslie Jaspar, died December 30, 1959
Russell Allston Marders, died February 7, 1960

Orinda Lodge No. 704

Andrew Catherall, died January 23, 1960

Lor enzo Lodge No. 709

J ohn Franklin Stevens, died April 5, 1960

Castro Va lley Lodge N o. 71 3

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

251

IN GRAN D LODGE
MORN ING SESSION-THUR SDAY, SEPTEMBER 29. 1960
A t 10:00 a.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the G r and Master p res id ing. T he invocation was del ive red by the actin g Grand Chaplain. T he
minutes o f the morn ing session of Wednesday, September 28th, were
read and approved.

Roy Daniel Stoecker, died February 7, 1960

Wayfare r Lodge No. 717

Royal Theison Jumper . died Januar y 21, 19GO

Minera l King Lodge No. 720

Harold Dale Wooten, died June 15, 1960

Pola ris Lodge No. 730

Charles Verna.rd Shaffer, died October 7, 1959

Channel Lodge No. 757

Charles William Botkin, died March 3, 1960

M ission Bay Lodge No. 771

Fred L . P ierson, died August 4. 1959
Edgar J . Dawson, died September 14, 1959
Thomas M. De Wolfe, di ed February 23, 1960

Waikiki Lodge No. 774

Harold Schjoeth P almer, died October 24, 1959
Apau Paul Low, died J une 3, 1960

Rio Lindo Lodge No. 786

Charles Verna.rd Shaffer, died October 7, 1959

Oak Plains Lodge N o. 789

James Wallace Smith, died February 10, 1960

Central California Research

George Edward Cartwright, died April 14, 1960
Harold Dale Wooten, d ied June 15, 1960

Southe rn California Research

Edward A. Johnson, di ed J anuary 10, 1960
Robert Steele Hoyle, died J anuary 19, 1960

At 11 : 40 a.m. Gran d Lodge was called off unt il I 0 ; 00 a.m. Thursday.

ASSIST ANT TO T H E G RA ND M AST ER
Past Grand Master Henry C. Clausen requested permission to
introd uce the fo llowing r esolut ion as an emer gent matter, and t hat
r equest was app roved in accordance with Section 104 of the California
Masonic Code.

To the Mo st Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
In line w ith recommendatio ns of t he Grand M a ster for admin is trative improvemen ts to handle t h e incr eased work and act ivities incident
to o ur membership growth,
RESOLVED that M. W . Lloyd E. W ilson be. and he hereby is
employ ed as Assistant to t h e Gra nd Master, in lieu of h is office as G r and
Secre tary. with such duties as the G ra nd Master may prescribe and to
receive a s compensation the amount he is p resently receiving as Grand
Secretary.
Move be received and r eferred to Committees on Policy and Ge nera l P u rposes. and on F ina nce.
A ll interested parties have concurred.
T here being no objection, the resolution was referred to Committees
on Po licy and General Purposes, and on Finance.

REPO RT OF C OM MITTEE O N JU RISPRUDEN CE
(Items reported on at different times during the Communicatio n arc
consolidated to facilitate reference. )
( D ecisions not here listed were reported on by separate Committees.)
To the Mo st Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence bas reviewed the special dispensations issued by the Grand Master during the past year a nd his approval
of resolutions relative to L ife Memberships. We have particularly noted
his dispensation to hold th e Stated Meeting of Gold Hill Lodge No. 32
o n a date ot her than that stated in its by-laws . which became necessary
due to an unexpected emergency and which is permitted under S ection
123-c of our Masonic Code.
We find th at a ll t h e acts of the G rand Master in rega rd to t hese
matter s have been in compliance wit h the requirements o f ou r law. We

253

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

recommend that the acts of the Grand Master above referred to be
approved.
J OHN R. MOORE

mentioned. without proper authorization might be considered as a
breach of trust."
Although the G rand Master indicated the withdrawal of the above
decision, your Committee on Jurisprudence points out that the subject
is entangled with M asonic Law, corporation non-profit law, and tax
Jaw. Your Committee on Jurisprudence moves tha t t his matter be continued until next year, that the incoming Grand Master appoint a committee to look into all phases of the problem , and that the decision of
Grand M aster Shell remain effective in the interim.
Adopted unanimously.

252

OSCAR LAWLER
Lows C. DRAPEAU
WAKEFIELD T AYLOR
ANDREW R. SCHOTTKY
L EO E. AND ERSON
WILLIAM B. N EELEY
ELMER P. BROMLEY
JosEPH G. B owERS

Adopted.

DECISION NO. 2
D ecision No. 2 held that the Chaplain of a Lodge must be a member
of the Lodge. Section 473 o f the Masonic Code specifies that members
of the Lodge are eligible for elective office, and we feel that it is the
intention of our law that only members of the Lodge are eligible for
appointive office. We concur with the Grand Master.
Adopted.

DECISION NO. 8
Decision No. 8 holds tha t an applicant who was convicted of a
felony . served time in prison and was unconditionally pardoned, is
ineligible to receive the degrees of Masonry. Section 51 1-h of the
Masonic Code states that the test is whether or not the applicant has
served a time of imprisonment in a sta te or federal prison, and, applying
this test, we concur with the Grand Master. (Not to be recorded in the
Code.)
A dopted.

DECISION NO. 12
DECISION NO. 4

Decision No. 4 held that a Board of Trustees of a Lodge may not
dispose of Lodge funds or property without the approval of the Lodge.
Section 409 of the M asonic Code provides that Lodge funds are trust
funds, and Section 405 provides that Lodge trustees shall always be
under the control of the Lodge and shall sell, invest, etc., the funds as
the Lodge shall direct. These s ections specifically require Lodge action
and we concur with the Grand Master . (Not to be recorded in the
Code).
Adopted.

DECISION NO 5
In D ecision No. 5 the Grand M aster ruled on the propriety of the
Trustees Masonic Temple Association delivering to the Lodge for
which such Association operates and maintains a Masonic T emple
Funds to assist the Lodge in meeting its operating expenses. The Grand
M aster's ruling was as follows: "While Sections 401 , 402(b). 405.
405 (b) and 409 of the Ca lifornia Masonic Code strongly indicate that
such a Temple Association is completely under the control of the Lodge,
such requests were improper and should not be acceded to without
special a uthority from the Grand Master. Every Lodge is expected
to meet its opera ting expenses from the income of dues. The Trustees
of a Temple Association are charged with careful conservation of the
funds coming into the possession of the Board. Transfers of the sums

There was referred to your C ommittee on Ju risprudence the question:
May printed or written invitations be sent to the brethren to attend
the conferring o f a degree upon a named candidate?
Sec. 518-a and b, C.M.C.. provides that the names of candidates to
receive degree work cannot be printed on cards or posted on bulletin
boards.
We concur in the ruling of the Grand Master in Decision N o. 12.
that the candidate's name must not appear on any such notice.
We move the adoption of the report, and recommend that it not be
printed in the California Masonic Code as it is cumulative.
Adopted unanimously.

DECISION NO. 14
There was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence the Grand
Master's Decision No. 14. being the question of whether the Auditing
Committee appointed by the Master is required to audit the bills presented for payment at each Sta ted Meeting or whether the bills could
be paid with the consent of the Lodge. w ithout audit.
Sections 361 , 323d, 323e, 493a, and 493b C.M.C. provide that an
Auditing Committee must be appointed and its report must be received
by the Lodge, before acting upon the bills and its report entered in the
minutes thereof.
We concur in the Grand M aster's decision tha t bills must be ex-

255

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

amined and reported on by the Auditing Committee before the Lodge
takes action.
I move the adoption of the report, and that it not be recorded in
the Masonic Code as it is cumulative.
Adopted.

The Grand Master can convene any Lodge (Sec. 127 C.M.C.) a nd
the Inspector "is the representative of the Grand Master in the district ... " (Sec. 160-b C.M .C.). In a comparable situation in w hich the
then Grand Master directed the Inspector to convene the Lodge so that
it might apply for dispensation to hold an election to flll a vacancy, the
action was approved by Grand Lodge. (Secs. 123-b and 161-f C.M.C.).
We concur in the decision and move the adoption of the report. but
by reason of the fact of its being cumulative, recommend that it not be
printed in the California Masonic Code.
Adopted.

254

DECISION NO. 15
The Grand Master ruled that the use of an ash tray embellished with
a Masonic emblem was in bad taste.
Under our law the following uses of Masonic emblems by Masons
are forbidden:
1. For advertising purposes.
2. For political purposes.
3. As th< name of any business not exclusively for Masonic purposes
(Sec. 333, 683 C.M.C.).
This Masonic law perforce applies to Masons only.
So limited, we recommend that the ruling be approved. Being
cumulative, it need not be published.
Adopted.
DECISION NO. 16
There was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence the Grand
Master's Decision No. 16, being the question of whether a Lodge
may collect funds from its members and hold such funds in trust for
scholarship grants?
Section 405g C. M. C. provides that a Lodge may not act as Trustees
for individuals.
We concur in the Grand Master's decision that Lodges may not
collect funds from its members for such purpose but undP,r Section
409 C.M.C. Lodges may establish trust funds but only for purposes
which have direct connection with the business and welfare of the
particular Lodge and a trust fund for scholarship grants does not
operate for such purpose.
I move the adoption of the report.
Adopted.
DECISION NO. 18
There has been referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence Decision
No. 18 of the Grand Master, rendered on the following question:
"When the Master and both Wardens of a Lodge find it impossible for any of them to be present at an imminent Stated
Meeting of the Lodge. what course can be taken in order that
the necessary business of the Lodge may be disposed of?''
The Grand Master directed the Inspector of the District to be present
on the date of the Stated M eeting , that he preside at the meeting but
that the business be limited to the payment of current bills of the Lodge
and other business postponed to the next Stated Meeting.

AMENDMENT SECTION 129.BTH
The Committee on Jurisprudence :
Under Decision No. l 9, for just cause, the Grand Master rem oved
a Master of a Lodge under Dispensation and appointed another qualified
brother as Master thereof . We agree with the result of the decision and
in order to make our law more specific on the subject . we present the
following:
RESOLVED: That Sec. l 29-8th be amended by adding at the end
thereof the following: Provided, however, the Grand Master shall have
the power to remove the Master of a Lodge under Dispensation, for good
reasons shown, and to appoint another qualified brother a s Master in
his place.
We move adoption of the resolution and that the amendment only be
recorded in the Code.
We urge a "yes" vote.
Adopted unanimously.

EDICT ON POLITICAL ACTIVITY
The Committee on Jurisprudence has r eviewed the edict issued by
the Grand Master with reference to political activity and recommends
that the action of the Grand Master be approved by this Gran d Lodge.
The Committee also recommends that the edict be not printed in the
Code.
Adopted.
REPEAL OF SECTION 134-C
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
To confirm the purport of the Grand Master's edict rela ting to a
certain Shrine Club of San Jose, we present the following:
RESOLVED: That Section 134-c be repealed.
We move adoption of the resolution and urge a "yes" -vote.
Adopted unanimously.

256

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CAUFORNIA

INSPECTOR S' DUTIES
(B-2)

·
of the Territory of H awau.... appearing
of California or the laws
in
.
h h' d
t e t 1r parag~aph and msertin.g in lieu thereof the following:
· · · · .. m accordance with the provisions of Sec. 404 of this
Code ..... .
We move: adoption of the resolution and urge passage:.
Adopted unanimously.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Reporting on resolution of Bro. Elbert W. Davis, we present the
following:
RESOLVED: That Sec. 161-lOth of CMC be amended to read as
follows :
"To examine: the books and records of each Lodge to determine if its
manner of transacting its business conforms to our laws, and to report
to the Grand M aster any violations of law."
We move adoption of the resolution and urge passage.
The: Committee: on Ritua l reported their concurrence:.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.

RESEARCH LODGE OFFICERS
(C.1 and C.2}
RESOLVED:
That Sec. 385 of C.M.C., relating to Research Lodges, be: amended
by adding thereto the following :
18. None but a Past Master of a California Lodge is eligible
for election as Master, Senior or Junior Warden of a Research
Lodge.
We move adoption of the resolution and urge an affirmative vote.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.

MEMBERSH IP TRANSFER TO NEW LODGE
(D-5)

RESOLVED :
That Sec. 301-(3) C .M.C. be amended by inserting the: words "demand for transfer of membership" in place of the words "d e:man d for
a dimit."
We: move adoption of the: resolution and urge: passage.
Adopted unanimously.

TRIAL FINDINGS ANNOUNC EMENT
(E-1)

RESOLVED :

That Sec. 692.~.of C:.M.C...be amen~e:d by inserting the word stated
between the words next and meeting in the third sentence.
We move adoption of the: resolution and urge an affirmative vote
·
Adopted unanimously.
At 11 : 55 a.m. Grand Lodge was called off until I : 30 p.m.
1

HAW ADAN SECURITIES
(D-1)
RESOLVED:
That a new paragraph be added to Sec. 403 of C.M.C. to read as
follows :
The provisions of this section requiring securities to be fully
listed and registered on an exchange, registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a National Securities Exchange:, shall not apply to the Honolulu Stock Exchange. This
exception is confined to Lodges located in the State of Hawaii.
W e: move adoption of the resolution and urge passage.
The Committee on Investment conc urred.
Adopted unanimously.

LIFE MEMBERSH IP INVESTME NTS
(D-5)
RESOLVED:
That Sec. 574 of C.M.C. be amended by deleting the words "in
securities legal for savings banks, under either the laws of the State

257

258

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

259

AFTERNOON SESSION-Thursday, September 29, 1960

DECISION NO. 7

At l : 30 p.m. Grand Lodge was called on. the Grand Master presiding.

Decision No. 7 holds that members of Job's Daughters ca nnot sell
tickets to a public event which entitle the purchaser to a chance to win
merchandise of value from $50.00 to $300.00 as a result of a drawing
by chance. Any such activity is in direct violation of Section 685-e of
our Masonic Code, and we concur with the Grand Master. (Not to be
recorded in the Code.)
Adopted.

COMBINED REPORTS OF
COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE
and
COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES
(Items reported on at different times during the Communication are
con solidated to facilitate reference.)

DECISION NO. I
Decision No. 1 states that no fee may be paid to a brother as compensation for acting as Acting Master or Acting Chaplain at the funeral
of a deceased brother, except in the case of an ordained minister who
is requested to act as Acting Chaplain. Section 409 of the Masonic Code
covers the proper expenditures of Lodge funds. and Section 604 provides
that the Lodge may pay the burial expenses of a deceased brother who
dies in good standing and in financial circumstances requiring the Lodge
to pay this expense.
Your Committee concurs with the decision of the Grand Master but
wishes to point out that a brother should not expect to be compensated
for a Masonic duty and that any payment to an ordained minister must
be part of the burial expense of the deceased brother.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes concurred.
Adopted.

DECISION NO. 3
Decision No. 3 held that. in lieu of providing flowers for an ill brother
or paying the funeral expense of a deceased brother, a Lodge could not
contribute the cost of flowers to a Shrine Hospital. Section 411 of the
Masonic Code perm.its a contribution to the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund in lieu of flowers for a deceased brother if his family so
requests. but our law does not permit contributions of Lodge funds to
other organizations and we concur with the Grand Master. (Not to be
recorded in the Code. )
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes concurred.
Adopted.

DECISION NO. 9
Decision No. 9 holds that an application for affiliation could not be
received from one who received his Third Degree in a California Lodge
as a courtesy to another Grand Lodge then recognized by this Grand
Lodge but which Grand Lodge was not recognized by this Grand Lodge
when the application was presented to the Lodge. Section 319-a of the
Masonic Code provides that no application may be received under these
circumstances, and we concur with the Grand Master. (Not to be recorded in the Code. )
Adopted.

MASTER MASONS' ATTENDANCE
(A-2)
The Committee on Jurispruden ce:
Reporting on resolution of Bro. Alfred F. Breslauer. we present
the following:
RESOLVED: That Sec. 103 CMC be amended to read as follows:
Section 103. Who may be present at opening and election. None but
members of the Grand Lodge, the Grand Officers, Past Grand Officers
and Representatives of other Grand Lodges, shall be present during an
election at the Annual Communication. Master Masons may be present
at all other times during the Annual Communication and at all Special
Communications.
We support the resolution and move its adoption.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution A-2, relative to the admission of Master Masons to the
Opening Ceremonies of Grand Lodge, has been referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
This resolution, if adopted. would amend Section l 03 CMC to
permit Master Masons to attend the Opening Ceremonies of Grand
Lodge.
Many of the reasons for denying admission to the Opening Ceremonies of Grand Lodge, whether because of lack of space or otherwise,
it seems to your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, are no
longer valid.

PROCEED INGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

The Opening Ceremon ies of Grand Lodge are so beautiful and so
impressiv e that your Committ ee feels that attendan ce by Master Mas?ns
should be limited only to the balcony as seating is available . and restricted further only as the growth of Grand Lodge requires additiona l seat.
ing for its represen tatives.
the
discussed
has
Purposes
General
and
Your Committ ee on Policy
O~en­
the
to
Masons
Master
of
n
admissio
the
ering
problems of administ
ing Ceremon ies of Grand Lodge with the Committ ee on Credenti als.
They have indicated that. with the assistanc e of the Grand. Secretar y,
it will be possible to handle the problem without too much difficulty .
Therefor e. your Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes recommends adoption of this resolutio n.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.

number of members of the Masonic Homes Endowm ent Board has been
consider ed by the Policy and General Purposes Committ ee.
Wherea s the number of members of the Masonic Homes Endowment Board has not been increased since the Board was establish ed in
1933, and
Whereas the number of Lodges and number o f members of the
Lodges have greatly increased since 1933, thus increasin g the volume
of work for the Board. and
Whereas it is impractic al. inefficient and burdenso me for Board
members to serve the large number of Lodges necessar ily assigned to
them, and
~hereas the Masonic Homes Endowm ent Board at its last regular
meeting voted unanimo usly to recomme nd that the Board be increased
to a maximum of twenty-o ne members,
We therefore recomme nd the resolutio n be adopted.
Adopted unanimo usly.

260

RESEA RCH REPRE SENTA TION
(A-3)
Reportin g on resolutio n of Bro. A . K. Molberg . Sr .. we present the
following :
RESOL VED: That Sec. 385-8 CMC be repealed .
We move adoption of the resolutio n but urge a No vote for the
reason that Research Lodges already have represen tation in Grand
Lodge through their parent Lodges .
Committ ees concurri ng: Jurisprud ence. Policy and General Purposes.
The resolutio n w as not adopted.

ENDOW MENT BOARD
(A-4)
The Committ ee on Jurisprudence:
Reportin g on the resolutio n of Bro. John M. Gordon, we present the
following :
RESOL VED : That Sec . 241 CMC be amended to read a s follows:
Sec. 241 Appoint ment and Tenure.
The members of the Masonic Homes Endowm ent Board of California consistin g of twenty-o ne shall be appointe d by the Grand Master
for terms of th ree years each, provided however . that the terms of on~­
third of the members shall expire at the close of the Annual Commum cation of Grand Lodge each year. Where a vacancy occurs the appointe e
shall serve for the remaind er of the unexpire d term .
We move adoption of the resolutio n.
The Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes:
A resolutio n presente d by Brother John M. Gordon to increase the

261

DEADL INE EXCEP TIONS
(A-7)
The Committ ee on Jurisprudence:
Reportin g on the resolutio n of Bro. Houser. we present the following:
RESOL VED: That Sec. 781 CMC be amended by adding thereto
the following :
Neither the 90 day deadline for presentin g amendm ents. nor the
provision s of Sec. 150-19th . shall apply to amendm ents proposed by the
Grand Master or the committe es appointe d by the Grand Master, but
the same shall be filed with the Grand Secretar y in time for adequate
study by the committe e or committe es involved and in no case later
than the first day of registrat ion for the Annual Commun ication.
We move adoption of the resolutio n but urge a No vote for the
following reasons:
1. The volume of work is steadily increasin g. Even this year we
have had to process some 27 resolutio ns requiring devotion of 2
weeks time by some of us. The limitatio n in this section was enacted to enable timely attention and to prevent congestio n and
confusio n.
2. We think it is not asking too much to ask the Committ ees and
even the Grand Master to comply with the present limita tion.
The Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes reported their concurrence .
The resolutio n was not adopted.

262

PROC EEDIN GS OP THE

REQ UIR EME NTS FOR CHA RTE R
(A-9 )
The Comm ittee on Polic y and Gene ral Purposes:
Polic y and Gene ral
Ther e has been prese nted to your Comm ittee on
nic Code be amen ded
Purpo ses a resolu tion that Section 62 of the Maso
by striki ng there from the word s:
ANY LOD GE
NO CHA RTE R SHA LL BE GRA NTE D TO
E UND ER
TIM
A
UNT IL IT SHA LL HA VE WOR KED
DISP ENS ATIO N.
and subst itutin g there fore the word s:
ANY LOD GE
NO CHA RTE R SHA LL BE GRA NTE D TO
DISP ENS AER
UND
KED
UNT IL IT SHA LL HA VE WOR
THS AND
MON
(6)
SIX
OF
M
TION FOR A MIN IMU
LEA ST
AT
ED
RAIS
AND
SED
PAS
D,
HAV E INIT IATE
TWO (2) CAN DIDA TES.
n as prese ntly
It is the opinion o f this Comm ittee that the sectio
to set minimum
ittee
Comm
word ed gives adeq uate powe r to the Char ters
on of new
ficati
quali
and
tion
stand ards to be followed in the forma
there fore
We
able.
advis
or
sary
neces
is
Lodges, and that no chang e
move the resolution and recom mend a "no" vote.
The Comm ittee on Charters:
athy with the aims
Your Comm ittee on Char ters is in comp lete symp
derat ion to the
consi
ul
expre ssed in this resol ution and has given caref
problem it is inten ded to solve.
e has seen fit to
Ther e have been occas ions when this Gran d Lodg
, in the opini on of
grant chart ers to Lodg es Unde r Dispe nsati on when
profited by furth er
the Comm ittee on Char ters, the Lodg e woul d have
only huma n and
are
we
time unde r dispe nsatio n. We must admi t that
seem ed desir ahave
t
migh
there have been times when such legisl ation
ctive legisl arestri
see
to
wish
not
do
ble to this committee. Howe ver, we
new Lodg es
of
ess
progr
ly
order
the
er
tion passe d that woul d hamp
becau se of isolat ed cases .
ers in years past,
In study ing the recor ds of Lodg es grant ed chart
have fulfilled the
not
d
we find that the majo rity of new Lodg es woul
red to spend
requi
been
have
requi reme nts of this resolu tion and woul d
on.
an addit ional year unde r dispe nsati
a new Lodg e is an
It must be reme mber ed that the forma tion of
ers and officers.
memb
the
of
arduo us task requi ring the utmo st efforts
whic h woul d
nts
reme
requi
tory
statu
We believe that any addit ional
e a chart er
befor
r
longe
work
to
rs
office
make it mand atory for these
rathe r than encou rage
could be grant ed, woul d tend to disco urage
ng this effort. We
qualifled Maso ns with execu tive abilit y from maki
d have the followwoul
believe, there fore, that this propo sed legisl ation
ing effects:

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

263

. .
.
1. It woul d delay many comp etent Lod ges U · D . m rece1v mg their
chart ers.
d
2. It woul d tend to sub d'
y to arbit rary
stand ards of time l~r ma~~ em~ns_trati ons of abilit
is of effort s to
meet rigid time scheduk~~s t~esu t in overem~ha~
and also the
recep tion of favor able ap I' /he dat~ of mst1tution
~he confe rring of degre es
by certa in dates - rat:e:c~h ions
an . il owin g these event s to take
place in the usual order! y progr essio
n.
..
in
d
forme
es
Lodg
been
have
e
3. Ther
es wher e there are
un1t1
comm
h
rred
confe
es
few degre

ft

~~=:~;;J,islation might ma{ee~t ~~~~:~b~ ~~:rsuch ai:1d;~!s t~r~~

The perso nnel and Ieade rshi of L d
gre~tly in their competen ce and abilities. and it is tte h o 1es :ary
ittee on Char ters
Comm
this
o
o~e
·fi
that rathe r than set up
and degrees
time
to
as
nts
mre~e
c·ure~
~1
Losd;
con ferred , this G ra nd
the merits
ully
caref
w1h, mstea . weigh
of each group apply ing f
chart ers
back
hold
er
neith
from those Lodg es U D ~~a ~ arter and
ilities
capab
their
ed
strat
nor on the other hand g~a ta:h ave d~mon
fully
not
have
that
es
Lodg
ose
t
to
em
demo nstra ted such abillty. n
.
In 1904 this Gran d L.od ge re1ec
ted legislation which woul d ha ve
.
.
place d a . .
te to a chart er.
quisi
prere
a
as
l1m1t
time
mm1mu~
.
Your Comm ittee on Ch t
ers unani mous ly recommends that this
Gran d Lodg e vote .. no .. on t h~r
is resolu tion .
J
The Comm 'tt
rudence repor ted their concurrence ·
The resol u/ ee on urispd
ion was not a opted .

INST ALL ATI ON REQ UIR EME NTS
(B-3)
The Comm ittee on Jurisprudence:
W e repor t on resol ution of Bro Jo h n D . B owma n et al as follows:
.
This resolu tion seeks cha
~? a~proved decision of a Gran d
:~e
impro
Mast er and is legal ly
I~atJo n to the . Gran d Mast er for
a special dispensatio n to ch~n .e
p acde of meettng for instal lation
purpo ses woul d have been the pg
roper proce ure
I
Th
d . defi . ·
e reso ution is also faulty
nite and woul d do violence
m
to Sec. 324 CMC which .
law respecting meeting
place s of Lodg es. It woul d ~:e:u:ut~:~i:mental.
of a_ Lodg~ in a h~tel
mg
~pen
wh~c
banq uet room and other public place s
be impos sible to tile.
d
woul
:
ution
resol
the
We there fore prese nt
.R ESO LVE D : That Sec. 324-a CMC be amen ded. by addin g after
the word installation "a L d
e zn.?Y open and close in the room designa ted as the place ~f insta~lagt_10n.

:.ft::
at

GRAND LODGE O F CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING S OF THE

264

We move a doption o f the resolution but urge a negative vote.
The Committee on Policy and Genera l Purposes reported their concurrence.
Resolution defeated unanimously .

FUNERAL SERVICE LIMITAT ION
(B-4)
The Committee on Jurispruden ce:
Reporting on the resolution of Bro. Finley et al, we present the
following:
1. RESOLVE D : That the fourth sentence of Sec. 604 CMC be
repealed. Said sentence reads as follow s: "The Lodge may. in
its discretion , bury a member suspended for non-paymen t of dues
if there be no other Masonic offense established aga inst him ,
but it shall not pay the expenses of the burial.''
2. RESOLVE D: That Sec. 604-i CMC be repealed.
We move the adoption of the resolutions.
The C ommittee on Policy and General Purposes:
There has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes a resolution which proposes to remove from our law the provision whereby a former M ason . suspended for non-paymen t of dues,
may, with approval of the Lodge of which he was once a member, be
buried with Masonic honors.
The elimina tion of this provision will ma ke our law clear and specific
that burial with Masonic honors is available only to Masons who are
in good standing. A former member who has been suspended for nonpayment of dues has available to him the opportunity and the procedure
for reinstatemen t. and had he himself desired to seek reinstatemen t he
would have done so prior to death. No pressure. occasioned by the
emotions of the family and friends at the time of the death of a former
Mason, can be placed upon the officers and members of a Lodge if this
provision is removed from our law, and thus there can be no decisions
made which might tend to bring discredit to M aso nry. We recommend a
"yes" vote.
The resolution w as not adopted.

REVOL YING FUNDS
(D-2)
RESOLVE D :
That Sec. 401 of C.M .C. be amended by inserting in line eleven
after the word "Stewards" the following. "or Junior Warden as the
Master may determine."
We move adoption o f the resolution.
The Committee on Policy and Genera l Purposes concurred.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

265

DE MOLA Y SPONSOR SHIP
(D-4)
1. RESOLVE D:

That a new section be added to CMC as follows:
Section 386. Order of De Molay.
A Lodge or group of Lodges may sponsor a Chapter or
Chapters of the Order of De Molay.
2. RESOLVE D :
That Sec. 411 of CMC be amended by add ing at the end thereof
the following:
A Lodge may expend from its general fund necessary sums
to defray expenses incurred by it in sponsoring a Chapter or
Chapters of the Order of De Molay. Such expenditure s shall be
limited to and measured by one-third of the then existing refreshment fund of the Lodge.
3. RESOLVE D:
That Sec. 333-f of C .M .C. be repealed.
We move adoption of the resolutions but strongly urge a No vote.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes concurred.
The resolutions were not adopted.

MULTIPL E MEMBER Sl-IlP
(F-5)
RESOLVE D:
That Section 432 of the Masonic Code be amended so that pro ; isions
6 and 7 will read as follows:
6. ''Suspension for non-paymen t of dues or otherwise or expulsion of
a multiple member shall immediately , and of itself, terminate his members hip in all Lodges in this jurisdiction, and the S ecretary of any
Lodge in this jurisdiction suspending or expelling such a member
shall immediately notify the Grand Secretary and also every other
Lodge in w hich the multiple member holds membership. Like notice
shall be given in case of reinstatemen t. which shall immedia tely and
automaticall y restore him to membership in every other Lodge in
this jurisdiction of which he was a member."
7. " Nothing in this section sha ll be construed to prevent a multiple mem ber from receiving a certificate of discontinuan ce of multiple membership as provided in Section 453 if otherwise entitled to the same."
That Section 432 be amended by substituting the word "multiple"
in place of the word "plural" in provisions 4, 5. and 9; and by adding
to provision 8 the following : A multiple membership as used in this
section means and is defined to be either dual or plural membership .
That Section 447 be amended by substituting the word " multiple" in
place of "plura l" in the last paragraph.

266

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

That Section 153 be amended by substituting the word "multiple" in
place of the word "plural."
We move adoption of the resolutions and urge a yes vote.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes concurred.
Adopted unanimously.

AMARANTH FOUNDATION, INC.
ROY AL ORDER OF CARITAS
RESOLVED:
That Sec. 131-b and d of C.M.C. be repealed.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes concurred.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND
GENERAL PURPOSES
(Items reported on at different times during the Communication are
consolidated to facilitate reference.)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M . of California:
HISTORY RECOMMENDA TIONS
There has been referred to the Policy and General Purposes Committee that portion of the report of the Committee on Masonic History
recommending the assembling and compiling of a complete history of
Masonry in California for the ten year period from 1950 through 1960.
The history of Masonry prior to that time has been painstakingly
recorded and we feel that this work should be continued in order that
the story and romance of our fraternity may be handed down to future
generations accurately and as completely as possible.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes therefore recommends approval.
Adopted.
Respectfully submitted,
LESLIE E. Wooo
CHESTER H. WARLOW
OTTO ROHWER
BLICKFELDT
EDWARD
HARRY B. KEELING
HARVEY E. McCARTHY
ARTHUR M. WARREN
THEODORE M. MERIAM

J.

267

DECISION NO. 17
Decision No. 17 of the Grand Master's report, relative to the
propriety of Grand Lodge entering into a project to establish a home for
the aged, in which aged Masons, their wives and widows might be
cared for upon payment by them of amounts of money sufficient, or
more than sufficient to care for them during their lives, has been referred
to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
The Grand Master has ruled that it would be improper to enter
into such a project. and your Committee on Policy and General Purposes
concurs.
Adopted.

ASSIST ANT TO THE GRAND MASTER
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The resolution providing for the employment by Grand Lodge of
Most Worshipful Lloyd E. Wilson as Assistant to th e Grand Master
has been ref erred to the Committee on P olicy and General Purposes.
Your Committee recommends the adoption of the resolution. ( p . 2 51 )
The Committee on Finance reported their concurrence.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.

GRAND LODGE TITLE
(A-1)
On the proposal to formally modify the name of this Grand Lodge by
adding thereto the words " and Hawaii ," the Grand Master recommended in his message that the incoming Grand Master appoint a Special Committee to study the propriety and feasibility of s uch change
and report to this Grand Lodge at the next Annual Communication.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes concurs with the
recommendation of the Grand Master.
Adopted.

PROFICIENCY REQUIREMENT
(B-6)
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had referred
to it a resolution designated B-6.
This resolution, if adopted, would. in effect, withhold a dues card
and all the rights and privileges of Masonry to a Master Mason. after
he bas received the Third Degree of Masonry. unless and until he
had been examined and passed a satisfactory examination in the Candidates Lecture of a Master Mason . within a period of six months after he
has been made a Master Mason. Under the terms of this resolution the

268

PROCE EDINGS OF THE

atic suspen sion,
penalt y for failure to confor m to its provis ions is autom
."
Lodge
the
of
vote
a
by
d
grante
be
shall
time
r
"unles s furthe
agrees that
ses
Purpo
al
Gener
and
While your Comm ittee on Policy
ction were
jurisdi
this
of
s
Mason
r
Maste
all
it would be a fine thing if
Degre e,
Third
the
of
e
Lectur
dates
Candi
the
learn
to
intere sted enoug h
and
reason
d
this propos al to accom plish the purpos e goes far beyon
logic.
that after
Your Comm ittee on Policy and Gener al Purpo ses feels
a Maste r
indeed
a man has receiv ed the Third Degre e of Mason ry. he is
Maste r
a
of
ges
privile
Mason . Any attemp t to deny him the rights and
ic law,
Mason
to
ry
contra
not
Mason by such a propos al. even if it were
Pural
Gener
and
Policy
on
ittee
Comm
would , in the opinio n of your
Frathe
to
harm
great
in
result
would
and
poses. be highly impro per
ternity .
ore moves
Your Comm ittee on Policy and Gener al Purpo ses theref
vote.
"no"
a
mends
recom
and
tion
the adopti on of the resolu
be referre d
A motion was regula rly second ed that the above matter
unicat ion.
Comm
1961
the
at
report
to
cted
to a Specia l Comm ittee instru
The motion to refer was defeat ed.
The resolu tion was defeat ed.

FREE DOM OF DISC USSI ON
(F-1)
ittee on
The Policy and Gener al Purpo ses Comm ittee and the Comm
Most
by
ted
presen
Jurisp rudenc e have jointly exami ned the resolu tion
our
In
s.
Politic
of
t
subjec
Worsh ipful Charle s Alber t Adam s on the
ever
ents
docum
nt
ta
impor
most
the
judgm ent this resolu tion is one of
presen ted to this Grand Lodge .
ility of
Beca use of the broad aspect s of its conten t. and the possib
n
opinio
the
of
are
we
ions.
condit
its
impro per interp retatio n of some of
Coml
Specia
a
by
ered
consid
lly
carefu
that the entire matter s hould be
tions to report
mittee, fully author ized to review the same. with instruc
ion.
unicat
Comm
l
at the next Annua
ent the
Furthe r, that the Specia l Comm ittee be directe d to implem
in the
if
tion
legisla
onal
additi
sing
propo
by
tion
effecti veness of the resolu
judgm ent of the Comm ittee such legisla tion be desira ble.
it is his inI am author ized by the Deput y Grand Maste r to s tate that
force and
in
ue
contin
to
r.
Maste
Grand
elected
tention . should he be
Septem ber l 0,
effect the edict of Most Worsh ipful Joe L. Shell dated
al action .
politic
in
nry"
1960. prohib iting the use of the name "Maso
h Lodge s
throug
funds
of
ation
Furthe r, that he will not permi t the solicit
to be
him
by
d
deeme
se
purpo
any
or the use of any Lodge funds for
politic al in nature .

GRAND LODG E OF CA LIFORN IA

269

your Polic
With the concu rrence of the Jurisp rudenc e Comm ittee.·
y
b
I
th
that
moves
ittee
Comm
ses
Purpo
al
and Generb
e reso ut10n a ave re.
d
f
the
by
ted
. erre . to e submi tted to a Specia l Comm ittee to be appoin
that it be
and
cation.
clarifi
and
study
for
ter,
as
M
1~commg Grand
' G rand
h
f
t.
·
Co
l
Annua
directe d to report at the next
mmun1ca ion o t 1s
L od ge.
Charle s
This entire report has ~een discus sed with Mos t Worsh ipful
al.
approv
is
h
Albert Adam s and bears
The Comm ittee on Jurisp rudenc e concu rred .
Refere nce to Specia l Comm ittee adopte d.

SUPP ORT OF PUBL IC SCHO OLS
(F-3)
and Gener al
There has been. submi tted. to your Comm ittee on Policy
e to the
Lod
Grand
of
ces
Pu:po ses a resolu tion to dedica te the resour
g
ls.''
Schoo
Public
Free
"Our
of
rt
mamte nance and suppo
with the
Your Comm ittee. individ ually and as a whole . is in accord
ls.
Schoo
Public
of
rt
suppo
Grand Lodge progra m in
d
· t
Howe ver, the ·resolu tion presen ted does not define " mam
enanc e an
" T k
that
of
ion
definit
a en Jn the light of the genera lly accept ed
suppo :t.
tion.
term, 1t would be econom ically unsou nd to adopt this resolu
We theref ore move the resolu tion and recom mend a "no"
The resolu tion was not a dopted .

vote.

RECO MME NDA TION S COM MITT EE ON
PUBL IC SCHO OLS
C

of the Public Schoo ls
Th~ recom menda tions contai ned in the reportand
Gene l p

omm1ttee have been referre d to the Policy
Comm ittee.

ra

urpose s

· d ·
Your Comm ittee feel. s that the Public Schoo ls Comm i'ttee is oing an
excel] t . b .
and
system
school
public
our
of
ts
interes
. ldenb JO m promo ting the
e encou raged in their efforts.
s h ou

·
· cl.
menda tions would be helpfu l m
We feel that the recom
1sseminatd
L
t
ti
infor
ing
reater
. ma. on ? our o ges and brethr en and would result in
them.
tJ
ed
assign
been
has
that
work
tant
impor
the
given
empha sis bemg
e recom menda tions of the Public Schoo ls
Co W ~ theref ore feel that th
mm1ttee should be approv ed.
Adopt ed.

270

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

PROCEED INGS OP THE

RECOM MEND ATION S COMM ITTEE ON
SCHOL ARSHI PS

RESOL UTION ON INDEM NIFICA TION
A resolutio n on indemnification was referred at the last Commun ica.
tion of Grand Lodge to the Policy and General Purposes Committ ee
and was continue d to this Commun ication in order that your Committ ee
might have time to give the subject greater consider ation and study.
Your Committ ee feels that Grand Lodge should and would stand
by and defend its officers and committe emen against any legal action
that might be brought against them , if the action was caused by the
discharg e of their duties as officers or committe emen working on behalf
of Grand Lodge. but we feel that this resolutio n would be the issuance
of a blank check and would indemnif y an officer or committeeman
against any action that could be brought against them.
No limitation as to the amount of indemnif ication is placed in the
resolution, and it is entirely possible that action could be brought against
Grand Lodge for an exorbita nt amount because o f some action on the
part of officers or committe emen which would not be the responsib ility
of Grand Lodge.
.
Your Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes recomme
nds that
the resolutio n be not adopted.
The resolution was not adopted.

RECOM MEND ATION S COMM ITTEE ON RESEA RCH
The Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes has reviewed the
report of the Committ ee on Research which has been referred to us.
We are quite sympath etic with the aims and aspiratio ns of the Committee and commen d them for their zeal and imaginat ion.
It is our feeling. however , that all Committ ees, whether they be special or standing . should be under the control of the Grand Master and
subject to his screenin g. particula rly on the release of material bearing
the official imprint of the Grand Lodge.
It is our understa nding that the incoming Grand Master has made
plans to introduc e many innovatio ns and new procedur es relative to
Masonic Educatio n and Informat ion. Because of this, we are of the
opinion that no plan should be adopted at this time which would hamper
his program .
Further, we feel that the time is not yet here when the Committ ee
on Masonic Informat ion should have the status of a Standing Committee. Interest in Masonic Educatio n can be handled just as effectively
through the means of a Special Committ ee. In fact, a Special Committee is not limited in size, and the Grand Master has greater leeway
in the use of this type of Committ ee.
With these thoughts in mind. we recomme nd that the report of the
Committ ee on Research be flied without action.
Adopted .

271

The report of t~e Special Committ ee on Scholars hips has been referred to the Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes .
. At the 1959 Annual ~ommunication of this Grand Lodge it was
poi~.ted out that t?e Sp~Ctal_ Committ ee on Scholars hips was appointe
d
to perform
. certam duties m connecti on with a p rogram o f award 'mg
schboars
l · ·h1ps ffor advance
d study in higher educatio n to
·
i·
review
t he
su m1ss1on ? app !Cants and make recomme ndations. to the
G
d
Master relative to the_ administ ration of the program ."
ran
Inasmuch as specific recomme ndations were not included 10
· th
· l
'tt
c1a
e spep comm1f Jee 's 1959 report ' your Committee on p o 1·KY an d G eneral
urpose~ et that. their work was not complete d and recomme nded
that
the Special Committ ee on Scholarc hips be continue d.
T?e 1960 re~ort of the Special Committ ee on Scholars hi s a ain
no specific
On the contrary, it asks mgan
question
ob1'ective s of th e program an d as to the
Jill s. as to the ultimate
.
y
qua c~t10.ns of possible applican ts for scholarsh ips. as well as the t
of app!ICatton. form to be used. Indeed, the nearest approach to a s e~~~
recomme ndation the report makes indicates that if it were left ~ th
pbresednt Special Committ ee on Scholars hips. the program
be
a an oned.
e
. This Grand Lodge has, since 1956, approve d the granting 0 ( scholar~h1ps to advance d students in higher educatio n and during th ·
t
mg ~ears has ap~ropriated funds for the purpose.
e m ervenour C?mm1ttee o~ Policy and General Purposes believes that all
o.~ the q~es~~ns posed ~n the special committe e's report can be satisfact on Y{e~ ve , that specific recomme ndations can and should be submitte d
tot e ~and Master a nd this Grand Lodge which, if adopted ·11
out the mtent and
· wi carry
h ' h t d d f purposes o f a scholarsh ip program in keeping
with
1g s an ar so our Fraternit y.
. The Com~itte~ on Policy and General Purposes feels the schola _
is_ so importan t that the Special Committ ee on Scholars hi;s
s ou. ~ cont1~ued, and recomme nds that this committe e be re uired
tGo br1dngLo10d specific recomme ndations at the next Commun ication
this
ran
ge.
The recomme ndation of the Committ ee on Policy and General p
poses was adopted.
ur-

conta~ns

re~ommendations .

woul~

s~1p f;o~ram

~f

MASON IC HISTO RICAL MONU MENT
There has been referred to the Committ ee on Policy and G
I
~urposes by the Grand Master, a letter from Brother James
R i:er~
Harmon y Lodge, requestin g this Grand Lodge to
ma i{1g armony Lodge a Masonic Historica l Monume nt.
armony Lodge, along with scores of other venerabl e Lodges in this

a~.ter ~f

~onsi~e;

273

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALI F ORN IA

jurisdictio n possess priceless Masonic historical objects, mementos ,
letters, minutes. etc. Your Committe e on Policy and General Purposes
feels these should be kept and jealously guarded by the Lodges themselves.
Because there are so many Lodges similarly blessed, whose members might also seek to have them declared M asonic Historical Monuments, your Committe e on Policy and General Purposes feels that
granting such a request would be establishin g a precedent which might
well overwhelm this Grand Lodge.
Your Committe e on Policy and General Purposes therefore recommends that the request of Harmony Lodge No. 164 be denied .
The request of H a rmony Lodge No. 164 was denied.

bers of the constituen t Lodges. The resolution has been referred to the
Finance C ommittee.
At a recent Annual Communic ation th is C ommittee unanimou sly opposed the adoption of a similar resolution . After the lapse of two yea rs
we see no reason to change our position. In fact. there is now a more
compelling reason to oppose it than existed at the time we last reported.
It became necessa ry last year to increase the per capita for the H omes
from 50 cents to $1.00, thereby raising the total per capita from $2.75
to $3.25. And it appears now tha t there can be no reduction this year.
It goes without saying that if you representa tives of the Lodges are
persuaded that there is sufficient merit in having all members receive the
magazine a t Grand Lodge expense - and the proposa l is not without
some merit - then you s hould vote in favor of the resolution .
H owever, in your considerat ion. we think yo u s hould keep in mind
that, if the resolution is adopted. it will mean the end of pa id su bscriptions. It will cost Grand Lodge in the neig hborhood of $100.000.0 0 per
year. And that means you and your Lodges, for the F inance Committee would have to ask you to add 40 cents to your per capita tax
for th is fiscal year . and each year hereafter. to foot this bill.
At the present time subscriber s totaling approxima tely 80.000 fall
into two main categories : those members w ho subscribe and pay for
the magazine directly; and those members for whom individual Lodges
subscribe and pay collectivel y.
To place our officia l magazine in the hands of all members is a fine
goal toward which to work. It would appear that we have made some
progress toward tha t goal on the present voluntary paid subscripti on
basis. We think further effort to expand this voluntary paid program
will build a sounder financial and circulation base than for Grand Lodge
to say. in effect, that it will req uire all Lodges to pay a per capita so
tha t the magazine may be sent to you free. We recommen d a "no" vote
on the resolution .

272

EARLY CALIFO RNIA LODGES
Your Committe e on Policy and General Purposes, having considered
the request of Harmony Lodge No. 164 that its temple be made a
Masonic Historical Monumen t, and having thoroughl y discussed the
importanc e of preserving the precious and priceless records. artifacts
and mementos of our early California Lodges, desires to strongly recommend to Grand Lodge that a Special Committe e be adopted by the
Grand Master to study and to recommen d to Grand Lodge means a nd
procedure s by which Grand Lodge may a id our early California Lodges,
when aid is needed. in the preservati on. safekeepin g and security of
the invaluable Masonic possession s to the end that they may not be
destroyed or lost and that they may be made available for the enlightenment and benefit of Masons in California for generation s to come.
Adopted.

COMMI TTEE ON MASON IC EDUCA TION
To your Committe e on Policy a nd General Purposes has been referred the Grand Master's suggestion that the name of the Grand Lodge
Committe e on Research be changed to the Grand Lodge Committe e on
Masonic Education because the suggested name will more accurately
describe the field of activities of this Committe e.
Your Committe e on Policy and General Purposes concurs and recommends that the name be changed.
Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMI TTEE ON FINANC E
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F . 6 A. M. of California:
CALIFORN IA FREEMASO N

(A-8 )
the Correspon dence Committe e, which
of
Chairman
andee.
Brother C
compiles and publishes "Californi a Freemaso n." has again introduced
his resol ution to require Grand Lodge to mail the magazine to all mem-

FRA NK HARWELL . JR .
PAU L F . BALCK
ALFRED H . NICOLL
ATWILL MORGAN
FRED M. C LARK
G ILBERT K. DAVIES
FRANCIS A. GATES

The Committe e on Policy and General Purposes concurred .
The resolution was not adopted.

274

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

275

AUDIT

"CALIFORNIA FREEMASON"

The firm of Skinner and Hammond. Certified Public Accountants.
has completed and furnished this Committee with copies of the audit
of the accounts of Grand Lodge and its agencies for the fiscal year
which ended June 30, 1960. We have examined these car~f ~lly and
discussed them with Brother Hammond and are of the opm1on that
they completely and accurately reflect the financial position ~f Grand
Lodge. As in the past, they are printed in the annual Pro~eedmgs .. We
recommend that you examine these at the first opportunity. It will be
time well spent.
The audit shows total revenue for the support of Grand Lodge of
$385,522.78, and expenses and appropriations of $327.337.80, leaving
a balance of unexpended revenue of $58.184 .98, which has been transferred to Capital Account.
It should be noted, however, that approximately $35,000.00 of this
surplus is represented by unexpended budget items wh~ch must be
budgeted again for the new fiscal year, as well as a net mcome from
the operations of "California Freemason" which should be transferred
to that reserve.

The audit report for the last fiscal year shows that cash receipts
from the publication of our official magazine, "California Freemason."
were in excess of cash disbursements in the amount of $7,449.43.
We recommend that Grand Lodge approve the appropriation of
$7.449.43 to be paid into "California Freemason Reserve." This will
bring the total amount in this reserve to $20,133.40.

GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT
The Grand Treasurer's report was referred to this Committee. Upon
examination we find all items to be in accord with the audit and we
recommend approval.

GRAND SECRETARY'S REPORT
There has been referred to this Committee that portion of the Grand
Secretary's report in which he recommends that certain Lodg e~ under
dispensation therein named be not required to pay the per capita tax.
We recommend approval.

EXCESS EXPENDITURES OVER BUDGETED AMOUNTS
There has been referred to this Committee that portion of the Grand
Master's message in which he reported approval by him of expenditures
in excess of budgeted items for the last fiscal year totaling $11.702 ..85.
The major portion of the excess is represented by one item for Retirement Pension Plan expense of $8,493.50 above the amounts budgeted
and appropriated. After the budget was approved it was found that
a higher percentage rate would be required for funding prior and current service credits for employees.
We recommend that this action by the Grand Master be approved.

It is estimated that approximately 232,000 individual issues of the
magazine have been subscribed for future issue. At 20 cents per copy
this makes a figure of $46,400.00. which represents our liability in this
respect. We should continue to build the reserve to an amount which
will offset our liability.

MASONIC HOMES
We have examined the audit of the accounts of the Masonic Homes
of California and have reviewed the report of the Trustees. In our
consultation with the Trustees we find that, where proper accounting
procedure and governing provisions allow, the Trustees are charging
certain maintenance and upkeep expense at the Homes to appropriate
reserves rather than to operating expense, thereby offsetting, to some
extent, the continuing rise in operating costs. Consequently, the Trustees
feel that a renewal of the Per Capita of $1.00 will be sufficient to support
their operating budget for the current fiscal year.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution:
"RESOLVED, that the sum of $1.00 per capita be levied
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1961, the proceeds to be paid
to the Trustees of the Masonic Homes."
In submitting the budget for your consideration, we wish to make
special reference to several items.

NEW APPROPRIATIONS
In consultation with the Deputy Grand Master we discussed his
plans for the coming year which must be made in advance.
A new Special Committee on Masonic Information will be formed,
whose duties will be outlined at a later date. It is estimated that an
appropriation of $1,500.00 will be required, and it is included in the
budget.
The Library Comission will be asked to put into operation a special
program and will incur expenses in the estimated amount of $675.00,
which has been included in the budget.

276

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING S OF THE

HISTORY COMMIT TEE
The History Committee has been asked to begin assembling the data
on Masonry in this jurisdiction in the decade which has elapsed since
the publication of " I 00 Years of Masonry in California." lt is estimated
that $3.000.00 will be required for this work in the current year. This
amount has been budgeted.
Your Finance Committee is in agreement that we should begin this
work without further delay. However, we feel that publication of any
supplement should be at greater intervals than ten years and recommend
that consideratio n by Grand Lodge of publication be reserved for such
time in the future as may be deemed most desirable.
RETIREM ENT PENSION PLAN
We are pleased to report that in the las t fiscal year the Retirement
Pension Plan became completely operative for Grand Lodge employees
and those of its agencies in the employ of the University Clubhouses,
Boards of Relief and Employeme nt Bureaus.
The full amount of past and current service costs for all pa rticipating
employees from the effective dates to the end of the fiscal year was paid
to the Trustee bank. For Grand Lodge purposes. payment to fund past
service costs is made at the required minimum rate of 2,Yi % of the total
of such services.
The details of these payments are listed in the audit report which
will be printed in the proceedings of this Communica tion.
For the current year our Actuarial Advisors estimate the cost of
direct employees to be $12,744.00, and of agency employees to be
$10,157.00. We have included these amounts in the budget.
MEMORI AL TEMPLE CA MPAIGN EXPENSE
On the recommenda tion of this C ommittee, Grand Lodge approved
the cost of the Open Book as a charge against the appropria tion for
Memorial T emple Campaign Expense. The entire appropriatio n was
not spent, as final bills were not rendered during the fiscal year.
We estimate that $8.500.00 will be required in the current year to
complete payment for this project and have included that amount in the
total appropriatio n of $10,000.00 for Temple Campaign Expense. The
remaining $1,500.00 is to cover incidental items of expense which may
occur from time to time.
Upon investigation , your Committee has concluded that Grand
Lodge will not be required to make further appropriatio ns for regular
and full ~time secretarial expense in the Memorial Temple Campaign for
voluntary contribution s and will be guided accordingly .

277

BUDGET 1960-1961
ADMINISTRA TIVE AND OFFICE

Salaries ................................................................... .
$ 86,400.00
Grand Lodge Offices Temple Operation and Maintenanc e Expense ....... . 18,000.00
Audit ..................................................................................
3,000.00
¥rand Treasurer............................................................... .
250.00

T ~::~~:::!txpT:~:-·;~··h·

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

g p ..... ........................................ ...
Social Security and Unemploym ent Taxes ..... .
------···-·H··Investment Counse1
Retirement Pension Pi~-~-=-·· -·· · ··· ···--·-· ····· ···---- ····--·- -··---- ..
. Grand Lodge Office Employees... ............................
Retirement Pension Plan Grand Lodge Agency Employees.... ...... ..................

4,500.00
4,250.00
3,000.00
500.00
12,744.00
10,157.00

TOTAL .................... .... ............. ................. .. ..... ....... $142,801 .00

GENERAL EXPENSE

$ 14.000.00
Annual Communica tion
Conferences .................. :::::::::: .............................. ........... .

5,000.00

Grand Lodge Officers' Travel ..E-~~~~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::
8.000.00
Grand Orgainst and Grand Tiler........
850.00
.................... ...... ..
Grand Master's Travel, Secretarial
and Miscellaneo us Expense......... ................. ........... . I 0.000.00
Investment Counsel for Lodges........................... ............ .
5.000.00
Grand Master's Portrait Expense..... .............. .... ...... ...... .
5,000.00
~epresentatives' Mileage........................ ......................... . 37,500.00
R~::~17!1ti~-E~~~~~-;········-········· ..····-................................... 23.500.00
Grand Lecturer.................... .................................. ... .
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery................. ... ..... .
Ritual Committee and Inspectors'
Conference and Travel Expense...... .. .. ........ ..
R .

600.00
2.000.00

~:~i;;::ie~tu t ~?s··_-_.._.".".".".": .-:.-.-:.-: .-.-: :.-.-.·."::.·.-.-:.·::::.·::.·.-:::.::::::::::.-:::::
upplies and MiscelJaneo us .... ................... . ... ........ .. ... ..... .
Insurance:

14.000.00
900.00
3,250.00
4.500.00

~~~~~n;~u~~::.~~~-~-~~~~--~~~-- ~-~-~~~::: :::::::::::::::::

8,000.00
l ,250.00

TOT AL ............................. ............................ ...........$113,350.00

PRO CEEDINGS OP THE

278
APPROPRIATIONS

Activities Committee.......................................... ....· ........... $ 4.000.00
1.500.00
Board of Control. ................................ -······· .......................
750.00
Charters Committee....................................... ············ ···· ··
2.500.00
Columbia Temple Committee............... .......... .. .... ....... ... .
1.000.00
Constitution Observance Committee ........ .. .. ..... .............
Correspondence Committee 2,000.00
"California Fremason" ........... ......... .. ....................... .
750.00
.
.........................
De Molay Committee..............................
11,800.00
Employment Bureaus..................... ...................... ............ .
Endowment Board ................................................. ........... 14.000.00
3.000.00
History Committee........................ ...................... .. . ···········
2,000.00
Committee on Masonic Education................................... .
2.750.00
.
...........................................
Lodge Financing Committee
10,000.00
Memorial Temple - Campaign Expense.......................
2,000.00
Committee on Public Schools ........................... ................ .
Boards of Relief 580.00
Reimbursement for Sojourners ...... .................... ....... .
750.00
Committee on Commercialism....... ......... ............ .. .......... .
250.00
Sojourners Committee ................... ........................... ··· .. ···
University Clubhouses:
Berkeley .................................................................... 18,000.00
Los Angeles ...................... -····.-..... -.. -.-.·· · · ·· · ·· ·· ··· · · · ·· -··· 16,500.00
150.00
Code Commission......................... ... .. .. .............. . ..........
I .000.00
Grand Lodge Legal Expense..... .. ....... .........................
500.00
Investment Committee ........................... .......... ................ .
750.00
Relief Fund - Grand Master................ .......... .............. .
250.00
Committee on Masonic Cemeteries ...
I .500.00
Committee on Masonic Information ............................
675.00
.
........
.
...
...
...
....
.
Library Commission....................... .
TOT AL .................................................................... $ 98.955.00
RECAPITULATION

Administrative and Office ................................................. $142,801.00
General Expense.............................................. .. .... .......... 143.350.00
Appropriations .................................................................. 98,955.00
GRAND TOTAL.. .................................... .............. $385,106.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

279

ESTIMATED INCOME AND EXPENSE

Dues from Lodges, Fees for Degrees. etc . ............. ......... $319,363.50
Income from Investments, Interest.................. ............. .... 33.000.00
Payment from Masonic Homes Endowment Board Expense..................................... 14,000.00
Payment from Masonic Homes Secretarial and other Services....................... .......... 20,000.00
TOTAL ESTIMATED INCOME ...................... .. $386.363.50
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS AND
BUDGETED ITBMS ............................................ 385.106.00
ESTIMATED SURPLUS .............................. ........ $

1,257.50

CAPITAL ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS

Two Typewriters .............................................................. $
Filing Cabinets................................................................. .
One Electric Typewriter..................................................
Supply Room Equipment ................. .................................
Library Equipment............................................................
Miscellaneous ..................................................... ...............

300.00
250.00
550.00
1.000.00
1,925.00
400.00

TOTAL .................................................................... $

4,42 5.00

An examination of the annual budget for each of the last ten years
shows a fairly steady increase in the overall figu re. In view of the continued increase in the cost of all goods and services , it was to be expected that Grand Lodge would be and will continue to be faced with
this problem. F or example. in the budget which you have adopted , the
following items show increases over the previous year by these amounts:
Retirement Pension Plan - $11.900.00; Annual C ommunication $1 .000.00; Salaries - $16.400.00: Representatives' Mileage - $1.500.00; History Committee - $2.250.00. The Library Commission is
included for $675.00. and a new Special Committee on Masonic Information has been added for $1 .500.00. In addition to the above, there
are 9 separate items which have increased by $1 .000.00 or Jess for a
total of $5.750.00.
As against the above increases. we have been able to decrease only
3 items for a total of $7, 100.00.
In our efforts to eliminate any expense which would not contribute
directly to the efficiency of our operations and the support of the welfare and progress of Masonry in this jurisdiction, we have had the

280

GRAND LODGE O P CA L! P O RN IA

PROC EEDINGS OP THE

cooperation of the Chairmen of all Committees and Boards of Grand
Lodge and those in charge of administration .
However. we must all take a realistic view of risin g costs. Grand
Lodge is only as strong as the constituent Lodges. It would seem to
be advisable for each Lodge to re-examine its financial position in the
light of increased cost of operation and , where it appears necessary,
give consideration to an increase in member dues .
The estimated s urplus of $I .257.50 is much less than an amount
which would be considered desirable. normally. and provides no margin
for any emergencies which may arise; but if proper care is exercised in
spending Grand Lodge funds. we are of the opinion that estimated
income s hould suffice and that no increase in per capita is required.
W e. therefore. off er the following resolution:
RESOLVED. that for the purpose of paying the expenses of
Grand Lodge. a per capita aggregating $3.25 be levied for the
fiscal year ending June 30, I 96I, divided as follows :
Constitutional Per Capita for California Masonic

Mas~~m~~!~~~~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::$! :~
Constitutional Per C apita for Grand Lodge......................................
Additional Per Capita for Grand Lodge............................................

.50
.75

TOT AL PER CA PITA ............................................................ $3.25
BUDGET

0NEQUARTER-}ULY 1, I961 -SEPTEMBER30.1961
ADMINISTRATIVE A N D OFFICE

Salaries .............................................................................. $ 21.600.00
Grand Lodge Offices 4.500.00
Temple Operation and Maintenance Expense ...... ..
75.00
Grand Treasurer............................................................... .
1.125.00
Postage and Express......................................................... .
900.00
Telephone and Telegraph ................................................
750.00
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes..................... .
TOTAL .................................................................... $ 28.950.00
GEN ERAL EXPENSE
Annual Communication ................ ................................... .
Conferences ............................................................. ........ .
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel Expense ...................... .. .. ..
Printing ..............................................................................
Ritualistic Expense:
Grand Lecturer ......................................................... .

5,450.00
600.00
3.000.00
4.000.00
150.00

Ritual Committee and Inspectors '
Conference and Travel Expense......................
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationary..........................
Retirement Pay..................................................................
Veteran Buttons ............................................................... .
Supplies and Miscellaneous ..............................................
Insurance ............................................................................

28 1
l ,500.00
500.00
225.00
800.00
I .I 00.00
8.500.00

TOTAL ....................................................................$ 25 .825.00
APPROPRIATIONS
Relief Fund - Grand Master.......................... ................ $
Activities Committee... ............................................... ..... .
Board of Control. .............. ................................................ .
Charters Committee......................................................... .
Columbia Temple Committee.......................................... ..
Constitution Observance Committee............................... .
De Molay Committee...................................................... ..
E ndowment Board............................................................
History Committee.............................................. ............. .
Committee on Masonic Education ................................ ..
Lodge Financing Committee ........................................... .
Memorial Temple - Campaign Expense ......................
Committee on Public Schools....................................... ..
Committee on Commercialism................................ ........ ..
C ode Commission .................................................. ........... .
Investment Committee......................................................
Committee on Masonic Cemeteries ...... .......................... ..
Sojourners Committee.............................................. ....... .
Committee on Masonic Information................................
Libra ry Commission ..........................................................

300.00
2.000.00
300.00
175.00
375.00
200.00
100.00
2,000.00
750.00
500.00
400.00
I .500.00
250.00
250.00
50.00
125.00
75.00
50.00
375.00
175.00

TOTAL ......................................................................$ 9.950.00
RECAPITULATION
Administrative and Office................................................ $ 28.950.00
General Expense................................................................ 25.825.00
9,950.00
Appropriations ..................................................................
GRAND TOTAL.. ...................................... ............ $ 64,725.00
Each of the recommendations of the Committee on Finance was
separately adopted.
The entire report of the Committee was then adopted.

282

PROCEEDINGS OF TUE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1959 RECOMMEN DATIONS COMMITTE E ON
RESEARCH

IN GRAND LODGE

On motion ma de by Brother Everett Houser. which was regularly
seconded and carried, the recommendatio ns which had been contained
in the 1959 report of the Grand Lodge Committee on Research, and
which were carried forward to this Commun ication as unfinished business, were withdrawn from consideration.

At 4 :30 p.m .. Grand Lodge was called off until 10 :00 a.m. Friday.

283

MORNING SESSION-FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1960
At 10 :00 a.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. The invocation was delivered by the acting Grand Chaplain. The
minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions of Thursday, September
29th. were read and approved.

CALLING UP PROCEDUR ES
The Grand M aster had specified the calling up procedures in advance and they were completed as follows:

Session

Officer

Monday a .m .... . ........CHARLES CHADROW. W . M .

San Diego Lodge N o. 35, using gravel
presented October 2. 1959, by the Past
Masters of San Diego Lodge No. 35.
Monday p.m...

. ... ..... HARRISON B. SHELLNUT, SENIOR WARDEN
Redwood Empire Lodge No. 683. using

ga vel presented December 3. 1959. by
East San Diego Lodge No. 561.
Tuesday a.m... . ........WALTER EDWARD M OLLER. P. M.

American River Lodge No. 795, using
gavel pres e nted August 8, 1959, by
Chino Valley Lodge No. 427.
Tuesday p.m ....... .....FREDE. GREEN, W . M .

Hollywood Lodge No. 355, using gavel
presented February 16. 1960. by Point
Loma Lodge N o. 620.
Wednesday a .m .. ......RAYMOND NoEL OUSLEY. W . M.

Golden Valley Lodge No. 796. using
gavel presented Mar c h 28. 1960, by
607th Masonic District.
Thu rsday a. m ..............JOHN JosHUA WILLIAMS, SR., P. M.
Josiah W. Roller Lodge No. 761, using
gavel prese nte d March 17, 1960, by
A zure Lodge No . 533.
Thursday p.m....... . ...HARRY C. H oPGOOD, W . M .
S an Pedro Lodge No. 332. using gavel
presented June 11. 1960. bg Yucaipa
Lodge No. 726.
Friday a.m.. ...

. .....CARLOS J. SLOAN, W . M.

Salinas Lodge No. 204, using gavel presented O ctober 10. 1959, bg Ma sons of
San D iego County.

284

PROCEEDING S OP T HE

PHILIPPIN E GAVELS
The Grand Secretary directed the attention of Grand Lodge to a
gift from the Grand Lodge of the Philippines. presented by Brother
Honoria M. Saycon of Kasilawan Lodge No. 77. The gift consisted
of gavels for the Grand Master, the Senior Grand Warden and the
Junior Grand W arden, all made of narra wood, the national tree of
the Philippine Islands. The gift of a gavel of sim ila r wood was made
personally to the Grand Secretary by Brother Saycon.
Grand Master Joe L. Shell made an appropriate speech of acceptance on behalf of the Grand Lodge of California.

ANNUAL ELECTIO N
The Grand M aster announced that th e hour had arrived for the
Annual Election a nd directed the Grand Secretary to read the Sections
of the Constitution applying to the sa me.
The R. W. Alfred F. Breslauer, Starr King Lodge No. 344 , was
elected Grand M aster.
The R. W. Guy B. Mize, Unity Lodge No. 368, was elected Deputy
Grand Master.
The R . W. Ira W. Coburn, Doric Lodge No. 216, was elected
Senior Grand Warden.
The W. Elmer W. Heald. El Centro Lodge No. 384. was elected
Junior Gra nd W a rden.
The M . W . Arthur M . Warren, Pa st Grand M aster. Mount D avidson Lodge No. 481 , was elected Grand Treasurer.
The M . W. Edward H . Siems, Past Grand Master. Plymouth
Lodge No. 560, was elected Grand Secretary.
The V . W. Donald G. C ampbell. Granada Lodge No. 608. was
re-elected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand M aster-elect d irected the Grand Secretary to read the
names o f the appointive officers as fo llows:
Grand Chaplain, The Reverend Clarence Reidenbach. Sequoia
Lodge No. 349.
A ssista nt Gra nd Lecturers: C la re B. Campbell. North Butte Lodge
No. 230; H arold N. Richa rds , W ashington Lo<l ~e N o. 20; Arthur J.
Kahn, Paul Revere Lodge No. 462 ; Raymond G. T aylor. Libertas Lodge
No. 466; Ralph W. Collins. La C anada Lodge No. 739; W. Ben Sorrells,
Laguna Beach Lodge No. 672.
Grand Orator, Myron Smith, Univers ity Lodge No. 394.
Assistant Gra nd Treasurer. Paul A. Pflueger, Amity Lodge No. 370.
Assistant Grand Secretary. H enry D . Oliphant, Sa n Fra ncisco
Lodge N o. 360.
Grand Marshal. Charles Becker, Starr King Lod ge No. 344.

G RAND LODG E OF CA LIFOR NIA

285

Grand Standard Bearer, Daniel M . Cameron, W ashington Lodge
No. 20.
Grand Sword Bearer, Oran W. Palmer, Secu rity Lodge No. 581.
Grand Bible Bearer, James C. Nisbet, Oroville Lodge No. 103.
Senior Grand Deacon, Charles W a rren, Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57.
Junior Grand D eacon. Verne W. Hendrix. Mount Diablo Lodge
No. 448.
Senior Grand Steward , Thomas W. Thurman , Silver Cord Lod ge
No. 505.
Junior Gra nd Steward, Eugene P. Jijine, Lodge M aui No. 472.
Grand Pursuivant. Paul R. Nichols, Henry Knox Lodge No. 662.
Grand Organist, H arold Mueller, California Lodge No. 1.
Grand Tiler, David Wright, Menlo Park Lodge N o. 651.
Announcement was made of the following appointmen ts by the
Grand Master-elec t :
A s Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California. Edward J. Blickfeldt to succeed Ralph H . Head (term expired) and George D . Gavin
to succeed Past Gra nd Master Arthur M . Warren (term expired) .
As Trustees of the California M asonic M emorial Temple, Ralph H.
Head to succeed Past Grand Master Edgar V . Stewart, Jr. (term expired ) and Sam uel J. Jacobs to succeed Past Grand Master Edward H .
Siems (elected Grand Secretary). John W. Davey was re-appointed .
At 11 :55 a.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 2 :00 p .m.

286

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRA ND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

AFTE RNOO N SESS ION- Friday, September 30, 1960

GAVE L PRES ENTA TION

At 2 :00 p.rn. Grand Lodge assemb led.

INST ALLA TION OF OFFIC ERS
The Most Worsh ipful Leslie E. Wood , Past Grand Master , acted
were
as Master of Cerem onies and the officers, elected and appoin ted,
Ritual.
the
with
ance
accord
in
Master
Grand
retiring
installe d by the
a
The newly installe d Grand Master investe d his predec essor with
button.
lapel
Past Grand Maste r's
reThe Charle s Albert Adams insigni a was transfe rred from the
officers
chair
other
the
and
,
Master
Grand
tiring to the incumb ent
exchan ged the Arthur S. Crites lapel pins.
to
The Everet t House r lapel pin was transfe rred from the retiring
.
the incumb ent Grand Orator
g
Past Grand Master Lloyd E. Wilso n, on behalf of the outgoin
bach
Reiden
ce
Claren
nd
Revere
Very
Grand Chapla in. presen ted to the
Robert
a Grand Chapla in's pin which had been provid ed by Brothe r
ctured
manufa
and
Wilson
r
Brothe
by
ed
design
been
B. Watts and had
was
pin
the
for
under the directio n of Brothe r Wilson . The gold
Mrs.
of
father
the
to
secured from a jewel which had been presen ted
nts
Watts at the time he became a Past Master. The stone which orname
a
from
d
receive
jewelry
some
of
part
a
the pin had previou sly been
Horne.
residen t of the M asonic
, inThe Most Worsh ipful Lloyd E . Wilson , Past Grand Master
tion.
designa
new
his
of
apron
the
with
ter
vested the Past Grand M as
Lodge
A gift to be tender ed to Mrs. Shell from the membe rs of Grand
Grand
Past
rren,
a
W
.
M
Arthur
ipful
Worsh
Most
the
by
ted
was presen
by
Master . The Junior Past Grand Master eviden ced his apprec iation
.
tations
presen
both
ledged
the courteo us manne r in which he acknow

MASO NIC TEMP LE MAR CH
No.
Brothe r James H. Conne r, Past M aster of Richmo nd Lodge
nic
"Maso
the
of
375, presen ted to the Grand Master an origina l copy
the
of
time
the
at
1863
in
Templ e March " w hich had been compo sed
omery
Montg
and
Post
at
e
first occupa ncy of the Mason ic Templ
issue
Streets . Refere nce to this item was contain ed in the Autum n, 1955,
ion
possess
the
into
e
com
had
copy
This
son."
Freema
of the "Ca lifornia
the
to
of Brothe r Les Butche r of Richm ond Lodge for presen tation
Grand M aster.
r
The Grand Maste r fittingl y expres sed his apprec iation to Brothe
historic
and
Conne r and to Richm ond Lodge No. 375 for this interes ting
docum ent.

287

ul
On behalf of the membe rs o f Starr King Lodge N o. 344 a beautif
iation,
apprec
his
sing
expres
In
gavel was presen ted to the Grand Master .
him in
the Grand M aster comme nted that it would be the gavel used by
Lodge.
rand
G
of
closing
official
his first
.

At 3:35 p.m., all business being comple ted, Grand Lodge was closed

m due for m.

tf''ch~~t
Grand Secret ary

Grand Master

SPECIAL APPENDIX

GRANO LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

289

SPECIA L APPEND I X
CONTENT S
P age
Budget for 1960.61 ............................................. ................................... 290
Gra nd Lodge Audit ............................................................ .................... 294
A udit of A nnual R eturns. 1960.................... ........... .................... ......... 309
Masonic Homes Audit............................................ .............................. 3 11
Memoria l T emple Audit ........................................................................ 341

Statistical:
Residents at Union City.................... ........................................ ...... 350
Children at Covina Home. .................... ........................................... 359
Number of Residents. Union City and Covina .............................. 361
Per Capita Cost, Union City and Covina ............... ....................... 361
Contributio ns to Special Reserves................ .................. ................ 362

GRA ND LODGE OF C ALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

290

291

APPRO P RIATIONS

BUDGET 1960-1961

A ctivities C ommittee.. --------------·------------·-· ··------·--·----····-··-·-$
Board of Control. ___________________________ __________ __ ________ ________________

ADMINISTRATIVE AND OFFICE

$ 86.400.00
Salaries ···----·-------··---·-·---· --------------··----·-···------··-------·
Grand Lodge Offices 18,000.00
Temple Operation and Maintenance Expense.
3,000.00
Audit ····------···----·---···-------···--------··---··--·-··------·····-------···-··-··
250.00
Grand Treasurer... -------------------·--------·--·------···------------------··
4.500.00
Postage and Express.... ---·-·-·- -·-·--·----··-··------··-------------------4.250.00
Telephone and Telegraph----··-····--·---·--·--··--···-·---·--------·--3,000.00
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes .. ·-----·-- -·--···· 500.00
Investment CounseL ..... --------·--------------------------------·-···------Retirement Pension Plan Grand Lodge Office Employees .. ----·····-···-----·-···--··- · 12.744.00
Retirement Pension Plan Grand Lodge Agency Employees ______ __ _·· ····-····- -- ···_1_0_.1_5_7_.oo_

TOT AL ------------·-·····----···--·----····-····--·-···---···-------------$142,801.00

GENERAL EXPENSE

14,000.00
Annual Communication... ----·- ·-······---·· ··- -·---·--·------····----····$
5,000.00
Conferences --·--·--·--·-···--·---···-····--··-······---···---·-·--·------·-·----8,000.00
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel Expense ........ .. -----··-------·850.00
Grand Orgainst and Grand Tiler ... ------·-·-··-·--··--··-·--··--···
Grand Master's Travel, Secretarial
and Miscellaneous Expense--------------··--···-··------- ··-·--· 1O,OOO.O0
Investment Counsel for Lodges-----·· ·---------···-··-·--··-- -----·-··
5,000.00
Grand Master's Portrait Expense........ -------··--·-··--·---------5,000.00
0
Representatives' Mileage..... ----·-·-··--·······----·--··--·--··--···-·-·· 37 ' 5 23. 50 0 .00

°° °

Printing .....------······----·····-------··-------···--------··--------··-------·-···--

Ritualistic Expense:
600.00
Grand Lecturer---····-------···-··········------··--------·-·---··--··-·
2 ,000.00
Inspectors' Aprons and Station~ry ..... .... ············ ···-·
Ritual Committee and Inspectors
Conference and Travel Expense..... ··-·---- ····-· 14.ggg~gg
Retirement Pay.. --------------····------···-···-----··-------·---------··------3,250.00
Veteran Buttons ----·-------··-·-···-----------------·-·--···-------··--·-----··
4,500.00
Supplies and Miscellaneous .. ----·-- -·-··-···--·----···--··--------·-···lnsurance:
8 000 00
Workmen's Compensation for Lodges ....... ----------···
1:z50:00
Miscellaneous -----·····----······--····-------···-··············-······------TOT AL ----······----····-·-·········--············--------······--·······-$143,350.00

Charters Committee.. -----··---------·--···-···-················ ···--········
Columbia Temple Committee ........... -- ---- ------· ··· -···--··--·····-Constitution Observance Committee .. ·--·-·- ······-·-- ·-·-·······
Correspondence Committee "California Fremason''---·-···-····-···-·····-- ···········--····· ···
De Molay Committee............ ___ _______ ___ _________ ____________________ __
Employment Bureaus.. ·-··----------···---···-··········-- -·- -·------·--··-·
Endowment Board.......................... ......................... ........ .

4,000.00
1,50 0.00
750.00
2.500.00
1,000.00
2,000.00
750.00
11 ,800.00
14,000.00
3.000.00
2,000.00
2,750.00
10,000.00
2,0 00.00

H istory Committee·--------------------------- -·-···-------····-···-··-·····-·
Committee on Masonic Education.............. ··-····-·····-···· ····
Lodge Financing Committee............... ... __..... .... ............. ..
Memorial Temple - Campaign Expense ........... ............ .
Committee on Public Schools ........................... ....... ..... ... .
Boards of Relief Reimbursement for Sojourners........................... .......
580.00
Committee on Commercialism............. ............... ....... .......
750.00
250.00
Sojourners Committee.. ·--------·--·-·····-·····-·-········-·-···-·········
University Clubhouses:
Berkeley --------------·-········--···-- ·--·-·-··- ···-·-··-·-······-··-······ 18,000.00
Los Angeles................................ ________. ______ _______ ____ ...... 16,500.00
Code Commission______ __ ___________________ ······-------····· ···········-----150.00
G rand Lodge Legal Expense................... ........................ .
1.00 0.00
Investment Committee ........................ ________ _____ _______ _________ _
500.00
750.00
Relief Fund - Grand Master.·--·-····-----·--· ·····--·---·······----Committee on Masonic Cemeteries ........ .................... ..... .
250.00
Committee on M asonic Information ____ __ __ _______________ ·-···---1,500.00
6 75.00
Library Commission ............................... ----·-·········· ····· ······

TOT AL ........................ ....................... ..................... $ 98 ,955.00

RECA P ITULATION

Administrative and Office .... . .. ............ ···-·····-···--·--·---·------$142,801.00
General Expense ............... ·-·-··-·····--····---·--·-·-····--·-······----- 143,350.00
Appropriations ·················· -·····------···· ----··- --·----·--··· ----········ 98 ,955.00
GRAND TOTAL.. ............................... ......... .......... $385, 106.00

292

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ESTIMATED INCOME AND EXPENSE
........... .. ... $319,363.50
Dues from Lodges, Fees for Degr ees, etc. ........
................. 33.000.00
Income from Inves tmen ts, Inter est... ................
Paym ent from Maso nic Hom es .... 14,000.00
Endo wme nt Boar d Expe nse.................. ................
es
Paym ent from Maso nic Hom
.......... 20,000.00
Secre taria l and other Services........................
........ $386,363.50
TOTAL EST IMA TED INC OME................
AND
TOT AL APP ROP RIA TIO NS
.... 385,106.00
BUD GET ED ITEJ MS ........ ................ ................
EST IMA TED SUR PLU S ........... .. ................

.... ..... $

1,257.50

Ritualistic Expe nse:
Gran d Lect urer.....................
·····
Ritua l Com mitte e and Inspec~~~~;· ··-- ············ ········
Conf erenc e and Trav el Expe nse
ctors ' Apro ns and Stati onar y... ········ ··············
Inspe
.
·······················
Retir emen t Pay. ................
·················
········
········
················
Vete ran Butto ns
····· ········ ·····
Supp lies and M~~~jj~-;;;,~~--········ ········ ·· ········
········································ ······
Insur ance
.................................................. ...

150.00
1.500.00
500.00
225.00
800.00
1,100.00
8,500.00

······-- ···················
TOT AL ....................................................................$ 25,825.00

APPROPRIATIONS

CAPITAL ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS
..............$
Two Type write rs ........................................ ........
..........
........
........
........
Filing Cabi nets................................
..........
........
........
........
........
One Elect ric Type write r........
........
........
........
........
..
........
........
t
Supp ly Room Equi pmen
...
........
........
........
........
........
........
........
t.
Libra ry Equi pmen
.
...
........
Misc ellan eous ........................................................

300.00
250.00
550.00
1,000.00
1,925.00
400.0 0

.... $
TOT AL ................................................................

4,425.00

BUDGET
, 1961

ONE QUA RTE R- JULY L 1961~SEPTEMBER30

ADMINISTRATIVE AND 0FPICE
.............. $ 21,600.00
Salar ies ..............•.................................................
Gran d Lodg e Offices 4,500.00
........
Tem ple Oper ation and Main tenan ce Expe nse
75.00
.
...
........
....
........
........
........
Gran d Trea surer........................
.00
1,125
.
.
........
........
........
........
........
........
Posta ge and Expr ess ........
0
900.0
.
.....
........ ..
Tele phon e and Tele grap h................................
0
750.0
.
.....
........
Social Secu rity and Unem ploy ment Taxe s........
.. $ 28,95
TOTAL •...............................................................
GENERAL EXPENSE
............ .. .
Annu al Com muni catio n............................. ........
........ ......
Conf erenc es ........................ ................................
........... .
........
Gran d Lodg e Officers' Trav el Expe nse........
......
........
........
Print ing ........................................................

293

0.00..

5,450.00
600.00
3,000.00
4,000.00

d Mas ter...........

f FundC- Gran
Relie
. . .
omm ittee
A c t 1v1t1e
s

$

···········---·················
························
········
········
················

Boar d of Cont rol.
······················· ····················· ····· ··········
Char ters Commit~···ee.
.......... .
······
Co Jumbia Tem ple Com mitt ········································
·
········
········
········
-······
;itt;_
Cons tituti on Obse rvan ce c::-;
·
········
········
········
······
.....
e......
De Mola y Committe
·····
········
········
········
················
Endo wme nt Boar d
····
Histo ry Com mltt ································ ········ ········
····· ·······
·····
·
·
·
··
Com mitte e on M==~~j~·-·iid~-~~~-i-~~---···
········
········
········
···
·······
e
Lodg e Finan cing Com mitte
···· ·· ·
········
········
--~~-·~--E~·i···
Campa
Mem orial Tem ple _
9
....
........
..
........
se
P
Com mitte e on Publ ic Scho ol _
.
......
........
........
........
........
:··
ialisi
Com mitte e on Com merc
··
········
········
········
········
········
Code Commission
······· ··········· · ····· ··· ······· ··· · ·· ··· ·· ·
Inves tmen t Com~itt~····e······
...........
C
·· ····· ···
o_mmittee on Maso nic Cemet~;i·~~---····················· ········ ·
········
······
···
········
e..
mitte
Com
So1ourners
··· ············
C:ommittee on Maso nic -j"~-£~;~-~-LJ······· ······ ···················· .....
········
.......
on
Libra ry Com miss ion............. ........................ ............

300.00
2.000.00
300.00
175.00
375.00
200.00
100.00
2,000.00
750.0 0
500.00
i00.00
1.500 .00
250.0 0
250.0 0
50.00
125.00
75.00
50.00
375.0 0
175.00

$
TOTAL ············-·····-··················· ................................................ 9.950 .00
RECAPITULATION
Adm inistrative and Office................................................ $ 28,950.00
Gene ral Expense............
················ 25.825.00
·····························
Appr opria tions
9,950 .00
···•······························································
GRA ND TOT AL

··································· • •••••••• •·-· •• ••$ 6"'"'I 725 00
I

•

GRAN D LODGE OP CALIF ORNIA

PROCE EDING S OF THE

294

295

GRA ND LODGE AUD IT
We attach the !ollowi nq for your infor~ation:

SKINN ER & HAMM OND

0"' E

mmrr A

STATEllE\'T or ASSr.TS . LIAS ! Lrr IES .
RESERVF; ANO FU.'iO BAlAM:E ARISING
FROll CASH TRA.~SACT IONS

EXHIBIT 8

STATf.llENT or REl'ENUE AND EXPENSE ON

C 1. EVC: ... • Lil"TC,l't

SA" FRAN CI SCO•

July 20, 1960

A CASH BASrs

TWO PAGlS

The Most lforshl p!ul Grand Lodge ot
rree and Accepte d llas ans o! the
State of Califor nia
Califo rnia Masonic lle 01orial Temple
1111 Califor nia S treet
San Francis co 8, Califo rnia

NOTES TO fINAliCTAL STATEIENTS

,ll!Nf;

SCllEOOLE 2

Cund balance arislnq !rOll cash transac tions

oC The Most Worshi pful Grand Lodge

sarroou: 3

expense on 1

AIJIIl'HSTRATIVE ANO Off ICE EXPENSE

GP.NERAL EXPENSE

g'"era lly 1ccepte d
Our exHina tion was 11ode in accorda nce with

I

SCl!Eruu: 5

cJrcum stanees .

with the excepti on o! the

APPliOPI IA? IONS

COllJ>AIUTT\'E Wrrn

FISCAL YEARS EN!i'.n

JUNE j jbi 1960 ANO I 95?
0 iITI! Bil!X;tt

exHine d by us

o! the
trnel, secret arial, and 111scel laaeous expense

1ent Bureau s and to the
Grud !laster , and the approp riation s to t:.ploy1
q such expense s and 1pprop rlatiou
Uaheu lty Clubho uses. No vouche rs corerin
Lodge.

han been require d to be tiled with Grand

presen t !lirly tbe uaeta,
In our opinion , the acc011panylng state11 ents
The lost Worshi pful Graad Lndqe o!
liabili ties, res erve, and !u•d balance o!
Free and Accepte d losons o! the State o!

Call!o rnl• 1t Juu :J>, 1'160, 1rhi1111

primar ily !rOll cash transac tions, and the
disburs ed by it !or the year then ended,
precedi ng year,

('O)IPAR.ATT\'F. WITH

rlsCAI. YEARS ENlJF.D
J!hiE 31 1960 ANO 195?
AIW WITH BUOGf.f

d such tu ts o! the accoun ting
1ud I ting standar ds, and accord ingly Include

year were
The details o! all expend itures during the

COl!PAJ!ATIVE WITH

F1StAt YEARS EN!i:n

JUN~?
ANO WITH 8UDGf.f

cuh bash for the year

as we couid end aeceua ry in the
records and such other auditin g procedu res

JO, 1960

FISCAL YEAR ENDED
JIJ1I E JO l 'i16U

o! Califo rnia IS of June :.>, 1'160,

and the related stateme nt of revenue and
then ended,

r ISCAL YEAR ENDED
JL.it JO , I 'i16U

SCl£WL E l

, liabili ties, resene , and
lie hare examin ed the state•e nt oC assets

oC Free and Accepte d .. sons of the State

.Mr: JO, 1960

reYenue recehe d and expense
on a bHis consis tent with tbat of th

SCllEOOU: 6

r lSCAL YEAR ENDED
JtJIE j), 1960

~~
~
Certi!i ed Public Accoun tants

297

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP TH!!.

296

EXHIBlt A

GRANU UlDGE, f . & A . Ill. OF CALlFOllN (A

or

JUNE 30, 1%0

STATtllENT
ASSf.TS. LlABlll!IES I RESERVE.
A/\D rnND BALAo~CE ARlSlNG FROM CASH TRANSACTIONS

GRAND LODGE

EXHIBIT B

f. & A. M. Of" CALIFORNIA

STAn:MENT OF REV ENUE A."iD EXPENSE
ON A CASH BAS IS

FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1960

REVENUE :
Contributions received from Lodges - Schedule 2

!:!!.!.=

CASH ON llAND AND IN DANKS

Masoni c Homes of California

INVEST!llENTS (AT COST ) SCHEDULE l:
Bonds ( Marke t value $205,353. l2l
Preferred stock (Market value $ll4,135.00l
Co01110n stock (!llarket value $276,4l0.50)

$293 ' 165 .10
133,075.09
201, 243 .62

.

California ~asonic Memorial Temple
George Washington Masonic Nat.ional Memori a l

627 ,483.81
Total ( Market value $675,89B.62)

$ 40,300.71
18,676.85
850.00

OTHER ASSETS :
furniture and fixtures (at cost) - Note 2
Insurance premiums adv.need for Lodges - Note 3
Refandabl e deposits with airlines

$946,551,72

Contributions received for special purposes.

Fee s for charters and dispensations
Rents fr om Columbia Temple
Revenu e from insurance premiums advanced for lodges
Revenu e from investments and savings .
Dividends on stock
·

Interest on bonds

59 ,835.56

$668,094 .49

Interest on bank accounts

$320 , 145 .50
301,788.00
7 ,229.00
629, 162.50
$317 ,3B9.22
720.00
300.00
1,576.29
$ 18, 120.12
13 ,006 .94

2,858.52
33,985.58

Sale or supplies held for resale
Purchase or supplies for resale

$ 23,486.51
26 , 974.00
(3,488.37)

TO'rAL ASSETS

1..IABILlTIES:
Contributions of lniliates. held for the Endowment Fund
4
of the George Wa shington llasonlc National Memorial - Note

EXPEl'iSE:

$

4,952.00
1,218.00

Adv ance pay'1'1ents by Lodges on annual returns

Contributions of employees of Grand Lodge or! ice and
other agencies !or retirement pension p lan

Ad11inistrative and office expense - Schedule 3

$115 ,269.14

Genera I expense _ Schedule 4

131,706.53

Appropriations - Schedule 5

80,342.13
$327 ,337 .80

300 .42
$

Total Liabilities

6,470.42
12 ,1>83 .91'

RESERVE FOR ·~ALIFORN lA FREE!llASON" - Note 5

~:

Reimbursement from Ila sonic Homes o! California:
Secretarial and other services
F.ndowment Board expense
$20,000.00
11 ,551.69

$789,163.21

Fl~D BA LANCE :

Balance. June 30, 1959
~: transfer to Reserve for 11:.alifornia
f'reemason°, aw.thorized at 1959
Comunlcation of Grand Lodge - Note 5
Transfer to Administrative and Office
Expense to apply on pe ns io n costs authorhed at 1959 co111111o1nication or
Grand Lodge - S chedule 3

$350,482 .72

Total Reve nue

LIABILITIES, RESERVE. AND Fll<D BALVICE

31I551.69
Net Expense

295,786.11

Balance

$ 54 ,696.61

$ 3 ,457 .55

42,300.00

GAIN ON SAl.£.S OF SECUR ITIES HEW FOR INVES'IllfNI

29,971.17

45 , 757 .55

$743 ,405 .66
Beques t of Hazel S . Lagersen
~:
Net revenue for year ended June 30, 1900 Exhibit B
Balance, June 30, 19&0
TOTAL 1.IABILJTIF.S , RESl::RVE, Alfi Fll<D BALANCE
The acco"'Panying notes a r e a n integral part of thi s itateeent.

2 1,666. b6
64,b67 .78

NET REVENUE FOR YEAR ENDED JI.NE 30, 1960 - Exhibit A

649 '740.10

$668.894.49

The :iccompanyinq notes are an integral part of this statement.

$_114,667 .76

GRANO LODGE, F. & A. ~. OF CALIFOllNIA
NOTES TO f INA!liC JAL STATEMr:'llTS

299

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

PROC EEDINGS OP THE

298

GRANO LO DGE, I'. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
J UNE 30, 1%0

Note l - Basi s of Accounti n9
oC accounting .
The financia l statements have been prepared on th e cash basis
June 30, 1%0
Current operating expen se bills applic3bl e to the year ended
an d unpa id a t June 30 1 1960. werfi of nominal amount .
Note 2 - Furniture and Fixtures
of amounts
Grand l.Ddge a t the 1957 Co.,..un icat ion approved the ca pi taliiation
during
expend ed for f urnish in gs and equipment afte r th a t date. Additions
ip111ent
equ
the cur ren t year amo unted t o $1,199.02 . Furnishing s end
s.
statement
the
on
luded
nc
i
not
are
tion
purch;i sed prior to th e 19!l7 Cofllnunica
Sote 3 ... In surance Prem i ums Advanced for Lodges
Lodge on a
<:omprehe nsive publi c l iability i nsurance is p.rchased by Grand
by such
three - year b asi s to CO \'er lh fl Lod ges not o therwis e cov ered
on a n annual
ins urance . Prrmiucns a r e collected froin the cove r ed Lodges
ced and is
pre.,i um basis . At Jun e :io. 1%0, $16,b76.65 has been • dvan
due from the Lodges .
Note .i .. George Wash i ngton Ma son ic. Na tional Met*>r ial
paid to the
During the current yea r co ntr i butions totaling $7,26 1.00 were
Fndowment Fund of th e Georye Washi n gton Masonic National llletn0rlal
ba~a nce o f
Associatio n, in accordance wi th th ~ Ordina nces. leav i ng a
balance will
c ontributio ns on hand at Jun e 30, 19b0 o! $4,952.00 . This
. 1961.
30
June
nded
e
year
the
g
durin
Fund
be paid t o th e Endow..en t
Note 5 - Reserv e for '1:a Ii foroia FrC'cmason "
Res er ve fo r
The 1956 Cornnunica tion a uthori zed the establishm ent of the
cash
"Californi a Freema son" to provide a gain st the time wh e n the
a l the
r eceipts, du e to t he prepaynten t of s ubs cr iptions, m.a.y not equ
t ion
Co,..unica
1959
The
r urrent ex pe nses of puul i shi ny the Ngnine.
ich was
:1ppro pria l ed $ :-S , ·1 ~17 .55 to be transferre d to the reserv e , wh
n
the excess of the cash receipts f ro lll'\ subsc ripti ons over publicatio
increased
rosts for th e fiscal yr.ar e nded June 30. 1959. This transle r
the rei s~rve to $12 .0f\3 .en , at June 30, 1960.
Nflte b .. Retiremen t Jn comc Pl an
of Gr>nd
The 1955 Co mmun I ca tion approved th e i nclusion of the empl oyees
Pla n,
l.odqe under th e Nasoni c llo mes o f California Ret irement Income
Ca lifornia
On Octo ber J , 1956 th e Boar d of Trustees oC Masoni c Homes of
plan to
the
of
app rov ed and adop t ed a n amended plan to ex tend covera ge
a nd to the
th e employees of Gr a nd Lodge effective on January 1, 195b,
t Burea us
emplo yees of Maso ni c Clullhouses , Boards or Reli e r, and Employmen
The plan, as amended, has been approved by
t\Cfec.tiv~ on January I. l'J~9.
(a)
401
Section
under
trust
th~ Int e rnal Revenue S ervi ce as a qualified
~,01 (a) of tb1
and exc"'fll from into~ t;jx unde r thei provi sions of S ection
·
ln te rn a l Revenue Code.

NOTES TO FINA:-ICIAL STATEMENTS

JUllE 30

l'io te b - Retireme nt Income Plan (Conti nu ed )
of curre nt
During th e f isca l yea r ended Jun e 30, 1%0 , th e full amoun t
amountingservi ce cos ts fr om the effe cti ve dates of t he p lan we re paid
Grand Lodge
r
fo
25
693.
12,
$
and
to $40, 2i4 . 25 fo r Grand Lodge employees
agency emp loyees.
ainount to
The t otal past servi ce cost s f or ell pa rti c ipati ng e.-ployf>es
nimu 11
approxi11at ely $128,000.0 0, ac co rdin g t o t he actua r y. The .,l
mounting
annual payments of 2-1 / 2% have been paid to J une 30, 1%0 a
Lodge
to $ 5,SJ:l.40 f or Gra nd Lodge e""lo yees and $2 ,852 .60 for Grand
agen cy e<nployees .

Note 7 - ''Californ ia f.· r eemason"
r the
The publi~ation o f the •"Cali fornia f r eeniason .. continue d u.nde
resolu~10~ a dopt ed at the 1954 Comuni ca tion . D1.1.rinn the year
neous
s ubscript io ns we re s old at various rate s r11nd to ge ther with miscella this
sa les produced r eve nue of $ 59 , 402. 15 . In th e financial statements
pondence
es
rr
Co
the
of
nses
revenu e has b ee n. offset nga inst the expe
in excess
Coanittee _amount1ng to $5 1.952.7 2. r es ultin9 i n c ash re ce ipts
Schedule 5
of cash dubursem ents in the 3mount of $7 , 449.43. a s shown on
the prepaid
come
in
The ~ e t reven ue o~ G~and Lodge for the yea r incl udes in
is
por~rn n of subscr1pt1 on payments rece iv ed durin g th e yea r . It
been
esti113t~ th a t approxinat c Jy 2J2 ,000 i ndividual i ssu~ s have
to t"entys ubscr ibed for Iutur• issue at subscript i on rates of fi ft een
ftve cents an issue.
Note 6 - Contlngeft l Liability
Meaorial
Under d ate _o f Octobe~ -4, 1955. · th e o ffi cers of Ca lifornia ldasonic
for a total
Teqpl e s i gn ed promu sory notes with six San Francisco banks
t i on
of $3, 000 ,oOO.OO . Under au thoriza tion given at th e 1953 Col7Wltuniea
Masonic '
Grand Lodge became the guarantor oC th csu notes. California 1%0 .
30,
June
at
s
e
t
no
Meoo rial Tenple owed Sl.763 . 790 .00 on th ese

1%0

PROCE EDING S OF THE

300

GRAND LODGE. r . G A. II • or CALlfORN IA

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

SCHEDULE l

GRANO LDOCE f . & A . Ill . OF CALIFORNIA

Page i

JIJ;E 30, 1960

301

SCHEIJlJLE I

Page 2

IHVESn inrrs

JI.ti[ 30, 1960

COllMOO STOCK

FACE VAUJE

$

400
30,000
'2,000
10,000
'25,000
10,000
50,000
19,000
75,000
40,000
25,000

4,&00

Consoli dated Ed!Son Comp3ny o! New York, Inc
., 4". 1973
Consoli dated Edison Company of New York, Inc.,
!ll', 1987
Interna tional Minera ls G Che111lcal Corpora tion,
3 ,b!J%, 1977
Pacific Gas and Electri c Company, :J:', 1991 ·
Pacific Telepho ne and Telegra ph Company , 4.625",
1990
Philade lphia Electri c Co., 4 .375%, 190b
PotoUl8C Electri c Power Co ., 5-1 /4", 19'14
Souther n Bell Telepho ne and Tele9ra ph Co., 4-5/
IJ.I', 19<13
South11 estern Bell Telepho ne CoUIPany, 4-3/ 4",
1992
U, S. Treasur y Bonds, 2-1/2%, 1972-67
·u. S. Treasur y Bonds, 3 - 1/ 2%, 1990
Virgini an Ra! !way Company, b%, 2006

$

Q;!!.

~

406.79
30,242. 45
1,925.5 0
10 ,004.25
25,656. 25
10,000. 00
51,233. 90

100
300
75
120
200
320
105

19,246. 33
75,640. 50
37 ,990.0S
25 ,687 .50
5 ,129 .00
$293t16 5 , 10

'IOTAL BONDS

PllEl'lllREll s'J'OC1(

~
100
100
45
200
100
100
100
200
100
100
200
100
200
200
100
100
300
100

500

America n lletal climax, Inc., 4-1/ 2"
Br is to 1..-yers Co., 3..J/4"
Canada Ory corp., $4 .2$
Duquesn e Light Company, $2 .10
Nationa l Gypsum Co .. $4 .50
Niagara lloha"I< Po11cr Corpora tion, 3.60'!'
Norther n States P01<er Co . o! llinneso r..a, $4 .10
Oklahoma
& Electri c Co., 4"
Paclflc Lightin g Corpora tion, 4.3&%
Pacif ic Lightin g Corpora tion, 4 .SOJ'
Public Sen! ce Co. of Indiana , 4 .11>%
Public Service Electri c & Gas Company, $1.40
San Diego Gas & Electri c Co111pany , 5.60'!'
Souther n Califor n ia Edison Company, 4.24"
Souther n Ca lifornla Edison Co11pan7, 4 .32"
Sperry Band Corpora tion, $4.50
Sunray Mid-Con t I nent 011 Co., 4-1/ :ll', A
Tidewat er Oil Co111pany, $1.20
Union Paci Uc Ball road Co1'9U) ', 4%

c.s

TOTAl. PREFERRED S'l'OCIC

$ 10,597 .55
9,646.0 0
4 ,517 .00
l0,b25.3 5
10,492. 45
9,095.8 5
10,222 ,18
3,937 .26
10,000. 00
0,922.8 8

5,231.4 8
3,206.4 8
4,560.5 0
5,110.0 0
2,178.5 0
e,524.4 8
7 ,960.49
2,642.l&
5,203.6 6
$133.07 5.09

96

460
90
28b

200
4b7
85
300
100
404
175
300
209
90
210
100
361
181
100
311
30
115
172

110
102
100

200
120
500
240

~
Allied Chemi cal Corp.
A11erican Ca n Co.
Atlanti c Refinin g Company
Bankers Trust Company of New York
Califor nia Packing Corpora tion
Central Hudson Gas & Electri c Corp
Chase Manhatt an Bank
•
Chemica l Bank New York Trust
Columbi a Gas System, Inc.
Consoli dated Edison Company of New York Inc.
Contine ntal Baking Company
'
Contlne nttl Insuran ce Co.
Crocker -Anglo Na tiona l Bank
Dayton POiier & Li ght Coll\)any
Duquesn e Light CollJ>any
Fireman 's Fund Insuran ce Co111pany
General Public Utiliti es Corp.
Home Insuran ce Co111pany of New York
lnte rnatlon a l llanest cr Co
Ining Trust Company (New York)
Manufa cturers Trust CoU1Pany
lll!nneso ta Po11er & Light Conpany
llor910 Guarant y Trust Company o! New Yori<
New England Electr ic Syste•
Niagara Mohawk Power Corpora tion
North America n Av iation, Inc.
Norther n Sta tes POl<er Co• or lll i nnesota
0..ens -111 inois Glass Company
Pacific Gas and Electri c Conpony
Public Sorvico Co. or Indiana
Public Service Electri c & Cai Company
Souther n Califor nia Edison COllJ'&ny
Sperry Rand Corpon tion
Standar d Oil Company (New J e rsey)
Standar d Oil Colllj>any (Ohio)
Sunny II Id-Cont inent Oil co.
llilcon sh Electri c p 0 ,.er Company
TOTAL rollllN STOCK

$ 3,642.4 6
12,291 .68
2 ,457 .04
2,730.0 0
4 ,643 .25
3 .421,60
3,21J.3 2
3. 749 .80
7 ,906.28
2. 926.62
10,\.64. 16
9,462.3 8
b,856.5 9
3,210.5 3
4,179,5 0
5,144 .10
4, 592.70
7 ,233 .60
13,449.6 3
6,582.1 8
2,385.0 0
3,593.3 7
0,447 .40
4 ,TI4 .47
4,295,7 0
3,523.9 4
4,114 .91
1, 095 .20
3 , 915.40
4,b91.l h
2,744.5 5
J,580.24
1,797.7 5
10,500,9 1
4,5b2.b 2
13,526.5 7
5,018 .85
$ 201, 243 .62

GRA ND LOD GE OP CAL I FOR
NI A

PRO CEEDI NGS OP THI! .

302

SO!?Dlltt·z

GRANO LQOGE I f . (,, A. 11. OF CALlF
Ol!NlA

f1S0. L n:AR ENDED JUNE 30, 1%0

{;()!'lTRlBUTIONS RECfl \'Ell fl\Qljl 1.,00Gf
.S
·

l..()()GE SUPl'O R'l"° ANO ACTIVITIES:

G~~~ ter Masons on l une ~O, )~~~e
Less: llembe rs whos e ues
-remit .led
llembeTS p aid f or, per iq59

annual retur ns
Adjus u1enl Cot pre~ 1ou 5 years

~

$ 2'l5 ,8b3. 75
2 77.47

231> ,bql e $ 1.25 ea ch

Wl6,141.~
21 2 0 00
• " ·
$ 317 ,389.22

21,24 8 I $1.00 each

llASONIC llOM'ES OF CALIFORNIA CO~"T
i;r10Ns:
On Maste r iieson s al Ju ne 30 , I
$116, 345.5 0
•
23b,6 'H I $ . 50 eacll
r 1959 a nnua l retur ns
Co~r ibul ions of Initia tes.a nd
affil iate s I $25.0 0 each·
ded
fina l payme nts f or year ,en
J une 30, lq5q , pe r lq;,9
$ b4 ,225.0 0
annua 1 returns
(:IJ
Inste l..,nl payM nts on lq
i36,450.00
annua l te turn1
$'202 .m.!!

5CHEOGl..E 3

OFFICE EXPENSE

FISCAL Yf.ARS E.\Dl::O

JUNF. 30 I 1960 AND Iq5q

AdJ. ustoie nts for pre• ioua
years a nd refun ds

875 .00

201,0 00.00

COMPARED llITH Pl!f.Vrol.5 YEA R
Salar ies
Grand Lodg e oflic es - 7empl e
opera tion and maint enanc e expen
se
Audit
Gra nd Treas urer
Posta ge and expr es s
Telephone a nd teleg r aph
Soci al secur ity and une-..p loyme nt
taxes
Inves taent couns el
Retire men t pens i on plan - Gra nd
Lodge
office emplo yees - Not e 6
Re tir e•ent pens Ion plan - Eorplo
yees
other agenc ies - Note 6
Pensi on l egal expen se

trans ferred frOM Fu nd
Bal• nce (f,;i p ita l) to apply on
pc!ns ion c osts ... autho rized 1t
1959 Comu nicati on

aster asons at une
•
'
236,691 1 $ 1.00 each
per 1959 annua l r e turns I $ 9
00 each:
ontr ibu t\ons o f in\ua tes
C Final paysre nl ( or year e nded •
J une 30 , 1q59 , per 1959
$ 20,49 3.00
annua l retur ns
lnstal o>ent pa ynents o n 1%0
44 ,802.0 0
annua l retur ns
foS ,'295. 00

.

Salar ies

301,1 88.00

AdJ·ust.e nts for pre•i ous J~•n
~: and refun ds
'IOTAL coNTR181l'I10NS RECUVf:D FROll LWGES _ Exlli blt 8
'

Grand Lodge oft l ces - T••pl e
opera t ion and 11alnt enanc e expe nse
Audit
Grand Treas urer
Posta 9e and expre ss
Telephone and t elegr aph
Socia l secur ity and une11ploy11ent
taxes
Inves t11en t counsel
Re t lre1te nt pensi on plan - Gr and
l.od9e offic e e•plo yees
Rc t l re•en t pensi on plan - E• ploye
es
othe r agenc ies
Less:

$

18,00 0.00
2, 500 .00

~

IECREASE

$

$1,61 1. 32
500 .00

!~5.00
~. 216. 99

2,%5 .08
2 ,058.1 7
500.0 0

62,08
540.3 9

46,04 7. &5

25 .00
164 . 12

46 ,047. 1>5

15, 745.8 5

15, 745.8 5

l 100. 00

$ 97,61 4 . 21

I 100 .00

$62,0 95. 97

42 , 300.0 0

$2. 921.0 4

·12,30 0 .00

Balan ce (Capi tal) t o apply on
pens ion cost s - author ized
at 1959 C-.in lcati on

r'I' .2511. !!O
7 ,229. 00
$94& .551.? 2.

Mdit ionll au t hor ized b1 Gra nd

laste r

$ 97 614.2 1

~

~

$ 65 ,536.B S

$ 70,00 0.00

10,00 0.00
3,000 .00
100.0 0
3,032 . 27
3,027. 91>
2,596 .56
500.0 0

18,00 0.00
3 , 000.0 0
250.0 0
4 ,500.0 0
3 ,b00.0 0
2,500 .00
500 .00

46 ,047,6 5

10 ,000 .00

$20 595.9 7

~
$

96.56

~

150.0 0
1 ,467. 73
572 .04

36,047.bS

1 000.0 0

14, 745. 85

$157, 589. 14

$1l3, 350.0 0

$50 ,892.0 6

42 nl.00

$2,92 1.04

$4,46 3. 15

15, 745. BS

~oun t t ra nsfer r ed from Fund

2,277 .00
4 ,961.0 0

29.00

i8,00 0.00
3,000 .00
100.0 0
J,032 .27
3,027 . 9b
2,596 .Sb
500.0 0

$115 , 2B9.1 4

COMPARED wmr BUDXI"

198.0 0

GEORGE 'USHINGTO!'I llASOOIC NATI
~L ME*JRlAL
CNifRl BU'l'f()IJ_: r inlti atu I $1.00 eoch
:
Con t ribut ions o
f i na I payste nt r or year ~~ded
J une 30, 1959 , per 19
a.nflu ll re tutn5
lnsto l,..nt payme nts on 1960 annua l retu rns

$ 67,14 0.17

320' 145. 50

0

~: "' yeirs and refun ds

.n'NE 30 1 1959

$ 65,53 6 . 05

~oun t

TOTAL - 'Exhib it 8

• dJ·v.stments for prev ion

JL1'E 30, 1%0

$157, 511'1. 14

Less:

O

~:

r. & A. II. OF CALIFORNIA

AClllN ISTRATH'E A.~D

240,1 28

~

. On d e9ree s confe rred in year
ended June 30, 1959

f.RANO LOIX;E

303

$b,1>52. 92

42 300.0 0

$115, 289. 14

$113, 350 .00
6 592 .06

$11 5 . 289.1 4

$121 942.0 6

$.J...5 92 . 06

$6,65 2. 92

304

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE, F; r; A; If; OF CALIFORNIA

305

SC!EOOIZ C
Page T
FISCAL 'YEARS ENDED

GENERAL EXPENSE

JtJNt !JO, l'l60 AND J.l1s9
GRAND LODGE, r; & A; If; OF CALIFORNIA

COMPARED WITH PREVIOUS YEAR
Annual Communication
Conferences
Grand Lodge officers' travel
expense
Grand Drganis t . and Grand Tiler
Grand llaster •s travel, secretarial,
and •iscellaneous expense
Investment counsel for lodges
Grand llaster •s portrait expense
Representatives' •ileage
Printing
Ritualistic expense:
.
Grand Lecturer
Inspectors• aprons and stationery
Ritual Committee and inspectors'
conference and travel expense
Retirement pay
Veteran buttons
Supplies and miscellaneous
Insurance:
Workmen •1 c09pen1ation for lodges
Uscellaneous
Fidelity bond
White aprons - Grand Lodge
.._orial Temple dedication

TUIAL - Exhibit B

JIJNE 30, 1960

JONE 30, 1959

~

$ 12,936, T1

$ 12, 714,95

4,329.66

4,345,93

$

9,226.84
750,00

9,990.47
750;00

10,600.00
5,000.00
34,843.95
22,003.33

10,000,00
5,000.00
925.00
34,957. 79
23,194.26.

600.00
1,625.10

600.00
1,996.99

13,983.96
900.00
2, 569.06
3,225.49

12,953.89
900.00
2,548.40
3, 192.21

1,030.09

7, 542.37
769.96

2,9)1,05
639.01
2,566.18
900.00
20 ,242.35

5,041.32
130.97

$150. 978.48

$7,018. 14

$131,706.53

161.82

SCllErmE 4
Page 2

~

FISCAL YEAR ENIED

JUNE !i) I 1960

$
16.27
763,63

600.00
925.00
113.84
390.93
371,89

20.66
33.28

2,566.18
900.00
20,242,35

COlfPARED wrm BUDGET
Annual c-n•catfon
Conferences
Grand Lodge officers' trnel expense
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler
Grand lfaster 1 1 travel, aecretarial,
and miscellaneous expense
Investment counsel for lodges
Grand lfaster•s portrait expense
Repre1entatives' mileage
Printing
Ritualistic expense:
Grand Lecturer
Inspectors• aprons and stationery
Ritual Cami ttee and iaspector1 •
conference and travel expense
Retirement pay
Veteran buttons .
Supplies and miscellaneous

IDsuranee:
Worblen '• eompensatioa far 10dge1
Uscellaaeoas

$26.290.09

~

!!!?!!!!!

$ 12,936, 77
4,329,66
9,226.84
750.00

$ 13,000.00
5,000.00
7,500.00
750,00

10,600,00
5,000,00
34,843.95
22,003,33

10,000,00
5,000.00
5,000.00
36,000,00
23,500,00

600,00
1,625,10

600,00
2,000.00

13,983.98
900,00
2,569.06
3,225.49

13,500,00
900,00
3,000,00
3,500.00

7,542,37
769.98

8,500.00
1.250.00

$131, '106,53

$139,000.00

Additional autharized bJ Grand llaster

Tl1lAt

2,810.82
$131. 706.53

$141. 810. 82

.!!!!!
$

~
$

I, 726,84

63,23
671'.1,34

600.oo
.s,000.00
1,156.05
696,67
374.90
483,98
430.94
274.51

957.63
480.02
$2.810.82

$10'. 104.29

306

GRA~D

SCllEOIJLE S

GRAND UllJGE , F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
APPROPRIATIONS

C.OMPARED WI'nl PREVIOUS YEAR
Activities Conmittee
Board of Control
Charters Conai ttee
_Columbia Temple Committee
Constitution Observance Conmlt tee
Correspondence COllli ttee"California Freemason" - Note 7
De lolay C..,..ittee
Employment Bureaus
Endowment Board
Hhtory Committee
Comnlttee on Research
Lodge Financing C0111ittee
le.oriel Tet1ple Campaign Expenses
Public Schools Scholarship Award
Commit tee on Public Schools
Boards o! Relief - Rei•burs.,..,nt
for Sojourners
c..,..lttee on Comnerclali1m
Sojourners c .... it tee
Unlveral ty Clubhouses:
Berkeley
Loa Angeles
COde Coanisslon
Gnnd Lodge Legal Expense
Investment Conmittee
Relief Fund - Grand lla1ter
C0111lttee on llaaonic Cemeteries
Comnlttee on Visual Aldi
rorAL - EXHIBIT B

$

Page 2

FISCAL YEARS ENDl!D
JUNE 30 I 1960 ANO 1959

FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30 11960

~

~

$

$ 7,163.84

723.47
1,549.97
454.44
1,196.25
488.89

$ 1,001.:n

(7,449.43)
448.10
11,336.00
11,551.69
393.06
1,925.69
2,401.70
13,'J23.37

(3,457.55)
590.34
11,500.00
14 ,593.89
733.16
2,000.00
2,015.39
12,993.22

914.84

1,538.59

759.11
214.65
73,59

419.18
612. 71
308.84

339,93

19,100.00
16,500.00

18,100.00
18,100.00

1,000.00

1,086. 38
483 . 58
728.34
618.66

2,692. 70
429. 78
600.00
44.29
67,97

308.32
595.oo
18.50
129.57

iS0,342113

!91,903,43

SQ!EWIE S

l.OOGE, F. & A. I. OF CAUFQRNIA

Page t

.APPROPRIATIONS

~
JUNE 30 1 1960 JUNE 30, 1959

307

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING S OP THE

463,59
29.14
469.91

129. Tt
3,991.88
142.24
164,00
3,042,20
340,10
74,31

386.31
930.15
623. 75
398,06
235,25
1,600.00
2,692. 70
121.46
5,00
25. 79
61.60

COllPARED WITH BUDGET
Activities Committee
Board of Control
Charters Comnlttee
Colu10bia Tet1ple Coaml ttee
Constl tu ti on Observance Committee
Correspondence Conni t tee"California Freemason" .Note 7
De lolay C.._i ttee
Employment. Bureaus
Endowment Board
Hiltory Conaittee
Comml t tee on Research
Lodge Financing Conalttee
leaorial Temple Cuipaign Expense
Public Schools Scholarship Award
Comml ttee on Public Schools
Boards of Relief - Reimbursement
!or Sojourners
C-lttee on c-rcialls•
Sojourners Cormil t tee
University Clubhouses:
Berkeley
Los Angeles
Code Comnission
Grand Lodge Legal Expense
Inve1tment Committee
Relief Fund - Grand laster
C.-ittee on lla1onic Cemeteries
C.-lttee on Vilul Aids

$

~

OVER

~

$ 2,276.53
723.47 $ ,3,000.00 $ .
1,250.00 299,97
1,549,97
295.56
750. 00
454.44
301. 75
1,500.00
1,196.25
711,11
.
1,200.00
·. 488.89
(7,449. 43)
448. 10
11,336,00
11,551.69
393.06
1,925.69
2,401. 70
13,923.37
914.84

2,000.0Q
750.00
11,500.00
14,000.00
750.00
2,000.00
2,850.00
22,000.00
2,000.00
2,000.00

9,449.43
30I.9o
164.00
2,448.31

356.94
74.31
448.30
B,076.63
2,000.00
1,085.16

759,11
214.65
73.59

eoo.oo
1,000.00
25o,OO

40.89
785.35
176.41

19,100.00
16,500. 00

19,100.00
16,500.00
150.00
4,000. 00
500.00
750.00
250.00
370.00

150.00
1,307.30
70.22
150.00
205. 71
302.03

2,692. 70
429. 78
600.00
44.29
67.97

$80,342.13 $111,220.00 $299.97 $31.177.84
16,434184 111!~.1~

Additional authorized b)' Grand Malter
TI7TAL

299.97
$80,34~,13

$111 1519,27

308

GRAND LODGB OP CALIPORNIA

PROCBBDINGS OP THE

GIAND LODGE I FI & A• II • OF CALIFORNIA
CAPITAL ADDITIONS AND REPLACEllENTS

SCHEDIJU! 6

AUDIT OF ANNUAL RETURNS
SKINNER & HAMMOND

FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1960

C:Un'IPICD Pual.IC AcCOUNTANT8
ON& IELCV'll:N 9UTTEA

~

SAN FRANCISCO 4

$ 150,00

$ 150,00

Augnt 18, 1960.

Filing cabinets

250,00

250,00

One electric typewriter

550,00

550.00

~
COIPARF.D um BVDGET

One typewr1 ter

$

~

~

Steel counters and table

993 . 19

1,050,00

56.81

J11scellaneo11s

205.83

~

~

TOTAL

$1.199 . 02

$2.500.00

$1,300.98

The !lost Worshipful Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted llasons of the
State of Calitornia
California Masonic Memorial T1111ple
llll California Street
Saa Francilco 8, Califoruia

We have made an examination of tbe 1960 Annual Returns of tbe
Constituent Lodges of Grand Lodge, F. & A. II, of California, reporting on
....,ersbip and on the paJ11Bnt1 due Grand Lodge la accordance with the
prowilio11 of tbe Coa1ti tution and Ordinances and the action taken by Grand
Lodge at the 1959 annHl co-aication. Our exambation was ude ia accordance
witb geoerallf accepted auditing standards, and accordingly included sucll teltl
of tbe acco11atlng records and 111cb other auditing procedures as we considered
necessary in the circuutaaces.
Tbe total papeata due Grand Lodge, based upon tbe 1960 annal
retur11, amount to $1,065,964.50, as abown b7 tbe •cC011Pan1iag atat...,at,
urted Exbiblt A. At tbe date of tbh report, August 18, 1960, tbls amount
lad. bee• collected la fall and traaateued to tbe Grand Treuarer, wltb tbe
aceptioa of a balance of $531.75 uisiag froa aece11ar7 adj111t•ats la tbe
retar11. Tiil• balance wu ia proce11 of adj111i.eat and collection at tbe date
of tills report.

~,,)~·

Certified Plllllic AccouUata

309

310

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE

I

r. & A

I

••

GRAND LODGE OF CAL IFOR NIA

or CALIFOllNU

311

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

EXHIBIT A

STATEllENT OF 1960 ANNUAL llE'rull
!IS

SKIN NER & HAM MON D
l'OtAL PEil
.1960 ANNUAL

GRAND LODGE SUPPOlt OF ActIV ItlES
iaste r liasona on June 3o, 1960 :
Leas: Members of llesea rch
-Lodges

Mellbert otber tban of 1le1earch
· Lodges
Lei&: Member• for 11bo11 per
-capit a wabe d
(incl uding d11e1
remit ted)

llE'IllllNS

ftil •

SAN FRANC ISCO 4

Allg111t 10, 1960

__r u.
241,8 19

3,381
238 ,438 • $ 1.25

Degree• confe rred in 7ear
ended June 30, 1960

20,61 6 • $ 1.00

$

2~.ot7 .50

20,61 6.00

20,61 6,00

$

318,6 63.50

$318, 663 ,so

$

238,, 38.00

$298,0&T .50

~IC HOME> OF CALIFORNIA

Ciilii1ettrlON5:
U.ab oH

c;oatrib11tion1 of Initi ates
alld Atfil latea

238, 438. $ l,00

GElllllZ IASllINGIOll llASONIC 'KAtlO
NAL
li!illl lilL COtl'iiIBll'IIotiS:
CHtr lbati ons ol b[tia tes

199,2 75.00

138,4 50.00

60,82 5.00

$138, 450.0 0

$299, 263.0 0

$

$238, 438.0 0

Muon ic Homes of Calif ornia
Calif ornia Masonic Memorial te11p
le
1111 Calif ornia Stree t
San Franc isco 8, Calif ornia
We have examined the statem ent
of auet s, resen e1, and fllnd
balH ces of •ason ic Homes of Calif
ornia , a Calif ornia non- profi t
corpo ratio n,
as of J11ne 30, 1960, and tbe relat
ed state1 1ent of reven11e and expen
se for tile
year then ellded . 011r exam inatio
n was made in ~ccordance witb gene
rally
accep ted audit lag stud ards , ud
accor dingl y inclu ded such tests
of tile
accou atlag recor ds and sucb other
audit ing proce dures as we consi
dered
aeceH arJ b tile clrc1 1uten ce1.
Jn our opid oa, tile ~cco111p11n7ing

$

238,4 38.00
64,03 5.00

«,80 2.00

19,233.Q!l

$ 30'2 ,473 .oo

$ ,,,80 2.00

$2.57 ,671.0 0

1,115 .00

$ 4,981 .00

$ 2,134 ,00

$1.06 5. 964 .50

$188,233 .oo

$877 .731J!!.

7.11 5. $ 9.00

7,11 51$1 .00

$238 ,'38.0 0

$

$ 437,7 13,00

1 ,9i1 • $25.o o

CALIFOINlA USONIC llEll>RIAL·
ttMPLE CON11UBIJTIONS :
Maste r •uoa s on June 30, 1960
238,4 38. $ 1.00
a• abne

Contrlb11tioDI of Initl .tes

NTANTS

ONC l:LCVC: N 9UTTI :"

I

242,140

BalH ce of .embe rs

•aste r •uon 1 on June 30, 1960

Ct:lllTl, . t ED Pu•uc AeCOU

YEAll ENDED
BEGlNllING
JUNE 30 1960 JULY l, 1960

$

state .eats prese nt fairl y the
ces of Muon ic Homes of Cdif ornia
at June 30,
1960 arisi ng fro• cash trana actlo
u, and tile reven ues colle cted and
expen se•
disbu rsed bJ 1t and tbe cbanges
in reser ve and fund balan ces durin
g tile year
tbea Hded , on a basis cons isten
t 11itb tlaat of tile prece ding year.
We attac b tlle follo 1dng for
your bfor •tlo a:
H&e ts, reae nes, and fund balan

EXHIBIT A

S!A!l!IENT DF ASSETS I RESEllVF.S I
AND FlllD

EXHIBIT B

STA'lfJIDlt DF IEVENIJE AND EXPEN
SE -

BAllHCES

GDldAL MD

.nm: 30, 1960
YF.All ENDED
JlljE 30 1960
I

EXHIBIT C

PROPERTY FIJID

Jllj[ 30 1960
1

EXHIBIT D

ENDOWME}IT AND TRUST FlJ;DS

Jll<E 30, 1960

EXHIBIT E

RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES

Jll<E 30, 1960

EXHIBIT F

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF
iiASONIC HOliES OF CALIFORNIA
STATEilF.NT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
STATEllENT OF REVENUE

EXHIBIT G

EXHIBIT H

EXHIBIT I

JOHN AND LENA UJCKENBACH FUND
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
STATEliENT OF REVENUE
GEORGE F • BRIGllllll AND LAUllA E. BRIGRAll
SCHOLARSHIP FUND
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
S?ATEIE'<IT OF REVENUE
GEDllGE I. AND Fl.DRENCE G• PERINE
ENDOWMENT Fll<D
S'IATEllE'IT OF ASSETS AND MD BAl.ANCE
STATEllENT OF REVENUE

EXHIBIT J

HARRIET? C. WADLEIGH ENIJOllllE1IT ANNUITY Fll'lD
STAIEllf1iT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
STAIEllf1iT OF ANNUITIES AND REVENUE

EXHIBIT l

C. N. FLINT 1RUST FUND
STATEllOO OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
S?Ai'EiiENT OF REVENUE

JUNE 30 I 1960
YEAR ENDED
JUNE 3o, 1960
JUNE 30, 1960
YEAR ENDED
JUNE 30, 1960

LEONARD GROSS llDllll IAL FIJlll
STATEIENT OF ASSETS AND Fltm BALANCE
STATEiiENT OF REVENUE
I

SCHEDULE 2

SCHEDULE 3
SCHEDULE 4

INVESTMENTS
PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND or
iASON IC HOllES OF CALIFORNIA
RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES

~

.nr;E 30, 1960
JmE 30, 1960

FISCAL YEARS ENDED
JUNE JO, 1960 AND 1959

~,;-~

Certifie d Public Accounta nts
JUNE 30, 1960
YEAR ENDED
JUNE 30, 1960

Jll<E 30, 1960
YEAR ENDED
Jll<E 30, 1960

JUNE 30, 1960
YEAR ENDED
.nr;E 30, 1960
JUNE 30, 1960
YEAR ENDED
JUNE 30 1960
I

EXHIBIT L

313

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

PROCE EDINGS OP THE

312

Jll<E 30, 1960
YEAR ENDED

JUNE 30, 1960

EXHIBIT I

S'l'llDfNrS' LOAN AND SCHOLARSHIP FUND
S?A'IEIENT OF ASSETS AND nl<D BALANCE
S?ATEllENT OF REVENUE

EXHIBIT N

RESIDENTS' DEPOSITS
STAi'EiiENT OF ASSETS AND mm BALANCE
STATEllENT OF REVENUE

TWO PAGES

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEllENTS

JUNE 30, 1960

SCHEDULE 1

INVESTMENTS
(Consoli dated schedule of invest.., ,,ts,
except for investme nts o! the
Permanen t Endo-n t Fund)

Jll<E 30, 1960

Jll<E 30, 1960
YEAR ENDED
Jll<E 30, 1960

JUNE 30, 1960
YEAR ENDED
Jll<E 30, 1960

llASON IC llOllES OF CALIFORNIA

EXlllllIT A

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
STATEMENT OF ASSETS RESERVES AND FUND
BALANCES ARiSING FROM CASH TRANSACTlONS
I

315

GRANO LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING S OP THE

314

I

JUH1! 30

I

1960

EXHIBIT B

STATEMENT OF REVENUE AND EXPENSE
6'i A CA.511 BAS IS - GENERAL FUND

YEAR ENDED

.nm !II, l 96o

REVENUE:

ASSETS:

Graner Lodge, r. & A. 1.:

"""'"'rai1i on hand and in banks

Investments (at book value) - Schedule 1:
Bonds (market value $956,435. 'lO)
Preferred stock (market value $402, 927. 51)
Common stock (market value $360, 713. 72)

91,032.39
$

4,969,03
6,684.05
11,653.08
$ 2,333,375,59

Total Assets - General Fund
PROPllRTY - Exhibit C:
Lind, buildings and equipment - Note 5
Decnto Home
Covina Home
San Francisco office

$3,B77,866.10
965, 722. 7fJ
4,168. 76
4,847, 757.62

Total Assets - Propert1
ENDOllllEN'l' AND TRDST FtJNDS CONSISTING PRINCIPA!LY OF

10,577,004. 75

CASH ANb sECIJRITiES - txhibit D

$17,758,137.96

!!!Q!:

$ 1,635,4'18,19

RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PlJRPOOES - Exhibit E

Gl!NERAL FUND:
Balance, June 30, 1959
.Add: Excell of rnenue over expense including gain
from sale of securities for rear ended
June 30, 1960 - Exhibit B
Balance, June 30, 1960

Total Reserves and General Fund Balance

.!:!!.!,: Adju1t11ent1 fnr previous years

P•)'ll8nts through Lodges for:
Decato residents
Covina residents

$ 18,930.00
18,504.24

Revenue frDll invest11ents and savings:
Div id ends on 1 tocks
Interest on bonds
Interest on notes and real estate income
Interest on bank accounts

$ 46,486,26
52,017. CJD
8,171.36
2,165.62

118,345,50
202,675.00

$

321,020,50
875,00

$

320,145.50
388,996,24
3,671.06
27.86

'18,162.47

697,877,40
$ 2,333,375.59

ENDOlfllENT AND TRtlST FtJNDS - Exhibit D

10,577,004, 75
$17. 758.137.96

37,434,24

liacellaneous rennue

108,841.14
126.62

Total Revenue

$ 8S9,242,66

EXPENSE - Schedule 4:

operation of luoaic R-s:
Decato fine
Cnina HOiie
Relief outside of lasonio RD11es
of ff-• aad Relief

.Administrative aad geaerd
Retire11ent incD11e plu

4,847, 757.62

The acco11pH7ing notes are an integral pert of thia atat•ent.

Peranent End-nt Fund income - Exllibi t F
John and Lena Luckenbach Fund Income - Exhibit G
Leonard Gross le11orial Fllnd incne - Exhibit L

Total Expense
$ 599. 714. 93

PROPllRTT FUND - Exllib it C

!!!Q!:

$

1,647, 729.53

Total (mrket value $1, 720,077.13)
Notes and contracts receivable from sales of real estate
Other assets:
Ufe insurance policies auigned bf residents of
Decato llo111e
Real estate assigned bf residents of Decato Home and
bf bequest and contribution

1959 Annual Returns !! $. 50 per ca pi ta
Contributions of initiates and affilbtes t $25,00 each

$1,032,621.61
rC68, 326. 24
146, 781.68

$624,959,67
258,169,89
27,982,20
$911,111, 76
127,354.65
171606,61

Total Expense

110561073.02

Exceu of Expense

$ 196,831,36

HIN FR<* SALE OF' SECURITIES

294,992.83

~ OF llEVENtlE

INCUIDING GAIN

hOll sXll! tlF sttmitttES, OVER EXPF.NsE ""Exhibit A

$

'181162,47

316

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

317

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOllES OF CALIFORNIA

EXHmtt C

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFOl!tlIA

EXHmIT D

PROPERTY FUND

JUNE 30. 1960

ENDOWllENT AND TROST FUNDS

JIJNE 30 I 1960

Balance, June 30, 1959

$3,673,169. 71

Perwanent Endowment Fund of the Masonic Howes of California _
Exhibit F

$10,061, 152. 36

Additions to properties of the Decoto HOiie:
Charged to Resene for Additions and Replace•enu:
Ovens and ranges
Water softener equipment
Potato peeler
Combination tape recorder
Sewer power snake
Utens ll washer
Heater valves and swl tches
Charged to Decoto Special Resene:
Interc-nlcatlon syste•
Ellergency lighting
Enclosure of stairs
Hospital office furniture
Steel lockers

John and Lena Luckenbach Fund - Exhlbl t G
$

13,242.67

$

36,321.30
12,333.60
19,931.50
1,506. 73
361.82

$
Charged to New Hospital Resene:
New hospital building - construction In progress

Charged to Covina Special Reserve:
Playground equlpent

Harriet C. Wadleigh End-ent Annuity Fund _ Exhibit J

13,454,94

C. N. Flint Trust Fund - Exhlbl t K

327,811.29

Leonard Gros a lewor la l Fund - Exh lb 1t L

· 925.00

Studenu' Loan and Scholarship Fund - Exhlbl t 11

8,372.19

Residents• Deposits - Exhibit N

351133.34

TOTAL ~ Exhlbl t A

70,455.95

20,000.00

$1015771004175

$1,007,055.09

Charged to C. N. Flint Trust Fund:
Hnspltal furalture and equlpeat

Additions to properties of the Covina HOiie:
Charged to Resene for Addi tlons and Replace.en ts:
Fences
Lawo renovator
Power wower
Filing cabinet

37,573.34

George 11. and Florence G. Perine End-nt Fund - Exhibit

704.95
$

72,582.29

George F. Brlghaw and Laura E. Brlghaw Scholarship Fund _
Exhlbl t ff

2,951.52
6,099.62
482.56
209.44
402.58
2,392.00

EXHmIT E

81,386.52
1,172,140.U

llfS!llWES FOR SPECIAL PiJRPQSES. - Schedule 3

Resene for Additions and Replacementa
$

1,588.36
260.00
41,59
307.84

$

21197. 7'9

$

249.89

B.duce, June :II, 1960 - Exhibit A

CO'lina Special Reserve
Decoto Special Reserve
Funeral Reserve
Entertainment Reserve
2,447.68
$418471757162

IJDapproprlated Resene
New BOllpltal Reserve

TOTAL - Exhibit A

Tiie accawpenylng notes are on btegral part of this state.eat,

Tiie accompanying notes are an Integral part of this state•ent,

JUNE 301 1960

$

604,216;55
366,581.10
163,022,82

70,600.oo
1,486. 72
349,368.47
00 1222,53
$ 116:!ii 42,2119

318

PROCE EDING S OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

MASONIC HOMES or CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT F

PERMANENT ENDOOiENT FUND OF

319

llASONIC HOllES OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT G

JOHN AND LENA UICKENBAcR FUND

MASONIC HOilES OF CALIFORNIA
Tll~

The princip al of this Fund ta restrict ed bJ the
of tbe princip al shall ever be expended !or anJ Ordinan ces of Grand Lodge 10 th•t no part
purpose , and the income tberefro a 1b1ll b•
used oaly for the 11&intenance and operatio n of the
llasontc
at Decoto and Covina,

princip al of this Fund, a bequest o! Lena Luckenb
ach, ts restrict ed by the teras of the
will to be kept intact and the income ta restrict
or tbe aged ta llesontc Hoaes ta Souther n Califor ed !or tbe bene!tt o! the care of orphans
nia,

STATEIENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BAlANCE

STATEENT OF ASSETS AND MD BALANCE

ff-•

ARISING tROil CASH TRANSACTIONS

JONE 30 t 1960

CASH lN SAVINGS BANK ACCOIM'

CASH IN SAVINGS BANK ACCOUNTS

$

INVESTll!NTS (at book value) - Schedul e 2 :
BOiida (•rket value $5,526, 't.!4.12)
Preferre d stock <•rket nlue $1,363,288.SOJ
c-on stock (•rket value
$3,101,1 10, 14)

_555,138 .15

$5,801, 956. 97
1,487,0 06.86
2,198,9 91.43
9;487, 955.26

oruu ASSns (at book Y&lue) :

Notes receiva ble, Insuran ce poltcte s, real estate,
and leases

$10,061 ,152.36

JONE 30

I

rmm BALANCE
BALVtCI. JIN! 30. 1960 - Exb tb 1t D

$72.582 ,29

,,... 30, 1960)

1959

ended

$ 9,109,0 24.87

.INCREASE IN FUND :
oonatlo ns •de through Lodges
Bequeat s
Gata from ule of securt ties
Donations from organiz ations and tndtvtdu alil
lleaorta ls

$ 551,150 ,34

STATDll!NT OF llEVEl'fll! ON A CASH BAS IS

174,167 ,38
213,456 ,05
6,868.1 2
6,610,6 0

11&de through Lodges

125.00
952,127 .49

BALV«Z, J(JNE 30, 1960 - Exh tb 1t D

YEAR ENll!D JUNE 30, 1960

lllteres t on bonds
DiYtdeada on atockl
Iatera t on bank account

$ 952,252.49

.!!!!_: Adjua-taent of previou s year'• donatio ns

$ 2,395.5 3
916.80
358. 73

llEVENll! TRANSPUll!D 'fo 6ENl!llAL FllND INClll! -

Exhtbt t B

$10,061 ,152.36

STA'lllmlT OF REVENllE ON A CASH BASIS

YEAH ENIED Jl1iE 30, 1960

Interes t on bonds
DiYtdends on stockl
Interes t oa bank account s
Interes t on notes receiva ble
ltacella neous
llEVl!N1JE TRANSFERRED TO GENERAL FIJND INCOllE - Exlltbt

The ucoapan Jing notes are an integra l part of tbta

$72.582 .29

<Ne wage took place ta thh fund dur tng the rear

FUND BAlANCE

60,631, 40

TOTAL ASSETS

18,058. 95

TOTAL ASSETS

I

$43, 732.24
16,899, 16

Total Securt ties (•rket value $59, 765, 13)

Total Secar tties (11&rket value $9, 991, 122. 76)

BALANCE

INVESTllENTS (at book value) - Schedul e 1:
80id1 (•rket value. $41,843.13)
C-on ltOCk (•rket Hlu_e $17,922 ,00)

t B

atateae nt,

$

224,269 .65
161,032 .10
2,386.9 8
1,281.3 3
. 25.51

$

388.996 .24

The accompanying notes are aa integra l part of thh

1t1teae nt,

$ 3,671.0 6

321

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

PROCEE DINGS OP THE

320

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

GEORGE F. BRIGHAM AND LAURA E. BRIGHAM
SC HO LARSH IP FUND

MASON IC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

is held in trust as a scholarsU p
f Laura E Brigham
sident; $25 ooO of which •ay be loaned for that
The principal of this Fund, ~ b~que~t . o
providing scholarsh ips.
for
~nly
~sed
be
may
~e
ov ~at
of the
the benefit
for and
fund
c e ~mean
is restr
the income
purpose,
JUNE 30. 1960

STATEllENT OF ASSETS AND FOND BALANCE

EXHIBIT I

GEOiil:E M; AND FLORENCE G. PERINE
ENDOWMENT fdNb

is subject to the provision
The principal of this Fund, a bequest of Florence G. Perine, the fund shall be kept intact
l of
included in the will of the testator, that the principa
Decoto Home,
the
of
benefit
the
for
used
and the income thereof only shall be
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND fL':'iD BALANCE

JUNE 30' 1960

$ 3,456.57

CASH IN SAVJNGS BANK ACCOL"NT

INYESTllENTS (at book value) - Schedule l:
Bonds (market value $25, 952.13)
Preferred stock (market value $2,609.37 )
C-on stock (market VAlue $5,000.00 }

$29,645.9 6
1,071.39
3,399.40

CASH IN SAVINGS BANK ACCOllJ\'T

$

INVESTllENTS (at book value) - Schedule 1:
Bonds (market value $16, 180,oo J

19,066.40

933,60

34,116. 77

Total Securitie s (market value $33,561.5 0}

TOTAL ASSETS

$37,573.3 4

rorAL ASSETS

$20,000,0 0

FUND BALANCE
FUND BALANCE

$37,573.3 4

BALANCE, JUNE 30, 1960 - Exhibit D

(No change took place in this fund during the year
June. ~. 1960)

(No change took place in this fund during the year ended
June 30, 1960}

$20,000,0 0
ended

YEAR ENIED JUNE ~, 1960

STAmiENT OF REVENUE ·ON A CASH BASIS

$

Interest on bonds
Dividends on stocks
Int!lresi on bank account
REVENUE TRANSFERRED TO STUM'NTS ' LOAN

008.53
360.00
103.42

$ 1,271.95

AND SCHOIARSHIP FUND - Exhibit M

The ICCOllJlllDJ'ing notes are an integral part Of \his Statemen

BAIANCE I

JUNE 30. 1960 - Exh lbi t D

STATEllENT OF RE\'ENUE ON A CASH BAS IS

Interest on bonds
Interest on bank account
REVENUE TRANSFERRED TO o::coro SPECIAL
.RESERVE - Schedule 3

t,
t.
The acc1111panying notes are an integral part of this statemen

YEAR ENDED .JIJNE 30

1960

$

697.60
27.93

$

725.53

322

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

E!OIIBI'I l

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
HARRIET C. WADLEIGH ENl!O!!!!F]f!
ANNUITY FUND

Thh Fund, in the original . &aount of $30,000,00, it 1ubject to a contract with tlae donor
providing for the payment of certain life annuities out of the principal and income
thereof, Under the terms of the contract any principal of the fund expended in payaeot
of the ennui ties is to be later restored to the fund when annul tie1 no longer ab1orb the
entire income, After restoration of the principal to the original sum of $30,000.00 the
income from the fund is to be used for the benefit of the residents of the Covina Home.
STATEllOO OF ASSETS AND Fl'ND BALANCE
ARISING FROM CASH TRANSACTIONS

JUNE 30, 1960

QSH IN SAVINGS BANK ACCOUNT

$ 8,454,9C

323

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
C • N. FLINT TRUST FUND

EXHIBIT K

!he prdin~fpal of this Fund consists of gifts fro• c N Flint The
een e11gnated by the Trustees for the use of the Dec~to Hoa;,
income of the Fund bu
STATEllOO OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
ARISING FROll CASH TRANSACTIONS

.JPNE 30, 1960

CASH IN SAVINGS BANK ACCQUNT
$
INVE.ST!!ENTS Cat book yalue) - Schedule ) :
Bonds (market value $130,168, 75 )
Preferred ltock (market value $l 54 ,lOO,OO)
Common stock (m~rket value $56,568,50)

INYESTllOOS (at book valuel - Schedule l:

4,010.64

$136 ,449,56
164 ,349,29
23.001.80

Total Secur1tie1 Caarket value $340,837,25)

Bonda (aarket value $4 ,366. 75)

323.800.65

5.000.00

TOTAL ASSETS

TOTAL ASSETS
$.327 .811.29

$13,454.?(
FUND BALANCE
FUND BALANCE

B\LANCE • JUNE 30, I 959

MUNCE, Jl'NE 30, 1959

.I&!!.:

$14,294,75

Excell of nnui ti ea over revenue

839.81

BALANCE, JUNE 30, 1960 - Exhibit p

$13,454.?S

$367 ,870.65

4.!1l!.:

Gain fr .. sate of securities

!:gJ_:

Purchase of equipment on furniture for
Deco to Home ho1pi tat

41,327.16
$409,L97.81
81.386,52

B!!ANCE. JUNE 30, 1960 - Exhibit D
STA'IDIE'a OF ANNUITIES AND REVENUE
ON A CASH BASIS

$327 .811,29
Yf.AR t?j!!ED JllNE 30 , 1960
STATl'JIDn' OF REYENllE ON A CASH BASIS

Anauitie1 paid as required by the agreement

.I&!!.:

$ 1,350,00

Interest on bond1
Iotereat on bank account

$237,50
272.69
510.19

EXCESS OF ANN!!ITIES OVER REVENUE

YF.AR OO>ED JllNE 30, 1960
Iaterett on bonds
Dlviden·ds on stocks
Intere1t oa bank account

Reven~e:

$.

839.81

$

6,547,83
ll,TI0.75
280.27

REVENUE TRANSFERRED TO DECOTO SPEI:IAL
RESERVE - Schedule 3

$. 18 .598.8§

'l'lle acc. .peayJlllJ note1 are an integral part of thil 1t1.te11eat,
The aec•panying note1 are an integral pert of thh lt•t-•t,

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

PROCEEDl~GS OP THE

324

The principa l o! thh Fund arises Crom gift• made 81 a

IASONIC l!Ol!E§ OF CAllFORllIA

t;X!!IBIT L

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFOkiHA
UIJllARD GROSS MEllJRIAL Fll!ID

mecor

lal to L'°nard Gron.
JJJNE 30. 1960

~pmm!l Of ASSETS AND FUND MUNCE

325

EXHIBIT II

S'l1JllENfS' LOAN AND SC!!OLABS!!IP fl'Nll

The principa l of thla Fund arllea from gift•. The income
'Jru1tee1 tor uae in 1tudent loan and acholara hlp purpo1ea ot the Fund 11 designat ed b7 the
.
STATfl!OO OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
ARISJNG FROll CASI! TRANSACTIONS

JIJNE 30, 1960

ASSE'IS

US!! IN s.mNCjS MNK ACCOUllT

gsn IN 5,\YI!!GS BANK ACCO!JNT
FUND BALANCE

BALANCE. lWE 30· 1260 - Eldllbi\ D

DJND BALANCE

(No change toot place in thil fund during the 7ear ended J11ne 30, 1960)
YfAR £NII!!!! JJl!B 30 • 1'160

MLAnCE, JU!!E 3Q. 1252

$8,563.8 1

ku: Exceu ot granta and loan• over revenue
BALANCE

I

JUNE 30

I

1960

$.!! .372,12

lntereat on bank account
REVENUE Tl!ANSFERRt'D TO GENERAL F!,!!D
iNcog - Exbib1t 8

STATD!fm OF n:yp ON A CASH BASIS

XF.AR flj!!E!J J!JNE 30 1960
I

~·
Gift• from indiYld Hl• and organiza tlon1

$ 335,50

lntereat oa bank accoant

~

$ 593.43
Georae F. Br1gh88 and Laura c. Br1gb88
Scbolarl bip Fund iacOlle - Exb 1bi t H
Total Revenue

$1,865.3 8

GIANTS ANO U!ANS FpR !l!!!jATIONAL P!JRl'OSES~
Grants

$ 200,00

Loans

.Llli..!!!l

EXCESS OF GRANTS AND WAHS OVER REVENUE

!lie acc•pen 7ing notea are an integral part of tbll atU•en

t.

PROCEEDINGS OF

326

TH E

GRAND LODGE OF

J!MiONIC HONES OF
CALIFO
RESIDEN'IS • DEPOSI'l'SRNIA

Jlltl!E 30, 1960

CASH IN COMMERCIA
L MNK ACCOUN'l'S

'$ 6,2 45. 06
3·,537 ,31

AccouNr

S
k val ue) - Sch edu
J!lVESTllf?!'I_ -(at boo
le 1: .)
k (aa
Pre fer red a~oc(mark rke t val ue $17 ,63 7 ,SO
et val ue $6 ,967 .50
c- on ato c.
)

$16 ,06 1. 93
:z.2 69. 04

.
(aa rke t val ue $24
To tal Se cur itie
,625,QQ)
s -

25. 35Q .97

'l'O'l'AL ASSETS

$35 .13 3,3 4

·roND MUNCE
.!@il~ pEPOSI
TS:
Decoto boa e
Covina boe e

$29 ,86 8.2 8

~.245.06

'""'E 30 1960 - Ex hib
ft\!ANCE' "u"
it D
'

$35 .13 3,3 4

_m miE NT OF REVENll
E ON A CASH MS IS

Yr.AR ENQE!! JUNE 30,

Int ere st on bond•
Div ide nd• on ' sto ck•
Int ere st on bank acc
oun t

$

BEVElillt TRANSFERRED
TO na:!!TO SPECIAL
RESERVE - Sch edu le
3

The acc cep any ing

not es are an

int egr al par t of the

327

'El(HlBIT !!

the res ide nts of the
h
The Fund is compo sed of dep osi ts aad e by
Cov ina
an d e Id in tru st for
and nec oto liOllle• •

~SI! IN §AVIN(;S MNK

CALIFORNIA

1960

763 .91
432 .00
136 ,82

$ i.33 4.'1 3

sta tem ent .

llASONIC llOllES OF CAL
IFORNIA
NOTES 'lO FINANCIAL
STATl':MENTS
JIM : 30, 1960
No te l - Ba sis of
Ac cou ntin g
The !in anc ial sta
tea
Cu rre nt ope rat ing ent a hav e been pre par ed on the cas
h
and unp aid at Jun exp ens e bil ls app lic abl e to the. yea bas is of acc oun tin g.
e 30, 1960 were of
r ended Jun e 30, 196
nominal am oun t.
0
No te 2 - Jnv est aen
ta
Inv est me nts in sec
uri
rep ort at coa t. Se tie s pur cha sed are sta ted on the
val ue when rec eiv ed cur itie s rec eiv ed as don atio ns areboo ks and in thi s
sta ted at 11&rket
val ue was unknown. or at the nominal val ue o.f $1, 00, if
the ma rke t
No te 3 - No tes and
Co ntr act
No tes and con tra sctsRe cei nb le
rec eiv abl e ari se from
Masonic Homes of Ca
sal e of rea l est
lifo rni a by app lic
ant s adm itte d to theate ass ign ed to
home at De cot o,
No te 4 :. Oth er As
set s
Oth er ass ets con sis
t
Masonic Homes of Caof rea l est ate and lif e ins ura nce
by beq ues t or don lifo rni a by res ide nts . of the Decotopo lic ies a11 ign ed to
atio n. The ind ivi
dua l par cel s of rea home or rec eiv ed
in111rance po lic ies
l est ate and lif e
acc oun tab ilit y, wit are eac h rec ord ed at the no• ina l
val
h
loa as ·pre do1 11l y obt the exc ept ion tha t payments by Ma ue of $1. 00 for
sonic
ain ed by the asd gno
rs are added to the Homes on
nom ina l val.ae.
No te 5 - Land, Ba
ild ing a, and Equip1
1en
t
Lan d, bll ild ing s,
and equ ipm ent are
rec ord ed at the cos
pur cha sed and no
t when ori gi1 11l ly
dep rec iat ion of b11
pro vid ed for in the
1ld
acc oun ts. Rep lac emings and equip11ent has been
clla rge d to Res erv
ent s of ori gin al ite
es for Sp eci al Pll
u are
rpo sea .
Ad dit ion s to the
Dec
$1, 172 ,14 0.2 3, as oto ba e, pai d for .du rin g the yea r,
sho
amounted to
new llo api tal , which wn on Ex hib it C. The pri nci pal add
tlle re was a bal anc was cOlllplet.l!d on Jun e 6, 196 0, At itio n was tile
gen era l con tra cto e of $117 ,93 6.9 1 due Sw ine rto n & Wa J11ne 30, 196 0
the arc hit ect s andr, aad a bal anc e of $21 ,11 3.9 7 due lberg Co ., tha
An der son -lly de- Aad
for $8, 171 .30 for eng ine ers . A con tra ct wit h Ca lifo
ers o1,
lan dsc api ng the hos
rni
Jan e 30, 196 0,
pit al ground& lntd· a llur ser y·C ollp UJ
bee n sig ned at
At Jan e 30, 196o
tlle
.ad for CoYlna llOt re we re bil ls pay abl e for oth er Dec
le rep lac em ent s dur
oto home add itiO DI
amoants of $14 ,41
6,5 7 and $11 ,97 5.7 ing the yea r, in the agg reg ate
7, res pec tiv ely .

PROCEED INGS OF THE

328

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
NOTES TO FlNANCIAL STATEMENTS

329

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDUIE l
Page l

Jlf<IE 30, 1960

.
Note 6 - Trust Funds
through N,
In addition to the endowment and trust Cunds shown on Exhibits F
fifty-seve n
for
trustee
as
acts
home
Covina
the Superinten dent of the
children •s savings accounts which at June 30, 1960 bad balances
the
aggregatin g $6,717 .57. These saving~ accoun~s are savings of made
children originatin g by gift or earnings. Withdrawa ls can be
as
only by the child with the countersig nature of the Superinten dent the
trustee. The amount of these savings accounts is not recorded on
llasonic
of
Cund
financial statements as they are not an asset or trust
the
Homes of Californi a. The Superinten dent also acts as trustee of
at
savings account of the llasonic Pioneer 4-11 Club which had a balance
June 30, 1960 of $3,720.79 .
Note 7 - Reserves for Special Purposes
The Trustees of Masonic Homes have establishe d seven special reserves
(see Schedule 3) to which are credited the amounts of donations and
bequests which are to be used for purposes other than d~rect operating
in
expenses. The assets represente d by these reserves are included
the assets of the General Fund.

t
i
"f
Note 8 _Retireme nt Income Plan
orn a as o
A retire111ent inco"'8 plan was adopted by llasonic Homes of Call
California
of
Homes
llasonic
whereby
method
a
January l 1955 to provide
.
and its .,,;,,,loyees may make regular contributi ons to a tr~st fund
.
providing definite retiremen t income benefits for participat ing employee•
to
pl~n
amended
an
adopted
On October 3, 1958 the Trustees approved and
on
extend coverage of the plan to the employees of Grand Lodge effectn_eof
January 1, 1956, and to the employees of Ila sonic Clubhouse s, Boardsplan,
The
Relief, and Employment Bureaus effective on January l, 1959. as a
as amended has been approved by the Internal Revenue ~ervice
under
qualified trust. under Section 40l(a) and exe11pt fro• incoae tax
the provisions of Section 50l(a) of the Internal Revenue Code.
percent
Employees, during their membership in the plan, contribute three
y
of their regular salary and llasonic Homes of California voluntaril
contribute s amounts which, together with the contribution~ from itsamounts
All
baSis.
employees will finance the plan on a sound actuarial
by the
are recei;ed, invested, and administer ed as a Pension Trust Fund
Wells Fargo Bank American Trust Company, as Trustee .•
llasonic Homes
The total past service costs for all participat ing employees of
1960, as
of California and the current service costs eati.. ted to June 30,
determined by the actuary, have been paid.
service
Tbe Grand Lodge, F. & A. II., is responsibl e for past and current
costs for its eaployeea and for Grand Lodge agency e..,loyees .

INVESTMENTS

JUNE 30, 1960
(Consolida t'ed schedule of investmen ts, except for
investmen ts of the Permanent Endowment Fund)

FACE VAUJE

$ 25,000
9,000
1,800
2,000
50,000
5,000
31,000
25,000
5,000
60,000
10,000
5,000
1,000
1,000
40,000
40,000
50,000
50,000
23,000
8,000
5,000
50,000
2,000
4,000
5,000
50,000
52,000
12,000
16,000
191,000
12,000
15,0oo
6,000
10,000
9,000
10,500
5,000
3,000
332,000
25,000
5,000
12,700

BOOK VAWE
Chesapeake & Ohio R ,R. Equipment Trust, 3-7/fJ'/., 1962
Consolidat ed Edison Company of New York, Inc., 9%, 1987
Consolida ted Edison Company of New York, Inc., 4%, 1973
Contra Costa County Road, 2-1/4%, 1974
Douglas Aircraft Co., 4%. 1977
General llotors Acceptance Corporatio n, 3-7/fJ'/., 1961
Internatio nal llineral & Chemical Corporatio n, 3.69%, 1977
lllssouri Pacific R.R. Equipment Truat, 3-1/2", 1963
Pacific Gas and Electric Company, 3%. 1970
Pac~fic Telephone and Telegraph Company, 4-5/fJ'/., 1990
Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company, 4-5/fJ'/., 1990
Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company, 4-5/fJ'/., 1990
Paradise Valley Irrigation District, 4%, 1955
Paradise Valley Irrigation District, 4%, 1956
Philadelph ia Electric Co., 4-3/fJ'/., 1986
Potomac Electric Power Co., 5.25.1', 1994
Public Service Electric & Gas Cot1pany, 4-7/fJ'/., 1987
Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Co,, 4-5/fJ'/., 1993
Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Co., 4-5/fJ'/., 1993
Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Co., 4-5/fJ'/., 1993
Southweste rn Bell Telephone Company, 4-3/4", 1992
Southern California Edhoir Company, 4-7/fJ/,, 1982
Southern California Gas Company, 3-1/4", 1970
Southern California Gas Company, 3-1/4%, 1970
Southern California Gas Company, 3%, 1971
Southern Pacific Cot1p.ay Equipaeat Trust, 3-5/fJ'/., 1961
Texas Power and Light Co., 4.5.1', 1988
Texas Power ond Light Co., 4.9%, 1988
Texas Power and Light Co., 4.!lJ', 1988
U. s. Treasury Bonds, 3-1/2", 1990
U. s. Treaaury Bonda, 3-1/2", 1990
U. s. Treasury Bonda, 3-1/2", 1990
U. S. Treasury Bonds, 3-1/4%, 1983-78
U.S. Treasury Bonds, 2-1/2", 1969-64
U. S, Treasury Bonda, 2-1/2", 1970-65
U. S. Treasury Bonds, 2-1/2", 1970-65
D. s. Treasury Bonda. 2-1/2", 1970-65
U. S. Treasury Bonds, 2-1/2", 1971-66
U. S. Treasury Bonda, 2-1/2", 1972-67
U.S. Treasury Bonds, 2-1/2", 1972-67
U.S. Treaaury Bonds, 2-1/2", Investmen t series A, 1965
Virgiaian Railway Company, $, 2008

Total. Bonds

$

24,884.41
9,066,40..P
1,815.ll
1,892.38
44,126.81
4,988.96
32,279.76
25,000.00
5,036.71-8
61,496.96
10,249 .34-F
5,124 .68-L
1.00
1.00
40,000.00
40,970.06- F
50,464.55
50,625.55
23,287 .72-F
8,099.92-L
5,039.34-F
50,481.46
1,823.80
4,097 .85-B
5,055.17-8
49,814.37
52,493.88
12, ll3 •95-F
16, 152 .03-L
195,282.69
11,484 .39-F
14,355.61- L
• 5,916.48
10,000.00. .p
9,041.23-F
10,456.25- 8
5. 000 .00..lf
2,905.73
322,206.81
24 ,263 .53-F
5,000.00-8
14.119.90

$1,266.515 .79

PROCEED INGS OF THE

330

SCHEDUu; 1

llASON IC HOllES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC !IOllES OF CALIFORNIA

Page"}
JUNE 30, 1960

INVESTllENTS

300

125
100
600
200
50
50
9
200

SCllEOOLE 1

Page 3

INVESTMENTS

JUNE 30, 1960
PREFERRED STOCK

PREFERRED STOCK

~
200
100
100
100
100
2,100
100
200
100
75
200
100
100
200
100
200
300
200
200
200
200
200
100
200
100
100
400
862
175
100
200
441
100
100
100
600
520
100
300
267

331

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

BOOK VAUJE
Allied Stores Corporation , 4"
Aluminum Company of America, $3 ,75
Aluminum Company of America, $3.75
American lletal Climax, Inc., 4-1/2"
American lletal Climax, Inc., 4-1/2"
Atchhon, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Company, 5"
Atlantic Refining Company, 3-3/4", B
Atlantic Refining Company, 3-3/4", B
Bristol-llye rs Co., 3-3/4"
Canada Dry Corp., 4-1/4"
Canada Dry Corp., 4-1/4"
Champion Paper and Fibre Co., 4 .SOJ'
Champion Paper and Fibre Co., 4 .SOJ'
Crown Zellerbach Corporation , 4.20!'
Crown Zellerbach Corporation , 4 .20!'
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, $4 .50
Duquesne Light Company, $2.10
General llotors Corporation , $3.75
W. T. Grant Company, 3-3/4"
Gulf States Utilities Company, $4.20
llay Department Stores Co., $3.40
llay Department Stores Co., $3.40
Natioaal Gypsum Co., $4.50
J. J. Newberry Co., 3-3/4"
Niagara llobewk Power Corporation , 3.~
Northern States Power Co. of Minnesota, $4.10
Oklahoma Gas and Electric Co., 4%
Pacific Gas and Electric Ct>11pany, $
Pacific Gas and Electric Company, 5-1/2"
Pacific Gas and Electric Company, 9" Bed. 1st
Pacific Gas and Electric Company, 5%, Red. lst A
Pacific Gas end Electric Company, 9"
Pacific Ugbting Corporation , $4.50
Pacific Lighting Corporation , 4 .3«'
Pacific Lighting Corporation , 4 .3$
Pacific Service Co. of Indiana, 4 .l«'
Public Service Electric & Gas Company, $1.40
Public Service Electric & Gas Company, $1.40
San Diego Gas & Electric Company, 5.~
Southern California Edison Company, 4 .32"
Southern California Edison Company, 4 .32"
Southern California Edison Company, 4 .32"
Southern California Edison Company, 4 .32"
Southern California Edison Company, 4 .24"
Sperry Rand Corporation , $4 .SO
Sperry Band Corporation , $4.50
Sperry Band Corporation , $4 .50
State Guaranty Corporation , $1.30
Stauffer Chemical Co., 3-1/2"

$

16,286,20
9,639.00
B,661.26-F
10,597 .55
9,896.85-F
21,041.15
9,971.93
16. 790 .OO-F
8,950.15
7,528.60
16,498.78-1'
10,677 .56
9,846,80-1'
19,693.60
9,846.60-1'
24 ,148.85
15,504.51
20,094.00
19,791.70
19,521.53
16,229.98
14,441.70-F
10,420.38
16,890.00-F
9,045.80
10,144.60
7,887 .08
27,756.35
5,915.38
2,653.13
5,293.69-1'
13,045.88
8,922.88-R
10,000.00
8,988.68-1'
15,745.08
16,212.95
2,829.60-F
6,840.75
6,026.19
6,969.83-1'
1,071.39-8
2,178.50-R
15,330.00
20,085.20
4,284.00-F
4,284.00-R
366.75
16,495.~

$ 571,542.o&

BOOK VAUJE

800
100
700
200
1,000
300
100
100

~
Sunray llid-Contine nt Oil Co•pany, 4-1/2", A
Sunray Mid-Contine nt Oil Company, 4-1/21', A
Tidewater Oil Company, $1.20
Tidewater Oil Company, $1.20
Union Pacific Railroad Company, 4"
Union Pacific Railroad Company, 4"
Westinghous e Electric Corporation , 3.BOJ', B
Westinghous e Electric Corporation , 3,BOJ', B

Total Preferred Stock

$ 571,542.04
20,926.93
2,364.19-F
19,719.28
5,230.88-F
10,381.30
2,676.55-8
9,946.90
9,020.78-F
$

651,808.85

$

13,025,90-L
32.50
11,494.34
7,289.04-Jt
2,762,33
984 .89
25,171.53
7,015,32-F
3,399.40-8
48,870,00
2,365.oo
25,000.00
7,555.90-F
399,00-F
3,873.26-L
11,287 .so
18,808.59
8,031.58-F

COMMON STOCK

344
30
782
130
166.737
94.028
340
100
125
1,629
28-1/2
50
500
253
200
1,350
735
300

Continental Baking Company
Covina Irrigation Co.
Crocker-Ang lo National Bank
Dayton Power and Light Co.
Investors Stock Fund, Inc.
Investors llutual, Inc.
llorgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York
llorgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York
Public Service Electric & Gas Company
River Farms of California
San Dimas Co.
Santa Rosa Savings and Loan Association
Security ..First National Bank
Soutbern Realty Co.
Sperry Rand Corporation
Waialua Agricultura l Co.
Wells Fargo Bank American Trust Company
Wells Fargo Bank American Trust Company
Five lotl of securities of undetermine d value received as gifts,
carried at a nominal value of $1.00 per lot

5,oo

Total c - n Stock

$ 197,371.08

TOTAL lNVESTllmTS

$2, ll5,695.72

of the Ila sonic Homes of
~: ?be. above consolidate d statement includes all the securitieswhii:h
are shown on
California, except those in tbe Permanent Endownent Fund
Schedule 2. The securities above are coded for the .following funds:

B - George F. Brigbu and Laura E. Brigham Scholarship Fund _

Exhibit H
F - C. N. Flint Trust Fund - Exhibit K
L - .Joh and Lena Luckenbach Fund - Exhibit G
P - George II. and Florence 6. Perine Endowment Fund - Exhibit I
R - Reaidents• Deposits - Exhibit N
W - Harriet c. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity Fund - Exhibit J
{Uncoded) - General Fund - Exhibit A
TOTAL INVESTMENTS (as Bbove)

$

34,116.77
323,800.65
60,631.40
19,066.40
25,350.97
5,ooo.oo
1,647 ,729.53

$2,ll5,695. 72

332

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING S OF THE

NA.50NIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
PERMANENT ENDOWllENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASON IC HOllES OF CALIFORNIA

FUND OF n!E
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

PERMAN~r EMlOWMENT

JUNE 30. 1960

FACE VAWE

BOOK VALDI!

100,000
100,000
25,000
25,000
100,000
50,000
50,000
1,800
61,000
1,800
79,000
100,000
25,000
100,000
100,000
50,000
50,000
50,000
100,000
100,000
50,000
50,000
100,000
67,000
50,000
50,000
100,000
100,000
25,000
25,000
100,000
25,000
50,000
100,000
100,000
100,000
50,000
50,000
10,000
50,000
50,000
50,000

·so ooo

100:000
50,000
100,000
20,000
25,000
20,000

SCH£DUU: 2
Page 2

INVESTllENTS

INVESTMENTS

$

333

$ 107,959.93
American Telephone and Telegraph Company, $, 1983
101,531.81
Central Illinois Public Servic., Company, 4-3/0, 1989
1962
24,884.45
Chesapeake & Ohio R.R. Equipment Trust, 3-7 /"',
24,847.82
1961
2-1~,
Trust,
Equipment
R.R.
Chesapeake & Ohio
100,988.40·
Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Co11p1ny, 5-1/0, 1996
49,702.08
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R.R. Equipment Trust, 2-5/"', 1965
49,840.75
Chicago, Rock llland & Pacific R.R. Equipment Trust, 2-3/0, 1962
101,506.81
1989
5-1/0,
York,
New
or
Company
Edison
Consolidated
61,756.70
Consolidated Edison Co111pany or New York, 5%, 1987
1,855.21
Consolidated Edison Company of New York, 4%, 1973
79,472.89
1987
Consumers Power Company, 4-3/0,
l.02,269.48
Dallas Power ud Light Company, 5-1/0, I989
24,962.74
Delaware, Lackawanna & Western 11.R. Equlpmeat Trust, 3J', 1962
102,373.26
•
Duke Power Company, 5-1/"', 1990
99,879.34
1972
5-1/"',
Federal National lortg1ge Auociation,
50,752.79
Florida Power and Light Company, 5-1/0, 1989
49,388.21
Great Northern By., 2nd Equipment Trust, 2-5/"', 1961
49,390.91
Great Northern Ry., 2nd Equipment Trust, 2-5/"', 1968
102,569.79
1989
5-1/0,
Gulf Stites Utilities,
102,311,92
Gulf States Utlllties, 4-3/0, 1989
49,871.:M
Illinoh Central 11.R. Equipment Trust, 2-3/0, 1962
49,649.64
1962
Illinois Central 11.R. Equipment Trust, 2-5/"',
102,296.13
1988
4-3/0,
Co.,
Electric
Indiana & Uchigan
70,196.00
International Uneral1 & Chemical Corporation, 3.69J', 1977
50,226.80
Jersey Central Power & Light ·company, 5%, 1987
49,955.93
1962
2-7/"',
Trust,
Loulnille & Nashville 11.R. Equipment
101,016,10
Loulsdlle Gas and Electric Compan:r, 4-7/"', 1987
105,958,07
l[lichlgan Bell Telephone Company, 4-3/0, 1992
24,976.01
1962
Unneapolls, St. Paul & S.St ..arle R.R. Equipment 'fruit, 3-1/$,
25,000.00
1963
3-1/2",
Trust,
lllssouri Pacific 11.R. Equipment
100,781.23
Niagara lohawk Power Corporation, 4-7 /"', 1987
24,999.68
Northern Pacific By. Equipment Trust, 3%, 1963
50,117.ot
Oakdale Irrig1tlon District Tri Dam, 3.0!ll', 200t
96,911.80
1991
$,
Company,
Pacific Gas and Electric
100,000,00
Pacific Gas and Electric Company, 4-1/2", 1990
102,099.11
Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Compan:r, 5-1/"', 1980
50,000.00
Phlladelphia Electric Compan:r, 4-3/"', 1986
49,920.08
Pittsburgh & Lake Erle R.R. Equipment Trust, 3-7/"', 1962
10,243.72
Potomac Electric Power Compan:r, 5-1/0, 1994
50,466.11
Public Service Electric & Gas Compan:r, 4-7/"', 1987
49,870.65
1962
2-7/"',
Tru1t,
Seaboard Airline R.R. Equipmeat
50,117.ot
South San Joaquin Irrigation District Revenue, 3.0!ll', 2oot
51,167.67
Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Co11pan7, 5-1/2", 1994
101,250.79
1993
Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Compan:r, 4-5/"',
50,481.46
Southern California Edison Company, 4-7 /"', 191)2
99,020.27
Southern Pacific Company, Equipment Trust, 2-5/"', 1965
20,158.67
Southwestern Bell Telephone Co11pan:r, 4-3/~, 1992
24,827 .09
1962
Texas and Pacific Hallway Equip11ent Trust, 2-1/$,
20.189,83
Texu Power and Light Co., 4-1/2", 1988
$3,122,079.67

JUNE 30. 1960

FACE VAWE

BOOK VAWE

~
$1,055,000
I0,000
100,000
165,000
735,000
160,000
100,000
12,000
210,000
17,300
50,000
50,000

$3, 122 ,079 .67

U. S. Treasur:r Bonds 3-1/2", 1990
U • S, Treasury Bonds' 2-3/0, 1961
u. s. Treasur:r Bonds: 2-1/2%, 1961
U. s. Treasury Bonds, 2-1/2%, 1969_64
U. S. Treasury Bonds, 2-1/2);, 1972 _67
u. s. Treasury Bonds, Investment series A 2-1/2", 1965
'
U• S • Treasury Notes' 3-3/0, 1964
U. s. Treasury Notes, 1-1/2);, 1965
~i Si Ireasury Certificates or Indebtedness • 4-7/f!f, • 1961
rg n an Railway Company, ~. 2008
Western Massachusetts Electric Company 5-3/"' 1989
Wisconsin Public Service Corporation, S-1/0,
89

1,088,321.17
10,007 .64
100,199.99
165,848.72
713,209.61
160,000.00
99,312.50
12,062.09
210,000.00
19,233.91
50,926.78
50,754.89

fo

Total Bonds

$5. 801, 956. 97

PREFFllllED STOCK

~
600
300
200
I,900
700
300
260
340
13
800
200
200
300
400
500
800
300
37
390
390
200
600
500
2,400

BOOK VAWE

Allied Stores Corporation 0
Alu•inu• Co11pany or A11eri~a, $3. 75
American letll Climax, Inc., 4 -l/2"
:tchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Compan:r 5%
·
•
tlantic lle!lning Co11pan:r, 3-3/4%
Bristol-ayers Co., 3-3/4%
Canada Dry, Inc., $4. 25
Champioalaper aad Fibre Company $4 50
Clenlan Electric Illuminating Co., •4 _1/2"
Continental Baking Company, $ 5 •50
Crown Zellerbach Corporation' $4 .20
E • I• du Pont de Nemours & Compan:r $4 50
•
'
Duqaeane Light Company, $2.lO
General llotors Corporation, $3.75
General llotors Corporation $ 5 00
•
W• T. Grant Company, 3-3/4%
Gulf States Utilities Company, $4 •20
Hawaiian Electric Company, $4. 25
la:r Department Stores co...,an:r 3 41"
' •
National GJP•U• co., $4.50
J • J • Newberry Compan:r, 3-3/0
Niagara llohawk Power Corporation 3 60!'
Northern States Power co. of Min~ea~ta $ 4 10
•
Oklahoma Gas and Electric Co11pany, 4% •

$

$

47,471.30
27,213.45
2l, 19S.30
18,930.15
59,901.38
27,747 .10
24,673.96
33,167 .JC
l,176.50
83,753.17
19,689,60
24,148.85
15,5n.06
38,373.30
52,271.29
66,529.65
29,920.5'
333.00
31,195.02
38,640,05
17,891.00
48,631.00
45,3U.48
44,118.83
817,860.32

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

335

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

334

llASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF n!E
MASON IC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

JIASONIC HOMES or CALIFORNIA
PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF nlE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCllElllltE 2

Pago S

JUNE 30, 1960

COMMON STOCK
PREFERRED STOCK

BOOK VAUJE

$ 817 ,860.32

Forward

2,640.56
15,843 ,38
2,430.00
15,855.75
20,000.00
1,148,00
35,716.53
30,838,32
40,440.51
31,452,14
30,660.00
51,009.47
56,013 ,03
17 ,465.78
33,050,09
53,185.27
84,974.50
25,992.28
90,589.22
29,640,71

Red 1st, A
Pacitic Gas and Electric Company• ""
-:; • R d • lst
Pacific Gas and Electric Company• ..,,. • e •
Pacific Gas and Electric Company• 5-1/~
Pacific Gas and Electric Co11pany • ~
Paclfi c Lighting Corporation, $4 ,36
Pacific Lighting Corporation, 4 .4"
Pacific Ugh ting Corporation, 4 .5())1
~
Public Service Company of Indiana, 4.
1 40
Public service Electric & Gas Company,
San Diego Gas and Electric Company• 5.uv,.
Southern California Edison Company• 4 ·~
Southern California Edison Company' 4 • ..,.
Sperry Rand Corporation• $4 .50
Stauffer Chemical Company• 3-l/2:1'
l/~ A
Sunray Mid-Continent Oil Company• 4 '
Tidewater Oil Company• $1.20
Toledo Edison Company, $4 .25
Union Pacific Railroad Company' 4"
United States Steel Corporation, 7%
Westinghoufse
received as
One lot o secur
.
f $l oo
a gift, carried at a nominal value o
•

1

J"' •

Elecittriie~ ~~r~~~:~~~:in!.i'?a1ue

1.oq
$1,487 ,006.86

Total Preferred Stoel<
COllll>N STOCK

~
606
900
1,200
1,350
BOO
738
880
630
1,050
432
l,280
636
513
1,178
800
393
589
286

JUNE 30, 1960

INVFSTMENTS

INVESTMEN'IS

100
600
96
556
200
14
400
1,200
1,300
1,500
1,200
2,300
600
200
1,300
2,000
1,000
2,500
633
300

SCftEDULE 2
Page 4

Allied Chemical Corporation
Allied Stores Corporation
American Can Company
American Cyanamid Company
Atlantic Refining Company
Bank of America N.T. & S .A·
Bankers Trust Company, o! New York
Bendix Corporation
California Packing Corporation
Caterpillar Tractor Company
Central Hudson Gas & Electric Corp•
Chase Manhattan Bank
Ch ..ical Bank New York ?Tust C1111pany
Columbia Gas System, Inc.
·
Columbus and Southern Ohio Electric Company
Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc.
Consumers Power Company
Continental Baking Company

BOOK VAUJE
23,507 .lT
38,702.32
50,721.65
32,532.26
28,269.03
29,289.67
23,952.96
32,316.01
23,212.25
13,878.00
13,623.00
23,393.95
20,851.20
20,483.95
23,425.94
13,758.43
23,165.10
10,829.99

$

$

445,912.88

SHARES

BOOK VAUJE

~
1,300
1,875
900
738
134
1,200
900
1,224
200
900
820
105
1,783
176
165
943
426
1,000
155
700
2,217
600
460
1,500
840
614
1,000
300
1,440
726
1,300
1,000
1,871
720
513
231
1,800
400
681
745
588
788
404'
1,100
524
4
1,000

Continental Insurance Company
Crocker-Anglo National Bank
Dayton Power & Light Company
Dow Chemical Company
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company
Duquesne Light Co11pany
Fireman's Fund Insurance Company
First National City Bank of New York
Firstamerica Corporation
General Dynamics Corporation
General Electric Company
General llotors Corporation
General Public Utilities Corp.
Hawaiian Electric Company, Ltd.
Hawaiian Telephone Company
Home Insurance Company of New York
Honolulu Oil Corporation
Insurance Company of North America
International Business Machines Corporation
International Harvester Co.
Ining Trust Company
Lockheed Aircraft Corporation
Manufacturers Trust Company
)lay Departllent Storet Co11pany
Minnesota Power & Ught Co11p1ny
llorgan Guaranty Trust Co11pany of ·New York
National Biscuit Company
National Shawmut Bank of Boston
New England Electric System
Niagara llohawk Power Corporation
North American Aviation, Inc.
Northern Natural Gas Company
Northern States Power Co. of Minnesota
Owens-Illinois Glass Company
Pacific Gas and Electric Company
Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company
Pennsalt Chemicals Corp.
Phillips Petroleum Company
Public Service Company of Indiana
Public Service Electric & Gas Co•pany
Reliance Insurance Co11pany
San Diego Gas & Electric C1111pany
Security First National Bank
Shell Oil Co11pany
Southern California Edison Company
Sout!'ern Realty Company
Sperry Rand Corporation

~

$ 445,912.88
. 58,404.77
27,559.48
36,984.88
5l,4n.37
29,946.31
16,686.78
46,459.58
66,052.31
3,184.05
54,934.05
22,284.06
5,ns.oo
20,972.27
9,152.00
3,252.94
39,218.53
18,388.00
53,205,00
33,185.01
31,217 .64
56,907 .31
12,482.88
13,939.31
53,584.57
14,430.22
38,931.06
52,166,77
11,855.13
19,029.65
17,240.19
44,273.58
21,216.27
22,997.59
26,107 .54
22,514.75
5,865.00
37,154,12
12,953,32
18,472.97
18,656.99
24,634.75
16,502.66
14,090.51
26,036.85
18,963.04
11,00
18,873.90
$1,714,144.86

MASON IC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
PEl!MANOO ENDOWMENT FUND OF '111E
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

337

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

336

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCllEDUIE 2
Page 5

SCHEDULE 3

Page 1
JUNE 30, I960

RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES
JUNE 30, 1960

INVESTMEN'IS

RESERVE FOR ADDITIONS AND REPlACEMOOS
COlllllN STOCK
BOOK VAUJE

E2!!!!!!!
1,241
1,000
604
854
1,000
200
714
2,760
1,100
200
·34
1,700
1,880
1,132

Standard OU Company o! California
Standard Oil Company (Indiana)
Standard OU Company (New Jersey)
Standard OU Company (Ohio)
Sunray Mid-Continent OU Company
Sunshine Biscuits, Inc.
Texaco, Inc.
Title Insurance & :trust Company
Transamerica Corporation
Union Carbide Corp. ·
Waialua Agricultural Company, Ltd.
West Penn Electric Company
Westinghouse Electric Corporation.
i eel
Wisconsin Electric Power Company
Five lots of 18 curitiea o! undetermined value, rece v
as
giftl, carried at a nominal value of $1,00 per lot

$1,714,144.86
61,626.93
49,558.31
31,306.23
33,197 .62
27,089.59
14,559.88
59,627 .eo
37,500.00
28,135.10
21,839.99
272.00
37 ,404.48
58,208.58
24,515.06

Balance, June 30, 1959
Beque1t1 allocated to Reserve by Trustees
Net income from real estate received from
beque1t1, allocated to Reserve by Tru1tee1
Contribution• for .. Home1

$618 ,374 ,62
$&0,059.49
l,6&8,52
1.105,00
$62,833.0l

l&!!.: Charges to Reserve:
Addi tion1 to Deco to Home
Addi tion1 to Covina Home
Replacmen ts to Deco to Home
Replace11ent1 to Covina Home

$13,242.67
2,197.79
27 ,620.76
33 ,929,86
76 ,99L08

Decrease in Reserve

14.158,07

Balance," June 30, 1960

$!!04 ,216 .55

5.00
$2,198,991.43

Total Connon Stock
~.685.998.29

Total Stock
$9;487,955.26

'l'OTAL INVESTMENTS

Thia resene ii credited with amounts to be ued for the general purpo1e1 o! the
Deco to or Covina home, ·· · · · ·

COVINA SPECIAL RESERVE
Thia re1erve ii credited with amounts specified for the uae of the Covina home.
Balance, June 30, 1959
Bequeats allocated to Reserve by Trusteea
Net income from real estate received from
beque1t1, allocated to ·Reserve by Truteea
Contributiona for Home
Leu:

Cbarget to Re1erve:
Additions to Covina Home
Replace11en ta to Covina Home
Su•er cup expenae
lllscellaneoua expenditure• for
ipeclal benefit to relident1

Increaae in Resene
Ill lance, June 30, 1960

$332 ,548.21
$62,074.38
4,598.38
3.860,99
$70,533.75
$ 249.89
31,7!M.77
1,555,82
2.990,38
36 .500,86
34 .032,89
~.581.10

338

PRO CEE DING S OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CAL IFOR NIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHFJ!ULE ~

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNJA

Page 2

RESERVES FOR SPF.clAL PIJRPOSES
J!ECOTO

AL RESERVE
-tiiu SPECI
reser ve is credi ted with amounts

JUNE 30 • 1960

~:

Charg e• to Reser ve:
Addi ti on• to Deco to Home
ReplacBDent• to Decoto Home

Decr eue in Reser ve

$28,1 64.82

$191, 169.9 2

68.47
16 ,598. 65

$70,4 55.95
6.603 .55
77,05 9.50
26 ,147 .10
$163 .022 .62

FUNEllAL RESERVE
1his reaer ve i i credi ted with
amounts trana ferre d f rOll th e llnap propr ia ted Reser ve to
proYi de f unera 1 expe nse• . for the resid ents of the Deco to home•
Balan ce, June 30, 1959
Amount trans ferre d from llnap propr
iated Reaer ve
!&!.l ' Fune ral expen se
Decre ase in Reser ve

$ 11.00 0.00
$ 9,820 .78
11.02 0;78
$ 70.60 0.00

EN1ER1AINllEN1 RESEl!\IE
lhis reser ve ia credi ted with contr ibuti ons to be used for the enter taina ent
of the
· resid ents Qf the homes.
Balan ce, June 30, 1959
Cont ribut ions
Len: Entertai1111ent expen ses
of Decoto and
-Covin a Hoiaes
Decrease in Reserve
Balan ce, June 30, 1960

J!JNE 30. 1960

.!£!!.:

Charg es to Reser ve:
Amount trans ferre d io New
Hosp ital Reser ve
$970 ,000, 00
llonth ly grant s to resid ents
50,77 2,00
Amount trans ferre d to Fune ral
Re1er ve
9,620 .78
Real estat e and inaur ance expen
se 4.139 .25

Decre ase in Reser ve
Bo lance , June 30, 1960

$9?4 ,590. 30

$ 236 ,025, 63
157 ,919, 09
14,60 9,52

$

955.7 6
409,5 10,20

I.034 .732. 03
625.2 21.83
$M9, 368,4 7

1.200 .00

Balaa ce, June 30, 1960

Page 3

1his reser ve is credi ted with
amounts a11ig ned by resid ents
of the Decoto home on
emis sion and inclu des proce eds
of real estat e. The reser ve is from pensi ons, life insur ance polic ies, and sale
to be used for the bene fit of
the Decoto home,
the resid ents at
Balan ce, June 30, 1959
Asae ts· aHig ned by resid ents of
the
adllli ssion inclu ding proce eds from Decoto home on
sale of real
estat e and frOlll life insur ance
polic ie1
Pensi ons a11ig ned by resid ents
of the Decoto home
Depo sits of decea sed resid ents
IncOlle frOll real estat e auig ned
by resid en ti
on admi uion

725.5 3
I.334 .73
$48,9 12,40

Bl lance , June 30·, 1960

5CHED!JLE 3

RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PllRPOSES
llNAPPROPRIA TED RESERVE

ifi d fo the use of the Decoto
h011e,
apec
e
r

Balan ce, June 30, 1959
Bequ estl ailoc ated to Reser ve by
New income from real eatat e recei Truat ees
·. bequea ta• alloc ated to Reser ved from
ve by
tees
. · K
c Trua
N Flint Trust Fund income - Exhi
bit
G;ori ie II. and Flore nce G• Perin
e Endo...,ent
Fund income - Exhi bit I
..
Relid enta' Depo sitl income - Exh1b
1t N

339

$ 2 ,007, 26
$10,1 60,06
10.76 0,62
$

600.5 6
1.466 .72

NEii HOSPITAL RESERVE
Thia reser ve was credi ted with
amounts trans ferre d from the Unap
proce eds fr'* sale of real estat
propr iated Re1e ne,
const ructi ng the ho1p ital build e, and contr ibuti on• to provi de for the co1t1 of
ing at the Deco to hOlle,
Balan ce, June 30, 1959
Amount tran1 ferre d from llnap propr
$ 26,29 0,'l(,
$ 970.0 00,00
Proce ed• fr'* sale of real estat iated Reser ve
e recel ved by
. bequemt fr'* George F. Pearc e
Cont ribut ions
69,91 7.41
1,069 .25
$1,06
~: Addi tion1 to new
0,986 ,66
hoapi tal at Deco to home
1.007
.055. 09
Incre ase i11 Reserve
53.93 1.57
Balan ce, June 30, 1960

$ eo.222.53

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

340

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

SC!EllQ 4

MASON IC HOllES OF CALIFORNIA

FISCAL YEARS ENDE11

MEMORIAL TEMPLE AUDIT

JUNE 30, 1960 AND 19J.!

IECOTO OPERATING EXPENSE :
Residents 1 11alntenance
Hospital and medical
Far• and grounds
General, plant, buildings, and transportatio n
Ad•iniatrativ e

NET OPERATING EXPENSE - Exhibit B
COVINA OPERATING EXPENSE :
Residents 1 maintenance
Hospital and medical
Farm and ground•
General, plant, buildings, and tran1portatio n
Adminiatratiy e

NET OPERATING EXPENSE - Exhibit B
RELIEF OOISIIE OF lASIJ"IIC HOMES - Exhibit B
AlllINISTllATIVE AND GENERAL EXm-ISE :

h1urance

Grand Lodge - Secretarial and other services
Office 1&laries
Field iue1tJgatJon 1
Pensions for retired employees
Taxes OD p&JrOlll
Auditing aervicea
Accounting system services
Trustees' expenses
Office supplies and printing
California Free•son - Dedication issue
Taxes on Homes
Investment coun1el fees
ActuarJ fees
Legal fees
Securities aefeteeping
Real estate expenses
Telephone
Reillliunement of EndOW11ent Fund expenses
Accounting and audit - Pension Truat Fund
Grand Lodge trip to Decoto
Executives' Association
..aoaic
Conference expense
•iacellaneous expense

ff-•

TOTAL AIWINISTRATIVE AND GENERAL

EXPENSE - El<hl6lt 8

llEl'IllEENT INCOME PLAN - Exhibit B

JUNE 30, 1960

JUNE 30, 1959

INCREASg
(IECREASE)

$276,667.42
193,237. 75
17,106,23
51,262,54
86,685. 73

$262 I 163. 19
158,681.26
14,231.68
43,284.67
66,934.43

$ 14,504.23
34,556.49
2,874,55
7,977.87
19, 751.30

$624. 959.67

$545,295,23

$ 79,664.«

$112,522. 71
13, 791.57
25,388.56
61,676.90
«, 790.15

$100,057.16
14,940.52
21,339.31
57,840.21
38,3'10.51

$ 12,465.55
Cl,148.95)
4,049.25
3,836.69
6,419,64

$258, 169.89

$232,547. 71

$ 251622118

$ 27,982.20

$ 27, 761, 76

$

$ 34,987.58

$ 13, 794. 79
20,000.00
4,200.00
11,259.80
5,655,52
9,837,02
4,050.00
750.00
2,373.12
3,016.29
4, 760.00
3,837.93
4,500.00
650.00

$ 21,192. 79

20,000.00
4,500.00
11,560.55
4,468.80
13,635.87
4,050.00
500.00
2,686.59
1,638.50
4,758.56
4,500.00
700.00
801.16
1,200.00
1,329.11
436,96
11,551.69

300.00
300. 75
(1,186, 12)

ONI: ELEVEN •UTT1: ..

SAN FRANCISCO 4

July 11, 1960

To the Trustees of
California llasonic llemorial Te11ple
California llasonic lleD10rial Temple
1111 Cali!ornia Street
San Francisco 8, California
We have exa11ined the statement or assets, liabilities, reaene,
and fund balance arising from cash transactions of Calirornia llasonic
llemorial Temple , a California non-profit corporation, as o! June 30 1 1960,

3, 798.85

and the related statement of revenue and expense on a cash basis for the

(250,00)
313,47

year then ended,

(1, 377 19)
I

(4, 760.00)
920,63
50,00
801,16
636.96
2,60
(3,042,20)
(675,00)
354.16

627. 71

951>,87

1, 795.33
(323,16)

$127.354.65

$108,502.82

$ 18,851,83

$ 17,606.61

$ 30,261,81

$02.655,20)

1, 795.33

C1:,.T1r110 Pu•1.1c AceouNTANTa

220.«

1,200,00
692,15
434.36
14,593,89
675,00
1,272,08

1,626.24

SKINNER & HAMMOND

Our examination was made in accordance with generallJ

accepted auditing standards, and accordingly included such tests of the
accounting rer,prds and such other auditing procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstance s.
In our opinion , the accompanying statements present faJrlJ the
assets, liabilities, reserve, and fund balance or California llasonic
llemorial Temple, at June 30, 19~, arising primarily from cash transaction•,
and the income received and expense disbursed by it for the year then ended,
on a basis consistent with that o! the p~eceding year.

341

CALIFORNIA MASONIC llEMORIAL TEMPIE

We attach the :following :for your information:

EXHIBIT B

STATEMENT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES,
RESERVE AND rnND BALANCE
ARIS ING FROM CASH TRANSACTIONS
STATEMENT OF INCOME AAD EXPENSE
ON A CASH BASIS

EXHIBIT A

STATEllENT OF ASSETS LIABILITIES RESERVE
AND FUND BALANCE ARISING FROM CASll TRANSACTIONS
I

EXHIBIT ll

343

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

342

I

I

JUNE 30, 1960
FISCAL YEARS ENDED
JUNE 30, 1960 AND 1959

'1'110 PAGES

NOTES 'IO FINANCIAL SIATEMENTS

JUNE 30, . 1960

SCHEDULE 1

SUMMARY OF CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED

YEAR ENDED
J!JiE 30, 1960

SCHEDULE 2

SllllMARY OF EXPENSE

JUNE 30, 1960

ASSETS
CASH ON HAND AND IN BANKS

$

llElllRIAL TEMPLE PROPERTY (AT COST) :
Lan
Building
Building equipment
Furn I ture and fixtures

106,212,03

$ 734,303,90
4,169,343.19
957 ,516.26
207 ,545.19
6,066,710.54

'IOTAL ASSETS

$6,174 ,922 . 57

FISCAL YEARS ENDED
J!JiE 30, 1960 AND 1959
LIABILITIES

~ti-~
Certified Public Accountants

I

RESERVE

I

AND FUND BALANCE

LIABILITIES :
Notes payable to banks - Note 2
Contract payable to architect - Note 3
Rental deposits !or future use of public space

$1, 763 I 790 ,()()
116,756.00
1,549,00

Total Liabilities

$1,864,095.00

RESERVE FOR RENEWAL'i AND REPLACEMENTS

Note 4

FmD BALANCE:
Contributions: - Note 5
Received prior to July l 1959
Received during year end~ June 30,
1960 - Schedule l

1,152,00

$4,231,294,bb
342,492.41

Total Contributions

$4,573,767 .07

Net expense:
Net expense to July_ l, 1959
Net expense for the year ended
June 30, 1960 - Exhibit B

$ 203,1>16,02
60,495.48

Net Expense

284,111.50

Fund Balance
'IOTAL LIABILITIES
FUND BALANCE

4,289,675.57

I

RESERVE

I

AAD

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements,

$6,174,922.57

345

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OP THE

3H

CALI roRNIA lilASON IC ME!IOR l AL TEMPLE
EXHIBIT B

CALIFORNIA llASONIC llDIORIAL TEMPLE

INCREASE
(DECREASE)
450.00
66.00
(25.00)
(495.00)
3,180.94
350.00
265.00
(9.37)

$ 45,500.00
266.00
75.00
20.00
B,861.10
695.00
300 , 00
132.66
97.95
$ 55,969.71
39,879.64
18,000,00
1,378.44

$ 45,050.00
200.00
100.00
515.00
5,680.16
345.00
15,00
142.03
64.05
$ 52,lll.24
34,006.83
18,000.00
4,098.77

$

$ll5,227 .79

$108,216.64

$

$ 26,573.6a
25,492.26
1,707 .36
209.07
55,666.90

$ 26,105.16
23,724 .77
3,cJOol.69
14,695.90
69,664.32

$

Total Build i ng Expense

$111,651 . 44

$138,214 .86

$(26,563.42)

Net IncoUle or (Expense) fro• Rentals
and Miscellaneous Income

$

3,576.35

$(29,996.02)

$ 33,574.37

Interest on notes payable
General and administrative expense Schedule 2
.Amount transferred to Reserve for
Renewals and Replacements

$ 75,951.60

$ 83,591.26

$ (7 ,639 .68)

6,966.23

13,635.65

(6,867 .42)

Total Other Expense

$ 64,071.63

$ 97 ,426.93

$(13,355.10)

NET EXPENSE - Exhibit A

$ 80,495.46

$127 ,424 .95

$(46,929.47>

Total Rentals and Miscellaneous Income
BUILDING EXPENSE:
Salary expense - Schedule 2
Service expense - Schedule 2
Maintenance expense - Schedule 2
Insurance expense - Schedule 2
Property taxes

fm!EJI EXPENSE :

30, 1960

I

JUNE 30, 1960 JUNE 30, 1959

Rent of garage
Rent of Grand Lodge space
Interest received on savings bank deposits

J~E

FISCAL YEARS ENDED
JUNE 30 1960 AND 1959

STATEMENT OF INCOME AND
EXPENSE ON A CASH BASIS

RENTALS AND MISCEL!ANEOIJS INCOME:
Rent of public space
Rent of control panel
Rent of organ
Rent of furniture
Clean-up charges
Overtime charges
Hat check charges
Telephone collections
Miscellaneous

r«m:5 TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

33.90

$ 3,858.47
5,872.61

(2,720.33)

Note l - Basis of Accounting:
The !lnanclal statements have been prep•red on the cash basis ot accounting
with the exception that the balHnce due for architectural services in the
construction of the Temp l e in the amount of $116,756.00 (see Note 3) and
an addition or $1,172.00 to a reserve !or renewals and replacements
authorized by the Trustees (see Note 4) have been accrued.
Current operat.ing expense bills applicable to the year ended June 30, 1960
and unpaid at June 30, 1960, were or nominal amount.
Note 2 - Notes Payable to Banks :
Notes payable to banks are &ecured by a rirst deed ot trust on the T""'Ple
site real property and the h1provet11ents thereon. The notes ·are repayable
in annual instalments of $20,000 ,00 to each bank beginning October 1, 1956,
and conUnuing annually therearter until October 1, 1965, on which latter
date al I sums of principal and Interest then unpaid shall be due and
payable. The notes bear interest at t.he rate or 4" per annum, payable
semi-annually April 1st and October Isl or each year.

7 ,010.95
The balance or the notes at June 30, 1%0 amounted to $1,763,790.00, as
follows·
2,466.67
1,767 .49
(1,697 .33)
(14 ,666.83)
p4,215.42)

American Trust Company
Anglo Cal i!ornia Nat iona I Sank
Bank or America N.T. G S .A,
Crocker First. National Bank or
San Francisco
The B•nk or California , N.A.
Wells Fargo Bank

$

293,965.00
2'13,965.00
293,965.00
2'13 •965 •00
2'13 t 965. 00
2'13,965 . 00

$1, 763 .790.00

1,152.00

1 1 152.00

The accompanying notes are an integral part or this state...,nt.

The Temple ha~ borrowed a total of $2 ,303,790.00 against a loan co111111itinent
from the banks of $2,543,790.00, leaving a loan connitment balance or
$240,000,00 avail•ble at June 30, 1%0.
Note 3 - Contract Payable to Architect:
The balance of t.he contract payable lo Albert F. Roller !or architect•ral
services in the construct.ion of the Temple, amounting to $116,756.00 has
been accrued and is shown as a liability on the attached balance sheet.
The balance ls payable in five equal annual instalments of $23 751.00 with
'
the first instalment due June 30, 1960.
Note 4 - Resene !or Renewals and Replace91!nts:
Doring the year the trustees authorized the establishment or a Reserve for
Renewal and Replacements and the annual addition thereto of a sum equal
to one percent. of Lhe annual gross inco11e of Ille Te111ple, The addition
!or the year ended June 30, 1960 amo•nted to $1,152.00. This a1110unt had
not been funded • t the close or the year.

346

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CALIFORNIA ' MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TrMPlE

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

JUNE 30, 1%0

Note 5 - Contributions:
Contribution pledges unpaid at June 30, 1960 amount to approximately
$10,000,00. The unpaid pledges are not reflected in the financial
statements until 1he pledges are collected.
Note 6 - Insurance Expense,
eased on policies now in force the annual insurance costs on an accrual
basis of acrounLing amount to approximately $5,000.00 a year.
Note 7 - contingent Liability:
The general contractor of the Te..,le building has filed a suit against
the Temple. The architect, general counsel, and trustees contend this
action is without merit. The Temple has filed an Answer and Cro1sCo111plaint. Additional related issues also have been raised. Thes-:
matters may be resolved by compromise or settled by trial. The
interests of the Temple will be vigorously prosecuted by its counsel,

SUMMARY OF CONTRIB!ITIONS RECEIVED

GRAND !.DOGE F, & A. M.
1959 annual returns:
Master Masons on June 30, 1959 I! $1.00 per capita
Contributions of initiates I! $9.00 each

347

SCllEIJULE 1

YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1960

$236,691.00
20,493.00
$257,184 .oo

Contributions of initiates 1959-60 fiscal year I! $9.00 each

44,802.00
$301,966.00

~:

Adjustments and refunds. from previous years

198.00
$301,788.00

INDIVIDUAL CONTRIBUUONS

40,658.57
45.84

TOTAL CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED YEAR mDEO JtiNE 30, 1960

$342 ,492 .41

E
CALIFORNIA llASONIC llEJMIRIAL TEMPL

SCHEDULE 2

:
CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEllKIRIAL TEllPU

FISCAL YEARS ENDED
JUNE 3o, 1960 ARo 1959

SUMllARY OF EXPENSE

SDllllARY OF EXPENSE

Payro ll taxes
Union welfa re

JUNE 30 1 1959

$ 6,000 ,00
9,600 .00
10,17 5.52
1,536 .45
$27,3 11.97
1,059 .43
202.4 0

$ 5,000 .00
8,310 ,00
9,422 .41
1,391 .10
$24,9 23.51
950, n
230.9 0

$28,5 73.85

Tot.al Salar v Expen&e - Exhib it B

(~)

JUNE 30 1960

JUNE 30 I 1959

INCREASE
(DECREASE)

CENEIAL AND ADllINISTRAtIVE EXPENSE.•
Legal se~lces

$ 2,382 ,61

$ 8,025 .00

$ (5,64 2.39)

Accou nting and audit ing servi ces

I

$26,1 05.18

200.0 0
1,290 ,00
753,1 1
145.3 5
2,368 .46
108,7 1
(28.5 0)

$

$

2,468 .67

$

3!493 ,68

2,815 ,00

678,6 8

Stati onery and prlnt iag,

531.08

1,438 .04

(906. 96)

Publi c relat ions

255,0 1

330,0 9

(75,0 8)

Posta ge expen se

79,fJT

236.7 3

(156.86)

451,2 0

(451, 20)

225.9 8

539.5 9

(313, 61)

$ 6,968 .23

$13,8 35,65

$_$6, 867 .42)

Perso nal prope rty taxes

SERVICE EXPENSE:
Janit orial servi ces
JaniL or suppl ies
Gas
Elect ricity
Eleva tor servi ces
Water
Telep hone and teleg raph
Scave nger
llisce llane ous
Total Servi ce Expen se - Exhib it

JUNE 30 1 1%0

B

llAINTt:NANCE EXPENSE:
Carpe ntry
Paint ing
Plumbing
Gluin g
Elect rical
Aluminum surve y and repai r
Tools and hardw are suppl ies
Lands capin g
llisce llane ous
Total llaint.i-nance Expen se - Exhib

$ 4,587 .08
1,099 .96
2,950 .74
10,20 0,33
3,212 .50
395.9 9
319,7 3
208.5 0
759.9 4

$

$25,4 92.26

$23,7 24.77

$

1,767 .49

$

$

349.1 4

89.99
261,8 4
226.7 9
1,175 .88
858.3 0
265.2 0
119. n
606.9 2

178.3 6
133.0 0
(190. 84)
(226. 79)
(682. 00
(858. 30)
126.8 3
cu9. n>
(257 .78)

$ 1,707 ,36

$ 3,60« .69

$ (l ,897 .33)

11,78

$ 7,203 .41
1,667 .84
5,114 .15
205.6 7
452.9 3
251.9 0

$ (7,19 1,63)
(l,66 7 .84)
(5,ll4 .15)
(8,38 )
(452. 93)
(251. 90)

$14,8 95.90

$( 14,68 6.83)

173.3 6
222.9 9
71.00
493.8 4
392.0 3

lt B

INSURANCE EXPENSE - Note 6
Fire
Earth quake
Publ~.c: liabi lity
Worklllen •s c:o11pensa tion
Prope rty
Misce llaneo us
Total Insur ance Expense - Exhib it

$

197 .29

B

1,186 .67
(207 .02)
(27.9 2)
(392. 05)
993.2 0
10,90
(3.86 )
27.00
180.5 7

$ 5,773 ,75
882.9 4
2,922 .82
9,808 .28
4,205 .70
406,8 9
315.8 7
235.5 0
940.5 1

$

$

209,0 7

SCHEDULE 2
(Cont inued )
FISCAL YEARS ENDED
JUNE 30, 1960 AND 1959

INCREASE

SAlARY EXPENSE:
Salar ies:
Build ing manag~r
Engin eer
Janit ors
Misce llaneo us

349

GRAND LODGE OP CAL IFOR NIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

348

lllsce llane ous

Total Gene ral and Adaa infstr ative
!xPen se - Exhib it B

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFOR NIA
UNION CITY, CALIFOR NIA
Annual Report 1959-1960
Names of Residents -MEN-Av erage Age: 80.67 Years or 80 yrs •• 8 mos.
•Indicates Admission During Current Year

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Herbold, Wm. P ......- ...Aug.11, '58 Calistoga ............233 Calistoga ..............81
Hickey, Frank J.• ..........May 27, '60 So.San
Francisco ........212 San Francisco ......85
Hook, John R.• ..............Feb.13, '60 Mount Olive ......506 Los Angeles ..........82
Hopper, Wm. H .............Dec. 11, '57 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ..........86
Howard, Charlie D .......May 9, '59 Magnolia ............242 Santa Barbara .... 77
Hufstedler , Charles ......Mar. 5, '54 Mariposa ............ 24 Mariposa ..............80
Huling, Wallace S .........Dec. 27, '52 Hammonto n ...... ..433 Hammonto n ........83
Jack, Charles P .............Jan. 9, '38 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ......81
Jefts, Benjamin J . ..........Oct. 27, '48 Justice ..................549 San Francisco ......87
Johnson, Gustave E .......Aug. 8, '56 Balder ..................393 San Francisco ...... 82
Johnson, James C. • ......Apr. 15, '60 So. Park ..............563 Los Angeles ..........83
Jones, Howard T . ..........Aug. 14, '53 Holtville ..............425 Holtville ................
Keen, Cassius H .............Dec. 15, '51 University ..........394 Los Angeles ..........78
90
Kennard, Joseph W .......Oct.19, '56 Center ................. .465 Fresno ....................71
Lafkas, Michael H ........ .Feb. 20, '59 Santa Barbara .... 182 Santa Barbara ....76
London, Morris W . ........May 6, '57 Foothill ................564 Oakland ···········-·--92
Look, Wm. C...................May 21, '56 Hills Ferry ..........236 Newman ···········-···90
Lowther, Lawrence R ...June 25, '57 Guardian ............596 South Gate
·······-···81
Lyons, George W ...........Feb. 6, '59 Eureka ................ 16 Auburn ····-·-··-···--9
2
McCall,
Wm. McLellan ..........Sept. 4, '56 Oroville ..............103 Oroville ···---····----94
McGraw, John H . ..........June 27, '58 South Gate ........320 Los Angeles ..........80
McKellips, Daniel 0. • ..Aug. 5, '59 Park Boulevard ..568 Oakland ···········~---92
Martinsen, Thomas A. .. Nov. 19, '57 Tehachapi ..........313 Tehachapi ............70
Mathes, Wm. W.• ·····-···Jan. 4, '60 San Joaquin ...... 19 Stockton ................81
May, Fred ···- ·- ·············Aug. 15, '51 Friendship .......... 210 San Jose ·······-----·--96
Mearns, John C.............Mar. 3, '47 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......86
Moulthrop , Carlton C ...Apr. 11, '59 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda ···-······-···75
Murray, James B ...........Apr.17, '53 Westwood ..........501 Westwood ............80
Myers, Robert ................Oct. 12, '57 Fidelity ................ 120 San Francisco ......81
Niebling, Wm. F ...........Aug. 27, '58 Capital City ........499 Sacrament o ..........82
Nielsen, Carl M.............Sept. 4, '57 Santa Barbara .... 192 Santa Barbara .... 74
Oakley, Charles W .......Dec. 16, '49 Nicolaus ··----------129 Wheatland
83
Olincy, Harry ..................Feb. 16, '57 Long Beach ........227 Long Beach............
.......... 75
Ollson, Lester E. • ..........Aug. 24, '59 Charter Rock ... .410 Berkeley ................ 73
Peale, Charles W .........Aug. 18, '51 Montebello ..........451 Montebello ............77
Porter, Wm. G ...............Aug. 8, '46 Utopia ..................537 Los Angeles .......... 86
Powell, Wm. H .............Sept. 23, '55 West Gate ..........335 Los Angeles ..........85
Price, William L ...........Feb. 18, '54 San Francisco ....360 San Francisco ...... 74
Randall, Finelle K. • ......May 17, '60 Sojourner ............ 607 Monrovia ..............87
Randolph, George E .....Feb. 6, '59 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................92
Raymond, Wm. P. • ........Feb. 22, '60 Yount .................. 12 Napa ......................94
Raynor, Clarence R. ....Apr. 20, '57 Moneta ................405 Los Angeles ..........92
Reinhold, Gabriel ........Sept. 30, '56 Bay City ..............526 San Francisco ......80
Richardson , Wm. T .......July 29, '50 Santa Maria ........580 Ramona ................ 67
Roales, Robert W. ···-·····Oct. 6, '54 Needles ................326 Needles ..................75
Robinson, Amos• ..........Sept. 26, '59 Fresno ·········-·······247 Fresno .................... 78
Roche, George W ...........Jan.18, '57 So. Pasadena ......367 So. Pasadena ........ 85
Rosenzwei g, Sam* ........Jan. 6, '60 Argonaut ............461 San Francisco ...... 64
Rossi, Valentino ............May 13, '59 Roosevelt ............ 500 San Francisco ......91
Rumfelt, Clarence P .....Jan. 19, '59 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................84
Schooley, Auburn L .....Mar. 2, '59 East Bay ..............489 Berkeley ................86
Shannon, Lewis P .........Jan. 28, '59 Arlington ............414 Los Angeles ..........84
Shields, Samuel A. ......June 25, '55 Tehachapi ..........313 Tehachapi ............94
Short, Benjamin A. ......Apr. 5, '55 Sunnyside ..........577 Los Angeles ..........76
Skinner, Harold R. ......June 3, '57 Guardian ............596 South Gate .......... 73
Smith, Pierson D. • ......Apr. 13, '60 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ................85
Sparks, Warren T .........Jan. 6, '59 Redlands ............300 Redlands .............. 78
Specht, Frank M. • ........May 9, '60 Crocker Lodge ..454 Colma .................... 73

350

Name
Lodge
No.
Town
Admitted
Age
Anderson, Alfred H .....Sept. 25, '51 Mt. Moriah .......... 44 San Francisco ......8'Z
Applegarth ,
Edward M. • ................June 4, '60 Acorn ..................494 Oakland ........ ...... 84.
Armbruste r, Wm. F . ....Sept. 15, '55 Amity ..................370 San Francisco ......80
Baker, Anthony D .........Oct. 5, '56 Santa Rosa .......... 57 Santa Rosa ............Ba
Baril, Leon J ...................Feb. 22, '52 Jas. A. Foshay .... 641 Los Angeles ........67
Barnes, Wm. H.• ............July 2, '59 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................77
Barr, George W .............May 24, '54 Sacrament o ........ 40 Sacrament o .......... 78
Barstow, Wm. A.• ..........Jan. 19, '60 Willow Glen ......676 San Jose
...... .81
Barton, Clarence K. • ....Oct. 16, '59 Sun Garden ........530 Fresno ............... - ..81
Beckmann , Carl A. ........May 3, '51 Liberty ................299 Santa Clara .......... 77
Blum, John ......................May 14, '58 San Diego ............ 35 San Diego ............74
Bogan, Cleo• ..................Aug. 18, '59 San Gorgonio ....668 Banning ................ 79
Bolton, George F ...........Oct. 26, '55 Corinthian .......... 9 Marysville ............90
Bradley, Frederick W ...Sept. 5, '58 Bellflower .......... 523 Bellflower ............78
Brattin, John T .............Aug. 21, '58 Silver Gate ........296 San Diego ............80
Brown, Frederick A. ......Oct.17, '57 Eucalyptus .......... 243 Hayward ..............81
Brown, Robert G ...........May 9, '57 Fort Crook __________575 Fall River Mills....71
Bulen, Benj. F ...............July 15, '58 La Mesa ______________407 La Mesa ...... ........ 84
Burt, Byron H .................Dec. 6, '56 Molino .................. 150 Tehama ···---·-····-····· 75
Case, Byron W. • ............Mar. 11, '60 Buckeye _____ _________ 195 Winters -----------·-·····70
Casey, Newman H .........Mar. 26, '55 Santa Barbara .... 192 Santa Barbara......83
Cicero, Carmel ..............May 27, '53 Yount .................. 12 Napa ---------------·-·····79
Condon, Wilbert S .........Jan. 11, '42 Apollo ..................396 Alameda - .... - ...... 84
Covington, James G .....Aug. 30, '57 South Gate ..........320 Los Angeles ........ 77
Crawford, Thomas ........Oct. 30, '55 Truckee ..............200 Truckee ----------·--···81
Crozier, Alfred B. • ......June 26, '60 Semper Virens .. 552 Eureka ··--···----·-····· 77
Darolles, Jean L ...........Mar. 25, '59 Francis Drake ....376 San Francisco ...... 78
Date, Harrington S .......Mar. 5, '48 Grizzly ·····--···------601 Portola ................. 92
Davidson, Thomas A. ....Apr. 4, '55 North Star··-·····-- 91 Fort Jones .............91
Deardorff, Charles D.• .. Dec. 7, '59 Martinez ···--·-------- 41 Martinez ------·--·······78
Dixon, James G .............June 11, '59 Live Oak ---·-·-··--· 61 Oakland -----------·····78
Donaldson , Chas ...........Feb.14, '58 Marin ..................191 San Rafael ............81
Dresser, Walter P.• ........Jan. 29, '60 Melrose ·····-----------602 Los Angeles ..........87
Du Bois, Andrew B .......Apr. 30, '58 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton -·--------····--77
Duebel, Charles ............Apr. 5, '58 Occidental ···------- 22 San Francisco ......81
Dzaroogian , Marsob• ....May 19, '60 Vallejo ................487 Vallejo ..................133
Ford, Ralph G.• ..............Jan. 2, '60 Hollywood ..........355 Hollywood ............68
Frare, Giacomo ..............Apr. 1, '51 Seranza Italian ..219 San Francisco ......79
Frost, Harold G .............Nov. 1, '45 Utopia ..................537 Los Angeles .......... 70
Gifford, Ottie E.• ..........June 25, '60 Victory ................474 San Francisco ...... 75
Godfrey, Henry S .........July 25, '54 Oak Grove .......... 215 Alameda ...... . ..89
Graver, Robert E ...........Mar. 17, '58 Pentalpha ............202 Los Angeles ..........91:
Gray, Arthur• ................May 12, '60 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ....................74
Gren, Robert F ...............May 7, '58 Curtis .................. 140 Cloverdale ....... ....80
Grogan, Robert G .........Aug.11, '53 Hollywood ..........355 Hollywood ............61
Groom, Francis G .........Oct. 24, '56 Lakeshore .......... 551 Oakland ... ........82
Guthrie, Edmond P. • ....May 20, '60 Redlands ............300 Redlands
Halpin, Robert L ...........Oct. 23, '53 Silver Trowel .... 415 Los Angeles ..........8
Hanson, Oscar C ...........Nov. 7, '55 Palisades ............637 Santa Monica ...... 75
Hare, Darrell* ................May 12, '60 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ......85
Hartman, William ........Aug. 29, '56 West Gate ..........335 Los Angeles ..........70
Hendricks, Alfred ........Nov. 17, '50 Stanislaus ..........206 Modesto ................ 79
Hendricks,
George G. • ................ Sept. 26, '59 All States ............593 Long Beach .......78

-·············ff

351

352

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Age
TO&Pn
Steigelman,
Warren H. • ................Mar. 19, '60 Bellflower ..........523 Bellflower ............7'1
Sterling, John W ...........Nov. 8, '56 Redlands ............300 Redlands ..............90
Stewart, James 0 .........Feb. 20, '44 Calaveras ............ 78 San Andreas ........89
Strain, William R. • ......June 11, '60 The Gardens ...... 621 Los Angeles _________ 75
Stret, Alvin C .................Apr. 14, '55 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena ..............87
Sutherland, George W...July 13, '53 Clovis ................. .417 Clovis ....................80
Sutherland, Wm. M.....Mar. 10, '58 Redondo ..............328 Redondo Beach .... 83
Taforo, Charles R. ........Nov. 18, '57 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................73
Thompson, Elmer F .......Feb. 4, '56 Meridian ............667 Glendale ................74
Thornton, Francis G .....Mar. 28, '59 Oak Grove ......... .215 Alameda ................82
Valentine, Eugene P .....Mar. 8, '57 University ..........394 Los Angeles ..........86
Wallis, Abraham G .......Nov. 2, '47 Midway ..............426 Taft ........................76
Warden, Robert A .......June 1, '56 Marin .................. 191 San Rafael ............81
Waterman, Alfred S .....Feb. 28, '55 Russian River .... 181 Windsor ................82
Wells, Wm. S .................Aug. 4, '51 Oriental .......- .....144 San Francisco ......89
White, Harry C...............Dec. 4, '54 San Diego ..........561 San Diego ..............79
Wilder, Wm. R ....- .........Dec. 5, '58 Friendship ..........210 San Jose ................77
Williams, Charles F .....Aug. 24, '46 Rockridge ..........468 Oakland -·-··--------78
Willis, Walter C...........June 3, '57 Dimond ................603 Oakland ................68
Wilson, Charles R. ........Nov. 6, '58 Searchlight ........567 Long Beach ..........82
Wilson, Thomas R.' ......Aug. 24, '59 Sequoia ................349 Oakland ................76
Wood, Prederick R. ......May 8, '59 Corona ................324 Pasadena .............. 75
Zuck, James R. ..............Feb.11, '56 Carmel ................680 Carmel ..................83
Total Men 134

Name
Died
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Nordstrom. David P .....Aug. 26, '59 Doric ....................216 San Francisco ...... 72
Plato, John ....................Dec. 13, '59 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach ..........95
Rice, Dana 0 .................Dec. 30, '59 Hartley ................ 199 Lakeport ..............90
~omas, Eugene A. ......A.(>r. 7, '60 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno .................... 78
Tilsner, Henry E .........July, 24, '59 Crockett ..............139 San Francisco ......88
Trabucco, Frank ............Feb. 1, '60 Speranza
San Francisco ...... 77
Italiana ............219
Van Every, Samuel ......Mar. 6, '60 Traver ..................294 Kingsberg ............98

Dea~MEN'~19S9-1960

Name
Died
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Aldrich, Wm. B .............Apr. 25, '60 Capital City ........499 Sacramento ..........86
Brossard, Adrian ..........June 17, '60 Eureka ................ 16 Auburn ..................81
Buhlinger, Wm. F .........Feb. 1, '60 Oriental ..............144 San Francisco ......87
Campbell, Archibald ....Aug. 4, '59 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ...... 86
Chalfant, Hal P ...........Aug. 22, '59 Claiborne ............185 Point Arena ..........90
Crayton, Frank L .........July 20, '59 Colusa ..................240 Colusa ....................85
Gage, DeWitt ..................May 3, '60 Hawthorne ..........647 Hawthorne ............83
Galvin, Wm. A .............Mar. 26, '60 Oriental .............. 144 San Francisco ......90
Green, Robert U ...........Jan.19, '60 Gardena ..............372 Gardena ................92
Hacker, Harold E ...........Jan. 3, '60 Piedmont ............ 521 Piedmont .............. 70
Hackley, Halford L ...... .Aug. 22, '59 Truckee ..............200 Truckee ................67
Hancock, James G ...... .Nov. 10, '59 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ....................81
Harth, Arthur P ...........Sept. 1, '59 Lindsay ................416 Lindsay ..................88
Higgins, Ed. L .................Oct. 13, '59 Park ....................449 San Francisco ......91
Hohn, Wm.......................Dec. 23, '59 Amity ..................370 San Francisco ......87
Irving, Wm.....................May 1, '60 Utopia ..................537 Los Angeles ..........93
Jones, George W...........Apr. 18, '60 Delano ................309 Delano ..................84
Keller, Reuben C.........Aug. 27, '59 Durant ................268 Berkeley ................75
Kerr, David ................... .Dec. 6, 59 King Solomon's .. 260 San Francisco ......94
Kleinkauf, Sam E .........Apr. 30, '60 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles ..........76
Lair, Allen ......................Feb. 16, '60 Jubilee ................604 Santa Ana ............76
Lawrence, Ed. S .......... .Aug. 15, '59 Inglewood ..........421 Inglewood ............81
Lewis, Herbert W ...... .June 18, '60 Burbank ..............406 Burbank ................ 79
McClain, Robert E .........Mar. 22, '60 Hawthorne ..........647 Hawthorne ............56
MacKenzie, Alex D .......Jan. 24, '60 Apollo ..................396 Alameda ................75
Martin, Geo. W .............July 25, '59 Sequoia ................349 Oakhmd ................86
Miller, Harry ..................May 20, '60 Bay View ............401 Oakland ................76
Moody, Fredrick 0 .......Jan. 5, '60 Santa Cruz .......... 38 Santa Cruz ............79
Mortenson, Fred H .......Feb. 18, '60 La Fayette ..........126 Sebastopol ............77
Motoska, Julius ............Sept. 9, '59 Northern Light..190 Millville ................87

353

WITHDRAWN

~nh~ Walter R. ......Apr. 27, '60 Palo Alto ............346 Palo Alto ..............89
oyd, ohn S ...............June 23, '60 Three Pillars ......613 Sacramento
79

Edwards, George T .......May 23, '60 Lindsay ............. .416 Lindsay ........:::::::::: 74
Hopper, Charles ............June 25, '60 So. California ....278 Los Angeles .......... 79

354

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

UNION CITY, CALIFORNIA

Annual Report 1959-1960
Names of Residents-WO MEN-Average age: 80.75 Years or 80 yrs., 9 mos.
*Indicates Admission During Current Year
Age
No.
Town
Lodge
Admitted
Name
74
..........
Angeles
Los
378
................
Mispah
'60
10,
Mar.
..........
*
E.
Sarah
Abbott,
Allen, Maude ···-···········Aug. 22, '58 Lexington .......... 104 El Monte .............. 78
Allred, ROBa* ···-······--··.Feb. 27, '60 Mt. Davidson ......481 San Francisco ......79
Ames, Myra D ...............May 8, '54 Delano ................309 Delano ..................73
Anderson, Hattie M . ....May 30, '57 Jewel ··-··············374 San Francisco ......86
Anderson, Mary D .......Nov. 19, '51 Sequoia ···~···········349 Oakland ................85
Andrews, Lela M . ........ Sept. 2, '58 Friendship .......... 210 San Jose ···-··-·······84
Ashbrooke, Minnie M ...Apr. 16, '57 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles .......... 83
Baker, Mary A.• ............Aug. 27, '59 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................86
Barr, Mabel Wixson ....May 24, '54 Sacramento ........ 40 Sacramento ..........80
Barstow, Eva M. • ..........Jan. 19, '60 Willow Glen ......676 San Jose ................ 78
Bartlett, Eva R. ..............Apr. 10, '53 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena ..............87
Bavouset, Cora ..............Nov. 2, '55 West Adams ...... 565 Los Angeles .......... 76
Belknap, Annie L .........Oct. 24, '56 Temblor ..............477 Fellows ···- ·············84
Bell, Clare R. ................June 21, '57 Mission ................169 San Francisco ...... 89
Bell, Edith L ...................Mar. 29, '58 San Francisco ....360 San Francisco ...... 79
Black, Evalita M.• ........July 17, '59 King David's ......209 San Luis Obispo .. 79
Bloy, Edith ···········-······.Nov. 2, '55 Dunsmuir ............297 Dunsmuir ..............88
Boaz, Georgia E.• ........Nov. 6, '59 Oxnard ................341 Oxnard ..................83
Blum, Lena ................... .May 14, '58 San Diego .......... 35 San Diego ............ 72
Bogan, Selma E. • ......... .Aug. 18, '59 San Gorgonio ....668 Banning ................ 72
Boren, Maud B ...............Oct. 16, '58 Eel River ............ 147 Fortuna ................85
Bowman, Ottie B .........Apr. 3, '54 Henry Morse ......541 Berkeley .............. 79
Boyer, Maude A.• ..........Jan. 20, '60 Harbor ................ 502 Richmond ............84
Boyer, Mildred A .........Sept. 14, '52 Mt. Moriah .......... 44 San Francisco ......88
Brewer, Nana N .............Dec. 20, '58 Highland Park .. 382 Highland Park .... 77
Brokaw, Leona C...........Apr. 17, '58 Humboldt ............ 79 Eureka .................. 79
Brown, Jean L ...............Apr. 23, '50 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ............80
Brown, Nellie E .............Oct. 12, '57 Pajara ..................110 Watsonville .......... 77
Browne, Rachel R. ........June 21, '54 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ·······-··········· 71
Bryon, Hortense P . ...... Sept. 30, '52 Golden State ...... 358 Los Angeles ..........74
Busby, Hattie 0 .............Jan. 2, '59 Center ..................465 Fresno ....................80
Campbell, Lucy A. ......Sept.11, '50 Dunsmuir ............297 Dunsmuir ..............95
Carswell, Adella B .......Dec. 31, '58 LaFayette .......... 126 Sebastopol ............88
Carter, Adelia M...........July 1, '58 Santa Cruz .......... 33 Santa Cruz ............87
Casterline, Mary A ....... Apr. 10, '34 Oceanside ............381 Oceanside ............87
Cheney, Hazel E ...........Aug. 15, '51 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento .......... 74
Chesworth, Naomi E ... Sept. 7, '56 So. Pasadena ......367 So. Pasadena ........68
Childers, Cora ................June 14, '57 Mission ................169 San Francisco ......83
Cicero, Antoinette ........Mar. 27, '53 Yount .................. 12 Napa ......................61
Clayberger, Alice J. • .... Nov. 16, '59 San Joaquin ...... 19 Stockton ·····-··-···-'111
Cope, Hattie May ..........July 29, '52 Hartley ................ 199 Lakeport ..............84
Cortright, Laura ... - ..... Sept. 7, '54 Durant ................ 268 Berkeley ................83
Crozier, Mary E. • ..........Aug. 11, '59 Pacific .................. 136 San Francisco ......77
Crozier, Mildred M. • ....June 26, '60 Semper Virens .. 552 Eureka ..................60
Dale, Gertrude• ........... .Mar. 31, '60 Rockridge ..........468 Oakland ···········-··· 79
Dalton, Meta C...............Jan. 27, '51 Live Oak ............ 61
Oakland ···········-···8
Darby, Genevieve M. • ..Mar. 30, '60 Charter Rock ......410 Berkeley
Davis, Minnie B .............Dec. 21, '53 San Jose .............. 10 San Jose ................
Dibble, Catherine 0 .....Sept. 10, '53 Pentalpha ..........202 Los Angeles ..........8
Dilling, Margaret M .....Mar. 19, '59 Oakland ..............188 Oakland ................8'
Dixon, Nora E ...............Feb. 22, '46 West Lake ..........392 Los Angeles ..........85
Dodge, Helen L .............Aug. 21, '53 Harbor ................502 Richmond ..............75

···········-···1

355

Admitted
No.
Name
Lodge
Age
Town
Donaldson, J. Elaine ....Feb.14, '58 Marin .................. 191 San Rafael ............ 79
Dott, Edna 0 .................June 11, '52 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ..........89
Douthitt, Edith A ...........Jan. 21, '50 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......83
Dudley, Annie Laura ....Feb. 8, '58 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach .......... 75
Dunn, Mabel I .................Oct. 3, '57 Willow Glen ...... 676 San Jose ................74
Edwards, Eleanor B.....Dec. 3, '58 Lindsay ..............416 Lindsay ................73
Edwards, Emma L ....... Nov. 1, '52 Mosaic ................218 Livermore ............ 78
Edwards, Lina M ...........May 23, '50 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ...... 78
Elliott, Maud M ...........June 15, '48 Beverly Hills ......528 Beverly Hills ........82
Ely, Eva F..stelle ............Aug. 24, '55 Wilshire ..............445 Los Angeles ..........76
Eno, Daisy Mae ·····-··-··.Feb. 25, '58 Buckeye ~-············195 Winters .................. 77
Fanning, Jennie H .......Nov. 4, '57 Oakland ..............188 Oakland ................80
Feiling, Idabel C...........Feb. 3, '59 Mtn. View ..........194 Mtn. View ............ 79
Fleming, Thora J ...........Jan. 3, '58 Mendocino .......... 179 Mendocino ............ 78
Foley, Lida E .................Apr. 18, '55 Bellflower ..........523 Bellflower ............6e
Ford, Ada L.* ..............Jan. 2, '60 Hollywood ..........355 Hollywood ............89
Frank, Dorothy• ............Dec. 30, '59 Fidelity .............. 120 San Francisco ......62
French, Lydia J. ···- ······.Dec. 9, '57 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu ..............85
Freulich, Helene• ..........July 11, '59 Hollywood ..........355 Hollywood ............72
Gabbs, Augusta E .........Jan. 30, '57 Carquinez ..........337 Crockett ................88
Garrison, Pearl P .........Apr. 9, '56 Roseville ............ 222 Roseville ..............83
Geibel, Theresa ···- ··-···Feb. 4, '53 Fairmount ......... .435 San Francisco ......82
Gerard, Martha J ...........Oct. 27, '54 Stanislaus ..........206 Modesto ................80
Gerbert, Frances E .......May 2, '59 Three Pillars ......612 Sacramento ..........81
gµJj_ert, Tillie B ............ .Feb. 2, '57 Hillcrest ..............573 Berkeley ................ 83
1 am, Estelle G ......... Mar. 20, '46 Hemet ..................615 Hemet ....................76
Vermont
Goodwin, Emma ..........June 13, '48
Square ............515 Los Angeles ..........87
grant, Lillian A. ----.Oct. 6, '32 Georgetown ........ 25 Georgetown ..........85
reen, Cora L. • ............Feb. 12, '60 Pajaro ..................110 Watsonville ..........82
Guthrie, Rena ................May 27, '52 Buckeye .............. 195 Winters ..................84
Hannah, Hannah May..June 8, '56 Doric ....................216 San Francisco ...... 77
Hansen, Grace z.• ........Jan.11, '60 Riverbank ..........459 Riverbank ............ 73
Hardy, Alice M.............Dec. 27, '54 Rockridge ..........468 Oakland ................88
Hare, Violet• ·············---.May 12, '60 Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco ......80
Ha.rp_er, Laura D ........... Nov. 6, '57 Yolo ...................... 81 Yolo ........................ 77
HarrISon, Martha ..........Nov. 19, '52 King Solomon's ..260 San Francisco ...... 99
Harter, Clara B .............May 17, '58 Golden Rule ..... .479 San Jose ................82
Hays, Lilian T ...............May 5, '55 Center ..................465 Fresno -·-··-···········64
Hedburg, Huldah A. ....Mar. 5, '58 Fresno ................247 Fresno ....................81
Helmore, Ada F. • ..........Oct. 9, '59 Mill Valley ........356 Mill Valley .......... 84
~~pburn, Catherine ......Apr. 7, '52 Palisades ............637 Santa Monica ......68
ill, Neva A. ............._...Dec. 5, '55 Oakland ..............188 Oakland ................76
Hinz_e, Henrietta M.......Jan. 27, '54 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton ................75
Hollis, Maybelle J .........Feb. 11, '53 F. K. Shattuck .. 571 Berkeley ······-···-···76
Hoover, Emma Jane ......Feb. 5, '50 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena ···········--80
Hopper, Lotta S. ···-····-.Dec. 11, '57 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ..........86
Hoskins, Elizabeth ........May 3, '55 Lancaster ............437 Lancaster ..............81
Hull, Agnes ....................Aug.16, '55 Menlo Park ........651 Menlo Park ..........96
Hunter, Jeanie ................July 14, '58 Brooklyn ............225 Oakland ................82
Hyland, Erle Woods ..... .Dec. 3, '56 Sun Garden ........530 Fresno .................... 73
Hyman, Loretta ···-·······Dec.15, '47 Starr King ..........344 San Francisco ......68
Jacobsen, Josephine ....June 25, '54 So. Calif. ............278 Los Angeles ..........88
Jakobs, Inez• ·······--··- ··.Feb. 17, '60 Monterey ............217 Monterey .............. 75
Jobes, Hala S.................Nov. 26, '56 University ..........394 Los Angeles ..........91
Johnston, Ada T...........July 2, '58 McKinley ............347 Richmond ..............76
Jones, Edith ....................Jan. 2, '53 Victorville ..........634 Victorville ............91
Jordan, Evaline ............Mar. 27, '56 Hartley ................199 Lakeport ..............90
Kapantais, Edith ..........Feb. 14, '55 Ionic -······-··-··---520 Los Angeles .........•76
Kapp, Carrie E ...............July 16, '49 San Jose .............. 10 San Jose ·······-·······88

356

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

No.
AQe
Lodge
Town
Admitted
Name
Keller, Agnes C. • ......... .Nov. 19, '59 Silver Gate ........296 San Diego ..............78
Kent, Evaline C ...........Sept. 6, '55 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ···-·76
Kirtlan, Minnie E .........Jan. 3, '58 Franklin ..............143 Courtland .............. 75
Kramer, Alice L ...........June 4, '55 Mill Valley ........356 Mill Valle;v .......... 84
Krejcik, Rose ·············-··.Feb.16, '58 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ......85
Lagomarsino,
Henrietta ·····-·············Sept. 2, '58 Henry Clay ........ 95 Sutter Crek ..........85
Lane, Edith B. ···-·········Mar. 15, '48 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ..........86
Larter, Gertrude ..........Sept. 5, '49 Moneta ................405 Los Angeles ..........72
Latimer, Helen B ...........Oct. 2, '56 King David's ......209 San Luis Obispo..95
Lawrence, Irma A. ........Oct. 20, '58 Parnassus ............388 San Francisco ...... 76
Lent, Elizabeth D.• ......Sept. 29, '59 Yerba Buena ......403 Oakland ................81
Look, C. Maude ............Mar.16, '59 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu ···-·········78
Luscombe, Laura C .....June 29, '58 Richmond ............375 San Francisco ......82
McCann, Elizabeth J.• ..Aug. 4, '59 Manchester ........585 Los Angeles ..........82
McCord, Zidana M .........Oct. 18, '46 Santa Rosa .......... 57 Santa Rosa ..........81
McDaniel, Elizabeth ....Apr. 12, '58 Atascadero ........493 Atascadero ............81
McDowell, Alice M .......Mar. 24, '32 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ................84
Mciver, Ella W .............July 9, '48 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda •...............85
McNairn, Verda A .........July 29, '58 Wasco ..................583 Wasco ···-···············77
MacAllister, Emily ..... .Aug. 19, '52 Larchmont ..........614 Los Angeles ····-····82
Mackenzie, May W .......June 30, '41 Bay View ............401 Oakland ................81
MacKinnon, Ivy M .......Aug. 29, '57 Humboldt ............ 79 Eureka ... _............. 84
MacReady, Mattie D .....Jan. 10, '53 So. Calif.............278 Los Angeles ..........97
Matthews, Annie W .•...Mar. 9, '56 Sotoyome ............123 Healdsburg ..........95
Mayfield, Mary ............Sept. 22, '35 Alpha ..................431 Richmond ............87
Meck, Lulu M...............Sept.14, '55 King David's ...... 209 San Luis Obispo..77
Merrill, Ivy L. ·······-·······Jan. 25, '41 lllinoistown ........ 51 Colfax ···········-··-···81
Miller, Catherine E .......Apr. 20, '57 Sunset .........:........352 Los Angeles .......... 77
Mitchell, Maude N .......Dec. 20, '54 San Bernardino.. 348 San BernarcLino....83
Moore, Allie V. ···-·········Jan. 4, '57 Orland-................265 Orland ..................80
Murrell, Catherine ........Jan. 12, '52 John Marshall ....636 Beverly Hills ......81
Nestle, Asenath• ..........July 7, '59 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach .......... 75
Neumann, Frances G.• ..July 9, '59 Los Angeles ........ 42 Los Angeles ..........81
Nicolaus, Erma M .........Jan. 27, '59 Unity ···-············-·368 Glendale ···-·········ffl
Nielsen, Este M.............Oct. 3, '40 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................U
Nussbaum, Ida• ............Feb. 23, '60 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ................81
O'Donnell,
Florence D.................June 1, '43 Durant ................268 Berkeley ................97
Olsen, Minnie ................May, 28, '52 Humboldt ............ 79 Eureka .................. 77
Olsh, Sophia• ................Apr. 25, '60 Union .................. 58 Sacramento .......... 74
Pace, May E ...................Oct. 31, '57 Santa Cruz .......... 38 Santa Cruz ............69
Peacock, Katie C ...........Mar. 25, '47 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ·······-·······87
Preslar, Ida ················-··Jan. 19, '41 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................83
Perryman,
Stella May• ................Aug. 3, '59 Signal ..................543 Long Beach ..........81
Pfeiffer, Nina F .............Mar. 17, '58 Pinole ..................353 Hercules ................ 77
'Pitner, Eva H .................Jan. 27, '59 Los Angeles ........ 42 Los Angeles ..........86
'Pitts, Adelaide S ...........Feb. 5, '54 Mendocino .... - ...179 Mendocino ............80
Powell, Mary W .............Dec. 1, '55 Natoma ................ 64 Folsom ···-·············88
Prentice, Rose ..............June 30, ..45 Marin ..................191 San Rafael ·········--91
'Preslar, Ira ................... _.Jan. 19, '41 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ···········-···h
Prucha, Velma F ...........Feb. 19, '57 Silver Gate ........296 San Diego ............69
Purcell, Susie M ...........Oct. 19, '57 California ............ 1 San Francisco ......85
Raby, Gertrude L .........Dec. 17, '57 Occident.al .......... 22 San Francisco ...... 81
Reasoner, Marie D. ......July 21, '48 Normal Heights.. 632 San Diego ............ 78
Resau, Luella B.............Mar. 31, '56 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................89
Robertson, Annette M...Aug. 1, '52 Morgan Hill ........463 Morgan Hill ..........84
Rose, Mary ....................Sept. 6, '56 Mission ................169 San Francisco ......88
Ross, Jean ............•.........Apr.16, '58 Pacific ..................136 San Francisco ...... 74

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

357

Admitted
N11n1e
Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Rounds, Florence B .....June 12, '54 Jonathan ............545 San Francisco ......88
Rudebeck, Anna ............Dec. 15, '48 Balder ..................393 San Francisco ......88
Ryder, Bertha ········-······Oct. 17, '58 West Lake ..........392 Los Angeles ..........76
Salter, Julia A ...............Jan. 5, '54 Crockett ···-·········139 San Francisco ......90
Sandbo, Maude R. ···-····.Dec. 5, '52 Golden Rule ..... .479 San Jose ·········-·····80
Sanders, Edith P ...........Apr. 5, '58 Inglewood ..........421 Inglewood ............85
Schooley, Mary A ...... -.Mar. 2, '59 East Bay ..............489 Berkeley ................83
Scott, Emma L ...•...........Aug. 29, '52 Arcata •.................106 Arcata ....................89
Scovel, Marie M...........July 4, '58 Santa Ana ..........241 Santa Ana ............64
Seagrave, Edna R. ........May 14, '52 Palo Alto ............346 Palo Alto ..............75
Seymour, Laura ............Feb. 1, '36 Honol~u ........... .409 Honolulu ..............82
Shanks, Ella ·······-·········Sept. 1, '37 Hawauan ............ 21 Honolulu ···-·········89
Shenick, Eleanor ..........Aug. 2, '57 W. Los Angeles.. 373 W. Los Angeles....79
Sibley, Mabel L. • ........Sept. 23, '59 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ·-·············86
~lo7umb. Mabel W ....... Apr. 25, '56 Sacramento ........ 40 Sacramento ..........82
~th, Mary -·······-···.May 26, '54 Oakland .............. 188 Oakland ................ 76
Smith, Myrtle M ...........Nov. 15, '56 Azure ..................533 Fullerton •.............80
Snowden, Jean E ...........Dec. 29, 58 Ferndale .............. 193 Ferndale ·······-··-···88
Snyder, Amanda G •......Apr. 13, '37 Bakersfield ........224 Bakersfield ..........87
Southgate, Sara L ........ .Aug. 12, '57 Yount ···-··-········· 12 Napa ·········--·-··--81
Spalding, Olive G. • ......May 6, '60 Surprise Valley..235 Cedarville ·······-···79
Stapff, Mary S. • ............Mar. 29, '60 Doric ....................216 San Francisco ...... 76
Steigelman, Joan• ........Mar. 19, '60 Bellflower ..........523 Bellfiower ............ 74
St~venson, Julia M.......Aug. 17, '57 Alpha .................. 431 Richmond ............ 79
Stitt, Cora M .................Aug. 21, '58 Henry S. Orme ..458 Los Angeles ..........88
Stolle, Lucy E. • ..............Oct. 29, '59 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......81
Stroud, Laura L ...........June 2, '37 Vacaville ............134 Vacaville ..............86
Stromberg, Laura A .....Mar. 5, '59 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ...... 75
Swain, Sarah C .............Feb. 1, '51 Apollo •.................396 Alameda ................81
Sweeney, Sada S. • ......Sept. 12, '59 Los Angeles ........ 42 Los Angeles ..........85
Thompson, Abbie V.....Nov. 29, 58 Occidental .......... 22 S. San Francisco.. 78
l?J.ompson, Celia ..........Dec. 16, '33 Eden ···············-···133 San Leandro ........89
T~er, Sofie ·······-·-··-··--.Aug. 28, '58 South Park ........ 563 Los Angeles ..........80
Timmer, Annie M. • ......Nov. 30, '59 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ...... 72
Tunstead, Rosa --····--..July 5, '57 King Solomon ..260 San Francisco ......83
Twedy, Mary L .............Apr. 2, '55 Thousand Oaks .. 478 Berkeley ·······-·······80
Tyler, Agnes J ...............Dec. 4, '56 Parnassus ............388 San Francisco ......83
Waite, Florence ..............Dec. 9, '54 Seal Rock ............536 San Francisco ......81
Ward, Nina E .................Dec. 27, '54 Vermont
Square ............515 Los Angeles ..........82
Watts, Ollie V............... Sept. 29, '57 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ................91
Webster, Emma ···-··---.Feb. 28, '55 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ..........89
Wells, Jennie A. ···-··-··.Dec. 27, '54 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ..........92
Wheat, Daisy W. • ..........Dec. 29, '59 Meridian ............669 Glendale ·······-·······82
=taker, Adfi H .........Oct. 8, '52 Bay View ............401 Oakland ···-···········86
ams, Annie F .........Nov. 3, '46 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco •.....80
Williams, Eda M ...........Nov. 10, '51 Park ···-······-·······449 San Francisco ...... 79
Wisewell, Evalyn ..........Feb. 18, '54 California ............ 1 San Francisco ......86
Witham, Bess T .............Aug. 25, '51 Lancaster ............437 Lancaster ···--···-77
Wuster, Yolande V.• ....Aug. 2, '59 Washington···-··· 20 Sacramento ....... _.69
Wynman, Eva G. • ........Sept. 2, '59 Apollo ···-··-··-·····396 Alameda ................83
I>eaths--\Vonien~l959·1980

No.
Lodge
Died
Name
Age
Town
Baker, Ann_ie J .............Aug. 8, '59 Sequoia ................349 Oakland ................83
Barnes, Elaine G ...........June 4, '60 Liberty Lodge ..299 Santa Clara ..........90
~:=e~1A:11a K. ....Feb. 4, ;60 Unity :···················368 Glendale ................90
···---····.J"ul7 23, 59 Sequoia ................349 Oakland •...•...........95
.
B ern.nger,_
Lucy C .......June 14, '60 Crockett .............. 139 San Francisco ......82
Brad1c, Eliz. H. -············Jan.19, '60 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......68

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

358

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Town
Age
No.
Lodge
Name
Admitted
Los Angeles ..........86
Brann, Laura T .............Aug. 29, '59 Vermont
Square ............515
Brown, May M ...............Nov. 30, '59 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ..........88
Carroll, Nellie P ...........Feb. 24, '60 Marin Lodge ......191 San Rafael ............89
Park ..96
Cl.ark, Marietta ..............Nov. 15, '59 Rising Light ......397 Huntington
Francisco ......85
Craig, Florence B .........Aug. 25, '59 Pacific ......- .........136 San
Cundell, Isabel ..............July 31, '59 Pentalpha ..........202 Los Angeles ..........84
Dahlgren, Anna C ........ .Dec. 19, '59 Fellowship ..........480 Oakland ................93
Daly, Martha N .............Dec.11, '59 Menlo Park ........651 Menlo Park ..........67
Fish. Gertrude L ...........July 24, '59 Elmhurst ............610 Oakland ................95
Goldstein, Pauline ........Aug. 6, '59 San Jose .............. 10 San Jose ................88
Hall, Fannie J ...............June 17, '60 Keith ....................187 Gilroy ....................85
City ......86
Hegler, Bernice A. ........Oct. 21, '59 Crescent .............. 45 Crescent
San Francisco ...... 76
Hewitt, Frieda Z ...........Mar. 3, '60 King Solomon ....260 Oakland
................90
Higuera, Eliz .................July 13, '59 Alcatraz ..............244
Jerome, Gwendolyn ....Nov.10, '59 Jas. A. Foshay....641 Los Angeles .......... 79
Kauffman, Eda B ...........May 6, '60 Alex.
Graham Bell ..595 Los Angeles .......... 78
Keenan, Effie ................Jan. 6, '60 Jewell ..................374 San Francisco ......82
Knott, Amanda C .........Feb. 15, '60 Alpha ..................431 Richmond ............81
Krejcik, Otilia ..............Nov. 2, '59 Sequoia ................349 Oakland ................89
Kutzner, Estella M .......Oct. 6, '59 Bakersfield ........224 Bakersfield ..........83
Levitt, Lula (DuBois) ..Feb. 22, '60 Charity ................362 Campbell .............. 72
McCully, Gertie ..........Sept. 23, '59 Educator ............554 San Francisco ......83
McLure, Anna B ...........Oct. 14, '59 Phoenix ..............178 San Bernardino....80
Meneray, Emma P .......Nov. 25, '59 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ..........91
Monro, Edith C .............Aug. 1, '59 Alpha ..................431 Richmond ..............91
Nordman, Nina J .........Aug. 2, '59 Crockett ..............139 San Francisco ......81
Schlingman, Rose ....... Nov. 27, '59 Mill Valley ........356 Mill Valley ..........93
Smith, Sue E ...................Oct. 4, '59 Concord ..............117 Sacramento .......... 79
Steele, Fannie T ...........Aug.11, '59 Hanford ..............279 Hanford ................93
Steele, Rose B ...............July 16, '59 Willits ..................365 Willits ....................8'
Steuer, Annie ................July 21, '59 Foothill ................564 Oakland .............~ ..9'1
Stewart, Henrietta ..... .Mar. 16, '60 Fort Crook ..........575 Fall River Mills....85
Timbrel, Alice Maud ....June 4, '60 Mission ................169 San Francisco ......84
Von Schmidt, Tillie ......Jan. 16, '60 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ......86
Ward, Jennie F .............Jan. 3, '60 Dunsmuir ............297 Dunsmuir ..............95
Zies, Lucy M ...................Jan. 16, '60 Clarence
F. Smith ..........482 Los Angeles ..........68

359

CHILDREN AT COVINA HOME

June 30, 1960
Boys-29
•Indicates admission during current year

Nm:ie
Admitted
Lodge
Town
No.
Age
Archmal, Steven ............ Nov. 12, 56 Liberal Arts
677 Los Angeles .......... 11
B ~aclough, William ..June 18 55 R. E. Dolley ........616 ~i;~l Beach ............ 16
Clinkscale, Fred ..............Jan. 6,' 57 Indian Wells...... ..691
i gecrest ............13
ox, Dennis
.. .... 556 Larkspur
Cox
.............. 9
w . ....................Sept. 7, 55 Fairfax ...............
.
C 1 ayne ....................Aug. 11, 54 Fairfax
556 Larkspur ..............11
Fi;;;:ri_~hjf\Sydney• .. Sept. 14, 59 Plumas :::::::::::::::: 60 Quincy .................. 7
Faulk r, ic ard ............Aug. 5, 53 Temple ................ 14 Sonoma .................. 17
F
• Robert ..................Jan. 27, 56 East Gate
290 Los Angeles .......... 16
11 LDonald, Jr. • ........Sept. 12 59 Oakland ..::::::::::::188 Oakland ................ 12
H~ck:'
, awrence ............Jan. 18, 56 San
Buenaventura 214 Ve t
18
Hoard, James ..................Apr. 8, 55 Morning Star ...... 68 St n :tra ................
Hoard
16
• .William ..............A pr. 8, 55 Morni"ng Star ...... 68 Stockt on ................18
ilpatnck, Charles ........Mar. 16, 52 R
oc on ............... .
K
Kilpatrick, David ......... .Mar. ,
amona ............. .457 Monterey Park ....13
16 52 Ramona
aurse D 'd
..............457 Monterey Park ....13
L
n, avi ..............Mar. 25, 59 Monrovia
Mo
·
6
Mann, George ..................Jan. 1, 57 Alt v· t ............308
4
nrov1a ..............
M
ann, Thomas ............... .Mar. 5, 55 Alt! V~t! ............46644 SSaan FFranc~sco ...... 139
·celli, Michael ..............Oct. ,
n rancisco ......
Mirt Je
28 54 Alexandria............
J
........431 San Francisco ......
16
0 h'
rry ...................... uly 23, 54 Natoma
64 Fols
14
0 rth, Thomas ..................July 23, 54 Natoma:::::::::::::::: 64 Fols~mm ..................16
................
.. 15
P latt' Larry ....................Aug· 20, 52 S an B ernard'mo..343 San Berna
di
:~c~ieR~mas ..............Dec. 13, 58 ESulmcalyptus ..........243 Hayward -~----~~..:: 8
0 •"?
o rt ..................Apr. 8, 58 e a ..................277 Selma
14
~~ck, Bruce ..............Nov. 21, 54 Monte V~ta ........ 655 Long B~~ch"·::::::::::13
W arr~ck, David ..............Mar. 13, 55 Monte Vista ........ 655 Long Beach
10
W arr~ck, Douglas ..........Nov. 21, 54 Monte V~sta ........ 655 Long Beach
Wayic~ Robert ............Nov. 21, 54 UMo~te ".ista ........655 Long Beach ..........11
Y ie,_ enneth ..............June 18, 52
ruversity ..........394 Los Angeles
16
Yungling, Douglas ..........Oct. 10, 53 Santa Paula ........291 Santa Paula :::=:::::15

::::::::::15

June 30, 1960
Girls-18
•Indicates admission during current year

WITHDRAWN
Town
Age
Lodge
No.
Name
Admitted
Bellflower
.......
..63
Bellflower
..........
523
Goff, Alice A. ................Jan.14, '60
Johannsen, Meta M .....Sept. 3, '59 Fremont ..............497 Oakland ................76
Lingenfelder, Eliz. S ...Feb. 1, '60 Alhambra ............322 Alhambra ..............78

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No
Town
A
Allison, Patricia
.Apr. 12,
58 Van
Nuys
450
v
N
ge
Anderson,
Vera• ...........Sept
9 59
Cl
d H ............
an uys ......._ ....14
............
. ,
au e .
Archinal, Kar
8
S
Morrison .......... 747 Chula Vista
C
en ............ ept. 29, 56 Liberal Arts ........ 677 West Los ~~i~-14
Caswell, Re_nee R. ..........Apr. 5, 57 Arcadia ................547 Arcadia
13
O:Ki Georgia ..................Aug. 11 54 Fairfax
556 Larks ........- ....-1
Cruikshank, Starlana• .. Sept.14; 59 Plumas L~d--~····· 60 u· pur .............. 5
Farmer Susan
.Aug
T
g ....
Q mcy ..................10
5 53
1
~ann,. M~ ....::::::=::::::.Mar: 5'
55 .J:P-Jis·t·a
..............46144 SSoannoFrma ....:.............1156
itchie L d
..........
ancisco
S
' ~ a ..................Dec. 13,' 58 Eucalyptus .........
.243 Hayward
...... 9
S~~~· ~~~i .................1fr· 8, 58 Selma ..................277 Selma ......:=.~::::::::10
Stroh' Susan a ............... .Appr. 88, 5588 SSelmlma ..................277 Selma .................... 8
w erner,
' Beverly
...................
r. ,
e a ..................277 Selma
12
............Sept. 3, 57 James A.
.........·-··-···
Foshay ______641 Los Angeles ____12

R

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

360

Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Admitted
Name
Werner, Diana ................Sept. 3, 57 James A.
Foshay ............641 Los Angeles ..........H
Williams, Linda ..............May 18, 55 Trona ···-·············684 Trona ..................•.11
Williams, Sharon ............May 18, 55 Trona .................. 684 Trona ·······-······---14
Williams, Shirley ............May 18, 55 Trona .................. 684 Trona ..................•.14
Yungling, Barbara ..........Oct. 10 53 Santa Paul ..........291 Santa Paula ........14

Departed During the Year, July 1, 1959 to June 30, 1960
Boyir--7
*Indicates graduates
Name

Age
(at the time
of departure)
Barton, Arthur W........................... 1-18-58.................... 7-18-59.................... 10
Galvery, William L ......................... 3-31-59.......... - ........ 10-31-59....................15
Galvery, Frank J ............................. 3-31-59.................... 10-31-59.................... 12
Kilpatrick, Paul Brian .................. 3-16-52.................... 2- 6-60 .................... 1~
Laursen, Donald .............................. 3-25-59.................... 6-28-60....................
McCormick, John Lee.................... 3- 1-59.......... ·-······· 2- 6-60... -··············· 7
Warrick, John R ............................. 11-21-54....................10-16-59................... .17
Admitted

Departed

Girlit---7
Age
{at the time
of departure)
Barton Karen A ............................. 11-18-58.................... 7-18-59 .................... 8
Bennett, Mabel Jo (Mimi)* .......... 9-12-54.................... 6-16-60 ....................18
Bliss, Kathryn E .............................10-30-59.................... 4- 9-60.................... 8
Bliss, Martha L .................................10-30-59........... - ....... 4- 9-60...- .... .,.......... 11
Lee, Linda* ......................................10-18-53.-................. 6-15-60....................17
Ostrander, Carol Jean• .................. 9-14-51.. .................. 6-18-60....................17
Name

Admitted

361

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Departed

HOMES STATISTICS

Number of residents as of June 30, 1960:
Men
Decoto Home:
Residents, July 1, 1959.......................... 138
Admitted ................................................ 37
Died and Withdrawn............................ 41
Residents, June 30, 1960........................ 134

Women
221
43
45
219

Total
359
80
86
353

Boys
Covina Home:
Residents, July 1, 1959.......................... 34
2
Admitted ................................................
7
............
Graduated and Withdrawn......
Residents, June 30, 1960........................ 29

Girls
21
4
7
18

Total
55
6
14
47

PER CAPITA CosT

Statement of Per Capita Costs (Statistical) for the Fiscal Year
Ending June 30, 1960:
Decoto Home:
Cost of Maintenance............................................. . $624,959.67
354
Average number of residents..................................
52,079.97
Average operating cost per month..........................
1,712.22
Average cost per day......................... .....................
1,765.42
Average cost per resident per year........................
147.12
Average cost per resident per month..................... .
4.84
Average cost per resident per day......................... .
131
Average number of employees................................
Covina Home:
Cost of Maintenance. ............................................ . $258,169.89
54
Average number of residents................................. .
21.514.15
Average operating cost per month ..........................
707.31
Average cost per day..............................................
4,780.92
Average cost per child per year..............................
398.41
Average cost per child per month............................
13.10
Average cost per child per day ............................. .
37
Average number of employees............................... .

362

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

MASONIC HOMES CONTRIBUTIONS

COVINA SPECIAL RESERVE (Continued)
J(isc'e llane ous 1

CONTRIBUTIONS. TO SPECIAL RESERVES.
RESERVES FOR ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS
Estate of:
Lars Alseth (#405)
John R. Anthony
DeAlton J. Bacon
Seymour R. Frizelle (#494)
Hazel Holden
Ethel · F. Jones (#320)
Mae E. Kierski (#120)
John H. Miehl (135)
John Tonningsen (Trust) (#144)
Robert H. Wright (#260)

•

175.27
106.89
15.oo
2,000.00
338.97
5,480.00
38,847.S.5
6,014.00
7,080.81

Value Undetermined

P. R. Ferrera
s. Sidney Morton

DECOTO SPECIAL RESERVE
Estate of:
Karl G. Ayers (#173)
Frank w. Bowes (#55)
James P. Bradner (#375)
LeRoy Bray ( /120)
Harriet Conlon (in memory of
Edward w. Cumberland - #464)
Georgiana M. Dehner (#243)
Carson c. Hansen .(#191)
Henry Leber (#61)
Hilda L. Oppenheimer (#278)
Luther B. Robinson (#260)
Leo B. Tanna (#451)
Mary Josephine Vogt
Albert Lyon Wayne

$ 2,000.00
1,000.00
4,l.86.78
1,000.00

Hughes Employees Give Once Club
Calvin H. Johnston
Marquardt Aircraft Corporation
Mr. & Mrs. Floyd E. · Nelson
Radio TV & Recording Charities
Scott B. Roger
Ropers Club, Riverbank Ordinance Plant
Mr. & Mrs. Robert c. Talbert

Harry G. Baker
Harry N. Baxter
Hugh M. & Maud A. Biggs
Clarence M. Boller
Pearl Branch
James w. Brann
Jasper Brower
Preston R. Bvoris
Samuel w. Carey
Carl Carter
Dr. I. Ralph Colder
Franklin H. Dryden
c. R. Edison
John J. Ferguson
Vreeland Frazer
Robert H. Gale
Olen R. Garrett
Mary o. Gifford's Baby
Frank Guirado

Mrs. Edith Henry
L. Holladay
Walter Irwin
William E. Leatherman
Rosa Lockett
Thomas H. Louis
Harry Haneke
Donald Alexander Martin
Mr. & Mrs. Ernest Holdt
Annice Campbell Moore
w. w. Naylor
Mrs. Virginia North
Dean Palmer
Harold Wiley Potts
Winifred Irene Sadsberry
Max E. Sch umAche r
Mikie Temple
William Wagener
u. Smith Wagner

1,000.00

Eb~rt

5,ooo.oo

1,000.00
255.85
.5,000.00
500.00
1,242.19
5 1 000.00
1,000.00

COVINA SPECIAL RESERVE
Estate of:
Karl G. Ayers (#173)
Mabel Bixby
.
John K. Campbell (#633)
Harry B. Fyfe
Henry Leber (#61)
Daniel M• . Long (#290).
William A. Mcintosh (Trust) (#445)
P. w. Newhall (Final total $350 1 045.97)
Hilda L. Oppenheimer (#278)
:Madison T. Owens
Fosters. Post (Dr.)
Harry s. Sunkler (#455)
Albert Lyon Wayne

Ambrose & Gladys Bowyer Found.
California Division of Highways,
Design 3 Club
James G. Craig ·
Mr. & Mrs. Clarence R. Dorsey
Paul & Eileen Floyd
Luther B. Foster
General Telephone Co. Employees
Memorials:

Miscellaneous~

Elizabeth Anderson
Mrs. Irene L. Edmunds

363

$ 2,000.00
481.76
23,166.45
5,705.25
255.85
3,653.84·
1,351.48
5,495.97

5,ooo.oo

13,651.96
262.38
49.44
1,000.00

NEW HOSPITAL RESERVE
l .1tate of:
George F. Pearce
Jli11cellaneous:
Elmer E. Austin
William ·c. Batchelder
William T. Bloodworth
Allen Bottorff
Mr. & Mrs. Carl A. Bristol
Fred Brooks
Concorde Lodge /142, A.F.&A.M.
Casablanca
Barry c. Copestick
Sylvio Cr1111pi
Charle11 w. Cumbers
Angelq Debrovski
Mr. & Hrs. Clarence R. Dorsey
Andrew J. Eyman

Jack c. Fry
Harry w. Grapengeter
Luther M. Hill
Dale V. Hislrey
John P. Keegan
Klaus H. Koopman
F. H. McHair
Wade A. Misener
Harry L. Moore
Arthur H. Muhl
Alfred Nielsen
Andrew Nielsen
Christian Nielsen
Edwin E. 011 ver

364

PROCEEDING S OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

NEW HOSPITAL RESERVE (Continued)
cellaneous (Continued) :
H. N. O'Neil
Francis E. Payne, Jr.
Ivan s. Rankin
Ernest H. Reinke
w. A. Robison
Lt. Col. Ming .Rose
Herbert s. Shuey
Siaon Mattress Mtg. Co.

, Trustees of the Masonic . Homes acknowledge with ·appreciatio n the contr1.
ions received from:
.ghts Templar Commanderi es:

ral Arch Mason Chapters:
Sacramento No. 3
Grass Valley No. 16
Petaluma No. 22
Delta No. 27
Napa . No. JO
Santa Cruz No. 38
Visalia No. 44
Dixon No. 46
Humboldt No. 52
Colusa No. 60
San Luis No. 62
Riverside No. 67
Hollister No. 66
Ala.meda No. 70
Crown No. 72
y-al and Select Masters Councils:
Sacra111ento No. 1
California No. 2
Oakland No. 12
Gateway No. 13
Pasadena No. 16

CHRISTMAS AND ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE (Continued)

A• & A. I. ·1. {Bodies):
L. Otwell Stevenson
Ralph D. Stogsdill
Wilber c. Taylor
Frank Trathen
Mrs~ Gladys Walta
J. Ao Wentworth
Harry w. Wernse
Harry Whittaker

CHRISTMAS AND ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE

Sacramento No. 2
Nevada No. 6
Marysville No. 7
San Jose No; 10
Chico No. 12
Golden Gate No. 16
Ventura No. 16
Naval No. 19
Woodland No. 21
Watsonville No. 22
Colusa No. 24
Visalia No. 26
San Luis Obispo No. 27

365

Pasadena No. 31
Mount Shasta No. 32
Ukiah No. 33
Napa No. 34.
Eureka No. 35
Southern California No. 37
Santa Cruz No. 44
Alhambra No. 46
Whittier No. 51
Auburn No. 52
Alameda No. 58
Santa Monica Bay No. 61
Calvary No. 62

rresno
Oakland
»istrict Officer1 A11~ciationsr
420th D4stri·ct
42lst District
5'04th District
5'50th District
5'62nd District

Santa Cruz No. 17
Siskiyou No. 24
Pacific No. 37
Visalia No. 43
Harbor No. 45
Redwood Empire No. 46

567th District
6o5th District
614th District
616th District
626th District
629th District

Masonic Clubs:
Edison· Masonic Club
Insurance Square Club of
East Bay
Long Beach Masonic Club

1952 Masters of Santa Clara Valle7
San Francisco Square Club
633 Club of Ventura
Telephone Masonic Club of L. Ae

lastern star Chapters:
Mercedes No. 126
Starlette Club, Thousand Oaks
Mieuelito No. 176
No. 375
Santa Clara No • . 195
Siloam No. 406
San Rafael No. 215
Melita No. 467
Mill Valley No. 219
Big Bear No. 46S
Atascadero No. 344
East Bay Matrons of 195'1
Golden Chain Association
Jobis Daughters Bethels:
Angeles ·No. 59
Gardena No. 112
Altadena No. 124
Perris No. 165
Lo~

Hanford No. 74
Pomona No. 76
San Pedro No. 69
Whittier No. 91
Palo Alto No. 93
Fidelity No. 96
San Gabriel Valley No. 100
Redondo No. 101
.
Mari"n No. 102.
Mill Valley No. 108
South Pasadena No. 112
SebastoP,ol No. 117
Huntington Park No. 127
Wilmington No. 141·
Roseville No. 146
Havas.u No. 148

Peninsula
San Jose

El Cajon No. 196
Stockton No. 201
North Hollywood No. 211
Whittier No. 272

lainbov for Girls Assemblies :
Anaheim
Atascadero No. 25

Lynwood No. 162'

De Molay Chapters:
Santa Maria No. S52

South Pasadena

llfiacellaneo us:
Thomas Bailey.
Mr. & Mrs. William w. Barr
Mrs. c. H. Berney
Lucy Bonneville
Burbank High 12 Cl·ub
Mrs. Elizabeth E. Butts
Hr. & Mrs. A. J. Collins
E. H. Dietrioh

El Bekal Temple Guard
Denis J. Falter
Stanley & Carrie Fisher
Clifford H. Gorman
Hall's Mattress Works
Jack Harpster
Edward T. Harris
H. B. Herford

CHRISTMAS AND ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE (Continued)

367

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

366

CHRISTMAS AND ENT~_!TAINMENT~R_:ESERVE (Continued)
Lodges (Continued):

Miscellaneous (Qontinued):
Hohener Meat Co., Inc.
Elizabeth Huneke
L. A~ ~vening Herald & Express
Grace. McManus
Paul D. & Madelon Miller
Mr. & Mrs. Ralph s. Prest
Henrich Rath

w. A. Sloan

Space Technology Laboratories,
Inc., EDlpioyees
F. L. Stamey
Ruby Thompson
Harry w. Wernse
Mrs. Irene c. Whitle7

Lodges:
California No. 1
Western Star No. 2
Tehama No. ·3
Corinthian No. 9
San Jose· No. 10
Yount No. 12
Nevada No. 13
Eureka No. 16
La Par!aite Union No. 17
San Joaquin·No. 19
w·ashington No. 20
Hawaiian No. 21
Occidental No. 22
Madison No. 23
El Dorado ?To. 26
Trinity No. 27
Golden Gate .No. 30
Gold Hill No. 32
San Diego No. 35
Howard No. · 37
Santa Cruz No. 36
Sacramento No. 40
Martinez No. 41 ·
Mount Moriah No. 4 4
Crescent No. 45
Texas No. 46
Santa Rosa No. 57
Union No. 56
Plumas No. 60
Live Oak No. 61
Enternrise No. 70
Yolo No. 61
Vesper No. 64
Naval No. 67
St. Helena .No. 93
Yosemite No. 99
Clay No. 101
Lexington No. 104
Arcata No. 106
Pajaro No. 110
Chico No •.111 Eden No. 113
Fidelity No. 120
La!ayette Ne. 126

Hermann No. 127
Visalia No. 126
Nicolaus No. 129
Woodbridge No. 131
Pacific No. 136
Crockett No. 139
Franklin No. 143
Oriental No. 144
Eel P.iver No. 147
Woodland No. 156
Excelsior No. 166
Alameda No. 167
Mission No. 169
Antioch No. 175
Phoenix No. 176
Petaluma No. 160
Keith Ilo. 167
Oakland No. 166
Marin No. 191
Santa Barbara No. 192
Ferndale No. 193
Mountain View No. 1?4·
Buckeye No. 195
Wilmington No. 196
Hartley No. 199
Silveyville No. 201
Confidence No. 203
Stanislaus No. 206
Rio Vista No. 206
King David's No. 209
Friendship No. 210
San Benito No. 211
South San Francisco No. 212
Oak Grove No. 215
Monterey No. 217
Mosaic No. 216
Speranza Italiana No. 219
Downey No. 220
Roseville No. 222
Bakers!ield No. 224
Brooklyn No. 225
San Mateo No. 226
Athens No. 228
Hills Ferry Ho. 236

Guadalupe No. 237
Colusa No. 240
Santa Ana No. 241
Laurel No. 245
·
Fresno No. 247
Landmark No. 253
Penrhyn No. 256
Evergreen No. 259
Tuscan No. 261
Lompoc No. 262
Hesperian No. 264
Orland No. 265
Olive Branch No. 269
Pasadena No. 272
Arroyo No. 274
Hanford No. 279
Madero. No. 2 80
Haunt Shasta No. 261
South West No. 263
Paso Robles No. 266
Elsinore No. 289
East Gate No. 290
Orange Grove No. 293
Liberty No. 299
Ontario No. 301
Azusa No. 305
Ashlar No. 306
Temeacal No. 314
Norwalk No. 315
Alisal No. 321
Corona No. 3 24
Needles No. 326
Long Beach No. 327
Redondo Mo. 325
Pacific Grove No. 331
Fruitvale No. 336
Carquinez No. 337
Starr King No. 344
Palo Alto No. 346
McKinley No. 347
San Bernardino No. 348
Sequoia No. 349
Palestine No. 351
Pinole No. 353
Mill Valley No. 356
San Francisco No. 360
Charity No. 362
South Pasadena No. 367
Amity No. 370
Jewel No. 374
Richmond No. 375
Francis Drake No. 376
Artesia No .• . 377
Mizpah No. 376

Fillmore No. 379
Highland Park No. 382
El Centro No. 384
Dinuba No. 385
Coalinga No. 387
Parnassus No. 3 88
Balder No. 39 3
University No. 394
Rising Light No. 397
Burlingame No. 400
Brawley No. 402
Yerba Buena No. 403
Moneta No. 405
La Mesa No. 407
Honolulu No. 409
Charter Rock No. 410
Silver Trowel No. 415
Lindsay No. 416
Inglewood No. 421
Midway No. 426
San Dimas No. 428
Pittsburg No. 429
Alpha No. 431
Maricopa No. 434
Fairmount No. 435
Standard No. 440
Coronado No. 441
Blackmer No. 442
Torrance No. 447
Mount Diablo No. 448
Park No. 449
Mount Oao No. 460
Argonaut No. 461
Paul Revere No. 462
Libertas No. 466
Rockridge No. 466
Delta No. 471
Temblor No. 477
Thousand Oaks No. 476
Golden Rule No. 479
Mt. Davideon No. 461
Bell No. 483
Alb.art Pike No. 464
Caledonia No. 486
Vallejo No. 467
Patterson No. 488
East Bay No. 469
Woodstock No. 491
Atascadero No ,493
Acorn No. 494
Capital City No. 499
Roosevelt ·No. 500
Harbor No. 502
Point No. 503
0

368

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CHRISTMAS AND ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE (Continued)
Lodges (Continued):
Seaside No. 504
El Segundo No. S07
Cupertino No. 510
Sunnyvale No. 511
Cahuenga No. 513
Argonne ?lo. 514
Tart No. 516
La Jolla No. 518
Piedmont No. 521
George Washington No. 525
Bay City No. 526
Covenant No. 527
Queen Beach No. 540
Henry Horse Stephens ·No. 541
San Gabriel No. 546
Seaport No. 550
Lakeahore No. 551
Semper Virens No. 552
Point Firmin No. 558
East San Diego No. 561
s. w. Hackett No. 574
El Cajon Valley No. 576
Progressive No. 578
Santa Maria No. 580
Security Ho. 581
Compass No. 590
Tujunga No. S92
Service . No. 594
Alexander Graham Bell No. 595
Guardian No. 596
Dimond No. 60)
Provident No• 609
Neptune No. 619
Point Loma No. 620
Riversid~ No. 6J5

Indian Rock Ho. 638
Alta Loma No. 643
A. F. E. Irwin No. 645
Damascus No. 648
La Brea No• 650
Monte Vista No. 655
Baldwin Park No. 660
Malta No. 661
.
Kaweah No. 665
San Gorgonio No. 668
John Po Jarman No. 669
Far West No. 673
Modesto No. 675
Willow Glen No. 676
Carmel No. 680
Dos Palos No. 681
Oildale No. 688
San Carlos No. 690
Indian Wells Valley No. 691
San Lorenzo Valley Ho. 718
Estero }lo. 719
Mineral King No. 720
Saint John's No. 725
San Juan No. 732
Peninsula No. 745
Claude H. Morrison No. 747
Merced No. 749
Clayton Valley No. 7S6
~est Covina No. 758
Lakeside No. 760
Josiah w. Roller No. 761
Tejon No. 773
Waikiki No. 774
Leland Stantord No. 784
Golden Valley No. 796

GENERAL APPENDI X

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

GENERAL

369

APPENDIX

CONTENTS
Page
Standing Committees ............................................................................ 370
Special Committees .............................................................................. 373
Constitutional Boards ............................................................................ 375
Masonic Homes .................................................................................... 377
California Masonic Memorial Temple................................................ 378
Directors Masonic Clubhouses.............................................................. 378
Registration and Mileage Payments.................................................... 380
List of Constituent Lodges.................................................................. .. 424
Extinct Lodges ...................................................................................... 444
Elected Officers Grand Lodge Since Organization............................ 448
List of Inspectors.................................................................................... 454
Foreign Grand Lodges.......................................................................... 457
Alphabetical List of Lodges.................................................................. 462
Correspondence Report Announcement. ............................................. 469
Index ...................................................................................................... 470

370

371

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1960-1961

PAY OF MEMBERS

STANDING COMMITTEES

Keith W. Schlaegel (372) .........._.....................- ............... 1320 West 163rd St., Gardena
John V. Bacigalupi (191}-----···-·--···-········--......................108 Belle Ave., San Rafael
Matlthew M. Codon (42)-............................................530 Rossmore Ave., Los Angeles 5
Charles Ratkovich (268) •.._ .. _ ...................................................2954 Shasta Rd., Berkeley
Gilbert Benoit (260)-····-·-·-······..····..·········--····.....530- lOth Ave., San Francisco 18
Russell J. Braasch (651) ...............................................3633 Farm Hill Blvd., Redwood City
Richard LeRoy Stephenson (494) ...._ .........................33149 Basswood Ave., Union Ciity

JURISPRUDENCE
John R. Moore (667) .......................- .............................:453 S. Spring St., Los Angeles 13
Oscar Lawler (290) ................................................800 Standard Oil Bldg., Los Angeles 15
Louis C. Drapeau (633) ....................................................-.....500 Sunset Ave., Oak View
Wakefield Taylor (41) ................................................................ 1270 Escobar St., Mal"tinez
Leo E. Anderson (355) ................................................700 Mobil Oil Bldg., Los Angeles 17
Henry C. Clausen (630) ............................................234 Van Ness Ave., San Francisco 2
oe L. Shell (35) ..................................................- .................2858 Kalmia Pl., San Diego 4
oseph G. Bowers (766) ...............- ......................255 North Hillcrest Blvd., Inglewood 1
J
Howard Langworthy .(768) ...................................................... 17221 Sunburet, Northridge

POLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES
Leslie E. Wood (609) .......................- .................................... 1808 "Q" St.. Sacramento 14
Chester H. Warlow (247) ........................................ 1007 Security Bank Bldg., Fresno 12
Ellsworth Maher (677) .........................- ...............- ........ 1415 Linda Ridge Rd., Pasadena
Richard H.
amberlain (521) ...............- ....................................Court House, Oakland 7
Arthur P.aulsen (27) ....- ......................................................,..............Box 486, Weaverville
Otto Rohwer (3) ....................................................................Anglo Bank Bldg., Sacramento
Elbert W. Davis (571) ____.......- ........- ........____.. _ .........2908 Russell St, Berkeley 5
Harvey E. M_cCarthy (139) ...............- .................... 125 Cambon Drive, San Francisco 27
George H. Hunes (602) ......_ .........._. _______________P. 0. Box 36518, Los Angeles 36

FINANCE
Frank Harwell, Jr. (528)---------·----·-·-------···---·......623 S. Hope St., Los Angeles 17
Paul F. Balck (1H) ..- -........................................... 1844-28th Ave., San Francisco 22
Alfred H. Nicoll (481) ..................................................23370 Camino Hermoso, Los Altos
Atwill Morgan (636) ..................._, __.._________.......8874 Sunset Blvd.. Los Angeles 46
Fred M. Clark (368) ...........-··------·----···-............... 1662 San Gabriel Ave., Glendale 8
Francis A. Gates (673) ....._ ..........._ ..____________ ..._ ....27 Lake Vista Ave., Daly City
Lawrence Lamb (794) .....................- ......- ............................... 147 Wapello St., Altadena

CHARTERS
Herbel"t A. Huebner (445) ..........- ................................610 S. Broadway, Los Angeles 14
Kenneth R. Ford (400) -···--·-·-·--··..·······--······........3650 Ralston Ave., Hillsborough
Brown Zarley (574) .........- .................................,............................1952 Marin, Berkeley 7
Robert A. Smith (426}---------··.......................................-429 Center St., Taft
Ira G. Silver (283)-----··---·-·--····--·............5415 Redland Dr., San Diego 15
Philip B. Stone (727) ........- - . -.......- ....................................639 E. Valencia, Burbank
Kenneth L. Hemphill (728) ....___.............................. 1360 Newpol"t Ave., Long Beach 4
Wayne E. Burk (316) .........- .......- ...........................................248 S. McCall Rd., Sanger
Harold Simon (120) .........- ...- ............................................100 Alta St., San Francisco 11
Eugene N. Driskill (117) ..................................................5678 Vista Ave., Sacramento 20
John Curtis (285) ......_ ..______...............................................................- ....--San Miguel

BY-LAWS
Virl Bennehoff ( 1)--···-··-··-·..........................3701 Divisadero St., San Francisco 15
Robert C. Peyton (392) .........- ......................................910 N. Foothill Rd., Beverly Hills
Colton B. Daveney (430) ...................- .................... 170 Santa Monica Ave., Menlo Park
Sanford J. Robertson, Jr. (769) ..........- .....................38258 Nort!h 15th St., East Palmdale
Alden J. Fulkerson (35) ...............................................- ..............3205 Poe St., San Diego
Eugene C. Quick (404) ....................................................628 N. Michigan Ave., Glendalt;
Bernard H. Raab (520) ..... _ ....................... 1053 So. La Cienega Blvd., Los Angeles 35

CORRESPONDENCE
GRIEVANCES
Albert F. Ross (254) .......- ................- .......................:...........................Box 759, Redding
~lph E. Hoyt (268) ....................................................6168 Contra Costa Rd., Oakland 18
bert C. Wollenberg (344) .......- ........................- .......P. 0. Box 707, San Francisco 1
William B. Neeley (743)-------....- ....- .............................. 1429 Virginia Ave., Glendale
Byron C. Morton (259)--------..··-·--·---.............................P. 0. Box 507, Riverside
Jay A. Robinson (674) ...- ...................................- ..................P. 0. Box 1270, San Pedro
Frank B. Peebles (556).---··-······---·---··-··--····--·-----31 Maywood Way, San Rafael

CREDENTIALS
Thos. F. Mason ( 198) ........................................................305 S. Central Ave., Glendale i
Don E. Berry (568) ............................................................................... P. 0. Box 208, Lodi
Emil W. Trefts (48) ............- ......................-···-·----···-··.. 126 Ditlce Ave., Santa Cruz
Douglas H. Martin (237) ....·-·-··········---·-··-··----619 E. El Camino, Santa Maria
~sse M. Few (622) ...............................-·-··-·-··-..-·..3406 Laclede Ave., Los Angeles 39
ennth A. Benson (217)----········-··--·····-····--·180 San Benancio Canyon, SalinaS
Joseph Robrecht, Jr. (il)---·-------··-····--··-...3521 Geneva St., Martinez

Newcomb Condee (614) ...... Superior Court, Dept. 64, 111 No. Hill St., Los Angeles 12
George W. Burch, Jr. (650) ..................- ...........................417 S. Hill St., Los Angeles 13
John Wullschleger (550) ..............................................45 Clevdand St., San Francisco 3
Maurice B. Ross (35) .....- ...........- ....- ....................- ...............3040 Udal St., San Diego 6
Ralph T. Merriam (272) ...- ....- .........._ .............................1120 E. Woodbury, Pasadena
William R. Mace (205) _______________..,_........- ...- ...............903 Hickory St., Corning
Robert W. Oblath .(506) ....................................................4148 Stansbury, Sherman Oaks

GRAND LODGE WEEK ACTIVITIES
Andrew Burke (549)------...............................................450 Arbor Road, Menlo Park
Bernie J. Katz ( 120).___..,....._ ..........._ ..___......... 1864 ~28th Ave., San Francisco 22
Lowell H. Beckendorf (462) ........................- .............3939 Ortega St., San Francisco 22
William Van Omum (374) ........................................748 Wisconsin St., San Francisco 7
Tobias Troneum (376)_.._________........- .....- ...2595-28th Ave., San Francisco 16
Perry A. Lawson (462) ....·--··--·-···-----··----1978 - 46th Ave., San Francisco 16
Lester M. Petterson .(474) .._ ..........---·-····---.........2066 ~ 34th Ave., San Francisco 16

372

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LODGE FINANCI NG

SPECIA L COMMI TTEES

373

Mark A. Green (320) ._.............- .........---········-·······31S..B S. Reno St.. Los Angeles 57
Herbert Hargrave, Jr. (467) ....·-·-···························Ctty Hall, Rm. 1605, Los Angeles 12
George W. Stuim (254) ··································-········-······-2316 California St., Reclcling
John T. Bond (355)---··· ··---··-····-·· ··--··-·---637 S. Wilton Pl., Los Angeles 5
William H. Adams (363) ......·-········-········-············-·············6353 Wood Dr.• Oakland H
Ivan Crase (435) ....·-··-····-···-································1000 Mills Building, San Francisco 4
Glen C. Holbert (441) ................................................4350 Pacific Highway, San Diego 10
Arthur S. Becker (344)·-··-······ ·········-···-······-····-·····761- 34th Ave., San Francisco 21
Benjamin Susman (529) .......... ·-·-··--·-·--- ··--··--1340 3 Cumpston St.. Van Nuys

0. J. Wohlgemuth (122)----···- -·-······--30 87 Ygnaclo Valley Rd .. Walnut Creek
LeOnel C. Panosh (574) ........................ ......................................350 Cedar St., San Diego
1
Eugene S. Hopp (495)--·-···--- ···················- 2000 Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco 9
Forrest R. Hassell (690) ............................................................ 218 Ruby Ave., San Carlos
Frank Reinsch (677) ...................................................... 1322 No. Gardner, Los Angeles 46
Edwin S. Hays, Jr. (761) ............................................- .........1151 Orange St., San Carlos
Henning J. Lueders (20) ·-·-·-····-··-··· -······-810 Woodlake Dr. North Sacramento 15
Alvie 0. Hotton (625) ..........................................................2100 W. 73rd St., Los Angeles

NECROLO GY

CONSTIT UTION OBSERVA NCE

Adam B. Morten (346) ............................................................ 17121 Wildway, Los Gatm
Ross K. Roper (360) ..-··············-············--··-·········6716 MacArlihur Blvd., Oakland 5
Leonard D. Babcock (-ff7) ...............- ..·-···-·····--····· ·2012 Gramercy Ave., Torrance
Robert F. Bergmann (319) ...·--···-·-······-·············-··········1308 Edgewood Dr.. Alhambra
Emory 0. Hull, Jr. (665) ..............·-·····----··························-······P.O. Box 278, Ivanhoe

Chairman: Harold C. Mudijett (629) .._ ....................._722 W. 41st St.. Los Angeles 37
Vice-Chainnan: Peter M. Tripp (560) .................... _.....5878 Moraija Ave., Oakland 11
Robert A. Miller (57)_.........................................................._P.O. Box 875, Santa Rosa
Jesse J. Bell (524)._..................-···························-····-····---····-··-·······Box 1. Avalon
Reynold C. MacDooald (301) ............................................
8352 Camino Sur, Cucamonga
Sergei N. Ivanoff (489) ..------·····--·--· ········--·-·-·-·- ··-··-···925 Rose St., Oakland 11
Andrew L. Spinas (168) ....................................................Supt. of Schools, Redwood City
Everett S. Todd (527) ....- .....................................926 Glen Haven Dr.. Pacific Palisades
Earl Patterson, Jr. (494)----··-·-··-······-·-·-····-·······-···16120 Penn Ave., San Lorenzo
Fred J. H. Rickon ( 3 5 ) - - - - - -··-·············1917 W. California St.,
Diego 1
Sy Dennis, Jr. (3) .............................................................. 1031 Appollo Way,San
Sacramento
Robert Lintner ( 169 l----·--·--- --·--····--2 087 - 33rd Ave., San Francisco 16
0. D. Pinkerton (443)---- ·······-········-·····-Sulte 230, Young Bldg .. Honolulu 15
George F. Menderhausen (486) .............................________...3807
Noel Place, Bakersfield

RITUAL
Donald G. Campbell (608) ................................................2730 Lorain Rd., San Marino 9
Clare B. Campbell (230) ..·-·····-··--···· ····--·············-··-···Route 1, Box 682, Gridley
Harold N. Richards (20) ......·---·-·-··-········ ···-···-···········2 608 "R" St., Sacramento 16
Arthur J. Kahn (462) ..........·--·············-·· -····-·--····20-H Bryant St., San Francisco 10
Raymond G. Taylor (466) ..·----··--···-···---···········--···--Box 887, Bakersfield
Ralph W. C.Ollins (739) ..........--···--······--··-···············811 W. 7th St, Los Angeles 17
W. Ben Sorrells (672) ..·-··---·-·-- ···-----673 No. C.Oast Blvd., Laguna Beach

MASONIC IDSTORY
Leon 0. Whitsell (293) .........·--·--········-···· ·-····-·-··..3501 Anza St.. San Francisco 21
0. J. Wohlgemuth (122) ......... _.. _ ..................3087 Ygnado Valley Rd., Walnut Creek
Frank Everett (646)--······-·-···········-·--················-3284 Veteran Ave., Los Angeles 34
Kenneth H. Downs (646) .·---·--·-·-· ···---··-···-1 528 Idlewood Rd.. Glendale 2
Horace H. Blair .(657) ............................................................. .3776 Front St., San Diego 3
Cuthbert Menge (487)--····---··········-···································HOf Nebraska St.. Vallejo
Kenneth B. c.onklin (616)---·-· ·-··--·-·-···· ·4858 Pearce Ave., Long Beacli 11

PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Irving A. Berliner (120) ....·--·-·---·-·· -··---..2701 - 14th Ave., San Francisco 27
Vierling Kersey (698) ................................................- .........13132 Addison St., Van Nuys
George K. Palmer (-H2) .........-·---··--·-·-· --······.3SO O Dove Court. San Diego 3
Oyde E. Crawford (330)---·····- ··-····--··---·· ········-·.P.O. Box 843, Hilo, Hawaii
Perry Barrett .(699) ................................................................387 Orlena Ave., Long Beach
Jess Sheegog (642)-·-·· ··--···---··· -··---2655 Montrose Pl., Santa Barbara
George Hlallt (247) .......................................................................... 1364 Echo Ave., Fresno
Rolland Atwood (12).·--··-- ····---····-·-- ···-·-··--····1 332 El Centro Ave.. Napa
Horace H. Warnock (347) ..-·--···-·--··· -·····-·-··-42 17 Fariss Lane, El Sdbrante

MASONIC EDUCAT ION

TAXATIO N
Alexander L. Croce (354 )---···--··---· ·-······--··-16 28 - 18th Ave., San Francisco 22
James E. Hammond (568)--·-··-··························--··-·---111 Sutter St., San Francisco 4
Robert R. York (349) .....................................................___ .. 1924 Broadway, Oakland 12

DE MOLAY
Homer E. Rathbun (368) ........---··-············ ····-·····-···743 Fairmont Ave., Glendale 3
Lester G. Bruno (499)--··· ·--·-·--··-- ·2530 Jay St. No. 102, Sacramento 16
Roy H. Gerard (366) .......·-·····-·---·····-··················-····-······H28 Thomas Ave., Fresno
Harold S. Medo (676) ...........- ........- ......................................- ...889 Regent St., San Jose
Willlam W . Dewgaw (407)·-···-···-· ··········---.322 1 Bancroft, No. 9, Spring Valley
Noel W. Roser (648) ......................................................................527 N. Marce!la, Rialto
Willard Will (9) ................................................. .............................724 "G" St., Marysville
Hal Curtis (344) ..............................................................217 -32nd Ave., San Francisco 21
Henry L. Wintz (493) ..................................................... - .............. P.O. Box 173, Cambria
Wayne Philil"Pi (200) .........-····--······-·-·· ········-···-·-·-- ···---P. 0. Box 366, Truckee
Wendell M. Anderson (315)------ ·--····-·-1-H 55 San Drequoto Dr., La Mirada

COLUMB IA TEMPLE
Cecil B. Mathews (8)-------· ··-··----·····-- ·····--·---··-··- --······.Box 936, Sonora
Arthur E. Clink ( 8) ···-····-··········-········- ········--··············································-··-·······Sonora
Chester M. Smith (525)
2 Clalrview Court. San Francisco 27
Robert A. Crigler (636) ................................................4282 Wllahire Blvd., Los ~geles S
Roland E. Soracco (260) ·-------········ ·-··············-· ····--·····-····· ··--········Altaville

374

375

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

DISTINGUISHE D GUESTS

BOARD OF LIBRARY COMMISSIONE RS

M. Jay Jensen (454) ...-----------·-··-··-· ·-·c/o Olivet Memorial Park, Colma 25
Horace W. Rice ( 191) ····-···-················-····-··----.315 Montgomery St., San Francisco 4
Roy Wiela°:d. (454) ···--·-····-···-··································1925 Bryant St., San Francisco 10
George P. Silliman (494)---········-··············-····-············--.4630 Edgewood Ave., Oakland 2
~hn H. Brooke (562) •.·-····-···-··--··--·····-·-··- ·-·-···-··-61 Rockridge Ave., Daly City
rands J. Herz (464) ..........·-····-·-··-·················-··· ·····-'t50 Sutter St., San Francisco 8
Chester R. MacPhee (455) ···-····-··-····-········-····-69 Grand View Ave., San Francisco 14
Max E. Moms (503) ............................·-········-·-···············--······.233 - Hth St., Richmond

Eugene S. Hopp (495).·--·-···-------- ··-··-2000 Van Ness Ave., San Francisco 9
David R. Lane (638) __________________________________.................... 1155 Oxford St., Berkeley 7
Alexander Horn (216) ________________....•........-----·-····-----2135 - 29th Ave., San Fraocisco 16
Robert H. Burrows (697)---··-·-····-·····---· ·················--············.211 Palm Dr., Piedmont
William H. Scott (435)----------------··--.335 Buckingham Way, San Francisco 27

SCHOLARSHIPS
COMMERCIALI SM
Vincent P. McMurdo (453) ..........·-····················-···299 Maywood Dr., San Francisco 27
Willard A. Braasch (296).·-···········-············--·-··········-············-965 E. Madison, El Cajon
Jick L. Blaine (461) ....._______________ .______ J75 Post St., Rm. 604, San Francisco 9
arvey Harkness (506).----·········--····· ·····-····------210 W. 71th St., Los Angeles 14
Albert R. Bennison (382) .............................................:f08 So. Spring St., Los Angeles 13

SOJOURNERS
Chairman: William A. Cohendet (370) .............................. 1557 Balboa Ave., Burlingame
Vice-Chairman: Francis H. Gentry (716) ..306 Insurance Exchange Bldg., Long Beach
Westley P. Jones (745)-------··-- ·-· - - -------435 Madison Ave., San Bruno
Elmer E. Ross ( 113) ·············-········-···················-·····--·---1546 - 140th Ave., San Leandro
Edward M. Downs (4731---·············-··········-··-····--·························P.O. Box 486, Blyi!:he
Ben T. Salmon (632~·-·-········-············-····-····-··········.4110 Palisades Rd., San Diego 16
Jahn Richmond (541 ···-····························-··········-········-····--·-1738 Grove St., Berkeley 9
lA>uis B. Smith (773 ··-····-····-···--···-··--- ---··--·-------····-------. Box 517, Oildale
........- -·-··········---2701 Easton Dr., Burlingame
V. V. Kolombatovic (370) ......... ______________
Arthur Corbett (659) .____________________ _. ___________________________621 S. Pearl St., Compton
George Cornwell (106) ...................................................- ...Box 3507 Alliance Rd., Arcata
Chas. B. Turner (598 >----··--··-··········----·--···---·····-·······--··----202 Huali St., Honolulu 13
Joseph V. Antisto (708) ...-······-·····--··········-------·-------------389 Flower St., Costa Mesa
(One member to be added)

Samuel '1. Jacobs (216)---··--·-····--··- ····-········-···············Mllls Bldg., San Francisco 4
George D. Gavin (144) •.....·-··-···-·-··•-····-··-·.55 New Montgomery St., San Francisco 5
Ward M. Nichols (481) ________················---355 Serrano Dr., Apt. 8-B. San Francisco 27

MASONIC INFORMATION
Gerald Levin (136) .......---------······---·-······ ·-··.1761 Beach St., San Francisco 23
William H. Adams (363)-·-···-···- --···-·······--·--···6353 Wood Drive, Oakland 14
Hamilton Hintz (3)·-···-·-·-··-····-······--- ---------·····254-8 Marshall Way, Sacramento
Theodore Meriam (111) •.•......-····-·-····-············-·············-·······-·713 Arbutus Ave., Chico
Charles A. Thomasset (329) ..·-····-·······-·······--·······-····.215 W. 5th St., Los Angeles 13
Wilmer G. Brill (240)-···--·-·--·- ··-··············-------- P.O. Box 89, Colusa
Roger Emery Butler (247)---···············-·--··················.15+t E. Fountain Way, Fresno 4
Elmer P. Bromley (698)---········-············-·--················.3964 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 5
Charles J. Savage (442) ...-···-···-·········-----·-·····-·····--4915 Monroe Ave., San Diego 15

RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
AND CONSTITUENT LODGE
Jay A. Robinson (674)---··-·-··--·······- ---······-···········--P. 0. Box 1270, San Pedro
W. Stanley Davis ( 144).---···--··········-··············-··-······-·-678 - 26th Ave., San Francisco
David Wright (651)._____________________ ··--····--··--··-1391- 8th Ave., San Francisco

MUSIC
Harold Mueller ( 1>-··--·····-·····-·-······-·····---··-·······955 Portola Dr., San Francisco 27
Austin Mosher ( 1>---··--··-·····-··-·························-···-····---1175 Johnson St., Menlo Park
Charles J. Payne (540).·-·-··-·----------·-···-----·------1221 E. Roosevelt Rd., Long Beach 7

INSURANCE
T. James Carlile (215).·-·----------····· ---------1 Montgomery St., San Francisco 4
Allerton B. Ebert (489)---------····-· ·-······401 California St., San Francisco 4

CEMETERIES
Samuel E. Leddel (674) ..·-··················-··········-···-··-···-··35 Pine Avenue, Long Beach 2
Harold C. Schroder (3) ···-·-·····--···-----················-···--··--·-·--2675 Marty Way, Sacramento
Thomas Edwards ( 101 ) ·--·--·-------·--·----------··----·----·-···--·-----·----------·-------·------·------··------------Alta
Frederick H. Chapman (622)--------- ···---------------4210 Edenhunt Ave., Los Angeles 39
Basil R. Gillett ( 124 >----··--·--·-----·---··------····-----··-··--····-----·--···---·.P.O. Box 1076, Paradise

GRAND LODGE TITLE
Leo E. Anderson (355) ....-------··-············--·--·-·-····700 Mobil Oil Bldg., Los Angeles 17
Donald G. Campbell (608) ....-·--···-···-·········-··--- --2730 Lorain Road, San Marino
Artt!hur M. Warren (481 )--···-···--·········--···-· ·-·····3()(i() - 16th St., San Francisco 3
John F. Porter (677) ......·-················---··--·-··························212- 20th St., Santa Monica
Maurice B. Ross (35)----··········-·--·-----······---··--··-······-···-·3040 Udal St., San Diego 6

RESOLUTION REGARDING POLITICAL ACTIVITY
OF LODGES
Wakefield Taylor .(41}----·······-··-·-······ ············-·---··--1270 Escobar St., Martinez
Folger Emerson (61)._...................•............·-····-··-·········2001 Magellan Dr., Oakland 11
Ralph H. Head (352)---·-················-P. 0. Box 2282, Terminal Annex, Los Angeles 54
Samuel C. Shenk ( 1>-···--·-·-··----- --·--40 Cerritos Ave., San Francisco 27
....-1120 E. Woodbury, Pasadena
Ralph T. Merriam (272)

376

377

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HISTORICAL MONUMENTS

RECOGNITION OF FOREIGN GRAND LODGES

Ballard White, Jr. (120)-···--····-·--····-·-····--·······-·-··--··········.Box 73, Downlevtlle
Acton M. Cleveland (59) ...- ..................................- .................................... _...CamptoovJllt
John J. O'Connor (3) •.- .......- ....................................................... 1808 "Q" St., Sacramento

Ahil N. Myers (430) ........._··-·--···-· ............3000 We~ Sixth St., Los Angeles 5
Chester H. Warlow (247) ......- ...........................-..... 1007 Security Bank Bldg., Fresno 21
William Rhodes Hervey, Jr. (202).·--········-·····..........458 S. Spring St., Los Angeles 13

CODE COMMISSION

CONSTITUTIONAL BOARDS
ENDOWMENT BOARD
John M. Gordon (202) •.·-········-·· .................................3446 Amesbury Rd .. Hollywood 27
Omo E. Tyler (442)-·-···---..···-·....................- ....4817 Kensington Dr., San Diego 16
Lester A. Price (379}----·--·-·-·-......................- .........458 Saratoga St.. Fillmore
Byron Coleman (453)_......................- ...............220 Montgomery St., San Francisco 4
Kerm.U A. Jacobson (599)-..............................................417 Ninita Parkway, Pasadena
Horace R. LaFortune (3)-..................- ........-6601 S. Land Park Dr., Sacramento 22
Ralph S. Brokaw (346).·---·-·····......- .........................3825 El Camino Real, Palo Alto
Henry G. Van Dyke (327) ............................................3450 Walnut Ave., Long Beach 7
Charles H. Grace (635)·--···..................- ......._ ......-4210 Highland Pl., Riverside
Paul A. Brom (336)--·-·········.....................................-.....Central Bldg., Oakland 12
Harold R. DeTuncq (738) ....- ............................................. _..........217 S. Acala St., Arvin
Howard L. Rose (395)·--··--····-...................................2285 East Canal Dr., Turlock
William H. Schooler (254)_. ___ .....- ......................--·--·-----1045 East, Redding
Fred H. Blanchard (373)·-········-········-···········-............. 148 So. Anita, Los Angeles 49
Fred F. Elliott (483) ...- -..................................-............- .............4671 Bell Ave., Bell
J. Glen Gladson (542).-..........- ................- ......- ...- ..6201 Satsuma, North Hollywood
Kent Seymour (356)--.--.......______,,___,....._--525 Summit Ave., Mill Valley
Oharles F. Minettl (57) ....- .................................................. 1536 Raegan Ave., Santa Rosa
James B. Baker (778).-........................- ........... _..................- ...P. 0. Box 87, La Mirada
Arthur A. Anderson (385) ...........................- .....................- ....578 Vermont Ave., Dinuba
Charles Ratkovich (268) ...................................- .....................2954 Shasta Road, Berkeley

William Nankervis, Jr. (215)-··--··-····-··.. ····---··...80Woodland Way, Piedmont 11
Edward T. Koford (57)-·-·-···········........................Bank of America Bldg., Santa Rosa
David P. Russell (396)-....- ...............................-...........2230 San Jose Ave., Alameda
Everett Houser (sot)----····-··················...............260 Aitlantic Ave., Long Beach
Leonard S. Lurie (216).-·--··-·····-··-···...........495-32nd Ave., San Francisco 21

TRUSTEES OF MASONIC HOMES
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr. (529), Pres.......- ...............510 West Sixth St., Los Angeles 14
L. Harold Anderson (346 >----·--···········--··-···-··245 Market St., San Francisco 6
Phil N. Myers (430)-...- .......................................3000 West Sixth St., Los Angeles 5
James Leo Halley (375)--·--·-···-·-···--···--··-····-··.703 Flood Bldg., San Francisco 2
Edward J. Blickfeldt (535) ...·-·····---··--..---......590 Hargrave St., Inglewood
George D. Gavin (144>----·-·-·-·-···-···...55 New Montgomery St.. San Francisco 5
Guy B. Mize (368)·---·-····-·---.................................790 E. Green St., Pasadena
Ira W. Coburn (216).-·-·-··---..···---·..- ...2440 Mariposa St.. San Francisco 10
Elmer W. Heald (384) , , 1,
.... - ....- ................................_ •• Superior Court, El Centro

MASONIC HOME FOR THE AGED
Union City, California
Telephone GReenleaf 1-3434
Gail H. David, Superintendent

INVESTMENT

MASONIC HOME FOR CHILDREN

Paul A. Pflueger (370) .........- ................................................Mills Bldg., San Francisco 4
A.rthur M. Warren (481) ..................................- ............3060-16th St., San Francisco 3
Frank Harwell, Jr. (528) .....................- ...........................623 S. Hope St., Los Angeles 17
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr. (529) .............................................510 W. 6th St., Los Angeles 14
John M. Gordon (202) ..............................................- ..3446 Amesbury Rd., Hollywood 27

20336 East Badillo St.
Covina, California
Telephone EDgewood 2-3138

BOARD OF CONTROL
Reginald M. Mills (61) .. _.,_. _____ ................- ....·-·-·--.. 1059 Market St., San Francisco 3
Irving Magnes (225) __.........._...................._.. _.................2S6 LaSalle Ave., Piedmont 10
Arthur Dvorin (639) ................................................ 1030 S. Cochran Ave., Los Angeles 19
John Swan (667) ...••..._. __........_.........._...... _,,_.._.........2430 Orange Ave., La Crescenta
Norman E. Hale (574) ....•_......................................- .......6012 Lomond Dr., San Diego 20

Robert M. Henry, Superintendent

378

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Frank Harwell, Jr. (528) ..............................._...............623 S. Hope St., Los Angeles 17
Paul A. PHueger (370) ..........................................................Mills Bldg., San Francisco 4
Arthur M. Warren (481) ..................................................3060- 16th St.. San Francisco 3
Keith W. Schlaegel (372) ..._ ..................- ..............................1320 W. 163rd St., Gardena
Guy B. Mize (368) ............................................_ .....................790 E. Green St., Pasadena
J,r a W. Coburn (216) .....- .................................- ....2+40 Mariposa St.. San Francisco 10
Elmer W. Heald (384) ..- ...........................................................Superior Court, El Centro
John W. Davey (260) ·-..··-·........- .......................-..... 1290 Suiter St., San Francisco 9
Rexrord L. Hall (576) _____ ,.........- ....... __ ,,____............... 1502 Murray Ave., El Cajon
Ralph H. Head (352)--.-- ..· - -.... P.0. Box 2282, Terminal Annex, Los Angeles 54
Samuel J. Jae.obs (216) ....- ......__,,..._.....................- ....946 Mills Bldg., San Francisco 4
Alvin A. Horwege, Mamger
1111 California Street
San Francisco 8

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Los Angeles
Frank H. Relnse'.h, Chairman (677)-------1322 N. Gardner, Los Angeles 46
Clyde C. Shoemaker, Vice-Chairman (556) ............ ___ 117 W. 9,th St., Los Angeles 14
C. Earl Crane, Sectg.-Treas. (528) ____................440 N. Palm Drive, Beverly Hillii
A. Curtis Smith (618) _ _ _ _ _............................211 N. Elm Drive, Beverly Hills
_______ ......_...618 S. Western Ave .. Los Angeles 7
John A. Klarquist (445)
Elvin C. Drake (677) ....__..______.................... 1017 Centlnela Blvd .. Santa Monica
Edwin W. Wade (504) ...- -..-·-···...........................4155 Greenbrier Rd .. Long Beach &
Marion A. Duncan (327) .. _____________.................. 1505 Armando Dr., Long Beach 7
Herbert H. G:ioper (614) _ _ _ _ _.....................1954 Glendon Ave.. Los Angeles 25
George E. Hall (528) .........---·----------------416 N. Bedford Dr., Beverly Hills
·-·-- · - -·-·-242 S. Peck Dr.. Beverly Hills
Frank Jenkins (528)
George Kusman (506) ____________ 6()8_)1 N. Beachwood Dr.. Los Angeles 4
______....326 N. Croft Ave.. Los Angeles 48
S. Roy Howell (662)....__
Paul R. Nichols (662)---·---------------------743 Glenwood Road, Glendale 2
Bates Mason (373) .... _................_ ..._ .............3227 Castle Heights Ave., Los Angeles 34

Los Angeles Clubhouse
10886 Le Conte Ave., Los Angeles 24
Mrs. Faith C. Sheldon, Director of Activities

DIRECTORS

MASONIC

CLUBHOUSES

Berkeley
Wallace E. York, Pres. (403) ............................................5109 Proctor Ave.. Oakland 18
Gordon F. Black, Vice-Pres. (635) ......................- ....715 Darien Way, San Francisco 27
Russell C. Horstmann, Treas. (336) ............................................560-57th St., Oakland 9
Carlisle D. Nielsen. Sectg. (541) ...........- .......- ........ 1834 Trestle Glen Rd .. Piedmont 11
Gene C. Otwell, Asst. Sectg. (705)_..............- ...·-----.........759 Creston Rd., Berkeley
Paul S. Boren (551) .........--·············-···-·-···- ·..·---..---..--1947 Tiffin Road, Oakland 2
John L. Wixon (705) ......---------------··--···---·------···----6519 Knott St.. El Cerrito
·----------2240 Virginia St., Berkeley
Charles F. Dalziel (541)
Orville J. Sipe (349)----·-·-----·-····........- - - - -... 1605 Roger Ct., El Cerrito

Berkeley Clubhouse
2590 Bancroft Way, Berkeley
Mrs. EsthN Mainwaring, Hostess

379

380

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REGIST RATION AND MILEAG E PAYME NTS
Name of Lod11e

No. of Lodge

Repreaentativea

Milea&e Allowed

California ············---·· ··-···No. 1....Donald A. Wells. Master
C\'lmuel C. Shenk, Senior Warden
Herman V. Banzet, Junior Warden
Harold Mueller, Grand Organist
Francis V. Keesling, Past Grand Master
Edward C. Lohmeyer, P. M. and Inspector
Virl Bennehoff, Past Master
James Hurst, Past Master
D. Ewing Marsh, Past Master
David Thomson, Past Master
W e«tern Star ·········-····-·····No. 2....Ray H. Quibell, Master.................................. 34.72
Tehama ......•...•.......••......... _.No. 3.... Lloyd F. WhLte, Master.................................. 8.40
William C. Kasmire, Jr., Junior Warden
George H. Olmsted, P.M. and Inspector...... 8.40
Horace R. LaFortune, Past Master
Otto Rohwer, Past Master.......-..................... 8.40
Harold C. Schroder, Past Master
Charles A. Schwartz, Past Master
Benicia ............................._.No. 5....Raymond L. Sherwood, Master.................... 3.80
John A. Marchut, Senior Warden
Raymond E. Calvert, Junior Warden
Carlton A. Foster, Past Master
Walter C. Roy, Past Master
Svend 0. K. Sorensen, Past Master
Tuolumne ···-·······.........- .....No. 8.. -Herman R. Zwinge, Senior Warden.............. 11.52
Charlie C. Hale, Past Master
Corinthian -···-····-..--..-No. 9... .Richard G. Wright, Master.......................... 11.68
Francis M. Ramsey. Senior Warden
Raymond L. Rusk, Past Master
San Jose.............................. No. 10.... G. Richard Arthur, Master.............................. 4.54
Ernest J. Banzet, Senior Warden
J. Earl George, Junior Warden
George E. Biggs, Past Master
Yount ·················-- ···-······No. 12.... Kenneth V. Dorland, Maater........................ 3.26
Rolland F. Atwood, Senior Warden
Cornelius Kernan, Past Master
Nevada ...................·-···-···No. 13..-Robert McMasters. Master............................ 28.36
Wm. B. Bratt, Past Master
Demar Dundas. Past Master
George B. Legg, Past Master
Temple ···-·········-····--·····No. H.-Harold N. Moore, Master.............................. 4.00
Jolm N. Evans, Past Master
Eureka -·············-··-···--No· 16....Harry Dan Shoemaker, Master.................... 11.82
La Parfaite Union ............ No. 17....James F. Smith, Master
Andre L. Armand, P.M. and Inspector
Brewster F. Ames, Past Master
Rene Canonica, Past Master
Andre P. Girerd, Past Master
Raymond J. Malfanti, Past Master
Bedros Pasdermadjian, Past Master
Jules Ramond, Past Master
Mountain Shade................ No. 18..-Clarence V. Dawe, Master._......................... 40.76
San Joaquln........................No. 19.... Norman W. Shaw, Jr., Senior Warden........ 7.94
John W. Ek., Junior Warden
Clarence A. Wood, P.M. and Inspector........
7.94

Name of Lod11e

No. of Lod11e

Repreaentatlv..

381
MileallC Allowed

Washington ......................No. 20.._Robert L. Zehrbach, Master.......................... 8.40
Robert K. Richards, Senior Warden
Jack D. Shrader, Junior Warden
Harold N. Richards, Assistant
Grand Lecturer.............................................. 8.40
Daniel M. Cameron, Past Master
William L. Lewis, Past Master
Henning J. Lueders, Past Master
Dwight J. Morrow, Past Master
Hawaiian ·····················--·No. 21...• Milton Alfred Goodlin, Senior Warden...... 338.19
Frederick Bolte, P.M. and Inspector.............. 338.19
Occidental ·····-·········-··--No. 22 .... Stanley S. Stojkovich, Master
Frederick C. Parker, Senior Warden
Clarence G. Rosenstock, Junior Warden
Leland A. Barber, Past Master
William Egbert Bouton, Past Master
Marshall A. Elvin, Past Master
Harold A. C. Mitchell, Past Master
Rudolph Mohr, Jr., Past Master
Theodore E. Rackerby, Past Master
Robert A. W ertsch, Past Master
Madison ....................·--·-No. 23..-Nafe F. Thompson, Master.......................... 27.76
Frank E. Tonas, Senior Warden
Charles V. Welch, Jr., Junior Warden
Edward Farley, P.M. and Inspector.............. 27.76
Mariposa -----·······- ···--& 2-t_Herber t R. Davis, Jr., Master.-..................... 29.62
Walter T. Franck, Senior Warden
Daniel Kleiman. P.M. and Inspector............- 29.62
Arthur W. Jones, Jr., Past Master
James P. McElligott. Past Master
Georgetown ·--····-···-·- ·No. 2S._Carl B. Forsberg, Maaiter·-····-····················- 13.62
Leland B. Butt, Senior Warden
Carl J. Forsberg. Past Muter
El Dorado ·····-·········. :.--No. 26-Philip E. Bottorff, Master................................ 13.52
Owen C. Murry, Jr., Senior Warden
Albert W. Frey, Junior Warden
Robert 0. West, Past Master
Trinity ·······---·--·-·-No. 27....Horace S. Gould, Master ................... -........... 39.12
Golden Gate................... _.No. 30....Edward A. Hammer, Master
Arthur D. Paymiller, Senior Warden
Norman E. Johnson, Junior Warden
Harry K. Widup, P.M. and Inspector
Raymond H. Bradley, Past Master
Randolph M. Rosso, Past Master
Gold HllL............._ __No. 32....Robert E. Fowler, Master----·-················- 11.08
James H. Bickford, Junior Warden
Ophir -··--··..··-··--·-No . 33.... Albert E. Rule, Elected Representative........ 11.94
San Dleij(>..........- ...........•.. No. 35....Gharles Chadrow, Master.............................. 67.70
G. Thomas Overbey, Sen!O!' Warden
Simon F. Bolg_er, Junior Warden
Joe L. Shell, Grand Master.............................. 67.70
Fred J. H. Rickon, Grand Marshall... ............. 67.70
George W. Elder, Past Master
Alden J. Fulkerson, Past Master.................... 67.70
James H. Leach, Past Master
Martin Ortlieb, Past Master............................ 67.70
Maurice B. Ross, Past Master........................ 67.70
Charles W. Webb, Past Muter
Howard ·····················-·····No. 37..•.Jam.es P. Rea, Senior Warden......................., 45.12
George S. Ward, P.M. and Inspector............ 45.12

382
Name of LodKe

No. of Loda;e

Repruentativea

Milcaa;e Allowed

Santa Cruz ····-··- --·-···-No. 38....Harry Simerly, Master........................·-····- ·Theodore E. Mowrey, Senior Warden
Edwin R. Hoff, Past Master
Loren C. Johnson. Past Master

~~l \v~i>;~~:.· &::tt

383

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

f:l:::::.. . . _.. . .... .. .

7.34

7.34
Sacramenito ·············-······No. 40....Robert Van Francis, Master.......................... 8.40
Charles Eugene Sutfin, Senior Warden
Richard Lewis Braden, Junior Warden
Martinez ····-····--·--No. 41....Gail B. Cone, Master...................................... 3.28
Charles Qyde Laird, Jr., Senior Warden
Joseph Robrecht, Jr., Junior Warden
Robert L. Evans, Past Master
Wakefield Taylor, Past Master·- ·················· 3.28
Ernest C. Webb, Past Master
Los Angeles....·-- ····--·-No. 42....Morton Schwartzman, Master..·-·····--·- ········· 56.98
Irving Zuckerman. Senior Warden
Edward A. Fromsky, Junior Warden
Matthew M. Codon, Past Master.................. 56.98
Joseph D. Weisberg, Past Master
Hiram -··-····--··--··-·.No. 43....Frederick J. Wentz, Junior Warden............ 13.82
Thomas M. Hawkins. Past Master
Mount Moriah ·······-·········No. 44....Gilbert M. Travis, Master
Kenneth J. Lovaasen, Junior Warden
Crescent -·-·······-···-····..No. 45....Charles A. Thunen, Senior Warden............ 44.62
Victor Stone, Junior Warden
Gustave W. Klotz, Past Master
Texas -····-···-···-·--_No. 46....Not represented
Forbestown -·······---·No. 50.._Harry Liebhauser, Senior Warden.............. 29.92
Illinoistown ________No. 51...• Ronald P. Fawcett, Senior Warden.............. 26.16
Suisun --·
No. 55._William Valladao, Senior Warden................ 4.68
Ame Digerud, Grand Bible Bearer................ 4.68
Volcano ·····-·-·················No. 56....W. Floyd Hooper, Master............................ 11.44
Chas. L. Cook, Past Master
Santa Rosa ··-·-··-····-··-·No. 57__Jack T. Pearson, Master............·-················· 4.86
Denman C. Daw, Senior Warden
0. Doyle Blair, Jr .. Junior Warden
Glendall W. McDermott, P.M. and
Inspector ...................................................... 4.86
Robert A. Miller, Past Master
Charles F. Minetti, Past Master
Howard W . Moen, Past Master
Charles C. Warren, Past Master.................... 4.86
Union --···-····--------No. 58....George A. Babb. Master---·- -·····················8.40
Leighton D. Armstrong, Senior Warden
Orville H. Wulf, Junior Warden
Otto F. Link, P.M. and Inspector..........---··· 8.40
Jack C. Butler, Past Master
Gravel Range -····--···No. 59.... Acton M. Cleveland, Elected
.1
Representative .............................................. 32 6
Plumas ··········-··-··--·No. 60....Raymond J. Berkline, Master............---·········· 33.86
M. Bruce Myers, P.M. and Inspector............ 33.86
Live Oak.-·········-·····-.No. 61....Edward J. Blanchard, Master
Ralph W. Winters, Senior Warden
Charles D. Small, Junior Warden
Lee S. Griswold, Past Master
Reginald M. Mills, Past Master
_
Natoma
____No. 64....Clarton J. Smith, Senior Warden.---·····- 10 28
1154
Amador ··--··--·-·-·No. 65 ....Bur T. Ingram, Master..................................
1154
Alfred A. Penrose, P.M. and Inspector...·

Name of Lodge

No. of Loda;e

Repruentativea

Mileage Allo-d

Morning Star --·-···-··-No. 68_..Ballard C. Clark. Master................................
Keith W. Carlson, Senior Warden
Bernard L. Faunce, Junior Warden
M. Bey Greene, Past Master
Thurman R. Jackson, Past Master
Alfred H. Knak, Past Master
Enterprise ..........................No. 70....Douglas D. Duncan, Master..... _...................
Robert Paillex, Senior Warden
Lozell LeRoy Selig, Junior Warden
Wm. George Boughton, Past Master
Bear Mountain ·----···-No• 76....John A. Kirby, Elected Representative........
Calaveras ·--·-·--··-··-No• 78....Charles F. Schwoerer, Elected
Representative ..............................................
Humboldt --···------No. 79.-Helge A. Palmrose, Master........·-·················
Marvin C. Frazier, Senior Warden
Jack H. Trego, Past Master
Ione --······------No. 80_P.reston Mecum, Senior Warden..................
Yolo ·····--··-·····-----No. 81....William P. Wilson, Elected Representative
Vesper ···-·····-···-··--No. 84....William C. Dale, Senior Warden................
Naval ···········-···-·-···--..No. 87....Everett D. Smith, Master......·-···················Edward L. Baehr, Senior Warden
William R. Frank, Junior Warden
Joseph Anderson, Past Master
Leo B. Chambers, Past Master
John K. Cothran, Past Master
Ernest C. Fugler, Past Master
Frederick Graff, Past Master
0 . R. Hewitt, Past Master
Ralph A. Neely, Past Master
Melvin C. Nelson, Past Master
Henry F. Tyrrell, Past Master
Bert C. Whiteley, Past Master
Bertrand Wichels, Past Master
Rose's Bar _ ................ _._No. 89....C. Wendell Freeland, Senior Warden..........
Thomas Scogland, Past Master
North Star.............-...........No. 91....George Bourdon, Master......................·-·······
St. Helena ···········-····----No. 93.... Rudolph M. Rossi, Master............·-···············
Frank Ogletree, Senior Warden
Myrit: Ballard, Junior Warden
Edwin L. Paulson, Past Master
Thomas B. Street, Past Master
Henry Qay.·-········-······No. 95....Bruce O'Neal, Junior Warden..........·-·-······
Honiitos ···-····------No. 98....Ernest C. Brown. Master......·-···········-····-Elmer G. Pretzer, Senior Warden
Deward L. Walker, Junior Warden
Wilson E. Lathrop, P.M. and Inspector........
Yosemite ···-··-···-·-··-····No. 99....Elmer G. Nordman, Master...............·-···Donald R. Fretz, Senior Warden
Leland D. Boysen, Past Master
Andrew R. Schottkv, Past Master.....·-···-Oay -·········-··········---No. 101....Robert F. Murray, Master.............-...............
Ronald E. Murray, Senior Warden
H. W. Haberkorn, Past Master
Claude F. Herrold, Past Master
Oroville -····-··-··-·-···-No. 103....Lester A. Casagrande, Senior Warden........
L. Howard Casagrande, P.M., and
Inspector ···-·····-···························-·······-·····
Lexington ····-··················No. 104....We:;~.~~~~~r~~;·w~;d~~-------·-··-

John C. Roach, Junior Warden

Roy C. Addleman. Past Master
Chris S. Luthy, Past Master

7.94

11.68

11.44
10.74
39.72
11.94
8.70
31.44
3.30

13.88
47.50
6.04

10.90
29.62
25.82
25.82
8.40
27.40

26.82
26.82
56.98

38i
Name of Lod1e

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lod1e

Repreaentativu

Milea1e Allowed

Arcata ···-·····--···············No. 106•• _Herbert Frank Doss, Senior Warden............ 39.72
Tom Tobe Morgan, Junior Warden
Sidney A. Webster, P.M. and Inspector........ 39.72
James Edwin Morton, Jr .. Past Master
PaJaro ··········-···········-··N o. 110..••Walter C. Francis. Master............................ 9.32
J. Willard Watts, Senior Warden
Herbert K. Stocking, Junior Warden
Harold F. Trafton, P.M. and Inspector........ 9.32
Chico ···········-····-·········-··No. 111.... William M. Conner, Master·-···········-·-······· 28.64
John Edward Wahl, Senior Warden
Darrel W . Phillips, Junior Warden
William C. Brouillard. P.M. and Inspector.... 28.64
Theodore Meriam, Past Master...................... 28.64
Eric A. Tonningsen. Past Master
Summi.t ·················-········No. 112....Robert L. Bright, Master·-····························· 11.22
James B. Sarratt, Jr.. Junior Warden
Eden ·-···- ···-··--·----No. 113.•.. Fred V. lilrich, Master
Harold C. Brown, Junior Warden
Elmer E. Ross, P.M. and Inspector
Concord ····-················--No. 117....Ghester L. Johnson, Master.-......................... 8.40
Eugene N. Driskill, Senior Warden.............. 8.40
F. Lane Wildanger, Junior Warden
Martin C. Davis, Past Master
Fidelity ······················-····No• 120....Moss E. Chase, Master
Isadore Betz, Junior Warden
Irving A. Berliner, Past Master
Albert Farber, Past Master
Robert,. Himmelstem, Past Master
Bernie . Katz, Past Master
Robert A. Klinger, Past Master
Mark H . Nusbaum, Past Master
Harold S. Simon, Past Master
Leo J. Simon, Past Master
Richard I. Stone, Past Master
Cyril Louis Weeks, Past Master
Alamo ................•............•No. 122....Robert H. Cook, Master..................................
1.90
Alfred S. Adams. Senior Warden
G. R. Van de Water, Junior Warden
Ralph M. Hinds, P.M. and Inspector............
1.90
J. H. Lewis, Past Master
0. J. Wohlgemuth, Past Master
Sotoyome -···-··---No. 123.... Not represented
Table Mountain ..............No. 124....Kenneth Rheingans, Master.......................... 30.34
Osmer 0 . Malian, Senior Warden
Basil R. Gillett, Past Master
La Fayette ···········--·······No. 126.... Rayford W. Peterson, Master........................ 5.66
James L. Worthington, Senior Warden
William C. Heatly. Past Master
Ralph M. Hilton, Past Master
Clarence John MacKenzie, Past Master
James G. 'rhomson, Past Master
Hermann -·--···--·-No . 127....0scar Goebel, Master
Walter H. Arden, Senior Warden
John Behrens, P.M. and Inspector
Oscar P. Bachmann, Past Master
William Haag, Past Master
Henry Hauschildt, Past Master
Albert G. Matthes. Past Master
Wilhelm Schumacher, Past Master

385

Name of Loda:•
No. of Lodge
B.epreaentatlvu
Mlteaae Allowed
Visalia ·····················-····- No. 128....Duke S. Lipscomb, Master............................ 35.04
Ira P. Pratt, Senior Warden
Cecil R. Disbrow, Junior Warden
James Barnett Lawson, P.M. and Inspector 35.04
MUchell Lunstra, Past Master
John W. Ward, Past Master
Emerson Westcott, Past Master
Marvin 0. Winings, Past Master
Nk:olaua ·-··············-···-·No. 129....Burt W. McCurry, Junior Warden.............. 11.68
Woodbridge ····-·······---..No. 13L.\v~~~A. Ve~~:~o~s:!~;·:w~;<l~;;··--......... 9.20
Palmer A. Wells, P.M. and Inspector............ 9.20
Clyde H. Gregg, Past Master
Sincerity ·-··-·····--···-..No . 132.... r:aJ\v~iI;,e~~~a~_;:t~~ter.............................. 35.56
Vacaville ···-·········-··-No. 134.... Louis D. Callison, Master.............................. 5.62
James J. Hartley, Jr., Junior Warden
Valley ···-·-··-·····----N o. 135....Lloyd A. Potter, Elected Representative...... 8.94
Pacific ...-..........
No. 136....Raymond H. Levy, Master
Robert Shimoff, Junior Warden
Gerald S. Levin, Grand Orator
Samuel C. Levin, Past Master
Paul Nathan. Past Master
Herbert Pothier, Past Master
Henry D. Schneider, Past Master
William M. Webster, Past Master
Crockett ·······-----·····No . 139....Ralpih T. Spencer, Master
Harvey E. McCarthy. Senior Warden
Eugene M. Rucker, Junior Warden
Ballard White, Jr., P.M. and Inspector........ 40.76
Frederick J. Mahr, Past Master
Charles S. McGlothlin, Past Master
Curtis __________....No. 140....Gordon H. Kindall, Master............................ 7.40
Grafton ________No. 141 ....Booker McCalister, Master............................ 8.90
Franklin ·····--··--·--···-No . 143....Charles Frederick McDowell, Master............ 9.80
Gordon Beals Waterworth, Junior Warden
Ray Earl Burdg, P.M. and Inspector............ 9.80
Oriental -·..·-··-·-·-No. 144.._Maynard R. Watson, Master
Harold H. Hutchison, Senior Warden
Paul F. Balck, Past Master
W. Stanley Davis, Past Master
Georg_e D. Gavin, Past Master
John D. Hansen, Past Master
Lawrence P. Hansen, Past Master
Ian A. Russell, Past Master
John C. Wiesner, Past Master
Vitruvius ·········-····--No. 145....0rrin Buell, Master........................................ 5.94
Reynolds Francke, Senior Warden
Abell ______ __No. 146.... Fred Haley, Senior Warden.......................... 10.86
Charles Bell, Junior Warden
Elmer M. Hopper, P.M. and l!l!lpector........ 10.86
Eel River ·····-···-··-··-No. 147.... Harry W. McWhorter, Senior Warden..·-··· 37.40
LaS$en ···-··-··-·······-···-No. 149-..Merill D. Covert, Master..... - ..........-······-··· 40.52
L. Alton Davie, Senior Warden
Elmer Glenn Van Tassel, P.M. and

Molino

·-···-····----No . 15o_G!:ld~'.'1"1k·~--j~·w~~~:.=:::::

18:~~

Lloyd Ario Countryman, P.M. and
Inspector ........................................................ 17.74
Woodland ···········-··--...No. 156.... Donald G. Plank, Sr., Senior Warden.......... 8.10
Keystone ·-········-··--No . 161....Erwin T. Drown, Elected Representative.._ 10.14
Harmony -··-----No. 164....James R. Lamb, Master..... _........................... 39.22
Francis E. Sawyer, Senior Warden
Arthur I. Copeland, Past Master

386
Name ol Loda;e

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

ReprC1Cntativa

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileaa;e Allowed

Excelsior -···-················-·No. 166.... Alfred Douglas Maas, Master
Gino Alfred Gerbi, Senior Warden
George E. Schneider, Junior Warden
Charles Albert Adams, Past Grand Master
Ralph Edwin Flathmann, Past Master
Harry F. Lutticken, Past Master
Alameda ·-·······················No. 167._.Dez Brown, Master.....·-········-·······················
Redwood City ...........•..••No. 168.... Frank De Alton Wentworth, Master............
David Adam, Senior Warden
William James Hodgson, Junior Warden
A. W. BusC'hke, Past Master
John H. Philip, Past Master
Mission ···············-·········-No. 169....John T. Mont_gomery, Master
Raymond P. Seyden, Senior Warden
Jack E. Hursh, Past Master
Robert D. Lintner, Past Master
Frank H. Thrall, Past Master
Elk Grove -···················-·No. 173-.D. Darrell Davies, Master-............................
Walter E. Lang, Senior Warden
Wilfred G. Hunt, Junior Warden
Orytown --·--··-····-··-No. 174._Not represented
Antioch ···········-·-····--No. 175..•.Morris E. Houlette, Senior Warden............
John R. Richey, Junior Warden
Phoenix ...............•••......•..•No. 178.... Dean B. Reynolds, Master..............................
Gene R. Alsup, Senior Warden
Leland P. Kimbrough, Junior Warden
Ralph Linfesty, Past Master
Mendocino ··············-·-No. 179....Noel G. Gabbert, Senior Warden.................•
John D. Dearing, P.M. and Inspector........•••.
Petaluma -·····-···--·No. 180.... Phillp A. Talamantes, Master..................... .
Walter J. Casarotti, Senior Warden
Jack L. Brodersen, Junior Warden
John Keller, Jr., Past Master
John Carl W emer, Past Master
Russian River .._...._ .._No. 181....Joseph W. Wright, Master_.........................
Gladstone Gillette, Senior Warden
Arbuckle _, ..._..___..____No. 182.... Not represented
Clear Lake ········-..······-·No. 183.... Sam Jackson, Master....................................... .
Sierra Valley ........._..___.No. 184.... Arthur M. Strang, Elected Representative... .
Claiborne ···-···................No. 185.... Archer R. Richardson. Elected
Representative ..............................................
Evening Star .........- .......No. 186....Loren Walter Lampert, Maater......................
William A. Krueger, Past Master
Keith .............- .............-No. 187....Robert P. Chappell, Master............................
James F. Baker, Senior Warden
Ralph L. Eustis, Junior Warden
Oakland _, ..........- ........-No. 188....W. H. Nutting, Jr. Master
Hart E. Robertson, Senior Warden
Neil S. Harmon, Junior Warden
Melvin L. Graves, Past Master
Sidney F. Sea, Past Master
Northern Light .........- ..-No. 190.... Glenn A. Grafe, Master..................................
Harold L. Sturr, Senior Warden
Marin ·····-·-..·········-..-No. 191 ....Thomas W. King, Master
Lester H. Hicks, Senior Warden
Donald F. Murray, Junior Warden
Georg~ T. Rowse, P.M. and Inspector
John V. Bacigalupi, Past Master
Ar:thur E. Hessel, Past Master
Horace W. Rice, Past Master
William M. Vanderbilt, Past Master

Name of Lodg~

No. of Lodge

Reprcacntatfva

387
Mileaa;e .AJl.,_d

18.56
49.60

Santa Barbara ................No. 192....~mes C. Riclunond, Master.......................... 47.20
• Rolland Keyes, Senior Warden
ack Westfall, Junior Warden
y H. Paine, P.M. and Inspector................ 47.20
Ferndale ......................- ..No. 193....George I. Gentry, Senior Warden................ 38.96
Mountain View ............••No. 194....Wilson Boggiano, Senior Warden................ 3.42
Frank Hallen, Junior Warden
Arno Rag@ianti, P.M. and Inspector............ 3.42
Walter L. Erichsen, Past Master
Buckeye ..........................No. 195....John R. Hart, Jr., Senior Warden.................. 7.72
Milton Hoffe Sharp, P.M. and Inspector...... 7.72
Oiarles A. Elliott, Past Master
Lionel W. Schroeder, Past Master
San Simeon ................._No. 196.... Walter E. Dresser, Senior Warden.............. 34.60
James F. Fry, Junior Warden
Wilmington .................-.No. 198....Jesse 0. Gayer, Senior Warden.................... 56.98
Sherrell E. Beadle, Junior Warden
Alton T. Durant, P.M. and Inspector............ 56.98
Thos. F. Mason, Past Master.......................• 56.32
Milton B. McMullen, Past Master
Hartley •..- ....- .....·-··--...No. 199.... Phillip N. Crawford, Senior Warden............ 10.00
Guido de Ghetaldi, P.M. and Inspector........ 10.00
Truckee ......................_..No. 200.... E. E. Thompson, Jr., Master.......................... 32.36
Otis Wing, Senior Warden
Melvin F. Jones, Junior Warden
Wayne E. Philippi, Senior Grand Steward 32.36
James Mclver, Jr., Past Master
Silveyville ................. _...No. 201.... Claude J. Warren, Senior Warden................ 6.40
P
John W. Tutt, Past Master
eDtalpha .....................-.No. 202.... Leonard L. Cutshall, Master........................... . 56.98
Robert D. McLaren, Senior Warden
Sherman R. Whitney, Junior Warden
John M. Gordon, Past Master
Confidence -···········-.......No. 203.... Henry C. Raines, Master-...................- ........ 10.14
Fong Q. Jing, Past Master
Salinas .....................- ....No. 204.... Freeman Geo. Sanders, P.M. and Inspector 10.74
Frank Richey, Senior Warden
Raymond Ansell, Junior Warden
Oii
Carlos J. Sloan, Master................................... . 10.74
vet ..............................No. 205.... William R. Mace, Senior Warden.
29.56
Stanislaus ........................ No. 206.... Harry A. Franks, Senior Warden.::::::::::~::: 9.66

7.34

Anaheim ....·-····-····-·······No. 207....

3.12
2.46

8.40

5.06
61.94

19.56
19.56
3.94

5.40
5.70
36.00

35.82

J':-!~in
F:ib~; k.u:i°:r~~~~~---···············-- 58.06
Donn R. Parsons, Senior Warden

.
.
A. Bird Cross, P.M. and Inspector................ 58.06
Rio VJSta -··--···-····-·······No. 208....Ahbott A. Scott, Senior Warden................ .. 6.38
Albert H. Hollenbeck, Past Master
K'
. ,
C. Earl Stewart, Past Master
mg Davids ..................No. 209.... Howard J. Stornetta, Senior Warden............ 35.98
Richard H. Hoffman, Junior Warden
Orin Compton, P.M. and Inspector................ 35.98
Casper J. Weir, Jr.. Past Master
Friendship ......................No. 210....John Haanstra, Master.................................... 4.54
Kenneth Winslow, Senior Warden
Wm. L. Hershberger, Past Master
Carl H. Nelson, Past Master
Robert L. Norton, Past Master
Roland E. Snyder, Past Master
Forrest F. Von Dorsten, Past Master
San Benito ..........- ..........No. 211.... Albert W. Hinz, Elected Representative...... 8.44
H. A. Hermansen, Past Master

388
Name of Lodgo

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lod11e

Representative•

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Milea11e Allowed

South San Francisco ......No. 212.... Claude J. Palmer, Master
Emil Winter. Junior Warden
San Buenaventura ·····-·-No. 214....C. Edward Steller, Master.............................. 49.78
Henry L. Ward, Senior Warden
Reginald B. James, Junior Warden
Oak Grove ···--···-·-·-···N o. 215....Robert B. Horrisberger, Master
Joseph L. Buzolich, Senior Warden
Oswald G. Ingold, Junior Warden
William Nankervis, Jr., Past Master
Doric ···················· ···--No. 216 ....Thomas J. Callaway, MWastedr
James S. Rose, Senior ar en
James D. Brownlee, Junior Warden
Ira W . Coburn, Junior Grand Warden
Alexander Horne, Past Master
Samuel I. Jacdbs, Past Master
Philip F. Ringole, Past Master
Monterey ........................No. 217.... Kenneth A. Benson, SeniMor Warden............ 11.52
C. Haskell Warren, Past aster
Mosaic - -·---·-····-···No. 218....Thomas J. Jones, Jr., Master......................... . 4.54
John Need.ham, Senior Warden
Donald F. Starcher, Junior Warden
Niles B. Bentley, Past Master
Herbert J. Hagemann, Jr., Past Master
Albin R. Jensen, Past Master
Speranza Italiana ....- .....No. 219.... Fred Proietti, Senior Warden
Raymond M. Christain, Junior Warden
P. P. Balestracd, Past Master
Vito L. Bruno, Past Master
John kardi, Past Master
Robert Morando, Past Master
Downey
No 220....Eugene L. Carroll, Master.---·-····-···········--···· 56.98
--------·-··-- - •
Garnett B. Cloud, Senior Warden
Paul A. Bigsby, Junior Warden
Claudis Thos. Shirley, P.M. and Inspector 56.98
Inyo ···-------········- -··-···No. 221.. ..Robert W. Fisher, Senior Warden.............. 54.38
Roseville ··-··-··-······-···----No. 222.... James H. Lefoe, Junior Warden.................... 10.14
-·"eld
No 224 .... James W. Borgman, Master............•............. 41.08
Bak"":w
·····-··············
•
Ernest R. Geoble, Senior Warden
Garfield G. Laiblin, Junior Warden
William M. McKenny, P.M. and Inspector 41.08
Lloyd E. Myers, Past Master
Brooklyn ..........................No. 225.... Roy KirkH.MSas ter S . W d
Kenneth . o1ares. en1or ar en
Richard C. Petersen, Junior Warden
Roy H. Lenthall, P.M. and Inspector
Don D. Holm. Past Master
Irving Magnes, Past Master
San Mateo ····--·········-····No. 226 .... Walter R. BE!oss, MasSter W d
William I. mmom, eniar ar en
Alson C. Rodoni, Junior Warden
Clarence C. Smith, P.M. and Inspector
Alan S. Ryall, Past Master
Ath ens --·······-·--··· ·-··No• 228.... Gordon L. Howell, Master.-----··········-······· 7.18
Gene L. M.cShane, Senior Warden
Gus A. Haussler, Past Master
Robert R. Haussler, Past Master
Solano ···········-·····-·········No. 229.... Paul J. Billings, Master·-··-···········--········-···
William D. Peden, Senior Warden
Raymond A. Hunt, Junior Warden
Clarence E. Shoaf, P.M. and Inspector........
Robert O. Gloeckner, Past Master
Russell C. Jones, Past Master
William D. Myska, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreaentativea

389
Milea11e Allowed

Norllh Butte --··----···-No . 230.... Paul F. Burlington, Senior Warden.............. 13.40
Kenneth A. Stafford, Junior Warden
Clare B. Campbell, Assistant Grand
Lecturer ··-··-······-···----·····---···········-··-······-·· 13.40
Covelo ···--····-···-·--· ··No. 231..•. Grant Winters, Senior Warden......·-···········
11.38
·
John D. Rohrbough, Past Master
Janesville ··-·····-----N o. 232.... Stephen V. Warner, Senior Warden............ 41.52
Calistoga ·········-----··N o. 233.... Argyll P. Spain, Master................................ 7.00
William A. Stone, Senior Warden
Kenneth M. Hively, Junior Warden
Hope ·····--········-···· --·--No. 234....Raymond A. Scolari, Elected Representative 36.70
Surprise Valley ---No. 235.... Gordon V. Ash, Junior Warden----·-· ·-····· 53.54
Hills Ferry ··············-·--N o. 236.... William S. Thompson, Elected
Representative ···············--··· -··············-·· 10.28
Guadalupe -·-···-·-····No• 237....Earl 0. Kauffman, Master............................ 39.10
Curtis W. Gunderson, Junior Warden
Henry R. Gewe, Past Master
John Jenkens. Past Master
Colusa ---·---······-·······-·No. 240.... Wilmer G. Brill, Master·--············--·-············· 12.62
John LeRoy Pointer, Junior Warden
Warren Goddard Davison, Past Master
Lawrence R. Proctor, Past Master
Santa Ana ·----·····-----·····No. 24L.J~~~ r.·~i;r:~: ~:t~w-;;;d;;;·····················- 58.06
Albert F. Hill, Past Master
Miner E. Whitford, Past Master
Magnolia ----·-··-·-N o. 242....Ray J. Nokes, Master......................... ............. 47.20
Joseph C. Bidgood, Senior Warden
Chester G. Hartman, Junior Warden
Donald W. Haag, Past Master
Eucalyptus ··-·····--------N o. 243.... Howard W. Anderson, Master
Harold E. Reddin9, Senior Warden
Arlie R. Fleming, junior Warden
Nelson E. Clemens, Past Master
Harry S. Holmes, Past Master
Fred H. Horwood, Past Master
Henry J. Keim, Past Master
W. Teubert Smith, Past Master
Anthony F. Taylor, Past Master
Alcatraz ········--····-·········No. 244.... Howard A. Nelson, Master
Rdbert 0. Bergstrom, Senior Warden
Norman Soutar, Junior Warden
Lowell K. Bain. Past Master
John F. Randolph, Past Master
Beverley C. Sutliff, Past Master
Laurel ·-- -···-····---No . 245.... Allen Stockton, Junior Warden...-............... 26.92
Pomona ·--··----······- No. 246....Donald E. Combe, Master.............................. 60.26
Harold M. Christensen, Senior Warden
William E. Wallis, Junior Warden
George A. Ritter, Past Master
Fresno ·····-·------ .No. 247....Roger E. Butler, Master... ·-····················-······- 30.98
William T. Muncy, Senior Warden
Lester M. Grimm, Junior Warden
Chester H. Warlow, Past Grand Master 30.98
William L. Benton, Past Master
George Hiatt, Past Master
John Loren Stewart, Jr., Past Master
Wayne H. Towne, Past Master
Alturas ···········-··············.No. 248....Wm. A. Goodfellow, Master.......................... 50.18
Adin ----No. 250.... Not represented
Landmark --···----······· No. 253_.Andrew Hess, Master·-················-··-·········- 9.00
Henning Erickson. Senior Warden

390
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Loda•

Repruentativea

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mneagt Allowed

............................_
No 254 George W. Sturm, Master
····Walter L. Smith, Senior Warden
···-······················· •
Albert A. Bryceson, P.M. and Inspector........
Daniel C. McRae, Past Master
Albert F. Ross, Past Master............................
William H. Schooler, Past Master
Welcome ........................No. 255.... Bill John Wilson, Junior Warden..................
J. Ralph Dawdy, P.M. and Inspector............
No 256....Euvelle R. Enderlin, Master..........................
Lodi
Ellsworth S. Beckman, Senior Warden
--·····················- -····· •
No 258 Frank A. Nute, Master............................ ......
Penrhyn
....Edwin F. Leak. Senior Warden
····················-··· ·

Reading

Eves-grem -·-·········..····-No. 259....

i'i~~fer~-~-~~~~---··········· ········
8!~:1cf"~i·
John G. Jordan, Senior Warden
E.. Scott Dales, Junior Warden

34.72
34.72

34.72
32.68
32.68
8.40
11.08
62.40

Willard G. Babcock, P.M. and Inspector...... 62.40
Sherman G. Babcock, Past Master
Byron C. Morton, Past Master........................ 62.40
King Solomon's ·········- ··No. 260.... Charles F. Burrows, MJ asterW d
Ronald W. Tennler, unior ar en
·
Gilbert A. Benoit, Grand Pursuivant
Ulysses Geo. Patropulos, P.M. and
Inspector
Henry E . Bennett, Sr.. Past Master
Step1hen J. Dean, Jr., Past Master
Robert L. Dreyfus, Past Master
Albert 0. Rier, Past Master
Albert H. Ross, Past Master
Samuel B. Stevenson, Past Master
John E. Werry, Past Master
William Henry White, Past Master
Tuscan ........................._.No. 261....William E. Owens, Junior Warden......... :···· 11.82
Lompoc ···········-··········--..No. 262 ....Walter R. MCanfrina, Elecpted RMeprtesentative 41.74
Orange B. hamber1ain. ast as er
Hesperian ···-····-·····-···-·No. 264....Edward J. Pryor, Master............................. ... 39.10
Arnold L. Nickson, Senior Warden
Marion A. Smith, Junior Warden ·
Henry Drashner, P.M. and Inspector............ 39.10
Frank A. Biliardi, Past Master
De Witt Meredith, Past Master
Donald E. Thomas, Past Master
Orland ............................-No. l65_W. Philip Romer, Junior Warden.................. 28.32
~
North East ---················No. 266.. _Not represented
G\Jt --- - ······-- ··-·No. 267....Clilford E. Northrup, Jr., Junior Warden.... 8.w
W d
Durant ···--···-·········--·-No. 268....Thomas V. Adams, MastSer
Thomas V. Giantvalley, enior ar en
Roger D. Gilmore, Junior Warden
Niles 0. Millar, P.M. and Inspector
Melvin L. Jory, Past Master
Charles R. Ratkovich, Past Master
Oltve Branch ··········-·····No. 269....Virgil R. Shoemaker, Master........................ 35.18
Irvin M. Mulanax, Senior Warden
Snow M01.1Dtain - ···-··--No. 271.... Chas. A. Butler, Elected Representative........ 17.20
Paaadena -····-·- --No. 272._Harold Archibald, Master............................ 58.20
James Kane, Jr., Senior Warden
Clarence A. Oakley, Junior Warden
Ralph T. Merriam, Past Master...................... 58.20
No 273 Edwin W. Chaffee, Master............................ 56.98
-'-or
An01
L. Wrlliams, Senior Warden
····Richard
•
· ··········· ··········· George 0. Evans, P.M. and Inspector.......... 56.98
B. Ray Mooney, Past Master
Theodore M. Newtson, Past Master

Na- al Lodp

Reprucntatl-

No. of Lodae

391
Mileaae Allowed

Arrayo --········-·-··--···No. 274....Truman S. Bennett, Senior Warden............

37.18
LoRay C. Bair, Past Master
Walter A. Baxter, Past Master
Martin E. McCune, Past Master
Oakdale ···-····----No. 275_Marvin C. Hope, Senior Warden................ 9.92
Claiborn Schonhoff, P.M. and lnseotor........ 9.92
Selma ···············-·····---Nc:L 277...•Georl{e L. Page, Senior Warden.................._ 32.54
Paul J. Nielsen, Past Master
5outhmi Calt!orma ........ No. 218.... f~~;~~~~~wr~~--................... 56.98
George E. Byers, Junior Warden
John M. Askin, Past Master
F rancis B. Galvery, Past Master
Harold E . McComas, Past Master
Adolphe R. E. Roome, Past Master
G. Raymond Tanner, Past Master
279..•.Maurice J. Andress, Senior Warden............
Hanford
Madera -··---..No. 280•...J. B. Haney, Senior Warden..........................
Lows E. Bigger, Junior Warden
No. 281....0resta Baima, Master...............................-...
Mt. Shasta ····-·
Callayomi -··-··-···-····_No. 282.... Paul St. John, Senior Warden........................
South West ··············---No. 283.... William J. Waite, Jr., Senior Warden........
Lyle W. Cornman, Junior Warden
Robt. Beetlestone, Past Master
0

·-----·---·-No.

~:1"8: ~il~e~~p~~ ~!~~~~~~-~---···················

31.88
29.10
33.62
5.50
67.70

67.70
L. E . C. Smith, Past Master
Edward C. Wright, Sr., Past Master
San Miguel ·--··-·----No. 285....Eric R. Hall, Senior Warden........................ 31.74
Paso Robles ·-······-···-···No. 286.•..Gilbert K. Davies, Muter.............................. 32.70
A. D. Moss, Senior Warden
Wlnnedumah ___ _.., ____No, 287....Theodore J. Gardner, Senior Warden........ 48.80
WiJfred W. Partridge, P.M. and Inspector 48.80
Maxwell ·---·-····-···No. 288....Hugh Bert Small, Elected Rei>resentative.... 12.60
Lehind E. Wallace, P.M. and Inspector........ 12.60
Elsinore ····-···-···--No. 289....Ralph 0. Barnett, Senior Warden......·-·····- 63.90
Howard G. Habenicht, Past Master
East Gate ······-·-----No. 290....Arthur James Hays, Master............................ 56.98
John Oliver Davis. Senior Warden
Monte Melve! Beaman, Past ·Master
John Allen Crosby, Past Master
Leo D. Haskell, Past Master
Curtis C. Orrell, Past Master
Santa Paule ··--···-········No. 291....Richard H. Butcher, Master............................ 50.78
Roy A. Moore, Senior Warden
Woodrow H. Pittman, Junior Warden
Loa Gatos - -··-········--No. 292....Mitchell L. McDonald, Master...................... 5.64
Frank H. Corbin, Senior Warden
Clarence Burrier, Jr., Junior Warden
Fred Berryman, Past Master
Earl R. Haskell, Past Master
Wllliam Jones, Past Master
Orange Grow ····-···---.No. 293....James P. Elliott, Master.................................. 59.62
ban W. Gruwell, Jr., Senior Warden
Leon 0. Whitsell, Past Grand Master
Jay W. Cummings, Past Master
Traver --·-····--- - No. 294....Gordon E. Scott, Master................................ 33.00
Barry K. Berg, Senior Warden
Robert N. Rouch, Past Master
Mt Jackaon - ............No. 295.... Samuel Wayne Auman, Senior Warden...... 7.86

393

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

392

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Name of Lodge

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreaentativu

Milea11:e Allowed

Silver Gate ·-···-·············No. 296....Thomas D. Meyer, Master............................ 67.70
Aylmer H. Keith, Senior Warden
G. Merton Rose, Junior Warden
Fred S. Weed, P.M. and Inspector.............. 67.70
Karl J. Bauman, Past Master
Willard A. Braasch, Past Master
Warren W. Fitch, Past Master
Dunsmuir ·········--···········No. 297.... William A. Hughes, Master............................ 40.00
Paul A. Radebaugh, Senior Warden
Robert C. Harris, Past Master
Liberty - · · -- ·-- - -·-No. 299....Donald B. Finch, Maste.r......................-·4.54
Richard M. Brown, Senior Warden
Harry M. Morris, Junior Warden
John W. Baker, Jr., P.M. and Inspector........ 5.34
Redlands -··········-··-·······No. 300....Thomas E. Henderson, Senior Warden...... 63.. 18
Kenneth Dowell, P.M. and Inspector.._........ 63 18
Harry G. Wilson, Past Master
Ontario -···-··-·-···No. 301 ....C. Everett Wood. Sr.• Senior Warden........ 60.72
·
Paul R. Gardner, Sr., Junior Warden
Reynold C. MacDonald, Past Master
Santa Lucia ---····-···No. 302 .... Fred Y. Mar, Elected Representative............ 14.94
Porterville ···--·····-·-····.No. 303_.. Fred T. Belton, Master.........................-......... 37.34
William F. Braly, Senior Warden
Eugene N. Willey, Junior Warden
Reedley -·-·-···········..No. 304....David Lee Miller, Senior Warden....... _..... 33.34
Azusa ·---··············-·No. 305....Walter B. Rowe, Master..............................- 58.06
Paul W. Nichols. Senior Warden
Stephen E. Skidmore, P.M. and Inspector 58.06
Ashlar --··---···············No. 306....Donald D. Rozenberg, Master.....................•.. 62.40
John Stokes, Senior Warden
George Edgar Berresford, Junior Warden
Robert W. Nicol, P.M. and Inspector.......- . 62.40
Santa Monica ·- ···············No. 307.... Hamilton W. Monteith, Master.................._ 56.98
Albert F. Sohub, Senior Warden
Walter R. Ringwald. Junior Warden
Ray 0. Somers, Past Master
Harry H. Williams, Past Master
Monrovia -·-··-······-·····No. 308.... ~:c:Vw~Bo~i~.as~~~;\v;;;<l~··-·······--· 58.06
Delano --·--········-···No. 309....Jahn James Thornton. Master...............·- ··-·
Jack Forgey Boone, Senior Warden
Sisson ·······-··-·················No. 310....tf!rl'a~ vJin:!~: ~~~~~\:v;;;<l~~··············
Harold L. McGee, Junior Warden
Los Banos --·················No. 312.... Francis E. Buck, Master..................................
Sidney V. Smith. Senior Warden
Delbert S. Small, Junior Warden
Tehacliapl -········- ··········No. 313....Roy Bagley, Senior Warden..........................
Temescal --·····-·········-·No. 314....Terrence R. Ware, Senior Warden............
Maurice G. Robinson, Junior Warden
Norwalk -·--··--··-·····No. 315....Ralph D. Manes, Senior Warden..................
Harold Bingham, Junior Warden
Sanger --···-···-- ·····No. 316.... Tames W. Mead, Senior Warden....·--·····Wayne E. Burk, Past Master.............. ·-··-·Leo J. Green, Past Master
Fallhrook •.......................No. 317....John Paul Casteel, Senior Warden................
Emmanuel ···-···················No. 318....Alvin A. Pike, Master....................................
Arthur F. Lindberg, Senior Warden
Herbert Meyer, Past Master

:'

38.12
41.38
12.H
45.60
58.06
58.06
31.98
31.98
65.60
13.68

No. of Lodge

Repreeentativea

Milease Allowed

Hollenbeck ......................No. 319....Carlton H. Hines, Mastet"............·-·················
Roberit F. Bergmann. Senior Warden
Alfred R. Simmons, Junior Warden
Roy T. Kiele, P.M. and Inspector..................
Con.rad E. Follendore, Past Master
Francis W. Peters, Past Master
Ugo Rostagno, Past Master
South Gate .................--No. 320....Clem G. Davidson, Master..........·-···············
Lloyd J. Ashcraft, Senior Warden
Mark A. Green, Past Mastet"........................
David H. Terry, Past Master
Alisa! -·-····-····-···· -No. 321_Hilton L. Haile, Master-··- ···- ····-···--George M. Riddell, Senior Warden
Harold C. Hansen, Past Master
Alhambra .....................-No. 322....William C. Kermode, Master............·-·········
Edward F. Carson, Senior Warden
Leon Wilemon, Junior Warden
Francis M. Freeborn, Past Master
Whittier - ··········-····-·-No. 323....Verle C. Davis, Master--···-················-·······
Roy J. Fisher, Junior Warden
Roscoe W. Farris, Past Master
Clarence W. Peck, Past Master
Corona ...........................•No. 324....Charles E. Small, Master..........·-···················
Roy J. Rasmussen, Senior Warden
Gordon F. Porter, P.M. and Inspector..........
Linn G. Roberts, Past Master
Edward H. Rowins, Past Master
Arthur J. Wingard, Past Master
Consuelo ·····-·················-No. 325....Elmer L. Webb, Master...........·-····················
Ralph L. Smith, Senior Warden
Stewart McLeod,J.unior Warden
Thos. W. Eckfor , Pasit Master

56.98
56.98

56.98
56.98
3.90
56.98

58.38

58.20
58.20

65.60

Needles ···········-··-······--·No. 326....~~'!rt°E.1W:fk~~s~~~5W~"d-~~-··············-···· 64.88
Leonard Walker, Junior Warden
William R. Carty, Past Master
Long Beadt ·-······-··-···-No. 327....James R. Armor, Master.................................. 56.98
George P. Calderwood, Senior Warden
John H. Ferguson, P.M. and Inspector........ 56.98
Alvin V. Hylton, Past Master
Henry G. Van Dyke. Past Master
Redondo ····--·········--.No. 328....Edward J. Sharp, Master..........·-··················· 56.98
Eldon B. Morgan, Senior Warden
Leslie F. Fassenfelt, Junior Warden
George Fairbrother, Past Master
Leon G. Kelley, Past Master
Wilson 0. Wade, Past Masiter
Vallee De France ..........No. 329....Michel Gaul, Senior Warden........................ 56.98
Kilauea - -··-·····-No. 330.... Harold P. Luscomh, Senior Warden.-·····-·· 381.19
C. C. Tong, Past Master
Pacific Grove ···-··--····-·No. 331.... George Leonard Walter, Master.................... 11.68
Daniel Bruce Turrentine, Senior Warden
Arch Balchin, P.M. and Inspector................ 11.68
San Pedro ·········-······-No. 332.... Harry C. Hapgood, Master............................ 56.98
Louis A. Petrasich, Senior Warden
John H. Maule, Junior Warden
Alta ····-····-·-·····-·-·-No. 333.... Donald Banta, Senior Warden................... _. 43.50
Covina - ··-···-·-·-·No. 334....Wayne C. Bates, Senior Warden.................. 59.46
William E. Hensley, Junior Warden
Robert M. Henry, Past Master
West Gate ···-····-······-·-No. 335....Benjamin Butt, Senior Warden...................-. 56.98
Zoltan Tronstein, Junior Warden

394
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lod11:e

li\epraentativea

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Milea11:e Allowed

Fruitvale ..........................No. 336....Edward K. Strobridge, Jr., Master
Arthur G. Berger, Senior Warden
Leonard 0. Hansen, Junior Warden
Frank R. Killinger, P.M. and Inspector
Arthur A. Barber, Past Master
Paul A. Brom, Past Master
Herbert C. Green, Past Master
Walter Burton Hart, Past Master
Russell C. Horstmann, Past Master
Rudolph Jenny, Past Master
Arthur Lloyd Lindh, Past Master
Robert D. Rhien, Past Master
Harold Oliver Sjoberg, Past Master
Edward A. Tuchsen, Past Master
Carquinez ···············-·······No. 337....Jack Bauer, Master-·················-··········-·········
San Jacinto ···············-···-No. 338....J. D. Freeman, Master........................•...........
Fullerton ····-·················-No. 339.... H. W. Ensi9n, Master....................................
J.B. Hanke, junior Warden
W. T. Rodger, Past Master
Oxnard ··············--··········No. 341....William N. Jones, Master............................. .
Ronald E. Jones, Senior Warden
Rolland C. Steele, Junior Warden
Donald R. Ellis, Past Master
Henry F. Flitt, Past Master
John R. Seaton, Past Master
San Fernando ................No. 343....William H. Knapp, Master.•..........................
Elgin L. Duffin, Junior Warden
Starr King ···············-··-·No. 344.... Louis Becker, Master
Ar.thur S. Becker, Senior Warden
Jack Gordon, Junior Warden
Alfred F. Breslauer, Deuty Grand Master
Charles M. Wollenberg, Past Grand Master
Al H. Barkoff, Past Master
Charles Becker, Past Master
Daniel J. Breslauer, Past Master
Charles 0. Clausen, Past Master
Hal Curtis. Past Master
Joseph A. Friedman, Past Master
Walter M. Goldberg, Past Master
Lester T. Goldmeyer, Past Master
Merrill N. Howe, Past Master
Michael V. lgnotz, Past Master
Bernard J. Joseph, Past Master
Ben A. Katz, Past Master
Ernest C. Mensch, Past Master
Gharles 0. Munson, Past Master
Arthur Salomon, Past Master
Joseph H. Spiegelman, Past Master
Manuel Stern. Past Master
Homer E. Stewart, Past ;Master
Haiman L. Wayne, Past Master
Albert C. Wollenberg, Past Master
Brentwood ····--··--···-·-No. 345.... Not represented
Palo Alto -·······-········_No. 346....John D. Jorgenson, Master...........................•
John F. Roberts, Jr., Senior Warden
Lloyd M. Harms, Junior Warden
Edward D. Kohlstedt, Acting Grand
Ghaplain ....................................................... .
L. Harold Anderson, Past Grand Master
Ralph S. Brokaw, Past Master
George Ernest King, Past Master
Adam B. Morten, Past Master........................

2.82
67.12
58.06
50.72

55.10

Name of Lod1e

No. of Lodge

Representativea

2.94

5.64

Mileage Allowed

McKinley ·········-·············No. 347.... F. Lee Myers, Master
Troy Anderson, Senior Warden
Horace H. Warnock, Junior Warden
Claus J. Anderson, Past Master
Richard V. Heller, Past Master
Frank M. Palmer, Past Master
William E. Richmond, Past Master
Peter Slavazza, Past Master
San Bernardino ..........•..•No. 348....David A. Smi.th, Master.................................. 61.94
Donald T. Wright, Senior Warden
G. Maurice Cellar, Grand Sword Bearer..... . 61.94
John M. Heron, Past Master
Victor N. Hodge, Past Master
Sequoia .•..............•.....•.•••.No. 349.... Wallace L. Etterbeek. Master
Milan T. FeH, Senior Warden
Herbert S. Bigelow, Past Master
Desmond N. Bonnington, Past Master
George C. Courreges, Past Master
Frank D. Gatter, Past Master
Cyril W. McClean, Past Master
E. Herbert Phillips, Past Master
J. Walter Proctor, Past Master
Henry S. Savage, Past Master
Palestine ·····-····-·········---No. 351....John J. Oliver, Muter-....•............................. 56.98
J. Nelan Breese, Senior Warden
Edgar L. Deatrick, Past Master
George W. Feller, Past Master
Benjamin R. Jordan, Past Master
Henry E. Lestmann, Past Master
Sunset ··-·-·········-············No. 352....William Kludjian. Master.............................. 56.98
Thomas L. Hemsley, Senior Warden
oe W. Adams, Junior Warden
ohn H. Hardy, Past Master
Pinole ·········-····-··-······No. 353....Lawrence E. Ingalls, Master.......................... 2.36
Alfred L. Freitas, Junior Warden
Joseph E. Webb, Past Master
Presidio ..•......•.......••......._No. 354...• Wayne F. Hamilton, Junior Warden
Joseph Myron Ruggiero, P.M. and Inspector
Alexander L. Croce, Past Master
Eric R. Johnson, Past Master
William D. Verbarg, Past Master
Edward H. Wilkens, Past Master
Hollywood ................•.....No. 355.... Fred E. Green, Master.................................... 56.98
James F. Davidson. Senior Warden
Samuel Steelman., P.M. and I11spector.......... 56.98
Leo E. Anderson, Past Grand Master............ 56.98
Wallace H. Beaudry, Past Master
John T. Bond, Past Master.............................. 56.98
Milton R. Entwistle, Past Master
Erwin H. Gebhardt, Past Master
Rdbert T. Gilmore, Jr., Past Master
Ira W. Merrill, Past Master
Mill Valley ·····-·-··········No. 356.... Harold G. Jones, Master
George J. Burt, Senior Warden
Morris E. Burch, Junior Warden
Stanley C. Aitchison, Past Master
Thomas F. Bagshaw, Past Master
Frederick A. Penn, Past Master
Kent 0. Seymour, Past Master
Buena Park ......................No. 357....William M. Hesse, Master............................ 58.06
James E. Patton, Senior Warden
Ted R. Siems, P.M. and Inspector.................. 58.06

J

2.94

395

396
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Repreuntativea

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mllea1e Allowed

Golden State ..................No. 358....Burton Meyer, Jr., Master.•........................._. 56.98
Glen Brown, Senior Warden
Winfield R. Cram, Past Master
Loyalton --·-···-······--No . 359....Robert W. Gwinn, Master·-····-··················· 3i.36
San Francisco ................No. 360.... Albert F. Enderlin, Master
Melvin H. Lowe, Junior Warden
Henry D. Oliphant, Assistant
Grand Secretary
William F. Jebe, Past Master
Milton T. Si=ons, Past Master
Fort Bragg ···--···- ··········No. 361.._llmar Jack Carlson, Master..·-····-················ 18.16
Charity ............................No. 362.... Adam A. Scholle, Master......·-····················· 5.3i
Walter Ray Williams, Senior Warden
Rudy L. Nelson, Past Master
William H. Scott, Past Master
Berkeley ..........................No. 363.... Emest S. Wise, Master
Robert D. Wootten, Senior Warden
Donald K. Akey, Junior Warden
William H. Adams, Past Master
Robert P. Arnold, Past Master
Oliver E. McLean, Past Master
Larry C. Moore, Past Master
Willits ·········-···········-···No. 365.... Donald M. Frey, Senior Warden.................. 13.26
Las Palmas ···············--···No. 366.... Charles Darrell Dart, Master........................ 30.98
George B. Posson. Junior Warden
Oscar C. Olsen, Past Master
Walter Price Robinson, Past Master
South Pasadena ..............No. 367.... Clyde Ernest Colvin, Master.......................... 58.20
Lawrence S. Kennan, Senior Warden
Russel E. Cave, Junior Warden
Ralph W. Cutler, P.M. and Inspector.....-.. 58.20
George W. Roche, Past Master
llntty --·············-··-··-N o. 368..-~11:e~iJt:::J~o~\%-~~arden._________ 56.32
Guy B. Mize, Senior Grand Warden............ 58.20
Fred M. Clark, Past Ma~er--·············· ·······- 56.32
Homer E. Rathbun, Past Master
Hugo C. Roark, Past Master
Ocean Park ·····-····--···No. 369.... Elmer H . Guess, Master......·-········-············· 56.98
Earl E. Mcilvain, Senior Warden
TerrylJ Dougherty, Junior Warden
Theodore B. Fach, P.M. and Inspector........ 56.98
Hamilcar Smith, Past Master
Amity ···-··-··-··-··-N o. 370....Christo M. Pallas, Master
Donald F. Canedy, Senior Warden
L. Carl Petersen, junior Warden
Paul A. Pflueger, Assistant
Grand Treasurer
Maurice E . Coffey, Past Master
William A. Cohendet, Past Master
Henry 0 . Hammerich, Past Master
V. V. Kolombatovic, Past Master
John H. Lalor, Past Master
Urban D. Mackins, Past Master
Thomas J. McHenry, Past Master
le Progres de l'Oceanle....No. 371....Robert B. Faus, Jr., Senior Warden.............. 338.19
John C. Simpson, Past Master
Alan H. Strike, Past Master
Gardena -··-···- ·····--·---No. 372....Robert E. Crist, Senior Warden.................... 56.98
Zenus E. Martin, Junior Warden
Keith W. Schlaegel, Past Master.................. 56.98

Name of Lodge

No, of Lodge

Representativea

397
Mileage Allowed

West Los Angeles ·-·······No• 373....Thomas Carroll, Master................................ 56.98
Harold W. Hasbrouck, Senior Warden
Alva G. Teel, Junior Warden
Egbert 0. Matthews, Past Master
Harry T. Robinson, Past Master
Jewel ························-······No. 374.-A. C. Moore, Master
Al K.ln1J! Senior Warden
Philip C. Tudor, Junior Warden
John H. Adams, Past Master
Leo Bruck, Past Master
A. R. Engel, Past Master
Elmer James, Past Master
S. C. Leonhaeuser, Past Master
Willard C. Schaaf, Past Master
Herbert H. Schultz, Past Master
William Van Ornum, Past Master
Richmond ···-·····-···-··__No. 375.... Herbert 0. Shoemaker, Jr., Master
Lloyd R. Van Auken, Senior Warden
James McCubbin, Junior Warden
Emil K. Bender, Past Master
John B. Bieg, Past Master
James H. Conner, Past Master
Albert D. Elledge, Past Master
Myrton W. Erickson, Past Master
ames Leo Halley, Past Master
ames W. Halley, Past Master
. F. Johnson, Past Master
Alfred T. Morris, Past Master
Harry E. Morris, Past Master
George H. Pape, Past Master
Ross L. Perkins, Past Master
Fred Wisherop, Past Master
Francis Drake _____ _ No. 376_.Floyd Kepner Dunn. Master
Arthur Frederick Blomquist, Senior Warden
Morris Miller Eisenbrey, Junior Warden
Artesia --·-··-·---No . 377.- Lewis Derr, Senior Warden.-·-······ ···-····· 58.06
Garland Barnes, Junior Warden
Mizpah ···-··············-·······No. 378.... Lawrence J. Hall, Jr., Master.......................... 56.98
George Ryder, Senior Warden
Grady E. McDowell, Junior Warden
George W. Perkins, P.M. and Inspector...... 56.98
W. Lewis Thompson, Past Master
Fillmore ..................... _...No. 379....William I. Haynes, Master-··-·-··················· 51.38
0. L. Sundquist, Senior Warden
Freddie Thrower, Junior Warden
Herman Haase, Past Master
Lester A. Price, Past Master
W. Howard Price, Past Master
Elbert Van Orsdol, Past Master
Huntington Beach ·-·······No. 380....R. Dean Wolf, Master-·-······-··· -·····--······ 56.98
.
Alan T. Ries, Senior Wuden
Berrell R. Ries, P.M. and Inspector...........____ 56.98
Oceanside -·····-··-·······No. 381.._Douglas M. Craig, Senior Warden............ _ 64.20
James L. Logsdon, Junior Warden
Kenneth C. Stanley, P.M. and Inspector....- 64.20
Highland Park ...:........•••.No. 382.... Charles 0. Samples, Master···········-······-····· 56.98
George B. Corbin, Senior Warden
Rawdon J. Winston, Junior Warden
Albert R. Bennison, Past Master
Floyd F. Boyer, Past Master
Claude E. Prescott, Past Master

~

398
Name of Locl1e

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lod1e

Repreantativu

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mi1e11e All"-d

Orosi --···-·········-········ ·No. 383....Carroll E. Cannon, Senior Warden.............. 34.10
Arthur P. Beckner, Past Master
Thomas A. Jadwin, Past Master
El Centro ...................•...•No. 384....Frank G. Kamps, Master............................. _. 77.68
Norbert P. Tester, P.M. and Inspector........ 77.68
D. G. Dixon, Past Master
Elmer W. Heald, Past Master........................ 77.68
Charles E. Sones, Past Master........................ 77.68
Dinuba ............................No. 385....Ralph 0. Dibler, Master._............................... 33.80
John W. Bull, Senior Warden
Clarence L. Fraser, P.M. and Inspector........ 33.80
Coalinga ········-················No. 387._.Frank G. Mechalis, Senior Warden.............. 34.88
Garold Oscar Jardon, Junior Warden
Frank W. Spear, Past Master
Parnassus .....................•..No. 388....Arthur H. Salvoni, Master
Robert J. C. Thomson, Senior Warden
Robert E. Petersen, Junior Warden
James E . Finley, P.M. and Inspector
Philip R. Chapin, Past Master
Joseph C. Durhan, Past Master
Samuel Miller, Past Master
Palos Verdes ..................No. 389....Clarence R. Prouse, Master.......................... 56.98
Ernest H. Fick, Senior Warden
Imperial ...................... _No. 390....Tommy Marvin Neff, Senior Warden.......... 77.22
East Belt .•........................No. 391....William &nil Gerber, Master.-................... 12.32
Waldo George Waelty, Junior Warden
Wallace H. Fiske, P.M. and Inspector.......... 12.32
West Lake ··--··------·-····No. 392.... Irvin J. Duhn, Master...................................... 56.98
Ted R. Perelio, Senior Warden
Walter L. Berger, Past Master
Frank R. Brunner, Past Master
Vernon E. Mitchell, Past Master
John A. Sickenberger, Past Master
Lloyd V. Smith, Past Master
Balder ...- .........................No. 393....Clarence J. Moquin, Master
Hazelton French, Senior Warden
Clifford G. Bloom, Junior Warden
Harry M. Michelsen, P.M. and Inspector
Alfred Berglof. Past Master
LeRoy W. Johnson, Past Master
C. Elnar Nelson, Past Master
University ......................No. 394....W!. ~~!i,~~J~~~ p~~~t~;·········.......... 56.98
Myron E. Smith, Past Master
Turlock .................•.....•....No. 395 ....John H. Seyden, Master.-........................... 10.90
Cecil M. Bates, Senior Warden
Chas. 0 . Read, Junior Warden
E. R. Gaster, Past Master
d
Apollo ..............................No. 396... .James E. Harris, Master
l<ay W. Sorensen, Senior War en
Maynard J. Beckie, Junior Warden
Alfred Johnson, P.M. and Inspector
· David P. Russell, Past Master
Carl E. Thau, Past Master
Rising Light -···-····-···-·No. 397....Robert D. Gardner, Master.............................. 56.98
Charles G. Barnett, Senior Warden
Charles D. Ackerman, Junior Warden
Leslie V. Hughes, Past Master
Fratemity --··--···--·-··-No• 399....William W. Vining, Master.......................... 4.54
George H. Larson, Senior Warden
Burlingame ......................No. 400.... H. Glenn Stlrm, Junior Warden
S. Leslie Hawken, Past Master

'f.

Na- of Lodp

No. of Lodge

Repreantacivea

399
Mileage Allowed

Bay View ---·················No. 401....Royle A. Langton, Master
Charles W. Bishop, SeniOI" Warden
Robe!'t L. Hussey, Tunior Warden
H. M. Bankhead, Past Master
Eugene H. Dopp, Past Master
Fred W. Wetmore, Past Master
Brawley --···········-···-···No· 402....B. W. Price, Master........................................ 76.42
0. K. Barnhill, Senior Warden
Percy E. Palmer, Past Master
Yerba Buena -·-···--...No. 403.... Charles W. Martin, Junior Warden
Glendora ······------No. 404....C. Hubert Lankford, Master.......................... 58.06
Eugene C. Quick, Senior Warden.................. 58.06
J. I. Lewis, Past Master
Monet.a ···-···········-···-···N o. 405.... C. Ben Chadderton, Master................... ......... 56.98
Lee W. Antis, Senior Warden
George S. ~ye, Junior Warden
J. Stanley Watkins, Past Master
N
B bank
···-·····-- o. 406....Robert E. Nelson.............................................. 56.98
ur
Richard B. Carter, Senior Warden
Daniel F. Haworth, Past Master
W. D. Hopkins, Past Master
La Mesa -···----No . 407....John S. Odom, Master.................................... 68.40
R. Wayne Fillpot, Senior Warden
0. Glen Moran, Junior Warden
Sierra Madre -·----......No. 408._Larry C. Lomax, Senior Warden.................. 58.06
Honolulu -··-----No. 409....Charles Lona Hapai, Senior Warden............ 338.19
Robert Edgar, P.M. and lmpector..........•.•... 338.19
k
Ch
arter Roe ........- .•.....No. 410.... Charles A. Criss, Jr., Master
Sanborn H. Smith, Past Master
Rolph Albert Stanley, Past Master
Webster W. Wilcox, Jr., Past Master
Perris ·······-·············-······No. 41 L..L. M. Kirkpatrick, Jr., Senior Warden.......... 63.50
Caleii:ico ···-·--········-..No. 412....Robert B. Poley, Master.............................._ 78.42
Thomas M. Remington, Senior Warden
Arlington ···--···-···-···-No• 414....Richard C. Harrell, Master............................ 56.98
Louie F. Smith, Senior Warden
Carl F. Peters, P.M. and Inspector................ 56.98
N. D. Stanley, Past Master
Silver Trowel ................No. 415.... Guy A. Bridge, Master.................................... 56.98
Gene Garf, Senior Warden
Isaac W. Wilson, Junior Warden
Van A. Gatewood, Past Master
Lindsay ...- ......................No. 416....Delmer A. Murdock, Master.......................... 36.42
Thomas R. Sims, Senior Warden
Donald K. Landers, Junior Warden
Alva A. Daniells, P.M. and Inspector............ 46.42
Clovis - - · - ·· - -..No. 417_Avon C. Reyburn, Senior Warden............. _ 31.78
Elysian ---····-···-··--·No· 418.... Anthony V. Radetich, Senior Warden.......... 56.98
Harry_ E. Templeton, Past Master
Guy Wooley, Past Master
U land
-------..No . 419....Tord H. Berg, Junior Warden...................... 60.72
P
J. Harrf Snowden, P.M. and Inspector........ 60.72
Michae J. Hanna, Past Master
Kerman ····--·····-·······-No. 420....Reglnald Harold Sherwood, Elected
Representative --·--·--···--·· -···-··- 29.88
Inglewood ···-··········-···No. 421....Marion B. Burke, Senior Warden................ '.>6.98
William D. Richardson, Junior Warden
Oaude E. Cole, Past Muter
&gle Rock ····-·····-···-···No. 422.... John H. Mihld, Senior Warden...................... 56.98
'rod E. Stice, Junior Warden
James E. Calhoun, Past Master
Thomas A. Mooney, Past Master

400
Name of Lod11e

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

PROCEED INGS OF THE
No. of Lod11e

Repreaentativea

Mileage Allowed

__No. 423_Alfre d B. Larson, Master... _........................_. 56.98
Y orlc
Horace H. Campbell, Senior Warden
Ellls D. Knapp, Master................................ _ 35.76
....
424
--No.
---·--Exeter
Floyd E. Brown, Junior Warden
Holtville -·-····-···-·--No. 425.... Monroe A. Horton, Master.............·-····---·- 78.48
Midway ..........................No. 426....James K. Frazier, Master........... - ................... 43.58
Alton E. Coltrin, Senior Warden
Robert A. Smith, Past Master........................ 43.58
Oiino Valley ···----·N o. 427.... Robert W. C. Storms, Master__.................... 60.72
Fred P. Derbyshire, Senior Warden
San Dimas ------- No. 428.... Robert R. Adams, Senior Warden................ 58.06
James Milne, Past Master
Pittsburg -·-···-··-··· ·····-No. 429.... Harold E. Wildes, Master....................... ....... 4.68
Matt E. Hale, Junior Warden
W. Ralph Anderson, P.M. and Inspeotor...... 4.68
John C. Brown, Past Master
Don Ward, Past Master
Raymond L. Wildes, Past Master
............. 41.38
McOoud -·--··--· ····No. 430....Willard P. Martin, Senior Warden.
Percy_ W. Lindt, P.M. and lnspecb:>r............ 40.00
Phil N. Myers, Past Grand Master................ 56.98
Colton B. Daveney, Past Master......-.......... 2.82
Chas. S. Hogan, Past Master
Thomas F. Sadler, Pasit Master
Alpha ----··-· ···-·No . 431 .... F. Ray Thompson, Senior Warden
Kenneth C. Wright. Junior Warden
Edwin R. Brooks, Past Master
Anshelm S. Remell, Past Master
12.98
Hammonton .................... No. 433.._Archie W. Hopfteld, Elected Representative
Wayne A. Dahling, P.M. and Inspector........ 11.68
Senior Warden.......... 43.88
Maricopa --··········-· ······No. 434....Beecher Elmo Bynum, and
Inspector.............. 43.88
Carl E. Moore, P.M.
John E. Colber:t, Past Master
Fairmount --·--·····- ··..No. 435....Joseph Antone Teresi, MasterWarden
William Peter Olson, Senior
Walter Edwin Watte, Junior Warden
Ivan Crase, Past Master
Pieter A. de Vries, Past Master
Rudolph Illing, Past Master
Edward R. Pootel, Past Master
William 0. Purdy, Past Master
Dee Larry West, Past Master
Claremont ___ ___No . 436....Curtls W. Olds, Senior Warden........... ____ 58.06
Lancaster ---·-····-··------No. 437....Leslie G. Shelton, Master.............................. 49.66
James E. Head, Senior Warden
Oharles H. Redford, Junior Warden
James E. Bacon, P.M. and Inspector............ 49.66
A. C. Cobb, Past Master
Clarence I. Cornelius, Past Master
Wm. D. Knight, Past Master
Tyrian _____ __No. 439._Haro ld Michael, Junior Warden.................. 8.10
Delbert E. Luck, P.M. and Inspector............ 8.10
Stanley Mortensen, Past Master
Dale Cowan, Master
Leland
.•••
-MO
·····No.
Standard --·····-···
Cecil Jackson, Senior Warden
Lyle Floyd Fowler, Junior Warden
Coronado -·--··---- --·No. 441....Clarence T. O'Brian, Senior Warden............ 67.70
William N. Darroch, Past Master
Glen C. Holbert, Past Master........................ 67.70
Harry M. Omar, Past Master
Donald W. Stubbs, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

401
Mileage Allowed

Blackmer ·········---··--·····-No. 442.... Harold L. Jensen, Jr., Master........................ 67.70
George A. Gray, Senior Warden
Kenneth B. Barnes, Junior Warden
Oscar Hubert Nelson, P.M. and Inspector.... 67.70
George K. Palmer, Past Master
Frank R. Porath, Past Master
Omo E. Tyler, Past Master
Schofield ---···-······- ·-···-No. 443.... Walter R. Kraynfk, Senior Warden.......___ 338.19
Carpinteria ............._ _No. 444....G. Frederick Risdon, Master........................ 48.24
Wilshire --········· ---No. 445.... Henry E. Mortimer, Master.......................... 56.98
Richard 0. Montrief, Senior Warden
George V. H. Smith, Junior Warden
Frederic Edwin Clark, P.M. and Inspector.. 56.98
Phillip Corrin, Past Master
Herbert A. Huebner, Past Mastu.................. 56.98
La Puente ........................No. 446....Robert Heaton Brown, Senior Warden........ 58.86
Jack Ledford Patterson, Junior Warden
Fulford, Master......................·-··········· 56.98
Robert
....
447
_No.
Torrance ......................
George C. Powell, Senior Warden
Francis L. Lehr, Junior Warden
Leonard D. Babcock, Past Master
Mt. Diablo ....................••No. 448....Gordon Lindsey, Master................................ 2.10
Enes Tatro, Senior Warden
Eugene Perkins, Junior Warden
Verne W. Hendrix, Past Master
Paul Kennedy, Past Master
Royle E. King, Past Master
Park --·--···- --···No • 449.-..0rville D- Parker, MasterWarden
Joseph J. Sanford, Junior
Arthur W. Bennett, Past Master
Reginald Duden, Past Master
John Ferguson, Past Master
Van Nuys ··-·····-·· -No. 450..•.Theodore A. Gryde, Master.......................... 56.98
Paul A. Wynne, SeniOl" Warden
William W. Dickson, Junior Warden
Harold S. Morrison, P.M. and Inspector____ 56.98
George W. Currier, Past Master
John L. Girdlestone, Past Master
Ralph W. Pettes, Past Master
·----·-···· ·-·---- 56.98
Montebello ---···-------......No. 451....Albert J. True, Master-Leonard Rasmussen, Senior Warden
Bert F. Kearney, Junior Warden
Frank L. Sutliff, P.M. and Inspector............ 56.98
0. D. Bayer, Past Master
L. D. Cain, Past Master
S. H. Harris, Past Master
Robert L. Karnes, Past Master
Merville L. Lamb, Past Master
San Pasqual ··-··-···---·····No. 452....Raymond C. Kettle.......................................... 58.20
Carl A. Bergfalk, Senior Warden
Jesse B. Gunnels, Past Master
RO&S H. Rittgers, Past Master
Bernard Vaocariello, Past Master
Donald G. White, Past Master
Bethlehem -······---- ·-·No. 453..•.John E. Finney, Master
Ernest C. Garret, Senior Warden
· Byron Coleman, Past Master
Charles A. Davis, Past Master
Stanley W. Kerley, Past Master
Vincent P. McMurdo, Past Master

402
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Loda;e

Repreuntativea

403

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mi1eage Allowed

Crocker ..........................••No. 454....Russell Monroe Bass, Master
Leslie Oscar Ginsberg, Senior Warden
Stanley Joseph Higgins, Junior Warden
M. Jay Jensen, Past Master
Ralph G. Riches, Past Master
Roy Wieland, Past Master
Golden West ..................No. 455 ....Burtis Grahan Davidson, Senior Warden
Adolph Philip Bilay, Past Master
Earle Bancroft Brehaut, Past Master
G. Robt. Brockmann, Past Mastec
Herbert Henry Eling, Past Master
Thomas William Rollinson, Sr., Past Master
Ramona ............................ No. 457.... Edward D. Courtney, Senior Warden..........
Eugene E. Greene, Junior Warden
Jack E. Andecson, Past Master
Henry S. Orme .............. No. 458.... Howard L. Wallace, Master..........·-·············
H. Clay Peal, Senior Warden
William B. Mott, Past Master
Riverbank ........................No. 459.... Not represented
Mount Oso ......................No. 460....James Paige, Senior Warden..........................
Argonaut .......................•No, 461....Murray L. Friedling, Master
Anthony_ T. Sola, Senior Warden
Ray P. Knox, Junior Warden
Jack L. Blaine, Past Master
Walter S. Flowers, Past Master
Hoadley Johnson, Sr., Past Master
Ferdinand A. Mosebach, Past Master
Sigfried Pels, Past Master
Arthur H. Schroeder, Past Master
Joseph A. Steinmetz, Past Master
George H. Taylor, Past Master
Carl Walter, Past Master
Paul Revere .................... No. 462....Kent S. Mason, Master
Perry A. Lawson, Senior Warden
Morton J. Meyer, Junior Warden
Arthur J. Kahn, Assistant Grand Lecturer
Allan E. Aitel, Past Master
Lowell H. Backendorf, Past Master
Abe B. Epstein, Past Master
Henry Schindel, Past Master
Melvin S. Springer, Past Master
Jacob W. Warshaw, Past Master
Morgan Hill ..........______ No. 463.... Sam W. Pelz, Master.....----·--·------····--···-····--·
Edward T. Ferri, Senior Warden
Cleo W. Frandsen, Junior Warden
Leo H. Buchheister, P.M. and Inspector........
William L. Whidden, Past Master
Alta Vista ......................No. 464....John N. Michener, Master
Flori Mosca, Senior Warden
Fred Faber, Junior Warden
Samuel G. Clark, P.M. and Inspector
Francis J. Herz, Past Master
Arthur E. Hewi,t, Past Master
John H. Lea, Past Master
John R. Titsworth, Past Master
Center --···-··-··················No. 465.... Carl August Schneider, Senior Warden........
Clyde Nelson Brough, Junior Warden
Samuel E. Dollar, P.M. and Inspector........
Lawrence Bertram Anderson, Past Mastec
Leland Converse Dickie, Past Master
Harold W. Madden, Past Master

56.98
56.98

6.72

6.48
6.48

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

30.98
30.98

Repreoentativea

Mileage Allowed

Libertas ............................No. 466....R. Carl Beck, Master...................................... 41.08
Arthur H. Lane, Senior Warden
Reed D. Mercer, Junior Warden
Raymond G. Taylor, Assistant
Grand Lecturer ............................................ 41.08
Robert J. Myers, Past Master
Robert W. Oates, Past Master
C. R. Wilkes, Past Master
Culver City -·--········-·····No. 467....Glen Werts, Senior Warden........................ 56.98
Dale Peck, Junior Warden
Herbert Hargave, Pr., Past Master................ 56.98
Rockrldge ........................No. 468.... Harry Everett Harman, Master
Earl Walton Threlfall, Senior Warden
Yorba Linda ..................No. 469.... Burton L. Brooks, Senior Warden................ 58.06
Lincoln ............................No. 470.... Benjamin W. Marsh, Master
John J. Dunn, Senior Warden
Jack Ervin, Junior Warden
Carlton H. Rothblum, P.M. and Inspector
Alexander McBimey, Past Master
Robert A. Peabody, Past Master
Delta ···········--------·----·-·No. 471....Horace W. Chase, Master.............................. 7.94
Jess W. Ward, Senior Warden
Kenneth W. Whalen. Junior Warden
Tauhner G. Hamma, P.M. and Inspector.... 7.94
Hugh G. Martin, P.M. and Inspector............ 7.94
George W. Graffis, Past Master
Maui ................................No. 472.... Kenneth Louis Hensley, Senior Warden...... 372.19
Eugene Paul Jljlne, Past Master
Blythe ..............................No. 473 ....Edward M. Downs, Elected Representative 75.28
Victory ............................No. 474....McMalone Counts, Master
Donald A. Rushton, Senior Warden
Lester M. Petterson, Junior Warden
William C. Bird, Past Master
Kenneth W. Hinkle, Past Master
Arthur E. Kellogg, Past Master
Alfred T. Kirkevold, Past Master
Charles H. Manning, Past Master
Ernest Schumacher, Past Master
Otto Von Raven, Past Master
America .......................... No. 475.... Frank P. Flower, Master.............................. 56.98
H. Bradley Porter, Senior Warden
Leo J. Wilson, Past Master
Coachella ........................No. 476....Charles N. Thomas, Senior Warden............ 69.28
Rex T. Johnson, Junior Warden
Rewell E. Carlton, P.M. and Inspector........ 69.28
Temblor ····---···-····-····--No. 477....John H. Gill, Master........................................ 43.88
Willard E. Bridge, Senior Warden
Guy C. Parker, Past Master
Thousand Oaks ............No. 478 ... .John W. Jenson, Master
Ferd A. von Schlafke, Senior Warden
Vernon R. La Groue, Junior Warden
Kenneth R. Evans, Past Master
William H. Nunn, Past Master
Harry C. Peterson, Past Master
Robert H. Stitt, Past Master
Golden Rule ....................No. 479....

~Jef!v:r~~C:~~'..~.~~~--~-~-~~~~-·-·········-····

Jess W. Lile, Senior Warden
Edwin C. Van de Mark, Past Master
Fellowship ......................No. 480.... Fred J. Campbell, Jr., Junior Warden
James A. Gallagher, Past Master

4.54

404
Name of Loclae

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lod11:e

N~ of Lodgll

R.epre~entativea

Mt. Davidson ···-·····-······No. 481._Thomas D. Wilson, Master
William L. Christiansen, Senior Warden
Gustave W. Rodeen, Junior Warden
Daniel D. Rowlands, P.M. and Inspector
Arthur M. Warren, Past Grand Master
Thomas J. Bass, Past Master
Walter H. Daily, Past Master
Carl P. McCarthy, Past Master
Henry R Michael, Past Master
Alfred H. Nicoll, Past Master........................
Clarence F. Smlth .......... No. 482.... Richard E. Johnson, Master........................... .
Wilbur K. Woo, Senior Warden
RiC'hard E. Johnson, Junior Warden
P. H. Montgomery, Past Master
Bell -···-···--····-···---No. 483.... John H. Means, Senior Warden................. _.
Morgan D. Richards, Junior Warden
Harold C. Comaford, Past Master
Fred F. Elliott, Past Master
Albert Pike ________ No. 484.... Emerson L. Harris, Senior Warden..............
Robert A. Manning, Junior Warden
Chowchilla ................-No. 485....Roy Schnauer, Master................................... .
Wilfred M. Crader, Junior Warden
Caledonia ................._...No. 486.... Lorin 0. Montgomery, Master......................
Patrick J. Ford, Senior Warden
Harold P. Wylie, Junior Warden
William W. Shugart, P.M. and Inspector....
Robert W. Beckwith, Past Master
Vallejo ··--·······-··-··········No. 487....Clifford R. Johnston, Master............................
Bert MenJ!e, Senior Warden
Elwood C. Scoggins, Junior Warden
Ernest G. Branstetter, Past Master
Raymond S. Del Mas, Jr., Past Master
Frederic B. Hall, Past Master
George E. Rosen, Past Master
. Patterson ..........____No. 488....Richard 0. j\yres. Master..............................
William M. White, Senior Warden
East Bay ·················-···-·No. 489..•. Arthur P. Songey, Master
Fred E. Wisshack, Junior Warden
Sergei N. Ivanoff, Past Master
John A. Sobey, Past Master
Corcoran ..........................No. 490....G. Fred Walter, Elected Representative........
Woodstock ................--No. 49L..Chester I. Finley, Master
Chester H. Ensign, Senior Warden
George A. Jurgens, Junior Warden
Carl R. Ramsey, P.M. and Inspector
Alvin A. Horwege, Past Master
Chester L. Jack, Past Master
Robert Emmett O'Brien, Past Master
M. Allen Powers, Past Master
Worden A. Stinson, Past Master
Garvanza ·····----------No. 492....Edward Gondeck, Master..............................
Lawrence E. Pearce, Senior Warden
George E. Harrison, Junior Warden
David C. Lee, Past Master
Atascadero ···-·····------..No. 493_Cyrl] F. Best, Senior Warden........................
Walter Clayton, P.M. and Inspector............
Acorn ·····················-----No. 494.... Nick Weisgerber, Master
Richard L. Stephenson, Junior Warden
E. Lloyd Hanson, P.M. and Inspector
Ralph Adams, Past Master
Earl Patterson, Jr.. Past Master
George P. Silliman, Past Master

2.94
56.98

56.98

56.98
27.58
41.08
41.08
3.30

9.22

33.30

56.98

33.80
34.90

R.epreoenmtivea

No. of Lodse

405
Mileage Allowed.

Lebanon ---·-····---.......No. 495....Mel C. Nathan, Jr., Master
Eugene Koppich, Senior Warden
Leo D'Atri, Junior Warden
Mervin J. Braunstein, Past Master
Ralph H. Mahany, Past Master
Milton Meyer, Past Master
Bernard B. Stimmel, Past Master
Fremont •........................•No. 497.... Louis F. Schwartz, Master
Floyd W. Gregg, Senior Warden
Harold E. Darling, Junior Warden
Thomas M. Livingstone, Past Master
William M. Nicholson, Sr., Past Master
Stockton --·-····················No. 498.... Harold B. Weed, Master................................ 7.94
ay D. Parks, Junior Warden
Capital Qty ----·-····-··-No. 499.... ames D. Shrum, Master.................................. 8.40
Conrad A. Murray, Senior Warden
Robert C. Woodall, Junior Warden
Roosevelt ---------------No. 500....Nicola Colapietro, Master
Westwood ..... __________ No. 501....Claude W. Causley, Senior Warden.......... 43.52
Wayne D. Gleason, Past Master
Haven R. Martin, Past Master
Eugene L. Smiith, Past Master
Harbor ............................No. 502 .... Charles E. McCray, Master
John E. Thurbon, Senior Warden
Lawrence H. Brewster, Past Master
Herron Scragg, Past Master
Charles L. Stanley, Past Master
Point ...........................-.No· 503.... Johnnie C. Godwin, Master
Melvin B. McDaniel, Senior Warden
Selby C. Wright, Junior Warden
Victor Prenk, P.M. and Inspector
Max E. Morris, Past Master
Robert V. Waylett, Past Master
Seaside ·-----····--·---No. 504.... Howard K. Noble, Master.............................. 56.98
Alva C. Kirkland, Jr., Senior Warden
Arthur R. Erskine, Junior Warden
Melvin R. Berbower, P.M. and Inspector.... 56.98
Wm. T. Corbusier, Past Master
Everett Houser, Past Master........................ 56.98
George D. Magruder, Past Master
A. R. Moberg, Sr., Past Master
A. R. Moberg, Jr., Past Master
Silver Cord ---------..--.No. 505....Thomas W. Thurman, Elected
Representative .........-.................................. 58.06
Mount Olive .........- ...No. 506....Carl S. Passamaneck, Master....·-···········--·- 56.98
Ray L. McCord, Senior Warden
Robert Oblath, Junior Warden
Russell Northrop, P.M. and Inspector........ 56.98
M. N. Kroopen, Past Master
Harold M. Sailor, Past Master
El Segundo -----···-·········--No. 507....William E. Young, Master.......................... 56.98
Earle D. Tramblie, Senior Warden
Morris E. Marshall, Junior Warden
Robert J. Lehman, Past Master
Joppa ···-····-······-···-----No. 508....Gordon Vaughan, Junior Warden............_ 31.18
Benjamin Franklin ..........No. 509....Wllliam G. Cairns, Master............................ 56.98
Lloyd A. Jacaway, Senior Warden
J. Frank Moore, Past Master
Cupertino ___________ No. 510....Lawrence Edward Crow, Master_............. 3.74
Howard Carlton Hubbard, Jr., Senior Warden
James Troy Rampy, Junior Warden

I

406
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING S OP THE
No. of Lodge

Repre .. ntativea

Mileage Allowed

Sunnyvale ...................... No. 511....Walter W. Schmitz, Master..........................
Herman L. Horn. Past Master
Palms ···-···············-·· ·-··No. 512....John McLay, Master...----·····························
Robert Neale, Senior Warden
Robert Walker, Junior Warden
Cahuenga ·········-·············No. 51L.li1:v~~ f.i[,~~~~s~::w~;d;~---·-·············
Albert S. Davidson. Junior Warden
Voyle H. Sipes, Past Master
Ray L. Whitney, Past Master
Argonne ..........................No. 514....Robert P. Hulce, Master
Cyril L. Thornton, Senior Warden
Frank Trevor, Junior Warden
Edwin A. Gumbinger, Past Master
David Mann Taylor, Past Master
Frederick E. Wilhelm, Past Master
Vermont Square ............No. 515.... Frank N. Smith, Master................................
Frank M. O'Brien, Senior Warden
Taft ······-····-········· ·-······No. 516.... Pete Gianopulos, Master............ ......................
Robert M. Evans, Senior Warden
Mount Vernon ................No. 517 .... George E. Payne, Master
Edward G. Couture, Senior Warden
Harley T. Moxley, Junior Warden
Alfred Stettler, Past Master
La Jolla ..........•.................No. 518....Louls L. Potomac, Master.....·-······················
J. W. Getsinger, Senior Warden
W . C. Roberts, Junior Warden
H. H. Ralph Aiman, P.M. and Inspector....
D. C. McDonald, Past Master
Euclid ······················-······No. 519....Cecll B. Huffine, Senior Warden.......... ..........
John D. Andrews, Past Master
Percy M. Bezanson, Past Master
Roy 0. Bowditch, Past Master
Ionic ................................ No. 520.... John S. Biren, Master......................................
Richard L. Weiss, Senior Warden
Claude Lenz. Past Master
Piedmont ···-···················No. 521....Robert P. Geyer, Master
Hans Falster, Senior Warden
Gail H. David, Past Master
Edw. H. Pitcher, Past Master
Walter F. Schag, Past Master
Sunrise ............................No. 522....L. Glenn Carroll, Master.....---·······················
Harold D. Harby, Senior Warden
William Jolley, Junior Warden
BellHower ···-·············-····No. 523.... Leon E. Denton, Master...................... ·-·······
Delmas R. Howell, J unlor Warden
Catalina Island ..............No. 524....Edward T. Rinehart, Master........................
Charles D. Ginnett, Senior Warden
William Bennett, Past Master
George Washington ......No. 525 ....Rlchard L. Whiteside, Master
John T. Buchanan, Senior Warden
Adolph H. Franzen, P.M. and Inspector
Frank E . Buehn, Past Master
Ghester M. Smith, Past Master
Bay City ··-·················· No. 526.... George Goldman, Master
Bernard F. Cohn, Senior Warden
Thos. A. Dethlefsen, Past Master
Covenant ················-······No. 527.... M. Roy Hubbell, Master-····························Walter E. Jantolek, Senior Warden
Darwin E. Van Sant, Junior Warden
Everett S. Todd, Past Master

3.74
56.98
56.98

56.98
43.58

67.70
67.70
56.98

56.98

56.98
56.98

64.79

56.98

:ame of Lodge

No. of Lod11e

Repruentativea

407
Mileage Allowed

everly Hills ..................No. 528.... Jack B. Crawford, Master.............................. 56.98
Rickey H. Scott, Senior Warden
Alexander S. Bellows, Junior Warden
Frank Harwell, Jr .. Past Grand Master........ 56.98
Joe Bookman, Past Master
C. Earle Crane, Past Master
Frederick A. Fox, Past Master
Loyalty ·······················-···No. 529.... David S. Crystal, Master.............................. 56.98
Joe Orloff, Senior Warden
Arthur Linsk, P.M. and Inspector.................. 56.98
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr., Past Grand Master.... 56.98
Lloyd P. Bass, Past Master
Marvin H. Davidson, Past Master
S
Ga
Joseph A. Visger, Past Master
un
rden ....................No. 530.... Bruce Mecartea, Senior Warden.................... 30.98
Herbert R. Hargrave, P.M. and Inspector.... 30.98
Everett L. Coyle, Past Master
Al
LeRoy Stubblefield, Past Master
exendrla ......................No. 531.. .. Alexander K. Wharton, Master
Elvis H. Brown, Senior Warden
Peter A. Rich, Junior Warden
Aaron A. Arl>ogast, Past Master
William S. Brannan, Past Master
S. Harry Hook, Past Master
Smyrna ·········-··--·····-· ·-No. 532.... Robert E. Small, Senior Warden.................. 10.14
A
Mal Rose, Junior Warden
zure ·············-··-··· ---·No. 533....Daniel D. Duff, Senior Warden.................... 58.06
lames Wm. Turk, Junior Warden
F
ayton S. Conover. Past Master
orest Hill ·················-···No. 534.... lrving M. Smith, Master
Richard N. Daniel, Senior Warden
Harold R. DeGabain, Junior Warden
James N. Rae, Past Master
Alexander Hamilton ......No. 535 .... Wallace W. Ketchum, Master...................... 56.98
Lester Chew, Senior Warden
William T. Saunders, Junior Warden
Wendell L. Goodwin, P.M. and Inspector.... 56.98
Edward J. Blickfeldt. Past Master................ 56.98
Gordon N. McHenry, Past Master
Seal Rock ········-··-··········No. 536.... George E. Nickel, Master
Charles D. Linehan, Junior Warden
Abe Balukian, Past Master
Edwin W. Bode, Sr., Past Master
Russell H. Sievers, Past Master
Otto Stewar.t, Past Master
lohn K. Wright, Past Master
Utopia ····················-···-··-No. 537.... ~h:f~s ~:~~~~s!~~~·w;;~ci~~···· ······· 56.98
Everett L. Stringer, Past Master
Ascot ······················--······No. 538....Hartsel E. Reed, Master............ ...................... 56.98
Anton J. Mestyanek, Senior Warden
Martin 0 . Veland, P.M. and Inspector........ 56.98
Vernon E. Slater, Past Master
Belvedere ........................No. 539....Charles Herbert Wood, Senior Warden...... 56.98
Robert L. Disheroon, Junior Warden
Queen Beach ··········-······No. 540.-Albert W. Lilliehoorn, Master...................... 56.98
George P. Martin, Senior Warden
Henry Morse Stephe1111..No. 541....Jaclt G. Smil!h, Master
Edwin R. Rowe, Senior Warden
Charles W. Barnett, Junior Warden
Robert H. Taylor, P.M. and Inspector
John Richmond, Past Master
Rudolf Stohler, Past Master

L

408
Name ol Lodp

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
No. of Lodge

Repreoentativ..

Mileage Allowed

North Hollywood _____ No. 542 .... Ralph V. Kellinger, Master·-·········-··-···- 56.98
Hugh E . Gregory, Senior Warden
Reginald Bunce, P.M. and Inspector............ 56.98
Joseph R. Ferro, Past Master
Clarence A. Ross, Past Master
Edward Solomon, Past Master
Signal -·············--··--·····No. 543.... C~rtCM~:!iy~P~~rM~fe~en. ............... _ 56.98
Glendale ·-···--··············No. 544.... Manuel J. Avila, Master....w·········d······-····-···-- 56.32
Harold r.. Hopper:t, Senior ar en
Kenneth L. Truex, Junior Warden
Paul R. Queen, Past Master
Arclhie D. Strayer, Past Master
d
Jonathan ····-···--·-····-·No. 545....William Tomlinson, Master
Conrad C. Hopper, Senior War en
San Gabriel ·····--·········..No. 546.... Harrison J. Williams, Senior Warden....·-··· 56.98
Lester E. Houghton, Junior Warden
Arcadia ················---No. 547....Edward C. Murfett, Master·-····················-··· 56.98
Allan H . Wilson, Senior Warden
Louis J. Humble, Past Master
56.98
Triangle ········-················No. 548.... ~h";~s~-~~d~~s8!~~;-wa";d~~········-·V1ncent D. Alianiello, Junior Warden
Justice ·-······················-·-No. 549....Ronald A. Brittain, MasterW d
Nathan B. Cooper, Senior ar en
Jahn R. Peebles, Junior Warden
Paul A. Hackler, P.M. and Inspector
William W. Barry, Past Master
Andrew Burke, Past Master
Milton F. Conklin, Past Master
William R. Cruickshank, Past Master
George D. Horn, Past Master
Thomas H . Jenkins, Past Master
Rush Manbert, Past Master
Percy V. Maury, Past Master
Seaport ·················----···No. 550....Floyd B. Scullin, MasterW d
Frank E . Ritchie, Senior ar en
Joseph M. Freeland, Junior Warden
Benjamin L. Canning, Past Master
Albert Robert Logasa, Past Master
Bertram C. von Konsky, Past Master
John Wullschleger, Past Master
d
Lakeshore ···-·····-··-··-No. 551....Roy D. Burt, Master
Edward L. Land, Senior War en
Anthony R. Manov, Junior Warden
.
Paul S. Boren, Past Master
Ernest E. Dunnagan, Past Master
George F. Ernst, Past Master
Lee Burnett Ferguson, Past Master
~ylvan H. Gyle, Past Master
Thomas M. Lewis. Past Master
Semper Vlrens ................ No. 552....S. L. DeLaughder, Senior Warden.......- ..... 39.72
R. E. Davenport, Junior Warden
Alexander Duncan, P.M. and Inspector........ 39.72
W d
Educator ·········-····-·····-No. 554....Arthur V. l"7_Y, Master
Delbert 0. Tanner, Senior ar en
Emmet L. Bundy, Past Master
Ralph M. Small, Past Master
Robert L. Smirle, Past Master
White Pine ______ __No. 555....Wesley Little, Elected Representative_____ _ 42.66

Name ol Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreoenlativa

409
Mileage Allowed

Fairfax ---···---No. 556_Mlcliael D. Rich, Master
Samuel Levin, Senior Warden
Frank B. Peebles, Junior Warden
Lynn E. Barr, Past Master
Arthur D. Darrington, Past Master
Robert A. Smallman, Pa.sit Master
Hermosa ·······--···---.....No. 557.... Frank E. Sasine, Senior Warden.................. 56.98
Paul Thompson, P.M. and Inspector.............. 56.98
Point Firmin ··-·····-·-..No• 558.... Bruce L. Wilson, Master................................ 56.98
James J. Nash, Senior Warden
Crahsmen ··-·---·······---No. 559.... Max B. Zimmerman, Master......·-················· 56.98
Gordon L. Reese, Senior Warden
Plymouth ·--··-·----~No. 560.... Nick J. Pappas, Master
George D. McDonald, Senior Warden
Morris A. Braaten, Junior Warden
Edward H. Siems, Grand Treasurer
Leon C. Babbitt, Past Master
Charles K. Baxley, Past Master
oseph J. Lagler, Past Master
ohn 0. Reynolds, Past Master
f
East San Diego ····-·-··No. 561 .... ames H. Smith, Senior Warden.................. 67.70
Granville Hardin, Junior Warden
Frank Fodor, Past Master
Harry K. Ford, Past Master
Emerson S. Leach, Past Master
Pyramid ---·······-··--No. 562 ....Warren J. Lauricella, Master
Lester F. Sutton, Senior Warden
hn R. Bleakley, Junior Warden
hn H. Brooke, Past Master
South Park ·····-----No. 563.... allace B. Zumwalt, Master........................... .56.98
Esau T. Agajanin, Senior Warden
William Bottorff, P.M. and Inspector............ 56.98
Noah T. Dickson, Past Master
No. 564....Robert A. Larson, Master
Foothill ...
Victor H. Campbell, Senior Warden
Merle E. Rossmann, Junior Warden
West Adams --·---.......No. 565.... Leland L. Berger, Jr., Senior Warden.......... 56.98
Merlyn C. Devine, Junior Warden
James A. Garfield ...- ...No. 566.... Lester C. Fairfield, Master............................ 56.98
Charles H. Collard, Junior Warden
Field Thompson, P.M. and Inspector............ 58.20
Oay Robbins, Past Master
Searohlight ---···-....No. 567.... Lewis H. Aldridge, Master....·-···-··········-··· 56.98
John F. Moore, Senior Warden
Park Boulevard _ _ ..No. 568.... Emil R. Anderson, Master
William H. Van Cleave, Junior Warden
Don E. Berry, Past Master............................ 8.40
Lloyd M. Bradford, Past Master
Edwin L. Driggs, Past Master
James E. Hammond, Past Master
Harry D. Hosac, Past Master
Willis V. McBeth, Past Master
Chateau Thierry ···-······No. 569.... C. Bruce Knott. Master
Rasmus V. Rossen, Senior Warden
Jack Silvan, Junior Warden
Howard S. Kaulbach, P .M. and Inspector
Harold D. Weber, Past Master
Military Service ·-·-No. 570.... Louis M. Susman, Master
John Kinces, Senior Warden
Louis P. GolfOB, Junior Warden
Alvin C. Gundred, Past Master
Otto F. Hansen, Past Master
Harry A. Kallberg, Past Master

W

410
Name of Lod..,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodse

llepraentativa

Milea1e Allowed

Chang Wah Lee, Past Master
Robert L. Martin, Past Master
Louis Herman Strohecker, Past Master
Francis K. Shattuck........No. 571....Lorin A. White, Junior Warden
Elbert W. Davis, Past Grand Lecturer
James Madison ··········-····No. 572.... Hennan T. Nelson, Master----····················
Wlllis W. Scott, Senior Warden
Ray Smith, P.M. and l11~ector......................
EdgarJ. Cumbey, Past Master
Hillcrest ···················-·····No. 573.... Donal F. T. Parkin. Master
Brown Zarley, Past Master
S. W. Hackett -·-·····--No. 57.f_Robert E. Wilson, Master............................. .
Harold A. Gasner, Senior Warden
Stephen A. Dodd, Junior Warden
Norman E. Hale, Past Master
Port Crook ····-················No. 575..-Jerald D. Lack, Junior Warden...................•
El Cajon Valley •........-No. 576.... Willlam R. Bled.soe, Master-·······················James A. Patrick, Senior Warden
Hugh D. Good, P.M. and Inspector............. .
Rexford L. Hall, Senior Grand Deacon........
Robert W. Nicholas, Past Master
Sunnyside ········-·····-···-No. 577.... Donald R. Coon, Master............................... .
Louis H. Mahler, P.M. and IIlllpector........... .
Herbert S. Cogar, Past Master
Wm. B. Harmon, Past Master
John A. Low, Past Master
Progreaslve ···-············-No. 578 ....George M. Sturgis, Master........................... .
Ralph E . Murphy, Junior Warden
Arthur V. Lundstrom, Past Master
Roy 0. Miller, Past Master
Warren G. Harding........ No. 579 .... Boyd M. Duncan, Master............................... .
Leslie Smith, Junior Warden
Carl W. Brainard, Past Master
Conrad E. Herrmann, Past Master
Santa Maria ....................No. 580....Raymond R. Raub, Master............................. .
Paul E. Simon, Senior Warden
Zenas Y. Coleman, Past Master
Sec:urtty ·········-·············No. 581....Lyle Lynn Stumbaugh, Master..................... .
Richard Cole Williams, Junior Warden
Leonard T. Jenkins, Past Master
Kenneth L. Morris, Past Master
Oran W. Palmer, Past Master
Norris L. Scherrer, Past Master
Kenneth Payne Sward, Past Master

Name of Lod1e

No. of Lod1e

56.98

67.70

42.32
68.80
65.60
68.80
56.98
56.98

56.98

8.40

41.08

61.94
Riako ·········-···-·--·····No. 582....t1V:oo~ c':P~[· s~:rerw;;;d~---···············
Oaude R. McFarland. Junior Warden
Wasco ..•........................•No. 583..•.John G. Hill, Senior Warden........................ 36.56
Fred. Chas. Pritschke, P.M. and Inspector... . 36.56
Harding ........................_No. 584.... Donald H. McDonald, Senior Warden.......... 56.98
Anson McArthur, P.M. and Inspector......... . 56.98
William W. Hanson. Past Master
Melvin A. Pixley, Past Master
Manchester ···········-···-No. 585....R. P. Van Fossen, Master·-··························· 56.98
John T. Morris, Senior Warden
Elmer R. Lotz, P.M. and Inspector................ 56.98
Floyd E. Fowler, Past Master
Jules E. Martinet, Past Master
Garden Grove ................No. 586....William B. Hinkle, Master............................ 58.06
Woodrow William Reyburn. Senior Warden
Ronald Tadman, Junior Warden
Walter K. Reed, P.M. and Inspector............. . 56.98

~: ~~~cl!~~.a~~~::~.................... 56.98
.Li:!1;J
Clinton C. Shaffer, Senior Warden

Carl A. Halter, P.M. and Inspector.............. 55.IO
August J. Bendler, Past Master
Wm. 0. Phegley, Past Master
Kauai ····-························No. 589 .... Henry C. Wedemeyer, Senior Warden........ 372.19
Hector McD. Moir, P.M. and Inspector........ 372.19
Sau Yee Chang, Past Master
Compass ·--·--·-·······--No. 590....Wallace E. Lewis, Master.............................. 60.26
Norman V. Unroe, Senior Warden
Donald P. Heyman, Junior Warden
Philip S. Hunt, P.M. and Inspector................ 60.26
Escalon ··------·-···__No. 591....Not represented
Tujunga ---····-·---No. 592._.H. W. Weygandt, Jr., Master...................... 56.32
Ed B. Plummer, Senior Warden
Wm. H. Woodhead, Junior Warden
All States ······-----No. 593...JCJrby C. Serles. Master-············-········· ······ 56.98
William C. Bennett, Senior Warden
Henry A. Field, Junior Warden
Lawrence John McEldowney, Past Master
Service ···············-·-·--No. 594....George L. Richards, Master.......................... 56.98
George M. Hystad, Senior Warden
Britton Miller, Junior Warden
Charles J. Wentz, P.M. and Inspector.......... 56.98
Ralph P. Rutherford, Past Master
Alexander Graham Bell..No. 595.... Dean Soles, Senior Warden........................... .. 56.98
Guardtan --

71.00

Milea1e Allo...,d

Valley P~e --·-·---No. 587.... Burton L. Thompson, Master..·-·-·······-·······- 56.98
Charles E . Senft, Senior Warden
Harold L. German, Past Master
El Sereno ··----··-············No. 588...

56.98

Repreoentativea

411

No. 596-..~:a~H~M~e~~;;;·w;,:;d;~·-··········· 56.98

Pearl Harbor ·······-·········No. 598....Prancls Stilipec, SeniOl' Warden.................... 338.19
Lea Arnold, Junior Grand Steward................ 338.19
Carmelita - - - - -...No. 599....Alford Sundin, Malter.·-···············-················ 58.20
William G. M<iin. Senior Warden
Kermit A. Jacobson, Past Master
Lynwood ·····--·-··---·····No. 600....Milton E. Ammann, Master............................ 56.98
Henry L. Palmer, Senior Warden
Robert C. Eulberg, Junior Warden
John D. Keen, Past Master
Gi1bert P. Garbutt, Past Master
Grizzly -···-····-····-·-···-No. 601....Louis C. De Armond, Elected
Representative ·-·············-···························· 36.70
Melrose -···-····--·--No. 602.. _G. Earle Outram, Master................................ 56.98
Kenneth Buford, Senior Warden
George H. Himes, Junior Warden
Noble E. Cates, Past Master
Dimond -···-----····--No. 603....Emest A. Winge, Junior Warden
Lawrence C. Basker, Past Master
William H. Little, Past Master
James J. Torrison. Past Master
Jubilee -··---·····-No. 604....Carlos B. Benson, Junior Warden.................. 58.06
Glassett Park ____ _No. 605....James C. Hok, Senior Warden........................ 56.98
Frank W. Johnson, P.M. and Inspector........ 56.98
T. Nelli, Senior Warden.................... 58.06
George
..•.
607
Sojourner -···········-·········No.
John F. Anderson, Junior Warden
Granada -··---···-····No. 608....Gus A. Hart, Master........................................ 56.98
Calvin D. Yegge, Senior Warden
James E. Wellet, Junior Warden

412
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Repreaentatlvea

Mileage Allowed

Provident ---··--··-No. 609....F. Lee Lurty, Master......·-··-·············-···-·····- 8.40
H. Louis Hall, Senior Warden
Herman L. Pede, Junior Warden
Leslie E. Wood, Past Grand Master.............. 8.40
N ed E. Ubben, Past Master
Elmhurst -----·-··No. 610....Earl L. Kinder, Senior Warden
Reynolds'D. Car.penter, Junior Warden
Canoga ·-··········-··-·········No. 611....Henry H. Looysen, Master... _..........-............. 56.98
Donald W. Ross, Senior Warden
Carroll Davis, Past Master
Chas. 0. Fling, Past Master
Wm. P. Forbes, Jr., Past Master
Norris A. Reavis, Past Master
Temple Ctty -······-·-·····No. 612....Mark E. Schrock, Master................................ 56.98
Oscar F. Watson, Senior Warden
David B. Mason, Junior Warden
Rupert C. Curtis, Past Master
Three Pillars -·····-····-···No. 613.... Floyd L. Baker, Master.......- ......................... _ 8.40
Harold J. Suhr, Senior Warden
Melvin A. Buth, Junior Warden
Frank P. Lemen, P.M. and Inspector..... _..__ 8.40
Sam Lovell, P.M. and Inspector.................... 8.40
George F. Packard, Past Master
Larchmont .....- ...............No. 614....Robert A. Simon, Master................................ 56.98
Fred A. Chworows~, Junior Warden
Newcomb Condee, ast Master...................... 56.98
James W. Young, Past Master
Hemet -··--.....................No. 615....Edward J. Long, Master.................................. 67.42
Homer L. Trueblood. Senior Warden
James S. Whitener, Junior Warden
Hubert J. Raymond, P.M. and Inspector...... 66.22
R. E. Dolley ....................No. 616....Andrew B. Bearse, Senior Warden................ 56.98
Frank 0. Brostrom, Past Master
Frank W. Upham, Past Master
Big Bear --·-···-·--No. 617.. _Fred A. Butts, Senior Warden..-................ 64.64
H. Orval Warren, Junior Warden
Earl Moore Vigus, P.M. and Inspector........ 64.64
L. P. Boyle, Past Master
Southland --..········-..- ... No. 618....HReri:iert C. Duenckel, Master.......................... 56.98
obert W. Dutton, Past Master
Willlam F. Gallin, Past Master
Neptune -··--··--·····-No. 619....John R. Lewark, Master.................................. 56.98
Ketth W. Randall, Senior Warden
Robert G. Fraser, Past Master
Point Loma -·----No. 620....0tis N. Presley, Master____,,_,, .....- ...·- 67.70
Howard S. Fisher, Senior Warden
John H. Kerr, Junior Warden
Franklin A. Plank, Past Master
Harold K. Rankin, Past Master
Cecil J. Rogers, Past Master
The Gardens -···-·-·····-·No. 621....~~d ~W=:;. ~=:w~<l~~................. 56.98
Edwin M. Lauricella, Junior Warden
Floyd S. Vandegrift, Past Master
Atwater ....·-··•·-··-·..-·No. 622....Gilbert H. Peterson, Master............................ 56.98
Richard H. Dutwiler, Senior Warden
Charles F. Chapman, P.M. and Inspector.... 56.98
Frederick H. Chapman, Past Master
~i 1~\!i:~-:;n:P~st~!~~~~.......................... 56 '98

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreeentativea

413
Mileage Allowed

Menorah --······-··-..No. 623..J:lugh S. Doddridge, Master..- ..................... __ 56.98
Arthur Zeavin, Senior Warden
Albert I. Miller, Past Master
Fortitude --··-·····--No. 624.... James B. Barbero, Master
Alfred Schwartz, Senior Warden
Thomas E. H. Love, Junior Warden
Alfred L. Costa, Past Master
Ralph M. Webb, Past Master
Russell G. Worith, Past Master
Angeles Mesa ................No. 625.... Donald M. Coleman, Master.......-................. 56.98
George E. Millhollin, Senior Warden
Robert F. Miller, Junior Warden
George C. Culuris, Past Master
Gordon Duncan, Past Master
Walter R. Gentry, Past Master
Alvie 0. Holton, Past Master
Harold 0. Larsen, Past Master
E. Glenn Wilson, Past Master
Chula Vista -··-·---···-No. 626....Clarence B. Hart, Senior Warden.............-... 67.70
Raymond R. Padces, Junior Warden
Laman.da Park ____No. 627....Lincoln Ellabarger, Master.... _ ...........- ...··- 58.20
Paul H. Lowe, Senior Warden
Truth - ..-··--···-····-·-No. 628....Wynn N. Bryce, Senior Warden.................... 56.98
Robert S. Wayne, Junior Warden
Fairview __..................No. 629....Glenn E. Pomeroy, Jr., Master...................... 56.98
Herman George, Senior Warden
Ben L. Irwin. Past Master
Harold C. Mudgett, Past Master
Ingleside -···-···-·"·····-No. 630.... Joseph F. Garriott, Master
George_W. Gardner, Senior Warden
John W. Davy, Junior Warden
Henry C. Clausen, Judge Advocate
Lloyd E. Wilson, Grand Secretary
Raymond W. Blosser, Past Master
Benevolence ....................No. 631....Maurice J. Norton, Senior Warden................ 56.98
Ralph A. Anderson, Junior Warden
Buford E. Rhodes, Past Master
Paul D. Tarr, Past Master
Normal Heights ...._._ ....No. 632.... Wililam W. Johnstone, Senior Warden........ 67.70
George A. Troutman, Junior Warden
Winfield S. McLees, P.M. and Inspector...... 67.70
Ben T. Salmon. Past Master
Poinsettia ___ ......- ......No. 633....Harold D. Minster, Master..-....................... 49.78
Alfred L. Cook, Senior Warden
Thomas E. Jordan, Junior Warden
Guy S. Harts, Sr.. P.M. and lnspeotor.......... 49.78
Louis C. Drapeau, Past Grand Master.....-- 48.24
E. D. Cooper, Past Master
Clifford C. Fouhse, Past Master
Conley L. LaForce, Past Master
Arthur T. Mead, Past Master
Roy W. Williams, Past Master
Victorville _ _..___ _No. 634....William T. Boehringer, Master...................... 65.74
Lewis Ambrosier, Senior Warden
Willard F. Cameron. Past Master
Riverside ___ .....__No. 635....Alfred M. James, Senior Warden..._......- ... 62.40
Clarence M. Briggs, Junior Warden
Gordon F. Black, Past Master
Charles H. Grace, Past Master
John Marshall .-..········-·No. 636....Ruthven E. Ogilvie, Master............................ 56.98
Robert S. Rober, Senior Warden
Robert A. Crigler, Past Master
Atwill Morgan, Past Master....................-... 56.98

414
Name of Lodae

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodae

Repreaentativea

Mileaae Allowed

Palisades ·················-···· ·No. 637....Peter F. Lanes. Master..·-······························· 56.98
Cecil A. Weihe, Senior Warden
Demorest S. Wemple, Past Master
Indian Rock ....................No. 638.... Frederick John Artus, Master
Martin Eugene Ekstrand, Senior Warden
William Hugh Benson, Junior Warden
Frederick Tyler Herrick. Past Master
David E. Lane, Past Master
Composite ...................... No. 639 ....Arthur Oritz, Master........................................ 56.98
Morris Ratner, Senior Warden
Ben J. Soskln, Junior Warden
Arthur Dvorin, Past Master
Veritas ............................No. 640....Vance A. Boyer, Master
Looog G. Fong, Junior Warden
Irving J. Kohnke, Past Master
Oscar W. Norman, Past Master
James A. Foshay ······---No. 64 I....Geoffrey D. Morgan-Browne, Master............ 56.98
Fred C. Leeming, Senior Warden
William V. Stevenson, Junior Warden
La Cumbre ...•..................No. 642.

.J~i~F':'a°cl
tli~ slfa~~~~-~~~~~---········ ..····· 47.20
H. Lionel Savinon,

Senior Warden
Oiarles L. Howard, Junior Warden
Jess Shegog, Past Master
Alta Loma ...................... No. 643....Carl C. Oster, Master.................................... 56.98
Paul E. Carlyle, Senior Warden
Lomita ·······················- ···No. 644....

~ufi~:iJ~?~!~
ir~n.Wa~':::~~~----··--------------- 56.98
Lowell E. Shelhart, Junior Warden

A. F. E. Irwin ·-·············No. 645 ....Ivar Thoren, Senior Warden.......................... 56.98
Delbert L. Michaels, Junior Warden
Earl J. Walker, P.M. and Inspector.............. 56.98
Warren W . Garrison, Jr., Past Master
Metropolitan -················No. 646....Gordon T. Nicklin, Master............ .................. 56.98
Jesse G. Flaherty, Senior Warden
Kenneth H. Downs, Past Master
Frank Everett, Past Master
Howard W. Lange, Past Master
Hawthorne ······-··-··-······No. 647•._Udell H. Wocxls, Master................................ 56.98
Ebert A. Jackson, Senior Warden
Paige R. Bradley, Junior Warden
John A. Owen, P.M. and Inspector................ 56.98
William J. Rosenberg, Past Master
James C. White, Past Master
Lester G. Williams, Past Master
Damascus ··········-············No. 648 ....C. Edgar Cleghorn, Senior Warden.............. 61.94
Joseph L. Ousley, P.M. and Inspector............ 61.94
Neil M. Ousley, Past Master
Herbert W. Robbins, Past Master
Harry E. Wainwright, Past Master
Florence ·····--···-······ ·No. 649 ....William W. Sheue, Master............................ 56.98
Frederic C. Harris, Senior Warden
Kenneth Perkins, Junior Warden
Fred W. Waitman, P.M. and Inspector........ 56.98
Woodrow C. Cavanaugh, Past Master
Ralph Merrill, Past Master
La Brea --··---·····- No. 650 .... Frank S. Beautrow, Master............................ 56.98
George W. Burch III. Senior Warden
William L. Funck, Junior Warden
George W. Burch, Jr., Past Master................ 56.98
Francis C. Ford, Past Master
Walter E. Robertson, Past Master
John W. Swank. Past Master

Name of Lodae

No. of Lodae

Repreaentatlvea

415
Mileaae Allowed

Menlo Park ·······-···········No. 651....Albert F. Koula, Master................................ 2.82
Russell J. Braasch, Senior Warden................ 2.46
Donald D. Pitman, Junior Warden
David Wright, Grand Tiler
Royal Hodge, Past Master
Crescenta Valley ..........No. 652....James L. Lenarth, Master............. ................... 56.98
J. Weldon Cade, Senior Warden
Walter Wayman, Junior Warden
lames R. Young, Junior Grand Deacon........ 56.98
Fontana .................•......•.No. 653....William M. Riches, Master............................ 58.06
Omar C. Kermode, Senior Warden
Ross W . Gesler. Past Master
Jordan ..........................._.No. 654....Lewls T. Tedford, Master............................ 56.98
Donald V. Marengo, Senior Warden
Grandon C. Curtis, Junior Warden
Monte Vista .................. No. 655....Delmar C. Woizeski, Master........................ 56.98
Harold Y. Stamp, Senior Warden
Citro! ·----·-··-- No. 656.... Malcolm B. McQueen, Senior Warden........ 58.06
Phil Campbell, Junior Warden
John D. Spreckels .......... No. 657....Charles M. Brcxlerick, Master........................ 67.70
Clifford A. Hansen, Senior Warden
William R. Adams, Junior Warden
Horace H. Blair, Past Master
John T . Martin, Past Master
Livingston ···············-·····No. 658 ....Frank J. Medo, Senior Warden.................... 11.82
La Habra .....................•_No. 659....Calvln J. Rainey, Senior Warden................ 58.06
Riley L. Blurton, P.M. and Inspector............ 56.98
Bert Q. Minoso, Junior Warden
Baldwin Park ·····-··········No. 6(,(1..•• William A. Sawyer, Senior Warden............ 56.98
Julius T. Selmon, Junior Warden
Fred Leland Ferguson, Sr., P.M. and
Inspector ············-·······························...········ 56.98
Marion Mell, Past Master
Malta -··-···········-··········No. 661....J. T. Cappell, Senior Warden........................ 56.98
Lawrence W . Jaques. Past Master
Henry Knox ................ ~ ..No. 662....Harry B. Keeling, Master................................ 56.98
Herman 0. Schloibohm. Senior Warden
Willard M. Huyck, Junior Warden
S. Roy Howell, Past Master
Paul R. Nichols, Past Master
Ojai ..................................No. 663 ....Donald R. Miller, Junioc Warden................ 49.90
Frank E. Stevens, Past Master
Kaweah ...................... _No. 665....Bob Lewis, Jr., Senior Warden.................... 36.14
Reseda ............................No. 666....Frank J. Homer, Master...... _....................... 56.98
Robert T. Capansky, Senior Warden
Frank S. Barnard, Past Master
Robert F. Ward, Past Master
Meridian ·······················-·No• 667....Hemy R. Trenka, Master--··························· 56.32
Christian Bjerre, Senior Warden
Ray J. Peterson, Junior Warden
Frank W. Raddatz, P.M. and Inspector........ 56.32
John R. Moore, Past Grand Master................ 56.98
John Swan, Past Master
San Gorgonio ·····-······... No. 668....Lloyd J. Goodman. Master............................ 65.22
Jack R. Washburn, Senior Warden
John P. Jarman ..............No. 669....Rodney V. Gupton, Maater............................ 4.54
Luther Brannon, Senior Warden
Richard H. Johnson, Juniat Warden
Hebert Pritchard, Past Master
Clair B. Sheets, Past Master
Creed Triplett, Past Master

416
Name of Lodi•

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Rep~ntativu

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allowed

Greenleaf ••.................._No. 670...Donald C. Muller, Master..·-················-·····Kenneth E. Turner, Senior Warden
Gorman V. Rhea, Junior Warden
Hugh M. Topping, P.M. and Inspector........
San Oemente ................_No. 671....David H. Blakelock, Elected Representative
Laguna Beaoh .............-..No. 672_Charles E. Logan, Master..·-··-·····-··········-···
Robert P. Kellogg, Senior Warden
W. Ben Sorrells, Assistant Grand Lecturer..
Far West -···········-····-··No. 673....S. Myron Tatarian, Master
Francis A. Gates, Senior Warden
Albert A. Baker, Jr., Junior Warden
Charles L. Foster, P.M. and Inspector
N. Walter Anderson, Past Master
Robert Van Heekeren, Past Master
William C. Kunz, Past Master
Rowland E. Mason, Past Master
Cecil M. Prior, Past Master
Albert S. Sandell, Past Master
Los Cerritos ....................No. 674....Jay A. Robinson, Senior Warden.............____
Joseph Solomon, Junior Warden
Samuel E. Leddel, Past Master
Arthur J. Sissons, Past Master
Modesto -···················---No. 675....Shelby 0. Reeves, Senior Warden. .........·-···
Calvin L. Heim, Junior Warden
Frank C. Shaw, Past Master
Willow Glen ·····-····-··..No. 676....James A. Minor, Master..............·-········-·······
Charles R. Carpenter, Senior Warden
James M. Johnson, Junior Warden
Almer W. Laederich, Sr., Past Master
Harold S. Medo, Past Master
Thornton D. Webster, Past Master
Liberal Arts ···········-·······No. 677....John F. Porter, Master.........·-························
Wm. A. Fishback, Senior Warden
Shirley 0. Packard. Junior Warden
Frank H. Reinsch, Past Master
Altadena ·············-·······--No. 678....S. Clinton Pullen, Master.·-···-··-···················
Donald D. Pope, Senior Warden
Vernon C. Tripp, Junior Warden
A. H. Hazard, Past Master
Verner A. Jacobson, Past Master
Canby Cross ·-··········-···No. 679.... Not represented
Carmel -··-············----No. 680..-8. H. Roberts, Master.....•....................·-·····John E. Flatley, Senior Warden
Norman F. Fontes, Junior Warden
Ralph Thompson, Sr., Past Master
Dos Palos ···············-·-···No. 681....Kenneth B. Haslam, Master....·-···········-·······
Edwin M. Boehm, Senior Warden
Barstow ··-············---No. 682...James E. Keener, Jr., Senior Warden..·-·······
Robert P. Higgins, Junior Warden
Redwood Empire -···-···No. 683....Harrison B. Shellnut, Senior Warden.......___
Trona -····-················-No. 684.. _Pat Rooney, Junior Warden...........................•
!-ynn Allen Blackman, P.M. and Inspector
Hardin Lineback, Past Master
San Marino ...............••.-No. 685._Stephen J. Collins, Master......·-·-······-·-·-·Attilio G. Parisi, Senior Warden
Roland D. Glunt, Junior Warden
Albany --···--··········-..No. 686.... Harold D. Chester, Senior Warden
Vista --·············-·_No. 687•...James K. Bartee, Senior Warden......·-··-··-Lewis H. Field, P.M. and Inspector---·······-·Andrew H. Chung, Past Master

58.38
58.38
60.48

58.74
58.74

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodie

9.66

4.54

56.98

58.20

13.52

13.40
50.50
31.32
52.98
52.98
58.20

64.20
64.20

Qileage Allowed

Oildale .......................... _No. 688....LeRoy Ernest Halbert, Sr., Master................ 41.08
Robert Lee Lane, Senior Warden
Hugh E. Manes, Junior Warden
Fred Carlton Epperson, Past Master
Pohona .......................•....No. 689....Not represented
San Carlos ...................... No. 690....Ridiard E. Robinson. Master
Anchor Neilsen, Senior Warden
John Timmins, Junior Warden
E. Ross Baylis, P.M. and Inspector
Forrest R. Hassell, Past Master
Indian Wells Valley:..... No. 691....Albert W. Adams, Master..............·-··········· 51.28
Travelers ················-······No. 692.

56.98

Repre1entativu

417

..J~~~
~: ~~;~~~'J=~~:.~~~-~~~---·················
Harold Hamblen, Senior Warden

8.40

Meryl R. Irey, Junior Warden
Harry D. Brainard, Past Master
Palm Springs .................. No. 693....W. Bronstein, Master..·-································· 66.62
Hiram 0. Gordon, Senior Warden
Thor C. Frederickson, Junior Warden
Frederick A. Morrison, Past Master
San Antonio .................... No. 694....Ross E. FuUbright, Master............................ 56.98
Carl W. King, Senior Warden
Meudell ·-·························No. 695 ....George W. Uhler, Master................................ 41.08
Wilton Sims, Senior Warden
Glen 0. Carroll, Junior Warden
James Tyack, Past Master
Crossroads ·················-·No. 696....Edward A. Buckley, Senior Warden............ 57.70
Walter A. Pizinger, Junior Warden
F. S. Firkins, Past Master
E. F. Sheffield, Past Master
Saint Elmo ......................No. 697.... Bruce T. Lawrence, Master
William McCosh, Senior Warden
Harry E. Chinn, Junior Warden
Edmond 0. Burger, Past Master
Robert H. Burrows, Past Master
Erwin P. Oberlander, Past Master
James S. Pursley, Past Master
William D. Stephens ....No. 698.... Elmer P. Bromley, Master............................ 56.98
William W. Hamilton, Past Master
Vierling. Kersey, Past Master......................_ 56.98
Bixby Knolls ..................No. 699.... Henry H. Rawlings, Master.....·--··················· 56.98
Ronald A. Sherod, Senior Warden
Herbert Lee Ghase, Past Master
Ponderosa ......................No. 700....Charles A. Richardson, Senior Warden...-... 30.98
~lyde A. Hall, Junior Warden
Santa Ynez Valley ·····-·No. 701....Walter I. Long, Elected Representative........ 49.40
Rosemead -···················-·No. 702....L. Robert Knaus, Senior Warden.................... 56.98
Grover C. Wall, P.M. and Inspector..·-······· 56.98
Westchester ....................No. 703.... Robert A. Millhouse, Sr., Master....•·-········ 56.98
Walter W. Hawk, Senior Warden
Stokes D. Hughes, Junior Warden
ames L. Miles, P.M. and Inspector........·-··· 56.98
. Fred Davidson, Past Master
Warren J. Dowell, Past Master
Orinda -··························No. 704.... Edgar W. Slusser, Master
Mal'tin J. Lewis, Past Master
El Cerrito ·················---·No. 705.... Charles E. Waters. Master
Lennard J. Carter, Senior Warden
Hunters Point Naval ....No. 706.... Alfred R. Zeller, Master
Edward J. Ruffin, Senior Warden
Charles R. Shour, Junior Warden
Lake Tahoe -·····-··----No. 707.... J. Blaine Wines, Jr., Master........................ 34.06
Donald L. Oarke, Senior Warden

J

418

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

Name of Lod11e

No. of Lod11e

Repreaentatlvea

419

MOea11e Allowed

Seafaring ···········-·········-No. 708 .... J. V. Antista, Master........ ..................... ....... 58.06
Harry L. Hilliard, Senior Warden
Oscar A. Hulstrom, Junior Warden
Emerson W. Hill, Past Master
Lorenzo ·-··-··················No. 709.... Cecil L. Biggs, Master
Edward C. Will, P.M. and Inspector
Linford W . Hunter, Past Master
John Walter Morrison, Junior Warden
Anacapa ..........................No. 710.... 0scar Samuel Winter, Senior Warden........ 50.72
John Walter Morrison, Junior Warden
Lewis A. Pugh, P.M. and Inspector.............. 50.72
Rim of the World .......... No. 71 !....James S. Hunter, Senior Warden................ 63.64
Edward H. Kammer, Junior Warden
Los Altos ..................•....•No. 712.... Raymond W . Bente, Master............................ 2.94
Neil A. De Dontney, Senior Warden
Edgar F. Thorsen, Junior Warden
Castro Valley ---····-·-No . 713.... Ralph E. Shulenberger, Master
George E. Patterson, l'.{lor Warden
Blue Lakes ···················-·No. 714 .... Martin R. Sorensen, aster
Wilbur L. Roberts, Senior Warden
Donald E. Forster, Junior Warden
Gordon E. Robinson, P.M. and Inspector
Clinton P. Colliander, Past Master
Magnolia Park ·-·····--····No. 715.... Wilcken L. Byram, Junior Warden................ 56.98
Belmont Shore ·····-·········No. 716.... Edward H. Lakin, Master.............................. 56.98
J. Eugene Fulkerson, Senior Warden
Ben C. Lewis, Junior Warden
Francis H. Gentry, Past Master
Wayfarer ·····-···············..No. 717.... George Brewer, Master............................. ....... 58.38
San Lorenzo Valley ......No. 718....William K. Makela, Senior Warden............ 8.H
Harry L. Worley, Past Master
Estero -·····-···-· ---·No. 719 .... Fergus K. Smith, Senior Warden................ 35.50
Mineral King ···········-····No. 720.... John R. Hoehn. Master.................................. _ 35.04
Donald H. Mullin, Senior Warden
Home ··-···················-·····No. 721.... Ahraham J. Marks, Master............................ 56.98
Marvin Shapiro, Senior Warden
Seymour E. Glick, Junior Warden
George E. Tutt .............. No. 722 .... Almer W. Laederich, Jr., Master.................... 5.34
Elwood H. Becker, Jr., Senior Warden
Thomas E. Daugherty, Past Master
Lawrence E. Hendricks, Past Master
Acalanes ..........................No. 723....Robert M. Seay, Master..................................
1.70
John E. Kennett, Senior Warden
B. H. Burnett. Past Master
San Ramon Valley ........ No. 724....Robert A. Shipley, Master.............................. 2.20
Harold D. Beckham, Senior Warden
Duane W. Spencer, Junior Warden
Saint Johns ...................... No. 725.... Russell E. Henderson, Master........................
1.90
Maitin H. Quinn, Past Master
Yucaipa ···-····················No. 726....Jack H. Webster, Senior Warden.................. 63.18
Verdugo Hills -···-···-···No . 727._Willis N. Hunt, Master---·· ·-·-···············- 56.32
Kenneth Barrette, Senior Warden
Ariel C. Harris, Past Master
Philip B. Stone, Past Master..·-················- - 56.98
Lake'WOOCI ······-···············No. 728.... Alfred L. Gray, Master........ ............................ 56.98
James L. WMtlow, Senior Warden
Wm. Vernon Richardson, Junior Warden
Floyd 0. Mason, P.M. and Inspector............ 56.98
Kennet!h L. Hemphill, Past Master................ 56.98
Centennial •.....................No. 729.... ~!=o~d ~~~':k'. ~~!\v;·;d~~-··---·--····· 56.98

Name of Lodae

No. of Lodge

Representativea

Milea11e Allowed

Polaris -·-··············----No. 730....William C. Neuffer, Jr., Master.................... 8.40
Jack D. Reimer, Senior Warden
Cdward E. Seagle, Junior Warden
Two Rivers ...............•.._No. 731.... Emest Read, Senior Warden........................ 56.98
Bob Roberts, Junior Warden
San Juan -···············-·---No. 732 .... Clarence Richard Grant, Senior Warden......
8.40
Gordon A. Nielsen, Junior Warden
Norman L. Langness, Past Master
Golden Empire ..............No. 733.... Gwinn R. Anderson, Master.......................... 8.40
Henry S. Hansen, Senior Warden
Marvin 0. Olson, Junior Warden
Wm. A. Tice, Past Master
Robert K. Titus, Past Master
Kit Carson ······-···-·········No, 734....Delwin K. Barber, Master................................ 8.40
Joseph Parisi, Senior Warden
William A. L. Long, Junior Warden
Samuel A. Hudson, Past Master
Oasis of Mara -··············No. 735.... Kenneth A. Van Tassell, Junior Warden...... 69.12
Lemon Grove -··-············No. 736... John R. Gregory, Master................................ 68.40
Robert F. Housh, Senior Warden
Chester T. Hobbs. Junior Warden
William E. Rife, Past Master
Hillsborough ··········--···No. 737.... Alfred Powell Cassidy, Master
Fred F. Livingston, Senior Warden
Arvin --·····----···· ···--·No. 738 ...

l:J~~~Ls~~i
JJ:• li:tC:r~~~-~~-·-················· 42.78
Orestes Righellis, Senior

Warden
Harold J. Krauter, Junior Warden
La Canada -····-··········- ·No. 739....Thomas I. Smith, Jr .. Senior Warden............ 56.98
Ralph W. Collins, Assisant Grand Lecturer 56.98
Opportunity ·----······-···N o. 740.... Harold A. Zillman, Master............................ 56.98
Tyre ------········-----·······-No.

74t....lv~e
r~.RR~1;Je~~v;;~~~~-~- --··················· 56.98
Harold R. Beckett, Senior

Warden
Robert A. Millhouse, Jr .. Junior Warden
Stanley H. Millers, Past Master
Morningside Park .......... No. 742..•. Keith A. Luther, Senior Warden....................
Giles T. Chisni, Junior Warden
Albert E. Linde, Past Master
Oakwood ·····--······-··-·····No. 743....Lee H. Behymer, Master................................
A. Smith Rhodes, Senior Warden
William B. Neeley, Past Master....................
San Leandro .................. No. 744.... Kenneth G. Avery, Master
Edward Evans, Senior Warden
William F. Butler, Junior Warden
Peninsula ........................ No. 745.... Kenneth W. Buckley, Master
Theodore A. Lukas, Senior Warden
Jack B. Johnson, Junior Warden
Westley P. Jones, Past Master
Soquel -····--······--·····-·······No. 746.... Ellis Frank Aver, Master................................
Alvin W. Wendt, Past Master
Claude H. Morrison ......No. 747.... James P. Ginn, Muter......................................
Highland ........................No. 748.... Chester C. Hamilton, Master..........................
Ridg~ej' A. K. Bond, Senior Warden
Guy W. Whelchel, Past Master
Merced ---······-······ --···No. 749.... Vernon T. Fike, Senior Warden....................
William A Jensen, Past Master
Mother ColQlly ··········--·No. 750.... Albert E. Day, M8'tef'...... _...........................
Hamilton ........................No. 751....~Kf. in~1::,S-e!!~sw~~d~~---···············
R.ooert W. Bussman, Junior Warden
William T. Miazga, Past Master

56.98
56.98
56.32

7.34
67.70
61.94
25.82
58.06
1.80

420
Name ol Lodae

PROCEEDING S OF THE
No. of Lodae

R.epreaentativea

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allowed

Robert C. Remley, Past Master
P. D. Sprague, Past Master
Luther Burbank ·-······-··No. 752.... Paul G. Henry, Master...---·························-···
Orio E. Winkler, Senior Warden
Charles E. Dix, Junior Warden
Stanley K. Coates, P.M. and Inspector........
Charles B. Wight, P.M. and Inspector•.........
L. Melvin Hall, Past Master
753 Harold G. Albright, Master............................
Lawndale
-···-·······-·-·····No•
····Morris A. Hooper, Senior Warden
San Pablo -····-···-···-···N o. 754 .... B. B. Buerkens, Senior WaWrdend
Everett L. Durkee, Junior ar en
Claude D. Harris, Past Master
Golden Bowl -···-···-···.No. 755....Norval F. Carter, Senior Warden...........- ..
Cyril F. Whitesell, Junior Warden
Otto J. Christensen, Past Master
Clayton Valley _____ No. 756.... Alfred Pimental, Master................................. .
Everett L. Burks, Senior Warden
E.G. Walter Dubbs, Junior Warden
Granville Adams, Past Master
Channel
No 757 ... Robert A. Morris, Master................................
-··-····-··-·-· - •
· Wm. E. Chandler, Senior Warden
West Covina --··-···No. 758..-Louis 0. Mason, Senior Warden....................
Keith A. Howe, Junior Warden
o 759 .. Allen P. Thomason, Master............................
El Rancho
N
-····-·············· •
·· Tboralf Thorsen, Senior Warden
760 Wyatt H. Dunlap, Jr., Master......................
Lakeside
No.
···-·-··--········· ·
····Guy G. Fears, Senior Warden
George A. Allan, Junior Warden
Josiah W. Roller _______No. 761....Thomas J. McWilliam, Master........................
Oswe T. Lund, Senior Warden
Joseph W. Doucette, Junior Warden
Thelo A. Perrotrt:, Past Master
Warren P. Todd, Past Master
John J. Williams, Past Master
Coastside -········-··--N o. 762 .... Clarence W. Howell, Senior Warden
Arabic ________ __No. 763....

4.86
4.86
4.86
56.98

56.98

2.10

7.94
56.98
58.38
68.80
2.94

~:'~h
~=~YiJa!:~~-~~-~~~---················ 56.98
John L. Sadd, Senior Warden

Hen.tage -····-··-···-····- No 764 Paul A. Basting, Master..................................
· •
····Wilfred A. Brown, Senior Warden
John D. Bowman, Past Master
Dana R. Weller ···········-·No. 765.... Kam C. Akana, Senior Warden....................
Philip F. Lucas, Past Master
Harold C. McLendon, Past Master
James H. Kew ·-··-··-·-No. 766-0scar E. Hill, Master......·-·····························
J. Gordon Bowers, Senior Warden........·-···
Frederick C. Cratz, Junior Warden
William Robusch, P.M and Inspector........
Wm. Rhodes Hervey .. _No. 767•.-Raymond Wm. Phebus. Master......·-···········
Don C. Seare, Senior Warden
George W. Feasell, Junior Warden
Earl A. Gray, Past Master
Wm. Rhodes Hervey, Jr., Past Master
Alfred J. Navin, Past Master
Zenit!h ______•...No. 768-.George P. Reno, Master-----·-· ·-···········-·Enos J. Walker, Senior Warden
Palmdale -···-·-·······-·N o. 769....Robert Donovan Rietzke, Master...·--···········
Straud McBride, Jr., Senior Warden
Robert M. Hesselgrave, Junior Warden
Sanford J. Robertson, Jr., Past Master.........•
Lake Chabot ______No. 770.... Not represented

56.98

56.98
56.98
56.98
56.98
56.98

56.98
50.44
50.44

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Reptt1entatlvea

421
Mileage Allowed

Mission Bay -····-····-No . 771._James L. Rogers, Master.....----·-······-·•-- ··· 67.70
Hugh T. Dismuke, Senior Warden
Argyll L. Torbert, Junior Warden
Avenal --------.N o. 772.... Gordon M. Cameron, Elected
Representative .............................................. 35.88
Tejon -··········--··- -··No. 773.... George Chris Poloynis, Master...................... 41.08
Paul Leonard Temple, Senior Warden
Herman Silas Little, Junior Warden
H. Guy Walford, Past Master
Waikiki ·-··-··-··-···-· No. 774.... Kenneth Leland Look, Senior Warden.......... 338.19
Ahoon Hugh Wong, Past Master
San Diegulto --····-······No. 775._Dudley F. Black, Jr.. Master............................ 64.20
East Whittier -···--····-···No. 776_..Joseph C. Freeland, Master·-·-····· ······-······ 58.38
Peter J. Florio, Senior Warden
Russell W. Spencer, Junior Warden
Elmer A. Bentley, Past Master
Richard M. Lustig, Past Master
Pinnacle -·····-··-········ -No. 777.... William M. Head, Master................................ 13.06
O. V. Sawyer, Senior Warden
La Mirada ---····-·-··N o. 778.... Burns H. Hamlett, Master................................ 58.06
Richard L. Riemer, Senior Warden
James B. Baker, Grand Standard Bearer........ 58.06
Five Points -·-······--N o. 779._Gordon Jacobson, Senior Warden. ............... 56.98
Kenneth Roy Niles, Junior Warden
Gauss Loper, Past Master
Riviera
..No. 780.... F. Mike Hopwood, Master.............................. 56.98
Mark R. Throssel, Senior Warden
ck B. Patterson, Junior Warden
ohn A. Jackson, Past Master
honias J. McKimson, Past Master
Byron S. Warner, Past Master
Rolling Hills _______No. 781....Arnold E. Higgins. Senior Warden........--- 56.98
Donnell L. Lowe, Junior Warden
Silverado -·-···-·-··-····N o. 782.... Cecil James Ballard, Master............................ 3.26
Charles P. Bazemore, Senior Warden
Otto W. Lindke, Junior Warden
Romayne H. Bantz, Past Master
Mojave ________.No. 783....Julius Levitt, Master....·-·---······ -··-- 47.48
George W. Bennett. Senior Warden
Leland Stanford .•..........No. 784.... Charles Arment, Senior Warden.·-···· ···-··- 28.64
Chester W. Kimball, Junior Warden
William F. George, Past Master
Paramount --····--····N o. 785.. _Henry E. Wathen, Master...·-·-········-··-·· - 56.98
William Leon Derr, Senior Warden
Burley W. Green, Junior Warden
Rio Linda -··-··-·-··--·N o. 786.... Walter V. Womack, Senior Warden...__ _ 8.40
Westminster -··-···········No. 787....Tommy Cook, Senior Warden..........·-··········· 58.06
Floyd L. Hunter, Junior Warden
Sierra ---·--·-·--· -No. 788.... Not represented
Oak Plains -···-·-·······-·N o. 789....William C. Green, Master..........·-···········-··· 8.40
Walter D. Driver, Senior Warden
Wallace E. Peterson, Past Master
James K. Wilson, Past Master
Granada Hills ···········-···No. 790.... Harry C. Daum, Senior Warden.......... ____ 55.10
LeRoy W. Schlaegel, Past Master
Gen. Henry H. Arnold. ... No. 791....Clyde B. Tyler. Master..·-··-·············-······-··· 31.68
Jack DeMaris, Senior Warden
Robert E. Hedblom, Junior Warden
Albert E. Taylor, Past Master
Millbrae -···-·-·········-· No. 792.... Robert C. Olscm, Senior Warden
James W. Bateman. Junior Warden

~

422

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

Maya ..............................No. 793....Aurelio E. Gallegos, Master............................ 56.98
Pedro A. Salazar, Junior Warden
Mt. Wilson ....................No. 794.... Alfred W. Talley, Master.................... :......... 58.20
Henry M. Welch, Senior Warden
Lawrence C. Lamb, Junior Warden
T. Wm. Heidner, P.M. and Inspector............ 58.20
American River ·····-·······No. 795_..Robert E. Green, Master................................ 10.28
Walter E. Moller, Past Master
Golden VaMey ................No. 796.... Raymond N. Ousley, Master.......................... 61.94
H. Frank Puthoff, Senior Warden
Tila Pass ........................No. 797....Leo J. Wilson. Master.................................... 56.98
Milton M. Loeserman, Senior Warden
H. Walter Robbins, Junior Warden
Ashland ...........................•No. 798.... Harold E. Short, Master
Merle J. Fisher, Senior Warden
Edward D. Fernandes, Junior Warden
Bay Claire Vista ............ No. 799....Thomas F. McAleer, Jr., Master.................... 67.70
Henry R. Price, Senior Warden
F. Ross Davis, Junior Warden
Rio Hondo _.................... No. 800....Elie Mario Amiel, Master.·-··-· ··········-··-··- -· 56.98
Sammie Conard Phipps, Senior Warden
Koolau ·····-····················.No. 801.... Not reyresented
Yucca Valley ...................... U. D .....Louis L. Cunningham, Elected
Representative .............................................. 67 .22
Total ·······-···················-····-······················-$35,475.12

.ei.

....
N

UST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES
With Membership, Charter Dates, Fees, Dues, Degrees conferred, Per Capita Payments, Contributions.
Column titled "G. L. Per Capita" includes $2.25 for Grand Lodge plus $1.00 for Masonic Homes, and Degree Fees.
Column titled "Members Contributions" includes Homes Contribution of $25.00, G. W. Memorial Contribution of $1.00 and California
Memorial Temple Contribution of $9.00.
Statistics apply to the year ending June 30, A. L. 5960.
For location of Lodges see Alphabetical List of Lodges page 462.
Charter
Issued

Degree

Alli!.

G.L.

Fees

Dues

lnit.

Passed

Raised

Per Capita

Members
Contrib.

Endow.
Contrib.

100
100
100
75
75
75
75
125
50
75
50
100
75
125
125
175
100
78
50
50
75
125
100
50
50
140
50

20.00
20.00
10.00

18
15
15
18
12
18
12
18
16
12
12
15
12
12
15
15
18
15
15
16
12
12
15
12
15
20
12

5
6
23
6
6
6

541
565
177
246
370
117
53
814
927
418
643
328
201
61
280
162
574
116
89
1069
263

1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1851
1851
1851
1851
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1854

5
7
25
9
9
3
10
7
3
6
4
2
3
15
24
1
5
6
2
4
8
14
9
2
3
15
5

6
10
20
7
8
6
10
9
2
3
7
2
2
15
24
2
8
4
2
3
9
12
10
1
2
12
3

1556.25
679.75
2797.75
811.00
923.50
1502.25
1784.50
1801.00
577.00
821.00
1200.75
379.25
184.25
2705.00
3119.00
1360.75
2084.75
1072.50
643.75
222.25
923.50
585.00
1887.00
372.00
279.25
3520.75
855.50

175.00
235.00
830.00
260.00
210.00
210.00
445.00
245.00
140.00
200.00
235.00
70.00
35.00
560.00
855.00
105.00
165.00
105.00
35.00
175.00
295.00
455.00
280.00
35.00
105.00
840.00
245.00

1495.00
156.00
2767.00
637.00
119.00
333.11
1408.31
1165.50
484.17
325.50
403.00
239.00
103.00
701.50
2262.68
1636.00
1410.00
727.00
485.25
157.00
948.50
136.00
130!}.57
26.00
27.50
4084.50
435.50

574
816
425
949
117
354
228
54
120
82
288
106
677
751
96
191
951
350
91
672
375
70
122
547
100
119
242
1192
48
80
136
78
107
516
103

1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856

100
100
75
125
75
100
125
50
50
60
75
50
75
75
50
75
75
100
50
100
50
50
85
75
50
50
100
75
50
50
50

1.00
10.00

8
20
3
41
0

7
18
3

1840.50
2725.25
1380.50
3310.50
386.25
1157.00
767.25
177.50
405.50
270.50
1004.50
349.75
2250.50
2445.50
266.50
648.25
3121.00
1225.50
298.75
2268.75
1233.50
240.25
405.50
1850.75
335.25
427.50
836.00
3840.25
184.00
257.75
449.00
253.50
341.25
1731.75
353.50

250.00
805.00
175.00
1800.00
95.00
175.00
140.00
35.00
140.00
25.00
550.00
210.00
425.00
525.00

465.00
2881.75
469.85
2502.00
175.00
639.00
446.32
lO!J.00
286.00
110.00
791.18
328.00
1423.50
1500.00
184.41
408.00
2100.00
1105.25
229.50
1382.30
618.00
47.00
80.00
913.50
300.00
286.50
180.50
2789.25
15.00
221.00
282.45

No.

Members

1 California .........................• 1
2 Western Star...................• 2
3 Tehama ···················-······· 3
4 Benicia .............................• 5
5 Tuolumne ·······-······-········· 8
6 Corinthian .......................• 9
7 San Jose ···············-··········· 10
8 Yount ...............................• 12
9 Nevada .............................. 13
10 Temple .............................. 14
11 Eureka .............................. 16
12 La Parfaite Union............ 17
13 Mountain Shade .............. 18
14 San Joaquin ...................... 19
15 Washington ...................... 20
16 Hawaiian .......................... 21
17 Occidental .......................• 22
18 Madison ·····-····················· 23
19 Mariposa -························ 24
20 Georgetown ...................... 25
21 El Dorado .......................• 26
22 Trinity .............................. 27
23 Golden Gate .................... 30
24 Gold Hill ·········-··············· 32
25 Ophir ................................ 33
26 San Diego ........................ 35
27 Howard ............................ 37

485
201
824
240
275

28 Santa Cruz ·-···················- 38
29 Sacramento ·········-·········- 40
30 Martinez ···-······················· 41
31 Los Angeles ...................• 42
32 Hiram ·····-······-················· 43
33 Mount Moriah ················- 44
34 Crescent ···-··-··················· 45
35 Texas ................................ 46
36 Forbestown ·············-······· 50
37 Illinoistown ...................... 51
38 Suisun ·····-························· 55
39 Volcano .•.......................... 56
40 Santa Rosa ...................... 57
41 Union ··········-················ 58
42 Gravel Range .................. 59
43 Plumas .............................. 60
44 Live Oak ···-····················· 61
45 Natoma ............................ 64
46 Amador ............................ 65
47 Morning Star .................... 68
48 Enterprise .......................• 70
49 Bear Mountain ................ 76
50 Calaveras .......................... 78
51 Humboldt .......................... 79
52 lone .................................. 80
53 Yolo -·············-·············- 81
54 Vesper ····························- 84
55 Naval ...............................• 87
56 Rose's Bar ........................ 89
57 North Star -······················ 91
58 St. Helena ·······-··············· 93
59 Henry Oay ..................•••. 95
60 Hornitos ···-··-··················· 98
61 Yosemite .......................... 99
62 Oay --···········-·······-······.101

Lodge

46~

Fees

60
55
90
50

-2.00
5.00
5.00
6.00

-2.00
-15.00
5.00

--

10.00
10.00
25.00

--5.00
--

5.00
10.00
1.00
4.00

-1.00

-

10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
1.00
5.00

10.00

5.00
10.00

-2.50

1.00
5.00
5.00

-

5.00
3.00
10.00

-

--

10.00
5.00
5.00
1.00

--

10.00

16
15
15
15
12
15
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
16
12
15
12
15
12
15
12
18
12
16
12
12
12
12
16

16

12
15
12

11

7
4
5
6
2
1
16
23
3
4
3
1
5
6
13
8
1
3
19
7

5

23
5
50
2

5

4
1
4
1
15
6
10
15
0
3
13
11
2
17
6
5
4
12
4
5
8
16
6
3
3
0
0
19

5

5

8
0
3
0

14
4
9
12
0
8
13
13
4
14
6
1
3
16
3
9
9
17

5

2
4
0
0
11
4

40

1
3
6
0
4
1
15
4

11

16
0
6
7
20
2
13
10
2
4
15
3
8

11

20
3
2
3
0
0
12
2

-

105.00
555.00
435.00
70.00
620.00
210.00
175.00
140.00
445.00
165.00
175.00
280.00
620.00
235.00
105.00
105.00

--

690.00
175.00

"'
~

0

n

Iii
Iii

!:!

zCl

{II

0

'll
~

::i:

tu

Cl

~

zt:J

t"
0
t:J
Cl

Iii

0

'll

n

>

t::
'll

0

ll:l

z

>

353.50

43.00
577.00
246.00
.ei.
N
VI

..t..

N

No.

Members

Chatter
Issued

Degree
Fees

Affil.

Fees

Dues

I nit.

Passed

Raised

Per Capita

G. L.

Members

Endow.
Contrib.

63 Oroville ............................ 103
64 Lexington .......................... HK
65 Arcata .............................. 106
66 Pajaro ···--·······················110
67 Chico ···-·····--·- ······-·-111
68 Summit -··-····-·-··· ···--····112
69 Eden .................................. 113
70 Concord ·························-·117
71 Fidelity ·····-·-······-·········120
72 Alamo ·······-······················· 122
73 Sotoyome -·-················-··123
74 Table Mountain .............. 124
75 Lafayette ·····-···················126
76 Hermann .......................... 127
77 Visalia ······-···-·················128
78 Nicolaus ............................ 129
79 Woodbrid ge .................... 131
80 Sincerit~ ............................ 132
81 Vacavil e .......................... 134
82 Valley .............................. 135
83 Pacific ................................ 136
84 Crockett ............................ 139
85 Curtis ................................ 140
86 Grafton .............................. 141
87 Franklin ............................ 143
88 Oriental ............................ 144
89 Vitruvius .......................... 145
90 Abell .................. ................ 146
91 Eel River ················-·······147
92 Lassen .............................. 149
93 Molino ............................. .150
94 Woodland ........................ 156
95 Keystone .......................... 161
96 Harmony .......................... 164

377
647
353
419
592
64
459
388
575
465
241
292
236
178
577
112
198
98
288
95
550
502
93
111
140
338
130
366
255
240
165
308
40
29

1856
1856
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
1858
1858
1858
1858
1858
1858
1859
1859
1859
1859
1859
1860
1860
1860
1860
1860
1861
1861
1861
1861
1861
1862
1862
1863
1863
1864

65
150
75
75
90
50
105
75
100
75
75
80
75
100
75
50
50
100
75
50
100
75
50
50
75
100
50
50
50
100
50
50
50
50

5.00
1.00
1.00

15
16
15
18
15
12
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
18
15
12
12
18
15
15
16
15
12
12
25
15
15
12
12
15
15
15
16
12

8
21
9
9
13
2
11
14
17
13
7
7
2
0
6
7

9
20
7

4
19
9
8
12
3
13
9
15
13
3
9
4
1
8

1257.50
2206.50
1197.25
1386.25
1890.75
218.75
1541.50
1318.50
1931.75
1576.25
987.25
799.50
773.25
576.00
1882.00
391.50
661.00
322.50
1023.00
318.75
1738.25
1639.50
314.25
382.75
525.00
1100.00
437.25
1249.75
876.75
777.00
549.75
1049.25
134.75
94.25

280.00
860.00

625.50
1421.79
916.40
867.00
1369.00
77.50
677.20
841.00
1475.50
515.90
320.50
583.75
160.00
409.00
1224.00

97 Excelsior .......................... 166
98 Alameda ............................ 167
99 Redwood City .................. 168
100 Mission .............................. 169
101 Elk Grove ........................ 173
102 Drytown .......................... 174
103 Antioch ··-··························175
104 Phoenix ............................ 178
105 Mendocino ........................ 179
106 Petaluma .......................... 180
107 Russian River .................. 181
108 Arbuckle .......................... 182
109 Clear Lake ....................... .183
110 Sierra Valley .................. 184
111 Claiborne .......................... 185
112 Evening Star ·-···············186
113 Keith ··-·-························187
114 Oakland ···-·······················188
115 Northern Light ................ 190
116 Marin ·-··-·························191
117 Santa Barbara .................. 192
118 Ferndale .......................... 193
119 Mountain View .............. 194
120 Buckeye ·····-·····················195
121 San Simeon ...................... 196
122 Wilmingto n ...................... 198
123 Hartley -··························199
124 Truckee ............................200
125 Silveyville - ······················201
126 Pentalpha ·-·····················202
127 Confidence -····-···············.203
128 Salinas ·-····-·-··················204
129 Olivet -··-····-···················205
130 Stanislaaa ........................206
131 Anaheim -·······················207
132 Rio Vista -···-············-·····208

434
249
670
627
142
61
404
758
121
340
122
85
132
35
78
70
191
803
109
545
351
93
382
147
96
667
234
143
156
462
90
664
137
662
491
185

1864
1864
1864
1864
1865
1865
1865
1866
1866
1855
1866
1867
1867
1867
1867
1867
1868
1868
1868
1868
1868
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1870
1870
1870
1870

100
75
100
100
50
50
75
75100
80
75
50
50
50
50
50
50
75
65
100
75
50
100
75
50
125
65
90
90
100
75
105
50
75
75
100

Lodge

-

-

5.00

-

10.00
15.00

-

5.00
1.00

-

20.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

-

12.00
20.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
1.00

-

1.00
2.50
5.00

5.00
5.00
1.00
50.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

-

5.00
1.00
10.00

-

5.00

-

2.00
1.00
5.00
10.00

-

5.00
5.00

-

-

10.00
10.00
5.00
20.00

-

-

1.00

15
12
18
12
12
12
12
16
15
12
15
12
18
12
12
12
12
15
15
15
15
18
15
12
12
16
15
20
15
15
12
24
18
15
15
18

5

12
2
9
9
19
13
3
8
2
1
4

5
5

5

2

19
2
7
6
4
6
14
1

0
16
1
4

5

11
7
4
2
9
1
0

1
4
13
1
2
12
7
1
4
9
1
0

7
19
14
7

6
22
18
8

..

5

0
8
26
0
4
1
0
4
0

5
1
3
4
10

9
11
2
17
7
3
Ii

5

4
3
3
6
17
6
12
36
4

5

1
11
28
1

5

1
0
4
1
1
1
2
4
9
14
11
2
13
3
1
18
3
2
2

5

6
19
2
12
25
4

5

2
0
15
2

5

6
1
1
8
2
3
12
10
0
4
11
2
0

5

15
15
8
3
0
12

27

1
8
2
1
6
1
4
2
2
4
9
13
10
2
15
4
1
13
4
1
2

5

7
19
1
9
22
4

1388.00
918.00
2164.25
2025.25
474.50
197.00
1329.50
2518.25
381.00
1119.50
398.00
278.25
450.50
117.75
263.75
235.50
628.25
2598.00
390.75
1820.50
1162.50
314.25
1315.25
499.25
302.50
2238.25
784.50
426.75
508.00
1527.50
327.25
2261.50
460.00
2198.00
1748.75
618.75

Conuib.

~15 .00

315.00
515.00
70.00
435.00
490.00
620.00
480.00
330.00
260.00
95.00

-

210.00
245.00
175.00
120.00
690.00
70.00
295.00
235.00
165.00
235.00
490.00
60.00
140.00
385.00
245.00
140.00
70.00
340.00
35.00

-

270.00
725.00
515.00
270.00
175.00

-

280.00
910.00

-

140.00
35.00

140.00
-

175.00
35.00
105.00
140.00
350.00
365.00
385.00
70.00
595.00
245.00
155.00
590.00
175.00
140.00
130.00
130.00
235.00
645.00
210.00
420.00
1410.00
140.00

°'

'tl

"n0
"'z"'52

-

0

451.50
249.00
82.85
52.00
207.00
347.50

ti>

0

".II

'"i

:i:

"'

-

139.00
542.25
1129.50
196.50
553.50
527.50
495.00
219.50
631.00
10.25
58.00

931.50
532.50
1665.28
1321.50
465.00
187.50
731.10
1835.81
75.50
457.00
246.00
179.00
81.00
34.08
23.00
59.00
377.50
1803.00
47.00
1216.35
1061.80

-

1003.25
341.00
228.00
1198.29
181.00
1079.15
86.50
1535.32
187.00
769.00
236.80
979.75
1063.51
417.50

0

"z

>

0

t"'

0
0
0

l:1l

0

".II

n

>

c
".II

0

"z
>

..t..

N

'I

~

G.L

Members
Contrib.

Endow.
Contrib.

821.11
982.00
+45.50
564.00
1037.40
570.50
599.50
653.00
578.00
781.50
2511.57
372.25
1041.25
1309.00
860.50
1756.50
483.00
429.30
539.00
73.00
324.00
130.00
168.00
53.00
375.50
800.50
123.50
1522.50
2011.50
1112.00
1396.50
646.50
545.15
2216.12
333.00

No.

Members

Charter
Issued

Degree
Fees

Fees

Dues

lnit.

Passed

Raised

Per Capita

133 King David's ········-----------209
134 Friendship ........................210
135 San Benito ........................211
136 South San Francisco........212
137 San Buenaventura ..........2H
138 Oak Grove ...................... 215
139 Doric ................................216
140 Monterey ..........................217
Hl Mosaic ----··--·-···········-218
H2 Speranza Italiana ............219
143 Downey ............................220
144 Inyo ..................................221
145 Roseville .......................... 222
146 Bakersfield ........................224
H7 Brooklyn ..........................225
148 San Mateo ........................226
149 Athens ..............................228
150 Solano ..............................229
151 North Butte ....................230
152 Covelo .........•.................... 231
153 Jonesville ·········-·············--232
154 Calistoga ..........................233
155 Hope ................................234
156 Surprise Valley ..............235
157 Hills Ferry ......................236
158 Guadalupe ........................237
159 Colusa ..............................240
160 Santa Ana ........................241
161 Magnolia ·············-···········242
162 Eucalyptus ......................243
163 Alcatraz ............................2H
164 Laurel --···························245
165 Pomona ·················-·········246
166 Fresno ..............................247
167 Alturas ..............................248

436
746
182
232
436
567
454
306
252
247
883
162
458
789
512
634
196
562
248
77
168
132
115
71
157
199
156
578
474
538
568
257
HO
732
195

1870
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1872
1872
1872
1872
1872
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1875
1876
1876
1876
1877
1877
1877
1878
1878

100
75
50
95
100
100
100
75
75
100
125
50
75
100
75
100
50
75
75
50
75
50
50
50
50
75
50
75
100
99
75
50
115
80
65

1.00
5.00
1.00
10.00

15
12
12
15
18
18
18
20
18
12
12
18
15
18
15
18
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
18
15
15
18
15
12
15
18
18

10
H
5
4
15
10
5
17
8
3
51
3
20
19
5
22
6
8
4
6
2
6
0
0
6
17
5
11
15
15
4
10
9
22
8

10
15
5
4
12
8
4
11
9
3
41
2
19
15
8
22
5
8
6
3
3
4
1
1
5
9
7
13
H
16
7
8
13
27
12

10
23
5
2
12
5
4
10
8
4
43
2
22
H
9
21
2
8
6
3
4
5
1
1
5
5
6
14
13
15
9
5
21
24
12

1464.00
2512.25
621.50
709.00
H88.50
1846.50
1475.50
1051.00
856.00
793.50
3087.75
534.00
1607.25
2631.00
1678.75
2138.50
643.50
1842.00
838.00
258.00
560.75
449.25
377.75
225.00
529.25
702.25
543.00
1938.25
1595.25
1830.75
1801.50
878.00
1509.50
2499.00
684.75

375.00
515.00
175.00
H0.00
560.00
350.00
175.00
620.00
355.00
105.00
1945.00
105.00
700.00
690.00
200.00
920.00
210.00
280.00
190.00
210.00
70.00
210.00

168 Adln ···········-····-·····--···-250
169 Landmark -·-··-·····-253
170 Reading -----·-····--···-25f
171 Welcome ············-··········.255
172 Lodi -···············-····---·-256
173 Penrhyn ···················-······.258
174 Evergreen ........................259
175 King Solomon"s ................260
176 Tuscan ..............................261
177 Lompoc ............................262
178 Hesperian ........................264
179 Orland -----------···············---265
180 North East ...................... 266
181 Galt ..................................267
182 Durant ..............................268
183 Olive Branch ..................269
184 Snow Mountain ..............271
185 Pasadena ..........................272
186 Anchor ..............................273
187 Arroyo ·-···························274
188 Oakdale ............................275
189 Selma -·····························277
190 Southern California ......278
191 Hanford ............................279
192 Madera .............................. 280
193 Mount Shasta .................. 281
194 Calayomi .......................... 282
195 South West ......................283
196 San Miguel ...................... 285
197 Paso Robles ......................286
198 Winnedumah ··········-------287
199 Maxwell ............................288
200 Elsinore ............................289
201 East Gate .......................... 290
202 Santa Paula ......................291
203 Los Gatos ........................292
204 Orange Grove ..................293

103
111
278
206
402
H6
748
437
98
213
405
156
58
92
HO
318
43
550
630
178
214

1878
1879
1879
1879
1879
1880
1880
1880
1880
1881
1882
1882
1882
1883
1883
1883
1884
1884
1884
1884
1884
1885
1885
1885
1885
1886
1887
1887
1887
1887
1887
1888
1888
1888
1888
1888
1889

50
50
90
90
50
50
75
115
50
75
75
50
50
50
80
75
75
115
125
65
75
80
75
100
50
90
50
105
50
75
100
75
75
75
50
75
75

2.00
1.00
5.00

12
16
12
18
12
12
18
18
12
12
12
15
12
12
15
15
12
15
20
15
12
15
12
18
15
12
12
16
12
15
18
12
18
12
18
18
18

0

0
0
10
4

2

332.25
358.25
946.00
687.75
1294.50
452.00
2567.25
1410.50
309.00
767.75
1342.25
526.75
178.75
307.25
HH.75
1068.25
145.75
1802.25
2125.25
605.25
711.25
800.75
1437.75
797.25
909.25
511.25
227.75
2011.50
273.75
1059.50
843.00
227.75
482.00
2253.75
1423.25
1339.25
1129.50

25.00
35.00
490.00
245.00
260.00
70.00
1255.00
235.00
35.00
515.00
340.00
210.00

Lodge

240

454
236
275
156
69
579
77
304
253
67
14-4
703
418
393
333

Alli!.

-

1.00
10.00

---

5.00
10.00

--10.00
-

-

1.00
5.00
10.00
1.00
10.00

-

10.00
1.00

-

-

10.00
5.00

-3.00

1.00

3.00
1.00
2.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

1.00
-

-6.00

1.00
12.00

3.00
-

5.00
1.00
10.00
3.00

--

10.00

-1.00

1
13

7
6

2
33

6

1
14
9
6
0
3
2
8
2
10
18
5
4
3
6
6
5
2
1
22
5
12
4
1
1
7
10

H

10

7

2
27
4
2
13
9
5
0
3
3
6
1
7
16
5
5
4
2

1
8
3
7
1
26

3
2

3

H
8
7
0
3
2
5
0
5
13
5
7
5
4
7
2
2
2
28
6
H
4
1
3

13
H
12

11
16
13

7

4
3
2
23
4
13
4
3

5

5

-

-----'

210.00
595.00
175.00
410.00
575.00
525.00
215.00
375.00
340.00
805.00
280.00

-

130.00
95.00
280.00
70.00
350.00
680.00
175.00
165.00
105.00
210.00
210.00
175.00
70.00
35.00
795.00
175.00
470.00
165.00
35.00
35.00
245.00
450.00
615.00
375.00

258.00
208.35
941.50
196.10
813.00
27.00
1931.59
1120.75
196.00
459.25
3996.50
141.50
23.00
195.00
1415.50
477.50
88.00
1921.38
1874.03
258.50
185.00
506.00
1495.39
248.00
622.75
152.50
8.00
1228.37
184.00
652.75
507.03
74.00
151.50
2325.75
843.96
974.25
688.73

N
00

'ti

:a
0

(")

tJl
tJl

0

z

Cl

tll

0

'11

'"I

:i:

tJl

Cl

:a

>
z
0

t"'

0

2
tJl
0

'11
(")

>
t"'
;
0

:a

z

>

~

N

\0

G.L.

Fees

Fees

Dues

Init.

Passed

Raised

Per Capita

Members
Conuib.

Endow.
Contrib.

Members

Charter
Issued

Degree

No.

205 Traver ··-·························-294
206 Mt. Jaclcson ......................295
207 Silver Gate ......................296
208 Dunsmuir -······················297
209 Liberty ······-······················299
210 Redlands ..........................300
211 Ontario ····-······················301
212 Santa Lucia ····-················302
213 Porterville ........................303
214 Reedley .............................lot
215 Azusa ·-····-·······················305
216 Ashlar ..............................306
217 Santa Monica ..................307
218 Monrovia ......•...................308
219 Delano ·······-··-···········--····309
220 Sisson ................................310
221 Los Banos ·-···············--····312
222 Tehachali ··-·-·················313
223 T emesca ..........................314
224 Norwalk ..........................315
225 Sanger ..............................316
226 Fallbrook ..........................317
227 Emmanuel ........................318
228 Hollenbeck ........................319
229 South Gate ......................320
230 Alisal ................................321
231 Alhambra ..........................322
232 Whittier ..............................323
233 Corona ..............................324
234 Consuelo -···-···················325
235 Needles ·······-········--····-···326
236 Long Beach .......................327
237 Redondo ............................328
238 Vallee de France ............329
239 Kilauea ..............................330

143
110
1285
267
367
503
523
170
511
168
342
342
393
334
246
116
153
205
286
409
343
164
93
828
542
178
632
817
438
338
352
622
721
128
196

1889
1889
1889
1889
1890
1890
1890
1890
1890
1891
1891
1891
1891
1891
1892
1892
1892
1892
1893
1893
1893
1893
1893
1894
1894
1894
1894
1895
1895
1895
1896
1896
1897
1897
1897

80
50
150
50
75
75
75
75
50
75
115
55
125
100
100
50
75
75
75
100
75
75
50
100
100
75
100
100
115
90
75
125
125
100
125

1.00
5.00

15
18
15
15
12
15
12
15
15
15
16
15
15
18
18
12
18
18
15
12
12
15
12
15
18
12
18
16
15
15
16
16
16
15
15

3
4
12
5
15
13
21
5
11
1
4
10
4
16
3
1
5
4
6
28
6
5
1
6
7
1
21
15
7
12
8

1
4
17
5
15
18
17
6
10
5
6
10
7
14
3
3
5
4
8
26
6
6
1
7
4
2
24
12
6
10
10
15
35
0
3

1
2
20
5
12
15
16
8
14
5
6
12
6
3
3
6
4
5
24
9
6
2
8
4
5
14
20
9
9
6
13
28
1
3

465.00
374.25
4258.00
875.00
1263.75
391.00
1778.50
590.50
1717.75
561.50
1114.25
1152.75
1291.75
1148.00
768.75
1700.75
522.75
651.25
948.00
1482.00
1156.75
560.50
297.25
2632.25
1710.25
584.75
2159.00
2687.50
1412.25
1134.50
1169.25
2086.50
2533.00
400.50
640.75

105.00
140.00
570.00
200.00
575.00
555.00
810.00
175.00
385.00
35.00
140.00
375.00
190.00
610.00
105.00
35.00
175.00
165.00
320.00
1080.00
210.00
200.00
35.00
235.00
245.00
60.00
810.00
550.00
295.00
520.00
280.00
610.00
1600.00
70.00
190.00

107.00
219.50
2798.00
634.50
896.00
1644.85
1057.00
342.00
1137.50
128.00
783.06
299.82
1200.66
848.00
605.00
128.25
186.00
588.50
610.75
827.51
485.50
37.00
190.00
2156.38
1714.75
356.00
1270.00
1809.06
1086.41
861.70
4.00
1878.70
1517.09
335.50
664.00

240 Pacific Grove ..................331
241 San Pedro ........................332
242 Alta -········-····--···.. ·-····--..333
243 Covina ..............................334
244 West Gate ·---············-···335
245 Fruitvale ····-----·-···········336
246 Carquinez --·····················337
247 San Jacinto ··········-·····-···338
248 Fullerton -··········-·····--..339
249 Oxnard ·-·--··················-341
250 San Fernando .................. 343
251 Starr King ........................34-+
252 Brentwood ........................345
253 Palo Alto ··-·········-···········346
254 McKinley ..........................347
255 San Bernardino ..............348
256 SeJuoia ............................349
257 Pa estine ··-···············--····-351
258 Sunset ..............................352
259 Pinole ................................353
260 Presidio ............................354
261 Hollywood ........................355
262 Mill Valley ......................356
263 Buena Park ......................357
264 Golden State ..................358
265 Loyalton ..........................359
266 San Francisco .................. 360
267 Fort Bragg ........................ 361
268 Charity ............................ 362
269 Berkeley ............................363
270 Willits ..............................365
271 Las Palmas ...................... 366
272 South Pasadena ..............367
273 Unity ................................368
274 Ocean Park ......................369
275 Amity ................................370

295
500
134
482
1224
807
195
120
392
451
731
516
!49
760
490
926
991
502
334
183
456
1256
448
320
669
98
274
159
181
614
159
1064
619
607
531
387

1897
1897
1897
1898
1899
1899
1899
1899
1900
1901
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1903
1903
1903
1904
1903
1903
1903
1903
1904
1904
1904
1904
1904
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905

75
125
53
115
215
100
75
50
75
100
125
100
65
100
75
75
100
100
100
75
100
125
100
100
125
50
100
75
100
75
75
80
115
100
115
100

15
24
12
15
18
18
12
15
12
18
15
15
15
12
15
15
18
18
15
15
18
15
18
15
18
12
18
24
18
12
18
15
16
15
15
18

5
21
9
30
18
15
3
4
8
12
32
14
5
23
11
22
9
10
7
6
6
22
13
25
3
0
11
8
2
8
8
30
9
12

5
19
4
28
20
12
3
2
8
13
29
7
4
18
12
32
11
7
9
6
5
25
14
15
4
0
6
7
5
12
7
28
10
13
13
10

5
18
5
26
32
9
1
2
9
19
28
6
2
18
10
31
12
4
12
7
5
20
15
16
3
0
7
7
5
12
6
30
8
11
10
10

975.75
1643.50
465.00
1685.75
3994.50
2652.50
631.50
399.50
1320.75
1534.25
2531.00
1675.75
496.50
2568.50
1648.75
3166.50
3219.75
1654.00
1128.50
580.75
1494.50
4095.75
1507.50
1103.25
2155.25
308.75
906.00
560.75
596.00
2001.00
552.25
3569.00
2052.75
2038.25
1758.00
1306.75

225.00
785.00
315.00
1150.00
780.00
575.00
140.00
165.00
340.00
470.00
1195.00
515.00
175.00
915.00
435.00
905.00
365.00
350.00
245.00
210.00
210.00
980.00
480.00
935.00
155.00

512.13
1045.37
315.00
28.80
2797.50
1679.00
416.00
255.75
815.78
586.50
1800.52
1180.00
529.50
2369.00
567.75
1991.19
2545.20
1027.54
1047.90
223.86
794.50
2867.75
990.00
669.60
1540.40
76.00
726.00
238.50
448.50
552.00
5.00
2164.30
1328.89
1889.05
1375.91
801.00

Lodge

ABil.

------

-----

--

15.00

--

-2.00

--

1.00
2.00

--5.00
5.00

--

25.00

--

--

---

--

1.00
25.00

-12.00
--

-

25.00
5.00

-

25.00
5.00

-

10.00

-

10.00

-

5.00

-

10.00
1.00
10.00

-

20.00
15.00

-

10.00

-

5.00

-

5.00
1.00
5.00
10.00

-

-

1.00

11

40

1
4

11
11

11

-

385.00
280.00
70.00
340.00
280.00
1085.00
365.00
570.00
385.00
410.00

w
"""
0

'"Cl
~

0

n

t'1

l:'1

0

2
0

en
0

'"11

...,

:::i:

l:'1

0

~

>
z
0

t"'

0

g
t'1

0

'"11

n

c>'"11

0

~

z

>

w
"""

~

Members

Charter
Issued

Degree
Fees

Aflil.

No.

Fees

Dues

lnit.

Passed

Raised

G.L.
Per Capita

Members
Conuib.

Endow.
Contrib.

276 Le Progres de L'Oceanle 371
277 Gardena ............................372
278 West Los Angeles _________ 373
279 Jewel ..................................374
280 Richmond ........................375
281 Francis Drake ..................376
282 Artesia ..............................377
283 Mizpah ............................378
284 Fillmore ............................379
285 Huntington Beach ..........380
286 Oceanside ......._...............381
287 Highland Park ................382
288 Orosi ................................383
289 El Centro ..........................384
290 Dinuba ..............................385
291 Coalinga ..........................387
292 Parnassus ........................388
293 Palos Verdes ,_.................389
294 Imperial __ ,,......................390
295 East Belt ..........................391
296 West Lake ........................392
297 Balder ................................393
298 University ........................394
299 Turlock ,_.........................395
300 Apollo ..............................396
301 Rising Light ......................397
302 Fraternity __..................399
303 Burlingame ......................400
304 Bay View ....................-.401
305 Brawley ---··----------------402
306 Y erba Buena ....................403
307 Glendora ..........................404
308 Moneta ..............................405
309 Burbank ............................406
310 La Mesa ............................407

700
494
495
200
462
440
243
386
245
336
512
598
151
523
294
394
721
678
150
117
794
495
538
424
453
1024
432
676
675
243
902
256
588
850
638

1905
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1909
1909
1900
1909
1909
1909
1910

175
125
125
100
100
100
115
100
100
75
75
100
65
125
75
100
100
125
75
50
100
100
100
75
75
100
100
100
75
75
100
110
105
125
125

10.00
5.00
15.00
10.00

15
16
17
12
12
18
15
12
15
15
15
15
20
18
12
15
15
15
12
15
15
15
18
15
16
12
15
18
14
15
18
12
12
18
12

12
27
8
8
10
12
10
3
4
9
24
12
2
9
7
9
10
22
7
3
12
7
7
9
8
18
9
11
13
7
11
19
6
23
21

10
29
9
5
11
17
9
4
5
10
18
8
1
13
5
9
9
20
8
3
10
8
5
10
8
17
8
11
14
7
14
21
3
17
19

12
28
15
4
6
16
8
4
3
13
17
7
3
16
5
11
10
23
9
5
7
13
5
13
10
14
7
12
18
5
14
15
4
18
15

2359.25
1737.75
1656.50
684.00
1539.25
1490.75
837.25
1257.00
820.25
1133.25
1765.75
1978.00
496.25
1756.25
966.75
1332.00
2355.75
2297.75
529.00
395.75
2596.25
1658.25
1730.50
1399.75
1488.50
3367.50
1442.25
2203.25
2277.25
818.00
2990.00
942.00
1901.25
2859.00
2170.50

445.00
970.00
280.00
280.00
385.00
445.00
350.00
105.00
175.00
315.00
915.00
445.00
70.00
390.00
245.00
390.00
385.00
920.00
270.00
105.00
420.00
295.00
245.00
315.00
280.00
655.00
315.00
435.00
455.00
245.00
485.00
665.00
235.00
905.00
785.00

1452.50
1132.42
1512.12
178.00
748.00
923.00
657.00
1863.58
712.75
267.62
1101.00
1231.18
326.60
1745.64
252.00
884.22
1469.75
743.00
219.00
242.00
2212.17
1004.00
1164.46
851.00
1102.25
2110.50
726.00
1577.00
469.07
778.00
2147.00
512.63
1673.00
2297.50
1473.68

311 Sierra Madre - .................408
312 Honolulu ..........................409
313 Charter Rock ....................410
314 Perris ................................411
315 Calexico .......................- ..412
316 Arlington ..........................414
317 Silver Trowel ..................415
318 Lindsay ............................416
319 Clovis ..............................417
320 Elysian ..............................418
321 Upland ..............................419
322 Kerman ............................420
323 Inglewood ........................421
324 Eagle Rock ......................422
325 York ..................................423
326 Exeter ..............................424
327 Holtville ............................425
328 Midway ............................426
329 Chino Valley ..................427
330 San Dimas ........................428
331 Pittsburg ..........................429
332 McCloud ..........................430
333 Alpha ................................431
334 Hammonton ......................433
335 Maricopa ..........................434
336 Fairmount ........................435
337 Claremont ........................436
338 Lancaster ..........................437
339 Tyrian ..............................439
340 Standard· ...........- ............440
341 Coronado ..........................441
342 Blackmer ----------------------+t2
343 Schofield ............................+t3
344 Carpinteria ......................444
345 Wilshire - ......................+45

196
411
290
161
145
329
421
222
548
436
281
147
774
523
356
234
156
488
206
169
348
107
524
101
202
433
167
541
220
359
408
1207
319
128
503

1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1911
1911
1911
1911
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914

75
175
75
50
50
75
125
50
80
120
75
75
125
100
100
50
75
50
65
55
75
50
75
50
50
100
75
115
75
75
100
150

15
15
15
18
18
18
15
18
15
16
15
12
15
15
15
15
12
18
16
15
16
15
15
12
15
18
15
15
12
20
15
15
15
16
15

4
11
5
4
3
4
8
7
25
14
7
3
21
14
7
3
4
8
12
3
6
2
9
9
2
6
15
31
5
9
8
16
8
2
7

3
7
4
2
2
3
10
4
17
15

2
6
4
3
4
5
11
3
20
14
14
5
24
14
5
5
4
9
16
3
4
2
13
6
5
5
4
45
7
9
7
19
10
2
7

655.00
1361.00
952.25
538.00
486.00
1047.75
1387.25
743.00
1843.25
1473.75
967.50
497.75
2639.75
1743.25
1170.25
774.75
531.00
1594.50
747.00
557.50
1149.25
358.50
1748.25
368.50
668.75
1410.00
585.00
1989.00
739.25
1212.25
1372.75
3979.50
1079.00
415.00
1636.50

140.00
410.00
200.00
165.00
105.00
140.00
365.00
245.00
875.00
515.00
245.00
105.00
785.00
515.00
270.00
105.00
165.00
315.00
420.00
130.00
210.00
70.00
375.00
315.00
70.00
210.00
625.00
1135.00
175.00
340.00
330.00
670.00
280.00
70.00
320.00

538.44
1086.50
782.50
169.00
123.50
717.52
1347.38
33.00
1542.50
3005.00
620.24
307.50
3932.65
1342.32
238.00
476.50
325.00
839.18
20650
444.91
329.24
230.50
1439.70
154.00
457.26
969.30
217.50
1580.24
142.00
491.72
830.00
3015.63
645.25
397.00
2669.04

Lodge

HO

50
125

-

5.00

-

25.00
1.00

-

-

10.00
____.

-

5.00
50.00
20.00
10.00

-

1.00

-

5.00

-

5.00
25.00
25.00

-

5.00
3.00

-

10.00
5.00
3.00
5.00

-

10.00

-

50.00
3.00

-

25.00

-

-

1.00

-

-

-

5.00

-

25.00

11

2
22
10
6
4
4
10
14
3
4
3
12
10
4
5
7
41
5
8
10
21
8
2
8

Vl
N

'tl

:a
0

n

l:'.!l
l:'.!l

g

z

Cl

en

0
'l1
...j

:::i:

l:'.!l

Cl

:a

z0>
I:"'

0
0

Cl

l:'.!l
0
'l1

n

>
I:"'
:;;
0

:a

z

>

~

Vl
Vl

Lodge

No.

Members

346 La Puente ........................446
347 Torrance ..........................+t7
348 Mount Dtablo ..................+t8
349 Park ..................................449
350 Van Nufts ........................450
351 Montebe o ......................451
352 San Pasqual ....................452
353 Bethlehem ........................453
354 Crocker ·················-····-···454
355 Golden West. ....................455
356 Ramona ............................457
357 Henrb S. Orme ................458
358 River ank ........................459
359 Mount Oso ......................460
360 Argonaut ......................... .461
361 Paul Revere ......................462
362 Morgan Hill ·····-······-····463
363 Alta Vista ........................464
364 Center ···················-···········465
365 Libertas ·····················-·····466
366 Culver City ......................467
367 Rockridle ·······-··········-···468
368 Yorba inda ....................469
369 Lincoln ..............................470
370 Delta -······························471
371 Maul ................................. .472
372 Blythe ............................. .473
373 Victory ............................474
374 America ........................... .475
375 Coachella ........................476
376 Temblor ··········--···············477
377 Thousand Oaks ..............478
378 Golden Rule -··-····- ····479
379 Fellowship ·······- ··-··········480
380 Mt. Davidson ············-- ··481

232
562
445
434
1151
724

381 Clarence F. Smith ..........482
382 Bell ·····-······················-·····483
383 Albert Pike ......................48-t
384 Chowchilla ......................485
385 Caledonia ·······-···············486
386 Vallejo ......•............•..........487
387 Patterson ......................... .488
388 East Bay ..........................489
389 Corcoran ..........................490
390 Woodstock ......................491
391 Garvanza ..........................492
392 Atascadero ......................493
393 Acom ·-- ······-·········494
394 Lebanon ·-········-···- ··········495
395 Fremont ·······················- ···497
396 Stockton ..........................498
397 Capital City ....................499
398 Roosevelt ..........................500
399 Westwood ........................501
400 Harbor ·············-··············.502
401 Point ..................................503
402 Seaside .............................504
403 Silver Cord ....................505
404 Mount Olive ....................506
405 El Segundo ......................507

354
811
247
179
542
394
162
345
141
433
335
145
667
433

~ lffJl:m~--fi~~-·:::==:::m

408 Cupertino ......................... .510
409 Sunnyvale ....................... .511
410 Palms ................................512
411 Cahuenga ........................513
412 Argonne ............................514
413 Vermont Square ..............515
414 Taft ..................................516
415 Mount Vernon ................517
416 La lolla ............................518
417 Euc id ............................... .519

577

234
423
560
542
624
151
361
387
611
163
245

557

729
442
459
183
340
511
213
168
252
462
243
152
531
701
300
385

530

195
647
216
273
607
333
559
549
962
497
97
343
228
414
520

559

352
491
318
218
349
388

Oiarter
15.'ued

1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1915
1915
1915
1915
1915
1915
1916
1916
1916
1916
1916
1916
1917
1917
1917
1918
1918
1918
1918
1919
1919
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920

1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922

Degree
Fees

75

110

75

100
125
100
115
100

75
75

100
125

75

80
115
100

75
75

Alli!.
Fees

1.00

-

10.00
10.00
10.00

-

10.00
10.00
12.00

-

6.00
10.00
10.00
1.00
10.00

-

80
100
100
115
50
100
100
85

10.00

100

5.00
25.00

75

75
75

50

75
75
75

100

75
100
100

75

100

75
75
75
75
75
75
75

BO
100
100
80
100
100
85

75
75

125

75

125
100
50
100

75

115
125
100
100
100
50
80
115
100

-

-

5.00
-

1.00
10.00

10.00
-

10.00
5.00
10.00

1.00
10.00
10.00

-

10.00
15.00
10.00

-

1.00
25.00

5.00
10.00
-

5.00
5.00
15.00

10.00
-

Dues

Init.

Passed

Raised

Per Capita

G.L.

Members

Conuib.

Conuib.

12
15
16
15
15
16
15
18
12
12
18
15
15
18
18
12
15
18
15
15
15
18
15
18
15
16
15
18
15
15
15
18
12
15
18

14
22
21
6
27
18
15
3
10
6
18
7
7
9
3
11

10
24
15
4
24
19
13
3
8

13
25
14
6
27
19
11

828.00
1945.75
1533.25
1423.00
3796.00
2432.50
1933.75
769.50
1399.50
1834.50
1856.25
2060.00
513.75
1218.00
1266.00
2031.75
836.25
1824.00
2480.25
1536.50
1487.50
601.00
1127.75
1722.25
704.25
573.50
833.25
1545.50
804.00
501.75
1729.50
2375.00
997.00
1288.75

515.00
820.00
785.00
210.00
1095.00
655.00
575.00
130.00
350.00
210.00
665.00
245.00
245.00
340.00
105.00
410.00
225.00
375.00
200.00
735.00
630.00
210.00
120.00
350.00
490.00
85.00
305.00
245.00
175.00
105.00
105.00
365.00
765.00
105.00
140.00

223.00
1435.64
1361.50
641.00
2530.92
1653.58
2132.53
425.50
890.50
2627.00
1338.97
1628.62
177.75
750.00
804.72
1943.50
304.00
2.00
1229.49
1112.25
1170.79
550.50
389.91
1111.80
1035.25
487.50
306.00
236.82
1575.98
637.01
310.50
1163.50
1805.00
618.67
1179.50

1184.00
2735.00
832.75
576.00
1844.75
1338.50
566.00
1137.50
504.25
1442.25
1097.75
478.50
2183.25
1447.50
1762.00
644.00
2198.25
708.00
906.00
2035.75
1143.75
1864.50
1880.25
3180.25
1698.75
320.75
1119.75
795.00
1481.50
1737.00
1831.25
1142.25
1597.75
1039.25
720.00
1165.75
1293.00

260.00
735.00
105.00
35.00
890.00
315.00
315.00
140.00
280.00
490.00
155.00
400.00
205.00
245.00
410.00
70.00
735.00
35.00
130.00
375.00
350.00
350.00
810.00
705.00
575.00
105.00
105.00
385.00
750.00
355.00
500.00
35.00
175.00
175.00
210.00
225.00
245.00

900.00
2050.46
537.26
182.50
818.95
473.00
388.50
284.50
201.00
366.50
676.42
460.83
882.50
870.00
1214.36
320.00
1437.50
491.00
597.10
2471.10
728.25
1711.00
1362.49
1861.50
1131.16
212.00
805.00
317.50
537.00
2093.96
1724.25
332.00
1009.07
1002.00
445.50
413.50
849.42

20
15
15
12
18
12
18
15
15
16
15
16
15
18
16
18
15
15
12
15
15
15
15
16
15
15
18
15
18
18
15
15
15
16
18
15
15

5

9

5

21
18
6
2
9
14
1
8
7

5

3
3
8
19
2
4

6
21
3
1
24
9
9
4
8
14
3
10
3
7
11
2
21
1
3
10
10
10
16
18
15
3
3
11
20
8
10
1

5
5
6

5

7

5

27
10
6
8
3
13
7

5

6
21
18

5

3
9
10
2
6
3
9
4
4
6
14
4
8

7
27

5

1
15
10
7

5

8
14
4
3
2
7
7
4
21
1
4
12
11
11
16
13
12
2
2
10
27
10
10
1
5
3
3
7
10

5

9
6
17
12

5

7
3
12
6
6
4
20
14
8
3
8
10
3
3
2
8

5
5

9
17

5

10

7
26
7
0
14
10

7
4
7
9
4
2
6

11

5

4
22
1
4
16
13
11
16
17
18
1
4
6
21
12
10
2
4
3
0
7
12

559.25

Endow.

~

VJ

~

"'

)ti

0

n

ti!

!ti

0

z
C'l

en

0

'11

..;

:i::

!ti

C'l

)ti

>

z

0

t"'

0
0
C'l

!ti

0

'11

n
>
t:
'11

0

)ti

z

>

~

VJ
U1

Aflil.

Fees

Dues

lnit.

Pa"ed

Raised

G.L.

No.

Charter
Issued

Degree

Members

Per Capira

Members
Conuib.

Endow.
Conuib.

418 Ionic --··········-················520
419 Piedmont ·······-·-··-····---521
420 Sunrise --··········-··········- --522
421 BellHower ..........................523
422 Catalina Island ................524
423 George Washington ....... .525
424 Bay City _______________ .526

1127
244
307
640
150
453
431
284
581
621
556
179
191
353
203
298
202
667
357
201
192
330
1070
547
814
201
568
610
346
403
226
268
339
398
104

1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923

215
80
100
175
100
100
100
100
125
150
80
75
70
75
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
75
125
100
100
100
125
100
115
100
100
100
50
80
55

25.00
5.00

18
18
15
15
15
15
18
18
15
18
15
18
15
12
18
20
18
16
15
15
15
12
15
15
15
18
15
15
15
18
18
18
18
15
12

42
3
4
18
3
3
9
0
10
24
11

49
1
2
25
2
2
12
0
11
23
11

35
1
6
32
2
3
12
0
14
29
10

3908.25
793.25
1012.00
2223.50
501.50
1478.50
1457.00
913.25
1948.50
2157.25
1864.50
620.50
711.50
1249.25
675.75
994.25
669.25
2158.25
1180.50
710.75
633.75
1070.25
3608.25
1860.75
2717.50
658.75
1943.00
2126.50
1184.00
1382.75
748.50
872.00
1168.50
1345.75
353.50

1595.00
105.00
140.00
725.00
105.00
130.00
315.00

2300.00
729.50
1060.96
1376.66
328.00
932.75
581.75
633.04
1223.50
2130.50
758.64
397.00
284.50
1335.10
455.00
679.25
499.00
1468.55
757.00
415.23
515.00
315.00
2762.11
1110.00
2008.81
428.50
1702.00
1662.37
939.14
559.70
462.00
538.00
795.60
519.50
230.00

1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924

100
100
125
100
90
75
100
100
100
100
125
110
100
100
100
75
100
75
130
100
100
125
100
125
80
100
115
80
115
125
120
100
125
75
115
50

1633,25
1496.75
1166.75
1244.75
1387.00
2861.25
1067.25
1358.25
3385.75
1161.50
828.25
1499.50
1457.75
1189.50
1094.50
814.25

385.00
875.00
175.00
140.00
225.00
1145.00
305.00
175.00
970.00
350.00
175.00
340.00
235.00
175.00
375.00
165.00
210.00
35.00
375.00
140.00
930.00
410.00
245.00
560.00
105.00
490.00
655.00
245.00
235.00
210.00
925.00
210.00
280.00
70.00
385.00
140.00

Lodge

425 Covenant --------·--·········.527
426 Beverly Hills ....................528
427 Loyalty --····--·-·············-529
428 Sun Garden ·········-··········.530
429 Alexandria ···-·--------------.531
430 Smyrna ----······--··············.532
431 Azure ----·-····-·-················.533
432 Forest Hill ........................534
433 Alexander Hami1ton ........535
434 Seal Rock ····-··· · -····----.536
435 Utopia ··-··-·- ··-·········---.537
436 Ascot •...............................538
437 Belvedere ..........................539
438 Queen Beach ······-······-····.540
439 Henry Morse Stephens....541
440 North Hollywood ..........542
441 Signal ··--·-····-·····-----······-.543
H2 Glendale --·····--·····-··········.544
H3 Jonathan ...........................545
Hi San Gabriel ......................546
H5 Arcadia - ···········--···---547
H6 Triangle ............................548
H7 Justice ............................. .549
H8 Seaport ............................550
H9 Lakeshore ....................... .551
450 Semper Virens ................552
i51 Educator .........................554
i52 White Pine .....................555

453 Fairfax ..............................556
454 Hermosa ..........................557
455 Point Firmin ................... .558
456 Craftsmen ........................559
457 Plymouth .........................560
458 East San Diego ..............561
459 Pyramid ..............- ...........562
460 South Park ··········-······---563
461 Foothill ............................564
462 West Adams ....................565
463 James A. Garflelcl............566
464 Searchlight ·-·················.567
465 Park Boulevard ................568
466 Chateau Thierry ..............569
467 Military Service ..............570
468 Francis K. Shattuck..........571
469 ~mes Madlson.................572
470 illcrest -·····-··-................573
471 S. W. Hackett..................574
472 Fort Crook ........................575
473 El Cajon Valley............. .576
474 Sunnyside .........................577
475 Progressive ......................578
476 Warren G. Hardlng........579
477 Santa Maria.....................580
478 Security ............................581
479 Rialto ...............................582
480 Wasco ·- ············- ·······..583
481 Harding ............................584
482 Manchester .....................585
483 Garden Grove .................586
484 Valley Forge ....................587
485 El Sereno -- ····-------------588
486 Kauai ··························----.589
487 Comfcass ..........................590
488 Esca on •...........................591

484
434
354
381
414
843
316
414
998
352
247
449
438
362
328
245
374
83
625
203
514
429
531
634
120
419
304
348
305
373
388
411
437
111
349
163

Fees

---10.00
---

10.00

--

20.00
5.00

---

10.00
5.00
10.00

----5.00
5.00

--

-5.00

25.00

--10.00
10.00
5.00

-5.00
2.00

-

-5.00
-

12.00

-

5.00

-

75.00

-

10.00
10.00
5.00

-

-

-5.00
-

20.00
10.00
10.00

-

5.00

-

5.00
20.00
1.00

10.00
-

18
16
12
16
15
12
16
15
16
15
18
16
15
16
18
15
12
20
15
15
15
15
15
12
15
18
15
18
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15

7

7

7

16
20
3
9
4
5
4
11
4
1
26
13
4
2
19
31
12
13
2
3
10
13
4

16
16
3
6
2
6
3
10
3
4
29
18
11
2
17
23
13
14
2
2
12
10
3

15
15
2
6
2

11
23
5
4
5
27
8
5
27
10
5
9
6
5
10
4
6
1
9
4
22
11

7
16
3
14
17

7
5
6
25
6

8

2
11
4

7

8
11
6
2

25
17
21
2
19
18
8
16
3
2
13
8
4

13

22
4
6
8
22
9
8
24
8
5

7
7

4
9
2
10
1
12
5
21
9
5
14
6
13
15
8
3
6
20
5

8
0
13
3

11
16
4
3
11
28
8
8
25

7
6
9
9
4
5
3
8
3
17
5
26

7
8
9
4
11
15
8
4
5
20
10

11

0
12
2

126350
27650

2094.25
681.25
1798.75
1428.75
174950

212550
412.75
1402.00
1082.00
1173.75
100550
1243.00
1378.00
1351.75
1445.00
361.50
1203.00
547.75

--

425.00
900.00
385.00
245.00
585.00
760.00
105.00
340.00
190.00
175.00
240.00
385.00
165.00
35.00
960.00
480.00
265.00
70.00
740.00
1235.00
420.00
455.00
70.00
105.00
350.00
455.00
140.00

985.00
251.36
540.58
310.50
730.75
1708.50
647.50
1022.00
1221.25
596.55
1066.50
664.30
882.00
403.00

66750
19750
1087.00
205.50
1664.82
408.00
1034.25
915.81
1290.51
131750
380.63
1005.50
650.25
838.50
837.15
820.48
1085.25
1048.97
1027.63
499.50
793.00
78.50

~
(.>J

0\

It)

"
0

()

t?1
t?1
0

2

C>

en
0

'tl

..,
::i:

t?l

Cl

>
z"
0

t"'
0
0
C>

1%1

0

'tl

n

>

t::

'tl

0

z"

>

~

Ul

......

No.

Members

Charter
Issued

Degrtt
Fee

489 Tujunga ...•........................592
490 All States ····-······-········593
491 Service ···-·····-·················594
492 Alexander Graham Bell..595
493 Guardian ......................... 596
494 Pearl Harbor ................... .598
495 Carmelita ..........................599
496 Lynwood ..........................600
497 Grizzly ..............................601
498 Melrose ···········-·····-········602
499 Dimond ..............................603
500 Jubilee ·················-···········604
501 Glassel! Park ..................605
502 Sojourner ···········-·············607
503 Granada ............................608
504 Provident ..........................609
505 Elmhurst ..........................610
506 Canoga ............................611
507 Temple City ....................612
508 Three Pillars ....................613
509 Larchmont ···-···················614
510 Hemet ................................615
511 R. E. Dolley ....................616
512 Big Bear ·-·····-················617
513 Southland ........................618
514 Neptune ............................619
515 Point Loma ......................620
516 The Gardens ....................621
517 Atwater ............................622
518 Menorah ..........................623
519 Fortitude ..........................624
520 Angeles Mesa ..................625
521 Chula Vista ....................626
522 Lamanda Park ................627
523 Truth ................................628

374
543
924
287
996
605
378
562
130
252
290
418
412
305
843
504
285
413
563
465
420
237
251
167
364
311
722
532
387
1083
217
729
652
293
245

1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1924

125
100
100
75
100
150
115
125
50
90
100
75
75
100
100
75
100
135
100
125
100
50
100
75
100
100
125
100
75
175
75
125
125
75
115

524 Fairview ..........................629
525 Ingleside ..........................630
526 Benevolence ....................631
527 Normal Heights ..............632
528 Poinsettia ........................633
529 Victorville ........................634
530 Riverside .......................... 635
531 John Marshall ..................636
532 Palisades ..........................637
533 Indian Rocle ....................638
534 Composite ........................639
535 Veritas ..............................6't0
536 rmes A. Foshay ............641
537 a Cumbre ......................642
538 Alta Loma ........................643
539 Lomita ..............................644
540 A. F. E. Irwin ..................645
541 Metropolitan ....................646
542 Hawthorne ......................647
543 Damascus ........................648
544 Florence ..........................649
545 La Brea ............................650
546 Menlo Park ......................651
547 Crescenta Valley ............ 652
548 Fontana ............................ 653
549 Jordan ..............................654
550 Monte Vista ....................655
551 Citro! ................................656
552 John D. Spreckels ............657
553 Livingston ........................658
554 La Habra ..........................659
555 Baldwin Park ..................660
556 Malta -···········--······--··--··---661
557 Henry Knox ....................662
558 Ojai ..................................663
559 Kaweah ............................665

306
222
266
821
755
274
587
292
459
220
637
151
228
337
410
381
277
177
592
704
444
280
333
601
396
435
836
249
679
226
241
308
266
436
162
142

1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1928
1928
1928
1928

100
75
100
105
100
74
75
100
100
75
125
100
100
75
100
125
125
100
100
75
125
100
125
125
125
100
125
90
115
90
125
65
75
125
75
50

Lodge

Alli!.
Fee

Dues

lnit.

Passed

Raised

Per Capita

G.L.

Members
Contrib.

Endow.
Contrib.

5.00

15
15
16
18
15
15
16
18
12
15
18
15
15
15
15
15
18
16
15
15
15
15
12
20
15
16
15
15
15
16
18
15
15
16
18

12
12
28
2
24
19

17
8
29
3
26
16
10
14
0
5
4
14
13
16
15
13
8
20
19
11
8
10
3
3
10
8
18
12
9
41
6
17
34
11
6

16
9
26
2
21
17
13
15
0
5
5
9
12
18
18
15
10
20
20
12
5
9
4
3

1295.75
1787.00
3149.50
943.50
3333.50
2057.25
1278.75
1893.75
396.50
844.50
949.00
1430.25
1398.00
1090.75
2824.75
1699.00
978.25
1461.75
1948.50
1571.50
1395.25
815.75
821.50
564.75
1241.00
1041.25
2450.25
1773.75
1313.25
3750.75
737.25
2457.25
2294.00
1006.50
828.50

445.00
520.00
1165.00
70.00
915.00
665.00
270.00
585.00
245.00
140.00
835.00
460.00
715.00
585.00
340.00
280.00
805.00
920.00
445.00
270.00
320.00
165.00
175.00
420.00
280.00
945.00
480.00
445.00
1415.00
105.00
760.00
1295.00
385.00
315.00

990.80
1191.60
2178.21
898.47
2273.00
1633.50
1262.52
1854.52
266.00
566.98
694.97
837.02
851.78
408.80
1731.57
1195.25
579.50
804.82
1921.73
1074.00
1691.64
744.75
885.04
362.50
890.00
669.92
1520.00
1070.02
884.75
5066.08
179.50
1500.42
1462.00
697.96
708.50

1030.50
776.25
905.00
2778.50
2522.25
984.00
2119.75
989.75
1515.75
717.25
2251.25
515.00
758.50
1129.50
1355.75
1294.75
900.00
604.00
2025.00
2401.25
1447.50
933.50
1136.25
2028.25
1356.00
1500.50
2869.50
820.50
2298.25
798.00
853.50
1085.00
899.25
1420.25
552.50
471.00

320.00
315.00
550.00
680.00
585.00
515.00
1295.00
375.00
235.00
60.00
1225.00
235.00
235.00
285.00
175.00
610.00
140.00
240.00
735.00
1075.00
175.00
175.00
595.00
845.00
340.00
560.00
1290.00
295.00
680.00
385.00
470.00
525.00
270.00
245.00
235.00
60.00

666.59
555.50
536.00
1673.06
1627.36
633.44
1332.46
664.57
1640.25
510.00
1263.50
261.00
710.00
1192.50
1021.45
1149.75
687.00
435.48
1279.26
489.81
506.50
573.85
716.30
1463.90
382.10
873.02
1771.18
542.08
1527.50
335.50
681.00
795.43
561.45
1513.50
326.70
297.00

-

5.00

-

15.00

-

10.00

-

5.00
l.00

-

-

10.00
10.00
15.00

10.00
5.00

-

5.00
10.00
-

25.00
5.00

l.00
-

10.00

3.00

-

-

5.00

-

5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
15.00

-

5.00
-

5.00
5.00

-

10.00

-

25.00

-

-

-

25.00

-

-

15
18
18
15
18
18
15
15
15
18
15
18
15
18
15
15
18
15
15
15
18
18
18
16
15
15
15
15
15
18
15
12
15
15
15
15

7

16
0
6
4
21
11
19
16
9
8
23
22
12

7
7
4
5
12
8
22
13
12
39
3
21
31
11
9

7
9
15
18
16
14
31
10
6
1
35
6
6
6
5
16
4
4
21
29
5
5
12
22
9
16
34
6
17
11
12
15

7
7

6
1

6
9

7

19
14
18
38
6
8
1
33
6
4
8
9
13
2
6
17
31
3
4

7

18
14
16
25
3
15
11
13
11
5
2
4
3

7
9
20
12
10
42

7
19
29
10
6

5

11

8
23
14
18
37
6
11
4
29
5
2
8
9
9
2
6
19
34
4
6
8
17
18
13
27
8
17
13
15
16

7

4
3
4

-

~

l>l
00

'ti

:c
0

n

t!l
t!l

tl

S!

Cl

en

0

'JI

o-J

:i::

I!!

Cl

:c

>
2!

tl
I"'

0

tl

Cl
I!!

0

'JI

n
>
I"'
'ii

0

:c

2!

;;

~

l>l

'°

No.

Memben

Charter
Issued

Degree
Fees

.Aflil.
Fees

560 Reseda ..............................666
561 Meridian ..........................667
562 San Gorgonio ..................668
563 John P. Jarman ................669
564 Greenleaf ..........................670
565 San Clemente ..................671
566 Laguna Beach ................672
567 Far West ........................673
568 Los Cerritos ......................674
569 Modesto ............................675
570 Willow Glen ..................676
571 Liberal Arts ....................677
572 Altadena ..........................678
573 Canby Cross ....................679
574 Carmel ..............................680
575 Dos Palos ·····-···············--681
576 Barstow -··---····-······-682
577 Redwood Empire -·····---683
578 Trona ······-···-···················684
579 San Marino ···········-·········685
580 Albany ··················-··········686
581 Vista ···················-···········687
582 Oildale ..............................688
583 Pohona ..............................689
584 San Carlos ·····-······-········690
585 Indian Wells Valley ......691
586 Travelers ..........................692
587 Palm Springs ..................693
588 San Antonio ....................694
589 Meudell ............................695
590 Crossroads ........................696
591 Saint Elmo ........................697
592 Wm. D. Stephens ............698
593 Bixby Knolls --···----·······699
594 Ponderosa ........................700

692
530
261
299
830
138
206
353
499
521
408
384
560
162
246
163
409
122
158
456
225
322
264
85
438
419
218
219
260
191
340
224
164
345
358

1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1929
1929
1929
1929
1930
1930
1930
1935
1935
1939
1940
1940
1941
1944
1945
1945
1946
1946
1946
1946
1947
1947
1947
1948
1948
1948
1948
1949
1949

120
100
75
75
100
100
75
75
175
75
100
125
115
65
75
100
65
100
75
100
75
75
100
50
100
100
125
100
100
115
115
100
125
100
80

-

595 Santa Ynez Valley..........701
596 Rosemead ······-----·-····-----102
597 Westchester --·················703
598 Orinda .............•................704
599 El Cerrito ........................705
600 Hunters Point Naval ......706
601 Lake Tahoe ----·-···········707
602 Seafaring ..........................708
603 Lorenzo ·······-···················7®
604 Anacafa ·······-··············---110
605 Rim o the World....- ......711
606 Los Altos ···--··-----····---712
607 Castro Valley ..................713
608 Blue Lakes __________714
609 Magnolia Park ----·····----715
610 Belmont Shore ········------116
611 Wayfarer ........................717
612 San Lorenzo Valley ........718
613 Estero ·--·--·-----·······-·····719
614 Mineral King --··········--··--720
615 Home ................................721
616 George E. Tutt ................722
617 Acalanes .......................... 723
618 San Ramon Valley ........724
619 Saint John's ...................... 725
620 Yucaipa ............................726
621 Verdugo Hills ................727
622 Lakewood ........................ 728
623 Centennial ...........- ...........729
624 Polaris .............................. 730
625 Two Rivers ......................731
626 San Juan ..........................732
627 Golden Empire ................733
628 Kit Carson ........................734
629 Oasis of Mara ................735
630 Lemon Grove ..................736

122
211
439
187
206
247
81
399
332
227
144
195
259
188
219
323
189
87
134
106
396
154
170
156
204
166
93
217
134
131
164
166
127
167
114
315

1949
1949
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1951
1951
1951
1952
1952
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954

75
75
125
75
75
100
75
100
100
75
75
100
100
100
125
125
100
100
75
75
125
75
75
75
75
75
100
125
125
100
100
100
90
100
90
115

Lodge

1.00
5.00
25.00

-

1.00
10.00

-

-

10.00
10.00

-

1.00
3.00

-

10.00
1.00

-

25.00
10.00

-

5.00
10.00
5.00

10.00
10.00
-

1.00

15.00
-

1.00
10.00
1.00

-

5.00
5.00
20.00
5.00

-

1.00

-

10.00
10.00
15.00

-

-

10.00
-

10.00
10.00
10.00

-

10.00

Dues

lnit.

Passed

Raised

Pet Capita

G.L.

Memben
Conttib.

Endow.
Contrib.

18
15
12
15
12
15
15
15
18
15
15
15
15
16
15
18
12
18
15
18
12
12
15
12
18
17
15
20
16
18
15
15
20
16
18

59
11
7
10
36
7
2
12
16
11
15
13
6
0
9
11
23
6
1
12
6
6
17
5
24
16
5
7
4
11
11
21
6
26
12

44
8
7
6
39
5
3
12
18
11
14
13
7
4
8
8
14
6
4
13
6
7
13
4
21
15
6
4
5
11
12
19
12
22
15

47
6
8
8
36
4
2
10
17
9
13
12
12
3
7
9
16
6
3
15
4
7
13
3
21
18
7
2
5
12
14
20
12
17
16

2542.50
1753.00
882.50
1010.00
2919.50
480.50
670.50
1205.50
1723.75
1739.00
1410.00
1320.75
1860.25
537.25
841.00
585.75
1435.25
429.25
529.50
1562.00
763.25
1086.50
940.75
297.00
1555.50
1459.75
744.50
731.25
863.25
685.50
1175.75
848.00
593.00
1251.25
1249.50

2140.00
460.00
295.00
350.00
1310.00
270.00
95.00
420.00
610.00
435.00
575.00
605.00
260.00
390.00
420.00
805.00
210.00
35.00
470.00
235.00
360.00
595.00
175.00
840.00
585.00
175.00
270.00
140.00
385.00
385.00
760.00
260.00
960.00
420.00

1663.31
1141.59
537.10
710.50
1141.06
119.00
424.00
588.00
1055.00
728.00
290.50
1019.75
1318.50
474.66
181.50
330.00
911.50
2.50
381.00
1454.42
555.00
855.50
345.50
252.50
1042.00
849.19
590.50
494.00
717.60
444.25
808.50
1013.35
2008.84
948.67
740.00

15
16
15
15
15
18
18
16
15
18
15
15
18
18
15
16
15
16
15
15
16
18
15
15
15
15
16
18
18
15
12
15
15
12
15
15

3
9
17
8
14
7
6
13
21
12
9
15
20
11
15
23
12
1
5
5
43
10
4
2
15
2
1
8
10
13
15
13
10
14
9
25

1
13
15
6
17
6
5
18
22
17
4
9
18
6
15
27
8
0
5
4
29
13
4
1
15
3
3
8
6
10
17
20
7
16
7
29

2
12
20
8
18
8
6
18
18
16
3
11
21
6

395.50
750.50
1527.50
651.75
767.50
844.75
297.25
1394.75
1197.75
827.75
500.00
703.75
959.75
657.00
793.75
1201.25
667.00
283.50
465.50
367.25
1483.00
559.25
578.50
517.00
755.00
556.25
314.25
754.00
482.25
491.75
629.00
645.50
460.75
628.75
422.50
1193.75

130.00
365.00
645.00
305.00
565.00
270.00
210.00
680.00
785.00
445.00
365.00
525.00
760.00
410.00
550.00
905.00
420.00
35.00
175.00
200.00
1715.00
375.00
140.00
145.00
550.00
195.00
60.00
355.00
350.00
455.00
525.00
480.00
350.00
490.00
340.00
950.00

337.00
597.63
1350.44
474.50
456.75
716.30
429.50
820.00
815.50
480.31
389.00
698.37
553.00
667.89
816.00
720.45
443.46
187.00
338.50
318.75
901.60
315.50
262.50
312.00
540.50
519.00
466.62
646.25
496.73
460.10
400.00
645.25
603.00
740.75
148.00
935.09

11

29
8
1
5
4
26
8
5
2
16
5
2
10
9
10
16
20
7
13
10
31

-

"""
"""

0

"Cl

:a
0
n
l:rJ
l:rJ

tl

z
C'l

en
0

'?!

o-i

:i::

l:rJ

C'l

ltJ

>

ztl

t"'
0
tl
C'l

l:rJ

0

'?!

n
t:

>
'?!

0

ltJ

z

>

.....
"""
"""

No.

Members

Charter
b1ucd

Degree

631 Hillsborough .................... 737
632 Arvin ................................738
633 La Canada ........................ 739
634 Opportu nity .................... 740
635 Tyre ..................................741
636 Morningside Park .......... 742
637 Oakwoo d ........................743
638 San Leandro ....................744
639 Peninsula ..........................745
640 Soquel ------·-·········--·········--7.ffi
641 Claude H. Morrison ........747
642 Highland ··-···-----····-----------748
643 Merced ·······------------·····------749
644 Mother Colony -----··------·-·750
645 Hamilton ..........................751
646 Luther Burbank ..............752
647 Lawndale ..........................753
648 San Pablo ........................754
649 Golden Bowl ....................755
650 Clayton Valley ................756
651 Channel ............................757
652 West Covina ....................758
653 El Rancho ........................ 759
654 Lakeside ............................760
655 Josiah W. Roller .............. 761
656 Coastside ..........................762
657 Arabic ..............................763
658 Heritage ............................764
659 Dana R. Weller ..............765
660 James H. Kew -----------------·766
661 Wm. Rhodes Hervey...... 767
662 Zenith ................................768
663 Palmdale ..........................769
664 Lake Chabot ....................770
665 Mission Bay ....................771

150
111
135
189
166
173
90
148
121
127
104
187
127
139
129
161
166
100
143
196
94
157
171
90
163
81
127
113
118
122
117
185
190
92
141

1954
1954
1954
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1957
1957
1957
1957

100
100
125
115
125
115
150
100
100
80
115

666 Avenal __........................772
667 Tejon ................................773
668 Waikiki --·---------··········------774
669 San Dieguito ....................775
670 East Whittie r ..................776
671 Pinnacle ............................777
672 La Mirada ........................778
673 Five Points ......................779
674 Riviera ..............................780
675 Rolling Hills ....................781
676 Silverado ..........................782
677 Mojave ------····--···--·-------··- 783
678 Leland Stanford ..............784
679 Paramount ........................785
680 Rio Linda ........................786
681 Westmi nster ....................787
682 Sierra ............................... .788
683 Oak Plains ......................789
684 Granada Hms ..................790
685 Gen. Henry H. Amold... .791
686 Millbrae ............................792
687 Maya ................................793
688 Mt. Wilson ......................79-4
689 American River ..............795
690 Golden Valley ................796
691 Tila Pass - ..................- ...797
692 Ashland ............................798
693 Bay Claire Viata ..............799
694 Rio Hondo ........................800
695 Koolau ..............................801
696 Yucca Valley ._.............U. D.

54
136
79
147
131

1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1959
1959
1959
1959
1959
1960
1960
1960
1960
1960

Lodge

55

107
65
101
94
84
65

95

71
67
74
69
73
80
70
58
54
79
72
73
43
35
31
37
33
47

241.819
Norther n Calif. Research ..............
Souther n Calif. Research ..............
El Camino Research......................
Central Calif. Research..................

92
100
74

55

Fees

75

90

75

100

75

100

75

100

75

80
115
100
100
100
100

HO

125
105
115
125
125
115
100
115

100
100
175
90
100

75

100
125
125
125
125

. 75

100
125
100
100

75

100
125
90
100
125
115
100
75
115
100
80
125
175
90

Aflil.

Fees

Dues

Inic.

PU1cd

---

18
20
18
15
16
15
18
20
18
12
15
12
15
15
20
15
15
15
15
16
15
18
16
18
12
15
15
18
16
15
15
15
15
18
12

6
3
9
13
26
11
6
9
17
8
11
23

6

25.00

---

10.00
50.00
10.00

--1.00

---

-5.00
5.00

----

--

25.00
12.00
5.00
10.00
15.00
5.00
5.00
10.00

-10.00
--

10.00
10.00

-

3.00
10.00
5.00

10.00
25.00
6.00

-

-

10.00
1.00
25.00
10.00
10.00

-

5.00
7.00

-

10.00
10.00
25.00

-

15.00

-

12
18
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
18
15
18
18
15
16
18
15
15
12
18
18
15
15
15
15
15
15
18
15
20

5

19
4
16
13
9
8
32

5

14
16
10
11
12
11
20
10
12
8
22
28
14

23

5

23
7
9
19
4
14
6
8

7

6
4
13
12
8
15
11
11
13
16
13
13
8
28
20
30
8
9
0
0
0
7056

5
7

12
19
9
10
9
16
8
10
19
4
15

5

14
11
13
11
31
4
13
20
11
11

7

13
15
10

7

11
23
23
11
23

4
20
9
10
17
4
13

Per Capita

Members
Conuib.

Endow.
Conuib.

7

522.25
384.75
486.75
677.25
655.50
627.00
336.50
539.00
489.25
458.75
404.00
735.75
438.75
553.75
451.25
607.25
607.50
397.00
524.75
823.00
329.50
596.25
665.75
344.50
603.75
313.25
484.75
471.25
449.50
452.50
438.25
741.25
759.50
373.00
594.25

335.00
105.00
H0.00
480.00
960.00
385.00
210.00
340.00
670.00
280.00
460.00
865.00
225.00
690.00
140.00
585.00
480.00
340.00
380.00
1170.00
200.00
515.00
585.00
375.00
605.00
445.00
485.00
700.00
350.00
420.00
380.00
855.00
1005.00
515.00
940.00

635.30
299.50
524.26
59.97
435.59
557.00
262.00
357.62
526.50
318.50
312.25
353.00
340.65
61.80
354.13
392.95
Hl.00
121.50
453.87
475.15
232.50
426.30
252.75
459.99
427.30
171.00
1565.00
397.50
257.00
555.50
753.50
692.60
574.00
194.50
380.00

203.50
578.00
312.75
535.75
531.75
202.75
425.75
249.25
378.25
349.50
309.00
235.25
392.75
308.75
253.75
314.50
282.25
295.25
327.50
311.50
238.50
263.50
306.75
366.00
339.25
265.75
22.00
30.00

175.00
855.00
270.00
465.00
715.00
165.00
540.00
245.00
405.00
295.00
235.00
140.00
490.00
H5.00
280.00
550.00
435.00
435.00
555.00
560.00
480.00
480.00
H0.00
1130.00
775.00
1325.00
505.00
565.00
150.00
350.00
375.00

108.00
287.02
173.50
149.00
536.33
110.00
459.24
209.85
1090.80
392.67
33.00
111.50
247.00
143.00
302.50
182.00
104.26
247.30
367.57
158.00
225.00
236.50
191.90
234.50
9.00
94.00
33.25
71.50
74.00
66.00

906.155.50

270,425.00

4
8
13
13
14
6
11
15

7

12
22
4
17

7

12
10
14
11
30
3
16
19

5

15
6
12
17
13
9
10
25
20
12
22

5

16
8
23
18
20
3
4
0
0
0

25
12
10
17
4
12
6
11
9
6
4
13
12
4
10
8
10
13
12
5
15
9
15
13
13
0
2
0
0
0

6755

6805

7

6
6
6
4
16
15
6
12
10
8
11
14

7

G.L.

Raised

.c.
.c.

N

"d

:a

0

n

[I!
[IS

0

z

Cl
VI

0

"fl
..j

::i:

[IS

Cl

:a

>
z
0
t"'

8
[I!

0

"fl

n

>
i::
'ti

0

:oci

z

>

212.40
$551.150.34

.c.
.c.

~

444

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

445

EXTIN CT LODGES

EXTIN CT LODGE S-Cont inued

Berryma n, Sacramen to, 1850. Name changed to Jennings .
Jennings , Sacramen to. Charter surrende red May 6, 1853.
Sutter, Sacramen to, 1850. Charter surrende red May 6, 1853.
Davy Crockett, San Francisco , 1850. Name changed to San Francisco
Aug. 18, 1852.
7 San Francisco , San Francisco , 1850. Charter revoked May 13, 1859.
9 Marysvil le, 1850. Consolid ated with Corinthia n No. 69 as Corinthia n No.
9, Dec. 1874.
11 Willamet te, Portland, Ore., 1850. Transferr ed to jurisdicti on of Oregon,
Nov., 1851.
15 La Fayette, La Fayette, Ore., 1851. Transferr ed to jurisdicti on of Oregon,
Nov., 1851.
Nashville , Nashville . Dispensa tion granted Dec. 24, 1851. Charter never
issued.
.
Pacific, Valparais o. Dispensa tion granted May 5, 1853. Charter never
issued.
26 Palmyra, Placervil le, 1853. Name changed to El Dorado Oct.10, 1929.
28 Columbia , Columbia , 1853. Consolid ated with Tuolumn e No. 8 and Mt.
Jefferson No. 107, as Tuolumn e No. 8, Oct. 15, 1891.
29 Diamond , Diamond Springs, 1853. Charter surrende red Oct. 18, 1873.
31 Mokelum ne, Mokelum ne Hill, 1853. Consolid ated with Calavera s No. 78,
Oct. 13, 1883.
34 Santa Clara, Santa Clara, 1853. Charter revoked Oct. 15, 1887.
36 Butte, Bidwell, 1854. Charter surrende red Sept. 3, 1864.
37 St. John'sbY reka, 1854. Consolid ated with Howard No. 96, as Howard
No. 37, ec. 8, 1924.
39 Yuba, Marysvil le, 1854. Consolid ated with Corinthia n No. 9, as Corinthian No. 9, June 16, 1916.
47 Michigan City, Michigan Bluff, 1854. Charter surrende red Oct. 15, 1897.
48 Grass Valley, Grass Valley, 1854. Charter surrende red May 6, 1856.
49 Lebanon, San Francisco , 1854. Charter revoked June 29, 1857.
52 Rough and Ready, Rough and Ready, 1854. Charter surrende red Nov.
1864.
53 Franklin, Sacramen to, 1854. Charter surrende red May 10, 1856.
54 Saint James, Jamestow n, 1855. Charter surrende red Feb. 20, 1875.
62 George Washingt on, Chinese Camp, 1856. Consolid ated with Tuolumn e
No. 8, Sept. 15, 1919.
63 Iowa Hill, Iowa Hill, 1855. Charter surrende red Oct. 29, 1857.
66 Forest, Alleghan y, 1855. Consolid ated with Gravel Range No. 59, September 27, 1955.
67 Minnesot a, Minnesot a, 1855. Charter surrende red May 14, 1859.
69 Ind. Royal Arch, Marysvil le, 1855. Name changed to Corinthia n No. 69,
May 2, 1855.
69 Corinthia n, Marysvil le, 1855. Consolid ated with Marysvil le No. 9, as
Corinthia n No. 9, Dec., 1874.
71 Nebraska , Michigan Bar, 1855. Consolid ated with Ione No. 80, Oct. 15,
1887.
72 E. K. Kane, Nevada, 1855. Charter surrende red Dec. 1, 1858.
73 Tyro, Drytown, 1855. Charter surrende red Dec. 27, 1859.
Franklin, Meadow Valley. Dispensa tion granted 1857. Charter never
issued.
74 Wisconsin Hill, Wisconsi n Hill, 1855. Charter surrende red Aug. 29, 1857.
75 Mountain Forest, Eureka North, 1855. Charter surrende red May, 1870.
77 Petaluma , Petaluma , 1855. Consolid ated with Arcturas No. 180, as Petaluma No. 180, Dec., 1898.

82 Mountain , Don Pedro's Bar, 1856. Charter surrende red May 18, 1861.
83 Rising Star, Forest Hill, 1856. Consolid ated with Eureka No. 16, Sept. 2,
1919.
85 Indian Diggings, Indian Diggings, 1856. Consolid ated with St. Mark's
No. 115, as St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
85 St. Mark's Fiddletow n, 1857. Charter revoked June 26, 1894.
86 Saint Louis, Rowland 's Flat, 1856. Consolid ated with Gibsonvi lle No.
158, Nov., 1882.
88 Unity, Orleans Flat, 1856. Name changed to Quitman, May 8, 1856.
88 Quitman, North Bloomfield, 1856. Consolid ated with Nevada No. 13, Oct.
13, 1910.
90 Polar Star, Poorman 's Creek, 1856. Charter surrende red May 8, 1858.
92 Acacia, Coloma, 1856. Consolid ated with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra
No. 26, March 29, 1916.
93 Caymus, Yountvill e, 1856. Removed and name changed to St. Helena,
Oct. 10, 1867.
94 Mount Hermon, Elizabeth town, 1856. Charter surrende red Dec. 24, 1859.
96 Howard. Consolid ated with St. John's No. 37, as Howard No. 37, Dec. 8,
1924.
97 Jefferson , La Porte, 1856. Consolid ated with Forbesto wn No. 50, July 19,
1926.
98 Quartzbu rg, Quartzbu rg, 1856. Name changed to Homitas.
99 La Grange, Merced, 1856. Name changed to Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16,
1913.
100 Campo Seco, Campo Seco, 1856. Consolid ated with Calavera s No. 78,
Oct., 1898.
102 Manzanit a, North San Juan, ·1856. Consolid ated with Nevada No. 13,
Oct. 13, 1910.
105 Siskiyou, Henley, 1856. Consolid ated with St. John's No. 37, Oct. 11, 1876.
107 Mount Jefferson Garrotte, 1857. Consolid ated with Tuolumn e No. 8 and
Columbia No. '28, as Tuolumn e No. 8, Oct. 11, 1876.
·
108 Owen, Scott's Bar, 1857. Consolid ated with North Star No. 91, Oct. 15,
1908.
109 Dibble, Omega, 1857. Charter surrende red Sept. 27, 1879.
114 Mt. Zion, Grizzly Flat, 1857. Consolid ated with Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 11,
1911.
115 Saint Mark's, Fiddletow n. Consolid ated with Indian Diggings No. 85, as
St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
116 Windsor Windsor, 1857. Charter surrende red May 18, 1861.
.
Folsom, 'Folsom. Dispensa tion granted Feb. 14, 1857. Charter never 18sued.
118 Vallecito , Vallecito, 1858. Charter surrende red Jan. 5, 1859.
119 Clinton, Igo, 1858. Consolid ated with Western Star Lodge No. 2, Oct. 15,
1936.
121 Ionic, Iowa Hill, 1858. Charter surrende red Oct. 8, 1905.
125 Progress, San Francisco , 1858. Charter revoked Oct. 14, 1870.
130 Unity, San Bernardi no, 1859. Charter revoked May 13, 1863
133 Yosemite , Coultervi lle, 1859. Consolid ated with La Grange ..No. 99, now
known as Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.
137 Oro Fino, Oro Fino, 1860. Charter surrende red June, 1862.
138 Violet, Spanish Flat, 1860. Charter surrende red Oct. 16, 1879.
142 Colusa, Colusa, 1860. Consolid ated with Equality No. 240, as Colusa No.
240, April 1, 1882.
148 San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo, 1861. Charter surrende red Dec. 2,
1865.

4
4
6
7

446

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

EXT INC T LOD GES -Con tinue d
Doris, North Fork. Dispe nsatio n grant ed Jan. 11,
1861. Chart er never
issued.
151 Palm yra, Place rville , 1862. Conso lidate
d with El Dorad o No. 26 as
Palm yra No. 26, Oct. 16, 1902.
152 Josep hus, Brush Creek , 1862. Chart er surre
153 Risin g Sun, Brand y City, 1862. Chart surrendere d Oct. 11, 1864.
ndere d July 16, 1864.
154 Carso n, Carso n City, Nev. Ter., 1862.erTrans
ferred to jurisd iction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
155 Moun t Carm el, Red Dog, 1863. Chart er surre
157 Washoe, Wash oe City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Trans ndere d Aug. 16, 1872.
ferred to jurisd iction of Ne·
vada, Jan. 16, 1865.
158 Gibso nville , Gibso nville , 1863. Conso lidate
d with Jeffer son No. 97, Oct.
15, 1908.
159 Gilro y, Gilro y, 1863. Chart er surre ndere d Sept.
160 Pilot Hill, Pilot Hill, 1863. Conso lidate d with 28, 1864.
Georg etown No. 25, Dec.
1898.
162 Virgi nia City, Virgi nia City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Trans
ferred to jurisd iction
of Neva da, Jan. 16, 1865.
163 Silve r City, Silve r City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Trans
ferred to jurisd iction of
Nevad a, Jan. 16, 1865.
165 Silve r Star, Gold Hill, Nev. Ter., 1864. Trans
ferred to jurisd iction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
170 Esme ralda, Auror a, Nev. Ter., 1864. Trans
ferred to jurisd iction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
171 Escur ial, Virgi nia City, Nev. Ter., 1864. Trans
ferred to jurisd iction of
Neva da, Jan. 16, 1865.
172 Land er, Austi n, Nev. Ter., 1864. Trans ferred
to jurisd iction of Neva da,
Jan. 16, 1865.
Alpin e, Mark leevil le. Dispe nsatio n grant ed May
25, 1864. Chart er never
issued.
i.75 Claib orne, Antio ch, 1865. Name chang ed to Antio
176 Merced, Snelli ng, 1865. Chart er surre ndere d Oct. ch.
16, 1879.
177 Aztla n, Presc ott, Ariz. Ter., 1866. Trans
ferred to jurisd iction of Arizo na,
Marc h 25, 1882.
180 Arctu ras, Petal uma, 1866. Conso lidate d with
Petal uma No. 77, as Petaluma No. 180, Dec., 1898.
182 Merid ian, Arbuc kle, 1867. Name chang ed to Arbuc
kle, Oct. 16, 1919.
185 Arena s, Punta Arena s, 1867. Name
ed to Claib orne.
189 Latro be, Latro be, 1868. Conso lidate dchang
with Natro na No. 64, Dec., 1884.
197 Parad ise, Hayw ards, 1869. Chart er surre
d July 20, 1872.
Rockl in, Rocklin. Dispe nsatio n grant edndere
July 30, 1870. Chart er never
issued.
205 Newv ille, Newv ille, 1870. Conso lidate d with
Olive t No. 364, as Olive t No.
205, Oct. 1, 1917.
213 Bodega, Bodega, 1871. Chart er revok ed Oct.
218 Pleas anton , Liver more, 1872. Name chang ed12, 1889.
to Mosaic, Oct. 18, 1881.
222 Grani te, Rocklin, 1872. Conso lidate d with Rosev
ille No. 432 as Rosev ille
No. 222, May 29, 1919.
223 Maui, Wailu ku, Hawa ii, 1873. Chart er surre
ndere d Nov. 17, 1877.
226 Hayw ard, Half Moon Bay, 1873. Chan ged to
San Mateo, San Mateo No.
226, Oct. 13, 1905.
227 Contr a Costa, Same rsvill e, 1873. Chart er surre
ndere d Oct. 15, 1897.
238 Tyre, Gold Run, 1875. Chart er surre ndere d
Oct. 16, 1884.
239 Pesca dero, Pesca dero, 1875. Chart er surre ndere
d Sept. 26, 1890.
240 Equal ity, Colusa, 1875. Conso lidate d with Colus
a No. 142, as Colus a N~.
240, April 1. 1882.
249 Green ville, Green ville, 1878. Conso lidate
d with Since rity No. 132, Oct.
16, 1896.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

447

EXT INC T LOD GES -Con tinue d
251 Broth erhoo d, Dunc an's Mills, 1878. Chart er surre
ndere d April 19, 1888.
252 Bodie, Bodie, 1878. Conso lidate d with Winn
edum ah No. 287, Dec. 20,
1918.
257 Arizo na, Phoen ix, Ariz. Ter., 1879. Trans
ferred to jurisd iction of Arizona, Marc h 25, 1882.
Solomon, Tomb stone , Ariz. Ter. Dispe nsatio n
grant ed June 4, 1881.
Trans ferred to jurisd iction of Arizo na, Marc h 2~,
~88~ .
.
263 Tucson, Tucson, Ariz. Ter., 1881. Trans
ferred to 1ur1sd1ct1on of Arizo na,
Marc h 25, 1882.
270 Fall River , Burge ttville , 1883. Chart er revok ed
276 Westp ort, Westp ort, 1884. Chart er surre ndere Oct. 10, 1895.
d May 26, 1888.
284 Tyria n, Dunn igan, 1887. Conso lidate d with
Wood land No. 156, Oct. 11,
1911.
290 Sunse t, Los Angeles, 1888. Name chang ed to
East Gate No. 290, October 12, 1899.
298 Moke lumne Hill, Moke lumne Hill, 1890. Conso lidate
d with Calav eras
No. 78, Dec. 25, 1919.
311 Huen eme, Huen eme, 1892. Conso lidate d with Oxna
rd No. 341, Oct. 16,
1902.
340 Santa Maria , Santa Maria , 1900. Conso lidate d with
Hespe rian No. 264,
Oct. 13, 1910.
342 Manil a, Manil a, P. L, 1901. Trans ferred to jurisd
iction of Philip pine
Island s, Dec. 19, 1912.
350 Cavit e, Cavit e, P. I., 1903. Trans ferred to jurisd
iction of Philip pine
Island s, Dec. 19, 1912.
364 Olive t, Corni ng, 1904. Conso lidate d with Newv ille
No. 205, as Olive t No.
205, Oct. 1, 1917.
371 Oceanic, Hono lulu, Oahu , T. H., 1905. Name chang
ed to Le Progr es de
l'Ocea nie No. 371, Oct. 12, 1916.
373 Veter an, Sawte ll. Name chang ed 1939 to West Los
386 Corre gidor , Manil a, P. I., 1907. Trans ferred to jurisd Ange les Lodge.
iction of Philip pine
Island s, Dec. 19, 1912.
398 Fowle r, Fowle r, 1908. Conso lidate d with Selm a No.
413 Wauc oba, Big Pine, 1910. Conso lidate d with Inyo 277, Oct. 14, 19115.
No. 221, as Inyo No.
221, Jan. 10, 1945.
432 Roseville, Roseville, 1912. Conso lidate d with Grani
te No. 222 as Rosev ille
No. 222, May 29, 1919.
438 Germ ania. Los Angelei:;. 1913. Name chan~ed to Acaci
438 Acacia, Los Angeles. Conso lidate d with Arlin gton a, Oct. 16, 1918.
No. 414, Septe mber
28, 1959.
456 Kenn ett, Kenn ett, 1915. Conso lidate d with Read
ing No. 254 Dec. 19,
1925.
496 River dale, River dale. Conso lidate d with Welco me
No. 255, May 18, 1943.
542 Lank ershu n, North Holly wood , 1923. Name chang
ed to North Holly wood No. 542, Octob er 12, 1950.
553 Golde n City, San Franc isco, 1923. Conso lidate d with
Educ ator No. 554,
Feb. 16, 1940.
597 Truth , Los Angeles, 1924. Conso lidate d with Beaco
n of the West No. 628
as Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
611 Owen smou th. Cano ga Park, 1925. Name chang ed
to Canoga, Oct. 15,
1931.
612 Work man, Temp le City, 1925. Name chang ed to
Temp le City, Oct. 10,
1929.
616 Seal Beach , Seal Beach , 1925. Name chang ed to
R. E. Dolle y No. 616,
Oct. 14, 1937.
628 Beaco n of the West, Los Angeles, 1926. Conso lidate
d with Truth No.
597 as Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
664 Oasis, El Centr o, 1928. Conso lidate d with El
Centr o No. 384, Aug. 30,
1937.

448

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Elected Officers Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.
Since Its Organization, April 18, A. L. 5850

1850
Jonathan D. Stevanson._G. M.
C.llfornla No. I
lorn Jan. I, llOO
Died Feb. 14, IBM
John A. Tutt_____,_.. D. G. M.
Caleb Fanner____ s, G. W.
Seshel Woods_______J. G. W.
Levi Stowell _________ G. T.
John H. Gihon _______ E;. S.

1851
John A. Tutt__ ·····-···---G· M.
Tehama No. I
Born Feb. 4i.1111
Died May IY, ltOO
Benj. D. Hyam___ o. G. M.
E. F. F. Ellis____s. G. w.
Benj. S. Olds___.. _J. G. W.
Townsend A. Thoma1 ____ G. T.
Levi Stowell_____&, S.

1852
Benjamin D. Hyam __ G. M.
lenlcle No.I
lorn March I\ 1111
Died July 12, 1m
Chas. M. Redcliff__.•O. G. M.
Addison Martln.... _. ______ G.T.
J. R. McConnefl__J. G. W.
Addison Martin ____ &. T.
Levi Stowell________..G. S.

1853
Charles M. RadcllfL.-.G· M.
Tuolumne No. I
Born Feb. I. 1111
Died Dec. 11, lllt
T. A. Thomas________ o. G. M.
Jno. R. Crandall___s. G. W.
Richard F. Knott ____J. G. W.
Addison Martin.. _ _6, T.
Levi Stowell _____ &. S.

1854
Wiiiiam H. Howard _____ G. M.
San Jose No. 10
Born Au9. 29, 1110
Died Sept. II, II"
Nath. G. CurtlL-.. D. G. M.
Rector E. Cole____ s. G. W.
Robt. N. Wood___ _J, G. W.
Addison Martin..·-··-----6. T.
Levi Stowell ___________ G. S.

185S
William H. Howard ______G. M.
T. A. Thoma•----····-D. G. M.
Jno. A. Raymond _____S. G. W.
Sam. A. Merritt___ .__J, G. W.
Addison Mertln _____ G. T,
Levi Stowell
&. S.

1856

William H. Howard __ ._6. M.
John A. Raymond __.O. G. M.
Lemuel Lyon______S. G. W.
Peter W. Randle ______J. G. W.
Addison Martin.•.. _____&. T.
Alex G. Abell _________.6. S.

1863
William C. Belcher_______ G, M.
Gil. B. Cleiborne_____ o, G. M.
Louis Cohn ________s. G. W.
Wm. A. Davies.._.,.._J, G. W.
James Laldley_________G. T.
Alex G. Abell_________&, S.

1857
Nathaniel G. Curtis...-.. G. M.
1864
Wa1hln9ton No. 20
Born Feb. 8 1125
William C. Belcher________ G. M.
Died July 1!, 1897
Gil. B.
______ O, G. M.
Charles Mersh ...•._____ o. G. M. Wm. A.Cleiborne
Devies _________ ,S. G. W.
Aaron D. PerL••_____S. G. W. ls1111c S. Titus.._______
_J, G. W.
John B. Pope__________J. G. W.
James
_____.6, T.
Addison Martin ____ 6. T. Alex G.Laidley
Abell _________ &. S
Alex G. Abell
6. S.

1858

1865
Nathaniel G. Curtis______ G. M.
P. W. Shepheerd __ ,___ G. M. Gilbert B. Cleiborne ___ ,__ G. M.
San Joaquin No. It
Wm. McCormicL ____ s. G. W.
Born 1828
Ja1. W. Bicknell ________J. G. W.
Died D•c. I, 1908
Addison Martin _ _ _ 6. T. Wm. A. Devles. _______ O, G. M.
Alex G. Abell _ _ _ _&. S. ls1111c S. Titus.. _______ S. G. W.
Henry H. Hertley__ ,... J. G. W.
1859
Nathaniel G. Curtis.. ____ G. M. James Leldley_______... 6. T.
P. W. Shepheerd ___o. G. M. Alex G. Abell__________ &. S.
Ebenezer Lane _____S. G. W.
Thos. P. Hewley______J, G. W.
1866
Addison Martin _ _ _6. T.
Alex G. Abell _______ &, S. Gilbert B. Cleibome ______ G. M.
Henry H. Hertley_____ o. G. M.
Wm. H. Peterson ______ s. G. W.
1860
Nathaniel G. Curtis ______ G, M. Thomes BecL•...... ____ _J, G. W.
P. W. Shepheerd _____ o. G. M. James Laidley_______________ G, T.
Wm. C. Belcher_______ s. G. W. Alex G. AbelL_______ G. S.
Alvin:r:e Heywerd ____J. G. W.
Addison Martin _ _ _ 6. T.
1867
Alex G. AbeJl_____ E;, S.
William A. Devles_______6. M.
1861
Columbia No. 21
James L English.__________ &. M.
Born Feb. 5, 1127
Died June 20, 1916
Sacramento No. 40
Born June!._ 1813
Henry H. Hertley____ o. G. M.
Died May a, 118'
Thomes Becl._____S, G. W.
Wm. C. Belcher_____.O. G. M.
Leonides E. Preff___..J. G.
John W. Hervllle.•..__ S. G. W. James A. Leidley______G.W.
T.
Caleb E. Wilcoxon ____J. G. W. Alex G. Abelf. ________ G. S.
James Laidley•..-----···6. T.
Alex G. Abell..._. ____....6. S.

o.

1868

1862

William C. Belcher______ &. M. Charles Marsh..•._________ &. M.
N...ede No.13
Corinthian No. 6'
lom Dec. 6 1825
lorn Dec. 12, 1820
Died Aprll D, 1876
Died Sept. I, 18'5
Gil. B. Cleiborne______ O. G. M. Theo. G. Cockrill_S. G. W.
John W. Herville. __
G. W. Leonides E. Prett___ o. 6. M.
John B. Hewson __ _J, G. W. Fredk. F. B11r11•.__J, G. W.
James Leidley__________ G. T. James Laldley..____6. T.
Alex G. Abell____.&. S. Alex G. Ab.!f _ _ _ _ &. S.

,_s.

1869

Leonidas E. Preff___ 6. M.
Mountain SIMide No. II
Born Auc;i. 29, 1m
Died Oct. 21i, 1186
l11111c S. Titus____ o. 6. M.
John S. Werd--5. G. W.
Richard Dale
J, G. W.
James Laldley
6. T,
Alex G. Abell
6. S.

449

1878

1883

John M. Browne_ _ 6, M.
Ches. L Wiggin _o. G. M.
Wm. S. Wells ___S, G. W.
Solon W. Crelgue_J, G. W.
James Laldley
6. T.
Alex G. Abell---··-G· S.

Jonathan D. HlneS---6. t>.A.
Sen Buenaventura No. 214
Born Jan. I, 1825
Died Dec. 30, 1886
Wiley J. Tlnnin ___ o. 6. M.
Edm. C. Atkinson_.S. G. W.
Hiram N. Rucker. ___J, G. W.
Moses Heller
6. T.
Alex G. Abell
6. S.

1877

John M. Browne.___ G. M.
1870
Leonrdes E. Pratt__ _&. M. Ches. L Wiggin _o. G. M.
1884
lseec S. Titus_ _o. G. M. Wm. W. Treylor-S. G. W. Jonathan D. Hines____ &. M.
11. Cran•----'· G. W.
Ch111. L Wlggln_S. G. W. Wm.
Moses Heller
6. T. Wiley J. Tlnnln ___ o. G. M.
Benf. H. Freemen_J, G. W. Alex G. Abell_ _ _ _ &.
S. Edm. C. Atkln1on ___S, G. W.
James Laldley_ _ _ _ G. T,
Hiram N. Rucker._..J. G. W.
~lex G. A9efl._ _ _ _6. S.
1878
Moses Heller
6. T.
John M. Browne___G, M. Alex G. Abell
6. S.
1871
Leonidas E. Pratt_ _&. M. Wm. W. Treylor_ _o. G. M.
Ch111. L Wiggin __ o. G. M. Wm. H. Crene--5. G. W.
1885
Ben. H. Freeman ____s. G. W. Robt. C. Broder_ _J, G. W. Wiley J. Tlnnln ____ 6. M.
Geo. C. Perkin1.._..J. G. W. Moses Heller
6. T.
Trinity No. 'D
James Leldley_ _ _ _ G. T. Alex G. Abell
6. S.
Born Oct. 7 1829
Died Nov. 24, 1910
Alex G. Abell_. _ _6. S:
Edm. C. Atkinson_.D. 6. M.
1879
1872
William W. Treylor__G, M. Hiram N. Rucker-S. G. W.
Leonides E. Prett_ _ G. M.
Henry H. Knepp _ _J. 6. W.
Cellfomle No. I
Bom March 17, 1m
Benj. H. Freemen_•._O. G. M.
Nathan W Spaulding _G. T.
Died Jan. II, 11181
6eo. C. Perklns__ s. G. W.
Samuel C. Denson ___ o, 6. M. Alex G. Abell.---··---6· S.
John M. Browne.--l. 6. W.
Clay W. Teylor__s. G. W.
James Laidley
6. T.
John Q. Adems.__J, G. W.
1888
Alex G. Abell
G. S.
Moses Heller.
6. T. Edmund C. Atklnson._..G. M.
Alex G. Abell
_6. S.
Sacram•nto No. 40
1873
lorn Nov. 17 1137
lsHc S. TltuL _______ .._e;, M.
Died March 2o, ltll
Sen Joaquin No. It
1880
Hiram N. Rucker______ O. G. M.
Born Od. 14 1127
Samuel C. Denson _______ ,G, M. Morris M. Estee___ s. G. W.
Died Aprll tt, 1192
Union No. 58
Geo. C. Perklns...____ O, G. M.
Alveh R. Conkfin _____J, G. W.
Born Sept. 23, 1839
Jno. M. Browne....-S. G. W.
Died July 26, 1917
Nathan W Spaulding _6. T.
Ches. E. Mitchell __J. G. W. Clay W. Taylor_____ o. G. M. Alex G. Abell-----···--6. S.
James Leldley
6, T. John Q. Adams _______ S, G. W.
Alex G. Abell
6. S. 0. W. HollenbecLJ. G. W.
1887
Moses Heller
6. T.
1874
Alex G. Abell_____&. S. Hiram N. Rucker - - 6 . M.
La &ranc;ie No. 9t
George C. Perklns___ G. M.
Born S•pt. 6, 1844
Orovllle No. IOI
1881
Died Dec. 13, 1905
Born Allfll. 23, 1139
Clay W. Taylor ______________ G. M. Morris M. Estee___ o. G. M.
Died Feli. 26, 1923
Westem Star No. 2
John M. Browne_O. 6. M.
Alveh R. Conklin __..S. 6. W
Born Sept. I0 1844
Wm. B. Parke~--s. 6. W.
Wm. Johnston _ _J. 6. W.
Died May I, 1897
Wiley J. Tinnln._ _J. G. W. John Q. Adams________O. G. M. Nathan W Speuldlng _6. T.
J11me1 Laldley
6. T. Jonathan D. Hln-s. G. W. Alex G. Abelf...________ 6. S.
Alex G. Abell
_6. S. Tho1. J. Bower1-_..J. G. W.
Moses Heller _ _ _ _6, T.
1888
1875
John M. Browne __________ G. M. Alex G. AbefL._ _ _ 6. S. Morris M. Estee--6. M.
Naval No. 87
Cellfomla No. I
1882
Born May 10, 18!1
Born Nov. Jl, 1814
Clay W. Teylor____.6. M.
Died D•c. 7, 1894
Died Oct. 7, 190J
Ch111. L Wiggin ______ o. G. M. Jonathan D. HineL._.D. G. M. Alveh R. Conklln_.D. 6. M.
Wiley J. Tlnnin ________s. G. W. Edm. C. Atkln1on--5. G. W. Willlem Johnston._$. G. W.
Jacob H. Nelf..___J. G. W. George Hlnd1__J 6. W. Mere. D. Boruck_ __J. G. W.
James L..ldley.____ 6. T. Moses Heller
6. T. Nathan W Spaulding _6. T.
Alex 6. Abell_ _ _ _$, S. Alex G. AbelL.--...6. S. Ale• 6. Abell__
6. S.

450

PROCEED INGS OP THE

1889

1895

Morris t.4. Est.._ _6. M. Edward M. Preston_...6. M.
Nevada No. 13
Willlem Johnston _D. G. M.
Born May 4 1841
ChH. R. Gritmen --5. G. W.
Died Apiil 24, 1903
Henry S. Orme_ J. G. W. Wm. T. Luces _ _ O. 6. M.
Nathan W Spaulding _G. T. ThomH Flint._ _ 5 , G. W.
Alex G. Abell ____ G. S. F. M. Angello ttL_J, 6. W.
Edward Coleman...__.G. T.
George Johnson _ 6 . S.
1890

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA

1901
William S. Wells....6. M.
Martinez No. 41
Born J ..... 24, 1861
Died Jan. 23, 1919
O. S. Hendeno n_D. G. M.
Ches. W. Nutting -5. G. W.
Geo. W. Hunter _J. 6. W.
Edward Colemen.___ G. T.
George Johnson _ _6. S.
Wm. H. Edwerds___ ..G. L

Alvah R. Conklin ___..G. M.
1896
1902
Inyo No. 221
William T. Luces.------·G· M. Orrin S. Hendenon ___ .G. M.
Born 1835
Morning Star No. 68
&uadalupe No, 237
Died Oct. I, 1897
Born June 2, 1863
Born March 18, 1850
William Johnston _.D. G. M.
Died June 25, 1940
Died March 21, 1931
Ch ... R. Gritman....S. G. W. Thomas Flint...........-D. G. M. Ches. W. Nutting .._O. G. M.
Henry S. Orme.____J, G. W. F. M. Angellot tl._.S, G. W. Geo. W. Hunter._ .S. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding _G. T. Ches. L Petton...-J. G. W. Motley H. Rint. ___J. G. W.
George Johnson __...G. S. Edward Colemen...__.6, T. Edward Colemen...._ ....G. T.
George Johnson _ _6 , S. George Johnson _ _ G. S.
Wm. H. Edwerd• ·-·-··6· L.
1891
1897
1903
William Johnston ___G. M.
Thomes Rint _
6. M. Charles W. Nutting ____ &, M.
Franklin No. 143
Texas
No. 46
Evening Star No. 186
Born June 2, 1825
Born May 19 1858
Born Oct. J, I 852
Died Nov. 14, 1905
Died
Nov.
16,
Died Sept, 20, 1917
1936
ChH R. Gritman -D. G. M.
Geo. W. Hunter _.... D. 6. M.
Henry S. Orme __$, G. W. F. M. Angellot tL-.. D. G. M. Motely
H. Flint
Jes. B. Stevens._. __J, G. W. Ches L Petton.__s. G. W. Edw. H. Hert _____ s. G. W.
___J. G. W.
Jes.
A.
Foshey_
_.I.
G.
W.
Nathan W Spaulding _6. T.
George Johnson _____6. S. Edward Colemen ___G, T. Edward Colemen _ _ G. T.
George Johnson __...&. '), George Johnson _ _ 6. S.
Wm. H. Edwerds _ _G. L

1892

Charles R. Gritman _.G. M.
Yount No. 12
lorn Dec. 10, 1838
Died May 14, 1894
Henry S. Orme __ o. G. M.
Jes. B. Stevens.•- ......S. G. W.
Edw. M. PrHton....- ..J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding _6. T.
George Johnson ____6, S.

1893

1898

1904

Frank M. Angellot tl_.6. M. George W. Hunter.-..6. M.
Marin No. 191
Humboldt No. 7'
Born Sept. 4, 1861
Born 1854
Died May 23, 1932
Died Oct. 14, 1921
Chas. L Petton _o. G. M. Motley H. Flint..-D. G. M.
Jes. A. Foshay..-5. G. W. Edw. H. HerL..........S. G. W.
Wm. s. Wells.._ _.J. G. w. Geo. M. Perine __J. G. W.
Edward Colemen _ _G. T. Edward Colemen..___6. T.
George Johnson _ 6 . S. George Johnson ___6. S.
Wm. H. Edwards..____6. L

1899

1905

1907

George M. Perine._•.•..6. M.
hclflc No. Iii
lorn 1852
Died Oct. 6, 1'33
Reuben H. Uoyd ...... D. G. M.
Oscar Lawler___s. G. W.
W. Frenk Pierce.__J. 6. W.
Edward Coleman._ _ G. T.
George Johnson _ _ 6. S.
Thomas J. Baker____ G. L

1908

Oscar Lawler
..
6. M.
East 6ate No. 290
Bom April 2, 1811
W. Frank Pierce........ D. G. M.
Dana R. Weller ----5. G. W.
A. J. Monroe.._ _J. G. W.
Edward Coleman...___G. T.
John Whicher.____ s. S.
Thomas J. Beker_ _ _s. L.

1909
W. Frank Pierce..·--·-··G. M.
Oakland No. 1•
Bom Jan. 16, 1855
Died Oct. J, 1910
Dana R. Weller ....•...0. G. M.
A. J. Monroe ._.....S. G. W.
Wm. P. Filmer _ _J. G. W.
Edward Coleman ..___ G, T.
John Whicher__________G. S.
Thomas J. Baker_ _ _ G. L

1910

Dana R. Weller___..........G. M.
So. Callfomla No. 278
Bom March 24, 1874
Died Jan. t, 1947
A. J. Monroe___ o. G. M.
Wm. P. Filmer. __ s. G. W.
J. D. Murphey __.I. G. W.
Edward Coleman____&. T.
John Whicher_____6. S.
Thomas J. Baker_. _ _ G. L.

1911

Henry S. Orme______G, M.
So. California No. 278
Born March 25 1837
Died Nov. 29, \912
J ... B. Stevens__ .D. G. M.
Edw. M. Preston ........S. G. W.
Wm. T. Lucas..-...J. G. W.
Edward Coleman..____.G. T.
George Johnson __...6. S.

Charles L Patton .......•..G. M. Motley H. Flint.......- ..G. M.
California No. I
East &ate No. 290
Born 1865
Born Feb, It, 1161
Died April II, ltn
Died July 14, 1930
Jes. A. Foshay.. _...... D. G. M. Edward H. Hert•. _ ... D. G. M.
Wm. S. Wells__ _s. G. W. Geo. M. Perine..._.S. G. W.
0. S. Hendeno n.-.•.J. G. W. Reuben H. Lloyd._.J. G. W.
Edward Colemen____&. T. Edward Colemen ___ G. T.
George Johnson ___&. S. George Johnson ___6. S.
Wm. H. Edwerds....___G. L

Alonzo J. Monroe ..____G, M.
Humboldt No. 7t
Born Oct. 19 1858
Died June 14,1 1922
Wm. P. Filmer______ D. G. M.
J. D. Murphey ___s. G. W.
Benj. F. Bledsoe........J. G. W.
Edward Coleman ____ G. T.
John Whicher_______G. S.
Thomas J. Baker..............6. L.

1894

James A. Foshey.....•......G. M. Edward H. Hert ...- .. G. M.
So. California No. 271
Live Oak No.61
Born Nov. 21, 1856
Born 1858
Died Jan. 14, 1914
Died Sept. 26, 1917
Wm. S. Wells.....- ...0. G. M. Geo. M. Perlne........D. 6. M.
0. S. Hendenon _S. G. W. Reuben H. Uoyd._.S, G. W.
Chas. W. Nutting....J. 6. W. Oscar Lawler __.J. (;. W.
Edward Colemen.._ _ G. T. Edward Coleman .....-.G• T.
George Johnson ____G. S. George Johnson ___6. S.
Wm. H. Edwards...- ...-.G· L Wm. H. Edwards ____&. L

Wm. P. Filmer................G. M.
King Solomon No. 260
Born March 2, 1866
Died Nov. 22, 1942
Jno. D. Murphey...... D. G. M.
Benj. F. Bledsoe........S. G. W.
Alb. G. Bumett _· _J. G. W.
Edward Coleman _____ G. T.
John Whicher______s. S.
Thomas J. Beker_____&. L

James B. Stevens _ ....G. M.
Yount No. 12
Born March 27; 1841
Died Dec. 6, I 19
Edw. M. Preston.___ o. G. M.
Thomas RinL ____J, G. W.
Wm. T. Lucas.......-.S· G. W.
Edward Coleman____G, T.
George Johnson ___6. S.

1900

1906

1912

1913
John D. Murph•Y··-····-G. M.
Alta No. 3l3
Born July 7, 1863
Died Sept. 15, 1'41
Benj. F. Bledsoe.. _._D. G. M.
Alb. G. Burnett___ s. G. W.
F. V. KeHling ......•_ ..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.•___ G. T.
John Whicher______ G. S.
Thomas J. Baker._____ G, L

1914
Benj. F. Bledsoe ··-·-···-6· M.
San Bernardino No, 141
lorn Feb. I, 1874
Died Oct. JO, 1931
Alb. G. Burnett. __ o. G. M.
F. V. Keesling _____s. G. W.
W. Rh. Hervey.._...J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.. ___ G. T.
John Whicher.._. ___6. S.
Thomas J. Baker._______ G. L

451

1919

Charles Albert Adams..6. M.
&celslor No. 166
lorn No•. 21, 1867
Geo. F. Rodden .. _D, G. M.
Sam. E. Burke___s. 6. W.
Wm. A. Sherman _J. 6. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer___ G. T.
John Whicher
6. S.
Thomas J. Baker.___ G. L

1920

George F. Rodden ........G. M.
Marin No. 191
Born Dec.24, 1867
Died March 8, 1934
Sam. E. Burke............ D. G. M.
Wm. A. Sherman._..S. 6. W.
Arthur S. Crites._ J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher_____ s. S.
Thomas J. Baker___..- .. G. L

1921

1915

Samuel E. Burke.-..- ..G. M.
SunsetNo.352
Born Feb. IJ, 1870
Wm. A. Shermen.._.D, G. M.
Arthur S. Crites........S. G. W.
David J. Reese...•.__.J, G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...--..6. T.
John Whicher......._. ____ 6, S.
Thomas J. Baker...- - G · L

1916

William A. Sherman ......&. M.
Presidio No. 354
lom Sept. 17, 1880
Died Feb. 19, 1940
Arthur S. Crites--... D. G. M.
David J. Reese....._ ..S. G. W.
Alb. E. Boynton .._.J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.-·-···G. T.
John Whicher____s. S.
Thomas J. Baker.________ G. L

Albert G. Burnett..........&. W.
Santa Rosa No. 57
Born April 9, 1856
Died Aug. 15, 1923
F. V. Keesling ............ D. G. M.
Wm. Rh. Hervey......S. G. W.
Bradford Webster._.J, G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...•....•.G. T.
John Whicher_ _ _s. S.
Thomas J. Baker......•..- ... G. L
Francis V. Keesling _____ G. M.
California No. I
Born Feb. 17, 1877
Wm. Rh. Hervey...... D. 6. M.
Bradford Webster....S. G. W.
Charles A. Adams....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...•.-6. T.
John Whicher. ·-···--·-··· 6. S.
Thomas J. Baker... ____ <;, L.

1917

Wm. Rhodes Hervey_ G. M.
Pentalpha No. 202
Born March 26, 1870
Died Feb. I, 1953
Bradford Webster•... D. G. M.
Charles A. Adems....S. G. W.
Geo. F. Rodden ........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.•.•- ...<:;. T.
John Whicher______ G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.........-_.G. L.

1918

Bradford Webster ........G. M.
Live Oak No, 61
Born Dec. 14, 1869
Died June 4, 1941
Charles A. Adems.••. D. G. M.
Geo. F. Rodden .._.S, G. W.
Sam. E. Burke..._. ___J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer___c;;, T.
John Whicher..______ G, S.
Thomas J. Beker_ _ _6. L

1922

1923
Arthur S. Crites ····--··-G. M.
Bakenfleld No. 224
Born Feb. 4. 1879
Died Apr. 28, 1957
David J. Rees•-·-·-···D. G. M.
Alb. E. Boynton _____S, G. W.
Geo. L. Jones...•........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer....___ &. T.
John Whicher._______ 6. S.
Thomas J. Baker..........__ G. L.

1924

David J. Reese..............G. M.
Sen Buenaventura No. 214
Born Aug. 22, 1871
Died Nov. 9, 1934
Alb. E. Boynton..- .•.. 0. G. M.
Geo. L Jones __ __s. G. W.
Will H. Fischer..- ..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer- -.G· T.
John Whicher.
6. S.
Thomas J. Baker- --6• L

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

452

453

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1943
1925

1931

1937

Albert E. BoJcnton _ _c;. M. Robt. B. Gaylorcf_ _ c;, M. Jem" T. FrHer___..6. M.
Humboldt No. 79
Orovllle o.IOI
Oakland No. 188
Born Au9. 21, 1861
lorn Oct. ~1871
Bom Nov. 24, 1171
Died June 26, 19D
Died Feb.
1'41
Died Au9. 4, 1953
Geo. L JoneL.--.D. 6. M. Frank W. Mixter-D. 6. M. Leon 0. Whlhell._.D. 6. M.
Will H. R1cher_ _5, G. W. James B. Gist-S. G. W. William H. Waste__s. G. W.
6u1. A. Huteff___J. G. W. Wm. A. Sitton.___•.J, G. W. William B. Ogden....J. 6. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer_ _ c;, T. Wm. Parker Filmer_ _ G, T. Wm. Parker Filmer--····6. T.
John Whicher_____ c;, S.
John Whlcher_ _ _ _ G. S. John Whlcher.
6.S.
Thomas J. Baker_ _ _ G. L. ThomH J. Baker_ _ _ c;, L Leslie E. Wood ______ c;, L

1928

1930

1950

1933

1939

Lawrence C. Kelley...... G. M. Louis C. Dra~eau .....•__Q, M.
PolnHttla o. W
Pentelphe No. 202
Born AIHJ. 30, 1185
Born July 23.C 1889
Died Oct. 2 , 1946
Arthur M. Werren .. D. G, M
Arthur W. Brouillet...... G. M. Frank Harwell, Jr-S. G. W
Park No.449
Henry C. Cleusen.. _J, G. W.
Born Jan. 21, 1114
Francis V. KHsling ..--6. T.
Died Sept. 18, 1953
John R. Moore.._.S, G. W. Lloyd E. Wilson .....•........6. S.
Francis V. Kee11lng __ c;, T. Walter H. E. von Konsky G. L.
Uoyd E. Wil1on. _ _G, S.
1952
Chester H. Warlow__ c;, L
Arthur M. Werren ........6. M.
1948
Mt. Davidson No. 481
John R. Moor•··-···--···G. M.
Born December 27, 1901
Meridian No. 6'7
Frank Harwell, Jr-... D. G. M.
lom Sept. lift
Chester H. Warlow.. D. G. M. Henry C. Clausen....S. G. W.
Edward H. Slems._.S, G. W. Edgar V. Stewert, Jr. J. 6. W.
Ellsworth Meyer..- ...J. 6. W. Francis V. Keesllng ...- ..6. T.
Francis V. KHsllng._..6. T. Lloyd E. Wilson-....•.._._6, S.
Uoyd E. Wllson ____ G. S. Elbert W. Devis ____ c;, L
Arthur M. Warren.___ G. L.
1953

1934

Hollywood No. 355
Born Au9. 26, 1876
Died Sept. 12, 1954
Lloyd E. Wilson.-..... D. 6. M.
Frank M. Smith.__s. 6. W.
Leslie E. Wood ___..•J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.....- ... 6. T.
John Whlcher________ c;, S.
Walter Leonerd ____.......G. L

1940

Gustav A. Huteff.......... 6. M. Randolph V. Whltlnt,.. 6. M. Uoyd E. Wllson ... ___..... G. M.
Kln9 Solomon No.
Dunsmuir No. '2'f1
ln9l•lde No. 630
Born Nov. 30 1870
Born Oct. 5, 1879
Born Au9. 16, 1895
Died Feb. 4, \9s1
Died Oct. 17, 1931
C. M. Wollenberg .... D. G. M. Earl Werren ...____ ... D. G. M. Frank M. Smith.-...... D. 6. M.
Leslie E. Wood .•......S. G. W.
J. S. Ross--···-·---5• G. W. Rollie W. Miller •._....S. G. W. Claude
H. Morrison ..J. G. W.
Robt. B. Geylord_J, 6. W. James T. Freser...._.J. 6. W.
Wm. Parker Rlmer___ G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer___ G, T. Wm. Parker Fllmer..--···6. T.
John Whlc:her_ _ _ _ G. S. John Whlcher_____c;, S. John Whlc:her_ ....·-···-···6. S.
Thomes J. Baker_ _ _ G. L Leslie E. Wood·-···-····-6. L. Welter Leonard_.._ ...6. L
C. M. Wollenb•JJ.j·-···6· M.
Sterr Kln9 No.
Born MaRli IJ, Im
John S. Ross..·-···-··D. 6. M.
Robt. B. Gaylord__ ..S. 6. W.
Frank W. Mirier.__..J. 6. W.
Wm. Parker Rlmer..._ ... 6. T.
John Whlc:her
6.S.
Thomes J. Beker.______ c;, L

1944

Gilbert C. DeForest......G. M. Arthur Paulsen _ _ 6, M.
Raadln9 No. :154
Trlnl\ No. r1
Born Sept. II, 1189
Born er 4, 1890
Died Jen. 25, 1952
Louis C. Drapeau .._.D, 6. M.
Lawrence C. Kelley .. D. G. M. Arthur M. Warren ....S. G. W.
Arthur W. Broulllet..S. 6. W. Frank
Jr-.J. G. W.
John R. Moore___J, G. W. FrancisHarwell,
V. KeHllng ..__ c;, T.
Francis V. Kee1llng __ G, T. Uoyd E. Wi11on ..._ _ c;, S.
Uoyd E. Wllson ..___6. S. Welter
H. E. von Konslty 6.L.
Chester H. Werlow..•..-.G· L

Wilshire No. 445
Pentalphe No. 202
lorn Sept. II, 1871
Born Au9. 8, 1868
Died Aprll 25, 1954
Died Oct. 4, 19D
Gus. A. HutefJ..____ o. 6. M. R. V. Whiting._....-.D. 6. M.
C. M. Wollenberg .._S. 6. W. Earl Warren. _ _$. G. W.
J. S. Rou.-.......___J. 6. W. Rollie W. Miller_.J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer._ _ 6, T. Wm. Parker Filmer______ G. T.
John Whicher_
6.S. John Whlcher
.G.S.
Thomes J. Beker_ _ _ c;, L ThomH J. Beker. ___ G. L

1929

1955
Ed~ V. Stewert, Jr--.6.M.

1938

Wiii H. Flscher...____ c;. M. James B. Gist.._..•..- ..... 6. M. William B. Ogden...- ... G. M.

1928

1949
Ellsworth Meyer ............ 6. M.
liberal Arb No. 677
Born Feb. rl, l'IOI
Arthur Paulsen.......... D. G. M.
Louis E. Drapeau......S. G. W.
Arthur M. Warren ....J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ...- ..G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .............. G. S.
Walter H. E. von Konslty G.L

1932

George L Jones. ___ G. M. Frank W. Mlxtar_____ G, M. Leon 0. Whihell..____ c;, M.
Medlaon No. D
&eterNo.424
OranJ• 6rove No. 293
Born Mer II, l&n
Born ulr ID, 1876
lorn Dec. JO, 1m
Died June 22, 1956
Died Mey 22, 1947
William H. Waste_D. G. M.
Will H. Fischer_D. G. M. Jam•• B. 6ist____ O. G. M. William 8. Ogden_S. G. W.
Gui. A. Hutaff.____s. G. W. Wm. A. Sltton.._. ___s. G. W. Uoyd E. Wilson ___..J. G. W.
C. M. Wollenberg....J. 6. W. R. V. Whlting._ _J, ~. W. Wm. Parker Filmer-......6. T.
Wm. Parker Filmer_______ G. T. Wm. Parker Film•r-•..6. T. John Whicher.________ c;, S.
John Whicher_ _ _ _ G. S. John Whicher_____ c;, S. Leslie E. Wood _ _ _c;, L
Thomes J. Beker____G. L Thomes J. Beker_ _ _ c;, L

1927

Claude H. Morri1on .. _.6. M.
S.n Dl~o No. 35
lom Ju y 10, 1117
Died Nov. 2, 1953
Gilbert C. DeForest.. D. 6. M.
L..wrence C. Kelley..S. G. W.
Arthur W. Brouillet..J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling._.6. l.
Uoyd E. Wi11on ____ 6. S.
Chester H. Warlow__c;. L.

1935

1941

M. Smith ........- ...6. M.
Earl Werren.·-······-·······6. M. Frank
East 6ate No. 290
S.quole No. 349
Born April I, 18M
Bom March 19, 1891
Died AprU 7, 1951
Rollie W. Miller-.. D. G. M.
Leslie
E. Wood .......... D. 6. M.
James T. Fraser....._.S. G. W.
Leon 0. Whihell.._..J. G. W. Claude H. Morrison ..S. 6. W.
Wm. Parker Rimer.. ___ <;, T. 6. C. DeForest...•.•..J. 6. W.
Parker Filmer..- ..-G. T.
John Whic:her._ _ _G. S. Wm.
Uoyd E. Wllson _______ c;. S.
Leslie E. Wood ...·-···-·6. L Chester
H. Werlow....._.6. L

1936

John Stewert Ross ........ G. M. Rollie W. Miller.·-····-··6. M.
El Centro No. 184
Sunset No. 352
lom Mey 21 1879
lom Oct. 17, 1813
Died AIHJ. 31, 1951
Died July 18, 1960
Robt. B. Gaylord ...... D. 6. M. James T. Fraser._._.D. 6. M.
Frank W. Mirier........S. 6. W. Leon 0. WhihelL-..S. 6. W.
James B. 61.+..___J, 6. W. William H. Weste ....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Rlmer..- . 6 . T. Wm. Parker Filmer.___(;. T.
John Whlcher
6.5. John Whic:her._____c;, S.
Thom• J. Baker_ _ _ c;, L Leslie E. Wood ____c;, L

1942
Leslie E. Wood.-...........6. M.
Provident No. 609
lorn April 2, 1897
Claude H. Morrlson .. D. 6. M.
Gilbert C. DeForest..S. 6. W.
Lawrence C. Kelley..J. 6. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer._ _ 6, T.
Uoyd E. Wllson ..----6• S.
Chester H. Warlow____ &. L

1945

1951

1947

Frank Harwell, Jr•........6. M.
Chester H. Werlow......6. M.
Baverg Hilla No. 528
Fr•no No.m
Born ctober 4, 1898
lorn June 30, lat
Henry C. Cleusen .... D. G. M.
Edward H. Siems...... D. G. M.
Ellsworth Meyer_____S, 6. W. Edger V. Stewart, Jr-S. G. W.
L Herold Andenon ..J.6. W.
Arthur Paulsen....- ..J. 6. W. Francis V. Keesling. ___ c;, T.
Francis V. Keesllng. ___ c;, T. Lloyd E. Wilson ____c;, S.
Uoyd E. Wll1on ____ G. S. Elbert W. Devl1.._ _c;,
L
Arthur M. Werren ..__ 6, L.

1948

1954

Edward H. Siems..........G. M. Henry C. Cleusen..- .....6.M.
ln9l•lde No. 630
Plymouth No. 560
Born June 30, 190&
Born December 7, 1903
Ellsworth Meyer........ D. G. M. Edger V. Stewert, Jr•.. D.6.M.j
Arthur Peulsen .......... S. 6. W. L Herold Anderson._.S.G.W.
Louis C. Drepeeu ___J, 6. W. Leo E. Anderson ....... _.J.6.W.
Francis V. Ke"ling._....6. T. Edward H. Siems.....·-·-···G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ...- ....6. S. Lloyd E. Wil1on ..__________ 6.S.
Arthur M. Warren ..- .. 6. L Elbert W. Devls.. _____6.L

yel'b No. 129
Born ct. 3, 1901
L Harold Andenon_D.G.M.
Leo E. Anderson ...- ...S.G.W
Phil N. Myers ........___J.s.w:
Edward H. Siems.....___ 6,T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ................G.S.
Elbert W. Davis.......___6.L

1956
L Harold Andenon __G,M.
Pelo Alto No. 346
Born March 29, l'lOO
Leo E. Anderson .•._ ..D.G.M.
Phil N. Myen...·-·-····S.G.W.
Joe L Shell.._____J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems...- .........G.T.
Uoyd E. Wilson_·-···-·--6.S.
Elbert W. Devi1___.......-.6.L

1957
Leo E. Anderson ............G.M.
Hollywood No. 355
Born February 20 1902
Phil N. Myers......'.-... 0.G.M.
Joe L Shell................S.G.W.
Alfred F. Breslauer...... J.G.W.
Edwud H. Siems..._ _ G,T.
Uoyd E. Wilson_________ c;.s.
Elbert W. Devl1...- ...._ ...6.L

1958
PhilMN. Myers ..................G.M.
cCloud Lod9e No. 430
J Born, January 12, 1897
oe L Shell.........._. ____ O.G.M.
Alfred F. Breslauer... _.S.G.W.
Guy B. Mize...·-···--···J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems... _____6,T.
Lloyd E. Wllson ...._____.6,S.
Elbert W. DeviL..-···--···6.L

1959
Joe L Shell.......- .............G.M.
Sen Dle90 No. 35
Born February 18 1892
Alfred F. Bresleue;...... 0.6.M.
Guy B. Mize...•............S.6.W.
Ire W. Cobum ............J.6.W.
Edward H. Siems............-6.T.
Uoyd E. Wilson .........._....6.S.
Ebert W. D11vi1--.-6.L

1960
Alfred F. Breslauer..._____ 6.M.
Sterr Kin9 No. 144
Born Au9ust 26, 1898
Guy B. Mize................ 0.6.M.
Ira W. Coburn ............S.6.W.
Elmer W. Heald...- .....J.G.W.
Arthur M. Warren ............G.T.
Edward H. Siems-............ G.S.
Donald G. CempbeH........6.L.

454

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ln.apectort

UST OF INSPECTORS
ln.apector1

Dal• of Commi.,ion

Didrica

Clarence L. Fraser...--......--··---·····-··.December, 1927......·-··········-..·--···424
Wm. S. Thompson....- ..-··--····---··-··--··-..March, 1928.•·-··-··-··---·---···412
Niles O. Millar..·--···-·······-··-····-·..·-··-········-···July, 1932·-······-······-······-···346
Herbert R. Hargrave......- ..- ...............September 15, 1934...•..•- ..................- ..418
John Behrens ............................................January .2, 1935...............................JS78
Samuel Dollar ...................................___...December, 1935..........- ...................416
Willard G. Babcock.............. _ ............January 10, 1936................................616
Carl F. Peters.........................._ .............November 1, 1936................................534
George S. Viard..........................................January 1, 1937................................104
Fred Weed..................................................September, 1938................................642
Guido de Ghetaldi.. ......................................October, 1938................................306
Roy H. Lenthall.............................................January, 1939.......-·---··----·SM
Harold S. .Morrison-..........................-.December !, 1940.--..- .......................512
Ellner .114. Hopper...- ..........................- ............May 10, 1943................................304
.Melvin R. Berbower... _..............- .....November 10, 1943................................624
Frederic E. Clark..--··-········-···-··--··-.January 26, 1944........................-·-···530
James B. Lawson...- ............................._ ....l\4arch 6, 1945...........-··-··-..·-·-···426
Arch Balchin......_..... _ ...--..-·.--..- -...March 27, 1945..·-·-··--····-··-··--·392
Edward C. Lohmeyer........... _...........September 27, 1945................................322
Alexander Duncan...- .................................October 9, 1945...- .............. _, .........301
Robert W. Nicol.._ _............. _ ...........October 24, 1945................................612
W. Ralph Anderson.....................- .......November 4, 1946................................360
Frank W. Johnson...- ..................- ...November 21, 1946..- ...........- ..............544
Stephen E. Skidmore.........- ............- ......_...April 7, 1947..................- ...........608
Fred C. Pritschke...- ................- ...................April 7, 1847.......................- .......428
Russell Northrop...._ ...................._ .. .December 20, 1947·--···-··....................524
Frank R. Killinger, Jr........................ .December 29, 1947................................366
Howard S. Kaulbach........................... .December 29, 1947................................368
Roy T. Kiele....................................................April 22, 1948................................sa
Elmer Glen Van Tassell. ...................September 11, 1948................................112
Reginald Reynolds ................................November 5, 1948................................108
Louis H. Mahl~........................................January 31, 1949•.- ...........................520
Orin Compton................................. _.._...February 9, 1949................................420
John A. Owen............._ ..........-·-··-··--··-.May 16, 1949..................- ......- ..550
Chas. A. Thomasset.............- .........................June 28, 1949...........................- ..570
Wilson Ernest Lathrop..............................October 1, 1949...............- ...............410
Robert H. Taylor....................................November 7, 1949................................348
Earl Caldwell. ...........................................January 16, 1950................................324
Delbert E. Luck. ............................................ .April 14, 1950................................406
Elmer R. Lotz..................................................April 14, 1950.......- -...................522
Elvin C. Drake ..............................................April 14, 1950................................526
Anson McArthur.................................................May 8, 1950•.•-··············-·····-···552
Chas. W. Lunsford... _ ................................_ ..May 8, 1950.-.............................556
Martin 0. Veland.........................................- ..May 8, 1950................................1558
Paul Thompson......... _ .........._............- ..- .....May 8, 1950...- .............. _...........1562
Hugh D. Good....................................................May 8, 1950................................638
Ted R. Siems......................................................May 8, 1950...........- ...................614
Leland E. Wallace................................September 7, 1950................................204
Frank W. Raddatz................................November 24, 1950................................546
Joseph Myron Ruggiero ................... .December 21, 1950................................332
Guy S. Harts, Sr...................................December 21, 1950................................508
J. Ralph Dawdy........................................January 26, 1951................................422
Andre L. Armand ....................................January 26, 1951 ................................376
George H. OlmstecL. ...............................October 18, 1951................................216
Reginald Bunce........................................October 23, 195L..............................5415
Ballard White, Jr...................................December 12, 1951................................120

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

455

Date of Commilrion

Di.trice

~~!cl11~· ~tanl~f..................................February 7, 1952................................636
L
A Bi artrldge....................._ .•..•- ••.March 31, 1952................................502
Erm d.F ackmun......................................March 31, 1952................................503
B war
arley..................................................May 12, 1952...............................208
Hurrell Clifford Jull...._____,,_,..................May 12, 1952..........................:....-212
Fr
L~ Widup...........--···-.............November 10, 1952...................- ...........344
He
it ~:n...- ..............- -.............January 1, 1953................................618
p~
·-·-··-··-··-.......March 2, 1953...............- ...............644
Sa A. Hackler.-------...-................ .March 26, 1953...........................- ...330
S::uil Steelman. ..- ...- ............................... .April 17, 1953...........................- ...528
R b ovell..- ..- ................................- ...........June 25, 1953................................214
Ro ert Edgar.............................-................August 27, 1953................................384.
Jay Earl B':11'dg..........................-...........September 5, 1953..................._,_,.,,...217
E~fs E. Finley............. _..........-.....- ......October 10, 1953................................328
J. hnoll/anson..........................................January 1, 1954................................350
Ro
· erguson. .......................................January 1, 1954................................622
Mih111o~ Glenn Hollar...- .........................January 1, 1954...............................-220
G dn
Sharp..................................February 1, 1954................................210
CWb~~ S h~~r.ff ............................... .February 10, 1954................................514
W
H cF" 0 ...................................... March 12, 1954................................402
11aVlaik isk~..........................................March 12, 1954................................404
Frad
h M T~r 'fua1tman..................................Apr~l 19, 1954................................518
N gb rt 'p PP g............................................April 19, 1954................................568
of~
L. eter Tester......................................June 30, 1954................................646
Ra
• . ink............................................November 17, 1954................................215
p t;;mih·w·········..................................December 15, 1954................................554
er . ~ ..........................................January 7, 1955................................222
AlareAc~C. ~m1th ...................................... January 7, 1955................................364
H va D an1ells........................................January 13, 1955................................427
~as.;;ner= ................................ _...February 14, 1955................................504
Ad ITH. ~ouillard......................................April 8, 1955................................116
Ed 0 P d · ~zen. ...........................................May 1, 1955................................336
LC. Will ..:............................................July 14, 1955................................367
eroy Sutliff......................................August 9, 1955................................567
l ~-~oo!e ................................................October 3, 1955................................432
JaP
. H!f1ds..........................................October 29, 1955................................318
H~es 1M:Miles ...:......................................December 9, 1955...................- ...........549
C~c yr fiDd. M!Jll'..................................December 15, 1955................................382
es Me Mr1ck Chapman....................January 6, 1956................................560
wru~am w· cKenney..............................January 6, 1956................................430
Fr iam Gaters Shugart ..........................January 6, 1956................................431
H ee}d8F eorge Sanders......................J anuary 20, 1956................................394
A arBird · Trafton..........................................April 24, 1956................................388
M. .
~ross ...};f .............................................May 20, 1956..........._..........- .......629
D ar~or Klrl!Ce yers......................................May 20, 1956................................118
J an1eh L eunan ..............................................July 16, 1956...........................-411
Eos~ B O~sley............. _.............................July 16, 1956................................602
Fi
ss aylis..................................................July 25, 1956..............................-365
K oyd 0. ~ason ................................................July 30, 1956................................625
E elf~th ow~ll ........................................August 20, 1956................................ 605
Harb oore Vigus......................................August 23, 1956................................603
R:-i 'hrt J. Raymond ..................................August 29, 1956................................632
W P
Cutle! ........................................August 31, 1956................................516
W ahne · Dahlmg..............................September 11, 1956................................206
F"aldeT~layton ....................................November 23, 1956................................421
Lier S ompson ................................. .November 27, 1956................................538
~s ~e ~{"ayman ............................... .November 27, 1956................................539
Gewis T hur Pugh................................December 3, 1956................................510
GI or~ell :o~sD.....................................January 1, 1957................................314
Ulen a ~ cp ermoultt........................January 1, 1957................................308
ysses
rge atrop os....................January 1, 1957................................333

7

F°ff:

H:

F

cf

wW
Fr:::t:°

i8f

w·ff

'X

456

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Inspectors

Date of Commi&sion

District

George Q. Evans ......................................January 4, 1957·------·-·-·----------------519
George W. Perkins ..................................J anuary 16, 1957----------------------··------556
Walter V. DursL......................................January 17, 1957................................352
Clarence E. Shoaf....................................January 25, 1957...·--·····--··········-···316
Berrell Roberts Ries .................................... April 1, 1957..............·-·-·--····-···634
Alton T. DuRant............. ________ ......................April 18, 1957.............·-------·---··620
Sidney A. Webster..........................................May 9, 1957...............- ...............300
Lewis Hugh Field................... - .....................May 15, 1957•..- ...........................637
Winfield Scott McLees..................................May 15, 1957................... - ...........639
Riley L. Blurton....................................... .......May 24, 1957..·----··--··-·······----····628
'Frank N. Long ................................................July 31, 1957..·-··········-······--·······374
Victor Prenk ........................................ September 5, 1957................................320
James E. Bacon. ...................................December 15, 1957................................511
Arno Ragghianti.......................................January 1, 1958..·---········-··-······-···368
Philip Stembridge Hunt..........................January 1, 1958................... -··-··-···610
Lester Howard Casagrande....................January 1, 1958...........- ..····-···--·--·117
Albert A. Bryceson....................................January 1, 1958................... ____ .......110
Hugh G. Martin..............................................April 28, 1958................................227
Lloyd Arlo Countryman..........................August 13, 1958................................114
Charles L. Foster......................................January 1, 1959..........·-··-···············334
Carlton H. Rothblum................... - ...........January 1, 1959................................342
Samuel G. Clark........................................January 1, 1959................................326
Arthur L. Hughes....................................January 23, 1959................................109
Oscar J. Smith..........................................January 23, 1959................................601
Clarence Albert Wood............................February 2, 1959................................226
Alfred Johnson .........- .............................February 9, 1959................................361

Walter Kenneth Reed. .....................................March 16, 1959.............. _________ .......630
Stanley K. Coates........................................... .April 5, 1959................................310
Daniel D. Rowlands ......... _..................- .........April 6, 1959................................340
Percy W. Lindt................................................June 4, 1959........................... ___ 106
Elmer E. Ross....._...........................................June 8, 1959..............·-·---··-··-·..366
Stuart C. Williamson................................August 17, 1959................................370
Frank P. Lemen..........................................October 8, 1959................................218
Arthur Linsk ..........................................December 1, 1959................................540
Grover Cleveland Wall.. .....................December 1, 1959................................564
Claudis Thomas Shirley......................December 1, 1959................................ 566
Carl A. Halter........................................December 15, 1959................................513
Thurlan Wm. Heidner................................December 15, 1959............................... .517
William Robusch ................................December 15, 1959................................551
Charles B. Wight............................. _...December 15, 1959................................307
John W. Baker, Jr.................................December 15, 1959................................372
Ralph P. Partridge..............................December 15, 1959................................319
Charles J. Wentz..................................December 15, 1959................................626
Alfred A. Penrose......................................January 1, 1960................................224
Taubner G. Hamma ..................................January 1, 1960................................228
Gordon E. Robinson. .................................January 1, 1960................................338
James R. Young..........................................January 1, 1960................................515
John D. Dearing, Sr.................... - .............January 1, 1960................................302
Carl R. Ramsey......·--------···--··-·····--····--February 26, 1960................................362
Wendell L. Goodwin............................February 26, 1960................................532
Theodore B. Fach..........................................March 1, 1960................................548
Oscar Hubert Nelson......................................April 5, 1960................................640
William Bottorff ···-·-······-··-················-··.April 22, 1960................................536
Earl James Walker........................................April 22, 1960................................621
Frederick Bolte ................................................May 3, 1960................................385
Harry M. Michelsen........................................June 1, 1960................................337
Lee H. Buchheister....................................August 20, 1960................................390
Ray H. Paine.. ·-······-··--·--··---------···S eptember 20, 1960____________________506
George Dennis Lober................................October 4, 1960................................606

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
R.eo,,.iz.J tmtJ ift Prtd""'1l R•ltlli011s with th•
Gr-' Lotl1• of C.JifOf'ftU

Argentina:
Carlos Wilson, Grand Secty.,
Cangallo 1242, (R. 28), Buenos Aires, Argentina
Austria:
Fritz Blum. Grand Secty.,
Dorotheergasse -12,
Vienna 1, Austria
Boli't'la:
Humberto Frias Rojas, Grand Secty.,
Casilla Correo No. 554,
La Paz, Bolivia.
BrasU:

The Grand Lodge of Amazon and Acre
Joaqulm Gomes Loureiro, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal 162, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Minas Gerais
Sergio Alexandre Ivanenko, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal No. 5, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of Piaui
Ernesto Evangelista, Grand Secretary
Caixa Postal No. 10, Teresina, Piaui, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Rio de Janeiro
Mario Herdy Silva, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 2215, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, S. A.
The Grand Lodge of Santa Catarina
Janyr Godinho, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 536
Florianopolis, Santa Catarina. Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Sao Paulo
Erwin Seignemartin, Gr. Secty. Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 8348
Sao Paulo, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Lodge of the State of Ceara
Wilson Achilles da Silva, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal 76, Fortaleza, Estado do Ceara, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Para
Otto L. Hiltner, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 156, Belem, Para, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Paraiba
Napoleao Crispim, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal No. 3, Joao Pessoa, Parahyba, Brazil
The Grand Oriente of the State of Rio de Janeiro
Walter Oliveira Costa, Grand Secty., Rel Ext
Caixa Postal 122, Niteroi, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
The Grand Symbolic Lodge of Rio Grande Do Sul
Oswaldo Baucke, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 683, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil
The United Grand Lodge of Bahia
Ivo Lopes da Silva, Grand Secty.,
Rua Carlos Gomes No. 21, Salvador, Bahia, Brazil

457

458

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

Canadai
AlbertaEdward H. Rivers, Grand Secty.,
330 -12th Ave., S.W., Calgary.
British Columbia J. H. N. Morgan, Grand Secty.,
692 Seymour St., Vancouver , B. C.
Canada-(P rovince of Ontario)
Ewart G. Dixon. Grand Secty.,
P.O. Box 217, Hamilton. Ontario.
Manitoba .
Thomas C. Jackson, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Winnipeg 2, Manitoba.
New Brunswic kA. C. Lemmon, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 430, St. Johns, New Brunswick .
Nova ScottaHarold F. Sipprell, Grand Secty.
P.O. Box 522, Halifax, Nova Scotia.
Prince Edward IslandFloyd Drake, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 337, Charlotteto wn, P. E. I.
QuebecJ. Mel. Marshall, Grand Secty.,
1559 St. Marks St., Montreal. Quebec
Saskatche wanRichmond Mayson, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 246, Regina, Saskatchew an.
Chiles
Oscar Pereira H., Grand Secty.,
Casilla 2867, Santiago, Chile, S. A.
China:
George A. Fitch, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 758, Taipei, Taiwan, China

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNI A

• Csec:ho·Slovalda:
Grand Lodge Lessing at PragueNational Grand Lodge of Czecho-Slo vakia at Prague.
Denmark:
National Grand Lodge-Alfred Nyvang. Grand Secty.,
Blegdamsv ej 23, Copenhage n, Denmark.
Dominican Republic::
Alfredo de la Cuesta, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 865, Ciudad Trujillo, Dominican Republic.
Ec:uadors
Richardo Chavez Coca, Grand Secty.,
Casilla Postal 932, Guayaquil , Ecuador, S.A.
Egypts
The National Grand Lodge of Egypt.
El Salndor (Cuac:atlanh
Humberto Acosta, Grand Secty.,
2a Calle Oriente No. 43, San Salvador, El Salvador, C. A.
Englands

James W. Stubbs, Grand Secty.

Freemason s Hall, London, England.

Finland:
Lauri Sarkia, Grand Secty.,
P. Esplanaad ikatu 35E, Helsinki, Finland.
France:
French National Grand Lodge,
Jean P. Muet, Grand Secty.,
65 Boulevard Bineau, Neuilly-su r-Seine, Paris, France.
The Grand Lodge of France,
Emmanuel Drapanask i, Grand Secty.,
8 Rue Puteaux, Paris 17, France.

Colombia:
Gran Logia de Colombia,
Apartado 2519, Bogota, Colombia, S. A.
Gran Logia Occidental de Colombia
Carlos Rincon C., Grand Secty.,
Apartado Aereo No. 4020, Cali, Colombia, S.A.
National Grand Lodge of Colombia at Barranqui lla
Pedro Roa Alvarez, Gr. Secty. Foreign Relations
Apartado Nacional 25
Cucuta, Colombia, S.A.
Oriental Grand Lodge ''Francisco de Paula Santander ''
National Serene Grand Lodge of Colombia at Cartagena
Ernesto A. Florez, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Nal. No. 16, Cartagena, Colombia, S.A.
Costa Ric:a:
Rafael Obregon L., Grand Secty.,
Apartado 3282, San Jose, Costa Rica.

Hondurass
Abel Villacorta C., Grand Secty.,
Apartado 336, Teguclgala pa, Honduras. C. A.

Cuba. Isle of:
Eduardo R. Lopez B., Grand Secty.,
Apartado 72, La Habana, Cuba.

Iceland:
Olafur Gislason, Grand Secty.,
Borgartun 4, (Box 44) Reykjavik , Iceland.

Germany:
United Grand Lodge
P. 0. Box 16288, Frankfurt am Main, Germany
Greece:
Dr. Panayiotis Hadjipetro s, Grand Secty.,
33 Skoufa St., Athens, Greece.
Guatemala :
Jose Guillermo Mayorga, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 48, Guatemala City, C. A.

459

460

PROCEE DINGS OF THE

Ireland :
J. 0. Harte, Grand Secty.,
Freema sons Hall, Dublin , Ireland
Israel:
Grand Lodge of the State of Israel,
Shlomo Zarank in, Grand Secty.,
P.O. Box 2080, Tel-Av iv, Israel.
Italy:
The Grand Oriente of Italy,
Umber to Genova , Grand Secty.,
Via Giustin iani, 5, Rome.
Japan
George H. Booth, Grand Secty.,
No. 13-1, Shiba, Sakae-C ho, Minato -Ku, Tokyo, Japan.
Mexlcoz
York Grand Lodge of Mexico
Walter E. McAlli ster, Grand Secty.,
Aparta do 1986, Mexico, D. F.
Grand Lodge of Baja Califor nia
Corl. Adalbe rto J. Abasolo, Grand Secty.,
Aparta do 134, Tijuana , Baja Califor nia
Grand Lodge "Cosmo s"
Eduard o Vidal Loya, Grand Secty.,
Aparta do 171, Chihua hua, Chih., Mexico.
Grand Lodge of the Pacific
Miguel F. Anzald o, Grand Secty.,
Aparta do 20, Guaym as, Sonora , Mexico.
Grand Lodge of the State of Nuevo Leon
Jose Galvan Solis, Grand Secty.,
Aparta do 309, MonteITey, Nuevo Leon, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of Tamau lipas
Guiller mo Castillo G., Grand Secty.,
Aparta do 419, Tampic o, Tamps. , Mexico.
Grand Lodate Unida Mexica na
Enriqu e Guzma n Garcia, Grand Secty.,
Aparta do 56, Veracru z, Ver., Mex.
Grand Lodge "Valle de Mexico "
Rogelio Jaime S., Grand Secty.,
Aparta do Postal 10, Mexico, D. F.
Netherland.la
Grooto osten der Nederl anden,
Dr. P. J. vanLoo , Grand Secty.,
2 Fluwel en Burgwa l, The Hague.
New South Walea:
United Grand Lodge of New South Wales,
James S. Miller, Grand Secty.,
Masoni c Hall, Sydney , N.S.W.
New Zealand :
F. G. Northe rn, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 6439, Welling ton C. I., New Zealand .
Nicarag ua:
Greg A. Tapia, Grand Secty.,
Aparta do 102, Managu a, Republ ic of Nicarag ua.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

461

Norway :
Odd Lie-Da vidsen, Grand Secty.,
Masoni c Temple , Nedre Vollgat e 19, Oslo, Norway .
Panam a:
Julio A. Ramos, Grand Secty.,
Aparta do 84, Panam a, Republ ic of Panam a.
Perua
Cesar Osores Munoz, Grand Secty.,
Aparta do 587, Lima, Peru.
Philipp ine Islands :
Esteban Munarr iz, Grand Secty.,
1440 San Marcel ino, Manila , P. I.
Puerto Rico:
Juan Palacin -Mejias , Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 8385, Santurc e, Puerto Rico.
Queens land:
V. I. Carter, Grand Secty.,
Box 675, K. G. P. 0 ., Brisban e, Austral ia.
Scotlan d:
Alexan der P'. Buchan , Grand Secty.,
96 George St., Edinbu rgh, 2, Scotlan d.
South Austral iaz
F. J. Ellen. Grand Secty;,
Box 19, Rundle St. P. 0., Adelaid e, So. Austral ia.
Sweden :
Sven Svedin, Grand Secty.,
Frimur areorde n, Blasieh olmsga tan 6, Stockh olm, Sweden .
Switzer landa
)
Grand Lodge Alpina,
Ernst Hagma nn, Grand Secty.,
16 Leonar d-Raga zweg, Zurich 55, Switzer land.
Tasman ia:
H. A. Wilkins on. Grand Secty.•
1177 MacQu arie St., Hobart , Tasman ia.
Venezu elar
(Rep. of Venezu ela).
Francis co Escoba r Rojas, Grand Secty.,
Aparta do de CoITeos 927, Caracas , Venezu ela.
Victoriaz
United Grand Lodate,
C. W. Davis, Grand Secty.,
25 Collins St., Melbou rne, Austral ia.
•vienn a:
Wester n Austral ia:
N. J. Munro, Grand Secty.,
G.P.O. Box D-177, Perth, Wester n Austral ia.
•Yugos laylar
Grand Lodge of the Servs-C roats & Slovene s.
•Recog nized by the Grand Lodge of Califor nia prior to being
rendere d
inopera tive before and during World War II, subseq uent
to which no resump tion of fratern al relation s has been effected.

462

PROC EEDIN GS OF THE

ALP HAB ETIC AL UST OF LODGES
A
A. F. E. Irwin (645), San Pedro .
Abell (146), Ukiah .
Acala nes (723), Lafay ette.
Acorn (494), Oakla nd.
Adin (250), Adin.
Alam o (122), Waln ut Creek .
Alam eda (167), Frem ont.
Alban y (686), Alban y.
Alber t Pike (484), Los Ange les.
Alcat raz (244), Oakla nd.
Alexa ndria (531), San Franc isco.
Alexa nder Graha m Bell (895),
Los Angel es.
Alexa nder Hami lton (535),
Los Ange les.
Alham bra (322), Alham bra.
Alisa! (321), Pleas anton .
All State s (593), Long Beach .
Alpha (431), Richm ond.
Alta (333), Bridg eport.
Altad ena (678), Altad ena.
Alta Loma (643), Long Beach .
Alta Vista (464), Daly City.
Altur as (248), Altur as.
Amad or (65), Jacks on.
Amer ica (475), Los Angel es.
Ashla nd (798), San Loren zo.

Baker sfield (224), Baker sfield .
Balde r (393), San Franc isco.
Baldw in Park (660), Baldw in Park.
Barst ow (682), Barst ow.
Bay City (526), San Franc isco.
Bay Claire Vista (799), San Diego.
Bay View (401), Oakla nd.
Bear Moun tain (76), Ange ls Camp .
Bell (483), Bell.
Bellfl.ower (523), Bellfl.ower.
Belm ont Shore (716), Long Beach .
Belve dere (539), Mont erey Park.
Benev olenc e (631), Los Ange les.
Benic ia (5), Benic ia.
Benj. Frank lin (509), Beve rly Hills.
Cahu enga (513), Holly wood .
Calav eras (78), San Andre as.
Caled onia (486), Baker sfield .
Calex ico (412), Calexico.
Califo rnia (1), San Franc isco.
Calla yomi (282), Midd letow n.
Calist oga (233), Calist oga.
Canb y Cross (679), Tulel ake.
Cano ga (611), Cano ga Park.
Capit al City (499), Sacra mento .
Carm el (680), Carm el.
Carm elita (599), Pasad ena.
Carpi nteria (444), Carpi nteria .

Amer ican River (795), Folso m
Amit y (370), San Franc isco.
Anac apa (710), Oxna rd.
Anah eim (207), Anah eim.
Anch or (273), Comp ton.
Ange les Mesa (625), Los Angeles.
Antio ch (175), Antio ch.
Apoll o (396), Alam eda.
Arabi c (763), Los Ange les.
Arcad ia (547), Arcad ia.
Arbuc kle (182), Arbuc kle.
Arcat a (106), Arcat a.
Argo naut (461), San Franc isco.
Argon ne (514), San Franc isco.
Arroy o (274), Arroy o Grand e.
Arlin gton (414), Los Ange les.
Artes ia (377), Artes ia.
Arvin (738), Arvin .
Ascot (538), Garde na.
Ashla r (306), Colto n.
Atasc adero (493), Atasc adero .
Athen s (228), Davis .
Atwa ter (622), Los Angel es.
Avenal (772), Avenal.
Azure (533), Fulle rton.
Azusa (305), Azus L

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

ALP HAB ETIC AL LIST OF LOD GES -Con tinue

Dama scus (648), San Berna rdino .
Dana R. Welle r (765), Garde na.
Delan o (309), Delan o.
Delta (471), Stock ton.
Dimo nd (603), Oakla nd.
Dinub a (385), Dinub a.
Doric (216), San Franc isco.

D

Dos Palos (681), Dos Palos .
Down ey (220), Down ey.
Dryto wn (174), Plym outh.
Duns muir (297), Duns muir.
Dura nt (268), Berke ley.

E

Berke ley (363), Berke ley.
Bethl ehem (453), San Franc isco.
Bever ly Hills (528), Beve rly Hills.
Big Bear (617), Big Bear Lake.
Bixby Knoll s (699), Long Beach.
Black mer (442), San Diego.
Blue Lakes (714), San Bruno .
Blyth e (473), Blyth e.
Braw ley (402), Braw ley.
Brent wood (345) Brent wood .
Brook lyn (225), 6 aklan d.
Buck eye (195), Winte rs.
Buen a Park (357), Buen a Park.
Burb ank (406), Burba nk.
Burli ngam e (400), Burlin game .

Carqu inez (337), Crock ett.
Castr o Valle y (713), Castr o Valle y
Catal ina Island (524), Avalo n.
Cente nnial (729), Comp ton.
Cente r (465), Fresn o.
Centr al Califo rnia Resea rch Lodge,
Fresn o
Chan nel (757), Stock ton.
Chari ty (362), Camp bell
Chart er Rock (510), Berke ley.
Chate au Thie~ (569), Oakla nd.
Chico (111), Chico .
Chino Valle y (427), Chino .

Fairf ax (556), Larks pur.
Fairm ount (435), San Franc isco.
Fairv iew (629), Los Ange les.
Fallb rook (317), Fallb rook.
Far West (673), San Franc isco
Fello wship (480), Oak.land.
Fernd ale (193), Fernd ale.
Fidel ity (120), San Franc isco.
Fillm ore (379), Fillm ore.
Five Point s (779), Long Beach.
Flore nce (649), Los Ange les.
Fonta na (653), Fonta na.
Footh ill (564), Oakla nd.
P'orbestown, (50), Forbe atown .

c

d

Chow chilla (485), Chow chilla .
Confi dence (203), Castr oville.
Citro! (656), Brea.
Consu elo (325), Escon dido.
Chula Vista (626), Chula Vista .
Corco ran (490), Corco ran.
Claib orne (185), Point Arena .
Corin
thian (9), Mary sville .
Clare mont (436), Clare mont .
a (324), Pasad ena.
Clare nce F. Smith (482), Los Ange les. Coron
Coron ado (441), Coron ado.
Claud e H. Morri son (747),
Covel o (231), Covelo.
Chula Vista.
Cove nant (527), Los Ange les.
Clay (101), Dutch Flat.
Covin a (334), Covin a.
Clayt on Valle y (756), Conco rd.
Craft smen (559), Los Ange les.
Clear Lake (183), Lowe r Lake.
Cresc enta Valle y (652), La Cresc enta.
Clovi s (417), Clovis.
Cresc ent (45), Cresc ent City.
Coach ella (476), Coach ella.
Crock er (454), Daly City.
Coali nga (387), Coali nga.
Crock ett (139), San Franc isco.
Coast side (762), Pacifi ca.
Cross roads (696) San Diego
Colus a (240), Colus a
Culve r City (467), Los Ange les.
Comp ass (590), Pomo na.
Cupe rtino (510), Cupe rtino.
Comp osite (6392J Los Ange les.
Curti s (140), Clove rdale.
Conco rd (117), 1:::>acramento.

Eagle Rock (422), Los Ange les.
El Ranch o (759), Rico River a
East Bay (489), Berke ley.
Elsino re (289), .l:!.:lsmore.
East Belt (391), Tuolu mne.
El Segun do (507), El Segun do.
East Gate (290), Los Ange les.
El Seren o (588), Los Ange les.
East San Diego (561). East San Diego. Elysi an (418), Los Angel
es.
East Whitt ier (776), Whitt ier.
Emm anuel (318), Biggs .
Eden (113), San Leand ro.
Enter prise (70), Yuba City.
Educa tor (554), San Franc isco.
Escal on (591), Escalon.
Eel River (147), Fortu na.
Ester o (719), Cayucos.
El Cajon Valle y (576). El Cajon.
Eucal yptus (243), Hayw ard.
El Cami no Resea rch, Moun tain View . Eucli d (519), Los Ange les.
El Centr o (384), El Centr o.
Eurek a (16). Aubu rn.
El Cerri to (705), El Cerri to.
Even ing Star (186), Etna.
El Dorad o (26), Place rville .
Everg reen (259), River side.
Elk Grove (173), Elk Grove .
Excel sior (166), San Franc isco.
Elmh urst (610), Oakla nd.
Exete r (424), Exete r.

B

463

F

Fores t Hill (534), San Franc isco.
Fort Bragg (361), Fort Bragg.
Fort Crook (575), Fall River Mills.
Forti tude (624), Oakla nd.
Franc is Drak e (376), South San
Franc isco.
Franc is K. Shatt uck (571), Berke ley.
Frank lin (143), Court land.
Frate rnity (399), San Jose.
Frem ont (497), Oakla nd.
Fresn o (247), Fresn o.
Frien dship (210), San Jose.
Fruit vale (336), Oakla nd.
Fulle rton (339), Fulle rton.

PROCEED INGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA

ALPHABETICAL UST OF LODGES-Continued

ALPHABETICAL UST OF LODGES-continued

464

G

g:~~~; B~~! ~·586), Garden Grove.
6

1

Gardena (372), Gardena .
crarvanz a (492). LoArns
Anlgde1(7~l)
General Henry H.
o
'
Ed~ds. (25) Georget own.
g~~~~: E~tt <722), Los Gatos
George Wasl~.ington (525),
San Francisc o.
Glassell Park (605), Los Angeles .
Glendal e (544), Glendal e.
Glendor a (404). Glendor a.
Golden Bowl (755), South Gate. t
Golden Empire (733), sacrame n o.

.

Golden Gate (30), San FrancJSco.
Golden Rule (479), San Jose.
Golden State (358), Los ABgeles dino
Golden Valley (796), San ~
Golden West (45!?), San FrancJSco.
Gold Hill (32), Lincoln.
d'
Grafton (141), Knights Lan mg.
Granada (608), Alh)amSanbr~emando
Granada Hills (790 ,
ill ·
Gravel Range (59), ~~ptonv e.
Greenle af (670), Whittier .
Grizzly (601), Portola.
Guadalu pe (237), Guadalu pe.
Guardia n (596), South Gate.

H

Highlan d Park (382), Los Angeles .
Hamilto n (751), Novato.
Hillcres t (573), Berkele y.
Hammo nton (433), Sutter.
Hills Ferry (236), Ne~·
Hanford (279), ~anford.
Hillsbor ough (737), Burlinga me.
Harbor (502), Richmon d.
Hiram (43), El Dorado.
Harding (584), Lo~ Angel.es.
Hollenb eck (319), Los Angodeles •
Harmon y (164), Sierra City.
Hollywo od (355), Hol1:ywo ·
Hartley (199), Lakepor t. H
..
Holtvill e (425), Holtville .
Hawaiia n (21), Honolul u, awau.
Home (721), No. Hollywo od.
..
Hemet (615), Hemet.
k
Honolul u (409), Honolul u, Hawau.
Henry Clay (95), Sutter Cre;l~s
Hope (234), Beckwo~Henry Knox (662)h,Los (~f) B~rkeley.Hornitos (98), Honutos .
Henry Morse Step ens
•
Howard (37), Yreka .
Henry S. Orme (458), Los Angeles .
Humbol dt (79), Eureka.
Heritage (764), North Holl~ood.
Hunters Point Naval (706),
Herman n (127), San Francisc o.
San Francisc o.
Hermos a (557), HermosaMBe~ch.
Huntin~ton Beach (380),
Hesperi an (264), ~anta daria.
Huntmg ton Beach.
Highlan d (748), H1ghlan ·
lllinoist own (51), Col~ax.
Imperia l (390), Imperia l .
Inglesid e (630), San ran~co.
Inglewo od (421), Ing ewo ·
Indian Rock (638), Berkele y.

I Indian Wells Valley (691), Ridgecr est.
lone (80), Jone.
Ionic (520), Los Angeles .
Inyo (221), Indepen dence.

JJohn P. Jarman (669), San ~ose.

n (545), San
t ~O::ft?id<~:A~)~~/'f;;~~:~. Jonatha
Joppa (508), San Joaquin .

James
Jam: H Kew (766), Inglewo od.
Madison (572), L~s Angeles .
Janesvil le (232), Janes~ille.
4) San FrancJSco.
J ewe1 (37 ' k ls (657) San
Diego.
John D. Sp_:~~' (e636) Beverly Hills.
John Mars1Ulll
•

i!:es

Kauai (598), Lihue, Hawaii.
Kaweah (665), Woodlak e.
Keith (187), Gilroy.
Kerman (420), Kei:man·
Keyston e (161), Milton.

Fr~cJSco.

Jordan (654), Los Angeles .
Josiah w. Roller (761), Palo Alto.
Jubilee (604), Santa Ana,.
Justice (549), San Francisc o.

IC

..

Kilauea (~30), Hil9o), HSawEuis Obispo.
King David's (20 , an
· 0
King Solomon 's (260), San FranclSC
.
Kit Carson (734), Sacrame nto.,,
Koolau (801), Kaneohe , Hawa11.

465

L
La Brea (650), Los Angeles .
Lemon Grove (736), La Mesa.
La Canada (739), La Crescen tia.
le Progres de l'Oceani e (371)
La Cumbre (642), Santa Barbara .
Honolul u, Hawaii.
'
La Fayette (126), Sebasto pol
Lexingt on (104), El Monte
Laguna Beach (672), Laguna Beach. L~beral Arts (677), West Los Angeles
.
La Habra (659), La Habra.
L1bertas (466), Bakersfi eld.
La Jolla (518), La Jolla.
Liberty (299), Santa Clara.
La Mirada (778), Buena Park.
Lincoln (470), San Francisc o.
Lake Chabot (770), Castro Valley.
Lindsay (416), Lindsay .
Lakesho re (551), Oakland .
Live Oak (61), Oakland .
Lakesid e (760), El Cajon.
Livingst on (658), Livingst on.
Lake Tahoe (707), Bijou.
Lodi (256), Lodi.
Lakewo od (728), Long Beach.
Lomita (644), Lomita.
Lamand a Park (627), Pasaden a.
Lompoc (262), Lompoc.
La Mesa (407), Le Mesa.
Long Beach (327), Long Beach.
Lancast er (437), Lancast er.
Lorenzo (709), San Lorenzo .
Landma rk (253), Esparto.
Los Altos (712), Palo Alto.
La Puente (466), La Puente.
Los Angeles (42), Los Angeles .
Larchm ont (614), Los Angeles .
Los Banos (312), Los Banos.
La Parfaite Union (17), San Francisc o. Los Cerritos (674), Long Beach.
Las Palmas (366), Fresno.
Los Gatos (292), Los Gatos.
Lassen (149), Susanvi lle.
Loyalto n (359), Loyalton .
Laurel (245). Willows .
Loyalty (529), Los Angeles .
Lawnda le (753), Hawtho rne.
Luther Burbank (752), Santa Rosa.
Lebanon (495), San Francisc o.
Lynwoo d (600), Lynwoo d.
Leland Stanford (784), Chico.

M
Madera (280), Madera.
Mission (169), San Francisc o.
Madison (23), Grass Valley.
Mission Bay (771), San Diego.
Magnoli a (242), Santa Barbara .
Mizpah (378), Los Angeles .
Magnoli a Park (715), Burbank .
Modesto (675), Modesto.
Malta (661), Los Angeles .
Mojave (783), Mojave.
Manche ster (585), Los Angeles .
Molino (150), Tehama .
Maricop a (434), Maricop a.
Moneta (405), Los Angeles .
Marin (191), San Rafael.
Monrov ia (308), Monrovi a.
Maripos a (24), Maripos a.
Montebe llo (451), Montebe llo.
Martine z (41), Martine z.
Montere y (217), Montere y.
Maui (472), Maui, Kahului , Hawaii.
Monte Vista (655), Long Beach.
Maxwel l (288), Maxwel l.
Morgan Hill (463), Morgan Hill
Maya (793), Los Angeles
Morning side Park (742), Inglewo od.
McClou d (430), McCloud.
Morning Star (68), Stockton .
McKinle y (347), Richmon d.
Mosaic (218), Livermo re.
Melrose (602), Los Angeles .
Mother Colony (750), Anaheim .
Menlo Park (651), Menlo Park.
Mounta in Shade (18), Downiev ille.
Menorah (623), Los Angeles .
Mountai n View (194),
Mendoc ino (179), Mendoc ino.
Mounta in View.
Merced (749), Merced.
Mount Davidso n (481), San Francisc o.
Meridia n (667), Glendal e.
Mount Diablo (448), Concord .
Metropo litan (646), Los Angeles.
Mount Jackson (295), Guernev ille.
Meudell (695) Bakersf ield
Mount Moriah (44), San Francisc o.
Midway (426), Taft.
Mount Olive (506), Los Angeles .
Military Service (570), San Francisc o. Mount Oso (460), Tracy.
Millbrae (792), Burling ame
Mount Shasta (281), Anderso n.
Mill Valley (356), Mill Valley.
Mount Vernon (517), San Francisc o.
Mineral King (720), Visalia.
Mt. Wilson (794), Altaden a

466

PROCEEDING S OF THE

ALPHABE TICAL LIST OF LODGES- Continued
N
Natoma (64), Folsom.
Naval (87), Vallejo.
Needles (326), Needles.
Neptune (619), Long Beach.
Nevada (13), Nevada City.
Nicolaus (129), Wheatland.
Normal Heights (632), San Diego.
North Butte (230), Gridley.

North East (266), Fort Bidwell.
North Hollywood (542),
North Hollywood
Northern Light (190), Millville.
North Star (91), Fort Jones.
Northern California Research
Lodge, San Francisco.
Norwalk (315), Norwalk.

0
Oasis of Mara (735),
Twentynine Pahns.
Oakdale (275), Oakdale.
Oak Grove (215), Alameda.
Oakland (188), Oakland.
Oak Plains (789), Sacramento.
Oakwood (743), La Crescenta.
Occidental (22), San Francisco.
Ocean Park (369), Ocean Park.
Oceanside (381), Oceanside.
Oildale (688), Bakersfield.
Ojai (663), Ojai.

Olive Branch (269), Tulare.
Olivet (205), Corning.
Ontario (301), Ontario.
Ophir (33), Murphys.
Opportunity (740), Hawthorne.
Orange Grove (293), Orange.
Oriental (144), San Francisco.
Orinda (704), Orinda.
Orland (265), Orland.
Orosi (383), Orosi.
Oroville (103), Oroville.
Oxnard (341), Oxnard.

p
Pacific (136), San Francisco.
Pacific Grove (331), Pacific Grove.
Pajaro (110), Watsonville.
Palestine (351), Los Angeles.
Palisades (637), Santa Monica.
Palmdale (769), Palmdale.
Palm Springs (693), Palm Springs.
Palms (512), Los Angeles.
Palo Alto (346), Palo Alto.
Palos Verrl e~ rnl!9) Long Beach.
Paramount (785), HoU,dale.
Park (449), San I!'ranclSco.
Park Boulevard (568), Oakland.
Parnassus (388), San Francisco.
Pasadena (272), Pasadena.
Paso Robles (286), Paso Robles.
Patterson (488), Patterson.
Paul Revere (462), San Francisco.
Pearl Harbor (598),
Honolulu, Hawaii.
Peninsula (745), San Mateo.
Penrhyn (258), Penryn.
Pentalpha (202), Los Angeles.
Queen Beach (540), Long Beach.
Ramona (457), Monterey Park.
Reading (254), Redding.
Redlands (300), Redlands.
R. E. Dolly (616), Seal Beach.
Redondo (328), Redondo Beach.
Redwood City (168), Redwood City.
Redwood Empire (683), Garberville.

Perris (411), Perris.
Petaluma (180), Petaluma.
Phoenix (178), San Bernardino.
Piedmont (521), Piedmont.
Pinnacle (777), Soledad.
Pinole (353), Hercules.
Pittsburg (429), Pittsburg.
Plumas (60), Quincy.
Plymouth (560), Oakland.
Pohona (689), Yosemite Valley.
Poinsettia (633) , Ventura.
Point (503), Richmond.
Point Firmin (558), San Pedro.
Point Loma (620), San Diego.
Polaris (730), No. Sacramento.
Pomona (246), Pomona.
Ponderosa (700), Fresno.
Porterville (303), Porterville.
Presidio (354), San Francisco.
Progressive (578), Los Angeles.
Provident (609), Sacramento.
Pyramid (562), San Francisco.

Q
R
Reedley (304), Reedley.
Reseda (666), Reseda.
Rialto (582). Rialto .
Richmond (375), San Francisco
Rio Hondo (800), El Monte.
Rio Linda (786), Rio Linda.
Rio Vista (208), Rio Vista.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABE TICAL LIST OF LODGES- Continued
Rim of the World (711),
Lake Arrowhead.
Rising Light (397), Huntington Park.
Riverbank (459), Riverbank .
Riverside (635), Riverside.
Riviera (780), Pacific Palisades
Rockridge (468), Oakland.
·

Rolling Hills (781), Lomita.
Roosevelt (500), San Francisco.
Rosemead (702), Rosemead.
Rose's Bar (89), Smartsville.
Roseville (222), Roseville.
Russian River (181), Windsor.

s
Sacramento (40), Sacramento.
Security (581), Bakersfield.
Saint Elmo (697), Oakland.
Selma (277), Selma.
Saint Helena (93), St. Helena.
Semper Virens (552), Eureka.
Sa~t John's (725), Walnut Creek.
Sequoia (349), Oakland.
Salinas (2~), Salinas.
Service (594), Long Beach.
San Ant?n10 (694), So1:1th Gate.
Sierra (788), Bass Lake.
San Bernto (~11), Holl1Ster.
Sierra Madre (408) Sierra Madre
San Bernardino (348), San Bernardino. Sierra Valley (184): Sierraville. '
San Buenaventlm'a (214), Ventura.
Signal (543), Long Beach.
Sain Carlos (690), Sa·n Carlos.
Silverado (782), Napa.
San Clemente (671), San Clemente.
Silver Cord (505) Santa Ana
San D~ego .<35), San Dieg~.
Silver Gate (296): San Diego.'
San D1egu1to (775), Cardiff-by-th eSea. Silver Trowel (415) Hollywood
San Dimas (428), San Dimas.
Silveyville (201) Dixon.
·
San Fernando (343), San Fernando.
Sincerity (132), Greenville
San Francisco (360), San Francisco.
Sisson (310), Mount Shasta:
San Gabriel (546), San Gabriel.
Smyrna (532), Ceres.
·
Sanger (316), Sanger.
Snow Mountain (271) Stonyford.
San Gorgonio (668), Banning.
Sojourner (507), Duarte
San Jacint? (338), San Jacinto.
Solano (229), Vallejo. ·
San Joaquin (19), StocktOlll.
Soquel (746), Soquel.
San Jose (10), San Jose.
Sotoyome (123) Healdsburg
San Juan (732), Fair Oaks.
Southern Calif~rnia (278) ·
San Leandro (744), San Leandro.
Los Angeles.
'
San Lorenzo Valley (718),
South Gate (320), Los Angeles
Boulder Creek.
Southern California Research
San Marino (685), San Marino.
Lodge, Hollywood.
San Mateo (226), San Mateo.
Southland (618) Los Angeles
San Miguel (285), San Miguel.
South Park (563'), Los Arigele~.
San Pablo (754), San Pablo.
South Pasadena (367)
San Pasqual (452) , Pasadena.
South Pasadena. '
San Pedro (322), San Pedro.
South San Francisco (212)
San R.amon Valley (724), Danville.
San Francisco.
'
San Suneon (196), Cambria.
South West (283) National City
Santa Ana (241), Santa Ana.
Speranza Italian~ (219)
•
Santa Barbara (192), Santa Barbara.
San Francisco.
'
Snta Cruz (38), Santa Cruz.
Standard (440) Oakland
Santa Luc~a (302), King City.
Stanislaus (20B), Modesto.
Santa Mana (580), Ramona
Starr King (344) San Francisco
Santa Monica (307), Santa Monica.
Stockton (498), Stockton.
·
Santa Paula (291), Santa Paula.
Suisun (55), Suisun.
Santa Rosa (57), Santa Rosa.
Summit (112) Knigihts Ferry
Santa Ynez Valley (701), Solvang.
Sun Garden (S30) Fresno ·
Schofield (443), Wahiawa, Hawaii.
Sunnyside (577) Los Angeles
Seafaring (708), Newport Beach.
Sunnyvale (511)', Cupertino ·
Seal Rock (536), San Francisco.
Sunrise (522) Los Angeles ·
Seaport. (550), San Francisco.
Sunset (352), Los Angeles. ·
Sear~hl!.ght (567), Long Beach.
Surprise Valley (235), Cedarville.
Seaside (504), Long Beach.
S. W. Hackett (574), San Diego.

467

468

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL UST OF LODGES-Continued
T
Table Mountain (124), Paradise.
Tuft (516), Tuft.

Tehachapi (313), Tehachapi.
Tehama (3), Sacramento.
Tejon (773), Bakersfield.
Temescal (314), COl"O.lUl.
Temblor (477), Fellows.
Temple (14), Sonoma.
Temple City (612), Temple City.
Texas (46), San Juan Bautista.
The Gardens (621), Los Angeles.
Thousand Oaks (478), B&keley.
Three Pillars (613), Sacramento.
Tila Pass (797), Los Angeles.
Torrance (447), Torrance.

Travelers (692), Sacramento.
Traver (294), Kingsburg.
Triangle (548), Venice.
Trinity (27), Weaverville.
Trona (684), Trona.
Truckee (200), Truckee.

Truth (628), Los Angeles.
Tujunga (592), Tujunga.
Tuolwnne (8), Sonora.
Turlock (395), Turlock.
Tuscan (261), Williams.
Two Rivers (731), Bell.
Tyre (741), Downey.
Tyrian (439), Manteca.

u
Union (58), Sacramento.
Unity (368), Glendale.
University (394), Los iAngeles.

Upland (419), Upland.
Utopia (537), Los Angeles.

v
Vacaville (134), Vacaville.
Valle de France (329), Los .Alngeles.
Vallejo (487), Vallejo.
Valley (135), Linden.
Valley Fo11ge (587), Los Angeles.
Van Nuys (450), Van Nuys.
Veritas (640), San FrancISCO.
Verdugo Hills (727), Glendale.

Vermont Square (515), Inglewood
Vesper (84), Red Bluff.
Victorville (634), Victorville.
Victory (474), San Francisco.
Visalia (128), Visalia.
Vista (687), Vista.
Vitruvius (145), Bloomfield.
Volcano (56), Volcano.

w
Waikiki (774), Honolulu, Hawaii.
Warren G. Harding (579),
North Sacramento.
Wasco (583), Wasco.
Washington (20), Sacramento.
Wayfarer (717), Whittier.
Welcome (255), Lemoore.
West Adams (565), Los Angeles.
Westchester (703), Los Angeles.
West Covina (758), Baldwin Park.
Westem Star (2), Shasta.
West Gate (335), Los Angeles.
West Lake (392), Los Angeles.
West Los Angeles (373), Los Angeles.
Westminster (787), Westminster .

Westwood (501)t Westwood.
White Pine (555J, Weed.
Whittier (323), Whittier.
William D. Stephens (698),
Los Angeles.
William Rhodes Hervey (767),
Los Angeles.
Willits (365), Willits.
Willow Glen (676), San Jose.
Wilmington (198), Wilmington.
Wilshire (445), Los Angeles.
Winnedumah (287), Bishop.
Woodbridge (131), Woodbridge.
Woodland (156), Woodland.
Woodstock (491), Alameda.

y
Yerba Buena (403), Oakland.
Yolo (81), Yolo.
Yorba Linda (469), Yorba Linda.
York (423), South Gate.

Yosemite (99), Merced.
Yount (12), Napa.
Yucaipa (726), Yucaipa
Yucca Valley (U.D.), Yucca Valley.

z
Zenith (768), Van Nuys.

CORRESPONDENCE REPORT
ANNOUNCEMENT
Reviews of the Proceedings of other Grand
Lodges have appeared quarterly in the "Califor11
nia Freemason, two copies of which have been
sent to each Grand Lodge. This program will be
continued.
The "California Freemason" will be issued quarterly and each issue will carry additional reviews.
Hence, they do not appear in these Proceedin.gs.

469

470

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

INDEX FOR 1960

Page
Biograph)", Joe L. Shell ···················-··········-··············-··············································· 1
Board of Control
Report of···········-··········-··-······················································································· 121
Members Listed ·······-··-······-······················-······-··································-··············- 376
~~9~::11 Scholarship Pund Audit ···················-···-·-······-··-······-······························· 320

A
Adams, Charles Albert, P.G.M.
Page
~~t>~~~ ~=9 ~nd Orator ............................•................................................. 11
Additions and Replaceme~ ~;··············-··-··-··············-··········-························· 166

~~~~fu..t:··-···r:i·t·d·········-··································-··········································-··-····· 337

Affiliation~ A~ll~~ f~·························-··············-··················-································· 362

~~ M.tDf~o. 9 ······························································································- 24
Affilfutfon Fees T ~btje ·d····-······················-··-··-··················-······························-··· 259
Alphabetical List ~f L~e ; ··················································-······································· 432
Amaranth Foundation I~~. ···-······························-··········································-········· 462
Amendments to By-La'.ws ·······-················································································· 266

°

~eporteddbl G~nd ~ecretary ···········-··········-··-····················································· 67
AmfJ::eRiv'!r Lod~ 1 ~: 795·c;;~;tit;;..................................................................... l64
Anniversaries of Lod e ....
ted........•.·-··················································· 28
Annual Returns
g s ···········-··-······-································································· 34

~~~~s••bi··9g:;··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

Ann:::J EI~c~~on eported ·······························-············-········-·····················-···-···109, 424
Appendix
·······················-······················-··--········-··········································· 284

A~~;:i~I ..::~:::::~:i:i:::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~
A~::O:~ts
ees

a u ate

···················································-··············-··················· 424

~or rea~ 1960-1961 ···············-··········-··············-··········································-········· 370

A

G~~nd;~f~~eT·t;;ii~~~··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: j~

A;Ci:°J'J i.oo°:! Ng_Pf8sed ·······-··················································································· 35

~~-~~=:~:::::::::::::=:~~~::::~::::::::.~~==:::::::::~:::~ ,f,
~8f~uion Pre1ented ···············································-················································· 251
Atte2da:c:U ···-··········································-······-························································· 267

~~t~~~d····-··························-··················-································································· 380
Audif of Lodg;·aiii;··-·········-····· ·····················································-··-···················10, 231

A!i~ ~f~~m~~e 1.~.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

~~i~~~~~~:~:~~~::~::~~:~~:::~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ffi
B

471

Legislation ·······················································-················································-······· 277
Appropriations, 1960-1961 ·······························································-·················277, 290
By-Laws
Amendments Submitted ·······································-····················································· 67
Report of Committee ............................................................................•..••................. 164

c
California Freemason
Auditor's Report ........................................................................................................ 298
Report of Correspondence Committee ···········-······································-················· 224
Resolution Presented ···················································-······································-··- 41
Legislation ········--···-································································································ 273
California MalOlllc 'Memorial Temple
Audit ···-··-··········-··-··············································································-················· 341
Honor Districts ···-··················-················································································· 97
Merit Roll ·······-·········-··············-··········-··········-··············································-··-··· 96
Officers and Trustees ·······················-··························-··········-···················-········- 378
Open Book ···········-··-··············-······························-················-······················-······· 96
Report of Building Manager ···············-··············-··················································· 99

·

~~~~~::~ 1'::~ .:::::::::::::::::::::::::::.~.~~·.·.-.-.~~-.-.-.-.~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~

Calling Up Procedures ···········-··-········•·····························-······························-··-···- 283
Campbell, Donald G.
Appointed Grand Lecturer.......................................................................................- 22
Illness Reported at Communication ..................................................•.....................•• 11
Can~cht~~~~i~!~~fN~~':er ···················-······················································· 81
G. M. Decision No. 12 .............................................................................................. 24
Report of Committee .................................................................................................. 253
Cemeteries (Masonic)
Report of Committee·······-··················-··········································-························· 212
Centennials Observed ·······-··-······································································-··········· 34
Central California Research Lodge
Dispensation -·······---····-··············-··············-··················-····································· 64
1
Certilcati<>n ·--··············-·····························-··········································-··············-··· 5
Changes of Meeting Place
~
bv Grand
·······································································-············· 60
Report of By-LawsSec:retary
Committee .......................................
........................................... 68
Chaplain
Appointment of, Decision No. 2......·-·····-······-······--············ ············-···············24, 252
Payment to, Decision No. 1 -·········-··············-······················-·····························23, 258
Charter Requirements

t°h~:~::d

·:::.. . . . . . .~. . . . . :.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~ g~

E:;~i!W~~ ~~~:.~~~-~..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

Charters
Report of Committee ···········-··············-······················-······································-····· 192
Granted ................................................................................................................
192, 194
Endorsement for Hawaiian Lodges -·····-··········-······················-···············-········60, 194
Christmas and Entertainment Reserve
Audit .......................................................................................................................... 338
Contributions ···-··············-······-······-··························-···········································- 364
Clarke, Manley James. Eulogy for ·······························-············································- 238
Clubhouses, Committee Reports ............................................................................226, 229

472

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

PROCEED INGS OF THE

Page

Code Commission, Report of Committee ···········-····•···-··································-·············21S
Commercialism, Report
of Committee .......................................................................... 125
Committee Appointments
For Communication ···-······-··-··········-··········-··················································-····· 11
For 1960-1961 ···································-········ ······-······················································· 370
Committe
e Reports (See Reports of Committees)
Constituent Lodges Listed

Co;,~~~~rZ~~~::::::::::::::.::::::~::::-::-::-:::::::~:::::::~:::::::::::-: :-:-: : -: -: : : : :-: : :-: : : : -: : ~ : i?~

473
Page

Distinguished Guests

~~:d::et::i:~~~.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

:::::::::::: ~~
Distribution Committee
Appointment ·······················-······································--····································--·--·--· 11
Report of ···············································-···············--·································-······-······· 136
Dues
Analysis by Grand Secretary ···-··················-··························································· 63
Tabulation by Lodges ·······························································-···········
--················ 424

Constitution Observance

~~=t~Es~~~~~~~~~~'.~_:::.·.·.·_·_·_-_-_·_·.·.·.·.·:.·.·.·.·.·.·-~-·-·.·.~·-·.::·.::::·.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: I~~

Constitution of Lodges ···········-······················-······················································-···- 28
Contributions
Christmas and Entertainment Reserve ...................................................................... 364
Endowment Fund ···········-··································-······-·······································102, 105
In Lieu of Flowers, Decision No. 3 ......................................................................24, 258

C::V~~~~t RN~ee~_:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 36~

Correspondence, Committee Report ·······-·····························································224, 469
Covina Home

~=~':f:n~! ~fit!~ln.~~-~~-~~~-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 3~~
~~~~ ~:=~: t1~~ib~ti~~·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

E

~r~r 3aB:~:t'M~e~~.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::so: ~~

Edict Revoked
-········-·················································································22, 255
Elected Officers···-········Grand Lodge Since Organiza
tion, April 18, A. L. 5850....... ........... 448
Election of Officers ···············-··············--········---························································· 284
Endowment Board
Composition of Board·······-····················--·································--·····-·····
·· 376
Contributions Analyzed ···································································-································-··· 105
Contributions Through Lodges ..........................................................................
109, 424

~=:i~tl~ ·p:;;;~t;;d·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 1 ~~
E~=~~~~~t ·R·;;;;;;·A~dit·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Credentials, Report of Committee ···········-··································································· 230

Extinct Lodges ·······-·····················································-············································· 444

D

F

Davis, Elbert W .• Past Grand Lecturer
Appointed Acting Grand Lecturer ............................................................................ 11
Deadline for Resolutions

Fees for Degrees
Analysis by Grand Secretary ···········-··················--······································-··········· 63
Tabulated by Lodges ·-················--··-···································
···································· 424
Fe~nl/f)~:~:~~nNo. 8 ···································································-····················-····· 24

~:~~~i:::~~ :~~~~~~~. :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2i?

Decisions of Grand Master
Reported by Grand Master ..............................................................................·-····· 23
Report of Committees ···-······-······················-······································-···252, 258, 267
Decoto Home (Union City)

~:;:~p~~~~~~e~1e~·i·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~6

Residents Listed ···············-······························································-······················· 350
Special Reserve Audit ···-·········-·······································································-····· 338
Special Reserve Contribu
tions .................................................................................. 362
D411rees Conferred

T~:i1:tR!P%!t~~~-~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 4~l

B:ti~i:Vees Tabulated ·······························································-························--·····

424

Resolution Presented ···························---················-··--····································-······· 48
Legislation ----·····--············-······················--··················-······················
-··----· 265
Report of Special Committee ···························································································-····· 147
Devotional Service·······-··············-·········--·······--·--···--····--················
-··························· 12
Directors Masonic Clubhouses
Names of ···············-·····--·····--·····--·················--·····--·················--································· 378

~~: ~I t~k~~ei;~--:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: iig

D~ensations

M~:el~e9ci~s ··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.~::.~::::."."."."::.".".".".".".":.~.".".":::::::::::::::::::::::::.".".".":::: t

Approved···········-··················-······································-·-······································· 2Sl

Fift;~~a~f ~=tt~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.".".".".".".·.·.·.·.:·.:·.·:::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

Finance Committee. Report
Flag Presentation Ceremonyof ·······················-······-····················································· 272
Resolution Presented ···················-······························--·······································-··- 42
Legislation ···············-··-··················-······-··········································
······················· 163
Flint Trust Fund Audit ...........................................................................
..................... 323
Foreign Grand Lodges
Report of Committee ····························--·-·····································--·························· 222
List of Recognized Jurisdictions ·······································-··-·
································ 457
Freedom of Discussion
Resolution Presented ······························--·······················-··
·················-····· 50
Legislation ----··········-···················--············--··································
·······--···········-·········-···- 268

Fo:i~o~~~'. ~i:dn~4s···································--··················-······-······················· 24

Report of Committee ·············································
·····················-·-··..2.SZ 258
Resolutions Presented ···-······-·············--···················-·······
··-··-·······--·····-······-······-··--.fl, 48
Legislation --···-·············-··········-····················································
·W• 265
Funeral Reserve, Audit -·····································-··························-··················-············-·-···...338
Funeral Service
G. M. Decision No. 1 ··················································--······--······························-··· 23

~::i:ti~~ 'j,=~:d ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

Legislation -·····························-··-··············································-··············-······-···- 264

474

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

G
Page
Gavel Presentations ···················································-··········-······························.28.f,
287
General Appendix ·······························-············ ······························
······· ........................ 369
Germany - New Grand Lodge Recognized ·······················-···································
·· 223
Golden Valley Lodge No. 796 Constituted.......................... ..............................
.......... 28
Grand Chaplain
Devotional Service ···-··················································································-·······-··
12
Grand Lecturer, Report of··-·······················
····························'··.................................. 81
Grand Lodge Audit ··-··-··············································-·············································
Grand Lodges Represented ···············································-··········································· 294
54
1
Recommendation ·······-··································································· 21
Report of Committee ..........................................................................................
...... 267
Grand Master (See Shell, Joe L.)
Grand Oration ·····-····-·············-··························-··············································
Grand Representatives Appointed ················-·········-··-················································· 167
······· 35

GrG~~n~odiJ!sTe~· :

8;:~~ f~::r~ ~::~ ~~ ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~g

Grievances, Report of Committee ···········································-······························
····· 195
Gross Memorial Fund Audit ·······-··························-······················-···············
············ 324

H
Hawaiian Lodge Investments
Resolutio ···································-·············································································
46
Legislationn ...............
..................................................................................................... 256
Head, Ralph H., Tribute to ···································-···················································
85
History, Report of Committee ···········································-······························
········· 145
Home for the Aged
G. M. Decision No. 17 ············································· ······-·····································
·· 25
Report of Committee ································································································267
Homes Statistics

~!eQ!1¢~a1ti;!:e·:::·.::·:.::~:.:·:.:::·.:·:.·.:·.·:.:::·.::·:~·.::·:.~.".".".".:::::::::::::::::::::::::.".".".".·.::::::::::::::::::::: ~~ ~

Residents Liated ···················-············-·································-··········-·················3SO,
359
Honor Roll ·-·-·············································-······················-······························
···JOS, 109
Hospital Reserve
Audit ·······························································································-············-·········
339
Contributions ...............
.............................................................................................·· 363

I
Indemnification, Resolution on ...........................................................................
......... 270
Inspectors' Duties
Resolution Presented ···············-··········-··············································-···············
···· 42

~:r~!~rr~
r~;:::~:::·:·:·::·:·:: ·: ·~: : : ·: : : : .: : :~: : : : : : : :.~: .~ ~ ~ ~:_: _:_~ ~ ~ ~:-~:-~:_:_: :~ : : : :~: ~~i
Installation Requirem

ents
Resolution Presented ···························-··········································-··········-·····
······ 43
Legislation ....•.....•.......................................................•..................................•...........•
263
Institution of Lodges

~=~ ~18:::3 rt:a~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~

J~~~~:i~~t ~~~d~ Committee ...................................- .......................... _
.......... - ... 215

Resolution Presented ···········································-······-··························-·········
······ 46
Legislation ...............•........•..................................•............................................ ........
256

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

475

Page
Investment, Report of Committee -······················································ ...............
......... 129
Investments Formula
Resolution Presented ..................................................................................................
46
Legislation ·------···· -··········- ····-······· ············ ············ ············ ············ ········
256

J
ohnson, Edward Allen, Eulogy for ·······························-······································-··
· 235
urisdictions Visited ···································-······-······················-··········-·········
··········- 34
urlsprudence, Report of Committee on ···············-··············-·······························251.
258

t

K
Knoles. Tully Cleon, Eulogy for ···································-········-······-····-·······--·
···· 236
Kohlstedt, Dr. Edward D.
K!ia"uo~~eAN~~~ yrand Chaplain .........................................................
,................ 11

0

Dispensation ···-········· ············· -············ ············· ············· -·········-·· ·····-·-··-··-··- 65
Instituted ·······················································-··-···························•··-···················30•
65
Chartere d ···············································································-·········
···········-····-···- 194

L
LeQisla.tion Procedure
Resolution Presented ·······························································-··········-·············-···
Legislation ···-·-···········-··························-······························································· 40
Legislatio
261
n Proposed
Section 62 (Requirements for Chapter)
Resolution Presented ..........................................................................................
.. 41
Legislation --······-··········-······························-···················································
262
Section 103 (Mutfr
Muons' Attendance)
Resolution Presented ···-··-··-- ··--··-····· ·······-···· ··································-········
··· 39
Legislation '"•·-..·--···························································································
259
Section 129 (Sa11111D11oaofM
uter)
G. M. Decision No. 19 ·-····-·······················-······················································
26
Legislation ···························································-································· ......... ..
255
Section 134~b and d (Amaranth Foundatio
n, Inc. and Royal Order of Caritas)..... 266
Section 134--c (Shrine Club) .............................. ......................................................
255
Section 161 (Inspectors' Duties)
Resolution Presented ·-··-···············································································
··· 42
Legislation ·--·--·---- -············ ············· ············· ····-········ ····-········ ············· ··•·
256
Section 241 (Eada
mtBoerd )
Resolution Presented -·---··············································································
Legislatio ·---··-·--· ·-·-········ ············· ············· ············· ············· ············· · 39
·· 260
Section 301 n(Memben
bip Tramfer )
Resolution Presented -·-··-··-··· ············· ············· ············· ····-········ ·············
·· 49
Legislatio ············· ··----··-·-· -··········-· ············· ············· ·······-····· ············· ·····
257
Section 324 n(Installat
ion Requlrementa)
·
Resolution Presented -.-------- ··-······-·· ············· ············· ··-········· ·············
Legislatio ·······-··-···-·········-··································································-············ 43
263
Section 385 n(Reaearch
Lodge Officers)
Resolutions Pre1mted - - · -..·-··········-······························-···········39• 45,
46
Legislation ···-··-·-··
····························-················-··-·······256• 260
Section 386 (De Molay --··---·-··
$poa.sonhfp)
Resolution Pre.senteCl ···-·---·-·········-·····························································
Legislation ......................................................................................................... ·· 48
... 265
Section 401 (Revolving Funds)
Resolution Presented ···-·-·······························-················-························-····
Legislation ···················-······-·········-··-··············-·····························-··-··-···· ··· 47
··· 264

476

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Section 403 (Hawaiian Securities)

r:~!h:::i p~~-~~~~~~--::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

Section 411 (De Molay Sponsorship)

~~f!i!::f! p-~~-~~~~~~

2i~

~;!h:::i p~~~~~~~

2~~

.. :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Sections 432, 447 and 453 (Multiple Membership)
..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Section 527 (Proficiency Requirement)

~~!i!:~C: p~~~~~~~~-.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2i~

Section 574 (Life Membership Investments)

r:~!i!:h ! p~~-~~~~~~..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~
0

Sections 604 and 605 ( Funttal Service Limitations)

~~f!h::~1:i p-~~-~~·~~~

477

Page

..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Section 692.4 (Trial Findings Announcement)

2~

r:~f!h:~~~ ~~~~~~~~~--:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~?

Section 781 (Deadline Exceptions)

r:~~i!:~~~ i:.~~~~~~~..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2i?

Amaranth Foundaition, Inc ...:................................................................................... 20u
Assistant to Grand Master
Resolution Presented ···········································-··············································· 251
Legislation ·······································································································-··· 267
Attendance by Master Masons
Resolution Presented ···········································-··············································· 39
Legislation ···············································································-··············-··········· 259
California Freemason Subscriptions
Resolution Presented ···················-··········-··························································· 41
Legislation ···························································-··············································· 272
Charter Requirements

~~f~~~ p-~~~~...::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2i~

DR~~l~t~ceP!:~ted ···-······················-······························································· 40

Report of Committee ···-·············································································--·-·- 261
De Malay Sponsorship
Resolution Presented ···················································-······················-··············· 48
Legislation ···-··········································-··················-······-··············-······-······· 265
Endowment Board Membership
Resolution Presented ···········-······················································-······················· 39
Legislation ·······················································-··················································· 260
Flag Presentation Ceremony
Resolution Presented ···-·································'····················································· 42
Legislation ···- ······································································································· 163
Freedom of Discussion
Resolution Presented ·······-··-··········································-········-····-······-··········· 50
Legislation ·······························································-··········································· 268
Funeral Service Limitation
Resolution Presented ···-······················································-··············-··············· 43
Legislation ···-······-··································-··-···-· -··-······-······-··-··- ··············-··· 264
Hawaiian Securities
Resolution Presented ···········-······································-··············-··············-··-··· 46
Legislation ···················································-······················································· 256

lnsif~I::i~~::sented ···-······················································-······························· 42

Legislation ···-······-······································-······················································· 256

Page
Installation Requirements
Resolution Presented ···························································-······························· 43
Legislation ............................................................................................................ 263
Ll.fe Membership Investments
Resolution Presented ·······································-······························-··················· 49
Legislation ···-······-······································-······-······-······································· 256
Lodge Fund Investments
Resolution Presented ···-··············-······-··········-··············-······-··-···················'46• 49
Legislation ···········-·········································································· ····················· 256
Masonic Historical Monuments ···········-······-·····- ·-··-·--·····-·········· -···-····-271, 272
Master Masons' Attendance
·Resolution Presented ···-······················-······························································· 39
Legislation ·······················-······················-·····························-··-·········-···-···-·· 259
Membership Transfer to New Lodge
Resolution Presented ·······································································-··········-······· 49
Legislation •..........•......................•........................................................•.•...•.....•.... 257
Multiple Membership
Resolution Presented ···-······················································································· 52
Legislation ···········-··············-··············································································· 265
National Anthem
Resolution Presented ···············-··-··································································-··· 42
Legislation ···········································-······························································· 163
Political Activity
Edict of Grand Master ···················-······-··························································· 26

~!roJ~ti~~ '#r~:i~:d :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~6

Legislation ···························-··························································· ···················· 268
Proficiency Requirement
Resolution Presented ···············-······-··································································· 45
Legislation ·······-··········-··············-···························································· .........•• 267
Prudent Man Investments
Resolution Presented ....................•.................................................................. ..... 46
Legislation ............................................................................................................ 256
Research Lodge Officers
Resolution Prestnted ···········································-···········································4S• 46
Legislation ...................•.........•..................................................... ······················-· 256
Research Representation
Resolution Presented .....•..•................................................................................... 39

Re~~~~i!~p~::::·~::~::::::::::~::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~

2:

Legislation ···-·-······················--··············-··························································· 264
Support of Public Schools
Resolution Presented ···-······-··········-··········-······················································· 51
Legislation ···-··-··-··-··-··········-··········································································· 269
Trial Findings Announcemen:t
Resolution Presented •••..•....••...•.......................................... .................................. 49

Lev~!~~t1s ··c;;~~i""()~~ti~~··::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::: i~~

.•
LiabilitK I_nsurance Procedure
Reso ubon Non-Emergent ···········-··············-··························································· 53
Life Membership Investments
Resolution Presented ···················-······-··········-······················································· 49
Legislation ..........................................................
........................ .............. ... .. ............. 256
Life Membership Resolutions
Reported by Grand Secretary .......•........................................................................ 66
Approved ·······-··-······--············-······-·-···························································-····· 251
List of Constituent Lodges •..........•....•.........•..
...........•.................. .........................380, 424
Lodge Funds - Investment & Expenditure
G. M. Decisions No. 3 and No. 1.............................................................................. 24

Es:;~~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.~:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_~ :-~ :_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_: : :::::::~: ~i~

478

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Loci

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Page

~¥;~abetic~I

List ···········-······-··-······················································-······················· 462
ChmversA1etli ······~i"··················-······································-······················-··········-··· 34
C art~rs du orlze ···························-··············-··················-······-···················192, 194

J~~J~~~ L;;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::==~: 4~
Lot Angeles Masonic Hall, Report on···-······-··························································· 137

~~JZf. Dfc~ion
No. 7 ·······················-············································-························· 24
?mmitt~ R················-··············-······························-··························· 259

L"b eportCo

479

Page
Master, Removal of
G. M. Decision No. 19 ···········································-··············-··-··························· 26
Report of Committee ···············-··············-·······················································-·-·· 255
Maya Lodge No. 793 Coll9tituted. ......................_....................................................... 28
Meeting Place - Changes Listed by Gnmd Secretary ·········-··············-·········-·····-· 68
Members' Contributions by Lodges ··················-·························································· 424
Membership
Analysis by Grand Secretary ···················-······················································-··· 60
Tabulated by Lodges ·······················-·································-····--""••···--···-109, 424
Membership Transfer to New Lodge
Resolution Presented ···································-··························································· 4Q

L:f:~emb:~:~sl~=l~tl=rt ···················································································· 209

M~~~:t~nt~ih~ti~~··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

xrand Sjcrftary's Report of···············-··-··-··························································· 66
Loci ppr~va o ···········-···-·········-········-······································································· 251
Luc~:nb.:n~~~~ f:~rt of Committee ···-··············-······-··-··································· 149

Memorial Service ···········-··-······························-······················································· 233
Memorial Temple (See California Masook Memorial Temple)
Merit Roll --······-·-·-·-··-··-··········-·············-·-·········-··················-··-··-······-··· 96
Message of Grand Muter ···-······················································································· 20
Mikesell, Carl Curtla, Eulogy for.................................................................................. 238

···········-··-······································································· .. ·····• 319

M
Masonic Clubhouses
trktv ylubtli:bh' RepRt of Trustees ···························-······-··············-··········· 226
T s
geLs
ouse, eport of Trustees ........................................................ 229

Mas1::i~&iu~~~~~n ·c~i;t;;·····································-······-········································· 378
r;a~ Master's Recommendation ···································································-·····- 21

Ma~nica~:le;;;········-······"··············-······················································-··················· 272

~· M. Dfc~on No. 15 ···············-······················································-··············-···

25
eport o
mmlttee ···························-······-··································-··················-··· 254
Masonic Historical Monuments ···················································-··················-···271, 272

Masonic History

i!rcfn~n~~t~~.:.:·.:-:_:::·.:·:::.·::.:·:::::.:·.:·.::::·.::.".".".".:::::::·~:::.·.·.:·.::::::·.:::·:.:·.:·:.:·.:·.:·~:::·::."."i:f6: ~i~

Ma~caA:i:

ecommendaitions ···-············································-··············· ..········ 266

~~~~~i~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~g

R::rt =~dowm~ty~...................................................................................... 85
R P
fS
d
···-······················-··-··················-·······························
Report of Superintendent - Covina ........................................................................ 101
93
Report of Tperlnts!n ent - Union Qty ···················-··-··-······················-··········· 90
S eport o
Rstees .. ·-··························································-··············-·········· ....•... 84
Ttatistlcs An esidents and Costa ···················-······················-······-························ 361

Ma~~~om~~~~e:~;~t·~;d-··························-··············-···-·······-··················· 285

~~!bb··~::-:.·.:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-:.:·.::::::::::::::::::::::::·.:::::::::::::::: {~
Hontri Rtilns ' rough Lodges ·········································-····································· 109
tf':::be;s .!nd·O"ifi~;&··j9(,0::6f":::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: j~
0

Pr~=~:i~··;;;·~·M-;;;t;;·················································································· 13077

R
B
···-···································-··········. ····························
Ti::st
Masonic Temple March·······-··-····························-·········•··········-···········-·-··············· 286
Masonic Trial Procedures (See Trial Procedures)
Master Masons' Attendance

:l M:ili'e;~··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::: {8~

t;~ht~:, p~~-~~~~..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~g

M~~~~~t~r~!mittee
···································-··························································· 231
Tabulation of Paymenta ···················-··-··········-··················································-···

380

Millbrae Lodge No. 792 Constituted............................................................................ 28
Miller, Rollie Webaer, P.G.M., Eulogy for·······································-··················-··· 234
Mt. Wilson Lodge No. 794 Constituted...................................................................... 28
Multiple Membership
Resolution Presented ···········································-··················································· 52
Legislation ···············································-······························································· 265

N
National Anthem
Resolution Presents!d ·······················-·························-············································ 42
Legislation ···········-································································· .. ································ 163
Necrology, Report of Committee ···························-··················································· 233
New Lodges
Charters Authorized ---······-·······-·····-··---··············-·······································192, 194
Constituted ···············-h·..·············-······-··································································· 28
Dispensations Granted ···················-··-··································································· 64
N

~~~~~~~~e-;;tM~-;;-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~'. ~;
0

Officers of Grand Lodge
Appointment of for 1960-1961 .............................................. '....·-··························· 284
Attending from Other Jurisdictions ·····························-········-································· 54
Election of ···-······-··-··········-··················································································· 284
Installed for 1960-1961 ·················································································-········· 286
Present at Communication ·······································-··············································· 9
Since Organization ·······························-································· ..································ 448
Old Masonic Hall at Loa Angeles, Report of Committee ························-·····-······· 137
Opening of 111 t!h Annual Ccilnmunicatloo ................................................................ 9
Oration by Grand Orator ···············································-······-··········-······················· 167

p
Past Grand Masters

~~~~n~~ &:n~=o~··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 1S
4

Visitors at Communication .................................................................................... 54

480

PROCEEDING S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

~!~m~~t~~sLodg~offi~~r Report ···-······································-··-··-··-··········-······:;~
R~~~f ~tt;;·············································································· ················-···

23
~~~J!it~n~Wtte:n···············-··············-··················-··································-··-··· 231
Per Capita Cost ofYfI~~s-·Ope·······;;ti;;;;·-··············-··-··-··-······································-···
Pay of ·Meinbers

............ ....... _.,._ ... _.........._... _..........- ........- ................. _........_........................ -................ 258
380

Per Ca ita Pa ment b Loci s
···················································-··················· 361
Perine PEndo~ent ii'und ~~di·t··--·····-··········-······················-······-··-··-··-··············· 4 24
Ph"l" . G 1 p
d
···············-······················································-······· 321
p j. 1ppind Gave s pesente ·c:··························--·-··················-···································
284
P~l~~~kti~f;a1 urposes ommittee, Report of ............................................

258, 266
~~o~fG~~:ster ···········-··-························-······················-··················-··· 26

Pr~~~~=~:sP-~~-~~~~..:::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: : : : : : : : : : :: : ::::::::::::::::::: ~i~
~0a~~~~tiH~~bE~~~e~t-·M~th-··-······-· ·····-···········-·························-······-···

38

37

Public Schools Week
···-···································································
Proficiency Requirement ·······-······························-··········-······-··································· 36
~:sf~i:it~~~ Presented ···················································································-··-····-· 45
Prud~nt Man !~:;,;~;~;··-············································· ································ ··············
Resolution Presented
46

267
pJiji~i~~~:ls ···-··-··-···:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::: 256

481
Page

~r:;:~~i~~~~~~:~::
::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::::~!:~ ~~
Masonic Clubhouses
M~:~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::~:-:::::::::::::::::=~::-::::::.~::::~::-:-::::::: ~~i
Masonic Homes Endowment Board ........................................................................
101

Masonic Homes Trustees ·········--··-··········--··-··········-····-····-····-··················-··-··-· 84

~!:~~y T~~~~=~~~~-.::::::.".".".".~.::::::::::::::.".".".::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

Hall

137
231
··-··············-··-···················································258, 266
~~~~c~c~~~~ :::::::_::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:.:·.:::::::::~::.:·::.~.·.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: i~
222
Old Masonic
at Los Angeles ···························-······-······················-······-·······
Pay of Members -··-········-··-· -····--··-······- ···-·-···-·-····· ·-··-····--··-··· ··-···
Policy and General Purposes
..
Reco~nitioo of Foreign Grand Lodges ·······-··········-···············································

eE¥~~~~~~~~~~~i~~~~~~=~~ f:l

Reports of Officers
Grand Chaplain -

Devotional Service ···································-··························· 12

~~~~E{~~=~~~~=~;~~~~~~~~~~~f: i
1

E:~l~!;~~n··t;;··a;;;;;rM~~t;;··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: j~

Re.K~:=:e=3~·-·······················-······························-················-················· 230

~~~!:dati~~rc3~i;~;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::~~; ~~~

R~;~~~ ~~~!:._~~~...".":.:·:::::.:~.::~::.::::·.:·.::::::::::::::::::::::::::.::::::::::::::::_·_:::::::=:::_:::::: 2~i

R=~~t;:,n p~mit!ed on ···········-··············································································· 138

R
~~~~~~f J!~~~~!ag;a~d1l!i~e~·-········-·-····························································

30

R~~~d~J:°~gi~~~···::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~;~
Rec~m~n ati~ M"I ran1' Master ·················--······-······-·-······-··········-······-······· 21
R=~~v:1 '~fM~ster 'eage ayments ···································································-····· 380
G. M. Decision No. 19 ···············································-······-······-······················-··· 26
Report of Committee ·······························-··-······-······················-··························· 255
Reports of Committees

~~;~~~~~~~~~~~(~~~~:~~~~~=~=~~(~:-~::~~:~~ j~

Co

d

··············································-····························· 188

~~li~~~~~~~~~~i~=I[~ll

Roster of Attendance ···-·················· ····-············-· ·-···-·----··-··-- ··--··-···-·-·-··· ·- 380
Requirements for Charter

Central California Lodge Instituted ·······································-··········-···············30• 64
Central California Lodge Chartered ···························-··- ··················--············-··· 192
Report of Committee ···········-···················································································
Resolutions Presented ···························-·································-·-····-········.39, 45,
46
Legislation
Name of Committee Chadged ·················································-········-····-····-···········
Reserve .for Additions and Replacements

217
-----·-··-··-··-····-····················-······-··-·························256, 260, 272
272

Re~~:~~~~:~::::::Homes
::::::-::~:~~::~:-::-~·::::::::::::::::~:~::::::::::::=~~::::::::::::::::-:::::::: ~i?
Residenta at

J~~~~~-=~=~~~~~~~~::
.~~~~~~~~ m
·····················-···························39, 251, 271

Resolutions Presented (Also see Legislation)
Resolutions Withdrawn ····················-·············-··········-··············-··················-···········
Retirement Pension Plan - Report of Committee on Finance ···············-···················
Revolving Funds
Resolution Presented ···················-··-······-··················································-··-··-··· 47
Ri~fl~~°LoJii;·N~:·soo····················-···-··················-···-····-··········--··-········--····· 264

53
276

~i::~~i~-~=:::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::-~~::::::~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::~: gi
1

163
~~~afgd;;··~-~-;_;··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=: 2J
Ritual Committee, Report of···-·······-···-··-··············-·········-··························-·-··-·

482

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

s
Page
Scholarship Fund Audit ...••..................................................................
.......................•• 320
Scholarships
Report of Special Committee ····················-···············
··································· 201
G. M. Decision No. 16 ·····-····· ·-········· ···································
·································-·········- 25
Report of Committee ·······························-···························
·······-·····················-······· 254
Recommendations of Special Committee ....................................
........................ 203, 271
Sessions of Communkation

ti~~:~ ~£::!!;;;·:::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 5~

~~~~~~~~];];~~;(~~-~~1~:I~~~~~1~ m

Shell, Joe L., Grand Muter
Photograph ·--·-··-· ·-········ ·········· ···································
-············· Frontispiece
Biography ···--····- ···-··--·- ·-···-···· ··········· ··········· ··········-············
·-········ ··········· ·········- ··· 1
Appointments for Communication ······················-·····--········-····
Decisions ····-········-···-····-················--··-·································· ······················-·-- 11
··········· ·········· -···- 23
Edict of ·······················-········-··········-·······-·····························
·························-····-· 26

~~~==~~:~:::: : : : : : : ·: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :·:·: : _:_:_:_:_: _: : ~: :·:·:-: : : :_:_: _:~: : : : : : ~

Receptions and Miscellaneous ·······-········································
Recommendations ········································································-·········· ··············--··· 30
···-·······················-·- 21
Special Ceremonies ............................................................
............................ 29
Special Communications 1959-1960 ...............................................
...........................•......•..• 28
Visitations to Other Grand Jurisdktiona............................ ............
............................ 34
Siems, Edward H .. P. G. M.
Elected Grand Secretary ···-····-·····························--···················
····························· 284

~~~~t ~~eM~:~~af re~~i~··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::: ~

Sojourners, Report of Committee on·····-································-···
····--·························· 213
Special Appendix ···-····· ·..·-············-··········································
········-··················-·· 289
Special Ceremonies Reported -·······- ·······-·· ·-···-·-· ·······················
Special Committees ·········-··--························································ ······-···· ····-···· ··- 29
······················-······· 373
Special Communications Reported ·············-··································
Standing Committees -···---······-··-······················-············· ············ -··························· 28
·····················-······· 370
Stated Meeting
G. M. Decision No. 18 ········-··-·············-··········-·····················-·········
······················ 26
Committee Report ···-···················-·············-·······
·········--•··············-·············· 254
Students' Loan Fund Audit ···································-············
············
········································· 325
Supplemental Appropriations
G. M. Report ····-···-·······························--······································
······················- 35
Report of Committee on Financ e·····-······················-···············
Auditors' Report -·-·······································································-··-······················· 274
···············303, 305, 307

T
Taxatio n, Report of Committee ............•...•.........................•................
........................• 216
Telegrams Sent ·····················-········································-·········
············
Testam entary Gifta ···-····-···-·······-···················-··-················-······ ························ 11
·····-··-······· 106
~ie ~fGr~~~ 797 Chartered ······································-············-·······
···········-··············· 192
Grand Master 's
···--····· ·-···························································· 21

f

~ecommendation
Ti~:ip~g~f -~~~~~~-~·.::-:_·:.::~.:::·:.::·.:·:.::::::::::::·:.::·:.::.:·::.:·.::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::.::::::: 26~

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

483

Page
Transfe r of Temple Funds ························ ····································
·-·············•······-··-·• 252
Trial Findings Announcement
Resolution Presented ·························································-········
····--················-- 49
Legislation -·-······ ·····-··- ·········- ·········· ······-·· ··········
····-···· ·······-· ····-···· ---- 257
Trial Record
s
Repo!lted by Grand Secreta ry ····························································
···············-··-··· 68
Grievances Commi
Trustees of Lodge ttee Report ·········-··-·························· ..-····························-······· 195
Powers of Decision No. 4 ···-·······························-·······················
············
··· 24
Report of Camrni·
···-················-····································································
······-··-·- 252
Trustee s of Masonicttee
Homes

&:1~~~~~;.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~_::::_::::::.::::::::::::::::~::::.:::::~:::::~:~::.::::::: ~n
ti~~~~~~~~;::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::~::::::::~:: :~=: : : : : : : : : : : :·: : : : : : ~n

Trustee s of Memorial Temple

Trust Funds Audit -····-···· ···-······ -·-······- ········-· ························

······························ 317

u
Unappropriated Reserve Audit ·····-··-·······-·············--·························
························ 339
Unfinished Business from 1959
Cemetery Recommendatiolla ·················································-··········
Grand Lecturer's Recommendation ···············-································ ···················60• 213
············
• 256
Research Recommendatioaa ............
............................................•...............·········60
........60, 282
Resolution on Indemnity ···-········································-···············
·············-···········60• 270
Unfinished Business for 1961
Grand Lodge Tiitle ·············-·························································
Masonic Historical Mooumenta ·············································-· ············ ················ 267
························271, 272

~~~~\~~~h1;tip~;;;;;··:~:.::.-.-.=.~.:·.::::::::·.:::.::::·.:::::·.:::::::::·:.::·.::::::·.:.-.::·:.:·.-.·.-.:·.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.:::::::: ~n

Transfe r of Temple Funds ··············-···-···-····································
·························· 253
United Grand Lodges of Germany Recognized -·······················
··································· 223

v
Veteran Buttons Pre1ented - SO Year Buttooa ·····-··················
·································
Visitations to Other Jurildk:tlons............................ ........................
............

.................. 72
34

w
Wadlei gh Fund Aud it-···
Warren , Arthur M., P. G. M. ·········-···········-······························-··························-· 322
.
Elected Grand Treasu rer--·········-··-····-·········································
························ 284
Report of Masonic Homea Trustees ················································
·····-··············· 84
Watts, Robert B., Grand Chaplain
Illness Reported at Communication .•..•..........................................
..........................• 11
Devotional Service
·········· ·········· ······-··· ·········- ··································-··· 12
Wilson , Lloyd E .• P. G.···---····
M.
Designated Assistant to Gnmd Master ····································
·········-···············251, 267
Grand Secretary's Report ·············-··············································
····························· 60

y
Yucca Valley Lodge U. D.

65
Pn1:t~':itl~--:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::·::.:::::::·:::::.::·::::.:.:::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::::::::.~.30: 65

Dispensation Continu ed ·······································-~···················

····························-- 193

