"

ELLSWORTH MEYER
Grand Master

ELLSWORTH MEYER
Grand Master
I 949 ~I 950

Destined to chart the course of Freemasonry in California during
the Centennial Observance of the Grand Lodge the Most Worshipful
Ullaworth Meyer, 84th Grand Master of Masons in California, has
completed a climactic episode in his career.
He was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, on February 27, 1905,
the son of Leonard H. and Ida A. Meyer.
Upon completion of elementary and high school education Brother
Meyer enrolled in Pomona College, there receiving his A.B. Degree,
and continued the pursuit of education at the University of California
and at the University of Southern California, receiving his LL.B. Degree
at the latter.
These early years of manhood foreshadowed recognition of outatanding ability, most noteworthy that of being selected one of the
national winners of the Inter-Collegiate Oratorical Contest in 1926 and
being President of the U.S.C. Student Body, 1929-30. His interest in
and service to these institutions has been constant as evidenced by
service as President of the University Dinner Club, 1943-1945, President of Pomona College Alumni Association, 1945-46, and as a member
of the Board of Trustees of California College in China Foundation
since 1946.
On June 18, 1930, he was united in marriage to Miss Hazel E.
Reeves, whose graciousness is well known. This union has been blessed
by two children, Sondra Jean and Grant Edward.
Pursuing the legal profession as a means of livelihood Brother Meyer
served as Deputy City Attorney, City of Los Angeles, 1930-1945,
became "Municipal Judge in 1945 and in 1949 was elevated to the
Superior Court Bench which office he now holds' by virtue of election
in 1950.
His Masonic career commenced in Claremont Lodge No. 436 where
he was Raised on March 25, 1927. Later, becoming a charter member
of Liberal Arts Lodge No. 677, he served as Master of that Lodge in
1934. Activity in affairs of Grand Lodge followed by appointment to

the Board ol Directors oE the U.C.L.A. Clubhouse in 1935, he being
Vice-Chairman from 1937 to 1948 and Chairman from 1948 to date.
From 1940 to 1942 he was a member of the Co~mittee on Credentials,
from 1940 to 1946 a member of the Committee on Lodge Research and
member of the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes, 1946-1949.
Further honor and recognition were bestowed in his appointment as
Grand Orator in 1939 and in 1942, as Inspector of the 85th Masonic
District which duty he fulfilled until 1946. During this period, in 1944,
the Order of DeMolay elected Brother Meyer to the Honorary Legion
of Honor. After election as Junior Grand Warden in 1946 he was
progressively chosen Senior Grand Warden in 1947, Deputy Grand
Master in 1948 and Grand Master in 1949, to serve during the 1950
Centennial Observance year.
His outstanding career in Scottish Rite Freemasonry strikes a
parallel with that of Blue Lodge Freemasonry and the Grand Lodge.
Becoming a 32° member of Los Angeles Consistory, A. & A. S. R., in
1937, his contributions to Masonry were early recognized by election,
in 1939, by the Supreme Council of the Thirty~third Degree to the rank
of Knight Commander of the Court of Honor and, by similar procedure
of that august body, being coroneted a 33° Mason in 1943. From 1942
to 1946 he served as Master of Kadosh and presently is Venerable
Master of the Los Angeles Consistory. having held that distinction since
1945.
Among various civic activities has been his participation in the
direction of the Midnight Mission in Los Angeles as a member of the
Board of Directors from 1943 to date and as President in 1944.
Two outstanding events during the Grand Master's year were the
dedication of the restored Columbia Masonic Temple and the laying
of the corner stone of the Crippled Childrens Hospital. in Los Angeles,
being constructed by Al Malaikah Temple. A.A.O.N.M.S .• of which
Brother Meyer is a member.
Throughout this epochal year in the history of California Freemasonry the Fraternty has been fortunate in having as its Grand Master
one whose untiring devotion and proven capability assured leadership
and accomplishment of which we may be justly proud.
Each task falling upon the Grand Master, and numerous and demanding they have been, has received no less attention and effort than
essential for proper fulAllment. Yet, each seemed transformed to a
pleasure through his competent and respectful manner.
Difficult will be the challenge to those who follow if they would
emulate or surpass his affability and sincerity which have been so
enjoyed throughout the jurisdiction, particularly by the lay-members of
the Fraternity.
Finis coronat opus.
·'

"raub lnbgr nf C!Ialifnruia
I. LLOYD E. WILSON, Grand Secretary of The M.'. W.' .Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California, do
hereby certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcript of the proceedings of that body at its one-hundred first
Annual Communication, commenced at the city of San Francisco, on
Monday. the 9th day of October, A. L. 5950, and terminated on Friday,
the 13th day of October, A. L. 5950.

1Ju mr.atimuuy ·~trrnf
I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have affixed
the seal of The M.'.W.'.Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of California, at the office of the Grand
Secretary, this thirty-first day of
October, in the year of Light,
Ave thousand nine hundred and
fifty.

PROCEEDINGS

of

THE M. ·. W. •• GRAND LODGE
of

JJ1rrt auh Arrtptth !la.anus
OF THE

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
AT ITS

lOlst ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
HELD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON

Monday, October 9, A. D. 1950, A. L. 5950
AND TERMINATING ON

Friday, October 13, A. D. 1950, A. L. 5950

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

7

ONE-HUNDRED FIRST ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of California commenced its One-Hundred First Annual
Communication in the Civic Auditorium, Civic Center, San Francisco,
on Monday, October 9, A. L. 5950, at 10:00 A. M.
Bro. D. Ewing Marsh, Master of California Lodge No. I, presided
In the East at the entrance of Grand Lodge Officers.
Roll call disclosed the presence of the following:
OFFICERS OP THE GRAND LODGE
M.'.W.'.ELLSWORTH MEYER .............................................. Grand Master
R.',W,'.ARTHUR PAULSEN ....................................Deputy Grand Master
R. ·.w. '.Loms C . DRAPEAU................................. .Senior Grand Warden
R.'.W,'.ARTHUR M. WARREN ..............................Junior Grand Warden

V. '. W. ·.FRANCIS V. KEESLING, P.G.M .........................Grand Treasurer
V. ·. W. ·.LLOYD E. WILSON, P.G.M .................................Grand Secretary
v.·.w.'.WALTER H. E. VONKONSKY................................Grand Lecturer

V. '.REVEREND WILLSIE MARTIN..............................Grand Chaplain
W.'.MERVYN E. HANSHAW........................Assistant Grand Lecturer
W.'.ELBERT W . DAVIS ................................Assistant Grand Lecturer
W.'.OsED W. CARR ................................... Assistant Grand Lecturer
W.'.FRANK HARWELL,

JR...........................Assistant Grand Lecturer

w.·.J. EVERETT HouSER................................................Grand Orator
W.'.PAUL A. PPLUEGER..........................Assistant Grand Treasurer
W. ·.HENRY D . 0LIPHANT........................ Assistant Grand Secretary
W.'.JAMES W. O'BRYAN............................................Grand Marshal
W.'.KENT 0. SEYMOUR................................Grand Standard Bearer
W.'.DELBERT D . COLLEY..................................Grand Sword Bearer
W. ·.ELLWOOD C. W1LDER....................................Gtand Bible Bearer
w.· .J. HowARD EDW,\RDS.................................Senior Grand Deacon

W: ,GEQRGE H, Ol.MSTED.................." ............Junior Grand Oeaco11

8

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

9

W. ·.CLARENCE A. TROWBRIDGE ......•.•.•...•.......Senior Grand Steward
W.',DoRSE K. FISSEL...•........•••...••..•...•.....•.....Junior Grand Steward

DEVOTIONAL SERVICES
Men to Match My Mountains

W.' .ARTHUR H. TRIGGS................•.....•................... Grand Pursuivant
0

W. .CHARLES E. ANDERSON ....•...................•••••......... Grand Organist

Very Reverend WILLSIE MARTIN, Grand Chaplain

W.'.ALVIN A. HoRWEGE.....................•..........•................. Grand Tiler

PAST GRAND MAS'FERS
M.·.w.·.oscAR LAWLER
M.'.W.'.FRANCIS

v. KEESLING

M.'.W.'.WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY
0

0

M. .W. .CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS
M.'.W.'.ARTHUR S. CRITES
M.'.W.'.GEORGE L. }ONES
M:.w:.W1LL H. F1scHER
M.'.W.'.CHARLES M. WOLLENBERG
M:.w:.JoHN STEWART Ross
M:.w:.RoeERT B. GAYLORD
M.'.W.'.JAMES B. GIST
M.·.w.·.RANDOLPHV. WH1T1NG
M.'.W.'.EARL WARREN
M.'.W.'.ROLLIE w. MILLER
M.'.W.'.}AMES T; FRASER
M.'.W.'.LEON 0. WHITSELL
M.'.W.'.WM. B. OGDEN
M.'.W.'.LLOYD E. WILSON
M.'.W.'.CLAUDE H. MORRISON
M.'.W.'.G!LBERT

c. DE FOREST

M.'.W.'.ARTHUR w. BROUILLET
M.'.W.'.}OHN R. MOORE
M.'.W.'.CHESTER H. WARLOW
M:.w:.EowARD H. SrnMs

2,638 officers and representatives from 586 Lodges and nine Lodges
under dispensation, together with 2,286 Master Masons, were reported
as present, and the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge was opened in ample
form, following which the Flag of our Country was received, held at
the altar while the assembled Brethren sang the "Star Spangled
Banner," and was placed in the East.

In the devotional service this morning, I wish to take as a theme an
rlptlon on the capitol building at Sacramento "Give me men to
111.i"h my mountains" and as a text from the Holy Word, that Magna
l huta declaration of man's true greatness found in the 8th Psalm:
1
When I consider Thy heavens, the moon and the stars which Thou
h1 i ordained, what is man that Thou are mindful of him, or the son of
ffi 1U1 that Thou visitest him. For Thou hast made him but a little lower
thnn God. Thou crownest him with glory and honor. Thou has made
him to have dominion over the works of Thy hands. Thou hast put all
things under his feet." And as a keynote, that bugle call by Paul to the
1rly Christian Church: "Quit you like men. Be strong."

1111

Very many years ago, my family, knowing my love of mountain
t1tll1, gave me a pair of high hiking boots. I wore them for decades.
!'hey grew shabby and were often resoled. What a saga these boots
ould have told, for they had taken my tired feet over so many of the
t11U1 in all sections of our California mountains. I think I can say, I
know the mountains of our State. How I have enjoyed them. What
marvelous mountains they are! To name them is to flash pictures of
trandeur before one's eyes, pictures of titanic peaks, awesome glaciers,
nyons of depth, gem#like little lakes, fragrant mountain meadows,
d11hlng mountain streams. Small wonder that they stirred John Muir
fl ' rapturous expressions of wonder and joy.
What a source of wealth they have been to California. First the
gold found in them, gold that focused the eyes of the world on California.
Uut more wealth has come from the fertile valleys of California than was
ver panned or dug from her gulches. But it has been the silt from these
mountains that has made these valleys verdant and productive. But for
the mountains, California would be a desert. It has been the mountain#
d streams and great irrigation systems that have transformed arid
w11te#land into garden spots of production and beauty. In these same
mountains has been developed the hydro#electrical power that lights
our homes and provides the motive power that has made possible the
111mendous development in manufacturing. These mountains are a
perennial ·source of delight to artists and all lovers of beauty. They
J'll'OV!de a vacation land without a peer. They are tonic zones for health
ind zestful living. The sight of them exalts all beholders with a vision
>f Immensity and grandeur. I am grateful that they have been on my
horizon nearly all my life.

10

. PROCEEDINGS OF THE

As we of today think of these mountains, we realize our debt to
them and rejoice that they are a part of our commonwealth.
But a century ago, the impact they made was totally different. As
those dust-stained pioneers came West, how appalled they must have
been by those frowning ramparts of granite, giant barriers. There they
stretched the entire length of California, threatening in height, terrible in
the tangle of peaks and canyons. They seemed to defy and mock any
who would undertake to cross them.
What daring, what terrific toil. what dauntless courage it required to
make that perilous trip in those covered wagons. What labor, what
vision it has required to master them. We salute those brave men and
women who pioneered the way. Modestly we admit that California is a
great state. But her greatness is due to the fact that her sons and daughters have by faith, courage, energy and patience more than matched
these mountains that in the beginning were mountains of difficulty.
These mountains that were so ominous and threatening to our
pioneer forebears are a fitting symbol of the world today. For we of this
generation are confronted with mountains of danger more terrible than
the Siskiyou or the Sierras were to the pioneers.
It is pertinent to think for a moment, and very sketchily, of some
of the staggering problems that confront us. The greatest achievement
of the ages has been the growing realization of the worth, the dignity,
the greatness of the individual. But a score of movements characteristic
of this modern age conspire to reduce man to pigmy size. The great
Palomar lenses have pushed back the physical boundaries to almost
unbelievable distance. In the vastness of such a universe what is man?
He is less than a speck. The villages, the towns of yesterday have grown
into great sprawling cities that tend to obscure and dwarf the individual
citizen almost to a zero. Giant corporations, great labor unions all tend
to impersonalize human relations. A man is a cog merely in the economic
system. He is only number so and so on the assembly line: he is a serial
number in the army of defense.
Fairly successfully man has developed behavior patterns, social
attitudes, moral standards to enable him to live with a reasonable degree
of peace, good order, decency and happiness in a horse and buggy age,
the age in which I grew to manhood. But by a series of marvelous inventions, the ends of the earth have been brought together. It took us eight
days to come by train in 1888 to California. Now one can travel around
the world in that time. In my early ministry I envied the old-time preachers with the orotund voices that could be heard great distances. But two
years ago I gave the Easter Sunrise message in the Hollywood Bowl.
Our children in Connecticut heard it and made a wire recording, and a
woman in West China heard it over short-wave radio. This illustrates

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

11

the fact that all of a sudden we are called on to develop a technique of
living happily with strange peoples, folks utterly alien in customs, ideas,
language, standards of subsistence, methods of industry.
That was a magic night when the Curies went into a little laboratory
in Paris, and lo, a blue light was burning. Radium had been seccessfully
extracted from pltch-blende. It was a rainy afternoon in a laboratory
under the playing field of Chicago University. A little group of physicists had gathered. One threw a switch, and lo, flssion was a reality.
What terrible power is linked up in these and like discoveries-power
to reduce our vaunted civilization to cave life and jungle obscurity. Possible terrible destruction looms in atomic and hydrogen weapons.
• In the political world we are faced also by dangers more threatening
than any mountain pass. I think it is safe to say liberty and freedom
have never encountered as deadly, diabolical a foe as now menaces them
In world-seeking Communism. The struggle is not to be side-stepped by
scented diplomacy nor appeased by visionaries. The clash of ideas and
principles is inevitable. Freedom and Communism cannot exist in peace
in the same world. How long, how costly in men and treasure the
struggle will be only God knows. Neither can one gauge accurately the
effect of such a struggle on our American way of life.
But as serious as is the threat of Communism without, is the threat
of corroding. disintegrating forces within our republic.
America was born of faith, daring and sacrifice. It was that spirit
that has made her great and prosperous. But today, the whole economy
of America is menaced by the philosophy of the Easy Road, by a willingness to barter our dear-bought liberties for security not realizing that
there is no security in material things, that the only security is an inner
security based on character. Dangerous indeed is the willingness of
multitudes of people to listen and believe in the schemes of half-baked
politicians and venal promoters, that utopias can be produced by legislation. The drift in many fields toward totalitarianism is very ominous:
the nationalization of industry, information, education is a movement
fraught with grave consequences. Socialism however one garbs it is a
halfway house on the road to Communism.
Vast numbers of people have lost the will to do. They want government to support them. Others have lost a sense of responsibility and so
they are saying "Let George do it."
Then like storm clouds over the peaks, are the dark clouds of fear
and doubt, producing a sense of frustration and futility, a feeling of
hopelessness.
Let us say it-frankly, we are living in a most dangerous sort of
world. Confronting us as we look forward are terrifying mountains of
difficulties. But let us not be dismayed. Let us say with the poet Hovey,
"In the face of a dark today here's to a brave tomorrow." Life never has

12

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

been easy. There is no really safe road. An hour of change is always
loaded with peril. But the truth is-a dangerous hour may be the bridge
to 'a great hour. It was so in the Elizabethan Age, it was so with the
landing of the Pilgrim Fathers, it was so when the Declaration of
Independence was signed.
What we need today is men to match these mountains of danger with
their daring, conquer them by wise heroic action, and turn them-as did
the pioneers of a century ago--illto highways to opportunity. · Such men
will be they who put the common good ahead of private advantage, men
of independent mien, possessed of the good sense to cooperate. Men
who couple dreams with deeds. Men of conscience, men with noble
convictions. Men dedicated to fhe right. Men who do not quit when
the going is tough. They will be men with a spiritual faith in God-that
He is, that He is able and that He will not fail. Men with faith in the
universe that it is "no blot nor blunder." Men with faith in themselves,
men with faith in their fellow men.
Such men can master mountains, transform deserts and drive successfully the horses of the sun. These are the men for the hour. Such
men Masons ought to be.
I say this is an hour for Masons. One recalls with pride the glorious
part Masons 'have played in the struggle for liberal institutions, for
truth and freedom in Europe, in America, and in California history.
Again this is an hour for Masons to be true to our historic tradition.
We are here to render service and give dynamic leadership in this time
of crisis. Not as a Grand Lodge nor yet as Lodges, but as individual
Masons, each true to his best light and true to his obligations to follow it.
I say that advisedly. We are picked men, we are not ordinary citi~
zens. We have been selected because of worth and attainments. We
are men who believe in human worth. We are men of character. We are
men who believe in and rely on God. The sorry mess the world is in
today is due primarily to a lack of energizing faith in God. Man seeking
to build by himself the Tower of Babel failed. Man cannot build a safe
society, a good world without God's help, without faith in God. We
have too largely left God out of the equation. We thought we were
clever and scientific and did not need Him. We have put our reliance
in treaties, in systems, in organizations, in tools and gadgets and test
tubes. But they have failed us! We need to "seek Him who made the
Seven Stars and Orion, who tumeth the night into day, who strength~
eneth the spoiled against the strong." We need to remember that before
Him, the eternal God, dynasties and dictators are as the small dust in
the :balance.
We, as Masons, are entitled to know and to possess the wisdom and

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

13

power that come from an alliance with God. In this hour, when many are
palsied with quaking fear, let us bring to our day the confidence that is
born of faith in an omnipotent God. Such a rebirth of faith can change
the climate and the whole aspect of our day.
It is true that we represent only a fraction of our citizenry. But all
progress has been achieved by the pioneering of valiant minorities. It is
remarkable what a few resolute men can do. Starr King, Unitarian
preacher in lawless San Francisco, stricken with tuberculosis, did more
than any other man or group of men to save California to the Union.
That we have the giant Sequoia groves to enjoy as a perpetual heritage
la due to the single-handed crusade John Muir fought for their preser~
vatlon. David Livingstone, sick, plodding the soggy trails of Equatorial
Africa, put fhat continent on the map of the world and on the conscience
of Christendom. This republic of ours exists today because of the wisdom, courage and faith of a small body of men in the colonies. Their
names are now blazoned in glory. It was the belated vote of a sick man,
Caesar Rodney, who rode eighty miles through wind and rain that
helped to carry Richard Henry Lee's Resolution that fateful day, the
2nd of July, 1776.
There are enough good Masons and true in California to master the
mountains of difficulty and danger that do now confront us. So let
us be the pioneers of a nobler Americanism and a wider freedom.
Let us not play the part of Hamlet nor that of Omar Khayyam.
Rather let us say with that young Oxford poet of World War I fame
Rupert Brooke: "Now God be thanked who has matched me with Hi~
hour."
This is a critical moment. Destiny hinges on the way men act today.
This is our hour. Let us quit ourselves like men, like true Masons. Let
us match our hour with conquering courage, sacrifice, wisdom and faith.
To the supreme task-a rebirth of freedom, honor, integrity, faith,
and righteousness let us dedicate ourselves as we face the second century
of Masonry in California.
At this Centennial Communication let us pledge each other and God
that we will preserve our free institutions and keep the Stars and Stripes
11tlll flying over a united, happy, glorious, progressive country-the home
of free men.
To this solemn pledge and endeavor may the Supreme Grand Master
add His divine benediction.
God of our fathers and our God: make us big enough, brave enough,
wise enough, good enough to match our day of destiny and make it the
bridgehead for a greater Tomorrow.
The Grand Secretary was directed to send telegrams of greeting to
·
the absent Past Grand Masters.

15

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

MESSAGE OF THE GRAND MASTER

forget that these figures will be passed next year, and those of next year
tn the succeeding. What folly it would have been, even twenty years ago,
to believe that our Grand Lodge had reached its final form. Let us not
be so short-sighted as to believe that it has now reached its final form.

ELLSWORTH MEYER, Grand Master

I wish that I could tell you about the Grand Lodge of California: tell
you how it was formed in a little building at Fifth and J Streets, in
Sacramento, one hundred years ago. I wish that I could paint for you a
word picture of the frontier times and land in which it was born, the
days of 1849 and '50, the days of "Gold in California." I wish that I
could sketch for you its growth from three lodges with a membership
of about one hundred Master Masons to its present . size. But these
cannot be done in an hour.
Instead, it will be necessary to give you facts and figures of 1949 and
'50 and a few suggestions for the future. These recommendations, perhaps, should be of grand proportions to befit an occasion when we are
closing the first century of this Grand Lodge and opening its second,
but I would not judge them so.
Our communication is historic not only ·because of the anniversary
we are observing, .but because of the distinguished guests in attendance.
Never before has a communication been graced by the presence of thirtynine Grand Masters from every part of the Union and five foreign
countries. Never before have we been honored by the presence of a
comparable number of Deputy Grand Masters, Grand Secretaries and
Past Grand Masters from other jurisdictions. Their presence makes us
feel both humble and proud, humble as to our own accomplishments and
proud that they would evidence their interest in Masonry in California
by traveling so far to view it at first hand. If their pleasure is in proportion to our appreciation, we shall indeed be happy.
This afternoon we shall have the pleasure of receiving most of our
guests in a Masonic manner befitting to their positions and a few will
arrive later. I have set aside certain periods on our schedule and requested several of our guests to address the communication on topics of
their selection that you might have the benefit of Masonic thinking on
different subjects. I was confident that they would enjoy hearing some
of the songs of California and to that end requested the Grand Organist
to make certain innovations in the concert and processional which you
have already heard.
Today, the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California extends a
thousand miles from north to south and on the Atlantic Coast would be
from southern Massachusetts to Savannah, Georgia. From its most
easterly lodge to the most westerly is more than two thousand four
hundred miles. Upon its roster are 607 active lodges with a membership
approaching 197,000 Master Masons and within our boundaries reside
another hundred thousand who retain their membership elsewhere. As
has been said each year by the Grand Master, the number of lodges and
our mtmbership constitute new highs, but on this occasion let us not

CONSTITUTION OP NEW LoDGES

The first official duty after our last annual communication was to
constitute the four lodges which received charters and this was done
within the statutory sixty-day period. These lodges were: Bixby Knolls
No. 699, Long Beach, Los Angeles County: Ponderosa No. 700, Fresno,
Fresno County: Santa Ynez Valley No. 701, Los Olivos, Santa Barbara
County and Rosemead No. 702, Rosemead, Los Angeles County. At
each of these ceremonies a large majority of the Grand Lodge officers
attended and their presence and assistance was deeply appreciated.
There were unusual circumstances connected with the constitution
of Santa Ynez Valley Lodge No. 701 and I shall digress for a moment
to recount them. It should first be explained that under our law the
Master of a lodge under dispensation must be named in the charter and
be installed in order to become its first Past Master.
When we gathered at Los Olivos, a very tiny community, our hearts
were heavy because the Master who had served under dispensation had
contracted an eye infection which had required his removal to the
Veterans' Administration Hospital at Van Nuys in Los Angeles County.
I was told that the brethren despaired for his sight and were concerned
for his life.
A large segment of the constitution ceremony is the installation of
the officers and with no Master to install there is quite a gap. The other
parts of the ceremony were performed, but I too was thinking of the
absent brother. During the hundred-odd miles home and the following
days, I kept wondering what a judge could do, within our law, to effect
his installation. A peculiar inquiry from another lodge, a day or two
later, caused the realization that our rule as to public installations could
·be used with entire propriety. Accordingly, a letter was written to the
Senior Warden of Santa Ynez Valley Lodge asking him to open the
lodge on a regular meeting night, to call to refreshment at a designated
hour for the purpose of installing the Master and to remain at refreshment for two hours. Arrangements were also made with the superintendent of the Birmingham Veterans' Hospital and at the appointed
time I drove the thirty miles out to the hospital.
A large room had been made available and in the presence of some
thirty Masons from among the patients and staff, I installed the Master
of Santa Ynez Valley Lodge. After the formalities were completed, in
the course of informal remarks, I stated that it was probably the first
installation in the history of the Grand Lodge of California to which all
but four had come ht their pajamas. For about two hours they told
about Masonry in their different jurisdictions and I answered questions

17

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

about California Masonry. Another reward was paid ~)so, because
when I left the hospital the Master walked out with me, cured, discharged and a member of his lodge was there to return him home. I
recall that my warmed-up dinner tasted very good that night and also,
that the reference for the legality of this procedure is Section 786.

elsewhere, Inspectors had six, seven or eight lodges. There were some
Inspectors who found it impossible to devote the necessary time to their
duties.
Accordingly, with the commencement of the new term of office for
Inspectors on January first, several lodges were transferred to other
districts. new districts were created and those which were designated
by a number and letter, which always sounded as if they were annexes
to real districts, were given numbers of their own. The greater number
of changes was effected in the Los Angeles Metropolitan area. Fully
aware of the apprehension which is usually caused in our ranks by any
change, it seemed desirable that the changes should be made by a Grand
Master from the area in which the greater number would occur. It has
been gratifying that so many have privately expressed their pleasure
with the action taken.
In the selection of new Inspectors several appraisals were obtained
of each prospect before he was appointed and if there was a better man
available in any instance, he was well hidden. In geographical order, the
new Inspectors appointed were:
TowN
BROS.
Napa
Jack Mast
Berkeley
Robert H. Taylor
Crockett
Harvey'R. Browning
San
Francisco
Perry M. Spencer
San Francisco
Herbert H. Schultz
San Francisco
Maurice E. Coffey
San Francisco
Arthur J. Kahn
San Jose
Walter A. Henrichsen
Manteca
Delbert E. Luck
Los
Angeles
Elmer R. Lotz
Los Angeles
Elvin C. Drake
Los Angeles
Anson McArthur
Los Angeles
Albert V. Y 011ngs
Los Angeles
Charles W. Lunsford
Los Angeles
Martin 0. Veland
Los Angeles
William E. Keogh •
Hermosa Beach
_ Paul Thompson
Long Beach
Myron E. Roudebush
• Temple City
W~lliam N. Pedder
Buena Park
•.
Ted R. Siems
.
Laguna
Beach
Ben Sorrells •
San
Bernardino
John Bright
Santee
Hugh D. Good

16

DISPENSATIONS TO FORM NEW LoDGES

A~ the be~inning of the administrative year, there were two petitions

for dispensations to form new lodges pending. After examination, I
granted •both. During the year five additional petitions were presented;
four were granted, and one denied. On different dates I instituted each
of these six lodges: Hunters Point Naval Lodge, San Francisco; Lake
Tahoe Lodge, Bijou, El Dorado County; Seafaring Lodge, Costa Mesa,
Orange County; Lorenzo Lodge, San Lorenzo, Alameda County; Anacapa Lodge, Oxnard, Ventura County and Rim of the World Lodge,
Lake Arrowhead, San Bernardino County.
. ~e~vy snows prevented going to Lake Tahoe in January and the
~nstitution ceremony was performed at Placerville, known as Hangtown
m the Gold Rush Days, hence it was not possible to visit the lodge
quarters at Bijou, of which good reports had 'been received, but personal
observation of the spacious temple the brethren of Rim of the World
Lodge had built brought the realization that few city lodges have comparable temples.
Four additional groups signified their desire to form new lodges and
an Inspector was assigned to each to assist and advise them in the
furtherance of their desires.
APPOINTMENTS

After receiving the resignation of Senior Grand Deacon Gilmore last
month, Junior Grand Steward Edwards was appointad to that office and
Brother Dorse K. Fissell, Past Master of Barstow Lodge No. 682, was
appointed Junior Grand Steward. These brethren were duly installed,
but the advance programs for the communication were already printed
and their names did not appear in the proper places therein. They made
the souvenir programs however.
B.rother ~alter Berger: chairman of the Committee on Lodge Financing, resigned due to illness and I appointed Brother Edward J
Blickfeldt to be Chairman.
.
During the interim since the last annual communication numerous
other appointments have ;been made. The largest number of these was
to the group of inspectors. It had been the feeling of many ·brethren for
some years that major adjustments should be made in the matter of
districts and inspectors. The adjustments which were long overdue are
too numerous to detail at this point, but it will be sufficient to say that
some lodges were at some distance from others in the same district, but
close to the lodges of another district; in San Francisco there long had
been an Inspect-or for each four lodges, but in Southern California and

At the last annual communication, you directed that the incoming
Grand Master should appoint a special committee to consider and report

18

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

upon certain recommendations before you as to application forms and
investigation procedures. The direction was that the committee .should
include one member from the Committee on Policy and General Purposes
and one member from the Committee on Jurisprudence. Accordingly. I
appointed Past Grand Master Rollie W. Miller, Chairman, from the
Committee on Policy and General Purposes, and Brother Ralph Heckler
from the Committee on Jurisprudence. The other members appointed
were Brother Charles T. Medial', Past Master, Brother Wilbur T. Teets,
Master of San Marino Lodge and Brother William J. Amann, Master
of Anchor Lodge in Compton. They will report later in this session.
You also directed that a special committee should be appointed to
consider and report upon the recommendations of the Grand Treasurer
that our laws be amended to adopt the "prudent man rule" for the investment of both Grand Lodge and constituent lodge funds. I appointed
Brother Leo E. Sievert, Past Master, as chairman, and Assistant Grand
Treasurer Paul Pflueger, Past Grand Master Charles Albert Adams,
Brother Leslie E. Alt, Past Master, and Brother Vincent P. McMurdo.
Past Master, to this committee.
Each of these special committees was selected with the thought in
mind that each member was experienced in the particular field to be
covered and collectively, each committee would have men who probably
represent different viewpoints. Their determinations therefore should be
of material assistance to you.
The directors on the boards at the two club houses at Berkeley and
Los Angeles are elected by their respective boards and the Grand Master
only suggests directors by way of nominations.
I was advised of the expiration of the terms of Brothers Carlisle D.
Nielsen and Paul S. Boren, and the resignation of Past Grand Master
Adams of the Berkeley Board. I suggested the re-election of the first two
and the election of Carl Munck, former Senior Grand Steward and
President of the Board of Education of Oakland. The suggestions were
accepted.
With the board in Los Angeles I had trouble. I suggested the reelection of Past Grand Master Ross and Brothers Crane, Shoemaker
and Klarquist. The board refused to accept the nomination of another
when my own term expired and I refused to nominate myself. Outside
assistance may be necessary to put down this rebellion in the south.
During the year, six instances occurred in which the Master of a
lodge either had directed the filing of charges against a member or was
a probable witness. In each instance I assigned a qualified Past Master
to preside at the trial pursuant to sections 955-958. Two trials, after the
receipt of proper requests, were transferred to other lodges in the interests of harmony and pursuant to sections 301 and 942. Charges were
preferred against one Master of a lodge and I appointed five Past
Masters from other lodges as Commissioners, pursuant to section 275.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

19

PROCLAMATIONS

During the year three proclamations by the Grand Master were sent
to the lodges of the jurisdiction. In reverse order, they were designating
Masonic Homes Endowment Month, Public Schools Week, both of
which have been proclaimed in other years, and a proclamation requiring
the Master of each lodge to appoint a committee to interest sojourning
Masons, who permanently reside in California, in visiting and becoming
active in our lodges.
This latter is an activity which I believe should be continued for
awhile longer. California is unique in regard to the great influx of
families from all over the world and it is regrettably true that many
Masons who come here to make their homes but leave their membership
elsewhere, in time, drop off the Masonic tree. Many who have a sentimental tie to a lodge elsewhere do not know that they may retain that
memb~rs~ip. a~d be ac~ive here, if they come from one of the thirty-six
other JUr1sd1ctions which also permit dual membership. If we manage
to keep these brethren within the Masonic fold we shall have strengthened Freemasonry as a whole, for one who allows his dues to lapse and
is suspended is of no value to the other jurisdictions or California.
Copies of these proclamations will be found in the appendix to this
message.
·
DISPENSATIONS AND APPROVALS

In addition to the dispensations to form new lodges already mentioned, a substantial number of requests was received for dispensations
to do various things. The number and variety of these made it appear
at times that our brethren were of one of two schools of thought, either
that the Grand Master could grant them a dispensation to do almost
anything or that they could not do anything without a special dispensation. Frequently the answer was, "I cannot," but more often "It isn't
necessary. ,,

.

Fourteen special dispensations were granted by the Grand Master
to lodges to elect officers, due to resignations, deaths or removals to other
localities. Nine dispensations were granted lodges to move from one
temple to another in the same city, pursuant to section 140 of the Ordinan~es~ . Four dispe~sations were granted to receive and ballot upon the
applications of men in the armed services who lacked the required period
of residence in California. .
Fifty-three lodges adopted by-laws or amendments which were approved by the Grand Master. These were to change the meeting night,
Increase dues, increase fees or relative to stated meeting nights which
fall on holidays.
Four lodges adopted resolutions relative to life memberships.
One hundred and seventy-eight requests for a total of two hundred
and seventy-seven courtesy degrees were submitted to the Grand Master. One hundred and forty requests were granted and thirty-eight

20

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

I
I

denied, because the candidate had become a permanent resident of
California, or being a California candidate had become a permanent resident of some other jurisdiction.
During my absence from the State to attend the conference in Washington and to visit our lodges in the Hawaiian Islands, the Deputy Grand
Master and Senior Grand Warden made several similar approvals.
It will not be necessary to detail the particulars of the dispensations
at the present moment becau:;e they were given to the Committee on
Jurisprudence at a meeting called for the first weekend in September to
expedite the committee work of this communication.
An application by the Grand Lodge of Greece for recognition was
received and referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes
for investigation and report.
Those instances in which I felt I did not have power to grant the
request are reported among the decisions made and those more numerous
instances in which I advised that the thing could be done without a
dispensation are probably accomplished facts and all concerned are
happy.

Americanism," "Will We Be Part of the Problem or Part of the An1wer?" "Masonry Militant," "The Third Question," "Masonry and the
Morrow," "The Quest," "Just a Drop in the Bucket" and "Gold in
Those Hills."
The following is a list of personal appearances during the year, all
but a few of which are directly chargeable to incumbency in this office:
1949

OCT.

'I~

16

Masters and Wardens Breakfast, San Francisco.

Nov.
'I

I

.,
i

'

VISITATIONS

It is stated quite frankly that the year as Grand Master was approached with considerable apprehension because of a personal practice,
never to take time from the bench to appear before any organization. It
did not seem possible to maintain that practice and yet do those things
which are expected of the incumbent of this office. It was clear that the
only way engagements could be met was to schedule all events within
one hundred miles of Los Angeles for nights during the week, so that
a return could be made to the family domicile the same night and to
schedule all events at a greater distance during weekends. I mention
these factors only that I may again express my appreciation to the many
who scheduled meetings in accordance with the plan and that those
situated at points which required travel of two days each way will understand why it was necessary to decline invitations.
The apprehension would have been increased had it been possible
to foresee the unusual number of official meetings, special communications of the Grand Lodge, to dedicate temples and lay cornerstones,
which would occur. In June, the Grand Secretary advised that there
had been more of these than in any one of the past fifteen years and
then went on to make the prophecy th.at reference would be made in
the future t'o "Corner Stone Meyer." I hope not, but a corner stone or
dedication is a rare and happy event in the life of a lodge and some
concessions of time and effort should be made. The concessions which
the officers, from the Grand Tiler to the Deputy Grand Master, made
are worthy of your hearty approbation.
At the receptions and for other addresses, as far as was possible,
different topics were used. Among those used were: "Freemasonry and

21

I

1 Pentalpha Lodge, Fifty Year Button, P.G.M. Gist.
3 Official Reception, Los Angeles.
9 Grand Guardian Council, Job's Daughters, Oakland.
11 Constituted Bixby Knolls Lodge, Long Beach .
12 Constituted Rosemead Lodge at Alhambra.
14 Visit to Eagle Rock Lodge.
16 Official Reception, Los Angeles.
19 Constituted Santa Ynez Valley Lodge, Los Olivos.
23 Degree work, Santa Barbara.
25 Constituted Ponderosa Lodge, Fresno.
29 Official Reception, Los Angeles.
DEC.

"

3
7-10
12
13
15

17
19

28

Knight Commander Ceremony. Los Angeles.
Grand Lodge of Tex as.
Installed officers, Eagle Rock Lodge.
Installed officers, Vermont Square Lodge.
Installed officers. Whittier & Greenleaf Lodges.
Knight Commander Ceremony, Oakland.
Laid corner stone Columbia Temple, Columbia.
Installed officers, Mt. Olive Lodge, Los Angeles.

1950
JAN.

6 Reception, Los Angeles.
9 Larchmont Lodge, Los Angeles, Judges Night.
14 Instituted Hunters Point Naval Lodge. San Francisco.
18 Installed officers, Liberal Arts Lodge. Los Angeles.
19 Official Reception, Motion Picture Square Clubs, Los Angeles.
21 Instituted Lake Tahoe Lodge, at Placerville.
25 Instituted Seafaring Lodge, at Santa Ana.
FEB.

4 Dedicated Pacific Grove Temple, Monterey County,
8 Visited Menorah Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

20
21
22

Addressed Conference of Grand Masters, Washington, D. C.
Addressed Banquet of Grand Secretaries, Washington, D. C.
Washington Memorial, visited Washington-Alexandria Lodge,
Va.

MAR.

11 Official Reception, San Diego.
1i Fiftieth Anniversary Fullerton Lodge, Fullerton.
18 Dedicated Van Nuys Temple, Van Nuys.
19 . Address, Annual breakfast, Los Angeles Biltmore.
24 Official Reception, Berkeley.
25 Official Reception, San Jose.
31 . Official Reception, U~C.L.A. Club House.
APR.

Address, Annual breakfast, Long Beach.
Reception, U.C. Club House.
Dedicated Columbia Temple, Columbia.
16 Address, Annual breakfast, Sacramento.
19 Broadcast, Columbia network, Centennial Day.
26 Address, Los Angeles Police Square Club.
29 Laid corner stone, Temple City Lodge, Temple City.
Dedicated Granada Temple, Alhambra.
9 . Address, Luncheon Club, Long Beach.

Address, Elk's Club, Long Beach.
Attended conference, So. Cal. Inspectors.
Official Reception, Los Angeles.
Official Reception, Marin · County.
Address, Annual breakfast, Oakland.
Reception, Scottish Rite, Oakland.

JUNE

18
19
26
28
29
30

Visit to Westl~ke Lodge.
Official Reception, Montebello.
Laid corner stone, El Segundo Temple, El Segundo.
Laid corner stone, Angeles Mesa Temple. Los Angeles.
Address, Annual St. John's Breakfast, Compton.
Laid corner stone, Shrine Hospital, Los Angeles.
Masters and Wardens Dinner, Honolulu.
Official Reception Lodge Maui, Kahului, Island of Maui.
Banquet, Wiluku.
Official Reception, Kileua Lodge, Hilo, Island of Hawaii.

JULY

5
7
9

Aua.
16

19

Address, Supreme Council. Job's Daughters of U. S., Canada
and Australia.
Instituted Anacapa Lodge, Oxnard.

2-3 Meeting Jurisprudence and Policy Committees, Pasadena.
9

12
14
16

19
21
22
23

MAY

5
13
17

Banquet, Honolulu.
Banquet, Honolulu.
Banquet, Honolulu.
Official Reception, four lodges, Honolulu.
Banquet, Scottish Rite, Coconut Island.
Farewell Dinner, Oahu.
Instituted Lorenzo Lodge, at Hayward.

SBPT.

2
7
15

10
13.. 11
17
20
21
27

10
11
12
13
14
15
21

23

Official Reception, Kauai Lodge, Lihue, Island of Kauai.
Official Reception, Schoffield Barracks, Island of Oahu.
Banquet, Honolulu.

24
26
28
30

Instituted Rim of the World Lodge, at San Bernardino.
Official Reception, South Pasadena.
Official Reception, Long Beach.
Official Reception, Catalina Island.
Official Reception, Los Angeles.
Official Reception, Inglewood.
Dedicated Florence Temple, Los Angeles.
Laid corner stone, Justice Bldg., Huntington Park.
Address, Annual breakfast, Fresno.
Official Reception, Pomona.
Address, Telephone Square Club.
Official Reception, Vallejo.

These visitations and affairs entailed travel in excess of 31,000 miles,
most of which was direct air mileage.
It will be observed that the engagements dotted the state fairly well
from San Diego to Sacramento and included three in the Mother Lode
country. It was a matter of regret that it was not feasible to reach the
extreme northern quarter of the state on any occasion, but consolation
was derived from the fact that the Deputy Grand Master hails from
that portion of the state and probably would make up for this year.
The ninety ·appearances listed were possible by an almost exclusive
use of air lines, and the fortunate fact that Mrs. Meyer is an unexcelled
packer of suitcases. When starting back home, I frequently wished that
I had just one more suitcase~ When I was on the ground in the north,
Grand Tiler HQrwege or Grand Pursuivant Triggs usually handled the
wheel and Senior Grand Deacon Edwards drove me to three quarters
of all the affairs between Fresno and San Diego. Not satisfied with that
extensive travel, he usually drove to affairs in the north while I Hew.
His record of attendance is most unusual and praiseworthy.
In addition to the affairs I have listed, Deputy Grand Master Paulsen

.

24

25

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

opened four special communications, to lay the corner stones of two
educational structures, of Foothill Temple in Oakland and to dedicate
the Georgetown Temple. His willingness to perform these ceremonies
was of substantial assistance and greatly appreciated.
Included in the list of appearances are several of which particular
mention should be made. The first in point of time was a visit to the
Grand Lodge of Texas in December. It was the occasion of their annual
communication and the dedication and first use of their new Grand
Lodge Temple. I have heretofore described it in some detail at several
meetings here in California. Located in Waco, it is a truly magnificent
building, a modern replica of King Solomon's Temple and it achieves
the spectacular through simplicity. Thirteen grand jurisdictions were
represented by their Grand Master or other principal officer and personal
friendships .with several who are honoring our present communication
were established at that time. It was most pleasant to 'he with Brother
Albert De Lange, who was instaJled Grand Master, and the Past Grand
. Masters. We shaJI have the pleasure of hearing the Grand Master of
Texas later in this session.
Next in point of time was attendance at the Conference of Grand
Masters of North America in Washington, D. C. and the other meetings
scheduled for the same period. Our Deputy Grand Master, Grand
Secretary and Past Grand Master Ogden also attended these sessions.
In order to insure keeping the Grand Master of California off the streets,
he was assigned the opening address on the agenda of the Conference
of Grand Masters and the address at the banquet which closed the
Conference of Grand Masters and the address at the banquet which
closed the Conference of Grand Secretaries. This diabolical plan of
Brother Karl Mohr, P(lst Grand Master of Illinois, Executive Secretary
of the Conference of Grand Masters, on the one hand, and of Grand
Secretary Doss of Tennessee, on the other hand, accomplished its purpose. Both of these brethren are present with us today.
As is customary, a visit was made to the George Washington
National Masonic Memorial on Washington's birthday. The sessions
of the association are comparatively brief. but on this occasion were
foJlowed by the unveiling of the seventeen foot bronze statue of the first
President. The speaker for the occasion was the President of the United
States, previous to whom representatives of various Masonic bodies
·
extended brief greetings.
Later, the Deputy Grand Master and I visited Washington-Alexandda Lodge No. 22 of the Grand Lodge of Virginia and witnessed a
third degree conferred by Grand Master Flowers of Virginia, who also
honors us by his presence today. The work was beautifuJly done. This
was the seventh jurisdiction, the ritualistic work of which has been
personally observed. It is fascinating to study the many differences from
jurisdiction to jurisdiction and the common threads which run through

all, even though no two of the forty-nine jurisdictions in the United
States are identical in their ritual. In order that our guests may make
comparisons, we have asked one of our lodges to confer a third degree
on Thursday evening.
On April 19, 1950, the actual centennial day of the Grand Lodge,
the Columbia Broadcasting Company made available the facilities of
their network and the Grand Master delivered a fifteen minute address
on the topic "A Century of Masonry in California." The address was
broadcast in the afternoon and again in the evening. Many requests
from men and women were received for copies of this address and
printed copies were made available by the Scottish Rite Bodies in Los
Angeles. The time of the broadcasts did not coincide with normal lodge
hours and several brethren in different parts of the state made recordings
of the broadcast and have made these and the necessary equipment
available to lodges for use at meetings. One member of the Committee
on Grievances has presented the grievance that he has now heard the
address eight times. His grievance is well taken. A copy of the address
will be found in the appendix to this message.
In accordance with the appropriations made at the last annual communication, I requested the Deputy Grand Master and Grand Wardens
to visit our neighbors. Deputy Grand Master Paulsen attended the
annual communication of the Grand Lodge of Washington, Senior
Grand Warden Drapeau that of Oregon and Junior Grand Warden
Warren that of Nevada. These communications were held in June. I
requested a brother to attend the Grand Lodge of Arizona but unforeseen events prevented representation there this year.
Two pleasurable visits were those to Columbia, first to lay the corner
stone for and then to dedicate the completed Columbia temple which
you have restored in that community. The State of California is revitalizing Columbia as a state park and living memorial to the Gold Rush
Days. The temple has been built on the exact spot occupied by the
original and as nearly similar as research could make it. In laying the
corner stone, I used the trowel which had been used by old Columbia
Lodge No. 28 when it existed. At the dedication ceremony we were
favored by the attendance of six of our Past Grand Masters and a host
of Inspectors and others, some of whom had come from as far as San
Diego for the ceremony. We had a jolly and inspiring afternoon.
Request has been made of the special committee on the restoration
of Columbia temple to present recommendations to you, at this session,
for the maintenance and use of the temple by lodges which desire to
go there to confer degrees and later in this message I will recommend
the amendment of section 121 of the Ordinances to permit the use of
this lodge room as is now possible with respect to the lodge room at
our home at Decoto.
It has become a tradition for the Grand Master each year to officially

26

27

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

visit each of the club houses at the Berkeley and Los Angeles campuses
of the University of California. These visits were particularly pleasur- ·
able to me because graduate study had been taken on the first campus
and some years of membership on the board of the southern club house
had been experienced. Both buildings. although totally different. are
ornaments to their respective communities and do credit to Masonry.
The student groups of 600 active members at each are enthusiastic and,
to use a colloquialism, went all out to express their appreciation for the
facilities you have provided. ·
The remaining visit of which particular mention will be made was
to our eight lodges in the Hawaiian Islands. Each Grand Master who
has visited the Islands has attempted to describe the hospitality of our
brethren and the tropic beauty of this "Paradise of the Pacific." They
would probably be the first to concede that they failed. I freely admit
that I would too. One has to visit the Islands to appreciate the sheer
beauty of Oahu, Maui, Hawaii and Kauai, the four islands on which
we have lodges. Words cannot convey adequate pictures of the eternal
green of mile upon mile of sugar cane, the red earth of the pineapple
fields, or the green growth which goes up one side of the sharp mountains and without break down the other. How can you describe tall
coconut palms curving up and out to the sea? Or the blues of the sea
and sky broken by the white of billowing clouds and rolling surf? Who
could describe for you the beauty of the hulas as performed in the
Islands, not the Hollywood version? Or of the score of different flowers?
Who could hope to capture in words the golden head of a shower tree?
There is an aspect of the Islands which is dangerous and that is its
music. If you have never heard a native sing the original version of an
Hawaiian song you may be better off, for there is something about
Aloha Oe and Kopola which will seep down into you. When you have
heard for the second or third time the Hawiian wedding song, Ke Kali
Nei Au, you are doomed, for you can never again silence those slow,
easy full throated notes, and what is more. you don't want to.
We are happy indeed that each of the eight lodges is represented
by one or more officers at this communication and that both of our
Inspectors in the Islands are present today.

About the same time a notice was brought to my attention that ·
another lodge in this vicinity, was scheduling a "Forty-niner Night" at
which there was to be a drawing for three prizes, a television set, a set
of tires and a case of bonded whiskey. I sent a telegram to the Master
ordering him to abandon this drawing or any other system of distributing prizes.
·
A club, which is really a temple association, in the Los Angeles area
planned an evening of entertainment to raise funds to pay the cost of
refurnishing a temple. The plan was to sell tickets although the price
was printed on the tickets as " Donation $1.00." I advised it that the
proposed distribution of tickets would violate our laws.
Some of our brethren observing non-Masonic groups engaging in
these activities seem to feel that Masonic groups may do so. In the hope
that ' it may serve to clear away the misunderstanding I point out that
section 288 of our Ordinances prohibits any lottery in any Masonic
lodge or any organization in which the prerequisite to membership is
that one be a Mason. It vests in the Grand Master power to suspend
any Mason who participates in a lottery. It is the only instance in which
the Grand Master can suspend a brother from the rights and privileges
of Masonry, and he may do so without filing of charges or a trial in a
constituent lodge. Also, I call attention to the decision of Grand Master
Whitsell, reported in section 740, Ross Digest, that the giving of door
prizes at an entertainment is prohibited and to the decision of Grand
Master Smith, section 795; that a lodge or temple association may not
hold a public entertainment for the purpose of raising funds to pay the
debt on a temple.
Rumors that a group of Knight Templars were contemplating what
would have been a lottery reached' me and I brought the matter to the
attention of the Grand Commander of the Grand Commandery of
California. The rumored event did not take place.
In June, the mail brought tickets for a lottery set up for the Imperial
Council Sessions of the Shrine. The first prize was a luxurious automobile and the proposed prizes descended through some fifty thousand
dollars of merchandise to liquor and coffee. I sent for the DirectorGeneral of the sessions and had him read section 288 of our Ordinances.
That night a notice was sent through the mail to all recipients of tickets
advising them that the tickets previously sent would not be admission
tickets to the temple. would not entitle the holder to any chance on any
prize and would be used solely for the purpose of admission to the
balcony restaurant and a meal therein.
I mention this instance at some length because of the happy differences from those which Grand Master Gaylord had to report as to an
earlier Imperial Council Session and for the further purpose of bringing
home to any future promoter in a lodge or other organization the
existence and efficacy of section 288.

DISCIPLINE

A reading of the annual messages of our Grand Masters in other
years will disclose that each has had to take some disciplinary action.
This year there wasn't even a cloud in the sky for the first six months,
but April brought the first rain.
Contrary to our custom and the proclamation of the Grand Master,
one of our large lodges held a major entertainment on the regular
meeting night during Public Schools Week and a public schools meeting
two nights later. I suspended the Master from office for the next three
months.

28

29

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

DECISIONS

•I nded to participate in the work. They were in uniform and wore
•Jlrons bearing the insignia of their organization. Some lodge members
oltJtcted to the aprons and some of the visiting officers became adamnnt about wearing them. I addressed a letter to the officer who did the
M11ter's work and pointed out that the apron was a Masonic symbol
md not a signboard, and reminded the group that they were participating in the work on their fellow employee as guests of the lodge and not
a matter of right. I directed that they do not again wear aprons
h11 aring any insignia.
DEc1s10N No. 6.
The insignia or name of an organization may not be placed on
Masonic aprons and no group may be allowed to work in a lodge
while wearing aprons bearing such insignia or name.
I have not been favored with an acknowledgment of my letter, but
in the event any of the officers are present-I may state that on Saturday
my going will be as my coming-by airplane.
·
Two of our Inspectors presented facts relative to an entered apprentice and a fellow craft and questions as to their advan~ement. The
entered apprentice had been initiated some years ago, had not reported
for coaching, in subsequent years had become ill and, over a period of
time, had lost his sight to the extent that from the altar he could not
possibly observe the Master aproaching him. The fellow craft had suffered a heart condition which precluded the second section of the third
degree in even the mild form which alone is authorized. After careful
Inquiry as to details, it was held:
DEc1s10N No. 7.
An entered apprentice or fellowcraft who has become blind, or
whose physical condition has become such that deviations in the
ritual would be necessary. cannot be passed or raised.
One of our entered apprentices became a permanent resident in
another state and requested courtesy work. He was asked to apply to
his lodge for a demit. He did not apply, but wrote further letters and
the Grand Secretary of that jurisdiction made inquiries. Our Grand
Secretary replied explaining that we would not request courtesy work
because he was permanently residing outside California, but we would
be glad to grant a demit on his request so he could petition a lodge at
his new residence. No demit was requested, but he was elected in the
other :jurisdiction and received the other two degrees. He then demanded
a return of fees out here. Unfortunately under our law the granting of
a demit is a prerequisite to a refund. He refused to ask for it and then
made it impossible to grant.
DECISION No. 8.
No refund may be made to an entered .apprentice who was elected
and received further degrees in another jurisdiction without a demit
or relinquishment of jurisdiction by his California lodge.

During the year more than fifty requests were received for decisions
on points of law which already had been decided, approved and reported
in the Ross Digest. Such requests were answered by referring the officer
to the digest and perhaps adding a word of explanation or clarification.
No purpose would be served by repeating those matters now, but I do
report twelve interpretations which were made.
A section frequently interpreted for lodges is section 121, which lays
down requirements as to the place lodge meetings must be held and the
extent to which a dispensation may go. A number of dispositions may
be stated in the following three decisions:
DEc1s10N No. 1.
Under Section 121 of the Ordinances a lodge may hold a meeting
in any suitable building in the city, town or community named in
its dispensation or charter without a dispensation from the Grand
Master.
DECISION No. 2.
Section 121 of the Ordinances, as it now reads, does not empower
the Grand Master to grant a dispensation to confer degrees in the
open. It requires that all meetings of lodges shall be held in a
building.
DEc1s10N No. 3.
Section 121 of the Ordinances limits the power o.f the Grand Master
to grant a dispensation for a meeting in another city to meetings
for the conferring of degrees. He cannot grant such a dispensation
for purposes such as tendering a reception to the Grand Master.
In the absence of a requirement by the Grand Lodge, I could find
no sanction in the general power to make rules and regulations governing local boards of relief, for a Board of Control rule requiring the
approval of the Grand Master before a lodge could join an existing
board .of relief, hence:
DEc1s10N No. 4.
The permission of the Grand Master is not required before a lodge
·
may join an existing board of relief.
Another interpretation of the law as to dispensations is reported as:
DEc1s10N No. 5.
A member of the armed services who has the qualification of California residence should request a waiver of jurisdiction from a lodge
at his home before presenting an application to a lodge where he is
stationed, rather than the latter requesting the Grand Master to
grant a dispensation. The power of the Grand Master to grant a
dispensation exists when the applicant lacks the qualification of
·
California residence.
An unhappy occurrence in one of our lodges was reported. Upon
the occasion of a third degree, a group of law enforcement officers

30

PROCEEDINGS OP ·rna

The Master of one of our lodges who refused to permit a solicitation
of donations for a non-Masonic cause was right.
DECISION No. 9.
Section 126 of tht Ordinances, prohibiting solicitations or the circulating of pttltlon1, applies to ante-rooms and banquet halls as
wrll "" lodge rooms.
D tir11110N No.

IO.

tlon 151 of the Ordinances authorizes the deposit of lodge funds
In "a bank or banks," but does not permit deposits in a building and
loan association. Such are not within the term "bank."
·
An applicant to Menorah Lodge answered "No" to the eighth question on the form of application for the degrees, "Have you ever presented a petition to any Masonic lodge? If so, when and to what lodge?
............. " You will recall that the next question on the form is "Have
you ever been rejected by any Masonic lodge? If so, when and by what
lodge? ............. " It was learned after initiation that he had made an
application to a lodge in Missouri, which had been read to the lodge
and before ballot he asked to withdraw it, that later he had given an
application to a friend who was a member of Los Angeles Lodge No.
42, which friend subsequently returned it and refused to hand it in.
DECISION No. 11,
An application for the degrees has been presented to a Masonic
lodge, within the meaning of question eight on the application form,
when the applicant has handed it to a member of the lodge to
which he is applying, even though it may be returned to him or
he may ask to withdraw it. The act to which the quest.ion refers
is not the act of the lodge in receiving it under section 224 of the
Ordinances.
In three instances in which lodges had caused. the incorporation of
temple associations, it was nec.essary to advise:
DECISION No. 12,
A Master of a lodge, as such, cannot direct the acts of an incorporated temple association unless provision for such control is contained in the articles or by-laws of the corporation.
For your information, I call attention to the seldom known fact that
the Corporations Code of California authorizes external controls of a
non-profit corporation. Reasonable use of these permissive powers might
avoid the possibility of friction.
RECOMMENDATIONS

During the recent war, governmental regulations at one time prohibited the assembling of the minimum number necessary to hold an
annual communication of this Grand Lodge, ·namely a representative
from each of seventy-five lodges. We hope the same situation will not
occur again, but it appears prudent to 'be -prepared by enacting a pro-

GRAND LODGE OF cAtlJlORNIA

31

vl1lon authorizing the doing of the bare essentials by a group less than
venty-ftve in number if it should happen.
RECOMMENDATION No. 1.

I recommend that section 11 of the Constitution be amended to read
(amendment underscored) :
The officers or representatives of at least seventy-five lodges
chartered by this Grand Lodge shall be present in order to transact
any business in the Grand Lodge, either at an annual or special
communication, but, upon occasions of ceremony only, the Grand
Master, or his duly authorized representative, with a sufficient number of brethren to fill the stations and places, may at any time open
the Grand Lodge and perform the ceremonies for which it was convened; provided however, that if the assembling of seventy-five
persons at the time of an annual communication is prohibited by
competent state or national authority, the power of the Grand Lodge
to appropriate money, tax constituent lodges, approve acts of constituent lodges, and review trial records may be exercised by the
Grand Master, Deputy Grand Master, Grand Wardens and Junior
Past Grand Master and the elective officers of the Grand Lodge
shall continue in their respective offices until the annual communication following the rescission of the prohibition.
The personal appearances of the Grand Master were touched upon
earlier, not for the purpose of securing your accolade, but because of a
considered opinion that our present system is not necessary, wise or fair.
It may be said of many of the burdens of the office as Mark Twain
said of the weather, "Everybody talks about it, but nobody does anything about it."
You may estimate for yourselves the time and effort required of any
Grand Master in making personal appearances, but I consider this the
lighter part of the work. The more arduous portion is the never ending
paper work. Under our system whenever a lodge votes to change its
meeting night, its dues, its fees or even to add a holiday it had forgotten
to put in the blank space in the uniform code of by-laws, the ftle must
go to the Grand Master for his approval. The only thing he really passes
upon is whether the lodge gave notice of the proposed change as
required; nevertheless, he must open the letter, read one to three pages,
sign and date the two copies of the amendment. This takes a few
minutes at least and multiplied by the number which come in, the time
consumed is substantial.
Inter-jurisdiction requests for courtesy degrees by or for our lodges
run from one hundred to three hundred in a normal year and much
higher in wartime. These all go to the Grand Master with a file of not
less than three letters. The question upon which his conclusion rests in

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

32

33

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

each instance is. "Where is the applicant's permanent residence?"
Whenever an elective officer of any of our lodges dies or resigns
the lodge may adopt a resolution requesting permission to hold a special
election. These all have to go to the Grand Master for his approval and
he has to check them over. Nothing but the question of notice before
the lodge voted the request is involved and from fifty to one hundred
requests are made each year.
An assortment of other resolutions on life memberships and sundry
matters are also presented to the Grand Master, none of them involves
any earth-shaking decision. but they do take time and energy, which,
in my opinion, could be spent on other matters to the advantage of the
Grand Lodge.
·
·
Of the so,called decisions on law which the Grand Master makes
in a year the larger number consist of calling attention to the fact that
the matter has already been decided. In each instance checking the
digest, and dictating the reply is required.
About this time you are saying to yourselves, certainly all those
things may well be divided among the Deputy Grand Master and Grand
Wardens. and why is he spending so much time on them? Simply, this:
I propose a short amendment to the section defining the duties of the
Grand Master, to permit him to assign these things to the Deputy Grand
Master or Grand Wardens. IF HE DESIRES TO DO SO. but find
opposition to the idea despite the fact ·that while the Grand Master
and Deputy Grand Master are out of the state to attend the Washington
Conference. the Senior Grand Warden does all of them and while the
Grand Master is out of the state to visit Hawaii, the Deputy Grand
Master does all of them in each instance because of the express provision of Section 29. It seems nonsensical to me that these men have
greater wisdom or ability when the Grand Master is absent than when
he is in the state and I cannot bring myself to believe that installation
as Grand Master in and of itself invests anyone with greater wisdom
than he previously possessed.
The contentions which I have heard against writing into our law
this power have been: The Grand Master can do it if he wants to
without anything being said about the matter and that you wouldn't
stand for it because you want the Grand Master to decide everything.
I have given both arguments due consideration and cannot find merit
in them. From the experience of fifteen years spent advising the boards
and officers of Los Angeles and representing them in court frequently
as to what powers could or could not be delegated, I am persuaded that
the Grand Master may not at present delegate these matters, that is he
may not lawfully. This opinion is expressed categorically because it is
not desirable to engage in a long legal argument on the point: it should
be sufficient to say that even if it can be legally done now, the Ordinances will not be unduly extended by adding exactly 34 more words.

Aa to the second argument, I do not believe that you desire that the
Out offic~r of the Grand Lodge shall be burdened with all this routine
work while the second, third and fourth officers have no work to do
rixcept as trustees of the Masonic Homes.
Prom time t~ time, there may be Grand Masters who wish to pass
upon these routine matters and with that thought in mind. I have framed
the proposed amendment, not to strip these from the incumbent, but to
legally and therefore honestly, permit him to delegate them.
RECOMMENDATION No. 2.
I recommend that the Ordinances. Section 34, subdivision 1Oth relative to the powers of the Grand Master be amended to read:
10. To require ~he attendance of and information from any
grand officer respecting matters appertaining to the duties of his
office and to delegate to the Deputy Grand Master or either Grand
Warden the power to approve resolutions adopted by constituent
lodges. the conferring of courtesy degrees and such other matters
as he may designate.
The steady growth of the jurisdiction and the distances which must
be traveled have led all concerned to the conclusion that the number of
Aasistant Grand Lecturers should be increased from four to six.
RECOMMENDATION No. 3,
That sections 51 and 52 of the Ordinances be amend d b
specifying "six" instead of "four" Assistant Grand Lecturer:.
y
At several recent communications some discussion has taken pl
Ill a result of the fac.t that items of business are frequently referreda~~
more than one committee, one committee reports one day and the other
may report several days later. Under this system you are required to
decide a matt~r before all the facts are before you: for example. let us
1uppose some brother proposes that a shrine be built in honor of Broth
Doe. who w~s an illustrious member of the craft. The matter is referr:~
to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on Finance. The
ftrst reports a~d ~ou vote to b~ild, but you have not yet heard any report
on the financial side and wont until two days later. It would be better
to have the finance report in before you decided whether you
ld
build. I will give anot~er illustration which frequently happen;,o~n
amendment to our law is ~roposed which involves a matter of polic .
It is referred to the Comi:riittees on Policy and General Purposes ai?'d
Jurisprudence. Two questions are involved, first shall we adopt
h
policy. Certainly you wish to hear all the arguments against th~u~d
a
1
before you a~opt it as a policy. Also you want to know if there are a:a
legal defects m the proposed amendment or whether other sections muit
be am~nded too, before y~u decide the question of policy. I doubt that
you wish to hear the merits debated on Tuesday and adopt the policy

34

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

of the idea and then hear the merits debated again on a later day when
the legislation is reported. It seems better to have all the arguments
in and then take one vote on the item instead of two or three separate
votes on reports of several committees and then on the legislation itself.
RECOMMENDATION No. 4.
I recommend that the Ordinances, Section 69 be amended to read:
Business of every kind shall be referred to and reported upon
by a committee before it can be finally acted upon, unless by unanimous consent and whenever referred to more than one committee,
all .such committees shall report thereon before any vote shall be
taken in the Grand Lodge.
The regalia issued to the Grand Lodge officers and kept in their
possession during their incumbency has been in use, I am told, for over
thirty years. It has served its purpose and shows its age. The blue
velvet is green in daylight and numerous repairs are apparent.
RECOMMENDATION No. 5.
That new aprons for issuance to the Grand Lodge officers be
ordered forthwith.
It may be said that, except for the Grand Master, collars and jewels
are not necessary in this set because the prevailing custom is that only
the Grand Master wears the collar. There is now a complete white set
available for the special communications to lay corner stones and perform
other ceremonies.
When section 78 of the Ordinances relative to financing of lodge
buildings was enacted, the proposal unfortunately was couched in language which has confused the brethren. As it stands it puts the cart
in front of the horse and tangles the reins. This section is important
and should 'b e so worded that lodge officers may more readily understand it. The amendment I propose makes no change of substance but
is suspectfd as being more easily understood.
REcOMMENDATION No. 6.
That the Ordinances, section 78 be amended to read:
No lodge, temple association, lodge trustees, committee, association, partnership or corporation representing itself as Masonic in
character or operating for the benefit of a Masonic lodge or lodges,
Masonry or Masons shall undertake any plan, scheme, project or
method whereby ( 1 ) any money is to be obtained or property is
to be acquired for a Masonic Temple, or ( 2_) real property is
acquired or leased for more than three years, or ( 3 ) any building
is to be erected or altered and the expenditure is in excess of two
thousand five hundred dollars, without first obtaining the written
approval of the Committee on Lodge Financing, whether the same
~nvolves the immediate or future expenditure of funds.

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

35

Ou~ fun~r~I service has been changed from time to time in the past
as public opinion toward death and funerals has changed. The general
attitude towa.rd these subjects seems to continue to change and we have
arrived at a time when there is some division of opinion in the fraternity
There are some brethren who wish to be certain that when the t' ·
comes,. the ceremony as it exists today will be used and there are m~~;
who will not have a Masonic funeral if that service must be used. There
would a~pear to be no reason why both may not be satisfied if there
was available an alternate permissible service, perhaps more in keepin
g
with present attitudes.
In o~her of our ·public ceremonies there are things which are incomprehensible to the public and we may question whether we put our best
foot f~rwa~d when . we appear publicly. In several ceremonies there
are m~nor inaccuracies of grammar and inconsistencies. It is felt that
much improvem~nt could be made in arrangement of officers, movements
and language without any change of substance, if the incoming Grand
M~ster were re~uested to appoint a special committee to study the
written ceremonies of the Grand Lodge and report at the ne t
I
· t'
A
x annua
commumc~ ion.
t present we do not have any committee which is
charged with the duty of considering these matters.
RECOMMENDATION No. 7.
. That t~e incoming Grand Master be requested to appoint a special committee to consider the written ceremonies of the Grand
Lodge and report at the next annual communication.
.Now that the t~mple at Columbia has been completed it would seem
desir~ble to permit lodges to make arrangements to confer degrees
ther~m ~s they presently may do in the temple at Decato without
special dispensation.
RECOMMENDATION No. 8.
That the Ordinances, section 121, be amended to read:
. All meetings shall be held in a building in the place, that is the
city, town or community,. named in the charter or dispensation,
except th.at upon the occasion of conferring degrees a meeting may
be held m the lo?ge room at the Masonic . Home at Decato, the
!emple at Colu~bia, or upon dispensation from the Grand Master
m some other city, town or community.
'
Some_ brethren may not have understood fully why during the year
I found it necess~ry to advise that, in my opinion, the Grand Master
could not authorize a Nevada lodge to bring their 0
d'd
C l'f
·
d
f
d
wn can i ate to
a i ~rma an con er a egree according to the Nevada ritual. I shall
explain and then make a recommendation in the matter.
Some ye~rs a~o it was proposed that this practice be made possible
and after discussion the proposed amendment to present section 247
was adopted. The proponents apparently overlooked section 192 which

36

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

requires our Masters to see to it that all degrees in a California Jodge
are conferred in strict accordance with our ritual. Had the matter
remained at this stage I would have applied the well known principle
of statutory construction that when two equal statutes conflict the later
'in point of time prevails and the practise would have been permitted.
However in 1942, in reporting tipon a decision by Grand Master Smith
(Ross Digest, sec. 508a), the Committee on Jurisprudence referred to
section 192, made no reference to section 247 and declared that the law
of this jurisdiction did not permit the conferring of English work on
an actual candidate, but that all work must be in accordance with the
California ritual. The Grand Lodge adopted this report thereby settling
the point of law and that decision 'hinds subsequent Grand Masters.
Personally. I favor the idea 0f permitting the officers of a neighboring
jurisdiction to bring a candidate and do their work.

of m1aery wanting company and another that I was trying to get one
of them accustomed to shoes, but they recognized that I was trying to
make our public appearances a team proposition instead of a one man
1how. Their ·banter was typical of the friendly spirit which has prevalled this year.
It is sincerely hoped that I shall not be judged unappreciative of
the efforts of anyone or unmindful of the. activities of any group, if
this message appears to omit personal eulogies or special notices which
may have been made in other years. The failure to mention anything
which some brother may think should have been mentioned, will, I trust,
be laid to an error of judgment and not to the heart.
The present stewardship draws to a close with the persona] conviction still Arm, that Freemasonry is unsurapssed in her possibilities .
although, as with all human institutions, difficulty is sometimes encountered in realizing those possibilities.
For one hundred years this Grand Lodge has climbed upward. It
must not stop now. The best laws have not yet been written, the finest
degrees have not yet been conferred, the richest vein of golden philosophy has not yet been uncovered, but by united effort and vision the
second century of Masonry in California can be made more glorious
than the first.
At the conclusion of the installation service last year I endeavored
to express my sentiments and sound a keynote for the year by taking
some liberties with the second verse of a poem, to say:
Some one will blend the plaster, some one will carry the stone,
Neither the man nor the master ever can build alone,
Making a roof from the weather, building a house for the king,
Only by working together, men can accomplish a thing.
Now that the year is closing, to summarize my feelings, I may
quote the third verse of the poem :
"All have a share in the beauty; all have a part in the plan,
W ·h at does it matter what duty falls to the lot of a man?
Each has a hand in the building; no one has builded alone,
Whether a cross he was gilding, whether he carried the stone."

RECOMMENDATION No. 9.
That the Ordinances, section 192, subdivision 2nd, be amended to
read:
And to confer all degrees in strict accordance with the ritual
ordained by the Grand Lodge, except that brethren from another
jurisdiction may be permitted to use the ritual thereof upon a candidate from such jurisdiction.
These, my brethren, are the facts and figures of 1949 and '50 and
my few suggestions for the future. During the year I have resisted
the thrusting into the hands of the Grand Mastei: powers which I did
not believe were warranted by our Constitution and Ordinances. Nearly
_ all negative answers I have given will be found to stem from the belief
that the Grand Master in this jurisdiction is a constitutional officer
only. I have heard it said many times, "The Grand Master can do no
wrong" but I have been unable to accept the doctrine as applicable
this year and I have been conscious of and subscribe to the resolution
adopted by this Grand Lodge in 1852 and reported in the Ross Digest
at section 938: "That it is the sense of this Grand Lodge that the
Grand Master is but the creature of the Grand Lodge, with no implied
powers, inherent or divine."
During the year I introduced the innovation of sending to the
Deputy Grand Master and Grand Wardens carbon copies of those
letters among the fifteen hundred written which appertained to decisions
or executive functions. Naturally, I had no hope of impressing with
erudition two other judges and a 'hanker, but it was hoped that this
practice would enable them to be informed as to problems which arise,
before they reached this office.
After the election last year I also requested those officers to wear
formal morning clothes to all daytime special communications, a practice not formerly followed. One of them suggested that it was a case

37

38

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCLAMATION BY THE GRAND MASTER

tthtra have never been inside one of our lodges. Of the latter, some
lf«i l that they are rusty in their work and hesitate to take the visitor's
1mfnation. A reassuring word that the examination goes no farther
th11n to satisfy the three examiners that they have received the degrees
.nd fa not an examination for an officer's certifkate would be very
h11lpful.
All of these brethren would be pleased by a friendly invitation to
Yhdt and then to affiliate. Probably we have been remiss in not extendInn the Invitation on many occasions.
Some of the sojourning brethren have a family or sentimental tie
to their lodge and are loath to sever it. They are unaware, as are many
nf our own brethren, that if they hail from one of the 36 jurisdictions,
Included in the attached list. they may retain their membership and
Alim affiliate with a California lodge.
I therefore proclaim and direct:
1. That the Master of each lodge shall appoint a committee of three
or more to interest sojourning Masons in visiting and affiliating
with lodges of this jurisdiction.
2. That each of our members shall consider himself an ex officio
member of that committee to further its purposes.
3. That our regular standards and procedures be maintained as to
all applications for affiliation.
4. That this proclamation be read at the next three stated meetings
and thereafter as the Master may direct.

3 lst Observance of Public Schools Week
To the Masters, Wardens and
Brethren of California and Hawaii:
The public school is one of the foundation stones upon which the
American way of life has been built. Awareness of the fact and of
the problems faced by the educational systems of our nation led the
Masons of California to inaugurate Public Schools Week thirty years
ago. With the cooperation of other civic minded groups. it has become
an annual. major event in California.
Today the educational systems of many states face the greatest
challenge in their history. If the challenge is not as great in this state
and if the schools of California are in somewhat better condition than
those elsewhere, no small portion of the credit is due to this annual
observance and all who have participated. There must be no lessening
of interest or support.
·
There is a direct relationship between the equality of the schools
and the interest of the community in its school system. Betterments and
strength will be developed only where there is understanding of problems, active interest and cooperation.
·
I therefore proclaim and direct:
I . That Public Schools Week be obsefved by all our lodges commencing Monday, April 24, 1950.
2. That no meeting other than a Public Schools Observance be
held by any lodge of this jurisdiction, unless its stated meeting
falls during said week and that no degree work be done during
said week.
3. That this proclamation be read at each stated meeting prior to
April 2i, 1950.
Dated: San Francisco, California,
February 9, 1950.
Attest:
LLOYD E. WILSON
Grand Secretary

ELLSWORTH MEYER
Grand Master

PROCLAMATION BY THE GRAND MASTER
February 9, 1950
To the Masters, Wardens and Brethren
of California and Hawaii:
·
There are many thousands of Master Masons who are permanent
residents within our jurisdiction who have not become members of any
of our lodges. Estimates indicate that the number may be as large
as our own memberships.
Many of these brethren visit our lodges regularly, some seldom and

Attest:
LLOYD E. WILSON
Grand Secretary

39

ELLSWORTH MEYER
Grand Mastet

PROCLAMATION
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT MONTH
To the Masters ,Wardens and Brethren
of California and Hawaii:
Freemasonry touches life at each level. Our home at Covina influences the lives of children from the first grade of grammar school until
graduation from high school. Our club houses at the Berkeley and Los
Angeles campuses of the University of California benefit those of
college age. Our lodges inspire during the active adult years and our
home at Decato is, a shelter and blessing in the late afternoon years.
Each year during the month of May we are particularly aware of
the opportunity of building the endowment fund for the homes at
Covina and Decato. The annual opportunity of contributing to this
fund comes to each of us without coercion or high pressure salesmanship. It is truly a voluntary matter.
No gift is too large, none too small and all are appreciated. The

41

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

measure of each gift is the ability of the donor in the light of the great
need. The endowment fund has not yet reached the point that the
income from it is sufficient to support the homes, but by steady growth
that goal can be reached.
I therefore proclaim:
That during the month of May 1950 each of the constituent lodges
of this jurisdiction shall devote at least a portion of one meeting to
acquainting our membership with the purpose and condition of the
endowment fund of our Masonic homes.
With cordial greetings, I am,

gold-gold in California, and the greatest migration in history was
under way.
The stories of hunger, thirst, hardship, of heroism and cruelty during that migration are well known, but it is not so widely known that
despite the haste of departure and the feverish desire to reach the gold
ftelds, time was taken by Masons to obtain charters and dispensations
from twelve eastern Grand Lodges for the establishment of fifteen
Masonic Lodges in this fabulous EI Dorado.
From Connecticut to Florida, from the District of Columbia to
Missouri, issued proper authorization for the establishment of lodges
in California.
The Masons who were assembled in Sacramento one hundred
years ago today. belonged to lodges which had been established in
Sacramento, Benton City, Benicia, and San Francisco.
They were motivated not only by their affection for the fraternity,
but by the suffering occasioned by the epidemics which had swept
through the camps and towns, the poverty of those who had come
inadequately equipped, and wide-spread disregard for the hallmarks
of civilization.
They recognized the necessity of banding together the good men
and true of different cities who had knelt at Masonic altars, who were
disciples of brotherly love and temperance in thought and deed: men
who understood and practiced charity.
In that first Grand Lodge session were men from Sacramento who
established the first hospital in California, who nursed the victims of
the several cholera epidemics, buried the dead, and expended more than
$33,000 of personal funds for the relief of the needy and the afflicted.
In the fever for gold, other men might become calloused, turn from
the hungry, the widow, and the orphan, but to these men of Masonry,
our doctrine of the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man was
no lofty preachment. no sounding pretensions: it was a way of life.
The presiding officer of the two-day convention which preceded the
formation of the Grand Lodge was Charles Gilman, a San Francisco
lawyer of note, who had already served one year as Grand Master in
New Hampshire and six years as Grand Master in Maryland. He was
the logical choice to be the first Grand Master in California, but
intended to return east shortly and deferred in favor of Colonel Jonathan D . Stevenson, his law partner, whom President Polk had sent to
California in command of the first New York Volunteers on the outbreak of war in Mexico.
Colonel Stevenson had brought his troops around South America
in three ships in 1847, and. as with many other easterners, he came
to California and stayed.
Early California Masonry had within her ranks many other colorful
men: Sam Brannan, . who founded San Francisco's first newspaper.

40

Fraternally yours,
ELLSWORTH MEYER

Date: April 11, 1950.

Grand Master

Attest:
LLOYD E. WILSON

Grand Secretary

A CENTURY OF MASONRY IN CALIFORNIA
By ELLSWORTH MEYER,
Grand Master of Masons in California

'

(As broadcast over the Columbia network on April 19, 1950)
This day is of particular significance to the Masons of California
and Hawaii. One hundred years ago on April 19, 1950, a group of
Master Masons who had gathered in Sacramento completed their preliminary work. and. at high twelve, opened the first communication of
the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons for the State of California.
It might be said they were a bit optimistic in the selection of a name,
for California was not admitted to the Union yet and did not become
.
a state until five months later.
The California in which they lived was a very different California
from that which you know. There were no railroads, no broad highways, no rapid means of communication, no bridges across rivers and
swift mountain streams.
The population was concentrated, but not at the location of our
modern, great cities. Instead, it was to be found in narrow canyons by
the American and Feather Rivers and on the banks of the Sacramento.
These California communities were known by such picturesque
names as: Coloma, Hangtown, Angels Camp, Grass Valley, Chilli
Gulch, and Rough & Ready.
Within the year. thousands of men had come to these communities
and other thousands were on their way across the Rockies, by way of
Panama, or around the Horn. Around the world had gone the cry of

42

43

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

was the first to broadcast the discovery of gold, preached the first
Protestant sermon in California, and was the subject of the state's
first jury trial. John · W. Geary. who came to California after service
in the Mexican War, became the first Postmaster and the first Mayor
of San Francisco, and later a Brigadier General. and then the Governor
of Kansas and the Governor of Pennsylvania, and Robert Semple who
presided over the Constitutional Convention, and, with Hastings, conditioned Californians for wide-spread public education.
To chronicle the names of prominent men who have sat in California
Masonic Lodges during the past century would be to call the roll of
most of those who have left their names as noble legacies to the state,
and of those who are recognized as leaders today.
I shall mention but a few of those whose names stand like mountain
peaks high above the past: Commodore Sloat; Kit Carson, the renowned
Indian scout; Mark Twain, who gave the world "The Jumping Frog
of Calaveras County"; Stephen J. Field, who served longer on the
Supreme Court of the United States than any other justice; Thomas
Starr King. one of the two Californians in the Hall of Fame in Washington, and who was serving our Grand Lodge as Grand Orator at
the time of his early death; Peter Lassen, named as an officer ill the
charter issued by the Grand Lodge of Missouri, and for whom Mount
Lassen and Lassen County were named; Don Benito Wilson, who
located Riverside, was Mayor of Los Angeles in 1851, and for whom
Mount Wilson was named; Lester A. Pelton, who made hydroelectric
power possible 'by inventing the Pelton water wheel; Leland Stanford,
railroad president, Governor, and United States Senator, who gave
Stanford University; and Luther Burbank, who unfolded so many of
nature's secrets. These are but a few of the great names in a century
of California Masonry. and I have purposely omitted the names of
those still living who are a credit to Masonry, California, and these
United States.
The Grand Lodge founded in that upper room at the corner of
Fifth and "J" Streets in Sacramento has, in the century of its progress.
spread to the Oregon and Mexican borders and crossed the Pacific to
Hawaii, where the first Masonic Lodge had been established by the
Grand Orient of France and over which two Hawaiian Kings had
presided as Masters. It has grown until its membership is the fifth
largest in the United States and the seventh largest in the world. If
we were to add to its members. the thousands of Masons who reside
in California, but maintain their membership at their former homes,
the number would probably not be surpassed by any other American
jurisdiction, but California Masonry is not interested in mere numbers.
Unlike many organizations, it can invite no man to take its degrees.
He must seek admission of his own free will. It does not sit back in
smug. self-satisfaction as it reviews its record on this Centennial Day.

It is proud of its history, but not boastful. As individuals, its members
are serving in every cause which is building a better state and a better
society, and they will continue to serve.
The Grand Lodge of California today touches life at each level.
Through its home for children at Covina, it cares for orphans and half
orphans from the first grade of grammar school through graduation
from high school. By means of its club houses at Berkeley and Los
Angeles campuses of the University of California, it is an influence
during the collegiate years. Its lodges inspire during the active, adult
years, and its Home for the Aged at Decoto. in Alameda County, is
a haven for 300 in the late afternoon of life.
Masonry is not a religion, but it is religious. It does not require
a particular church affiliation and only asks a candidate whether he
believes in a Supreme Being and some form of future existence.
It is not a political organization, but it does impress upon its
members that they have civic duties to perform through channels of
expression outside its lodges.
It is not a benefit society. It offers no form of insurance, but it
need yield to none in works of charity.
It has no fancy uniforms. and the only badge of a Mason is the
apron. which is never worn in public except for the funeral of a brother.
or the performan~ of some other strictly Masonic duty.
It does not seek the front page, but it does not shun the light of
inquiry.
It is a secret society as to its modes of recognition and pass words,
but there is no secrecy as to its organization, principles, or purposes.
It denies the claims of dictators, political or religfous, but it is loyal
to governments established by free peoples.
It recognizes familiar tones in the Declaration of Independence and
the Constitution, and it has seen many of the signatures on those two
documents on the rosters of its own lodges.
Masonry was a stabilizing influence in the rough and ready days
of '49. It is an anchorage in the present and for the days to come.
It has helped to build California, and it will not now lay down the
plumb, the square, or the trowel. For a century in California, and for
many centuries elsewhere, Masonry has united ·at its altars of reverence,
men of good will who have striven by every resource of their art to
make tangible, the power of brotherhood, the worth of virtue, and the
reality of the ideal.
Masons will continue to build the temple of humanity among the
nations and in the hearts of men.
The Deputy Grand Master referred the Message to the Committee
on Segregation. appointing the following mt!nbers to serve thereon:
Elmer Lotz, Don Campbell and Roy Kiele.
At 12:30 P. M. Grand Lodge was called off until 2 :00 P. M.

/

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

AFTERNOON SESSION-Monday, October 9, 1950
At 2:20 P.M. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding.
Bro. Gerald L. Moody, Master of Western Star Lodge No. 2, presided in the East at the entrance of Grand Lodge Officers.

RESOLUTIONS
The Grand Secretary then read the following resolutions, all of
which were referred by the Grand Master to the Committees as noted:

PLURAL MEMBERSHIP
WHEREAS, many small, isolated lodges find it increasingly difficult to obtain brothers who are willing or capable to assume the duties
of office and,
.
WHEREAS, many brothers living away from their home lodges
are very active in local Masonic work and would make good officers but
are hesitant to demit from their mother lodge for sentimental reasons
and,
WHEREAS, Masonry, in California, is being deprived of the benefit
of much good officer material who could legally express their talents in
thirty-five other jurisdictions without relinquishing their home lodge
membership,
NOW, THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED. that Section 163 of
the Ordinances of the Grand Lodge be amended by substituting for the
word "No" the word "A" and by substituting after the word "Mason",
for the word "Shall" the word "May" so that the section shall read as
follows:
"A Mason may be a member of more than one lodge in this jurisdiction at the same time."
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that the Ordinances of the Grand
Lodge be amended by the addition in Article VII, of a section to be
known as Section 261-A and entitled "Apportionment of Relief to
Members with Dual Membership" to read as follows:
"Lodges must divide equally the relief granted one of their members
who holds dual membership in another lodge in this jurisdiction so far
as their circumstances permit and the Lodge within whose jurisdictfon
the distressed brother resides shall determine the extent of relief to be
granted."
Respectfully submitted,
K. G. SUBLETTE, Master, Fort Crook No. 575.
Referred to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on
Jurisprudence.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

45

CHANGE OF NAME
This is to certify that at a stated meeting of this Lodge held on the
5th day of October, 1950, the following resolution was presented and
duly adopted :
WHEREAS, the mem·b ers of this Lodge desire to change its name
from Lankershim· Lodge No. 542, F. & A. M. to North Hollywood
Lodge No. 542, F. & A. M. and feel such action would be advantageous
to and for the best interests of this Lodge;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: That Lankershim
Lodge No. 542, F. & A. M. apply to the Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of
the State of California for permission to change its name to North Hollywood Lodge No. 542, F. & A. M. and that the Master and Secretary
be and they are hereby authorized to present an application to Grand
Lodge for such change of name.
That the foregoing resolution was duly adopted by the unanimous
vote of members present at said meeting; that it would be advantageous
and for the best interests of Lankershim Lodge to change its name tQ
North Hollywood Lodge No. 542, F. & A. M . for the following reasons:
1. The Lodge was named.after the town of Lankershim bi which
it was located, and the name of the town has been changed to North
Hollywood.
2. The Lodge is now generally known in the area as North Hollywood Lodge and changing would avoid confusion. ·
3. The corporation building the new Masonic Temple in which the
Lodge will be located is known as the North Hollywood Building Association, and the building will be known as North Hollywood Masonic
Temple.
4. Other organizations meeting in this building are known by the
name of North Hollywood.
Dated this fifth day of October, 1950.
Respectfully submitted,
LANKERSHIM LoDGE No. 542, F. & A. M,
By VICTOR W . BURT, Master
By CHAS. OSBORNE, Secretary
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

46

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

PREREQUISITE PERIOD
WHEREAS:
It would be to the benefit of Masonry in general and to the Blue
Lodges of this Jurisdiction in particular that the period of indoctrination of the newly raised Brother in the la_ws, customs and fraternal
workings of our order should be raised to a period of twelve months,
rather than the six months period mentioned in Question 13 of the
Application for Degrees, before applying for membership in any body,
order or organization, the prerequisite of membership wherein is that ·
he be a Master Mason would greatly help the attendam::e on the meetings of our Blue Lodges and serve to increase the interest of the newly
raised Brother in the fundamental teachings of Masonry.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED:
That the period of time mentioned in Question 13 of the Application
for Degrees-to-wit six months-be altered to twelve months and that
Question 13 hereafter read as follows-Question 13. Do you promise
that you will not, within twelve months after receiving the degree of
Master Mason, apply for or receive any degree or be initiated in any
body, order, or organization the prerequisite of membership wherein
·
is that a person be a Master Mason?
Respectfully submitted for your action at the coming session of
your Honorable Body, October 9-13, 1950.
ARCH BALCHIN
Past Master, Pacific Grove Lodge No. 331, F. & A. M.
CHARLES A. WATSON
Past Master, Carmel Lodge No. 680.
JAMES R. ZUCK
Past Master, Carmel Lodge No. 680.
Ref erred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on
Jurisprudence.

TO PUBLISH NAMES OF CANDIDATES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
WHEREAS the practice of printing the names of candidates in
bulletins is now used in many of the Grand Jurisdictions of the United
States and in all the Lodges in the Dominion of Canada and England,
and,
WHEREAS such practice by the Lodges in this Jurisdiction would
stimulate attendance and give all the members an opportunity to pass
on candidates, and
WHEREAS the present restrictions on such practice was adopted

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

47

some 53 years ago when cities and lodges were smaller and which restriction now tends to protect the undesirable candidate at the expense of
the Lodge, now
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Section 696 and 6CJ7 of
the ordinances be rescinded, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Lodges in this Jurisdiction
may. if they so desire, print the names of candidates in bulletins, provided such bulletins are enclosed in an envelope and mailed only to
Master Masons.
We, the undersigned, move the adoption of the Resolution.
Respectfully submitted,
RALPH C. HINE, Past Master of Magnolia Lodge No. 242
GUSTAF A. B. QmcK, Past Master of Santa Paula Lodge No. 291.
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on
Jurisprudence.

LIMITS OF INVESTMENT
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
I hereby offer the following resolution and move its adoption, to wit:
To amend the first sentence of Section 152 of our Ordinances relating to
investment of funds, to read as follows, to wit:
"A lodge may invest not exceeding 40% of its funds in such
securities as men of prudence, discretion and intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not in regard to
speculation, but in regard to the permanent disposition of their
funds, considering the probable income, as well as the probable
safety of their capital. Within the limitations of the foregoing
standard a lodge is authorized to acquire every kind of property, real. personal or mixed; and every kind of investment,
specifically including but not by way of limitation, corporate
obligations of every kind, and stocks, preferred or common,
which men of prudence, discretion and intelligence. acquire for
their own account."
To amend the second sentence of said section by adding the word
"also" immediately after the word "may" and before the word "invest",
so that the sentence hereafter shall read as follows:
"Provided that after first obtaining the consent of the Grand
Lodge Committee on Lodge financing, it may also invest its
funds as follows:"
To amend the last portion of said section 152 relative to the investment of life membership funds, by striking out:
"Securities other than those prescribed as legal for savings
banks by the laws of the State of California or by the laws of

48

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

the territory in which the lodge is located",
and substitute in Heu thereof. the following:
"United States Government bonds or direct obligations of
the State of California".
Respectfully submitted,

A. W. BROUILLET, P. G. M.
Referred to Special Committee on Investments and to Jurisprudence
(See page 105 for withdrawal.)
D1STINGUISHED GUESTS

The following visiting Grand Masters were individually received by
the Grand Master and were accorded the Grand Honors:
M.'.W.'.Roger Keith, Grand Master of Masons in Massachusetts
M.'.W.'.Homer M. Pace, Grand Master of Masons in South Carolina
M.' .W.' .Enoch D. Flowers, Grand Master of Masons in Virginia
M.'.W.'.Henry C. Turner, P.G.M., Representative of Grand Master
of Masons in New York
M.'. W.' .Franklin E. Pellegrin, Grand Master of Masons in New Jersey
R.'. W. '.William E. Yeager, Grand Master of Masons in Pennsylvania
M.'.W.'.Harry 0. Schroeder, Grand Master of Masons in Maryland
M.'.W.'.Wallace E. Caldwell, Grand Master of Masons in North
Carolina
M.'.W.'.Frederick C. Hesselmeyer, Grand Master of Masons in Connecticut
M.'.W.'.Reginald E. Goldsmith, Grand Master of Masons in New
Hampshire
M.'.W.'.Henry I: Law, Grand Ma~ter of Masons in Delaware
M.'.W.'.James J. Harbage, Grand Master of Masons in Ohio
M.'.W.'.Marvin E. Fowler, Grand Master of Masons in District of
Columbia
M .'. W .'.Robert W. Cretney, Grand Master of Masons in Louisiana
M.'.W.'.Ervin E. J. Lander, Grand Master of Masons in Maine
M.'.W.'.Albert J. De Lange, Grand Master of Masons in Texas
M.' .W.' .Benjamin E. Patton, Grand Master of Masons in Illinois
M.'. W .'.Glen G. Radcliffe, Grand Master of Masons in Iowa
M.'.W.'.Worth Harvey, Grand Master of Masons in Oregon
M.'.W.'.Keith M. Brown, Grand Master of Masons in Minnesota
M.'.W.'.John S. Hedelund, Grand Master of Masons in Nebraska
M.'.W.'.Gail Huhn, Grand Master of Masons in Washington
M.'.W.'.C. Wheeler Barnes, Grand Master of Masons in Colorado
M.'.W.'.Chester L. Cochran, Grand Master of Masons in Nevada
M.'.W.'.Percy W. Doles, Grand Master of Masons in Montana
M.'.W.'.Dougald J. M. McLean, Grand Master of Masons in New
Brunswick
,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

49

M.'. W.' .Sumner G. Davis, Grand Master of Masons in Idaho
M.'.W.'.Eric C. Murray, Grand Master of Masons in Costa Rica
M.'.W.'.J. H. N. Morgan, Grand Master of Masons in British Colum~
bia
M.' .W.' .Hubert E. Mulholland, Grand Master of Masons in Wyoming
M.'.W.'.Charles A. Stevens, Jr., Grand Master of Masons in New
Mexico
M.'.W.'.Nelson T. Roach, Grand Master of Masons in Arizona
M.·.w. ·.LeRoy W. Bond, Grand Master of Masons in Alberta, Canada
M.' .W.' .Pedro Pedroarena, Grand Master of Masons in Baja California, Mexico
M.'.W.'.Humberto Acosta, Grand Master of Masons in Cuscatlan, El
Salvador
The following Grand Secretaries and other distinguished guests were
individually received by the Grand Master and were accorded the Public
Grand Honors:
R.' .W.' .Matthew Galt, Jr., Grand Secretary, Pennsylvania
R.'. W .'.Claud Shaffer. Grand Secretary, Maryland
R.'.W.'.Wilbur L. Mciver, Grand Secretary, North Carolina
R.' .W.' .Earle K. Haling, P.G.M .. Grand Secretary, Connecticut
R.'.W.'.N. Arthur Hyland, Grand Secretary, Rhode Island
R.' .W. '.Chester R. Jones, Grand Secretary, Delaware
R.' .W.' .D. Peter Laguens, Jr., Grand Secretary, Louisiana
R.'.vV.'.Thomas E. Doss, P.G.M .. Grand Secretary, Tennessee
R.'.W.'.Harold L. Reader, P.G.M., Grand Secretary, Missouri
R.' .W.' .F. Hoer Newton, P.G.M., Grand Secretary, Michigan
R.'. W .'.Earl B. Delzell, Grand Secretary, Iowa
R.'.W.'.Harry D. Proudfoot, P.G.M., Grand Secretary, Oregon
R.' .W.' .E. G. Dixon, Grand Secretary, Canada (Ontario)
M.'.W.'.Elmer F. Strain, P.G.M., Grand Secretary, Kansas
R.'.W.'.Carl R. Greisen, Grand Secretary, Nebraska
M.'.W.'.John I. Preissner, P.G.M., Grand Secretary, Washington
R.'.W.'.Luther T. Hauberg, Grand Secretary, Montana
R.'.W.'.Clyde I. Rush, P.G.M., Grand Secretary, Idaho
R.'.W.'.Emery Roy Gibson, P.G.M., Grand Secretary, Utah
V.'.W.'.Joseph A. E. Ivey, P.G.M., Grand Secretary, Arizona
M.'.W.'.Walter L. Stockwell, P.G.M., Grand Secretary, North Dakota
R. ·. W. ·.Robert A. Tate, Grand Secretary, Saskatchewan, (Canada)
M.' .W.' .Karl J. Mohr, P.G.M., Executive Secretary of Grand Masters'
Conference
W.' .Earl A. Dusenberry, General Grand High Priest, General Grand
Chapter, Royal Arch Masons
M.'.W.'.Robert B. Gaylord, P.G.M., Grand Ma_ster Grand Encampment Knights Templar

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

M.".W.".Arthur Potterton, Grand Treasurer, New Jersey
R.'.W.".Ralph S. Nesbitt, Deputy Grand Master, Oregon
R.'.W.".Harold N. Nelson, Deputy Grand Master, Washington
R.".W.".Gustave Aubanel, Deputy Grand Master, Baja California
(Mexico)
Albert N. Sanford, Grand Chaplain, British Columbia
W .... D. Aubrey Spann, Junior Grand Deacon, Colorado
M.".W.".Francis P. Morton, P.G.M., New Jersey
M.'.W.'.Donald J. Sargent, P.G.M., New Jersey
M.'.W.".John T. Ames, P.G.M., Iowa
M.".W.".Clarence Phillips, P.G.M., Oregon
M.".W.".Asa Hankerson, P.G.M., Washington
M:.w:.C. A. Carlson, Jr., P.G.M., Nevada
M.".W.".George R. Harvey, P.G.M., Philippine Islands
M:.W:.Will Taylor, P.G.M., Philippine Islands
W.".H. C. Mei, Philippine Islands
W. ·.Alfred Lee, Philippine Islands
W.".William B. Pettus, China
Those of the above whose arrival occurred subsequent to this reception were individually received by the Grand Master and accorded their
appropriate honors. A consolidated listing is given above to facilitate
reference thereto.

IN GRAND LODGE

50

MESSAGES OF CONGRATULATION .
Messages of greeting and felicitations were received from the fol·
low Grand Lodg~s:
Alabama, Alberta ( Canada), Amazon and Acre ( Brazil), Arkansas,
Bahia (Brazil), Bolivia, Ceara (Brazil). Colombia, "Cosmos" ( Chihuahua, Mexico), Cuba, England. Finland, Florida, Georgia, Guatemala,
Indiana, Ireland, Kentucky, Manitoba. Mississippi, Grootoosten der
Nederlanden, New South Wales. New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway,
Nova Scotia, Oklahoma, Panama, Philippine Islands, Prince Edward
Island, Puerto Rico, Quebec, Queensland, Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande
do Sul (Brazil), Sao Paulo (Brazil). Scotland, South Asutralia, South
Dakota, Sweden, Swiss Alpine, Tamaulipas (Mexico), "Unida Mexicana" (Mexico), Victoria, Western Australia, Wisconsin and York
Grand Lodge of Mexico.
Similar greetings were received from the following:
The Sovereign Great Priory of Canada, Knights Templar: General
Grand Council of Royal and Select Masters: Carl Claudy, Executive
Secretary, Masonic Service Association: Paul Korbel. Grand Secretary,
Grand Lodge of Czechoslovakia; San Gorgonio Lodge No. 668, F. &
A. M., California: Benicia Chapter No. 7, Royal Arch Masons and
International Order of Job's Daughters, State of California.
At 4:10 P.M. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 A.M. Tuesday.

51

MORNING SESSION, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1950
Grand Lodge was called on at 9:30 A.M., the Grand Master preaiding.
Bro. Gerald C. McKinley, Master of Tehama Lodge No. 2, presided
In the East at the entrance of Grand Lodge Officers.
The invocation was given by the Grand Chaplain.
The minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions of Monday,
October 9th, were read and approved.
The Grand Master called attention to the Bible on the Altar, it being
the historic one used at the organization of Tehama Lodge No. 3, of this
Grand Lodge, and on other historic occasions.
The Most Worshipful Frederick C. Hesselmeyer, Grand Master of
Masons in Connecticut, at the invitation of the Grand Master, favored
Grand Lodge with an address. The text of the address will be found in
the Centennial Appendix.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON SEGREGATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Committee on Segregation to which has been referred the
Annual Message of the Grand Master respectfully submits the following report:
It is recommended that the following portions of the message be
referred to the respective committees designated, as follows:
To the Committee on Jurisprudence:
1. The matter of dispensations issued to form new lodges-for determination of compliance with the requirements of law.
2. The matter of six trials wherein circumstances necessitated assignment of Past Masters to preside or act as Commissioners-for determination of compliance with prescribed trial procedure.
3. The matter of special dispensations to elect officers, remove lodges
from one temple to another and to receive and ballot upon applications-for determination of compliance with the requirements of law.
.it. The matter of resolutions relative to life memberships and the granting or denying of requests for courtesy degrees-for determination
of compliance with the requirements of law.
5. The matter of limited suspension of a Master for action contrary to
Grand Master's proclamation on Public Schools Week-for determination of Grand Master's power so to do.
6. Decisions 1 to 12-for consideration and determination as to their
accord with our law and consistency with existing approved decisions.

52

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

7. Recommendation No. 6, amending Ordinances, Section 78, for consideration and recommendation.
To the Committee on By-Laws:
1. The matter of approval, by the Grand Master, of by-laws adopted
or amended by fifty-three lodges-for consideration and presentation
of factual data.
To the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on Jurisprudence:
The following matters are referred for consideration as to desirability
and practicability, preparation of proper resolutions and determination
of additional amendments, necessary to avoid conflict with proposed
legislation if adopted.
1. Recommendation No. 1, amending Constitution, Section 11, delegating authority to certain Grand Lodge officers and continuance in
office of elective Grand Lodge officers in the event of prohibition of
Annual Communications.
2. Recommendation No. 2, amending Ordinances, Section 34, subdivision I 0th, empowering Grand Master to delegate certain powers
to the Deputy Grand Master or Grand Wardens.
3. Recommendation No. 3, amending Ordinances, Sections 51 and 52,
increasing number of Assistant Grand Lecturers to six. ·
4. Recommendation No. 4. amending Ordinances, Section 69, prescribing vote in Grand Lodge to be taken on business only after receipt
of reports ·of all" committees to which business was referred.
5. Recommendation No. 8, amending Ordinances, Section 121. permit.ting the holding 0 f meetings, for the purpose of conferring degrees,
in the temple at Columbia.
6. . Recommendation No. 9, amending Ordinances, Section 192. subdivision 2nd, by permitting use of ritual of anot~er jurisdiction upon
a candidate of such jurisdiction.
To the Committee on Finance:
I. Recommendation No. 5, providing for new aprons for Grand Lodge
officers - for consideration and recommendation and, if favorably
reported, for appropriation.
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
1. Recommendation No. 7, providing for appointment of a special committee to consider revision of the written ceremonies of the Grand
Lodge-for consideration and recommendation.
Your Committee is aware of the increased responsibility incumbent
upon the Grand Master occasioned by the Centennial Observance and
wish to record favorable comment upon his personal attention and contribution to the seemingly perfected arrangements for this Annual Com-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

53

munication. There can be no doubt but that the Grand Master's wide
acquaintance throughout the Fraternity in other jurisdictions, the deep
respect which he commands and the high esteem in which he is held
both as a personality and as Grand Master, has, in a great measure,
been responsible for the presence of so many distinguished dignitaries
et this communication.
Many more observations might be made from the Grand Master's
Annual Message but suffice it to say your committee feels that it be1peaks the sentiment of all the brethren when tendering a fond tribute
for his personal kindliness, love of the Fraternity, devotion to duty and
his tremendotfs ability which we have been so fortunate to enjoy this
year, the culmination of one hundred years of Masonry in California.
Respectfully submitted,
ELMER R. LoTZ
DONALD G. CAMPBELL
Roy T. KIELE

Adopted.

54

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF GRAND TREASURER

Other transactions have been routine, such as sales of odd lots, nominal holdings and some securities which were received by donation and
bequest, and were considered undesirable for the Portfolio.

For Fiscal Year Ending July 31, 1950
To the Brethren of Grand Lodge:
In a report of the Grand Treasurer for the fiscal year ending July 31.
1949, for your information the Grand Treasurer described the course
of funds received from all sources and it may be referred to for any
inquiry arising on that subject.
There are submitted again with this report as exhibits schedules of
maturities, United States Savings Bonds Series E, F and G, held July
31, 1950 and maturities, United States Treasuries, and Savings Bonds
in portfolio as of July 31. 1950.
The consolidated cash and investment statements have been omitted
and reference is made to the Auditor's reports for the year ending July
31, 1950 for consolidated statement of assets and liabilities owned or
under control of Grand Lodge and for consolidtated statement of cash
receipts and disbusements from funds of or controlled by Grand Lodge,
August I. 1949 to July 31, 1950, wherein appears an itemized statement
of funds in custody of the Grand Treasurer and held in operating funds
with detailed listing of investments in the statement of assets and liabil-ities as relates to Grand Lodge, Masonic Homes and Endowment Fund
and reference to exhibits and schedules. For accurate review it is essential to refer to the exhibits and schedules whic'h follow in sequence..
Therein will be found more detailed receipts and disbursements, cash
items and lists of investments in the several funds. Also, the increase
in the Endowment Fund and how accounted for: securities purchased
and otherwise acquired and securities redeemed and sold: balance sheet
and cash receipts and disbursements for the fiscal year, statement of
revenues and expenses relating to Masonic Homes. Also, segregated
and detailed statements of operating expenses Decoto and Covina.
Early in 1919, $175,000.00 Endowment Funds was invested in the
purchase of certificates (I 34 % 1950) for desired adjustment and an
improved market and in a measure possible change of Grand Lodge
investment policy. After the end of the 1949 fiscal year the Government market weakened and appeared to justify further maturity adjustments. Purchase of Governments at a premium could result in loss of
principal adversely affecting yield.
The facts are that from July 31, 1949 to August 1, 1950, the general
trend of Governments was down. January 5, 1950, $175,000.00 face
value of the aforementioned United States certificates 134 January 1,
1950 having matured, offer of exchange for $175,000.00 face value,
1Ya. 1951 was effected. On January 10, 1950, the latter were sold taking advantage of a slight premium and the funds placed in savings
account at 1Yi%. This resulted in an increased cash position.

55

Since the end of the fiscal year 1949-50, by reason of importance of
the transaction we refer to. sale of$183,000.00 (face value) U . S. Treasuries 234's 6/15/62-59:
$6,000.00 U. S. Treasuries 2Yi's 3/15/70-65: from the Portfolio of
Grand· Lodge General Fund;
\
$31,000.00 U. S. Treasuries 234 6/15/62-59:
$100,000.00 U.S. Treasuries 2Yi's 12/15/59-64: War Relief Fund:
$300,000.00 U. S. Treasuries 2Yi 12/15/ 72-67:
$290,500.00 U.S. Treasuries 2Yi's 3/15/70-65:
$100,000.00 U. S. Treasuries 2Yi's 12/15/69-64:
$180,000.00 2Yi's 6/15/72-67:
$318,500.00 234's 6/15/ 62-59; Portfolio Grand Lodge as Trustee
for the Endowment Fund: and
$50,000.00 U. S. Treasuries 234's 6/15/ 62-59: Masonic Homes
Monthly Grant Fund.
The sales were made in contemplation of a continued lowering
market for the purpose of capturing a profit and keeping the market
under observation, particularly to take advantage of any indicated rise
in the market.
These funds were immediately reinvested in United States certi8cates 1,Ys, 1/1 / 51. Some office adjustment with respect to endowment
funds will be required because of interest income item involved.
The tables showing U . S. Savings Bonds held, and the maturities of
U. S. Treasuries and Savings Bonds are as follows :

G

1953
1956

G

G

147,500

10,000

2.200 242,500

.......• 100,000

2,200

. ....... 100,000

2,500

G

1959

------- 30,000

F

G

1980

750

........

2,500

980,000

10,000

300
5,000

........ 90,000
---····· ---............

F

174,800 295,900

100,000

100,000

G

1961

5,000

5,000

E

------·-------··

--------------·····
-------···
318,500
593,000

TOTALll.---·-···-·····-··---·-- 10,500

--·------.

-----------

------10,500
FliDt Tnut Fund..-··--·-·····-········-- ..........
Perine Fmul.._··-··---······--··-··-·- ··-···-·
Verbcm;r l"alld........-····-·-··---··-·-- ----·
Lllckenbach Fund..·---·····-··---~ -·······
Wadlelqh Fund....-·--···-·---··- --·-·
Ea.dowment Fund.·--·-··----- 10,000

Annuity_________________________ -·······

375,000

265.000

-----------------------------------------·------4,000

------------------------------------------_._ ______
-----10,000
-----------···
-----

Grand t.oaqe.•....·-·······-····-··-·-·--- ..........
500
Masonic Romes.........·--·-·····-··-········
Monthly Grant Fund. .....................·-··· ·······-·
:&alldlnq l"Dlld.. ..- ..·········-·····--··········- ··-······
Summer Camp Reaerre ....................._ ·····-···
Scholarship Fund.·-·-·-········-··-·--·· ·······-·
Enterlailllllent Fund.._.............---·- ..........
FliDt

---------·-·
---------

6,000

100.000

310,500

10.000
290,500

---·····-

·-----·-

---·--

2'h%

70.&5

214.000
50,000

69-64

2!h%

62-59
2~%

59-SS
2~%

481.000

·--------------------------------··
---------··
---------·
----------------------480,000

l.000

-------·····

1.000

1,000

··--

--·---

·-....

__

·---

-·------·
·--·-

----------------------

------·

-----------------

2%%

1960
2!h%

72-87

10,000

·-------·
------------------------------------------·---·--·
--·-····
----10,000
---------

1~%

1950

628,800

---16,200
---145,450

-··-----

141,375

·-------52,100

135,000
80,000
2.575
10,000
34,000
10,100

F

2,060,600

5,000
10,000
43,600
43,800
10,000
1,000
36,000
10,000
l.512,700

170,000
103.200
300
115.000

G

165,000

160,000

5.000

A

\

UNITED STATES TREASURIES BY MATURITIES AND SAVINGS BONDS
July 31, 1950
Note: Maturity values shown in dollars.

2,175 27,200

10,000

35,000

100,000

............ 100,000
16,200

7,500

42,600
18,300

13,500

10,100

40,000

G

1958

3,250 1,095,300

440.250 600

138,500 ......

1957

135,000
..........•• 100,000

F

TOTAIS ........ 5,000 41,500

4,125 110,100

4,025

85,000

1,000

2,175 17,200

....•...

125,675 ......

10,000

10,000 ····-

34,000 ......

8,000

5,000

75 ......
10,000 ..•.•.

10,000

__ ..____ -····

F

80,000 800

G

100

1955

100

F

42,000 .....•

G

1954

I.ODO

F

FmuL.............._ ........ ..........
Wadlelqh
Fund ..........................

Lm:kenbach

Grand Lodqe...... ........ 10.000
Masonic Homes..........
Monthly Grant
Fund..........................
Buildinq Fund..... ···-···
Summer Camp
Reserve....................
Scholarship
Fund .........................
Entertailllllent
Fund................. ········
Flint Annuity....._ ·····-·
Flint Trust
Fund................. ........
Perine Fund................
Verbarq Fund..... ........ 1,000
Endowment
Fund .................. 5,000 30,500

E

Note: Maturity values shown in dollars.

UNITED STATES SAVINGS BONDS
Detail of Maturity Series E-F-G
July 31, 1950

5,000

5,000

E

626,800

16,200

145,450

141,375

52,100

10,100

4,818.-408

3,188,150

Z0.000

12.ZOO

625,000
233,700
2,875
128,008
34,008
30,600
10,000
95,708
189.175
20.000
1,800

TOTAIS

2,060,800

1,000

36,000

1,512,700

1.1180

43,800
10,000

10.000
43,600

5,000

300
115,000

2.575
10,000
34,000

170,000
103,208

G

135,000
80.000

F

TOTAIS

58

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

One year ago the Grand Treasurer recommended that consideration
be given to (such) extension of qualified investments by adopting what
is designated the "Prudent Man Rule," which recommendation was
supported by a monograph of pertinent facts prepared ·by the Assistant
Grand Treasurer and annexed as an exhibit.
The recommendation and proposed legislation presented by the
Grand Treasurer affecting the Prudent Man Rule were referred to the
Committee on Policy and General Purposes and the Finance Committee, and the Endowment Board: the first named committee reported:
"Much of the time of these Committees during this Communication of Grand Lodge has been devoted to this proposal.
Numerous joint conferences have been held. The Homes Board
and individual members of Grand Lodge have requested and have
been granted extended hearings. AJJ phases of the Prudent Man
Rule have been explored and able dissertations have been given
with reference to investment. trust and financial policies. Your
Committee on Policy and General Purposes and the Committee
on Finance as weJJ as the Endowment Board favor, as a matter
of policy. the adoption of the Prudent Man Rule. We feel,
however, since its adoption would mean a departure from our
present practice as set forth in our laws. that more time should
be given to study of the matter before the proposed Resolution
is ftnaUy submitted for adoption or rejection by the Grand Lodge.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, therefore,
submits the foJJowing Resolution in which the Committee on
Finance joins:
"RESOLVED: That the incoming Grand Master be requested to appoint a Committee of five qualified members of Grand
Lodge to study and consider during the coming year the proposed adoption of the Prudent Man Rule as set forth herein in
Past Grand Master Keesling' s Resolution and to report to Grand
Lodge at its regular Communication in 1950."
This Resolution was adopted.
In the report of the Finance Committee the foJJowing appears:
"The recommendation of the Grand Treasurer with reference
to the adoption of the 'Prudent Man Rule' was referred to this
Committee as well as the Committee on Policy and General Purposes and the Endowment Board. This Committee concurs in
the report which was given by the Committee on Policy and
Genera) Purposes. We have no intention of prolonging discus-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

59

sion of the matter except to express, for the record, our approval
of the legislation which is proposed. and to suggest that a11 members of the Grand Lodge endeavor to familiarize themselves
with the principles under which the Prudent Man Rule operates
so that they may be prepared to express themselves at the next
Annual Communication. It is a very important question. We
trust that it will be given careful consideration."
I feel it is my duty to reaffirm my position as set forth in my report
as Grand Treasurer at the Grand Communication in 1949, and in that
respect refer to that report, particularly to that portion relating to the
Prudent Man Rule. The Grand Treasurer is charged with considerable
responsibility respecting investment, including without limitation as to
generality all funds owned or belonging to Grand Lodge, some of which
are controJJed by Trustees of the Masonic Homes and the Committee
on Investment of Endowment Funds.
Currently. the yield on total funds approximates 2y.f %. controlled
largely by limitations on investments by regulation. The minimum increase in yields on the investments which would fall within the Prudent
Man Rule may be fairly estimated at 2% . The result of an increase in
yield of 2% on $5,000,000.00 is simple mathematics. If that yield may
be obtained by an investment policy that has spread rapidly over the
United States, we are convinced that the course to pursue is manifest
and that there is a mandate of sound business practice. It is the opiniQn
of the Grand Treasurer that he should invite merited criticism if he did
not urge consideration of the Prudent Man Rule whereby the earnings
of Grand Lodge will be substantiaJJy increased without inf ury to principal.
Lodges are confronted with the same problem, only their problems
are more urgent. If the yields on investment moneys are insufficient for
expenses, the only recourse is to raise dues. This must be seriously
considered.

It has been suggested that consideration be given to investment in
mutual funds. This we believe to be inadvisable for Grand Lodge purposes. The cost of management exceeds what we need to pay for
unquestionably excellent investment counsel. It is obvious that there
should be such independent expert counsel. Investment in mutual funds
would not only offer a complicated problem to co-ordinate with other
Investments of Grand Lodge but would interfere with a desirable selective procedure. There may be some alarm with respect to removing
existing limitations on lodges from a fear of inexperienced and inexpert
control. However, this may be safeguarded.

61

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Some difficulties are presented by the limitation of investments
"legal for savings banks." The State of California long had a "legal
for savings bank" investment list. In itself, it was not a guarantee of
safety. In fact, many such "legal" bonds defaulted both in interest and
principal. This emphasizes one ever-present requirement, namely, that
prudent investigation is always necessary, list or no list. In other words,
the Prudent Man principle had to be applied to the legal for savings
banks bond list.

These data have been assembled and made available. for the Grand
Master, members of the Jurisprudence, Policy and General Purposes
Committees, the Endowment Board and Trustees of the Masonic
Homes.

60

Since October 1, 1949, there has been no legal for savings bank
investment list in California. The rule of prudence now applies. There
are certain percentage limits in various types and kinds of indebtedness,
both for savings and commercial banks in California, but the legal list
is no more. It is no longer possible for Grand Lodge or lodges to adapt
bond investment policy to legal list. While it would be feasible to fix
percentages of funds which must be invested in bonds or equivalent
securities, it is the considered judgment of the Grand Treasurer and the
Assistant Grand Treasurer that it would be more advisable by far to
operate under the principle of the Prudent Man Rule with independent
experienced investment counsel which may be had at a surprisingly
reasonable cost.
The Prudent Man Rule is not, as some may think, a "common
stock" rule. As stated in my report last year, it remains as originally
expressed in 1830 by Justice Putnam of Massachusetts: "In acquiring,
investing, reinvesting, exchanging, retaining, selling and managing property for the benefit of another, a fiduciary shall exercise the judgment
and care under the circumstances then prevailing, which men of prudence, discretion and intelligence exercise in the management of their
own affairs, not in regard to speculation but in regard to the permanent disposition of their funds, considering the probable income as well
as the probable safety of their capital."
The rule of Prudent Man investing would include bonds, preferred
stocks, common stocks, and any other investments which prudent .men
would acquire.
Supporting the foregoing and the recommendation contained in my
1949 report as Grand Treasurer, are additional data which have been
arduously assembled by the Assistant Grand Treasurer, and indicate
the many hours of study and compiling and manifest the earnest, devoted and efficient service which typifies our Assistant Grand Treasurer.

Respectfully submitted,
FRANCIS V. KEESLING

Grand Treasurer

62

63

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE GRAND SECRETARY

In addition to these, negotiations are in progress with 40 or 50 Lodges
aeeking participation in the program. Many others have indicated the
desire to participate when their present policies expire. Many of our
Lodges have for some years carried liability insurance and continue to
do so through their own insurance brokers.
It is the consensus that liability insurance is desirable and essential
for our Lodges. The only question seems to be whether it should be
voluntary or whether under this program, favorable both as to coverage
and rates, it should be made mandatory, with the selection of the Grand
Lodge program, or other coverage, being optional as is the case with the
mandatory fidelity insurance requirement of the Grand Lodge.
We also are at work on a program for workman's compensation insurance and expect in due time to have it in final form for presentation
to the Lodges. It is anticipated that it will be greatly to their material
advantage over present rates.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
I have the honor to present to you herewith my Ninth Annual Report
as your Grand Secretary.
Although the year bas been an extremely busy one due to the Centennnfal Celebration, we have been able to meet the demands made
upon the office because of the efficiency and cooperation of the staff.
We have also been fortunate in having the complete cooperation of
the Secretaries of the Lodges and the Inspectors of the Districts.
VISITATION

At the invitation of Most Worshipful Ernest S. Schiefelbein, Grand
Master of Masons in Nebraska, and with the approval of Grand Master
Ellsworth Meyer, I attended the Annual Communication of the Grand
Lodge of Nebraska in June and had the pleasure of addressing that
Grand Lodge on June 7, 1950. The brethren of Nebraska were most
cordial and hospitable throughout the three days which it was my good
fortune to spend with them, and I can recommend a visit to their Grand
Lodge as being very much worthwhile.
LORENZO LODGE U. D.

Lorenzo Lodge U. D., located at San Lorenzo, was instituted July
22, 1950, only nine days before the close of the fiscal year. This Lodge
did not collect dues during the fiscal year, but has been required to
pay the per capita tax from which they have asked to be relieved in an
official communication dated August 24th.
I recommend that the request be granted and that the Grand Secretary be directed to refund $105.75 to Lorenzo Lodge U. D.
LIABILITY INSURANCE

For a number of years Masters and Secretaries of our Lodges have
solicited our assistance in making available liability insurance coverage
through a master or blanket policy on a basis comparable to fidelity
coverage, which is mandatory under our law.
This year has seen a culmination of our efforts, and those of competent insurance counsel. by which a fine program of liability insurance has
been offered to the Lodges at greatly reduced rates. This program as
developed was submitted to the Grand Master, Deputy Grand Master
and the Grand Wardens before being offered to the Lodges, and the
Grand Master approved the program and it was put into operation as
an administrative action. Because of this latter feature the program has
been voluntary, since only Grand Lodge has the authority to make it
mandatory.
. The response of the Lodges is the best proof of the need for such a
program, and up to date 189 certificates have been issued to as many
Lodges and 35 certificates have been issued to hall or temple associations.

MEMBERSHIP

It is interesting to note the membership comparisons at twenty-five
year intervals. In 1875 there were 201 Lodges with 11,931 members.
The Grand Secretary in 1900 reported 269 Lodges with a membership
of 21,579. The report in 1925 listed 533 Lodges with a membership
of 115,517 as of October 1st. On July 31st last there were 605. Lodges
with a membership of 196,800. The Grand Master has granted dispensations since July 31st to Anacapa Lodge U. D. and Rim of the World
Lodge U . D.
1875
3
580
600
643
543

1900
2
1,623
1,589
1.573
512

83
435
231
32

149
389
JOO
6

156
Number of Members on July 31................1 1,931
Dues Remitted . ......... ............ ........... .. ......................
Gain . . . ....... .........................._.............................. .... ...... 415
Number of Lodges•.....•.....•..........-............... 201

417
21,579

New Lodges Formed ·······-········--···············
Initiated
Passed ....................................._.........................
Raised
Afllllated
Gained bJ' Error.•..........•.............................
Reinstate ............................................... ......................
With drawn .................................................,
Suspended for Non-Payment of Dues......
Suspended or Expelled for cause..............
• • - . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . u

•• • ••••••••• • • ••••••••••••••••

... .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .... ... . . . . . . . u

.

. .

..... . . ..

. . . . . . .. . . . .. .. . . h

.... . . . . . . . . .. . ...... . . . . . . .

. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .... . . .

.. . . .. . .. . . . . .. .

~~ b:...~~~-.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

1,122
269

1925
28
8,068
8,087
8.177
1,925

1949
3
9,857
9,867
10.088
1,950
21
388
1,609
647
20

1950
6
9, 183
9, 125
9,t06
2.021
12
222
391
l1t75
1,623
818
776
33
23
7
s
1.223
2,821
3.l<H
115.517 190,543 196,800
763
2,361
2.506
6,765
7,345
6,257
533
599
605

NEW LODGES

The following new Lodges have been formed during the year:
Hunters Point Naval Lodge U. D .• located at San Francisco. Dispensation granted November 15, 1949. The Lodge was instituted on
January 14, 1950, at San Francisco, Most Worshipful Ellsworth Meyer,
Grand Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Cecil Franklin Gill, Charles

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Bartler Moore, Alvie Albert Larkin, William Ross Cooper, Mervin
Clyde Larison, Waldemar Oscar Hahn, James Wil~ia~ Yate~, Arland
Delmar Stubbs, Cecil Fielden Armstrong, Stuart Wilham Smith, Loren
Stewart Culbertson, Louis Joseph Pfieffer, Frank Clark Stewart,
Willard Farrell Jones. Henry Herman Germer, William Gronberg
Read, James Elba Vandiver, Wayman Douglas Page, George Briton
Ritchie, John Feith, Claud Levi Smith, Harold Joseph Koch and Roy
Earl Leventon.
·
Lake Tahoe Lodge U. D., located at Bijou. Dispensation granted
December 7, 1949. The Lodge was instituted on January 21. 1950 at
Placerville, Most Worshipful Ellsworth Meyer, Grand Master, officiating.
.
The charter membership is as follows: Horace Ralph Willard
Bulkley, Richard Elmer Thompson, Loudon Franklin H!llhouse, Leonard W. Scott, Jack Llewellyn Miller, Sam Enoch Davis, Don Carlos
Elson, Stanton Herbert Meyer, George L. Parker, Walter Reuben
Dickinson, Alonzo Guy Taylor, Victor Nick Blum, Charles Rowland
Young, Fred William Brenzel. Alonzo LeRoy Richardson, Jr., ~ecil
Lewis Williams, Martin Julius Walter and George Thompson Oliver.
Seafaring Lodge U .D.. located at Costa Mesa. Dispensation
granted December 7, 1949. The Lodge was instituted on January 25,
1950 at Santa Ana, Most Worshipful Ellsworth Meyer, Grand Master,
officiating.
.
The charter membership is as follows: Edward Irving Moore, Henry
Kossuth Deister, Sam Kinsfather, James Carter Howard, Oscar William Richard. Rex Scott Albright, Raymon Nielsen, George Lon Bosley.
Virgil Dean Smith, Carroll Martin Sovde, Sr.. R~sco.e I. Moms,
Robert Harold Reed, Kenneth Norman Johnson, Harris Lincoln Cottle,
Heinz Kaiser, Arthur Edmond Fitzmorris, Herman William Toedter,
Curtis Arthur Herberts, Horace Parker, Paul Tekus, Lester Albert
Smith and William John Walker.
Lorenzo Lodge U. D .. located at San Lorenzo. Dispensation granted
June 1, 1950. The Lodge was instituted on July 22, 1950'. a~ Hayward,
Most Worshipful Ellsworth Meyer, Grand Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Edward Carl Will, William
Francis Dewey. William Leonard Word, Cyril Theodore Stevens,
Julian Emery Poole, Otis Elmo Glasscock, Crist Harrison Burkhalder,
Charles Harold Sedam, Linford Wells Hunter, Woodrow Hand Patterson, Floyd Boyce Miller, Lawrence Clinton Bourland, Sr., Philip
Seaman Vail, Herbert Franklin Barrows, Paul Le Roy Duncan, Irving
Willis Sweet, Homer Augustus Schwarz, Earl Leonard Coleman, Fr~nk
Ellsworth Hunt, Kurt Van Riesen, Calude Bassell Gordon, M~rion
Johnson McLaren, Noah Allen Bedsworth, Vernon Alpheus Bouk~ight,
Sidney Earl Bowers. Frank Otis Roberts, Oren Sherman Wilson,
Milton Lavon Murray, Donald De Witt Odell, James Stuart Kemper,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

65

William Henry Rice, Elmo Waine Sullins, Theodore Meeker Lowell,
James Lloyd Jacobs, Elmer Erwin Posten, Marvin Delbert Richardson,
Donald Henry Halsted, Napier Tooker, Dennis Woodson Ross, William Herbert King, Melvin Elmer Kast, Ernst Puscher, Mervin Gilbert
Morris, Rowland Drew Parish and Edwin Cardoza.
Anacapa Lodge U. D .. located at Oxnard. Dispensation granted
July 28, 1950. The lodge was instituted on August 19, 1950, at Oxnard,
Most Worshipful Ellsworth Meyer, Grand Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Bernard Chester Mickle,
Cecil Amos Brann, Robert Leslie Wilcox, James William Johnson,
Chauncey Shepard Carpenter, Harvey Clay Van Voorhis, Sherman
Sampson, Milton Adelbert Jones, Dale Vernon Teeters, Frank Sherman Hale, Louis Bermann, Lewis Arthur Pugh, James William Gaines,
James Arthur Lee, Carlos Albert Richardson, Harvey Arthur Washburn, William Lawson McKie, James Wakefield Gibbons, Archelle
Cedric Horstman, George Edward Jennings, Thomas Graham Ander1on, Frederick William Simmonsen, George Horace Speer, Jr.. Paul
Pranklin Sheeter, Albert Edward Taylor, Leslie Jeffery Donald Samuelsson ,Cecil Ohm Roper, Raymond Lewis Maushaw, Eric Henry
Drexler, Otto William Kowitz, Henry Potter, William Mitch, Jr.. Axel
Christian Jensen, Henry Lynn Hall and Herman Frederick Rosenbund.
Rim of the World Lodge U. D .. located at Lake Arrowhead. Dispensation granted August 31 , 1950. The Lodge was instituted on
September 9th, 1950, at San Bernardino, Most Worshipful Ellsworth
Meyer, Grand Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Thomas Edward Schrey,
James Maxwell Soutar, Harry Fay Smith, Howard Emory Grider,
Albert Nathan Anderson, John Charels Wallis, Vernon Burkett, Benjamin Naphtaly Nordman, William Earl Shuss, Glenn Curtis, .Roy
Bugene Cunningham, Charles Wesley Griffin, Erwin Andrew Patteraon, Peter Johnstone Cormack, Rodney Martin Koch, Elliott Wing
Parmelee, Earl BarrettMorris, Elmer Max Sims, Milton Dale Brown,
John Derrick Teagle, Leo Earl Ovenden, Stoney Lester De Ment, Frank
bonald Evans, Harley ( H) Wheeler, James David Fitzpatrick, Richard
Maxwell Armitage, Charles Frank Davis, Clarence ( J) Kirkpatrick,
Warden Francis Chadwick, Truman Berry Woodworth, Sydney
Seever, Dewey Monninger, Elliott Carr, Lawrence Swindle Kramer,
Doran Douglas lsgrig, George Hubbard, Saltmarsh, George Kevin Saltmarsh, Rennie Jacob Schrey, James Lester Nichols, Herman Theodore
Wiklund, Ronald Jay Rush, James Madison Maxey, Dale James Smith
and Bruce Owen Brown.
LIFE MEMBERSHIPS

The Grand Master approved resolutions providing for life memberahlps in the following Lodges:
Increasing fee: Occidental Lodge No. 22, to $375.00; Marin Lodge

66

PROCEEDINGS OF THE .

No. 191, to $375.00; Fairmount Lodge No. 435, to $350.00; Argonaut
Lodge No. 461, to $375.00.
Fixing fee: Valley Forge Lodge No. 587, at $300.00.
DISPENSATIONS ISSUED

To elect officers at a time other than that fixed by law:
Georgetown Lodge No. 25: Harmony Lodge No. 164: Antioch
Lodge No. 175: Phoenix Lodge No. 178: Salinas Lodge No. 204: Santa
Monica Lodge No. 307: Kilauea Lodge No. 330: Sierra Madre Lodge
No. 408: Crocker Lodge No. 454: Riverbank Lodge No. 459: Alta Vista
Lodge No. 464: Libertas Lodge No. 466: Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598:
Canoga Lodge No. 611: La Cumbre Lodge No. 642: Damascus Lodge
No. 648: Henry Knox Lodge No. 662: Liberal Arts Lodge No. 677: San
Antonio Lodge No. 694: Seafaring Lodge U .D.
To receive and act upon the application of a rejected Candidate
within twelve months:
Woodbridge Lodge No. 131.
To receive and act upon the application of a member of the Armed
Forces who lacks the qualification of residence:
.
Temple Lodge No. 14: Mission Lodge No. 169; Presidio Lodge
No. 354; Cahuenga Lodge No. 513: Warren G. Harding Lodge No.
579; Fortitude Lodge No. 624; Bixby Knolls Lodge No. 699.
Special permission for the conferring of a First Degree:
El Dorado Lodge No. 26.
.
Special Permission for the conferring of a Third Degree:
Burbank Lodge No. 406; Clovis Lodge No. 417: Maui Lodge No.
472.
To open Lodge elsewhere than in regular meeting place:
Blythe Lodge No. 473: Menlo Park Lodge No. 651.
DISPENSATIONS DENIED

To receive the application of a rejected Candidate within twelve
months:
Fidelity Lodge No. 120.
To hold Installation Ceremony elsewhere than in regular meeting
place:
Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598.
To hold Lodge elsewhere than in regular meeting place: Morgan
Hill Lodge No. 463.
To form a new Lodge at Los Angeles to be known as Benjamin
]. Moss Lodge.
For a Nevada Lodge to confer the Third Degree in California using
the Nevada Ritual: Plumas Lodge No. 60; Needles Lodge No. 326.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

67

AMENDMENTS TO BY~LAWS

Increasing fees: EI Dorado Lodge No. 26, to $75.00, Lakeshore
Lodge No. 551, to $100.00.
Increasing affiliation fee: Mission Lodge No. 169, to $50.00.
Decreasing affiliation fee: El Dorado Lodge No. 26, to no fee.
Redistribution of breakdown of fees: Indian Wells Valley No. 691.
Increasing dues: La Parfaite Lodge No. 17, to $15.00: Occidental
Lodge No. 22, to $18.00; Sotoyome Lodge No. 123, to $15.00: Crockett
Lodge No. 139, to $15.00; Oriental Lodge No. 144, to $15.00; Marin
Lodge No. 191. to $15.00; Monrovia Lodge Nq. 308, to $15.00; Oxnard
Lodge No. 341, to $15.00; Starr King No. 344, to $15.00; Amity Lodge
No. 370, to $15.qO: Yerba Buena Lodge No. 403, to $15,00: Lindsay
Lodge No. 416, to $18.00; Standard Lodge No. 440, to $15.00: Bethle~
hem Lodge No. 453, to $15.00: Argonaut Lodge No. 461, to $18.00:
Victory Lodge No. 474, to $18.00: Bay City Lodge No. 526, to $15.00;
Forest Hill Lodge No. 534, to $15.00: Seaport Lodge No. 550, to
$18.00; West Adams Lodge·No. 565, to $15.00: James Garfield Lodge
No. 566, to $15.00; Alexander Graham Bell Lodge No. 595, to $15.00;
Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674, to $15.00.
Changing date of stated meeting: Temple Lodge No. 14; George~
town Lodge No. 25: Gold Hill Lodge No. 32: Ophil Lodge No. 33:
Northern Light Lodge No. 190: Callayomi Lodge No. 282; Military
Service No. 570; Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598; Southland Lodge No.
618.
.
Changing time of stated meeting: La Habra Lodge No. 659.
Providing for holiday meetings: West Lake Lodge No. 392; Chino
Valley Lodge No. 427: Culver City Lodge No. 467: Harbor Lodge No.
502; Altadena Lodge No. 678.
Providing for annual election in November: Triangle Lodge No. 548.
Adopting uniform code of by~laws: Clear Lake Lodge No. 183:
Alturas Lodge No. 248; North East Lodge No. 266; Madera Lodge
No. 280; Fairmount Lodge No. 435; Palms Lodge No. 512: Monte
Vista Lodge No. 655; Bixby Knolls Lodge No. 699: Hunters Point
Naval Lodge U. D.: Lake Tahoe Lodge U. D.: Seafaring Lodge U. D.;
Lorenzo Lodge U. D.; Anacapa Lodge U. D.: Rim of the World Lodge
U.D.
RESOLUTIONS

Providing for change of meeting place: Reedley Lodge No. 304;
Moneta Lodge No. 405; Van Nuys Lodge No. 450; Argonaut Lodge
No. 461; Bell Lodge No. 483; San Gabriel Lodge No. 546; Military
Service Lodge No. 570; Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598; Granada Lodge
No. 608; Canoga Lodge No. 611; Temple City Lodge No. 612: South~
land Lodge No. 618: Florence Lodge No. 649: San Antonio Lodge
No. 694.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

68

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
TRIAL RECORDS

No.

375-Petition for restoration. A member of Excelsior Lodge No.
166. Expelled November 1 ,1922.
No. 1016-Petition for restoration. A member of Palisades Lodge No.
637. Expelled July 7, 1942.
No. 1043-Petition for restoration. A member of Union Lodge No. 58.
.
Expelled August 2, 1944.
No. 1102-Petition for restoration. A member of Service Lodge No.
594. Expelled April·4, 1947.
No. 1125-(Retrial). A member of Palms Lodge No. 512. Suspended
December 1, 1947.
No. 1134-Petition for restoration. A member of Three Pillars Lodge
No. 613. Expelled May 14, 1948.
No. 1156-( Retrial) .A member of Pyramid Lodge No. 562. Suspended
October 5, 1948.
No. 1188-A member of University Lodge No. 394. Acquitted September 12, 1949.
No. 1189-A member of Jordan Lodge No. 654. Expelled September 6,
1949.
No. 1190-A member of Unity Lodge No. 368. Expelled October 6,
1949.
No. 1191-A member of James A. Foshay Lodge No. 641. Expelled
October 10, 1949.
N 0 , 1192-A member of Maui Lodge No. 472. Expelled October 12,
1949.
No. 1193-A member of East Gate Lodge No. 290. Expelled October
6, 1949.
No. 1194-A member of Bay City Lodge No. 526. Expelled November
2, 1949.
No. 1195-A member of Bay City Lodge No. 526. Expelled November
2, 1949.
No. 1196-A member of Parnassus Lodge No. 388. Acquitted November 1, 1949.
No. 1197-A member of Long Beach Lodge No. 327. Expelled December 1, 1949.
No. 1198-A member of a Lodge in Iowa. Expelled December 1, 1949.
No. 1199-A member of Crockett Lodge No. 139. Expelled December 7, 1949.
No. 1200-A member of Charter Rock Lodge No. 410. Acquitted De-.
cember 6, 1949.
N o. 1201-A member of Three Pillars Lodge No. 613. Acquitted December 9, 1949.
N o. 1202-A member of a Lodge in Pennsylvania. Expelled January
5, 1950.
.

69

No. 1203-A member of Temple City Lodge No. 612. Expelled January 3, 1950.
No. 1204-A member of Wilshire Lodge No. 445. Expelled February
6, 1950.
No. 1205-A member of Sun Garden Lodge No. 530. Expelled February 9, 1950.
No. 1206-A member of Doric Lodge No. 216. Suspended March 6,
1950.
No. 1207-A member of Mount Olive Lodge No. 506. Expelled April
5, 1950.
No. 1208-A member of University Lodge No. 394. Expelled February 6, 1950.
No. 1209- A member of Jordan Lodge No. 654. Expelled April 4,
1950.
No. 1210-A. member of Oxnard Lodge No. 341. Expelled April 5,
1950.
No. 1211-A member of Alcatraz Lodge No. 244. Expelled May 3,
1950.
No. 1212-A member of Poinsettia Lodge No. 633. Expelled May 5,
1950.
No. 1213-A member of Upland Lodge No. 419. Acquitted December
5, 1949.
No. 1214-A member of Elysian Lodge No. 418. Expelled June 1,
1950.
No. 1215-A member of Riverside Lodge No. 635. Expelled June 1.
1950.
No. 1216-A member of Penrhyn Lodge No. 258. Expelled June 8,
1950.
No. 1217-A member of White Pine Lodge No. 555. Expelled August
1, 1950.
No. 1218-A member of San Mateo Lodge No. 226. Acquitted August
3, 1950.
No. 1219-A member of George Washington Lodge No. 525. Expelled
September 5, 1950.
No. 1220-A member of Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528. Expelled September 5, 1950.
No. 1221-A member of Wilmington Lodge No. 198. Expelled September 5, 1950.
No. 1222-A member of Santa Maria Lodge No. 580. Expelled August
14, 1950.
No. 1223-A member of West Gate Lodge No. 335. Expelled August
7, 1950.
No. 1224-A member of Park Boulevard Lodge No. 568. Acquitted
December 12, 1949.

71

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

70

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
NAM!! AND LODGE

No. 1225-A member of Oakdale Lodge No. 275. Suspended September 12, 1950.
No. 1226-A member of Hawthorne Lodge No. 647. Suspended September 5. 1950.
No. 1227-A member of Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625. Suspended
September 5, 1950.
FIFTY YEAR BUTTONS
NAM!! AND LODGE

DATE OF RAISING

Aaron, Chas. Francis, Corinthian Lodge No. 9----···--·-··-··················May 1. 1900
Ackley, Wm. Kerr, San Marino Lodge No. 685.......................... November 24, 1898
Akerly, George Parry, Vacaville Lodge No. 13-i.......................... November H, 1899
Allan, Thomas John, Mission Lodge No. 169.................................. February 7, 1900
Andrews, Linus L.. Temescal Lodge No. 314.................................. May 24. 1900
Andrews, Perry, Pajaro Lodge No. 110..........................................January 31. 1900
Andrews, Robert Wells, Laguna Beach Lodge No. 672................ August 3, 1894
Applegate, George Brenton, Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44........ 0ctober 3, 1900
Argall. Matthew Henf:• Madison Lodge No. 23............................ September 5, 1899
Arnold, zzyn Hen~, ehama Lodge No. 3..............·-··········-····-··-January 29, 1900
Arnold,
m. Ralp , So. California Lodge No. 278......................January 31, 1900
Aurand, Charles B.. Santa Monica Lodge No. 307........................February 20, 1900
Avan, William John, Alcatraz Lodge No. 244..............................June 15, 1899
Badger, Thomas Norman, Oakland Lodge No. 188..................._.January 27, 1900
Bailey, Ralph David, Ashlar Lodge No. 306.................................. September 4, 1899
Baker. Ronie Brown, Pentalpha Lodge No. 202............................June 4, 1900
Barman, Frederick F .• West Gate Lodge No. 335......................June 1. 1899
Barton, Wm. Thomas, Redlands Lodge No. 300.......................... April 23, 1900
Bassford, John Wm., Oakland Lodge No. 188.............................. August 18, 1900
Beede, Stephen McDonald, Mission Lod11e No. 169.................... February 22, 1899
Bettens, Albert, Brentwood Lodge No. 345...................................... March 24, 1900
Bladen, Edward Romine, San Diego Lodge No. 35...................... March 15, 1897
Bonner, Fred J., Perris Lodge No. 411.......................·-·············-···December 20. 1899
Bowen, Fred C., Keith Lodge No. 187............................_.:.._....-April 13, 1900
Bowman, Lemuel Owen, Upland Lodge No. 419........................ September 20, 1899
Briggs, James Richard, Buckeye Lodge No. 195.......- ..................... March 20, 1900
Brilliant, Benjamin A .• Wilmington Lodge No. 198...................... September 6, 1897
Brown, George M., Hollywood Lo~e No. 355............................ May 2, 1898
Brown, Timothy F., Antioch Lodrc, o. 175............................- ...... November 14, 1899
Brown, Wm. Jackson, Stanislaus dge No. 206............................ September 22, 1894
Buhlinger, Wm.. Frederick, Oriental Lodge No. 144......................June 12, 1900
Cannell, Samuel Bartley, California Lodge No. 1.........................-.February 2, 1899
Caves. Chiever Clark, Pomona Lodge No. 246.......- ..................... May 3, 1900
Chaney, William, San Benito Lodge No. 211.................................. August 24, 1900
Close, Otho Sylvester, Citro! Lodge No. 656..·--·----···-··-·--------··--January 18, 1900
Coates, Wm. Henry, Alcatraz Lodge No. 244.-----·---·--··---···---··--June 8, 1899
Collier, Aubrey A .. Silveyville Lodge No. 201.............................. July 7, 1900
Collins, James Kemp, Silver Gate Lodge No. 296..............__________ May 26, 1899
Colton, Louis Arthur, Fidelity Lodge No. 120................. _......... August 16, 1900
Cone, William Smith, So. Pasadena Lodge No. 367.................. December 22. 1899
Cookson, Frank Spencer, Apollo Lodge No. 396.......................... August 30, 1899
Coombs, Walter Roland, Honolulu Lodge No. 409........................ March 23, 1900
Cooper, Aaron. Howard Lodge No. 37..............- ............................May 11, 1900
Copley, Geo. Hollister, Eureka Lodge No. 16.........................- ....... December 31. 1899
Crothers, George Edward, California Lodge No. 1...................... June 26, 1899
Crothers, Thomas Graham, California Lodge No. 1..............- ..June 26, 1899
Cytron, Jacob, Long Beach Lodge No. 327..........._......................... April 9. 1900
Daly, Chas. Elmer, Pacific Lodge No. 136....................................January 20, 1900
Davis, James P., San Benito Lodge No. 211 .•..·-······--··-··-May 19, 1900

DATE OF RAISING

Dean, Wm. Henry. Franklin Lodge No. 143............................._.May 26, 1900
DeFerrari, Fred. Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219...................... 1898
Dieves, Joseph August, Alcatraz Lodge No. 244............................ September 20, 1899
Dillman. George Paul, Occidental Lodge No. 22.......................... March 19, 1900
Dupln, Fielding Jones, Whittier Lodge No. 323............................ September 19, 1896
Earle, Fred A.. San Benito Lodge No. 211 ....................................June 26, 1900
Eifler, Louis Edward, Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319........................ May 22, 1899
Rtchepare, Gaston Joseph, East Gate Lodge No. 290.................... April 22, 1900
Fischer, Otto Henry, Oak Grove Lod11e No. 215.......................... December 6, 1898
Folwell, John Turner, York Lodge No. 423................................ March 5, 1900
Forbes, Wm. Henry, California Lodge No. 1.............................. March 30, 1899
Franklin, Edward Joseph, So. California Lodge No. 278.............. July 25, 1900
Frazier, Chas. Russell, Honolulu Lodge No. 409.......................... July 31, 1900
French, Fred W., San Bernardino Lodge No. 3i8...................... March 4, 1896
Fuller, Samuel N., Fullerton Lodge No. 339.................................. 0ctober 21, 1889
Fulmor, Alexander Chope, Evergreen Lodge No. 259..................July 8, 1899
Genereaux, Emile Cezalis, Sr.. California Lodge No. l................ August ll, 1898
Giffen, Gordon Culbertson, Dinuba Lodge No. 385........................ May 19, 1900
Gilbert, Ernest Joseph, Mission Lodge No. 169............_................ August 22, 1900
Gill, T. Edwin, Wilshire Lodge No. 445.......................................... April 19, 1897
Gist, James B., P.G.M., Pentalpha Lodge No. 202........................ 0ctober 17, 1899
Gladney, Joe F., Redlands Lodge No. 300..................•..................... February 9, 1900
Goodcell, Roscoe, San Bernardino Lodge No. 348...................... September 5, 1899
Goodhue, James William, Pentalpha Lodge No. 202---··-·-·---·--··--·June 19, 1900
Green, Beckman Boyd, Franklin Lodge No. 143............................ June 23, 1900
Green, George Matthew, Inglewood Lodge No. 421...................... June 12, 1900
Greene, Geor{V Albert, Franklin Lodge No. 143·--·--···--····-·····-··-·-·June 23, 1900
Gregg, Fred .. Covenant Lodge No. 527...................................... November 22, 1894
Haas, Charles E., Hollywood Lodge No. 355................................ 0ctober 28, 1899
Hamrick, Porter Stillwell, Cansuelo Lodge No. 325...................... May 9, 1891
Hanlon, John, Magnolia Lodge No. 242.......................•............•... 0ctober 27, 1899
Hasman, Joseph Louis, Yosemite Lodge No. 99..........•.....·-·····-··0ctober 7, 1899
Hawkins, George A., Reedley Lod~ No. 304.............................. November 27, 1897
Haydock, Richard Barritt, Oxnard odge No. 3i1......................January 21, 1899
Head, Horace Caldwell, Santa Ana Lodge No. 241.................. July 2, 1900
Helfer, Howard Tayler, Live Oak Lodge No. 61........................ 0ctober 27, 1899
Henderson, Lubin J., Barstow Lodge No. 682...........- ................... September 28, 1899
Hensel, Otto, Cahuenga Lodge No. 513........................................January 15, 1900
Hensen, Theodore D., Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389.................... March 23, 1899
Hepler, Lewis, Summit Lodge No. 112.......................................... April 30, 1900
Herbert, Jesse Ernest, Evergreen Lodge No. 259...............·-···-···May 4. 1900
Herron, Fred Erwin, So. California Lodge No. 278.................... February 3, 1900
Hertel. Julius C., South Gate Lodge No. 320.................................. September 8, 1900
Heuer; George Frederick, California Lodge No. 1.....•..............July 6, 1899
Hickei, Oscar Herbert, California Lodge No. l............................ April 6, 1899
Hoffman, Melville Gustave, Fidelity Lodge No. 120.................... August 9, 1900
Holt, Wm. Franklin, El Centro Lodge No. 384......................- .... January 16, 1886
Howard, Chas. Benjamin, Snow Mountain Lodge No. 271............ March 25, 1899
Hubbard, Hubert Sylvester, Highland Park Lodge No. 382........ March 28, 1900
Hughes, Harley, Norwalk Lodge No. 315...................................... August 11, 1900
Humphrey, Jacob B., Sierra Valley Lodge No. 184.•...................... January 4, 1900
Izant, Bertram Howard, Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38...................... December 2, 1899
Izant, Wm. Caleb, Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38......•...•.............•..•June 25, 1900
Jackson, Chas. Edward, Pacific Lodge No. 136.....•..........·-·······-July 10, 1900
James, Edwin Thomas, Table Mountain Lodge No. 124................June 4, 1898
Johnson, Joseph, Arcata Lodge No. 106.......................................... September 17, 1900
Johnson, Willis Ernest, Mount Olive Lodge No. 506.................. November 14. 1899
Jones, Osgood Keener, Mission Lodge No. 169.......•..................- .. March 31, 1900
Jones, Richard Clarence, Marin Lodge No. 19L.·-··-······-···-···June 20, 1900

72

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

73

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
NAME AND LODGE

DATE OP RAISING

Keesling, Francis Valentine, P.G.M. California Lodge No. L ... September 27, 1900
Kelley, Chas. S., Upland Lodge No. 419........................................ March 24, 1900
Kennedy, Chas. Clark, Mc.Kinley Lodge No. 347........................ September 15, 1897
Keyston, Samuel Albert, Mission Lodge No. 169.......................... Match 15, 1899
Koch, Carl, Union Lodge No. 58...........................- ......................... April 25, 1900
Kohler, Theodore Albert, Madison Lodge No. 23.......................... August 11, 1900
Krafft, Justus, West Gate Lodge No. 335........................................ September 28, 1899
Lace, Thomas Joshua, Pacilk Lodge No. 136.................................. 0ctober 10, 1899
Lakamp, Frank, Clay Lodge No, 101.............................................. April 28, 1900
Lamb, Harvey Wilson, S. W. Hackett Lodge No. 574.............. September 8, 1899
Lang, George August, Hartley Lodg~ No. 199.............................. December 16, 1899
Long, Albert Vance, Alcatraz Lodge No. 244.............................. April 12, 1900
Lynden, John Ross, Charity Lodge No. 362.................................... September 19, 1899
McGuinness, Thomas, Solano Lodge No. 229..................................July 7, 1900
McKee, Robert, Fullerton Lodge No. 339....................................... May 5, 1887
McKenzie, Eimer Ellsworth, Oriental Lodge No. 144.................. January 16, 1900
McKenzie, Joseph H., Alcatraz Lodge No. 244.............................. January 8, 1900
McQulg, Alexander May, Ophir Lodge No. 33.............................. February 15, 1900
McV!cker, Wm. Leitch, Reseda Lodge No. 666.......................... November 14, 1895
Maynard, Horton Dunbar, Oak Grove Lodge No. 215.................. July 11. 1900
Mentz, John Henry. Pacific Lodge No. 136.................................. May 29, 1900
Miller, Thurlow Sprague, Occidental Lodge No. 22...................... May 26, 1900
Moir, Harry Sanders, Chico Lodge No. 11L.................................. April14, 1900
Monckton, Frank Daniel, King Solomon's Lodge No. 260............ July 17, 1899
Moore, Frederick Wm., Delta Lodge No. 471................................ March 14, 1900
Morgan, Thomas Elisha, Golden State Lodge No. 358.................. August 24, 1896
Morrow, Robt. Ewing, Bakersfield Lodge No. 224........................ November24, 1898
Mulford, Oscar James, Sunset Lodge No. 352................................ June 18, 1900
Myers, L. D., Arbuckle Lodge No. 182............................................ November 11. 1899
Neely, Arthur Weber, le Progres de l'Oceanle Lodge No. 371....July 20, 1900
Nelson, Albert, King David's Lodge No. 209.................................. March 21, 1900
Newbauer, Sanford R., West Gate Lodge No. 335........................ September 28, 1899
Newberry, Frank John, Sunset Lodge No. 352................................ March 8, 1895
Nuttall, William, Charter Rock Lodge No. 410.............................. November 4, 1899
Olson, John, Mission Lodge No. 169................................................ July 26, 1899
O'Neill, Owen Hugh, Santa Barbara Lodge No. 192.................... September H, 1899
Osborn, John B., San Diego Lodge No. 35...................................... August 20, 1900
Otte, Louis Edward, Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625........................ December 2, 1899
Ouer, Frederick Frank, California Lodge No. 1..............................July 27, 1899
Palmateer, Theron J., Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57............................ June 15, 1900
Patterson, Alexander Maxwell, La Fayette Lodge No. 126.......... August l, 1900
Pearce, George H., San Joaquin Lodge No. 19.............................. August 21. 1899
Peart, Homes Lester, Grafton Lodge No. 141................................ February 17, 1900
Peck, Ferdinand John, California Lodge No. !................................ January 26, 1899
Petersen, Gustav Herman Christian, Golden Gate Lodge No. 30.. April 10, 1900
Petrie, Brod Franklin, San Gabriel Lodge No. 546........................ March 22, 1898
Phillips, Wm. Francis. Rising Light Lodge No. 397........................ 1898
Piper, Harry Edwin, Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38............................ June 22, 1900
Powell, John Milton, Wilmington Lodge No. 198.......................... 0ctober 20, 1899
Prout, Willis, Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389.................................. February 23, 1897
Puckhaber, Chas. Richard, Oriental Lodge No. 144...................... January 16, 1900
Putnam, Fred Barnes, El Centro Lodge No. 384........................ February 21, 1900
Radke, Richard Lawrence, Oriental Lodge No. 144................._ .. l 899
Rasmussen, James Christian, Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38................May 1. 1900
Rathbun, Mirrett Dempsy, Northern Light Lodge No. 190.......... February 14, 1900
Redfield, Myron Benjimln, Santa Monica Lodge No. 307.............. April 27, 1900
Redisch, Chas. Morris, Granada Lodge No. 608............................ 0ctober 10, 1899
Reed, Frank, Santa Paula Lodge No. 291...................................... 1899

NAME AND LODGE

DATE OP RAISING

Reese, Amos P., Woodbridge Lodge No. 131.................................. January 2, 1900
Reeves, John Benjamin, Golden State Lodge No. 358.................... April 5, 1898
Reid, Eugene Hamar, East Belt Lodge No. 391.............................. June 17, 1899
Remensperger, Wm. Alexander, Oriental Lodge No. 144............ December, 1899
Reynolds, Sherman Allyn, Chico Lodge No. 111..........................June 9, 1900
Richards, Chas. Edwin, Henry Clay Lodge No. 95........................ June 6, 1900
Rieu, Edmond Augustus Lar, Park Boulevard Lodge No. 568...... July 23, 1900
Rob!nson, ls<i:ac Newton, Morning Star Lodge No. 68.................. January 8, 1900
Robmson, Leighton Chas. Powell, Oriental Lodge No. 144.......... September 26, 1899
Roblin, Frederick Albert, Tehama Lodge No. 3.............................. July 30, 1900
Rose, Anderson Dickerson, Searchlight Lodge No. 567................ September 10, 1890
~oss, Horace Potter, Live Oak Lodge No. 61................................ September 8, 1899
Roth, Eugene HenM, West Gate Lodge No. 335............................ July 10, 1899
Rowland, Calvin ., Santa Ana Lodge No. 241.......................... June 1. 1899
Rucker. Edward, Buckeye Lod~ No. 195...................................... 1899
uley, Guy Fairfax, Alcatraz dge No. 244................................ May 17, 1900
Russell, Roderick Dave, Mendocino Lodge No. 179...................... March 11. 1900
~uston, ixnest S., Palestine Lodge No. 351.................................... June 12, 1900
uxton, lexander, Mission Lodge No. 169.................................. February l, 1897
Sackett, Louis Arthur, Buckeye Lodge No. 195.............................. December 16, 1899
Sagehorn, George Theodore, Live Oak Lodge No. 61.................. September 29, 1899
Salow, Chas. F., Fremont Lodge No. 497........................................ September 12, 1899
~chaffd, Chas. Lemuel, Tuscan Lodge No. 261.............................. May 25, 1900
chi , Solomon, West Gate Lodge No. 335.................................... May 30, 1899
Schilling, Frank Chas. Sunset Lodge No. 352................................December 31. 1892
Schlueter, Otis Wm., Curtis Lodge No. 140.................................. March 11. 1899
~c~neider, Wm. Chas., Pasadena Lodge No. 272.......................... July 19, 1897
c rader, Edwin Wm., Mission Lodge No. 169............................ July 1, 1899
Scott, Thomas Blake, Stanislaus Lodge No. 206............................ August 18, 1899 ·
Sedgwick, Thomas Farrington, Honolulu Lodge No. 409..:........... September 10, 1900
Selby, Edward Milton, San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214............ May 12, 1900
Sellick, Wm. Jennings, Molino Lodge No. 150................................ August 4, 1900
Sharp, William Fuller, Marin Lodge No. 191................................ March 17, 1900
Shirkey, George Washington Henry, Madison Lodge No. 23...... August 23, 1900
Skinner, Ernest Guy, Fillmore Lodge No. 379................................ February l, 1900
Smith, Andrew, Fairmount Lodge No. 435......................................June 5, 1900
Smith, Frank Leslie, Union Lodge No. 58...................................... June 18, 1898
~mith, Homer, San Joaquin Lodge No. 19...................................... November 15. 1895
S nlvely, Ray Dean, Oxnard Lodge No. 341.................................... 0ctober 21. 1899
nod1e, Jesse E., Alpha Lodge No. 431.......................................... March 13, 1900 .
Snow en, Wm. C., Olivet Lodge No. 205........................................ March 16, 1900
Sowell, Ernest Elmer, Washington Lodge No. 20.......................... March 2, 1900
Spencer, John Foster, Gardena Lodge No. 372.............................. March 12, 1900
Spooner, Wm. Alden, Lodi Lodge No. 256.................................... May 24. 1900
Spreng, Frederick Chas., Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319.................... June 28, 1899
Springer, William, Upland Lodge No. 419...................................... September 19, 1899
Stephens, Frank A., West Gate Lod~e No. 335............................ February 22, 1899
Stevens, Philip, Crescent Lodge No. 5............................................ June 16, 1900
Stewart. Edward Clement, Morning Star Lodge No. 68................ June 8, 1900
Stoll. George Henry, Pentalpha Lodge No. 202..............................January 9, 1900
Strout, Fred Noyes, Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389........................ March 24, 1900
Swenson, Charlie, Alcatraz Lodge No. 244...................................... May 31, 1900
Thomas, Rowley Montague, Keith Lodge No. 187........................ March 10, 1900
f~ompson, Orrin Miller, Fullerton Lodge No. 339........................ November 10, 1899
ThompsGn, Thomas J., Sequoia Lodge No. 349.............................. August I, 1900
T orn, Keo. McKendree, Hornitos Lodge No. 98.......................... May 16, 1899
rlekst, Bari, West Gate Lodge No. 335.......................................... March 23, 1899
T uc er, enjamln Franklin, Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389............ June 4, 1898
Turner, Lewis Horace, Corona Lodge No. 324.............................. November 23, 1899

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

75

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
NAM!! AND LODGI!

DAT!! OF RAISING

Tuthill, Robert G., Santa Ana Lodge No. 241...-.................•........ December 20, 1899
Tuttle, Victor Hugo, Pentalpha Lodge No. 202..·-············-··-·······August 21. 1900
Tyrell, James Chas.• Madison Lodge No. 23..•.•.................·-·······-··June 12, 1900
Uhl, George Adam, Union Lodge No. 58-·············-·····-··············November 15, 1899
Uren, Thomas Henry, Silveyville Lodge No. 201.......................... January 13, 1900
Vega Frank Abraham, Golden Gate Lodge No. 30...................... March 15, 1900
Wag~er, Frank B., Forbestown Lo<lge No. 50·-····--·········--············July 7, 1900
Wagner James Holliday, Selma Lodge No. 277............................ April 21, 1900
Waterm~. Wm. Max, Oxnard Lodge No. 341.............................. November 19, 1898
Watson, Frank H., Emanuel Lodge No. 318.................................. November 27, 1899
Welnshenk, Charles, Fidelity Lodge No. 120.......................-.........July 26, 1900
West, Joseph Daniel, Mission Lodge No. 169................................ April 21. 1900
Wetterauer, Andrew Peter Joseph, So. Calif. Lodge No. 278........ June 9, 1900
White, Willis Washington, Oakland Lodge No. 188.................... May 12, 1900
Williams, James Simpson, Welcome Lodge No. 255.....- ............... July 1. 1897
Williams, Joseph Edward, Madison Lodge No. 23........................ August 8, 1900
Woodman, Harry Edward, Parnassus Lodge No. 388.................. November29, 1898
Woodward, John Ward, Ocean Park Lodge No. 369.................... April 18. 1900
Wooller., William Willard, Garvanza Lodge No. 492.................. September 27, 1900
Worrel, Edward Carter, Antioch Lodge No. 175.......................... 0ctober 30. 1897
Youngken, Ben Noble, Santa Paula Lodge No. 291........................ December 7, 1899
Zillmer, 1\dolph Louis Wm., Golden West Lodge No. 455............ August I. 1900
Zumwalt, Don John, Liberty Lodge No. 299......•.....·-·····-·······-January 13, 1900

Respectfully submitted,

REPORT OF THE GRAND LECTURER
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge,
Free and Accepted Masons of California:
The Centennial Year of this Grand Jurisdiction is rapidly drawing
to a close, and with it comes to me a deep sense of appreciation for the
privilege of having served during this memorable year as your Grand
Lecturer. One hundred years of real progress have passed into history.
During this time our fraternity has prospered and has enjoyed a remarkable growth in membership. The over-all picture is one of glorious
achievement. May the future of Masonry in California continue to rest
In capable hands, such as those which have been responsible for the
eminent position Masonry has attained.
RITUAL COMMITTEE MEETINGS

Our ritualistic activities during the year have been accompanied by
an unusual number of Grand Lodge functions. Institutions and Constitutions of new Lodges, Cornerstone Layings and Dedications of Halls
have added to the activities of the members of your Ritual Committee.
It was my pleasure and privilege to be present and participate in many
of the ceremonies performed by Grand Lodge and I was impressed on
these occasions by the attendance and enthusiasm manifested by the
brethren;
The Ritual Committee has met twice this year and on each occasion
the esoteric work of the three degrees was completely and thoroughly
reviewed. It is noteworthy to mention, in passing, that the Assistant
Grand Lecturers and myself are in complete accord, not only with
respect to the wording, but also to the mechanics of the ritual.
SPRING SCHOOLS OF INSTRUCTION

The Assistant Grand Lecturers have held Spring Conferences for
their Inspectors as follows:
Division A-June 9, 10 and 11, at Lake Tahoe, conducted by Assistant Grand Lecturer Mervyn E. Hanshaw.
Division B-May 5, 6 and 7, at Guerneville, conducted by Assistant
Grand Lecturer Elbert W. Davis,
Division C-June 3 and 4. at Bass Lake, conducted by Assistant
Grand Lecturer Obed W. Carr.
Division D-May 12, 13 and 14, at Rancho Santa Fe, conducted by
Assistant Grand Lecturer Frank Harwell, Jr.
At each of these conferences all of the work of the three degrees of
Masonry, including Candidate's Lectures, was exemplified by the Inspectors, and they deserve to be commended for their proficiency. It
was my pleasure to be present at three of the four conference meetings,
and the enthusiasm shown by all in attendance would seem to indicate

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

that the continuance of these meetings is highly desirable. The Assistant Grand Lecturers are to be complimented on the results of their
labors.

Assistant Grand Lecturer, who was responsible for the assignment of
the several stations, I desire to express my sincere appreciation.
I dee~ly appreciate the many courtesies extended to me by my
brethren m my travels throughout the jurisdiction. They have at all
times been most co-operative and helpful and their self-sacrificing devotion to Masonry in general has been an inspiration to me.

76

CONDITION OF LODGES

Reports were received from all but three of the 137 Inspectors in our
jurisdiction. These reports show the Lodges to be in a generally good
condition. District Officers' Associations are functioning in all but a
very few Districts and in these few they may be considered impracticable
because of great distances separating the Lodges comprising the District. The Lodges are officered predominantly by capable 'men who are
thoroughly interested in their work, and although the number of applications for the degrees of Masonry has diminished by comparison with
recent years, yet there is sufficient work in most Lodges to maintain a
good standard of ritualistic proficiency.
In Division A, Brother Mervyn E. Hanshaw, Assistant Grand Lecturer, recently covered the extreme northern part of his territory, holding
individual Schools of Instruction in the towns of Beckwourth, Quincy,
Susanville, Alturas, Dunsmuir and Oroville. He traveled over one thousand miles on this journey, and reports that he was pleased with the
interest shown by the officers of the Lodges. He also reports the work
as good.
OFFICERS' COACHES

In many Districts where the Inspectors have given attention to the
appointment and training of capable and enthusiastic Officers' Coaches
to assist them in the teaching of the ritual. they have been rewarded
with a higher degree of achievement.
NEW INSPECTORIAL DISTRICTS

The Grand Master this year has designated the addition of several
new Districts, particularly in the southern part of the State, thus reducing size of Districts where it was evident that the number of Lodges
involved was proving to be too great a task for the Inspector. The addition of these new Districts and the appointment of additional Inspectors
makes it necessary to request a larger appropriation by this Grand Lodge
than was allowed at the 1949 Communication. I therefore recommend
that the sum of $8500.00 be set aside for the expenses of the Ritual
Committee and the Inspectors throughout the State during the coming
year.
One of the outstanding events during my year as Grand Lecturer,
and incidentally one that has been a source of gratification to me was the
Initiation, Passing and Raising of my two sons, Bertram Carl and Arthur
Walter, through the degrees of Masonry in my own Lodge. I had the
very great pleasure of being assisted in the conferring of the three
degrees by Grand Lodge Officers and Inspectors of the various Bay
Area Districts. To them, and in particular to Brother Elbert W. Davis,

77

CONCLUSION

I desire, in closing, to acknowledge my appreciation to Brother
Lloyd E. Wilson, Grand Secretary, Brother Henry D. Oliphant, Assistant Grand Secretary, and Brother Arthur M. Warren, Junior Grand
Warden, for their helpfulness to me, and to the Assistant Grand Lecturers and Inspectors for their splendid co-operation.
I am grateful. also, to the brethren of this Grand Lodge for having
given me the privilege to serve.
Respectfully submitted,
WALTER

Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Finance.

H. E. voN KoNSKY,

Grand Lecturer.

78

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

THE UNFINISHED TEMPLE

J. EVERETT HousER, Grand Orator
Most Worshipful, Honored Past Grand Masters, Members of Grand
Lodge. Distinguished Visitors and Brethren:
There is a saying that exceptional times produce exceptional leaders.
It has held true in the history of the United States and I submit it has
come true in the Grand Lodge of California this year. Call it luck if you
will, I prefer to call it providential. that in this important Centennial
year, an event which occurs once in one hundred years. we have as our
leader a Grand Master such as you meet once in one hundred times.
The Most Worshipful Ellsworth Meyer, by his gifted leadership, engaging person'ality, sparkling eloquence, and far-sighted planning. has
assured the success of this Communication and has represented us with
distinction before the world.
OuR RECORD

California has often been accused of doting on superlatives. They
say we love to brag about having the highest mountain, the lowest valley,
the biggest or the most of various things. Even our Grand Lodge has
not been exempt from this influence, which, perhaps, is traceable to the
progressive and ambitious character of our people. Our Annual Communication has been pointed out as the longest Grand Communication
held anywhere, noted for the number in attendance, the amount of business transacted, the quality of what is said, and, here is something you
can really appreciate, the length of the committee reports.
Proud as our record is, our Grand Lodge has outdone herself this
year. This historic meeting place, the record attendance, the splendid
program which has been provided, and the number and distinction of
our visitors mark this as a Communication which will always be remembered by those in attendance, a proud milestone in our history.
" THE UNFINISHED TEMPLE"

I have chosen as my subject today, " The Unfinished Temple." In
considering this subject, I want you to abstract your mind from your
immediate concerns and discomforts and go with me for the short thirty
minutes allotted to me. I will take you to a high mountain from which
you can glimpse the world and all things therein contained.
For, today. we are standing on a mountain peak of history. Behind
us lies the glorious record of our Fraternity, one hundred years of Grand
Lodge Masonry in California alone. This magic year of 1950 also marks
the one hundredth anniversary of the admission of California to the
Union. It also marks the mid-point of the twentieth century; the sands
of this century have half run out .. Midway. it is time to take stock. In
what's new, there is always a backward glance: in what's old, there is

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

79

cslways a window into the future. At the turn of the half-century, yesterday and tomorrow arch into the perfect circle.
There is no one among us who witnessed the founding of this Grand
Lodge. There are a good many who witnessed the turn of the century
and who will remember how the years of the twentieth century stretched
ahead, seeming endless. Yet, here we are half through. I hope and pray
that there are a great many within the sound of my voice at this moment
who will be able to attend the sesquicentennial of this Grand Lodge in
the year 2000 and that they will find that Masons have met the challenge,
have overcome the perils which threaten us and that Masonry remains
the most powerful. fraternal influence for good in the world.
THE UNITED STATES

The story has often been told of the influence of Masons and
Masonry on the founding of the United States, and the striking parallel
has been pointed out between the principles of the Constitution of the
United States and the principles of Freemasonry. These stirring words
of Thomas Jefferson in the Declaration of Independence sound almost
like a Masonic address: "We hold these truths to 'b e self-evident, that
all men are created equal. that they are endowed by their Creator with
certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty and the
pursuit of happiness." Thirty-one of the fifty-six signers of the Declaration of Independence were Masons, Brother John Hancock being the
first to sign. with a bold hand, so, as he said, King George III would
have no difficulty in reading his name.
Of the thirty-nine men who later signed the Constitution at the
Constitutional Convention, twenty-three were Masons.
Brother George Washington was sworn in as first president of the
United States while still Master of his Masonic lodge.
To us, the words "freedom," "liberty.'' "justice," and "Freemasonry"
have a similar import. Freemasonry flourishes where men are free and
languishes where they are oppressed. It is therefore no wonder that so
many men prominent in the service of our country are also Masons. A
recent survey shows that thirty-seven of the eighty-nine justices of the
Supreme Court have been Masons, seventeen of the fifty-two Secretaries
of State, and thirteen of the thirty-two Presidents of the United States,
including Brother Harry S. Truman, Past Grand Master of the Jurisdiction of Missouri.
CALIFORNIA

Turning from the national scene, I want you next to view in retrospect the one hundred year history of California as a state.
In the fifteenth century, Ordonnes de Montalvo, a Spanish author,
in a work of fiction, introduced the name "California" and described
it as " a land of gold, at the right hand of the Indies. close to the terres-

80

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

trial Paradise." Thereafter, this fictional name of "California" came to
be applied to the territory which constitutes our present state, but it
remained practically unknown until the exciting gold rush of 1849.
Population then leaped from 7,000 to 85,000. In the days of '49, life
in the mining camps was rugged. Tents and rude cabins provided the
typical shelter. Provisions were few and meager in supply. There were
no railroads. Travel to California was by the Isthmus of Panama,
around the Horn, or across the plains, the latter a six months journey,
the travelers beset with sickness. fatigue, the attacks of marauding
Indians and the utmost hardship. It has been aptly said, "Only the
courageous started, the weak never arrived."
One hundred years ago, life in California had its sunshine and its
shadows but through it all runs the indomitable spirit of the pioneers,
the builders of the West. On September 9, 1850, President Millard
Fillmore signed the bill admitting California to the Union, a goal for
which the pioneers had worked diligently and thus the fiction of the
fifteenth century became the reality of the nineteenth and California
entered upon a century of progress to fulfill her destiny as "a land of
gold, near the terrestrial Paradise."
It is interesting to note that nine Masons, among them Brother
Robert Semple, the chairman, participated in the writing of the State
Constitution, and that eighteen of the thirty-two Governors of California
have been Masons, two of them having also served this Grand Lodge
as Grand Master, including our distinguished Past Grand Master and
present Governor, the Most Worshipful Earl Warren.
THE GRAND LODGE

A pioneer band of forty or fifty Masons brought about the formation of the Grand Lodge of California on April 19, 1850, at the City of
Sacramento, many months before the State was admitted to the Union.
It may be fairly said that our first Grand Master, the Most Worshipful
Jonathan D. Stevenson, was the father of Masonry in California. Credit
is also due the original three lodges which formed the Grand Lodge. To
this day they have retained their original enthusiasm and zeal. They
are: California No. 1 at San Francisco, formerly California No. 13
chartered by the Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia, Western
Star No. 2 at Shasta, formerly Western Star No. 98 chartered by the
Grand Lodge of Missouri, and Tehama No. 3 at Sacramento, formerly
Connecticut No. 75 chartered by the Grand Lodge of Connecticut.
Although the Grand Lodge of California was thirty-second in point
of time, it now ranks fifth in size in the United States.
Compare this with a recapitulation printed by our own Grand Lodge
in 1852, proudly claiming twenty-three lodges and a total membership
in the State of only 655.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

81

THE LAST TEN YEARS

Let us consider for a moment what has happened to California in
the last ten years. In that comparatively short space of time our State
has absorbed over three and one-half million new residents, as many
people as live in the entire state of Virginia, or Wisconsin, or as lived
in California itself at the time of the first World War. Thus the state
has reached a total population in excess of ten million, more people than
there are in all of New England.
If California continues to expand at what experts call the law of
growth, it will reach a population of twenty million within the next two
or three decades.
I can well remember when our Chambers of Commerce believed in
attracting migrants. Now the initiative has changed hands. It is the
migrants who are planning on coming to California, not California which
ls planning to receive them.
IMPORTANCE TO THE FRATERNITY

These amazing facts and figures on the growth of California are of
vital importance to our Fraternity in planning for future expansion, redistricting, locating, and designing lodge temples and designing the
Grand Lodge edifice, itself.
There is obviously a lag between the growth of population generally
and the growth of our Fraternity. Between 1940 and 1950 the state
population increased about fifty per cent. In the same period of time,
we gained twenty new lodges, while if our gain had been in proportion
to the growth of population, we would have added over 200 new lodges.
One explanation for this is that many Masons moving to California
have failed to demit, retaining their membership in the state of their
former residence. Our Grand Master has taken wise steps this year to
meet this phase of the problem. Another reason is that Masons demitting
to California usually join old lodges rather than to start new ones.
Another and more important reason is that the newcomers to California
are comparatively young. They do not represent a cross-section of the
American population, but a selection. They are young people, active,
In their best working years, forty-five per cent of them between the ages
of fifteen and thirty-four.
The full impact of our increased population will be felt by the
Fraternity in the years ahead, when the present youngsters grow up and
want to be "made a Mason."
I confidently predict, in the light of present trends, that within the
next fifty years, we will have twice as many lodges and a membership
of over half a million, and that we are some day destined to become the
largest Grand Jurisdiction in the world.
Now you can understand why I have chosen for my subject, "The
Unfinished Temple." It is not a time to sit down and gloat with com-

82

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

placence over the accomplishments of the past, superb as they are. It is
rather a time to realize that we are mid-way in the stream, that the
temple is only half-completed, that vigorous, devoted, far-sighted labor
is required to prepare for the flood of candidates who soon will be knocking at the door of Freemasonry.
THE GLOOMY SIDE

The rosy picture I have painted of the future also has its gloomy side.
We live in an age of stress, disturbance and change. At this very
moment, men are gathered in the four corners of the world, discussing
matters of policy and state, but with little hope of universal accord.
Man has created light and heat, art and music unsurpassed, science
beyond the imagination, great systems of education, yet he has failed
his Creator, he has failed to obey the commandment of the Holy Script,
he has failed to create peace.
COMMUNISM

In this Centennial year of 1950, the chief barrier to world peace is
the struggle with Communism. This is true because Communism and
democracy are utterly irreconcilable. In this struggle, the principles of
Masonry concur with and support those of democracy and oppose those
of communism. Masonry flourishes under liberty and freedom. Masonry,
and the church, are driven underground in the communist-controlled
countries. So the conflict with communism and other ideologies will
continue indefinitely. Brethren, the sad and bitter truth is, that unless
foreign ideologies can be overcome and replaced with an abiding belief ·
in the universal broth_erhood of man, as inculcated in Masonry, there
will be no peace in our time.
100 YEARS HENCE
One hundred years from now, China will be more powerful than
·Russia. China only awaits development of her vast manpower, industry
and commerce. Anglo-Saxon leadership appears at times to be diminishing, and with it the love of liberty. Now the cry is for security.
Today, we hear the slogan in England, "Security from the cradle to the
grave." Our Colonial forefathers, fiercely individualistic, had a different
motto, "Beaten paths are for beaten men."
THE KEY

We have progressed materially but not in morals, objectives, ideals.
Man, conqueror of time and space and matter has failed in the conquest
of man, himself.
The key to this tumultuous century is in the rate of change. More
has happened to change the face of this planet and to alter the lives of
those who live on it than in all of modern history. We have seen adopted one breath-taking change after another, almost overnight. There
has been a revolution in every department of life.

83

The conquest of disease, until recently accepted by man as part of
a miserable destiny, has been pushed to fantastic lengths.
The human life span has been increased more in fifty years than in
·
the preceding two thousand years.
The productivity of grain and animals has been doubled and then
doubled again.
The ancients dreamed of flying , but only in this century have men
actually flown in heavier than air machines.
Radar makes visible the invisible.
We are scarcely adjusted to the wonders of radio before television
crowds it out. ·
In our time, science has isolated and split the atom, releasing boundless energy, a result which, like the pavement in King Soloman's temple
is checkered with good and evil.
Man-made objects are envisioned to float in space, beyond the pull
of gravity.
Rockets to reach other planets are now within the realm of possibility.
WAR

What a sad commentary on man's moral nature, that new inventions
and discoveries are first turned toward destructive ends. Poison gas
was thought the ultimate until the destructive power of the atom bomb
was demonstrated. Scientists argue that germ warfare is even more
potent. Dr~ Brock Chisholm, World Health Organization Director
General. declared publicly last year, "Mankind can be wiped out with
seven ounces of a known biologic if spread widely enough." The newest
development is the hydrogen bomb, said to be at least a thousand times
more destructive than the atom bomb.
FAITH

Terrifying indeed are the prospects. How can there be peace when
there is no peace? How can man face the future of these· dark and
forbidding times? There is a limit to human strength and wisdom but
let us remember, Brethren, that when they falter, divine assistance is
vouchsafed us from above. It is a time for increased faith and reliance
on the Great Architect of the Universe. William Cowper had that faith
when he wrote:
"God moves in a mysterious way
His wonders to perform:
He plants his footsteps in the sea,
And rides upon the storm."

8.4

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIPORNIA

85

Goo's EcoNOMY

LIGHTHOUSES OP MASONRY

We speak with awe of this being our Centennial year. What is a
hundred years in God's economy? The Good Book tells us that one
day is with the Lord as a thousand years and a thousand years as one
day.
Word comes from an American astronomical observatory that they
are studying a newly-discovered solar system in the far reaches of the
heavens, compared to which our own, with all the stars in the Milky
Way. is but a tiny pygmy. Th~ nearest star in this new cluster is measured as being sixty million light years distant, and a single light year
is a matter of six trillion miles.
"The heavens declare the glory of God and the firmament showeth
his handiwork.'

What are the lighthouses of Masonry? What are the guiding
lights by which we can steer our individual lives over this tempestuous
sea of troubles to find anchor in a peaceful harbor "where the wicked
cease from troubling and the weary shall find rest?"
For the answer, I turn to the rich archives of Masonic literature
and select five propositions which, it seems to me, express the fundamental interpretation of Masonic teaching. Let the tumult and the
shouting rage; they stand serene and untroubled. T hey are as enduring
as the living granite of the Sierra Nevadas, as comforting as your
mother's arms:
( 1 ) There is one God, the Father of all men.
( 2) The volume of the Sacred Law is the great light in Masonry,
the rule and guide of our faith.
( 3 ) Man• s soul is immortal.
( 4) Character determines destiny.
( 5) Love of man is, next to love of God, man's first duty.
Lay hold of these eternal truths, plot your course by their dictates,
and all difficulties will be overcome.

"What is man that Thou are mindful of him or the son of man that
Thou visitest him?"
THE LODGE

In Freemasonry we have a constant reminder that " God's in his
heavens. all's well with the world." You have sat, as I have sat, after
the day's work is over, within the peaceful walls of a Masonic lodge,
and as you have seen the work of the degrees unfold, you have felt the
nearness and reality of the Supreme Being. There is a sense of beauty.
order and harmony there that the profane cannot comprehend. The
moral force of Masonry is what the world needs to find the way out of
the morass of selfishness and greed.
If the three hundred Masons in the United States when this country
came into being could help create the most ideal form of government
which this world has yet seen, cannot today's three and one-half million
Masons save it?
When we hear dark forebodings of the eventual total destruction of
civilization, let us reflect, with faith, that this is God's world. his handiwork, and that He will not permit his handiwork to be destroyed by
any man or group of men, whether they are in the Kremlin, or elsewhere.
LIFE TODAY

Life today is like a storm at sea. The night is dark and stormy.
Mountainous waves buffet a lonely vessel. The wind lashes the foam
into the faces of the anxious mariners as they peer through the gloom,
searching. searching for some familiar landmark. At length, a glad cry
of joy is heard above the roar of wind and wave, "a light, a light."
Hope gives new strength to weary bodies, and a few minutes more
confirms their approach to a well-known lighthouse. Their position
is plotted, they swing into course along a sheltering shore . and soon
another lighthouse guides them past a rocky headland, and another
and another until they reach the shelter of a peaceful harbor.

CONCLUSION

In conclusion, Brethren, I want to leave this thought with you:
faith and hope are the touchstones of Masonry. They have guided
our Grand Lodge through the first hundred years of its existence:
they will safely guide us in bringing toward completion, the, as yet,
unfinished temple.
You Masons of faith and hope are the salt of the earth. You are
the leaders of your country. You are the hope of the world. Lead on,
Brethren, lead on.
The Grand Master directed the Grand Secretary to secure the manuscript of the oration from the Grand Orator and to have a sufficient
number of copies thereof printed and distributed to the Lodges.

86

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND
GENERAL PURPOSES
Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges
Past Grand Master Hervey made a partial report for the Committee
on Policy and General Purposes.
Your Committee has had under consideration the various applications for recognition of foreign Grand Lodges and it is prepared at this
time to report as to the following:

Grand Lodge of Greece
The Grand Lodge of Greece was originally formed in 1868 and since
that time has been working on the principles of the ancient rules of the
Masonic Craft. It is an independent, self-governing organization with
entire, undisputed, dogmatic and administrative authority over the symbolic Lodges within its jurisdiction and is in no sense subject to, or
dividing its authority with, a Supreme Council or other Body claiming
ritualistic or other supervision or control.

It makes Masons of men only, it requires a belief in God and the
immortality of the soul. secrecy, the sym'bolism of operative Masonry,
the division of symbolic Lodges into three degrees,-the Entered Apprentice, Fellow Craft and Master Mason-and the legend of the Third
Degree: and its dominant purposes are charitable, benevolent, educational and for the worship of God. It excludes controversial political
and sectarian religion from all activity under its auspices. The Sacred
Book of the Divine Law, the compass and square are exposed in the
Lodges while at work.
It has under its obedience 43 subordinate Lodges, of which 17 are
located in Athens, 2 Lodges in Piraeus, 21 in other provinces of Greece
and three Lodges in Egypt. These lodges range in membership from 25
to 125. It is the exclusive Masonic power in Greece.
Constantine Perakis is the Grand Master and Dr. Anthony Romas
is the Grand Secretary and his address is Tektonikon Idryma, 19
Acharnon Street, Athens ( K), Greece.
The heroic Greek people have had a hard and long struggle against
oppression and the Grand Lodge of Greece has thus far survived in
the struggle against the powers of force and slavery. It has been recognized by the Grand Lodges of South Carolina, North Carolina, Colorado, Illinois and Kentucky.
Your Committee recommends that the Grand Lodge of California
recognize the Grand Lodge of Greece.
Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

87

Grand Lodge of Italy
The Grand Lodge of Italy was outlawed and disbanded during the
regime of Mussolini. Our recognition was of no avail during those years
and it is proper for us to survey the field anew in the light of the present
circumstances.
This Grand Lodge of Italy is the only Masonic power in the Republic
of Italy that we are prepared to recognize. After long and difficult work
11ome of the old members of the regular Masonry of Italy-"Serenissima
Gran Logia Nationale Italiana Degli Antichi Liberi Edaccattati Masaoni"-the regular Grand Lodge ·of Masonry so suppressed, have revived twenty-six of the symbolic Lodges that were under the obedience
of the old regular Grand Lodge of Italy. The names and numbers of
these lodges are as follows: Venti Settembre 1970 No. 256, Roma No.
257. Ventiquattro Maggio No. 258, Fratelli Cairoli No. 243, Leonardo
da Vinci No. 244, Napoli No. 245, Giuseppe Mazzini No. 215, Umanita
e Progresso No. 238, Messina Che Srge No. 236, Umanita e Progresso
No. 239, Vittorio Veneta No. 213, Italia Nuova No. 214, Trieste Redenta No. 215, Pitra Quadrata No. 22, Calabria Risorta No. 21, La
Speranza No. 20, Nazionale No. 146, Nazionale No. 356, Stefano Romeo
No. 357, Giorgio Skanderbrch No. 440, Numistrana No. 248, ·F rancesco
de Luca No. 356, Nazionale 193 No. 464, Guiseppe Mazzini No. 156,
Bernardino Telesio No. 203, Vibonensis No. 21.
These Lodges met in emergency, revived the Grand Lodge and elected a full line of officers. It is expected that in the future more of the old
lodges under the Grand Lodge will be revived.
On April 30th, 1949 the Grand Lodge started on its new career, but
small progress was made at first because the new Constitution of the
Republic of Italy stated that it would not permit any secret societies to
exist in the country. After a time the new organization got an expression
from the Governmental authorities as to what was meant ·b y this and
the statement was that the law 11\eant "Such societies as hide their existence, their seats, their ends and are contrary to the common tenets of
moraliy and social order." As soon as this declaration was made the
regular Masons of the regular Grand Body proceeded at once to revitalize the regular symbolic Masonry of Italy.
At a meeting of the Grand Lodge early in December of last year
Vincenzo Francia was elected Grand Master and Doctor Franco Moroli
was continued as Grand Secretary: and the address of the Grand Lodge
is 93 Piazza Canpranica, Rome.
The Grand Lodge of Italy is recognized by the Grand Lodges of
Tennessee, Texas, Kentucky, Kansas, Oklahoma, and perhaps by several other of the United States Grand Jurisdictions.
The Grand Lodge of Italy is not controlled by, or affiliated with, any

89

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

88

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Body that has more than three degrees, viz.: Entered Apprentice, Fellow
Craft and Master Mason, and asserts its adherence to the land marks of
the Craft and Its independence as a regular Masonic Body. Anderson's
Conatltutlona, a belief In Deity, the Blue Lodge legend, the three degrees,
the three great lights are all indispensable in the Grand Lodge and its
subordinates.
Your Committee recommends that the Grand Lodge of Italy be
recognized by the Grand Lodge of California.
Past Master Antonio Cogliandro of Speranza Italiana Lodge No.
219 spoke to the question and proposed an amendment that the Grand
Lodge of California not recognize any Grand Lodge in Italy until such
time as further investigation could be made and reported to Grand
Lodge.
Amendment adopted.
Amended motion adopted.
At 11 :30 A .M. Grand Lodge was called off until 2:00 P .M.

AFTERNOON SESSION-Tuesday, October 10, 1950
At 2:00 P. M. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding.
Bro. Dwight E. Wood, Master of Benecia Lodge No. 5, presided
in the East at the entrance of Grand Lodge Officers.
The Most Worshipful Marvin E. Fowler, Grand Master of Masons
in the District of Columbia, at the invitation of the Grand Master,
favored Grand Lodge with an address.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON COLUMBIA TEMPLE
RESTORATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Columbia Te~ple Restoration begs leave to
submit the following report:
Pursuant to authorization of this Grand Lodge at the last Annual
Communication, the Columbia Masonic Temple was rebuilt on the site
of the original Temple. The cornerstone was laid on December 19,
1949, and the Lodge room was dedicated on April 15, 1950, by the Most
Worshipful Grand Master, Ellsworth Meyer and his corps of Grand
Lodge officers.
In connection with the construction of the Temple, your committee
desires to express its appreciation to Brother Harold M. Engle of Marin
Lodge No. 191 of San Rafael, California, for his voluntary services
free of charge in providing the structural design and supervision of the
building.

The following is a statement of the capital expenditure of the construction of said Temple:
STATEMENT OP CAPITAL EXPENDITURE, COLUMBIA TEMPLE
RESTORATION

Grand Lodge Appropriation ...................... $43,672.00
Grand Master's Appropriation ................ 2,284.20
Total Appropriation 1949-50 .................... 45,956.20
Expenditure 1949-50 .................................. 45,864.29
Balance ........................................................$

91.91

As this committee stated in its report to this Grand Lodge in 1948,
It was its intention to equip the Lodge room with furniture and paraphernalia donated by the old Lodges throughout the State from the
furniture and paraphernalia not used by them. The thought being that
this would aid us in setting up a Lodge Room with the atmosphere of
the fifties.
To that end we sent out 250 letters to the old Lodges and received
encouraging replies, but it soon became apparent that the furniture and
paraphernalia so kindly offered was of so many different kinds, not only
different kinds of wood but of different sizes and in different states of
repair. that to equip the room with this furniture would not be in keeping
with the reconstructed building and would from the standpoint of cost
of rehabilitation, be prohibitive.
The Grand Master suggested that the committee procure some plans
for the manufacture of furniture, including altar, secretary and treasurer's desks, chairs, master and warden's pedestals, etc., made of new
material and in design and appearance of that used by Lodges in the
fifties, thus carrying in the main, our original idea. We have followed
the Grand Master's suggestion and had Bro. Donald Beach Kirby,
architect, draw designs of the necessary furniture and estimated cost of
manufacturing same. The estimated cost amounts to $1,679.00. The
sketches of this furniture are attached hereto and made a part hereof.
Many Lodges have expressed the desire to put on degrees in the
Lodge room, being willing to pay for use of same, but it will be necessary to properly equip it with furniture before it will be available for use.
It is the recommendation of this committee that the incoming Grand
Master appoint a committee of three Master Masons, resident in or
near Columbia, to look after the care, operation, maintenance and use
of said Temple, at all time subject to the direction and supervision of
this committee and the Grand Master.
Originally this committee recommended heating the Lodge room
with Butane gas units, installed in old stoves of the early period of

90

PROCEEDINGS OF THB
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Masonry in California, but after the room was constructed it was found
to be impracticable to heat it with Butane units in stoves as at first intended, but it should be a balanced system to properly and efficiently
furnish the necessary heat to make the Lodge room comfortable and
usable.
The committee included in the original construction of the building,
all necessary ducts, flues, vents, etc. of a warm air heating system. Lack
of funds, however, preve:t?-ted the installation of the oil burning equipment necessary to complete this system. Figures have been taken and
it is found that the said completion of the heating system will cost
$595.25.
We recommend that the r~ntal per day for the Lodge Room at ,
Columbia be set at not less than $25.00 per day plus any unusual charges
for setting up lodge room or cleaning after use and that all applications
for use of same be made to the Grand Secretary and that he be empowered to collect rental and assign dates and to notify local committee
of all dates made.
It is not considered advisable to permanently rent the lower story
of the Temple at present, for the reason that Lodges and organizations
renting the Lodge room may desire to serve lunches and use the lower
story as a place to congregate prior to and after a meeting in the Lodge
room.
Janitorial service will depend upon the use made of the Lodge room
but a reasonable estimate based upon four meetings per month will
amount to $35.00 per month or $420.00 per year.
The lighting by electricity and heating by oil burning equipment will
approximate $100.00 per year.
The rate for water for this character of building within the park will
not exceed $15.00 per year.
There will be no taxes assessed against the property-it being in the
ownership of the State as a state park.
Estimated operation and maintenance cost :
Janitorial service ........•................................... $ 420.00
Water ............................................................
15.00
Electricity and oil .......................................... 100.00
General maintenance, supplies and
contingencies per year .............................. 465.00
Total ....................................................$1,000.00
It is reasonably expected that there will be numerous meetings per
year and the revenue derived from these meetings will be deducted from
the above expense.
Your commitee recommends the following resolution and moves its
adoption:
1. That it is the policy of Grand Lodge to properly equip t'he Lodge

91

room of the Columbia Masonic Temple with new furniture so designed
and built to simulate the furniture and paraphernalia of the fifties.
2. That the sum of $1,679.00 be appropriated and set aside for that
purpose.
3. That the sum of $595.25 be appropriated and made available to
said Restoration Committee for the purpose of installing oil burning
equipment for heating the building.
4. That the incoming Grand Master be empowered to appoint a
committee of Master Masons, resident in or near Columbia, for the care
operation, maintenance and use of said building. Said committee to be
under the direction and supervision of the Grand Master and t'h e Restoration Committee.
5. That all assignment of dates for use of the Temple be arranged
and scheduled through the Grand Lodge office.
·
6. That the rental for the use of the said Temple be not less than
$25.00 per day plus any unusual charges for setting up Lodge room or
cleaning after use.
7. That all rentals be paid in advance and that in accordance with
Section 44, Subsection 4th, the collection of all charges be made by the
Grand Secretary.
8. That the expense of the operation of the Columbia Temple be
paid by the Grand Secretary in accordance with the established practices of the Grand Lodge.
9. That the sum of $1 ,000.00 be set aside for that purpose.
Respectfully submitted,

w.

IRA
COBURN
JOHN A. KLARQUIST

Adopted.
Referred to Committees on, Finance and on Policy and General
Purposes.

REPORT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON APPLICATION FORMS AND INVESTIGATION PROCEDURE
To the Grand Master and Brethren:
Your Special Committee was appointed :by Most Worshipful Ellsworth Meyer, pursuant to action by Grand Lodge during the 1949
Communication for the purpose of reviewing the report made to Grand
Lodge at that Communication by the Committee on Application Forms
and Investigating Committee Procedure.
Your committee has reviewed the report and has investigated the
results of the use of some of the procedures which were recommended
in that report and recommends that this Grand Lodge adopt the following policies as recommendations to Grand Lodge and its constituent
·
lodges :

92

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

1. That the constituent lodges have a regular committee for investigating applicants. This committee would be appointed by the
Master and its membership would not be publicized. It would
meet at the call of the Master at least once a year, preferably in
January, to discuss and be instructed in the duties of an investigating committee and investigating procedures. Wherever possible, applications would be referred to members of this committee
for investigation. It was felt that there are many members in our
lodges who would be glad to serve on this most important committee and this procedure would gradually develop a competent
and fairly well trained group of investigators to replace the more
or less hit or miss present system.
2. That the officers, past masters and interested members of each
lodge act as a personnel committee or advisory board and meet
with the applicant prior to the stated meeting at which the application either is received or will be balloted upon to thoroughly
interview the applicant. This would enable the officers to get
acquainted with the applicant and supplement the investigating
committee report.
3. That the Inspectors be instructed to include a discussion of investigating applicants in the program for one or more of the district
officers' association meetings.
4. That the present form of Reference of Application for Degrees
or Affiliation be replaced, and that Grand Lodge print and furnish to the constituent lodges, in place of the present form, the
form of Reference of Application for Degrees or Affiliation which
was prepared by the Committee on Application Forms and Investigating Committee Procedure and read to you at the 1949 Communication of this Grand Lodge. We further recommend that
in printing this new form the spaces which are to be filled in by
the secretaries be printed to comply with typewriter spacing and
that the form be printed on both sides of one sheet of paper to
facilitate the making of copies to be furnished to the members
of the investigating committee.
Full and complete investigation of applicants is the only way to
maintain the standards of Freemasonry and keep our fraternity from
being damaged or destroyed by those who do not belong in Freemasonry and by those who would join us to destroy us.
I move the adoption of this report and the policy and recommendations contained therein.

w.

Adopted.

ROLLIE
MILLER
RALPH HECKLER
CHARLES T. MEDLER
WM.J.AMANN
WILBUR R. TEETS

93

l{EPORT OF COMMITTEE ON THIRTY-FIRST ANNUAL
OBSERVANCE OF PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK

To the Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
The committee in rendering this annual report on Public Schools
Week, first wishes to take the opportunity of thanking all committees
for the fine cooperation which made the 1950 Observance "successful
beyond anticipation . . . Most successful in our history ... ", comments
almost unanimous in the reports received from the Lodges.
Ever since its inception Public Schools Week has mounted each year
In state-wide acceptance.
The members of our committee regret the retirement last October
1>f Past Grand Master, M. W. Charles Albert Adams from the Grand
Lodge Committee on Public Schools Week. The memory of his efforts
In behalf of this program since he conceived the idea of the first Observrmce in 1920, has been an inspiration to each of us.
Every report received from each Lodge has ·b een carefully reviewed
11nd the knowledge gained and the problems presented will form the
basis for our 32nd Annual Observance.
PROCLAMATION

Many proclamations were issued in behalf of the 31st Annual Obaervance of Public Schools Week. The Grand Master, M. W. Ellsworth Meyer proclaimed in part:
"Today the educational systems of many states face the greatest
challenge in their history. If the challenge is not as great in this
state and if the schools of California are in somewhat better condition than those elsewhere, no small portion of the credit is due
to the Annual Observance and all who have participated. There
must be no lessening of interest or support."
Hon. Earl Warren, Governor of California, in his annual proclamation said:
"As we take inventory of our blessings and our accomplishments in this, our 1OOth year of statehood, we view with satisfaction the progress that has been made in education, the basis of
which is our Public School System."
To these proclamations were added a countless number issued by
Mayors of cities throughout the state. Industries and organizations
with statewide membership added their favorable resolutions and comments.
The three heads of the York Rite Bodies sent proclamations to their
members urging the support of Public Schools Week.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The California Legislature formally recognized Public Schools
Week with assembly concurrent Resolution No. 6, adopted in Assembly March 20, 1950 and adopted in Senate April 3, 1950, as follows:

The Education and Service Committee of the Grand Lodge of Texas
also has been studying this problem.

Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 6--Relative to participation in
the events of the Thirty-first Annual Public Schools Week.

* * *

WHEREAS, The Thirty-first Annual Public Schools Week will be
observed in California during the week of April 24th to April 30th and
during the past 30 years the observance of this week has become one of
the most popular educational activities in the history of the State: and

"Democracy in Action", the slogan adopted for 1950 was fortunate
In choice and timing. It was enthusiastically received by all sections of
press and radio. It received special comment in your reports and in appreciation letters from educational authorities, public officials and service
clubs.

94

WHEREAS, It has been promoted, sponsored and financed by civicminded citizens whose only purpose has been to bring to the attention
of our citizenry the importance of the public schools in preserving and
developing "the American way of life": and
WHEREAS, Public school education is a democratic tradition and the
public sc~ools provide each citizen with the opportunity for education
without restrictions as to race, creed or color: and
WHEREAS, The slogan of the Thirty-first Annual Public Schools
Week is: "Democracy in Action"; and
WHEREAS, The importance of adequate, competent education must
be brought home to each citizen of California so that he may be made
aware of the necessity for the continued growth of public school education: now, therefore, be it

Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the Senat~
thereof concurring. That all citizens of the State of California are hereby urged to take notice of and participate in the events of Public Schools
Week, as a demonstration of the importance of public education in the
effort to preserve and make stronger the American way of life.
OTHER GRAND loDGE JURISDICTIONS
Our committee has received some information regarding Public
School activities in other Grand Lodge Jurisdictions.
In January of this year, the Grand Lodge of Arizona conducted its
first annual Public Schools Week Program.
The Grand Lodge of Nevada Bulletin for May, 1950 summarizes
in the Grand Master's Message, the Lodges' activities in behalf of the
Public Schools of Nevada.

95

We wish all, the greatest possible success.

* * *
HISTORY REPEATSBeyond repetition of "most successful ever" comments, the most encouraging factor pointing up the value of our project is this:
The majority of Public Schools Week reports, official letters from
educators, legislators, service clubs and labor organizations indicate an
awareness of a critical time immediately ahead for all communities both
urban and rural, for our public educational system.
It has ·been pointed out that California's Public School System is
better off than most schools of the nation and no small amount of credit
Is given to our Annual Observance and the resultant support and interest of the general public. Nevertheless, a crisis such as that reached
after World War I is here again-amplified.
Typical attitude reflected in reports, even from Lodges where community success in 1950 was such the Annual Observance commanded
"beyond capacity" public interest in all events, is a determination to
accelerate past efforts to meet current and future needs. An attitude
reflected in this comment in one report:
Excessive population growth these past few years, coupled
with acute teacher shortages, particularly in the elementary field has
made our community conscious of the need for united efforts to
safeguard the education of our children ... Our Lodge again received the usual splendid cooperation of all school officials and
faculty, families-not only parents-'business establishments, industrial labor, civic organizations and service clubs as well as the clergy
of all faiths."
Composite opinion from headlines and text of local newspaper cover-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
96

97

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

age in just single issues of week long news support of Public Schools
Week:
"Enrollment continues to skyrocket . .. California Schools facing most serious crisis in history due to shortage of teachers and onrush of record crop of 'war babies.' . . . Increase of more than '
800,000 pupils in public schools of the state is expected in next ten
years according to statewide surveys conducted recently. . . . Increase of school population in California particularly. County
schools enrollment up 6.2% since 1949 ... "
This quote is a summary of the expressions of appreciation from
various State, County and Local School Officials :
"If more organizations such as yours were as unselfish in public
interest, the welfare of our Democracy would be greatly strengthened, In behalf of the schools of this community, may we express
sincere appreciation to your Lodge in particular and to California
Masonry in general. . . . The year-after-year increasing display
of public interest in our schools has been gratifying and inspiring."

*

*

*

INFORMATION PLEASE!
Our Grand Lodge Committee, of course, acts only in an advisory
or steering capacity. But an inspiration to further extend this scope of
service has been gained by the many requests for and exchange of information from Lodges in this jurisdiction.
Composite Requests and Suggestions:

"It would be extremely helpful if Grand Lodge would make
available to the Lodges examples of outstanding work in other areas.
Ideas that have proved valuable to them should be disseminated....
Though every event had splendid attendance, our committee thinks
our Observance Week could be improved and that we should have
an active committee the year 'round to further enlist services of
other organizations."
*
*
*
So BE IT
Under another section of this report we present descriptive reminders of successful procedures adapted to individual needs.
Display at Grand Lodge

In Polk Hall of this Auditorium, the committee has arranged a display consisting of miscellaneous materials used during the 31st Annual
Observance, together with a group of reports prepared by Lodges of
various sizes and from widespread communities.

The reports include data, from the procedure followed in organizing
the Lodge committees, to the conclusions reached after the Observance.
There also will be found examples of car cards, 24 sheet poster, window
displays, newspaper tie-in advertisements, proclamations, editorials, etc.
This ts our first presentation of such a display at Grand Lodge and
no attempt has been made to pick the best reports but rather reports
that are typical. or with examples of new and successful ideas. It is hoped
that many of you will avail yourselves of the opportunity to view the
materials and to leave your comments or suggestions in the box provided
for this purpose at the display.
What Is the Date-1951?

Many requests have 'been received as early as May, 1950 asking for
the date of the 1951 Observance of Public Schools Week. This information is required by the school departments in the preparation of their
school calendars.
In response to these inquiries, we point out that the Week has been
traditionally observed starting with the fourth Monday in April. which
would be April 23rd in 1951-subject to the Grand Master's approval
and Proclamation.

*

*

*

SuccEsSFUL EXAMPLES OF 1950 PROCEDURES
In summary, there is a definite trend, in both rural and urban areas
toward encouragement of active participation rather than just " entertainment" or speakers.
Participation is a national trait, psychologically and humanly sound,
for all of us are more interested in taking part than in just observing.
The most successful programs this year have been where students,
parents, teachers and the community at large participate in Public School
Week.
"Back-to-School" for Dad and Mom theme has been used in all
sizes and types of communities. It may take form in several ways:
Visits to the classroom during routine teaching.
Night or day "classes" for parents, progressing to rooms where each
subject their children are taking is explained briefly by the teacher with
the how, why and technique of subjects taught. Parents are also given
an opportunity to discuss their children with the teacher.
We have reports from small communities where this program was
of such interest dad "laid off for the day" to actively participate.

98

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Another Lodge reports pupils brought parents .an~ friends to classrooms to obtain tickets for the culminating auditorium event of the
week. Teachers met and talked to parents.
lower Shows , , . Fashion Shows ... involved
H obby s hows . . · F
.
• 1b d
t
active participation of specialized hobbyists, women s c u s, epartmen
and specialty shops, as well as parents and friends.
Window display of all types have proved to be an. excellent me~ium.
est,
o f course a re "Li've" displays. with students in windows of business
B
establishments demonstrating work.
One small community reports, "This is the first year our bank has
been asked by the committee for school window display. It created much
interest."
Open House and Appreciation dinners are. ge~erally successful.
Many such were held in conjunction with the dedication of new schools
:>r facilities during Observance Week.
" Kickoff" preliminary and appreciation luncheons and dinners with
community wide attendance by invitation were other successful features
in small and urban communities.
COMPOSITE oF NovEL IDEAS

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

99

Plaque and Certiflcate awards by Lodges to students during
Public Schools Week for outstanding achievements in speciflc
fl~lds highly publicized or recognized as economically important
to the community.
Scheduled opportunity during Observance Week for grammar
school teachers of various areas to visit teachers in other schools
and compare problems, methods and teaching techniques.
In one area where publishing techniques and procedures is a
curriculum feature, visitors names were obtained at the door, rushed to student linotype operators. Individual names, "Mr. and Mrs.
John Doe" were inserted in blank space on headline of already
printed school paper which "covered" the news, programs and
events of Public Schools Week. These were presented to visitors,
with their own headlined names, at the exit. Naturally these Special
Editions became souvenirs.
Preliminary procedure reported by one Lodge is an inspiring example
of efficient planning and organization with duties so delegated everyone
in the community becomes an active participant. Despite tremendous
results the Lodge is "Looking forward to great improvement next year."

Ribbon printed badges "Visit Your Public Schools"'. worn .by
ersonnel in all business establishments in the .comi:numty during
fhe week. Displays with same notice featured in windows of the
same establishments.
One community following this procedure was obser:ing its Seventh
A
1 Observance. It was so successful with cooperation of press and
nd~ua articiptants were warned against over-publicizing because of
ra
io, P
· "hoping to imover-capacity
crowds_ at all events. y et t h'is Lod ge is
prove the program."

Immediately after proclamation by the Grand Master of the Public
Schools Week date, the committee called a meeting of a Citizens' Advisory Committee. They met to discuss and exchange ideas, determine
ways and means of implementing an ambitious program for communitywide cooperation. Duties were outlined and delegated to various subcommittees then appointed.

Lodge presentation of books for Grammar. ?~o~l Roving
Library, an annual practice as one of many activities m a rural
community during The Week.

Then a series of post cards were sent to representatives of all civic,
business, industrial organizations, service and cultural clubs. First, a
reminder or delegation of duties. Another outlining events planned for
each day of the .week.

Button badges " I Have Visited Schools Have You?" were preall who visited or participated in any school event, acted
sent e d t o
h
. b
.
as a reminder to citizens who might ot erwise e remiss.

Clubs and groups were invited to preliminary school cafeteria
luncheons.
Ribbon badges publicizing Public School Week were printed and
arrangements made for them to be worn by personnel of all business
establishments a week prior to and during The Week.

Printed Tags-two different colors : "Visit Yo~r School Tofor one m second color
d ay" . When visit is made this dis exchanged
..
"I Have Visited a School To ay.

Postcards were sent to picked organizations: "Will you send a
representative of your organization to a meeting regarding Public
Schools Week." ( 100% attendance response. )

They used all suggested preliminary publicity sent them by Grand

100

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge Committee until news angles on their own activities were developed.

attended the special programs of our schools.... A tremendous success,
well attended by persons of every faith and endorsed by all •.."

Arranged for wide distribution of a visual statistical brochure on
Education in California.
This year more tie-in advertisements were used throughout the
jurisdiction. In one community the gas company mailed their bills on
postcards with a cachet inviting all to visit a public school during Public
Schools Week.

* * *
PRELIMINARY GUIDING ACTIVITIES OF GRAND LODGE COMMITTEE

After distribution of the Proclamation by the Grand Master:
(a) A general outline to the Master of each Lodge in this jurisdiction
of necessary preliminary procedures in preparing for our 31st
Annual Observance, slanted to cover, so far as possible, the particular needs of rural and urban communities.
(b) Contact with all State and Civic officials, Educational authorities
and public figures to obtain proper timing of proclamations and
statements. Also contact with organization heads and important
personages whose names and statements automatically make news.
( c) Press-Radio information digest suggesting press releases and radio
announcements timed from "spots" to five and fifteen minute talks.
( d) A series of suggested general and special press releases slanted
for use in news coverage in general; farm news; editorials; features;
cartoons; labor publications; national radio networks; women's
pages school and PT A bulletins and publications; press associations; Chambers of Commerce, etc.
( e) Provision for printing and statewide distribution of brochures and
direct mail campaign.
( f) Continuous "planting" of specialized publicity: constant contact
with educational authorities.
( g) Contact and cooperation in advisory capacity with various Lodges,
interested organizations and personalities.
( h) Arrangement with officials of national radio networks to alert their
individual stations ( 150) in our jurisdiction on the importance of
their cooperation on this project of public welfare.

101

"It seems to me (from this year's results) Public Schools Week has
ahead of it many, many years of fertile endeavor."
From a fifteen minute radio address by a state educational official:
"I believe the most unique and yet the most important thing we
have learned in Public Education during the last 50 years is that
children who come to us at any grade level differ greatly in their
abilities. Let us hope that in the next 50 years we may learn what
to do about these individual differences."
"California Public Schools stand as a sentinel. a powerful potential for directing the way to maintaining and upbuilding our precious
Democracy." (Quote from official of a newspaper publishers association. )
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

The splendid cooperation of educators, clubs, groups, organizations,
individuals, the press and radio as a whole, make it impossible within
space limitations to give full acknowledgment to all those whose hard
work and cooperation made our 1950 Annual Observance such a huge
success.
Every Lodge comments specifically, backed by clipping evidence,
on the extreme generosity accorded our project by all divisions of the
press, radio and television.
Newspapers responded not only in general news coverage, before
and during the Week, but with editorials; series of feature stories;
whole columns and column comments-AND with entire issues devoted
to Public Schools Week on down to " spot" or line announcements.
Radio and television cooperation this year was beyond our highest
expectation. From the smallest communities to metropolitan areas, our
reports indicate daily plugging of the Week in every phase. "Time"
space ranged from spot announcements through one, three, five, fifteen
minute programs: special features and round table discussions by official educators and interested laity. Television was equally cooperative,
producing shows with stndent participation.

SIGNIFICANT QUOTES

Motion picture houses ran trailers and slides where local conditions
permitted.

"We are proud to state that in this community in which 690 votes
were cast during April 1950 local election, approximately 500 persons

Outdoor billboards and bus placard space, prior and during the
Week were a feature in many cities.

102

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

· . A news story quote from one report, summarizes the cumulative
effect of this cooperation:
"The 'Standing Room Only' sign has been out all over town this
week as public schools entertained record crowds at the open houses
they hold annually in observance of Public Schools Week.
"Tonight ............ Junior High School will close the week with
an open house from 7 to 9 p.m.... If the response is the same as
the city's 25 other schools, teachers in their classrooms and laboratories will be swamped with visitors."
The clergy of all faiths, from pulpits, in church bulletins and advertising has been notably active and generous this year in supporting
our Annual Ooservance, according to reports from various communities.
The support of school officials-state, county and municipal-the
faculty cooperation expressed in an heroic amount of hard work has
been unanimously reported by all Lodges.
The following quote is an understated summarization:

"It is very gratifying to find the people of the community, school
officials and faculty have accepted and adopted Public Schools
Week as a definite part of the yearly program. School administrative heads have expressed a desire to work with us, in the years to
come, on plans to improve the program."
Due largely to dynamic school interest, 36 civic and service clubs
participated in this program, coming from surrounding areas to work
with a comparatively small community.
A special bow must be given the PTA. In some communities where
general interest lagged, according to one quote "PTA pitched in and
was a major factor in accounting for the success of the Week."
An almost identical statement was made in another report about the
local Order of the Eastern Star.
Business houses in almost all communities, rural and urban were
extremely generous not only in interest support but in contributing important advertising space to Public Schools Week.
It was a matter-of~fact rule in many large communities to contribute
expensive and elaborate window displays.
Reported evidence of the wholehearted, active participation and even
leadership in some areas, of other organizations is perhaps the best
measure of the success of the purpose of our Annual Observance. In
many areas, organizations other than our own, were so active there was
no community realization that Public Schools Week originated with
our Fraternity.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

103

Space does not permit full acknowledgment of the fine efforts of local,
community, state groups and individuals. But this report would be inadequate if it did not mention the splendid services rendered by the
members and officers of:
Rotary Clubs, American Legion and Auxiliary Chapters, Elks,
Lions, Chambers of Commerce--state and local, Dad's Clubs, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Labor Organizations of various trades,
AFL and CIO, Kiwanis, Civitans, League of Women Voters, 20-30
Clubs, Exchange Clu'bs, Soroptimists, Library, Garden and Advertising Clubs, York Rite, Scottish Rite, Order of the Eastern Star
and Shrine Temples.

* * *
Your committee in dosing, reiterates it is available to extend any
service or information it may be able to supply within capacity or jurisdictional purpose.
Respectively submitted,
GEORGE D. GAVIN
JOHN M. LEE
CHARLES W . LUNSFORD
ROBERT A. ODELL
RoBERT G. WoLL

Adopted.
The Grand Master referred to the Committee on Finance that
portion of the above relative to an appropriation.
The Most Worshipful Albert J. DeLange, Grand Master of Masons
in Texas, at the invitation of the Grand Master favored Grand Lodge
with an address.

104

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MEMORIAL TEMPLE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on the Memorial Temple begs leave to report as
follows:
During the year there have been numerous meetings of your Committee on which we have had the benefit of the counsel of James Hurst
on real estate problems and of Henry J. Brunnier, structural engineer,
on building problems.
We have considered many pieces of property and have closely
scrutinized three which we considered desirable.
One property, which was our first choice, was not finally available
to us because of the refusal of the owners to sell.
The second property was sold to another applicant before we could
make a definite recommendation.
The third property on which we secured, without cost, a ninety day
option, is still available. Your Committee was unable to come to a
decision on this piece in time to exercise the option. Should the new
committee approve this site, it will be necessary for it to take an additional option to give it sufficient time to study and act.
. ~" You; C~~itte;·· i~-of the opini~~ that~ntil a ~~ffi~l;~ti;i;;w;;~
of property in a desirable location can be secured, no steps should be
taken involving the expenditure of Grand Lodge funds.
The selection of an adequate site presents many intricate problems.
It is incumbent upon the Grand Lodge to decide whether it would prefer
a Temple in an outstanding location with great definition, or whether
it should have a Temple located where at least a portion of the property
could and would be revenue producing. Ideally, a site which would
have both definition and income producing possibilities should be sought.
It is, however, difficult to find such a location.
We recommend that a Committee on the Memorial Temple be continued and that further study be made on the complex problem of site
selection and constructing an adequate building to suit the particular
requirements of the Grand Lodge.
Respectfully submitted.
CHARLES E. MOORE
JAMES HURST
HENRY J. BRUNNIER

Adopted.
The Grand Master referred to the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes that portion of the above relative to continuation of the committee.

105

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Past Grand Master Arthur W. Brouillet requested permission to
withdraw a resolution offered by him on Monday, October 9, to amend
Section 152, which permission was granted, and the resolution was
withdrawn.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON INVESTMENT
OF FUNDS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Last year the Grand Treasurer recommended that Grand Lodge
adopt the "Prudent Man Rule" as an investment policy for its various
funds.
Grand Lodge voted the appointment of a special committee of five
to study the proposal and report at the succeeding Grand Lodge Communication. The Grand Master appointed the following brethren:
Leo E. Sievert, Chairman
Charles A. Adams
Leslie E. Alt
Vincent P. McMurdo
Paul A. Pflueger
The various provisions of our laws relating to investments are contained in Sections 86, 152, 153, 655, 721.
At the present time the income amounts to approximately 2,Y-1 % for
the over all investment of Grand Lodge.
Our cash and investments can be classified about as follows (as of
July 31, 1950-market value):
Masonic
Endowment
HomesGrand Lodge
Fund
various funds
Total
Cash-savings ............$ 62,000.00 $ 500,300.00 $ 43,000.00 $ 605,300.00

Cash-commercial ......
3,000.00
Governments, E,F,G, and
other non-marketable
bonds ............................ 270,195.gp
Governmentsmarketable
324,686.00
Other Bonds ..::::::::::::
9,737.00
Preferred Stocks ...... ................
Common Stocks ........ ................ .....
$ 696,618.00

.............. ....

20,000.00

50,000.00

1,734,302.00

642,006.00

2,646,503.00

1,383,860.00
5,837.00
23,818.00
131,606.00

97,232.00
25,578.00
39,219.00
253,698.00

1,805, 778.00
41,152.00
63,037.00
385,304.00

$3, 779, 723.00

$1,120, 733.00

$5,597 ,074.00

(Notes-Grand Lodge totals do not include holdings of 33,985 shares of
Masonic Temple Association of California.)
(Notes-Endowment Fund totals do not include real estate mortgages holdings of various Masonic Temple Associations, and a few miscell~neous
items.)
Masonic Hvmes totals do not include real estate mortgages, holdings of various Masonic Temple Associations, 26 shares ·of Pioneer Properties, Ltd.
(the present value of this item has not been ascertained 1b ut could be
quite substantial), and a few miscellaneous items.

107

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Most of the "Other Bonds," Preferred and Common Stocks have
come to Grand Lodge, primarily to the Masonic Homes and Endowment
Fund, by bequest. In order to continue to enjoy the higher income which
such securities afforded, they were not sold when analysis warranted
our holding them. Even this relatively small percentage of the total,
namely 8.67o/o, or $489,493.00, produced approximately $23,500 of
income, or 4.80o/o , which is 2.55o/o more than our average income (or in
dollars $11,014.00).
Now we come to the consideration of the "Prudent Man Rule." As
originally laid down by Justice Putnam in 1830 in the State of Massachusetts, and as followed by those 25 states which have since adopted
the same rule and wording, it reads:
"In investing, reinvesting. purchasing, acquiring, exchanging, selling
and managing property for the benefit of another, a trustee shall exercise the judgment and care, under the circumstances then prevailing.
which men of ·prudence, discretion and intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs. not in regard to speculation, but in regard
to the permanent disposition of their funds, considering the probable
income, as well as the probable safety of their capital. Within the
limitations of the foregoing standard, and subject to any express provisions or limitations contained in any particular trust instrument, a
trustee is authorized to acquire every kind of property, real, personal
or mixed, and every kind of investment, specifically including, but not
by way of limitation, corporate obligations of every kind, and stocks,
preferred or common, which men of prudence, discretion and intelligence
acquire for their own account."
It should immediately be stated, so that there be no misunderstanding. that the Prudent Man Rule is not a common stock rule; it includes
bonds, preferred stocks. and common stocks.
As evidence of the consideration given to the subject, we file herewith the data presented to us by the Grand Treasurer, which includes
his report of last year. (See report of Grand Treasurer).
The first question considered by the Committee was: Should Grana
Lodge be satisfied with its present income? Our conclusion was no, if it
could be prudently increased.
We then considered whether Grand Lodge should continue its restricted provisions of investing only in U.S. Government ~nds, Municipal Bonds and Savings Accounts. Our conclusion was no, and was
based on the following considerations :
The longest term open market U. S. Government Bonds yield~
return of 2.44o/o. The shortest U. S. Government Bonds yield approximately 1.30o/o.
Bonds which are a direct obligation of the State of California yield
a return of 1o/o for a five-year maturity, and 1.70o/o for a twenty-year

maturity. City and County of San Francisco municipal bonds with a
ftve-year maturity yield 1.05o/o, twenty-year maturity 1.70%. City of
Los Angeles municipal bonds with a five-year maturity yield 1.05%,
twenty-five maturity 1.75o/o. These are tax exempt bonds, hence the
yield is so small. Such bonds do not meet our needs.
Savings oank accounts pay l,Yio/o.
The return on U. S. Government Bonds is a manipulated interest
rate, regulated by the government in order to obtain funds at the lowest
cost possible. This low rate of interest on LU. S. Government Bonds
results in lower rates on all other high grade bonds, including municipals, and on savings deposits as well. If therefore Grand Lodge desires
a larger return on some of its money, it will be compelled to go elsewhere.
: rl
Highest grade preferred stocks also reflect this smaller fixed return
on U. S. Government Bonds.
On the one hand, there is a low return on the highest grade bonds.
On the other hand, high prices prevail for all commodities and services.
All institutions, eleemosynary, educational, fraternal or religious, have
the same problem today. They are confronted with a low return on
highest grade bonds and high costs for the things they buy. In the last
ten years, the dollar has declined in purchasing power from $1 to 57
cents. There is no indication of a change in this trend.
So, we come back to the first question-is Grand Lodge. satisfied with
its present income? If not, what must be done?
This Committee is of the opinion that some change should be made
in our basic law.
Considering all the factors as thoroughly as is within our powers, we
recommend that this Grand Lodge adopt the Prudent Man Rule with
certain limitations. Specifically, we recommend that:
1 ) At least 40o/o of the funds available for investment must be in:
A) Cash.
B) Obligations of the United States or those for which the faith
of the United States is pledged to provide for the payment of the interest
and principal.
C) Obligations of the State of California and its political subdivisions, provided they were issued pursuant to law and that the faith
and credit of such municipal corporation or district is pledged for their
payment.
D) Such securities as are legal investments for California savings banks.
2) Up to 20o/o may be invested in:
A) Evidence of indebtedness. which are or will · be fully listed
and registered on an exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a National Securities Exchange.

106

108

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

B) Preferred stocks, which must be fully listed and registered
on an exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a National Securities Exchange.
No such investments, however, shall be made which at the time of
purchase will result in the total market value of the securities referred
to in this section exceeding 20% of the total market value of all the cash
and securities held.
3) Up to 40% may be investe.d in:
A) Common stocks, which must be fully listed and registered
on an exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a National Securities Exchange, except that this listing requirement shall not apply to bank and insurance company stocks.
B) Shares of Investment Trusts.
No such investments, however, shall be made which at the time of
purchase will result in the total market value of the securities referred
to in this section exceeding 40% of the total market value of all the cash
and securities held.
4) With reference to securities which come by bequest, the Investment Committee shall have twelve months in which to liquidate, if
deemed advisable, during which time such securities shall not be considered to be a part of the total. for purposes of percentages invested
in each category, as above.
It is also noted that the Grand Treasurer recommends that the Committee charged with the responsibility of investing funds employ unquestioned and experienced independent investment counsel.
This
Committee fully endorses this recommendation of the Grand Treasurer.
The Committee recommends that there be an Investment Committee
consisting of the Grand Treasurer, the Assistant Grand Treasurer, the
Chairman of the Finance Committee, the President of the Masonic
Homes Board, or a Trustee of his Board designated by him, the, Chairman of the Endowment Board, or a member of that Board designated
by him. This Committee, or a majority thereof, shall be empowered to
invest the funds of the Grand Lodge of California, including the
Masonic Homes Endowment Fund, and the various funds of the Masonic Homes of California.
The 607 constituent lodges have a perplexing problem in connection
with their investable funds. Data as to their financial condition were
not available to your Committee. Some have substantial funds for
investment. Many of the smaller and younger lodges are not so fortunate. Your Committee is of the opinion that lodges with investable
funds should have the opportunity of larger returns on these funds than
can now be obtained under existing laws. The formula hereinabove
recommended for the investment of Grand Lodge funds would hardly

be_practicable for individual lodges. Grand Lodge is not constituted to
serve as an investing agency.

109

We suggest that the problem of the investment by constituent lodges
of their investable funds be made the subject of an extensive study :by
a committee of Grand Lodge appointed for that purpose.
Respectfully submitted,
Lf:O E. SIEVERT
CHARLES A. ADAMS
LESLIE E. ALT
VINCENT P. McMuRDO
PAUL A. PFLUEGER

Adopted as to policy.
Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence for legislation.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF CONTROL
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Report of the Board of Control must of necessity contain the
report of our Masonic Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus.
These organizations have for years been operating within this jurisdiction, · quietly performing their work, efficiently and economically.
Unless we were to direct your attention to them, they would remain
little known among the craft. They do not seek publicity or credit for
the work performed, for they are concerned with the distressed, the
grief stricken, and ·the unfortunate among our Brothers. We will,
therefore, report their activities, financial strength, and the actual work
of relief and employment as administered within this Grand Jurisdiction.
MASONIC BOARDS OF RELIEF

Lodges having concurrent jurisdiction have been given the authority
to form Boards of Relief for the purpose of properly relieving the distress of visiting Masons, their widows and orphans. Such Boards are
required to report annually to Grand Lodge, showing their work,
receipts and disbursements in detail, specifying what, if any, has been
expended for relief of non-affiliated Masons, their widows and orphans,
therein sojourning of this and any other jurisdiction, and to show how
much has been repaid.
These reports have been filed with the Board of Control and are .
made a part of this report.
Our eighteen ( 18) Masonic Boards of Relief are made up of 278
Lodges, having a total membership of 123,520.
These Boards had an income during the past year of $86,176 and

111

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

they expended $82,890, leaving a surplus for the year's operation of
$3,286. They have in their reserve account as surplus a total of $72,493.
During the past Masonic year they conducted 891 Masonic funerals,
made 18,176 service calls, of which 4,517 were upon the sick, 602 were
for investigations, 6,820 for relief. and 6,240 represented various other
types of miscellaneous calls dealing with distress and relief. These
figures are given to show the vast amount of relief work that our offices
are called upon to do which has no connection whatever with relief in
dollars and cents.
They advanced for relief $42,451. Of this amount, all was repaid
except the expense of one relief funeral totaling $125.00, the details
of which will be covered in a later portion of this report.
Five of our Boards of Relief have established and are now operating
Blood Banks for the benefit of Masons. They are operated without
cost to the craft and are maintained for the Brothers in their hour of
need. During the past year these five Boards report that they have had
donated 1,5% units of blood, and that there has been withdrawn from
the Bank 1,4 70 units, which represents a saving to the patients of
$36,925. We wish to call your attention to the Secretaries of. these ftve
Boards, who are entitled to your commendation for this work which
they have voluntarily added to their other duties.
During the past year the following Lodges have joined the Board
of Relief in their community. Oildale Lodge No. 688 and Meudell
Lodge No. 695 have joined the Masonic Board of Relief of Bakersfield,
Bixby Knolls Lodge No. 699 has joined the Masonic Board of Relief
of Long Beach, and Ponderosa Lodge No. 700 is now a member of the
Masonic Board of Relief of Fresno. We wish to welcome these Lodges
into our Boards with the hope that they will continue to carry the spirit
of brotherly love and relief.

jobs. it would have cost them $172,063. We, therefore, like to look
upon this as a savings to our own people.
The Board of Control approved an application to establish an employment office under the Masonic Board of Relief of Honolulu. As a
result of only a partial year of operation they have been able to place
in employment 35% of those who have registered with them. We welcome them into our group of employment offices.

110

APPROPRIATIONS

Grand Lodge has always shared in the expense of maintaining and
operating our Masonic Employment Bureaus. In determining an amount
which would be just to both Grand Lodge and the Employment Bureau,
the Board of Control has instructions within the Standard Practice
Bulletin which explain in detail our method of calculation. The Board
of Control also ruled that in no case would it approve an application
for an appropriation from Grand Lodge where the amount requested
was greater than the per capita income allotted to employment.
After a careful examination as to the record of each Bureau and
with the above rulings in mind, the Board of Control has approved and
recommends to Grand Lodge that the appropriations requested by the
following Masonic Employment Bureaus, together with the amounts
set opposite their names, be granted:
East Bay ...................................... $ 2,000.00
Fresno ..........................................
268.00
Honolulu ......................................
125.00
Long Beach .................................. 1,604.00
Los Angeles ................................ 6,000.00
Sacramento ..................................
750.00
San Diego .................................... 2,023.00
San Francisco .............................. 1,500.00

MASONIC EMPLOYMENT BUREAUS

The prime purpose of Masonic Employment Bureaus is to aid
Worthy Master Masons, their widows and orphans, in securing employment, thereby assisting in maintaining their morale, and avoiding the
necessity of direct relief.
No fee is charged either to the applicant for employment or to any
employer who is using our service.
During the past year our Employment Bureaus registered 12,283
for employment. They placed in jobs 3,141. Employers using our
service made possible 8,152 positions for which we could have taken
credit had we had the proper person registered to fill the position offered.
Had these 3, 141 people who were placed in employment by our
offices during the past year had to pay a commercial agency for their

Total ............................................ $14,270.00
Honolulu has been added to the Bureaus requesting an appropriation this year. Even. with this added Bureau, the amount requested is
$453.00 less than was granted for this work by Grand Lodge at its
last communication.
REIMBURSEMENTS

Previously in this report mention was made that our Boards of Relief
had expended $42,451 for relief and that of this amount all had been
repaid except $125.00.
The Ordinances provide that should a Board of Relief advance
monies on behalf of a sojourning Brother, and should the Board of

112

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Relief not be made whole by the Brother, his Lodge or his Grand Lodge,
then the Board of Control may recommend to Grand Lodge through
the Finance Committee that the Board of Relief be reimbursed in the
amount expended in the Brother's behalf.
The Masonic Board of Relief of East Bay was notified by the
coroner of the death of a Brother, a life member of St. John Lodge No.
543, Dalmuir, Scotland. He was entirely without funds and no record
was available as to any member of his immediate family. He was given
a Masonic funeral and his remains were cremated.
A letter was sent to the Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of
Scotland. He replied that our letter had been forwarded to his Lodge
for their action. There has been no response from his Lodge.
The Board of Control. therefore, recommends that the Masonic
Board of Relief of East Bay be reimbursed in the amount of $125.00.

recorded and the substantiating documents will be maintained in a
manner which makes it feasible to audit the transactions of each office
with a minimum amount of work.
This method of Standard Practice was first assigned to our Employment Bureaus. The results were so satisfactory and the operation of the
system worked so smoothly that the following year the plan was expanded and in 1949 the Boards of Relief were included within its scope.
Today each office within our jurisdiction has in its possession a manual
of accounting procedure, a virtual book of instructions in the use of
prescribed forms, together with a complete set of instructions as to the
preparation of annual reports for the use of the Board of Control. These
annual reports include a complete financial statement, showing receipts
and disbursements; a statistical report for Boards of Relief, showing
the distribution of relief activities; a statistical report for employment
offices, showing the activities of each office as to jobs and applicants;
and a balance sheet. to show the assets or financial strength of the
Boards of Relief.

BOARD OP CONTROL

Under the Ordinances of Grand Lodge. the Board of Control is
authorized to control and supervise the activities of Boards of Relief
and Employment Bureaus, to make such rules and regulations as it
shall deem necessary for their effectual operation, and shall endeavor
to so standardize the work that they may be conducted economically
and efficiently, and, also, it shall have the authority, with the consent
and by the direction of the Grand Master, to compel any Lodge to
become a member of a Board of Relief.
The Board of Control is made up of five ( 5) members, appointed
by the Grand Master for a term of three ( 3) years. These members
are selected geographically, so as to best serve the needs of our various
Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus. At present its membership
is made up of residents of San Diego, Lo! Angeles, Fresno, San Francisco, and Sacramento.
The Board of Control has now been operating under the Ordinances
of Grand Lodge for twenty-three ( 23) years, it having been established
in 1927.
Following the instructions as set forth within the Ordinances, the
Board of Control began a study to develop uniform records and methods
of accounting, together with a better and simpler method of audits. A
nationally known firm of accountants was employed to assist in this
work. This study resulted in the adoption by the Board of Control in
August, 1948 of what is now known as the "Standard Practice Bulletin."
Through this Bulletin, a complete set of instructions has been presented
to Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus, so that they might establish uniform records and methods. When these procedures are followed,
the financial data, statistics on employment accumulated at each office
and the reports thereon will be uniform and comparable. The data

113

With these reports in the hands of the Board of Control. it is now
possible to analyze accurately the activities of the various offices, as well
as to conform to the terms of the Ordinan<;es wherein it is required that
the Boards so standardize their work that the operation thereof be conducted economically and efficiently.
The Board of Control but recently completed another project which
has been several years in preparation. Upon examination, it was found
that the Compacts under which the Boards of Relief are required to
operate were varied in form to such an extent that no two were identical.
It thus became apparent that the Board of Control should endeavor to
bring about a plan whereby a Compact could be developed which would
be uniform. On August 18 of this year, the final draft of the Uniform
Compact was mailed to all Boards of Relief for their consideration and
approval. It is brief, simple, and complete, and we can see no objectionable features therein. We are most gratified in reporting to you
that as of October first nine ( 9) Boards of Relief have returned the
Compact to us duly signed, indicating their approval thereof.
Boards of Relief have been operating under a set of by-laws which
were developed with the idea that each community and each Board of
Relief had its own individual problem to solve. Through the years it
became apparent to the Board of Control that the problems were uniform and that the work they were doing was identical. Masonic Relief
is Masonic Relief wherever administered and finding employment for a
Mason in one locality is the same as in any other. The Board of Control.
therefore, undertook the task of standardizing the by-laws, only to
eventually discard that thought in favor of a set of rules and regulations, thus following the instructions contained within Section 93 of the

114

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Ordinances wherein it states that "the Board of Control shall make
such rules and regulations as it shall deem necessary."
When the Compacts were mailed to our Boards of Relief, we also
enclosed copies of our "Rules and Regulations." They replace items
formerly contained within the by-laws, and add such rulings as have
been made by the Board of Control during the development of these
organizations. We have also added the direct quotations from the
Ordinances of those sections dealing with the Board of Control and
Boards of Relief, namely, Sections 91 through 95 and Section 264.
Both the Compact and the Rules and Regulations have been printed
and punched so as to flt within the binder of the Standard Practice
Bulletin. With this material all within the folds of one binder, our
Secretaries and Managers will have available for immediate reference
the answer to almost any question dealing with the operation, administration, .finance and accounting. We believe that this again will tend
toward more efficient operation.
The Board of Control still feels that there is much to be done in
perfecting the work of standardization, funerals, employment costs, and
in the continued development of the smooth, efficient operation of the
mechanics of our Relief and Employment Offices.
In the actual administration of relief we, of the jurisdiction of California, practice the teaching of our Mas~nic Obligation in relieving
the distressed Mason, his widow or orphan. No Mason, regardless of
jurisdiction, need go distressed of mind, body, or pocket. No Mason
has ever knowingly been permitted burial within Potter's Field in
California. We have always operated with the thought in mind that
we would rather err on the side of generosity than permit one needy
Mason to pass unnoticed or neglected. Individual cases without number
stand as testimony of the extreme care rendered by the Secretaries of
our Boards of Relief in the aid given the sick, the needy, or the distressed, waiving all thought as to their own personal time or convenience.
During the past year the Board of Control has held three ( 3 ) meetings. At the last communication of Grand Lodge the Board sat in a
six ( 6) day session. Early in February the Board met for three ( 3)
days in Pasadena, and again in June the Board convened in San Jose
for another three ( 3) day session. The Board has been in session during
this communication of Grand Lodge since last Saturday, and will continue to meet during the balance of this week.

tesies. The Gr~nd Secretary and his assistants are always ready to put
themselves out m our behalf, and we appreciate their many services.
We are heavily indebted to the Secretary of the Masonic Board of
Reli~f of Pasadena, Brother Walter F. Kress, and to Brother Ray
Lattm, Secretary of the Masonic Board of Relief of San Jose, for their
work in preparing for the meetings of the Board of Control within their
communities. We are also indebted to Brother Andrew Burke, Secretary of the San Francisco Board of Relief, for his attention to our needs
during Grand Lodge.
The Secretaries of our Boards of Relief and the Managers of our
Employment Bureaus are men of whom the fraternity may well be proud.
They are a pleasure to work with and to have as friends. We proudly
present them to you as gentlemen and true Masons.
In closing, we wish to leave one thought with you. We have mentioned relief, reimbursements, accounting systems and rules and regulations. We do not wish to be misunderstood. In many cases relief involves the use of money. It is but a small part of our work: nevertheless,
it does form an item that from one standpoint can be considered of major
importance. This year nearly $45,000 was advanced to assist those in
need. We say that the money was advanced advisedly. It is the belief
of the Board of Control that when monies are given to a sojourning
Brother for relief it is immediate relief that is needed. We believe
.firmly that the obligation to that particular Brother belongs to his own
Lodge regardless of jurisdiction. We, therefore, make the advance to
him and then inform his Lodge as to his present circumstances and what
we. have do~e to assist him. We also expect that they will recognize
their obligation the same as we would recognize ours were the circumstances reversed.
We like to feel that the Brothers of our Lodges whithersoever dispersed will receive kind, courteous and immediate attention should the
occasion demand. Likewise, we would like to send a sojourner back to
his Lodge with a fond memory of the treatment which he received
while within the jurisdiction ~f the Grand Lodge of California.
Respectfully submitted,
JACK C. BUTLER
JOHN T. MARTIN
Guv A. ToLLE
HARRY F. WH1TB
REGINALD M. MILLS .

CONCLUSION

It is impossible in work such as ours to complete the year without
finding ourselves under obligations to many of our Brthren. We are
indebted to our Grand Master and his corps of officers for many cour-

115

Referred to Committee on Finance.

116

117

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RETURNS

REPORT OF MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION OF
CALIFORNIA. INCORPORATED

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Returns presents herewith an analysis of the
Consolidated Returns of the Lodges of this jurisdiction for the year
1949-1950.
Membership 1949 ........................................................ 190,543
Gains
Members raised .. :........................... ~. 9,406
Affiliated ............................................ 2,021
Restored ............................................ 391
Gained by error ................................
12
Total .......................................... 11,830
Losses
Members withdrawn ....................... . 1,623
Suspended N.P.D ............................ . 776
Died ................................................... . 3,144
23 .
Expelled ........................................... .
7
Loss by error ................................... .
Total .......................................... 5,573
Net gain in membership .................... 6,257

Total Assets ............................................. ,.................... $811,170.85
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL

Total Liabilities and Capital ........................................ $811,170.85
INCOME

6,257

Respectfully submitted,
HENRY G. MATHEWSON

J.

ASSETS

Cash .......................................................................................... $ 14,859.46
Accounts receivable-tenants ..................................................
581.00
Investment in stocks and bonds, at cost.................................. 206,863.81
Property .................................................................................... 588,866.58

Liabilities .................................................................................. $ 3,927.87
Capital ...................................................................................... 807,242.98

Total membership 1950 ............................................... . 196,800
Dues remitted .................................................... 2,506
New Lodges ..................................... ,................
6
Total Lodges :...........................................~---···· 605
We note a gain in Suspensions for Non-payment of dues of 129,
also that our losses by death have increased 323 over last year. The grim
reaper is catching up on our older members. May their memory remain
with us.
The increase in members withdrawn is only 14, the number of 1,623
is too great a loss. We again call to your attention the reasons for this
loss. Are we making Masons too fast? We may find out the reason if
we could know the causes for this action.

FRANCIS
HERZ .
WILLIAM G. BUXTON
E. LLOYD HANSON
DAN BosscHART
RoY GREER
DESMOND BARTON

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The following is a statement of the Masonic Temple Association of
California. Incorporated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1950:

Rentals ...................................................................................... $ 70,720.00
Income on Investments ........................................................... .
7,134.97
Income from sub-meters ......................................................... .
1,147.50
Sundry income ......................................................................... .
86.52
Total income •....•............................................................ $ 79,088.99
EXPENSES

Expenses -

Total expenses ....................................................

51,539.40

Net income for the year ............................................................. $ 27,549.59
Balance, October 1, 1949 ........................................................ $122,795.74
Add:
Net profit for the year.............. :................................. 27,549.59
Total .................................................................. $150,345.33
Deduct:
Dividends paid ...................................... $9.870.64
Purchase of 5 shares Masonic Temple
Association of California, Inc., stock
20.00
9,890.64
Balance, September 30, 1950 .................................................... $140,454.69
At 4:20 P. M. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 A. M. Wednesday morning.

118

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

119

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

IN GRAND LODGE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PAY OF MEMBERS

MORNING SESSION, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1950

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Pay of Members submits the following report
covering the lOlst Annual Communication of Grand Lodge:

Grand Lodge was called on at 9: 30 A. M., the Grand Master presiding.
Bro. Reynold L. Blight, Master of Liberal Arts Lodge No. 677,
presided in the East at the entrance of Grand Lodge Officers.
The Grand Chaplain gave the invocation.
The minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions of Tuesday,
October 10, were read and approved.
The Most Worshipful Wallace E. Caldwell, Grand Master of
Masons in North Carolina, at the invitation of the Grand Master fa~­
ored Grand Lodge with an address.
The Grand Master requested Brother Kelvin W. A. Bailey, Lieutenant in the United States Marine Corps, Senior Warden of Laguna
Beach Lodge No. 672, to rise and he called attention to the fact that
Brother Bailey had come on special leave from Tokyo, Japan, to attend
this communication and was returning to Tokyo at its close.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Committee on Credentials makes the report that of 598 Chartered Lodges, 584 are represented, also all of the nine Lodges under
dispensation, making a total registration as follows:
Officers and Representatives ................2638
Master Masons .................................... 2286
Distinguished Guests ............................ 77
Total. ............................................... 5001
Respectfully submitted,

Loms SUTTER
WILBUR D. CROSBY

Those entitled to compensation are: the duly accredited Representatives of each Lodge, Inspectors, Past Grand Masters, Officers of
Grand Lodge, and the Chairmen and Members of Committees enumerated in Section 68 of the Ordinances, who are actually in attendance at
Grand Lodge.
Compensation of members has been computed on the basis of twice
the one-way first class railway fare, plus Pullman sleeper, where necessary. As has been the custom for many years, no compensation is allowed
to members from San Francisco or the immediate vicinity, or where the
prescribed compensation does not exceed $1.00.
We have computed the transportation rates fro.m all points in California and Hawaii to San Francisco. We have checked the payroll with
the registration records as submitted to us by the Committee on Credentials. The amount required to meet the transportation costs for the
1950 Communication is as follows:
Grand Lodge Officers ....................•............•.. $ 840.80
Past Grand Masters .......................... :........... 564.90
Committees .................................................... l, 175.84
Grand Lecturers and Inspectors ................ 4, 191. 70
Representatives .............................................. 18,666.60
Total ...................................................... $25,'i39.90
Thanks is again due to Past Master Louis Sutter, and the AngloCalifornia National Bank, for making the necessary arrangements so
that members may cash their checks in this building at the close of the
Grand Lodge session. Checks will he ready for distribution following the
election of the Junior Grand Warden, Friday morning at the Registration desk, Polk Hall. Checks not called for will be mailed by the Grand
Secretary.
Respectfully submitted,

c.

LoYD
CAMPBELL
JOHN N. BACIGALUPI
PHIL N. MYERS
HERBERT N. WAUGH
ALBERT V. YOUNGS
WILLIAM H. MCGAUGHY
GORDON R. STEINER

GRAHAM A. BACKUS

C. STANLEY CHAPMAN
THOMAS F. MASON
SAMUEL W. WILLIAMS

Referred to Committee on Finance.

120

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF TRUSTEES OF MASONIC CLUB HOUSE,
BERKELEY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Masonic Club of the University, Berkeley, California, continuing with the building program started last year at the suggestion of the
Most Worshipful Chester H. Warlow, Grand Master in 1947, the gist
of which you will recall was that the Board of Trustees should make
the structure conform to the usual Masonic standards, followed that
program forward to completion last year and also caused to be repaired
and reupholstered a considerable portion of the furniture in the building.
Our plan is to do more of this furniture rehabilitation and we assure
you that we are only doing that which is absolutely necessary for the
maintenance of this home in Berkeley. Although we deferred a considerable part of this work during the war years because of war conditions
and high prices, we reached the point last year where further deferment
was not possible. To complete the present furniture repairs program we
shall need the sum of $900 as reflected in our budget.
We have completed another long postponed improvement, the relandscaping of the grounds about the building. Rhododendrons, lawns
and shrubs were all installed within our estimate, thanks chiefly to the
gratuitous counsel and planning of Past Master John Gregg. University
Professor Emeritus of Landscape design. Of course, with this improvement has come the necessity and expense of upkeep. This gardening is
being done by a student member on a part-time basis under the Professor' s supervision. Two other student members have been employed also
part-time, to do the janitorial work. However, the total expense of the
three men and the cost of an annual cleaning just about balances what
we have heretofore paid a full-time janitor.
Last year Grand Lodge had the pleasure of listening to a talk by
Brother Blair Hoit, the President of the Student Club Council, expressing
appreciation for the large appropriation for major repairs to the basement. The trustees as your representatives have been thanked on a
great many occasions since that incident for this generosity. The full and
detailed report of President Hoit, while deemed too lengthy to be set
forth as an exhibit here, is on file at the office and if you will but take
the trouble to examine it you will find it replete with expressions of appreciation and examples of the fine use to which this building and its
facilities are being put. Here is a leading example placed by him under
the heading of "Construction." "Under direction of the building committee of the Board, extensive remodeling of the club house took place
during the summer months of 1949. This remodeling greatly increased
the existing facilities of the building, and provided the students with
modern equipment and lighting. The acceptance of student suggestions

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

121

and sincere cooperation of the building committee was greatly appreciated by the members of the club . . . The thanks and appreciation of the
students were sent to the Grand Lodge at the beginning of the Grand
Lodge Communication and the appreciation has been continuous since
that time as the club has put to use the improved facilities."
Brethren, we cordially invite you to visit this University Home a t
Bancroft Way and Bowditch Street in Berkeley. View these improvements and let the Council's enthusiastic officers and members, who are
expecting your buses to stop by from Decoto or Oakland, usher you
about the building and tell you in their own words the service it renders
them.
,.,,, ;~~
We believe that Grand Lodge's interest and example have prompted
the students to engage in a program of improvement at their own expense. -As their President reports: "The students, in their efforts to provide added service to the membership, purchased and had installed a
public address system throughout the building. The need for this equipment had been noticed and mentioned for several years." The use of
this system, he comments "has greatly increased the efficiency of the
council and members." And we must candidly add that it has been a
great boon to our hostess, Mrs. Edna H. Morton. The student officers
also asked and obtained the Board's permission to buy certain office
furniture and kitchen equipment with their own funds. All of these were
financed through their nominal initiation fee of $1.50 and their dues of
$10 per college year, or $6 per semester, which also, of course, must
suffice for their social affairs.
The students have their own government, although this changes
somewhat in certain years through the democratic process. It may interest you to know that these students "learn by doing," a point emphasized by the following observation by their President: "This process
of striving to improve the conditions under which the club is maintained
provides an excellent education in business management and student
government, thus giving the student a practical background to supplement his studies on campus."
Several semesters ago the students themselves concluded that they
would like to try out a new system of "orientation" for the new members coming to the club. It was designed to aid Mason's sons and daughters and near relatives to meet the active members of the club-to interest
them in the club, and have them take part in its activities. The idea underlying his program seems to be the familiar one that "You get out of
an organization just about what you put into it." We are assured that
these new members are helpfully assisted in their adjustment to university life, which is certainly one of the original objectives of the founding
group.

123

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The membership figures given by their President are as follows:
Fall Semester, 405
Spring Semester, 380
Here, your trustees feel we have great need for improvement. The
problem is not that of the students alone nor of the trustees and the stu~
dents. Last year the students carried on a campaign to educate our
membership throughout the Bay district with the aid of Worshipful Sirs
Phillips, Bos and Boren, and the East Bay Masters and Wardens Assa~
ciation. But this did not reach out over the state. Great numbers of your '
children and the children of the brethren of your lodges are constantly
going through our state university without the benefit of these fine
facilities and the opportunity to make many worth~while friends. As one
trustee, a business man, puts it: "I want to see a thousand members use
this quarter~million dollar investment and thus pay dividends on it." We
greatly need your publicity, brethren. 5uch publicity could come through
each Grand Master by way of a general publication if there should be
one, and if not, by special letter to the constituent lodges. We earnestly
enlist the support of all in this undertaking, and particularly the help
of each Master through his bulletin.
We are equipped now to take care of such large numbers. The lunch
service, operated as a "Snack bar", went into full operation last Fall.
The students report on this activity. run by them at their own expense,
states: "The increased facilities and accessibility afforded by the new
kitchen downstairs aided the students in planning a well~rounded lunch
consisting of one or more hot dishes, salads, sandwiches, soup, coffee,
cream, and milk." They employ their own part~time cook and carry
Workman's Compensation coverage in the name of the Council. They
serve coffee and doughnuts from 9 a. m. and lunch from 11 a. m. to 1
p. m. Minimum prices are charged and only club members are allowed
to eat there. Daily use is estimated by them to be between 200~250 per~
sons.
The activities are very extensive but it is good to kn.ow that they
think of others besides themselves and last year held a Christmas party
for 25 underprivileged children.
The big social affair of the year. in the eyes of the students is the
annual reception to the Grand Master. with a banquet and dance. Grand
Master Meyer's address this spring was unique and eloquent. It was one
of the most thought~provoking addresses ever given in the club~house.
At this time, we report that, as suggested by the Finance Committee,
we have eliminated from our list of assets the item carried under the
reading "Campaign Expenses". We also engaged a new auditor,
Brother Robert H. Perry. C.P.A. and partner of LaFrentz & Co., and,
to afford more time to make up our budget and annual report, voted to
change our fiscal year to end August 31, instead of September 30. The
report of our auditor, on examination for the l l~months' period ending

August 31, 1950, has been submitted to the Finance Committee with a
copy of this report and a copy of our Budget adopted for the ensuing
year. ( Exh. # 1 ) . We respectfully request its favorable recommendation.
We close this report by joining with the student President in giving
thanks to Mrs. Morton, our hostess, for her counsel and assistance in
the year now completed.

122

Respectfully submitted,
CARLISLE D. NIELSEN
R. P. WISECARVER
BOYD B. RAKESTRAw
EARL WARREN
RUSSELL C. HORSTMANN
FRANK R. KILLINGER, JR.
LEO E. SIEVERT
PAUL S, BOREN
CARL B. MuNcK

124

125

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Exhibit 1-Report of Trustees of the Masonic Club of the University,
Berkeley, California
Proposed Budget for the Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 1951

Exhibit 2-Report of the President, University Masonic Club Council,
Berkeley, California
Year 1949-1950

Actual

Budget

Resident hostess -·····-········•··············································$ 2,200.00
Janitorial and gardener .................................................. 1,592.50

$ 2,700.00
1,480.00
1,500.00
300.00
600.00
1,100.00
2,200.00
1,250.00
550.00
500.00
250.00
200.00
100.00
75.00
75.00
85.00
100.00

Expenses

*~~~~~~~t

10/1/49 • 8/31/50

: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ~~~:6g

Annual cleaning ·····························-·································
565.00
Repairs (see Note 1 below) ..................................... ·-······ 1,511.97
Taxes, property .................................................................. 1,980.06
Heat, light and water ···················-································· 1,133.97
Janitor supplies..................................................................
464.15
Insurance, fire, compensation, liability ......................
400. 77
Miscellaneous ....................................................................
53.85
Telephone - net................................................................
140.86
Garden supplies ................................................................
129.00
Social security taxes ........................................................
65.39
Garbage ···································································-·········
56.40
Office supplies, postage, periodicals ............................
24. 72
Annual audit fee ..............................................................
100.00

1950-51

Total .............................................................................$11,496.39
Additions to property and equipment (see Note 2
below) .............................................................................. 2,090.46
Reinbursement by Grand Lodge for building
improvements, equipment, etc. ................................ 2,750.00
Depreciation (see Note 3 below) .................................. 3,560.73

$13,065.00

Total ···················-······················································-$19,897 .58
1949-50 budget allowance prorated-11 months ........ 17,088.90

$21,130.10

1,055.10
3,000.00
4,010.00

Budget-over expended ..................... ,....................$ 2,808.68
Note 1-includes the following:
Furnace repairs ·······································-·····················································$ 150.00
Miscellaneous tools .......•..............................................................................
25.00
Replace electric switches ............................................................................
10.00
15.00
Refill fire extinguishers ..............................................................................
Furniture repairs .......................................................................................... 900.00
Total ········-················-'············································································$1,100.00
Note 2-includes the following:
Bulletin board outside ·········-·····································································$ 150.00
Bed facilities for employees ........................................................................ 150.00
Wiring furnace room ................................................................................. .
50.00
Smoking stands ............................................................................................
75.00
Locker and cloakroom facilities ................................................................ 630.10
Total ......................................... ,................................................................$1,055.10
Note 3. Budgeted 1950-51 depreciation is increased to provide an allowance for 1949 major improvements. 1949-50 depreciation
amounted to $3,884.43 on a yearly basis.

I. CONSTRUCTION
Under direction of the building committee of the Board, extensive
remodeling of the clubhouse took place during the summer months of
1949. This remodeling greatly increased the existing facilities of the
building, and provided the students with modern equipment and lighting.
The acceptance of student suggestions and sincere cooperation of
the building committee was greatly appreciated by the members of the
club.
Throughout this report mention will be made of the individual
improvements and how they were put to use by the students.
The thanks and appreciation of the students were sent to the Grand
Lodge at the beginning of the 1949 communication and the appreciation
has been continuous since that time as the club has put to use the
improved facilities.
II. NEW EQUIPMENT
The students in their efforts to provide added service to the membership purchased and had installed a public address system throughout
the building. The need for this equipment has been noticed and mentioned for several years. The use of this system has greatly increased
the efficiency of the council and members.
Various items of office equipment were found to be needed and were
obtained.
Snack bar equipment was purchased from student funds to provide
the membership with added lunch and coffee facilities.
It might be noted here, for general information, that student funds
collected through dues, are used by the students for social affairs and
for the purchase of needed student equipment and supplies. The funds
collected are consumed, for the most part, during the year in which they
were collected.

Ill. ORGANIZATION
The club is governed by the Executive Council, elected by the membership and composed of both upper and lower division students. This
council acts under the authority of the constitution and by-laws, recently
revised.
Each term the organizational systems by which the club is run are
changed or retained at the discretion of the president and the council
to meet the everchanging conditions.
This process of striving to improve the conditions under which the
club is maintained provides an excellent education in business management and student government, thus giving the student a practical background to supplement his studies on campus.

126

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OP THE

In the year 1949-1950 several systems of organization were inaugurated under the direction of the president.
.
The council was allotted duty hours in the office, scheduled into
their free hours on campus. By this method we accomplished what we
believed was a two-fold purpose: that of relieving the detail of club
management formerly imposed upon the hostess, and secondly, pr.oviding the council members certain, a~ministrati".e experi~~ce. Whi.le ~n
duty it was the council member s :Job to receive all vi~itors, maintain
order and do all in his power to see that the club functioned smoothly
and that the members were furnished every service that could be offered.
Several other systems and procedures were inaugurated; their outcome will be decided in future years. In a report to the new president,
suggestions and comments on these and other ideas wil~ be retafn~d in
the club files along with reports and comments of the various committees
operating within the organization. These reports will be augmented by
each succeeding council for the benefit of future officers.
Needless to say the social activities mentioned later provide the
student with the needed relief from the academic pressure encountered
in college life.
IV. MEMBERSHIP
Membership for the year 1949-50:
Fall semester .................................................................. 405
Spring semester ............................................................ 380
New members are brought into the club under an orientation program
designed to aid them in meeting the active members and interest them
in the activities of the club. They are helpfully assisted in their adjustment to university life.
- This program, introduced several semesters ago, is improving each
term and should develop into a very essential part of the club life,

v. SNACK BAR
The lunch service, operated as a "Snack bar," went into full operation with the opening of the club in the fall. The increased facilities and
accessibility afforded by the new kitchen downstairs aided the students
in planning a well-rounded lunch consisting of one or more hot dishes,
salads, sandwiches, soup, coffee, tea, and milk. It was decided to employ
a part-time cook to prepare and serve the meals. She was paid $1 per
hour for four hours a day, five days a week. Workmens' Compensation
coverage was taken out in the name of the council.
The snack bar served coffee and doughnuts from 9:00 A.M. and
lunch from 11 :00 A.M. to 1:00 P.M.
. Minimum prices were charged and service was restricted to club
members. Daily use is estimated between 150 and 200 persons. Operation showed a slight profit over and above the equipment purchased.

127

VI. ACTIVITIES, RECREATIONAL AND SOCIAL
Recreational facilities include three ping pong tables, two pool tables
in men's lounge, and the newly equipped card room. Heavy daily use
of all these facilities was experienced throughout the year. The card
room provided a much-needed retreat for bridge players, where quiet
concentration is a prerequisite for an enjoyable game. The playing
equipment for these activities is maintained by student funds.
Intramural teams of baseball and football were organized and competed with other clubs on campus. Both teams this year came home with
few victories.
The proximity of the men's w~shroom to the men's lounge relieved
an awkward situation and cut down the unnecessary traffic by the study
rooms .The moving of the washroom to the basement provided much
needed study space on the mezzanine.
The social activities of the year were well-rounded and enthusiastically attended as evidenced by the following summary:
1. Open Houses
Each semester during registration and the first two weeks of instruction, the club holds open house with record dances on Saturday evenings.
Attendance at these affairs runs between 200 and 400 people. Cokes and
cookies are served and members are on duty to answer questions and
take memberships.
2. Grand Lodge Visit
During the annual Communication the club was host to many visiting
brethren.
3. Football Activities
During football seasons dances are held either on Friday or Saturday
nights. Attendance is usually quite large for these affairs. Dances usually
follow the rallies on campus. Games with U .S.C. and Stanford are
ordinarily cause for larger and more elaborate affairs.
When the U.C.L.A. game is held in Los Angeles many club members
travel south and enjoy the hospitality of the Masonic Club on that
campus. Approximately 75 members journeyed south for the 1949
U .C.L.A. game.
4, Christmas Activities
Prior to Christmas recess, the club holds its Christmas formal.
Always well attended, it brought forth over 400 people this year.
As part of its philanthropic activities, the club held a Christmas
party for 25 underprivileged children. Santa Claus arrived and distributed toys and games collected by the members. The night before
this party about 50 members got together and had a tree-trimming party.
5. Initiation
Near the end of each semester the club has its formal initiation
ceremony. accompanied by a banquet and dance. Turn-out for these

128

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

affairs averages close to 400. With the imp.roved dining. facilities, this
large a crowd is handled much easier than m the past w1t~ a result of
far less confusion and work. The kitchen facilities grea~l~ mer.ease the
efficiency of the preparing and serving of the meal. Divided_ mt~ two
sittings of approximately 200 each, the meal can be handled qmte mcely.
While the initiation of the new members takes place ~n the hal1room,
the second group is being served in the banquet room m the basement.
6. General Business Meetings
In the Spring term general business meetings were held Sunday evenings preceded by a dinner prepared and served by the members. An
average of I 50 members attended these four Sunday di~ners. Again the
new kitchen aided the members in preparing and servmg such a meal.
7 Men's Smoker Women's Dinner and Dance
· Approximate}~ 75 men turned out for the smoker ~hich featured a
speaker and wrestling exhibition. The women had dmner at a local
restaurant and returned later for the dance.
8. Theater Night
Tickets were obtained for the Straw Hat Revue and about 30 members attended together.
9. Women's Tea
It has become a custom to entertain the girls and their mothers at ~
tea each spring. This year invitations were extended to al_I members
mothers and in addition a fashion show was put on by the girls. A very
successful affair, it was attended by over 200 girls and mothers.
10. Grand Master's Reception
.
.
.
Each spring the dub receives the Grand Master, hon~rmg ~im wit_h
a banquet and dance. A formal affair, it was held on a Friday mght this
year. The students always enjoy meeting the Grand Master and the
Grand Officers.
11. Children's Party
..
With an 'Easter theme, the club played host to 25 underprivileged
children from South Berkeley. The party, complete with an East~r egg
hunt also featured movies, games, and refreshments. For both this and
the Christmas party, the Berkeley Red Cross provided us with transportation.
12. Carnival.
Replacing the elaborate Mardi-Gras of past years, the club had a
very successful carnival. It was wel1 attended and quite enjoyabl~.
Prizes were donated and the students built and manage? ten booths m
the basement. During the evening records were played in the ballroom
for those wishing to dance.
13. Picnic
Each spring a picnic is held in one of the picnic ~roun_ds near Mt.
Diablo. Always well attended, this year was no exception with 80 people

129

enjoying a picnic lunch, swimming, 'baseball, and sunshine.
14. Miscellaneous
Other affairs included a game night, hard times party, parents' night,
and informal get-togethers.
.
VII. DAILY USE
As mentioned before, the club experienced heavy daily use: the
lounge as a gathering place, the study rooms for quiet concentration,
the library for reference work, the ping pong and pool tables, the card
room for relaxation, and the snack bar for refreshments.
The club was opened on Sundays from I to 9 P .M. so that members
could make use of the facilities when other places on campus were closed.

VIII. PUBLICITY
It was found that many Masons whose sons and daughters were
attending Cal did not know the club existed or that their children were
eligible for membership. With this in mind efforts were made throughout
the year to publicize the club and its activities at every opportunity. The
president and vice president gave short talks to various groups and
distributed pamphlets which contained photographs of the club and
explained its functions.
·
Through the aid of E . H. Phillips, Chairman of the Masonic Spring
Breakfast, wide publicity of the club was given a t that affair.
Several lodge secretaries aided in this work by mentioning the club
·
in their bulletins.
Attractive paper hook matches were printed and distributed at various Masonic gatherings.
Within the club itself, the Masonic Murmurs, official organ of the
club, had a somewhat dubious existence. It is felt that this type of
publicity of club activities is worth while, but for the ·year 49-50 it
proved quite expensive and time-consuming.
Its function of informing the membership of coming affairs was taken
over by the faster means of communication of using postcards.

IX. CONSTITUTIONAL CHANGES
By vote of the general membership, executive council term of o.ffice,
with the exception of the upper and lower division representatives, was
extended to one year. It was felt that this would greatly facilitate the
management of the club throughout the school year.
.
The offices of Manager of the Snack Bar and Editor of the Murmurs
were added to the list of appointive officers.
Various by-laws were amended to clarify duties and procedure.

X. PHOTOGRAPHY ROOM
Interest in this activity ·is felt to be high. Although the dark room
experienced relatively little use during the year 49.:50, we feel that this
was due to the lack of spare time available to the students. Plans for
increased use of this equipment are being worked out.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
130

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL
FALL
Blair Hoit
Bernice Scherer
Bill Pearce
Peggy Bumgarner
Gerry Haney
Kathryn N akashian
John Peters
Bob Johnson
Jim Macintosh
Warren Johnson
Jane Freeman
Betty Weaver

Jere Parker
John Cooper
Ann Phillips
Bob Keldgord
Ellen Hogan

131

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

President
Vice President
Treasurer
Recording Secretary
Membership Secretary
Corresponding Secretary
Representative at Large
Representative at Large
Upper Division Men's
Representative
Lower Division Men's
Repr~entative

Upper Division Women's
Representative
Lower Division Women's
Representative
APPOINTIVE OFFICERS
Chaplain
Social Chairman
Editor
Snack Bar

SPRING
Blair Hoit
Helen Blake
Jere Parker
Ann Phillips
Gerry Haney
Margaret Hicks
Louis Fourcroy
John Peters
Jack Benson
Bob Airhart
John Cooper
PeggyGauck
Ellen Hogan

Curt Harrison
Kathryn Nakashian
Peggy Bumgarner
Bob Keldgord
Jim McWee
Ben Picetti
Bill Janes
Roy Levy
B
K 1·

Publicity
Dick Walker
Activities
Helen Blake
·
' "'.' .. , ......,.
't '\'td"et*)'·}W'dHM'i. @',f•t\Q' Uelj,, t»»"Wt;,t, etty
eeS ID9
Bob Airhart
Sincere appreciation to the following groups and individuals should
rightfully precede this report, for without their assistance the duties of
the president would have been most difficult:
MRS. EDNA H. MORTON, for her valuable aid and advice fully
deserves the credit for the successful term just completed. To her I
extend my personal thanks and the thanks of the two councils who
served with me.
MR. FRED FLANDERS and MR. BOYD B. RAKESTRAW,
representatives from Henry Morse Stephens Lodge, gave of their
time generously and their presence at our council meetings was
greatly appreciated.
THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES. as a group. have done much to
provide the students every opportunity for an enjoyable life at the
1 , - ....

University ... as individuals, they gave of their time and advice to
our every need for which I am sincerely appreciative.

1
THE FALL AND SPRING COUNCILS AND COMMITTEE
CHAIRMEN, deserve much credit for their long hours and difficult
tasks. To them go my thanks for a job well done. Special mention
to MISS HELEN BLAKE, vice president, during the spring term,
my personal thanks to her for assuming some of my duties and very
capably carrying them out.
Spe~ial mention to the EAST

BAY MASTER'S AND WARD~
ENS ASSOCIATION, for their efforts in our behalf. To MR.
L?DIANO .of the University Extension Visual Aids Division for
?1s cooperation and assistance in obtaining movie films and a pro~
Jector for use at the club. To E. HERBERT PHILLIPS, JAMES
L. BOS, and PAUL S. BOREN, Worshipful Masters for their
efforts in publicizing the club.
'
Respectfully submitted,
BLAIR K. HOIT,
President 1949~1950
Referred to Committee on Finance.

133

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
MASONIC CLUB HOUSE, LOS ANGELES

not only. for students attending the summer sessions and who use the
study hall and other facilities in the Clubhouse, but also, for the other
members. Groups meet in various parts of the county for potluck dinners,
swimming parties, weiner roasts, roller skating and various other informal parties.
As usual the biggest social event of the season was the Grand
Master's Reception. It had more than ordinary significance this year because the Grand Master has long been associated with the Club and is
well known to the students. The students planned it long and carefully.
Needless to say, the Grand Master rose to the occasion and his usual
inspiring message was particularly well received.
It is not all play and no work. One of the best patronized features
of the Clubhouse is the quiet and attractive study hall. Also many of the
Club activities consist of lectures and study groups. Twice each year
the officers and committees and other interested students meet in " retreats", break up into discussion groups under committee leadership and
plan the activities of the Club. Such retreats last for several days and
are well attended.
In keeping with their past tradition the students have not overlooked
the charitable side of club activities. A Thanksgiving dinner was served
for children from the All Nations Boys Club and Girls Club. Again,
during the Spring semester. dinner was served for some of the children
and their parents from the All Nations Hollenbeck Center.
The students, through the help of the Board, purchased a television
set. This together with the radio, record player, ping pong tables, card
tables, pool tables, chess and checkers, piano, lounge room and library
make the Clubhouse a recreational center at all times.

132

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Operative Masons can point with pride to the well desig~ed ~lub­
house located near the South entrance to the campus of the Umv7rsity.of ·
California at Los Angeles. As speculative Maso~s we can ~omt with
even greater pride to the spiritual building that this undertaking makes
possible. Each year hundreds of students of Masonic affiliation find that
the Club affords wholesome surroundings in which to meet for study
and recreation. No dollars and cents value can be placed upon what
Grand Lodge is contributing towards the development of these fine men
and women.
you members of Grand Lodge furnish the Clubhouse and pro.vide .
for its maintenance and operation. It is the duty of your Board o~ ~irec­
tors to manage the facilities and provide the necessary supervision so
that ~ur Masonic objectives may be realized. Your Boar~ employs. a
director and assistant director. The Board members collectively and individually confer with them frequently. Two of your Board members
sit regularly with the Student Council which meets every two weeks
hile school is in session. Board members attend many of the stude~t
functions. Because of this close cooperation, it is not difficul~ to coordinate student activities with Board policy. It has been the policy of y~ur
Board to leave the management of student activities as muc~ as. possible
to the students themselves acting under their own . C:onstitutio~s and
through their own officers. This makes them f~el. ~hat 1t 1s truly their own
Club and develops in them a sense of respons1b1hty.
The .students elect their own Council who, in turn, select their own
officers and committees. Dues are charged, not as payment for the use of
the Club facilities for those are furnished gratis by Grand Lodge but'. t~
finance the social and recreational activities of the members: ~~ch activities take on many and various forms. The calendar of ac~1v1t1es for the
ws approximately one hundred events with attendance
pas t year sho •
•
d I h
· d
ranging from ten or fifteen up to five hundre . n t e varie program
there are things of interest to all students both graduate and underraduate. The pledge system is followed and new members are not only
given a thorough orientation course but t.a~e charg~ of s~veral of the
g · 1 functions and from the start participate actively m the Club.
~r~~ay evenings are frequently devoted to dancing, includin~ square and
·
Sunday Suppers followed by student entertainment. have
folk d ancmg.
•
h
.
k ·
r
d
roved quite popular. There are also beac parties, s atmg par 1~s, an
pth
ents held outside of the Club but under Club sponsorship. The
o er ev
h
·
· d
Club organization is maintained throughout t e summer vacation perio ,

One of the student activities deserving of special mention is the
operation of the "snack bar". The students employ their own cooks and
other help, purchase their own food and supplies, and serve regular meals
as well as sandwiches, soft drinks, etcetera. They have set up an accounting system and are now operating on a sound business basis. While they
maintain an adequate reserve they do not attempt to make any profit but,
whenever possible, reduce prices so that the student members may purchase meals at the lowest possible cost.
Turning now to the more material side of this undertaking, we shall
consider your Club building. A branch of one of the large downtown department stores is now being constructed' at one side and to the rear.
Its architecture will be in keeping with the " village" atmosphere and it
should add to rather than detract from the value of our property. During
construction we discovered that our eaves encroach upon their property
and also that our foundations were inadequate under present City ordinances. However, through mutual cooperation, these things are being
taken care of by the contractor without expense to us. Except for a

134

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

parking lot on one side of the Clubhouse, the area is now almost solidly
built up, in contrast with twenty-one years ago when this was practically
the only building within a radius of several miles.
The Board has prepared and adopted the following budget for the
ensuing year:
Director •..................,.........,...- .•...•.......................$ 3 ,000.00
Assistant to Director .......................................... 2,280.00
Building Superintendent-Janitor Service........ 1,400.00
Heat, Light, Water, and Power.......................... 1,200.00
Gardener ..............................................................
500.00
Stationery and Printing ....................................
250.00
225.00
Telephone ..............•.............................................
General building maintenance ............................ 1,700.00
Office expense ....................................................
100.00
125.00
Newspapers and periodicals ..............................
Taxes and Assessments ...........................·-········ 3,800.00
300.00
Social Security ................. ,..................................
900.00
Insurance ·····················································-·······
75.00
Postage ................................................................
100.00
Auditing ..............................................................
Depreciation ........................................................ 4,495.00
50.00
Miscellaneous ......................................................

~he:'e two figures make up our total depreciation figure of $4,495.00
a~d is m acco~dance with the recommendation of the Grand Lodge
Finance Committee.
,
(_3) The building was constructed in 1929 and many items will soon
reqmre re~l~cement. As an example, the drapes throughout the building
are the original drapes that were first furnished. They have been repair..
e~ many times but now must be replaced. The cost for this replacement
will be about $4,000.00.
Respectfully submitted,
ELLSWORTH MEYER, Chairman
A. CURTIS SMITH, Vice Chairman
C. EARLE CRANE, Secretary-Treasurer

Total. ........................................................... $20,500.00
Our budget has increased about $3,200.00 due primarily to three
items:( 1 ) Taxes and Assessments from $2,000.00 to $3,800.00
-an increase of ................................................................$1,800.00
( 2) Insurance from $75.00 to $900.()()...-an increase of........ 825.00
( 3) Depreciation from $3,700.00 to $4,495.00an increase of .................................................................... 795.00
$3,420.00
( 1 ) We have heretofore always receive a 50% exemption on our
building property tax but a recent interpretation of a Supreme Court
decision resulted in this being disallowed.
( 2) A 5-year fire insurance policy must be renewed this year. The
premium on this alone is in excess of $900.00.
Our books now show a balance on Buildings and Landscaping, less
depreciation, of $77,364.33. On the basis of amortization over 25 years,
the yearly depreciation figure is $3,095.00.
Our ·books show a balance on Furnishings and Equipment, less depreciation of $13,999.00. On the basis of amortization over 10 years, the
yearly depreciation figure is $1.400.00.

}OHN M. ASKIN
HERBERT H. COOPER '
ALVIN
DRAKE
M.A. DUNCAN
WM. R. GALLAGHER
}OHN A. KLARQUIST
OscAR LAWLER
}oHN STEWART Ross
CLYDE C. SHOEMAKER
E.
WADE
HOWARD WILSON

c.

w.

Referred to Committee on Finance.

135

136

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON DE MOLAY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The present year, as in past years, has seen the activities of your
Committee on De Molay devoted to spreading information among the
members of the Fraternity as to the meaning, aims and accomplishments
of the Order. This is a pleasant task for the reason that, having had
four years of close contact with many Chapters of De Mol~y'.· your
Committee is thoroughly sold on the value of De Molay trammg to
the coming generation and we are sure that if we can succ~ed in getting
the Brethren only half as enthusiastic as is your Committee over the
possibilities of producing good solid, right thinking citizens for the
future, ample support for our endeavors will be forthcoming.
It is just too bad that more of our Masonic Brethren do not visit a
Chapter of De Malay and experience the uplift in spirits and in faith
in the future of our Country conveyed by the serious manner in wh~c~
the degree work is carried on. If it see~s like too much tro~ble ~o v1s1t
a Chapter, let any member of the Committee know and he will brmg the
Chapter to you on one of your Lodge meeting nights, that is fair enough
is it not.
A number of years ago our hard working Past Grand Master.
Charlie Adams, conceived the idea of having a public schools week each
year sponsored by our fraternity, the idea took h~ld and h.as proven a
grand success year after year. Without detractmg one iota for the
value of such a program, for we realize that its scope is g~eat, may w_e
call your attention to the fact that the value of our Pubh~ Schools is
stressed in every first degree in every De Malay Chapter m the land.
The school book, referred to in the ritual. taking its place beside the
Holy Bible on the altar where kneels the initiate.
During the past year Brother Louis Goldstein, Deputy of the Grand
Council of De Molay, has gone to his reward and Brother Carl Olsen
has been selected to fill the vacancy. Brother Olsen had set up a very
fine and comprehensive program for the Order in ~o~t.hern Califor~ia
which include, among thirty other items, such activities as debatmg
teams, plant visits, perfecting degree work and assisting at Masonic
affairs such as public installations, etc. He has also set up rules by
which Advisors may be guided, such as attending to well being of the
Chapter, approval of programs, t'he proper handling of the finances of
the Chapter, etc.
His basic guide for the conduct of Chapters is a concise set of instructions and his presentation of De Malay will give you a picture of its
aims and purposes:
A-To exemplify those traits taught at home.
B-To instill a desire for clean citizenship.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

137

·<-!

C-To create in the mind of youth the desire and need for proper
leadership.
D-To flt him to select proper governing officials locally as well as
nationally.
E-To stimulate devoted patriotism.
In our last report, we referred to an address on the value of De
Molay which was broadcast by the well known radio personality, Knox
Manning. The San Diego member of the committee, Brother Kay Smith,
reports that he has used a recording of the address on a number of
occasions in Lodges in his district and was pleased at the reaction.
Members of the Committee attended a conclave in San Diego at which
were present more than two thousand members of De Molay Chapters.
Brothers Kimbell of San Francisco, Flierl of Hayward, Moyers of
Fresno in the North and Brothers Butterfield of Riverside, Honaker of
Compton, Smith of San Diego and Peters of Los Angeles have given
much of their time and energy in. carrying out the purposes for which
the committee was created and always find a real sense of appreciation
among the Chapters visited, for the recognition which the Grand Lodge
has given the Order by the creation of the Committee.
We recommend the continuance of the committee of ten as approved
by the Grand Lodge at the 1948 Communication and that the sum of
$750.00 be appropriated to cover its necessary expenses for the coming
year.
Respectfully submitted,

C. E. LISTENWALTER
RAY KIMBELL
KAY SMITH
D. MOYERS
HAROLD BUTTERFIELD
WALTER FLIERL
HENRY HONAKER
FRANCIS PETERS

Referred to Committee on Finance.
The Grand Secretary read a telegram of greeting received from Past
Grand Master Samuel E. Burke.

138

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CENTENNIAL
ARRANGEMENTS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Of necessity the report of the Committee is in the nature of a progress report. Arrangements for an appropriate Centennial celebration
have been completed even to detail. For complete information in that
respect a souvenir program is flied herewith as an exhibit.

lt is not possible at this time to express individual appreciations
but it is desired that everyone who has participated in any capacity
should know that the service which has been and will be rendered to
contribute to the complete success of Centennial Week is known to the
members of the Executive Committee and thoroughly appreciated. No
matter how magnificent are the possibilities of a project it can be marred
by failure of or incomplete discharge of those functions which seem
minute or inconsequential. It is anticipated that appropriate acknowledgment will be included in the final report.
For consideration at fhis Communication it is a recommendation
of the Committee that an appropriate record of the Centennial be compiled and published in a volume similar to that in which were set forth
the proceedings of the Diamond Jubilee, under the supervision of the
Grand Secretary.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANCIS V. KEESLING
CARL OLSEN
HERBERT R. HARGRAVE
HARVEY TELLER
CYRIL WEEKS
HENRYC. DAVIS
EARL M. MYERS

Referred to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and
on Finance.
The Grand Master took occasion to express his appreciation and
that of the Grand Lodge to all Committee members who had assisted
in planning and carrying out the arrangements for the Centennial, and
particularly expressed his appreciation to the Grand Treasurer and the
Grand Secretary for what they had done.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

139

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC HISTORY
PUBLICATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee on Masonic History Publication begs to make the
following progress report.
Your Grand Master authorized the publication of the History of 100
Years of Free Masonry in California and bids were obtained from four
San Francisco concerns and three Los Angeles. Griffin Brothers of San
Francisco were the successful bidders.
The work was started soon after the Grand Master approved
the bid.
Two hundred thousand sets of literature were prepared and one
hundred seventy thousand sets have been mailed. the balance of thirty
thousand sets will be in the mail shortly at which time every Mason of
the jurisdiction of California will have received a set.
Volume One is now completed: Volume Two is printed but not
bound. The type has been set for Volumes Three and Four and is in
the hands of the author for proof reading and indexing.
We expect to have the books ready for distribution by December
15, 1950.
Respectfully submitted.
W. I. KOHNKE
JoHNT. BoND
ELMERLoTz

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC HISTORY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Masonic History begs leave to submit the following report.
Pursuant to authorization of the Grand Lodge, your Committee
undertook, two years and nine months ago, to prepare the manuscript
of One Hundred Years of Freemasonry in California.
We are pleased to report that our task has been completed and the
manuscript is now in the hands of the printers. It will comprise a set
of four volumes, containing material collected by the Committee over
a period of more than twenty years.
The writing of this history was a tremendous task and it is as com~
plete and accurate as the facts at hand and the time alloted for its preparation would permit. If the Committee has inadvertently omitted the
stories of any deserving brethren, or has incorrectly recorded facts
regarding any of them, we now offer our humble apologies. We are
hardly naive enough to presume that no errors will be found in a work
covering some two thousand odd pages and dealing with thousands of

140

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

persons whose collective activities embrace a period of more than one
hundred years.
At times the progress of this work was seriously hindered by the
failure of many Lodges to send any material whatsoever to the Committee. Nevertheless, the Committee has diligently endeavored to reconstruct their stories. We have pieced together the meager data in the
Grand Lodge Proceedings and other limited sources, and thereby
gleaned items of interest about certain Lodges that otherwise would
have received scant notice.
It should be further noted that this failure of Lodges to furnish
data on themselves was most unfortunate. During the past three years
the Committee has mailed three circular letters to every Lodge in this
Grand Jurisdiction requesting historical material. and a fourth circular
letter to such Lodges as did not respond to the other three. We have
also sent out literally thousands of letters and post cards to them or their
individual members in quest of specific information-frequently in vain.
Therefore, if any of them feel that they have not received sufficient
attention, they have only themselves to blame, for the Committee has at
all times been exceedingly reluctant to omit anything of real interest.
But despite the difficulties encountered and the extra work necessitated in last minute research, we have thoroughly enjoyed oi.tr work
and we hope that the completed history meets with your approval.
We sincerely thank the Grand Master for his patience, forbearance, and courteous consideration during the past year. He has at all
times shown a deep interest in the completion of this work and, whenever called upon, has materially assisted the Committee.
We are satisfied that many of us have tried his patience "over
much," but as he well knows, it was only in furtherance of the accomplishment of a task imposed upon us by Grand Lodge and not of our
own choosing.
We are also grateful to the members of the Committee on Finance
for their understanding and thoughtful consideration which permitted
us to bring this work to a conclusion at this time.
In conclusion we feel that the Committee on Masonic History
should be contin~ed and, therefore, offer the following resolution and
move its adoption:
· That the Grand Lodge Committee on Masonic History be continued for the ensuing Masonic year and that the sum of $150.00 be
appropriated and set aside for its use.
Respectfully submitted,

Referred to Committee on Finance.

LEON 0. WHITSELL
CHARLES R. INGRAM
WILSON E. NEWLON
SAMUEL STEELMAN
BEN R. WALKER

141

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES OF THE MASONIC HOMES
To The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
.
The Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California herewith present
the Fifty-Eighth Annual Report, for the year ending July 31 , 1950,
together with the reports of the Superintendents of our Homes, and the
financial reports of the Treasurer and Secretary.
.
The Board of Trustees met on October 14, 1949, after the adjournment of Grand Lodge, for the purpose of organization. The election of
Arthur Paulsen, Deputy Grand Master, Louis Drapeau, Senior Grand
Warden and Arthur M . Warren, Junior Grand Warden was formally
reported to the Board and on motion duly made, second and carried they
were elected members of the Board.
The Secretary reported the appointment by the Grand Master of
Chas'. Albert Adams and .Myron F. Smith to the Board for a term of
three years and on motion duly made, seconded and carried they were
elected members of the Board.
In addition to the Deputy Grand Master, Senior and Junior Grand
Wardens, the Board is composed of the following Trustees:
Term expires
Charles M. Wollenberg ..............1950......................................Ralph Head
L. Harold Anderson.................... I 951 .................................Leonard Gross
Chas. Albert Adams.................... 1952 .............................. Myron E. Smith
On motion duly made, seconded and carried Charles M. Wollenberg
was elected President of the Board.
On motion duly made, seconded and carried Leonard Gross was
elected Vice-President of the Board.
By virtue of his office as Grand Treasurer of Grand Lodge, F.&A.M.
of California, Past Grand Master Francis V . Keesling is Treasurer of
the Masonic Homes of California.
By virtue of his office as Grand Secretary of Grand Lodge, F.&A.M.
of California, Past Grand Master Lloyd E. Wilson is Secretary of the
Masonic Homes of California.
COVINA

At Covina the work reported in our last Annual Report has been
completed and the roads have been resurfaced. These properties are
now in excellent shape.
It is becoming imperative that proper housing be provided for the
employees who take care of our children and this also we hope will be
possible in the very near future.
.
We would call your attention to the report of Superintendent Henry
in :Which he gives i~ detail the 4-H program and also the camp program
enJoyed by the children during vacation. We trust that you will not
only read this portion of the report but let the members of your Lodge
know what we are doing in this respect.

142

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We now have picnic grounds and barbecue facilities on the grounds
at the Covina Home to accommodate several hundred persons. These
facilities are available to any Lodge or groups visiting Covina on regular
days of visitations.

necessary funeral expenses of deceased residents of the Homes in an
amount not exceeding $150.00.
. Your Board, ~her~fore, rec?mmends to this Grand Lodge, the adoption of such legislation as will permit the Board of Trustees of the
M~sonic Homes of California to pay the necessary burial expenses of
residents of the Masonic Homes who die while under the supervision of
such Trustees in an amount not to exceed $150.00, thereby relieving the
obligated Lodge to this ex.tent.

DECOTO

Last year we reported in detail the work under way at the Home at
Decato for rehabilitation, reconstruction, modernization and new construction of our plant. This work has all been finished in addition to
landscaping around new buildings and the surfacing of existing and new
roads has also been completed.
We are greatly indebted to Brother John H. Skaggs and Brother
Fred Montell for valuable advice in determining what should be done on
the roads and for inspection and supervision during the progress of the
work.
It is hoped that the long needed residence for our Superintendent at
Decato can receive consideration in the near future. We also hope it
will be possible during the coming year to revamp the lower yard and
arrange for necessary construction for the development of animal husbandry and a poultry unit.
MASONIC HoMES ExECUTIVES Assoc1A TION

The Masonic Homes Executives of the United States, at the invitation of the Board, held their annual convention in San Francisco on
June 19th to 21st, 1950. Your Trustees, together with Superintendent
Eubanks, prepared an outstanding program including both forum discussions and formal addresses on matters of interest to those in attendance. The entertainment provided was in typical California sytle with a
banquet on the opening night at the Masonic Home at Decato and a
concluding luncheon at Fisherman's Wharf. We express our great appreciation to the Grand Master and the Centennial Committee for the
luncheon at the Cliff House and the dinner in Chinatown so generously
provided for the visiting delegates. Our own Superintendent James R.
Eubanks, formerly Vice President, is now President of the Masonic
Homes Executives Association of the U.S.A. and we congratulate him
on this well-deserved recognition.
FUNERAL POLICY

Under Sections of HO and 717, Edicts and Resolutions of Grand
Lodge, it is the responsibility of each Lodge to bear the funeral expense
of any of its members or their widows who pass away while a resident
of the Masonic Homes.
In the light of many problems which have arisen in the application
of this rule, your Board has long sought a more equitable solution and,
after due consideration of all of the factors involved, is convinced that
the Masonic Homes of Calfiornia should be empowered to bear the

143

FINANCES

During the fiscal year ending July 31, 1950 the total funds available
for Homes' Operation were derived as follows:
Per Capita Tax 50c levied October 1948
and paid in August 19'i9..........................................$ 94,091 .00
Endowment Fund Income................................................ 95,722.56
$25.00 Fee paid by Initiates.......................................... 252,100.00
Other Income .................................................................. 53,964.25
Total ..................................................................$'i9S,8n.81
These funds were used to meet operating expenses totaling $466 _
733.72 leaving a net gain of $29,144.09.
'
The income listed above does not include $293, l 19.83 received
through beq~ests. The money so derived is used .for building projects
~nd for special purposes and no part thereof is used for general operations.
The rising costs due to inflation and other causes beyond the control
of the Trustees together with a lower return on investments has caused
your Trustees to become somewhat concerned with the fiscal future of
the Homes.
A spe~al committee of Trustees was requested to make a survey of
Homes Fmances and the following is a copy of their report:
GENERAL FISCAL OPERATION

. A sur:ey of the operating figures for the last 20 years as reported
m the various proceedings indicate the following:
1. The major source of income to the Homes is derived from the
$25.0~ tax on Initiates and from the per capita levy upon the
Constituent Lodges.
·
2. Eli~inating the per .capita ~or the Building Fund, the revenue
available for Homes operation has been insufficient except for
the fiscal years of 1937, 1943, 1944, 1945, 1946, and 1947.
Considering these facts, it is necessary to examine the trend in First
degrees conferred and also total membership statistics.

144

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

First Degrees Conferred: From a total of 3,760 First Degrees in
1916, the figure rose to 10,547 in 1920. A sharp drop to 8,200 was
experienced in 1921. The figure then leveled off for 6 years with minor
changes. A decline was again experienced in 1928 and a precipitous
drop was felt in 1933 when the total fell to an all time low of 1.810
for that year. The totals again started to rise until 1941 when we went
up to 3,200. During the war years the applications poured in and the
high peak was 14,920 in 1946. Again a sharp drop was experienced in
1947-8 and today we are conferring about 9,000 per year with a tendency
to level off.
· Total Membership: Total membership moved slowly from 122,000
in 1926 to a high of 142,000 in 1931. A moderate decline then developed
until the low figure of 125 ,000 in 1941. Since then, we have increased
each year until our high point of 196,800 as of July 31. 1950. With
applications dropping off, it is entirely possible that we may stay at
approximately this figure for the next few years.
Translating these figures into dollars, the net result would be:
Annual funds available from lnitiates.......................... $225,000.00
Annual funds available from $1.00 per capita ............ 194,000.00
(allowing for remissions)
PER CAPITA

For many years a per capita was levied at the rate of $.50 to cover
Building Fund expenditures. This constitution~} requirement was repealed at the Communication of 1946. An additional levy for operation
in varying amounts was levied until 1943 when that levy was abandoned.
At the Communication of 1948. a levy was again made at the rate of
$.5q and ip. 1949 it was increased to $1.00.
CONTRIBUTIONS-BUILDING FUND

On August 8, 1948, the Trustees adopted a resolution to the effect
that all bequests under wills be allocated to the Building Fund unless a
specific clause prohibited such disposition.
This resolution provides for the development of the Building Fund
and will make available _sums which can be used for repairs and for new
construction.
COST OF MAINTENANCE

The cost of operating our Homes has increased materially during the
last ten years due to economic conditions. It should be apparent to all
that there will be no appreciable decline in these expenses. On the
contrary, the eniargement of our faciilties will increase the capacity of
the Homes. This requires an increase in cost for personnel and for
subsistence for new guests. In addition, the proposed , pension set-up
will also increase the general operating expenses.

145

ENDOWMENT FUND

Section 100 of the Constitution relates to the $25.00 from Initiates.
etc.
Paragraph 2. sentence 4 reads as follows:
"When the amount thus collected and so held shall be more than
sufficient, in the judgment of the Trustees, to provide for the
maintenance of the Homes and for such improvements as are
then in prol:Jress or contemplated for the immediate future, the
surplus shall be by them allocated to the Endowment Fund."
Under this provision, funds have been allocated to the Endowment
Fund and during the last five years, $300,000.00 has been thus transferred.
This provision places a restraint upon the Trustees and prevents them
from holding funds collected during good years for use during declines
when it would be unwise to further increase per capita taxes. In fact,
if the Homes had been permitted to .h old the last $300,000.00 in reserve,
there would be no occasion to restore the per capita levy against the
Lodges for some time to come. It is the recommendation of the Committee that necessary steps be taken to amend the Constitution to
eliminate this clause.
If this is carried out, then the Trustees should continue the levy of
$1.00 per capita placing it in the General Fund for operations with no
part thereof being allocated to building. They should also reserve the
right to transfer to building reserves such sums as my seem appropriate
if in their judgment a substantial surplus appears in the General Fund.
If these two measures are carried into effect, the Budget for the fiscal
year ending July 31. 1952 would appear as follows:
Misc. Income
Endowment Income
Home Contri.
$ 41.000.00
$ 94,000.00
$225,000.00
Per Capita
Total Income
Operating Expense
$194,000.00
$554,000.00
$500,000.00
This would provide for a balanced budget provided the item of
income from endowments equaled 1950 and if our forecast of new
candidates is realized. The per capita and cost of maintenance are based
upon present experience.
*
*
*
The Trustees concur in the views expressed by the Committee and
to carry into effect its recommendations, we request that Section 100
of the Constitution be amended by striking therefrom sentence 4 in
paragraph 2 of said section. The sentence to be omitted is:
,
"When the amount thus collected and so held shall be more than
sufficient, in the judgment of the Trustees, to provide for the
maintenance of the Homes and for such improvements as are
then in progress or contemplated for the immediate future, the

147

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

surplus shall be by them allocated to the Endowment Fund."
We further recommend that the per capita tax of $1.00 be continued
for the support of the Masonic Homes of California for the fiscal year
beginning August 1, 1951.

Report of Superintendent-Decoto Home

116

CHARLES M. WOLLENBERG, President
LEONARD GROSS, Vice~President
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS

L. HAROLD ANDERSON
Loms c. DRAPEAU
RALPH HEAD
ARTHUR PAULSEN
MYRON E. SMITH
ARTHUR M.

w ARREN

To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
Brethren: In submitting my 10th annual report as Superintendent
of the Masonic Home at Decoto, for the year ending July 31, 1950, I
am pleased to report that conditions, generally speaking, are very good
and with few exceptions the morale of the Home has been satisfactory
during the year.
There has been the usual routine in the management of the Home.
It has been our endeavor to operate economically and efficiently and to
provide every care and comfort for our residents.
Mrs. Virginia Lord, our Matron, has been successful in creating and
maintaining an atmosphere in the Home which has brought a large
measure of contentment in the lives of the members of our large family
who are enjoying the care and protection of the Home.
Our hospital department has been operating very efficiently under
the supervision of Miss Esther G. Payne, ably assisted by Miss Bess
L. Payne. At present there are 6i patients in this department who are
receiving, in a most efficient manner, that kind care, love and protection
which they require and so richly deserve.
At the beginning of the year we had 172 women and 123 men, the
average age for the women was 78,81 and for the men 77.95. During
the year 27 women were admitted. average age 76.48, and 26 men,
average age 76.92. We lost by death, during the same period, 21 women,
average age 87.15, and 26 men, average age 77.96, and 5 men and 2
women were withdrawn, leaving at the end of the year 176 women,
average age 78.85, and 118 men, average age 79.14. Included in this
number are 14 married couples.
Age groups are as follows:
Men
Between 50 and 60 years...........·-·········· 2
60 and 70 years........................ 8
70 and 80 years........................ 47
80 and 90 years........................ 54
90 and 100 years........................ 7
118

Women
2
15
77
76
6
176

As in previous years, the greater portion of the farm land has been
leased on a cash basis. The returns from that portion which is retained
for Home use are as follows:

148

149

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
CHARGED TO HOME

Fruits-fresh, frozen and dried....................$ 650.25
Hay ................................................................ 360.00
Meat-pork, 52 carcasses, 11,753 lbs ........... 2,938.25
Nuts-walnuts ..............................................
75.00
Vegetables .................................................... 196.15

$4.219.65

SoLD FOR CAsH
10 Hogs .......•.....................:...........,................$ 396.00
69.00
1 Stag ..........................................................
57.85
1 Sow ............................................................

522.85

$4,742.50
Gross Receipts, Canteen, $7,479.17. Gross profits, $1,036.79. Less
salaries, $240.00. Net profit, $796. 79.
The extensive building program which was undertaken some two
years ago is now completed. We find at the completion of this work
that the badly needed quarters in the main building and in the hospital
have been provided. The extra quarters in the main building have
eliminated the waiting list and should take care of our requirements for
years to come. The work in the hospital has provided not only extra
beds, but also provided facilities which enable the staff to render a more
efficient service to their patients. The alterations and addition to our
kitchen have improved working conditions in that department and the
new dining room for our employees is very much appreciated by them.
We owe Brother Skaggs and his able assistant Brother Montell a
debt of thanks and we shall be ever grateful to them for the excellent
work they did on our driveways.
There were 41 Masonic Jurisdictions represented among the 2693
who signed our visitors register during the past year. Included in this
number were Grand Lodge officers from China, Washington, Nevada,
Vermont, and representatives from Manila No. 1, Saipan No. 121, and
Pacific Lodge No. 2, New Zealand.
Since 1916 the East Bay Past Matrons Associations has been holding annually in August a reception at the Masonic Home for their Grand
Matron. This year on August 19th about 600 of these kind ladies journeyed to the Masonic Home to attend the reception and brought with
them a goodly supply of jams and jellies. After an informal luncheon
in the banquet room the ladies adjourned to the auditorium where Grand
Matron Margaret Hughes Lauritzen and Grand Patron Dr. Arthur J.
Hook and their Grand Lodge officers were received and introduced.
On August 14, 1949, the East Bay Masters & Wardens Association,
Dr. Robert H. Taylor, President, in company with about 125 members
of the Association made their annual visit to the Home, enjoyed their

usual barbecue and presented an excellent program in our auditorium
for the entertainment of the residents of the Home.
In addition to the above mentioned programs the members of the
Home have enjoyed many excellent programs which have been brought
to the Home by Lodges and various groups from the Bay area and as
far south as Los Angeles.
The following distributing companies are still supplying to the Home,
"gratis," excellent weekly programs which the residents of the Home
enjoy immensely and for which they are very grateful : R.K.O., Columbia, United Artists, Warner Bros., M.G.M., and Twentieth CenturyFox.
Our library is a very popular place, particularly for those who are
of literary inclination. This department is kept well supplied with periodicals and daily papers as well as a fine assortment of fine books. Being
a branch of the county library we are able to supply any book which is
desired even though we do not have it in our library.
Devotional services are conducted each Sunday. The Reverend
Geoffrey C. Hinshelwood, who was appointed Chaplain of the Home,
conducts services one Sunday each month and appoints a minister to
conduct services on the other Sundays.
Grand Secretary Lloyd E. Wilson and Grand Treasurer Francis V.
Keesling have, on many occasions, honored us with visits during the
year.
Our Trustees, individually and collectively, have visited the Home
quite frequently during the year. Their counsel is always helpful and
deeply appreciated. It is my desire to thank the Board of Trustees for
the kind consideration they have always given to the various problems
in the Home.
In conclusion the Matron joins me in expressing our appreciation
of the efficient and conscientious work on the part of our department
heads and our employees. Their earnest efforts in connection with their
department has been a factor in maintaining the high standard of service
which is maintained in the several departments of the Home.
Respectfully submitted,

J. R. EUBANKS,
Superintendent.

150

151

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Report of the Superintendent-Covina Home

each year. In the play productions given by the High School many
of our boys played leading roles. These are but a few of the positione
of responsibility accepted by the Home's family. Six of our senior boys
are members of the George Washington Chapter, Order of De Molay
-three boys holding offices of Scribe, First Preceptor and Fifth Preceptor. Eleven senior and intermediate girls are active members of
Bethel No. 98, Order of Job's Daughters. Offices held in the Bethel
include Guide, Marshal. Assistant Recorder, Senior Custodian, Treasurer, First Messenger, Outer Guard, Inner Guard, and Alternate Musician. The children attend the church of their preference.

To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
It is with a fee]ing a gratitude and appreciation that I am privileged
to present herewith my second annua] report of the Masonic Home for
Chi1dren at Covina, for the year ending Ju1y 31, 1950.
HOME MEMBERSHIP

"Our Home'' family encountered a slight decrease this past fisca]
year. Of thirteen chiJdren Jeaving the Home, seven were by graduation
from Covina Union High Schoo] and six to re-established homes. New
members of our Home fami]y induded seven boys and three gir1s. In
addition, one girJ was readmitted. Thus our popu]ation is now fifty~
seven, comprised of thirty-seven •b oys and twenty gir]s.

Family Status
Orphans
H/O Fathers Living
H/O Mothers Jiving
Both parents living

Children
7
8
18
24

Families

57

38

4

6
H

H

Family relationship within the Home consists of the following: One
family of four children: one family of three children; thirteen families
of two children each: twenty~four families of one child. Eleven chil~
dren representing seven families are in the Home under membership
of the grandparents. Total number of Lodges having wards in the
Home-forty. The average length of children's residence in the Home
is four years. Our youngest member is seven years of age and our
oldest member is eighteen years of age. Thirty-five children are enrolled
in Charter Oak Gram.qiar School, first grade through the eighth grade
and twenty-two children at Covina Union High Schoo], ninth grade
through the twelfth grade. Our seven graduates were aU young men:
two have enlisted in the service of their country. one in the U. S. Navy
and the other in the U. S. Air Force. Two boys obtained positions and
are self-supporting and three will enter college to continue their education. One will attend the University of Southern California, majoring
in dentistry. Two graduates are residing at the Home and while attending Mount San Antonio Junior College are assisting your younger chil~
dren by tutoring and guidance.
SCHOOL AND COMMUNITY ACTNITIES

Our children this year have participated in and held many prominent
positions in school and community activities. One of our graduates
was president of the Senior Clas! at High School. Another High Schoo]
boy represented the Home by attending Boys' State, held at Sacramento

PROGRAM AND SUMMER ACTIVITIES

For the second year every boy and gir1 enjoyed a wonderful camping experience at San Clemente State Beach Park. Camp activities began
July 6 and ended August 20. Three camping periods of two weeks'
duration afforded the various age level individuals a speciaJizing of
interests. Surf fishing, deep sea fishing, swimming, hiking, campfire
programs, horseback trips, overnight "sleepouts," the Laguna Art Festival and many other excursion trips were planned and supervised by a
trained and competent staff. Our healthy, happy youngsters are living
proof of a successful summer camp. This experience is never to be
forgotten in the minds of the children and serves as a stimulant in our
routine school program. The educational and inspirational influences of
such activities have a far reaching effect upon the normal growth and
development of our children. Instruction in ceramics has been added to
our program, aUowing for self-expression and individual attainment by
even our youngest girl. In addition to individual musical instruction such
as piano and voice, a girls' choral group has been formed. Vigorous
athletic activities, allowing for group and individual participation, are
a motivating factor toward the maintaining of a healthy body in support
of an active mind for many a boy and girl.
Highlighting the Home's program this past year has been the organization of a 4-H Club. This group, composed entirely of Home membership of intermediate boys and girls, has very aptly selected as their
name "Masonic Pioneers.'' Each member has been afforded an opportunity to purchase and maintain an animal or home-making project. The
products of their endeavor are purchased and consumed within the
Home. Entry into the 4-H Fair, held at Pomona, California, witnessed
the children receiving twenty-one ribbons and awards for their efforts.
Of more importance than the educational value, is the straightening of
stature that accompanies pride of ownership in the reaJization of personal
accomplishment.
LODGE VISITATIONS

It was our pleasure to welcome to the Covina Home a total of three
thousand six hundred and ninety-nine visitors during the year, including

153

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

fifty-four Lodges and affiliated Masonic organizations as group visitations. The deep interest in the Home and the children's welfare, as
expressed by Masonic friends and manifest in numerous ways. is sincerely appreciated by staff and children alike. Gifts brought to the
Home are recorded in another section of the Home's report, but we
should like to mention the generosity of the Masonic Lodges in contributing money for the various Home projects, play equipment, jams,
jellies, candy, etc.

special orthordontia treatment by Doctors ~dnt, Mcintosh, and Paul.
Six appendectomies, one hernia repair, four tonsillectomies, one fracture,
and twelve cases of mumps are recorded. Ophthalmic examinations ·and
visual training are maintained at regular intervals, toward the end that
the complete physical well being of each child is assured. Attractive
pink and white uniforms are worn by senior girls assisting as nurses'
aids in our hospital. Instruction and training, as well as actual experience
in our clinic program, is afforded those girls expressing interest in nursing as a possible career. One girl being trained in our clinic maintained
and operated the clinic during our summer camping program. In this
spacious and sunny solarium a piano has been added for the pleasure
of the convalescent patients.

152

ENTERTAINMENT

Through the courtesy of six major studios the children enjoy a
weekly movie at the Home's "Little Theatre." The best of feature and
comedy pictures have been provided for our use by Columbia Pictures
Corporation, Loew' s Incorporated, RKO Radio Pictures Incorporated,
Twentieth Century-Fox Film Corporation, Universal Film Exchanges,
and Warner Brothers Pictures. Incorporated. Other programs of entertainment included a barbecue picnic given by Huntington Beach Lodge
No. 380 and Christmas parties by Hollywood Lodge No. 355, Carmelita
Lodge No. 599, Monrovia Lodge No. 308 and Sojourner Lodge No.
607. Our big "family" Christmas party was held on December 21 and
for the children remaining at the Home over the Christmas holidays a
special party was given. A week-end snow trip to Lake Arrowhead was
enjoyed by every boy and girl. The San Bernardino Santa Fe Masonic
Club was a gracious host to the children upon the occasion of the
National Orange Show at San Bernardino and members of Fezzan
Grotto of Whittier were hosts to the children and staff at their annual
vaudeville show; Granada Lodge No. 608 sponsored a fireworks display
on the Home grounds, featuring approximately five thousand fireworks.
A more complete list of entertainment activities will be found elsewhere
in this report.
HEALTH PROGRAM

It has been a very gratifying year in the operation of our health
program and we are grateful to our doctors and nurses for their help
in keeping the children in good health. One hundred and sixty-one
children were admitted to our Home hospital, with a total of nine
hundred and seventy-six hospital days. Four thousand eight hundred
and ninety-three Home clinic treatments were given and prophylactic
treatments numbered two thousand one hundred and three. Physical
examination of the children was made at regular intervals by Dr. W. P.
Magan and his associates, whereby an accurate record of the health
progress of each child was maintained by our head nurse. Correct
dietary values through careful menu planning, special nourishment and
rest when needed, vitamin supplement, and smallpox and triple vaccine,
all play an important part in keeping the children well. Dr. Ellwood
Laine, our visiting dentist, gave two hundred and twenty-five treatments
in the Home dental clinic during the year. Eight children are receiving

FARM AND GROUNDS

Farm activities continue to move in the direction of our long range
plan, whereby the Home, supplemented by the Masonic Pioneers' 4-H
Club live stock and poultry projects, will raise the necessary amount of
beef, pork, rabbits, and poultry for Home consumption. Under the
direction and guidance of our farm supervisor we are making good
headway and have during this past year butchered approximately three
hundred ninety-four pounds of dressed beef; two thousand five hundred
sixty-two pounds of dressed pork; one hundred seventy-eight pounds of
dressed rabbit; one hundred fifty-three pounds of dressed duck and one
thousand two hundred seventy-nine pounds of dressed chicken, all of
which was consumed at the Home. Part of the pork was converted
into hams and bacon.
The planting of shrubs and flowers has added to our landscaped
area. Under the trees on the west side of the athletic field a complete
picnic barbecue has been installed. Cooking facilities and tables with
benches will accommodate two hundred persons and a storehouse to
protect movable barbecue equipment has been built close to the area.
A careful study has been made of the groves because of quick decline
of trees in our area and as a result a program of partial re-plant and an
organization of cultural practices has been undertaken. Supervision and
guidance of this survey has been graciously forthcoming from Mr. W. J.
(Bill) Williams.
HOME ALUMNI

The fourth Sunday in September, which each year is set aside as
Alumni Home-Coming Day, is an exciting time for the children at the
Home. They enjoy meeting the former residents and their children.
Last Alumni Day was well attended, as was the Annual Alumni Dinner
in San Francisco. Invitations to these affairs were mailed to all Alumni.
A copy of Newsletter No. 24, comprising seventy-four pages, recording
activities for the past year at the Home and news received from Alumni

154

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

In all parts of the country, was mailed to seven hundred alumni and

friends .
May I express the deep appreciation of our entire Home family for
the counsel and guidance by each member of the Board of Trustees,
thus affording us a more desirable opportunity to work with those less
fortunate.
Respectfully submitted,
ROBERT M. HENRY,
Superintendent
Ref erred to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes, on
Finance and on Jurisprudence.
See special appendix for Financial a nd Statistical tabulations.

155

MEMORIAL SERVICE
Wednesday, October 11, 1950, at 11 : 00 A. M .
1.

Song: "Unto Thee, 0 Lord" (First Performance) ........... Anderson

2.

Invocation: (see below-Continuity 46.A) ............Grand Chaplain

3.

Report of Committee on Necrology............Roy C. Bryan, Chairman

4.

Song: "Within This Sacred Dwelling".................................Mozart
(Aria from "The Magic Flute")

5.

Benediction .............................. ~········-·························Grand Chaplain

6.

Memorial Song: "Taps" ........................................................Custance

INVOCATION
Oh, God, source of compassion and comfort, lift up our thoughts to
the Eternal Hills of Light, where dwell with Thee the heroes, the
martyrs, the saints, the good folk of all time. ·
We are met in this solemn moment to remember our Masonic Broth.
ers who have heard a Divine Summons and have passed beyond the
portals of our human lodges. As we walk in memory's hall, we recall
their virtues as true men and Masons and we give thanks to Thee for
their lives of uprightness and honor. We rejoice in the confident faith
that they, having lived well, do now dwell with Thee in a land fairer
than our dreams. ·
Help us to know that there is "no lost musk and no lost goodthat Life is ever lord of Death and love can never lose its own."
Bring to all our hearts the assurance that death is not the end, that
indeed it is the beginning of a new and more wonderful adventure with
Thee, 0 God. Whisper to our hearts that always Thou hast something
richer and better out ahead for us.
Soon or late, we all will have a rendezvous with Death. Let us not
be afraid of it. Rather, let us face it with the anticipation that Thou
hast a greater life for each of us. So in this quiet moment of memory,
may we gather fresh strength to live bravely and nobly. May we face
the future with smiling faces and hearts that are unafraid, praying only
that at the end of life's last long mile we may hear the Supreme Grand
Master say, "Well done. Enter into the celestial lodge to dwell with
thy brothers and with me forever." Amen.

156

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON NECROLOGY
The flat of nature is inexorable. Death is the portion of every
living thing. Awake or sleeping, it is our constant companion. Its call
may come to us at any moment and, be we prepared or not, the summons
cannot be denied. Death strikes so often and time passes so swiftly,
that it will not be long before this great celebration of the 1OOth anniversary of the founding of the Grand Lodge of California will be only a
pleasant memory to the few, and just another historical event to the
many.
The names of those we lament here today will be to those who come
later only a part of a record, and when we, in our turn, respond to the
final call, our names and our records will, in such a very short time,
be found only in the dusty archives. These truths should not depress
us for it is God's way, and it is in God that we are and have our being,
and we do not doubt, nor argue, nor quibble with His wisdom.

In the past 52 weeks, 280 Masters and Past Masters, members of
this Grand Lodge, have responded to the final call. Schofield Lodge
No. 443 of the Territory of Hawaii suffered the heaviest loss, five of
its Past Masters being summoned to the Grand Lodge above. Fidelity
Lodge No. 120, and South Pasadena Lodge No. 367, lost four each.
Six lodges lost three each, 48 lodges lost two each, and 153 lodges lost
one each. Long and faithful service is a characteristic of those who
serve Free Masonry, and in the past year eleven lodges have each lost
a Past Master whose activities in the Fraternity covered fifty years or
more.
Our Fraternity is accustomed to events of unique and distinctive nature, and in the passing of Adrian Benjamin Barnett, Past' Master
of Elsinore Lodge No. 289, something unusual has been added to the
record. Brother Barnett served his lodge as Master in 1914 and again
in 1940, an interval of 26 years elapsing between his first and second
installation.
}AMES HAMILTON LASH

The Grand Lodge of California in its long and eventful history has
been honored by the services of many great men. The office of Grand
Chaplain has been occupied by outstanding spiritual leaders. One of
the most learned, beloved and admired men to direct our religious
services died December 17, 1949 at his home in Hollywood, California.
Dr. James Hamilton Lash was born in Athens, Ohio, June 18, 1872.
From his early childhood the stories of the Bible fascinated him. His
regular attendance at Sunday school and church functions gradually
brought the realization that his life should be dedicated to the service
of his fellow man and the spreading of religious knowledge. Accord-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

157

ingly his education was directed along those lines. He studied at Hillsdale College and Hillsdale Theological Seminary in Hillsdale, Michigan, graduating with high honors. He also studied at the Union Theological Seminary. He was an active member of Delta Tau Delta
Fraternity.
After ordination Dr. Lash accepted pastorates in Indiana and later
in Minnesota. Coming to California, he became pastor of the Congregational Church at Rialto. His success at that church was recognized
and he soon received a call to the Lake Avenue Congregational Church
in Pasadena, where he served for nine yars.
When Brother Lash became pastor of the Hollywood Congregational Church on Hollywood Blvd. in 1919, services were being held in
a womens' clubhouse across the street from the location of the present
church. He immediately began a building program and before the year
y.ras out, officiated at the cornerstone rites for Woodruff Chapel, out of
which the new sanctuary stemmed. He resigned his pastorate early in
1949 but despite his relinquishment of active duties he was called upon
in November to lay the cornerstone of a new structure, thus terminating
the building program begun by him so many years before. His labors
were responsible for the magnificent buildings which now form the
church.
Despite the heavy responsibilities of his official position, he found
time to serve as moderator and president of the board of directors of the
Southern California Congressional Conference in 1914 and 1915, and
as a director from 1932 to the time of his death. He also served as
President of the Association of Ministers of Los Angeles and vicinity
in 1934. On several occasions Dr. Lash was speaker at the Easter Sunrise Services in Hollywood Bowl, a religious service that is broadcast
not only through the United States but throughout the world.
He was active in civic affairs and as chairman directed the affairs
of the Community Chest in 1929-1930-1931. He was a member of
Hollywood Rotary Club, and served one term as president.
It was only natural that one of so deep religious understanding
should become interested in Free Masonry. In 1923, he petitioned
Hollywood Lodge No. 355. He was initiated November 10, 1923,
passed December 13, and raised December 27 of the same year. He
was also a member of Hollywood Council No. 33 Royal and Select
Masters; Hollywood Chapter No. 120 Royal Arch Masons, and Hollywood Commandery No. 56 Knights Templar ..
At the 96th Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of California, held in the City of San Francisco in October, 1945, the newly
elected Grand Master, Most Worshipful Lawrence C. Kelly, appointed
Brother Lash to the exalted position of Grand Chaplain. Only 12 days
after his installation, Grand Master Kelly was taken by death, and the
Deputy Grand Master, Right Worshipful Arthur W. Brouillet, sue-

158

159

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ceeded to the office of Grand Master. Brother Brouillet recognizing, as
had Brother Kelly, the exceptional ability of Brother Lash and his devotion to the Fraternity affirmed the appointment, and Brother Lash
served with great honor to himself and to the Fraternity.
Brother Lash is survived by his widow, the former Frances Rebecca
Colyer, to whom he was married in 1906, and by their daughter, Mrs.
Frances Switzer, Corona, California.
Our present Grand Chaplain in speaking of the passing of Dr. Lash
said: "With love and honor, . we salute the memory of th~ gallant
Brother and noble Christian knight." With this brotherly thought we
leave him in the loving care of the Great Architect of the Universe.

affiliations were the Scottish Rite and Islam Temple of the Shrine. He
served the Fraternity as an active member for more than 66 years.
Our Brother was married to Miss Ben Venuta Casselini in 1881
at San Francisco. Of this union three children were born, one son and
two daughters. He is survived by one daughter, Mrs. Cleria Balotti,
also two sisters and two grand-daughters, one of whom is the well
known actress and radio performer Bene-Venuta, now of Hollywood.
Brother Scalmanini's life was in the best tradition of the aggressive
and developing West. He served Masonry with a zeal and devotion
exceeded by few men. We are grateful that he cast his lot with us.
GEORGE EDWIN DELAVAN

JOHN SCALMANINI

The Grand Lodge of California has five lodges working in languages other than English-two work in French, two in German, and
one, Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219 of the City of San Francisco,
working in Italian. Speranza Italiana Lodge on July 22, 1949, lost one
of its most beloved Past Masters, and one who served as Inspector for
17 consecutive years.
John Scalmanini was born March 1, 1861 in Tesserete, a village in
the Italian speaking section of southern Switzerland, a short distance
· from the Italian frontier. The spirit of adventure so dominant in youth,
and the fabulous stories of the American West then so current in
Europe, caused him to seek his fortune in the new world: He arrived in
California in October, 1878, and finding San Francisco exactly to his
liking he spent the balance of his life as a resident of that city.
In his business career Brother Scalmanini was part owner of the
newspaper Elvezia, a periodical devoted to the interests of · those of
Swiss ancestry. He was active as an insurance broker, and for 30 years
was secretary of the Colma Vegetable Growers Association.
He was a charitable man and had a deep feeling of understanding
and sympathy for those less fortunate than himself. He furnished the
funds to found a hospital in Tesserete and his efforts assured its maintenance. He organized the Swiss Relief Society of Mutual Help and
served as its secretary for many years. At his death he left substantial
sums to the Shrine Hospital for crippled children and also to the American Cancer Society.
Brother Scalmanini was made a Master Mason in Speranza Italiana
Lodge No. 219 in 1883. He held the exalted position of Master for
the Masonic year 1887-1888. Elected secretary of his lodge in December, 1900, he discharged the duties of that office for more than 30 years.
He was a trustee of the lodge from 1920 until his death. Inspector of
the 115th District from 1904 to 1921. Received the 50 year emblem
from Grand Lodge on his birthday, March 1, 1933. His other Masonic

On November 2, 1949, George E. Delavan died at his home, 912
South Plymouth Blvd. in the City of Los Angeles, at the age of 69.
George was born at Green, Iowa, the son of Sarah Inger and George
E. Delavan, natives of New York State.
Brother Delavan received his early education in the public schools
of Green and Estherville, Iowa. Following graduation from high scheel,
he attended Grinnel College, and later obtained his law degree from
the University of Iowa.
For reasons of health, George came to California in 1904, selecting
Los Angeles as the field for his future activities. Desiring to become
better acquainted with the community of his adoption he worked for
several years as a clerk in the offices of outstanding law firms, and when
he felt that his understanding of local conditions justified his actions,
he opened his own law office and practiced his profession with distinction until his death.
George Delavan was one of the pioneers of the suburban movement.
When Los Angeles began its phenomenal increase in population he
became a commuter, establishing his home at Manhattan Beach. He
immediately became interested in the problems of the village, and his
ready solution of many vexing problems so impressed his fellow citizens
that they elected him Mayor and he served in this position for 8 years.
For 6 years he presided as President of the Redondo Union Board of
Education, and much of the success of that educational district -is due
to his efforts. The Community Chest of Manhattan Beach claimed his
attention and for several years he was its chairman.
George Delavan was a deeply religious man and one of his first
acts upon arrival in California was to affiliate with the Pico Heights
Congregational Church, where he taught Sunday school, organized the
boys' band, established the annual reunion of former Sunday school
students, which organization is now in its 37th year. He also assisted
in the work of the choir of the Manhattan Community Church.

161

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

It was only logical that one so deeply immersed in religious matters
should become interested in Free Masonry. and, in 1909, he applied to
Sunset Lodge No. 352. Being initiated into the several degrees, he was
raised August 31 that same year. He occupied the Oriental Chair for
the year 1913. He gave unstintingly of his time, his efforts, and his
substance to further the interests of the Fraternity and as a result he
was honored by Grand Master Leon 0. Whitsell with the appointment
of Inspector of the 73rd Masonic District. Succeeding Grand Masters
renewed his appointment and he served until a short time before his
death, when ill health forced his resignation. He also gave valuable
service to the Scottish Rite Bodies of Los Angeles, being a member of
the class graduating July 16, 1915. He was a member of Al Malaikah
Temple of the Shrine.
His wisdom, counsel and guidance were an inspiration to his legion
of brethren, and Masonry is better because he served her so well.
George is survived by his widow, Louise, and by two daughters.
George Delavan was a grand man, with a fine personality, a radiance, a magnificent sense of humor. We miss him greatly.

Army's Central Advisory Board here for more than a quarter of a
century, and in 1942, in recognition of his long and faithful work, he
was given the organization's.highest award, the Order of Distinguished
Auxiliary Service. He was a close personal friend of General Evangeline Booth.
He also directed the campaign in this area to raise $10,000,000 to
build an International Christian University in Tokio, a campaign still
in progress.
As a civic and religious leader he served for many years as an elder
of the Calvary Presbyterian Church. He was active in Islam Temple
and a staunch supporter of the Shriners Hospital for Crippled Children,
which he dedicated in 1923.
In 1948 he was elected president of the Civic League of Improvement Clubs, and at his death was honorary president emeritus of the
organization.
He was a past grand patron of the Order of Eastern Star in California, a past master of Bethlehem Lodge No. 453, F. & A. M., a
member and past commander of the Golden Gate Commandery of the
Knights Templar, member California Bodies A. & A. S. R., member
Islam Temple of the Shrine, member Casimir Chapter No. 252, O. E. S.,
member S. F. Chapter No. 1 R. A. M.
He was a past president of the St. Andrews Society, a member of
the Caledonian Club, Union League Club, and the San Francisco and
American Bar associations.
He was a leader of the California bar. He represented the Golden
Gate Bridge and Highway District from 1940 until his death. Earlier
in his career he was one of the first and most successful attorneys for
the Chinese and was instrumental in bringing peace among the tongs.
He was counsel for the Chinese Six Companies for many years.
One of his brothers was Gavin McNab, one of California's leading
Democrats. The brothers were vigorous opponents in many state and
national political campaigns, but this did not affect their close and affectionate personal relationships. John L. was largely self-educated. He
attended public schools in Mendocino County and attended Oakland
high school for two years, leaving at the age of 18. Deciding on a legal
career, he went for advice to his older brother, Gavin, already a successful lawyer. His brother's advice: "Read Blackstone 12 times." He
did, over a period of three years and together with considerable other
studying. As soon as he reached his 21st birthday, he took and passed
the State Bar Examination. He returned to Ukiah and established a
successful practice. Almost immediately he entered politics and while
still in his early 20' s became one of the youngest members of the Republican State Central Committee.
His first political activity of scope came in 1899 when, at the age of

160

JoHN L. McNAB

Born March 3, 1873, on his father's 10,000 acre sheep ranch near
Ukiah, California, one of five brothers and a sister, all of whom, except
John L., were born in Scotland. His parents were Alexander and Susan
McNab, from Glasgow.
·
His death on March 17, 1950, at Hahnemann Hospital, in San
Francisco, brought to a close an active career of more than half a century-a .career that began on the Ukiah ranch and brought him national
fame as a legal prosecutor and defender, as a confidant of Presidents,
as an orator, philanthropist and a religious leader. High point of his
political career came at the Republican National Convention in ~ansas
City in 1928, when he nominated Herbert Hoover for. the Presiden~y
of the United States. His nomination speech was considered a classic.
Though he never held an elective politi~l office .and sought .such
office only once, he was a strong influence m Republican party cu:cles
all of his professional life.
He served on many Government commissions and in appointive
positions and directed numerous political cam~aigns, including th~t of
· Governor Frank Merriam in 1934. He sometimes crossed party Imes,
as in 1946 when he supported John F. Shelley for lieutenant governor.
He was politically active up to the time of his last illn~ss, ":hen he ':as
. engaged as co-chairman of State Senator Gerald.J. 0 Gara s campaign
for re-election.
His philanthropic activities were widespread. He is best known for
his work with The Salvation Army. He served as chairman of the

163

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

25, he stumped California on behalf of President McKinley's campaign
for re-election.
In 1911 he abandoned his practice in Ukiah and moved to San
Francisco. He was appointed U. S. Attorney for Northern California
shortly after his arrival here and it was in this capacity that. he fi~st
emerged as a national figure by displaying the .fe~rlessness an~ mtegr~ty
for which he was noted all of his life. The mc1dent arose m a wh.1t.e
slavery case which he was prosecuting against tw~ me~bers of ~oht1cally influential families. He pursued the prosecut~on v1gorousl~ m the
face of threats, which he disregarded, and bribes of considerable
amounts which he refused. When the case was blocked on orders from
U. S. Attorney General McReynolds, McNab resigned in protest
through a series of bitter telegrams between himself and McReynolds
and President Woodrow Wilson.
The national publicity resulting from his courageous stand, led
Republican friends to promote him as a candidate for ~litical.o~ce. He
refused to answer the call, expressing a desire to avoid public hf.e. and
this he persisted in all of the rest of his days. In 1921 there agam was
a strong Republican movement to draft him fo~ nomination as Governor
of California. Again he refused the opportunity.
He was an orator of the old school. and his many noted speeches,
in the courtroom and out, political and non-political. have become
legend through the years. He had a ;booming, resonant voice and a
tremendous command of the language.
He loved to hunt. Made two trips to Alaska and two to British
Columbia for big game, as well as spending considerable time on his
Ukiah ranch.

ernment until his retirement in 1935. From 1920 until 1935 he was chief
of the Sheriff's constabulary.
Aside from his family, there was nothing nearer to Brother Osterholt' s heart than Free Masonry. He was initiated in the first class after
the institution of West Lake Lodge in 1908: was Master in 1914, and
it was during his term as Master that the present West Lake Temple
was built. He was later elected secretary, and served in that capacity
for 28 years.
The Osterholt family has held a unique place in California Masonic
history, for exactly 25 years to the day from the time Bill was installed
Master of West Lake Lodge, he had the privilege of installing his son
Allen in the same office. Later Bill had the pleasure of assisting Allen in
the conferring of the degrees upon Allen's two sons. Thus three generations of the family were members of the lodge at the same time. In addition to these unusual circumstances, Bill also gloried in the raising of
his second son, Breese.
Bill did not confine all his labors in Masonry to the Blue Lodge, for
on September 11, 1909, he graduated a 32nd degree Mason of the
Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite. His interest and enthusiasm for
this organization was recognized by the Supreme Council, and in October 1915, he received the decoration of Knight Commander of the Court
of Honor. His activities in these bodies continued until his death.
. It was only natural that one so interested in the Fraternity should
turn his thoughts to the Grand Lodge, and his work there was outstanding. He gave most appreciated service to the Committee on Credentials.
In 1942, the then Grand Treasurer, the very Worshipful William P.
Filmer, being confined to his home by illness during the Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge, the Grand Master, Frank M. Smith,
appointed Brother Osterholt Grand Treasurer Pro Tempore.
Bill is survived by his widow, Mrs. Nellie Osterholt, his two sons,
Allen and Breese, and two grandsons, Dick and Bill.
Brother Osterholt' s life was a rare combination of sincerity of purpose, one of modesty and humility, and the desire to do right. We are
proud that he was our friend, that he was our brother.
As we pay this tribute to our departed brethren let us not forget
that their lives were in no great measure different from our own; that
they in their earthly experience had the same hopes, the same fears, and
felt the same uncertainties that are the common lot of men.
They were mature men, men who from experience knew the beauties
and glories of life. They also knew from experience the eternal struggle
between good and evil; the ever present conflict between health and
disease; the never ceasing competition between light and darkness. They
knew that life under the best of circumstances could be exceedingly
difficult-yet they met life with the courage of free men, each receiving

162

WILLIAM THEODORE OSTERHOLT

One of the kindest, gentlest, and most beloved of California Masons
was lost to us when Bill Osterholt died in his 81 st year at his home at
1717 Midvale Avenue, Westwood, Los Angeles, October 29, 1949.
Brother Osterholt was born June 5, 1868 in1 Beardst~wn, Illinois.
When three years of age his parents moved tq Jackso?v1lle,. Morgan
County, Illinois, where Bill spent his childhood. He received his education in the public schools of that city. He was married March ti, 1889
to Miss Nellie F. Breese.
Moving with his family to Los Angeles in 1898, .he obtain~~ empl~y­
ment with the Los Angeles Traction Company, fillmg a position "".h1ch
time and progress soon made obsolete. He was one of the last survivors
of the group who drove horse-cars when horse-cars and carriages were
the only means of transportation in the City of Los Angeles._ In 1906
he was appointed foreclosure clerk in the Sheriff's office, servmg under
William A. Hammell, and continued in this department of county gov-

164

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

comfort and consolation from his particular · faith~ach having the
guiding light of the great spiritual tru~hs of Fre~ Mas.onry.
Now they are behind the mysterious curtam which separates the
living from the dead. Never again will we hear the familiar sound of
their voices or know the warm clasp of their friendly hands. Yet we
feel their presence for God has placed a mysterious link between the
heaven and the earth, between the seen and the unseen, and they
whisper to us to have courage, for God's words are true. A place has
been prepared for those who love Him: a place for me and a place
for you.
"I walk down the Valley of SilenceDown the dim, voiceless valley, alone,
And I hear not the fall of a footstep
Around me, save God's and my own;
And the hush of my heart is as holy
As hovers where angels have flown.
In the hush of the Valley of Silence
. I dream all the songs that I sing:
And the music floats down the dim Valley
Till each finds a word for a wing,
That to hearts, like the Dove of the Deluge,
A message of peace they may bring."
(Abram J. Ryan)
As we take leave of our departed brethren we do not say "goodbye,"
but rather "goodnight," for none but God knows how soon_ we ~~all
meet them again. When that time arri~es. and we. see their sm1hn~
faces once again, our salutation will be good morning, my brothers.
RoY C. BRYAN
Ross K. RoPER
FRANK EVERETT
HARRY M. KAISER
RA y THOMPSON

J.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PAST MASTERS OF CONSTITUENT LODGES
California Lodge No. 1:
Henry Blossom Mills, died April 28, 1950.
· Charles Arthur Marwedel, died May 2, 1950.
Tehama Lodge No. 3:
William Elmer Truesdale, died December -as· 1949.
Tuolumne Lodge No. 8:
Ot~o Julius Mouron, died November 18, 1949.
Eric John Segerstrom, died March 13, 1950.
Yount Lodge No. 12:
Harry Lewis Johnston, died November 10, 1949.
Robert Peter Kuhre, died May 6, 1950.
San Joaquin Lodge No. 19:
William L. Frazier, died February 25, 1950.
Madison Lodge No. 23:
Francis William Bennallack, died November 7, 1949.
John Thomas, died November 7, 1949.
Trinity Lodge No. 27:
Ciai:enc~ Russell Noonan, died December 1, 1949.
Levi Price Poage, died April 4, 1950.
San Diego Lodge No. 35:
Bruce Alfred Adams, died February 7, 1950.
Howard Lodge No. 37:
Lewis Carrigan, died May 9, 1950.
Stanley Eastlick Butler, died April 3, 1950.
Sacramento Lodge No. 40:
Allyn Lord Burr, died July 4, 1950.
Clark Veriam Freed, died December 14, 1949.
Martinez Lodge No. 41:
Ernest Edward Patis, died March 10, 1950.
Los Angeles Lodge No. 42:
Chas. U. Sydenstricker, died March 28, 1950.
Leo Wise Barnett, died April 28, 1950.
Crescent Lodge No. 45:
Chester Edwin Cutting, died March 9, 1950.
Charles Ernest Chapman, died March 13, 1950.
Illinoistown Lodge No. 51:
.
Charles Clay Moore, died November 10, 1949.
Henry Reginald Weber, died June 25, 1950.
Suisun Lodge No. 55:
Brenton Rupel Stewart, died February 20, 1950.
William Sherman Davisson, died June 21, 1950.
Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57:
Walter Lee Whitaker, died August 22, 1949.
Gravel Range Lodge No. 59:
William Archie Lang, died April 29, 1950.
Live Oak Lodge No. 61:
Raymond Martin Alvord, died October 24, 1949.

165

166

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Amador Lodge No. 65:
William Gilman Snyder, died January 14, 1950.

Phoenix Lodge No. 178:
Charley E. Showalter, died June 27, 1950.
Frank Christian Onion, died December 29, 1949.

Forest Lodge No. 66:
·
Irvine Edwin Green, died December 26, 1949.
Morning Star Lodge No. 68:
Henry Walter Hawley, died December 10, 1949.

Russian River Lodge No. 181:
Eugene Hamilton Sheppard, died April 2, 1950.
Kieth Lodge No. 187:
Edward Raymon Green, died July 2, 1950.

Ione Lodge No. 80:
William Leslie Thrassel, died December 10, 1949.

Northern Light Lodge No. 190:
Evert Vernon Asher, died July 5, 1950.

St. Helena Lodge No. 93:
·
Theodore Simonson, died December 9, 1949.

Marin Lodge No. 191:
Charles Vincent Clerk, died December 17, 1949.

Summit Lodge No. 112:
Benjamin Leonard Sisson, died March 24, 1950.

Truckee Lodge No. 200:
Roy Allen Feathers, died January 21, 1950.

Concord Lodge No. 117:
Frederick James Harris, died November 13, 1949.
Fidelity Lodge No. 120:
Allyn Sylvan Wexel, died February 27, 1950.
Philipp Jacobovics, died April 26, 1950.
Leo S. Schoenfeld, died May 5, 1950.
Jacob George Leibold, died July 17, 1950.
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123:
Henry Nissen Sonnikson, died May 28, 1950.

Silveyville Lodge No. 201:
Elmer Robert Foster, died April 25, 1950.
Pentalpha Lodge No. 202:
Theodore Thomas Spurgeon, died October 3, 1949.
Stanislaus Lodge No. 206:
William Howard Kirk, died October 15, 1949.
Anaheim Lodge No. 207:
Addison P. M. Brown, died D.e cember 9, 1949.

Table Mountain Lodge No. 124:
Albert Willard Ballard, died August 31, 1949.

Rio Vista Lodge No. 208:
James W. Hamilton, Sr., died February 3, 1950.
Clifford Ehlers Totman, died May 15, 1950.

Visalia Lodge No. 128:
Daniel McFadzean, died May 29, 1950.

King David's Lodge No. 209:
Loran Trevor Curtright, died March 11, 1950.

Crockett Lodge No. 139;
Beverly Maynard Robinson, died February 18, 1950.
Joshua Benjamin Roberts, died February 19, 1950.
Robert John Thompson, died August 25, 1949.

San Benito Lodge No. 211:
William James Watt, died February 6, 1950.
South San Francisco Lodge No. 212:
Rexford Powell Brown, died November 24, 1949.

Oriental Lodge No. 1'4:
Thomas Harris, died June 10, 1950.
Albin James Thompson, died June 23, 1950~

Speranu Italiana Lodge No. 219:
Frank Caroli, died January 28, 1950.

Abell Lodge No. 146:
Raymond Osborne Foster, died November 5, 1949.

Inyo Lodge No. 221:
William Daniel Dehy, died November 3, 1949.

Harmony Lodge No. 164:
Ernest M. Innes, died May 27, 1950.

Calistoga Lodge No. 233:
Joseph John Fereday, died April 5, 1950.

Alameda Lodge No. 167:
Raymond Harvey Jolliff, died April 29, 1950.

Guadalupe Lodge No. 237:
Frank Edward Campdonico, died October 30, 1949.
Francis Joseph McCoy, died December 10, 1949.

Redwood City Lodge No. 168:
Percy Edmund Long, died November 19, 1949.
Mission Lodge No. 169:
Harry Franklin Husted, died August 16, 1949.
Elk Grove Lodge No. 173:
Robert Harold Peter Cornelius, died December 23, 1949.
Nathan Monroe Clem, died May 13, 1950.

Colusa Lodge No. 240:
Robert Alonza Caldwell, died August l, 1949.
Santa Ana Lodge No. 24 l:
Arthur Edward Collins, died July 24, 1950.
Eucalyptus Lodge No. 243:
Joseph Prior Pearce, died September 27, 1949.

167

168

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Alcah'az Lodge No. 244:
William Duncan Matheson, died October 21, 1949.
Pomona Lodge No. 246:
Allen Penfield Nichols, died June 2, 1950.
Fresno Lodge No. 247:
Charles Lourie McLane, died August 17, 1949.
Alturas Lodge No. 248:
William Lott Keene, died May 8, 1950.
Adin Lodge No. 250:
.
Glyne Melvin Johnson, died December 9, 1949.
Edwin Stanton Pickard, died December 22, 1949.
Reading Lodge No. 254:
Marion Parker Howard, died March 18, 1950.
Harry Edgar Thompson, died May 19, 1950.
Lodi Lodge No. 256:
Sterling B. Doughty, died May 28, 1949.
Penrhyn Lodge No. 258:
Howard Mason Walton Lusk, died December 6, 1949.
Evergreen Lodge No. 259:
Loyal Claire Kelley, died May 15, 1950.
Lompoc Lodge No. 262:
William Helmer Bye, died June 15, 1950.
North East Lodge No. 266:
Edward Charles Mcconnaughy, dier November 17, 1949.
Galt Lodge No. 267:
Joseph Lloyd Orvis, died February 14, 1950.
Durant Lodge No. 268:
Frank Bertrand Graves, died Februru;: 16, 1950.
Walter Wadsworth Bradley, died April 11, 1950.
Pasadena Lodge No. 272:
James Alexander Hand, died December 30, 1949.
James Evart Shoemaker, Jr., died May 17, 1950.
Selma Lodge No. 277:
George Morton Rankin, died November 9, 1949.
Walter Boyd Glenn, died January 24, 1950.
Hanford Lodge No. 279:
George Albert Weishar, died March 4, 1950.
Delmer Hood Latimer, died June 16, 1950.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Orange Grove Lodge No. 293:
Joseph Frank Rowley, died August 31, 1949.
Traver Lodge No. 294:
Forrest Roy Stirewalt, died February 18, 1950.
Silver Gate Lodge No. 296:
Asa Roderick Jones, died December 4, 1949.
Liberty Lodge No. 299:
Walter Daily Hollenbeck, died August 4, 1949.
Cyrus Albert Mcintyre, died J une 8, 1950.
Redlands Lodge No. 300:
Charles Albe~t Blomquist, died October 30, 1949.
Lyman M. Kmg, died July 3, 1950.
Ontario Lodge No. 301:
Robert Elverd Harris, died December 11, 1949.
Santa Lucia Lodge No. 302:
George Philip Henry, died May 11, 1950.
Porterville Lodge No. 303:
Robert Leo Cogburn, died February 20, 1950.
Azusa Lodge No. 305:
William Cornelius Smith, died August 1, 1949.
Harry D. Jumper, died December 19, 1949. ·
Santa Monica Lodge No. 307:
Frank Irvington Wolhaupter, died June 18, 1950.
Los Banos ~odge No. 312:
Thomas Hancock, died April 10, 1950.
Sanger Lodge No. 316:
Orie J . Hayward, died April 20, 1950.
South Gate Lodge No. 320:
Ralph Waldo Emerson Cole, died September 17 1949.
Martin Luther Griffith, died March 15, 1950. '
Alisal Lodge No. 321:
William Horace Graham, died January 11, 1950.
Walter Thure Nilson, died January 30 1950.
James Ward Sheffield, died March 8, i95o.
Corona Lodge No. 324:
John V. Eliot, died September 21, 1949.
Leonard Oscar Bigham, died August 9, 1949.
Needles Lodge No. 326:
Frank Brice Krallman, died May 27, 1950.

Mount Shasta Lodge No. 281:
Ralph Edwin LaBarre, died September 3, 1949.
Glen H. Bishop, died October 18, 1949.

Long Beach Lodge No. 327:
Charles Klatt, died April 28, 1950.

Elsinore Lodge No. 289:
Adrian Benjamin Barnett, died May 4, 1950.

Redondo Lodge No. 328:
William Franklin Seifert, died November 10, 1949.

East Gate Lodge No. 290:
Fielding Baylor Field, died August 31, 1949.

Pacific Grove Lodge No. 331:
George Hibbard Schuyler, died July 21, 1950.

Los Gatos Lodge No. 292:
Elton M. Hogg, died March 18, 1950.

San Pedro Lodge No. 332:
Frank Edwin Kemp, died September 11, 1949.

169

170

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Covina Lodge No. 334:
Thomas Dickey Boyles, died August 3, 1949.

West Los Angeles Lodge No. 373:
Henry Dell Riggs, died March 10, 1950.

Fruitvale Lodge No. 336:
Frank Oscar Schullerts, died January 25, 1950.

Jewel Lodge No. 374:
Charles Frank Crawford, died July 9, 1950.

Carquine:s Lodge No. 337:
Chandler Holton Smith, died November 1, 1949.

Richmond Lodge No. 375:
Ernest Louis Fischer, died September 2, 1949.

Fullerton Lodge No. 339:
Perry C. Woodward, died June 12, 1950.

Francia Drake Lodge No. 376:
John James McDonald, died May 9, 1950.

Oxnard Lodge No. 341:
·
Arthur Carl Dwire, died January 19, 1950.
Jonothan Floyd Fulkerson, died February 9, 1950.

Sunset Lodge No. 352:
George Edwin Delavan, Jr., died November 2, 1949.

Mizpah Lodge No. 378:
Judge Carl Allen Stutsman, died July 14, 1950.
Fillmore Lodge No. 379:
Willis Burson, died October 25, 1949.
Herman Cris Young, died December 12, 19-49.
Arthur Clyde Price, died July 28, 1950.
Dinuba Lodge No. 385:
Elmer Jesse McDonald, died March 8, 1950.
William Christie Wyman, died February 6, 1950.
Coalinga Lodge No. 387:
_
William Henry Halford, died July 6, 1950.
Parnassus Lodge No. 388:
Clifford Wright Moody, died September 1, 1949.
Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389:
Ernest Everard Archer, died August 30, 1949.
William Frederick Short, died February 28, 1950.
West Lake Lodge No. 392:
William Theodore Osterholt, died October 29, 1949.

Presidio Lodge No. 354:
Robert Arthur Grier, died June 15, 1950.

Balder Lodge No. 393:
Elias E. Ellison, died October 16, 1949.

Hollywood. Lodge No. 355:
Frederick Silas Bynon, died June 6, 1950. ·

Turlock Lodge No. 395:
Webb Henry Tribble, died February 8, 1950.

Golden State Lodge No. 358:
Jonathan Columbus Duncan, died September 25, 1949.
George Walter Tedford, died -February 17, 1950.

Apollo Lodge No. 396:
Ernest Percy McRitchie, died July 28, 1950.

Starr King Lodge No. 344:
Lancelot Robert Murray Kerr, died June 10, 1950
Thomas Smith, died July 9, 1950.
Palo Alto Lodge No. 346:
John Baptiste Wideman, died March 5, 1950.
San Bernardino Lodge No. 348:
James Shedden, died January 31, 1950.
Sequoia Lodge No. 349:
Charles Louis Herrmann, Jr., died June 22, 1950.
Palestine Lodge No. 351:
Joseph A. Stevens, died November 12, 1949.
John M. Edgar, died December 28, 1949.

Charity Lodge No. 362:
Conrad Evert York, died October 6, 1949.
Berkeley Lodge No. 363:
Redmond Cyril Staats, died February 17, 1950.
Las Palmas Lodge No. 366:
Joseph Phillip Bernhard, died January 16, 1950.
Harold Henry Gehrke, died June 15, 1950.
South Pasadena Lodge No. 367:
George David Bragonier, died November 8, 1949.
Floyd Rig.g James, died December 18, 1949.
William Max Miller, died November 29, 1949.
Jarvis Raymond Wilder, died July 1, 1950.
Ocean Park Lodge No. 369:
Fred Watson Clark, died June 14, 1950.

Burlingame Lodge No. 400:
Frederick Talbot Colby, died August 22, 1949.
Sierra Madre Lodge No. 408:
Donald Covington Ashmore, died April 16, 1950.
Charter Rock Lodge No. 410:
Henry Peter Anewalt, died March 2, 1950.
Arlington Lodge No. 414:
Benjamin Martin Banks, died December 6, 1941;1.
Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415:
William Forman King, died August 19, 1949.
Harry Baldwin, died March 10, 1950.
Lindsay Lodge No. 416:
Murl Laurence Crabtree, died December 28, 1949.
Robert Eric Eddy, died May 13, 1950.

171

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

172

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Upland Lodge No. 419:
Orton Peter Brady, died April 28, 1950.
Eagle Rock Lodge No. 422:
Harry Sumner Bourne, died November 11, 1949.

America Lodge No. 475:
Aaron Diehl Flickinger, died March 9, 1950.
Golden Rule Lodge No. 479:
Arthur Lawry, died August 17, 1949.
Alfred Adams Hapgood, died November 19, 1949.
Edgar William Roberts, died November 2, 1949..

Midway Lodge No. 426:
Samuel James Petersen, died March 24, 1950.
Monroe E. Grant, died February 28, 1950.

Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481:
Elmer Jacob Ely, died March 11, 1950.

Pittsburg Lodge No. 429:
John Enoch Bankson, died July 1, 1950.

Clarence F. Smith Lodge No. 482:
Jay Garfield Reel, died July 7, 1950.

Alpha Lodge No. 431:
.
Franklin Joseph Gardner, died December 12, 1949.

Caledonia Lodge No. 486:
Gilbert Abram Ostrom, died January 1, 1950.

Tyrian Lodge No. 439:
James Henry Austin, died November 7, 1949.

Vallejo Lodge No. 487:
Casper Garrison Crane, died October 24, 1949.

Standard Lodge No. 440:
Lewis Phelps Way, died September 6, 1949.

East Bay Lodge No. 489:
Charles Lewis Fread, died November 14, 1949.

Coronado Lodge No. 441:
William Sutherland Millen, died December 22, 1949.
Donald G. Lauridson, died March 17, 1950.

Acorn Lodge No. 494:
Harry Bernard Wells, died March 9, 1950.

Schofield Lodge No. 443:
Pinkney L. Ogle, died July 30, 1949.
William W. Buescher, died October 1, 1949.
Millard C. Inskeep. died September 14, 1949.
John D. Yonge, died May 28, 1950.
Carpinteria Lodge No. 444:
Charles Curtis, died September 1, 1949.
J!iffies Atkinson Lewis, died December 18, 1949.

Lebanon Lodge No. 495:
Louis Sockolov, died February 10, 1950.
Stockton Lodge No. 498:
Arthur Prior Anderson, died December 13, 1949.
Roosevelt Lodge No. 500:
Emil D. Zecher, died July 30, 1949.
Harbor Lodge No. 502:
Glen Parker Purviance, died April 21, 1950.
Cecil Frederick Westwood, died June 11, 1950. ·

Torrance Lodge No. 447:
John Edward McMaster, died January 11, 1950.
Edmund Alpheus Day, died June 28, 1950.

Point Lodge No. 503:
.
Herbert R. Harrison, died October 27, 1949.

Van Nuys Lodge No. 450:
Henry Warren Chaffee, died June 29, 1950.

El Segundo Lodge No. 507:
George Herrington West, died January 12, 1950.

Bethlehem Lodge No. 453:
John Liddle McNab, died March 17, 1950.

Benjamin Franklin Lodge No. 509:
Allyn Burton Rice, died January 22, 1950,

Golden West Lodge No. 455:
Richard Henry Niebolt, died May 16, 1950.

Sunnyvale Lodge No. 511:
Jesse White Reynolds, died January 13, 1950.

Ramona Lodge No. 457:
Issac John Williams, died March 23, 1950.

La Jolla Lodge No. 518:
Francis John Garty, died July 11, 1950.

Mount Oso Lodge No. 460:
Robert Wesley Milligan, died May 29, 1950.

Bellflower Lodge No. 523:
William Sherman Mitchell, died December 19, 1949.
William Charles Epler, died April 14, 1950.

Argonaut Lodge No. 461:
Charles Austin Rice, died May 15, 1950.

Bay City Lodge No. 526:
Joseph Sirbu, died June 23, 1950.

Center Lodge No. 465:
Clarence Clayton Combs, died June 29, 1950.
Fred Oliver Scott, died July 8, 1950.

Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528:
Stephan Andrew Glassell, died September 25, 1949.

Yorba Linda Lodge No. 469:
Ross Bernard Johnson, died September 18, 1949.
Ralph Morgan Thurman, died October 1, 1949.

Forest Hill Lodge No. 534:
Emory Walter Eskew, died February 1, 1950.

173

174

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP 'fHB

Utopia Lodge No. 537:
Fred Lester Weathers, died February 6, 1950.
Ascot Lodge No. 538:
Boyd Anderson Young, died June 4, 1950.
Henry Morse Stephens Lodge No. 541:
Merle Randall, died March 17, 1950.
Signal Lodge No. 543:
Kenneth Elmore Foster, died October 29, 1949.
.Arcadia Lodge No. 547:
Hugh Andrews Allen, died November 29, 1Q49.
Lakeslaore Lodge No. 551:
Robert Henry Messick, died April 13, 1950.
Fairfax Lodge No. 556:
Charles Lester Covalt,.died November 1, 1949.
Craftsman Lodge No. 559:
Henry Elmer McConnell, died March 28, 1950.
Arthur Howard Inman, died November 12, 1949.
Foothill Lodge No. 564:
Martin Conrad Ketels, died May 16, 1950.
Searchlight Lodge No. 567
Clarence John Hill, died November 8, 1949.
Park Boulevard Lodge No. 568
John Miner Drew, died March 10, 1950.
James Madison Lodge No. 572:
Jason Leslie Liscom, died October 7, 1949.
Lyman Hardin Paine, died January 12, 1950.
Hillcrest Lodge Ho. 573:
William Roscoe Boone, died July 26, 1950.
llialto Lodge No. 582:
Lloyd Alexander Mills, died December 20, 1949.
Service Lodge No. 594:
Fred "M" Chandler, died February 18, 1950.
Alexander Graham Bell Lodge No. 595:
Henry Boyle Allen, died May 21, 1950.
Guardian Lodge No. 596:
Vere D. Maxon, died Augmt 22, 1949.
Jubilee Lodge No. 604:
John Robert Speed, died December 27, 1949.
Provident Lodge No. 609:
Lo•is McArthur Gambach, died October 29, 1949.
Harry Miller Graft, died January 30, 1950.
·
Ernest Marion Kimberlin, died December 25, 194Q.
!l. E. Dolley Lodge No. 616:

Claude Sturgeon Crowell, died April 26, 1950.

175

The Gardena Lodge No. 621:
John Allen Gulick, died August 10 1949.
August William Albrecht, died No~ember 22, 1949.
Alfred James Keeler, died July 12, 1950.
Menorah Lodge No. 623:
David Taylor, died July 6, 1950.
Benevolence Lodge No. 631:
Wayne Jenkins, died May 9, 1950.
Normal Heights Lodge No. 632:
Leland Lester Pickering, died August 1, 1950.
Riverside Lodge No. 635:
Charles Rupert Dyer, died May 2, 1950.
John Marshall Lodge No. 636:
Robert Arnold William Bultmann, died February 8, 1950.
Veritas Lodge No. 640:
Charles Russell O'Donnell, died January 18, 1950.
La Cumbre Lodge No. 642:
Peter Alvin Langlo, died May 26, 1950.
Damascus Lodge No. 648:
. Thomas Roy Hartle, died November 14, 1949.
CTescenta Valley Lodge No. 652:
Leicester Campbell Hall, died July 7, 1950.
Baldwin Park Lodge No, 660:
Ross Earl Davidson, died September 29, 1949.
Henry Knox Lodge No. 662:
Joseph Wesley Cupp, died May 26, 1950.

A.t 11 :50 A. M. Grand Lodge called off until 9:30 A. M. Thursday
mornmg.

176

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1950
Grand Lodge was called on at 9 :30 A. M ., the Grand Master presiding.
Bro. Frank E. Hicks, Master of Trinity Lodge No. 27, presided in
the East at the entrance of Grand Lodge Officers.
The Grand Chaplain gave the. invocation.
The minutes of Wednesday morning, October 11 , were read and
approved.
The Most Worshipful J. H. N. Morgan, Grand Master of Masons
in British Columbia, at the invitation of the Grand Master favored
Grand Lodge with an address.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRIEVANCES
To the ft/lost Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
There has been referred to the Committee on Grievances a total of
47 records. This report to Grand Lodge by your Committee will deal
with 32 of these records. The remaining 15 records will be covered by
separate reports, due to the fact that they involve appeals, Petitions for
Restoration, or some other situation which, in the opinion of your Committee, requires them to be separately considered.
In presenting this, our so-called omnibus report, two matters appear
to your Committee again to require special mention. Reviewing these
records, year after year, there is impressed upon our attention the fact
that altogether too many Masonic trials, or the preferring of charges
for Unmasonic offenses, arise from matters occurring either prior to the
presentation of the Petition for Degrees or in connection therewith.
Prior criminal records of a petitioner and false statements contained in
Petitions for Degrees can usually be quite easily uncovered by proper investigation of the petitioner. We therefore strongly urge that the officers
of the constitutent lodges exercise greater supervision over the efforts
of investigating committees to the end that the unworthy character of a
petitioner may be discovered prior to his receipt of the Degrees of Ma- .
sonry, thus avoiding the necessity of trial procedure thereafter.
Many Masonic trials arise out of matters which have been the subject of criminal court procedure, resulting in a conviction of the accused.
In such cases, in the preparation of Masonic charges, where automatic
expulsion under Section 332 is not available, the offense committed by
the accused should be charged rather than the fact that the accused has
been convicted of the offense. It is the commission of the offense which
constitutes unmasonic conduct rather than the conviction therefor. To
charge the conviction rather than the offense itself is to plead a result

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

177

rather than the cause. Because of the frequency with which this error of
pleading offenses of Unmasonic conduct occurs, we deem it appropriate
to call this matter again to the attention of the Grand Lodge.
Your Committee proposes to recommend to Grand Lodge the affirmance of the result reached in the following trial records:
No. 1125-(Retrial). A member of Palms Lodge No. 512. Suspended
December 1, 1947.
No. 1156-( Retrial). A member of Pyramid Lodge No. 562. Suspended
October 5, 1948.
No. 1188-A member of University Lodge No. 394. Acquitted September 12, 1949.
No. 1190-A member of Unity Lodge No. 368. Expelled October 6,
1949.
No. 1192-A member of Lodge Maui No. 472. Expelled October 12,
1949.
No. 1193-A member of East Gate Lodge No. 290. Expelled October 6,
1949.
No. 1194-A member of Bay City Lodge No. 526. Expelled November
2, 1949.

No. 1195-A member of Bay City Lodge No. 526. Expelled November
2, 1949.
No. 1196-A member of Parnassus Lodge No, 388. Acquitted November 1, 1949.
No. 1197-A member of Lon g Beach Lodge No. 327. Expelled December 1, 1949.
No. 1199- A member of Crocket Lodge No. 139. Expelled December
7, 1949.
No. 1201-A me~ber of Three Pillars Lodge No. 613. Acquitted December 9, 1949.
·
No. 1204:-A member of Wilshire Lodge No. 445, Expelled February
6, 1950.
No. 1205-A member of Sun Garden Lodge No. 530. Expelled February 9, 1950.
No. 1206-A member of Doric Lodge No. 216. Suspended March 6,
1950.
No. 1207-A member of Mount Olive Lodge No. 506. Expelled April 5,
1950.
No. 1208- A member of University Lodge No. 394. Expelled February
6, 1950.
No. 1209- A member of Jordan Lodge No. 654. E xpelled April 4, 1950.
N o. 1210- A member of Oxnard Lodge No. 341. Expelled April 5,
1950.
No. 1211-A member of Alcatraz Lodge No. 244. Expelled May 3,
1950.

178

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

No. 1212-A member of Poinsettia Lodge No. 633. Expelled May 5, ·
1950.
No. 1213-A member of Upland Lodge No. 419. Acquitted December
5, 1949.
No. 1214-A member of Elysian Lodge No. 418. Expelled June 1, 1950.
No. 1215-A member of Riverside Lodge No. 635. Expelled June 1,
1950.
No. 1216-A member of Penrhyn Lodge No. 258. Expelled June 8,
1950.
.
No. 1217-A member of White Pine Lodge No. 555. Expelled August
1, 1950.
No. 1218-A member of San Mateo Lodge No. 226. Acquitted August
3, 1950.
No. 1219-A member of George Washington Lodge No. 525. Expelled
September 5, 1950.
No. 1220--A member of Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528. Expelled September 5, 1950.
No. 1221-A member of Wilmington Lodge No. 198. Expelled September 5, 1950.
No. 1223-A member of West Gate Lodge No. 335. Expelled August
7, 1950.
No. 1227-A member of Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625. Suspended
September 5, 1950.
In each of the foregoing matters, your Committee has carefully reviewed the record. We find therein no errors of a character which have
resulted in a miscarriage of justice. In each of them, the procedure has
substantially conformed to the requirements of our ordinances. In each
of them, the result has the support of substantial evidence in the record
and, in those instances in which the accused has suffered either reprimand, suspension, or expulsion, we feel that the finding of guilty is adequately supported and that the penalty imposed is in reasonable accord
with the character of the offense committed.
We therefore offer and move the adoption of the following resolution:
BE IT RESOLVED that in each of the foregoing enumerated trial
records, the findings and determination of the respective Trial Commissions be, and the same are, hereby affirmed and approved.

Trial Record No. 375

FRANK B. BELCHER
JoE L. SHELL
ALBERT F. Ross
ALFRED F. BRESLAUER
RALPH E. HOYT
PAUL A. BROM
JAMES R. GRAY

Adopted.

179

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee to which has been referred Trial Record No. 375
petition for restoration of C.A.B., formerly a member of Excelsior Lodge
No. 166, reports as follows:
The petitioner was expelled in 1922 after trial in his lodge on two
specifications of unmasonic conduct. Both specifications charged the
petitioner with obtaining sums of money from two Master Masons with
the intent to defraud. The petitioner was found guilty on both specifications and accordingly expelled.
The petition for restoration is supported by three letters from Master
Masons stating that they have known him well for varying lengths of
time and believe him to be of presently good conduct. The file also
contains a letter from the master of the petitioner's former lodge stating
that the matter of restoration had been discussed with the lodge and
that a subsequent extensive investigation by an investigating committee
found the petitioner to be in good report and that the lodge had unanimously voted to recommend that the petition for restoration be granted.
Your Committee believes the petitioner has shown good and sufficient evidence of rehabilitation and we therefore move the adoption of
the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That the petition of C.A.B. for restoration to all the
rights and privileges of Masonry be and the same is hereby granted. ·
Adopted.
Trial Record No. 1016

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
This is an application for restoration.
The accused, C.C.C., formerly a member of Palisades Lodge No.
637, was expelled in 1942, under the provisions of Section 332 Constitution and Ordinances. He had been convicted by plea of Guilty in
the state courts of a felony, violation of the California "Blue Sky" law
or corporate securities act. A sentence to San Quentin prison had been
pronounced and suspended and five years prc>bation given with some
time to be served in the county jail as a part of the probation.
It now appears that accused successfully served his term of probation and his record has been cleared. It also appears that the offense for
which accused was convicted was caused by his association with some
friends in a venture during which stock was issued in violation of the
state law, and it is said there was no moral turpitude on the part of the
accused.
·
Be that as it may, his record since his expulsion has been excellent
as evidenced by the letters and documents in our file. He has lived down

180

181

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

his felony conviction and is of good reputation in his community. His
Masonic friends and his former lodge urge that he be restored.
We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:

Trial Record No. 1134
To the M. W. Grand Lodge of California:
Trial Record No. 1134, referred to your Committee on Grievances,
presents a Petition for Restoration of one R. N.
In 1948, the petitioner was suspended by his Lodge on a charge of
acting as a bartender. Grand Lodge increased the penalty to expulsion
because the language of Section 210 of our Ordinances declares that
one who is a barkeeper shall "forfeit all Masonic rights and privileges";
it being felt that the provisions of this section do not permit of suspension and require expulsion.
Almost immediately following his trial, at which the petitioner practically pied guilty, he gave up his position as a bartender, surrendered
his Union card, and has not since engaged .in that occupation.
The Petition for Restoration is supported by a number of letters of
recommendation, all of which declare, in substance, that the petitioner is
a man of fine character, of good standing in his community, and is a
personable and well-liked individual.
When the matter came before his Lodge for consideration, the vote
was 81 in favor of restoration, with six against and two blanks.
In view of the letters of recommendation and the vote of petitioner's
Lodge, your Committee feels that the petition merits favorable consideration.
We therefore offer and move the adoption of the following resolution:
BE IT RESOLVED that R. N. be, and he hereby is, restored to all
the rights and privileges of Masonry.

Resolved that the application of C.C.C. be granted and that he be
restored to all rights and privileges of Masonry.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1043
At the last Annual Communication of Grand Lodge .i n 1949, the
petition for restoration of the accused, S.G., was deferred until this
Communication. The Committee required further time in order to investigate the evidence presented to the Committee in connection with
petitioner's rehabilitation. After additional consideration of the matter,
the Committee does not feel that the evidence at this time warrants
favorable action.
We, therefore, offer and move the adoption of the following resolution:
RESOLVED that the petition of S. G. for restoration to the rights
and privileges of Masonry be denied without prejudice.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1102
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
There has been referred to the Committee on Griev<l!nces, Trial
Record 1102, which is a Petition for Restoration by one J.O.Y.
Petitioner was expelled in 1947 by reason of the fact that he made
a false statement in his Petition for Degrees by asserting that he had
never been rejected by any Lodge. When the charges were preferred,
petitioner pleaded guilty. He explained, in connection with his plea,
that his false answer was the result of some poor advice which he had
received when preparing his Petition.
His Petition for Restoration is supported by a number of letters
attesting to the present fine character of petitioner. In addition, . his
Lodge, by the overwhelming vote of 54 to 2, voted in favor of granting
his Petition for Restoration.
Your Committee is thoroughly satisfied that this Petition merits
favorable consideration by Grand Lodge and therefore offers and moves
the adoption of the following resolution:
BE IT RESOLVED that J.0.Y. be, and he hereby is, restored to
all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
Adopted . .

Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1189
To .t he f!J. W. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee, to which has been referred trial record No. 1189,
begs leave to report as follows: the accused having appealed from the
judgment of the lodge.
The accused V . B. W. was accused of un-Masonic conduct, based
upon the following specifications: (Quoting.)
"First: That on or about the 5th day of November, 1948,
he did desert his family.
Second: He has failed to provide the support of his family
as set forth by the Superior Court of the State of California."
The accused was tried before a trial commission of his Lodge, was
convicted of each specification and of the charge of un-Masonic conduct, and the penalty of expulsion was imposed.

182

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

At the trial, the Junior Warden of the Lodge, through his counsel.
produced the following evidence:
A certified copy of a minute order of the Superior Court of Los Angeles County, made November 4, 1948, upon the stipulation of the attorney for the wife of the accused and the attorney for the accused, in
a pending divorce action, ordering that the custody of the two minor
children of th_e parties be with the wife, pending the trial of the action,
subject to the right of the accused to take one of the children with him
on each alternate Sunday afternoon, and ordering the accused to pay
$125.00 per month for the support of the wife and children, beginning
November 5, 1948. This order also required the accused to remove from
the family home on or before November 7, 1948, and restrained the
parties from molesting one another.
The accuser then put in evidence, without objection, an affidavit by
the wife of accused that he had not paid any money for ·support from
November 5, 1948, until January 29, 1949. It was then shown that the
Master of the Lodge had made two charity payments to the wife of the
accused, one of $25.00 in January, 1949 and one of $15.00 on June 7,
1949.
Correspondence in evidence indicates that on December 25, 1948,
the Secretary of the Lodge wrote accused at Krebs, Oklahoma, to the
effect that the wife of the accused had claimed he had deserted her and
had asked for assistance, and instructed the accused to report for investigation to the Masonic Lodge at Krebs. The Master of the Lodge wrote
the accused on January 14, 1949, stating that his receipt for dues was
being withheld pending investigation of his wife's complaint. On January 17, 1949, the accused wrote to the Grand Secretary of California,
complaining of the failure of the Lodge to issue his dues receipt to him,
stating that he had forwarded $12.00 to the Lodge for dues on December
17, 1948.
Upon this evidence, counsel for the accuser announced that he rested
his case. Counsel for the accused moved for a dismissal on the ground
that the evidence presented was insufficient to support findings of the
truth of the specifications. Your Committee is of the opinion that this
motion should have been granted. It was, however, denied.

been granted to his wife, and requiring accused to pay $75.00 per month
for the support of the children.
Accused testified that he did not obey the court orders for payments
of support because he was unable to do so, and that he had to leave his
job on November 3, 1948, because his doctor required him to do so. This
statement was corroborated by a certificate from Dr. Morton I. Cole of
Huntington Park that the accused was under his care and would require treatment for about four weeks.
Accused further testified that he also went to Dr. J. W. Johnson, a
Veterans Bureau physician, and there is in evidence a certificate from
Dr. Johnson, dated November 3, 1949, stating that the accused was then
under his care for severe gastric ulcer, which had its onset while in service, and that his physical activity had been restricted.
Accused further testified that before he left for Oklahoma he went
to see his wife and asked her to go with him, but that she refused; that
he then had $80.00 and gave his wife $50.00, keeping $30.00 to get
home on; that after he reached Oklahoma, he made arrangements with
his people for his family to live with them, and wrote and asked his wife
to come and bring the children, but that she did not come; that on November 11, 1948, he consulted Dr. Fox at McAllister, Oklahoma, and
on his advice entered St. Mary's Hospital on that day and remained in
the hospital until November 21, 1948, having an operation for hemorrhoids, introducing in evidence the hospital bill which he testified his
father paid; that because of this operation he was unable to work for
some time; that while recovering from the operation arrangements were
made for him ~o be admitted into the Veterans Hospital at Muskogee,
Oklahoma, which he entered January 18, 1949, and remained until February 21, 1949, receiving treatment for gastric ulcers; that after his release he continued under treatment at the dinic until July 22, 1949. He
testified that while in the hospital he made application to the Red Cross
for aid for his family, and introduced into evidence a report made by a
representative of the American Legion in Los Angeles, acting for the
Red Cross, that inquiry had been made at his wife's home in Los Angeles, that she was absent, and that his wife's father had informed the
investigator that his wife was working and had not asked for any aid
from any organiation.
Accused testified that he made a round trip from Oklahoma to Los
Angeles in June, 1949, to see his children and to see .if he could be reemployed at his old job or any other work, but could find no work; that
in order to make the trip he drove a car out for some people who paid his
expenses; that after returning to Oklahoma he again returned to Los
Angeles about July 23, 1949; that he found work at a service station on
August 9, 1949, and worked until August 11 , 1949, when he was laid
off because he was unable to perform his duties; that on August 12, 1949,
he was arrested and placed in jail on a charge made by his wife of failure

In presenting his defense, the accused introduced a letter which he
had written to the Secretary of the Lodge, dated December 29, 1948,
from Krebs, Oklahoma, denying that he had deserted his family, stating
that he had been in ill health with stomach ulcers, had been unable to
work, and had relied on his people for support. He endosed a copy of
a letter he had written to his wife asking her to come to Oklahoma with
their children and live with him at his people's home.
Accused introduced a certified copy of the interlocutory decree of
divorce, dated April 20, 1949, showing that custody of the children had

183

184

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

to provide for his children; that after an interview with a deputy city attorney prosecuting the case, the proceeding was deferred until February
10, 1950, and he was released to see if he could find work.
The specification and charge were filed in his Lodge on April 5, 1949,
and it therefore follows that the evidence should have been directed primarily to the period from November 5, 1948, to April 5, 1949.
The accuser offered no rebuttal evidence of a substantial nature to
meet the evidence presented by the accused that he was in such a condition of health from November 5, 1948, to April 5, 1949, that he could
not work.
Your Committee is of the opinion that the evidence presented not
only fails to establish the truth of either of the specifications, but that
on the other hand it affirmatively establishes that the accused did not
desert his family, and that by reason of physical disability he was unable
to provide support for his family.
V./ e therefore offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That the action of Jordan Lodge No. 654 in expelling
Brother V. B. W. be and the same is hereby reversed and set aside.

made application for the Degrees of Masonry. Section 332 reads in part
as follows:
"In the event any Mason who is a member of a Lodge
under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California shall
suffer a final judgment of conviction of a crime classified as a
felony under the law, and be imprisoned in pursuance thereof;
or shall be adjudged an habitual criminal; it shall be the duty
of the Secretary of the Lodge of which such Mason is a member, upon learning of such conviction, to procure, at the expense
of this Lodge, two certified copies of such final judgment of
conviction, one of which certified copies shall be filed in the
records of the Lodge."
In a strictly grammatical sense, the phrase "in the event any Mason
.. . shall suffer a final judgment of conviction" standing alone conveys an
idea of futurity. The natural meaning of the phrase "shall suffer" ordinarily applies to the future. It is true that the phrase or its equivalent
is frequently found in statutes and in some cases it is applied to past as
well as to future actions. The majority of this committee feel that the
reasonable interpretation of Section 332 makes it applicable to contingent future events so that automatic expulsion can be used only when a
brother is convicted and imprisoned after he becomes a Mason. It does
not mean that a person convicted of a felony before he applied for and
was accepted in Masonry would not be subject to expulsion. It is the
opinion of the committee that, if the facts warrant the same, steps to
expel A. H. W . should be taken by the regularly prescribed procedure
for a masonic trial and automatic expulsion under Section 332 is not
permitted. In the event charges may be preferred, they should charge a
Masonic offense, occurring either after accused has become a Mason
or in the course of his application for Masonry.
We, therefore, offer and move the adoption of the following resolution that the action of Ja mes Foshay Lodge in suspending A. H. W.
from all the rights and privileges be reversed and set aside and that the
case be remanded to the lodge for such action, if any, as the lodge may
determine.
.
Adopted.

Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1191
Your Committee to which was referred trial record No. 1191 respectfully reports as follows:
The accused, A. H. W., applied for membership in James Foshay
Lodge No. 641, on November 16, 1948. He was elected to receive the
degrees in Masonry and there was conferred upon him the Entered Apprentice and Fellowcraft Degrees. On or about June 22, 1949, the Secretary of the lodge obtained a certified copy of a judgment of conviction of
said A.H. W . for a felony which occurred approximately eighteen years
previously. The record does not show whether the lodge or its investigating committee knew of his previous criminal record or the circumstances
under which his criminal record was called to the attention of the lodge
or the Secretary. The certified copy of the judgment showed that A. H.
W. had been convicted of a felony, to wit, of receiving stolen property
on the 18th day of April, 1930, and was sentenced to imprisonment at
San Quentin for the term prescribed by law. Notice of the filing of the
certified copy of conviction was g.iven to the accused under the terms of
Section 332 of the Ordinances, and the accused did not demand a trial.
He was, therefore, automatically expelled by the lodge at the designated
stated meeting.
The question presented in this trial record is whether a Fellowcraft
Mason can be automatically expelled under Section 332 for the conviction of a felony and imprisonment thereunder which occurred before he

185

Trial Record No. 1198
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
In Trial Record No. 1198, involving the trial of one I.B.T., Southland Lodge No. 618, an appeal has been taken by the accused, who was
found guilty and sentenced to expulsion.
The accused was charged with an attempt and offer to commit an
immoral. lewd, and unnatural act on the person of another man. Prior
to his Masonic Trial, he had pied guilty to the offense in court and had
been fined. On the M asonic trial he, in substance, admitted the offense

186

187

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

but claimed that the plain-clothes police officer was the aggressor in the
arrangement. He also admitted that he had engaged in acts of perversion for a period of several years and had been before the court on a
previous occasion for a similar offense.
In his appeal to the Grand Lodge. the accused does not claim that
he is innocent or that he was wrongfully convicted or sentenced. Rather,
his appeal is a plea for forgiveness, claiming that he has reformed.
Your Committee is of the opinion that the conviction and penalty of
expulsion are entirely proper-in fact, that the penalty is the only one
which could have been appropriately administered. We further feel
that the present plea of the accused is one which should more properly
be made if and when he should ever see flt to apply for restoration.
We therefore offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That the finding of guilt and sentence of expulsion
be, and the same hereby is, ratified, affirmed and approved.

of a brief one-half page statement by the Secretary concerning the eviden<:e presented. It does not incorporate any of the exhibits presented
by the Accuser or the Accused and is not sufficient to permit a proper
review of the proceedings.
The Secretary's brief summary does indicate, however, that up to
the present time the widow has paid to the Accused over $3200.00 on
loans totaling $775.00.
The Commissioners did not ballot separately on the specifications
and on the charge of unmasonic conduct. They took but one ballot,
lumping all the specifkations and the charge of unmasonic conduct
together, the result being "guilty" three and "not guilty" six.
The Accuser has attempted to appeal from the decision of the Commission and has presented to the Grand Master a statement which, if it
had been properly taken and authenticated as pres<:ribed by Section 339
of the Ordinances, would support the specifications concerning fraudulent overcharges. The appeal is apparently directed to the Grand Master
instead of the Grand Lodge. There is no evidence that notice of appeal
was given to the Master of the Lodge as required by Section 338 of
the Ordinances.
·
Section 316 of the Ordinances provides, in part : "All oral testimony,
direct and cross, shall be written out in full by the Secretary or stenographer, and certiA.ed as correct. The documentary testimony shall 'be
made a part of the record by incorporating it or a copy of it therein."
Section 323 of the Ordinances provides that the record of proceedings shall include the testimony of each witness "exactly as he gives it
in his own words, giving all the questions and answers."
Section 322 of the Ordinances provides with reference to balloting
by the Commissioners as follows: "After sufficient consultatjon and
deliberation, a vote for 'guilty' or 'not guilty', by ballot shaU be taken
upon each speciA.cation, and each such vote shaU be recorded: and a
similar vote shall thus be taken upon the charge of unmasonic conduct
and be thus recorded, as it might be that the facts proven and found
did not constitute an unmasonic offense."
None of these provisions of the "Ordinances were complied with.
Obviously the failure to keep and supply a record of the testimony
is a denial to Grand Lodge of its right to review the proceedings and to
determine whether there has been any miscarriage of justice.
For the foregoing reasons your committee believes that the matter
should be sent back for a new trial and that if such action is taken the
specifications should be amended so as to definitely describe the acts of
the Accused which are alleged to be unmasonic offenses, giving the dates
thereof. Each specification should in and of itself allege a Masonic
offense.
We therefore offer and move the adoption of the foUowing resolution:

Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1200
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The accused M.E.B. was charged with unmasonic conduct, the
specifications thereof being as foilows:
1. That on or about April 20, 1930, November 5, 1930 and December 4, 1930, he lent $400.00, $175.00 and $200.00, respectively on said
dates, to the widow of a .Master Mason (naming her) amounting in
total to $775.00, taking notes therefor;
2. That said notes bore interest at 8% but in all collections the
Accused charged 12% interest; that, in addition, he figured the interest
in advance but credited payments only at the ends of each three months
period; that, so computed, the interest rate was usurious;
3. That Accused did not keep a proper record of payments made
on the notes and collected more money than he credited to the widow:
4. That Accused collected moneys from the widow wrongfully and
far in excess of a just return of the money lent and accumulated interest;
5. That Accused presented notes and demanded signatures thereon
for money not due him by dishonestly representing that the money
called for in the notes was due him, thereby committing a fraud;
6. That by charging excessive interest, improperly crediting payments made and by pyramiding the amounts still claimed due, notes
were made and signatures obtained ·t hereon for money not due him,
even after the original loans had been paid with all interest accumulated:
7. That Accused collected thousands of dollars not due him and
refused to return the over payments after he had promised to do so.
The Accuser and the Accused were present at the trial. The testimony was not taken down in shorthand. The trial record consists merely

188

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

RESOLVED: That the judgment of Charter Rock Lodge No. 410
in this matter be reversed and set aside and that the case be remanded
for a new trial and that the Master of the Lodge permit the specifications
to be amended so that each specification sets forth the specific acts of the
Accused which it is alleged constitute a Masonic offense, together with
the time and place thereof; that the Master of the ·Lodge be directed to
require the proceedings in the new trial to be properly reported as required by the portions of the Ordinances above quoted and require that
all exhibits be transmitted with the next record; that he also require that
the Commissioners vote on each specification and on the charge of unmasonic conduct separately.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1202
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee, to which has been referred the appeal by the
accused from the judgment in trial record No. 1202, begs leave to report
as follows:
Accused, G . E. R., a member of a lodge under the grand jurisdiction
of Pennsylvania, was tried for unmasonic conduct in a California lodge
designated to discharge that duty by the Grand Master of California
at the request of the Grand Master of Pennsylvania.
The charge of ttnmasonic conduct was based upon three specifications. Of the third of three specifications, the trial commissioners
acquitted the accused, and for the sake of brevity we omit reference to
that specification. The first two specifications were, in brief. as foUows:
1. That the accused did, during the year 1947, use his Masonic
influence to induce a brother Mason to lend him $3,000.00 and which
he agreed to repay within thirty days which he did not do.
2. That the accused also used his Masonic influence to induce his
brother-in-law. a Pennsylvania Mason, to sell his home in Pennsylvania,
invest the proceeds of such sale with the accused and enter into the
employ of the accused; that the money so invested, and wages earned
amount to $12,981.00; that the accused, at the demand of his brotherin-law, under protest, signed a note for that amount, but which he has
refused to pay.
The accused was present during the trial. The testimony of the
brothers involved in the first and second specifications, while failing in
unimportant details to substantiate the specifications, fu]]y justifies the
findings of the trial commission. This record is voluminous, consisting
of 247 pages, and in addition thereto a number of exhibits supporting
the testimony of the Masons claiming to have been defrauded. To quote
this testimony here we think would serve no purpose.
The a ccused testified in effect that he ·h ad, honestly and in the desire

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

189

to assist each of the two Masons here involved, and at the request of
each of them, permitted them to invest money in his promotional enterprises; that insofar as the indebtedness connected with the first specification was concerned, the brother therein mentioned owed him, the
accused, more than the amount involved; that as to the second specification, he, the accused, just had not been financiaUy able to pay, but
intended to do so.
The evidence presented against the accused, and that presented on
his behalf created a conflict which the trial commissioners determined.
There is ample evidence to support their findings. They heard the
several witnesses testify; observed the demeanor of the witnesses, and
were thereby in a better position to weigh and evaluate the evidence
than would be your committee which is convinced that under such condition of the evidence, the findings of the trial commission should not
be reversed.
The trial commissions were unanimous in finding the accused guilty
of both the first and second specifications and of unmasonic conduct and
were unanimous in fixing the penalty at expulsion. Your committee,
therefore, offers the following resolution:
RESOLVED: that the action of the Argonaut Lodge No. 461
expelling G. E . R. from all the rights and privileges of Masonry be and
the same is hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1203
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred Trial Record
No. 1203, reports as follows:
Accused, W.P.S., a member of Temple City Lodge No. 612, was
convicted in the state courts of extortion, a felony, and was sentenced
to state prison, but this sentence was suspended and he was placed on
probation for five years with the first six months to be served in the
county jail. This was such imprisonment in pursuance of a final conviction of a crime classified as a felony to make possible automatic
expulsion from the lodge under the provisions of Section 332, Constitution and Ordinances. Proceedings were had under that section and
he was declared expelled.
·
All . the proceedings were regular except that the notice required
under Section 332 was mailed to accused by registered mail at his former
home address in El Monte. The secretary states that the wife of accused
resided there and receipted for the registered letter containing the
notice, a nd that the accused was confined at the time at one of the many
county road-camps used in connection with the Los Angeles county

191

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

jail, and the lodge feared the letter would pass through · more strange
hands if sent to accused through the county jail.
However, we have always held that the last known place of address
referred to in Section 332, where an accused is being imprisoned for
crime, is the place of his imprisonment and not his former home. A
notice addressed to his former home may he withheld from him out of
mistaken kindness or desire to save him from grief. The receipt in this
case was signed by the wife of accused, and there is no certainty that
he himself ever received it.
For failure to mail the notice to the last known place of address,
which was then the Los Angeles county jail, this expulsion must now
be set aside and the case reversed.
We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved that the action of Temple Lodge No. 612 in expelling
W.P.S. under the provisions of Section 332, Constitution and Ordinances, be reversed and the matter sent back to the lodge for proper
proceedings.

place of his imprisonment and not his former home. A notice addressed
to his former home, may have heen deliberately withheld from the
accused or may have never, for a variety of reasons, ever been forwarded. In this case there is no certainty that the accused ever received the
notice.
For failure to mail the notice to the last known place of address,
which was then the State Prison at San Quentin, California, this expulsion must now be set aside and the case reversed.
We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved that the action of Santa Maria Lodge No. 580 in expelling
J .D.K., under the provisions of Section 332, Constitution and Ordinances
be reversed and sent back to the Lodge for proper proceedings.

190

Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1222
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred Trial Record
No. 1222, reports as follows:
The accused, J.D.K., a member of Santa Maria Lodge No. 580, a
public official of the County of San Diego, was convicted by his plea of
guilty in the Superior Court of this State, of the embezzlement of public
money, a felony, and sentenced to the State Prison for the term. prescribed by law. This was such imprisonment in pursuance of a final
conviction of a crime classified as a felony to make possible automatic
expulsion from the Lodge under the provisions of Section 332, Constitution and Ordinances. Proceedings were had under that section and
he was declared expelled.
All the proceedings were regular except that the ''Certificate of
Service" states that the notice required under Section 332 was mailed to
the accused by registered mail at his former home address in San Diego,
California. The Secretary of the Lodge further states that the wife of
the accused resided at the place to which the notice was sent and had
requested the Lodge that any communications with the accused be sent
through her. The receipt for the registered letter containing the notice,
was receipted for by the wife of the accused. At the time the notice was
sent the accused had been transferred to the State Prison and this fact
was known to the Lodge.
It has always been held that the last known place of address referred
to in Section 33~. when an accused is being imprisoned for crime, is the

Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1224
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred Trial Record
No. 1224, reports as follows:
Accused, J.F.L., (a member of Park Boulevard Lodge No. 568) was
charged on October 21, 1949, in three specifications as follows:
1. That in March, 1949, he accepted from a man who desired to
petition for the degrees in Park Boulevard Lodge No. 568 a check for
$100. made payable to accused together with an application for the
degrees and had not to the date of the charges turned the application
or money over to the lodge.
2. That early in 1948 accused borrowed $50.00 from a Master
Mason and had never repaid it.
3. That in November, 1947, accused borrowed $250.00 from the
wife of a Master Mason and had never repaid it.
Failure to pay a debt, in the absence of fraud or misrepresentation,
or misuse of Masonic standing or name, is not a Masonic offense, and
the second and third specifications herein are not considered in this
report although they were fully proved at the trial.
In this matter the record is very incomplete. There is no certificate
of service of summons and charges, but the secretary, now deceased,
typed in one place on the record that "the accused left for parts unknown, something over a year ago and so far as we can determine, no
one knows his present address." The master at the start of the trial
stated that the secretary had mailed a copy of the summons and charges
to accused at his last known place of address and that the trial would
proceed ex parte. The record does not show any other facts amounting
to due diligence in the effort to locate the accused to justify an ex parte
trial as provided for by Section 308, Constitution and Ordinances. The
commissioners were elected on November 25, 1949 and the trial there-

192

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

upon was set for Dec. 12, less than 20 days later. When the secretary
mailed the letter to accused, if he did, is not shown in the record before us.
At the trial on December 12th testimony was given by the man
involved that in March, 1949 he had requested from accused a petition
for the degrees, that accused a few days later came to his home with a
blank which he thought was such a petition, (although he said he
thought it was white, rather than blue, and was not the form shown him
at the trial, said form being an authentic blank petition). He filled out
the blank presented to him and accused took it saying he would get the
other signers, and a check was made out in the name of the accused for
$100.00 and delivered to accused. The witness stated that accused suggested that the check be made payable to him so he could turn cash into
the lodge with the petition. The check was introduced into evidence,
although we do not find it in the file herein. It had been cashed by
accused soon after he received it.
The witness stated he had asked the accused several times as the
months went by as to any action on his petition and accused told him the
lodge had a long waiting list of petitions and that his would he reached
in due time. Finally word got to the master of the lodge and investigation showed that no petition had ever been turned in. In fact, it appeared
that accused had never received a blank petition from the secretary, who
keot all such blanks in his locked desk so no member could get a blank
without his knowledge.
·
The wife and another relative of the man involved were in the house
when accused received the check and corroborated the testimony in part
in that they both heard the men discussing the matter of the application
for the degrees, although they were in an adjoining room, and they saw
the witness sign and deliver the check for $100.
The trial record herein shows nothing of the balloting on the specifications or on the question of unmasonic conduct, but the minutes of the
masters report to the lodge stated that accused had been found Not
Guilty of all three specifications and of unmasonic conduct.
This matter must be reversed because no jurisdiction was established
to try the case. It is evident no personal service was had and accused
did not appear at the trial. Whether the summons mailed to him at his
last Oakland address less than 20 days before the date of trial ever
caught up with him is not known, and probably makes no difference.
There was no showing that he was within the jurisdiction of the lodge,
i.e. in the City of Oakland, so that service could be made either personally or by leaving at his home ?ddress. The time was too short for
service by mail if accused had been elsewhere in the state or in another
state, and his address known. The ex parte trial was not justified by
any due diligence shown in ascertaining his then present address.
In sending the case back to the lodge we wish to state that the

uncontradicted evidence on the trial strongly supports a finding of guilt
of the first specification and the conduct of the accused set out in that
specification would certainly be unmasonic conduct. The trial commissioners in finding accused Not Guilty may have been influenced by .
the evidence tending to show that it was not an actual petition for the
degrees which accused had the witness sign when he got the $100. check.
Regardless of that fact, the evidence does show that the $100. was
being taken as the fee to accompany such an application and the failure
of accused to apply it for that purpose for at least seven months thereafter, without some excuse offered, would be unmasonic conduct.
We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption :
Resolved that the action of Park Boulevard Lodge No. 568 in adjudging J.F.L. not guilty herein be reversed and set aside, and the
matter sent back to said lodge for further trial on the first specification
set out in the charges filed, after proper service of summons on the
accused or a sufficient showing of inability to learn his address to justify
an ex parte trial.

193

Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1225
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Trial Record No. 1225 from Oakdale Lodge No. 275 discloses that
the proceedings covered thereby terminated too late to permit the time
for appeal to expire before this meeting of Grand Lodge.
We, therefore, offer, and move the adoption of the following resolution:
Resolved that consideration of Trial Record No. 1225 be deferred
until the next meeting of Grand Lodge.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1226
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Accused C.L.S. was charged with unmasonic conduct in that
on January 13, 1950, he received from E.R.H. a petition for the degrees
of Masonry, together with the amount required to accompany the petition, namely, $101.00 in cash; That on three occasions thereafter E.R.H.
asked the Accused concerning the petition and was informed by the
Accused on each of these occasions that these matters took time; That
six months later, in July 1950, when E.H.R. again sought information
from Accused concerning the petition, Accused finally admitted to
E.R.H. that he had used the money for his own purposes; That Accused
then presented the petition and $101.00 to the Lodge.
The evidence presented by the Accuser was amply sufficient to sustain the specification and the charge. The Accused admitted withholding

195

PROCEEDINGS Oii THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

the petition and the money from the Lodge but attempted to explain his
conduct by saying that after he had received the petition some doubt
arose in his mind as to the fitness of E.R.H. to receive the degrees of
Masonry. ·
·
The Commission found the Accused "not guilty" of the specification, apparently upon the theory that if they could not find every allegation of the specification to be true that they were required to find the
Accused "not guilty" on the specification. They then found the Accused
.. guilty" of unmasonic conduct and fixed the penalty at suspension.
The Master reported to the Lodge that the Accused had been found
"guilty" of one of the specifications and of unmasonic conduct and that
the Commission had fixed the penalty at suspension.
The Accused has taken no appeal.
A review of the whole proceeding, including the admissions of the
Accused, has convinced your committee that the finding of "not guilty"
on the specification was a technical error and that the Grand Lodge
should supply the finding of guilt of the specification and that the suspension should be affirmed.
We therefore offer and move the adoption of the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That in Trial Record No. 1226 a finding of guilt of
the specification be and it is hereby supplied and that the action of
Hawthorne Lodge No. 647 in suspending C.L.S. be and it is hereby
ratified, affirmed and approved.
Adopted.

The Homes Trustees have appeared before your Committee on
Policy and General Purposes and convinced us of the propriety of their
recommendation. What is known as the Resident's Monthly Grant
Fund was established some years ago for the purpose of providing a
monthly spending allowance to residents.
The original fund was
financed by income from the Flint Trust Fund. At present the fund
consists in large part of proceeds realized from assignments executed
by residents at the time of their admission to the Home. The fund has
grown in proportions not anticipated at the time of its establishment;
so much so, in fact, that in 1949 the sum of $100,000.00 was transferred
from it to the Building Fund. The balance in the fund as of March 1,
1950 was $64,621.29.
That the Monthly Grant Fund is far more than capable of continuing the monthly grant to residents and also absorbing the charge of
$150.00 for each funeral is obvious. The execution of the proposed
funeral policy would not only be pleasing to residents of the Home,
but would also provide relief to the Lodges. Moreover, all Lodges
would be treated alike.
Your Committee therefore recommends the approval of the recommendation of the Homes Board as it is above set forth.

194

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON POLl'CY AND GENERAL
PURPOSES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes respectfully submits the following report on subjects submitted to it for consideration
and recommendation:
(Note: Each recommendation of the Committee was submitted
with the signatures of all members of the Committee appended
thereto.)
HOMES BURIAL POLICY

In the annual report of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes, it is
pointed out that under Sections 440 and 717, Edicts and Resolutions of
the Grand Lodge, it is the responsibility of each Lodge to bear the
funeral expense of any of its members or their widows who pass away
while a resident of the Masonic Home. The Board recommends the
adoption of legislation permitting the Board of Trustees to pay the
necessary burial expenses of residents of the Home who die while under
the supervision of such Trusttes, an allowance of $150.00 in each instance being made. This would relieve obligated Lodges to this extent.

Adopted.
ALLOCATION OP FUNDS TO ENDOWMENT FUND

There was referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes a recommendation by the Trustees of the Masonic Homes that the
following language relating to the $25.00 from initiates be deleted from
Section 100 of ordinances:
"When the amount thus collected and so held shall be more
than sufficient, in the judgment of the Trustees, to provide
for the maintenance of the Homes and for such improvements as are then in progress. or contemplated for the
immediate future, the surplus shall be by them allocated
to the Endowment Fund."
The Trustees report that the foregoing provision places a restraint
upon them and prevents them from holding funds collected during the
good years for use during declines when it would be unwise to further
increase the per capita tax. They state that under this provision funds
amounting to $300,000. have been allocated to the Endowment Fund
during the last five years. They declare that if the Homes had been
permitted to hold this $300,000. in reserve there would be no occasion
to restore the per capita levy against the lodges for some time to come.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes is in agreement
with the recommendation of the Trustees, and therefore, recommends
that the language quoted be deleted from Section 100 and that the

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

196
PROCEEDINGS OP THE
matter be referred to Jurisprudence Committee to prepare the legislation.
The Committee on Finance concurs in this resolution.
Adopted.
POWERS OF GRAND OFFICERS

In his annual message. the Grand Master recommended that the
Ordinances, Section 34, Subdivision I 0, relative to the powers of the
Grand Master, be amended to read as follows:
10. To require the attendance of and information from any
Grand Officer respecting matters appertaining to the
duties of his office and delegate to the Deputy Grand
Master or either Grand Warden the power to approve
resolutions adopted by constituent Lodges, the conferring
of courtesy degrees and such other matters as he may
designate.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered
this recommendation and recommends that the power of delegation
cover requests for the conferring of courtesy degrees and resolutions
providing for amendment of By-Laws.
Adopted.

COMMITTEE ON MEMORIAL TEMPLE

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes to which was
referred the report of the Committee on the Memorial Temple has had
the same under consideration and recognizes the problems with which
said committee has had to deal and probably hereafter may have to deal.
Your Committe-e on Policy and General Purposes recommends that
the present committee on the Memorial Temple be continued and that
further study be made of the complex problem of site selection and
construction of an adequate building to suit the particular requirements
of Grand Lodge.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes also offers t'he
following resolution:
RESOLVED: That the transfer from Grand Lodge reserves to a
Special Fund to be made available to the Memorial Building Committee,
as authorized at our communication in 1948 be continued in force and
effect.
( $158,507.44)
The Committee on Finance concurs in this resolution and report.
Adopted.

197

NAME OP LoDGE CHANGED

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes to which was
referred the resolution offered by Lankershim Lodge No. 542 asking that
the name of that lodge be changed to North Hollywood Lodge No. 542
has had the same under consideration and begs leave to report.
At the time this lodge was chartered the community in which it was
located was named Lankershim. The community has for a number of
years been known as and has the post office address of "North Hollywood" and the change is requested merely to orient the name of the
lodge with its location.
Your committee has conferred with the members of Hollywood
Lodge No. 355 in attendance here and find that they have no serious
objection to such change. It would seem to your committee that the
action sought by the terms of the resolution is not such as would cause
any confusion in names and ought to be granted.
We therefore recommend the adoption of said resolution.
Adopted.
PUBLIC LIABILITY INSURANCE

Your committee on Policy and General Purposes to which was
referred that portion of the report of the Grand Secretary relating to
the procuring of public liability insurance by our constituent lodges has
had the same under consideration and begs leave to report.
It appears that a program of liability insurance prepared by insurance counsel was approved by the Grand Master and put into operation
as an administrative action. The program has been made voluntary
since Grand Lodge only has the authority to make it mandatory.
Whether such a program should be made mandatory has been submitted to this committee for consideration. Your committee is of the
opinion that a study of the ancient history of lodges in this jurisdiction
and other pertinent facts is essential before a proper decision can be
made.
We therefore recommend that the incoming Grand Master be requested to appoint a spedal committee to study the question and report
at the next annual communication.
Adopted.
QuoRUM OP GRAND LoDGE

There has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes a recommendation of the Grand Master that Section 11 , Article
IV. of our Constitution, relating to the requirement that representatives
of seventy-five lodges must be present to constitute a quorum for the
transaction of the business of Grand Lodge, be amended to provide that
in the event competent state or national authority shall prohibit seventy-

198

199

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

five or more persons from assembling, then the Grand Master, Deputy
Grand Master, Grand Wardens, and Junior Past Grand Master may
exercise the powers of Grand Lodge to appropriate money, to tax constituent lodges, to approve acts of constituent lodges, and to review
trial records, and, furthermore, that the elective officers of Grand Lodge
shall continue in their respective offices until the annual communication
next following the repeal of the prohibition.
During the period of active hostilities in World War II, there were
imposed wartime restrictions on travel and public assemblages which
prevented the normal functioning of Grand Lodge. The primary purpose of the proposed amendment is to forefend against a recurrence of
such restriction.
Since this nation is now engaged as a member of the United Nations
in the Korean conflict, and there exist at this time other threats of war,
it seems wise to make provisions in the event such wartime restrictions
are again imposed. We believe the policy of some such emergency
legislation should be adopted for the reasons stated, but recommend
that it should be provided that in the event competent state or national
authority shall prohibit seventy-five or more persons from assembling,
then a majority of the Grand Master, Deputy Grand Master, Grand
Wardens, Grand Treasurer, Grand Secretary and Junior Past Grand
Master may exercise the powers of Grand Lodge to appropriate money,
to tax constituent lodges, to approve acts of constituent lodges, and to
review trial records, and, furthermore, that the elective officers of Grand
Lodge shall continue in their respective offices until the annual communication next following the repeal of the prohibition.
We, therefore, recommend the adoption of the policy as thus recommended and that the matter be referred to the Jurisprudence Committee for drafting of the legislation.

can to retain the interest of a newly raised brother in his blue lodge.
Further waiting requirements would merely delay the inevitable desire
to apply for membership in such other bodies.
We therefore recommend that the proposal be not approved.

Adopted.
PREREQUISITE MEMBERSHIP

There has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes a resolution offered by Past Masters Arch Balchin, Charles
A. Watson and James R. Zuck proposing that the period of time be
raised from six months to one year for a newly raised candidate to wait
before applying for membership in any body, order or organization the
prerequisite of membership wherein is that he be a Master Mason.
The reason given was that the additional time was necessary for
proper Masonic indoctrination of a newly raised brother.
Your Committee feels that the six months waiting now provided
is sufficient for the purpose stated. It is believed that extending the
time an additional six months would not accomplish the desired result.
The existing law has served well in the past and as nearly as a law

Not adopted.
The Grand Master (the Deputy Grand Master presiding) then
moved that it be the policy of Grand Lodge to extend such period from
six months to twelve months and the motion was adopted.
At 12: 10 P. M. Grand Lodge was called off until 2: 00 P. M.

AFTERNOON SESSION-Thursday, October 12, 1950
At 2 :00 P.M. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master Presiding.
·
Bro. Guy S. Harts, Sr., Master of Poin~ettia Lodge No. 633, presided in the East at the entrance of Grand Lodge Officers.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND GENERAL
PURPOSES (Continued}
FORT CROOK

There has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes a resolution offered by Fort Crook Lodge No. 575, Fall River
Mills, California, proposing that our laws be amended so as to permit
plural membership in lodges in this jurisdiction.
The reason assigned by the proposer is that at times in some small
lodges their own .brethren are not willing or capable of assuming the
duties of office, and that available brethren of other lodges living away
from their home lodge are not premitted under our laws to serve.
Your Committee has given the proposal careful consideration but
believes that it would be impracticable in operation. There would be such
serious questions of allocating demands or duties of relief. and of administrative and disciplinary control and of divided allegiance and loss
of membership in the home lodge, as to make such an amendment inadvisable.
We therefore recommend that the proposal be not approved.
Adopted.

200

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
NUMBER OF ASSISTANT GRAND LECTURERS

The Grand Master has recommended that the number of Assistant
Grand Lecturers be changed from four to six and that Sections 51 and
52 of Ordinances be amended accordingly.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes believes that the
best interests of Masonry will be served by such change.
Accordingly we recommend the adoption of the policy and reference
of this matter to the Committee on Jurisprudence for preparation and
presentation for adoption of the necessary changes in Ordinances to
effect the purpose.
Adopted.
CHANGE OF CEREMONIES

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Recommendation No. 7 in the Grand Master's message is:
"That the incoming Grand Master be requested to appoint a
special committee to consider the written ceremonies of the Grand
Lodge and report at the next Annual Communication".
This recommendation is preceded by a discussion relative to the
Masonic funeral service and a suggestion that it might be desirable to
have two approved forms of this service.
It seems desirable to consider the general recommendations under
two heads:
.
1. Shall we commit to a special committee the writing of an additional
Masonic funeral service and/ or the revision of the present funeral
service.
2. Shall we commit to a special committee the revision or complete
re-writing of the written ceremonies of the Grand Lodge other than the
funeral service, meaning thereby the ceremonies of the "Installation of
Grand Lodge Officers, the Institution of Constituent Lodges, the Constitution of Constituent Lodges, the Laying of Cornerstones, the Dedication of Masonic Halls, and the Dedication of Masonic Burial Plots.
We shall so treat them, as we have separate recommendations to
make for your consideration.
FUNERAL SERVICE

1. Shall we commit to a special committee the writing of an additional Masonic funeral service and/ or the revision of the present
funeral service:
After several years of study. the Ritual Committee revised the Masonic funeral service and in 1946 this form was approved by the action
of Grand Lodge. The form was prepared with the active cooperation of
our late P .G.M. Dana R. Weller, who for more than forty-five years was

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

201

actively associated with matters of our Ritual and who had more continuous personal contact with more of our constituent Lodges than any
other Mason in California. He was acquainted with the high. the low,
the rich and the poor. He_knew the city Mason and the Brothers on the
mountains and in the valleys.
The members of the Ritual Committee likewise had a wide personal
contact with the Masons of California. In addition to the attention
given to the words of the ceremony, the form was checked with many
Masons who were morticians or the owners or operators of chapels,
crematoriums and mausoleums. The instructions adopted as a part of the
ceremony were made sufficiently flexible to use in any chapel or in connectiC'n with any church service, if the family of the deceased so desired.
Thereafter, with the approval of Grand Lodge, the memorizing of
the Funeral Service was assigned as one of the requirements for a Master's qualifications of office. Now in every Lodge there are several
Brethren and in all California there are more than 2000 Masons who,
on very short notice can prepare themselves to render the funeral service
in a manner that is a credit to the Fraternity, and no Masonic Funeral
need now be held and then be followed by apologies either to the family
of the deceased, to the profane or to our own Brethren.
The words of commendation have been far more numerous than the
few dissenters who have raised their voices. There will always be some
dissenters for that is the nature and the privilege of democracy.
Why should we throw all these valuable accomplishments out the
window and start all over again.
To have two separate and distinct funeral services will add to a
Master's memorizing problems and create confusion not only in the
minds of the Master endeavoring to keep the two ceremonies distinct
during delivery but also confusing in the minds of the profane as to why
we have two distinct funeral services.
We meet upon the level. Let us depart the same way as well as upon
the square.
We recommend that Grand Lodge do not consider even the possibility of a further revision of the Masonic Funeral Service, or the
writing of an additional service, and that such matter be not submitted to
a committee for further consideration.
We move the adoption of this portion of the report.
Adopted.
GRAND LoDGE CEREMONIES

2. The written ceremonies which are used by Grand Lodge when
convened or by Grand Lodge Officers when performing some Masonic
duties, fall in an entirely different category.
Except for the re-editing in 1947 of the instructions of use these
ceremonies have not been reviewed, modified or re-written for many,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

many years. They at least need a re-examination and study .. In the case
of the ceremony of "Installation of Grand Lodge Officers' • there is a
need for a complete overhauling.
With the exception of a very few of our Grand Lodge Officers, these
ceremonies have not been memorized.
·
If it had not been for a report of a special committee made and adopted last year, which report apparently unintentionally divested t.he Ritual
Committee of all its authority to stµdy and make recommendations relative to our ceremonies, the Ritual Committee would undoubtedly have
proceeded to review these ceremonies and would have presented in due
course their findings to Grand Lodge for consideration.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes believes that it is
the proper function of the Ritual Committee to handle matters of this
kind. We are sure that if it is necessary or desirable they will as they
have in the past, take to themselves suitable assistance and also graciously receive and carefully consider all suggestions that any Brother
desires to offer in the premises.
We therefore recommend that the ceremonies used by Grand Lodge
while convened as such and those used by the Grand Lodge Officers in
the performance of their official duties be referred to the Ritual Committee for review and report to Grand Lodge.
We move the adoption of this portion of the report.
Not adopted.
Past Grand Master Warlow moved that the incoming Grand Master
be requested to appoint a committee to review the Grand Lodge Ceremonies. Motion carried.

MEETINGS AT COLUMBIA TEMPLE

202

To PERMIT PuBLICATION oF CANDIDATES

There has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes a resolution proposed by Bro. Ralph C. Hine, Past Master of
Magnolia Lodge No. 242 and ·Bro. Gustaf A. B. Quick, Past Master of
Santa Paula Lodge No. 291, permitting Lodges in this jurisdiction to
print the names of candidates in their regular Lodge bulletin, provided
such bulletins are enclosed in envelopes and mailed only to Master
Masons.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes is of the opinion
that the disadvantages heavily outweigh the advantages of such a program. There are instances where harm might result if the bulletin was
to fall into hands of the profane. There are other times when such information obtained through the medium of bulletins carelessly discarded
could result in an embarrassing situation arising at a man's place of employment and which might result in great harm befalling the individual
through no fault of his own.
We therefore recommend that the resolution be not approved.
Adopted.

203

The Grand Master in His Message recommends that Lodges. be permitted to hold a Degree Meeting in the Columbia Temple without the
necessity of obtaining a dispensation from the Grand Master.
To accomplish this he proposes that Sec. 121 of the Ordinance be
amended to read a·s follows:
"All meetings shall be held in a building in the place, that is the City,
Town or Community, named in the charter or Dispensation, except that
upon the occasion of the conferring Degrees, a meeting may be held in
the Lodge Room at the Masonic Home at Decoto, the Temple at Columbia, or upon Dispensation from the Grand Master, in some other City,
Town or Community."
Your Committee has given careful consideration to the proposed
Amendment and recommends its adoption.
Adopted.
COMMITTEE REFERRAL

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has given consideration to the matter referred to it under the title of "Recommendation
No. 4" in the Grand Master's Message and offers the following report.
The Grand Master recommends that business of every kind shall be
referred to and reported upon by a committee before it can be finally
acted upon, unless by unanimous consent and whenever referred to more
than one committee, all such committees shall report thereon before any
vote shall be taken in the Grand Lodge.
Section 69 of the Ordinances, as now written, while requiring that
all business be referred to and reported upon by a committee, implies
the original intent that the "final action" taken pursuant thereto would
be upon the item of business referred and not necessarily upon the committee report as such.
A committee report might be received or accepted without a vote if
it contains only recommendations by the committee that the Grand
Lodge take certain action, but if the report should contain a proposal to
amend the resolution or item of business under consideration it would
then necessitate independent action notwithstanding prior or subsequent
reports from other committees. The long established custom in Grand
Lodge of terminating committee reports with a motion to adopt the
report may sometimes be highly desirable but, in case of multiple referral. would be rigidly prohibited by the legislation proposed.
Your committee is entirely in accord with the desire of the Grand
Master to avoid the time-consuming practice of taking a vote two or
three times on the same question with the possibility that the results may
not be the same on each vote, but is reluctant to recommend legislation

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

204

205

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

which might tend to inhibit the freedom of judgment on the part of thr
presiding Grand Master as to the propriety of entertaining a motion to
adopt any individual report of committee. We therefore recommend that
Recommendation No. 4 be not adopted without further consideration.
Not adopted.
Bro. Jameson moved that the above recommendation be adopted as to
policy. Motion carried.
FOREIGN RITUALS

There has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes that portion of the Grand Master's Message. designated
recommendation No. 9 wherein the Grand Master recommends that
Section 192 ( 2nd ) of the ordinances be amended to allow the Master
of a Lodge. to permit Brethren from another jurisdiction to use the ritual
thereof in conferring a degree upon a candidate of such other jurisdiction. Since Section 247 of the Ordinances now authorizes the use of
foreign ritual in a California Lodge. under specific conditions, and this
recommendation is designed only to eliminate the contradiction now
existing between Section 192 and Section 247 your Committee recommends its adoption.
Adopted.
PUBLICATION OF HISTORY

We have considered the report of the Committee on the publication
of the History of Masonry in California. The report shows that the
work is rapidly nearing completion and the books will soon be ready for
delivery. Approximately 1000 sets have been subscribed for and it is
expected that many more will be sold as soon as deliveries can be made.
Last year we recommended to the Grand Lodge that two thousand sets
be printed at a cost then reported to us by the History Publication Committee of $43,200.00. It now appears that the total cost of this program
may exceed that amount.
It is not yet possible to determine the exact cost but it does appear
that it may be necessary for additional funds to be provided.
At the last Communication of Grand Lodge your Finance Committee did not recommend any appropriation but stated they believed
the publication should not be delayed through lack of such appropriation and recommended that the Grand Master be authorized to proceed
with the publication. Any funds used for this project should be returned to a great extent by the sale of sets.
Your Committee on Finance therefore recommends that the Grand
Master be authorized to make available for the purpose of finishing

the publication of the history such funds as may be necessary to carry
the project to completion.
COPIES OF HISTORY TO FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS

In connection with the publication of the History. this Committee is
in accord with the recommendation of the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes adopted by the Grand Lodge yesterday providing
for complimentary distribution of copies of the history when completed
to foreign grand jurisdictions.
Adopted.
UsE oF CoLUMBIA TEMPLE

The Report of the Columbia Temple Restoration Committee has
been referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes and to
the Committee on Finance.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes approves all
matters of policy set forth in the Report of the Columbia Temple Restoration Committee.
Adopted.

206

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS

Since their institution, Orinda Lodge has raised 7 Master Masons,
accepted 20 members by affiliation and has 8 awaiting Degrees.
The Lodge has a satisfactory meeting place, all necessary regalia and
is in a sound financial condition with adequate cash on hand, and all
bills paid. The meetings of the Lodge have been conducted on schedule
and in a proper manner, and the attendance reflects the interest and enthusiasm of the membership.
The healthy growth of this community, the important part a Masonic
Lodge plays in its growth and the hearty co-operation of the adjacent
Lodges, convince your Committee that Orinda Lodge should join the
family of regularly constituted Lodges. It therefore recommends that
a Charter be granted to Orinda Lodge No. 704, in the County of Contra
Costa.
Adopted.

As you have already been informed in preceding reports the Grand
Master during the preceding twelve months has issued dispensations
to form new lodges as follows: Hunters Point Naval Lodge, Lake Tahoe
Lodge, Seafaring Lodge. Lorenzo Lodge, Anacapa Lodge and Rim of
the World Lodge. Grand Lodge at its last communication continued
under dispensation Westchester Lodge, Orinda Lodge and El Cerrito
Lodge.
These Lodges have submitted t}J.eir records as required by law and
they have been carefully studied by the Charters Committee and your
committee is pleased to observe that they reflect in general a high stand-.
ard of performance and accomplishment.
.
WESTCHESTER LoDGE U. D.

Westchester Lodge was granted a dispensation on the 18th day of
June, 1949, and was instituted by the Grand Master on June 18th, 1949.
Because of the comparatively short time this Lodge had been in existence, Grand Lodge continued it under dispensation for the current year.
This Lodge is located in the rapidly growing Westchester district of
southwestern Los Angeles, which prides itself as being the center of the
aircraft industry. The Lodge has built its strength to the present mem~ership of 96 members, having accepted 42 as affiliates and 30 as petitioners. They have a backlog of 28 degrees to be conferred. Their financial situation is comfortable with the sum of $3,624.00 in cash. While
the j,resent meeting place is not large or commodious. with the growth of
the area it is anticipated that a larger meeting place would be forthcoming in the near future. We desire, however, to compliment the members of this Lodge for their many ingenious ways in which they have
overcome the inadequacies of their hall and for the excellent feeling of
fraternalism exhibited therein, and for the comprehensive and excellent
report on the Lodge's activities submitted to your committee.
While the fact that Grand Lodge at its last communication did not
grant a Charter was a source of disappointment to the members of this
group, your Committee is impressed by the zeal and energy of these
good brethren in firmly establishing a Lodge which we are confident will
always be a credit to Masonry.
We therefore recommend that a Charter be granted to Westchester
Lodge No. 703 in the County of Los Angeles.
Adopted.
ORINDA LODGE

u. D.

Orinda Lodge was instituted September 28, 1949, and, at the last
communication of Grand Lodge. was continued under dispensation.

EL CERRITO LODGE

207

u. D.

El Cerrito Lodge, located in the City of El Cerrito-between Albany
and Richmond, in Contra Costa County, was instituted September 29,
1949.
At the last communication of Grand Lodge, El Cerrito was continued
under dispensation for the current year.
This year has indeed been an encouraging and active one, they having conferred 25 Firsts, 17 Second and 14 Third Degrees and accepted
13 members by affiliation and your Committee is impressed with this
Lodge's Masonic activities, as evidenced by the interchange of . visits
between El Cerrito and the other Lodges in that vicinity, and the many
and varied activities in their own Lodge.
The Masonic Club, of which this Lodge was the outgrowth, has
been completely dissolved and all funds transferred to the new Lodge.
While their Lodge room is comparatively small and may be outgrown
in five or ten years, it is now adequate. This Lodge has all the necessary
Masonic paraphernalia, is out of debt and has over $1200.00 cash on
hand.
Your Committee's acquaintance with the community and with the
officers of this Lodge and their conduct of its affairs, persuades us that
El Cerrito will be an asset to the Grand Jurisdiction of California. We
therefore recommend that a Charter be granted to El Cerrito Lodge No.
705. in the City of El Cerrito, County of Contra Costa.
Adopted.
HUNTERS POINT NAVAL LODGE U. D.

This Lodge was instituted January 14, 1950, and since that time has
conferred a total of 78 Degrees: 27 Entered Apprentice, 27 Fellow

208

209

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Craft and 24 Master Mason. They have accepted 4 affiliates and have
5 petitions pending.
Hunters Point Naval Lodge apparently realizes there is more to
Masonry than the conferring of Degrees, as is indicated by a perusal
of the record of their activities during the past nine months.
In addition to a series of successful monthly programs, in June there
were 250 brethren present for dinner, at "Naval Masonic Night." This
meeting was attended by brethren from every State in the Union, and is
planned to be an annual affair.
The Lodge now has the full ·and hearty co-operation of all the
Lodges in San Francisco, and apparently well deserves the reputation
it has achieved, as a "friendly Lodge."
An audit of their finances, as of September 30, shows that they have
cash on hand of $2500.00, with no outstanding bills.
This committee wishes to congratulate the officers and members for
the very successful year they have achieved under dispensation, and
recommends that a Charter be granted to Hunters Point Naval Lodge
No. 706, in the City and County of San Francisco.
Adopted.

Corona del Mar, meeting at the present time in Costa Mesa. Although
this area has long been famous as a resort and recreation center, it would
now appear that there is sufficient year-round business and population
to amply justify a Lodge in this area. We are pleased to note that since
their Institution this Lodge has accepted 48 members by affiliation, has
raised 13, and have 6 degrees to be conferred. While this Lodge has
met with the hearty support of its neighboring Lodges and has been
the recipient of many gifts, the members themselves have fabricated
much of the Masonic furniture and the appearance of the Lodge rooms
reflects their skill and craftsmanship.
The financial statement of this Lodge shows that it is being prudently managed. They have a favorable lease on their present hall which
is, at least for the present time, adequate for their needs, are free from
debt, and have a cash balance of over $1900.00.
We therefore recommend a Charter be granted to Seafaring Lodge
No. 708 in the County of Orange.
Adopted.

LAKE TAHOE LODGE

u. D.

Masonry established another outpost in the High Sierras by the
institution of Lake Tahoe Lodge, U. D. on January 21, 1950.
This area is famous for its scenic splendor and as a mecca for summer visitors, but the winter season renders the district generally inaccessible, thereby depriving Masons living there, of Masonic communication with their brethren.
.
Perhaps it is not generally known that the Lake Tahoe area has a
substantial number of permanent residents, ample to insure the steady
and healthy growth of a Lodge. While this Lodge may never be large
in numbers, its financial needs are modest and your committee's analysis
of the necessary expenses and anticipated revenue demonstrate that the
Lodge will not become a financial burden either to its membership or to
Grand Lodge. It is quite evident that the present officers and members
have the zeal, ability and experience to cause Lake Tahoe Lodge to
render a real service to Masonry and to the communities along the Lake.
Having an attractive and adequate Lodge room, freedom from debt,
ample cash in hand, and its records being found complete and in order,
your committee recommends that a charter be granted to Lake Tahoe
Lodge No. 707 in the County of El Dorado.
Adopted.
SEAFARING LoDGE U. D.

Seafaring Lodge was instituted Jan. 25, 1950. This Lodge is now
serving the communities of Costa Mesa, Newport, Balboa Island and

LoRENZO, ANACAPA AND RIM OP THE WoRLD LODGES

u. D.

Lorenzo Lodge was instituted on July 22, 1950, Anacapa Lodge.
August 19, 1950 and Rim of the World Lodge on September 9, 1950.
Your Committee has confidence in the ability of the brethren of these
three Lodges to establish permanent and reputable Lodges in their
respective communities. The energy and enthusiasm exhibited by the
members during the brief life of these Lodges augurs well for the future:
but experience has demonstrated that there are many benefits, both
tangible and intangible, to be derived by a Lodge working under dispensation for a reasonable period of time.
We therefore recommend these three Lodges be continued under
dispensation.
Respectfully submitted,
GLENN C . HOLMES
WILLIAM R. HERVEY, JR.
WILLIAM J. WILLIAMS
HAROLD A. MEYER
RALPH W. COLLINS
GEORGE E. RUPPERS
RuEW. SIMS

An amendment was offered excluding Anacapa Lodge from the
Committee's report which amendment was carried.
On motion duly made, seconded and carried a charter was granted
to Anacapa Lodge No. 710.
An amendment was then offered deleting Lorenzo Lodge U. D. from·

·210

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

the Committee's report which amendment was carried, and on motion
duly made, seconded and carried a charter was granted to Lorenzo
Lodge No. 709.
The Grand Master called on the Deputy Grand Master to preside
and then offered a motion that a charter be granted to Rim of the World
Lodge, which motion was carried and a charter was granted to Rim of
the World Lodge No. 711.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on By-Laws has duly considered the fl.fty-eig~t
amendments submitted by constituent Lodges. Two Lodges deemed it
wise to increase their fees for the Degrees, one Lodge increased its
affiliation fee to $50.00 and one Lodge decreased its affiliation charge
to no fee.
In considering this question of increase of dues, one Lodge presented thoughts which are worth quoting:
"WHEREAS, it being evident from a study of the revenue and
expense accounts of .................... Lodge that the Lodge will, in
course of time, be unable to meet the ordinary and necessary
expense and cost of maintaining its Lodge hall and appurtenances, and
WHEREAS, there are no reserves in hand to provide for charity
contingencies, in the participation of which all Masonic Brethren
should be concerned, now, therefore, be it resolved that to accomplish the foregoing purposes in a more full and necessary
measure than can now be done, that the annual dues of this
Lodge be and they are hereby set at the sum of $18.00 per .
annum, etc."
We quote these thoughts to i11ustrate the wisdom of looking forw~rd
to the future as to expenses and revenues. Twenty-three Lodges increased their annual dues.
The date of their stated meeting was changed by nine Lodges and
the time changed by one. Five provided for stated meetings faHing on
holidays and one changed its annual election to the November stated
meeting. Fourteen changed the place of meeting.
The present uniform code of by-laws in toto was adopted by fifteen
Lodges, to take care of changes desired. We c~mmend th~ Grand S~c­
retary for the advice and assistance rendered m co~necbo~ the~ew1th
and in solving the "technicalities involved in completmg their action.
All of the amendments and resolutions affecting By-laws of the
Lodges as shown herein, which have been approved by the Grand
Secretary and the Grand Master as to form and Masonic Law requirements, our Committee have carefuUy examined and we recommend them
to Grand Lodge for approval. There are as_follows:

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

211

AMENDMENTS TO BY-LAWS

Increasing fees: El Dorado Lodge No. 26, to $75.00, Lakeshore
Lodge No. 551, to $100.00.
Increasing affiliation fee: Mission Lodge No. 169, to $50.00.
Decreasing affiliation fee: El Dorado Lodge No. 26, to no fee.
Redistribution of breakdown of fees: Indian Wells Valley No. 691.
Increasing dues: La Parfaite Lodge No. 17, to $15.00; Occidental
Lodge No. 22, to $18.00; Sotoyome Lodge No. 123, to $15.00; Crockett
Lodge No. . 139, to $15.00; Oriental Lodge No. lH, to $15.00; Marin
Lodge No. 191, to $15.00; Monrovia Lodge No. 308, to $15.00; Oxnard
Lodge No. 341, to $15.00; Starr King No. 3H, to $15.00; Amity Lodge
No. 370, to $15.00; Yerba Buena Lodge No. 403, to $15.00; Lindsay
Lodge No. 416, to $18.00; Standard Lodge No. HO, to $15.00; Bethlehem Lodge No. 453, to $15.00; Argonaut Lodge No. 461, to $18.00:
Victory Lodge No. 474, to $18.00; Bay City Lodge No. 526, to $15.00;
Forest Hi11 Lodge No. 534, to $15.00; Seaport Lodge No. 550, to $18.00;
West Adams Lodge No. 565, to $15.00: James Garfield Lodge No. 566,
to $15.00: Alexander Graham Bell Lodge No. 595, to $15.00: Los
Cerritos Lodge No. 674, to $15.00.
Changing date of stated meeting: Temple Lodge No. 14, Georgetown Lodge No. 25: Gold Hi11 Lodge No. 32: Ophil Lodge No. 33:
Northern Light Lodge No. 190; Callayomi Lodge No. 282: Military
Service No. 570; Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598; Southland Lodge No.
618.
Changing time of stated meeting: La Habra Lodge No. 659.
Providing for holiday meetings: West Lake Lodge No. 392: Chino
VaHey Lodge No. 427; Culver City Lodge No. 467; Harbor Lodge No.
502; Altadena Lodge No. 678.
Providing for annual election in November: Triangle Lodge No. 548.
Adopting uniform code of by-laws: Clear Lake Lodge No. 183;
Alturas Lodge No. 248; North East Lodge No. 266; Madera Lodge
No. 280; Fairmount Lodge No. 435; Palms Lodge No. 512; Monte
Vista Lodge No. 655: Bixby Knolls Lodge No. 699; Hunters Point
Naval Lodge U. D.: Lake Tahoe Lodge U. D.; Seafaring Lodge U. D.;
Lorenzo Lodge U. D.; Anacapa Lodge U. D.; Rim of the World Lodge
U.D.
RESOLUTIONS

Providing for change of meeting place: Reedley Lodge No. 304;
Moneta Lodge No. 405: Van Nuys Lodge No. 450: Argonaut Lodge
No. 461; Bell Lodge No. 483; San Gabriel Lodge No. 546; Military
Service Lodge No. 570; Pear] Harbor Lodge No. 598: Granada Lodge
No. 608; Canoga Lodge No. 611: Temple City Lodge No. 612; South-

212

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LOOGE OF CALIFORNIA

land Lodge No. 618; Florence Lodge No. 649; San Antonio Lodge
No. 694.
I therefore now move the adoption of this report, thereby approving
said amendments and the recommendations contained therein.
OAKLEY K. MORTON '
ANDREW R. SCHOTTKY
STEWART B. ANDREWS
WILLIAM W. McKEE
WILLIAM KEOGH
PHILO ROGERS
WAYNE GLEASON

Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON LODGE FINANCING
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Lodge Financing has just completed its busiest
year. More than sixty applications have been acted upon. Approval has
been given for the building of nine new Masonic Temples, for the acquisition of six Temple building sites, and for the incorporation of fourteen
Masonic Temple associations.
It is interesting to note that where applications were made for permission to construct new Masonic Temples, the large majority of requests involve the single purpose type of lodge building. A great deal
of volunteer labor is employed and the financing is taken care of. in
most part, by the members of the respective lodges.
The members of your Committee deem it a real pleasure to have
been able to approve the requests for permission to erect these several
new Masonic Lodge homes, and it has been a real inspiration to your
Committee Chairman to observe the brethren of some of these Lodges
building Masonic Temples with their own hands. Men, many of whom
had never driven a nail or wielded a paint brush in their lives, work
joyously and efficiently during all their leisure hours to complete the job.
There is something fundamental in the philosophy of Masonry which
impels men to do the things they do to further its cause. To illustrate
the point: About a month ago your Chairman journeyed to El Segundo
to watch the progress of the work on the new El Segundo Temple. On
that occasion, four past masters of the Lodge, all of whom were retired
from their employment and businesses, were on the job, working under
a blazing sun, tying steel in forms preparatory to pouring concrete for
the East wall. No amount of money could have hired these worthy
brothers to do this work. On telling this story to an inspector of a
Masonic district in that vicinity he suggested that they were working
for Master Mason's wages, which, after all, is more precious than any
other kind of pay.

213

As in the past, after your Committee has acted upon an application,
a complete file on each case, including the details of the request, necessary resolutions, financial statements, comments by Committee members,
together with copy of written consent is filed in the Grand Secretary's
office as a part of the records of the Grand Lodge.
The following Lodges and Temple associations received Committee
consent to erect Masonic Temples:
Canoga Park Masonic Building Association, Canoga Park Lodge
No. 611.
Georgetown Masonic Temple Association, Georgetown Lodge
No. 25.
New Fontana Masonic Temple Association, Fontana Lodge No.
653.
El Segundo Masonic Temple Association, El Segundo Lodge No.
507.
Temple City Masonic Temple Association, Temple City Lodge No.
612.
Angeles Mesa Building Association, Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625,
Los Angeles.
Foothill Temple Association, Foothill Lodge No. 564, Oakland.
Blythe Masonic Temple Association, Blythe Lodge No. 473.
Greenleaf Masonic Temple Association, Greenleaf Lodge No. 670,
Whittier.
The following Lodges and Temple Associations received Committee
consent to purchase future building sites:
Monte Vista Temple Association, Monte Vista Lodge No. 655,
Long Beach.
Oceanside Masonic Temple Association, Inc., Oceanside Lodge No.
381, Oceanside.
Masonic Temple Association of San Pedro, San Pedro Lodge No.
332, San Pedro.
Oxnard Masonic Temple Association, Oxnard Lodge No. 341.
San Fernando Lodge No. 343.
Square and Compass Building Association, Downey Lodge No. 220.
The Committee on Lodge Financing has received many requests for
permission to form Temple Associations for the purpose of holding title
to property designed for lodge occupancy and to invest Lodge funds or
transfer lodge property. This Committee has submitted, upon request,
sample copies of Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws of a type widely
used in this jurisdiction. In each case, the Lodge has been advised to employ legal counsel to properly prepare its papers.
Canby Cross Lodge No. 679, Tulelake-To incorporate Canby
Cross Building Association and invest $100 of Lodge funds in Regular
Memberships.

214

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Hawaiian Lodge No. 21. Le Progress I'oceanic Lodge No. 371 :
Honolulu Lodge No. 409: and Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598-To incorporate Honoluh.J Masonic Temple Association and to invest of $25,000.00 from general funds of · each lodge, aggregating $100,000.00 in said
association, and to purchase the Masonic Temple property from Hawaiian Lodge No. 21 for the sum of $85,000.00.
Chula Vista Lodge No. 626--To incorporate the Chula Vista Masonic Temple Association and tc;> transfer title to building sites owned
from the Lodge to the Association in consideration of controlling interest.
Laguna Beach Lodge No. 672-To incorporate Laguna Beach Masonic Temple Association, and to transfer from the Lodge to the Association a building fund of $4,314.83.
Los Gatos Lodge No. 292-To incorporate Los Gatos Masonic Hall
Corporation and invest $100.00 from Lodge general funds in Regular
Membership.
Sunnyvale Lodge No. 511-To incorporate Sunnyvale Masonic
Temple Association and invest $100.00 from Lodge general funds in
Regular Membership.
American Lodge No. 475, Los Angeles-To incorporate American
Temple Association.
Menlo Park Lodge No. 651-To incorporate Menlo Park Masonic
Temple Association.
Morgan Hill Lodge No. 463-To incorporate Morgan Hill Masonic
Temple Association.
Belvedere Lodge No. 539, Los Angeles-To incorporate Belvedere
·
Masonic Building Association.
Smyrna Lodge No. 532, Modesto--To incorporate Ceres Masonic
Building Association and to invest $1,735 of Lodge general funds in
Regular Memberships.
Fairfax Lodge No. 556-To incorporate Fairfax Masonic Temple
Association and to invest $100 from Lodge general funds in voting
memberships.
Traver Lodge No. 294, Kingsburg-To incorporate Traver Masonic
Temple Association.
Callayomi Lodge No. 282, Middletown-To incorporate Middletown Masonic Temple Association, and to transfer title to building site
to said association for the consideration of $1.000 in voting memberships.
Committee consent was given to make repairs, alterations and additions to property owned by Lodges and Temple Associations in the
amounts and in the manner of financing as listed:
Benicia Lodge No. 5, Benicia-$6,500 from Lodge general funds.
Petaluma Masonic Hall Association, Petaluma-$10.506.00 by cash
on hand and loan of $6,500.00 on unsecured note from Petaluma Lodge
No. 180.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA ·

215

Coalinga Lodge No. 387, Coalinga-$8,562.00 from Lodge general
funds.
University Masonic Temple Association-$4,000.00 from general
funds of University Lodge No. 394, and $4,000.00 from general funds
of Vermont Square Lodge No. 515.
Mosaic Lodge No. 218, Livermore-$10,000.00 from Lodge general
funds.
R. E. Dolley Lodge No. 618, Seal Beach-$3,500.00 from Lodge general funds and $2,000.00 donated by members.
Napa Masonic Hall Association, Napa-$7,500.00 by loan, secured
by promissory note, from Yount Lodge No. 12.
Bakersfield Masonic Temple Association-$25,000 by loans from
Bakersfield Lodge No. 224, $10;000: Libertas Lodge No. 466, $10,000:
Security Lodge No. 581. $5.000: all from the Lodges' general funds.
Fallbrook Masonic Temple Association-$2,500 by loan from Fallbrook Lodge No. 317.
Marin Masonic Hall Association, San Rafael-$11 ,000 by cash on
hand.
Committee consent has been given to the following:
Warren G. Harding Lodge No. 579, North Sacramento--To transfer
$2.000 from Lodge General funds to reduce mortgage on the Temple
property.
El Segundo Lodge No. 507-To invest $5,400 from Lodge general
funds in Regular Memberships of El Segundo Masonic Temple Association.
Granada Lodge No. 608, Alhambra-To loan $5,000 from Lodge
general funds to Granada Masonic Temple Association.
Van Nuys Masonic Building Association-Request for permission
to raise $20,000 by issuing Regular Memberships in the amount of $3,000
from general fund of Van Nuys Lodge No. 450: to borrow on Friendship Loans, and if necessary to borrow any balance from bank or other
source on an open note of Vian Nuys Masonic Building Association.
Florence Masonic Temple Association, Los Angeles-To borrow
$25,000 necessary to complete its building from a member of Florence
Lodge No. 649, on unsecured Note.
Burlingame Lodge No. 400-To transfer $2,000 from Lodge general
funds to Burlingame Masonic Hall Association to reduce by that amount
the mortgage loan on the Temple.
Pacific Grove Masonic Temple Association-To ·b orrow $3.500 on
unsecured notes from members of Pacific Grove Lodge No. 331.
San Gabriel Lodge No. 546-To invest $5,000 from Lodge general
funds in Regular Memberships of San Gabriel Masonic Temple Association.
El Segundo Lodge No. 507-To invest $2,000 from Lodge general

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

216

217

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

funds in Regular Memberships of El Segundo Masonic Temple Association.
East Gate Masonic Hall Association, Inc., Los Angeles-To purchase property 5' x 140' immediately joining Lodge property for the sum
of $5,000.
Western Star Lodge No. 2, Shasta-To plan for raising funds for
building purposes.
Presidio Lodge No. 354, San ~rancisco--To create a building fund
and a building committee.
Henry Knox Lodge No. 662, Los Angeles-To create a building
fund.
,
Reedley Lodge No. 304-To negotiate a lease for ten years for
Lodge quarters.
Canoga Park Masonic Building Association-To borrow $2,000
from a bank on an unsecured loan.
Glendora Lodge No. 404-To negotiate a lease for ten years for
Lodge quarters.
San Gabriel Lodge No. 546-To invest an additional $5,000 in
Lodge general funds in Regular Memberships of San Gabriel Masonic
Temple Association.
Lankershim Lodge No. 542-To invest $15,000 of Lodge general
funds in Regular Memberships of North Hollywood Masonic Temple
,
Association.
East Los Angeles Temple Association, Inc.-To purchase, for the
sum of $32,000, an improved property as a future home for the Gardens
Lodge No. 621, Los Angeles.
El Segundo Lodge No. 507-To invest $800 from Lodge general
funds in Regular Memberships of the El Segundo Masonic Temple
Association, the money to be used to purchase a 25-foot lot adjoining
the Temple property.
Hawthorne Lodge No. 647-To purchase $2.500 worth of Class
"B" Stock of the Hawthorne Masonic Temple Association for the purpose of retiring a portion of indebtedness of the Association.
Burlingame Lodge No. 400-To transfer $1,500 from Lodge general
funds to the Burlingame Masonic Hall Association for the purpose of
reducing the outstanding debt of the Association.
Bixby Knolls Lodge No. 699, Long Beach-To negotiate a five-year
lease for Lodge quarters.
Alta Loma Lodge No. 6i3, Long Beach-To negotiate a five-year
lease for Lodge quarters.
Temple City Lodge No. 612-To invest $5,000 from Lodge general
funds in Regular Memberships of the Temple City Masonic Association,
Inc.
West Gate Lodge No. 335, Los Angeles-To action in eliminating
the 85% requirement from the plan adopted by the Lodge for the pur-

chase of $131,500 notes of the West Gate Building Corporation.
Your Committee denied the request of Pacific Grove Masonic Temple Association for permission to erect an office building adjacent to its
new Masonic Temple in Pacific Grove on the grounds that the proposed
building is a commercial venture.
Your Committee recommends an appropriation of $800 be made to
cover necessary expense for the coming year.
Your Committee, early in June, lost the invaluable services of Brother
Walter L. Berger, its chairman, because of a serious illness. He has been
a member of this Committee since its inception. His wise handling of its
complex and varied ramifications has resulted in universal confidence in
the correctness and fairness of its decisions. There is little doubt that
the sacrifice of time and energy he made to the work of the Committee
over many years contributed much to his recent illness.
In concluding this report, I want to thank the members of this Committee for the magnificent support and cooperation they have given to
me as Acting Chairman, during very trying times.
Respectfully submitted,

J.

E. BLJCKFELDT
WALTER L. BERGER
WALTON E. HOLMES
WALTER
PYBON
THOMAS HURLEY
THOMAS B. COPELAND
GEORGE L. CoTSENNASYBR.

J.

Referred to Committee on Finance.

218

219

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD

thus giving sufficient continuity in its organization setup. Personnel of
the present Board is as follows :

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Masonic Homes Endowment Board has the pleasure of herewith presenting its eighteenth annual report covering the period August
I, 1949 to July 31, 1950, inclusive:
As this Centennial Year is a significant one in the history of Masonry
in California, we believe this report marks a definite milestone in the
progress of this important phase of our Masonic activity.

1950

1951

1952

Ernest G. Bashor
James T . Fraser
Ira D. Wheeler
Lester A. Price
Walter H. Ireland

Edmund A. Lockett
Clovis J. Robert
Byron Coleman
Leonard R. A vllla
Carl F. LaVo

Orno E. Tyler
A. W. Carlson
Harry A. Neuman, Jr.
Albert E. Gordon
Olen T. Turner

The officers of the Board are
Ernest G. Bashor, Chairman
Francis V. Keesling, Treasurer
Lloyd E. Wilson, Secretary
James T. Fraser, Vice Chairman
Edmund A. Lockett, Vice Chairman Wm. Rhodes Hervey, Financial Advisor

HISTORY
Although the beginnings of our Homes occurred early in the history
of Grand Lodge, it was many years before the seed was sown for the
Endowment Fund. Early contributions by individuals and appropriations of Grand Lodge were used for the acquiring of land and for a
building program. It was not until I 910 that the trustees, after the
accumulation of some $17,000.00, established what they termed a "permanent improvement fund." However, our records show that the previous year a bequest was made to Grand Lodge by Brother Jacob Hart
Neff (who died March 26, 1909) consisting of the residue of his estate,
amounting to $12,688.97, with the recommendation that said money
should be placed in a "permanent endowment fund." Grand Lodge then
ordered that the previously designated Improvement Fund be added to
the Neff legacy. Thus was our permanent endowment fund started, and
proper tribute was paid to the good and thoughtful brother in the following words:
"Thus a nucleus is created for a fund which we trust in time
will grow to such proportions as will take care of our Homes.
and the cherished name of the honored and loyal Mason, which.
in life, was written in our book of gold as 'one who loves his fellow man' and as 'one whom love of God hath blest.' Will forever in this greatest of Masonic charities lead all the rest."
At this juncture of our history, an Endowment Fund Committee
was created ( 1910) and small sums were added from time to time, which
were invested in sound. interest-bearing securities. It was in 1932 that
a real impetus to such a program was given. By action of Grand Lodge
(Constitution and Ordinances. Article V) a Masonic Home Endowment Board was established. The purpose of such a Board was definitely
set up, "to study. devise, and carry out plans for the securing of adequate endowment for the Masonic Homes of California."
The Board is composed of fifteen members, five appointed each year,

PROGRAM
A review of the Board's activities shows that it has consistently
followed a program in accordance with its established purpose. It has
been truly a continuous educational one. Such a procedure has demanded several definite approaches. It has been their responsibility to inform
not only the officers, but endeavor to reach every individual Mason by
some manner that he may be made aware of the splendid service of our
two Homes, how they are operated and the privilege he may share by
participating in their support. Over eighty thousand bulletins have been
distributed to the membership during the past year-an all-time record.
In accordance with past custom, the Grand Master designated May as
Endowment Month, a time when special thought and consideration
might be given to our Endowment program.
The splendid cooperation and assistance by the Most Worshipful
Grand Master throughout the year has been of invaluable assistance.
The thoughtful consideration by our _busy Inspectors has been most
appreciated. Particularly we are gratiAed by their cooperation in a new
redistricting program for our work during the past year. A member of
the Board has assumed responsibility to contact and cooperate with
certain definitely assigned districts. In general. this plan has proven
particularly helpful and has brought the message of the Endowment
J3oard much closer home and has given those lodges a clear insight in to
their opportunities and privileges. Chairmen for such, as well as lodge
officers, have aided materially in evolving this procedure and to them
great credit is due.
Informative talks have been given freely on request, pictures have
been shown and other means of disseminating information have been
utilized more freely and advantageously by the lodges. All correspondence and questions have been given prompt attention and in general we
have every reason to believe there is a much ·b etter understanding and
a more smooth operation of our educational program.

220

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

ACCOMPLISHMENTS
Every year shows a new record of achievement. The list of Honor
Lodges-those contributing two dollars or more per member-is a stimulating influence and gratification to your Board. The large number of
individual contributions is material evidence of the understanding and
appreciation on the part of approximately twenty-five per cent of our
membership. It is to be regretted that although the total individual contributions shows an increase over last year, the added amount is not
proportionate to the increased membership. The number of individual
members contributing has decreased from last year's figure of 52.998
to 49,233. We earnestly hope that the current year will witness an increased realization of responsibility and will result in total contributions
and total number of contributors proportionate to our membership. The
number of bequests is lasting evidence of the interest and appreciation
of those farseeing brethren who have realized that " I am my brother's
keeper." We commend a careful study of the detailed financial report
for a full understanding of accomplishments.
THE FUTURE
No goal has been set by Grand Lodge, unless it be, "a sufficient
endowment, the income from which should care for our Homes." Wise
planning and judicial action by those in charge of our Fund has given
us safety above all. They have taken their trust seriously and protected
your principal with the greatest possible income. The upkeep and
maintenance of our Homes has risen rapidly and may continue along
such lines for some time. We want them to ever be a welcome rendezvous for those entrusted to our care.
Our task is not too difficult, but some responsibility rests upon the
shoulders of each and every member of the Craft. A kind word, a wholesome thought. a dissemination of knowledge, a willing contribution by
those who are able, a planned bequest, are all involved when we say:
"Let every Mason in California today, share in endowing forever,
that which California Masons have built during the past one hundred
years."

221

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
CONTRIBUTIONS THROUGH LODGES

1948
$187,588.26

1949
$191,319.68

1950
$194,328.62

INDIVIDUAL CONTRIBUTORS

1948
47.714

1949
52,998

1950
49,233

TESTIMENTARY GIFTS

Bequests of cash have been received as follows, up to July 31, 1950 :
Estate of :
Jesse F. Brown (Henry Knox 662) ............................................................$ 2,000.00
Charles W. Buck (Beverly Hills 528)........................................................
59.46
Emil Englund (York 423) ..........................................................................
286.66
Elsie M. K. Frederickson ............................................................................
173.23
Gustav J. Lang (Pentahpha 202) .............................................................. 13,062.50
James Orr (Solano 229) ................................................................................ 9,240.13
Charles L. Pioda (Salinas 204) ..................................................................
500.00
Otto F. Prueser (Kauai 589) ...................................................................... 1,439.15
J. B. Rothchild (Fidelity 120) .................................................................... 10,576.19
Bertha Sherwood ............................................................................................
471.01
William D. Shonefelt (Sacramento 40) ....................................................
275.00
Leah Weissman ..............................................................................................
750.00
Clarence E. Young (Searchlight 567) ...................................................... 1,000.00
Total. ........................................................................ ,......................$39,833.33
MEMORIALS

Justus F. Armstrong
Mrs. Emma Barbeau
Mrs. R. E. Brown
Hubert T. Bryant
Robert L. Cogburn
Mrs. Mary Bell Collyer
Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Crain
Joseph Davis
Louis Dietz, Jr.
Arthur Carl Dwire
E. L. Fisher
Harmon Fisher
Jonathan F. Fulkerson
Everett Gainor
Mrs. George Gillespie
Charles H. Green
Conrad Irwin Hubert
Mrs. Cecelia Jensen
Barkley Johnston
Arthur Laxton
Mrs. Lily Leffier

Edwin Leitch
Oliver P. Murray
William F. Murray
Henry A. Nordquist
Ernest Orr
Walter Page
Walter 0. Perkins
Wm. Peterson
Henry J. Rich
James and Markaret Rolph
Albert A. Rosenshine
E. R. Samuels
Dr. William Fuller Sharp
Joseph Sirbu
John M. Spaulding
Ralph H. Spotts
Edwin Vale
Ernest L. Weule
Edwin B. Winshop
William A. Witte
William F. Zech

222

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

HONORABLE MENTION

No.

Lodges forwarding total contributions in excess of $2.00 per mem~
her. (Such contributions were made by 92 Lodges) :

545
566
576
583
589
591
595
598
599
600
602
603

No.
1
3
21
26
35
58
128
143
149
169
178
195
202
207
208
209
214
220
237
242
273
277
278
279
309
323

330
332
333
335
346
352
367
371

377
378
379
383
387
392
409
415
437
444
452
458
462
464
467
470
493
516
520
524
527

Lodge
Members
California ....................:........................................................... 542
Tehama .................................................................................... 732
Hawaiian ···························································-··················· 476
El Dorado ...................................•............................................ 241
San Diego .............................................................................. 951
Union ...................................................................................... 702
Visalia ...................................................................................... 533
Franklin .................................................................................. 131
Lassen ·······-············································································· 222
Mission ··············································································'····· 711
Phoenix .................................................................................. 648
Buckeye .................................................................................. 138

x~~~;r~a

_ : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :: : : : : : : : : ~~:

Rio Vista ·································-·············································
King David's ..........................................................................
San Buenaventura ................................................................
Downey ....................................................................................
Guadalupe ·······························-·············································
Magnolia ..................................................................................
Anchor ....................................................................................

149
412
390
509
146
393
532
Selma·······················································-······························· 213
So. California ·······················································-··············· 514
Hanford .................................................................................. 214
Delano ...................................................................................... 232
Whittier .................................................................................. 645
Kilauea .................................................................................... 238
San Pedro .............................................................................. 505
Alta .......................................................................................... 82
West Gate .............................................................................. 1022
Palo Alto ................................................................................ 680
Sunset ...................................................................................... 401
South Pasadena .................................................................... 584
le Progress de I'Oceanie .................................................... 654
Artesia ·····································································-··············· 163
Mizpah ·····················-····························································· 445
Filhnore ............................................................•..................... 232
Orosi ···············-······································································· 135

i~fnl!ke··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~g~

Honolulu ..................................................................................
Silver Trowel ........................................................................
Lancaster ................................................................................
Carpinteria ..............................................................................
San Pasqual ..........................................................................
Henry S. Orme ....................................................................
Paul Revere ............................................................................
Alta Vista · ....................~ .........................................................
Culver City ........:...................................................................
Lincoln ....................................................................................
Atascadero ·····························································-···············
Taft ···················-····················································-···············

367
395
244
111
460
672
576
278
321
343
101
302
Ionic ............~............................................................................. 7 40
Catalina Island ·············-································:.................... 146
Covenant ................................................................................ 334

Total
$1,177.50
1,569.50
1,065.00
488.00
2,270.30
2,075.70
1,317.20
384.50
491.50
1,508.50
1,464.85
303.00
1,159.50
832.50
301.00
904.00
790.50
1,068.30
438.00
1,112.00
1,122.50
434.00
1,400.00
448.50
475.50
1,450.00
889.00
1,035.00
171.50
2,050.00
1,370.00
832.25
1,453.65
1,498.75
442.00
1,178.80
591.50
284.00
812.00
1,942.00
806.50
806.00
500.50
469.50
930.06
1,628.50
1,174.00
709.25
835.00
1,174.80
217.58
621.50
2,345.25
299.25
742.58

Lodge

223
Members

Jonathan ·································································-···············
James A. Garfield ................................................................
El Cajon Valley ....................................................................
Wasco ......................................................................................
Kauai ........................................................................................
Escalon ....................................................................................
Alexander G. Bell ................................................................
Pearl Harbor ..........................................................................
Carmelita ................................................................................
Lynwood ·····················································-···························
Melrose ....................................................................................
Dimond ....................................................................................

192
224
232
276
126
125
269
553
308
353
230
277

i~~ rE~~r~~:~~:: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ~:

~~~ =ii;;··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:g

637 Palisades ·····························································-···················
640 Veritas ·····························································-·······················
..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
650 La Brea ..................................................................................
662 Henry Knox ............................................................................

~:~ f!m~~br~o~~.~.:.

371
118

~~~

251
421

~~~ tf~~~i ~rt~h..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

678
681
684
691
694
695

Altadena .................................................................................• 404
Dos Palos ................................................................................ 99
Trona ........................................................................................ 129
Indian Wells Valley ...............•.......................................... 202
San Antonia ............................................................................ 87
Meudel ···········································-···································~··· 85

~~~ ~~~rn~~tei>iielia··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 1:~

699 Bixby Knolls ....................................................•..................... 115
701 Rosemead
Santa Ynez................................................................................
Valley ···································-························· 43
702·
55
U.D. Westchester ............................................................................ 89

Respectfully submitted,
ERNEST G. BASHOR
EDMUND A. LOCKETT
JAMES T. FRASER
IRA D. WHEELER
ORNO E. TYLER
CLOVIS J . ROBERT
LESTER A. PRICE
A. W. CARLSON
BYRON COLEMAN
LEONARD R. AVILLA
WALTER H. IRELAND
HARRY A. NAUMAN
ALBERT E. GORDON
OLEN T. TURNER
CARL F. LAVo

Referred to Committee on Finance.

Total
384.00
526.15
519.00
839.00
337.00
324.50
575.15
1,179.00
814.00
716.00
521.70
555.81
794.50
3,031.10
494.00
530.00
578.00
783.00
243.00
487.00
702.50
531.35
1,208.00
358.00
557.00
815.25
208.00
260.00
608.00
177.00
177.00
288.26
577.00
232.00
86.00
112.00
189.38

224

225

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC INFORMATION

While questions and answers, to be etfective, must be brief and, therefore, leave much to be desired for thorough information, there is a psychological principle of value to be observed. It is that one learns a
fact better and rettains the knowledge longer, if he first has a question
in his mind about it.
Accordingly, your Committee presents herewith "707 Questions and
Answers about Freemasonry" which are divided by subjects, accompanied by a table of contents, listing eighteen heads and subheads. It
is not to be inferred that there are only 707 facts worthy ·Of note about
Freemasonry, nor that all of that number as set forth are necessary or
desirable.
.,.
In the preparation of this mater.ial, your Committee has had carefully in mind, just as it did in the preparation of the booklets above
mentioned, that it is no part of your Committtt's functions or privileges
to interpret the symbolism, ritual or rites of Freem,.~onry, or to indulge
in implications as to their origin or meaning as so often.appears to be the
tendency in such enterprises. Any references tb such subjects ·h ave been
confined to generalities or exoteric matters.
Your Committee recommends:
1. That there be appropriated the sum of $4,000.00 for printing a
supply of the four booklets for use during the coming Masonic year.
2. That this report and the manuscript of the 707 Question and
Answers be referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes
and to the Committee on Ritual for their examination and recommendations, and to the Committee on Finance as to the requested appropriation.
3. That your Committee be continued and that there be appropriated for the general expanses of your Committee during the ensuing
year, the sum of $500.00.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Masonic Information reports as follows:
The Books of the Fellow Craft and the Master Mason which were
first recommended by your Committee at the 1948 Communication were ·
finally approved and, early in the present year, were printed and distributed to the lodges, together with reprints of the Address to the
Candidate and Book of the Entered Apprentice. We express our appreciation to the Grand Secretary and his Assistant for their cooperation
in the printing and distribution of these booklets. They will endeavor
to keep account of the number of initiations, passings, and ralsings in
the various lodges and to see that each Lodge is kept supplied with a
sufficient number so that there will be no break in the program of having
each candidate receive one of them at the proper time in his advancement. Should there be any oversight in this respect, your Committee
requests that the Secretaries of the lodges promptly notify the Grand
Secretary in order that the candidates may not be slighted. ·
While the primary purpose of these booklets is to instruct the candidate as he progresses through the degrees and the general distribution of
them to all members of the lodges has been thought inadvisable, many
lodges have purchased quantities of them to be sold to such as want
them at ten cents per copy. This has produced a revenue of $240.50
during the current year.
Many expressions of approval of the booklets and this system of
instruction have been received from Masters and Secretaries and in the
opinion of your Committee, this part of its program has been quite
successful and the distribution of the four booklets should be kept up
consistently and regularly.
The first printing of the booklets this year was insufficient to meet
the demand so that a reprint of 5,000 copies was necessary, which supply
is now approaching exhaustion.
Your Committee would appreciate any comments or suggestions
that may occur to the brethren at any time as to the nature or usefulness
of this method of instruction and, particularly, of any improvements
that can be made in it.
It has been repeatedly suggested to your Committee that there should
be prepared questions and answers to accompany the four ·booklets,
based, in part at least, on their contents, and a number of requests for
material of that sort have come to your Committee from the lodges. Of
course, questions and answers are not good merely because they are
questions and answers, for the question should be on a point of some
importance and the answer should be correct so nearly as we know how
to make it, or, if there is doubt about the fact, that should be stated.

Respectfully submitted,

w.

HENRY
COIL
ALVIN WENDT
ROBERT F. SHIPPEE

Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, on Ritual
and on Finance.

226

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT ON GEORGE WASHINGTON MASONIC
NATIONAL MEMORIAL

charity in Christ Church in Philadelphia in 1778. The cost of the murals
will be $25,860.00.
Our Grand Lodge now has on hand from the 15c levy more than the
cost of the murals, and the sum will increase before the next meeting of
the Memorial Association in February, 1951 , if the levy is continued.
It appears that it would be a magnificent gesture for California to allocate
from its next contribution the sum of $25,860.00 to pay for the two
murals. It is believed that this would redound to the bene8.t of our Grand
Lodge as the years go by.
I therefore offer the following resolution :
RESOLVED: That the per capita levy of 15c for each newly made
Master Mason be continued during the current Grand Lodge year; that
the proceeds therefrom be added to the fund known as the Geotge
Washington Masonic National Memorial Fund: and that the total
amount in said fund at January 15, 1951, be remitted to the George
Washington Masonic National Memorial Association at or prior to its
forty-first annual convention on February 22, 1951 ; provided, however,
that from said fund so remitted there shall be allocated the sum of
$25,860.00 fo~ the specific purpose of paying for the two murals intended
to be placed on the side walls of Memorial Hall, and the residue shall
be allocated to the endowment fund.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your State Chairman begs to report as follows:
This Grand Lodge, at its Ninety-eighth Annual Communication in
194 7, adopted the report of the Special Committee on this Memorial
(Proceedings 1947 Pages 136, 260 and 279) making provisions, to wit:
1. That California's propo~tion of the full cost of the Memorial,
including the endowment fund, be fixed at.............................. $463,653.35
Less previous contributions 171,467.30
Balance to be contributed $292,186.05
2. That $1.00 be contributed by each newly made Master Mason
and a per capita levy of 15c per member be made, both with the $25,770. 45 then on hand to be applied toward the unpaid balance under
certain imposed conditions.
·
. The per capita levy was continued in 1948 (Proceeding Pages 132,
253 and 286) and in 1949 (Proceedings Page 289).
Since 194 7 contributions have been delivered to the Memorial Association, and the unpaid balance of California's fixed proportion is $193,420.30, in accordance wit'h the following statement:
Balance to be contributed as of 1947.................................... $292,186.05
Contributed in 1948 from $1.00
per new member fund ............................$ 1,255.00
Contributed in 1948 from 15c levy fund............ ................
Contributed in 1949 from $1.00 per new
member fund·'·············································· 6,409.00
Contributed in 1949 from 15c levy fund............ 50,000.00
Contributed in 1950 from $1.00 per new
member fund ................................................ 9,948.00
Contributed in 1950 from 15c levy fund ............ 31,153.75
Total ·········································-···························

98,765.75

Present uncontributed balance ............................

$193,420.30

By January 15, 1951 , there will be on hand in our George Washington Masonic National Memorial Fund a sum in excess of $30,000.00.
The Board of Directors of the Memorial Association have arranged
for two mural paintings by a n accredited artist to be placed on the side
walls of Memorial Hall in which stands the statute of George Washington. One mural depicts the laying of th~ cornersto~e of ·the Unite_d
States Capitol building, and the other depicts a meeting for Masonic

Respectfully submitted,
JOHN R. MOORE

State Chairman of this
Grand Jurisdiction.

227

22$

229

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON TAXATION

by complying with the provisions of each Ad. Such organizations may
elect to come under only one or both of the Acts.
··
The amendments to the Social Security Act are so recent that authoritative interpretation has not yet been formulated by the Internal Rev,enue Department. In the event of any material deviations from the abo~e
by such interpretation of the Department before the next communication,
the Committee will make a special report to the Grand Master.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Special Taxation Committee has continued to function under
the membership of Robert R. York, James E. Hammond and R. P. Wisecarver.
The Committee during the past year has given advice repeatedly to
the subordinate lodges and to the various committees of Grand Lodge,
The scope of the advice covers not only taxation, but various phases of
insurance coverage, closely related thereto. The Committee has also
prosecuted an app~al with respect to the Fresno Board of Relief and
Employment .with the California Department of Employment, and has.
successfully maintained the status of that and similar organizations, as
being wholly charitable.
: 'For the past two or three years we have been awaiting action by
Congress on the many bills pending before it, purporting to extend the
coverage of the Social Security Act and to expand its pension system.
Congress finally passed a bill known as Public Law 734 of the 81st Congress. materially expanding the scope and coverage of the Act. It would
appear that so far as Grand Lodge and the subordinate lodges are concerned. the Act does not materially alter the tax status with the exception that the minimum salary of those coming under the Act, has been
increased from at least $45.00 per quarter to those receiving $50.00 per
quarter. The rate is also increased to 1Yi%. with provision for additional increases in the future.
With reference to organizations coming under the exemption of
Section 101-6 of the Income Tax, which relates to charitable. religious,
scientific, literary and educational organizations, an amendment was
made. allowing such organizations to elect to come under the Social
Security Act for a minimum period of at least ten years, providing that
at least two-thirds of the employees join with the employer in electing
such coverage. The Boards of Relief and Employment could therefore,
with the co-operation of the employees, if they so desire, elect to come
under the Social Security Act, as to all of such employees so electing.
Employees wQo do not join in the election would not be under the Act.
All new employees hired after the election would automatically be under
the Act.
This amendment is of importance because for the first time, the
Social Security Act allows an election to come under its terms.
To recapitulate: Grand Lodge and all subordinate lodges are under
the Social Security Act and the State Unemployment Act, subject only
to specific exemptions of certain employees who are either ritualistic
officers or whose wages are less than $50.00 per c~lendar quarter.
The charitable organizations and corporations may elect to come
under the Federal Social Security Act and the State Unemployment Act

R. P. WISECARVER
JAMES E. HAMMOND
ROBERT R. YORK .
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
The portion of the report requesting an appropriation was referred
to the Committee on Finance.
The complete report will be found in the General Appendix.
Most Worshipful Ervin E. J. Lander, Grand Master of Masons in
Maine, at his request was granted the 'privilege of the floor and he
presented a resolution on behalf of all the visiting distinguished guests
in which they beautifully gave expression to their appreciation for the
hospitality extended to them, and which resolution was individually
signed by all.
The Grand Secretary read and displayed to the Brethren a beautifully engrossed and illuminated greeting from the Grand Lodge of New
York presented by Most Worshipful Henry C. Turner, the personal
representative of the Grand Master of New York, and similar testimonials from the Grand Lodges of Norway and Costa Rica.
. .
The Grand Master acknowledged the receipt of hundreds of congratulatory messages from Grand Lodges and individuals all over the
world.
At 4:40 P.M. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 Friday morning.

230

PROCE~DINGS OP THE

IN GRAND LODGE
MoRNING SESSION, FRIDAY, OcToBElt 13, 1950

Grand Lodge was called on at 9: 30 A. M., the Grand Master presiding.
Bro. Edward H. R~dford, Master of Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481,
presided in the East at the entrance of Grand Lodge Officers.
The invocation was given by the Grand Chaplain.
The minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions of Thursday,
October 12th were read and approved.

REPORT OF 'COMMITTEE ON CONSTITUTION MONTH
OBSERVANCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Constitution Month Observance is pleased to
submit herewith the report of its activities for the year. We are particularly pleased to advise you that much interest has been created throughout the entire jurisdiction in the matter of this observance and information received from every portion of the jurisdiction indicates that the
observance of the natal day of our Constitution throughout the month
of September was the most successful in the history o~ such observ~n.ces.
Activities incident to the observance were outstanding, and ambitious
programs of merit and unusual interest were presented by the various
constituent Lodges.
Your committee has been gratified t'hat in so many instances the
observance on the part of the constituent Lodges was open to the general
public. Statistics gathered by your committee from every quarter of the
state indicate the most universal recognition of the Constitution this ye.ar
of any previous time. This is a wholesome.and compell~ng sign and o~r
fraternity may well take unto itself a considerable gortion of the credit
for such a state of affairs.
This year the constituent Lodges paid special tribute to the Bill of
Rights which includes the first ten amendments to the Constitution. T~­
day in a troubled world there is only one Government on the .face of this
globe than cannot do what it pleases, and that Government is the Government of the United States of America. This is a remarkable fact to
chronicle when you cast your eye about the rest of the world and note
what governments are capable of doing. This status on our part is ma~e
possible through the fundamental principles expounded in the Consh•
tution of the United States to the end that life, liberty and property
might be preserved. We note that assaults are being promulgated
against this document from many sources. Not only from abroad, but
from within the confines of our own country as well. If any person has

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

231

any doubt as to the wisdom of this statement that the Constitution is a
precious heritage. let him take down the musty records that tell the story
of the governments t'hat have gone, or peruse our newspaper files covering the last fifteen years of world history for proof of these fundamental principles that were incorporated into our Constitution.
During the year your committee secured and made available for
distribution among the constituent Lodges o.f the state, 25,000 copies of
the Bill of Rights and in addition printed copies of the Constitution itself
were secured for distribution to the constituent Lodges as well. We
believe that the motif for the creation of the committee is of sufficient
importance to warrant the committee functioning throughout the entire
year and not simply as a prelude to t'he observance during the month
of September.
The committee also recommends that a suitable appropriation be set
aside for the activities of the committee including the printing of a
brochure setting forth with particularity the Constitution of the United
States, the Declaration of Independence and other patriotic documents,
for there has been a general demand throughout the jurisdiction for
some such information.
Your committee also wishes to express our appreciation to the many
members of the fraternity who gave unstintingly of their time in addressing numerous constituent Lodges throughout the jurisdiction. In view
of the fact that we have had many distractions this year which have
had a tendency to divert our attention from other important tasks, the
unusual interest and success attending the current observance of Constitution month has been most heartening and the members throughout
the jurisdiction are to be commended for their every effort expended
toward acquainting our fellow men with the many blessings conferred
upon us through the medium of this immortal document.
Since so many of our fundamental privileges as citizens are embodied within the Bill of Rights, the tribute which we paid to this particular
portion of the Constitution has impressed all of us that we are possessed
of a precious heritage which we should hold inviolate and pass on
unsullied to posterity.
The Constitution of the United States has been the powerful force
in the lives of all of the people of the world and of all generations of
people ever since the adoption, even though its authority does not
extend beyond the borders of our own country.
No nation in the world can in war or peace matc.h our production
under our system of free enterprise, with its incentives and rewards for
effort. This is only made possible under our system of government which
has in turn given us the highest standard of living ever known and
opened the way for our amazing progress and for opportunity, happiness and blessings not enjoyed anywhere else in the world. Such a

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

system of government certainly is worth saving for us in America,
because accepting the substitute, a planned society, it is necessary to
surrender the right to think, to surrender the mind which controls the
free actions of men. In a planned society education is controlled, freedom of speech is abridged, freedom of the press is abridged, freedom
of assembly is abridged. The control of the mind of man for the maintenance of the plan is not economic democracy. It is not social justice.
It is tyranny-blind tyranny-the darkest, blackest tyranny that the
human race has ever seen.
Under our American Constitution the cause of human freedom has
been served. Human rights, the right to life, freedom of thought, religion, residence, press, assembly. petition and action, civil liberty and
property, are promulgated and perpetuated by this ~o~s~itution wh!ch
promotes the welfare of the individual as one of many md1v1duals makmg
up the nation.
Government exists for only one purpose-the protection of these
rights. Its exercise of power is limited by a written constitut~on. in
order that it may never curtail these rights. As long as the Constitut10n
lives, America need not dread the heel of the dictator of the disorder
of anarchy.
As America faces the future, let us pause to recollect that the farseeing vision of our constitutional fathers resulted in an instrumen~ of
government which no foe of human rights has penetrated and survival
of which has met every challenge to the natural rights of man. Our
most formidable fortress of defense in time of stress still remains the
Constitution of the United States.
Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM R. McKAY
}AMES T. FRASER
LEET. MULLEN
DUDLEY H. NEBEKER
WILLIAM P. SELF

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCE

232

Referred to Committee on Finance.

233

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
AUDIT OP ACCOUNTS
The members of your committee have reviewed the reports of the
Grand Treasurer and the Grand Secretary covering the funds of Grand
Lodge and also the report of the Endowment Fund and the financial
report of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes all of which bear the
certificate of the Auditor, Brother Walter A. Parker. In our opinion
they reflect the true condition of the financial affairs of the Grand Lodge
and its allied organizations. We have consulted with Brother Parker
frequently during the present communication and cannot praise too
highly the quality of his work and the painstaking efforts he has put
forth. We are of the opinion that the present auditing procedure shall
be continued and have made provision for this in the budget for the
current fiscal year.
NEW APRONS FOR GRAND LODGE OFFICERS
We have considered the recommendation of the Grand Master that
new traveling aprons for Grand Lodge Officers be procured. We concur
in this proposal and have provided $5,370.00 in the current budget for
new regalia, this includes payment of $4,000.00 for the new regalia used
for the first time during this Communication, bill for which was not
received until after the close of the fiscal year, and provision for the
two new assistant Grand Lecturers as well as those to be ordered in'
accordance with the recommendation of the Grand Master.
LoRENZO LODGE u. D.
To adjust the per capita tax incorrectly collected from Lorenzo
Lodge U. D. located at San Lorenzo, California, as referred to in the
report of the Grand Secretary-your Committee on Finance presents the
following resolution and moves its adoption:
RESOLVED: that the sum of $105.75 be appropriated for the purpose of reimbursing Lorenzo Lodge U. D. for per capita tax incorrectly
collected for the fiscal year.
MASONIC HOMES
Your Committee on Finance has carefully reviewed the report of the
Trustees, and the audit on the Masonic Homes and the request of the
Trustees for a $1.00 per capita to be levied for the operation of the
Homes.
Your Committee concurs in this request of the Trustees and offers
the following resolution and moves its adoption.
RESOLVED: That a per capita of $1.00 be levied for the operation
of the Masonic Homes.

235

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

SoTOYOME LoDGE No. 123

COLUMBIA TEMPLE

This Committe in previous years has reported on the need of assistance from Grand Lodge for the purchasing of the Temple of the above
·
Lodge, which need still exists.
Your Committee on Finance presents the following resolution and
moves its adoption:
RESOLVED: That there be pa~d from the funds of Grand Lodge
monthly to Sotoyome Lodge No. 123, the sum of $150.00 during the
lifetime of Mrs. Bush, such sum to be used by such Lodge to fulfill its
obligation to Mrs. Bush.
Further, that such sums so advanced, including amounts heretofore
paid such Lodge, shall be considered as a loan to Sotoyome Lodge No.
123 and be repaid by such Lodge in a sum of not less than $100.00 per
month, until the full amount advanced shall have been repaid, together
with interest thereon at the rate of three per cent per annum.

We have reviewed the report of the Columbia Temple Restoration
Committee and have met with members of that committee.
In addition to the information contained in the Committee Report,
we wish to add the following:
1. The lease with the State of California is for a period of fifty ( 50)
years from May 31, 1949 at a rental of $1.00 Per Year with the privilege
of renewal for an additional fifty ( 50) years on the same terms.
2. Grand Lodge is to pay for all utilities and upkeep.
3. The property is covered by fire insurance in the sum of $40.000
on which Grand Lodge pays the premium.
4. Liability Insurance is included in the Grand Lodge Blanket Comprehensive Liability policy.
The additional funds required by the Restoration Committee are:
Furnishings .................................................... $1,679.00
Oil Heating plant ........................................ 5~6.00
Expense of Janitorial Service, Water, Electricity, General maintenance supplies &
Contingencies for the coming fiscal year...... 1,000.00

234

GEORGE WASHINGTON MASONIC NATIONAL MEMORIAL Assoc1ATION
Your Committee on Finance carefully reviewed the proceedings
dated February 22, 1950 covering the Fortieth Annual Convention of
the George Washington Masonic National Memorial Association, and
note therein the very definite progress being made toward the final completion of the Memorial Building and landscaping of the grounds. It is
quite obvious from the report that the remaining work consists primarily
of detail finishing.
Your Finance Committee continues to evidence concern as to a clear
cut program toward concluding the project and just how much money
will be needed for its ultimate completion. It is gratifying to note as compared with estimates made in our 1947 report that contributions for the
year 1950 ran considerably in excess thereof.
, Your Committee has consulted with the State Chairman for this
Grand Jurisdiction, Past Grand Master John R. Moore, and with the
Regional Chairman, Past Grand Master Wm. B. Ogden, and are in
unanimous accord with the resolution submitted by State Chairman
John R. Moore.
Your Committee therefore recommends the continued support of this
project and offers the following resolution:
"RESOLVED, that the per capita of 15c be continued and
the proceeds therefrom be added to the fund known as the
George Washington Masonic National Memorial Fund, and
that the total amount in said fund at January 15, 1951 be remitted to the George Washington Masonic National Memorial
Association at or prior to its Forty-first Annual Convention on
February 22, 1951, pursuant to the action taken on resolution
submitted by our State Chairman by this Grand Lodge."

Total ...................................................... $3,275.00

It is the intention of the Restoration Committee to rent the hall to
various lodges for the conferring of degrees and already many Lodges
have indicated their desire to use the premises. All rents derived from
this source will be used to reduce the item of $1,000.00 upkeep and to pay
for janitorial service, utilities, general maintenance, etc.
Your committee on Finance presents the following resolution and
moves its adoption:
RESOLVED that the sum of $3,275.00 be appropriated for the use
of the Columbia Temple Committee for the purpose of furnishing the
building, installing the heating plant, and to cover operating expenses
for the ensuing fiscal year.
HISTORY COMMITTEE
Your History Committee has requested an appropriation for the purpose of enabling it to meet the necessary expenses incidental to the continuance of its work and have also asked for an additional amount to defray the remaining cost of proof reading and indexing the History of
Masonry in California now in process of publication.
.
Your Committee on Finance believes these requests are i;easonable
and are necessary to complete the work of the History Coinmitt~e and
therefore presents the following resolution and mc;>ve!! its adoption.
RESOLVED: that the sum of $1,650.00 be appropriated for the use

237

PROCEEDINGS OP T~E

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of the History Committee being $1.500 to complete the proof-reading
and indexing of the history now being published and $150 for meeting
the _general expenses of the Committee for the ensuing year.

ALLOWANCE FOR GIFT FOR RETIRING GRAND MASTER

236

. PUBLICATION OF HISTORY

\Ve have considered the report of the Committee on the publication
of the History of Masonry in California. The report shows that the
work is rapidly nearing completion and the books will soon be ready
for delivery. Approximately 1000 sets have been subscribed for and it is
expected that many more will be sold as soon as deliveries can be made.
Last year we recommended to Grand Lodge that two thousand sets be
printed at a cost then reported to us by the History Publication Committee of $43,200.00. It now appears that the total cost of this program
may exceed that amount.
It is not yet possible to determine the exact cost but it does appear
that it may be necessary for additional funds to be provided.
At the last Communication of Grand Lodge your Finance Committee
did not recommend any appropriation but stated they believed the publication should not be delayed through lack of such appropriation and
recommended that the Grand Master be authorized to proceed with the
publication. Any funds used for this project should be returned to a
great extent by the sale of sets.
Your Committee on Finance therefore recommends that the Grand
Master be authorized to make available for the purpose of finishing the
publication of the history such funds as may be necessary to carry the
project to completion.
COPIES OF HISTORY TO FOREIGN JURISDICTION

In connection with the publication of the History, this Committee is
in accord with the recommendation of the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes adopted by the Grand Lodge yesterday providing for
c'omplimentary distribution of copies of the History when completed to
foreign grand jurisdictions.
COMMITTEE ON CENTENNIAL ARRANGEMENTS

Although a comprehensive report of the Committee on Centennial
Arrangements has not yet been submitted, the Committee on Finance
wishes at this time to go on record in adding its commendation for a job
well done:
·'It .concurs in the recommendation of the Centennial Committee that
an appropriate record of the Centennial be compiled and published in a
suitable volume, the cost of which shall be paid from 'the funds in the
han.d s of the -Cent~nnial Committee. if any surplus remain .after payment
o.f all expenses, if not, that the cost be paid from Grand Lodge General
Funds.

'

.

Heretofore for many years it has been the practice of your Committee
on Finance to appropriate the sum of $300.00 for the purchase of a
present for the retiring Grand Master, not with any thought of payment
for services rendered, but rather in the form of some remembrance of
his year as Grand Master.
Your Committee feels that in view of increased costs and excise
taxes, prevailing today, that this amount is not sufficient and offer tl\e
following resolution aad move its adoption.
RESOLVED. that the sum of $500.00 be appropriated for a present
for the retiring Grand Master and further that the same be charged to
miscellaneous appropriations.
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION EXPENSE

Your Committee on Finance has reviewed the General Administration expenses for the past year and has consulted with the Grand Secretary concerning the probable expenses. for the current fiscal year;
the item of salaries has had our careful consideration and we recommend
that salaries of the Grand Secretary and the Assistant Grand Secretary
be fixed as follows:
··
Grand Secretary
$13,200.00
Assistant Grand Secretary
7,200.00
The total salaries listed below cover the estimated salaries required
for the office staff including the Grand Secretary and the Assistant
Grand Secretary, the number and salaries of the st~ff to be fixed by the
Grand Secretary.
. .
For several years it has been the practice for Grand Lodge to assume
the entire cost of Social Security and Unemployment ·taxes making no
deductions from the individual salaries. This policy was fixed several
years ago when the staff of the Grand Lodge office was much smaller
than it is today. While the expense involved is not large we believe that
the principle is wrong. We recommend therefore this practice be discontinued and that Social Security and Unemployment taxes be deducted from the individual salaries as they are paid. It is recommended
that a portion of the salary expense be refunded by the Masonic Homes
for the services rendered by the office of the Grand Secretary to the
Homes in such amount as may seem equitable but not less than $6,000.00.
Provision is made also for $2.500. as the cost of investment counsel
as required by legislation adopted at this Communication. Inasmuch as
it is anticipated that the income from the Endowment Fund will derive
the greatest benefit from the employment of investment counsel and as
all of the income from the endowment fund is paid to the Homes it is

238

239

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

recommended that a portion of the cost of investment counsel be paid
by the Trustees of the Masonic Homes in such amount as seems equitable but in no case less than sixty per cent of the cost of such counsel.
APPROPRIATIONS

It is recommended that the following amounts be appropriated for
the purposes as indicated. Most of these come as requests from the various committees and boards and others included have been approved by
specific resolution previously in this report.

SUMMARY

Administrative and Office ............................................
Genera] Expense ..........................................................
Appropriations ..............................................................

47,900.00
89,959.90
83,125.75

Grand total ......·......................................

$220,985.65

Recommended General Administration Expenses follow :
ADMINISTRATIVE AND OFFICE:

Salaries ........................................................$39,000.00
Less to be refunded by Masonic Homes 6,000.00

BUDGET 1950-51 (continued)
APPROPRIATIONS:

Activities Committee ....................................................
Board of Control ..........................................................
Charters Committee ·························-···························
Columbia Temple ..........................................................
ClubhousesUniversity of California at Berkeley .... $20.500.00
University of California at Los Angeles 20,500.00

$ . 6,000.00

Constitution Month ......................................................
·C orresp6ndence .....................................·.......................
De Molay Committee ....................................... ,..........
Employment Bureaus
East Bay ................................................ $2,000.00
Fresno .......:............................................. 268.00
Honolulu ................................................ 125.00
Long Beach ............................................ 1,604.00
Los Angeles .......................................... 6,000.00
Sacramento ............................................ 750.00
San Diego ............................................ :. 2,023.00
San Francisco ........................................ 1,500.00

1,000.00
500.00
750.00

14.270.00

Endowment Board ....., ..................................................
History ·Committee ........................................................
History Publication ......................................................
Information Committee ········································-······
Lodge Finance Committee ............................................
Public Schools Committee ..........................................
Reimbursement Board of Relief ..................................
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123 ............................................
Refund Lorenzo Lodge U.D. ......................................

6,800.00
150.00
1,500.00
500.00
800.00
2.500.00
125.00
600.00
105.75

Total appropriations..............................

83,125.75

2,000.00
1,250.00
3,275.00
41,000.00

33,000.00

Rent ................................................................................
Audit ............................................................................. .
Grand Treasurer ........................................................... .
Postage and Express ....................................................
Telephone and Telegraph ........................................... .
Bonds, Supplies and Sundry ......................................
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes ................
Investment Council ...................................... 2,500.00
Less to be refunded by Masonic Homes 1.500.00

6,000.00
950.00
1,200.00
2,250.00
1,250.00
1,250.00
1,000.00

Total administrative and office................

$ 47,900.00

1,000.00

GENERAL EXPENSES

Following are the items of General Expense recommended to be
budgeted for the current fiscal year. These amounts have been arrived
at from experience or from consultation with the officers concerned.
Printing expense includes cost of reprinting booklets prepared for distribution to candidates by Commmittee on Masonic Information. The
amounts follow:
GENERAL E XPENSES:

Annual Communication ................ ,...............................
Conference Expense ....................................................
Officers Travel ..............................................................
Officers Regalia ............................................................
Grand Organist-Grand Tiler .................................. ..
Grand Master- Traveling ..........................................
Grand Master- Miscellaneous ................................... .
Grand Lecturer ..............................................................
Inspectors Aprons and Stationery ..............................
Portrait of Grand Master ....................~ ........................

$

5,000.00
1,000.00
6.500.00
5,370.00
400.00
7,000.00
2.000.00
600.00
1,000.00
750.00

240

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Printing ......................................................................... .
Pay of Members ··························'·-············:················
Ritual Committee and Inspectors-Traveling ..........
Grand Master Relief ....................................................
Retirement Pay --········---------···························-·········-···
Veterans Buttons ..........................................................
Miscellaneous .................................................................

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
20,000.00
25,439.90
8,500.00
2,000.00
900.00
1,000.00
2.500.00

RESOLVED : that the expenditure of the total $220,985.65 as represented by items heretofore detailed in this report be ·approved.

Total general e;xpenses..............................$ 89,959.90
ESTIMATED INCOME AND EXPENSE 1950-51
Due from Lodges ..........................................................
Interest and dividend ....................................................

$212,293.30
20.000.00
232,293.30

Administration expenses ..............................47,900.00
General expense ............................................89,959.90
Appropriations ····-······················--··-·'············83,125. 75

220,985.65

Estimated surplus ....................................

11 ,307.65

241

The entire report was adopted.

Respectfully submitted,
CLAUDE H. MORRISON
F. WESLEY DAVIES
JOHN w. DAVEY
RAYMOND G. TAYLOR
EDWARD H. SIEMS
JAMES LEO WARD
ARTHUR M . LOOMIS

RESOLUTIONS
The Grand Secretary read the following resolutions :

You will note that a modest surplus is indicted. However there are
many unpredictable items which cannot be determined d~ring this -~om­
munication. The completion of the history may result m an add1tional
expense and the final report of the Centennial Committee ~ay change
some of the items which we have shown here very materially. We
believe therefore that the same per capita tax levied last year should be
retained with the exception of the twenty-five cent ( 25c) levy for the
Centennial which is no longer necessary.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
RESOLVED: that in addition to the constitutional provision of
fifty cents ( 50c) per capita that an additional levy of forty-fiv~ cents
( 45c) per capita be levied for the expenses of Grand Lodge durmg the
year 1951 -2 making a total of ninety-five cents ( 95c).
Total per capita tax therefore is as follows :
Constitutional provision for Grand Lodge expense ....$ .50
Special for Grand Lodge expense .............................. .45
George Washington Memorial ···-----·--·--·-------·········--- .15
Masonic Hornes -----·----················-·-·····--··--·-----··-·-------· 1.00
Total ........................................................ $2.10
In concluding its report your committee offers the following resolu- ·
tion and recommends its adoption:

RESOLUTION FOR PURCHASE OF SECURITIES BY
TRUSTEES OF THE MASONIC HOMES OR
GRAND LODGE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
RESOLVED that pursuant to due authorization of the Investment
Committee of the Grand Lodge, the Board of Trustees of the Masonic
Homes of California, a corporation. in case of securities owned by said
Masonic Homes or held in trust by said Board, shall adopt appropriate
resolutions and take such other action as may be necessary to carry into
effect the sale or purchase of securities as recommended by said Investment Committee.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED : That pursuant to due authorization of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California, a corporation
as aforesaid, in case of securities owned by said Masonic Homes or
held in trust by said Board, or of a majority of the Investment Committee of the· Grand Lodge. in case of securities owned by the Most
Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A . M. of California as principal or held
in its capacity as trustee of the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund or
for other purposes. the Grand Treasurer of the Grand Lodge is hereby
fully authorized and empowered to purchase such securities for said
Masonic Homes of California or said Board of Trustees or for the
Grand Lodge and to pay therefor.
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED : that due authority shall
be evidenced by appropriate resolution or resolutions authenticated by

242

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

the ct>rtifkate of the Grand Secretary 0£ the said Grand Lodge or in
case of his absence or inability to act, the Assistant Grand Secretary,
in office at the date of such certificate.

that with respect to such securities the authority of these resolutions
and of such officers is stin in Eun force and effect.
Respectfuny submitted,

Respectfuny submitted,
FRANCIS

243

FRANCIS

v. KEESLING, P.G.M.

v. KEESLING, P.G.M.

Adopted.

Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE
(Each item of the report of this Committee was signed hy an members of the Committee with two exceptions: the report relative to
revision of Section 100 was not signed by Past Grand Master Jones
and the report relative to the Grand Master's suspension of the Master
of Sequoia Lodge was not signed by Past Grand Master Jones. In the
latter instance Past Grand Master Jones submitted a minority report
as set forth hereinafter.)

RESOLUTION ON THE SALE OF SECURITIES OF
MASONIC HOMES OR GRAND LODGE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
RESOLVED: That pursuant to due authorization of the Trustees
of the Masonic Homes of California, a corporation, in case of sale of
securities or other property owned and/or possessed by the said Trustees or a majority of the Investment Committee of said Grand Lodge
in case of sale of other securities or property owned by the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California or held in trust by it,
that the Grand Treasurer of the Grand Lodge or, in case of his absence
or disability preventing him, the Assistant Grand Treasurer of the
Grand Lodge. is hereby fully authorized and empowered to transfer,
convert, endorse, sell. assign, set over and deliver any and all shares of
stock, bonds, debentures, notes, subscription warrants, stock purchase
warrants, evidences of indebtedness or other securities now or hereafter
standing in the name of or owned by this Grand Lodge, an unincorporated association, and to make, execute and deliver, under the seal of
this association, any conveyances and all written instruments of assignment and transfer necessary or proper to effectuate the authority conferred.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence respectfuny proposes legislation
on subjects submitted to it for consideration and recommendation as
fonows:
DISPENSATIONS Issmm

Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration the
special dispensations issued by the Grand Master during the year and
also his approval of Resolutions relative to Life Members.hips, and
change of meeting place.
We find that an the acts of the Grand Master in regard to these
matters have been in compliance with the requirements of the law. We,
therefore, recommend that the acts of the Grand Master therein he
approved.
Adopted.
DECISIONS OP GRAND MASTER

FURTHER RESOLVED:

Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration the
decisions of the Grand Master as set forth in his message and reports
as follows:
Decisions 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9 and 10 are manifestly inaccordance with our
law for the reasons therein stated.
We therefore recommend that these decisions of the Grand Master
be approved.
Adopted.

That whenever there shall be annexed to any instrument of assignment and transfer, executed pursuant to and in accordance with the
foregoing resolution, a certificate of the Grand Secretary of the said
Grand Lodge or, in case of his absence or inability to act, the Assistant
Grand Secretary, in office at the date of such certificate, and such certificate shall set forth these resolutions and shan state that these resolutions are in full force and effect and shall also set forth the names of the
persons who are then officers of this association. then all persons to
whom such instrument with the annexed certificate shall thereafter
come, shall be entitled, without further inquiry or investigation and
regardless of the date of such certificate, to assume and to act in reliance
upon the assumption that the shares of stock or other securities named
in such instrument were theretofore duly and properly transferred,
endorsed, sold, assigned, set over and delivered by this association, and

GRAND MAsTER's DECISION No. 7

This decision involves the advancement of an Entered Apprentice
and a Fellowcraft. The facts in each were submitted to the Grand Master by an inspector. Whether formal objection to advancement had
been made does not appear. The facts in the two cases differ widely.
The Entered Apprentice, apparently through sheer indifference and
neglect, permitted his status to continue for many years, during which

I

244

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

his health seriously deteriorated. Dependence was apparently imminent,
and physical handicaps, including partial blindness, destroyed his
capacity to normally proceed with the remaining degrees.
The Fellowcraft' s affliction, on the other hand, apparently overtook
him without warning, while he was in due course proceeding with his
advancement.
Difference in the facts engenders doubt as to whether the two cases
may properly be disposed of by a common decision and suggests the
necessity for more complete and detailed information.
If formal objection to advancement is interposed in the respective
Lod5es, the matters may be disposed of without further consideration.
Meanwhile, your Committee recommends that the Grand Secretary
obtain from the inspectors referred to complete statement of the facts
in each case, including present status of the advancement proceedings,
and submit the same to the Jurisprudence Committee for further consideration.
Adopted. ,

within the meaning of question eight in the current form of petition, and
the relationship, if any, between such presentation and the "receiving"
of the petition by the Lodge under Ordinance Section 224, are not
necessary thereto. Because decision upon these questions may require
consideration of facts not here apparent. we recommend that the parts
of the decision with reference to what constitutes a presentation be
deleted therefrom.
Adopted.

DECISION 11

From this decision it appears that a petitioner for the degrees to
Menorah Lodge No. 623 was made an entered apprentice mason. In
his petition he had answered "no" to the following question eight:
"Have you ever presented a petition to any Masonic Lodge--if so when
and to what lodge?"
After his initiation · the following discoveries were made: ·
1. The petitioner had, before his application to Menorah Lodge
presented to a lodge in Missouri, a like petition, which had been read
to the lodge but, at the petitioner's request, was withdrawn before any
ballot thereon:
2. The petitioner had, also before the petition addressed to Menorah
Lodge signed and handed to a friend and member of Los Angeles Lodge
No. 42 a like petition. The petition was later returned to him with
statement by his friend that the latter refused to present the same.
In view of the making and withdrawal by the petitioner of his
petition to the Missouri Lodge, the answer to question eight was patently untrue. Furthermore, this untruth would amply warrant objection
to his advancement, to be disposed of as prescribed by Ordinance
No. 238.
In connection with such objection the facts with reference to the
petition to Los Angeles Lodge No. 42 might well be material on the
question of the wilfulness and intent of the applicant in failing to disclose his petition to the Missouri Lodge in his petition to Menorah
Lodge.
Your committee believes that the parts of Decision No. 11 as to
what constitutes "presenting" to a lodge of a petition for the degrees

245

SECTION 69

Your Committee on Jurisprudence hereby submits the form of an
amendment to Section 69 of the Ordinances in accordance with the
action of Grand Lodge in adopting Recommendation No. 4 of the Grand
Master in his message at the current session.
Section 69 of the Ordinances is amended to read as fallows:
"Business of every kind shall be referred to and reported upon by
a committee before it can :be finally acted upon, unless by unanimous
consent, and whenever referred to more than one committee, all such
committees shall report thereon before any vote shall be taken in the
Grand Lodge."
Adopted by 5/6 vote.
DECISION 12

Without reciting particular facts, this decision states that in three
instances to lodges, each of which had caused a Temple Association
to be incorporated, the Grand Master had advised:
"A Master of a Lodge, as such, cannot direct the acts of an incorporated Temple Association unless provision for such control is contained
in the articles or by-laws of the corporation."
The decision, as an abstract statement is correct. Your Committee
deems proper, however, warning against any implication therefrom that
a corporate instrumentality formed for the convenience of a Lodge in
the holding of title to Lodge property or the officers of such instrumentality are beyond the control of the Lodge. The facts of each particulal' case require careful consideration in determining ways and means
for asserting and maintaining lodge control. While a Master, as such,
may be without the power specified in the decision he is a proper medium
through which the . Lodge may convey and exercise its deliberate
determination.
Adopted.
DEc1s10N No. 8

Except for the possible implication that a California Lodge may
relinquish to a foreign Lodge or Grand Lodge jurisdiction over an

246

247

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Entered Apprentice who after initiation removed to such foreign jurisdiction the decision is correct.
Your Committee recommends deletion of the words "or relinquish
jurisdiction" so that the decision will read:
"No refund may be made to an Entered Apprentice who has been
elected and received further degrees in another jurisdiction without a
dimit by his California Lodge."
Adopted.

and registered on an exchange registered with the Securities Exchange
Commission as a National Securities Exchange.
·
b) Preferred stocks, which must be fully listed and registered
on an exchange registered with the Securities Exchange Commission
as a National Securities Exchange.
No such investments. however, shall be made which at the time of
purchase will result in the total market value of the securities referred
to in this section exceeding twenty per cent ( 20% ) of the total market
value of all the cash, bank accounts and securities held.
3) Up to forty per cent ( 40%) may be invested in:
a) Common stocks, which must be fully listed and registered on
an exchange registered with the Securities Exchange Commission as a
National Securities Exchange, except that this listing requirement shall
not apply to bank and insurance company stocks.
b) Shares of Investment Trusts.
No such investments, however, shall be made which at the time of
purchase will result in the total market value of the securities referred
to in this section exceeding forty per cent ( 40%) of the total market
value of all the cash, bank accounts and securities held.
4) With reference to securities which come by bequest. the Investment Committee shall have twelve months in which to liquidate, if
deemed advisable, during which time such securities shall not be considered to be a part of the total. for purposes of percentages invested
in each category, as above.

INVESTMENT OP FUNDS

Your Committee finds that in order to enact these recommendations.
it is necessary to amend certain sections of Ross Digest as indicated in
the resolution below. The following resolution is therefore presented:
RESOLVED:
.

I.
That Section 86 be amended as follows:
A) By repealing the second and third paragraphs and inserting in
lieu thereof the following:
"There shall be an Investment Committee consisting' of the Grand
Treasurer, the Assistant Grand Treasurer, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the President of the Masonic Homes Board of
Trustees. or a Trustee of that Board designated by him, the Chairman
of the' Masonic Homes Endowment Board, or a member of that Board
designated by him. This Committee, or a majority thereof, is empowered to invest and reinvest the funds of this Grand Lodge, including
the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund, and the various funds of the
Masonic Homes. This Committee is also empowered to authorize the
purchase and sale of securities in all said portfolios.
Said funds shall be invested as follows:
I ) At least forty per cent ( 40%) of the funds available for investment must be in:
·
a ) Cash or bank accounts.
b) Obligations of the United States or those for which the faith
and credit of the !United States are pledged to provide for the payment
of the interest and principal.
c) Obligations of the State of California and its political subdivisions, provided they were issued pursuant to law and that the faith
and credit of such state or municipal corporation or district are pledged
for their payment.
d) Such securities as are legal investments for California savings banks.
2) Up to twenty per cent (20%) may be invested in:
a) Evidences of indebtedness, which are or will be fully listed

II
RESOLVED:
That the languag~ in the latter part of Section 655 of Ross Digest
be repealed. Said language reads as follows:
"; and be it further
resolved, that the funds of this Grand Lodge in the general fund
shall at all times be held in sound banking institutions or the same
invested in Federal. State, County or Municipal bonds legal for investment of savings banks."

III
RESOLVED:
That Section 721 of Ross Digest be repealed.
Unanimously adopted.
HOMES BURIAL EXPENSES

Your Committee has examined our law and advise that it is necessary to amend sections of Ross Digest mentioned below in order to
enact the recommendation of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes Board.

248

249

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The following resolutions are therefore presented:
1. RESOLVED:
That Section 81 be amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
.
Said Trustees shall pay the necessary burial expenses of residents
of the Masonic Homes who die while under the supervision of said
Trustees, in an amount not to exceed One Hundred Fifty Dollars
( $150.00), thereby relieving the obligated Lodge to this extent.
2. RESOLVED:
That Section 265 be amended by inserting the words "their widows
and orphans dependent upon them" in the fifth line between the words
"members" and "as."
3. RESOLVED:
That section 440 be repealed.
4. RESOLVED:
That Section 717 be repealed.
Unanimously adopted.

"When the amount thus collected and so held shall be more than
sufficient, in the judgment of the Trustees, to provide for the maintenance of the Homes and for such improvements as are then in progress
or contemplated for the immediate future, the surplus shall be by them
allocated to the Endowment Fund."

REVISION OF SECTION 100

Your Committee has given careful consideration to the request of
the Trustees of the Masonic Homes Board relative to repealing the
portion of the language in the second paragraph. section 100 of Ross
Digest reading as follows:
"When the amount thus collected and so held shall be more than
sufficient, in the judgment of the Trustees, to provide for the maintenance of the Homes and for such improvements as are then in progress
or contemplated for the immediate future, the surplus shall be by them
allocated to the Endowment Fund."
Your Committee respectfully suggests that the foregoing sentence,
by its very language, now empowers the Trustees to set aside from
said funds more than a sufficient amount, limited only :by their discretion, for maintenance and improvements. Then, too, if this language
be repealed, there will be no requirement or authority of any excess.
however great, to ever go into the Endowment Fund.
Your Committee therefore presents the following resolution:
RESOLVED:
That the recommendation of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes
Board relative to repeal of a portion of Section 100 of Ross Digest be
not adopted.
Report not adopted.
Past Grand Master Wollenberg moved that the following portion of
paragraph two, Section 100 be repealed:

Adopted by 5/6 vote.

Recommendation No. 1
EMERGENCY QuoRUM

RESOLVED:
That Section 11 of the Constitution (Ross Digest) be amended to
read as fallows:
The officers or representatives of at least seventy-five Lodges chartered by this Grand Lodge shall be present in order to transact any
business in the Grand Lodge, either at an annual or special communication; but, upon occasions of ceremony only. the Grand Master, or his
duly authorized representative, with a sufficient number of brethren to
fill the stations and places, may at any time open the Grand Lodge and
perform the ceremonies for which it was convened; provided, however,
that if the assembling of fewer than seventy-six persons is prohibited
by competent state or national authority, thereby precluding an annual
communication, the power of the Grand Lodge to appropriate money,
tax constituent Lodges, approve acts of constituent Lodges, and review
trial records may be exercised by the Grand Master, Deputy Grand
Master, Grand Wardens, Grand Treasurer, Grand Secretary, and
Junior Past Grand Master; and the elective officers of the Grand Lodge
shall continue in their respective offices until the annual communication
following the recision of the prohibition.
Adopted.
At 12:50 P. M. Grand Lodge called off until 2:00 P. M.

250

251

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

AFTERNOON SESSION-Friday, October 13, 1950

method whereby real property is to be purchased or leased for more
than three years for use as a Masonic Temple or a Masonic Temple
site, or whereby any Masonic Temple is to be erected or altered and
the expenditure required in any such case will exceed Two Thousand,
Five Hundred Dollars ( $2,500.00) without first obtaining . the written
approval of the Committee on Lodge Financing.
Adopted by 5/6 vote.

At 2:00 P. M. Grand Lodge was called on. the Grand Master presiding.
Bro. Robert E. O'Brien, Past Master, Woodstock Lodge No. 491,
presided in the East at the entrance of Grand Lodge Officers.

COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE REPORT
CONTINUED
Recommendation No. 2
DELEGATION OP POWER

Relative to the Grand Master's recommendation No. 2 concerning
delegation of certain duties of the Grand Master to the Deputy Grand
Master and Grand Wardens, your Committee reports that the Grand
Master now possesses the power to delegate such duties by virtue of his
inherent and constitutional powers as chief executive officer of Grand
Lodge. The amendment recommended is therefore unnecessary.
Your Committee therefore presents the following resolution:
RESOLVED:
That the Grand Master's recommendation No. 2 be not adopted.
Adopted by 5/6 vote.

Recommendation No. 3
ASSIST ANT GRAND LECTURERS

RESOLVED:
That Section 51 of Ordinances (Ross Digest) be amended by substituting the word "six" for "four" in the first line.
RESOLVED:
· That Section 52 of the Ordinances ( Ross Digest) be amended by
substituting the word "six" for "four" in the first line thereof.
· Adopted by 5/6 vote.

Recommendation No. 6
LODGE FINANCING

RESOLVED:
That Section 78 of Ordinances (Ross Digest) be amended as
follows:
1. By striking the whole and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
No Lodge. temple association, lodge trustees committee. association, partnership or corporation, representing itself as Masonic in character or operating for the benefit of a Masonic Lodge or Lodges,
Masonry or Masons. shall undertake any plan, scheme, project or

Recommendation No. 8
COLUMBIA TEMPLE MEETINGS

RESOLVED:
That Section 121 of Ross Digest be amended by inserting the words
"the Ml,lsonic Temple at Columbia," between the words "Decoto" and
"or" in the sixth line.
Adopted by 5/6 vote.

Recommendation No. 9
INTERJURISDICTIONAL VISITS

RESOLVED:
That Section 24 7 of Ordinances (Ross Digest) be amended by
striking the whole after the word "Lecturer" in the seventh line and
inserting after said word "Lecturer" the following:
Provided, however, that a lodge in this jurisdiction, conferring a
degree upon an applicant elected to receive such degree in another
jurisdiction, may, for such purpose, with the consent of the Grand
Master of this jurisdiction, use the ritual of such other jurisdiction; and
provided further that brethren from another jurisdiction may be permitted to use the ritual thereof upon a candidate from such other jurisdiction.
Adopted by 5/6 vote.

Amendment to Section 223
PREREQUISITE MEMBERSHIP

RESOLVED:
That the word "six" in the first line of sub-paragraph Thirteen of
Section 223 of Ross Digest be stricken and the word "twelve" inserted
in lieu thereof.
Adopted by 5/6 vote.
SUSPENSION OP MASTER

At the Grand Master's suggestion, his action in suspending the
Master of Sequoia Lodge No. 349 for the period of three months from

253

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

May 1 through August 2, 1950, has been ref~rred to and considered by
your Committee on Jurisprudence.
Because Brother Earl Warren is a member of Sequoia Lodge and
Brother Clinton T. Duffy's name appears in the proceedings in question, and both said brothers are members of this Committee, they asked
to be and were excused from participation herein.
Subdivision 8 of Section 34 of the Ordinances authorizes the Grand
Master:
"to suspend the Master of any Lodge from the exercise of the powers and duties of his office for good reason shown until the next Annual
Communication."
The Grand Master's action is thus stated, under the heading, "Discipline," on page fifteen of his message:
"Contrary to our custom and the proclamation of the Grand Master
one of our large lodges held a major entertainment on the regular meeting night during Public Schools Week and a public schools meeting
two nig?,ts later. I suspended the Master from office for the next three
months.
The Master states that he had no notice that the matter was under
consideration by the Grand Master, or opportunity to present his
version of the matter in advance of the Grand Master's order.
This Committee has not heard, and is not authorized to hold a
hearing to determine the facts. Informally and without attempting to
·
verify the entire accuracy thereof. the facts appear to be:
For many years it has been the annual practice of Sequoia Lodge
No. 349 to hold a public entertainment called "Stag Night." Before
announcement of the Public Schools Week Proclamation, the 1950
Stag Night had been fixed for April 25, and the program, including an
address by Brother Clinton Duffy. Warden of San Quentin Prison,
partially arranged.
Sequoia Lodge is in the District of Inspector Brother Harry S.
Savage, Jr.
Following the Public Schools Week Proclamation the Master consulted Inspector Savage as to the propriety of making a joint affair of
the Stag Party and Public Schools meeting stating that previous Public
Schools Observance meetings had been slimly attended, that Warden
Duffy was well qualified to impress Masons and non-Masons with the
importance of the Public Schools, and that the Stag Party entertainment
would insure the large attendance which Public Schools Observance
warranted.
The Inspector replied that a joint meeting could be held if it fell
within the terms of the proclamation "That no meeting other than a
Public Schools Obesrvance be held by any Lodge." The Master stated
to the Inspector that the meeting would conform to the proclamation.

Brother Duffy was informed of the change and of the Inspector's
advice and assured the Master that his address would stress the importance of education as an element in crime prevention.
A Lodge bulletin was then issued announcing "plans to observe the
31st Annual Public Schools Week, April 24 to 28" by visiting the
Schools; it stated that Sequoia Lodge, "at its sixteenth Annual Stag
Night, on April 25th, in observance of Public Schools Week, would
be addressed by Warden Duffy, who will impress you with its significance in relation to Public Schools; also that Sequoia Lodge would
join the other local lodges on April 27th in a joint Public Schools Meeting and an address by the Manager of the Oakland Board of Education.
Sequoia Stag Night meeting, with entertainment and the addres~
by Brother Duffy, was held as scheduled on April 25, and was followed
by the joint Public Schools Meeting on April 27.
Under date of April 30th the Grand Master wrote the Master of
Sequ~ia~ Lodge questioning the propriety of the Stag Party during
Public Schools Week and, among other things calling attention to newspaper quotation attributed to the Master about the contemplated stag
party which contained no reference to Public Schools Week. The
Grand Master concluded:
"I hereby suspend you from office as Master of Sequoia Lodge No.
349. You are ordered to exercise no power, function or privilege of
that office and to take no part in any ritualistic work in that or any
other lodge during the ninety day period from May 1 through August
2, 1950,'' and directed the Senior Warden to take over during the time
specified.
The Master's reply to the Grand Master gave his version of the
facts, protested his innocence and stressed the absence of opportunity
to be heard. He assured the Grand Master that the order would be
obeyed. It was carried out.
The Master stated to the Committee that he was not correctly
quoted in the newspaper article referred to by the Grand Master and
was in no way responsible for its publication and again protested that
he had had no opportunity to justify or explain his action, or defend
himself against the accusation or order made against him.

252

There is thus presented the important and delicate task of defining
the powers of the Grand Master in the matter of the suspension of a
Master of a Lodge. The equally important rights of the Master of the
Lodge, as against an order of suspension, are also necessarily involved.
We are impressed by the steadfast desire of the Grand Master to see
to it that no deviation from the spirit of the Ordinances or the established practice of adhering strictly to the educational program of Public
Schools Week, be permitted. On the other hand, the Master of the .
Lodge in question has steadfastly asserted his good faith, his desire to

254

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

conform to the proclamations of the Grand Master and the absence of
opportunity to defend himself. It is unnecessary to go further into the
problem confronting the Grand Master in the consideration of the question of suspension than to say that there may be a reasonable difference
of opinion as to whether the Master of the Lodge did all that could be
expected of him to avoid non-conformity with the proclamation. It was
within the power of the Grand Master primarily to resolve that question.. Having concluded that it was his duty to take action, he made the
order of suspension.

further that the Grand Master's finding as to the impropriety of the
"Stag Party" meeting in Public Schools Week was justified.
My conclusion is that the order of the Grand Master should be
approved at this session of Grand Lodge.
Amendment carried.
Amended motion carried.

Several decisions have been ca11ed to attention, involving suspensions of Masters by the Grand Master, wherein the action of the Grand
Master has :been approved by the Grand Lodge. No decision, however,
involving a situation identical with that here presented has been called
to our attention, nor any in which the power of the Grand Master was
challenged or a request made for hearing by the Master involved.
In view of the repeated approvals of the Suspensions of Masters by
~ the Grand Master. we believe the Grand Master was warranted in concluding that he had the power to make the suspension which he here
ordered.
On the question of the Master's right to present his defense, we are
of the opinion that he has that right and to now deprive him thereof
would be a grave injustice. We believe that proper procedure is for
this Grand Lodge to refer the matter of such hearing to.the Committee
on Grievances. or such other Committee as it may designate, for a
complete hearing of and recommendation to the Grand Lodge upon the
Master's defense.
MINORITY REPORT submitted by P.G.M. George L. Jones.
I am in accord with the conclusion reached as to the power of the
Grand Master to make the order of suspension.
As to the sufficiency of the facts upon which the Grand Master
acted in making the order, it will be conceded that the suspended officer
was entitled to a hearing in this Grand Lodge.

It is my contention that the Master had such a hearing when, accompanied :by two brothers from his lodge, he appeared before this committee. presented a file of documents and statements were made by the
Master and one of the brother accompanying him, and without any
request for_a further hearing being made either at that time or later.
The documents left with the Committee and the statements so made
were considered by the Committee, and in my opinion, it should be
held that the Master's right to a hearing has not been limited, and

255

DECISION No. 1

A dispensation was requested of the Grand Master by a certain
Lodge to hold a special meeting in the same city but in a Masonic
Temple other than its own. The Grand Master correctly held that a
dispensation in such circumstances was unnecessary, but his decision
was not limited to a special meeting. We therefore :believe that the
word "special" should be inserted in his decision and recommend that
his decision read as follows :
"Under Section 121 of the Ordinances a lodge may hold a special
meeting in any suitable building in the city, town or community named
in its dispensation or charter without a dispensation from the Grand
Master."
Adopted.

256

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Annual Election

Grand Lodge Officers

The Grand Master announced that the hour had arrived for the
Annual Election and directed the Grand Secretary to read the Sections
of the Constitution applying to the same.
The Grand Master then appointed the following brethren to serve
as tellers :
'
Harold J. Cook, Ma~~r. San. Diego No. 35.
Ernest C. Fugler, Past Master, Naval No. 87.
George Gavin, Past Master, Oriental No. 1H.
H. Y. Gibson, Past Master, Hollenbeck No. 319.
H. Alexander Glade, Master, Schofield No. 443.
Guy S. Harts. Master. Poinsettia No. 633.
Frank E. Hicks, Master, Trinity No. 27.
Eugene JiJune, Past Master, ~aui .N o. 472.
D. Ewing Marsh. Master, Cahforma No. I.
Gerald McKinley, Master, Tehama No. 3.
Gene Cover Otwell, Master, El Cerrito No. 705.
Charles A. Palmer, Master, Ophir No. 33.
T. B. Pollard, Past Master, Vallejo No. 487.
Nathan Scheer, Master, Los Angeles No. 42.
Fred A. Schuler, Past Master, Balder No. 393.
Charles Leaman Shannon, Sr. Warden, Kauai No. 589.
Alan Henry Strike, Master, Le Progres De L'Oceanie No. 371 .
David H. Terry, Past Master. South Gate No. 320.
Alvin Wendt, Past Master, Mount Olive No. 506.
Dave Wright, Past Master, Menlo Park No. 651.
Elbert Cyrus Yuille, Master, Beverly Hills No. 528.

257

The R. W. Arthur Paulsen, Trinity Lodge No. 27, was elected
Grand Master.
The R. W. Louis C. Drapeau, Poinsettia Lodge No. 633, was elected
Deputy Grand Warden.
.
The R. W. Arthur M . Warren, Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481, was
elected Senior Grand Warden.
·
The W. Frank Harwell, Jr., Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528, was
elected Junior Grand Warden.
The M . W . Francis V. Keesling, Past Grand Master, California
Lodge No. 1, was re-elected Grand Treasurer.
The M. W. Lloyd E . Wilson, Past Grand Master, Ingleside Lodge
No. 630, was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The V . W. Walter H. E. VonKonsky, Seaport Lodge No. 550, was
re-elected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand Master-elect directed the Grand Secretary to read the
names of the appointive officers as follows :
Grand Chaplain, C. B. Sylvester, San Jose Lodge No. 10.
Assistant Grand Lecturers : Mervyn E. Hanshaw, Delta Lodge No.
471; Elbert W . Davis, Francis K. Shattuck Lodge No. 571; Gilbert C.
DeForest, P .G.M.. Reading Lodge No. 254; Raymond G. Taylor,
Libertas Lodge No. 466; Guy B. Mize, Unity Lodge No. 368; August
H . Allen, Santa Ana Lodge No. 241.
Grand Orator, Edward H . Rowins, Corona Lodge No. 324.
Assistant Grand Treasurer, Paul A. Pflueger, Amity Lodge No. 370.
Assistant Grand Secretary, Henry D . Oliphant, San Francisco Lodge
No. 360.
Grand Marshal, Arthur H. Triggs, Bay View Lodge No. 401.
Grand Standard Bearer, Earl J. Saxon, Le Progres De L'Oceanie
Lodge No. 371.
Grand Sword Bearer, John H. Ferguson, Long Beach Lodge No.
327.
Grand Bible Bearer, George A. French, Georgetown Lodge No. 25.
Senior Grand Deacon, Thomas Copeland, Northern Light Lodge
No. 190.
Junior Grand Deacon, Harold J. Cook, San Diego Lodge No. 35.
Senior Grand Steward, J. J. Jackson, Trinity Lodge No. 27.
Junior Grand Steward, Gilbert R. Morris, V isalia Lodge No. 128.
Grand Pursuivant, Edward T. Koford, Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57.
Grand Organist, Charles E. Anderson, Jewel Lodge No. 374.
Grand Tyler, Alvin A. Horwege, Woodstock Lodge No. 491.

258

PROC~EDINGS OF TttE

The Grand Secretary announced the re-appointment by the Grand
Master-elect of Charles M. Wollenberg, P.G.M. and Ralph Head as
Trustees of the Masonic Homes.
The Most Worshipful Claude H. Morrison, Past Grand Master,
acted as Master of Ceremonies and the officers elected and appointed
were installed by the Retiring Grand Master in due and ancient form.
Worshipful J. Everett Houser, Grand Orator, presented to the
Grand Lodge a lapel button, designed and provided by him, to ·be worn
by those brethren thereafter appointed to serve the Grand Lodge as
Grand Orator, the first presentation being made to Worshipful Edward
H. Rowins.
.
The customary ample ceremony of the exchange of Grand Lodge
Officers' lapel buttons and presentations usually made was dispensed
with due to the lateness of the hour, and was concluded privately after
the close of Grand Lodge.
At 6:00 P.M., all business being completed, Grand Lodge was closed
· in due form.

Grand Master

CENTENNIAL APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

CENTENNIAL

259

APPENDIX

CONTENTS
Page
Centennial Celebration ..........................................................................260
Distinguished Guests ......................................................................260
A Century of Masonry in California.................................................... 265
By Most Worshipful Ellsworth Meyer
Thomas Starr King ................................................................................269
Address by Most Worshipful Ellsworth Meyer
Address of Most Worshipful Frederick C. Hesselmeyer..................272
Grand Master of Connecticut
Address of Most Worshipful Marvin Fowler.................................. 276
Grand Master of District of Columbia
Address of Most Worshipful Albert J. De Lange..............................279
Grand Master of Tex as
Address of Most Worshipful Wallace E. Caldwell... .......................287
Grand Master of North Carolina
Address of Most Worshipful J. H. Morgan ...................................... 289
Grand Master of British Columbia
Testimonial ..............................................................................................292
Presented by Ervin E. ]. Lander, Grand Master of Maine

260

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of
the State of California officially celebrated the Centennial Anniversary
of its organization during the 101 st Annual Communication held in San
Francisco, October 9-13, 1950. The complete record of the celebration
will be set forth in the volume to be published under the direction of the
Grand Secretary, and the purpose of this record is merely to set
forth the highlights of the celebration and officially record the special
addresses which were delivered by the Grand Master and distinguished
guests.
Plans for the celebration were inaugurated during the terms of
Grand Masters Chester H. Warlow and Edward H. Siems and carried
to completion during the term of Grand Master E11sworth Meyer. The
committee which developed the plans and carried them out was under
the general chairmanship of Most Worshipful Francis V. Keesling.
Past Grand Master and Grand Treasurer, who presided at the numerous
official committee meetings and who gave unstintingly of his time and
great talent in planning and carrying through to completion the genera]
program and the tremendous amount of detail which resulted in an
outstanding celebration. Serving with Brother Keesling on the Executive Committee were Harvey E . TeUer, Vice-Chairman, Henry. C.
Davis, Herbert R. Hargrave, Earl B. Myers, Carl Olsen and Cyril L.
Weeks. To this Committee is due the thanks of Grand Lodge for a
celebration entirely in keeping with the dignity of Grand Lodge and
traditional California hospitality.
The observance of the centennial year officiaUy opened on April 19,
1950- the exact one hundredth anniversary date-with a statewide
broadcast by Most Worshipful Ellsworth Meyer, Grand Master. The
address delivered on that occasion appears in this account as Exhibit A.
Grand Lodge was opened in ample form on Monday, October 9,
promptly at 10:00 A. M .. and in the afternoon the Grand Master formally and officially received the folJowing distinguished guests:
DISTINGUISHED GUESTS

The folJowing visiting Grand Masters were individual1y received by .
the Grand Master and were accorded the Grand Honors:

M:.W:. Roger Keith, Grand Master of Masons in Massachusetts
M.".W.'.Homer M. Pace, Grand Master of Masons in South Carolina
M.".W.'.Enoch D. Flowers, Grand Master of Masons in Virginia
M.'.W.".Henry C. Turner, P .G.M., Representative of Grand Master
of Masons in New York
M:. W.' .Franklin E. PelJegrin, Grand Master of Masons in New Jersey
R.".W.'.William E. Yeager, Grand Master of Masons in Pennsylvania
M.".W.'.Harry 0. Schroeder, Grand Master of Masons in Maryland

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

261

M.'.W.'.Wal1ace E. Caldwell, Grand Master of Masons in North
Carolina
M.'.W.'.Frederick C. Hesselmeyer, Grand Master of Masons in Connecticut
M.".W.' .Regina]d E. Goldsmith, Grand Master of Masons in New
Hampshire
M .'. W .'.Henry I. Law, Grand Master of Masons in Del aw are
M.'.W.'.James J. Harbage, Grand Master of Masons in Ohio
M:.W.' .Marvin E . Fowler, Grand Master of Masons in District of
Columbia
M.'.W.'.Robert W . Cretney, G rand Master of Masons in Louisiana
M.'.W .'.Ervin E. J. Lander, Grand Master of Masons in Maine
M.' .W.'.Albert J. De Lange, Grand Master of Masons in Texas
M.'.W.'.Benjamin E. Patton, Grand Master of Masons in Illinois
M.'.W.'.Glen G. Raddiffe, Grand Master of Masons in Iowa
M.'.W.".Worth Harvey, Grand Master of Masons in Oregon
M.".W.'.Keith M. Brown, Grand Master of Masons in Minnesota
M.'.W.'.John S. Hede]und, Grand Master of Masons in Nebraska
M.' .W.'.GaiJ Huhn, Grand Master of Masons in Washington
M.'.W.'.C. Wheeler Barnes, Grand Master of Masons in Colorado
M.' .W. '.Chester L. Cochran, Grand Master of Masons in Nevada
M.'.W.'.Percy W. Doles, Grand Master of Masons in Montana
M.'.W.'.Dougald J. M. McLean, Grand Master of Masons in New
Brunswick
M.".W.".Sumner G. Davis, Grand Master of Masons in Idaho
M." .W.'.Eric C. Murray, Grand Master of Masons in Costa Rica
M: .w:.J. H . N. Morgan, Grand Master of Masons in British Columbia
M.".W.'.Hubert E. Mulholland, Grand Master of Masons in Wyoming
M.'.W.'.Charles A . Stevens, Jr., Grand Master of Masons in New
Mexico
M.".W.'.Nelson T. Roach, Grand Master of Masons in Arizona
M. ·.w.·.LeRoy W. Bond, Grand Master of Masons in Alberta, Canada
M.'.W.'.Pedro Pedroarena, Grand Master of Masons in Baja C alifornia, Mexico
M.'.W.'.Humberto Acosta, Grand Master of Masons in Cuscatlan, El
Salvador
The fol1owing Grand Secretaries and other distinguished guests were
individual1y received by the Grand Master and were accorded the P ublic
Grand Honors:
R.'.W.'.Matthew Galt, Jr.. Grand Secretary, Pennsylvania
R. · .W. ·.Claud Shaffer, Grand Secretary, Maryland
R.'.W.'.Wilbur L. Mciver, Grand Secretary, North Carolina

262

263

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

R.'.W.".Earle K. Haling, P.G.M., Grand Secretary, Connecticut
R.'.W.'.N. Arthur Hyland, Grand Secretary, Rhode Island
R.".W.".Chester R. Jones, Grand Secretary, Delaware
R.'.W.'.D. Peter Laguens, Jr., Grand Secretary, Louisiana
R.'.W.".Thomas E. Doss, P.G.M., Grand Secretary, Tennessee
R.'.W.'.Harold L. Reader, P.G.M., Grand Secretary, Missouri
R.'.W.".F. Homer Newton, P.G.M., Grand Secretary, Michigan
R.'.W.".Earl B. Delzell, Grand Secretary, Iowa
R.'.W.".Harry D. Proudfoot, P.G.M., Grand Secretary, Oregon
R.'.W.'.E. G. Dixon, Grand Secretary, Canada (Ontario)
M.'.W.".Elmer F. Strain, P.G.M., Grand Secretary, Kansas
R.'. W .'.Carl R. Greisen, Grand Secretary, Nebraska
M.'.W.".John I. Preissner, P.G.M., Grand Secretary, Washington
R.'.W.'.Luther T. Hauberg, Grand Secretary, Montana
R.'.W.'.Clyde I. Rush, P.G.M .. Grand Secretary, Idaho
R.".W.".Emery Roy Gibson, P.G.M .. Grand Secretary, Utah
V.';W.'.Joseph A. E. Ivey, P.G.M., Grand Secretary, Arizona
M.".W.'.Walter L. Stockwell, P.G.M., Grand Secretary, North Dakota
R.'.W.'.Robert A. Tate, Grand Secretary, Saskatchewan, (Canada)
M.'.W.'.Karl J. Mohr, P.G.M., Executive Secretary of Grand Masters'
Conference
.
w.·.Earl A. Dusenberry, General Grand High Priest, General Grand
Chapter, Royal Arch Masons
M.'.W.'.Robert B. Gaylord, P.G.M., Grand Master Grand Encampment Knights Templar
M.'.W.".Arthur Potterton, Grand Treasurer, New Jersey
R.'.W.".Ralph S. Nesbitt, Deputy Grand Master, Oregon
R.".W.'.Harold N. Nelson, Deputy Grand Master, Washington
R.'.W.".Gustave Aubanel. Deputy Grand Master, Baja California
(Mexico)
Albert N. Sanford, Grand Chaplain, British Columbia
W. ·.D. Aubrey Spann, Junior Grand Deacon, Colorado
M.'.W.'.Ftancis P. Morton, P.G.M., New Jersey
M.'.W.".Donald J. Sargent, P.G.M., New Jersey
M.'.W.'.John T. Ames, P.G.M., Iowa
M.".W.".Clarence D. Phillips, P.G.M., Oregon
M.'.W.".Asa H. Hankerson, P.G.M., Washington
M.'.W.".C. A. Carlson, Jr., P.G.M., Nevada
M.'.W.".George R. Harvey, P.G.M., Philippine Islands
M.'.W.".Will Taylor, P.G.M., Philippine Islands
W.".H. C. Mei, Philippine Islands, Past Deputy Grand Master
for China
W .'.Alfred Lee, Philippine Islands, Past Grand Secretary, Grand
Lodge for China
W.".William B. Pettus, China, Past District Grand Warden

On Sunday morning, October 8, at 10:30 A. M .. Grand Lodge paid
honor to Brother Thomas Starr King in a ceremony conducted at his
tomb in the churchyard of the First Unitarian Church, Franklin and
Geary Streets, San Francisco. Past Grand Master Francis V. Keesling
presided and with the Grand Master placed a wreath at the tomb.
Brother Keesling introduced the Grand Master as follows:
"We are gathered here this morning in tribute to a great man. Also,
there are in attendance direct descendants of this distinguished man.
Thomas Starr King-ordained by God-a great churchman, and inspired by God-a victorious marshal of the forces of freedom-was one
of the two most distinguished citizens of California honored by a place
in the Hall of Fame. He, in turn, placed his stamp of approval on the
Masonic institution by uniting with it as a member of the fraternity and
is the most distinguished Mason of the jurisdiction of California.
"The Most Worshipful Ellsworth Meyer, Grand Master of Masons
in California, will officiate. Ladies and gentlemen, the Grand Master."
The address delivered by the Grand Master is included herein
marked Exhibit B.
Through the courtesy of the Standard Oil Company of California,
the Standard Symphony Hour, at the Opera House, was provided as a
feature attraction. All who had arrived in San Francisco in time for
this event were privileged to be present. The soloist was Kirsten Flagstad. Preceding the symphony the Grand Master entertained all visiting
distinguished guests at a buffet supper at the St. Francis Hotel.
Tours of the city and boat trips on the bay were featured throughout
the week, and on Monday night twenty-two hundred delegates enjoyed
the Fellowship Dinner at the Palace Hotel. At the same hour a dinner
at the St. Francis Hotel was attended by more than 600 wives of
Masters of Lodges, Grand Lodge Officers. Past Grand Masters, and
distinguished guests. At ten o'clock in the evening all in attendance
at the dinners assembled at the Civic Auditorium for the Grand Ball.
One of the outstanding features of the entire week was the premier
performance in San Francisco of Mozart's opera "The Magic Flute,"
presented by the San Francisco Opera Association with its full cast of
operatic stars.
By pre-arrangement the Grand Master called upon a number of
visiting Grand Masters to deliver addresses to the Grand Lodge, which
they did during the course of the week to the great pleasure and edifkation of all present. These addresses are appended hereto marked respectively Exhibits C, D. E. F. G and H in the order in which they
were presented.
It is doubtful if a more distinguished group of Masons have assembled at any regular Communication of a Grand Lodge in the United
States than were present in San Francisco. The invitation to attend

264

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

was accepted by and there were present thirty~three Grand Masters,
four Deputy Grand Masters, one Grand Treasurer, twenty~two Grand
Secretaries, two appointive Grand Lodge Officers and eleven Past
.Grand Masters. These represented thirty~six Grand Lodges in the
United States, including the District of Columbia, five Provinces from
Canada and three foreign countries. The letters of appreciation which
have poured in from these distinguished guests leave no doubt as to
the appropriateness of the observance of the Centennial and the high
esteem in which the Grand Lodge of California is held.
The Grand Secretary read and displayed to the Brethren a beauti~
fully engrossed and illuminated greeting from the Grand Lodge of New
York presented by Most Worshipful Henry C. Turner, the personal
representative of the Grand Master of New York, and similar testi~
menials from the Grand Lodges of Norway and Costa Rica.

265

EXHIBIT A

A CENTURY OF MASONRY IN CALIFORNIA
By MOST WoRSHIPFUL ELLSWORTH MEYER
Grand Master of Masons in California
(As broadcast over KNX on April 19, 1950)
This day is of particular significance to the Masons of Calif pmia and
Hawaii. One hundred years ago on April 19, 1850, a group of Master
Masons who had gathered in Sacramento .ompleted their preliminary
work, and. at high twelve, opened the first communication of the Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons for the State of California.
It might be said they were a bit optimistic in the selection of a name,
for California was not admitted to the Union yet and did not become a
state until five months later.
The California in which they lived was a very different California
from that which you .know. There were no railroads, no broad highways,
no rapid means of communication, no bridges across rivers and swift
mountain streams.
The population was concentrated, but not at the location of our
modern, great cities. Instead. it was to be found in narrow canyons by
the American and Feather Rivers and on the banks of the Sacramento.
These California communities were known by such picturesque
names as: Coloma, Hangtown, Angels Camp, Grass Valley, Chilli
Gulch. and Rough & Ready.
Within the year, thousands of men had come to these communities
and other thousands were on their way across the Rockies, by way oi
Panama, or around the Horn. Around the world had gone the cry of gold
-gold in California, and the greatest migration in history was under
way.
The stories of hunger, thirst. hardship, of heroism and cruelty dur~
ing that migration are well known, but it is not so widely known that
despite the haste of departure and the feverish desire to reach the
gold fields time was taken by Masons to obtain charters and dispensa~
tions from twelve eastern Grand Lodges for the establishment of fifteen
Masonic Lodges in this fabulous El Dorado.
From Connecticut to Florida, from the District of Columbia to Mis~
souri, issued proper authorization for the establishment of lodges in
California.
The Masons who were assembled in Sacramento one hundred years
ago today, belonged to lodges which had been established in Sacramen~
to, Benton City. Benicia, and San Francisco.
They were motivated not only by their affection for the fraternity,
but by the suffering occasioned by the epidemics which had swept
.

I

266

267

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

through the camps and towns, the poverty of those who had come inadequately equipped, and wide-spread disregard for the hallmarks of civilization.
They recognized the necessity of banding together the good men
and true of different cities who had knelt at Masonic altars, who were
disciples of brotherly love and temperance in thought and deed; men
who understood and practiced charity.
In that first Grand Lodge session were men from Sacramento who
established the first hospital in California, who nursed the victims of
the several cholera epidemics, buried the dead, and expended more than
$33.000 of personal funds for the relief of the needy and the afflicted.
In the fever for gold, other men might become calloused, turn from
the hungry. the widow, and the orphan, but to these men of Masonry.
our doctrine of the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man was
no lofty preachment, no sounding pretensions; it was a way of life.
The presiding officer of the two-day convention which preceded the
formation of the Grand Lodge was Charles Gilman, a San Francisco ·
lawyer of note. who had already served one year as Grand Master in
New Hampshire and six years as Grand Master in Maryland. He was
the logical choice to be the first Grand Master in California, but intended
to return east shortly and deferred in favor of Colonel Jonathan D.
Stevenson. his law partner, whom President Polk had sent to California
in command of the first New York Volunteers on the outbreak of war
in Mexico.
Colonel Stevenson had brought his troops around South America in
three ships in 1847, and. as with many other easterners, he came to
California and stayed.
Early California Masonry had within her ranks many other colorful
men: Sam Brannan, who founded San Francisco's first newspaper, was
the first to broadcast the discovery of gold, preached the first Protestant
sermon in California, and was the subject of the state's first jury trial.
John W. Geary. who came to California after service in the Mexican
War, became the first Postmaster and the first Mayor of San Francisco,
and later a Brigadier General. and then the Governor of Kansas and the
Governor of Pennsylvania, and Robert Semple who presided over the
Constitutional Convention, and, with Hastings, conditioned Californians
for wide-spread public education.
To chronicle the names of prominent men who have sat in California
Masonic Lodges during the past century would be to call the roll of mos~
of those who have left their names as noble legacies to the state, and of
those who are recognized as leaders today.
.
I shall mention but a few of those whose names stand like mountain
peaks high above the past: Commodore Sloat, Kit Carson, the renowned
Indian scout; Mark Twain, who gave the world "The Jumping Frog of
Calaveras County"; Stephen J. Field, who served longer on the Supreme

Court of the United States than any other justice; Thomas Starr King.
one of the two Californians in the Hall of Fame in Washington, and
who was serving our Grand Lodge as Grand Orator at the time of his
early death; Peter Lassen, named as an officer in the charter issued by
the Grand Lodge of Missouri, and for whom Mount Lassen and Lassen
County were named; Don Benito Wilson, who located Riverside, was
Mayor of Los Angeles in 1851, and for whom Mount Wilson was
named; Lester A. Pelton, who made hydroelectric power possible by inventing the Pelton water wheel; Leland Stanford, railroad president,
Governor, and United States Senator, who gave Stanford University;
and Luther Burbank. who unfolded so many of nature's secrets. These
are but a few of the great names in a century of California Masonry,
and I have purposely omitted the names of those still living who are a
credit to Masonry, California, and these United States.
The Grand Lodge founded in that upper room at the corner of Fifth
and "J" Streets in Sacramento has, in the century of its progress; spread
to the Oregon and Mexican borders and crossed the Pacific to Hawaii,
where the first Masonic Lodge had been established by the Grand Orient
of France and over which two Hawaiian Kings had presided as Masters.
It has grown until its membership today is the fifth largest in the United
States and the seventh largest in the world. If we were to add to its
members, the thousands of Masons who reside in California, but maintain their membership at their former homes, the number would probably
not be surpassed by any other American Jurisdiction, but California
Masonry is not interested in mere numbers.
Unlike many organizations it can invite no man to take its degrees.
He must seek admission of his own free will. It does not sit back in smug,
self-satisfaction as it reviews its record on this Centennial Day. It is
proud of its history, but not boastful. As individuals. its members are
serving in every cause which is building a better state and a better society, and they will continue to serve.
The Grand Lodge of California today touches life at each level.
Through its home for children at Covina, it cares for orphans and hal£
orphans from the first grade of grammar school through graduation from
high school. By means of its club houses at Berkeley and Los Angeles
campuses of the University of California, it is an influence during the
collegiate years. Its lodges inspire during the active, adult years, and its
Home for the Aged at Decoto, in Alameda County, is a haven for 300
in the late afternoon of life.
Masonry is not a religion, but it is religious. It does not require a
particular church affiliation and only asks a candidate whether he believes in a Supreme Being and some form of future existence.
It is not a political organization, but it does impress upon its members that they have civic duties to perform through channels of expression outside its lodges.

268

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

It is not a benefit society. It offers no form of insurance, but it need
yield to none in works of charity.
.
It has no fancy uniforms, and the only badge of a Mason is the
apron, which is never worn in public except for the funeral of a brother,
or the performance of some other strictly Masonic duty.
It does not seek the front page, but it does not shun the light of
inquiry.
It is a secret society as to its modes of recognition and pass words,
but there is no secrecy as to its organization, principles, or purposes.
It denies the claims of dictators, political or religious, but it is loyal
to governments established by free peoples.
It recognizes familiar tones in the Declaration of Independence and
the Constitution, and it has seen many of the signatures on those two
documents on the rosters of its own lodges.
Masonry was a stabilizing influence in the rough and ready days of
'49. It is an anchorage in the present and for the days to come.
It has helped to build California, and it will not now lay down the
plumb, the square, or the trowel. For a century in California, and for
many centuries elsewhere, Masonry has united at its altars of reverence,
men of good will who have striven by every resource of their art to make
tangible, the power of brotherhod, the worth of virtue, and the reality of
the ideal.
Masons will continue to build the temple of humanity among the
nations and in the hearts of men.

EXHIBIT B

269

THOMAS STARR KING
Address by ELLSWORTH MEYER, Grand Master,
'
Masonic Memorial Services
San Francisco, October 8, 1950
'

Eighty-six years ago, Grand Master Belcher and the officers of the
Grand Lodge of California stood where we stand this morning. With
solemn rites they here laid to rest the mortal remains of a young man,
iJlustrious and beloved-.
How different, indeed, was the scene and tempo amid which they
assembled to perform the last duty to our brother.
San Francisco was already a thriving community, but it and California bore the impress of the Gold Rush Days. The nation had but
lately been extended westerly to touch the shores of the Pacific and it
was just emerging from the long and difficult struggle between the
North and the South. Freemasonry was ancient and honorable, but the
Grand Lodge of California, as with the state, was in only its fourteenth
year.
Since that day in March of 1864, wooden 11tore buildings have
given way to towering sky-scrapers, great cities have risen where was
naught but rolling hills and barren land, the stage coach and horseman
have been surplanted by the airplane and telegraph, historic markers
now stand where then were populous mining camps and nature has
covered the scars on the field of Gettysburg. Freemasonry is still honorable, but the Grand Lodge of California has completed a century of
existence.
Notwithstanding all these other changes, the name of our brother
is still illustrious and beloved and the citizens of this great state have
judged Thomas Starr King one of the pre-eminent men of his adopted
common wealth.
lt is fitting that we should gather here as Masons in the first act of
our centennial session to pay our humble words of tribute to this illustrious citizen and Mason, for it was he who declared of Masonry, in an
address on May 16, 1863: "This is the most remarkable social organization of the world."
Thomas Starr King was born in New York on December 17, 1824
and his youth was spent in Portsmouth, New Hampshire and Charlestown, Massachusetts. He was planning to enter college, but the death
of his father, when the son was but twelve years of age, necessitated
his working as a clerk and schoolmaster for the next eight years and
he pursued his theological studies as best he could.

271

PROCBBDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The first pulpit he filled was that which his father had occupied
in Charlestown and he did not come to California until 1860. In the
shadow of this church he has remained. Although ·his life in California
covered but four years, such were his deeds. so distinguished his services to the nation, so eloquent his oratory that Californians have decreed
that his statue shall stand as one of the two from this state in the Hall
of Fame in the national Capitol.
We are proud that he was a devoted Mason and twice was appointed
Grand Orator of the Grand Lodge, which post he was holding at the
time of his demise. We recognize his brilliance as a clergyman and that
to him, more than to any other, is accredited the preservation of California to the Union during the Civil War.
With the outbreak of hostilities a division of public opinion and
sympathy began to appear in California. Many had come but recently
from southern states, there were those who favored the extension of
slavery to California and many advised a course of temporizing with
the secession. Impassioned oratory on behalf of secession and the
Confederacy was heard.
Suddenly, there was heard the voice of one man speaking with logic
and eloquence against slavery, against vacillation and for the preservation of the Union. His words were not wavering, they were not
susceptible of two interpretations, but rang out like the hammer blows
of a mighty smith. They came from a man frail of body, but strong of
heart. A man of indomitable courage. for he not only spoke from his
pulpit, but went into other towns and the lumber and mining camps.
wherever danger appeared or the cause of the Union could be served.
Frequently, he was promised assassination and it has been said that
on occasion guns were drawn while he spoke, but neither threat nor
danger could intimidate him or silence his voice.
Before the tide of battle had turned, he had turned the tide of public
opinion in California and his words had echoed across the nation. He
then :b ent his efforts toward material assistance by way of relief for
the victims of the war. California had not been called upon to furnish
fighting forces for the conflict, but Thomas Starr King called upon her
and Oregon to furnish funds with which to care for the wounded, the
widow and the orphan. More than a million and a half dollars was
raised, a huge sum for that day, which nearly equalled that raised by
all the other states combined.
It was not given to any of us to hear his voice, for it was stilled at
the age of thirty-nine, but his contemporaries of that time when eloquence was in full flower judged him pre-eminent, the results he achieved
are testimony and the poet Whittier has penned his praise.
Californians have not been content merely to erect his statue, but
they have given his name to public schools, a giant Sequoia and one of

the domes in Yosemite. These two are fitting monuments · because he
was a man of intellect and his name stands high above the wintry past.
inviting us to leave our names as worthy legacies to our country.

270

It has been said that to live in the hearts ·of those we leave behind,
is not to die. Of Thomas Starr King, we say: He yet lives in the hearts
of Californians, he yet lives in the hearts of Masons.

272

273

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT C

"This Lodge afterwards met in Sacramento, California: and
when the Grand Lodge of California was formed it became
Tehama Lodge, No. 3, and is still in existence."
Your Grand Lodge was organized on April 19, 1850 in the City of
Sacramento by the delegates of three legally constituted lodges working
at the time under charters from the Grand Lodges of the District of
Columbia, Connecticut. and Missouri. The Connecticut <:bartered lodge
was Connecticut Lodge No. 76, which on the formation of your Grand
Lodge became Tehama Lodge No. 3. We in Connecticut are proud of
Tehama Lodge No. 3 and are well aware of its struggle during the Gold
Rush days of 1849 and '50 and what it did for the distress of worthy
sojourning brothers.
As your history shows, and particularly the proceedings of the
Second Annual Communication of your Grand Lodge held in Sacramento May 6th to 9th, 1851, the Masons of Sacramento went in't o debt
and raised and paid for the relief of those in distress over $32,000 (which
in those days was a real sum), and at that time were still in debt about
$14,000, which they had obligated themselves to spend for the relief
and distress of worthy brethren. This is the true Connecticut spirit of
Charity, and there therefore exists a real bond between this ' Grarid
Jurisdktion and mine that neither time nor distance can ever destroy.
These brethren from Hiram Lodge No. 1, from the Grand Lodge of
Missouri and the District of Columbia, helped and struggled to establish
Masonry here in California, and the seed having been planted, it has
blossomed forth into the glorious institution that it is here .today: yet,

ADDRESS OF MOST WORSHIPFUL
FREDERICK C. HESSELMEYER ,
Grand Master of Masons of the Grand Lodge of Connecticut
M:. W.' .Brother Ellsworth Meyer, Brother Grand Masters,
Distinguished Guests, and Brothers:
As Grand Master of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Connecticut, I bring you the warm fraternal greetings of all the Masons of
Connecticut and their heartiest felicitations, to this, your Masonic
Centennial.
I want to thank all of you here in California for the splendid arrangements made for our comfort and the hospitality shown to our Grand
Secretary, M.W. Earle K. Haling, Mrs. Haling, Mrs. Hesselmeyer and
myself.
I know what it means to plan a celebration such as this, long and
tedious hours of work and painstaking effort. This planning reminds
me of a story I heard recently. It seems two elderly ladies were having
a very confidential conversation. One of them had been married four
times, first to a banker, whom she divorced: secondly to an actor, whom
she divorced: then to a clergyman whom she also divorced, and now
she was married to an undertaker. The other asked her, "Sally, how
did it happen that you married men of these varied professions?" And
without hesitation Sally answered, "I planned it that way : one for the
money, two for the show, three to get ready, and four to go."
I am particularly happy to be here as the Grand Master of Masons
in Connecticut, as our Grand Lodge was instituted in 1789, and later
as you know, the brethren of Connecticut were instrumental in helping
establish Masonry here in California.
In Connecticut we are proud of Hiram Lodge No. 1, of New Haven.
Connecticut, which was first chartered in 1750. On November 29th of
this year I am planning to be present and to help it celebrate its 200th
Anniversary. I quote from the history of Hiram Lodge No. 1:
"A Connecticut Lodge in California. The members of Hiram
Lodge have done a great deal of pioneer work in organizing
Lodges in unoccupied territory. A remarkable instance of this
kind occurred in 1849, when several of the brothers had a severe
attack of the gold fever and were about to start for California.
They petitioned the Grand Lodge for a Charter, and Hiram
Lodge recommended them as worthy brothers. The Grand Lodge
met in special session at New Haven on January 30, 1849, and
organized Connecticut Lodge, No. 76, with Caleb Fenner, a Past
Master of Hiram, as Master.

WHAT IS MASONRY?
While acting as Master of my lodge, Day Spring No. 30 of Hamden,
Connecticut, in 1929, and being much younger than I am today, I thought
I knew the answer, and the same was true when I was District Deputy
of the Fourth Masonic District of Connecticut in 1931 and 1932. For
the last eight years I gradually advanced through our Grand Lodge Line
and became Grand Master this last April. Within the last few years as
I started to visit other jurisdictions and had the opportunity to hear
others, much better informed than I, speak, I began to wonder what
Masonry really was. I gradually, subconsciously, started to analyze
the whole institution.
The first question that suggested itself to me was, "ls Masonry a
social organization?" Masonry promotes sociability. Every Grand Master urges his lodges to close at a reasonable hour so that the brethren
may have a social hour. Fellowcraft and Square Clubs and other allied
organizations promote entertainments and other social events. One
hundred years ago, at least in the east, sociability was promoted much
more than it is today. Going through the history of Masonry · in this

274

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

country, as we all know, the early lodges met for the most part in inns,
and the flowing cup was nothing unusual, even in a Masonic meeting.
One of our oldest members is now ninety years of age, and when talking
of his early days in Masonry he remembers when a bucket of beer with
the necessary ladle was kept in the ante room, so that all could refresh
themselves as the occasion and spirit required. We can well therefore
understand, with the change in all this that has taken place, as now of
course no alcoholic beverages, not even beer, are allowed in any Masonic
Temple, why the old fashioned eloquence that we hear so much about
has disappeared from the lips of our officers and speakers. Masonry as
it is practised in this country today promotes sociability, but it is not a
pure and simple social organization . .
Is Masonry an educational organization? Masonry teaches through
symbols, the greatest of which is the letter "G," which stands for the
Great Architect of the Universe-God. Every Grand Lodge encourages
its lodges to carry on educational activities, and we are doing our best
to help our members learn as much about Masonry as we possibly can,
yet Masonry is not purely and simply an educational organization.
Is Masonry a secret society? This has changed a great deal in the
last one hundred years. In certain parts of Europe, at least before
World War II, Masons could not let it be known to the profane that
they were Masons, but in this country this veil of secrecy is for the
most part a thing of the past. You can come to the Grand Lodge Office
in Hartford and the Grand Secretary will be glad to give you a book
containing the name of every Master Mason belonging to the lodges
9f our jurisdiction. Again, you will find a copy of that on file in the State
Capitol in Hartford. It is true that we have a few things in our work
that are secret, but the greater part of M~sonry is not secret, and therefore Masonry is not today a so-called secret society.
Is Masonry a political society? It teaches that its members shall obey
the law of the land and constituted authority. They are also taught not
to enter into political controversy as Masons. I wonder sometimes if
we as Masons fully realize what it means to respect constituted authority.
We hear many good Masons, without provocation unjustly criticize our
government leaders, where instead of that they should keep quiet as
Masons, and support them while in office. The Masonic organization
was thrown into politics well over one hundred years ago, which resulted
in the formation of the Anti-Masonic Party and caused the cessation of
Masonic work in most jurisdictions. I have reference to the Morgan
Episode and what followed. Masonry is not a political organization
and will not enter into any political controversy.
Is Masonry a religious organization? It is true that the Holy Bible
is on the altar of all of our Masonic Lodges. It is true that most of our
teachings come from the Old Testament. It is true that our ritual is

full of religious expressions and dogma, but Masonry is not a religious
organization. Rather than to oppose any church, it is a helpmate of the
church. Masonry is sometimes accused of keeping its members from
church membership. This again is not true, for a good Mason is a good
church member. I so stated at a banquet somewhat over a year ago. and
apparently put some of the brethren on the spot, for thereafter brother
after brother, on meeting me, told me that I should not have said that
as their wives were present and now they were losing sleep as they had
to go to church regularly, as each Sunday morning the wife reminded
them of the fact that the then Deputy Grand Master told them that a
good Mason was a good church member.
If Masonry is not a social organization, educational organization,
secret society, political organization or religious organization, what is
it? It has been defined as a philosophy of life. That is true, but that
definition docs not satisfy me as it is too vague. A leading Masonic
writer defines it as a progressive science based on morality and taught
by symbolism. This again is true, but it seems to me is incomprehensible
by the average Master Mason. I have adopted a definition of Masonry
for myself and I give it to you for what it is worth. "Masonry is based
on the four principal virtues of antiquity: temperance, fortitude, prudence and justice, together with the three theological virtues of faith,
hope and charity, and its principal tenets of brotherly love, relief and
truth. These cardinal virtues and tenets Masonry teaches to its votaries
by symbolism with the hope and endeavor, the better to fit them as living
stones for that spiritual building, that house not made with hands, eternal
in the Heavens."
FREDERICK C. HESSELMEYER

Grand Master, Connecticut

275

276

277

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT D

by what I have seen and heard. I am reminded of an old colored man
that works on one of our Department of Agriculture Experimental
Farms in Georgia. One day he approached one of the eminent scientists
who directed his work and said, "Boss, I am sure. glad to be working for
you scientists, I listens to all you says. and watches all you does, then
I goes to my farm and improves on it."

ADDRESS OF MOST WORSHIPFUL MARVIN FOWLER
Grand Master of Masons of the Grand Lodge of the
District of Columbia
Most Worshipful, Distinguished Guests, Officers and Members
of the Grand Lodge of California:
I am happy a~ Grand Master o( Masons in the District of Columbia
to be in attendance at this Centennial meeting of your Grand Lodge.
The Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia is very proud of the part
it played in the formation of the Grand Lodge of California. You of
California, of course, know that one of the three original lodges of your
grand jurisdictio·n was chartered by our Grand Lodge, as your Grand
Master has stated. In the year 1848 when the gold fever spread through
the East, a great many of the people of the District of Columbia came
to California, and among them. were a ·number of Master Masons. They ·
requested the Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia to charter a
Lodge and our Grand Lodge issued a charter in November, 1948, to
several Master Masons who formed California Lodge No. 13 of the
Grand Lodge of The District of Columbia which is now California
Lqdge No. 1 of the Grand Lodge of California. Brother Levi Stowell,
then the Junior Warden of The New Jerusalem Lodge No. 9 became
the first Master of the new Lodge. The Grand Lodge of the District
of Columbia is pleased at the progress and success of California Lodge
No. I.
We are the smallest jurisdi~tion in area in the United States; comprised of only about 70 square miles, but we have almost 25,000 Masons
-very small as compared to the jurisdiction of California. We have
indeed taken great pride in California Lodge No. I and are pleased
with the great progress that the Grand Lodge of California has made
during this first century of its existence, and we on the east coast wish
for you even greater success in the years that lie ahead.
Your hospitality since I have been in San Francisco is certainly
unexcelled anywhere. Everything possible has been done to make my
visit enjoyable and I am indeed grateful. I have greatly enjoyed the
proceedings of this Grand Lodge and the skill with which the Grand
Master presided. We were happy to have your Grand Master in the
City of Washington at the Grand Masters' Conference. He addressed
the Grand Masters' Conference and again addressed the Grand Secretaries' meeting. I heard many of- our Masons say that those two
addresses were the most outstanding delivered at the conference in
Washington. I shall carry back to my Grand Lodge in your Nation's
Capital fond memories of these sessions. I feel I have profited much

Brethren, I know I can't go home and improve on the way you do
things out here, but I can go home and try to improve on the way I
might have done things had I not been in your Grand Lodge and seen
how you do things. I feel very proud to be numbered among these many
Grand Masters present. I was recently told that a good Grand Master
should have the curiosity of a cat, the tenacity of a bulldog, the determination of a taxicab driver, the diplomacy of a wayward husband, the
patience of a self sacrificing wife, the enthusiasm of a coed, the friendliness of a child, the good humor of an idiot, the simplicity of a jackass,
the assurance of a college boy, and the tireless energy of a bill collector.
Now, I have no doubt that some of these visiting Grand Masters can
qualify in all of these requirements, but today I claim only one: I am
curious. Curious as a cat.
I wonder how many of us really try to apply the many and varied
teachings of our great fraternity to our daily lives and make use of these
teachings in determining our duty in the community and even as citizens
of this great land. As Masons, we are all bound together by many
common convictions. We believe in certain great cardinal principles.
These great truths are accepted by all good men. They are the fundamentals ·on which all religions are based. They are not limited to sectarian beliefs. It is these principles that have attracted good men to our
organization, and made our fraternity the strongest of its kind in the
world. We all know that there are some members of the fraternity who
do not adhere strictly to our teachings, in their daily lives. But the mere
taking of our vows does not make one a true member any more than does
the acceptance of baptism make a true Christian. Through thorough
examination into the character of our applicants and the insistence that
we are not a reform institution, we have been able to maintain a standard of membership that has caused the profane to place a very high
value on our fraternity and to expect our individual members to be above
the average in moral conduct. There are many in this country who look
to Masonry to preserve our way of life. They recall that our principles
of democracy were founded by a group of patriots, the large majority
of whom were Masons. They recall that Masonry has produced great
leaders in each generation, they expect us to lead the way in these troublesome times in this great test of our convictions and determination.
I was much impressed yesterday by the address of your Grand
Chaplain during your devotional service. He issued a great challenge to

278

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Masons everywhere, who may have the privilege of becoming acquainted with that splendid address. In determining how true we and other
Masons are to our principles, I should like to ask a few questions; and
I am sure each of you could ask other similar questions. Can one be
a good Mason who irreverently takes the name of his God in vain, who
uses profanity in idle talk and who never prays, when we teach in our
fraternity that God is the father of us al]. that we should never mention
his name but with that reverential awe due from a creature to his creator, and that we should implore his aid in all our laudable undertakings. '
Can one be a good Mason who by falsehood, deception, or overreaching cheats and defrauds his neighbor, when we teach that we
should live by the Golden Rule and act upon the square towards others.
Can one be a good Mason who indulges in intemperance and excess,
who allows his faculties to be dulled and his judgment swayed by intemperate habits? Can one be a good Mason who binds himself to his
own sect and despises all others? Or do we truly regard the whole
human race as one family or society of friends and brothers, all created
by the same Heavenly Father, and believe it is our duty to aid, support
and protect each other. Can one be a good Mason who would allow
mankind or even a part of mankind to be enslaved by a mad and over
ambitious politician, whose sole purpose is to wield power, who deliberately excites the emotions of people and directs the selfish interests
of one group against another? Can Masonry be compatible to a theory
of government that removes all independence of individuals, that places
government above human rights? I believe each of you will agree with
me that Masonry does not support such principles and that it is our
duty as individuals and as citizens to support our government with all
our strength and all our might in the death struggle in which we are
entering with the evil forces that are spreading over the face of the earth.
We should individually, collectively. and by any means in our power
use our utmost endeavors to assist in the defeat of the powers that
threaten our nation and our way of life. We should recognize the fact
that armed forces alone can not protect us from the modern method of
conquering nations. We must, as an unarmed army also, fight the sly, .
subversive· ideas that are infiltrating into our schools, our labor unions,
our legislative bodies, and into almost every walk of life. Fear of consequences should not deter our action.

EXHIBIT E

We should each dedicate ourselves to a great cause-the preservation of our nation, founded upon principles for which our forefathers
fought and died. Let us each strive to so live that we will, like Noah,
be perfect in our generation; like Job, fear God and avoid evil; like
David, delight in the law of the Lord; like Solomon, pray for a wise and
understanding heart, that we may discern between good and evil: and
like the holy St. John, love our God and love our brother also. My
brethren, let us each do our duty as Masons and as loyal citizens

279

ADDRESS OF MOST WORSHIPFUL ALBERT J. DeLANGE
Grand Master of Masons of the Grand Lodge of Texas
M. W. Ellsworth Meyer, Grand Master, Grand Officers and Members
of M. W. Grand Lodge of California, and Distinguished Visitors
and Brethren:
It is a rare privilege for me to bring you, on this great occasion, the
greetings and best wishes of the two hundred thousand Masons of
Texas. We congratulate you of the Grand Lodge of California on
your first century of great accomplishments; we rejoice with you, and we
are proud of the outstanding position which you occupy in the Masonic
world. May I express my personal appreciation of the many courtesies
which have been extended to me by your Grand Master and all the
brethren of your Grand Lodge from the time that Brother Patterson and
his charming wife met me at the airport and extending throughout my
visit here. These many courtesies cause me to regret-almost-that in
Texas we sent the "patrol wagon" for Brother Meyer (or thus it seems
from his description of the conveyance). Though my friendship with
Brother Meyer is of a few years, when measured in units of time, his
many sterling qualities, both of mind and of character, have endeared
him to me, but the treatment he has accorded me, which you have all
witnessed, brings forcibly to my mind the old warning: "The Lord
protect me from my friends, I will take care of my enemies." You will
notice the adroitness with which he presented his claim that Brother
Ted Doss had kept your Grand Master "off the streets" during the
Grand Master's trip to Washington. His claim calls to mind our Texas
definition of an alibi, namely, proving that you weren't there when you
did it. His own reports show that Tennessee handled him with finesse
and Texas with "frazzling."
Texas has always felt and had the closest ties of friendship and
kinship with California and the sister states in our area with which our
history has been so closely associated. For Texas started the procession
to the West. The Battle of San Jacinto, fought on soil within view of
my own Lodge. was one of the.decisive battles of the world, one of the
momentous decisions which yet profoundly affects the history of the
world, and the progress of mankind. It secured benefits now enjoyed
not alone by us but also by the descendants of those who were then our
opponents, but are now our closest neighbors and our warmest friends.
When the Republic of Texas annexed the United States we gave the
United States as war surplus our western wastelands, from which were
later created the States of California, New Mexico, Colorado, Wyoming, and the neighboring states. Sutter's gold accelerated the rush

280

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

to the golden west. We now see the teeming cities, the multitudinous
industries, the great agricultural activities, the commercial. and the
cultural development of California, and are filled with amazement and
a feeling akin to incredulity. We are astounded that you have done
so much with so little. Perhaps within a short time, when your taxable
values justify it, Houston will reverse the action of 1846 by annexing
you. As it is, Houston considers California as only an outlying district
of Houston, though there are some who maintain that nothing can
"out-lie" Houston.
Masons throughout our broad land, indeed, Masons everywhere,
are proud of the part which the Masons of California have had and
are having in the writing of the proud history of your State, and we hail
with great satisfaction the pre-eminent position you now hold.
Gra~d Master Ellsworth Meyer has asked me to address you briefly
on a subject of my own choosing. I realize that no subject chosen by me
would add to the present knowledge of those present, particularly your
officers, the Grand Masters, and other distinguished guests. Accordingly, I am making no effort to inform or educate you. I seek only to
direct your attention to matters already well known to you. Earnestly
I seek to focus your attention on the need of adherence to the fundamentals of Masonry.

Ancient Craft Masonry is basic or fundamental Masonry. Each
Grand Lodge is sovereign. Full and complete attainment of the privilege of Masonic membership is in no wise dependent upon the Mason
joining any other Body. A proper study of the history, biography,
philosophy, principles, and purposes of the Order is entirely sufficient
to occupy all the available time of any earnest Mason, no matter how
great his capability, learning, and energy. And the application of such
principles is a life-long endeavor. Yet there is a mad rush to join other
"branches" of Masonry, or, more often, some organization predicating
its membership on Masonry. A recent pamphlet by the Masonic Education and Service Association of the United States lists some seventyseven groups or degrees, constituting branches of Masonry or Orders
predicating their membership on Masonry, including the androgynous
degrees or so-called adoptive Masonry, and the organizations for those
under age. The neophyte in Masonry is hardly started on his way when
he becomes the target of a number of membership committees or others
seeking to secure his application for membership in such other Orders.
He is made to believe that his entrance into Masonry is not complete
with the Master's Degree. The zeal of the solicitors is founded on a
misapprehension of the fundamental and true purposes of Masonry and
causes the frustration of those purposes and the loss of the principles.
One reason that we have lost sight of the fundamentals of Masonry
and the basic purposes for Masonic organization is the emphasis or

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

281

over-emphasis which we have placed on learning and exemplifying the
esoteric work, or perhaps I should say upon the failure to properly
point out and emphasize the true purposes of "Such esoteric work. In
Texas, we require a considerable knowledge of the esoteric work of
each degree before the candidate can advance to the next degree and
we require that he pass a satisfactory examination in the Master's
Degree within ninety days after receiving it. Because of the large number of candidates applying of recent years, and the extensive knowledge of the work required of the candidates, the active members of the
Lodges have been busily engaged in the teachins:r of such work to the
neophytes and the perfecting of themselves and others as certificate
members. The constant effort required for these detailed duties has led
to their occupying a paramount place in the minds of the active workers
and this impression has persisted until many active workers have subconsciously looked upon the teaching of the esoteric work as the primary
function of Masonry and perfection in it as the final accomplishment of
the individual Mason.
It is within the tiled walls of the Lodge that we must determine
whom we shall admit at the West Gate; it is before our altars that we
must obligate those whom we have approved; it is within our Lodge room
that we form the friendships which "unite us into one sacred band or society of friends and brothers": and therein, over the years, we must become completely indoctrinated with the principles and purposes of the
Order. But all this effort is completely wasted, all such activity entirely
sterile, if Masonry begins and ends within the Lodge room or if its
primary functions are those performed within the Lodge room. 'Unless
the principles there taught are carried outside, at the fireside, the workshop, the market place, the public schools, the civic forum, the place
of worship, in all the manifold activities of life, then the labor is fruitless, the so-called accomplishments are vain. Our real ends are attained
as the result of every member having a true conception of our principles
and by his proper application thereof, not by the display of emblems and
jewels, nor by the empty preaching of Masonry, nor by the holding of
membership or offices in multitudinous organizations claiming to be
Masonic.
A true realization of these fundamental principles and objectives will
give us a clear perspective and a deeper appreciation of Masonry. A failure to keep such guideposts in view will inevitably lead to confusion, a
straying from the path, a missing of the true destination.
At this time, we are almost in the position of the illiterate colored
man who, when asked whether he could read the road signs, replied that
he "could read how fur but not where to".
The Grand Lodge of Texas has recently increased the waiting period
between degrees from one lunar month to two lunar months and has

283

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

prescribed a six months' waiting period after attaining the Master's
Degree before the Mason can apply for membership in any Body, Masonic or non-Masonic, which requires of its members that they hold
membership in a Masonic Lodge. We hope that the learner or newlymade Mason may devote himself exclusively to study of Blue Lodge
Masonry during these waiting periods without the pressure of invitations or solicitations to join other organizations; that he may find time,
opportunity, and inspiration to make a study of the fundamentals rather
than the forms of Masonry. There is no expectation that he can attain
any great proficiency during these maturing periods. It is hoped that his
feet will be set on the right path and his viewpoint properly fixed; in
other words, that he will be properly oriented, be basically sound, and
later make solid progress. To this end, a program of study has been
prepared by our Committee on Education and Service and will soon be
released to the Lodges. We shall endeavor to prevent this becoming
fixed or static, and will currently supplement all material with new
studies and suggestions. I invite and earnestly solicit any listening to me
to send to me at Houston, Texas, any suggestions that you may have,
with any pamphlets, studies, or other material that will aid in this work.

to create these new organizations is based upon the false premise or
thought that the esoteric work itself is our primary purpose, or upon the
misconception that there must be a multitude of social or similar activities to engage the attention of the members, ~n alleged matter "of holding interest" or an opportunity for more emblems and jewels. Any who
can be bound to our Order only through such means are of no aid or
strength to us. We have ample numbers. What we need is real Masons,
Masons with definite purposes and the will to achieve them. The addition of unassimilated numbers is not an aid; it is simply an encumbrance
or a hindrance.

282

In bringing to the attention of our members the sovereign position
of our Grand Lodge, and the character of Ancient Craft Masonry, and
in requiring a period of service to the Blue Lodge, it is not the purpose
of our Grand Lodge to imply that we are in any manner opposed to
either of the Rites or any of the truly Masonic Bodies. In fact, it is my
sincere belief, and I know most of the leaders of our Order in Texa~
join me in the belief. that to the properly educated and guided Mason,
the additional light and inspiration of the Rites and other recognized
Masonic Bodies will :b e of great aid; practically all of us of the "Grand
East", including the Past Grand Master, belong to both Rites and are
thoroughly convinced of their value to the Craft. But the lessons of the
Rites are as useless as those of the Blue Lodge when falling upon ears
that in truth cannot hear. And the leaders of both Rites in Texas are in
full accord with the program of our Grand Lodge, and feel that the reresults will be, and are, very beneficial to them, furnishing the Rites
applicants or members who are in fact Masons and not simply members
of the Masonic Order.
As to the non-Masonic organizations which require Masonry as a
predicate to their respective memberships, I personally am very definitely of the view, and I believe that it is shared by all the leaders and the
vast majority of the members of my State, that a halt must be made to
the multiplicity of such Orders. The great number of such Orders. the
multiplicity of the "projects" sponsored as a means of securing members
or of giving some purpose to the several organizations, and their varied
activities are but "confounding the confusion". Let me repeat, the desire

And the organization of such splinter groups detracts from the principle of the universality of Masonry. It results in a fragmentation of
Masonry. . It encourages diversity of interest and foments internecine
strife. It dissipates our efforts and confuses our viewpoints.
Our Grand Lodge has very definitely opposed and prohibited the
formation of groups of Masons into clubs or organizations within the
Order, based, for 'example, upon trades, professions, attendances at
particular institutions, and the like. Even study clubs at universities
can be organized only under the auspices of a constituent Lodge and
under its ultimate control and supervision. Article 10 of our Laws provides: "This Grand Lodge alone has power and authority to establish
and disseminate the esoteric work of the first three degrees of Ancient
Craft Masonry in this jurisdiction." This has been construed by our
Committee on Purposes and Policies; and the construction being approved by our Grand Lodge. to prohibit such ancillary organizations,
(which have been denominated, in some reports, as "appendages" of
Masonry), hence such groups are not permitted in our State. Hardly a
year passes, however, without one or more applications being made to
the Grand Master for authority to organize such a club or group or to
permit the entry of one or more local chapters of such organizations
recognized or permitted in other states. These applications are invariably and promptly refused.
There is a very definite feeling in Texas that a number of the activities of some organizations, which predicate their membership on Masonry. including some which have been in existence for many years, are
often detrimental to the interests and reputation of Masonry. Because
such organizations appear in public on many occasions and make many
demonstrations, whereas Ancient Craft Masonry and the Rites refuse
to so appear, and because such organizations require that their members
first have membership in the Blue Lodges and perhaps one of the Rites,
the public generally has a tendency erroneously to view these groups as
the uppermost Bodies of Masonry and even our members who know
better, or should know better, hold the same misconceptions.

284

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Let me say without equivocation that, in my opinion, a number of
their activities have been very detrimental to' the interests of Masonry
and I, for one, am thoroughly convinced that unless their practices come
to harmonize with Masonic principle, and remain in such harmony,
legislation must be taken by Masonic Bodies to prohibit or restrict right
of its members to join such organizations. In other words, such incompatability will force a juridical divorce of this common law marriage.
I regret that very recently it has become necessary for me as Grand
Master of the Grand Lodge of Texas to institute a Court of Inquiry with
respect to the activities of a local group of one such organization. This
action is not taken on any premise that the Grand Lodge is directing, or
will direct or interfere with, the activities of such organization, but upon
the concept that Masons are subject to, and must obey, all Masonic
laws of conduct on any and all occasions, and are subject to the discipline and judicial processes of the Grand Lodge if they fail to refuse
to do so. The inquiry is also conducted for the purpose of obtaining information from which to determine whether an edict should now go
forth, or recommendation be made to the Grand Lodge to enact a law,
prohibiting any further joining of such organization unless and until its
practices are bettered.
Another clear indication of the failure of the officers and brethren
to realize and maintain the sovereign and independent nature of Ancient
Craft Masonry and its entire separation from and independence of all
other Bodies has been the use, clearly unlawful in Texas, of letterheads
and other printed matter jointly with other Masonic Bodies or Bodies
composed of Masons. This has been definitely stopped in Texas. Such
use was, I am sure, more negligent than wilfully violative of the law,
though I fear that in some instances at least, there was deliberate intent
to impress the newly made member with the thought that a joining of
the other Bodies was necessary for the completion of his Masonic education. Whether intentional or unintentional. such was the effect. I am
pleased to be able to say that there has been complete cooperation by
all Bodies, and an unreserved recognition of the necessity of the abandonment of the improper practice.
The urge to embellish the emblems of Masonry, and the constant extension of the use of such emblems on every possible medium, are more
indicia of the deplorable tendency to accept the form and neglect the
substance. This perversion had been carried so far in my State that one
of the large and influential Lodges had a large picture of an animal's
head (signifying name of the Lodge) thrust through and looking from
the letter "G", this distortion or perversion being used in the Lodge
notices in the newspapers, in the Lodge stationery, and in other printed
matter. Following the emphatic mandate of our Grand Lodge, I have
required every Lodge to desist from such misuses, to bring all its printed

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

285

matter in line with the applicable laws, and to refrain from any embellishments. The District Deputy Grand Masters have been assiduously
ferreting out all violations and immediately stopping them.
The Laws of the Grand Lodge of Texas positively prohibit any constituent Lodge supporting or sponsoring any other organization of any
character. As I have always been so thoroughly convinced that the
Order of De Molay and Order of Rainbow for Girls are doing an outstanding work for young men and women, I long felt that such policy
was wrong in its application to be named orders. I am now thoroughly
convinced that the "hands off" policy is entirely correct. I am convinced
that individually and as individual Masons we should support the named
organizations in their fine work and I have always encouraged them.
But I am likewise completely convinced that any differences of opinion
that may develop within such organizations (or any other Order based
directly or indirectly on Masonic membership) as to management, control. or procedure or in other particular, should not be brought into
Masonic Lodges as they invariably will be if there is any sponsorship
or direct relationship. Too often we are having dissentions brought into
our Lodges from the subsidiary organizations which are not recognized
as Masonic but to which a large number of the Masons belong.
As a corollary to the proposition that we should have and teach the
true principles and purposes of Masonry is the determination that only
authorized Masons or Masonic organizations should be permitted to
speak for Masonry or to speak or publish anything that the uninitiated
might consider the authoritative words of Masonry. Accordingly, our
Grand Lodge publishes its official organ, the Texas Grand Lodge Magazine. It attempts no editorials or editorial policy and accepts no advertisements. Our Grand Lodge permits constituent Lodges to publish and
distribute to their own members, news of such Lodges but without editorials or advertise.men ts. Recently an effort was made .:by a Master
Mason and his blood brother, an Entered Apprentice Mason, to establish a magazine, of character similar to that published by such publishers'
blood relatives in another State, which magazine purported to be for the
information of Masons and to carry news of interest primarily to Masons. One number only was published. The publishers were tried and
expelled, and such sentences were upheld by the Grand Lodge. The
Grand Lodge strengthened its laws to proscribe not only any participation in the publication of such a magazine or advertising therein, but
also any subscribing thereto. The publishers were informed that legal
action would be taken against them and any advertisers would be persistently informed that the publication and all advertisements in it were
entirely offensive to Masons. Such publication ceased after the first
number.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

And may I turn seriously to the history of my own State to present
a symbol of active applied Masonry. To us in Texas, the Alamo is the
cradle of liberty. It does not evidence any enmity against those who were
our enemies more than a century ago. and whose descendants are our
nearest neighbors and now our warmest friends. It is a symbol of Adel~
ity to duty and devotion to Country. Besieged by overwhelming numbers. William Barrett Travis, the commander of the gt;lrrison-and a
member of our Craft-sent his . last message . containing the immortal
statement:
"I shall n@ver surrender nor retreat".
His fearless band perished to the last man, holding back the invaders
until Sam Houston-who later presided over the meeting organizing the
Grand Lodge of Texas--could form the army of defense. A monument
was erected to commemorate the fidelity of the heroic defenders of the
Alamo. I do not now refer to the fine monument of enduring Texas
granite erected in the Capitol grounds at Austin upon which is inscribed
the proud line:
"Thermopylae had its messenger to defeat, the Alamo had none."
I refer to the smaller monument. erected shortly after Texas independence was won. This unpretentious memorial was built of the broken
stones, the rubble, and the debris of the Alamo itself, those fragments _
thrown down in the struggle. And upon one face of the modest monument was engraved the line:
"Erected as an altar to the God of the fearless and the free."
Masons of every clime could well consider this line engraved upon
the altar of every lodge as a constant reminder of the inescapable Masonic duty of service to Country.
I close with a repetition of my expression of warmest fraternal
friendship and good wishes from the Grand Lodge of Texas and all its
members to the Grand Lodge of California and all other jurisdictions
represented here.

EXHIBIT F

286

287

ADDRESS OF MOST WORSHIPFUL
WALLA CE E. CALDWELL
Grand Master of Masons of the Grand Lodge of North Carolina
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Masonry is a beautiful system of morality veiled in allegory and
illustrated by symbols. This is important because allegory and symbols
talk a universal language meaning the same thing to men of many lands
and different tongues. At the same time, their meanings are so rich and
so varied that they appear differently to any one Mason at different
times.
One night too tired to go to sleep I began running over the ritual and
came to think of one of our ancient brethren who became weary and sat
down for a rest. As I saw him sitting there I said, "Move over, brother,
and make room for me." Then I thought more. He had gone on a long
and difficult journey on a quest that must have seemed well nigh impossible and with a stern sentence hanging over him if he failed. Finally,
exhausted, he sank down for a rest. But he got up again, called to his
companions and they returned. Had he not arisen or had his companions
not returned, his end would have been sure. But he did get up, his comrades did come back and victory, success. was at hand.
Now, my brethren, we have a task to perform. The ruffians of greed
and violence and materialism are abroad in the land and we must overcome them. Self-seeking men are setting money, position, or power as
their goals and not considering the means by which they secure them.
They deny God, spurn religion, and laugh at altruism, asking only
"What is there in it for me? What am I going to get out of it?"
Masonry provides the spiritual power for overcoming them. First it
reminds us that we are individuals who entered the fraternity at our own
.request and were received and treated as individuals as we advanced in
it. It asked us one question only which had to be answered correctly for
it is obvious that no atheist can be a Mason. Beyond that it told us that
we were entitled to our own interpretation of our answer, our own
religious views, political affiliations and occupations. It gave us a position of dignity and security. There is represented in every regular and
well-governed lodge a certain point within a circle. The point represents
the individual brother, the circle that boundary of his duty to God and
man beyond which he is not to.allow his passions, prejudices or interests
to betray him on any occasion. What is more dignified than the center
of a circle or what more secure. I like to think of myself as standing .
there. The circle is around me consisting of my brethren in Masonry,
wherever I inay be, at home in Chapel Hill, in North Carolina, here in
California, or anywhere else in the world where there are Masons. As

288

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OP THE

long as they are there I know there will be those who will assist me,
pray for me, keep my secrets, give me good counsel and protect me from
danger. What greater security could I ask. Yet if I am to stand there I
must remember that I must be worthy. I must use the working tools Masonry has provided upon myself that my actions may stand the test of
the square in the hands of the Supreme Grand Master, that I may walk
upright before God and man and meet all men on the level. I must also
remember that if I am to stand in the center so I must also take my place
in the circle around every other Mason, using my trowel to spread
around them that cement of brotherly love and affection which unites us
into one sacred band or society of friends and brothers. Should I get
angry or prejudiced or greedy and break the circle, what have I done?
I have reduced myself to a point, no longer the center of a circle, just a
point which has neither length, :breadth nor thickness, the nearest to
nothing in all mathematics. I have simply destroyed myself.
.In all this I must remember that the powe~ comes not from myself but
from the Supreme Grand Master, source of all Masonic light and power,
the spiritual force of Masonry itself. Masons know, I do not say believe,
that God is. No man can go through the ceremonies of Masonry thoughtfully and sincerely without feeling His presence. Knowing that God is,
they know that they are the sons of God and therefore brother. There
can be no brotherhood of man without the fatherhood of God. This, the
fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man is the great tenet of _
Masonry. On this foundation it unites men of every country, sect and
opinion, and conciliates true friendship among those who might otherwise remain at a perpetual distance. This is the great task of Masonry
to spread these principles abroad. By this means we may overcome the
ruffians of our day. It is tempting to say we have done our work when
we have received the degrees, when we have served as Master or even
as Grand Master, that we are tired and wish to rest. But the task is not
done, our quest ·not ended. We must b~ up and at our work as Master
Masons.
·

289

EXHIBIT G

ADDRESS OF MOST V/ORSHIPFUL J. H. MORGAN
Grand Master of Masons of the Grand Lodge of British Columbia
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
I come from the Land of the Maple Leaf; from that New Nation of
the twentieth century-The Dominion of Canada, that Country which
shares with your United States of America the great portion of the
continent of this New World of North America-a Country separated
only from that of yours by a common line fence, by a line fence many
thousands of miles in length,-from Cape Breton and Newfoundland
on the Atlentic to the shores of Vancouver Island and of the Queen
Charlotte Islands on the Pacifk,-a line fence over which the spirit of
peace and good will has resigned for almost a century and a half. Truly,
I come from a land whose people believe, above all else, that "It is good
to live in unity and in harmony with ones neighbors." And all over that
Land, the Institution of Freemasonry is on the march. There are nine
Grand Lodges in Canada, one in each of the nine older Provinces, and
all in a most healthy and flourishing condition. In Newfoundland,
Canada's newest and youngest Province, there is as yet no domestic
Grand Lodge,-there, there are many Lodges, some of them of old age,
but all operating with Charters from and under the jurisdiction of either
the United Grand Lodge of England or the Grand Lodge of Scotland.
I am indeed greatly honored and very much privileged, this morning,
to bring to this Grand Lodge and to all its Freemasons the warmest
congratulations and felecitations from all the Freemasons of Canada
upon this-your Centennial Festival.
However, it would be presuming if I were to spread my wings or
range too far from my home territory, or embrace too much of the geography of my Country. It would not do for me to encroach upon the
preserves of my other Canadian friends and colleagues who are here
representing the Freemasonry of the other Canadian Grand Jurisdictions. And so perhaps I had better stay in British Columbia.
It is my special desire to present the compliments of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of British Columbia, to extend to this Grand Lodge
of California our fraternal greetings, our congratulations upon your One
Hundredth Anniversary, and may your glorious past be reflected in a
more glorious future. Also, I wish to say a word of personal thanks for
all the wonderful hospitality which has been extended to Mrs. Morgan
and to myself. The graciousness and the kindness of the Grand Master
and associates is so very much appreciated. We will not forget this visit
to California.

2SH

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Perhaps, it might be interesting if I told you something of the origin
of Freemasonry in British Columbia, and of how it happened that
brethren from California formed the nucleus of a group to establish the
first Lodge at Fort Victoria, in the Crown Colony of Vancouvers Island,
(now Victoria, British Columbia).
It all started with the first Gold Rush in 1858. In California, the
frenzied activity that followed the gold rush of 1849 had died down.
The time when gold was to be had for the taking, had passed, and men
were looking for a new Eldorado. The California mines had moved into
the big business stage. In 1857 rumors were .current that g~!d had ~een
found in the North on a hitherto unknown River called the Fraser . It
was said that the Hudsons Bay Company was digging out millions, that
it was a second California. In 1858, 800 ounces of flne gold was sent
down by the Hudson Bay Company to the mint in San Francisco. Not
a large amount, and certainly not much in today's dollar terms, but it
then was enough to start a rush for the North. Gold seekers sailed from
California for Fort Victoria, and thence to the Fraser River, and up that
River they found gold at Fort Hope and Yale. The excitement had started. A City of shacks and tents soon was clustered around the Hudson
Bay Company's fort at Victoria, a City sprung up over night. There
were many· Freemasons among the newcomers,-most of them, whether
citizens of the United States or of other countries, had learned their
lessons in the then Lodges of California,-and as soon as they became ·
settled they wanted a Masonic Lodge in their new home. Men like J. J.
Southgate, an Englishman, came from California; Geo. Pearkes, a solicitor a Canadian from Port Hope, Ontario, practiced law in San Francis~o. and was a member of Occidental Lodge No. 22 of San Francisco;
Capt. Jeffray, another Californian; Jas. N. Thain, from Davy Crocker
Lodge No. 7 of San Francisco; Amor De Cosmos, a newspaper man,
whose real name was William Smith, but which he changed because I
suppose there were too many Bill Smiths in California; Richard Lewis,
an architect, is listed as a member of Golden Gate Lodge No. 30; and
there were others. It was these men who, joining with some earlier arrivals in the Colony, laid the foundation of Freemasonry in our present
day British Columbia.
.
- -In 1858, an application was made to the United Grand Lodge of
England for a Charter. After much delay and mu~h c~rres~ond~n~e
the application was granted and a Charter was received m Victoria m
March, 1860. Thus Victoria Lodge No. 1085, G. R. of U. G. L. of England the flrst Lodge in British Columbia, was established. So you will
see, ~hat we, in British Columbia, can date at least a part of our origin
back to your California.
From that small beginning in 1860, with a handful of members in one
Lodge, Freemasonry has grown and expanded until today in the Grand

Lodge of British Columbia there are some 18,000 odd Freemasons inhabiting some 130 Lodges. And it holds a great future. British Columbia
is a great Province, a land of opportunity, a growing land, a big land
with a future unlimited. Perhaps I should not permit myself to :boast,
but you in this Country are accustomed to seeing and hearing of big
things, and I know you will pardon me if I raise my voice just a wee bit
to boost of my own country.
Why just yesterday, I heard the Master of Texas speaking in most
glowing terms of the vastness, of the bigness and of the greatness of his
State of Texas. Would I be going out on a limb, if I requested you to inform the Grand Master of Texas that within the boundaries of British
Columbia there is an area approximately 100,000 square miles larger
than his great State of Texas. I invite you to come up some time and ·see
this land of mine.
One hundred years of Freemasonry! What a great pride you must
have in your glorious past! 1850 to 1950.
Brethren, what are your hopes for the future of your Freemasonry.
In this year of 1950, what are you and I, and countless thousands of
Freemasons like us, doing with our Freemasonry or expect to do with
it. Is it not true that never before in the history of the world has life
been so thrilling and so well worth living? Never before so many oppor- .
tunities for the living of a full life, and for leadership in every good
cause. Never before has there been so great a need for the practice of
the Golden Rule, "Do unto others as though you were the others."
Never before so many opportunities to put Freemasonry to work.
The other day I read an article by a leading educationalist. He wrote
and I quote-"Never before in the history of the World has its people
stood at such fateful crossroads. One road leads definitely towards the
Brotherhood of Man, the goal of every religious and philosophic movement; the other towards a setting wherein man is pitted against man,
nation against nation, to the utter destruction of our way of life."
There is no doubt regarding the road which we, as Freemasons, must
take. Every humanitarian movement, religious, political. social and fraternal, must be used to draw men closer together, else all that we hold
sacred, our institutions and our inheritance will be destroyed. Therein,
Freemasonry is given a challenge. We can use Freemasonry in strenuous labor for the right. We can and must marshall all our resources
towards the successful accomplishment of the greatest task of all-the
establishment of a practical and working Brotherhood of Man. Our rewards will be great. We shall have communicated much happiness to
others, and certainly we will be happy ourselves. We shall be on the
right road, going forward at high speed, singing with full hearts, secure
in the knowledge that at the end we shall find a "New Heaven and a
New Earth."

290

292

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
EXHIBIT H

TESTIMONIAL
Presented by ERVINE. J. LANDER, Grand Master of Maine,
on behalf of the Distinguished Guests
To the Most Worshipful Ellsworth Meyer, Grand Master of the Grand
Lodge of California:
We, the guests of the Grand Lodge of California, at the observance
of its lOOth Anniversary, desire to express our deep appreciation for
the unbounded hospitality and sincere friendship evinced by the Grand
Lodge of California and its officers and members. We realize the tremendous amount of loving labor and careful thought and planning
which have resulted in this Centennial Celebration of Freemasonry in
California. It has been a great privilege for us to attend this Communication, and we return to our several jurisdictions inspired with an increased sense of the work of Masonry and with a renewed determination to devote our utmost energies to the promotion of the aims of our
great institution, throughout the world. The lessons received from the
Grand Lodge of California and the friendships formed here will long
remain in our minds.
Albert J. De Lange, Grand Master, Tex as.
Robert W. Cretney, Grand Master, Louisiana.
Alfred S. Lee, Sun Lodge No. 114, Philippine Islands, Grand Secretary,
Grand Lodge of China.
C. Wheeler Barnes, Grand Master, Colorado.
Henry C. Turner, Past Grand Master, New York.
William E. Yeager, Grand Master, Pennsylvania.
Reginald E. Goldsmith, Grand Master, New Hampshire.
John S. Hedelund, Grand Master, Nebraska.
John H. N. Morgan, Grand Master, British Columbia.
Ralph S. Nesbitt, Deputy Grand Master, Oregon.
Harry 0. Schroeder, Grand Master, Maryland.
Ervin E. J. Lander, Grand Master, Maine.
Sumner G. Davis, Grand Master, Idaho.
Nelson T. Road, Grand Master, Arizona.
J. A. Ivey, P.G.M .. Grand Secretary, Arizona.
Glen G. Radcliffe, Grand Master, Iowa. ·
Worth Harvey, Grand Master of Masons in Oregon.
D . J.M. McLean, Grand Master, New Brunswick.
Hubert E. Mulholland, Grand Master, Wyoming.
Eric C. Murray, Deputy Grand Master, Costa Rica,

Thomas M. Pace, Grand Master, South Carolina.
Robert A. Tate, Grand Secretary, Saskatchewan, Canada.
Humberto Acosta, Grand Master, El Salvador, C. A.
Wallace E. Caldwell, Grand Master, North Carolina.
Gail Huhn, Grand Master, Washington.
D. Peter Laguens, Jr., Grand Secretary, New Orleans, La.
Henry I. Law, Grand Master, Delaware.
Earle K. Haling, P .G .M., Grand Secretary, Conne~ticut.
N. Arthur Hyland, Grand Secretary, Rhode Island.
D. J. Sargent, P.G.M. New Jersey.
Matthew Galt, Jr .. Grand Secretary, Penna.
Keith M. Brown, Grand Master, Minnesoto.
Earl B. Delzell, Grand Secretary, Iowa.
LeRoy W. Bond, Grand Master, Alberta (Canada) .
C. A. Stevens, Grand Master, New Mexico.
Enoch D. Flowers. Grand Master, Virginia.
Roger Keith, Grand Master, Massachusetts.
Ben Patton, Grand Master. Illinois.
John I. Preissner, P.G.M.. Grand Secretary, Washington.
Elmer F. Strain, P.G.M .. Grand Secretary. Kansas.
Claud Shaffer, Grand Secretary, Maryland.
Chester L. Cochran. Grand Master, Nevada.
Percy W . Doles. Grand Master, Montana.
Luther T . Hauberg, Grand Secretary, Montana.
James J. Harbage, Deputy Grand Master, Ohio.
Marvin E. Fowler, Grand Master, District of Columbia.
Ewart G. Dixon. Grand Secretary, (Canada in Ontario).
Karl J. Mohr, P .G .M .. Illinois.
T. E . Doss, P .G .M ., Grand Secretary, Tennessee.
Clyde I. Rush, P.G.M .. Grand Secretary, Idaho.
Harold L. Reader, P.G.M .. Grand Secretary, Missouri.
H . Proudfoot, P.G.M., Grand Secretary, Oregon.
Earl E. Dusenbury, G. Gr. H.P .. G.GR. Chapter, Iowa.
Asa H. Hankerson, P.G.M., Washington.
Carl R. Greisen. Grand Secretary, Nebraska.
F . Homer Newton, P.G.M., Grand Secretary, Michigan.
Walter L. Stockwell. Grand Secretary, North Dakota.
E . R. Gibson, Grand Secretary, Utah.
W. C. Mciver, Grand Secretary, North Carolina.
Chester R. Jones, Grand Secretary, Delaware.
F . C. Hesselmeyer, Grand Master, Connecticut.

293

SPECIAL APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SPECIAL

295

APPENDIX

CONTENTS
Page
Consolidated Statement of Assets and Liabilities ........................ 296... 297
Consolidated Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements .... 298 ... 299
Grand Lodge Budget 1950... 1951....................................................

300

Financial Report-Grand Lodge:
Grand Lodge Audit ................................................................
302
Grand Lodge Funds ..............................................................303 ...309
Audit of 1950 Returns ............................................................
310
Financial Report-Endowment Fund:
Auditor's Report ......................................................................
Grand Treasurer's Report ......................................................

311
313

Financial Report-Masonic Homes:
Auditor's Report ......................................................................
Cash Receipts and Disbursements ..........................................
Balance Sheet ..........................................................................
Statement of Revenue and Expenses......................................
Securities Owned ....................................................................

318
322
321
323
328

Statistical:
Contributions to Masonic Homes Endowment Fund............
Details of Masonic Homes ......................................................
Annual Returns 1950 ..............................................................

336
350
382

296

GRAND LODGE F. &
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OWNED OR UNDER CONTROL OF

ASSETS

AM OF CALIFORNIA
OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
GRAND LODGE-JULY 31, 1950
Grand Lodge

Total

$

(Exhibit A)

91,917.67
20,000.00
500.00

$ 491,289.95

491,289.95

$ 658,496.87

Total cash ....................................................................

718,943.03

122,417.67

Accounts Receivable:
Inter-funds ......................................................................... .
Lodges and others ..............................................................

10,098.31

Total accounts receivable ..................................... .

55,996.89
2,500.00
1,949.27

Exhibit A A
Masonic Homes
General
Special and
Trust Funds
Fund

Endowment and
Luckenbach
Funds

(Exhibit A)

Custody of Grand Treasurer........................................
Operating funds .........:......................................................
Revolving funds ............................................................... .
Deposits in transit ............................................................

Investments:
In custody of Grand Treasurer:
Bonds ................................................................................
Stocks .........................................~ ......................................
Notes and contracts receivable................................. .
In c~st?dy of Grand. ~ecretary:
Life insurance policies ..................................................
Real estate ......................................................................
Others ..............................................................................

297

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

(Exhibit A)

$

54,857.82
30,459.71
2,000.00
1,949.27

(Sch. 2 to 12)

$

20,431.43
5,537.18

89,266.80

25,968.61

4,450.00

(23,964.10)
3,291.86

23,964.10
2,356.45

10,098.31

4,450.00

(20,672.24)

26,320.55

4,575;193.94
702,179.31
44,162.22

607,347.50
339,850.00

225,121.26
20,548.59

498,659.82
231,148.30
33,651.78

3,244,065.36
110,632.42
10,510.44

2,700.00

7,772.75
152.00

248,369.85

771,384.65

14.00

7,786.75
2,852.00
2.00

2.00
947,197.50

3,365,224.22

Total investments ......................................................

5,332,176.22

Properties: (At cost)
Land, buildings and equipment Decoto and Covina ........................................................

2,864,203.50

Inventory of Stores and Surplus........................................

31,720.83

9,455.88

Total assets ............................................................... .

8,957 ,141.89

1,073,521.05

307,781.96

235,812.94

71,969.02

6,367.00
17,400.64

6,367.00
699.27

7,793.66

8,907.71

Total liabilities ..........................................................
Capital ......................................................................................

331,549.60
8,625,592.29

242,879.21
830,641.84

3,856,514.17

79,762.68
3,123,670.18

8,907.71
814,766.10

Total liabilities and capital......................................

8,957,141.89

1,073,521.05

3,856,514.17

3,203,432.86

823,673.81

LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Liabilities:
Funds held for special purposes....................................
George Washington Masonic National
Memorial Fµnd ..............................................................
Other ....................................................................................

2,864,203.50
22,264.95
3,856,514.17

3,203,432.86

823,673.81

298

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE F. &
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH
FROM FUNDS OF OR CONTROLLED BY GRAND

A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS

Exhibit BB

LODGE-AUGUST 1, 1949 TO JULY 31, 1950

Cash Balance
August 1, 1949

Receipts

Total

$ 11,207.46

$ 349,000.19

$ 360,207.65

7,006.00

9,367.00

2,926.45
45,123.52
27,319.94

Total Grand Lodge cash............................

Grand Lodge: (Exhibit B)
General Fund ......................................................
George Washington Masonic National
Memorial Endowment Fund........................
George Washington Masonic National
Memorial Per-Capita Fund..........................
Centennial Celebration ....................................
Memorial Temple Committee..........................

299

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

Oisbursements

Cash Balance
July 31, 1950

Custody
of Grand
Treasurer

Opwat.lug
Funds

$ 358,782.42 $

1,425.23

$ (19,074.77)

16,373.00

10,006.00

6,367.00

6,367.00

28,227.30
47,045.50

31,153.75
92,169.02
27,319.94

31,153.75
14,863.52

77,305.50
27,319.94

77,305.50
27,319.94

93,583.37

433,639.99

527,223.36

414,805.69

112,417.67

91,917.67

20,500.00

Masonic Homes:
General Fund (Exhibit B)..................................
Special and trust funds (Schedules 3-10)......
Residents' deposits (Exhibit A)......................

50,407.19
24,544.81
5,507.31

886,220.09
8,835.04
5,489.74

938,627.28
33,379.85
10,997.05

849,360.48
12,948.42
5,459.87

89,266.80
20,431.43
5,537.18

54,857.82
20,431.43

34,408.98

Total Masonic Homes cash........................

80,459.31

902,544.87

983,004.18

867,768.77

115,235.41

75,289.25

Endowment Fund:
Endowment Fund (Exhibit B)..........................
Luckenbach Fund (Exhibit C)..........................

32,038.73
57,24

462,479.26
11,500.00

494,517.99
11,557.24

4,033.18
10,752.10

490,484.81
805.14

490,484.81
805.14

Total Endowment Fund cash....................

32,095.97

473,979.26

506,075.23

14,785.28

491,289.95

491,289.95

Consolidated cash totals............................

$206,138.65

$1,810,164.12

$2,016,302.77

$1,297,359.74 $ 718,943.03

$ 658,496.87

$

20,500.00

5,537.18
39,9~.16

$

60,446.16

300

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Employment Bureaus

BUDGET FOR 1950-1951
The Finance Committee proposed the following as the budget for
the current fiscal year.
Administrative and Office

Salaries ..................................................................$39,000.00
Less to be refunded by Masonic Homes 6,000.00 $33,000.00
6,000.00
Rent ······-~·-················································································
Audit .......................................................:............................... .
950.00
Grand Treasurer ....................................................................
1,200.00
Postage and Express.............................................................
2,250.00
1,250.00
Telephone and Telegraph ................................................. .
Bonds Supplies and Sundry ..............................................
1,250.00
Social Security and Unemployment taxes ....................
1,000.00
Investment Council .............................................. 2,500.00
Less to be refunded by Masonic Homes 1,500.00
1,000.00
Total Administrative and Office ......................

$47,900.00

East Bay .......................................................... 2,000.00
Fresno .............................................................. 268.00
Honolulu ........................................................ 125.00
Long Beach .................................................... 1,604.00
Los Angeles ..................................................... 6,000.00
Sacramento ..•................................................. 750.00
San Diego ........................................................ 2,023.00
San Francisco ................................................ 1,500.00 14,270.00
Endowment Board .................................................................... 6,800.00
History Committee ..................................................................
150.00
History Publication .................................................................. 1,500.00
500.00
Information Committee ················ -·······································
Lodge Finance Committee ................................................... .
800.00
Public Schools Committee ................................................... . 2,500.00
Reimbursement Board of Relief ......................................... .
125.00
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123 ....................................................... .
600.00
105.75
Refund Lorenzo Lodge U. D. ·····················-·························
Total Appropriations ........................................,.......

General Expenses
Annual Communication ..................................,.......................$ 5,000.00
Conference Expense ....•............................................................ 1,000.00
Officers Travel ......:._.................................................................. 6,500.00
Officers Regalia ........................................................................ 5,370.00
Grand Organist - Grand Tiler ............................................
400.00
Grand Master - Traveling.................................................... 7,000.00
Grand Master - Miscellaneous .......................................... 2,000.00
Grand Lecturer ..........................................................................
600.00
Inspectors Aprons and Stationery ........................................ 1,000.00
Portrait of Grand Master ..............·-·······································
750.00
Printing ...................................................................................... 20,000.00
Pay of Members ···················································-··················· 25,439.90
Ritual Committee and Inspectors - Traveling ................ 8,500.00
Grand Master Relief ................................................................ 2,000.00
Retirement Pay ........................................................................
900.00
Veterans Buttons ...................................................................... 1,000.00
Miscellaneous ·······························-··········································· 2,500.00
Total General Expenses ..........................................
$89,959.90
Appropriations
Activities Committee .............................................................. 6,000.00
Board of Control ...................................................................... 2,000.00
Charters Committee ................................................................ 1,250.00
Columbia Temple ·······························································-··· 3,275.00
'clubhouses
University of California at Berkeley........$20,500.00
University of California at Los Angeles.... 20,500.00 41,000.00
Constitution Month .................................................................. 1,000.00
Correspondence ..............................................·-·······················
500.00
De Molay Committee ..............................................................
750.00

301

$83,125.75

Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California
September 29, 1950
San Francisco, California
Gentlemen:
We have audited the books of accounts and records of the Grand Lodge
F. & A. M. of California for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1950 and submit
herewith the following statements:
Consolidated Statements
Exhibit AA : Consolidated Statement of Assets and Liabilities, Owned or
Under Control of Grand Lodge, July 31, 1950.
Exhibit BB : Consolidated Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements, from Funds of or Controlled by Grand Lodge, August 1, 1949 to July
31, 1950.
Grand Locl~e
Exhibit A: Statement of Assets and Liabilities, July 31, 1950.
Exhibit B: Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements, August l,
1949 to July 31, 1950.
Exhibit C: Grand Treasurer's Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements, August l , 1949 to July 31, 1950.
Exhibit D: Grand Secretary's Resume of Cash Received.
Schedule 1: List of Securities, July 31, 1950.
Schedule 2: Statement of Grand Lodge per-Capita Dues Collected from
1949 Annual Returns.
·
Schedule 3: Statement of Masonic Homes per-Capita Due and $25.00
Contributions Collected during the Year 1949-50.
Schedule 4: Comparation of Budget and Expenditures, 1949-50.
Comments
The publishing costs of the Masonic history books up to July 31, 1950
amounted to $9,455.88 which has been listed as an asset of Grand Lodge on
Exhibit A as it is expected that all costs will be collected through the sales
of the books. The other expenses and appropriations paid during the year
exceeded the revenue by $25,590.62. The $12,578.00 advanced to Gravel Range
Lodge No. 59 in the previous year was written off this year in accordance
with the motion passed ·a t the 1949 communication of Grand Lodge, thus the
total decrease in the reserves of Grand Lodge for the year 1949-50 amounted
to $38,168.62.
Our Schedules 2 and 3 show proof of the revenue due from the Lodges
in accordance with their returns and the $25.00 Homes contribution reports
received up to July 31, 1950. The tot al revenue due, as shown, agrees with
t he total cash received from the Lodges by the Grand Secretary.
Cash recei.pts were accounted for and deposited in the proper bank
accounts of the Grand ';C'reasurer. Disbursements were made by checks and
supported by properly approved vouchers. The disbursements made by the
Grand Secretary were from his Operating Fund bank account. Reimburse. ments to the Operating Fund by the Grand Treasurer were not made until
we had audited and approved the bills, which was done monthly. During
the year, we found that no bills were paid by the Grand Secretary unless the
expense was provided for i_n the budget and the appro:priation had not been
exceeded, except when prior approval had been obtained from the Grand
Master.
Bank balances were verified by correspondence with the depositaries. A
certified l~t of the securities :v_as received fro~ the An~lo-California National
Bank which holds the securities for safekeeping. All mterest and dividends
due were received.
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123 has fulfilled its agreement during the year·
$150.00 monthly was paid by Grand Lodge and $100.00 monthly was re~
ceived by Grand Lodge from Sotoyome Lodge.
In our opinion, the attached statements P.resent fairly the financial position of tl~e Gr~n9' .Lodge F. & A. M. of Califor!1ia at July 31, 1950 and the
result of its activities for the fiscal year 1949-50 m accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles.
Respectfully submitted,
BURROWS & PARKER
Certified Public Accountants
Walter A. Parker

303

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE AUDIT

Exhibit A
Statement of Assets and Liabilities
July 31, 1950
Aneta:

Cash in Banks:
Grand Treasurer's bank accounts (Exhibit C) ........$
Grand Secretary's bank accounts ..............................

91,917.67
20,500.00 $ 112,517.67

Investments: (Schedule 1)
Bonds ............................................................................... .
Stocks in Masonic Temple Assn. of California........

607,347.50
339,850.00

947,197.50

Other Assets:
Account receivable--Sotoyome. Lodge No. 123......
Masonic history publishing cost to date....................

4,450.00
9,455.88

13,905.88

Total assets ............................................................. .

$1,073,521.05

Liabilities:

Accounts Payable:
George Washingt on Masonic
National Memorial for initiates'
Contributions .................................•......$ 6,367.00
Advance payments by Lodges for
public liability insurance....................
699.27

7,066.27

Funds Held for Special Purposes:
Centennial Celebration .......................... 77,305.50
Memorial Temple Committee................ 158,507.44

235,812.94

Total liabilities ·········-·······················

242,879.21

Net assets ..........................................

$ 830,641.84

Capital:

Balance, August 1, 1949.............................................. ·-···
$ 868,810.46
Deduct:
Excess of expense over revenue : (Exhibit B) ........
Revenue received:
By Grand Secretary ···················-·······················$ 231,834.38
By Grand Treasurer ..........................................
20,710.84
Total revenue ..................................................
Less, expenses and appropriations..................

252,545.22
278,135.84

25,590.62
Excess expense for the year 1949-50............
Advance to Gravel Range Lodge No. 59
written off .................................................................... 12,578.00
Total reduction of capital..............................

38,168.62

Balance, July 31, 1950 ....................................................

$ 830,641.84

304

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Exhibit B
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements
August 1. 1949 to July 31. 1950
Cash Balance, August 1, 1949:....................................... .
Received by Grand Secretary
Dues from Lodges, 1949 annual returns
(Schedule 2) ................................................................$ 208,584.90
Dues from Lodges, prior years ................................... .
369.70
Charters and dispensations ......................................... .
660.00
Sales of supplies ............................................................. .
19,234.97
Lodge officers surety bond premiums ....................... .
2,304.38
Refund of traveling epense--P.G.M. Siems............. .
435.65
Refund of 1948 Centennial Committee expense ..... .
244.78
Total revenue receipts ....................................... .
Refund of expenses ........................................................

- - - Disbursed by - - Grand
Treasurer

$

93,583.37

231,834.38
8,485.55

Per capita dues for special purposes:
Centennial Celebration ........................................... .
George Washington Masonic National Memorial
Initiates' contributions to George Washington
Masonic National Memorial ·········-·························
Public Liability insurance for Lodges ........................
Payments from Sotoyome Lodge No. 123 ................. .
Refund of advance to Masonic Homes ......................

47,045.50
28,227.30
9,367.00
8,769.42
1,200.00
78,000.00

Total cash received by Grand Secretary....... .
Received by Grand Treasurer
Bank interest ·······································-···························
Bond interest ................................................................... .
Interest accrued on "F" bonds................................... .
Dividends ......................................................................... .

412,929.15
613.09
12,165.00
2,835.00
5,097.75

Total revenue received by Grand Treasurer

20,710.84

Total to account for ........................................... .
Disbursements:
By Grand Secretary (Exhibit B page 3) ..................... .
By Grand Treasurer (Exhibit B page 3) ...........•........

527,223.36
135,559.52
279,246.17

414,805.69

Cash Balance, July 31, 1950:
Grand Secretary's bank accounts........................... .
Grand Treasurer's bank accounts ................... - ...... .

20,500.00
91,917.67

112,417.67

- - - Disbursed by - - Grand
Treasurer
Disbursements:
Grand Secretary's office expense:
Salaries ..................................................... .
Rent ............................................................. .
Postage and expense ............................... .
Telephone and telegraph ..................... .
Supplies and sundry expense ............. .
Taxes, Social Security and
Unemployment ................................... .

Total office expense ........................

Grand
Secretary

$
471.86

305

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Total

27,882.75
6,000.00
1,444.92
1,108.43
907.73

27,882.75
6,000.00
1,916.78
1,108.43
907.73

1,015.28

1,015.28
38,830.97

Refunded through collections:
Supplies purchased for resale ............... .
Lodge officers surety bond premiums ..
Refund to Lodges of prior years' dues
Total ............................................... ~ .. .
General expense:
Annual communication .......................... .
Audit ........................................................... .
Bonds and insurance ............................... .
Conferences ............................................... .
Equipment - office ............................... .
Grand Lodge Officers travel expense..
Grand Lodge Officers new regalia....... .
Grand Organist and Tiler ......................
Grand Treasurer ....................................... .
Grand Master, traveling expense ......... .
Grand Master, miscellaneous ·-···········
Ritualistic expense:
Grand Lecturer's salary ..................... .
Inspectors aprons and stationery..... .
Travel expense, Ritual Committee
and Inspectors ................................. .
Portrait of Grand Master....................... .
Past Grand Masters' portraits............. .
Printing ....................................................... .
Pay of members ....................................... .
Ross Digest ................................................. .
Relief of Grand Master........................... .
Retirement pay ....................................... .
Veterans' buttons ................................... .
Miscellaneous:
Equador earthquake relief ............... .
Grand Master's present ..................... .
P. G. M.'s portrait expense-frames, etc. ....................................... .
Sundry ................................................... .
Total general expense ................... .
Appropriations:
Activities Committee ............................. .
Board of Control ..................................... .
Boards of Relief ....................................... .
Charters Committee .... :.......................... .
Columbia Temple restoration .............. .
Constitution month Observance ......... .
Correspondence Committee ................. .
De Molay Committee ............................. .
Employment Bureaus ............................. .
Endowment Board ................................. .
Georgetown Lodge No. 25 ..................... .
History Committee ................................. .
Inl'ormation Committee ......................... .
Lodge Finance Committee ................... .
Public Schoo~ Week ............................. .
University Clubhouses ........................... .
Total appropriations ....................... .
Total disbursed for expense ......... .

Grand
Secretary
17,103.85
1,539.25
307.77

Total
17,103.85
1,539.25
307.77
18,950.87

400.00
7,000.00
1,650.00

9,272.34
23,497.43
5,500.00

5,279.65
950.00
115.76
312.93
500.00
6,135.25
138.69

133.25

5,279.65
950.00
115.76
312.93
500.00
6,135.25
138.69
400.00
801.25
7,000.00
1,783.25

600.00
1,398.83

600.00
1,398.83

7,189.21
750.00
1,662.86
5,089.63
41.78

7,189.21
750.00
1,662.86
14,361.97
23,539.21
5,500.00
1,551.28
900.00
991.57

801.25

1,551.28
900.00
991.57
1,000.00
300.00
193.50

1,000.00
300.00
918.66
278.24

1,112.16
278.24
84,552.11

5,806.77
3,428.82

5,806.77
3,428.82
303.00
636.55
45,884.29
232.03
40.66
189.55
14,723.00
5,786.59
10,000.00
6,968.99
3,988.31
492.37
1,228.53
36,112.43
135,801.89
278,135.84

303.00
41,282.45

14,723.00
4,148.90
10,000.00

636.55
4,581.84
232.03
40.66
189.55
1,637.69
6,968.99
3,988.31
492.37
1,228.53

36,112.43

306

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

- - Disbursed by - Grand
Treasurer
Expenses refunded: (see receipts)
Masonic Homes salaries ..........................
Activities Committee ..............................
Centennial Arran~ements Committee..
Grand Lodge Officers Travel................
Information Committee ......................... .
Trials expense other jurisdictions ........
Sundry expenses ......................................

307

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Exhibit D

Grand
Secretary

Total

5,450.00
226.84
1,501.48

5,450.00
226.84
1,501.48
540.86
240.50
447.24
78.63

540.86
240.50
447.24
78.63

Grand Secretary's Resume of Cash ReceiTed
August 1, 1949 to July 31, 1950
For Grand Lodge:
Per Capita dues, etc. (Exhibit B)................................
$ 412,929.15
For the Masonic Homes: (Schedule 2)
Per Capita dues ·····-····································.................$ 94,091.00
$25.00 contributions ...................................................... 253,090.00
347,181.00
For the Endowment Fund:
Donations and bequests ..............................................

216,520.56

Total cash transferred ·t o Grand Treasurer......

$ 976,630. 71

8,485.55

Total expenses refunded ·········-·····
Advances-to be refunded:
History publication ................................ 8,707.76
Public Liability insupance .................... 4,381.75
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123 ........................
Masonic Homes ........................................ 50,000.00
Centennial Celebration .............................. 14,863.52
Washington Masonic National Memorial:
Initiates contributions ........·-················· 9,948.00
Per capita .................................................. 31,153.75
Refund to Lodges ....................................
Increase in redemption value of "F"
bonds transferred to interest income.. 2,835.00

9,455.88
8,070.15
1,800.00
50,000.00
14,863.52

748.12
3,688.40
1,800.00

9,948.00
31,153.75
58.00

58.00

2,835.00

Total disbursement ..........................$279,246.17 $135,559.52 $ 414,805.69
Exhibit C

Schedule 1
List of Investments
July 31. 1950
Bonds:
$ 10,000 Southern Pacific Company, 41h%, 1981..........................$
9,565.00
135,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1957................................
99,900.00
Increase in redemption value of F bonds......'....................
7,695.00
10,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1953....................
10,000.00
40,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1958....................
40,000.00
30,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1959....................
30,000.00
90,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1960....................
90,000.00
214,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 2¥<1%, 1959-62............................. .
214,000.00
100,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21h o/~ 1964-69..............................
100,187.50
6,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21h'7o, 1965-70............................
.6,000.00
Total bonds ...........................................................- ...............
Stocks:
Shares:
33,9811 Masonic Temple Association of California.........- .........

Grand Treasurer's
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements
August 1, 1949 to July 31, 1950

$

Cash Balance, August 1, 1949..........................................

Total receipts ........................................................

433,639.99

Total to account for ..............................................

516,723.36

Disbursements:
Reimbursing Grand Secretary's operating fund ........
Increase to Grand Secretary's operating fund ..........
Grand Treasurer's disbursements (Exhibit B) ..........

135,559.52
10,000.00
279,246.17

-----

Total disbursements ..............................................

Cash Balance, July 31, 1950:
Crocker First National Bank......................................
American Trust Company ..........................................
Wells Fargo Bank & Union Trust Co.......................
Anglo-California National Bank ..............................
Bank of California ........................................................

21,545.79
50.00
7,324.65
54,517.29
8,479.94 $

424,805.69

91,917.67

339,850.00

Total securities (in custody of Grand Treasurer) ........ $ 947,197.50

83,083.37

Receipts:
From the Grand Secretary ·········································-·$ 412,929.15
Interest and dividends ···················-·······························
20,710.84

607,347.50

Schedule 2
Statement of Grand Lodge per Capita Dues Collected
From 1949 Annual Returns
During the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1950
Per Capita
Number
Dues
Degrees Conferred:
Initiated .......................................- ...........
9,857
Passed ...................................................- ...
9,867
Raised ........................................................
10,088
Total ..................................................
Master Masons:
Membership ·········-········...........................
Deduct, dues remitted ........................... .

190,543
2,361

Net ......................................................

188,182

~:i

1\

Lth.

Total Grand Lodges dues as per
annual returns of 1949................

29,812

Amount

@

1.00 $

29,812.00

@

1.35

254,045. 70
$ 283,857.70

308

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Disposition of Revenue
Grand Lodge ·······························································-··-$ 208,548.90
George Washington Masonic National Memorial
28,227.30
Fund, 188,182 members @ 15c....................................
47,045.50
Centennial Committee, 188,182 members @ 25c. .......

----- $ 283,857.70

Total as above ........................................................

Schedule 3
Statement of Masonic Homes $25 Contributions
Received During the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1950
Per Capita Dues-1949 Annual Returns:
'.Membership ..............................................
190,543
Less, dues remitted ................................
2,361

---Dues paying members............................
188,182 @

50c $

94,091.00

$25.00 Homes Contributions:
Amount due per 1949 annual returns:
Initiations .......................... 9,857
Affiliations ·······-··············· 798
E. A. and F. C. ..................
57

Total ............................10,712

@ $25.00 $267,800.00

Deduct, payments received in advance
of annual returns and reported in
1949 proceedings ......................................
Balance received with 1949 returns..........
Add, payments received in advance of
1950 returns ..............................................

187,175.00
80,625.00
171,475.00

Total contributions received
during the year 1949-50..................

252,100.00

Total cash received by the Grand
Secretary and turned over to the
Treasurer of the Homes..........................

$ 346,191.00

Schedule 4
Comparison of Budget and Expenditures
1949-50
Appropriation Expanded Under
Over
Grand Secretary's office expense:
Salaries ..............................................$ 28,000.00 $27,882.75 $ 117.25
Rent .................................................... 6,000.00 6,000.00
Postage and express ...................... 2,000.00 1,916.78
83.22
Telephone and telegraph .............. 1,000.00 1,108.43
$ 108.43
Supplies and sundry expense.... 1,000.00
907.73
92.27
Taxes, social security and
unemployment ............................ 1,000.00 1,015.28
15.28

Total office ......... _................... 39,000.00 38,830.97
General expense:
Annual communication ................
Audit ........._.......................................

5,500.00
950.00

309

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

5,279.65
950.00

292.74
220.35

123.71

Appropriation Expanded Under
Bonds and insurance ......................
150.00
115.76
34.24
Conferences ...................................... 1,500.00
312.93
1,187.07
Equipment - office ......................
500.00
500.00
Grand Lodge Officers' travel
expense .......................................... 6,500.00 6,135.25
364. 75
Grand Lodge Officers'
new regalia .................................. 4,055.00
138.69
3,916.31
Grand Organist and Tiler............
400.00
400.00
Grand Treasurer ............................
1,200.00
801.25
398.75
Grand Master, travel expense.... 7,000.00 7,000.00
Grand Master, miscellaneous...... 2,000.00 1,783.25
216.75
Ritualistic expense:
Grand Lecturer's salary ..........
600.00
600.00
Inspector's aprons and
stationery .................................. 1,000.00 1,398.83
Travel expense, Ritual
Committee and Inspectors.... 6,500.00 7,189.21
Portrait of Grand Master ............
750.00
750.00
Past Grand Masters' portraits ....
1,725.00 1,662.86
62,14
Printing .....................................-..... 17,500.00 14,361.97 3,138.03
Pay of members ............................ 23,650.00 23,539.21
110.79
Ross Digest ...................................... 5,500.00 5,500.00
Relief of Grand Master..................
2,000.00 1,551.28
448.72
Retirement pay ..............................
900.00
900.00
Veterans' buttons .......................... 1,000.00
991.57
8,43
Miscellaneous .................................. 11,000.00 2,690.40 8,309.60

Over

398.83
689.21

---

Total general ..........................$101,880.00 $84,552.11 $18,415.93 $1,088.04
Appropriations:
Activities Committee ..................$ 6,250.00 $ 5,806.77 $ 443.23
192.65
Board of Control ............................ 3,236.!7 3,428.82
Boards of Relief ............................. .
303.00
303.00
Charters Committee ...................... 1,250.00
636.55
613.45
Columbia Temple restoration ... . 43,672.00 45,864.29
2,192.29
17,97
Constitution Month Ovservance..
250.00
232.03
209.34
250.00
40.66
Correspondence Committee ....... .
750.00
De Molay Committee ....................
189.55
560.45
Employment Bureaus .................. 14,723.00 14,723.00
Endowment Board ................... - ... 8,000.00 5,786.59 2,213.41
Georgetown Lodge No. 25............ 10,000.00 10,000.00
2,429.22
History Committee ........................ 4,539.77 6,968.99
11.69
Information Committee ................ 4,000.00 3,988.31
Lodge Finance Committee ..........
800.00
492.37
307.63
21.47
Public Schools Week ....................
1,250.00 1,228.53
University Clubhouses ................ 36,112.43 36,112.43
Total appropriations ............ 135,386.37 135,801.89

4,398.64 4,814.16

Total appropriated by
Grand Lodge ................................ 276,266.37
Authorized by Grand Master•.... 6,025.91

6,025.91*

Total authorized ............................ 282,292.28
Total expenditures ........................ 259,184.97 259,184.97
Unexpended appropr iation ........$ 23,107.31

$23,107.31

•NOTE: Items not covered by the budget and expenditures in excess of
amount in budget were not paid until approved by the Grand
Master.

310

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

\
October 30, 1950

Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California

311

Masonic Homes Endowment Fund Audit
Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California
San Francisco, California

San Francisco, California:

ENDOWMENT FUND

Gentlemen:

AUDIT OF 1950 RETURNS
Gentlemen:
We have audited the current 1950 annual returns from constituent
Lodges up to and including September 30, 1950. As determined from
the returns, the following amounts are collectible:
Grand Lodge:
[)egrees conferred

27,714 @ $1.00

$ 27,714.00

Per capita:
1950 membership ......................... . 196,800
Less, dues remitted ....................... .
2,506

Net ............................................. . 194,294 @ $1.35

We have audited the ·accounts and records of the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1950 and submit herewith the
following statements:
Exhibit A: Statement of Assets, July 31, 1950.
Exhibit B: Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements, August 1,
1949 to July 31, 1950.
·
Exhibit C: Statement of John and Lena Luckenbach Fund, July 31, 1950.
Exhibit D: Statement of Income and Capital Accounts, for the fiscal year
ended July 31, 1950.
Schedule 1: Securities on hand, acquired prior to July 31, 1949.
Schedule 2: Securities received and purchased during the fiscal year ended
July 31, 1950.
Schedule 3: Securities redeemed and sold during the fiscal year ended
July 31, 1950.

262,296.90

Total due ................................................................................ 290,010.90
Collected and transferred to Grand Treasurer..................... 289,813.55
Balance due ·························-"···-···:.........................................$

197.35

====

Masonic Homes:
Fourth quarter 1950, $25.00 contributions.......................... $ 77,525.00
Per capita 194,294 members @ $1 .00.................................. 194,294.00
Total due ......................:......................................................... 271,819.00
Collected and transferred to Grand Treasurer.................. $271,819.00
George Washington Memorial Endowment Contributions:
Fourth quarter 1950, $1.00 contrioutions............................ $
Collected and transferred to Grand Treas.u rer................. .

2,883.00
2,883.00

COMMENTS
Cash:

The bank balances were verified by correspondence with the depositaries.
All interest and dividends due from investments and savings bank accounts
were received by the Grand Treasurer and deposited in the bank accounts
of the Masonic Homes. The total income received by the Homes from the
Endowment Funds amounted to $95,722.56.
Sec:urities:

Securities on hand that were ·a cquired in prior years are listed on Schedule 1. Securities received through contributions and bequests and bonds
purchased during the current year are listed on Schedule 2. Securities redeemed and sold during the current year are listed on Schedule 3.
Bonds purchased are listed at actual cost. Donated securities are listed
at market value when received, or at a nominal value of $1.00 if the actual
value is unknown.
Certified lists of securities held for the account of the Endowment iFund
were received from the Anglo-California National Bank. The records were
checked to these lists and the securities not listed were inspected by us at
the office of the Grand Secretary.
Increase in Fund:

All returns have been received and paid in full in accordance with
the amount shown by the returns as computed. The balance still due
represents errors made in various returns and are in process of collection.
Respectfully submitted
BURROWS & PARKER

Certified Public Accountants
WALTER A. PARKER

The combined assets of the Endowment Fund and the Luckenbach Fund
show the following increase for the current year:
Amount of funds, July 31, 1950........................................................$3,856,514.17
Amount of funds, July 31, 1949........................................................ 3,619,154.02
Increase ······-···················.. ·····································-.........................$ 237,360.15
The increase is accounted for as follows:
Cash donations and bequests............................................................$ 216,520.56
Securities by donation and bequest................................................
20,062.50
Profit on sale of securities..................................................................
777.09
Increase ·······-··········-··················-·•·······················-··-·······•M••········ 237,360.15

312

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

The donations received through Lodges were confirmed by correspondence with the individual Lodges as at June 15, 1950.

GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT-ENDOWMENT FUND

Other Endowment Assets:
The books of the Masonic Homes carry the records of the Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity Fund. After the death of the beneficiaries of this
fund, the remainder will be transferred to the Endowment Fund. Schedule 7
of the Masonic Homes report shows that this fund had a balance of $21,794.42
as of July 31, 1950.
The Masonic Homes also hold several pieces of real estate for the account
of the Endowment Fund. Whenever a sale is made, the proceeds will be
deposited to the account of the Endowment Fund.
In our opinion, the accompanying statements present fairly the financial
position of the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund at July 31, 1950 in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

Exhibit A
Statement of Assets
July 31. 1950

Respectfully submitted,
BURROWS & PARKER
Certified Public Accountants
Walter A. Parker

313

Endowment Fund:
Cash in savings account:
Anglo-California National Bank .................................................. $ 490,484.81
Securities-at book value:
(For details refer to Schedule 1 and 2)
Bonds ............................................................................$3,181,426.60
Stocks .......................................................................... 110,632.42
Mis,cellaneous ............................................................
10,526.44
Total ........................................................................ 3,302,585.46
Deduct, reserve for amortization of
bond premiums ·······························-···················
3,389.82
Net book value of securities............................... .

3,299,195.64

Total Endowment Fund assets ....................... .
John and Lena Luckenbach Fund:
(For details refer to Exhibit C)
Cash in savings account ........................................... .
Securities ...............................................•........................

3, 789,680.45
805.14
66,028.58

Total Luckenbach Fund assets ....................... .

66,833.72

Grand Total Endowment Fund Assets ....................... .

$3,856,514.17

Exhibit B
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements
(N,ot Including "Luckenbach Fund"-Exhibit C)
August 1, 1949 to July 31, 1950
Cash in banks, August 1, 1949................................................................ $ 32,038. 73
Receipts
From the Grand Secretary:
Donations through Lodges ..........................$194,328.62
Donations from individuals and
organizations ............................................. . 1,820.61
Memorial donations ..................................... .
600.50
Bequests ......................................................... . 19,770.83 $216,520.56
Securities sold and redeemed
(Schedule 3):
Bonds ............................................................ 241,018.86
Stocks ..........................................................
1,638.98
Notes receivable ........................................ 2,267.69

244,925.53

From Masonic Homes for annual
amortization of bond premiums............................

1,033.17

Total Receipts .................................................................................. $462,479.26
Total to account for.................................................................... 494,517.99
Disbursements:
Payment to Masonic Homes for interest on
securities which was added to redemption value .... $ 3,858.18
Refund of overpayment by A.F.E. Irwin Lodge No. 645

314

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

per action of Grand Lodge at 1949 communication......
170.00
Transfer tax on stock received from Lang Estate........
5.00
Total disbursements ......................................................................
4,033.18
Cash in savings account, July 31, 1950
Anglo-California National Bank .................................,...................... $490,484.81

Regular Endowment Fund Securities Acquired Prior to July 31, 1949

Exhibit C
Statement of "John and Lena Luckenbach Fund"
July 31, 1950
Cash in Savings Account:
.
805.14
Anglo-California National Bank ........................................................ $
Securities:
Bonds:
$ 9,000 Northern Pacific Railway Co.
General Lien, 3%, 204'7..................................$ 7,290.00
16,200 U. S. Savings Bonds, series
F, 1957 ..........................................$ 11,988.00
Increased redemption value....
745.20 12,733.20
1,000.00
1,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h %, 1954
35,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1957 35,000.00
10,000 U. S. Certificates of Indebtedness 1%%,
1950 ···- ····························..··················----········· 10,005.38
Book value of securities .............................................................. 66,028.58
Total Luckenbach Fund Cash and Securities...................................... $ 66,833.72
Exhibit D
Statement of Income and Capital Accounts
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1950
Income Account:
Income received from Endowment Fund investments:
Endowment Fund ..............................................................$ 94,932.04
Luckenbach Fund .......................-..................................... 1,823.69 $ 96,755.73
Deduct, annual amortization of bond premiums
restored to endowment capital........................................................
1,033.17
Total income transferred to the Homes General Fund.................... $ 95,722.56
Capital Accounts:
Endowment Luckenbach
Total
Balance, August 1, 1949......................$3,553,339.45 $ 65,814.57 $3,619,154.02
Additions to Funds:
Donations and bequests:
Cash (Exhibit B) ........................
Securities: July 31, 1950 value
(Schedule 2) ..............................
Current payments on note
listed on Schedule 2................

216,520.56

216,520.56

20,025.00

20,025.00

37.50

37.50

236,583.06

236,583.06

Total donations and bequests....
Profit from sale of securities:
Proceeds (Schedule 3) ................
Less, book value ..........................

244,925.53
245,167.59

11,500.00
10,480.85

256,425.53
255,648.44

Net profit or loss ....................

(242.06)

1,019.15

777.09

Total additions ........................

236,341.00

1,019.15

237,360.15

Balance, July 31, 1950 ...............-..--.$8,789,680.45 $

66,833.72 $3,856,514.17

315

Schedule 1
On Hand July 31. 1950
Bonds:
Book Value
$ 3,000 Central Public Utilities Corp., 20 year income,
1.00
5%%, 1952 ···············································-···························D· $
5,688.70
5,000 Chicago Board of Education, 4o/• % , 1954..........................
4,150.00
5 000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series E, 1953......................................
1,609.50
2:175 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1954......................................
4 025 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1955......................................
2,978.50
138,500 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1958......................................
102,578.42
'750 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1960......................................
555.00
Increased redemption value of E and F bonds................
12,201.41
30,500.00
30 500 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2% %, 1953........................
17200 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2%% , 1954........................
17,200.00
85,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2%% , 1955........................
85,000.00
ioo'000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2% %, 1957........................ 100,000.00 .
ioo'ooo U. s. Savings Bonds, series G, 2%%, 1958........................ 100,000.00
100,000.00
ioo'ooo
U. s. Savings Bonds, series G, 2% %, 1959........................
1
980 000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2%%, 1960........................
980,000.00
ioo:ooo U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2%%, 1961........._............. 100,000.00
10 000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 2%%, 1956-59..................................
10,668.75
i:ooo U.S. Treasury Bonds, 2%%, 1960..............................._.......
1,090.00
318,545.94
318,500 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 2¥4. %, 1959-62................................
160,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1965......................................
160,000.00
272,596.88
265,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 2 % % , 1964-69..................................
290,500.00
290,500 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 2%%, 1965-70..................................
485,562.50
480,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1967-72................................
Total bonds acquired prior to July 31, 1949,
"D" donated; •No interest received ............................$3,181,426.60
Shares of Stock: (donated)
1,370 Adam.s-Figueroa Investment Co. ........................................ $
28 American Mutual Funds, Inc. ............................................
26 Bakersfield Masonic Temple Association ........................ •
200 California Packing Corporation ........................................
15 Cleveland Electric Illuminating Co. ..................................
100 Container Corporation of America ....................................
28 Deere & Co., 7%, pfd. .........................................,..................
23 Detroit Edison Company ................................ ,.....................
1 Granada Masonic Temple Association ............................•
10 Healdsburg General Hospital, pfd ...................................•
31 Kansas Power & Light Co.....................................................
20 Masonic Temple Assnn. of California ..............................
90 Middle South Utilities, Inc. ................................................
11 Mt. Olivet Cemetery Co. .................................................... •
7 Needles Masonic Temple Association ............................•
125 North American Co. ................,.............................................
558 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 6%, pfd...................................
96 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 5%%, pfd.................................
1 Pacific Gas & Electric & Co., common..............................
75 Pacific Western Oil Corporation........................................ •
37 Potomac Electr ic Power Co.................................................
1 San Gabriel Masonic Temple Association ....................•
1 Santa Ana Masonic Temple Association, Ltd.................•
20 Security First National Bank of Los Angeles ..................
267 Southern California Edison Co. ..........................................
4 Southern Realty Co.............................................................•

9,590.00
193.00
14.00
4,200.00
585.18
1,529.21
882.00
482.87
1.00
1.00
480.50
2.00
1,176.82
522.50
1.00
1,227.31
15,855.75
2,430.00
32.64
3,712.50
481.34
1.00
1.00
1,155.00
7,909.88
11.00

316

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

220 Standard Oil Co. of California ............................................
1,200 Title Insurance & Trust Company ....................................
130 United Gas Corporation ···········································-·········
1 Vista Masonic Temple Association .................................. •
12 West Kentucky Coal Company ..........................................
36 Wisconsin Electric Power Co...............................................

5,468.80
37,500.00
1,813.18
1.00
213.00
590.44

Total stocks acquired prior to July 31, 1949.................... $

98,064.92

-----

•No dividends received.
Miscellaneous Securities, etc.:
Fraternal Death Certificates:
·
9 Al Malaikah Auditorium Co. @ $100 par................$
1 Ben Ali Mystic Fund ..................................................
1 Masonic Temple Assn. of Sacramento @ $100 par
1 Oakland Lodge of Perfection No. 2 @ $20 par....

9.00
1.00
1.00
1.00

12.00

Insurance Policies :
$ 500 New York Life Insurance Co ................. :~ ... .. ... ....
1,000 Reliance Life Insurance Co...................................

1.00
1.00

2.00

Sundry Items :
Trustees Certificate, Bond and Mortgage
Guarantee Co . . in liquidation ......................................
1.00
Note of A. R. Hummel .................................................... 3,047.94
Oil and Gas Lease with Western Gulf Oil Company
1.00

3,049.94

Total miscellaneous securities ............................................... .

3,063.94

Schedule 2
Securities Received and Purchased
Duzing the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1950
Securities Purchased:
Book Value
Transfer tax on stock received from Lang Estate........................$
5.00
Bequests:
Estate of Gustav Lang:
500 shares Los Angeles Biltmore Hotel Co. stock$12,562.50
Note receivable on sale of Orr proper ty.................... 7,462.50
20,025.00

Total acquisitions in the year 1949-50................................................
20,030.00
Total acquired prior years (Schedule l) .................. ;........................... 3,282,555.46
Total Securities on Hand, July 31, 1950................................................$3,302,585.46
Summary
Bonds:
Acquired prior years .......................................................................... $3,181,426.60
Stocks :
Acquired prior years ........................................................$98,064.92
Purchased during the year 1949-50................................
5.00
By bequest during the year 1949-50.............................. 12,562.50
110,632.42
Miscellaneous :
.
Acquired prior years ···········································-··········· 3,063.94
Acquired during the year 1949-50.................................. 7,462.50

Schedule 3
Securities Redeemed and Sold
During the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1950
ENDOWMENT FUND
Bonds :
Net Proceeds
$ 5,000 Trustees Certificate, Bond and Mortgage Guarantee
Co. liquidating ...................................................................... $
11.02
65,000 U. S. Certificates of indebtedness, H'4%, 1949............
65,000.00
175,000 U. S. Certificates of indebtedness, H's%, 1950........... .
175,007.84
500 U. S. Savings Bonds, series D, 1949............................... .
500.00
400 U. S. Savings Bonds, series D, 1950................................
400.00
100 University Masonic Temple Assn., 2d Mortgage,
3% , 1949 ............................................................................... .
100.00
Stocks:
500 shares U. S. Light & Power Co................................................ .
1,577.80
1,2 share Standard Oil Co. of California ..................................... .
31.20
1,2 share West Kentucky Coal Co.................................................
8.50
North American Co. liquidating d ividend ....................................
3.28
Sale of rights on various stocks ..................................................... .
18.20
Notes :
Payments on notes receivable..........................................................
2,267.69
Total proceeds ...................- ..................:...................................... $ 244,925.53

Total Securities Acquired Prior to July 31, 1948..............................$3,282,555.46

Total bequests ................................................................................. .

317

10,526.44

Total, as above ·······························-··········································· $3,302,585.46

LUCKENBACH FUND
100 shares West Penn Electric Co., stock .................................... $

11,500.00

318

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT
September 25, 1950
Masonic Homes of California
San Francisco, California
Gentlemen:
We have audited the books of account and records of the Masonic Homes
of California for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1950 and present herewith
the following statements:
Statements of Assets and Operations
Exhibit A: Balance Sheet, July 31, 1950.
Exhibit B: Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements, August 1,
1949 to July 31, 1950.
Exhibit C: Statement of Revenue and Expense for the Fisoal Year
ended July 31, 1950.
Exhibit D: Statement of Direct Operating Expense-Decoto.
Exhibit E: Statement of Direct Operating Expense-Covina:.
Exhibit F: Detailed Operating Expense-Decoto.
Exhibit G: Detailed Operating Expense-Covina.
Detailed Schedules of Assets and Funds
Schedule 1: Securities Owned, July 31, 1950.
Schedule 2: Entertainment Fund.
Schedule 3: Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund.
Schedule 4: Summer Camp Fund.
Schedule 5: C. N. Flint Trust Fund.
Schedule 6: C. N. Flint Annuity Fund.
Schedule 7: Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity Fund.
Schedule 8: Verbarg Fund.
Schedule 9: Lee R. Talbert Fund.
Schedule 10: Perine Endowment Fund.
Schedule 11: Building Fund.
Schedule 12: Decoto Monthly Grant Fund.
Cash:

Comments
All recorded receipts were properly accounted for and deposited in the
proper funds bank account. The bank balances were verified by correspondence with the depositaries. The total cash is made up of the following
accounts:
Treasurer's accounts:
American Trust Company, commercial... ....................- ...............$ 1,639.28
Wells Fargo Bank & Union Trust Co., Commereial ......- ........... 18,491.60
Anglo-California National Bank, Savings...................................... 31,071.67
Bank of America, Savings.......................... ·-··································· 3,655.27
Operating accounts:
Decoto-Wells Fargo Bank & Union Trust Co............................. 6,064.07
Covina-Security First National Bank ........................................ 24,395.64
Revolving funds:
Decoto ....................................................................................................
500.00
Covina ·······················-·······················································..·················· 1,500.00
Deposits in transit from Decoto and Covina.................................. 1,949.27
Total ....................................................................................- ...$89,266.80

319

Investments:
During the year the Homes General Fund received from the estate of
Ann G. Luther stocks and bqnds which had a market value of $26,357.63.
These securities together with the government bonds purchased by the
Homes in prior years are listed on Schedule 1. The securities were verified
by a certified list from the Anglo-California National Bank which holds them
for safekeeping.
Properties:
The value of the properties as shown on the Balance Sheet, Exhibit A,
is the cost of the two homes at Decoto and Covina owned by the Masonic
Homes of California. During the current year $119,229.06 was disbursed for
the construction of new buildings, for improvements to the old buildings and
for new equipment.
·
Other Funds:
The Masonic Homes has numerous separate funds which have been
created for definite or special purposes. Some were created by donation and
by bequest to the Homes for a particular purpose, and others by action of
the Board of Trustees to set aside money that is to be used only for the
purpose indicated by the title of the fund. Full details of these funds are
shown on the attached statements, Schedules 2 to 12 inclusive.
All interest and dividends due on the investment of these funds were
received and deposited in the proper bank accounts. Payments of principal
and interest have been received on the notes and contracts owned by the
Monthly Grant Fund. Insurance premiums and taxes due on real estate have
been paid. Proper payments were made from the annuity funds in accordance
with the contracts and agreements.
All bank balances were verified by correspondence with the depositaries.
The securities were accounted for as held by the Anglo-California National
Bank or in the office of the Grand Secretary. Those held by the bank were
verified by a certified list from the bank, and those in the office of the Grand
Secretary were inspected.
Total Funds of the Homes:
A summary of all funds connected with the Masonic Homes as at July 31,
1950 is shown below:
Homes General Fund ···············-························-···························$3,123,670.18
Entertainment Fund ........................................................................
24,299.81
Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund..........................................
64,535.26
Summer Camp Fund ........................................................................
28,469.88
C. N. Flint Trust Fund...........................................................-....... 215,771.84
C. N. Flint Annuity Fund ................................................ ·-···············
88,708.37
Verbaig Fund ·······································-··············-···--·······················
12,985.46
Lee R. Talbert Fund ........................................................................
11,868.70
George M. and Florence G. Perine Endowment Fund..............
21,~97.25
Building Fund ·····································•·-···'··········.. ····················· ..···· 211,582.08
Decoto Monthly Grant Fund.......................................................... 113,253.03
Beverly Management Association ................................................
3,000.00
Covina Special Fund ···················-···················································
17,710.32
Decoto Special Fund .................................. ,.....................................
51,258.70
Total .......................................................................- .....................$3,988,610.88
Revenue and Expense:
.
A detailed ·a udit was made of the revenue and expense accounts and we
satisfied ourselves as to th11 general correctness of the accounting records.
The Endowment Fund interest received is in agreement with the Endowment

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Fund report. Income due on the investments was ri:ceived. All records of the
contributions received through Lodges were exammed and the amounts received appear to be all that can be collected. All disbursements were made by
checks and supported by proper vouchers.
The 1949 •annual returns from the Lodges were audited and the $25.00
contributions thereon, plus the contributions received up to July 31, 1950,
agreed with the amount turned over to the Treasurer by the Grand Secretary.
The per capita on 188,182 members at 50c, in amount, $94,091.00 was also
received by the Treasurer from the Grand Secretary.
'1'he operations of the Masonic Homes resulted in an excess of revenue
over expense amounting to $29,1~4.09 for the current year, as shown by ,E;xhibit C. This excess revenue mcludes a bequest of cash and securities
amounting to $27,353,82, which if eliminated, leaves an excess of revenue
over expense of $1,790.27.

Exhibit A

320

Certificate:
In our opinion the accompanying statements present fairly the financial
position of the Ma~onic Homes of California at July 31, ~950 and the res~lt
of its operations for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1950, m accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles.
Respectfully submitted,
BURROWS & PARKER
Certified Public Accountants
Walter A. Parker

321

Balance Sheet
July 1, 1950
Assets
Cash:
Treasurer's bank accounts ......... - .............................$
Operating accounts - Decoto and Covina............ ..
Revolving funds - Decoto and Covina..........
Deposits in transit ....................................................... .

54,857.82
30,459.71
2,000.00
1,949.27 $

89,266.80

Accounts Receivable:
Employees ..................................................................... .
Due from other funds ................................................... .

3,118.81
44,666.34

47,785.15

Investments:
Securities (Schedule 1) ....................................... _.. ~ .. ..
Improved real estate (donated) .............................. ..

245,669.85
2,700.00

248,369.85

Properties (at cost-no depreciation taken:)
Land, buildings and equipment-Decoto ............ 2,258,109.52
Land, buildings and equipment-Covina ............ 606,093.98

2,864,203.50

A ........

Stores and Supplies:
Decoto ............................................................................. .
Covina ............................................................................ ..

15,300.52
6,964.43

Assets Held in Separate Funds:
Entertainment Fund (Schedule 2) .......................... ..
Students' Loan Fund (Schedule 3) ........................... .
Summer Camp Fund (Schedule 4) ............................
C. N. Flint Trust Fund (Schedule 5) ........................
C. N. Flint Annuity Fund (Schedule 6) ....................
Verbarg Fund (Schedule 8) ....................................... .
Lee R. Talbert Fund (Schedule 9) ......... - .................. .
George M. and Florence G. Perine Endowment
Fund (Schedule 10) ................................................. .
Building Fund (Schedule 11) .................................... ..
Decoto Monthly. Grant Fund (Schedule 12) ..........

21,497.25
211,582.08
113,253.03

Assets Held in Trust:
Endowment Fund:
Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment
Fund (Schedule 7) .........- .................$ 21,794.42
Real estate held for sale........................
128.00

21,922.42

Decoto Residents' Deposits:
Cash deposited in general fund..........
Central Bank, Niles, special
account ................................................

24,299.81
64,535.26
28,469.88
215,771.84
88,708.37
12,985.46
11,868.70

5,537.18

Liabilities:
Accounts payable ......................................
$
Withholding tax payable ........................
Money received for special purposes:
Beverly Management Association....$ 3,000.00
Decoto Special Fund .......................... 17,710.32
Covina Special Fund .......................... 51,258.70

Total liabilities ............................. .

792,971.68

3,242.53
8,779.71

Total assets ................................... .

Due to other funds ................................. .

22,264.95

30,702.13
$4,095,564.06

7,732.96
60.70

71,969.02
68,457.39

$ 148,220.07

322

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Reserves: (per contra)
Assets held in separate funds ................
Assets held in trust... ...............................

~undries:

792,971.68
30,702.13

Total reserves ................................

823,673.81

Capital:
Balance, August 1, 1949..........................
Add:
New buildings and improvements at
Decoto transferred from Building
Fund (Schedule 11) ......................... .
Excess of revenue over expense
1949-50 (Exhibit C) ..........................

2,975,297.03

119,229.06
29,144.09

Balance, July 31, 1950.............................:

3,123,670.18

Total liabilities, reserves and capital

$4,095,564.06

Exhibit B
STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
August l, 1949 to July 31. 1950
General Fund:
Cash Balance, August 1, 1949..................................................................$ 50,407.19
Receipts
Revenue Accounts:
$25.00 Homes contributions-current
year ...................- .....................................
$ 252,100.00
Prior years $25.00 contributions............
990.00
Per capita dues from lodges-1949
returns ......................................................
94,091.00
Endowment Fund income:
Endowment Fund ................................$ 93,898.87
Luckenbach Fund ................................
1,823.69
95,722.56
Contributions through Lodges:
For Decoto .........................................-... 8,389.35
For Covina .............................................. 10,723.71
State aid for Covina................................
Income from investments........................
Bequest received .......................- .............
Donation ......................................................
Refund of expense:
Outside relief ........................................
Funeral expense .................................. ..
Miscellaneous revenue:
Farm rent - Decoto............................. .
F·a rm sales -.,- Decoto............................
Canteen - Decoto..................................
Sundry - Decoto..................................
Fann income - Covina........................
Sundry - Covina..................................

19,113.06
384.00
5,396.67
996.19
10.00

40.00
5,185.90
300.00
465.00
7,479.17
199.25
3,130.09
139.25

5,225.90

For Account of Reserve and Trust Funds
Proceeds from Sale of Fraction-Share
Stocks ..........................................................
For Special Purposes:
. .
Beverly Management Assoc111tlon........ 3,000.00
Decoto Special Fund.................................. 13,741.87
Covina Special Fund................................ 40,516.11

Accounts receivable .................................. 2,034.77
Loan !rom Grand Lodge.......................... 50,000.00

11,712.76

293,148.75

36.45

57,257.98

52,034.77

Total receipts ......................................

888,220.09

Total to account for..........................

$ 938,627.28

Disbursements:
Expense Accounts:
Operating expense - Decoto................
Operating expense - Covina ..................
Funeral expenses ($5, 185.90 refunded)
Outside relief ($40.00 refunded) ............
Outside care of children.......................... ..
Canteen expense--Decoto (fully
refunded) ................................................
Expense of rental property....................
Administrative and general:

$ 274,846.20
143,543.04
5,972.55
5,422.38
540.00
6,739.02
373.30

6,923.33
r:s:~a~-~~-·:::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::$ 11,294.00

Refunds of $25.00 contributions of
prior years ..........................................
Social welfare agents:
Northern district ..............................
Southern district ................................
Reimbursed Grand Lodge-secretary's and assistants salaries
Pension - retired employees..........::
Trustees' expense ..................................
Auditing ................................................. .
Safekeeping of securities................... .
Telephone and postage..........................
Office supplies and printing.........- .....
Legal and notary fees............................
Sundry expense ....................................

3,075.00
4,724.25
2,922.02
5,450.00
3,768.00
3,243.25
1,120.00
751.12
699.03
1,004.43
786.13
28.74

Total disbursed for expenses........ ..
For Accounts of Reserve and Trust
Furids ..........................................................
Special Purpose Funds:
Decoto Special Fund.................................. 2,645.48
Covina Special Fund................................ 11,282.26
Sundries:
1,605.54
~dC:~~:; fo~r~~~fu~~~~-t~·b·e

45,789.30
483,225.79
269,028.51
13,927.74

................

refunded ................................................ ..
Repayment of loans-Grand Lodge......
Total disbursements ........................

---- 485,742.14
Total cash from revenue accounts

323

3,572.90
78,000.00

83,178.44

Cash Balance, July 31, 1950........................
Exhibit C
STATEMENT OF REVENUE AND EXPENSE
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1950
Revenue:
$25.00 Homes contributions current year
$ 252,100.00
Per capita dues from lodges-1949
returns ..........................................- ;..........,,
94,091.00

1

849,360.48

$

89,266.80

321

Endowment Fund income:
Endowment Fund ......................................$ 93,898.87
Luckenbach Fund ....................................
1,823.69
Contributions through Lodges:
For Decoto ..................................................
For Covina ········-······································

Deduct:
Sundry direct revenue:
~arm product consumed..........................................
n~nt ....................................................................

Sal

95,722.56

P~offt ~ro£r:~ce;······················································

8,389.35
10,723.71

State aid for Covina........................................
Income from investments--net................
Interest accrued on U. S. Savings
bonds, Series F ................................:.........
Donations and bequests........................·-···
Total revenue ................................... .
Expense:
Operation of Homes:
Decoto (Exhibit D) .................................. 271,635.31
Covina (Exhibit E) .................................. 143,590.08
Outside relief ................................................
Outside care of chlldren..............................
Funeral expense - net................................
Administrative and general:
Taxes ............................................................ 6,923.33
Insurance ......,............................................. 11,294.00
Refunds of $25.00 contributions of
2,085.00
prior years - net ......... -~---····· ···············
Social welfare agents:
Northern district ................................ 4,724.25
Southern district .................................... 2,922.02
5,450.00
Secretary's and assistant's Salaries......
Pensions-retired employees ................ 3,768.00
3,243.25
Trustees expense ......................................
Auditing ...................................•.................. 1,120.00
751.12
Safekeeping of securities ........................
699.03
Telephone and postage............................. .
1,004.43
Office supplies and printing..................
786.13
Legal and notary fees.........................:....
28.74
Sundry expense ........................................

Sundry revenu~ ..~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

19,113.06

2,080.00
27,363.82

6,279.05

((ab)) CAasddh e~penditures per Exhibit B ...................•$ 274,846.20
non-cash expense:
Farm product consumed. ...............................
4,574.65

$ 495,877.81
(c) Less, cash ex.p ended for increase in
stores inventory ..........................................

279,420.85
1,506.49

Total, as above ............................................$ 277,914.36

415,225.39
5,382.38
540.00
786.65

Exhibit E
STATEMENT OF DIRECT OPERATING EXPENSE-COVINA
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1950
•operating Expense
~din~e!lanc~ ..................................................................$ 129,199.50
F mm1stratlve expense ............................................
14,804.62
3,128.64
arm expense ·······································-·······················
Total (refer to Exhibit G for details) ..............
Deduct:
Sundry direct revenue:
~arh / r oduce sold outside. .....................................

s~~dr;s~~~~~~··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

$ 147,132.76
3,130.09
254.59
158.00

Net Operating Expense....................................................

44,799.30

Excess of Revenue over Expenses............

$

29,144.09

Exhibit D
STATEMENT OF DIRECT OPERATING EXPENSE-DECOTO
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1950
•operating Expense:
Maintenance ..................................................................$ 124,609.73
68,698.68
Hospital and m edical....................................................
11,091.80
Farm and garden. ...........................................................
9,082.56
Laundry ·············'····························································
10,213.83
Heating plant ···········································-···················
2,467.26
Paint shop ·····························-····························-·········
1,349.17
Transportation ..............................................................
50,401.33
General and administrative........................................

Total (refer to Exhibit F for det ails) ................

4,574.61S
300.00
465.00
740.15
199.25

~~t~:1T~~~~p~:ri::·e~i>e~·;· 1~~itia:~·:··················--- - - - - $ 271,635.31

384.00
5,023.37

466,733.72

.

325

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

$ 143,590.08

•Not e : Total oper ating expense includes:
(a) Cash expenditures per Exhibit B
$ 143,543.04
(b) Add non-cash expense:
ACccounts payable ..............................$ 7,732.96
254.59
7,987.55
ash discounts ................................. .
151,530.59

(c). Less c~~~--e~e-;;d~d-·by·l~~-re·~-s~···
m stores inventory............................
Total, as above........................

4,397.83

$ 147,132.76

Exh ibit F
Detailed Operating Expense - Decoto
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1950
Maintenance:

Food :
aroceries ....................................................$ 21,312.35
Fi~~t ······························································ 221,,112244. 2236

$ 277,914.36

.....................................................................

3,542.68

326

Exhibit G

Fruit and Vegetables................................
Butter, milk and eggs..............................
Bakers' supplies

13,250.56
27,434.12
2,880.30

Total food cost....................................
Less, charge to hospital for meals........

88,125.82
17,410.60 $ 7{),715.22

Kitchen and dining room:
Repairs and maintenance ....................... .
Expense ..................................................... .
Salaries and wages ....................................•...
Sundry:
Residents' supplies ................................. .
Dry goods and bedding ........................... .

327

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

712.88
2,982.36

DETAILED OPERATING EXPENSE-COVINA
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1950
Maintenance:
Care of Children:
Food:
Meat ..........................................................$
Fruits and vegetables......................... .
Butter, milk and eggs........................... .
Bakery goods ........................................
Miscellaneous groceries ......................
Outside meals ....................................... .

3,695.24
46,280.68

956.95
2,961.64

3,918.59

$ 124,609.73

Total maintenance expense........... .
Hospital and Medical:
Salaries and wages........................................................... .
Meals to staff and patients ............................................. .
Medical supplies ............................................................... .
Dental expense ................................................................. .
Surgical expense · ..............................................................
Eye, ear, nose and throat................... - .......................... .

40,951.08
17,410.60
4,620.07
1,176.00
2,936.60
1,602.33

Farm and Garden:
Salaries and wages............................................................
Tools and equipment....................................................... .
Seeds ................................................................................... .
Feed ..................................................................................... .
Miscellaneous expense ....................................................

8,786.90
373.29
35.62
568.30
1,327.69

Laundry:
Salaries and wages............................................................

7,954.90

68,698.68

------

11,091.80

-----

----Supplies and expense........................................................
1,127.66

9,082.56

Heating Plant:
Salaries and wages........................................................... .
Repairs and maintenance ................................................

9,026.56
1,187.27

10,213.83

Paint Shop:
Salaries and wages ........................................................... .
Supplies and expense ..................................................... .

1,803.00
664.26 $

2,467.26

Transportation:
Salaries and wages......................... ,..................................
Gasoline and oil................... .,..............................................
Tires and repairs...............................................•................

290.00
743.04
316.13

1,349.17

General and Administrative
Superintendent and office salaries................................
Light, heat, power and water......................................... .
Office supplies and printing.......................•....................
Telephone and telegraph ................................................. .
Repairs and maintenance .................. ·-···························
Furniture and equipment.. ............................................. .
Miscellaneous expense ................................................... .

20,252.00
19,657.01
768.66
1,386.04
6,114.88
1,143.87
1,078.87

-----

Total Operating Expens..:..Decoto............................... .

9,946.24
4,084.69
7,164.77
1,921.06
6,153.23
3,532.55 $ 32,802.54

Kitchen and dining room:
s,alaries ···················-·····························
Supplies and repairs............................. .
Replacements ....................................... .

9,396.84
705.18
1,105.00

11,207.02

Clothing:
Ready-to-wear ..................................... .
Cleaning and repair..... ·-······················
Dry goods and notions......................... .

1,475.88
361.82
242.35

2,080.05

-----

Laundry:
Salaries ................................................... . 3,273.86
958.05
Supplies and repairs............................. .
Dormitories:
---Salaries ................................................... . 20,454.12
Supplies and repairs ............................. . 1,584.48
Replacements ....................................... . 1,634.55

23,673.15

Hospital and medical:
Salaries ................................................... .
Dentists' fees ......................................... .
Medicine and drugs ............................. .
Other supplies and repairs................. .
Replacements ·····················-·················
Outside hospital and x-ray.............•..
Diet supplement ................................... .

11,368.14

7,283.88
730.64
1,090.52
963.35
142.94
1,079.84
76.97

-----

General expense:
Miscellaneous expense ···················-···
Total care of children....................... .
General House and Property Expense:
Power plant:
Salaries ....................................................$ 3,656.85
Supplies and repairs............................. . 4,070.68
Replacements ....................................... .
276.53 $

$ 277,914.36

1,065.58

$

8,004.06

Repairs to buildings:
Salaries ·········-·········································
Supplies and repairs..............................
Replacements ....................................... .

6,328.78
8,507.16
426.26

15,262.20

Farm and grounds:
Salaries ...............•....................................
Supplies and repairs............................. .
Replacements ....................................... .
Animal husbandry ............................. .
Swimming pool ..................................... .

5,722.32
907.13
1,308.69
4,572.95
633.44

13,144.53

-----

50,401.33

4,231.91

86,428.39

328

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

General expense:
Gas, water and light.,............................
Sundry supplies and .expense........... .
Equipment expense ............................

5,662.81
298.55
398.96

---Total house and property expense

$

42,771.11
129,199.50

9,270.13
1,494.84
1,402.25
84.75
1,693.98
858.67

Total administrative expense..............................
Orchard Expense:
Salaries ········-························-············································
Supplies and repairs.............·-·······-··································
Replacements ....................................................................
Tractor fuel ........................................................................
Wa·t er ....................................................................................

Schedule 2
STATEMENT OF ENTERTAINMENT FUND
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1950

6,360.32

Total maintenance cost....................
Administrative Expense
Sal.laries ··············'·······························································
Stationery, printing and postage....................................
Telephone and telegraph.....................:............................
Freight and express..........................................................
Automobile expense ........................................................
Miscellaneous expense ....................................................

329

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Balance, August l. 1949...............-······················-········-······················· $
Rec.eipts:
Contributions. ·····························-··········- ··-······-··- -.-..$ 12,189.50
Interest from investments............................................
250.00

Disbursements:
Decoto Christmas ..........................................................
Decoto entertainment ................................................. .
Covina entertainment ..................................................
14,804.62

956.90
934.14
512.85
210.30
514.45

Total orchard expense........·-·······························

3,128.64

Total Operating ExpeDM-Covlna................................

$ 147,132.76

Schedule 1
STATEMENT OF SECURITIES OWNED
GENERAL FUND
July 31. 1950
Bonds:
$ 80,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956......................................$ 59,200.00
Increased redemption value of F bonds.............................. 6,640.00
· 100 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, Vh %, 1955........................
100.00
600.0Q
600 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2lh %, 1956..........................
100,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1957........................ 100,000.00
2,500 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h %, 1959..........................
2,405.00
500 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 214 %, 1956-59..................................
523.13
50,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 2¥4 %, 1959-62.................................. 51,203.13
5,000 810 South Spring Building Co., 5 %, 1956.......................... 4,450.00
Stocka1

Shares:
250 American Fruit Growers............................................................ 1,500.00
62 American Trust Co.....·-·······························································
2,990.29
600.00
10 Armour & Co., prior, pfd..................................................·-··-·.··
50 Bordon Company .......................................................................... 2,387.50
15 Cooper Building, Inc., pfd...........................................................
1.00
40 E. I. DuPont de Nemours & Co................................................... 2,440.00
50 International Shoe Co.......................................·- ······- ····--······-· 2,175.00
100 Lone Star Gas Co........................................................................... 2,400.00
16 Masonic Temple Association of Fruitvale.......·-····················
1.00
51h San Dimas Water Co-•........................:.....................·- ········-··- ··· 1,072.50
50 Southern California Edison Co................................................... 1,725.00
52 Standard Oil Co. of California................................•.....·-··-····· 3,256.30
Total securities ·····································································-···$245,669.85

12,439.50
35,795.02

2,000.00
1,867.28
7,627.93

-----

Balance, July 31. 1950......................:......................- .........

23,355.52

11,495.21

$

24,299.81

Composition of Fund
Due from Masonic Homes general fund. .............................................$
$10,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2% %, 1960......•.............•.....

14,2951.81
10,000.00

Balance, July 31, 1850.........................- ......- ............................................$

24,299.81

Schedule 3
Statement of Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1950
Balance, August l, 1949..................•.........................................................$
Add:
Dividends and interest from
investments ............................................$
2,277.46
Less, reserve for amortization
of bond premiums ....................
17.76 $
2,259.70
Contributions ....................................
604.75

64,620.81

2,864.45

67,485.26
Total..........................................·-····························- ···················
Deduct:
Disbursed for educational purposes..................................................
2,950.00
Balance, July 31, 1950 ·······-············································-·..···········-·······* 64,535.26
Composition of Fund
Cash:
2,362.90
Anglo-California National Bank..............·-·······································*
Securities:
Bonds:
$ 5,000 Pa cific Gas & Electric Co., 3%, 1970..........$ 5,100.00
4,000 Southern California Gas Co., 31/4, %, 1970.... 4,270.00
5,000 Southern Counties Gas Co., 3%, 1971............ 5,150.00
74.00
100 U.S. Savings Bonds, series F , 1955................
10,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956................ 7,400.00
Increased redemption value of F bonds....
830.80
5,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1955.... 5,000.00
10,500 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 2l/4 %, 1959-62.......... 10,500.00
5,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21h %, 1965................ 5,000.00
P referred stocks:
527 Shares P acific Gas & Electric Co. 6% ................ 14,000.00
125 Shares Southern California Edison Co. 4.48%.. 2,500.00
125 Shares Southern California Edison Co. 4.32%.. 2,500.00
Total cost ·················································-··········· 62,324.80
Less, reserve for amortization of bond premiums......
152.44
62,172.36
Net book value ·······- ·····························································
Balance, July 31, 1950 ···············-·············;·······-·-··········'········-~·'······-'· ···'' . 64,535.26

330

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Schedule 4

Note Receivable:
Bradstreet and Carol Miller............... ~......•..................... 12,931.70
Total investments ......................................................................... . 225,532.76
Total carried forward ···················-·········································:.....$ 226,632.76
Total brought forward ···························································-···$ 225,632.76
Deduct: Due to Homes General Fund ............................................
9,860.92

Statement of Summer Camp Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1950
Balance. August 1, 19,9............................................................................$
Add:
Interest from investments......._.............................. ............................

27,619.88

Balance, July 31. 1950...............................................................................$

28,469.88

Composition of Fund
Securities:
$34,000 U. S. Savings Bonds series F, 1956............$ 25,160.00
Increased redemption value of F bonds....
2, 788.00 $
Due from Masonic Homes general fund ..............................................
Balance, July 31. 1950................................................................................$

850.00

27,948.00
521.88
28,469.88

Balance, August l, 1949............................................................................ $ 200,699.25
7,765.04
15,072.59

$ 223,536.88
Deduct:
Taxes on property ........................................................$
Upkeep of property ......................................................
Water and power ···············-·······································
Transfer of net yield from investments
to Decoto Monthly Grant Fund ............................

568.17
495.00
87.69
6,614.18

7,765.04

Balance, July 31, 1950................................................................................$ 215,771.84
Composition of Fund
Cash:
Anglo-California National Bank ·····························-·······················$
Securities:
Bonds:
$125 675 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956..........$92,999.50
13;500 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1957.......... 9,990.00
2,200 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1959.......... 1,628.00
Ipcreased redemption value of F. Bonds .. 10,742.97
8 000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2lh %, 1954 8,000.00
10'000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2lh %, 1955 10,000.00
18;300 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2lh%, 1957 18,300.00
7,500 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2lh%, 1958 7,500.00
4,000 0. S. Treasury Bonds, 2lh %, 1965-70........ 4,157.50
Stocks:
Shiu-es:
160 Security First National Bank of
Los Angeles ....................................•................... 8,850.00
500 Transamerica Corporation )
466 Bank of America, N.T.S.A.) ............................ 14,194.46
3,542 American Mutual Funds, Inc....................•.... 25,839.63
253 Southern Realty Co. ........................................
399.00

Balance, July 31, 1950...............................................- ...............................$ 215,771.84
Schedule 6

Schedule 5
Statement of C. N. Flint Trust Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31. 1950

Add:
Dividends and interest from investments........................................
Profit on sales of securities..................................................................

331

100.00

Statement of C. N. Flint Annuity Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1950
Balance, August l, 1949............................................................................$
Add:
Interest from investments ..................................................................
Total ......................................................................................................
Deduct:
Payments on contract ..........................................................................
Balance, July 31, 1950................................................................................$

87,012.54
2,295.83
89,308.37
600.00
88,708.37

Composition C?f Fund
Cash:
Anglo California Bank ........................................................................$
Securities:
$42,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956................$31,080.00
10,100 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1957................ 7,474.00
Increased redemption value of F bonds........ 3,729.60
1,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2lh %, 1954.... 1,000.00
42,600 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2lh%, 1957.... 42,600.00

85,883.60

Balance, July 31. 1950..............................................................................$

88,708.37

2,824.77

Schedule 7
Statement of Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1950
Balance, August 1, 1949....................................................................... ~....$ 22,608.76
Add:
Interest from investments ..................................................................
535.66
Total ..................................................................................................
Deduct:
Payments on contract ..........................................................................

23,144.42

Balance. July 31, 1950..............................................................................$

21,794.42

Composition of Fund
Cash:
Anglo-California National Bank··-····---··············"-······················-····$
Securities:
$10,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2lh%, 1960....$10,000.00
10,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 2lh %, 1965-70............ 10,000.00
Balance, July 31, 1950........................................................•.......................$

1,350.00

1,794.42
20,000.00
21,794.42

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

332

Schedule 8
Statement of Verbarg Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31. 1950
Balance, August 1, 1948'............................................................................$

12,820.73

Add:
Dividends and interest from investments ..............................·-·······

448.11

Total ·································································-····························--$
Deduct:
Purchase of radio equipment for Decoto hospital........................
Balance, July 31, 1850........................ - ......................................................$

13,268.84

Composition of Fund
Cash:
An~l?-California National Bank ············-·-····················-··-·····-····*
S ecur1tles:
$10,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1959....$10,000.00
B 10,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1964-69.............. 10,371.87
alance, July 31. 1950.... ;...... - ...................................................................$

-----

Composi.Hon of Fund
Cash:
Anglo-California National Bank........................................................$
Securities:
Bonds:
$1,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1953....$1,000.00
Stocks:
8 Shares American Telephone & Telegraph Co ..... 1,494.54
1.00
112 Shares Amigos Oil Co. ............................................
80 Shares Bank of America, N.T.S.A......................... 1,436.60
53 Shares Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 51h%, pfd..... 2,133.25
84 Shares Transamerica Corporation ........................ 1,428.00
Balance July 31. 1950................................................................................$

283.38
12,985.46

5,492.07

12,985.46

290.55
11,868.70

~~1r:ce, August, 1949 ..................... ~ ........................................................$

158,979.36

Bequests ............................................................................$239,862.68
Interest and dividends from investments..................
4,914.66
Profit on sales of investments......................................
4,839.47
249,616.81
Deducfotal ........................................:........................ _...............................$ 408,596.17

Composition of Fund

~~~~u~l:%~~~r-~bi~·~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~
Total assets

Composition of Fund
6,731.89

••••••• u

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Deduct, due to Homes General Fund....................................................

1.00
2,356.45
4,750.00
239,107.00
246,214.45
34,632.37

Net assets ........................................................................................$ 211,582.08
Stocks and Bonds
$ 10,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956................................$
7,400.00
lncrseased. redemption value of F bonds..................... :: .... .
820.00
lo,000 U . . Sav!ngs Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1955.................... ..
10,000.00
100,000 U.S. Sav!ngs Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1959.....~ .............. .. 100,000.00
5,000.00
~·g~g
~- ~avmgs Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1960..................... .
1,000.00
Stocks':
. . reasury Bonds, 21h%, 1967-72..............................

H·

Shares:

~~g ~!l-~k of Hawaii ............................................................ :..........•
B ~sh op iru~t Co., Ltd ............................................................ .

66 clS op_

5,136.81 ·
11,868.70

Schedule 10
Statement of George M. and Florence G. Perine Endowment Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31. 1950
Balance, August 1, 1948................... --·············································-······-$
Add:
Interest from investments ..................................................................
Balance. July 31, 1950............... - ...............................................................$

Statement of Building Fund
For the Fiscal Year _Ended July 31, 1950

Sto e~ rece1va e (sa e of real estate) ............................:...................... .
oc s and bonds (page 2) ............................ - .......................- .... - ...........

Add:
Dividends and interest from investments........................................
Balance, July 31. 1950................................................................................$

.

20,371.87
21,497.25

Schedule 11 ·

7,493.39

11,578.15

Anglo-California National Bank···················-··································-$
Securities:
Preferred stock:
10 Shares Associated Telephone Co., 41h% ................$ 220.00
37 Shares Southern California Edison Co., 4.48% .. 1,138.41
37 Shares Southern California Edison Co., 4.32% .. 1,138.40
20 Shares Southern California Gas Co., 6% ............ 765.00
5 Shares Union Oil Co. of California, 3% %........ 525.00
20 Shares United States Envelope Co., 7% .............. 1,350.00
Seven letters of Patent ....................................................................
Balance, July 31, 1950.......................-································'····················*

1,125.38

Return of portion of prior year bequest-Dalziel
estat~to cover additional taxes ..............................
400.00
Alterations and repairs-Decoto ................................ 77,385 03
197,014.09
B New bu~ings and improvements-Decato ............ 119,229:06
alance, J y 31, 1150... - .. - .............. - .......................................................$ 211,582.08

Schedule 9
Statement of Lee R. Talbert Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1950
Balance, August 1. 1949............................................................................$

C~:

333

20,987.67
509.58
21,497.25

abonal Bank ............................................................

3~ c~~~~~~~a;t~c~~';t ........................................................... .

13 C
r t g
Co ...................................................... .
E onso lda ed. Amusement .................................................... ..
1,200 wa Plantation Co. ·······················-·················
14 Hawaiian Commercial & Sugar Company ..................... .
1 Great Northern Railw
...................... ..
1 200 Helemano Com
ay ....................................................... .
pany ·······················································-·······
' 80 H
Hom~ Insuz:ance Co. of Hawaii... ....................................... ..
16 ono 1;11U 311 Corpn................................... ·-···························
1 b~~· a~···················· ...............................................
1' 300
1
33 Ma~h~flan
4 Oah R 'l
p y ............................................................ ..
u a1 way & Land Co..........._·-··-···············..···-·········-····

21,600.00
1,853.00
2,409.00
283.50
1,938.75
230.75
20,400.00
110.25
42.00
22,800.00
3,240.00
1,280.00
20,637.50
882.75
68.00

334

335

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEECINGS OP THE

404 Oahu Sugar Company ............................................................
4,848.00
66 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., pfd.............................................
2,062.50
1.00
26 Pioneer Properties, Ltd. ·······················-·································
10,200.00
1,200 Waialua Agricultural Co. ·····························-·······--············
Total stocks and bonds ..........................................................$ 239,107.00

1 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 6% 1 pfd............................. ~
4 Southern Ed!son Co., 4.32%, prd.)...................................... i
4 Southern EdISon Co., 4.48%, pfd.)...................................... ~
5 Standard Oil Co. of California............................................
5421h Transamerica Corporation ..................................................
100 Walworth Company ..............................................................
Total stocks ............................................................................

Statement of Decoto Monthly Grant Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31. 1950

Total securities ···························-······································--·$
25,781.36

Add:
Profit on sale of, and income from, property
donated to the fund ......................................................$21,829.01
Contributions by applicants ··'····-································· 50,850.44
Pensions .............................................................................. 20,824.78
Deceased residents' de1;msits .......................................... 4,446.26
Transfer from C. N. Flmt Trust Fund.......................... 6,614.18

104,564.67

Total ···················----···········-·······················································-···'···
Deduct monthly grants to residents ....................................................

130,346.03
17,093.00

Balance, July 31. 1950 ..............................................................................$ 113,253.03
Composition of Fund
Investments:
Securities (page 2) ............................................................$39,094.03
Insurance policies (page 3).............................................. 7,772.75
Notes and contracts receivable (page 3) ...................... 15,970.08 $
Real estate ..................................................................................................
Total investments ..........................................................................
Due from Homes General Fund..................................................·-·······

264.40
8,633.94
475.00

----36,348.01

Schedule 12

Balance, August 1. 1949 .......................:......................................- ...:........$

~~.75

204.96

62,836.86
23.00
62,859.86
50,393.17

Balance. July 31, 1950..............................................................................$ 113,253.03
Investments

Securities:
Bonds:
$ 500 Dominion of Canada, 3%, 1959..........................................$
75 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956................................. .
2,500 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1960..................................
Increased redemption value of F bonds..........................
300 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1960........................
Total bonds ............................................................................. .

500.00
58.97
1,850.00
37.05
300.00
2,746.02

Stocks:
Shares:
14 American Telephone and Telegraph Co...........................
20 Axe-Houghton Fund, Inc. ····-······································-·······
416 Bank of America, N.T.S.A...................................................
5 California Packing Corp., 5%, pfd.................................... .
5 City Service Co.......................................................................
103 Home Insurance Co. of New York. .....................................
15 Kern County Mutual Building & Loan Assn.................. .
7,160 Kutz Canyon Oil & Gas Co...••···················-·························
6 Masonic Hall Assn. of Alameda..........................................
2 Masonic Hall Assn. of Stockton..........................................
238 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., common..................................
74 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 51h%, pfd•..............................

2,175.23
144.60
7,717.91
262.50
170.51
3,350.00
1,500.00
1,432.00
1.00
1.00
7,622.71
2,358.50

Insurance Policies:
Acacia Life Insurance Co.···-··················-···········································$
Equitable Life Assurance Society......................................................
General American Life Insurance Co...............................................
Homesteader's Life Assn. ·······················-·········································
Locomotive Engineers Mutual Life & Accident Insurance
Association ···································································-·····················
Marin Mutual Benefit Assn. ·································-···························
Metropolitan Lif~ Insurance Co., 15 policies..................................
Native Daughters of the Golden WesL...........................................
New York Life Insurance Co.............................................................
Parnassus Mutual Benefit Fund ........................................................
Paul Revere Life Insurance Co.........•.............................................. ~
Prudential Insurance Co. of America-18 policies........................
Reliance Insurance Co. of Pittsburgh..............................................
State Mutual Life Insurance Co.................,.......................................
Travelers Insurance Co. of Hartford................................................
Travelers, Aetna & Equitable Insurance Co. ................................
Widows and Orphans F'und:
Alhambra ...................................,........................................................
California Bodies Scottish Rite-3 policies................................
Masonic Lodges .................................................................................. ·

39,094.03
118.90
1.00
471.78
1.00
693.00
1.00
1,513.23
1.00
2,000.00
1.00
259.00
1,459.00
245.84
1.00
1,000.00
1.00
1.00
3.00
1.00

----7,772.75
-----

Total insurance policies ......................................................

Notes and Contracts Receivable:
Boucher, Claudia ..................................................................................
Duke, Woodrow E. and Marcella E ................-.................................
Ervin, Artis and Annie Lee ................................................................
Gordon, Francis C. and Betty M.........................................................
Hoag, George H. and Esther A...·-··-··················-···························

4,907.72
184.94
4,481.75
5,639.68
755.99

----15,970.08

Total notes and contracts receivable................................$

Total investments ................................................................$

62,836.86

336

REPORT OF CONTRIBUTIONS TO
ENDOWMENT FUND

Mem1949
1950
1948
1947
Name
bership 1946
1 California .................. 542$ 512.00 $ 386.75 $ 509.50 $ 649.50 $1,177.50
210.00
99.00
100.00
2 Western Star ............ 146 170.00
3 Tehama ...................... 732 2,409.50 1,325.50 1,355.00 1,544.00 1,569.50
244.50
91.00
5 Benicia ...................... 212
50.00
288.00
336.50
141.00
106.50
8 Tuolumne .................. 247 315.73
178.50
163.00
181.50 . 248.50
9 Corinthian ..........:..... · 394 183.50
340.50 328.50 361.50
344.50
10 San Jose .................... 530 426.50
242.00
202.00
38.50
117.00
12 Yount ........................ 486
151.50
48.00
63.00
79.00
60.50
13 Nevada ...................... 164
58.00
89.50
38.00
63.00
14 Temple ···········-········· 190
83.00
101.00
114.00
154.50
275.00
16 Eureka ...................... 316
75.00
185.00
150.50
159.50
17 La Parfaite Union. ... 117 163.00
22.00
14.00
18 Mountain Shade •.....
46
322.00 425.00
768.00
201.50
19 San Joaquin .......•...... 742
1,155.80 1,095.00 659.00 1,157.50
20 Washington .............. 759 700.00
1,038.00 1,301.10 837.00 1,065.00
21 Hawaiian .................. 476 1,163.50
390.25
496.00
395.00 418.50
22 Occidental ................ 737 404.50
114.64
66.02
91.34
23 Madison .............•...... 310 ~5-~7
170.75
175.00 233.50
102.50
24 Mariposa .................... 195 1 1.
12.50
22.00
25 Georgetown ..............
57
12.0
715.50 480.50
488.00
7.50
26 El Dorado .................. 241 619.5 0
39.50
8.00
27 Trinity ........................ 122 19.0~
258.00
303.50
398.15
311.00
30 Golden Gate .............. 644 3 02.5
7.00
97.00
32 Gold Hill ·············-····· 107 31.50
31.00
29.50
59.50
104.50
70
53.50
33 Ophir ···············-·········
1,857.00
2,312.50
2,124.98
2,270.30
35 San Diego ...........•...... 9513,382.00
76.50
30.00
30.00
50.00
51.00
37 Howard ...............•...... 245
195.00
135.00
157.50
70.50
38 Santa Cruz .........•...... 467 90.~0
388.00
776.00
774.40
1,152.71
40 Sacr~mento .............. 736 ~~· }
769.00
5
246.00
312.35
41 Martinez ·······-··-······· 375 334 ·00
515.00
721.10
512.00
42 · Los Angeles .............. 742
·
7.00
.
76
43 . Hiram ........................
327.50 325.00 456.00
384.00
44 Mount Moriah.......... 416 245 00
185.00
200.00
45 Crescent .................... 176
46 Texas ..........................
50
~~:88
50.00
176.00
50 Forbestown .............. . 106
36.00
33.00
5.00
51 Illinoistown ..............
87
27 .00
82.00
48.50
115.50
208.50
55 Suisun ........................ 205 73.50
165.50
91.50
131.00
56 Volcano ......................
57
136.00
167.60 142.50
42.00
57 Santa Rosa ................ 581 143.10
1,424.10
2,075.70
58 Union ·-······················· 702 1,488.50 1,300.00
78.00
52.50
69.00
59 Gravel Range ···--···
66
84.00
127.50
18.00
60 Plumas ...................... 198 39.00
940.00
1,100.00
825.00
61 Live Oak .................... 10531,064.50 1,177.00
133.00
180.50 144.50 170.50
64 Natoma ...................... 195 162.00
69.75
65 Amador ...................... 81
64.00
66 Forest ........................
30
749.50
890.50
827.00 846.60
68 Mornin~ Star ............ 6121,154.00
2.00
70 Enterpr1Se ................ 302
67.25
20.00
11.25
41.00
76 Bear Mountain ........
73
17.00
61.50
122.50
78 Calaveras .................. 111
83.00
150.00
61.50
156.50
72.00
79 Humboldt ...........•...... 423
70.00
16.00
17.00
19.50
91
8.00
80 Ione ............................
58.00
63.50
18.00
81 Yolo ............................
84
17.00
31.00
17.00
9.00
84 Vesper .................•...... 230 14.00
87 Naval .................•••...... 11651,643.13 2,161.15 2,116.40 1,683.70 1,419.79
18.00
8.00
11.00
36
89 Rose's Bar ................
'·······

No.

g

337

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.
91
93
95
98
99
101
103
104
106
110
111
112
113
117
120
122
123
124
126
127
128
129
131
132
134
135
136
139
140
141
143
144
145
146
147
14Q
150
156
161
164
166
167
168
169
173
174
175
178
179
180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187
188
190
191

MemN ame
bership 1946
North Star .........•...... 64
St. Helena .........•...... 122 23.00
Henry Clay .......•...... 79
4.00
Hornitos .................... 94 90.50
Yosemite ...........••..... 435 175.00
Clay ·······················-··· 93
Oroville ·················-··· 324
Lexington ...........•...... 506 335.00
Arcata .................•...... 257 16.00
Pajaro .................•...... 361 219.25
Chico ···················-····· 441 114.00
Summit ···············-····· 47 46.00
Eden ...................•...... 393 207.25
Concord .............•...... 350 492.00
Fidelity ···············-····· 559 189.00
Alamo ·················-····· 374 138.50
Sotoyome ...........•...... 183 139.00·
Table Mountain •..... 161 86.50
Lafayette .................. 210 81.00
Hermann ................. . 211 171.00
Visalia ···············-······· 533 1,248.00
Nicolaus .............•...... 106 18.00
Woodbridge .............. 173 72.75
Sincerity .............•...... 93
9.50
Vacaville ................... . 201 177.50
Valley ....................... . 91
2.00
Pacific ........................ 606 61.00
Crockett .................... 591 292.50
Curtis .......................... 72
Grafton ...............•...... 101 34.00
Franklin .............•...... 131 28.50
Oriental ...............•...... 387 643.00
Vitruvius .............•...... 122
4.00
Abell ..................., ...... 272 367.50
Eel River ..........., ...... 224 141.50
Lassen .................•...... 222 88.50
Molino .................•...... 169 77.00
Woodland ...........•...... 266 588.05
Keystone .............•...... 26
Harmony···········-······· 19
Excelsior .............•...... 519 742:00
Alameda .............•...... 162 26.00
Ri;d~ood City ...•...... 543
Mtss1on ...............•...... 711 855.00
Elk Grove ................... 146 136.50
7.00
Drytown .............•...... 43
Antioch ...............•...... 313 103.50
Phoenix .............•...... 648 1,611.19
Mendocino .........•...... 125 13.50
Petaluma ...........•...... 336 105.00
Russian River ...•...... 114 38.00
Arbuckle .................... 82
Clear Lake ................. 62
Sierra Valley ........... . 39 45.00
Claiborne ...........•...... 59 20.00
Evening Star .....•...... 50
Keith .......................... 179 73:50
Oakland ................... . 947 189.00
Northern Light ·-····- 89 32.50
Marin ·····-··-··············· 537 489.05

1947

1948

84.50
13.50
91.00
183.50
77.00
209.00
250.00
142.00
187.50
183.75

190.06
41.00
56.00
208.00
60.00
55.50
250.00
237.25
73.00
19.26

193.93
214.50
232.00
243.00
171.00
38.50

159.36
440.00
228.00
168.50

1949
7.50
109.50
99.50
86.50
347.00
60.50
133.50
300.00
124.50
101.75
197.50

1950
10.00
46.00
2.50
72.50
312.50
23.00
26.00
250.00
218.00
30.00
20.00

162.64
219.00
332.50
184.00
157.00

195.50

199.49
245.50
819.00
126.00
64.00
53.50
93.50
9.50
183.50 156.00
1,462.25 1,317.20
37.00
25.00 123.00
7.00 109.50
83.50

22.00
63.50
288.50
115.00
379.50
92.00
199.00
24.00
218.00

75.50
258.50
6.00
26.00
72.00
595.50
48.00
379.50
160.50
106.00
37.00
206.93

199.50
450.00
65.00
20.00
137.50
458.00
74.00
401.00
198.50
121.00
54.00
251.00

57.00
61.50
57.00
513.00
1,722.50
101.50

21.00
475.00
75.00
345.50
314.50
216.00

714.00
100.50
387.00

38.00

172.00
171.00
1,370.50 1,153.50
24.00
71.50
135.25
27.50

294.00

163.00
9.00
1,407.96 1,408.59
81.00
82.50
69.00
88.00
41.00
73.00
26.00
20.00
44.00
830.50
31.00
537.50

58.00
42.50

43.00
384.50
528.50
50.90
262.00
57.69
491.50
32.50
228.50
,................
30.00
684.00
184.00

1,508.50
210.50 180.00
27.00
48.00
319.00
819.70 1,464.85
69.50
23.00
105.50
42.00
38.00
7.00
21.00

46.00
634.50
12.00
351.50

549.00

5.00
907.00
20.00
353.00

18.00
18.00
8.00
570.00
6.00
335.91

338
No.
192
193
194
195
196
198
199

200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
210
211
212
214
215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
224
225
226
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237
240
241
242
243
244
245
246
247
248
250
253
254
255
256
258
259
260
261

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MemN ame
bership 1946
1947
1948
1949
Santa Barbara .......... 334 373.50
509.50 441.50
404.50
33.00
38.00 - 86.00
Ferndale ·············-······ 105 37.50
Mountain View ........ 331 278.00
281.00
74.25
188.00
Buckere .............•...... 138
109.00 204.00
250.50
15.00 248.50
San Srmeon ·······-······ 110 184.50
688.50
Wilmington .............. 545 742.00
851.00 596.00
48.50
15.00
Hartley ·······-·····-······ 236 10.00
12.00
64.00
67.00
Truckee ·············--····· 102 83.00
351.85 308.00
Silveyville ·········-······ 147 14.50
Pentalpha ................... 5541,362.13 1,530.75 1,462.50 1,213.00
Confidence .........•...... 48 89.00
68.00
83.00
89.00
239.50
199.00 317.00
Salinas ·····-··-··-··-······ 503 143.00
2.00
144.50
50.00
Olivet ···········-··--'······ 107
8.00
778.65 564.50 729.75
Stanislaus ···-·····-······ 590 301.00
381.50 406.00 338.00
Anaheim ·············-····· 409 256.50
Rio Vista ..................... 149 334.00
343.00 322.02 269.00
King David's ............. 412 284.50
293.50 449.50 602.80
471.50
Friendship •.......•........ 705 703.95
387.50 455.00
San Benito ................. 153 11.25 79.50
84.50
61.50
So. San Francisco .... 258 162.00
189.00
136.00 151.50
San Buenaventura._ 3901,200.00 1,302.00 1,015.50 575.00
271.00
152.00 297.00
Oak Grove ·····-··-······ 637 281.00
123.50
Doric ...................•...... 510 363.00
83.50 102.50
196.35
163.00 179.00
Monterey ···········--······ 254 228.00
118.00
103.50 145.00
Mosaic ···············--······ 177 80.00
Speranza ltaliana -··· 322 479.50
364.50 351.50 286.00
712.00 811.00 975.85
Downey ····-··-··--··· 509 407.35
103.00 333.00 314.00
Inyo ············-··-··-······ 161 166.00
84.00
201.00 294.00
Roseville ···--···-·-······ 331 63.25
90.00 793.50 473.00
Bakersfield···-··--······ 7681,G27.88
233.00
315.50 204.00
Brooklyn ···········--······ 600 361.56
411.50 372.50 742.50
San Mateo ·····-··-······ 450 363.50
77.00
89.00 125.00
Athens ···········-··--······ 157 59.00
305.50
564.52 467.50
Solano ·········----······ 590 601.00
115.50
91.00
7.00
North Butte---······ 185 88.00
14.00
74.50
Covelo ···········-··--······ 68
44.00
13.00 139.00
Janesville ................... 132 31.00
50.50
71.50
84.50
Calistoga .............•...... 111 65.00
Hope ............................. 128 22.00
34.00 128.00
Surprise Valley .•...... 74
104.00
95.00
Hills Ferry ·······--······ 153 39.50
413.00 200.50 297.50
Guadalupe -·-·-······ 146 244.50
49.00
59.25
47.00
8.00
Colusa ·················-······ 152
133.00 1,085.16 1,169.50
Santa Ana ···--····-······ 577 762.50
891.50 1,025.00 1,068.00
Magnolia ·····-···-······· 393 875.75
13.00
232.50
Eucalypt\15 ···-··-······ 438 25.00
309.05 405.00 322.00
Alcatraz .............•...... 639 376.50
246.50
242.00 273.50
Laurel ···············-······· 224 212.00
380.30 339.50 551.00
Pomona ····--·--······ 393 579.50
33.50 498.00
285.75
Fresno ·····-··-··--······· 651
87.00
168.00
77.50
Alturas ···········-········· 175
5.00
86.50
54.50
151.00
Adin .....................•...... 97 146.50
47.40
Landmark ................. 108
30.70
90.50
500.00 274.50
Reading ...............•...... 198 300.00
242.00
169.00
Welcome ···--·--······ 192
172.00
323.50 408.10
Lodi .....................•...... 371 610.5()
104.50
25.00
Penrhyn ···-··--·-······ 154 59.00
273.00 243.00 447.50
Evergreen ·---·--······ 620 232.00
171.50 496.50 601.50
King Solomon's ·-······ 494 171.50
Tuscan ·····--··--······ 86

339

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1950
459.00
27.00
80.50
303.00
95.20
767.50
54.00
151.00
1,159.50
30.00
268.00
143.00
522.25
832.50
301.00
904.00
294.00
30.00
302.50
790.50
26.50
358.50
152.50
58.50
350.00
1,068.30
279.50
467.50
1,142.00
78.00
699.00
239.50
31.00
173.00
73.50
3.00
144.00
65.00
438.00
37.00
675.50
1,112.00
248.41
141.75
230.50
348.50
101.50
157.85
25.00
22.88
60.00
111.20
22.50
103.40
358.66
449.00
J•••••••••••

No.
262
264
265
266
267
268
269
271
272
273
274
275
'!.77
278
279
21l0
281

282
283
285
286
287
288
289
290
2!Jl

292
293
294
295
296
297
199
300
301
302
303
304
305
305
307
308
309
310
312
313
314
315
316
317
318
319
320
321
322
323
324
325
326
327

Name

Membership

1946

Lompoc ···-······-··· ······ 177 243.00
Hesperian ·····-········... 342 230.50
Orland ···-··················· 160 78.00
North East .........•...... 54
Galt .....................•...... 71 14.00
Durant ......................... 553 707.15
Olive Branch .....•...... 294 121.00
Snow Mountain......... 39
Pasadena..................... 537 315.00
Anchor ···--····-·"······ 5321,308.54
Arroyo ·········-··---······ 134 146.00
Oakdale ····-···-··-······ 176 184.00
Selma··········-···-······ 213
So. California............ 5141,015.50
Hanford···-··-······ 214 382.00
Madera ·······-··-··-······ 253 140.00
Mount Shasta ····~······ 73 56.00
Callayomi ...........•...... 63
South West................. 388 318.50
San Miguel ................. 53 20.00
Paso Robles ···-········· 233 154.50
Winnedumah .....•...... 181 108.00
Maxwell .................... 70 20.00
Elsinore ...............•...... 161 172.00
East Gate ................... 845 541.50
Santa Paula .............. 326 614.50
Los Gatos .................. 279 276.61
Orange Grove .......... 254 228.00
Traver .................•...... 153 62.00
Mt. Jackson ·····--······ 136
Silver Gate···--········· 11441,981.50
Dunsmuir .................. 297 191.00
Liberty ...................... 300 194.50
Redlands ···········--······ 437 455.50
Ontario ...............•...... 353 163.00
Santa Lucia ·····-~······ 151 282.50
Porterville ·····-·-······ 459 562.00
Reedley ...............•...... 154
Azusa .......................... 239 180.00
Ashlar •................•.... .. 263 156.00
Santa Monica .....•...... 386 290.00
Monrovia ................... 293 359.00
Delano..._._ ................ 232 289.50
Sisson.......................... 112 17.00
Los Banos ...........•...... 147 22.00
Tehachapi ···-······-······ 197 266.50
Temescal .............•...... 210 144.50
Norwalk .............•...... 243 435.62
Sanger .................•...... 305 248.00
Fallbrook ................... 123 45.00
Emmanuel .........•...... 82
Hollenbeck ................ 1073 917.10
South Gate .........•...... 662 889.50
Aiisal ·················-······ 131 145.00
Alhambra .................. 6441,521.40
Whittier ............••...... 6451,112.40
Corona .................•...... 470 951.00
Consuela ···-·-······ 245 332.46
Needles ·····-··-·-······ 357
Long Beach .......•...... 580 700.00

1947
332.50
687.50
124.50
49.00
15.00
401.00

1948

1949
546.75
603.50 319.50
148.50
42.00
5.00
5.00
438.22
318.00
86.00 319.50
27.00
16.20
14.00
383.00 970.00 1076.00
1,419.29 1,250.00 1,342.77
246.00
98.00
60.50
23.00
178.37
119.50
418.00 255.75
196.00
1,160.00 1,139.00 1,310.50
364.00 440.50 485.50
202.50 243.50
237.00
96.00
2.00
77.00
25.00
25.00
341.75 348.00
312.50
39.75
55.00
67.00
218.50
92.00
149.00
332.75 358.75
294.72
47.31
74.79
142.00
76.00
75.00
1,065.45 699.00
766.25
550.00 621.75
680.00
252.70 382.23
189.50
101.00 151.00
156.50
8.00
34.50
1,207.65 1,039.50 1,136.50
407.58 222.18
321.50
75.00 231.00
298.50
358.00
403.00 265.50
249.50 220.00
189.00
352.50 220.50 304.50
869.50 807.50
999.00
22.00
7.00
166.50 214.50
245.50
196.00
141.00 245.00
660.00 358.50
179.97
224.25 213.00
230.00
40.50
65.50
73.50
257.10 105.00
121.00
331.00 237.50
228.50
163.00 133.50 148.50
444.90 339.50
243.00
206.00 190.50
221.50
68.00
32.00
3.00
135.00
85.00
163.25
840.00 1,549.50
856.50
107.00 120.00
161.00
335.25 338.25
383.50
566.05
1,187.91
649.00 401.00
724.00
141.17
100.34
385.50 641.00
699.50
441.00 361.50 508.55

1950
256.00
402.50
219.50
2.00
103.00
366.00
497.50
16.00
665.00
1,122.50
37.00
94.00
434.00
1,400.00
488.50
120.00
25.00
374.50
60.00
274.80
315.99
76.01
150.54
922.75
570.00
210.17
229.00
177.00
1,300.50
217.50
129.50
314.50
259.50
172.00
835.50
141.00
157.40
139.50
475.50
103.50
115.00
247.25
46.50
394.50
165.00
32.00
114.75
1,005.00
81.00
307.00
1,450.00
469.00
543.00
250.53

340

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

MemName
bership 1946
1947
1948
1949
1950
328 Redondo
467 350.00
338.00 300.00
209.00
210.00
329 Vallee de F~Mc; ·::::::: 130 264.00
225.00 240.00
250.09
190.00
330 Kilauea ....................... 238 571.00
384.00 506.00
889.00
331 Pacific Grove ............. 245 144.25
149.00 159.50
171.00
94.00
332 San Pedro ···········-······ 5051,256.33
1,246.25 1,384.50 1,227.50 1,035.00
333 Alta
82 87.50
139.50 145.00
188.50
171.50
334 Covin;··::::::::::::::::::::::: 302 409.50
280.00 310.75
213.00
198.50
335 West Gate···········-······ 10221,229.50
1,712.50 1,123.00
887.17
2,050.00
336 Fruitvale ·········-··-······ 899 476.50
287.00 400.00
335.50
572.00
337 Carquinez ·········-······ 194 167.00
135.75 155.00
140.00
147.00
338 San Jacinto ······- ······
98 116.00
63.06
53.00
339 Fullerton ···········-······ 390 419.00
179.50 200.50
321.10
341 Oxnard ...................... 380 603.15
433.00 238.25
576.88
185.50
343 San Fernando ...•...... 494 398.10
503.50 738.00
569.25
543.19
344 Starr~·········-······ 542 129.50
482.08 229.50
311.50
147.50
345 Bren two
56.00
64.00
·····-··-······ 132
28.00
43.00
346 Palo Alto ·····-····-······· 680 837.50
900.00 1,251.00 1,325.50 1,370.00
347 McKinley ...........•...... 476 536.75
319.00 295.20
185.25
639.00
348 San Bernardino .•...... 7021,158.88
335.69 672.90
543.87
842.83
349 Sequoia ...............•...... 1065 676.50
861.00 907.50 1,175.00
911.75
351 Palestine .............•...... 602 276.50
402.00 484.50
434.00
475.00
352 Sunset ···········-··········· 401 321.00
979.75 835.00
822.25
832.25
353 Pinole ·········--··········· 182 51.00
36.50
68.00
80.00
46.50
354 Presidio ...................... 540 167.50
237.00 538.00
500.00
495.00
355 Hollywood ................ 1160
1,826.50 328.50
464.00
695.10
356 Mill Valley·····-········· 418 218.50
353.00 381.50
386.50
414.00
357 Buena Park ............... 210 121.00
174.25 178.75
181.25
358 Golden Stilte ..... ....... 854 699.25
743.25 2,498.30
474.00
564.00
359 Loyalton ....................
97 17.00
40.50
35.00
139.00
360 San Francisco .......... 316 206.00
488.00 126.00
330.50
462.50
361 Fort Bragg ................ 133 34.50
29.00
77.50
7.00
362 Charity ···········-··-······ 146 116.00
132.00 109.50
60.00
50.50
363 Berkeley .................... 660
388.00 216.31
23.00
118.31
365 Willits ......................... 155
366 Las Palmas .........•...... 951 403.50
1,045.50 919.00
108.50
609.50
367 South Pasadena ....... 5841,274.00
789.00 1,080.50
531.00 1,453.65
368 Unity ···-··············-······ 597 782.50
1,204.50 1,173.50 1,202.00
773.50
369 Ocean Park .......•...... 4891,096.00
620.87 496.50 510.00
427.00
370 Amity ···············-········ 473 351.00
159.50
172.50
87.50
371 le Progres de
l'Oceanie .........•...... 654 1,177.50
654.00 718.00 1,199.10 1,498.75
372 Gardena
303 137.50
132.00 202.25
145.00
195.45
373 West Los Angel~;:::::: 395 191.00
205.00 249.00
206.00
192.00
374 . Jewel ........................... 183 141.50
171.00
139.25
173.00
375 Richmond ................... 544 434.00
185.00 223.50
348.50
230.00
376 Francis Drake .......... 322 251.60
291.00 273.50
207.50
182.50
377 Artesia
163 230.50
290.04 326.00
282.00 . 442.00
378 Mizpah :::::::::::::::::::::: 445 1,031.00
410.43 2,018.07 1,104.50 1,178.80
379
397 .50 537 .50
591.50
459.00
·········-········· 232 444.00
380 Filhnore
Huntington Beach .... 311
124.00
28.00
50.00
51.00
381 Oceanside .................. 317 252.00
329.25 357.25
368.36
343.12
382 Highland Park ......... 605 435.50
373.00 401.10
320.00
196.00
383 Orosi ···················-······ 135 346.00
617.00
284.00
280.00
384 El Centro ·········--······ 384 681 .50
393.50 335.00
133.00
540.50
385 Dinuba ............................ 281 149.00
157.50 255.50
120.25
40.00
387 Coalinga ........................ 362 347.50
208.65 300.00
695.00
812.00
388 Parnassus ...........•...... 725 499.70
369.50 332.50
490.50
456.80
389 Palos Verdes ............ 718 638.64
566.11 385.82
219.90
132.50
390 Imperial .............•...... 122 103.00
103.00 171.00
71.00
391 East Belt .............•......
89 32.00
8.50
8.00
25.00
127.00
No.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

No.
392
393
394
395
396
397
399
400
401
402
403
404
405
406
407
408
409
410
411
412
414
415
416
417
418
419
420
421
422
423
424
425
426
427
428
429
430
431
433
434
435
436
437
438
439
440
441
442
443
444
445
446
447
448
449
450
451
452
453
454

Membership

Name

1946
9521,980.00
West Lake ·········-······
Balder ···-············-······ 492 227.00
University ·········-······ 6191,005.50
Turlock ·············--······ 352 326.00
Apollo ................... .............. 457 368.50
Rising Light ·······-······ 9861,273.95
Fraternity .................. 449 144.00
Burlingame .............. 6231,690.00
Bay View ...........•...... 598 132.00
Brawley ..... .............. _....... 206 227.50
Yerba Buena ............. 839 487.00
Glendora .............•...... 142 97.00
Monet a .............. ................ 736 2,041.05
Burbank ....... ..... . ..... ........... 621 20.00
La Mesa ...................... 475 320.92
Sierra Madre .....•...... 141 124.50
Honolulu ··-········----·-· 367 354.00
Charter Rock .....•...... 368 165.00
Perris ···················-······ 148 108.00
Calexico ............................ 165
Arlington ........................ 369 340.50
Silver Trowel ...•...... 395 860.50
Lindsay ...................... 217 499.50
Clovia ........................ 390 188.00
Elysian ·······-···--·... ······ 466 360.50
Upland ·················-······ 194 123.00
Kerman ...................... 97 114.00
Inglewood ......... ... . .. . . .... 668 365.50
Eagle Rock .........•...... 481 397.00
York ............................. 329 591.70
Exeter ................ ... . ......... ..... 206 10.00
Holtville ............... .... ----- 137 261.00
Midway ...............•...... 480 61.50
Chino Valley .....•...... 127 14.00
San Dimas .........•...... 164 235.00
Pittsburg .............•...... 267 18.00
McCloud .............•...... 108 127.00
Alpha ·················-········ 498 137.00
Hammonton .......•...... 59 67.00
Maricopa .............•...... 179
Fairmount ................. 489 176.40
Claremont ·········- ······· 112 94.00
Lancaster ·············'······ 244 174.00
Acacia ............................ -·-·· · 58 145.00
Tyrian ........................ 159 99.00
Standard ..................... 353 222.00
360 293.25
Coronado
Blackmer ::::::::::::::::::: 1189 905.37
Schofield .................... 255 101.00
Carpinteria ···-·········· 111 189.00
Wilshire ................ ....... 5441,162.00
La Puente ...........•...... 151 27.00
Torrance ........... .:.~······ 368 160.00
Mount Diablo .....•...... 285 238.00
Park ............................ 491 452.00
Van Nuys ·········-········ 642 656.50
Montebello .........•...... 533 558.50
San Pasqual ............... 460 796.50
Bethlehem ................ 306 339.00
Crocker ...................... 392 113.00

-

1947
1948
1949
2,032.00 909.60 1,220.00
405.50
312.00 452.00
459.00
558.00 710.00
336.25
302.00 175.00
273.00
354.50 331.50
835.74 1,563.00
791.37
154.00
101.50 171.50
1,498.50 1,088.50
712.00
54.00 108.00
114.00
222.11
100;85 221.50
474.09 847.50
714.20
175.50
100.00
850.15
914.50 934.00
2,756.45 1,040.00 1,217.00
400.50 197.55
412.00
173.50
44.00
302.00
737.00
552.85 823.50
106.00
165.00 155.00
50.00
69.00
125.00
380.00 119.00
167.00
561.50 287.50
414.00
866.31 807.50 1,135.00
345.00
457.80 433.00
215.50 414.25
419.50 406.00
636.00
171.00
63.00
184.05
121.00 142.00
104.00
418.50
671.00 556.00
237.50 306.50
348.00
401.25 189.00
200.80
833.00 398.50
486.50
247.50 180.00
224.50
189.00 113.00
353.50
92.50
116.50
210.00 2io:oo
190.00
56.00
44.00
18.00
157.07 201.08
121.00
451.50 344.50
349.25
69.00
70.00
29.00
4.00
46.00
231.50 133.65
277.75
162.50
48.00
63.00
211.00 182.00
306.75
133.50 132.00
126.00
5.00 111.50
103.00
293.00 167.00
182.00
414.00 529.75
415.00
696.75 1,008.25
866.25
284.50 108.00
379.50
621.00 178.50
498.00 625.76
735:50
48.00
38.00
112.00 278.00
290.16
208.00 265.00
230.00
366.50 408.74
315.00
557.00 505.52
464.75
450.90 498.90
606.22
788.50 850.00
952.77
248.50 422.00
421.00
184.50 166.80

341

1950
1,942.00
571.50
674.50
198.00
266.30
159.88
140.00
961.60
125.00
342.50
581.00
25.00
793.50
1,030.00
337.75
209.00
806.50
85.00
67.00
105.00
209.00
806.00
82.00
298.50
302.00
120.00
128.50
482.75
222.50
322.00
206.50
564.50
138.50
152.00
17.00
300.00
21.00
25.00
90.00
73.00
500.50
117.00
54.50
131.00
371.39
907.25
447.08
469.50
870.28
8.00
209.50
248.00
373.50
444.50
624.00
930.06
426.00
316.50

342

MemName
bership 1946
1947
1948
1950
1949
455 Golden West ·····-······ 573 241.50
106.00 238.00
366.50
250.50
457 Ramona ·····- ················ 458 370.50
162.00 252.00
377.00
591.00
458 Henry S. Orme ......... 672 993.50
532.00 760.80 458.50 1,628.50
459 Riverbank ................... 139 46.50
51.50
77.00
102.00
63.00
460 Mount Oso ·········-······ 291 86.00
92.00
93.50
42.00
18.00
461 Argonaut ·············--..... 427 437.50
308.50 316.50 537.50
518.50
462 Paul Revere ...........,,.. 576 369.00
765.50 738.00 1,123.00 1,174.00
463 Morgan Hill ............... 141
35.00
32.00
131.00
107.00
464 Alta Vista ................... 278 96.00
192.50 119.50
709.25
468.50
465 Center ·····-················· 491 239.75
381.00 289.00
219.00
158.00
466 Libertas ...............•...... 560 309.50
411.50 498.50
493.00
528.00
467 Culver City ............... 321 380.50
262.00 731.00
658.50
835.00
468 Rockridge ...........•...... 468
439.50 267.50
182.00
383.00
469 Yorba Linda........ ...... 144 151.00
172.00 217.00
180.00
70.00
470 Lincoln ...................... 343 760.50
775.00 810.50 1,021.50 1,174.80
471 Delta ·················-······· 474 813.00
411.50 429.00
683.00
624.00
472 Maui ·········-··········---···· 251 247.50
327.00 198.00
387.00
374.00
473 Blythe ......................... 125
144.44
118.00
118.00
474 Victory ....................... 288 228.00
256.25 135.00 258.50
475 America ..................... 506 340.00
367.50
13.00
297.00
476 Coachella ·········-······· 182 119.00
132.00
176.00
191.50
477 Temblor ···········-· ······ 152 50.00
57.50
56.00
76.00
75.00
478 Thousand Oaks .•...... 476 186.50
156.00 154.00
83.50
189.00
479 Golden Rule ······-······· 584 242.00
399.00 733.50
339.50
255.00
480 Fellowship ................. 326
262.00
63.00
122.10
46.00
481 Mt. Davidson ............ 395 199.50
354.00 337.00
694.75
384.50
482 Clarence F. Smith.... 371 413.25
696.00 731.00
512.00
533.00
483 Bell ............................ 595 879.64
1,006.77 1,110.95
449.00
737.00
484 Albert Pike .............. 254 113.00
153.50
95.00
74.00
110.00
485 Chowchilla ................ 143
25.00
44.00
28.00
31.00
486 Caledonia .................. 466 419.93
542.30 710.66
616.50
791.95
487 Vallejo ........................ 388 386.00
18.00 386.25
255.75
118.25
488 Patterson.................... 107 31.00
5.00
17.00
42.50
489 East Bay .................... 392 157.00
61.00
199.50 173.00
190.50
490 Corcoran .................... 116
37.23
112.50
491 Woodstock ................ 390 48.00
62.50
104.50 162.50
124.50
492 Garvanza .................. 290 110.00
225.75 283.00
215.50
349.00
493 Atascadero ................ 101 239.68
407.89 415.13
217.58
373.75
494 Acom .......................... 574 346.50
659.50 293.50
103.00
285.50
495 Lebanon .................... 384 73.50
145.00
78.50
178.00
190.00
497 Fremont .................... 499 376.50
524.00 494.00 400.86
389.98
498 Stockton .................... 186 381.00
295.00 284.80 268.50
202.78
499 Capital City .............. 44Q 298.50
167.50 391.00
405.00
350.00
500 Roosevelt .................. 197 96.50
100.00 109.00
123.50
120.50
501 Westwood ..........:....... 274 112.00
404.00
131.50 170.00
121.00
502 Harbor ........................ 551 210.50
178.00 190.00
187.00
197.00
503 Point .......................... 250 69.00
118.50 228.00
88.00
121.00
504 Seaside ...................... 497 955.00
508.00 754.50 706.10
720.50
505 Silver Cord ................ 469 45.00
77.50
90.00
518.50
700.00
506 Mount Olive .............. 1019 2,914.50
2,894.50 2,409.50 1,921.80 1,425.29
507 El Segundo ................ 306 198.00
69.00
259.00 151.00 229.00
508 Joppa •.........................
78 133.00
20.00
64.63
69.00
509 Benjamin Franklin.. 348 199.20
268.00 244.00
518.25
4.95
510 Cupertino ...........•...... 160
8.00
168.50
28.00
91.00
87.50
511 Sunnyvale ·····- ··--····· 313 31.00
525.27 240.25
242.50
214.50
512 Palms ·····-··--·· -······ 429 191.00
273.50 257.00
246.50
360.75
513 Cahuenga ...........•...... 535 453.75
98.50 340.00
201.50
247.50
514 Argonne .................... 384 153.00
202.50 187.00
259.00
112.00
515 Vermont Square ....... 515 523.23
507.00 420.44
693.05
783.51
516 Taft ···················- ········ 302 69.50
73.00
93.50 824.50
621.50
No.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

No.
517
518
519
520
521
522
523
524
525
526
527
528
529
530
531
532
533
534
535
536
537
538
539
540
541
542
543
544
545
546
547
548
549
550
551
552
554
555
556
557
558
559
560
561
562
563
564
565
566
567
568
569
570
571
572
573
574
575
576
577

Membership
N ame
Mount Vernon ...•...... 226
La Jolla...................... 264
Euclid .................•...... 391
Ionic ............................ 740
Piedmont .................. 290
Sunrise ...................... 320
Bellflower ········-······ 368
Catalina Island ......... 146
George Washington._ 471
Bay City ..................... 355
Covenant ...........•...... 334
Beverly Hills ...... . ..... 463
Loyalty ................ ...... 448
Sun Garden .......•...... 512
Alexandria ·- ············· 162
Smyrna ................ ,..... 103
Azure ......................... 236
Forest Hill ................ 167
Alexander Hamilton 233
Seal Rock ............ ...... 190
Utopia ·····- ··········· ...... 699
Ascot ........................... 336
Belvedere .................. 223
Queen Beach ............. 181
H. M. Stephens .•...... 331
Lankershim ........ ...... 671
Signal ·········-············· 474
Glendale ····-····· ...... 643
Jonathan .................... 192
San Gabriel ·····--·-··· 384
Arcadia ...............•...... 331
Triangle .........•.......... 241
Justice ......................... 360
Seaport ................ ...... 236
Lakeshore .................. 270
Semper Virens .......... 247
Educator ···········--······ 366
White Pine ................ 100
Fairfax .........•............ 322
Hermosa .................... 303
Point Firmin .....•...... 357
Craftsmen .................. 426
Plymouth .................. 366
E. San Diego.............. 689
Pyramid .............•...... 282
South Park ................ 412
Foothill ············-········ 656
West Adams.............. 305
James A. Garfield.... 224
Searchlight ................ 469
Park Blvd. ................ 399
Chateau Thierry ....... 344
Military Service ....... 339
Francis K. Shattuck 264
James Madison ........ 355
Hillcrest .............•...... 70
S. W. Hackett............. 539
Fort Crook .......... ...... 151
El Cajon Valley......... 232
Sunnyside .................. 465

1946
194.00
98.00
360.00
326.00
183.50
296.00
24.00
288.90
71.00
100.00
597.95
233.00
17.00
111.00
41.00
210.00
73.00
502.00
136.00
495.38
368.00
106.00
110.00
64.50
438.28
454.25
488.00
103.50
179.50
279.00
152.00
531.50
143.50
75.00
213.50
245.25
73.00
102.50
364.00
386.00
441.50
167.00
255.96
159.00
381.00
69.50
169.00
230.16
273.50
305.20
469.50
110.20
300.50
272.00
15.00
501.75
74.00
433.00
873.25

1947
139.50
573.90
435.00
170.40
474.50
947.00
72.00
172.50
93.00
237.00
594.72
381.00
411.50
115.00
69.50
315.00
1,103.00
600.00
95.00
292.07
384.00
273.50
96.00
799.10
600.50
517.90
143.50
122.50
297.00
300.00
433.50
208.00
106.50
126.50
351.00
131.00
199.50
110.00
572.50
173.00
127.00
531.84
230.50
671.09
204.50
87.23
322.50
383.00
208.50
118.75
198.50
423.00
18.00
389.50
117.00
400.10
823.50

343

1948
1949
1950
159.25
211.50
211.00
32.00
119.50
81.00
329.50
640.71
657.00
537.50
2,345.25
203.50
161.50
157.50
623.95
437.50
309.65
427.00
412.24
317.00
112.00
316.00
299.25
247.50 562.00
208.00
42.50
194.00
443.25
736.50
742.58
655.60
306.00
575.42
872.00
548.70
892.50
231.08
248.55
89.00
163.00
125.00
189.00
16.00
16.00
28.00
11.00
671.00
161.00
86.00
143.50
110.50
450.00
600.00
460.00
105.00
111.50
185.00
332.00
239.00 1,002.17
348.00
298.25
424.00
231.00
130.00
163.00
223.50
139.00
220.50
200.14
83.50
91.00
497.25
584.50
377.50
476.00
434.00
645.00
420.50
668.32
617.00
373.50
142.00
384.00
116.50
142.00
167.00
291.00
397.50
268.50
204.00
202.00
184.00
397.50 522.00
361.50
132.00
205.00
180.00
120.50
109.50
62.00
246.81
323.00
·216:7'0
204.00
199.00
67.50
76.00
225.50
60.00
137.50
118.00
141.00
62.00
743.50
562.50
639.00
138.00
121.75
58.60
168.00
139.00
165.00
385.50
553.35
364.43
25.00
208.50
44.50
576.25
610.25
478.00
196.50
231.00
117.50
218.50
391.00
519.13 1,158.08
526.15
262.75
257.00
202.00
282.50
273.66
268.00
274.00
217.50
176.50
98.50
104.50
64.50
230.50
229.00
310.50
287.50
269.00
10.00
5.00
270.25
329.75
265.50
382:ifo 257.00
519.00
371.00
384.50
821.00
724.00 1,003.00

344
No.
578
579
580
581
582
583
584
585
586
587
588
589
590
591
592
593
594
595
596
598
599
600
601
602
603
604
605
607
608
609
610
611
612
613
614
615
616
617
618
619
620
621
622
623
624
625
626
627
628
629
630
631
632
633
634
635
636
637
638
639

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Mem1947
bership 1946
Name
98.00
179.50
Progressive ................... 482
237.00
570.75
Warren G. Harding.. 463
220.50
235.00
Santa Maria ............... 111
190.50
291.00
Security .......................... 376
90.00
89.50
Rialto .......................... 135
405.00
243.00
Wasco ......................_....... 276
404.50
738.3!>
Harding ...................... 245
Manchester ................ 353 1,670.85 826.50
193.00
130.00
Garden Grove ........... 188
175.50
14.00
Valley Forge ............. 366
86.00
64.00
El Sereno ...........•...... 404
428.00
369.75
Kauai ...................•...... 126
184.00
121.00
Compass ............................ 236
Escalon . ................_.............. 125
220.00
377.00
Tujunga . .... .............. . ...... 237
929.00
773.75
All States .................. 533
213.50
305.38
Service ............................. 692
434.00
475.86
Alexander G. BelL.. 269
942.00
718.84
Guardian .......................... 759
Pearl Harbor ·····-······ 553 1,135.00 1,016.00
378.00
751.50
Carmelita ·······-·-······ 308
752.79
602.50
Lynwood .....................
353
93.50
73.50
Grizzly ................................. 143
65.38
147.27
Melrose ...................... 230
199.00
185.50
DiJnond ...................... 277
221.00
192.00
Jubilee ···············-······ 321
325.00
340.91
Glassell Park ............ 402
114.00
289.50
Sojourner ....,............. 196
461.50
2.00
Granada
693
569.00
250.40
Provident ··:::::::::::::::::: 380
84.50
109.50
Elmhurst .................... 227
142.00
200.00
Canoga ..........•........... 217
169.00
288.00
Temple City .......•...... 337
330.50
346.50
Three Pillars ............. 373
753.20
934.25
Larchmont ................ 387
75.00
Hemet .............................. 145 ' 101.00
125.00
117.00
R. E. Dolley................ 202
53.00
67.00
Big Bear .................... 144
327.20
311.00
Southland .................. 296
200.50
149.95
Neptune ...................... ...... 251
334.50
621.00
Point Loma .............. 486
272.50
292.75
The Gardens ............ 403
275.00
324.50
Atwater ........................... 359
Menorah .................... 738 1,115.80 1,205.00
84.00
20.00
Fortitude . ......... .............. 195
228.00
325.50
Angeles Mesa ............ 599
322.50
314.84
Chula Vista .............. 347
393.00
441.25
Lamanda Park ........ 234
187.50
390.50
Truth ···················-······ 244
567.00
454.50
Fairview ..................... 260
65.50
Ingleside ..................... 173
38.00
51.50
Benevolence ............... 273
700.00
166.00
Normal Heights ......... 564
664.00
283.50
Poinsettia .................. 559
131.00 222.00
Victorville ......................... 183
201.00
Riverside ........................... 350
203.00
306.50
John Marshall .......... 269
720.00
853.00
Palisades .................... 371
69.00
91.50
Indian Rock .............. 198
394.00
470.00
Composite ........................ 357

1948
435.50
254.50
196.00
94.00
337.50
500.00
777.65
2.00
293.00
160.50
467.00

1949
506.00
450.50
252.00
132.00
248.16
757.00
392.88
122.00
150.90
494.95
145.00

1950
343.25
592.25
134.00
643.56
107.00
839.00
198.00

283.50
152.50
83.00
337.00
109.00
324.50
215.50
154.00 153.50
1,295.00
616.25 449.00
364.50
352.75 388.00
407.50
671.80 575.15
1,037.00 1,322.90 1,385.50
1,207.00 1,313.00 1,179.00
671.50
795.00 814.00
649.00
694.66 716.00
90.00
16.00 141.50
143.06
124.46 521.70
342.50
489.76 555.61
153.00
656.00 531.00
332.75
344.25 358.00
106.00
74.50
129.00
541.17
246.00 185.00
524.75
502.75 602.50
47.00
58.00
61.00
173.00
56.00
118.00
167.50
87.00
196.00
482.00
735.00 515.25
888.00
746.50 794.50
143.04
105.50
186.50
148.00 238.00
77.00
47.00
75.00
338.00 215.00 244.50
156.25
161.00 104.00
370.75
517.87 361.00
59.00
249.25
330.00
350.50 307.00 320.00
1,294.00 3,100.00 3,031.10
104.00
187.00
32.00
224.73
191.81
136.25
164.00 374.50 445.00
305.50
207.50 494.00
538.00
612.50 530.00
461.25
558.00 576.00
84.00
261.00
114.00
147.50
17.00
1,017.75
636.50 756.75
1,046.00
969.50 992.00
237.27
165.27 149.50
313.00 277.00
415.50
965.00
535.50 439.75
738.00
824.00 783.00
37.75
104.50
112.50
319.50 270.00
382.50

No.
640
641
642
643
644
645
646
647
648
649
650
651
652
653
654
655
656
657
658
659
660
661
662
663
665
666
667
668
669
670
671
672
673
674
675
676
677
678
679
680

6Rl

682
683
684
685
686
687
688
689
690
691
692
693
694
695
696
697
698
699
700

345

MemName
bership 1946
1947
1948
1949
1950
Veritas .. ....................... 118 130.50 104.00
48.00
108.00
243.00
James A. Foshay...... 232 313.00 272.50 202.00 471.50
487.00
La Cumbre ............... 228 602.75 912.50 788.75 661.00
702.50
224.00
Alta Loma ................. 345 425.45 361.50 347.76 318.00
Lomita ............................ 239 141.00 209.00 154.50 619.25
76.00
A. F. E. Irwin............. 262 472.50
527.00
90.50
602.00
131.00
Metropolitan ............. 122 220.00
172.00
144.00
275.00
Hawthorne ................. 336
317.00
414.00
227.00
309.35
Damascus .................. 513 351.30 393.38 355.88 389.96
276.78
Florence .......... .................. 452 451.40 516.60 516.95 372.00 224.75
531.35
La Brea ............................ 251 555.37 537.87 548.77 475.77
101.50
144.00
Menlo Park .............. 211 117.00
60.50
70.00
Crescenta Valley ..... 355 216.00 182.25 227.00
138.00
269.50
23.00
19.00
16.00
19.00
Fontana ........................... 260
151.25
210.50
188.50
115.00
Jordan ............. . ... .............. 339 208.50
89.00
Monte Vista ·······~·-··· 542 157.50 301.95 249.96 167.00
166.00
101.00
162.00
41.00
30.50
Citro! ···-······-··-······ 168 1,099.00
919.50 1,291.65
708.59 1,037.00
John D. Spreckels..... 593
23.50
44.00
10.00
Livingston . ............. . . . .... 135
101.00
69.00
45.00
64.00
La Habra .................. 166
143.00
45.00
258.00
171.67
Baldwin Park ........... 141 . 65.00
151.00
56.10
93.40
134.00
144.00
162.50
Malta ···················~······ 221
2,872.50 1,208.00
Henry Knox ·····~······ 421 1,913.76 1,500.00
94.60
60.00
105.50
82.50
Ojai . ........... ...................... 96 311.50
154.50
Kaweah ·············-······ 107 214.00 102.00 177.50 135.00
199.75
133.00
142.00
Reseda . . .......................... . 252 315.00
225.00
375.50
Meridian ..................... 452 861.00 1,269.00 296.75 291.50
380.88
321.99
249.50
182.15
San Gorgonio ........... 211 431.96
111.00
94.00
140.50
158.00
John P . Jarman......... 233 lll.00
29.00
101.00
Greenleaf ...........•...... 434 461.00 390.00 572.00
25.00
25.00
30.00
29.00
25.00
San Clemente ...•...... 67
585.50
329.00
400.00
356.00
Laguna Beach ..••...... 175
154.50
220.00
408.50
374.00
Far West ...........•...... 306 204.00
629.00
134.00
Los Cerritos ................ 291 1,207.50 710.00
584.00
991.50
617.50
Modesto ......................... 403
25.00
145.75
238.00
204.50
161.00
Willow Glen ............. 266
Liberal Arts ·····-·····- 272 129.00 594.00 537.00 525.50 557.00
645.10
736.06
757.01
404 464.00
815.25
Altadena
26.50
200.00
133.00
24.10
Canby Cross .....•...... 122
248.50
Carmel ........................ ... 146 210.50 229.00 307.50 324.50
162.50
130.00
66.00
Dos Palos ...........•...... 99 152.50
208.00
Barstow - - · ····· 241 502.50 452.84 427.25 376.51 360.50
36.00
46.25
Redwood Empire .... 76
72.50
174.00
169.25
254.00
260.00
Trona
129 100.50
212.00
500.00
584.50
454.50
san Marfuo··:::::::::::::: 294
447.75
94.00
122.50
104.50
152.50
Albany ............... ................ ...... 162
174.00
Vista .......................... .......... 214 173.50 324.50 302.00 310.00 275.00
386.00
153.00
65.50
Oildale ....... ..... ................. 138 120.50
56.00
46.00
45.00
Pahona ........................... . . . 59
56.00
72.00
304.00
375.50
286.00
San Carlos ................. 184
342.00
400.00
406.00
Indian Wells Valley 202
608.00
65.00
18.75
Travelers .......... .......... . 114
169.25
3.00
113.25
296.50
68.00
Palm Springs ···-······ 111
l14.18
130.00
San Antonia ............. 87
177.00
125.00
177.00
Meudel . ...... ........ . . _.. __.... 85
50.00
185.00
Crossroads ........................ 139
286.26
103.00
St. Elmo ···········---..... 56
210.00
Wm. D. Stephens...... 49
577.00
141.00
Bixby Knolls ............ 115
232.00
Ponderosa .................. 77
109.50
147.50

···--·-······

-

3"16

MemN o.
Name
bership 1946
701 Santa Ynez Valley.... 43
702 Rosemead .................. 55
U.D. Westchester .............. 89
U.D. Orinda ........................ 47
U.D. El Cerrito .................. 48
U.D. Hunters Point Naval 40
U.D. Seafaring .................. 72
U.D. Lake Tahoe .............. 21
U.D. Lorenzo ...................... 45

347

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

CONTRIBUTIONS THROUGH LODGES

1947

1948

1949
71.59
69.00

1950
86.00
112.00
189.38

1948
$187,588.26

71.00
77.50
25.00

1~8

1~9

47,714

52,998

1949
$191.319.68

1950
$194,328.62

INDIVIDUAL CONTRIBUT ORS

1950
49,233

Cash................$194,328.62
TESTIM ENTARY GIFTS

Bequests of cash have been received as follows, up to July 31 , 1950:
Estate of:
Jesse F. Brown (Henry Knox 662) ............................................................$ 2,000.00
Charles W. Buck (Beverly Hills 528)........................................................
59.46
Emil Englund (York 423) ..........................................................................
286.66
Elsie M. K . Frederickson ............................................................................
173.23
Gustav J. Lang (Pentahpha 202) .............................................................. 13,062.50
James Orr (Solano 229) ................................................................................ 9,240.13
Charles L. Pioda (Salinas 204) ..................................................................
500.00
Otto F. Prueser (Kauai 589) ...................................................................... 1,439.15
.T. B. Rothchild (Fidelity 120) ························-·····--·······--·················......... 10,576.19
Bertha Sherwood ............................................................................................
471.01
William D. Shonefelt (Sacramento 40) ....................................................
275.00
Leah Weissman ............................................................:.................................
750.00
Clarence E. Young (Searchlight 567) ......................................................
1,000.00
Total..................................................................................................$39,833.33
MEMORIALS

Justus F . Armstrong
Mrs. Emma Barbeau
Mrs. R. E. Brown
Hubert T. Bryant
Robert L. Cogburn
Mrs. Mary Bell Collyer
Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Crain
Joseph Davis
Louis Dietz, Jr.
Arthur Carl Dwire
E. L. Fisher
Harmon Fisher
Jonathan F. Fulkerson
Everett Gainor
Mrs. George Gillespie
Charles H. Green
Conrad Irwin Hubert
Mrs. Cecelia J ensen
Barkley Johnston
Arthur Laxton
Mrs. Lily Leffler

Edwin Leitch
Oliver P. Murray
William F. Murray
Henry A. Nordquist
Ernest Orr
Walter Page
Walter 0. Perkins
Wm. Peterson
Henry J. Rich
James and Markaret Rolph
Albert A. Rosenshine
E . R. Samuels
Dr. William Fuller Sharp
Joseph Sirbu
John M. Spaulding
Ralph H. Spotts
Edwin Vale
Ernest L. Weule
Edwin B. Winshop
William A. Witte
William F . Zech

348

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

No.

HONORABLE MENTION

Lodges forwarding total contributions in excess of $2.00 per member. (Such contributions were made by 92 Lodges) :
No.
1
3
21
26
35
58
128
143
149
169
178
195
202
207
208
209
214
220
237
242
273
277
278
279
309
323
330
332
333
335
346
352
367
371
377
378
379
383
387
392
409
415
437
444
452
458
462
464
467
470
493
516
520
524
527

Lodge
Members
California ................................................................................ 542
Teham·a .................................................................................... 732
Hawaiian ................................................................................ 476
El Dorado ................................................................................ 241
San Diego ...................................:.......................................... 951
Union ...................................................................................... 702
Visalia ...................................................................................... 533
Franklin ~--······· ······················· ·· ··········· ································ ···· 131
Lassen ...................................................................................... 222
Mission .................................................................................... 711
Phoenix ·········- ······································································· 648
Buckeye .................................................................................. 138
Pentalpha ................................................................................ 554
Anaheim .................................................................................. 409
Rio Vista ......................•......................................................... 149
King David's .......................................................................... 412
San Buenaventura ................................................................ 390
Downey .................................................................................... 509
Guadalupe .............................................................................. 146
Magnolia .................................................................................. 393
Anchor .................................................................................... 532
Selma ........................................................................................ 213
So. California ........................................................................ 514
Hanford .................................................................................. 214
Delano ...................................................................................... 232
Whittier .................................................................................. 645
Kilauea .................................................................................... 238
San Pedro .............................................................................. 505
Alta .......................................................................................... 82
West Gate .............................................................................. 1022
Palo Alto ................................................................................ 680
Sunset ...................................................................................... 401
South Pasadena .................................................................... 584
le Progress de I'Oceanie .................................................... 654
Artesia ...................................................................................... 163

~~~~e ··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Orosi ···············-······························.,······································· 135

~;;fnf!k~··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~g~

Honolulu .................................................................................. 367
Silver Trowel ........................................................................ 395
Lancaster ................................................................................ 244

g~i::f~::.::::.·:::_:::::·=.: :=.: =. ·::~:=.·:::~::::~::: ill

Alta Vista .............................................................................. 278

E~~ifn c-~~-~ ..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~
Atascadero ..............................................................................
Taft ..........................................................................................
Ionic ..........................................................................................
Catalina Island ....................................................................
Covenant ................................................................................

349

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

101
302
740
146
334

Total
$1,177.50
1,569.50
1,065.00
488.00
2,270.30
2.075.70
1,317.20
384.50
491.50
1,508.50
1,464.85
303.00
1,159.50
832.50
301.00
904.00
790.50
1,068.30
438.00
1,112.00
1,122.50
434.00
1,400.00
448.50
475.50
1,450.00
889.00
1,035.00
171.50
2,050.00
1,370.00
832.25
1,453.65
1,498.75
442.00
1,178.80
591.50
284.00
812.00
1,942.00
806.50
806.00
500.50
469.50
930.06
1,628.50
1,174.00
709.25
835.00
1,174.80
217.58
621.50
2,345.25
299.25
742.58

Lodge

Members

545 Jonathan ·································································-···············
566 James A. Garfield ................................................................
576 El Cajon Valley ....................................................................
583 Wasco ..,............................... :...................................................
589 Kauai ........................................................................................
591 Escalon ....................................................................................
595 Alexander G. Bell ................................................................
598 Pearl Harbor ..........................................................................
599 Carmelita ................................................................................
600 Lynwood ...................................................•..............................
602 Melrose ..............................................................:.....................
603 Dimond ....................................................................................
614 Larchmont ········································································-····
623 Menorah ..................................................................................
627 Lamanda Park ......................................................................
628 Truth ........................................................................................
629 Fairview ..................................................................................
637 Palisades ·······································································-·········
640 Veritas ......................................................................................
641 James A. Foshay ..................................................................
642 La Cumbre ............................................................................
650 La Brea ..................................................................................
662 Henry Knox............................................................................
672 Laguna Beach ........................................................................
677 Liberal Arts ..........................................................................
678 Altadena ..................................................................................
681 Dos Palos ................................................................................
684 Trona ........................................................................................
691 Indian Wells Valley ..........................................................
694 San Antonia ............................................................................
695 Meudel ···'·································'·············-·······························
696 Crossroads ..............................................................................
698 Wm. D. Stephens ................................................................
699 Bixby Knolls ..........................................................................
701 Santa Ynez Valley ..............................................................
702 Rosemead ................................................................................
U.D. Westchester ................................................•...........................

•

192
224
232
276
126
125
269
553
308
353
230
277
387
738
234
244
260
371
118
232
228
251
421
175
272
404
99
129
202
87
85
139
49
115
43
55
89

Total
384.00
526.15
519.00
839.00
337.00
324.50
575.15
1,179.00
814.00
716.00
521.70
555.61
794.50
3,031.10
494.00
530.00
576.00
783.00
243.00
487.00
702.50
531.35
1,208.00
356.00
557.00
815.25
208.00
260.00
608.00
177.00
177.00
286.26
577.00
232.00
86.00
112.00
189.38

350

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

DECOTO, CALIFORNIA

ANNUAL REPORT 1949-1950
Names of Resident&-MEN-Average Age 79.14
Name

Admitted

Lodge

351

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.

Town

Age

Adams, HaITison A. ....Nov. 29, '46 Orange Grove ..293 Orange ..................86
Albers, Geol'ge R. ..........Feb. 17, '45 California .......... 1 San Francisco ......82
Alseth, Lars .....................Mar. 7, '34 Moneta ..............405 Los Angeles ........76
Alsing, Fred W ...........Oct. 10, '47 Herman ..............12'1 San Francisco ....75
Anderson, Chas A ......... Nov. 19, '36 Tehachapi ..........313 Tehachapi ............87
Anderson, James S .....Mar. 6, '50 Mount Olive ......506 Loll Angeles ..........65
Anderson, Wm. A .....June 22, '42 Chowchilla ........485 Chowchilla ..........66
Baer, Reubin E .........June 25, '42 Sotoyome ..........123 Healdsburg ..........83
Bassett, Henry N .......Jan. 6, '50 Santa Paula ......291 Santa Paula ........75
Beale, D. Grant ..........June 4, '46 Los Gatos ..........292 Los Gatos ............84
Blanton, John S ...........July 26, '48 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ....82
Boggs, Fred'k. H .......Aug. 10, '47 Bethlehem ..........453 San Francisco ......75
Briggs, Herbert ............Oct. 28, '48 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ..................77
Burke, Harold E .........July 26, '49 York ....................423 Los Angeles ........57
Caldwell, Lysander H. Jan. 5, '50 Searchlight ........567 Long Beach ..........86
Cassady, Earl J .............Feb. 3, '36 G. Washington..525 San Francisco ....79
Casterline, Myron ........Nov. 16, '32 Oceanside ..........381 Oceanside ............85
Childs, Clarence E .......Oct. 8, '41 Palo Alto ..........346 Palo Alto ..............90
Cohl, Benjamin ............Mar. 15, '48 Bay City ............526 San Francisco ......72
Collins, Wm. W .............Sept. 22, '46 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......84
Condon, Wilbert S .........Jan. 11, '42 Apollo ................396 Alameda .............. 74
Conway, Winn P ...........Oct. 21, '45 Roseville ............222 Roseville ..............75
Cowan, Will E .............July. 17, '48 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ........81
Cullen, Alexander ........Feb. 4, '36 Hollywood ..........355 Hollywood ............88
Date, Harrington ..........Mar. 5, '48 Grizzly ..............601 Portola ..................82
Deichmiller, Conrad ....Aug. 3, '45 Oriental ..............144 San Francisco ......86
Dix, Benjamin R. ........June 9, '50 Baldwin Park ....660 Baldwin Park ......88
Dixon, Edgar A. .......... Nov. 19, '48 Charter Rock ... .410 Berkeley ..............76
Donovan, John ..............June 25, '48 Point Firmin ......558 San Pedro ............81
Dowdall, Fder'k W.......Aug. 3, '43 Solano ..................229 Vallejo ..................70
Dowdle, Everett S .......May 18, '48 Yerba Buena ....403 Oakland ................81
Ellsworth, Charles H .....Oct. 14, '49 Union .................. 58 Sacramento ..........73
Engelbrit, Niels ............Nov. 17, '44 Pinole ................353 Hercules ................75
Erwin, Lewis J. ···-·····July 28, '41 Olivet ..................205 Corning ................94
Eybs, Louis ..................Nov. 12, '45 Fairmont ............435 San Francisco ......70
Fairall, Percy ................May 23, '48 Westwood ..........501 Westwood ............62
Felton, Wilson K . ........July 1, '48 Calexico ..............412 Calexico ................83
Fetter, Ferdinand ..........May 19, '50 King Solomon's 260 San Francisco ......90
Finch, John M...........Jan. 10, '50 Forbestown ........ 50 Forbestown ..........87
Frost, Harold G .............Nov. 1, '45 Utopia ................537 Los Angeles ........60
GaITick, Walter J .......Oct. 2, '47 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ........87
Geibel, George F .........May 12, '39 Fairmont ............435 San Francisco ......76
Gelston, Hollister ........ Sept. 12, '49 Mission ................169 San Francisco ......78
Gillman, John E ...........May 28, '47 Argonne ..............514 San Francisco ......'13
Graham, Eugene ..........Dec. 4, '48 Oxnard ..............341 Oxnard ..................85
Greaves, Walter ..........Oct. 18, '32 Apollo ................396 Alameda ..............81
Gregory, George W .......Apr. 25, '36 Sunset ................352 Los Angeles ........84
Halpin, Robel't L .........Oct. 23, '33 Silver Trowel ..415 Los Angeles ........77
Harth, Arthur P ...........Sept. 4, '40 Lindsay ..............416 Lindsay ................76
Heidt, Wesley ........... .Aug. 5, '39 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ......85
Helmet, Victor ..............Sept. 8, '48 Mountain Shade 18 Downieville ..........77
Hewson, Geor.ge E .........Jan. 25, '50 Mt. Moriah ........ 44 San Francisco ......72
Hiltner, Harry B .........Aug. 17, '40 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ......83
Hollman, Harry T . .:......July 15, '48 Paul Revere ......462 San Francisco ......73

Name
~ughes,

Admitted

Lodge

No.

Town

Age

Henry J .........Dec. 26, '35 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ......80
yman, Milton ..........Dec. 15, '47 Starr King ..........344 San Francisco ......64
Hynding, John P . ........May 12, '50 Ferndale ............ 193 Ferndale ..............86
Jack, Chas. P . ..............Jan. 9, '38 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ...... 71
Jefts, Benjamin ............Oct. 27, '48 Justice ................549 San Francisco ...... 77
Joiner, Wm. B. ............Feb. 11, '47 Marin ..................191 San Rafael ............86
Jones, Harry S . ............May 10. '47 Plumas ................ 60 Quincy ..................83
Kaufmann, Emil H .......Mar. 19, '48 East Bay ............489 Berkeley ..............85
Ketcheson, Horace ........Mar. 17, '50 Wilmington ...... 198 Wilmington ..........80
Laloli, James ................June 17, '50 King David's ....209 San Luis Obispo ..89
Lawrence, Edward S ...Mar. 22, '47 Inglewood ......... .421 Inglewood ............58
Lawson, Andrew N.......Dec. 30, '48 Coronado ............441 Coronado ..............75
Learned, Samuel ..........Apr. 8, '48 San Pedro ..........332 San Pedro ............89
Leavitt, Melville ..........Nov. 23, '48 Eureka ................ 16 Auburn ..................80
Leeper, Robert ..............Mar. 20, '50 Delano ................309 Delano ..................69
Lewis, Fred S . ..............July 25, '49 Argonaut ............461 San Francisco ......83
Lewis, William ..............July 13, '45 East Gate ............290 Los Angeles ........78
Mason, Geor~e ..............Nov. 23, '48 Oakland ..............188 Oakland ................79
Matthews, El ert C.......July 10, '35 La Mesa ..............407 La Mesa -··············82
Mearns, John C.............Mar. 3, '47 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......76
Menke, William ............Nov. 26, '49 Richmond ..........375 San Francisco ......77
Miller, Irving W...........Nov. 28, '49 El Centro ............384 El Centro ..............71
Miller, Louis C...........Oct. 30, '48 Doric ..................216 San Francisco ......71
Mills, John ....................Mar. 8, '46 Mill Valley ........356 Mill Valley ..........74
Monson, Edward ..........Sept. 20, '48 Fellowship ........480 Oakland .......... ;.....87
Moore, Andrew A. ........Apr. 25, '50 Redlands ............300 Redlands ..............75
Nathan, Louis ..............June 4, '49 Starr King ..........344 San Francisco ......75
Nelson, James B . ........Apr. 8, '50 California .......... 1 San Francisco ......85
Nixon, Robert D.........Apr. 25, '47 Bell ......................483 Bell ........................89
Oakley, Charles W.......Dec. 16, '49 Nicolaus ...............129 Wheatland ............74
Over, Sirwell C...........June 4, '47 Santa Ana ..........241 Santa Ana ............86
Palmer, James ..............Aug. 14, '47 Salinas ................204 Salinas ..................88
Plato, John ..................Feb. 5, '48 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach ..........86
Porter, Wm. G ...............Aug. 8, '46 Utopia ................537 Los Angeles ........76
Potter, Frank L. ............Nov. 6, '46 Temple City ......612 Temple City ........88
Quilty, Frank E...........Feb. 1, '33 Friendship ..........210 San Jose ..............96
Reed, Samuel B. ..........Mar. 2, '46 Fr. K. Shattuck..571 Berkeley ..............83
Richardson, William T. July 29, '50 Santa Maria ......580 Ramona ................57
Rixen, James B.............Jan. 4, '47 Redwood City ..168 Redwood City ......79
Russell, Frederick ........Dec. 26, '49 Pajaro ..................110 Watsonville ..........79
Rogers, Albert E ...........Feb. 11, '48 Elysian ..............418 Los Angeles ..........72
Rogers, Earl W.............July 27, '49 Harbor ................502 Richmond ............71
Schlichting, Martin ......May 16, '35 Seaport ................550 San Francisco ...... 77
Siefert, Otto E . ............Mar. 19, '49 Eucalyptus ........243 Hayward ..............89
Slagel, Robert B...........Oct. 28, '38 Parnassus ............388 San Francisco ......72
Spaulding, Horace ......Nov. 17, '41 Parnassus ............ 388 San Francisco ......85
Stevenson, John E .......July 18, '47 Starr King ..........344 San Francisco ......84
Stewart, James O...........Feb. 20, '44 Calaveras .......... 78 San Andreas ........79
Stimson, Charles ..........Feb. 12, '49 McCloud ............430 McCloud ..............80
Templeman, Henry ......Dec. 29, '38 Oriental ..............144 San Francisco ......89
Thompson, Charles J ...Nov. 17, '49 Mission ................169 San Francisco ......90
Tilsner, Henry ............Mar. 2, '46 Crockett ..•.........139 San Francisco ......79
Todd, Albert ................Dec. 19, '38 Honolulu ............409 Honolulu ..............80
Tosy, Antonio ..............Sept. 23, '37 Speranza Ita'la ..219 San Francisco ......83
Tuttle, Joseph K. ..........Mar. 17, '46 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ....................78
Vanderwerker, L .........Apr. 13, '47 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ................79
Vorsanger, Edward ....June 10, '37 Martinez ............ 41 Martinez ......~.......82
Walles, John F .............Dec. 11, '45 Golden State ......358 Los Angeles ........91

353

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name
Admitted Lodge
No. Town
Age
Wallis, Abraham ........Nov. 2, '47 Midway ..............426 Taft ........................86
Warren, George ........... Apr. 2, '46 Evergreen ..........259 Riverside ..............90
Watkins, Wilford ..........Apr. 11, '47 Ramona ..............457 Monterey Park ....83
Williams, Chas. F .......Aug. 24, '46 Rockridge ..........468 Oakland ................68
Willis, Walter H ...........Dec. 7, '45 Oakland ..............188 Oakland ................73
Young, Theodore H .......Jan. 4, '47 Fremont ..............497 Oakland ................86

Name
Admitted Lodge
No. Town
Age
Ford, Alice ..................Sept. 1, '49 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ......93
Ford, Sena E .................July 27, '41 Harbor ................502 Richmond ............80
Fortin, Martha ..............July 16, '49 Oakland ..............188 Oakland ................78
Fortriede, Auguste ......Apr. 24, '25 Crocket ..............139 San Francisco ......73
Foster, Elizabeth ..........July 8, '36 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu ..............81
Fox, Gora F ...................Dec. 30, '49 Clovis ..................417 Clovis ....................85
Gafford, Sophia B .........Feb. 7, '49 San Bernardino 348 San Bernardino ..76
Gilliam, Estelle ..............Mar. 20, '46 Hemet ................615 Hemet ..................68
Gillman, Elizabeth ......May 28, '47 Argonne ............514 San Francisco ......64
Goodwin, Emma ..........June 13, '48 Vermont Square 515 Los Angeles ........77
Gowen, Laura ................Jan. 31, '48 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles ........85
Graham, Alice M.........Dec. 4, '48 Oxnard ..............341 Oxnard ..................80
Graham, Mamie E.........May 17, '50 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................81
Grant, Lillian A. ............Oct. 6, '32 Georgetown ...... 25 Georgetown ........76
Green, Nellie J .............Dec. 10, '44 Bethlehem ..........453 San Francisco ......81
Griffith, Rose L ...........Mar. 26, '36 Enterprise .......... 70 Yuba City ............84
Harris, Helena G .........July 13, '46 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................87
Harris, Louise C...........Feb. 19, '33 Pacific ................136 San Francisco ......75
Hawkins, Louisa ..........June 26, '48 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................82
Hazard, Marie ..............Aug. 10, '25 San Jose .............. 10 San Jose ................79
Henderlong, M.............June 4, '46 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda ..............78
Hewitt, Frieda Z.........Nov. 7, '46 King Solomon's 260 San Francisco ......66
Hill, Catherine ..............Apr. 26, '48 Sunset ................352 Los Angeles ........70
Hoover, Emma J . ..........Feb. 5, '50 Pasadena ........... .272 Pasadena ..............70
Howland, Joanna ........Mar. 10. '48 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton ..............87
Huber, Tillie ................July 7, '49 King Solomon's 260 San Francisco ......85
Hyatt, Nannie S ...........Feb. 13, '48 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ..........84
Hyman, Loretta ............Dec. 15, '47 Starr King ..........344 San Francisco ......59
Jack, Mary ....................June 1, '31 Mc:Kinley .......... 347 Richmond ............83
Jackson, May R. ..........Aug. 27, '25 Lompoc ..............262 Lompoc ................91
Jebe, Elise ....................Mar. 10, '48 San Francisco ....360 San Francisco ......78
Jensen, Alice ..................Apr. 16, '48 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ......79
Johnson, Jane ................Jan. 6, '34 P residio ..............354 San Francisco ......84
Joly, Evalyn ..................Feb. 6, '47 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ......85
.tones, Elsie ....................Jan. 26, '49 Charter Rock ... .410 Berkeley ............."77
Kapp, Carrie E .............July 16, '49 San Jose ............ 10 San Jose ................78
Kauffman, Eda B . ........Dec. 7, '46 Alex. Gr. Bell ....595 Los Angeles ........68
Kaufman, Augusta ......Mar. 19, '48 East Bay ............489 Berkeley ..............81
Kautenberg, Caroline .. Nov. 23, '49 Charter Rock ... .410 Berkeley ..............80
Keenan, Effie ..............July 17, '33 Jewell ................374 San Francisco ......73
Kelsey, Ada M...............May 11, '50 South Gate ........320 Los Angeles ........92
Kendrick, Josephine ....Aug. 5, '49 Oakland .............. 188 Oakland ................75
Kidder, Hallie D . ........Dec. 2, '46 Torrance ............447 Torrance ..............83
Krejcik, Otilia ..............Jan. 25, '49 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ................80
Krejcik, Rose ..................Feb. 16, '48 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ......75
Lane, Edith B . ..............Mar. 15, '48 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ..........76
Langenberger, C...........Apr. 26, '47 Jewell ..................374 San Francisco ......85
Larson, Alice B. ............Jan.19, '47 Balder ................393 San Francisco ......72
Larter, Gertrude M .....Sept. 5, '49 Moneta ..............405 Los Angeles ........62
Latham, Martha ............May 10. '50 California .......... 1 San Francisco ......79
Lewis, Elizabeth ............Jan. 4 ,'47 Crockett ..............139 San Francisco ......81
Long, Mary A. ..............Jan. 10, '49 Friendshi:p ........210 San Jose ..............94
Lowell, Lillian ............Sept. 29, '46 Pacific ................136 San Francisco ......89
Mackenzie, May ............June 30, '41 Bay View ............401 Oakland ................72
Maltby, Sarah E ...........Dec. 16, '39 Chico ..................111 Chico ......................80
Mann, Bertha M .........June 10, '33 Naval .................. 87 Vallejo ..................82
Mariner, Helen W .........June 6, '46 Hartley ................199 Lakeport ..............82
Martin, Mary J ...........Dec. 4, '41 Franklin ............143 Courtland ............77
Mayfield, Mary ............Sept. 22, '35 Alpha ..................431 Richmond ....,.......78

352

Names of Residents-WOMEN-Average Age 78.85
Name
Admitted. Lodge
No. Town
Age
Adolphson, Amy L .......May 11, '50 Crocket ..............139 San Francisco ......74
Allen, Ida .................... :...Feb. 17, '40 Balder ................393 San Francisco ......82
Ames, Clementina ........Mar. 8, '41 Mission ..............169 San Francisco ......88
Anderson, Christine ......Apr. 10, '50 Yerba Buena ......403 Oakland ................75
Anderson, Helen ..........June 23, '49 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................82
Aver, Ida M...................Mar. 4, '44 Madison .............. 23 Grass Valley ......80
Aydelotte, Zana ............June 12, '49 East Gate ..........290 Los Angeles ........86
Baker, Annie J ...............May 15, '48 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ................74
Barnes, Ealine G ...........July 7, '34 Liberty ................299. Santa Clara ..........80
Barton, Grace A. ......... .Dec. 24, '43 Concord ..............117 Sacramento ..........61
Bausch, Ella A. ............Oct. 2, '41 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ................86
Blakiston, Edith ........... Apr. 4, '48 California .......... 1 San Francisco ......82
Blank, Maude H ...........Sept. 28, '46 Sacramento ........ 40 Sacramento ..........80
Bodutch, Johanna R. ..Jan. 11, '50 Alameda ............167 Centerville ..........77
Bradic, Elizabeth ..........June 3, '44 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......58
Brockman, Katherine ..Feb. 23, '43 Palo Alto ............346 Palo Alto ..............77
Brod, Laura H ...............Sept. 28, '46 Fidelity ..............120 San Francisco ......87
Brown, Jean L ...............Apr. 23, '50 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ..........70
Brown, Lima C...............May 25, '34 Bethlehem ........453 San Francisco ......93
Brown, May M .............Nov. 29, '42 Washing.ton ........ 20 Sacramento ..........78
Burnett, Ethlan R. ........Feb. 9, '36 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ..................75
Carnall, Louise M .........Dec. 1, '45 Mission ................ 169 San Francisco ......78
Carroll, Nellie P . ..........Aug. 27, '49 Marin ..................191 San Rafael ..........79
Cartwright, Isabella ....July 15, '49 East San Diego ..561 San Diego ............79
Casterline, Mary A. ......Apr. 10, '34 Oceanside ..........381 Oceanside ............77
Cavins, Kittie E .......... Aug. 13, '44 San Diego .......... 35 San Diego ............76
Chappell, Margaret ......Aug. 8, '46 Liberty ................299 Santa Clara ........86
Chase, Aimes C...............Dec. 3, '41 Bethlehem ........453 San Francisco ......81
Clute, Frances E ...........Dec. 11, '48 Marin ..................191 San Rafael ..........74
Congdon, Jessie B .......Apr. 3, '45 Calaveras ............ 78 San Andreas ........76
Costain, Mattie L ..........June 10, '40 San Jose .............. 10 San Jose ..............74
Cowan, Anna E . ............July 17, '48 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ........84
Crowley, Mary A. ........Sept. 28, '46 Mt. Jackson ........295 Guerneville ..........83
Cundell, Isabel ...., .........Dec. 16, '44 Pentalpha ..........202 Los Angeles ........75
Damner, Jennie ............Aug. 27, '42 Pacific ................136 San Francisco ......75
Dickie, Mary E .............May 6, '50 Silveyville ..........201 Dixon ....................71
Dixon, Nora E ...............Feb. 22, '46 West Lake ..........392 Los Angeles ........75
Donald, Flora L .............Apr. 10, '48 Amity ..................370 San Francisco ......62
Douthitt, Edith A. ........Jan. 21, '50 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......73
Edwardes, Lina M.......May 23, '50 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ......68
Edwards, Nellie B .......Jan. 24, '39 Brooklyn ,...........225 Oakland ................75
Elliott, Maude M.........June 15, '48 Beverly Hills ....528 Beverly Hills ......72
Ellsworth, Celeste ........Oct. 14, '49 Union .................. 58 Sacramento ..........65
Enos, Nellie A. ............Aug. 5, '49 Salinas ................204 Salinas ..................88
Erwin, Lillian B. ........July 28, '41 Olivet ..................205 Cornin·g ................77
Ferguson, Ruth R. ........May 26, '34 Sotoyome ............123 Healdsburg ..........93
Fetrow, Dora L ...........May 11, '35 Corinthian.......... 9 Marysville ............81
Finley, Ada L .................Apr. 9, '40 Los Angeles ........ 42 Los Angeles ........79
Fish, Gertrude L .........Jan. 26, '46 Elmhurst ............610 Oakland ................86

354

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name
Admitted Lodge
No. Town
Age
McCord, Zidana ............Oct. 18, '46 Santa Rosa .......... 57 Santa Rosa .......... ,.75
Mccully, Gertie M .......June 10, '46 Educator ............554 San Francisco ...... 74
McCurry, Alice ..........Nov. 27, '48 Union .................. 58 Sacramento ..........88
McDowell, Alice M ....... Mar. 24, '32 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ................ 74
McGarry, Marion ........June 2, '48 Catalina Island ..524 Avalon .................. 62
Mciver, Ella W ............ .July 9, '48 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda .............. 75
McLean, Lucy A. ........Nov. 28, '34 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ...... 74
Mears, Margaretta ...... Sept. 17, '41 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles ........ 69
Merrill, Ivy L ...............Jan. 25, '41 Illinoistown ........ 51 Colfax ..................71
Miller, Statira E ........... Nov. 28, '49 El Centro .......... 384 El Centro ..............'76
Monro, Eddith C ......... Mar. 16, '46 Alpha ................. .431 Richmond ............82
Moore, Louise K. ..........Apr. 25, '50 Redlands ............ 300 Redlands .............. 69
Newman, Susanna ........June 4, '29 Antioch .............. 175 Antoich ................ 88
Nielsen, Este M ...........Oct. 3, '40 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................ 72
O'Donnell, Florence ....June l, '43 Durant ................ 268 Berkeley .............. B7
Otis, Ethel E .................Mar. 22, '48 Silver Gate ........ 296 San Diego ............ 67
Owens, Lenita L ...........Apr. 28, '50 Educator ............554 San Francisco ......B2
Palmer, Elizabeth ........Aug. 14, '47 Salinas ................204 Salinas ..................83
Palmer, Lilla P ...........June 16, '44 Carmel ................6BO Carmel .................. BB
Pankow, Catherine ......Apr. 29, '29 Crockett .............. 139 San Francisco ...... B5
Parizek, Grace D .........Jan. 11, '49 Los Angeles ...... 42 Los Angeles ........7B
Peacock, Katie ..............Mar. 15, '47 Alcatraz .............. 244 Oakland ................ 77
Peairs, Lillian W .........Feb. 11, '35 Normal Heights 632 San Diego ............81
Pearce, Carrie C. ........Oct. 11, '46 Oakland .............. lBB Oakland ................B6
Pease, Mabel ................Oct. 10. '47 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................ 74
Perger, Eva .................. Sept. 8, '45 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................ 73
Phillips, Ida M ............... Nov. 13, '48 Pajaro ................ 110 Watsonville .......... B6
Powell, Belle M ...........May 15, '50 Fairmount ......... .435 San Francisco ...... B4
Prentice, Rose ..............June 30, '45 Marin .................. 191 San Rafael .......... Bl
Preslar, Ida .........·...........Jan. 19, '41 Alcatraz .............. 244 Oakland ................BB
Ramsey, Hattie ............June 23, '40 Monterey ............ 217 Monterey .:.......... B9
Raymond, Lillian ........ Sept. 21, '39 Liberty ................ 299 Santa Clara ........Bl
Reasoner, Marie D .......July 21, '48 Normal Heights 632 San Diego ............ 68
Robertson, Mary F ....... Apr. 28, '46 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento .......... 77
Roeder, Elizabeth ........June 6, '43 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda ..............79
Rogers, Abbey J...........Feb. 11, '48 Elysian ............... .41B Los Angeles ........ 79
Rosie, Elizabeth ..........Jan. 12, '43 LaFayette .......... 126 Sebastapol ............B7
Rudebeck, Anna ..........Dec. 15, '48 Balder .................. 393 San Francisco ...... 7B
Scheuch, Caroline ........Feb. 27, '44 Doric .................... 216 San Francisco ...... B2
Schwartz, Grace H. ......July 12, '42 Arlington ............ 414 Los Angeles ........ 7B
Seymour, Laura ............Feb. 1, '36 Honolulu ........... .409 Honolulu .............. 72
Shanks, Ella ................Sept. 1, '37 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu .............. 79
Sharp, Orry A .............July 16, '45 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ................B9
Smilie, Mary A . ..........Mar. 4, '47 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................ B9
Snyder, Amanda G .......Apr. 13, '37 Bakersfield ........ 224 Bakersfield ..........77
Sparrowe, Constance .. Sept. 27, '40 Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco ......82
Spaulding, Lillian ........ Nov. 17, '41 Parnassus ............3BB San Francisco ...... 79
Sprague, Julia ..............June 29, '47 Acorn ................. .494 Oakland ................ B2
Steele, Fannie T .........June 26, '50 Hanford .............. 279 Hanford ................ B4
Stroud, Laura ..............June 2, '37 Vacaville ............ 134 Vacaville .............. 76
Taylor, Clara B ...........Apr. 2, '48 San Francisco ....360 San Francisco ......89
Thomas, Elizabeth ........Dec. 7, '41 Santa Cruz ........ 38 Santa Cruz .......... 71
Thompson, Celia ........Dec. 16, '33 Eden ..:.................113 San Leandro ........ 79
Trittenbach, Lulu ........Jan. 13, '45 Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco ...... B4
Vale, Olive B. ................June 18, '36 Bethlehem ......... .453 San Francisco ...... 93.
Wade, Georgia M .........Feb. 24, '39 Oak Grove .......... 215 Alameda .............. 7B
Wetzel, Laura .....- .......Dec. 18, '35 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ......BB
Wharton, Mary ..............Mar. 20, '50 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................74
White, Emma C...........Apr.16, '46 Tuscan ................261 Williams .: ..............90

355

Name
Admitted Lodge
·No. Town
Age
W~ittemore? Ida ..........May 5, '46 Mt. Jackson ........ 295 Guerneville ........84

Wilcox, Edith ..............May 3, '36 Durant ................ 26B Berkeley .............. 82
Wild, Lydia ....................Aug. 26, '46 Salinas ................ 204 Salinas .................. 88
Williams, Annie ............ Nov. 3, '46 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......71
W~ll~ams, Louise ..........Feb. 16, '49 San Joaquin ...... 19 Stockton .............. 76
Williams, Mary ............Feb. 17, '43 Holtville ............. .425 Holtville .............. 87
Wilson, Lillie B ........... Oct. 23, '44 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento .......... 80
Winterberg, Clara ........Mar. 1, '50 Starr King .......... 344 San Francisco ......89
Zeehandelaar, Mary ....Jan. 12, '4B West Gate ..........335 Los Angeles ........ 79
AGE GROUPS 1949-1950
Average age groups as follows:
Men
Between 50 and 60 years .......................................... 2
Between 60 and 70 years............................................ B
Between 70 and 80 years......................................... .47
Between BO and 90 years .......................................... 54
90 and over................................................ 7

Women

llB

2

15
77
76
6
176

Average age for men 79.14 and for women 7B.B5
ADMISSIONS: Men 26. Average Age 76.92
Name
Admitted Lodge
No. Town
Age
~nderson, James S .......Mar. 6, '50 Mount Olive ......506 Los Aneeles ........ 65
Bassett, Henry N ...........Jan. 6, '50 Santa Paula ........ 291 Santa Paula ........ 75
odutch, Max ..............Jan. 11, '50 Alameda ............ 167 Centerville .......... 73
Brewer, Harry E ...........Aug. 25, '49 Ocean Park ........ 369 Ocean Park ..........70
Caldwell, Lysander H ... Jan. 5, '50 Searchlight ........576 Long Beach .......... 86
Carstensen, Martin L ... Dec. 3, '49 Acacia ............... .438 Los Angeles ........84
Dix, Benjamin R. ..........June 9, '50 Baldwin Park .. 660 Baldwin Park ....88
Ellsworth, Charles H ... Oct. 10, '49 Union .................. 58 Sacramento ..........73
Fetter, Ferdinand ......May 19, '50 King Solomon's 260 San Francisco ...... 90
Finch, John M ...............Jan. 10, '50 Forbestown ........ 50 Forbestown .......... 87
Gelston, Hollister ........ Sept. 12, '49 Mission .............. 169 San Francisco ...... 7B
Hewson, George E .......Jan. 25, '50 Mt. Moriah ........ 44 San Francisco ...... 72
Hynding, John P ........... May 12, '50 Ferndale ............ 193 Ferndale .............. 86
Ketcheson, Horace ......Mar. 18, '50 Wilmington ........ 198 Wilmington .......... 80
Laloli, James ................June 17, '50 King David's .... 209 San Luis Obispo ..89
Leeper, Robert W .......Mar. 20, '50 Delano ................ 309 Delano ..................69
Menke, William .......... Nov. 26, '49 Richmond ..........375 San Francisco ......77
Miller, Irving w; .......... Nov. 28, '49 El Centro ............ 3B4 El Centro .............. 71
Moore, Andrew A. ........Apr. 25, '50 Redlands ............300 Redlands ..............76
Morris, Frederick D .....Mar. 11, '50 Ophir .................. 33 Murphys ..............69
Nelson, James B .........Apr. 8, '50 California .......... 1 San Francisco ......86
Oakley, Charles W .......Dec. 16, '49 Nicolaus .............. 129 Wheatland ............7f
Richardson, William ..July 29, '50 Santa Maria ......5BO Ramona ................57
Russell, Frederick _...... Dec. 26, '49 Paparo ................ 110 Watsonville ..........79
Schelling, Eugene ......May 25, '50 South Gate ........ 320 Los Angeles ........68
Thompson, Charles J ... Nov. 17, '49 Mission ..............169 San Francisco ...... 90

ADMISSIONS: Women 27. Average Age 76.48
Name
Admitted Lodge
No. Town
Age
Anderson, Christine ....Apr. 10, '50 Yerba Buena ..... .403 Oakland ................75
Adolphson, Amy L .......May 11, '50 Crockett ..............139 San Francisco ......74
Bodutch, Johanna R. ....Jan. 11, '50 Alameda ............ 167 Centerville ..........77
Brown, Jean L . ............Apr. 23, '50 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ..........70

356
Name

Admitted

Lodge

No.

Town

DEATHS 1949-1950: Women 21. Average Age 87.15

Age

Carroll, Nellie P ...........Aug. 27, '49 Marin .................. 191 San Rafael ..........79
Dickie, Mary E .............May 6, '50 Silveyville .......... 201 Dixon .................... 71
Douthitt, Edith A. ......Jan. 21, '50 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......73
Edwardes, Lina M.......May 23, '50 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ......68
Ellsworth, Seleste H ..... Oct. 14, '49 Union .................. 58 Sacramento ..........65
Enos, Nellie A. ..............Aug. 5, '49 Salinas ................204 Salinas ..................88
Ford, Alice ....................Sept. 1, '49 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ......93
Fox, Cora F ...................Dec. 30, '49 Clovis .................•.417 Clovis ....................65
Graham, Mamie E .......May 17, '5Q Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................81
Hoover, Emma J ...........Feb. 5, '50 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena .............. 70
Kautenberg, Caroline ..Nov. 23, '49 Charter Rock ... .410 Berkeley ..............80
Kelsey, Ada M.............May 11, '50 South Gate ........20 Los Angeles ........92
Kelso, Mae .................... Sept. 24, '49 W. G. Harding ....579 N. Sacramento ....71
Kendrick, Josephine ....Aug. 5, '49 Oakland ..............188 Oakland ................74
Larter, Gertrude M..... Sept. 5, '49 Moneta ............... .405 Los Angeles ........62
Lathem, Martha ............May 10, '50 California .......... 1 San Francisco ......79
Miller, Statira E ...........Nov. 28, '49 El Centro ............384 El Centro ..............76
Moore, Louise I. ......... .Apr. 25, '50 Redlands ............ 300 Redlands ..............69
Owens, Lenita L. .. ......Apr. 28. '50 Educator ............554 San Francisco ......82
Powell, Belle M.............May 15, '50 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ......84
Steele, Fannie T ...........June 26, '50 Hanford .............. 279 Hanford ..............•.84
Wharton, Mary C.........Mar. 20. '50 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................74
Winterberg, Clara ........Mar. 1, '50 Starr King .......... 344 San Francisco ...... 89

Name

DEATHS: 1949-1950: Men 26. Average Age 77.96
Admittes

Lodge

No.

Town

Age

Andrews, Frank H ....... Sept. 18, '49 Durant ................ 268 Berkeley ..............79
Archer, Ernest E .......Aug. 30, '49 Palo Verdes ......389 Long Beach ........82
Barton, Louis G.........Sept. 23, '49 Concord ..............117 Sacramento .......... 76
Bodutch, Max ..............Aug. 24, '50 Alameda ............167 Centerville ..........73
Bray, William ..............July 19, '50 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ..................81
Carstensen, Martin L. ..May 17, '50 Acacia ............... .438 Los Angeles ........84
Cox, Levitt H ...............June 27, '50 Parnassus ..........388 San Francisco ......82
Garfield, Walter P .......Aug. 5, '49 Victory ............... .474 San Francisco ......78
Graefner, Leopold ......Sept. 4, '49 East Gate ..........290 Los Angeles ........ 92
Hamann, Ernest A. W. Nov.17, '49 California .......... 1 San Francisco ......79
Hullinger, Frank ..........Jan. 8, '50 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ................ 72
Johnson, August ........Nov. 30, '49 Mission .............. 169 San Francisco ...... 76
LeHana, Victor ............Sept. 11, '49 LaParfaite Un. 17 San Francisco ......71
Meichsner, Friedrick ... .Apr. 1, '50 Brooklyn ............ 225 E. Oakland ..........79
Morris, Frederick D .....July 21, '50 Ophir .................. 33 Murphys ..............59
Morrison, William F .....Apr. 1, '50 Solano ................229 Vallejo ..................87
McCathron, John G .....Oct. 25, '49 Coronado ............441 Coronado ..............71
Park, Burnett C...........Dec. 1, '49 Seaside ..............504 Long Beach ..........78
Pickett, Frank A ...........July 7, '50 Friendship ........210 San Jose ..............83
Pouyet, Eugene ............May 22, '50 Catalina Is .........524 Avalon .................. 66
Reaper, Robert W .........June 27, '50 Starr King ........ 344 San Francisco ......72
Schemmerling, F ........ .Feb. 26, '50 Dunsmuir ..........297 Dunsmuir ............78
Tambs, Emil ..................Mar. 2, '50 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ................85
Thomas, Jesse G .........June 21, '50 Chico ......•............. 111 Chico ....................88
Watson, Sidney ............Nov. 25, '49 Mission ..............169 San Francisco ......83
Wood, Drew L .............May 7, '50 Visalia ................ 128 Visalia .................. 73

Admitted

Lodge

No.

Town

Age

Abbey, Emma H ......... Oct. 15, '49 Memet ................615 Hemet ..................80
~le~andAh ~aif .......
25, '49 Tast Gate ............290 Los Angeles ........91
ar on,
me . ........ pr. 25, '50 ruckee ..............200 Truckee
98
ertram
Annie
L
0
t
B lt
F
M'.
M · ...... c · 7• '49 D urant ................268 Berkeley ················88
e on,
ary .............Dec. 16, '49 Mt. Davidson ....481 San FranciSco .......74
~owler, Mary B ...........Oct. 25, '49 Solano ................229 Vallejo
......83
H~rv~y, Sarah C.........Dec. 7, ;49 Re11;ding ..............254 Redding··::::::::::::::::79
1ggms, Rhoda J ......... Oct. 19, 49 Calistoga ............ 233 Calistoga
85
Kelso, Mae .................... June 4, '50 W. G. Harding .. 579 N Sacram~;;i~......71
i:forfan, Martha L .......June 24, ;50 Fa~~ount ......... .435 S~n Francisco ..::::s2
~b e, Grace F ............... July 8, 50 Trm1ty ................ 27 Weaverville
90
1ley, E~na M...............Jan. 10, '50 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena
........ 78
Roe, Addie E ...................Feb. 17, '50 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland .............. s~
Root • Emma
F ................ .Au g · 16 ' ,'49 Occ1"denta1 .......... 22 San Francisco
················
R
.
......84"'
o~s, Ellza'!Jeth ............. .Aug. 27, 49 Crockett ..............139 San Francisco
78
Spivey, Elizabeth ........Apr. 5, '50 Rio Vista ............208 Rio Vista
······94
Stewart, Ma~ ...... :·······June 18, '50 Concord ..............117 Sacrament·a·····..····80
Tho_mson, W1~helmma .. Oct. 6, '49 Durant ................268 Berkeley
..........88
~hidden, Effie E .........Dec, 2, ;49 Teh!lma .............. 3 Sacramento·::::::::::ss
ordon, E~ma ..............July 9, 50 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco
71
Zander, Olive R. ..........July 13, '50 Naval .................. 87 Vallejo ............

fct.

R

::::::00

WITHDRAWALS: Men 5. Average Age 73.2
Name

Name

357

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Withdrawn

Lodge

No.

Town

Age

Ashworth, Fred D .........Jan. 15, '50 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco
79
Brewer, Harry E .........Apr. 15, '50 Ocean Park ......369 Ocean Park ······70
Frencl_l, George R. ......Aug. 5, ;49 King Solomon's 260 San Francisc.;·::::::s2
McGu~re, Charles ........Apr. 21, 50 Park ....................449 San Francisco
67
Schelling, Eugene ......July. 14, '50 South Gate ........ 320 Los Angeles ..::::::as
WITHDRAWALS: Women 2. Average Age 78.5
Name

Withdrawn

Lodge

No.

Town

Age

Boorman, Lillian ..........Nov. 9, '49 San Pasqual ..... .452 Pasadena
74
Wolfson, Bertha ..........May 13, '50 Silver Gate ........ 296 San Diego··::::::::::::sa
STATEMENT OF THE A VER.AGE NUMBER OF RESIDENTS
August 1, 1949-July 31, 1950
1949

Women
1.73
176

171

172
170

171
171

173
175
181
179
176

358

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Monthly Average for the Year

~~~~~··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::··11197~
EMPLOYEES
1949

~f:::~:-~·~:::: : : ::=::==.:::=:_::::::::~::.~=.~::: :~:=: ~:· ::§
1950

~{~:\{ '.-~~{\'.~=.~: :~: ~~~=-~: \ ~ : ~ \-:~ = }~~'.:~ ~ }~
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

DECOTO. CALIFORNIA

ANNUAL REPORT 1949-1950
VISITATIONS

August 7 1949. Church services:
Rev. H. A. Farrar, First Baptist
Church, Hayward.
.
August 14 1949. Church services:
Rev. G. c.' Henchelwood, Trinity
Episcopal Church, Hayward.
August 14 1949. East Bay Past
Masters and 'wardens visitation.
August 20, 1~49. East Bay ~~t ~fa­
trons Association, annual visitation.
August 21, 1949. Church services:
Salvation Army, Hayward.
August 27, 1949. Oakland Lodge
No. 188, Oakland. Visitation and entertainment.
.
August 28, 1949. Church servic~s:
Rev. Myron Herrell, Methodist
Church, Hayward.
September 4, 1949. Chu~ch services: Rev. H . A. Farrar, First Baptist Church, Hayward.
September 10, 1949. Far West
Lodge No. 673, San Francisco, Degree work.
September 11, 1949. Church se~v­
ices: Rev. G. C. Henchelwood, Trmity Episcopal Church, Hayward.
· September 11, ·1949. Acorn Lodge
No. 494, Oakland, minstrel show.
September 16, 1949. Foot Hill
Lodge No. 564, Oakland, program.
September 18, 1949. Church services, Salvation Army, Hayward.

September 18, 1949. So. San F~an­
cisco Lodge No. 212, San Francisco,
visitation and program.
September 24, 1949. Officers Association, 51st Masonic District, entertainment.
September 25, .1949. Church se~­
ices: Home choir and community
singing.
September 25, 1949. 36th Masonic
District, entertainment.
September 28, 1949. Mr. Badger,
musical entertainment.
October 1 1949. Point Lodge No.
503, Richmond, Third Degree.
October 2, 1949. Church services:
Rev. H. A. Farrar, First Baptist
Church, Hayward.
October 2, 1949. Occidental Lodge
No. 22, picnic.
October 8, 1949. Salinas Lodge No.
204, Degree Work.
October 9 1949. Church services:
Home choir 'and community singing.
October 12, 1949. Grand Lodge visitation.
October 15, 1949. Santa Clara
County Shrine Club, program.
October 16, 1949. Church services:
Salvation Army, Hayward.
October 16, 1949. John P. Jarman
Lodge No. 669, program.

October 22, 1949. Crockett Lodge
No. 139, Degree and entertainment.
October 23, 1949. Church services:
Rev. Myron Herrell, Methodist
Church, Hayward.
October 29, 1949. 36th Masonic District, 2nd Degree.
October 30, 1949. Church services:
Home choir and community singing.
October 31, 1949. Halloween party.
November 5, 1949. Francis K. Shattuck Lodge No. 571, Degree work.
November 6, 1949. Church services: Rev. H . A. Farrar, First Baptist Church, Hayward.
November 13, 1949. Church services: Rev. G. C. Henchelwood, Trinity Episcopal Church, Hayward.
November 20, 1949. Church services: Salvation Army, Hayward.
November 27, 1949. Church services: Rev. Myron Herrell, Methodist
Church, Hayward.
December 3, 1949. Maude A. Tollifson Vocal Studio, musical program.
December 4, 1949. Church services:
Rev. H. A. Farrar, First Baptist
Church, Hayward.
December 11, 1949. Church services: Rev. G. C. Henchelwood, Trinity Episcopal Church, Hayward.
December 16, 1949. Mrs. Saunders,
Christmas Carols.
December 17, 1949. Alameda Rainbow Girls, Christmas Carols.
December 18, 1949. Church services: Salvation Army, Hayward.
December 20, 1949. Washington
Township Girl Scouts, Christmas
program.
December 21, 1949. Mont Clair
Women's Club, Christmas Carols.
December 23, 1949. Episcopal
Choir, Centerville, Carols.
December 25, 1949. Home folks
Christmas party.
December 31, 1949. New Year's
Eve party.
January: 1, 1950. Church services:
Rev. H . A. Farrar, First Baptist
Chureh, Hayward.
January 8, 1950. Chur ch services :
Rev. G. C. Henchelwood, Trinity
Episcopal Church, Hayward.
January 15, 1950. Church services:
Salvation Army, Hayward.
January 22, 1950. Church services:
Rev. Myron Herrell, Methodist
Church, Hayward.

359

January 29, 1950. Church services:
Rev. R. C. Norberg, Congregational
Church, Hayward.
February 5, 1950. Church services:
Rev. H. A. Farrar, First Baptist
Church, Hayward.
February 12, 1950. Church services:
Rev. G . C. Henchelwood, Trinity
Episcopal Church, Hayward.
February 19, 1950. Church services:
Rev. Harold V. Reeves, First Christian Church, Hayward.
February 26, 1950. Church services:
Rev. Myron Herrell, Methodist
Church, Hayward.
March 5, 1950. Church services:
Rev. H. A. Farrar, First Baptist
Church, Hayward.
March 11, 1950. Visitation by Trustees of Masonic Homes.
March 12, 1950. Church services:
Rev. G. C. Henchelwood, Trinity
Episcopal Church, Hayward.
March 18, 1950. Mission Lodge No.
160, Third degr ee.
March 19, 1950. Church services:
Rev. Harold V. Reeves, First Christian Church, Hayward.
March 26, 1950. Church services:
Rev. Myron Herrell, Methodist
Church, Hayward.
April 2, 1950. Church services: Rev.
H. A. Farrar, First Baptist .Church,
Hayward.
April 8, 1950. Selma Lodge No. 277.
First Degree.
April 9, 1950. Church services: Rev.
G. C. Henchelwood, Trinity Episcopal Church, Hayward.
April 15, 1950. Utopia Lodge No.
537, program.
April 16, 1950. Church services:
Rev. Harold V. Reeves, First Chr istian Church, Hayward.
April 21, 1950. Hayward Girl
Scouts, program.
April 23, 1950. Church services:
Rev. Myron Herrell, Methodist
Church, Ha yward, California.
April 23, 1950. San Carlos Masonic
Club, program.
April 26, 1950. Decoto Eighth Graders, folk dancing.
April 29, 1950. San Jose Lodge No.
10, F. & A. M., entertainment.
April 30, 1950. Church services:
Rev. R. C. Norberg, Congregational
Church , Hayward.
May 6, 1950. Stanislaus Lodge No.
206, F. & A. M., program.

360

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

May 7, 1950. Church services: Rev.
H. A. Farrar, First Baptist Church,
Hayward.
May 7, 1950. Eden Lodge No. 113,
F. & A. M., entertainment.
May 12, 1950. Plymouth Lodge No.
560, F. & A. M., degree work.
May 13, 1950. Paul Revere Lodge
No. 462, F. & A. M., First and Third
Degrees.
May 14, 1950. Church services: Rev.
G. C. Henchelwood, Trinity Episco:
pal Church, Hayward.
May 17, 1950. Diamond Lodge No.
603, F. & A. M., Third Degree,
May 21, 1950. Church services: Rev.
Harold Reeves, First Christian
Church, Hayward.
May 21, 1950. San Francisco Chapter Order of DeMolay, Mothers Day
program.
May 24, 1950. Eden Lodge No. 113,
F. & A. M., Degree work.
May 27, 1950. Warren G. Harding
Lodge No. 579, F. & A. M., Third
Degree.
May 28, 1950. Church services: Rev.
Myron Herrell, Methodist Church,
Hayward.
May 30, 1950. Redwood City Lodge
No. 168, F. & A. M., program.
May 30, 1950. Memorial services
for departed residents of the Home.
June 4, 1950. Church services: Rev.
H. A. Farrar, First Baptist Church,
Hayward.
June 6, 1950. Elmhurst Lodge No.
610, F. & A. M., First Degree.

June 10, 1950. Naval Lodge No.
87, F. & A. M., visitation.
June 11, 1950. Church services:
Rev. G. C. Henchelwood, Trinity
Episcopal Church, Hayward.
June 11, 1950. Tyrian Lodge No.
439, F. & A. M., visitation.
June 13, 1950. Aloha Temple
Shrine Patrol Pilgrimage, Hawaiian
entertainment.
June 17, 1950. Berkeley Lodge No.
363, F. & A. M. Degree and program.
June 18, 1950. Church services:
Rev. Harold Reeves, First Christian
Church, Hayward.
June 19, 1950. Masonic Homes
Executive Association, visitation and
program.
_
June 20, 1950. Centerville School
Children, Carol Jean Famariss, instructor, entertainment.
June 24, 1950. 36th Masonic District, Second Degree.
June 25, 1950. Church services:
Rev. Myron Herrell, Methodist
Church, Hayward.
July 2, 1950. Church services: Rev.
H. A. Farrar, First Baptist Church,
Hayward.
July 16, 1950. Church services: Rev.
Harold Reeves, First Christian
Church, Hayward.
July 16, 1950. Olive Branch No.
169, 0. E. S. Program.
July 23, 1950. Church services: Rev.
Orr, Baptist Church, San Lorenzo.

DECOTO, .CALIFORNIA
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
ANNUAL REPORT 1949-1950
CONTRIBUTIONS
August 9, 1949-Mr. Geor·g e R. McDonald, Hayward, California. Vegetables.
August 10, 1949-L. Harold Anderson, Howard McKinley, Herbert Jeffreys, 245 Market Street, San Francisco. Assortment of books and magazines.
August 20, 1949-East Bay Past
Matrons Association. 13,085 glasses of
jams and jellies, 361 quarts of fruit
and pickles, 1 box Gravenstein apples, 2 boxes fresh peaches, 1 sack
fresh prunes, 1 sack fresh pears, 16
cakes.
August 20, 1949-Mrs. Essie Hickman 1650 Solano Avenue, Berkeley.
AssC:rtment of men's clothing.

August 20, 1949 - Anonymous contributor unknown. Several boxes
of jig-saw puzzles.
September 8, 1949-Lloyd E. Wilson, Grand Secretary, San Francisco.
1 lot of magazines and books.
September 11, 1949 - Mrs. F.
French, 70 Bellevue Avenue, Piedmont, California. Assortment of magazines.
September 22, 1949-Mr. Miron E.
Smith, 2522 W. Street, Sacramento.
1 box of pears.
September 22, 1949-So. San Francisco Lodge No. 212, San Francisco.
Cigars, cigarettes, and candy.
September 25, 1949 - Woodstock

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge No. 491, Alameda. Rolls and
pastry.
October 1, 1949-Point Lodge No.
503, Richmond. Candy and cigarettes.
October 5, 1949-Mr. Robert Atkins, 150 Sutter Street, San Francisco. 1 carton of men's straw hats.
October 5, 1949-Mr. W.W. Clements, 2303 Lake Street, San Francisco. 1 box of men's clothing.
October 10, 1949 - F. D. Howell,
155 Spruce Avenue, Menlo Park. 1
box of books.
October 10, 1949-Maspha Chapter
198, 0.E.S., Brentwood, California.
3 boxes of jams.
October 13, 1949-W. P. Rockwell,
746 - 8th Street, Oakland. 1 box of
magazines and books.
October 15, 1949-William, Law, a
member of Santa Ana Lodge No. 241
presented to S. C. Over, a member of
the Home, a large box of bulbs,
which he in turn presented to the
gardener for planting in the Home
gardens.
October 17, 1950-George Munroe,
520 Kentucky Ave., San Mateo. Radio books and others.
October 18, 1949-L. J. Arms, 631
O'Farrell Street, San Francisco. 1
hat, 2 pairs of shoes.
October 23, 1949 - Mr. 0. W.
Brooks, Fruitvale Station, Oakland.
Assortment of magazines.
October 24, 1949 - Mr. Frank R.
Philbrook, 9601 Belton Road, Los Angeles. Assortment of men's suits.
October 28, 1949-B. Ersepke, 335
Granada Avenue, San Francisco. 2
boxes of books.
November 12, 1949 - Mr. M. E.
Smith, 2522' W. Street, Sacramento.
1 box of Persimmons.
November 15, 1949-Mr. M. Alexander, 555 Post Street, San Francisco.
1 carton of men's clothing.
November 18, 1949 - Sacrameuto
Board of Relief & Control, Chalmers
E. West. Assortment of magazines.
November 19, 1949-Mr. and Mrs.
Robert Lane, Box 11, Sunol. 2 boxes
of magazines.
November 25, 1949 - Mrs. Lena
Wilson, 302 N. 10th Street, Santa
Paula. Assortment of fine men's
clothing.
December 1, 1949 Tuolumne
Chapter O.E.S. No. 123, Sonora, Irma
Cone, W.M. 1 box of jellies and jams.

361

December 5, 1949-Mr. Robert D.
Kirwin, Secretary, San Fernando
Valley National Federated Craft No.
119, Burbank, California. Assortment
of Christmas cards.
.
December 12, 1949 - Mr. Robert
Drews, 650 Geary Street, San Francisco. Books, magazines and 3 sweaters.
December 12, 1949 - William W.
Clements, 2303 Lake Street, San
Francisco. Box of clothing.
December 16, 1949-East Bay Past
Matrons, Oakland. 4 hospital gowns.
December 20, 1949 Coachella
Lodge No. 476, F.&A.M., Indio, California. 4 boxes of dates.
December 16, 1949 Franklin
Chapter No. 20, R.A.M., Oroville,
California. 5 gallon keg of olives.
December 20, 1949 Oroville
Lodge No. 103, F.&A.M., Oroville,
California. 5 gallon keg of olives.
December 23, 1949 - Order of
Rainbow Girls, San Jose Chapter No.
5, San Jose. 10 pounds chocolate
candy.
December 23, 1949 - Mr. Guido
Brandal, of the E. A. Wright Co.,
Oakland. Case of apricot jams.
December 24, 1949 - Palo Alto
Lodge No. 346, Palo Alto. 1 box of
apples, 1 box of candy canes.
December 24, 1949-Mr. Otis Olson,
3849 Concord Blvd., Concord. 1 box
of walnuts.
December 24, 1949-Salinas Lodge
No. 204, Salinas. Box of 40 records.
December 24, 1949 - High "12"
Club of Hayward, Hayward. Candy,
cigars and cigarettes.
December 26, 1949 - Mr. Melvin
Olson, Monterey, California. 1 fine
wool blanket.
December 27, 1949-Mrs. Madsen,
251 S. Carmelita St., Hemet. 1 box of
dates.
January 18, 1950-Frank J. Douthick, 953A Dolores St., San Francisco.
Several boxes of women's clothing
and hats.
January 30, 1950-Mr. J. H. Waller,
4208 Camero Ave., Hollywood. 5
men's bed jackets.
February 1, 1950-F. Lapzies, 1847
Grant Ave., San Francisco. 1 package of magazines.
February 11, 1950 - Dr. W. S.
O'Connor, 1132 "B" St., Hayward. 1
large assortment of books.

362

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

February 12, 1950 - Mr. Milton
Beik, 341 Orchard Ave., Sunnyvale.
Lot of National Geographic magazines.
February 14, 1950-Mr. Victor A.
Hermann, P. 0. Box 624, Burlingame.
Assortment of men's clothing.
February 19, 1950-Mrs. Margaret
Baptie, 667 - 40th Street, Richmond.
1 box of cosmetics.
February 19, 1950 - Mr. Harry
Hersch, 783 Bush Street, San Francisco. Large supply of stationery.
February 22, 195~Mr. Gerald L.
Barbeau, 3929 Everett Ave., Oakland. Large box of cross-word puzzles.
February 27, 1950--Mr. G. P. Sorensen, Oakland Trowel Club, Oakland. Assortment of flower bulbs.
March 1, 1950-Stockton Chapter
No. 373, O.E.S., Stockton. Assortment of jellies, canned goods, tea
bags, tea cookies, candy mints.
March 2, 1950 - Mr. W. E. Van
Doven, 615 Fourth Street, San Francisco. 11 cartons smoking tobacco.
March 5, 195~Mr. Paul H. Baxter, W.M., Oak Grove Lodge No. 215,
Alameda. Magazines, cards and cane.
March 5, 195~Mr. Harry Hitke,
Sr. Warden, Warren G. Harding
Lodge No. 579, 3144 - 14th Street,
Sacramento. Books and magazines.
March 17, 1950-Mrs. Manuel Silva,
Castroville, California. 3 •b oxes of
men's clothing.
March 31, 1950-Mr. L. J. Arms,
631 O'Farrell Street, San Francisco.
Suit of men's clothes and hat.
March 31, 1950-Sent through the
Grand Lodge, San Francisco. Box of
Brushless Shaving Cream.
April 9, 1950- Selma Lodge No.
277, F.&A.M., Selma. 4 cases of packaged raisins, assortment of jellies and
fruits.
April 9, 1950-Mr. F. D. Howell,
101 N. Citrus Avenue, Los Angeles.
Box of books.
April 9, 1950-Mr. Lloyd E. Bailey,
Centerville, California. Lot of cauliflower.
April 10, 1950-Miss Betty Butler,

214 Front Street, San Francisco. Box
of "Accent."
April 20, 195~Mr. Andrew Jackson, 159 Reamer Street, Auburn,
California. Fine assortment of men's
clothing.
April 24, 1950-Mrs. Stafford, 860
Bush Street, San Francisco. Danish
Calendar.
April 24, 1950-Mrs. A. B. Dahl, 860
Bush Street, San Francisco. 2 books.
May 13, 1950-Mr. W. M. Williams,
2608 Ellsworth Street, Berkeley.
Fresh salmon.
May 17, 195~Mr. B. B. Johnson,
5413 El Camile, Oakland. Assortment of groceries, soap and cleaning
supplies.
.
May 31, 195~Mr. W. A. Huggms,
2903 Carolyn Way, Sacramento. 1
overcoat and 3 suits.
June 3, 1950-Mr. C. H. Shulte,
2850 Cypress, Lemon Grove, California. Cards, cigars, etc.
June 8, 1950-Leonard Gross, 2310
E. 52nd Street, Los Angeles. 1 gray
suit of clothes.
June 8, 195~Mr. F. Lapzies, 1847
Grant Avenue, San Francisco. 1 pkg.
National Geographic magazines.
June 19 1950-Sidney H . Kessler,
1150 Kirkham Street, San Francisco.
GPm, candy, etc.
July 12, 1950 - Mrs. Marie Hall,
5034 Lemon Grove Ave., Los Angeles. 1 large lot of men's clothing.
July 14, 1950-Mr. F. D. Howell,
155 Spruce Street, Menlo Park. 1 box
of books.
July 16, 1950 - Olive Branch No.
169, O.E.S., San Francisco. Cakes,
cookies, jams.
July 19, 1950-Anonymous-donor
unknown. 1 new wheel chair.
July 19, 195~Division of Fish &
Game, J. G. McKerlie, Warden, 1211
Santa Clara Avenue, Alameda. 1
deer.
July 19, 195~Mr. C. M. Wollenberg, 2070 Pacific Avenue, San Francisco. 1 chair.
July 28, 1950-Mr. George Meyer,
56 Delong Street, San Francisco.
Canes.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

363

DECOTO CHRISTMAS AND ENTERTAINMENT FUND, 1949-1950
No.

1
3
8
9
10
12
13
16
17
19
20
21
22
23
24
26
27
30
32
35
37
38
40
41
43
44
45
46
51
57
58
61
64
65
70
78
80
81
84
87
93
99
101
106
110
111
117
120
122
124
121:5
127
128
129
131
136
139
14~

Lodge

Amount
California .. :.....................$ 25.00

No.

Lodge

Tehama ........................... .
Tuolumne ....................... .
Corinthian ..................... .
San Jose ......................... .
Yount .............................. ..
Nevada ........................... .
Eureka ............................. .
La Parfaite Union ..........
San Joaquin ................... .
Wash~gton ................... .
Hawauan ....................... .
Occidental ....................... .
Madison ......................... .
Mariposa ........................ ..
El Dorado ....................... .
Trinity ............................. .
Golden Gate ................. .
Gold Hill ..........................
San Diego ......................
Howard ........................... .
Santa Cruz ..................... .
Sacramento ................... .
Martinez ......................... .
Hiram ............................. .
Mount Moriah ................
Crescent ......................... .
Texas ................................
Illinoistown ................... .
Santa Rosa .................... ..
Union ............................... .
Live Oak ....................... .
Natoma ........................... .
Amador ........................... .
Enterprise ....................... .
Calaveras ....................... .
Ione ..................................
Yolo ................................. .
Vesper ............................. .
Naval ............................... .
St. Helena ....................... .
Yosemite ,........................ .
Clay ................................. .
Arcata ............................. .
Pajaro ............................. .
Chico ............................... .
Concord ........................... .
Fidelity ........................... .
Alamo ............................. .
Table Mountain .......... ..
Lafayette ....................... .
Hermann ......................... .
Vise.Ha ............................. .
Nicolaus ......................... .
Woodbridge ................... .
Pacific ............................. .
Crockett ..........................
Franklin ......................... .

144
156
166
167
168
169
178
179
180
181
187
188
191
192
193
194
198
199
200
201
203
206
208
209
210
211
212
215
217
218
219
220
222
224
225
226
228
236
240
241
245
246
247
253
254
256
258
259
261
262
264
265
267
268
269
272
274
278

Oriental ........................... .
Woodland ....................... .
Excelsior ......................... .
Alameda ......................... .
R~d"'.l'ood City ............... .
M1ss1on .......................... ..
Phoenix ........................... .
Mendocino ..................... .
Petaluma ....................... .
Russian River ............... .
Keith ............................... .
Oakland ......................... .
Marin ............................... .
Santa Barbara .............. ..
Ferndale ......................... .
Mountain View ..............
Wilmington ................... .
Hartley ........................... .
Truckee ........................... .
Silveyville ..................... .
Confidence ..................... .
Stanislaus ....................... .
Rio Vista ......................... .
King David's ..................
Friendship ..................... .
San Benito .................... ..
S. San Francisco ........... .
Oak Grove ..................... .
Monterey ....................... .
Mosaic ............................. .
Speranza Italiana ......... .
Downey ........................... .
Roseville ......................... .
Bakersfield ..................... .
Brooklyn ........................ ..
San Mateo ..................... .
Athens ............................. .
Hills Ferry ..................... .
Colusa ............................. .
Santa Ana ..................... .
Laurel ..............................
Pomona ........................... .
Fresno ..............................
Landmark ....................... .
Redding ........................... .
Lodi ..................................
Penrhyn ......................... .
Evergreen ....................... .
Tuscan ............................. .
Lompoc .......................... ..
Hesperian ....................... .
Orland ............................. .
Galt ..................................
Durant ............................. .
Olive Branch ..................
Pasadena ....................... .
Arroyo ............................. .
So. California ............... .

10.00
5.00
10.00
15.00
2.50
2.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
20.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
40.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
12.50
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
2.50
2.50
5.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
32.50
15.00
10.00
5.00
20.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
15.00
5.00

Amount

25.00
5.00
12.50
5.00
10.00
25.00
20.00
5.00
12.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
12.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
7.50
5.00
10.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
15.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
12.50
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
20.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
12.50
20.00
5.00
5.00
7.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.QO
10.00

364
No.
279
. 280
282
283
285
290
292
293
297
299
301
305
306
313
314
317
319
320
321
324
326
327
328
331
332
336
337
341
343
344
346
347
348
349
351
353
356
360
362
363
366
367
370
371
374
375
376
377
379
382
384
385
388
389
·393
396
397
400
401
403

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Amount
Lodge
Hanford ..........................
30.00
Madera ...- .......................
5.00
Calayomi ........................
10.00
South West ....................
10.00
San Miguel ......................
5.00
25.00
East Gate ........................
10.00
Los Gatos ........................
Orange Grove ................
10.00
Dunsmuir ........................
10.00
Liberty ............................
10.00
10.00
Ontario ............................
~usa ................................
10.00
Ashlar ............................ ..
5.00
Tehachapi ................. _.....
15.00
2.50
Temescal ........................ ..
Fallbrook ........................
10.00
Hollenbeck ......................
5.00
South Gate ......................
5.00
Alisa! ................................
5.00
Corona ..............................
10.00
Needles ............................
5.00
Long Beach ...............- ... 25.00
Redondo ..........................
10.00
Pacific Grove ................ ..
10.00
11.50
San Pedro ...................... ..
Fruitvale .......................... 10.00
Carquinez .........................
10.00
Oxnard ............................
25.00
San Fernando ................ 12.50
Starr King ...................... 12.50
Palo Alto ........................ 10.00
McKinley ........................
10.00
San Bernardino .......... ..
10.00
Sequoia ............................
10.00
Palestine ..........................
10.00
Pinole ..............................
12.50
Mill Valley ...................... 25.00
San Francisco .............. ..
12.50
Charity .......................- ...
6.95
Berkeley ..........................
10.00
Las Palmas ................... .
5.00
South Pasadena .......... ..
25.00
Amity ..............................
10.00
le Progres de L'Oceanie
15.00
Jewel ................................
2.50
Richmond ....................... .
12.50
Francis Drake ............... .
10.00
Artesia ............................. . 10.00
Fillmore .........................,
15.00
Highland Park ................
5.00
El Centro ....................... .
10.00
Dinuba ............................ ..
10.00
Parnassus ........................
10.00
Palos Verdes .................. 25.00
Balder ............................ .. 50.00
Apollo ..............................
20.00
Rising Light ..................
5.00
Burlingame ................... . 20.00
Bay View ............... - .......
10.00
Yerba Buena ..................
5.00

No.
407
409
410
411
412
415
425
426
428
429
431
433
434
435
436
440
441
448
449
460
461
463
466
467
468
471
473
477
478
479
483
484
486
487
488
489
491
493
494
500
502
503
507
510
511
513
514
516
521
526
527
528
530
531
539
541
545
546
.550
551

Lodge
Amount
La Mesa ..........................
5.00
Honolulu ..........................
25.00
Charter Rock ................. .
10.00
Perris .................................
10.00
Calexico ..........................
15.00
Silver Trowel .............. ..
5.00
Holtville ..........................
5.00
Midway ............................
5.00
San Dimas ......................
20.00
Pittsburg ..........................
2.50
Alpha ................................
15.00
Hammonton .................... 25.00
Maricopa ........................ ..
2.50
Fairmount ......................
10.00
Claremont ......................
10.00
Standard ..........................
5.00
Coronado ........................
5.00
Mount Diablo ................
5.00
Park ................................ ..
5.00
Mount Oso ......................
15.00
Argonaut ..........................
25.00
Morgan Hill ....................
10.00
Libertas ............................
10.00
Culver City .................... 20.00
Rockridge ........................
5.00
Delta ................................
10.00
Blythe ............................ ..
5.00
Temblor ..........................
5.00
Thousand Oaks ..............
10.00
Golden Rule ..................
10.00
Bell ................................... .
10.00
Albert Pike ................... . 10.00
Caledonia ~ ...................... .
17.50
Vallejo ............................
5.00
Patterson ........................
10.00
East Bay ..........................
5.00
Woodstock ......................
5.00
Atascadero ......................
5.00
Acorn ................................
10.00
Roosevelt ...................... ..
5.00
Harbor ............................. .
5.00
Point ................................
5.<io
El Segundo ................... . 15.00
Cupertino ...................... ..
10.00
Sunnyvale .................... ..
15.00
Cahuenga ........................
7.50
Argonne ..........................
15.00
Taft ..................................
10.00
Piedmont ....................... . 20.00
Bay City ..........................
10.00
Covenant ....................... . 10.00
Beverly Hills ..................
10.00
Sun Garden .................. ..
25.00
Alexandria ......................
5.00
Belvedere ........................ 21.10
Henry Morse Stephens..
5.00
Jonathan ..........................
2.50
San Gabriel .................. ..
5.00
Seaport ............................
5.00
Lakeshore ........................
MO

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No. Lodge
Amount
552 Semper Virens .............. ..
10.00
555 White Pine ......................
10.00
558 Point Firmin ..................
10.00
561 East San Diego ..............
10.00
574 S. W. Hackett ................
10.00
576 El Cajon Valley .......... ..
10.00
578 Progressive ....................
40.00
579 Warren G. Harding ......
10.00
580 Santa Maria ....................
5.00
581 Security ............................
5.00
589 Kauai ................................
25.00
590 Compass ..........................
ro.oo
593 All States ........................
10.00
594 Service ............................
25.00
595 Alexander Graham Bell
10.00
596 Guardian ........................
5.00
25.00
598 Pearl Harbor ..................
609 Provident ........................
25.00
613 Three Pillars ..................
5.00
620 Point Loma ....................
10.00
629 Fairview ..........................
15.00
635 Riverside ........................
10.00
637 Palisades ..........................
12.50
638 Indian Rock ....................
10.00
640 Veritas ..............................
2.50
643 Alta Loma ......................
5.00
645 A. F. E. Irwin ............... .
15.00
648 Damascus ...................... ..
5.00
650 La Brea ........................... .
15.00
5.00
661 Malta ................................
5.00
662 Henry Knox ....................
5.00
665 Kaweah ............................
667 Meridian .........................: 10.00
668 San Gorgonio ................
10.00
669 John P . Jarman ............
5.00
3.75
673 Far West .......................:..
5.00
675 Modesto ............................
5.00
676 Willow Glen ..................
5.00
680 Carmel .....................,......
7.50
681 Dos Palos ........................
686 Albany ............................
5.00
5.00
688 Oildale ..............................
690 San Carlos ......................
10.00

Total ......................................$3008.80
COMMANDERIES, K. T.
Commanderg
No.
Amt.
California .......................... 1 $ 12.50
Sacramento ...................... 2
5.00
Pacific .. :............................. 3
5.00
Oroville .............................. 5
10.00
Nevada .............................. 6
2.50
Marysville ........................ 7
5.00
San Jose ............................ 10
5.00
Oakland ............................ 11
10.00
Chico .................................. 12
5.00
Santa Rosa ........................ 14
9.25
Red Bluff .......................... 17
5.00
Ventura .............................. 18
10.00

Commandery
No.
Naval .................................. 19
Watsonville ............,......... 22
St. Bernard ...................... 23
Colusa ................................ 24
Visalia ................................ 26
San Luis Obispo .............. 27
Fresno ................................ 29
Pasadena .......................... 31
Mt. Shasta ........................ 32
Ukiah .................................. 33
Eureka ................................ 35
Southern California ........ 37
Vacaville ............................ 38
San Francisco .................. 41
Santa Cruz ........................ 44
Palo Alto .......................... 47
Whittier ............................ 51
Auburn ......................_...... 52
Hollywood ........................ 56
San Pedro ........................ 60
Calvary .............................. 62

365
Amt.
5.00
5.00
7.50
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
25.00
5.00
15.tlO
5.00
10.00

Total ........................................$254.25
CHAPTERS, R. A. M.
Chapter
No.
Amt.
San Francisco .................. 1 $ 5.00
Sonora ................................ 2
5.00
Nevada .............................. 6
5.00
Sutter ................................ 11
5.00
Washington ...................... 13
5.00
Grass Valley .................... 18
2.110
Petaluma .......................... 22
1.25
Napa .................................. 30
2.50
Martinez ............................ 31
5.00
Naval .................................. 35
5.00
Siloam ................................ 37
5.00
Santa Cruz ........................ 38
2.50
Chico .................................. 42
5.00
Visalia ................................ 44
10.00
Santa Rosa ........................ 45
5.00
Dixon ................................ 48
10.00
Ventura ............................ 50
10.00
Humboldt .......................... 52
5.00
Keystone .......................... 56
5.00
San Luis ............................ 62
2.50
St. Helena ........................ 63
5.00
Riverside .......................... 67
2.50
Fresno ................................ 69
2.50
Crown ................................ 72
5.00
Hanford ............................ 74
25.00
Pomona .............................. 76
5.00
Ferndale ............................ 78
5.00
San Pedro ........................ 89
5.00
Whittier ............................ 91
25.00
Palo Alto .......................... 93
5.00
Fidelity .............................. 96
5.00
Redondo ............................101
5.00
Marin ................................102
5.00

366
Chapter

No.

Amt.

El Centro .......................... 109
So. Pasadena .................... 112
Sebastopol ........................ 117
Hollywood · ........................ 120
Huntington ........................127
Searchlight ...................... 133
San Fernando .................. 136
Roseville ............................ 146

5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
2.50

Total ........................................ $243.7.5
COUNCILS. R. & S. M.
Amt.
No.
...................... 1 $ 5.00
5.00
California .......................... 2
5.00
Gateway ............................ 13
5.00
Pasadena .......................... 16
2.50
Santa Cruz ........................ 17
2.50
Fresno ................................ 18
5.00
Pomona .............................. 21
5.00
Valley ................................ 27
2.50
Hollywood ........................ 33
Cou•dl

Sacrament~

DISTRICT OFFICERS'
ASSOCIATIONS
Amt.
39th District .....-............................$10.00
68th District .................................. · 10.00
Santa Clara Valley .................... 5.00
Total ..........................................$25.00
A. & A. S. R.

Amt.
California Bodies ......................$ 12.50
Fresno Lodge of Perfection.... 25.00
Los Angeles Bodies
(class 1949-50) .................... 80.63
Oakland Bodies ........................ 25.00
Peninsula Bodies ...................... 20.00
Sacramento Bodies .................. 12.50
San Francisco Bodies .............. 25.00
Total ........................................$200.63
INDIVIDUALS
AND MISCELLANEOUS

No.

Amt.

San Rafael ........................215
Mill Valley ........................219

$10.00
10.00

Amt.
Vernon C. Noble ..... ,..................$ 5.00
Mrs. Maude A. Fisher .............. 40.00
Insurance Square Club ............ 25.00
F. L. Raether .............................. 20.00
Mary K. Frame ..........................
5.00
Fred Berryman ....................... _.
5.00
S. Dean Balch ............................ 15.00
Robert E. Olson ........................
5.00
Mrs. Eleanor Verkuyl ..............
5.00
Mrs. Paul V. Hansen ................
5.00

Total .......................................... $2-0.00

Total ............................:...........$130.00

Total ......................... ,..............$ 37.50
CHAPTERS, 0. E. S.
Chapter

367

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THIL

CHILDREN AT COVINA HOME
July 31. 1950
BOYS-37

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Achenbach, Howard ............ 9-11-49 Progressive ........ 578 Los Angeles ........ 6
Angel, William .................... 3-22-46 East Gate ............ 290 Los Angeles ........ 14
Armstrong, James ............ 12-21-47 Tyrian ............... .439 Manteca ................ 15
Armstrong, Robert ............ 12-21-47 Tyrian ............... .439 Manteca
13
Ashurst, Larry .................... 2-22-47 Magnolia ............ 242 Santa Bal'bara .... 10
Ashurst, Ellis ........................ 2-22-47 Magnolia ............ 242 Santa Barbara .... 13
Averill, Gordon ....................2-19-49 Mill Valley..........356 Mill Valley .......... 10
Beard, Paul ............................8-5-46 Order of Grand
Master
································ 11
Beard, Robert ........................8-5-46 Order of Grand
Master
.. ................................ 9
Beard, William ......................8-5-46 Order of Grand
Master
................................ 13
Beckman, Charles ............ 11-12-49 Eureka ................ 16 Auburn .................. 9
Bish, Thomas ........................ 9-16-47 Temple ................ 14 Sonoma ................ 11
Burkhalter, Charles ............ 3-26-45 Mount Olive ...... 506 Los Angeles ........ 11
Case, Arthur ........................ 9-24-46 W. Los Angeles .. 373 W. Los Angeles .... 11
Darling, Truman .................. 1-28-48 Liberty ................299 Santa Clara ........ 7
Diercks, Donald ................ 11-26-43 Golden State .... 58 Los Ang.eles ........ 16
Dohel'ty, Frank ....................7-6-44 Union .................. 58 Sacramento ........ 16
Dyer, John ..............................7-8-40 Yorba Linda ..... .469 Yorba Linda ........ 16
Edwards, Roland ................ 2-26-50 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena .............. 13
Eller, Harold ........................ 6-23-44 Meridian ............667 Glendale .............. 13
Eller, Harry .......................... 5-24-43 Meridian ............ 667 Glendale .............. 15
Finney, Charles .................... 7-5-49 Neptune ..............619 Long Beach ........ 7
Finney, Michael .................... 7-5-49 Neptune ..............619 Long Beach .......... 9
Flannigan, Richard ............ 1-28-50 Ramona ..............457 Monterey Park ..•. 7
Joy, Harry ............................8-10-47 Long Beach ........ 327 Long Beach ........ 8
Joy, William ........................ 6-15-47 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach ........13
Marvin, Marshall ..................9-8-46 Azure ..................533 Fullerton ..............17
Mason, David ........................ 7-2-44 Friendship .......... 210 San Jose .............. 11
Mason, Rollin ...................... 2-12-44 Friendship ..........210 San Jose .............. 17
Miller, Brian ........................ 12-4-49 Yorba Linda ..... .469 Yorba Linda ........13
Mills, Kenneth .................. 11-17-40 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................ 16
Parker, Lowell ......................9-5-41 Lamanda Park.. 627 Pasadena .............. 15
Place, Barry ............................ 8-9-47 Burlingame ........400 Burlingame .......... 10
Schelling, Eugene .............. 7-26-39 South Gate ........ 320 Los Angeles ........17
Trebell, Thomas .................. 7-10-47 Redondo ............ 328 Redondo Beach .. 15
Westlake, Robert ..................1-9-49 Pentalpha .......... 202 Los Angeles ........ 9
Whitney, William ................9-11-49 Maricopa ............434 Maricopa .............. 16
h

•••••• ••••• •

GIRLS-20
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Achenbach, Patricia .......... 9-11-48 Progressive ........578 Los Angeles ........ 8
Allison, Laura Mae ................4-1-45 Ashlar ................306 Colton .................. 15
Allicon, Linda Lee ..............6-17-45 Ashlar ................ 306 Colton .................. 10
Allison Patricia ..................... .4-1-45 Ashlar ................306 Colton .................. 14
Beard, Patricia ...................... 8-5-46 Order of Grand
Master
................................ 15
Biggs, Mary ........................ 12-31-47 Winnedumah .... 287 Bishop .................. 16
Bowman, Lorraine .............. 8-31-45 Coronado ............441 Coronado .............. 14
Readmitted ........................ 8-2-49
Burkhalter, Sue Jane ........ 3-26-45 Mount Olive ...... 506 Los Angeles ........ 16
Darling, Mary ...................... 8-26-46 Libel'ty ................ 299 Santa Clara .......... 11
Edwards, Donna Dee ..........2-26-50 Pasadena ............ 272 Pasadena .............. 9
Johnson, Judith .................... 9-8-49 Palestine ............ 351 Los Angeles ........ 9

368

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name
Admitted Lodge
No. Town
Age
Johnson, Kathleen ................9-8-49 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles ........ 7
Offinga, Barbara ···········-·····8-13-42 Mizpah ................378 Los Angeles ........ 16
Offinga, Elinor ......................8-4-44 Mizpah ................378 Los Angeles ........ 11
Pearce, Joyce ..........................9-8-46 Atwater ..............622 Los Angeles ........ 14
Pease, Joanne ......................7-18-47 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................13
Wallen, Jo Ann ......................4-1-44 Unity ..................368 Glendale ..............12
Readmitted ..........................9-6-48
Weist, Nancy ........................8-25-46 Manchester ........585 Los Angeles ........ 12
Williams, Jeannette ..............6-2-43 Ione .................... 80 Ione ........................13
Williams; Suzanne ................6-2-43 Ione .................... 80 Ione ........................15

VISITATIONS TO COVINA HOME
August l, 1949 to July 31, 1950

ADMITTED TO COVINA HOME
August 1. 1949 to July 31, 1950
BOYS-7
·i
Name
Admitted
Lodge
N_o.
Town
Age
Achenbach, Howard ............9-11-49 Progressive ........578 Los Angeles ........ 6
Beckman, Charles ............11-12-49 Eureka ................ 16 Auburn ................ 9
Edwards, Roland ................2-26-50 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena ..............12
Flannigan, Richard ............1-28-50 Ramona ..............457 Monterey Park .... 7
Miller, Brian ........................12-4-49 Yorba Linda ......469 Yorba Linda ........ 12
Miller, Glendon ....................12-4-49 Yorba Linda ......469 Yorba Linda ........ 13
Whitney, William ................9-11-49 Maricopa ............434 Maricopa ..............15
GIRLS-4
Town
Age
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Bowman, Lorraine
Readmitted ........................8-2-49 Coronado ............441 Coronado .............. 13
Johnson, Judith ....................9-8-49 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles ........ 8
Johnson, Kathleen ................9-8-49 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles ........ 6
Edwards, Donna Dee ..........2-26-50 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena .............. 9
DEPARTED DURING THE YEAR
August l. 1949 to July 31. 1950
BOYS-10
Name
Admitted
Adams, Orin C .............................9-19-48
Anderson, Roy E.• ......................•.7-6-38
6-19-50 .............................................:..17
6-19-50 ................................................17
Bish, Robert Keith* ..................9-16-47
Boyer, Dennis E-.....................11-28-48 12-23-49 ················································ 7
6-19 50 .............................................. 17
Burkhalter, William H. *..........3-26-45
Johnston, Galvin* ......................7-1-38
6-19-50 ···················-···························18
Miller, Glendon E ...................12-4-49
2-26-50 ................................................14
Parker, Ronald L.• ................11-19-39
6-25-50 ..............................................,.18
Thompson, David L. • ................1-5-46
6-19 50 ................................................18
Weston, Donald E.* ....................1-7-40
6-20-50 ·········-··l............................•.....17
--*Graduate

~e.)4:5g ·········-·································-~f6

GIRLS-3
Name
Admitted
Adams, Jacquelyn ....................9-10-48
Schoenfeld, May ........................5-19-40 10-8-49 ..................................................15
Turner, Carol Ann ..................11-6-45
6-16-50 ·········-·····································14

°s:~~~od·········--··············-···················-~f3

OUTSIDE RELIEF UNDER ·C ARE OF COVINA HOME
July 31. 1950
Name
Lodge No.
Date Began
Pilz, Theodore ....................... _.Alcatraz 244 ................................November, 1946

369

August, 1949:
15 General Meeting of Board· of
Trustees of Masonic Homes
28 Bethel No. 4, Order of Job's
and Endowment Board of
Daughters.
Homes.
September, 1949:
22 Lancaster Lodge No. 437.
9 General Meeting Masonic
February, 1950:
Homes Board of Trustees.
10 Institutional Section of Wel10 General Meeting Masonic
fare Council, Metropolitan
Homes Board of Trustees.
Los Angeles (Luncheon).
11 Mizpah Lodge No. 378.
11 R. E. Dolley Lodge No. 616.
March, 1950:
11 Topcams of Sciotry.
19 Officers of John D. Spreckels
18 lOlst Masonic District Officers'
Lodge No. 657.
Association.
19 Bethel No. 157, Order of Job's
18 Valley Forge Lodge No. 587.
Daughters.
18 Redlands Lodge No. 300.
18 John M. Stewart, Past Grand April, 1950:
16 Glendale Lodge No. 544.
Master, Grand Lodge A. F. &
A. M. of Virginia.
16 Culver City Lodge No. 467.
25 Covina Masonic Home Alumni
16 Rosemead Lodge No. 702.
Day.
May, 1950:
October, 1949:
7 Lankershim Lodge No. 542.
7 Lankersham DeMolay.
2 Altadena Lodge No. 678.
7 Phoenix Lodge No. 178.
2 Lynwood Lodge No. 600.
7 Queen Beach Lodge No. 540.
9 Anchor Lodge No. 273.
7 R. E. Dolley Lodge No. 616.
9 Lomita Lodge No. 644.
7 Victorville Lodge No. 634.
9 Utopia Chapter No. 441, O.E.S.
7 Victorville Assembly No. 83,
23 Artesia Lodge No. 377.
Order of the Rainbow for
23 Corona Lodge No. 324.
Girls.
23 Visalia Chapter No. 44, R.A.M.
7 Wilmington Lodge No. 198.
30 Pasadena Lodge No. 272.
21 Artesia Lodge No. 377.
21 San Antonio Masonic Club.
30 Temple City Lodge No. 612.
21 Service Lodge No. 594.
November, 1949:
21 Southern California Lodge No.
6 Annual Breakfast of 87th Ma278.
sonic Distrid Officers' Associa21 Van Nuys Lodge No. 450.
tion.
28 Westchester Assembly No. 121,
13 Junior High Westminster FelOrder of the Rainbow for
lowship of North Long Beach
Girls.
Community Presbyterian
June, 1950:
Church.
4 Carnation Chapter No. 171,
20 Atwater Lodge No. 622.
0 .E.S.
27 Melo-Debs Club of Rosemead
4 Playa Linda Chapter No. 425,
Girls' Scout Troop.
O.E.S.
.
4 Hermosa Lodge No. 557.
December, 1949
4 James Madison Lodge No. 572.
18 The Anzettes, Auxiliary to
4 Redondo Lodge No. 328.
Anza Grotto, San Bernardino.
4 Rising Light Lodge No. 397.
21 The Masonic Homes Southern
18 Ashlar Lodge No. 306.
Board of Trustees and their
18 Benjamin Franklin Lodge No.
families attended Christmas
509.
party held at the Home.
18 Benevolence Lodge No. 631.
January, 1950:
18 Lynwood Lodge No. 600.
18 South Park Lodge No. 563.
14 General Meeting of Board of
Trustees of Masonic Homes July, 1950:
and Endowment Board of
No visitations due to camp acMasonic Homes.
tivities.

370

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ENTERTAINMENT

August 7, 1949: Barbecue Picnic
Dinner at Lake Park, Hutington
Beach, given by Huntington Beach
Lodge No. 380. Children and staff of
the Covina Home were special guests.
August 28, 1949: Junior and Intermediate Girls, with their houseparents, were guests of Bethel No. 4,
Order of Job's Daughters, at a picnic
on the Masonic Home Athletic Field.
September 25, 1949: Lamanda Park
Lodge No. 627 entertain the wards of
their Lodge, Roland and Lowell
Parker, at a picnic given at Farnsworth Park, Altadena. Harry and
Harold Eller (wards of Meridian
Lodge No. 667) were guests of the
Parker boys at this picnic.
October 9, 1949: The Junior Girls
and their housemother were guests
of Anchor Lodge No. 273 at a picnic
at Covina City Park.
October 20, 1949: A birthday party
for Roland Parker was given by Lamanda Park Lodge No. 627, at the
Senior Boys' Building.
November 19, 1949: Twenty-five
children, by courtesy of the Covina
Legion Post, were guests at the annual American Legion Vaudeville
Show at the Hollywood Legion Stadium.
November 20, 1949: The Crown
City Modelaires Competitive Exhibition of one hundred Flying Model
Planes - on Athletic Field of the
Home.
November 27, 1949: Tickets for the
"First Annual Youth Football Frolic," by courtesy of the Los Angeles
Junior Chamber of Commerce.
December 3, 1949: The Junior and
Intermediate Boys and Girls, accompanied by their houseparents and
Mr. and Mrs. Henry, were guests of
Hollywood Lodge No. 355, at the first
Christmas party of the season.
December 16, 1949:· Christmas
. party given at the Home by Carmelita Lodge No. 599.
December 18, 1949: "The Toy Maker's Dance" was presented at the
Home by the Vera Baker School of
the Dance, sponsored by the Anzettes, Auxiliary to Anza Grotto, San
Bernardino.
December 21, 1949: Masonic Home
Christmas Party. The Southern Members of the Board of Trustees and
their families were special guests.

December 22, 1949: Monrovia
Lodge No. 308 and Sojourner Lodge
No. 607 held their twenty-seventh
annual Christmas Party for the children, at Monrovia.
December 23, 1949: Covina Home
Hospital held Open House and gave
Christmas Party for children and
staff.
December 24, 1949: Christmas
Party at the home of Mr. and Mrs.
Henry for children and staff.
February 1, 1950: Minstrel Show at
Pasadena Scottish Rite Cathedral.
February 4 and 5, 1950: Intermediate Boys and Girls spent the weekend at Lake Arrowhead, accompanied by the children's houseparents,
the nurse, and Mr. Henry.
February 16, 1950: Monrovia Lodge
No. 308 entertained a group of Intermediate and Junior Boys as "adopted
sons" at the Monrovia Lodge Father
and Son Dinner.
February 18 and 19, 1950: Senior
Girls, Junior Girls and Junior 'Boys,
accompanied by their houseparents,
Mr. Henry and our nurse, spent the
week-end at Lake Arrowhead.
February 25, 1950: Music and
Drama Guild of Pasadena Consistory were hosts to our Senior, Intermediate and Junior Girls and Intermediate and Junior Boys at a Minstrel Show at Pasadena Scottish Rite
Cathedral.
February 25 and 26, 1950: Senior
Boys' Snow Trip· to Lake Arrowhead, accompanied by Mr. Henry,
houseparents and nurse.
March 16, 1950: Senior, Intermediate and Junior Boys and Intermediate and Junior Girls were guests of
the San Bernardino Santa Fe Masonic Club at the National Orange
Show at San Bernardino.
April 1, 1950: The children and
their houseparents were guests of
Fezzan Grotto (Whittier) upon the
occasion of the Fezzan Grotto Hit
Show.
May 14, 1950: Santa Anita Shrine
Club sponsored an entertainment on
the Home grounds, featuring wrestling and boxing matches, followed
by vaudeville acts.
May 19, 1950: Birthday Party for
Lowell Parker given by Lamanda
Park Lodge No. 627 at the Intermediate Boys' Building.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

June 27, 1950: Boys and Girls were
guests of the Pomona Business Men's
Association at the Old Baldy Shrine
Club Circus.

371

July 3, 1~50. Fireworks Display on
the Masonic Home Athletic Field
sponsored by Granada Lodge No
608. (Approximately 5000 fireworks):

VISITATIONS TO THE LODGES
By Mr. Henry and/ or Children

November 7, 1949: Mr. Henry was
guest of Lynwood Lodge No. 600, at
their dinner meeting.
November 12, 1949: Mr. Henry was
guest at the dinner meeting of the
Edison Masonic Club.
·
May 4, 1950: Tom Trebell, class of
'52, was a dinner guest at Redondo
Lodge No. 328. Mr. Henry and Donald Diercks, class of '52, were dinner
guests of Golden State Lodge No.
358.
May 6, 1950: Patricia Allison and
Ellis Ashurst of the Intermediate Department accompanied Mr. Henry to
the Stated Meeting of Compass
Lodge No. 590.
May 7, 1950: Participation in program of Los Angeles Masonic Board
of Relief by children from Senior,

Intermediate, and Junior Boys' Departmen~, an~ Senior, Intermediate,
and Junior Girls' Department.
June 5, 1~50: Mr. Henry and a
group of Junior Boys and Girls were
g~ests at the dinner meeting of San
Drm?-s. Lodge No. 428. A program
con~ishng of a Sq~are Dance by the
Jumor .Boys and Girls and a Swedish
Dance by two Junior Girls was present.ed,. Technicolor slides and film,
depicting scenes at the Covina Home
were shown by Mr. Henry.
'
.June 6, 1950: Junior Boys and
Girls, accompanied by Mr. Henry,
wer~ guests at the dinner meeting of
Covina Lodge No. 334. The children
presented their dance program and
Mr. Henry showed slides and film of
the Covina Home.

DONATIONS TO MASONIC HOME FOR .CHILDREN
August l, 1949 to July 31, 1950

Albert's Manufacturing & Supply
Co.-poultry equipment.
Alexander, James - 85 loaves of
bread.
Alexander, M.-plums, apples, pomegranates.
.
Aloha Temple Patrol, Honolulu, T.H.
-cases of Hawaiian Pineapple
juice; box of paper leis.
American Legion, Covina Post - 25
tickets to American Legion annual
Vaudeville Show.
Anderson, A. H.-peaches, plums. ·
Anstock, Elmer A-books.
Arcadia Chapter No. 471, O.E.S.-200
pounds hard candy.
Artesia Lodge No. 377-27 pair new
roller skates, new clothing, miscellaneous clothing.
Atwater Lodge No. 622-apples (2
lugs) jams, jellies, preserves,
canned food, canned fruit.
Azusa Lodge No. 305-American Red
Cross Life Saving and Water Safety Manuels.
Barstow Assembly No. 81, Order of
the Rainbow for Girls-wrapped
Christmas gif~,

Barteld, Mr. and Mrs. W. F .-jams,
jellies.
Battema, John P .-carton model airplane cement.
Baum, Dorene Ann-pedigreed Airedale terrier.
Beal, A. F.-magazines, calendar.
Blackburn, Mr. and Mrs. Ralph N.3~ volumes Encyclopedia Brittanmca, g.ames, books, 12 quarts homem~de _Jams, one Microcraft set.
BenJamm Franklin Lodge No. 509candy.
Blankmeyer, Barney-gladiola bulbs.
Brier, Miss Barbara - Christmas
gifts, toys, blouses.
Brokaw, Mrs. W. H.-album of records.
Burgett, Mr. and Mrs. Roy C.-5 doz.
blouses for Jr., Int., & Sr. Girls.
Burnham, Dr. Philip S. and son Robert--electric train set complete.
California P eanut Company Oakland-chocolate raisinut clu~ters
Chrism!in, P. M. - miscellaneo~s
clothmg.
Christian, G; S.-candy.

372

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Christopher, E. A.-2 small chairs, 2
small stools.
"Clown Club"-"clown" dolls.
Connett, T. W. - Geographic magazines with maps.
Coachella Lodge No. 476-30 pounds
fresh dates.
Cook, H. D. - electric train with
crane.
Cooke, Mrs. J. G.-children's books.
Corona Lodge No. 324-peanuts.
Couch, Edward N.-tools for boys'.
workshop.
Crittenden, Vance-candy.
Culver City Lodge No. 467 - canned fruit and vegetables, games,
books record player, records, doll
house' and miscellaneous items.
Deub~l, William J.-2 tennis racquets and net.
Dill, John V. R.-dothing, miscellaneous.
Dow, Ll?yd-100 pounds almonds.
Dunsmmr No. 22, A.E.O.S. - 2
Christmas Trees.
Dutch Boy Dairies - total of 696
quarts of milk for period of August,
1949 through July, 1950.
East San Diego Lodge No. 561books.
Eaton, Mrs. R. A.-toys dolls, doll
carriage, doll furniture, games.
Eberhard, C. W. - 250 pounds
candy.
Electa Club, Guardian <;hapter ~o.
439, O.E.S.-wrapped Christmas gifts
for every child; shampoo.
Emanuel White Shrine No. 15 wrapi;>ed Christmas gifts.
Emmerling, Austin, Jr.-soap box
racer.
Emmerling, Robert - soap box
racer.
Euclid Chapter No. 179, 0 .E.S.wrapped Christmas . gifts, canned
goods.
Finnell, V. D.-squash.
Franklin Chapter No. 20, R.A.M.keg of ripe olives.
Fortune, Comd. W. C.- saw; 11
drills.
,
Gaizan, H. F.-box of Thompson s
grapes.
Garday Model Laboratory-Props
for model plane building.
Gardena Lodge No. 372 -- dolls
(dressed by Mrs. Engle).
Garvanza Chapter No. 266, 0.E.S.
and Garvanza Lodge No. 492-jams,
jellies, preserves, fruit butters, pickles spiced peaches, canned vegetables, and fruits, food coloring and

flavoring, . assorted candy and nuts,
ice cream topping, apples, punch
base, games, puzzles, model airplanes.
General Foods Corporation, Los
Angeles-30 cases "Sugar Crisp"
Cereal.
Gilmore, B. W. and family-Hershey chocolate bars.
Gilpin, E. T.-vegetable squash.
Gleaners' Club, Oscondido Chapter
No. 154-jams, jellies, canned fruit;
aprons, and potholders for Sr. Girls;
hand-made stuffed animals for Jr.
Boys.
Glendora Chamber of Commerce
Business Men apples, peanuts,
candy.
Gunther, H. W.-4 bound books of
weekly comics.
Hall, Victor-soldering iron.
Harriett Wilcox Dress Shop
dresses.
Hart, Francis N.-complete photographic laboratory.
Haslam, Raymond-coffee maker
and stove.
Hawthorne Lodge No. 647-large
birthday cake.
Helms, Mrs. Hildegarde-clothing.
Hemmingson, C. L.-books.
Hendricks, William C.-donation of
services as instructor in "Life Saving Course" for the children at the
Home.
Hendrix, Mrs. Gladys E.-model
airplane kits.
.
Hendrix, James F.-1 model airplane complete, airplane paper, 1 set
wheels and drills, bell crank, 1 box
of filler, model building tools.
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319 - 23
cases canned fruit.
Hughes, L. V.-2000 baby chicks.
Hull, Skip-supplies for model airplan construction.
Irvine, A. H.-rabbits and hutches.
Island Pharmacy, Avalon-101 assorted games and toys.
James Madison Lodge No. 572-ice
cream, honey.
Jasmine Chapter No. 145, O.E.S.80 pounds homemade candy, raisins;
coffee cream, eggs, milk, potatoes;
Christmas tree lights.
Jensen, Mrs. - .props for model
plane building.
Jewel Chapter No. 238, O.E.S.Victrola and records.
Job's Daughters, Bethel N. 15740 dolls dressed in character.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 125,
Mothers' Club - Albums of phonograph records.
Johnson, A. C.-assorted clothing.
Johnson, Mrs. Luella-book, dates,
scrapbooks.
Kardashiam, George - 1 hog for
4-H Club.
Kennedy, Gage R.-bathing suits
(boys).
King, P. E.-2 check writers for
boys to tinker with.
Lair, Mr. and Mrs". Allen~hrist­
mas gifts to Jr. Girls, Christmas
cards, Kodak and films, 2 records,
book.
Lancaster Lodge No. 437-20 boxes
candy bars.
Langdon, Frank-children's jump
ropes (20).
.
Lankershim Lodge No. 542 - assorted candy bars, chewing gum, ice
cream.
Liberal Arts Lodge No. 677-wrapped Christmas gifts.
Longfellow, Mrs. H. M.-Victrola
and records.
Los Angeles Junior Chamber of
Commerce - tickets-"First Annual
Youth Football Frolic".
Loyalty Lodge No. 529-assorted
books.
Lucem Fer Class, Four Square
Church-New Testament for each
child (Name of child lettered in gold).
Lynwood Lodge No. 600--jams and
jellies; ice cream, preserves.
Magee, Mrs. Elsie - rag dolls
(character type); character dolls.
Mahnke, L. H.-phonograph records, Hopalong Cassidy Series; books.
Marysville Assembly No. 10, Order
of the Rainbow for Girls-clothing,
completed scrapbooks, games, books,
wrapped Christmas gifts for Junior
Girls; assorted toys.
Maselle, Andy-3 boxes candy, 1
jar candy.
.
Mason, W. B.-hand-made "Pledge
of Allegiance" plaque.
Masonic Beefsteak and Breakfast
Committee of Monrovia-2 cartons
Post's breakfast cereal.
Maxwell Model Supply Co.-model
plane kits; 2 reels.
Miltimore, Charles E.-set of National Encyclopedias, greeting cards.
Miniature Motors, Inc.-1 P-51 airplane model complete.
Mitchell, Mr. and Mrs. K. R.-bubble gum.

373

Mizpah Lodge No. 378 - punch
drink.
Monterey Leather Products Co.3 halters.
Morris, Stephen P.-volumes of
History of Masonry.
Myers, Mr. and Mrs. Irving L. and
family-assorted candy bars, nuts.
Newton, George-games, quantity
of balsa wood.
Nottingham.:. M. C.-credit on disposal service :;>BO.
Noyes, S. E.-100 pounds filbert
nuts.
Oates, Mr. and Mrs. M. G.-2 decorated sheet cakes and 3 boxes cake
for Christmas.
Oerter, Edwin J.-3 cans honey,
jam.
Officers' Association 87th Masonic
District-set New World Encyclopedia.
Ogg, Mrs. Helen-new clothing.
Ohlsson & Rice-fuel oil for model
planes-1 case.
Order of the Golden Slipper, Masonic Homes Club, Glendale Chapter
No. 422 O.E.S.-sewing for the· children-pajamas made for Junior boys
and girls and for Masonic Home hospital use; party costumes and accessories for Jr. Girls.
O.E.S. 1938 Association-jams, Jellies, canned fruit.
Old Baldy Shrine Club-35 tickets
to Ward Brothers Shrine Circus.
Oroville Lodge No. 103-keg of
ripe olives.
Pasadena Lodge No. 272-books,
magazines, funnies, jams, jellies,
canned food, model ai?1plane material, clothing.
Past Matrons and Patrons Association of Coachella Valley Chapter No.
360-30 pounds fresh dates.
Pat-A-Cake Bakery, Covina-bakery goods; bread, pies, cakes, sweet
rolls.
.
Peters, Carl F.-42 boxes Shredded
coconut, 36 cases candy bars, 1 box
assorted soup mix and flavorin·g, 13
cartons tapioca pudding, 3 cases Horlick's Malted Milk Lunch Tablets,
13 cases Horlick's Milk.
Phoenix Lodge No. 178-jams, jellies.
Prentice, Miss Val-clothing, shoes,
books, jellies, miscellaneous; 11 volumes The New Wonder World Encyclopedia.
Potashnick, Conrad-clothing.

374

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Powers, J. A.-1 saddle horse; 1
gelding; 1 saddle.
Pulos, J. J., Fruit Co.-Grapefruit;
oranges.
Radford, C. R.-radio, magazines.
Radiant Chapter No. 421, O.E.S.hand embroidered doilies.
Rander, Mr. and Mrs. Carl-miscellaneous clothing.
Redondo Lodge No. 328-ice cream,
jelly.
Reinhard, R. N.-soldering iron, 5·
sets controls, 2 model airplane kits,
other model airplane material.
Riche, Walter T.-supply of vitamins.
Rosemead Lodge No. 702-jam,
jellies, candy.
"Roulettes" sponsored by Mrs. C.
A. Peterson-miscellaneous clothing.
Rumsey, W. M.-drill set.
Russell, G. M. - tni~cellaneous
clothing.
Ryan, J. P.-1 sack onions, 2 sacks
carrots.
Saenz, Mrs. A. V.-85 Hopalong
Cassidy Double Holster Sets 25 pair
cuffs.
Sandusky, John-Magazines.
San Bernardino Santa Fe Masonic
Club-tickets and special guest privileges for National Orange Show at
San Bernardino; 25 copies "Santa Fe
Magazine".
San Gabriel Chapter No. 407, O.E.
S.-40 pair hand-made bed socks.
San Gabriel Lodge No. 546, FiveForty-Six Masonic Club-tickets for
Clyde Beatty Circus.
San Gabriel Valley Shrine Clubsubscription to Life Magazine.
Santa Anita Shrine Club-cracker
jack; apples.
Service Lodge No. 594--soft drinks,
ice cream.
Shaw, William H.-foreign and domestic postage stamps.
Sheriff's Office, Los Angeles County-1 deer carcass.
Shoemaker, . Mrs. 0. H.-2 lugs
peaches.
Short, Miss Lydia-greeting cards.
Social Order o.f the Beauceant San
Diego Assembly No. 67-6 sheets, 5
bathrobes, 8 tray cloths, bibs.
Southern California Edison Co.
Employees of Monrovia Commercial
Office-6 tickets to Elks Charity Circus.
.
South Park Lodge No. 563-candy,
ice cream.

Southern California Lodge No. 278
-'-candy, jams, jellies, 3 radios to be
used for parts.
Southern Pacific Square and Compass Club No. 1 - Christmas tree
lights.
Sturgeon, Lowden F.-magazines.
Sturm, Mr. and Mrs. J. C.-books,
girl's coat, coloring books, crayons
and miscellaneous.
Sutoff, William-large record rack
and 3200 records.
Taft Chapter No. 337, O.E.S.-jams.
jellies.
Temple City Chapter No. 448, 0.
E.S.-punch drink.
Temple City Chapter No. 448 Club,
O.E.S.-sewing for the children done
at the Home, 15 boxes candy bars.
Temple City Lodge No. 612-ice
cream, coffee cream, jelly, games,
Erector set; apples, canned food,
jams, clothing.
Terminal Refrigerating Co., Los
Angeles-2 cases pumpkin pie mix.
Thirngan, Mrs. Kate - completed
scrap books.
Topcams of Sciotry-ice cream.
Torre, Mr. and Mrs. Louis-Victrola, records, high boy.
Utopia Chapter No. 441, O.E.S. candy.
Valentine, John-new set Encyclopedia Britannica for juniors.
Van Horn, Mr. and Mrs. H. S. Irish Mail and Scooter; clothing, toy
projector, miscellaneous items.
Van Nuys Lodge No. 450-assortment candy bars and gum.
Valley Forge Lodge No. 587-assorted candy, chocolate bars, gum.
Vasarhely, Charles - Geographic
magazines.
Vermont Square Lodge No. 515clothing magazines.
Vernan Kilns, Los Angeles-one
barrel bisque ware for Ceramics
Class; 635 pieces of pottery for Ceramics Class.
Victorville Assembly No. 83, Order
of Rainbow for Girls - assortment
hand-made dolls.
Walker, Maury-toys.
Walker, Mrs. Robert M.-2 singing
canaries.
Webb, Mr. and Mrs. Charles E.radio, model airplane, sports shirts.
Weber, Dale-Christmas fruit cake
for entire Home.
Welch, Brian and David - Christmas toys.

Westchester Assembly No. 121 Orter of the Rainbow for Girls-Presentation of dressed dolls to the
Junior Girls.
. Whilden, Capt. W. R.-Geograph-

1cs.

White, Clinton W. - fresh vegetables, crate of cantaloupes.
Whittier Chapter No. 444, O.E.S.cookies, cake, Christmas gifts.

375

':Vilmington Lodge No. 198-96 jars
of Jelly.
Wolf, Phillip J.-assorted games
Wright, Mr. and Mrs. L. N.-books.
Yorba, Mrs. Lois R.-candy.
Young, Albert V.-trumpet.
Youtz, J. Ellsworth-65 camellia
trees.
Zados Laboratories-supply of Zados for Home hospital.

COVINA CHRISTMAS AND ENTERTAINMENT FUND 1949-1950
No.Lodge
Amount
1 California ........................$ 25.00
3 Tehama ............................
10.00
8 Tuolumne ........................
5.00
9 Corinthian ......................
10.00
10 San Jose ..........................
15.00
12 Yount --------·---·-..................
2.50
13 Nevada ............................
2.50
14 Temple ............................
2.50
16 Eureka..............................
5.00
17 La Parfaite Union..........
5.00
19 San Joaquin ....................
10.00
20 Washington ....................
10.00
21 Hawaiian ........................
25.00
22 Occidental ......................
20.00
23 Madison ............................
5.00
24 Mariposa ..........................
5.00
26 El Dorado ........................
25.00
27 Trinity ..............................
5.00
30 Golden Gate ..................
25.00
32 Gold Hill ........................
5.00
35 San Diego ........................
25.00
37 Howard ............................
10.00
38 Santa Cruz .......................
10.00
40 Sacramento ....................
10.00
41 Martinez ..........................
40.50
43 Hiram ..............................
5.00
44 Mount Moriah ................
5.00
45 Crescent ..........................
5.00
46 Texas ................................
5.00
51 Illinoistown ....................
5.00
57 Santa Rosa ......................
10.00
58 Union ................................
12.50
61 Live Oak ........................
25.00
64 Natoma ............................
5.00
65 Amador ............................
5.00
70 Enterprise ........................
5.00
78 Calaveras ........................
10.00
80 Ione ..................................
2.50
81 Yolo ..................................
2.50
84 Vesper ..............................
5.00
87 Naval ................. ..,.............
25.00
93 St. Helena ......................
5.00
99 Yosemite ..........................
10.00
101 Clay ..................................
10.00
50.00
104 Lexington ........................

No.Lodge
Amount
106 Arcata ............................. .
5.00
110 Pajaro ............................. .
10.00
111 Chico ............................... .
10.00
117 Concord ........................... .
10.00
120 Fidelity ........................... .
7.50
122 Alamo ............................. . 15.00
10.00
Table Mountain ............. .
Lafayette ...................... ..
5.00
127 Hermann ......................... . 20.00
128 Visalia ............................. .
10.00
129 Nicolaus ......................... .
5.00
131 Woodbridge ................... .
5.00
136 Pacific ;........................... ..
10.00
139 Crockett ......................... .
15.00
143 Franklin ......................... .
5.00
144 Oriental ........................... . 25.00
156 Woodland ....................... .
5.00
166 Excelsior ........................ ..
12.50
167 Alameda ......................... .
5.00
10.00
168 i\e;d'-:-'ood City .............. ..
169
lSSlOn ........................... . 25.00
178 Phoenix ........................... .
20.00
179 Mendocino ..................... .
5.00
180 Petaluma ....................... .
12.50
181 Russian River ............... .
5.00
187 Keith .............................. ..
5.00
188 Oakland ........................ ..
10.00
191 Marin ............................... .
12.50
192 Santa Barbara .............. ..
10.00
193 Ferndale ......................... .
5.00
194 Mountain View ............. .
5.00
198 Wilmington ................... . 10.00
199 Hartley ........................... .
7.50
200 Truckee ........................... .
5.00
203 Confidence ..................... .
10.00
204 Salinas ............................. .
10.00
206 Stanislaus ....................... . 15.00
208 Rio Vista ...................... ..
10.00
209 King David's ................. .
10.00
210 Friendship ..................... .
10.00
211 San Benito ..................... .
10.00
212 S. San Francisco .......... ..
15.00
214 San Buenaventura ...... ..
25.00
215 Oak Grove ..................... .
5.00
217 Monterey ....................... .
10.00

mt

376

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Amount
No Lodge
218 Mosaic .............................. 10.00
5.00
219 Speranza Italiana ..........
220 Downey ............................ 10.00
5.00
222 Roseville ..........................
224 Bakersfield ...................... 12.50
225 Brooklyn ........................ 10.00
226 San Mateo ........................ 25.00
5.00
228 Athens ..............................
5.00
236 Hills Ferry ......................
241 Santa Ana ·······-··············· 25.00
242 Magnolia .......................... 25.00
5.00
245 Laurel ..............................
246 Pomona ........................... . 20.00
247 Fresno .............................. 25.00
5.00
253 Landmark ........................
10.00
256 Lodi ..................................
5.00
258 Penrhyn ..........................
259 Evergreen ........................ 12.50
261 Tuscan .............................. 20.00
5.00
262 Lompoc ............................
5.00
264 Hesperian ........................
7.50
265 Orland ..............................
5.00
267 Galt ..................................
5.00
268 Durant ..............................
5.00
269 Olive Branch ..................
272 Pasadena ....................... . 45.00
5.00
274 Arroyo ..............................
278 So. California ................ 10.00
279 Hanford .......................... 30.00
5.00
280 Madera ............................
282 Calayomi .......................... 10.00
283 South West ................... . 10.00
285 San Miguel ...................... 15.00
290 East Gate ........................ 25.00
292 Los Gatos ....................... . 10.00
293 Orange Grove ................ 10.00
297 Dunsmuir ....................... . 10.00
299 Liberty ............................ 10.00
300 Redlands .......................... 50.00
301 Ontario ........................... . 10.00
305 Azusa ............................... . 10.00
5.00
306 Ashlar ..............................
2.50
314 Temescal ......................... .
317 Fallbrook ........................ 10.00
5.00
319 Hollenbeck ... ~ .................
5.00
320 South Gate ......................
5.00
321 Alisa! ................................
322 Alhambra ........................ 50.00
324 Corona .............................. 10.00
5.00
326 Needles ............................
327 Long Beach .................... 25.00
328 Redondo ......................... . 10.00
331 Pacific Grove .................. 10.00
332 San Pedro ........................ 11.50
335 West Gate ...................... 10.00
336 Fruitvale ........................ 10.00
337 Carquinez ........................ 10.00
341 Oxnard ........................... . 25.00
343 San Fernando ................ 12.50
344 Starr King ...................... 12.50

Amount
No.Lodge
10.00
346 Palo Alto ........................
347 McKinley ........................ 10.00
348 San Bernardino .............. 10.00
10.00
349 Sequoia ............................
351 Palestine ......................... . 10.00
12.50
353 Pinole ..............................
356 Mill Valley ...................... 25.00
360 San Francisco ............... . 12.50
6.95
362 Charity ............................
10.00
363 Berkeley ..........................
5.00
366 Las Palmas ....................
367 South Pasadena ............ 25.00
10.00
370 Amity ..............................
15.00
371 le Progress de L'Oceanie
372 Gardena ........................ _ 100.00
2.50
374 Jewel ···················-···········
12.50
375 Richmond ........................
10.00
376 Francis Drake ............... .
377 Artesia ............................ 10.00
378 Mizpah ........................... . 21.50
15.00
379 Fillmore ..........................
5.00
382 Highland Park ................
384 El Centro ........................ 10.00
10.00
385 Dinuba ............................
10.00
388 Parnassus ···········-···········
389 Palos Verdes ................. . 25.00
393 Balder .............................. 50.00
394 University ...................... 133.50
20.00
396 Apollo ..............................
5.00
397 Rising Light ................... .
400 Burlin~ame ................... . 20.00
10.00
401 Bay View ....................... .
10.00
402 .Brawley ............................
5.00
403 Yerba Buena ..................
405 Moneta ............................ 10.00
5.00
407 La Mesa ..........................
409 Honolulu ........................ 25.00
10.00
410 Charter Rock ................. .
10.00
411 Perris ..............................
412 Calexico .......................... 15.00
414 Arlington ........................ 25.00
5.00
415 Silver Trowel ............... .
416 Lindsay ............................ 292.30
5.00
425 Holtville ·················-·······
5.00
426 Midway ............................
428 San Dimas ...................... 20.00
2.50
429 Pittsburg ........................
15.00
431 Alpha ................................
433 Hammonton .................... 25.00
7.50
434 Maricopa ......................... .
10.00
435 Fairmount ......................
10.00
436 Claremont ......................
5.00
438 Acacia ..............................
5.00
440 Standard ..........................
5.00
441 Coronado ....................... .
5.00
448 Mount Diablo ................
5.00
449 Park ..................................
460 Mount Oso ...................... 15.00
461 Argonaut ........................ 25.00
11.55
463 Morgan Hill ....................

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Amount
No.Lodge
10.00
466 Libertas ..........................
20.00
467 Culver City ................... .
5.00
468 Rockridge ........................
10.00
471 Delta ................................
5.00
473 Blythe ..............................
10.00
477 Temblor ..........................
10.00
478 Thousand Oaks ..............
10.00
479 Golden Rule ..................
10.00
483 Bell ................................... .
10.00
484 Albert Pike ···············-·····
17.50
486 Caledonia ........................
5.00
487 Vallejo ..............................
10.00
488 Patterson ........................
5.00
489 East Bay ..........................
5.00
491 Woodstock ......................
5.00
493 Atascadero ......................
10.00
494 Acorn ............................... .
10.00
499 Capital City ................... .
5.00
500 Roosevelt ........................
5.00
502 Harbor .....................- .......
5.00
503 Point ................................
506 Mount Olive .................... 45.35
15.00
507 El Segundo ......................
10.00
510 Cupertino ........................
15.00
511 Sunnyvale ....................... .
7.50
513 Cahuenga ........................
15.00
514 Argonne ..........................
10.00
516 Taft ..................................
25.00
520 Ionic ................................. .
20.00
521 Piedmont ........................
10.00
526 Bay City ..........................
10.00
527 Covenant ........................
10.00
528 Beverly Hills ..................
25.00
530 Sun Garden ................... .
5.00
531 Alexandria ......................
535 Alexander Hamilton .... 200.00
21.10
539 Belvedere ........................
15.00
540 Queen Beach ..................
5.00
541 Henry Morse Stephens..
2.50
545 Jona than ..........................
5.00
546 San Gabriel ....................
5.00
550 Seaport ............................
5.00
551 Lakeshore ......................
10.00
552 Semper Virens ..............
10.00
555 White Pine ......................
10.00
558 Point Firmin ..................
10.00
561 East San Diego ..............
10.00
574 S. W. Hackett ............... .
10.00
576 El Cajon Valley ............
40.00
578 Progressive ....................
10.00
579 Warren G . Harding
5.00
580 Santa Maria ....................
5.00
581 Security ..........................
25.00
589 Kauai ................................
10.00
590 Compass ..........................
10.00
593 All States ···················-···
25.00
594 Service ........................... .
10.00
595 Alexander Graham Bell
5.00
596 Guardian .........................•
25.00
598 Pearl Harbor ..................

377

Amount
No.Lodge
600 Lynwood ......................... . 50.00
15.00
608 Granada ..........................
25.00
609 Provident ....................... .
5.00
613 Three Pillars ..................
10.00
615 Hemet ........,.....................
616 R. E. Dolley ................... . 50.21
619 Neptune ..........................
10.00
10.00
620 Point Loma ....................
25.00
621 The Gardens ..................
629 Fairview ........•.................
10.00
10.00
635 Riverside ........................
636 John Marshall ................
26.99
12.50
637 Palisades ......................... .
10.00
638 Indian Rock ....................
2.50
640 Veritas ............................
5.00
643 Alta Loma ......................
10.00
644 Lomita ...- ........................ .
645 A. F. E. Irwin ................
15.00
647 Hawthorne ......................
25.00
648 Damascus ....................... .
5.00
15.00
650 La Brea ............................
5.00
661 Malta ............................... .
5.00
662 Henry Knox ....................
10.00
665 Kaweah ............................
9.00
666 Reseda ..............................
10.00
667 · Meridian ..........................
668 San Gorgonio ................
10.00
5.00
669 John P. Jarman
673 · Far West ......................... .
3.75
674 Los Cerritos .................... 100.00
675 Modesto ............................
5.00
5.00
676 Willow Glen ..................
5.00
680 Carmel ............................
7.50
681 Dos Palos ....................... .
686 Albany .............................
5.00
5.00
688 Oildale ............................. .
690 San Carlos ......................
10.00
Total ......................................$4,431. 70
CHAPTERS R. A. M.

No.
Amt.
Chapter
San Francisco .................... 1 $ 5.00
5.00
Sonora .................................. 2
5.00
Nevada ................................ 6
5.00
Washington ........................13
2.50
Grass Valley ......................18
1.25
Petaluma ............................22
5.00
Delta ....................................27
2.50
Napa ....................................30
5.00
Martinez ..............................31
15.00
Los Angeles ........................33
5.00
Naval ...........................- .......35
5.00
Siloam ..................................37
2.50
Santa Cruz ..........................38
5.00
Chico ....................................42
10.00
Visalia ........................... ~ ..•..44

378

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Chapter
No.
Santa Rosa ...................•..... .45
Ventura ................................50
Humboldt ............................52
Keystone ..............................56
Signet ..................................57
San Luis ..............................62
St. Helena ..........................63
Riverside ............................ 67
Fresno ..................................69
Crown .................................. 72
Hanford .............................. 74
Pomona ................................ 76
Ferndale .............................. 78
San Pedro ............................ 89
Whittier ..............................91
Palo Alto ............................93
Fidelity ···················-···········96
San Gabriel ..................... .100
Redondo ............................ 101
Marin .................................. 102
El Centro .......................... 109
So. Pasadena .................... 112
Sebastopol ........................ 117
Hollywood ........................ 120
Huntington ........................ 127
Inglewood ........................ 131
Searchlight ........................ 133
San Fernando .................. 136
Roseville ............................146
El Centro, San Diego and
Yuma, Arizona ........... .

Amt.
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
100.00
2.50
5.00
2.50
2.50
5.00
25.M
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
45.00

Total ....................................$413.75
COMMANDERIES, K. T.

Commandery
No.
Amt.
California ............................ 1 $ 12.50
Sacramento ........................ 2
5.00
Pacific .................................. 3
5.00
Oroville ................................ 5
10.00
Nevada ................................ 6
2.50
Marysville ....... ................... 7
5.00
San Jose .............................. 10
5.00
Oakland ............................... 11
10.00
5.00
Chico .................................... 12
9.00
Santa Rosa .......................... 14
Red Bluff ............................ 17
5.00
10.00
Ventura ................................ 18
5.00
Naval .................................... 19
Watsonville ........................22
5.00
7.50
St. Bernard ........................ 23
10.00
Visalia -~·······························26
5.00
San Luis Obispo ................27
5.00
Fresno ..................................29
10.00
Pasadena ............................ 31
Mt. Shasta .......................... 32
10.00
Ukiah ....~ ............................... 33
10.00
Eureka ................................ 35
5.00
Southern California ..........37
10.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Commandery
No.
Vacaville ..............................38
San Francisco ....................41
Santa Cruz ..........................44
Palo Alto ........................... .47
Whittier ..............................51
Auburn ................................52
Hollywood ..........................56
San Pedro ............................ 60
Calvary ................................ 62

Amt.
10.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
25.00
5.00
15.00
5.00
10.00

Total ........................................ $249.00
COUNCILS R. 8t S. M.

Council
No.
Sacramento .......................... 1
California .............................. 2
Gateway ................................13
Pasadena ................................16
Santa Cruz ............................ 17
Fresno .................................... 18
Pomona .................................. 21
Valley ....................................27
Hollywood ............................33

Amt.
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
2.50
5.00
5.00
2.50

Total ···- ·····································$37.50
A. 8t A. S. R.

Amt.
California Bodies ......................$ 12.50
Fresno Lodge of Perfection.... 25.00
Los Angeles Bodies-class of
1949-50 ...................................... 80.62
Los Angeles Bodies Spring
Re-union .................................. 69.20
Oakland Bodies ........................ 25.00
Peninsula Bodies ...................... 20.00
Sacramento Bodies .................. 12.50
San Diego Bodies ...................... 10.00
Total ........................................ $254.84
DISTRICT OFFICERS'
ASSOCIATIONS

Amt.
39th District ................................$ 10.00
68th District ................................ 10.00
88th District ................................ 10.00
93rd District ................................ 17. 60
96th District ................................ 50.94
98th District ................................ 35.00
lOlst District .............................. 75.00
Santa Clara Valley ..................
5.00
Total ........................................$213.54
ORDER OF JOB'S DAUGHTERS
Amt.
Bethel No. 125, Mothers Club ....$10.00

CHAPTERS, ·o. E. S.

Chapter
No .
Amt.
Jasmine ·····················-·······145 $ 22.90
Long Beach ...................... 173
50.00
5.00
Miguelita ···············--·~· -······176
Santa Clara ...................... 195
10.00
San Rafael ........................215
10.00
Mill Valley ........................ 219
10.00
Jewel .................................. 238
10.00
Atascadero ........................344
5.00
Glen ....................................357
15.00
Siloam ................................406
10.00
Playa Linda ......................425
10.00
Melita ................................467
6.56
Total ........................................$164.46
AND MISCELLANEOUS

Amt.
Masonic Cable Club Lane Wells Co . ..........:.........$ 20.00
Topc ams of Sciotry ............... .
34.06
Taft Pyramid No. 12, Sciots ..
25.00
Harrison Anderson ..................
8.00
Y.W.C.A. Council of
Glendora ............................... .
10.00
Rita Mae Association ........... .
50.00
2nd Eight Club ....................... . 25.00
Edison Masonic Club ............. . 188.19
Low Twelve Club ................. .
25.00
Santa Maria Chapter
No. 552 De Molay ................
15.00
Insurance Square Club ......... .
25.00
Mrs. Aydel Shafer ................. .
5.00
Social Order of Beauceant... .
10.00
Paramount Square Club ......
25.00
Aviation Square Club ........... . 50.00
Kemp Dawson ......................... .
15.00
F. L. Stamey ........................... .
50.00
Al Denser ................................. .
1.00
J. E. Vuillot ............................. .
2.00

379

Amt.
Steel Square Club ................. .
31.00
25.00
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Fisher ..
Mary K . Frame ........................
5.00
Mrs. John E. Middleton......... .
25.00
Robert E. Olson ....................... .
5.00
William E. Ellis ....................... .
5.00
Menasco Masonic Club ......... .
15~00
E. H. Stevenson ..................... . 100.00
E. Searle Wolfe ....................... .
10.00
Julian Bomash ....................... .
10.00
The Westerners ....................... . 345.00
S. Preston ................................. .
25.00
25.00
W. W. Whitney ....................... .
Paso Robles Rainbow Assem.
No. 99 ···············-···················
10.00
Santa Maria Rainbow Assem.
No. 92 ................................... .
10.00
5.00
Hilda Wright ........................... .
Fraser Circle ........................... . 142.00
10.00
Topcams ................................... .
San Bernardino Army Base
Masonic Club ....................... .
13.60
10.00
Desert Masonic Club ............. .
13.50
Jack Nuttall ........................... .
Mr. and Mrs. Harrison
10.00
Anderson ............................. .
2.00
J. E. Vuillot ............................. .
17.25
East Bay Masonic Bldg. Assn.
50.00
James R. Higgins ................... .
De Molay Mothers Club of
Hollenbeck ............................
5.00
Ben F . Thorpe ..........................
10.00
Verna and Vida Andrew........
5.00
Friends of George and Jeanette
Learned ..................................
46.80
E. C. Lester ..............................
5.00
Irma Rhodes .....•......................
25.00
1936 Association, Order of the
Eastern Star of So. California ......................................
50.00
Total ...................................... $1,649.40

380

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

HOMES STA TISTICS

Seaside Lodge No. 504 ..............................................................
76.12
Estate of Masidon T. Owens .................................................... 8,430.03
Estate of Charles E. Grant ........................................................ 2,463.62
Estate of Mattie Tapp Travis .................................................. 12,144.42
Chas. H . Hahn ............................................................................
150.00
Estate of Edwin C. Hickey ..................................................... . 1,000.00
Estate of Wm. P. Klenck .....................................•.................... 3,187.79
Estate of Anna S. Wyckoff ......................................................
375.00
Memorial Mark S. Jack ............................................................
144.50

NUMBER OF RESIDENTS AS OF JULY 31, 1950
Decoto Home:
Men Women Totai
Residents. August 1, 1949............................... _. 123
172
295
Admitted ............................................................ 26
27
53
23
54
Died and withdrawn.......................................... 31
Residents, July 31, 1950 .................................... 118
176
294
Covina Home:
Boys
Girls
Total
Residents, August 1, 1949 ................................ 40
19
59
Admitted ............................................................
7
4
11
Graduated and withdrawn .............................. 10
3
13
20
57
Residents, July 31, 1950 .................................. 37

381

$40,496.51
DECOTO SPECIAL FUND

PER CA PIT A COST
Statement of Per Capita Costs (Statistical) for the Fiscal
Year Ending July 31. 1950
Decoto Home:
Cost of Maintenance ..........................................................$271,635.31
295
Average number of residents :···········································
Average operating cost per month .................................:.. 22,636.28
754.54
Average cost per day ..........................................................
Average cost per resident per year ....................................
920.80
Average cost per resident per month ............................... .
76.73
Average cost per resident per day ....................................
2.55
92
Average number of employees ........................... :..............
Covina Home:
Cost of Maintenance ........................................................ 143,590.08
Average number of residents ............................................
58
Average operating cost per month ................................... . 11 ,965.85
393.31
Average cost per day ....................................................... .
Average cost per child per year ........................................
2.475.69
206.31
Average cost per child per month ................................... .
6.88
Average cost per child per day ...........................:............
Average number of employees ..........................................
31
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SPECIAL FUNDS
SCHOLARSHIP FUND
Superior Sacramento Valley DeMolay .......................................... $129.75
COVINA SPECIAL FUND
Estate of Florence E. Powers .......... ,.........................................$ 4,146.74
Jasmin O.E.S. No. 145 ................................................................
30.00
Estate of Ida B. Cox .................................................................. 8,348.29

Alfred J. Strei ......................................................•.... :................ $ 500.00
100.00
Mrs. Virginia A. Dickerson ......................................................
Estate of Charles A. McDonald ...............................................: 12,766.87
Estate of Gabriel Goldberg ......................................................
300.00
Estate of John Grandy ............................................................. .
100.00
Estate of Anna S. Wyckoff ........................................................
375.00
$14,141.87
BUILDING FUND
Estate of W. G. Bailey ,..............•............................................ $ 10,062.24
"
" Emmett E. Edmonds ............................................... .
4,000.00
" Edward A. Brown ....................................................
1,000.00
" Bella M . Diehl .......................................................... 25,000.00
" Philip H . Moore ......................................................
1,000.00
" John Tonningsen ......................................................
5,981.97
" Daniel E. Boone ....................................................... . 26,033.16
" Lulu Bartlett ..............................................................
125.17
" Burton W. Andrews ................................................
5,620.33
" Francis J. Nielsen ................................................... . 40,643.50
" Jam es S. McCandless .............................................. 88,354.31
" Philip Johnson ..........................................................
9,000.00
" Clement G. Smith ..................................................... 10,700.63
" William R. Sanders .......................................:..........
4,839.47
" Nina McCleery Hunt ..............................................
5,000.00
" Gratz B. Dean .....................:................................... .
5,000.00
'' Hazel Holden ............................................................
1,579.66
..,
'' Barclay Waters ..........................................................................
200.00
$244,140.44

382

ANNUAL
No.
1

2
3
5
8
9
10
12
13
14
16
17
18
19
20
21

22

23
24
25
26
27
30
32

33
35
37
38
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
50
51
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
64
65
66
68
70
76
78
79
80
81
84
87
89
91
93

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge

California ......................... .
Western Star ................... .
Tehama ........................... .
Benicia ..............................
Tuolumne ........................
Corinthian ....................... .
San Jose ........................... .
Yount ............................... .
Nevada ............................. .
Temple ............................. .
Eureka ..............................
La Parfaite Union ......... .
Mountain Shade ............. .
San Joaquin ................... .
Washi.~gton ..................... .
Hawauan ......................... .
Occidental ....................... .
Madison ............................
Mariposa ..........................
Georgetown ................... .
El Dorado ..........................
Trinity ............................. .
Golden Gate ................... .
Gold Hill ..........................
Ophir ................................
San Diego ....................... .
Howard ........................... .
Santa Cruz ....................... .
Sacramento ..................... .
Martinez ..........................
Los ·Angeles ......................
Hiram ............................... .
Mount Moriah ............... .
Crescent ........................... .
Texas ............................... .
Forbestown ..................... .
llinoistown ..................... .
Suisun ............................... .
Volcano ........................... .
Santa Rosa ........................
Union ............................... .
Gravel Range ................. .
Plumas ............................. .
Live Oak ......................... .
Natoma ............................. .
Amador ...................... :.... .
Forest ............................... .
Morning Star ................. .
Enterprise ....................... .
Bear Mountain ............... .
Calaveras ..........................
Humboldt ....................... .
Ione ................................... .
Yolo ................................... .
Vesper ............................. .
Naval ............................... .
Rose's Bar ....................... .
North Star ....................... .
St. Helena ....................... .

RETURNS-1949
Grand
Masonic $25.00 Homes $1G.W.
Homes Contribution Contrib.
Lodge
$ 757.15 $ 529.00 $ 475.00 $ 16.00
209.40
144.00
150.00
6.00
732.00
1,090.20
850.00
34.00
210.00
150.00
6.00
301.50
340.35
241.00
75.00
3.00
586.80
388.00
650.00
25.00
766.05
523.00
550.00
21.00
716.10
466.00
700.00
28.00
228.00
160.00
150.00
6.00
250.00
271.35
181.00
10.00
449.80
308.00
325.00
12.00
157.20
112.00
100.00
4.00
1.00
65.75
45.00
25.00
727.00
775.00
30.00
1,085.45
1,000.00
40.00
1,143.95
757.00
649.80
468.00
150.00
6.00
475.00
1,024.40
724.00
18.00
438.10
306.00
150.00
5.00
276.25
150.00
195.00
6.00
75.00
81.60
56.00
3.00
12.00
342.60
236.00
400.00
8.00
122.00
193.70
200.00
33.00
825.00
637.00
960.95
9.00
225.00
168.10
106.00
5.00
109.50
125.00
70.00
1,450.25
61.00
1,600.00
935.00
346.00
8.00
225.00
240.00
697.25
31.00
925.00
455.00
22.00
1,059.50
550.00
730.00
9.00
370.00
225.00
522.50
30.00
750.00
727.00
1,071.45
106.90
3.00
75.00
74.00
581.45
8.00
225.00
407.00
15.00
375.00
174.00
279.90
3.00
75.00
49.00
74.15
9.00
225.00
166.35
101.00
4.00
100.00
87.00
127.45
20.00
550.00
202.00
335.70
4.00
100.00
57.00
87.95
27.00
700.00
857.95
577.00
33.00
825.00
686.00
1,031.10
5.00
125.00
91.65
59.00
11.00
315.30
325.00
198.00
29.00
775.00
1,039.00
1,501.65
23.00
327.90
575.00
194.00
1.00
25.00
78.00
108.30
41.50
30.00
34.00
850.00
605.00
915.75
18.00
475.00
459.00
300.00
6.00
150.00
73,00
116.55
4.00
100.00
167.50
110.00
23.00
575.00
419.00
647.65
1.00
25.00
127.85
91.00
135.40
5.00
125.00
84.00
348.50
12.00
300.00
230.00
1,658.40
44.00
1,100.00
1,124.00
50.60
36.00
88.00
4.00
100.00
60.00
164.55
5.00
150.00
113.00

No.
Lodge
95 Henry Clay ..................... .
98 Hornitos ........................... .
99 Yosemite ......................... .
101 Clay ..................................
103 Oroville ·····················'······
104 Lexington ....................... .
106 Arcata ............................... .
110
0
111
..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
112 Summit ........................... .
113 Eden ..................................
117 Concord ........................... .
120 Fidelity ........................... .
122 Alamo ............................... .
123 Sotoyome ......................... .
124 Table Mountain ............. .
126 Lafayette ......................... .
127 Hermann ..........................
128 Visalia ............................. .
129 Nicolaus ........................... .
131
ood~ridge ······················
132
1ncerity ......................... .
134 Vacaville ..........................
135 Valley ............................... .
136 Pacific ............................... .
139 Crockett ........................... .
140 Curtis ............................... .
141 Grafton ........................... .
143 Franklin ........................... .
144 Oriental ........................... .
145 Vitruvius ......................... .
146 Abell ............................... .
147 Eel River ......................... .
149 Lassen ............................. .
150 Molino ............................. .
156 Woodland ........................
161 Keystone ......................... .
164 Harmony ......................... .
166 Excelsior ......................... .
167 Alameda ......................... .
168 Redwood City ................. .
169 M".
lSSlOn ............................. .
173 Elk Grove ....................... .
174 Drytown ......................... .
175 Antioch ................ ..............
178 Phoenix ........................... .
179 Mendocino ....................... .
180 Petaluma ......................... .
181 Russian River ..................
182 Arbuckle ..........................
183 Clear Lake ....................... .
184 Sierra Valley ....................
185 Claiborne ......................... .
186 Evening Star ................... .
187 Keith ................................. .
188 Oakland ........................... .
190 Northern Light ..............
191 M"
arm ............................... .
192 Santa Barbara ................
193 Ferndale ............................

~hl~~

r

Grand
Lodge
119.65
136.55
654.50
131.85
486.70
795.00
415.90
522.60
641.50
66.75
570.10
521.45
790.85
562.15
247.30
264.65
303.15
293.45
780.50
145.40
242.85
141.55
312.90
130.85
836.70
852.70
99.20
153.35
180.85
542.65
173.70
394.50
324.40
345.70
223.30
399.00
42.10
35.65
699.05
260.70
760.15
1,046.30
204.40
70.05
463.35
907.90
170.00
482.15
158.20
115.70
94.70
53.65
87.30
76.50
252.90
1,364.55
115.00
755.45
481.75
152.05

383

Masonic $25.00 Homes $1 G. W.
Homes Contribution Contrib.
79.00
125.00
5.00
93.00
150.00
6.00
430.00
550.00
20.00
91.00
100.00
3.00
322.00
525.00
21.00
500.00
1,075.00
40.00
254.00
725.00
29.00
336.00
650.00
26.00
430.00
625.00
21.00
45.00
25.00
1.00
386.00
375.00
14.00
347.00
400.00
16.00
551.00
275.00
11.00
369.00
575.00
20.00
178.00
75.00
3.00
159.00
300.00
12.00
209.00
200.00
8.00
207.00
100.00
3.00
530.00
675.00
25.00
104.00
150.00
3.00
171.00
50.00
2.00
93.00
125.00
5.00
194.00
475.00
19.00
91.00
75.00
3.00
582.00
425.00
17.00
582.00
500.00
20.00
72.00
25.00
1.00
101.00
150.00
6.00
131.00
379.00
275.00
11.00
122.00
125.00
5.00
270.00
225.00
8.00
224.00
225.00
8.00
222.00
375.00
15.00
158.00
125.00
4.00
260.00
300.00
12.00
26.00
100.00
4.00
19.00
125.00
4.00
483.00
475.00
19.00
162.00
425.00
15.00
529.00
600.00
20.00
698.00
875.00
34.00
144.00
25.00
1.00
43.00
100.00
4.00
301.00
600.00
22.00
634.00
500.00
16.00
120.00
125.00
4.00
329.00
275.00
10.00
112.00
100.00
3.00
82.00
25.00
1.00
62.00
225.00
6.00
39.00
25.00
1.00
58.00
100.00
3.00
50.00
100.00
3.00
174.00
125.00
5.00
933.00
1,050.00
38.00
81.00
50.00
2.00
527.00
350.00
11.00
325.00
450.00
18.00
103.00
100.00
4.00

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

0

384

PROCEEDl NGS OF THE

Lodge
No.
194 Mountain View ..................
195 Buckeye ,_.........................
196 San Simeon ......... ~............
198 Wilmington ......................
199 Hartley ......._.....................
200 Truckee ........................................
201 Silveyville ........................
202 Pentalpha ..............................
203 Confidence ........................
204 Salinas ·····-··················-~·-·
205 Olivet .........................................
206 Stanislaus ................................
207 Anaheim ...................................
208 Rio Vista ..........................
209 King David's ....................
210 Friendship ........................
211 San Benito ........................
212 S. San Francisco..............
214 San Buenaventura ..........
215 Oak Grove ........................
216 Doric ..................................
217 Monterey ......................................
218 Mosaic ..........; ...........................
219 Speranza Italiana ...........
220 Downey ..................................
221 Inyo ....................................
222 Roseville ..........................
224 Bakersfield ............................
225 Brooklyn ..............................
226 San Mateo ........................
228 Athens .........................................
229 Solano .........,......................
230 North Butte ......................
231 Covelo ........................................
232 Janesville •••••••••Jo.•••••••••• • ••
233 Calistoga ....................................
234 Hope ..................................
235 Surprise Valley ..............
236 Hills Ferry ........................
237 Guadalupe ......._ ..............
240 Colusa ................................
241 Santa Ana .........................
242 Magnolia ..........................
243 Eucalyptus ........................
244 Alcatraz ....................................
245 Laurel ...................- ...........
246 Pomona ....................................
247 Fresno .........................-.....
248 Alturas ........................................
250 Adin .............................................
253 Landmark ................................
254 Reading ....................................
255 Welcome ·-···················-·
256 Lodi ....................................
258 Penrhyn ............................
259 Evergreen __ .....................
260 King Solomon's ...............
261 Tuscan ····-·····-··················
262 Lompoc ....................................
264 Hesperian

···········-··········

Ma&onic $25.00 Home& $1G.W.
Grand
Homes Contribution Contrib.
Lodge
15.00
450.00
328.00
490.80
6.00
150.00
136.00
202.60
110.00
150.50
22.00
600.00
541.00
794.35
8.00
200.00
235.00
340.25
3.00
75.00
93.00
132.55
3.00
75.00
144.00
201.40
8.00
200.00
551.00
766.85
2.00
50.00
48.00
70.80
30.00
825.00
480.00
. 747.00
3.00
75.00
103.00
150.05
21.00
550.00
588.00
881.80
17.00
425.00
405.00
602.75
4.00
125.00
148.00
213.80
10.00
250.00
403.00
569.05
11.00
300.00
699.00
982.65
4.00
125.00
152.00
212.20
6.00
150.00
237.00
336.95
7.00
225.00
382.00
537.70
19.00
475.00
628.00
901.80
8.00
200.00
497.00
706.95
9.00
225.00
249.00
358.15
9.00
225.00
177.00
265.95
4.00
100.00
304.00
419.40
28.00
700.00
507.00
770.45
10.00
250.00
161.00
239.35
12.00
300.00
328.00
483.80
42.00
1,075.00
763.00
1,140.05
28.00
700.00
594.00
869.90
26.00
700.00
444.00
673.40
14.00
375.00
143.00
229.05
13.00
350.00
570.00
815.50
11.00
300.00
181.00
272.35
3.00
75.00
66.00
98.10
12.00
300.00
132.00
213.20
2.00
50.00
111.00
158.85
6.00
150.00
128.00
193.80
2.00
50.00
71.00
101.85
6.00
150.00
152.00
227.20
14.00
350.00
145.00
233.75
6.00
200.00
152.00
223.20
24.00
775.00
567.00
832.45
16.00
525.00
387.00
569.45
26.00
700.00
'134.00
666.90
19.00
500.00
619.00
932.65
9.00
200.00
224.00
326.40
17.00
500.00
389.00
577.15
37.00
925.00
647.00
968.45
13.00
325.00
174.00
276.90
11.00
275.00
95.00
165.25
4.00
100.00
108.00
156.80
11.00
275.00
191.00
280.85
13.00
325.00
187.00
280.45 .
15.00
400.00
370.00
542.50
2.00
75.00
146.00
203.10
28.00
850.00
604.00
884.40
12.00
350.00
487.00
695.45
6.00
150.00
83.00
122.05
6,00
175.00
177.00
261.95
12.00
300.00
340.00
504.00

No.
265
266
267
268
269
271
272
273
274
275
277
278
279
280
281
282
283
285
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
295
296
297
299
300
301
302
303
304
305
306
307
308
309
310
312
313
314
315
316
317
318
319
320
321
322
323
324
325
326
327
328
329

Lodge

Orland .......................................
North East ........................
Galt __ .................................
Durant ··-···········-·············
Olive Branch ·······-·········
Snow Mountain ..............
Pasadena ..................................
Anchor ....................................
Arroyo ..........................................
Oakdale .....................................
Selma ........................................
So. California ..................
Hanford .................................
Madera ..............................
Mount Shasta ..................
Calayomi ...............................
South West ......................
San Miguel ......................
Paso Robles ......................
Winnedumah .....................
Maxwell ............................
Elsinore
East Gate ........................
Santa Paula ..........................
Los Gatos ..........................
Orange Grove ..................
Traver .......................................
Mt. Jackson ......................
Silver Gate ......................
Dunsmuir ............................
Liberty ..............................
Redlands ..........................
Ontario ..............................
Santa Lucia ......................
Porterville ........................
Reedley ·······-··········-·······
Azw·a ..........................................
Ashlar ................................
Santa Monica ..................
Monrovia· ..........................
Delano ...................- .........
Sisson ................................
Los Banos ..............................
Tehachapi ................................
Temescal ...................................
Norwalk ............................
Sanger ..............................
Fallbrook ..............................
Emanuel ............................
Hollenbeck ···········-·········
South Gate ...........................
Alis al ..........................................
Alhambra ..........................
Whittier ....................................
Corona ......................................
Consuelo ·······-·················
Needles ..............................
Long Beach ......................
Redondo ............................
Vallee de France ............
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .u

•••

Grand
Lodge
233.65
77.85
102.80
771.40
434.10
60.65
774.45
786.45
193.90
256.60
318.85
708.20
300.00
367.85
114.85
94.70
594.75
83.20
353.55
277.35
110.50
225.60
1,142.15
466.35
411.20
366.85
216.10
192.55
1,718.25
414.85
441.25
612.05
538.20
213.50
652.65
213.55
360.60
378.65
548.00
· 422.15
334.80
164.15
216.45
286.20
326.80
378.00
450.05
190.35
114.65
1,478.55
906.00
187.50
935.35
950.90
653.90
354.00
507.85
831.55
702.65
190.45

385

Ma&onic $25.00 Home& $1G.W .
Contribution Contrib.
Home&
159.00
150.00
8.00
51.00
100.00
4.00
68.00
75.00
3.00
544.00
300.00
12.00
286.00
500.00 ·
19.00
75.00
39.00
3.00
527.00
650.00
22.00
527.00
725.00
28.00
134.00
150.00
6.00
6.00
176.00
150.00
211.00
250.00
10.00
492.00
375.00
15.00
200.00
225.00
8.00
251.00
150.00
5.00
175.00
71.00
7.00
62.00
100.00
3.90
385.00
700.00
28.00
52.00
150.00
6.00
233.00
400.00
14.00
181.00
325.00
13.00
70.00
100.00
4.00
156.00
125.00
4.00
809.00
325. 00
13.00
321.00
10.00
275.00
272.00
525.00
17.00
251.00
10.00
325.00
146.00
225.00
9.00
100.00
133.00
4.00
1,135.00
1,550.00
51.00
291.00
200.00
8.00
295.00
425.00
17.00
423.00
400.00
10.00
352.00
575.00
22.00
4.00
150.00
100.00
459.00
350.00
12.00
153.00
50.00
2.00
236.00
400.00
16.00
259.00
250.00
9.00
380.00
275.00
9.00
289.00
400.00
12.00
228.00
10.00
250.00
109.00
125.00
5.00
147.00
250.00
10.00
192.00
250.00
9.00
14.00
208.00
475.00
240.00
550.00
21.00
15.00
303.00
375.00
121.00
200.00
8.00
3.00
79.00
75.00
1,053.00
500.00
20.00
18.00
640.00
450.09
130.00
5.00
150.00
641.00
650.00
21.00
634.00
850.00
30.00
454.00
525.00
16.00
240.00
300.00
10.00
351.00
6.00
150.00
573.00
600.00
23.00
459.00
825.00
29.QO
127.00
175.00
1.00

386 .
No.

l>ROCEEblNGS OP THI!

Grand
Lodge

Lodge

330 Kilauea ..............................
331 Pacific Grove ......................
332 San Pedro ........................
333 Alta·-··-·····························
334 Covina ·--··-·····················
335 West Gate ........................
336 Fruitvale ................. ..................
337 Carquinez ...............·-·····
338 San Jacinto ·············-·······
339 Fullerton ....................................
341 Oxnard-············· ..............
343 San Fernando ..................
344 Starr King -·················..··
345 Brentwood ·-·····················
346 Palo Alto ..........................
347 . McKinley ..........................
348 San B_ernardino ...\........7•
349 Sequoia ·-··············-·····
351 Palestine -········-~···········
352 Sunset -···;················-·······
353 Pinole -·····························
354 Presidio - ·························
355 Hollywood ........................
356 Mill Vanek ·······-·············
357 Buena Par ·············-·······
358 Golden State ·······-···········
359 Loyalton ••••••••• • • ••••• • ••••H•••
360 San Francisco ..................
361 Fort Bragg -·····················
362 Charity ·-················-··-·····
363 Berkeley ·-··················--·
365 Willits·-·····························
366 Las Pallnas ·-···················
367 South Pasadena ·······-·····
368 Unity -·--······- ···············
369 Ocean Park ···············-·····
370 Amity·-·······-···················
371 le Progres de L'Oceanie
372 Gardena ····-····--··-·-·······
373 West Los Angeles ········374 Jewel ···-·-··-······-··'"·..······
375 Richmond --··-·················
376 Francis Drake ·····-···········
377 Artesia
····-··-···378 Mizpah
..·····--···········
379 Fillmore ·-··················-·····
380 Huntington Beach ···-·····
381 Oceanside - - - - -·--···
382 Highland Park ·········--··· .
383 Orosi - - · - ··-····-·-·384 El Centro --~·-········-····-···385 Dinuba
387 Coalinga ·-····-··-··--··-·•·
388 Parnassus
389 Palos Verdes -····-··--···390 hnperial --·----··--·
391 East Belt·······--··-·-.
392 West Lake -·········----···
393 Balder ----·············-····

-

-·--·-··..

·-······

-·---·-·---···
-··------··

894 University ···········-·········

338.30
364.35
706.95
122.00
425.90
1,516.40
1,259.35
272.40
156.30
. 544.70
588.60
753.20
763.50
185.45
980.20
683.20
967.65
1,531.25
862.25
561.90
252.80
764.95
1,687.30
615.90
313.80
1,186.55
147.60
456.90
204.20
216.75
949.75
233.25
1,403.75
840.95
876.90
687.00
661.05 .
944.75
450.65
569.80
269.00
765.40
498.85
259.00
636.20
335.80
450.45
482.80
935.35
183.50
567.95
421.35
554.00
1,061.90
1,002.00
177.95
131.45
1,324.10
708.80
892.15

Ma/Jonie $25.00 Home/J $1G.W.
Home/J
Contribution Contrib.
238.00
175.00
7.00
14.00
241.00
450.00
497.00
300.00
11.00
6.00
80.00
150.00
11.00
294.00
300.00
1,004.00
1,275.00
44.00
881.00
625.00
25.00
184.00
225.00
9.00
200.00
98.00
8.00
382.00
275.00
9.00
750.00
27.00
376.00
32.00
492.00
900.00
530.00
375.00
15.00
127.00
125.00
5.00
26.00
672.00
725.00
472.00
475.00
16.00
16.00
679.00
450.00
1,055.00
875.00
35.00
20.00
595.00
525.00
394.00
225.00
9.00
250.00
8.00
168.00
537.00
325.00
13.00
1,138.00
1,400.00
48.00
414.00
375.00
15.00
12.00
208.00
350.00
833.00
525.00
20.00
150.00
5.00
96.00
314.00
275.00
11.00
132.00
175.00
7.00
145.00
150.00
6.00
26.00
645.00
650.00
155.00
175.00
7.00
945.00
1,000.00
39.00
22.00
577.00
550.00
594.00
700.00
28.00
425.00
13.00
480.00
250.00
463.00
10.00
645.00
500.00
19.00
299.00
525.00
19.00
425.00
15.00
388.00
180.00
250.00
10.00
275.00
11.00
544.00
311.00
750.00
30.00
160.00
275.00
11.00
500.00
20.00
432.00
300.00
11.00
228.00
375.00
15.00
307.00
600.00
22.00
308.00
39.00
1,000.00
601.00
50.00
2.00
130.00
29.00
850.00
377.00
225.00
9.00
281.00
18.00
360.00
450.00
1,000.00
38.00
714.00
18.00
500.00
700.00
6.00
150.00
117.00
4.00
100.00
87.00
17.00
450.00
946.00
14.00
375.00
488.00
12.00
300.00
609.00

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

No.
Lodge
395 Turlock
396 Apollo ................................
397 Rising Light ....................
399 Fraternity .................................
400 Burlingame ......................
401 Bay View ..........................
402 Brawley ............................
403 Yerba Buena ....................
404 Glendora
405 Moneta ....::::::::::::::::::::::::::
406 Burbank·························-·
407 La Mesa ............................
408 Sierra Madre ..............,..........
409 Honolulu
410 Charter
411
Perris ·················-····-·······
412 Calexico
............................
414 Arlington ..........................
415 Silver Trowel ..................
416 Lindsay ....................................
417 Clovis ........................................
418 Elysian .......................................
419 Upland ...........,...
420 Kerman .................................
421 Inglewood ..............................
422 Eagle Rock ......................
423 York .......................................
424 Exeter
425 Holtville .............................
426 Midway ....................................
427 Chino Valley ....................
428 San Dimas ................•.......
429 Pittsburg ..............................
430 McCioud ...............................
431 Alpha
···-··-···-···········-~·····
433 Hammonton
···-······..·······
i34 Maricopa ..........................
435 Fairmount ........................
436 Claremont ...............................
437 Lancaster ..........................
438 Acacia ....................................
439 Tyrian ...................................
440 Standard ...............................
441 Coronado .................................
442 Blackmer ..........................
443 Schofield ..........................
444 Carpinteria .................., .......
445 Wilshire ..................................
446 La Puente ......................;.
447 Torrence ................................
448 Mount Diablo ..................
449 Park
·········-··-···················
450 Van Nuys
........................
451 Montebello ......................
452 San Pasqual ....................
453 Bethlehem ···················-···
454 Crocker
·····-············--······
455 Golden West
....................
457 Ramona ........... ......................
458 Henry S. Orme ··············-

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .u . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Rocit""::::::::::::::::::

...................

...............................

-

Grand
Lodge
543.15
658.75
1,435.70
643.75
924.60
936.90
300.40
1,253.50
208.70
1,014.65
901.25
740.85
203.90
541.70
524.00
210.75
235.05
518.70
568.80
311.50
613.45
664.25
281.85
153.95
985.70
694.60
470.95
303.05
228.25
696.20
204.45
228.40
399.05
156.80
744.60
85.65
246.95
707.70
161.20
382.40
77.60
256.65
498.15
546.25
1,751.30
365.90
168.85
751.55
226.50
553.75
422.05
704.40
1,008.25
815.85
674.25
423.40
562.40
822.15
672.25
981.10

387

Ma1JOnic $25.00 Home/J $1G.W.
Home1J
Contribution Contrib.
349.00
650.00
24.00
445.00
500.00
19.00
962.00
1,150.00
44.00
445.00
350.00
12.00
616.00
775.00
30.00
594.00
1,000.00
38.00
204.00
150.00
6.00
830.00
l,Q75.00
41.00
142.00
175.00
6.00
719.00
375.00
15.00
615.00
750.00
27.00
471.00
1,000.00
35.00
134.00
250.00
8.00
362.00
625.00
21.00
360.00
350.00
12.00
145.00
100.00
4.00
163.00
75.00
3.00
362.00
250.00
10.00
388.00
400.00
15.00
210.00
300.00
10.00
387.00
1,025.00
40.00
455.00
500.00
20.00
191.00
200.00
7.00
97.00
200.00
8.00
662.00
775.00
30.00
476.00
550.00
17.00
317.00
300,00
12.00
203.00
175.00
6.00
135.00
275.00
11.00
472.00
525.00
20.00
127.00
325.00
13.00
164.00
50.00
2.00
263.00
475.00
19.00
108.00
100.00
3.00
496.00
650.00
26.00
59.00
100.00
4.00
177.00
75.00
3.00
482.00
400.00
15.00
112.00
125.00
5.00
244.00
525.00
20.00
56.00
25.00
1.00
159.00
525.00
19.00
349.00
200.00
8.00
355.00
550.00
22.00
1,178.00
1,250.00
47.00
254.00
225.00
9.00
111.00
200.00
8.00
533.00
275.00
10.00
150.00
125.00
5.00
365.00
625.00
22.00
283.00
425.00
16.00
484.00
400.00
16.00
635.00
1,775.00
61.00
531.00
875.00
32.00
455.00
625.00
22.00
304.00
125.00
4.00
384.00
375.00
14.00
569.00
425.00
16.00
455.00
525.00
20.00
666.00
725.00
29.00

388
No.
459
460
461
462
463
464
465
466
467
468
469
470
471

472
473
474
475
476
477
478
479
480
481
482
483
484
485
486
487
488
489
490
491
492
493
494
495
497
498
499
500
501
502
503

504

505
506
507
508
509
510
511
512
513
514
515
516
517
518
519

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Lodge

Riverbank ........................
Mount Oso .................:..... .
Argonaut ......................... .
Paul Revere ................... .
Morgan Hill ................... .
Alta Vista ....................... .
Center ............................. .
Libertas ............................
Culver City ..................... .
Rockridge ··················-····
Yorba Linda ....................
Lincoln ............................. .
Delta ................................
Maui ................................. .
Blythe ..............................
Victory ..............................
America ........................... .
Coachella ............•...........
Temblor ............................
Thousand Oaks ............. .
Golden Rule ....................
Fellowship ..................... .
Mt. Davidson ................. .
Clarence F. Smith ......... .
Bell ·······················-···········
Albert Pike ......................
Chowchilla ......................
Caledonia ........................
Vallejo ..............................
Patterson ....................... .
East Bay · ......................... .
Corcoran ..........................
Woodstock ....................... .
Garvanza ......................... .
Atascadero ..................... .
Acorn ····-··························
Lebanon ............................
Freniont ···-·······················
Stockton ............................
Capital City ....................
Roosevelt ......................... .
Westwood ........................
Harbor ..............................
Point ····-··········'·················
Seaside ............................. .
Silver Cord ..................... .
Mount Olive ................... .
El Segundo ......................
Joppa ···-···························
Benjamin Franklin ........
Cupertino ........................
Sunnyvale ....................... .
Pahns ·····-····················-···
Cahuenga ........................
Argonne ........................... .
Vermont Square ........... .
Taft
·········-·························
Mount
Vernon ............... .
La Jolla ........................... .
Euclid ·····-··-············-·······

Grand
Lodge
218.60
432.85
625.75
853.20
201.35
389.50
750.80
865.95
480.25
660.65
205.70
486.65
695.90
352.85
207.75
427.80
740.70
280.70
219.50
701.75
850.70
480.05
556.15
533.80
898.90
363.15
215.00
684.40
564.75
148.45
570.80
171.60
624.50
449.50
141.65
851.50
561.05
734.55
254.10
657.60
303.95
409.50
872.80
392.75
741.60
667.10
1,434.15
469.10
124.30
485.35
234.65
476.45
634.10
794.15
540.40
743.90
432.00
318.75
397.35
560.75

Masonic $25.00 Homes $1 G. W.
Homes Contribution , Contrib.
136.00
300.00
12.00
291.00
450.00
16.00
425.00
450.00
18.00
572.00
775.00
31.00
141.00
175.00
7.00
270.00
275.00
11.00
488.00
800.00
32.00
875.00
35.00
557.00
315.00
500.00
18.00
275.00
10.00
459.00
142.00
150.00
6.00
339.00
225.00
9.00
474.00
325.00
13.00
251.00
100.00
3.00
125.00
325.00
13.00
450.00
18.00
288.00
502.00
550.00
20.00
182.00
350.00
13.00
125.00
5.00
150.00
25.00
650.00
465.00
550.00
21.00
582.00
425.00
16.00
323.00
200.00
8.00
389.00
325.00
12.00
368.00
750.00
29.00
594.00
200.00
7.00
249.00
200.00
8.00
140.00
625.00
22.00
464.00
375.00
15.00
385.00
100.00
2.00
107.00
16.00
425.00
388.00
150.00
6.00
116.00
1,050.00
42.00
390.00
550.00
20.00
290.00
100.00
4.00
99.00
550.00
21.00
570.00
17.00
425.00
383.00
300.00
12.00
493.00
25.00
1.00
186.00
625.00
25.00
436.00
400.00
16.00
197.00
325.00
13.00
270.00
925.00
37.00
548.00
22.00
550.00
245.00
23.00
650.00
496.00
400.00
14.00
466.00
23.00
625.00
1,009.00
475.00
19.00
306.00
175.00
6.00
78.00
175.00
7.00
341.00
175.00
6.00
159.00
400.00
16.00
307.00
600.00
21.00
426.00
625.00
25.00
529.00
175.00
6.00
384.00
500.00
19.00
514.00
275.00
10.00
300.00
75.00
3.00
225.00
325.00
13.00
261.00
275.00
11.00
385.00

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

No.
Lodge
520 Ionic ................................. .
521 Piedmont ......................... .
522 Sunrise ..............................
523 Bellflower ........................
524 Catalina Island ............... .
525
526
.. ::::::
527 Covenant ......................... .
528 Beverly Hills ................. .
529 Loyalty ··-························
530 Sun Garden ..................... .
531 Alexandria ..................... .
532 Smyrna ............................
533 Azure ............................... .
534 Forest Hill ....................... .
535 Alexander Hamilton .... ..
536 Seal Rock ..........................
537 Utopia ............................. .
538 Ascot ................................. .
539 Belvedere ....................... .
540 Queen Beach ................... .
Ml Henry Morse Stephens..
542 North Hollywood ......... .
543 Signal ................................
544 Glendale ......................... .
545 Jonathan ..........................
546 San Gabriel ..................... .
547 Arcadia ........................... .
548 Triangle ............................
549 Justice ..............................
550 Seaport ..............................
551 Lakeshore ........................
552 Semper Virens ................
554 Educator ..........................
555 White Pine ..................... .
556 Fairfax ............................. .
557 Hermosa ......................... .
558 Point Firmin ....................
559 Craftsmen ....................... .
560 Plymouth ......................... .
561 East San Diego ............... .
562 Pyramid ........................... .
563 South Park ..................... .
564 Foothill ........................... .
565 West Adams ................... .
566 James A. Garfield ......... .
567 Searchlight ..................... .
568 Park Boulevard ............. .
569 Chateau Thierry ........... .
570 Military Service ............. .
571 Francis K. Shattuck ..... .
572 James Madison ............... .
573 Hillcrest ........................... .
574 S. W. Hackett ................. .
575 Fort Crook ....................... .
576 El Cajon Valley ............. .
577 Sunnyside ....................... .
578 Progressive ..................... .
579 Warren G. Harding ......
580 Santa Maria ....................

~=~rgty":.~~-~~~-~~-~

Grand
Lodge
1,124.95
437.50
453.30
574.75
212.10
698.10
527.55
480.50
721.05
651. 75
777.50
246.35
163.70
346.60
257.45
342.15
308.15
996.50
488.90
311.65
259.00
462.80
1,017.05
697.50
933.95
289.85
585.40
519.85
352.00
520.95
347.90
396.15
404.45
553.05
140.00
514.35
461.35
499.20
609.00
544.75
1,029.35
425 .70
595.15
1,065.55
431.30
329.70
667.45
624.95
501.40
513.65
389.05
547.25
99.80
814.30
233.80
381.85
659.70
740.00
740.00
161.85

389

Masonic $25.00 Homes $1 G. W.
Homes
Contribution Contrib.
737.00
700.00
24.00
290.00
400.00
14.00
318.00
175.00
7.00
365.00
725.00
28.00
146.00
100.00
4.oo ·
466.00
575.00
22.00
353.00
425.00
16.00
330.00
400.00
14.00
463.00
1,050.00
38.00
445.00
500.00
16.00
510.00
825.00
33.00
161.00
225.00
9.00
102.00
275.00
9.00
236.00
325.00
11.00
167.00
325.00
12.00
229.00
425 .00
16.00
189.00
450.00
16.00
690.00
575.00
20.00
334.00
350.00
14.00
219.00
100.00
4.00
180.00
200.00
6.00
328.00
200.00
6.00
663.00
1,150.00
42.00
470.00
525.00
21.00
637.00
675.00
26.00
191.00
250.00
10.00
384.00
475.00
18.00
331.00
775.00
28.00
240.00
250.00
10.00
357.00
325.00
13.00
234.00
300.00
11.00
269.00
250.00
10.00
247.00
600.00
24.00
363.00
525.00
20.00
100.00
25.00
1.00
321.00
675.00
24.00
301.00
400.00
16.00
352.00
225.00
8.00
420.00
250.00
10.00
365.00
450.00
17.00
681.00
975.00
36.00
282.00
425.00
16.00
409.00
400.00
16.00
653.00
1,850.00
68.00
298.00
375.00
12.00
222.00
225.00
9.00
467.00
325.00
12.00
397.00
675.00
25.00
344.00
250.00
10.00
339.00
400.00
16.00
263.00
250.00
10.00
355.00
575.00
22.00
68.00
100.00
3.00
538.00
775.00
29.00
148.00
325.00
13.00
231.00
750.00
27.00
462.00
300.00
11.00
480.00
625.00
25.00
460.00
1,025.00
39.00
111.00
75.00
3.00

390

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
No.
581 Security ............................
582 Rialto ................................
583 Wasco ................................
584 Harding ............................
585 Manchester ......................
586 Garden Grove ........................
587 Valley Forge .................588 El Sereno ..........................
589 Kauai ...........................................
590 Compass .......................................
591 Escalon ..............................
592 Tujunga .........................................
593 All States ..........................
594 Service ..............................
595 Alexander Graham Bell
596 Guardian ........................................
598 Pearl Harbor ....................
599 Carmelita ...................................
600 Lynwood ........................................
601 Grizzly ............................................
602 Melrose ............................. ..........
603 Dimond ......................................
604 Jubilee ......................................
605 Glassell Park ..................
607 Sojourner ............. .................
608 Granada ......................................
609 Provident .................... ...............
610 Elmhurst .......................................
611 Canoga ..............................
612 Temple City ....................
613 Three Pillars ....................
614 Larchmont .......................... ..
615 Hemet ·····-···················----··
616 R. E. Dolley ......................
617 Big Bear ..........................
618 Southland ........................
619 Neptune ·····-·····················
620 Point Loma ......................
621 The Gardens ....................
622 Atwater ..........................................
623 Menorah ............................
624 Fortitude . ...................................
625 Angeles Mesa ..................
626 Chula Vista ......................
627 Lamanda Park ................
628 Truth ·····-··-···········--········
629 Fairview .....................................
630 Ingleside ....................................
631 Benevolence ....................
632 Normal Heights ..............
633 Poinsettia .....................................
634 Victorville ........................
635 Riverside ..........................
636 John Marshall ................
637 Palisades .....................................
638 Indian Rock ....................
639 Composite .................................
1140 Veritas ...........................................
641 James A. Foshay ............
642 .La Cumbre ·····-···············

Grand
Lodge
556.90
188.55
421.60
350.30
498.20
284.80
519.70
616.00
183.10
356.60
179.75
329.50
781.15
1,067.50
387.75
1,159.60
832.55
449.00
528.15
201.05
354.50
402.25
484.35
574.30
300.60
1,052.55
554.30
334.10
329.90
529.90
555.20
564.05
201.40
312.35
214.40
452.25
386.15
785.40
629.05
515.60
1,136.90
305.55
910.95
583.75
364.55
338.40
401.00
272.55
395.20
907.00
810.85
267.05
522.80
403.45
546.40
294.30
540.25
167.30
344.50
346.. 45

Masonic $25.00 Homea $1 G.W.
Homes Contribution Contrib.
374.00
425.00
17.00
133.00
75.00
3.00
16.00°
276.00
425.00
238.00
7.00
175.00
352.00
175.00
7.00
14.00
188.00
350.00
362.00
200.00
7.00
400.00
650.00
24.00
126.00
3.00
75.00
14.00
236.00
425.00
125.00
75.00
3.00
230.00
200.00
6.00
529.00
650.00
22.00
690.00
1,275.00
45.00
265.00
225.00
9.00
50.00
1,425.00
756.00
553.00
800.00
32.00
10.00
303.00
275.00
349.00
475.00
17.00
143.00
25.00
1.00
230.00
400.00
16.00
11.00
275.00
300.00
321.00
450.00
16.00
11.00
300.00
398.00
13.00
196.00
350.00
975.00
36.00
693.00
17.00
378.00
450.00
175.00
7.00
226.00
17.00
214.00
475.00
334.00
675.00
26.00
400.00
15.00
372.00
13.00
383.00
375.00
5.00
125.00
144.00
13.00
201.00
325.00
144.00
125.00
5.00
20.00
525.00
295.00
22.00
575.00
249.00
48.00
484.00
1,225.00
27.00
403.00
700.00
300.00
10.00
356.00
48.00
1,375.00
734.00
16.00
400.00
193.00
41.00
1,025.00
597.00
45.00
1,350.00
345.00
19.00
475.00
233.00
3.00
75.00
244.00
13.00
325.00
260.00
12.00
300.00
173.00
10.00
272.00
275.00
59.00
1,625.00
560.00
23.00
675.00
551.00
7.00
175.00
183.00
15.00
425.00
348.00
16.00
425.00
267.00
15.00
425.00
364.00
11.00
325.00
198.00
15.00
450.00
355.00
2.00
50.00
118.00
12.00
300.00
230.00
11.00
275.00
227.00

No.

Lodge

. 643 Alta Loma ........................
644 Lomita
645 A. F. E.
646 Metropolitan ..............•.....
647 Hawthorne ......................
648 Damascus ····-·········-·········
649 Florence ....•.......................
650 La Brea ···············-······-···
651 Menlo Park ......................
652 Crescenta Valley ............
653 Fontana ............................
654 Jordan
655 Monte
656 Citrol
657 J<?h?- n:·sp~~~keb·::::::::::
658 Livingston ........................
659 La Habra········-······--········
660 Baldwin Park ..................
661 Malta

Irnfu·::::::::::::::::::

ViSta··::::::::::::::::::::

662
663
665
666
667
668
669
670
671
672
673
674
675
676
677
678
679
680
681
d82
683
684
685
686
687
688
689
690
691
692
693
694
695
696
697
698
699
700
701
702
703

g;~x:.. ~~:~~::::::::::::::::::::::

Kaweah ......................................
Reseda
Meridian·····························
san Goioni~··::::::::::::::::::
John P. ·a rman ..............
Greenleaf ..........................
San Clemente ..................
Laguna Beach ..................
Far West···················-·····
Los Cerritos ....................
Modesto
Willow di~~··::::::::::::::::::::
Liberal Arts ....................
Altadena
canby's cro~s··::::::::::::::::::
Carmel ·····-··············..·······
Dos Palos ..........................
Barstow
Redwood "ii:iiij)ir~··::::::::::::
Trona
·············-·················
San Marino
......................
Albany ..............................
Vista ..................................
Oildale
Pohona ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
San Carlos ........................
Indian Wells Valley ......
Travelers ..........................
Palm Springs ..................
San Antonio ....................
Meudell ..............................
Crossroads
St. Elmo ....::::::::::::::::::::::::
Wm. D. Stephens..............
Bixby Knolls ..................
Ponderosa ........................
Santa Ynez Valley ........
Rosemead ........................
Westchester .........................

Grand
Lodge
509.35
326.20
406.70
186.35
562.45
777.10
654.80
354.15
344.85
564.25
390.60
528.65
801.00
234.70
928.55
242.25
244.10
227.35
316.65
589.65
134.25
157.10
398.20
685.85
304.15
362.55
686.55
104.45
247.25
468.10
443.85
637.05
415.10
426.50
631.05
179.70
234.75
160.30
383.35
117.60
192.15
441.90
270.70
300.50
238.30
93.65
311.40
404.70
227.90
190.85
180.45
145.75
296.65
124.60
99.15
260.25
172.95
81.05
104.25
210.15

391

Masonic $25.00 Homes $IG.W.
Homes Contribution Contrib.
341.00
575.00
21.00
232.00
200.00
5.00
262.00
525.00
19.00
121.00
150.00
6.00
327.00
1,100.00
43.00
506.00
800.00
32.00
448.00
400.00
16.00
249.00
250.00
7.00
211.00
450.00
18.00
355.00
875.00
32.00
256.00
400.00
15.00
339.00
650.00
25.00
540.00
575.00
21.00
162.00
150.00
6.00
593.00
1,000.00
39.00
135.00
525.00
21.00
166.00
175.00
7.00
141.00
325.00
12.00
219.00
150.00
6.00
419.00
225.00
8.00
95.00
100.00
3.00
106.00
150.00
6.00
252.00
575.00
18.00
451.00
500.00
20.00
125.00
209.00
5.00
233.00
425.00
17.00
433.00
875.00
32.00
67.00
175.00
6.00
175.00
200.00
4.00
306.00
450.00
17.00
291.00
375.00
15.00
403.00
950.00
36.00
266.00
625.00
23.00
650.00
270.00
23.00
403.00
975.00
35.00
122.00
175.00
6.00
145.00
300.00
10.00
98.00
325.00
13.00
241.00
550.00
22.00
76.00
100.00
3.00
129.00
175.00
7.00
294.00
275.00
11.00
162.00
550.00
18.00
210.00
200.00
5.00
450.00
138.00
18.00
59.00
150.00
6.00
184.00
21.00
575.00
1,275.00
202.00
46.00
650.00
22.00
114.00
111.00
350.00
12.00
87.00
450.00
17.00
85.00
425.00
14.00
139.00
1,050.00
35.00
56.00
400.00
16.00
49.00
300.00
12.00
115.00
1,175.00
40.00
77.00
850.00
31.00
5.08
43.00
125.00
300.00
9.00
55.00
89.00
1,400.00
36.00

392

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Grand
No.
704
705
706
707
708
709

Lodge

Orinda ..............................
El Cerrito ......................~.
Hunters Point Naval ....
Lake Tahoe ....................
Seafaring ........................
Lorenzo ............................

Lodge

84.45
115.80
117.00
39.35
128.20
60.75

M8&0nic
Homes

$25.00 Homes
Contribution
47.00
525.00
48.00
850.00
825.00
40.00
21.00
175.00
72.00
325.00
45.00
400.00

Total..................- ............ 290,010.90 194,294.00 249,000.00

$1G.W.
Contrib.

11.00
22.00
25.00
5.00
12.00
9,237.00

GENERAL APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

GENERAL

393

APPENDIX
Page

Standing Committees ·····················:················································

394

Special Committees ..........................................................................

396

Constitutional Boards ......................................................................

397

Registration and Mileage Payments..............................................

398

List of Constituent Lodges ..............................................................

446

Extinct Lodges ................................................................................

457

Elected Officers Grand Lodge Since Organization........................

461

List of lnspectors ..............................................................................

467

Foreign Grand Lodges ....................................................................

470

Alphabetical List of Lodges ............................................................

475

Report of Committee on Correspondence ....................................

482

394

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

STANDING

COMMITTEES

JURISPRUDENCE
John Stewart Ross (384) ................................................ 1017 El Paso Dr., Los Angeles 42
George_L. Jones (23) ..........................................................................................Nevada City
Earl Warren (349) ..................................................................State Capitol, Sacramento 14
John W . Shenk (367) ................................................. ~ ......State Building, San Francisco 2
Oscar Lawler (290) .................................................800 Standard Oil Bldg., Los Angeles 15
John R. Moore (667) .........................................................f53 S. Spring St., Los Angeles 13
Henry C. Clausen (630) ................................. _.......315 Montgomery St., San Francisco 4
Ralph Heclder............................................................ 6334 Goodland PI.. North Hollywood
(M. No. 506)
Laur.ence Edw. Dayton. .......................................................1832 Magellan Dr., Oakland 11
(Sr. W. No. 61)

POLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES
Wm. Rhodes Hervey (202) ......................................... .458 S. Spring St., Los Angeles 13
Will H. Fischer (H5) ...- ...................................... .123 S. Mariposa Ave., Los Angeles 4
Wm. B. Ogden (355) ....................................725 Bank of America Bldg .• Los Angeles 14
Rollie W. Miller ( 352) ............................................ Associated RealtY, Bldg .. Los Angeles
Leslie E. Wood (609) ...- ...........................................................611 "J' St.. Sacramento M
Chester H. Warlow (247) ................................. ~······ .100-t Security Bank Bldg., Fresno 1
Ellsworth Meyer (677) ................................... - ......... 2071 Escarpa Drive, Los Angeles 41
Frank E. Jameson..............................................................................25-t San Jose, Los Gatos
(M. No. 292)
H. Guy Walford........................................................................... .533 Adams St., Bakersfield
(Sr. W. No. 486)

FINANCE
Claude H. Morrison (35) ..........................,. ....................................Box 1311. San Diego 12
F. Wesley Davies (577) ......................................................849 San Vicente Rd .. Arcadia
John W . Davey (260) ........................................................ 2164 Hyde St.. San Francisco 9
Edward H. Siems (560) ............................................................1106 Broadway, Oakland 4
Phil N. Myers (430) .............. ~ ...................................................... P. 0. Box 158, McCloud
Arthur M. Loomis................................................................412 W. 6th St.. Los Angeles 14
(Sr. W. No. 698)
Paul F. Balck...................................................................... 1884 - 28th Ave .. San Francisco
(Sr. W. No. lH)

GRIEVANCES
Frank B. Belcher (445) .............................. :.......................510 So. Spring_St., Los Angeles
Joe L. Shell (35) ................................................................County Court House, San Diego
Albert F. Ross (254) ....................................................................................................Reddin'
Alfnd F. Breslauer ( 3H) .................................................. 111 Sutter St., San Francisco
Ralph E. Hoyt (268) .....- ...........................................................89 Hillcrest Road, Berkeley
James R. Gray............................................................35-t S. Orange Grove, Los Angeles .36
(M. No. 484)
Kei~h Hamner.................................................................................... 303 Hillsdale St., Eureka
(Sr. W. No. 552)

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

395

CREDENTIAI.S
Louis Sutter (225) ..............................................Anglo-Callfomia Bank, San Francisco 20
Wilbur D. Crosby (Orinda) ··························-·············-···········26 Claremont Ave., Orinda
C. Stanley Chapman (339) ........................................................Chapman Ranch, Fullerton
Thomas F. Mason (198) ....................................................916 N. Edgemont, Los Angeles
Kent 0. Seymour (356) ....................................................... .525 Summit Ave., Mill Valley
Samuel W. Williams......................................................................................................Portola
(M. No. 234)
·
Otis G. Prussel... .............................................................2753 Rock Glen Ave .. Los Angeles
(Sr. W. No. 618)

PAY OF MEMBERS
Lloyd C. Campbell (352) .................................:..........................5741 S. 1st St., Vernon 11
John N. Bacigalupi (191) ............................................................ 108 Belle Ave., San Rafael
James Leo Ward (45) ....................... ,............................................806 J. St.. Crescent City
Herbert N. Waugh (418) ...................................,....................212 W . 7th St., Los Angeles
J. Howard Edwards (578) ..................................... .5328 Ellenwood Drive, Los Angeles 41
Gordon R. Steiner ......................................................................... .150 E . Jefferson, Pomona
(M. No. 246)
Marion Hrisch.............................................................................. 71-t Almond St., Yuba City
(M. No. 70)

CHARTERS
Glenn C. Holmes (681) .................................................................... P. 0 . Box 91 , Mendota
Wm. R. Hervey, Jr. (202) ............................................458 So. Spring St., Los Angeles 13
Wm. J. Williams (685) .................................................. 1476 Bradbury Road, San Marino
Harold Meyer (481) ....................................................2243 - 34th Ave .. San Francisco 16
Ralph W. Collins (566) ......................................................811 W. 7th St.. Los Angeles 14
Ralph J. Lydecker........................._...................................................665 Heil St.. El Centro
· (M. No. 384)
Nathan Gartner....................................................................3317 - 63rd St.. Sacramento 17
(Sr. W. No. 40)

BY-LAWS
Oakley K. Morton ( 259) ....................................................................Courthouse, Riverside
Andrew R. Schottky (99) ........................................................................................ Marlposa
Stewart B. Andrews (494) ............................................... .108 H~llside Ave .. Piedmont 11
Wm. W. McKee (642) ...................................................... 17 Oriole Road, Santa Barbara
Robert C. Peyton (392) ..............................................910 N. Foothill Road. Beverly Hills
Wayne Gleason. ........................................................................... P. 0 . Box 628, Westwood
·
(M. No. 501)
Walter G. Herman .....................,......_.............................·...- ............................................Jone
(Sr. W. No. 80)

LODGE FINANCING
Edward J. Blickfeldt (535) ................................................... .590 Hargrave St.. Inglewood
Walter Pybon (166) ....................................................464 California St., San Francisco 4
Richard A. Steves (259) ...............................:................Citizens National Bank, Riverside
Clinton T. Duffy ( 191) ...................................................................................... San Quentin
Darrell R. Pursell (40) ................................................Anglo-California Bank, Sacramento
Thomas Hurley..............................................................1778 - 43rd Ave.. San Francisco 22
(M. No. 388)
W. Howard Harts................................................... .11348 El Dorado Ave .. San Fernando
(Sr. W. No. 343)

396

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

SPECIAL

COMMITTEES

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

. CONSTITUTIONAL

397

BOARDS

RITUAL

ENDOWMENT BOARD

Mervyn E. Hanshaw (471) ................................................ 1218 W. Walnut St., Stockton
Elbert W. Davis (571) ..............•.................................................2908 Russell St., Berkeley
Gilbert C. DeForest ( 254) ..........................................................................................Redding
Raymond G. Taylor (466) ...................•................................................Box 887, Bakerslleld
Guy B. Mize (368) .......................................:.................... 1238 ldlewood Road, Glendale 2
August H. Allen (241) .......•......................................................614 McClay St., Santa Ana

Ernest G. Bashor (352) ..................._.......................600 Edwards-Wildey Bldg., L. A. 14
Edmund A. Lockett (599) .................:....................c••.552 South Raymond St., Pasadena 2
Charles E. Moore (630) .............................................................. P. 0. Box 658, Los Gatos
Ira D. W •heeler (637) ......................................................................Box 891. Santa Monica
Orno E . Tyler (412) .......................:......................................3921 Kansas St., San Diego 4
Clovis J. Robert (202) ..................................................576 San Marino Ave., San Gabriel
Lester A. Price (379) ..................................................................458 Saratoga St., Fillmore
John M. Gordon ( 202) ~.........................................57.01 Hollywood Blvd.. Los Angeles 28
Byron Coleman (453) ...•....,...•.•.......•.........,.................220 Montgomery St., San Francisco
Leonard R. Avilla (346) ................................................. .1717 Middlefield Road, Palo Alto
Walter H. Ireland (516) ....~ ...................:.,................:..........Route 1. Box 679A, Portervllle
Harry A. Nauman, Jr. (58) ....................................................2021 - 28th St., Sacramento
Rhine G. Meyering (366) .....................................•................3228 Kerckhoff Ave., Fresno
Olen T. Turner (505) ............................................:............. 1523 W. Ninth St., Santa Ana
Carl F. LaVo (243) ....................................................................2867 Rex Road, Hayward

MASONIC HISTORY
Leon 0. Whitsell (293) .................................................. 1565 Newlands Ave., Burlingame
Charles R. Ingram (23) ..............................................................P. 0. Box 393, San Rafael
Wilson E. Newlon (541) ............................................•...........981 Miller Ave., Berkeley 8
Samuel Steelman (325) ................................................650 So. Spring St., Los Angeles 14
Ben R. Walker (247) ....................................................., ...............:............667 Pine, Fresno

BOARD OF CONfROL
MASONIC INFORMATION
Henry W. Coil (635) ................................................................................Box 512, Riverside
Alvin Wendt (506) ......................................................................Route 2, Box 3556, Aptos
Robert F. Shippee (458) ................................................408 So. Spring St., Los Angeles 13

CONSTITUTION MONTH OBSERVANCE
William R. McKay (596) ............................................ 1116 Hall of Records, Los Angeles
James T. Fraser (79) ................................................................432 W. Hawthorne, Eureka
Lee T. Mullen (329) ....................................................306 W . Third St., Los Angeles 13
Dudley H. Nebeker (403) ........................................................ 1419 Broadway, Oakland 12
William P. Self (431) ................................................................612 Bissell Ave., Richmond

MASONIC HISTORY PUBLICATION
.

Washington I. Kohnke (640) ..................................686 Sacramento St., San Francisco 11
John T. Bond (355) .....:..................................................624 W. Wilton Pl., Los Angeles 5
Elmer Lotz (585) ..................................................................1627 Maple Ave., Los Angele11

Jack C. Butler (58) ......:......................:................218 Capital N ational Bank, Sacramento
John T. Martin (657) ........................................................3111 Edith Lane, San Diego 6
Guy A. Toole (577) ······································--·········200 E. Slauson Ave., Los Angeles 54
Harry F. White (347) .................................................................. 1261 Broadway, Fresno 1
Reginald M. Mills (61) ...............:...................................... 1061 Market St., San Francisco

TRUSTEES OF MASONIC HOMES
Chas. M. Wollenberg, President (341) ................2070 Pacific Ave., San Francisco 9
Leonard Gross, Vice-President (654) ....................................7411 E. Third St., Downey
Chas. Albert Adams ( 166) ................................Monadnock Building, San Francisco 5
L. Harold Anderson (346) ................................~ ...........245 Market St.. San Francisco 6
Ralph H. Head (352) •.................................700 W. Washington Blvd., Los Angeles
Myron E. Smith (394) ..........................................203 Union Oil Buildin)I, Los Angeles
Louis C. Drapeau (633) ................................................1102 State Bldg., Los Angeles 12
Arthur M. Warren (481) ..............................................3060 - 16th St., San Francisco 3
Frank Harwell, Jr. (528) ................•.............................621 S. Spring St., Los Angeles 14

INVESTMENT

CO.MM ITT EE

Francis V . Keesling ( 1) ...............................:..........315 Montgomery St., San Francisco 4
Paul A. Pflueger (370) ............................................................ Mills Bldg., San Francisco 4
Claude H. Morrison (35) ................................................................Box 1311, San Diego 12
Chas. M. Wollenberg (341) ...........••...........................2070 Pacific Ave., San Francisco 9
Charles E . Moore (630) .:............................................................P. 0. Box 658, Los Gatos

Committees other than those listed above had not been completed
in time to be included in this listing.

398

REGISTRATION AND MILEAGE PAYMENTS
Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

399

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Mileage Allowed

California ........- .•................ No. L .. D. Ewing Marsh, Master
Ralph E. Mott, Senior Warden
David Thomson, Junlor Warden
Francis V. Keesling, Past Grand Master
and Grand Treasurer
Edward C. Lohmeyer, Past Master
and Inspector
Ralph G. Wadsworth, Past Master
Harvey Teller, Past Master
James Hurst, Past Master
Thomas Rolph, Past Master
James F. McKay, Jr., Past Master
Bruce Q. Engle, Past Master
Max J. Mertens, Jr., Past Master
Ralph W. Scott, Past Master
Daniel E. F. Easton, Past Master
Charles C. Trowbridge, Jr., Past Master
Western Star ·-·········..···-···No. 2.... Charles Edward Hall, Junior Warden..........$ 31.82
Jesse W. Carter, Past Master
Rufus A. King, Past Master
Walter R. Ray, Past Master
Tehama .............:................No. 3....Gerald C. McKinley, Master.......................... 7.24
E. Emmett Ramey, Junior Warden
Gearge H. Olmsted, Junio~ Grand Deacon.... 7.24'
Charles A. Schwartz, Past Master
Albert O'Malley, Past Master
Benicia ·············-·················No. 5.... Dwight E. Wood, Master.............................. 3.10
Ralph King, Junior Warden
L. X. Carroll, Past Master
Tuolumne ............................No. 8.... Ernest J. Menzes, Master................................ 10.86
Chas. C. Hale, Past Master and Inspector.... 9.66
Corinthian .......................... No. 9.... Ronald Barr Shaver, Master.......................... 8.30
Raymond E. Burton, Senior Warden
Aaron Burt, Junior Warden
James W . Robinson, Past Master
and Inspector ................................................ 8.30
San Jo.se ............................No. 10...•Elwood H. Austin, Master ·······················-··· 3.92
Ralph 0. Salmon, Senior Warden
Nevin C. Fryer, Junior Warden
Harry Babbit, Past Master
Curtner W. Zanker, Past Master
Mervyn E. Rothe, Past Master
Ralph E. Richards, Past Master
Victor N. Christopher, Past Master
George W. Williams, Past Master
Yount ................................No. 12.... Allen Douglas Owen, Master.......................... 3.20
George Nelson Ball, Senior Warden
George Oliver Potter, Junior Warden
Jack Mast, Past Master and Inspector.......... 3.20
Nevada .............................. No. 13.... J. F. Stenger, Master ...................................... 12.34
'
Carl M. Ivey, Senior Warden
Temple ···········-············-···No. li.... Arlin G. Taylor, Senior Warden.................... 3.00
John N. Evans, Past Master
Harvey 0. Downey, Past Master ·

· N&me of Loc:l&e

No. of Loc:l&e

Representatives

Mile.,e Allowed

Eureka .........................:._.No. 16....Wm. E. Marshall, Master ............................ 7.30
Harry D. Shoemaker, Senior Warden
La Parfalte Union ·-·······No. 17.... Andre L. Armand, Master
Edouard J. Lagarde, Senior Warden
Felix Lassalle, Junior Warden
Rene Canonica, Past Master and Inspector
Jules Ramond, Past Master
Raymond J. Malfanti, Past Master
Frederic F. Amandes, Past Master
Andre P. Girerd, Past Master
Camille H. Artru, Past Master
Brewster F. Ames, Past Master
Mountain Shade ..............No. 18.... Raymond D. Mcintosh, Past Master
San Joaquin ···-·················No. 19.... 0scar H. Breitenbucher, Master ................ 6.M
Howard G. Smith, Senior Warden
Washington ...........1••••••••••No. 20....Raymond Allen Wiesler, Master.................. 7.24
George Calvin Clark, Senior Warden
William Everett Gray, Junior Warden
Crawford John Porterfield, Past Master
Harold I. Scholefleld, Past Master
Hawaiian ..........................No. 21....Phillip Frederic Day, Master ...................... 331.20
Darrell H. Puckett, Senior Warden
Ellwood C. Wilder, Grand Bible Bearer...... 331.20
I
Occidtntal .:......................No. 22....Joseph A. Bennett, Master
Robert P. Elder, Senior Warden
John R. Hermann, Jr., Junior Warden
Rudolph Mohr, Jr., P. M. & Inspector
William E. Bouton, Past Master
Alden Ames, Past Master
Archibald J. Cloud, Past Master
Lyle E. Patton, Past Master
Raymond S. Kimbell, Past Master
L. Ross Frichette, Past Master
Harold W. Koenig, Past Master
Finn J. Angell, Past Master
Dr. Leland A. Barber, Past Master
Orville C. Baldwin, Past Master
Harold A. C. Mitchell, Past Master
Madison ............................No. 23.... ~~~~ ~~lile'rg~~~rs;;;i~~\v;;d~·;;······· 12.34
Tom Legg, Junior Warden
George L. Jones, Past Grand Master
Elden W. Patterson, Past Master
Mariposa ·················-·····-No. 24....Walter F. Woodman, Master ......................
James P. McElligott, Past Master
Georgetown ......................No. 25....Robert W. Veerkamp, Master..-.................
John A. Gseli, Junior Warden
Geo. A. French, Past Master
El Dorado ....................;...No. 26.... Brittain J. Dellis, Master ..............................
Vernon E. Allen, Senior Warden
Laurence H. Holland, Junior Warden
John Simpson, Past Master & Inspector........
Trinity .................:.........-.No. 27.... Frank E. Hicks, Master ................................
Arthur Paulsen, Deputy Grand Master....,...
J. J. Jackson, Past Master

22.80
8.90
1t.96
11.96
29.38
29.38

400
Nune el Lodge .

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

401

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileage AllO..ed ·

Leonard McKee Morris, Past Master
Don P. Creath, Past Master
M. P. Goodyear, Past Master
Golden Gate ...................... No. 30.:.. Randolph M. Rosso, Master
Raymond H. Bradley, Junior Warden
Harry K. Widup, Past Master
Hugh Stone, Past Master
Gold Hill .......................... No. 32.... Glen M. Smart, Master ..................................
Albert S. Gulliford, Past Master
Willi'!-m M. Covington, Past Master
Ophir ................................ No. 33.... Charles A. Palmer, Master ............................
San Diego ........................No. 35.... Harold J. Cook, Master ..................................
R. M. Culbertson, Senior Warden
Harold J. Kircher, Junior Warden
Claude H. Morrison, Past Grand Master....
Martin Ortlieb, Past Master & Inspector....
Fred E. Lawrence, Past Master
George W. Elder, Past Master
Alden J. Fulkerson, Past Master
William F. Bishop, Past Master
Joe L. Shell, Past Master................................
Howard ............................ No. 37.... Gerford R. Morningstar, Master....................
·
George T. Simmons, Senior Warden
George S. Ward, Past Master & Inspector....
Santa Cruz ...................,.... No. 38...-.Frartk B. Cordrey, Master........................... .
Gustaf E. Wahlberg, Senior Warden
Henry Kaiser, Past Master & Inspector....
Roy L. Mayfield, Past Master
Emil W. Trefts, Past Master
Harry M. Kaiser, Past Master
Sacramento ........................ No. 40.... Alfred· M. Fisher, Master..............................
Nathan Gartner. Senior Warden
· Ralph E. Huston, Jr., Junior Warden
Harry M. Baker, Past Master
Walton E. Holmes, Past Master
William E. Kleinsorge, Past Master
Walter E. Stoddard, Past Master
Herman B. Weaver, Past Master
William M. Thielbahr, Past Master
Martinez ............................ No. .41.. .. Benjamln P. Schleifer, Master........................
· Duncan A. Johnston, Senior Warden
Howard D. Lyford. Past Master
Los Angeles ...................... No. 42.... Nathan Scheer, Master....................................
Samuel C. Goodman, Senior Warden
Saul Amdur, Junior Warden
Hyman L. Harris, Past Master Earl C. Graham, Past Master
Hiram ··········-·······~·····-·····No. 43.... Francls J. Truscott, Master............................
Mount Moriah .................. No. H .... Gerald H. Wlerda, Master
Leland B. Thrower, Senior Warden
Irwin J. Robertson, Junior Warden
Alphonse F. Mailloux, Past Master
Daniel B. Richards, Past Master
Jack W. Leishman, Past Master
E:dwin E. Keough, Past Master

9.00
9.52

50.M
50.84
50.84

50.M
33.56
33.56
6.32
6.32

7.24

2.30
47.56

9.80

Name of Lodse

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Crescent ............................No. 45.... James L. Ward, Past Master
and R'epresentatlve ···-·-·······--·····---····---·--··· 32.86
Texas ................................ No. 46 .... Gilbert C. Archibald, Master........................ 5.60
Berth F. Gervais, Senior Warden
Ray Orin Gervais, Junior Warden
Forbestown ...................... No. 50.... John D. Vance, Past Master
and Representative ··-·-··-·---------···-············-· 12.22
Illinolstown ......................No. SL.Arthur R. Chase, Master.................................. 19.60
Suisun ................................ No. 55.... R. M. Cole, Senior Warden............................ 4.02
Louis J. Hayes, Past Master
Volcano ............................No. 56.... Harry Bosse, Senior Warden........................ 8.50
Santa Rose ........................ No. 57.... Gorm A. Vogensen, Master............................ 4.18
Lee C. Shea, Senior Warden
F. Leslie Manker, Junior Warden
L. Everett Richardson, Past Master
and Inspector ........... ,.................................... 4.18
Edward T. Koford, Past Master
Raford W . Leggett, Past Master
H. P. Fish, Past Master
William B. Corrick, Past Master
Milton L. Kingsbury, Past Master
Robert W. Zeller, Past Master
Ellsworth L. Barnett, Past Master
Ernest F. Pegg, Past Master
Ira F. Brown, Past Master
Carvil W. Marlatt, Past Master
I. Gregg W!Iliains, Past Master
Union ............................._._No: 58.... 0tto F. Link, Master........................................ 7.24
Edward G. Stillwell, Senior Warden
Leighton D. Armstrong, Past Master
and -Inspector ................................................ 7.24
ack C. Butler, Past Master
Jesse P. Bascom, Past Master
Gravel Range ................. _.No. 59.... Eric W . Nelson, Past Master, Inspector
and Representative ...................................... 18.00
Earl L. Cleveland, Past Master
Plumas ..............................No. 60.... Joe W. Crivello, Master ......... _................... 27.96 .
Live Oak .......................... No. 61.. .. Herbert J. Bronsdon, Master
Laurence E. Dayton, Senior Warden
John R. Thomson, Junior Warden
Reginald M. Mills, Past Master
James I. Gilbert, Past Master
Clarence A. Severin.Past Master
Lee S. Griswold, Past Master
Natoml! .............................. No. 64 .... George M. Scott, Master................................
·
Percy S. Blair, Senior Warden

8.34

Amador ..............................No. 65.... James Nettle, Senior Warden........................
·
Albert Lawrence, Past Master

10.H

Forest ........................•........No. 66.... Not Represented
Morning Star ....................No. 68.... J. H. Beckwith, Master....................................
Fred T. Schooley, Senior Warden
AI Knak, Junior Warden
Stanley H. Wentz, Past Master & Inspector

6.86
6.86

402
Name of Lodae

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodae

Representatives

403

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Milea&e Allowed

Enterprise ..........................No. 70.... Horace B. Patterson, Master..........................
Philip M. Heisch, Senior Warden
Hugh O. Moncur, Past Master
Bear Mountain ..................No. 76.... Louis S. Allsman, Master................................

9.80
9.66

Calaveras ..........................No. 78.... Not Represented
Humboldt ..........................No. 79.... Edward M. Davis, Master.............................. 30.78
Melvilte K. Parks, Senior Warden
J. T. Fraser, Past Grand Master.................. 30.78
Howard B. Melendy, Past Master
T . R. .Dinsmore, Past Master
lone .....: •.....................•.......No. 80.... Herbert L. Coney, Master............................ 9.6-+
Robert D . Cooper, Senior Warden
J. Wesley Sthole, Past Master & Inspector.. 9.6-+
V. E. Starr, Past Master
Yolo ·················-···············No. 81.... Edward N. Owens, Master.-........................... 7.2-+
Vesper ........:.....................No. 8't.... Raymond S. Snelson, Senior Warden.......... 2-t.16
Naval ··············-················No. 87.... Milton I. Dawson. Master.............................. 2.70
Melvin C. Baker. Senior Warden
Donald H . Bricker, Junior Warden
Ernest C. Fugler, Past Master
Gustave Oertel, Past Master
Joseph Anderson, Past Master
Mark T . Andrews, Past Master
Ralph A. Neely, Past Master
Joseph A. Johns, Past Master
Paul E . Meyers. Past Master
William M. Hind, Past Master
Frederick Graff, Past Master
Rose's Bar ........................ No. 89.... James M. Hapgood, Past Master and ·
Representative .............................................. 9.22
North Star ··········-············No. 91....Not Represented
St. Helena ........................No. 93....fames H . McColley. Master............................
Wilbur W. Blodgett, Senior Warden
Elwood J. Mee, Junior Warden
John A. Mitchell, Past Master
Frederick A. Wright, Past Master
Henry Clay ......................No. 95.... John N. Owen, Senior Warden......................
Homltos ............................No. 98.... Holger E. Sorenson, Senior Wardedn............
Wilson E. Lathrop, Past Master an
Inspector ......................................................
Yosemite ............................No. 98....Merl A. Blackman, MasWter..............................
Prank G. Bohn, Senior arden
Samuel W. Johnson, Past Master
Andrew R. Schottky, Past Master..................
Clay ·················-·············No. 101....H. W. Haberkorn, Past Master
and Representative ......................................
Oroville ··············-············No. 103.... Harry Hanush, Master......................•.............
Sewatl K. Parker, Past Master
Lexington ........................ No. 10L.Harold W. Robertson, Master........................
Glenn B. DeGarmo, Senior Warden
Ross C. Ridenour, Past Master
Tom R. Richardson, Past Master
Arcata ·························-r···No. 106....Leonard L. Juell, Senior Warden..................
Sam Beer, Past Master

5.36

Name of Lod&e

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Pajaro ........................,.....No. 110....Keith E. Harlan, Master.................................. 7.92
Andrew P. Edwards, Senior Warden
John W. Sheflleld, Junior Warden
Chico ...............................•No. 111....Eric A. Tennlngsen, Master............................ 21.60
Howard 0. Barry. Senior Warden
Summit ············•······-·······No. 112.... Alva H. Ellis, Master.................................... 9.10
John B. Grahl, Senior Warden
Eden ·········-···········-·····-.No. 113....Robert N. Leard, Master
John B. Norton, Senior Warden
Edward A. Theile, Junior Warden
Walter A. Henrichsen, Past Master
and Inspector
Elwood D. Bona, Past Master
Morrison B. Currey, Past Master
Concord ..................•....... No. 117.... Fred J. Wildanger, Master.............................. 7.24
Howard L. Kessler, Senior Warden
Chalmers E. West, Past Master
Fidelity ·····-········•············No. 120.... Bernle J. Katz. Master
Merton A. l acobs, Senior Warden
Mark H. Husbaum, Junior Warden
George K. Manheim, Past Master
Henry Levy, Past Master
Cyril Weeks, Past Master
Milton D. Saplro, Past Master
Alamo ..............................No. 122....Ployd L. Stephens, Master............................
Edgar D. Charlton, Senior Wardm
Frederick Champion, Junior Warden
Chas. G. Faisst, Past Master
Ralph M. Hinds, Past Master

3.00

Sotoyome ····················· -··No. 123....C. Robert Plasberg, Junior Warden..............
R. E. Batt, Past Master

5.34

Table Mountain ..............No. 124.... Don C. I. Brown, Senior Warden................
James F. Presley, Junior Warden

Mi
22.80
19.3-t
19.34
22.80
20.66
12.22
47.56

31.86

LaFayette ........................No. 126....Glenn H. McNelll, Senior Warden................
William C. Heatly, Past Master

i.58

Hermann ..........................No. 127....R. M. Muhlmann, Master
Henry Harde, Senior Warden
Willy H. Gehrke, Junior Warden
John Behrens, Past Master and Inspector
Henry Hauschildt, Past Master
Hans E. Warncke, Past Master
R. H. Dachner, Past Master
William Haag. Past Master
Albert'G. Matthes, Past Master
Jacob Rauscher, Past Master
E:. H . Neumarkel, Past Master
George Mammen, Past Master
Visalia ............................No.
128...-j:~\J.· JJ;::nt!~s~~~d~~---················· 27.38
James B. Lawson, Past Master & Inspector.. 27.38
Gilbert R. Morris, Past Master
Nicolaus ·····-···················No. 129....J. N . Everhart. Senior Warden....................
James F. Taresh, Past Master

10.08

404
Name of Lod,e

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

Reprcseorativcs

Mileage Allowed

Woodridge ...................... No. 131....Marion T. Williams, Master.......................... 7.50
W . Corell Smith; Past Master f:J Inspector.. 7.24
Clyde H. Gregg, Past Master
Paul W encel, Past Master
Sincerity .......................... No. 132... :Lionel Wixom, Master .............................. 31.30
Vacaville ........................No. 134.... Austin T. Boblet, Senior Warden................ 5.24
Jack Rlchetta, Junior Warden
Valley .............................. No. 135.... Walter Freeman, Representative.................. 7.82
Ralph M. Foote, Past Master f:J Inspector.. 7.82
Pacific ..............................No. 136.... Narman Barnett, Master
Maurice Levy, Senior Warden
Eugene S. Eekus, Past Master
Allen J. Rosenberg, Past Master
Edward S. Isaacs, Past Master
Charles E . Jackson, Past Master
Albert A. Avelrod, Past Master
Paul Nathan, Past Master
David Monasch, Past Master
George H . Raymond, Past Master
Jerome L. Schiller, Past Master
Henry B. Nathan, Past Master
Crockett .......................... No. 139.... Frederlck J. Mahr, Master
Theodore E. Klein, Junior Warden
R. E. Schreiber, Past Master
W. H. Mason, Past Master
Ballard White, Jr., Past Master
B. S. Pedersen, Past Master
C. S. McGlothlin; Past Master
James Low, Past Master
Z. R. Callaham, Past Master
R. L. Mallett, Past Master
H. L. Cannon, Past Master
John L. Stevens, Past Master ·
W. A. H. Fleischer, Past Master
Curtis .............................. No. HO.... James H. Black, Senior Warden.................... 5.20
Grafton ............................ No. Hl....Charlie J. McMurdo, Master.......................... 7.34
John Larson, Junior Warden
t. H. Dyer, Past Master
Franklin ............ ,.............No. 143.... James M. Pylman, Master................ ~............. 8.10
'.Horace W. Williams, Senior Warden
Oriental .......................... No. 144....lan A. Russell, Master
Paul F . Balck, Senior Warden
John C. Wiesner, Junior Warden
Claude E. Fountain, Past Master
George D. Gavin, Past Master
Roy N. Buell, Past Master
Edwin C. Hansen, Past Master
Herbert M. Jeffreys, Past Master
Lawrence P. Hansen, Past Master
W. Stanley Davis, Past Master
Vitruvlus ........................ No. 145.... Peter Christiansen, Master............................ 2.60
Norman Neal, Senior Warden
Martin Mickelsen, Past Master
Abell ................................ No. 146.... E. H. Balyeat, Master....-............................... 9.04
William E . Hildreth, Senior Warden
Elmer M. Hopper, Past Master f:J Inspector 9.04
Verne A. Boulware, Past Master

Name of Loda•

No. of Lodge

Reprcsentarives

405
Milea&e Allowed

Eel River ........................ No. 147.... Laurie Petersen, Senior Warden.................. 2934
B. F. Morgan, Past Master
Lassen .............................. N 0 • 149.... Edward J. Padilla, Master.............................. 32.28
Georg·e N. McDow, Jr., Junior Warden
Elmer G. Van Tassell, Past Master
and Inspector .............................................. 32.28
Molino ............................No. 150.... Lloyd A. Countryman, Senior Warden........ 23.24
Grover C. Davis, Past Master
Woodland ...................... No. 156.... James A. Fruit, Master.................................... . 6.96
Marvin W. Greene, Senior Warden
George L. Stivers, Past Master and
Inspector ...................................................... 6.96
Keystone ..........................No. 161....Howard J. Tower, Junior Warden................ 9.26
Harmony ........................No. 164.... Tomm R. Taylor, Junior Warden................ 22.80
Excelsior .......................... No. 166.... George S. McGahey, Master
Joseph Young, Senior Warden
Herman W. Bolte, Junior Warden
Fred A. Sweifel, Past Master f:J Inspector
W. Blair Rixon, Past Master
Jos. C. Kohlbecher, Past Master
Robert Taylor, Past Master
Fred B. Barnes, Past Master
Francis E. Montevaldo, Past Master
Fred W. Knight, Past Master
Leslie E. Alt, Past Master
Alameda .......................... No. 167.... Fred Melhase, Master.................................... 2.50
Arthur T. Biddle, Past Master
Redwood City ................No. 168....Ralph H. Hallett, Master................................ 2.00
Ira A. Boynton, J unlor Warden
T. M. Cole, Sr.. Past Master
Mission ............................ No. 169.... Varnum Paul, Master
Melvin 0. Cooper, Senior Warden
Donald Q. Luce, Junior Warden
John C. Strickler, Past Master
George A. Hansen, Past Master
Wa_Iter G. Frederickson, Past Master
George Edmondson, Past Masttt
Walter M. Smyk, Past Master
Elk Grove ........................No. 173.... Donald M. Connor, Master.......................... .. 8.74
E. Henry Kloss, Senior Warden
Drytown ..........................No. 174.... Howell E. Steinsick, Representative........... . 8.86
Antioch ...........................:No. 175.... A. Charles Hein, Master.............................. .. 4.12
Harry V. St. Clair, Junior Warden
Phoenix ..........................No. 178.... Forrest Hammonds Keck, Master................ 52.26
Guy W. Whelchel, Junior Warden
Mendocino ......................No. 179.... Donald M. MacDonald, Senior Warden.... 21.38
Petaluma ..........................No. 180.... Norman P. Van Bebber, Master.................... 3.04
George Winfield Lee, Senior Warden
Park A. Van Bebber, Past Master
Russian River ...................No. 181.... William H. Frederickson, Master.................. 4.28
Carroll C. Doane, Senior Warden
George K. Porter, Past Master
Arbuckle ..........................No. 182.... Not Represented

406
Name of Lodse

No. of Lodse

Representatives

407

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Mileaae Allowed

Clear Lake •..............•..•...No. 183.... Paul St. John, Past Master
and Representative .................................... 5.30
Sierrl!- Valley ..................No. 184.... A. E. Strang, Past Master and
Representative ·····-····································· 29.96
Claiborne ....................•.... No. 185....James D. Moungovan, Past Mast·er and
Representative .............................................. 18.50
Evening Star .... _............ No. 186.... Not Represented
Keith .....•.........................• No. 187....Robert Buck, Senior Warden........................ 6.32
Donald Goodwin, Junior Warden
Donald H. Chesbro, Past Master
Oakland ..........................No. 188.... Rue W. Sims, Master
John C. Taylor, Senior Warden
Will A. Allen, Junior Warden
Fred W. Nordhausen, Past Master
George J. Norton, Past Master
Melvin L. Graves, Past Master
Willard H. Nutting, Sr.. Past Master
Northern Light .............. No. 190.... Elwood F. Ward, Senior Warden................ 26.16
Clayton J. Wolf, Junior Warden
Thomas Copeland, Past Master
Julius Motoska, Past Master
Marin ··-··························No. 191.... Roy H. Bowman, Master
Joseph Horvath, Senior Warden
W. Murray. Baxter, Junior Warden
Warren H. Williams, Past Master
Russell H. Warden, Past Master
Walter Lindman, Past Master
Victor L. Cole, Past Master
True) F. Tourtellotte, Past Master
Charles T. Smith, Past Master
Horace W. Rice, Past Master
John V. Bacigalupi, Past Master
Clinton T. Duffy, Past Master
Santa Barbara ................ No. 192....Albert B. Christiansen, Master...................... 37.71
Eliot Haberlitz, Senior Warden
I. S. Austin, Junior Warden
A. W. Kincaid, Past Master
Edward T. Dodge, Past Master
Ferndak ..........................No. 193.... Edw. L. Nielson, Master................................ 29.71
Mountain View .............. No. 191.... George Eade, Senior Warden........................ 3.50
Frederick H. Grimm, Past Master
Walter L. Erichsen, Past Master
Buckeye .............-.,,...•... No. 195.... M. H. Sharp, Master....................................
W. E. Riley, Senior Warden
C. A. Elliott, Past Master

6.32

San Simeon .................... No. 196....Elmer V. Berri, Senior Warden.................... 28.08
William Reid, Past Master
Carey N. Baldwin, Past Master
Wilmington ....................No. 198....Wm. Munce, Senior Warden ...................... 17.56
Wm. H. Orwig, Junior Warden
Don C. Fohl, Past Master
Thomas F. Mason, Past Master...•................ i7.56
M. B. McMullen, Past Master

Name of Lod1e

No. of lodse

Representatives

Mileaae Allowed

Hartley ............................ No. 199.... Howard J. Wheeler, Senior Warden............
Edgar E. Hill, Junior Warden
Guido De Ghetaldi, Past Master
and Inspector.................................................
Truckee ..........................No. 200.... Not Represented
Silveyville ......................No. 201.... Herbert Pearson, Senior Warden..................
Vernon D. Vansant, Past Master
Pentalpha .............,..........No. 202 .... Howard H. Arnold, Master.....................•......
Harold E. Sargent, Senior Warden
·
James Ayres, Junior Warden
James B. Gist, Past Grand Master................
William R. Hervey, Past Grand Master....
John M. Gordon, Past Master
Clovis R. Robert, Past Master
Wallace Durham, Past Master
Jesse B. Chapman, Past Master
Clarence W. Hull, Past Master
William R. Hervey, Jr., Past Master............
Confidence ......................No, 203.... W. C. Buttle, Past Master and
Representative ..............................................
Paul C. Kondla, Past Master
Edgar E. Breaux, Past Master
Fong G. Jing, Past Master
Salinas •....................•......No. 201.... Stanley L. Burchell, Master..........................
H. Lee Elder, Senior Warden
Chester E. Dunn, Junior Warden
Percy Cracknell, Past Master
Olivet .............................. No. 205 .... Not Represented
Stanislaus .............•.........•No. 206 .... Fayne E. Rinehart, Master............................
Clyde D. Prickett, Junior Warden
Howard H. Thurber, Past Master
Anaheim .......................... No. 207.... Harry P. Bradley, Master............................
Warren C. Hodges, Senior Warden
A. B. Cross, Past Master
Rio Vista ........................No. 208.... James W. Hamilton, Jr., Master....................
Louis E. Evans, Junior Warden
Earl Stewart, Past Master and Inspector....
Roger S. Tumey, Past Master
King David's .................. No. 209.... Caspar J. Weir, Jr. ........................................
John R. Gray, Senior Warden
Friendship ..................•...No. 210.... 0rion R. Burnett, Master..............................
William P. Truran, Senior Warden
·
Robert C. Bodwell, Junior Warden
Lawrence A. Campbell, Past Master
John F. Knight, Past Master
Frederick O. Eaton, Past Master
Henry G. Clouser, Past Master
Percy H. Thompson, Past Master
Darrell J. Sedgwick, Past Master
San Benito ...................... No. 211.... Charles Sauinauer, Master..............................
Albert W. Hinz, Past Master
Herman A. Hermansen, Past Master
South San Francisco .... No. 212.,.. Joseph R. Gregor, Master
Roger Fernandez, Senior Warden

6.10
6.10
5.52
17.56
17.56
17.56

17.56
8.71

9.26

8.32

18.66

7.2i

7.2i
28.08
3.92

6.10

408
Name of lod&e

No. of Lodae

Representatives

409

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Mileaae Allowed

Homer M. Rothery, Junior Warden
Cyrus H. Kramer, Past Master
Andrew D. Zanetti, Past Master
Alexander K. Chalmers, Past Master
Henry A. Kruger, Past Master
San Buenaventura ........No. 214.... Norman 0 . Deardorf, Master........................
David B. Hill, Senior Warden
Oak Grove. ......................No. 215.... Paul H. Baxter, Master
Gordon 0 . Richards, Senior Warden
William J. Bartels, Junior Warden
William Nankervis, Jr., Past Master
and Inspector
Homer A. Buck, Past Master
Doric ...............................•No. 216.... Allan H. Fish, Master
Edward D. Goldman, Senior Warden
Samuel I. Jacobs, Past Master
Ira W. Coburn, Past Master
Monterey ..........•............ ~No; 217.... William J. Follett, Representative..................
C. Haskell Warren, Past Master
Mosaic _............................No. 218.... lvan A. Meyers, Master .............: ..................
John W. Houser, Senior Warden
Bertram S. Christensen, Junior Warden
Speranza ltaliana ..........No. 219.... Joseph A. Beccio, Master
Salvatore Ledda, Senior Warden
James Carnesecca, Junior Warden
John M. Icardo, Past Master & Inspector
John Icard!, Past Master
John Isola, Past Master
Antonio Cogliandro, Past Master
Robert Morando, Past Master
Pete Balestracci, Past Master
Downey ..........................No. 220.... A. Lee Gauldin, Master....................................
Raymond H. Hammerton, Senior Warden
Inyo ................................No. 221....Not Represented
Rosevllle ..........................No. 222.... Frank W. Cole, Master................................
Lucas Schaffer, Past Master & Inspector....
Charles W. Lauppe, Past Master
Bakersfield ......................No. 224.... Leonard C. Smith, Master..............................
Fred E. Baldes, Senior Warden
Richard H. Stanier, Junior Warden
Arthur S. Crites, Past Grand Master..........
Orville L. Coburn, Past Master & Inspector
Albert E. Burton, Past Master
Mike S. Oldershaw, Past Master
Henry Eissler, Past Master
Robert E . Curran, Past Master
Brooklyn ........................No. 225.... lan A. Bremner, Senior Warden
George E. Horne, Junior Warden
Roy S. Lenthall, Past Master
and Inspector
Roy F. Anderson, Past Master
Eugene S. May, Past Master
Louis Sutter, Past Master
San Mateo ...................... No. 226.... John P. Fairfax, Master
Westley P. Jones, Senior Warden
.
Clarence C. Smith, Junior Warden

39.98

9.94
3.92

47.56

8.74
8.74
32.48
32.48
32.48

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Milet.ge Allowed

George W. Deraimer, Past Master
J. R. Eubanks, Past Master
Robert B. Caldwell, Past Master
Richard E . Glesin, Past Master
Harry H. Pue, Past Master
Alan S. Ryall, Past Master
Athens ..............................No. 228.... David M. Berry, Master..................................
August Rutishauser, Junior Warden
Gus A; Haussler, Past Master
· Kenneth S. Haussler, Past Master
Solano ............................No. 229.... Leo L. Noel, Master.....,...................................
Gene A. Heinzman, Senior Warden
Edgar T . Buhn, Junior Warden
L. Paul Dunne, Past Master
North Butte ....................No. 230.... Edward D. Price, Master ............................
Donald E. Hills, Senior Warden
Clare B. Campbell, Past Master
and Inspector ..............................................
Chas. A. Miller, Past Master
H. Holmes Higgins, Past Master
Covelo ..,........., ...............No. 231.... Charles G. Gatcher. Senior Warden............
Janesville ........................No. 232 ....Clyde M. Sheley, Master..............................
Albert R. Byland. Junior Warden
~llstoga ........................No. 233.... Not Represented
Hope ................................No. 234.... Arthur G. Brandt, Representative................
Samuel W. Williams, Past Master
Surprise Valley ..............No. 235....Elmer H . Cook, Master .....................................
Hills Ferry ....................No. 236.... Lloyd W. Fink, Senior W a rden....................
William S. Thompson, Past Master
and Inspector ................................................
Adolph Kiersch, Past Master

5.10

2.70

11.50
11.50
19.98

33.54
29.96
42.12

8.86
8.86

Guadalupe ....................~.No. 237.... J~~ri~. ~~a~r~~ci:Wi:u.~~rden................ 30.56
John Jenkins. Past Master
Harry L. Anderson, Past Master
Henry Gewe, Past Master
Colus~ ..............................No. 240.... ~rJr ~·H~~~f."~~s~~:f;;····· .....................

10.88

Santa Ana ......................No. 241.... Burrell A. Wilson, Master............................
Howard Law, Senior Warden
Augustus H. Allen, Past Master
and Inspector ................................................
Albert F. Hill, Past Master
Howard A. Barrows, Past Master
Magnolia ........................No. 242.... Ralph B. McNall, Senior Warden................. .
Charles B. Weaver, Junior Warden
Ralph C. Hine, Past Master and Inspector..
· Albert Brotherton, Past Master
Eucalyptus ....................No~ 243.... Howard L. Burr, Master
George I. Orth, Senior Warden
Leo 0. Thayer, Junior Warden
Walter Flierl, Past Master
Carl F. Lavo, Past Master
Joseph B. Prowse, Past Master
Fred H. Horwood, Past Master
E . Gaylord Quinn, Past Master

49.82
49.82

37.74
37.74

410
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

llepceseatatives

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allowed

Alcatraz ........................•.No. ML.Alfred Brand, Master
·
Ernest Bartolomie, Senior Warden
Beverley C. Sutliff, Junior Warden
Edwin A. Clothier, Past Master
John G. Sjoberg, Past Master
Vernon J. Coley, Past Master
Abner F. Thompson, Past Master
Paul V. Wilson. Past Master
Avis A. Campbell, Past Master
Lowell K. Bain, Past Master
Laurel ·················-··········No. 245.... George Helstrup. Senior Warden..................
Daniel K. Jackson, Junior Warden
Harry H. Ossenbr!iggen, Past Master
Pomona ............................No. 146.... r:r0rclon R. Steiner, Master............................
William S. Southworth, Senior Warden
Gilbert E. Christianson, Junior Warden
Joseph A. Allard, Jr., Past Master
Jerome A. Ludden, Past Master
Fresno ..............................No. 247.... Earle M. Jones, Master ................................
Roy R. Crawford, Junior Warden
Chester H. Warlow, Past Grand Master......
Dan B. Hurlbut, Past Master
Harry F. White, Past Master
Herbert Levy, Past Master
Ralph W. Kuettel. Past Master
Ben R. Walker, Past Master
T. P. Butler, Past Master
Alturas ............................No. 248....William K. Derby, Senior Warden..............
'
Ernest K. Swift, Junior Warden
Adin ·····-·························No. 250.... Louis C. Mosher, Master ................................
Landmark ........................No. 253....Chester D. Parker, Master............................
Everett F. Parker, Senior Warden
Reading ···········-···············No. 254.... 0scar J. Hansen, Master................................
George B. Burke, Senior Warden
W. C. Knauer, Junior Warden
Gilbert C. DeForest, Past Grand Master......
Daniel C. McRae, Past Master
Albert F. Ross, Past Master..........................
A. F. Souza, Jr., Past Master
G. R. Milford, Past Master
Harry A. Michaud, Past Master
Welcome ........................No. 255.... Raymond E. Dias, Senior Warden..._...........
Lodi ..................................No. 256.... Arthur E . Blewett, Senior Warden................
Edmund W. Durston, Past Master
Penrhyn ..........................No. 258.... Clifford F. Hayes, Master..............................
Francis C. Lindsay, Senior Warden
Frank A. Nute, Junior Warden
Harvey H. Carlisle, Jr., Past Master
Arthur E. Flint, Past Master
George Sanderson, Past Master
Clarence Sanderson
Evergreen ......................No. 259.... Ralph A. Baker, Master..................................
James M. Wortz, Senior Warden
Willard G. Babcock, Past Master
and Inspector ........................................·-···

20.28
50.38

23.76
23.76

40.32
40.32
7.76
26.98
26.98
26.98

27.26
7.24
9.54

52.24
52.24

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

'ill
Mileage Allowed

Harold J. McLaughlin, Past Master
Oakley K. Morton, Past Master.................... 52.24
John J. Vanderzyl, Past Master
King Solomon's ..............No. 260.... Norman H. Stone, Master
Gerald E. Cook, Senior Warden
Russell H. Colliander, Junior Warden
Randolph V. Whiting, Past Grand Master
Thayer B. Thomas, Past Master
John W. Davey, Past Master
Roland E. Soracco, Past Master
Robert L. Clark, Past Master
Stephen J. Dean, Jr., Past Master
Louis C. J. Clod!, Past Master
Albert 0. Rier, Past Master
John H. Crabbe, Past Master
Henry E. Bennett, Past Master
John Werry, Past Master
lllysses G. Patropulos, Past Master
Robert L. Dreyfus, Past Master
Tuscan ............................No. 261.... Not Represented
Lompoc ............................No. 262.... Ellwyn J. Godden, Senior Warden................ 33.02
0. B. Chamberlain, Past Master
Hesperian ........................No. 264.... Walter A. Word, Master................................ 30.56
Henry Drashner, Senior Warden
Jack P. Fraser, Junior Warden
Floyd A. Watson, Past Master & Inspector.. 30.56
Orland ............................No. 265.... Robert W. Bailey, Jr., Master........................ 21.46
Lester J. Jacobs, Senior Warden
Northeast ........................No. 266....Edward G. Peterson, Past Master.................. 43-12
Galt ..................................No. 267.... Lester K. March, Representative.................... . 7.24
Durant ..............~ ............. No. 268....Carlton E. DeWitt, Master
Carroll L. Porter, Senior Warden
Niles 0. Millar, Past Master and Inspector
B. J. Rose, Past Master
Ralph E. Hoyt. Past Master
George Thomson, Past Master
Kruger W. Wilkie, Past Master
Harrison C. Kelsey, Past Master
Olive Branch .................. No. 269:... Harvey T. Lauritzen, Senior Warden.......... 27.38
Arthur B. Ledbetter, Past Master & Inspector
Snow Mountain ..............No. 271.... E. A. Garland, Representative....................\... 10.34
Chas. A. Butler, Past Master
Pasadena ........................No. 272....J. Tom Holland, Master.................................. 48.60
C. Francis Holman, Senior Warden
Louis A. Rogers, Junior Warden
Anchor ............................No. 273....W. J. Amann. Master...................................... 47.56
E. C. Irvin, Senior Warden
Ralph K. Pierson, Past Master & Inspector.. i7.56
B. J. Little, Past Master
·
Arroyo ............................No. 274....Charles E. Houser, Master.............................. 28.88
Samuel P. Starfas, Junior Warden
Oakdale ......:......_........... No. 275.... Raymond G. Hawkins, Senior Warden........ 9.38
Selma .-...........................No. 277....Clovis L. Robinson. Senior Warden.............. 25.10
·
Paul J. Nielsen, Past Master

412
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileage All°"ed

Southern California ......No. 278.... Francls B. Galvery, Master............................
Dale Magor, Senior Warden
Donald W. Bloeser, Past Master
Edward C. Gadden. Past Master
John M. Askin, Past Master
Charles T . Medler, Past Master
G. Raymond Tanner, Past Master
Hanford ..........................No. 279.... Robert L. McCrady, Master............................
Winfred K. Martin, Senior Warden
Wm,. H. Baxter, Past Master & Inspector....
Aubrey P. Warnock, Past Master
William T. Bernstein, Past Master
Madera ..........................No. 280.... William H. Wilcox, Senior Warden............
Harry C. Thede, Junior Warden

47.56

26.58
26.58
22.30

Mt. Shasta ......................No. 281....l~hnEP!tne:r~os~ci~a~;~d·~·;;·······················-·· 26.04
Alfred C. Gastineau, Junior Warden
William C. Gover. Past Master & Inspector 26.04
Elbert H. Wilcox, Past Master
Chas. A. Spann, Past Master
James Martin, Past Master
Callayoml ........................ No. 282.... Kenneth V. Palmer, Master............................ 5.00
Fred Berry, Senior Warden
South West .................... No. 283.... Roy C. Simpson, Senior Warden.................. 50.84
Herbert J. McDade, Junior Warden
Robert H. Beetlestone, Past Master
Charles R. Costello, Jr., Past Master
F. T . Hutcheson, Past Master
San Miguel ......................No. 285.... Maurice C'. Getzelman, Master...................... 24.44
Orin Compton, Past Master & Inspector...... 28.08
p;;, Roble; ..:...........~.....No-:-i86=·Harold E . Ben~tt; s;-~1~-;WM"d~n~:-:'.'::'~=-=-25.24
wi;i~dumah ..................No. 287.... Vernon A. Meachan, Senior Warden............ 55.16
M;;;~ll ..........................No. 288.... Milton E . Roscoe, Master.............................. 10.88
Leland E . Wallace, Past Master & Inspector 10.88
Elsinore ..........................No. 289.... Howard G. Habenicht, Master...................... 53.04
Thomas R. Morrow, Senior Warden
East Gate .......................~No. 290....Emlyn W. Reese, Master................................ 47.56
Daniel M . Hollar, Senior Warden
Maxwell J. Cameron, Junior Warden
Oscar Lawler, Past Grand Master................ 47.56
Leo D. Haskell, Past Master
Fred 0. Hoffman, Past Master
Frank S. Moore, Past Master
Santa Paula ....................No. 291.... Walter T. Kyber, Master................................. 41.34
Gustaf A. B. Quick, Past Master & Inspector 41.34
Los Gatos ........................No. 292.... ~~;i:o;d ~'.11Je~~o~ji:~;·-w~~~~-------·····

4.82

Carl S. Balch, Past Master
Orange Grove ................No. 293.... Jay W . Cummings, Master............................ 49.82
Charles S. McCandless, Senior Warden
Leon 0. Whitsell, Past Grand Master
John S. Lampert, Past Master
George W. Horton, Past Master
Ti:aver ............................No. 294...J. J. Christofferson, Master.............................. 25.50
Myron H. Jerpe, Senior Warden
Clare R. Nelson, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

413
Mileage Allowed

Mt. Jackson ....................No. 295.... Alfred C. Esseiva, Master.............................. 5.00
Harry L. Schaffner, Junior Warden
Silver Gate ......................No. 296.... Marvin E. M usgrave, Master........................ 50.84
Willard A. Braasch, Senior Warden
Obe F. Rickerson, Junior Warden
Fred S. Weed, Past Master & Inspector...... 50.84
Earl F. Kenner, Past Master
Warren W. Fitch, Past Master
Dunsmuir ........................No. 297....Johmn L. Glaese, Senior Warden.................. 31.54
Liberty ............................No. 299....Borden M. Melton, Master::........................... 3.64
Byron A. Moore, Senior Warden
George M. Clark, Past Master
John T . Allen, Past Master
Redlands ..........................No. 300.... Alfred F. Jury, Master.................................... 52.92
Kenneth R. Dowell, Junior Warden
C. Robert Beck, Past Master
Wm. M. McGaughy, Past Master................ 52.92
Ontario ............................No. 301.... Albert F. Holmer, Senior Warden................ 50.78
Cesar J. Cattaneo, Junior Warden
Ulrich J. Schmid, Past Master
Loren H. Robinson, Past Master
Santa Lucia ....................No. 302....Elmer W. Eade, Junior Warden.................... 10.60
Porterville ......................No. 303....Hayden W. Benton, Master..................:....... 29.24
Clyde E. Hubbs, Senior Warden
Obed W . Carr, Assistant Grand Lecturer.... 27.88
Reedley ............................No. 304....Chester H. Parlier, Past Master & Repr....... 25.60
Azusa ..............................N1>. 305.... E. C. Malone, Master...................................... 49.58
C. Dan Morgan, Senior Warden
Stephen E. Skidmore, Past Master & lnsp'r.. 49.58
Arleigh Lee, Past Master
Ashlar ..............................No. 306.... Leslie H. Riggins, Master.............................. 52.24
Frank LeVezu, Senior Warden
Robert W. Nicol, Past Master & Inspector.. 52.24
Santa Monica ..................No. 307....Joe A. Taylor, Master...................................... 47.56
Harold R. Acteson, Senior Warden
Harry H. Williams, Past Master
Edwin J. Hook, Past Master
Monrovia ........................No. 308....Clark P. Malcho, Master................................ 47.56
J. Forest McElroy, Senior W arden
Delano ............................No. 309.... Marion C. Sloan, Master................................ 29.94
Laurence E. Abbey, Senior Warden
Sisson ..............................No. 310....Ja~s J. Love, Senior Warden...................... 32.68
Los Banos ..................•.....No. 312....Robert V . Johnson, Master.............................. 7.48
Sidney P. Roe, Senior Warden
Tehachapi ................••....No. 313....Wm. C. Brite, Master...................................... 36.38
Eugene A. Ledyard, Senior Warden
Harry J. Beauford, Past Master
G. Koutroulis, Past Master
T emescal ........................No. 314....Lawrence C. McNutt, Master........................ 52.42
A. Harris Kieser, Junior Warden
·
John E. Kirkpatrick, Past Master
Norwalk •...........•.........•...No. 315....J. Winston Pla ins, Senior Warden................ 47.56
.p . J. Pryor, Junior Warden

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Name ol Lod&e

No. of Lodsc

Representatives

Mileasc Allowed

Sanger ························-····No. 316....George Imrie, Senior Warden........................
John C. Rasmussen, Past Master
Fallbrook ........................No. 317.... Donald C. Anthony, Senior Warden............
Emmanuel ........................No. 318....Russel G. Harris, Senior Warden..................
HolleD'beck ........_............No. 319....Conrad E. Follendore, Senior Warden........
Roy T. Kiele, Past Master and Inspector....
Francis W. Peters, Past Master
John Swanfeldt, Past Master
South Gate ......................No. 320....Mark A. Green. Master..................................
Harold E. Dill, Senior Warden
David H. Terry, Past Master
Clark F. Andrews, Past Master
Clyde A. Winslow, Past Master
Harry C. Strawn, Past Master
Jay W. Wheeler, Past Master
Orval B. Berton, Past Master

24.96
55.20
12.66
47.56
47.56
47.56

Allsal ··"·················-·······- No. 321 ....Melvin L. Huey, Master....- ..........................
·
Forrest A. Adams, Senior Warden
Sylvester W . Miller, Past Master
Melvin H. Nielsen, Past Master
Thomas H. Silver, Past Master

3.36

Alhambra ·······-···············No. 322 ....0tto N. Rugen, Master..................................
Oare B. Whitney, Senior Warden
Henry L. Kidwell, Junior Warden
Charles A. Ketridge, Past Master
Whittier ...........................No. 323.... Paul 0. Miller, Master....................................
Roy S. McCartney, Senior Warden
Frank C. Hadley, Junior Warden
John E. Chapin, Past Master & Inspector....
Oarence W. Peck, Past Master
Dorsey L, Ellis, Past Master
Corona .......................- ... No. 324.... Walton Talley, Master....................................
C. R. Stalford, Senior Warden
Walter S. Grayson, Junior Warden
Edward H. Rowlns, Past Master

47.56

47.56
48.78

48.60

Consuelo ..........................No. 325.... George 0. Skewes, Senior Warden.............. 52.(}4
Needles ..............,........... _No. 326....Vem R. Anderson, Senior Warden ................ 52.38
Claude R. Conway, Junior Warden
Carl C. Mikesell. Past Master & Inspector.... 52.38
Earl B. Gilbert, Past Master
Beach
....................
No.
327
....
Howard
C. LeManquais, Master.................. 47.56
Long
Walter L. Greassner, Senior Warden
Wenzel Fabera, Junior Warden
Clark H. Shaw, Past Master & Inspector.... 47.56
John H. Ferguson, Past Master...................... 47.56
Herbert G. Polhill. Past Master
John W. Weimer, Past Master
Rodondo ........................•.No. 328.... Leon Glenwood Kelly, Master........................ i7.56
Louis A. Tallman. Senior Warden
Oliver J, Lewis, Past Master
Vallee de France ....•.......No. 329 .... Yves C. Poupon, Senior Warden.................. 47.56
Chas. A. ThQlllassett, Past Master & lnsp'r.. 47.56
Marius A. Messon, Past Master
Edgar H. Jacot, Past Master
Edmond Senften, Past Master

Name of Lodse

No. of Lodse

Representatives

415
Mileqe Allowed

Kilauea ---···············-········No• 330.... Ja.mes D. Moir, Senior Warden........................362.10
PacUk Grove ..................No. 331....EdCaward Whitaker, Master.............................. 10.08
rl 0 . Patnude, Senior Warden
Arch Balchin, Past Master & Inspector........ 10.08
Thomas Henderson, Past Master
Edwin Arthur Cope, Past Master
San Pedro ·············-·········No. 332.... EHarry F. Carlstrom, Master.......................... 47.56
dgar 0. Hansen, Senior Warden
John Ramsay, Past Master & Inspector........ 47.56
Harold E. Dahlberg, Past Master
Wallace F. Fitzgerald, Past Master
Robert Irwin, Past Master
E. E. Young, Past Master
Alta ·········-··················-···No. 333.... James E. Bell, Representative........................ H.10
William L. Davis, Past Master & Inspector 55.16
Covina ..................- ........ No. 334 .... W. C. Good.man. Senior Warden.................. 49.58
James C. Hutchinson, Junior Warden
West Gate ......................No. 335 .... t:~!:i~ ~~o~s!~~~;·w;d·~~-- ............... 47.56
Gabriel S. Barkley, Past Master
Felix[· Jonas, Past Master
Max lchtenstein, Past Master
John M. Hayden, Past Master
Fruitvale ............- ......-....... No. 336.... Walter B. Hart, Master
Walter A. Rose, Junior Warden
Frank R. Killinger, Jr., Past Master & Insp'r
Russell C. Horstmann, Past Master
Raymond D. Nichols, Past Master
Robert S. Grant, Past Master
Paul A, Brom, Past Master
Harvey Kirk Taylor, Past Master
Carqulnez ........................No. 337 .... Wllliam Suttie Clark. Muter
2 ..2
Robert A. Wolcott, Senior W;d~~..............
,,
Harvey R. Browning, Past Master & Insp'r 2.42
Clifford W, Beal, Past Master
Wllliam S. Brunnlng, Past Master
Thomas H. Cotton, Past Master
San Jacinto ............- .......No. 338 .... Clilford Moffett, Representative.................... 56.94
Fullerton ..........................No. 339.... W. L. Currie, Past Master & Repr................ i8.54
William T. Rodger, Past Master & lnsp'r.. 49.46
C. Stanley Chapman, Past Master................ 48.5-t
Oxnard ..........................~.No. 341....Francis M. Harrington, Junior Warden........ 40.78
Ellwood D. Cooper, Past Master
San Fernando ............ ,..,,.No. 343.... WRichHard E. Montgomery, Master.................... H .84
. oward Harris, Senior Warden
J. Kenneth Savage, Junior Warden
Starr King ...................... No. 344.... Michael V. Ignotz. Master
Ben A. Katz, Senior Warden
·
Daniel Breslauer, Junior Warden
Charles M. Wollenberg, Past Grand Master
Haiman L. Wayne, Past Master and Inspector
A. H. Barkolf, Past Master
·
Milton C. Zimmerman, Past Master
Samuel Lippman, Past Master
Alfred F. Breslauer, Past Master
Charles 0. Clausen, Past Master
Carl Cohn, Past Master

416
Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

417

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEELINGS OP THE
Mileage Allowed

Brentwood ...................,..No. 345.... W. Ray Turner, Master..................................
Karl S. Abbott, Senior Warden
Russell A. Partridge, Junior Warden
Palo Alto ........................No. 346.... Johnny K. Douglas. Master............................
Willis A. Roller, Senior Warden
John J. Williams, Junior Warden
Robert N. Walker, Past Master & lnsp'r....
Leonard R. Avilla, Past Master
George W. Harms, Past Master
L. Harold Anderson, Past Master
Thomas E. Hamlett, Past Master
Newton W. Glaeser, Past Master
Adam B. Morten, Past Master
Kenneth W. Palmer, Past Master
McKinley ........................ Nci. 347.... Joseph S. Alameda, Master
Kenneth H. McCutcheon. Senior Warden
Fred R. DeBarrows, Junior Warden
Rolla L. Eubanks, Past Master & Inspector
Isaac McGuffin, Past Master
Gerald R. Minor, Past Master
John D. Williams, Past Master
John R. Garside, Past Master
Claus J. Anderson, Past Master
Joseph W. Garside, Past Master
San Bernardino ..............No. 348.... James M. Purdy, Master................................
William T. Hunter, Senior Warden
Walter L. Culver, Jr., Past Master
Sequoia ·............................No. 349.... James L. Bos, Master
Ernest A. Allen, Senior Warden
Owen R. Andker, Junior Warden
Earl Warren, Past Grand Master..................
Henry S. Savage, Jr.
George C. Courreges, Past Ma·s ter
J. Walter Proctor, Past Master
Herbert S. Bigelow, Past Master
E. Herbert Phillips, Past Master
Cyril W. McClean, Past Master
E. Homer DeFoe, Past Master
Fred C. Granholt, Past Master
John R. MacGregor, Past Master
Raymond D. Laughrey, Past Master
Palestine .................,......-No, 351.... Leslie W. Young, Master..............................
·
Delbert A. Buck, Senior Warden
Thos. J. McDonald, Past Master
Milton J. Krebs, Past Master
Henry E. Lestmann. Past Master
Sunset ................:..•...~ ..- .. No. 352.... Stanley F. Mcinnes, Senior Warden............
Kenyon C. Burch, Junior Warden
·
Rollie W. Miller, Past Grand Master..........
Loyd C. Campbell, Past Ma.ster...............-...
Ernest G. Bashor, Past Master
Ralph H. Head, Past Master
C. Otto Miller, Past Master
Pinole ·-···············..·······-·No. 353.... George W. Dickerson, Master......................
Clayborne Gillette, Senior Warden
Charles A Brundige, Junior Warden
Walter Jackson, Past Master
George W. Pfeiffer, Past Master

5.06
3.28
3.28

Name of Lod1e

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Presidio ............................No. 354.... Kenneth D. Lerum, Master
Alexander L. Groce, Senior Warden
William C. Verbarg, Junior Warden
Joseph M. Ruggiero, Past Master
Eric R. Johnson, Past Master
Oscar R. Gruter, Past Master
Robert A. Ritchie, Past Master
Hollywood .....................•No. 355.... Edward P. Kysar, Master..............................
Earl Bolter, Senior Warden
Ralph L. Logan, Junior Warden
William B. Ogden, Past Grand Master........
Rev. Willsie Martin, Grand Chaplain..........
Leo E. Anderson. Past Master and lnsp'r....
Samuel Steelman, Past Master
John T. Bond, Past Master
S. A. MacDonald, Past Master
Walter F. Burbank, Past Master
Dudley F. Black, Past Master

52.24

7.24

47.56
47.56
47.56
47.56

Mill Valley ......................No. 356.... Alfred M. Areng. Master
Leonard H. Spalding, Senior Warden
Damon C. Burris, Junior Warden
Kent 0. Seymour, Grand Standard Bearer
Frederick A. Penn, Past Master & Insp'r
A. F. Thomas, Past Master
Frank C. Herrlk, Past Master
W eley V. Smith, Past Master
Stanley C. Aitchison, Past Master
Buena Park ················-··No. 357.... Leo Dix, Master...............·-·······-··················· 48.32
W. Harold Duff, Senior Warden
Ted R. Siems, Past Mast-er and Inspector.... 48.66
Golden State ..................No. 358.... Maurlce G. Henn, Master.............................. 47.56
Charles M. Good, Senior Warden
Winfield R. Cram, Past Master
Edgar W. Otto, Past Master
Lester E. Bennett, Past Master
Arthur B. Dittman, Past Master
Loyalton •.........................No. 359.... Joe Goss, Master.....·-···········-························· 31.ot
Donald G. Patton, Jnuior Warden

47.56

47.56
47.56
47.56

2.00

San Francisco ................ No. 360.... Joseph A. Sanguinetti, Master
Melvin A. Earley, Senior Warden
Charles C. Brewer, Junior Warden
Henry D. Oliphant, Assistant Grand Secretary
Alfred J. Thibodeau, Past Master & lnsp'r
Alfred C. Skaife, Past Master
Walter A. Parker, Past Master
Harold W. Smith, Past Master
Earle Freeman. Past Master
Henry L. Alves, Past Master
Charles D. Johnson, Past Master
Victor E. Perry, Past Master
Alfred B. Edwards, Past Master
William F. Jebe, Past Master
Ross K. Roper, Past Master
Fort Bragg ...................•..No. 361.... Harold A. Matson, Senior Warden..............
Harry Burrows, Past Master & Inspector....

18.50
18.50

418
Nam• of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

419

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Mileage Allowed

. ·
No 362 Lawrence E. Hendricks, Muter....................
Charity .....,...................... ·
····Kenneth K. Dunton, Senior Warden
Edward A. Merrill, Junior Warden
T. A. Robinson, Past Master
Audrey C. Currie, Past Master
E. M. PEierLce, Masters . W d
Berkeley ..........................No. 363.... Willis
. e0 uatte, emor ar en
William LeRoy Duff, Junior Warden
Chas. A. McKelvey, Past Master
Oscar J. Jahnsen, Past Master
0. E:McLean. Past Master
H. C. Butler, Past Master
.ts
No 365 ..-CharJ..es Zanella, Master..................................
Will1 •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• •
J. A. Bondeson. Past Master

4.42

12.60

-'
No 366 1. A. Hopper, Master......................•............... 23.76
Las P cnmas ······················ ·
····1-t S. Foley, Senior Warden
Price Robinson, Junior Warden
W. R. Tanzer, Past Master
Oscar C. Olsen, Past Master
R. G. Meyering, Past Master
Thruman D. Moyers, Past Master
South Pasadena ..............No. 367.... Roy D. Kohl, Master...................................... 48.60
Elton C. Bailey, Senior Warden
Patrick J. Thompsett, Past Mas·ter
John W. Shenk, Past Master
temoyne Baskette, Past Master
George W . Roche, Past Master
J. Robert Reid, Past Master
No 36&.... Walter H. Righter, Master.............................. 47.56
·
Unity ··················-············ ·
Phillip B. Stone, Senior Warden
·
Guy B. Mize, Past Master & Inspector........ 47.56
Harry Platt, Past Master
C. Leland Jenkins, Past Master
Kenneth W. Wilde, Past Master
No 369.... William W. Bonbow. Master........................ 47.56
0 cean P ark ···················· ·
Warrier T. Betts, Senior Warden
Dwight C. Freeman, Past Master & lnsp'r.. 47.56
Thomas C. Bryan, Past Master
William D. Tucker, Past Master
Frank C. Wolff, Past Master
Harold H. Kinney, Past Master
Hamilcar Smith, Past Master
Edwin F. Collins, Past Master
No. 370.... Robert J. Bogle, M,.~ter
G dT
Amity ..............................
·
Paul A. PHueger, ....,.sistant ran
reesurer
Maurice E. Coffey, Past Master & Inspector
Raymond M. Henry, Past Master
Henry 0. Hammerich, Past Master
Urban D. Mackins, Past Master
Thomas J. McHenry, Past Master
Rudolph F. Lange, Past Master
Nathaniel 0. Slate, Past Master
George H. Grimm. Past Master
Frederick H. Wood, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mila,e Allowed

le Progres de l'Oceanle.. No. 371....Alan H. Strike, Master.................................... 331.20
William L. Smith. Senior Warden
Alexander Douglas Potts, Past Master
& Inspector .................................................... 331.20
Lester E. Forrest, Past Master
Gardena ..........................No. 372.... 0llver C. Rapier, Jr., Senior Warden............ <t7.56
Richard W. Ahlberg, Past Master
Walter W. Pitman, Past Master
Homer L. Bullard, Past Master
James L. Rush, Past Master
Keith W. Schlaegel, .P ast Master
West Los Angeles ........ No. 373.... Dwight R. Watts, Master...·-·········-············· 47.56
Richard T. Hamel, Senior Warden
Bates W. Mason, Past Master
Harry T. Robinson, Past Master
Ernest A. Wells, Past Master
Jewel ................................No. 3H.... Ernest H. Holt, Master
Solon C. Leonhaeuser, Senior Warden
Willard C. Schaaf. Junior Warden
Charles E. Anderson, Grand Organist
Herbert H. Schultz, Past Master & Inspector
Curtis Benton, Past Master
Thoma,., Parry, Past Master
Leo Bruck, Past Master
John H. Adams, Past Master
Arnold R. Engel, Past Master
Lou H. Silberman, Past Master
Emile Meyer, Past Master
Clarence J. Shipaugh, Past Master
Otto G. Freyermuth, Past Master
Richmond ........................No. 375.... Marshall A. Goodmanson, Master
Ellsworth R. Eidenmuller, Senior Warden
Lauritz J. Schell, Junior Warden
William C. Johnson, Past Master
Harry E. Morris, Past Master
Myrton W . Erickson, Past Master
Emil K. Bender, Past Master
Rupert F. Johnson, Past Master
James H. Conner, Past Master
George H. Pape, Past Master
Francb Drake ....;...........No. 376.... John J. Porrazzo, Senior Warden
William H. Dawson. Junior Warden
Everett W. Fortine, Past Master
Herman P. Scampini, Past Master
Artesia ............................No. 377.... Frank H. McClung, Maater.·--······················ 47.56
James H. Piercy, Senior Warden
George R. Frampton, Past Master
Perry H. Cosner, Past Master
Oscar C. Zwlnge, Past Master
Mispah ..................- ..,.....No. 378.... Hershal J. Lay, Master.................................... <t7.56
Joseph E. Treharne, Senior Warden ·
Gordon W. Guinn, Junior Warden
Charles W. Lunsford, Past Master & ln.spr.. 47.56
Elfrey J. Scott, Past Mast~r
W. Lewb Thompson, Past Master
Hubert S. Stormes, Past Master

4i0
Name of l.odae

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of J.odse

Represen!lltivcs

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileqe .Allowed

Plllmore .......................... No. 379.... Thos. A. Powell, Master..................................
L. Glen Fansler, Jr., Senior Warden
Eddie E. Perkins, Junior Warden
Thos. H. Walsh, Past Master
Leo C. Harmonson, Past Master
Lester Price
Huntington Beach .....•....No. 380.... J. Ray Thompson, Master.............·-················
·
Frank R. Hinshaw, Senior Warden
Berrell R. Ries, Past Master
Arthu.r C. Achey, Past Master
A. N. R. Olsen, Past Master
Oceanside ........................No. 381.... Kenneth C. Stanley, Senior Warden.......:....
· ·
·
· ·
George A. Otis, Past Master & Inspector....
Highland Park ................No. 382.... 0 . Albert Bredy, Master................................
·
Roy R. Merchant, Senior Warden
Harold F. Weller, Past Master
Orosi ................................No. 383.... William L. Diggs, Senior Warden................
Jack Peloian, Past Master
El Centro ..................:..... No. 384.... Ralph J. Lydecker, Master...................,..........
David B. Chambers, Senior Warden
John S. Ross, Past Grand Master..................
Chas. H. Knights, Past Master & Inspector..
Charles E. Sones, Past Master
Lodah P. Alexander, Past Master
Dinuba •...........................No. 385.... Guy L. Munson, Master..·-·····························
Robert I. Heisner, Senior Warden
Clarence L. Fraser, Past Master & lnsp'r....
Coalinga .......................... No. 387.... Steele A. Gates, Junior Warden....................
James R. Wallace, Senior Warden
Wilfrid H. Boyce, Past Master
Parna11Sus ....-..................
.
· No• 388....Homer
Senior
Warden
George D.
W. Robertson,
Gaffke, Junior
Warden

41.14

47.56

54.40
54.iO
47.56
26.74
67.94
47.56
67.94
26.14
26.14
28.20

George E. Kimball, Past Master
Joseph C. Durhan, Past Master
Constant G. Simon, Past Master
James E . Finley, Past Master
Frank E. Meadowcraft, Past Master
Thomas Hurley, Past Master
Andrew L. Johnston, Past Master
Pal0$ Verdes .,................No. 389.... Howard M. Williamson, Muter.................. 47.56
·
Garland R. Weatherford, Senior Warden
Imperial .....................•.-.No. 390.... Loyd B. Winter, Senior Warden.................. 70.72
Clyde E. Rodgers, Past Master
East Belt ................•.......-No. 391....Lloyd N. Hodge, Senior Warden.................. 11.88
west Lake ......................No. 392.... ~'::'1w.~ii!::s~~fiat!J~~<l~·················· 47.56
R. Bruce Murchison, Past Master
Stanley Cowin, Past Master
Francis M. Brock, Past Master
Harold J. Blaine, Past Master
John E. Hill, Past Master
Charles E. Listenwalter, Past Master
Lee T. Mullen, Past Master
Frank R. Brunner, Past Master
Clyde E. Hopkins, Past Master
Vernon E. Mitchell, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

421
Mileaac Allowed

Balder ..............................No. 393.... Harry R. Peterson, Master
Oswald Christensen, Senior Warden
Viggo Andreasen, Junior Warden
Clarence D. Lindstrom, Past Master
Alfred Berglof, Past Master
Victor C. Peterson. Past Master
Arthur F. Bergner, Past Master
LeRoy W. Johnson, Past Master
Hugo T . A. Olsson, Past Mast~r
Nels S. Stohl. Past Master
Fred A. Schuler, Past Master
Walter E. Anderson, Past Master
Lester A. Van Etten, Past Master
Harry G. R. Peterson, Past Master
University ........................ No. 394.... Jasper H. Hutchison, Master.......................... 47.56
William C . Buster, Senior Warden
Herbert C. Rudolph, Junior Warden
Wm. T. Lisenby, Jr .. Past Master
Robert W. Emmert, Past Master
Elmer L. Cannon, Past Master
Myron E. Smith, Past Master
Turlock ............................No. 395.... George D. Upton, Master.............................. 9.38
Wayne G. Stowers. Senior Warden
E . A. Sweet, Past Master
Apollo ·············-···············No. 396.... Laurel K. Barnard, Master
Frederick E. Champion, Senior Warden
Ward M. Boring, Junior Warden
Clifford H. Noyes, Past Master
Truman A. Miller, Past Master
Elbert N. Clintsman, Past Master
Wilbert S. Condon, Past Master
John A. Bums, Past Master
Harold E. Short, Past Master
Carl E. Thau, Past Master
Alfred Johnson, Past Master
Oscar R. Presco, Past Master
John L. Darms, Past Master
Rising Light ....................No. 397.... Claud D. Black, Master.................................. 47.56
.
David S. Ritchey, Senior Warden
Leslie V. Hughes, Past Master
Thomas D. Brown, Past Master
Fraternity ................•...•.._No. 399.... Cl~rence F. Weinzerl. Master........................ 3.92
George W . Gillespie, Senior Warden
Edward W. Lenz, Junior Warden
Ray W. Mcintyre, Past Master & Inspector 3.92
C. Cecil Jones, Past Master
Philip L. Snyder, Past Master
Burlingame ......................No. 400.... Wayne L. Williamson, Master
Kenneth R. Ford, Senior Warden
Milford B. Armstrong, Junior Warden
S. Leslie Hawken, Past Master & Inspector
William Wilkin, Past Master
William E. Provence, Past Master
Bay View ..:..................... No. 401....Ralph Emmerson Riley, Master
Joseph P. Rom, Senior Warden
George P. Hauch, Junior Warden

422
Name of Loclae

No. of Lodge

Representatives

423

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Mileage Allowed

Arthur H. Triggs, Grand Pursuivant
Homer E. Cleary, Past Master
John C. Jordan, Past Master
Fred W . Wetmore, Past Master
Brawley ......................•...No. 402.... Jean H. Park, Master........................................ 64.32
John W. Tidwell, Senior Warden
Yerba Buena ..................No. 403.... Donald Hewlett
Lester S. McElwaln, Senior Warden
Clarence F . .Frane, Junior Warden
Arthur R. Kirk, Past Master
Glendora ............. _ ..........No. 404.... George B. Gordon, Jr., Master........................ 49.82
Moneta .....................,......No. 405.... Reeves W. Baughn, Master............................ 47.56
Wllliam H. Bogart, Senior Warden
Louis L. Cunningham, Past Master & Insp'r 47.56
J. Stanley Watkins, Past Master
·
George F. Watrous, Past Master
George C. J. McNamara, Past Master
Burbank ..........................No. 406.... Howard J. Curtis, Master................................ 47.56
Stephen J. Thomas, Senior Warden
La Mesa ..........................No. 407.... H. ·Leroy Edwards, Master............................ 50.84
Joseph J. Quest, Senior Warden
Earl K. Holmes, Junior Warden
Wm. F. Rector, Past Master
Sierra Madre .................. No. 408.... Thomas C. Pollgreen, Junior Warden.......... 47.56
Honolulu ..........................No. 409.... Donald D. WagQoner. Master...................... 331.20
Herbert G. Purcell, Past Master
Chart.er Rock .........•........No. 410.... Nonnan A. Hollister. Master
Delmar G. Bailard, Senior Warden
Delbert Marriott, Junior Warden
James K. Fisk, Past Master
Arthur L. Patterson, Past Master
Charles W. Stannard, Past Master
Webster W. Wilcox, Jr., Past Master
George L. Sargent, Past Master
Perris ..............................No: 411....Tom L. Sharpe, Representative...................... 56.H
Ralph E. Holloway, Past Master
Calexico ..........................No. 412....Ernest L. Cole, Senior Warden...................... 66.06
Arlington ........................No. 414....Lvman A. Vinum, Senior Warden................ 47.56
Carl F. Peters, Past Master & Inspector...... 47.56
Lester C. Potts, Sr., Past Master
Roscoe H. Haverfteld. Past Master
Silver Trowel ..................No. 415....Joseph J. Rifkind, Senior Warden.................. 47.56
Georqe Moore, Junior Warden
Fred J. Martin, Past Master
Godfried H. Lohrli, Past Master
Lindsay ····-····-················No. 416....Carl J. Kroells. Master.................................... 28.H
Carl M. Danielson, Senior Warden
Rollie L. Ward, Junior Warden
William J. Gardner, Past Master
Clovis .............................•No. 417....John Rahl, Senior Warden............................ 24.96
Jul1U8 C. Galliano, Past Master
Elysian ··········-················No. 418....Roy L. Sawyers, Master................................ 47.56
Lloyd A. Park, Senior Warden
George B. Danbacher,,Junior Warden

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Henry R. Coley, Past Master
Harry_ E. Templeton, Past Master
Guy Woolley, Past Master
Upland ··············-············No. 419...J. Harry Snowden, Master..............................
Ronald R. Rowe, Senior Warden
Charles E. Hogancamp, Junior Warden
William R. Farmer, Past Master
Clare C. Blakeslee, Past Master
Kerman ............................No. 420....E. D. Montague, Master..................................
R. H. Sherwood, Past Master
Martin W. Steffen, Past Master
Inglewood ........................No. 421....Roy E. O'Nelll, Master..._.............................
Charley R. Walter. Senior Warden
John A. Dull, Past Master
Benjamin C . Darling, Past Mas·ter
Eagle Rock ..............,.......No. 422 ....Bertram M. Potter, Master..............................
Leonard E. Hutchinson, Senior Warden
William E. Koegh, Past Master & lnsp'r......
James A. Logan, Past Master
York ................................No. 423.,..E. Kenneth McCabe, Master..........................
Richard R. Bartholome, Senior Warden
Exeter .........•....................No. 424....Herrick Waterman, Master.....·-····················
Charles L. Burnett, Past Master
Holtville ..........................No. 425....Keith W. Savage, Senior Warden................
Ray B. Langley, Junior Warden
Henry T. Miller, Past Master
Midway ..........................No. 426....Charles D. Knight, Master..............................
Burton Miller, Senior Warden
Thomas Hillary, Past Master & Inspector....
Fred Isbell, Past Master
Rupert Sailor, Past Master
Chino Valley ..................No. 427....J. W. Anderson, Master..................................
J. H. Owen, Senior Warden
H. D. Race, Past Master
San Dimas •..................... No. 428.... Rex E. Glenn, Senior Warden........................
Albert E. Carroll, Past Master & Inspector..
John G. Soder, Past Master
Pittsburg ..........................No. 429....J. Stanley Bengston, Master..........................
Raymond L. Wildes, Senior Warden
Vernon C. Christian, Junior Warden
W. Ralph Anderson, Past Master & lnsp'r..
Don E. Ward, Past Master
Fred A. Blackwell, Past Master
McCloud ........................No. 430.... Frank J. Jordan, Senior Warden....................
·
Chas. S. Hogan, Past Master & Inspector....
Doyle R. Briegel. Past Master
Phil N. Myers, Past Master............................
Alpha ..............- ..............No. 431....A. Page Harlow, Master
Harry J. Stoffers, Senior Warden
Joseph B. Trimeloni, Junior Warden
George M. Clarke, Past Master
William P. Self, Past Master
Edwin R. Brooks, Past Master
Henry L. Clarke, Past Master
Martin Wiltz, Past Master
William F. Fraser, Past Master
Joseph A. Jeans, Past Master

50.90

14.76
47.56

47.56
47.56
47.56
27.88
65.38
33.68
33.68
50.38
49.96
49.96
4.02
4.02
36.12
36.12
36.12

424
Name of lodge

·---· No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileaae Allowed

.....
Hammonton ....................No. 433....Wesley W. Barkley, Senior Warden..... ~~.:·.-:-:-8.30
Maricopa ........................No. 434.... Ralph C. Russell, Senior Warden.................. 33.68
Fairmount ........................ No. 435.... Bemhard M. Ersepke, Master
Robert C. Church, Senior Warden
Georqe H. Carr. Junior Warden
Roy A. Pence, Past Master
Pieter A. DeVries, Past Master
Rudoloh Itlinq, Past M<'ster
Wm. 0 . Purdy, Past Master
Claremont ........................No. 436 ...E . W . Browninq, Past Master and Repre... 50.50
H . Roy Reynolds, Past Master
Lancaster ........................No. 437....VPrnon D . Ward, Master.............................. 39.86
Edwin A. Rosecrans, Senior Warden
Acacia ..............................No. 438.... Kurt K. Werner, Master................................ 47-:56
Joseph Giltsch, Junior Warden
Karl L. Ratzer, Past Master & Inspector...... 47.56
Herman Kaestner, Past Master
Herman Dehnhardt, Past Master
Tyrlan ..............................No. 439....Virgil Whiteley, Junior Warden.................. 6.96
Delbert E. Luck, Past Master & Inspector.. 6.96
Standard ..........................No. 440.... Charles D. Sargent, Master
John R. Thompson, Junior Warden
Gregory V. Harriman, Senior Warden
John R. Thompson. Junior Warden
Edwin C. Taylor, Past Master
Coronado ........................No. 441.... Grover W . Nickell, Senior Warden.............. 50.84
Walter E. Shortt, Junior Warden
Harry S. Clark, Past Master & Inspector.... 50.84
John C. Pritz, Past Master
Blackmer .......................... No. 442....Wllliam H. Herltaoe, Senior Warden.......... 50.84
Oscar E .. Hanson, Past Master
Warren E. Libby, Past Master
Orno E. Taylor, Past Master
Schofield ..........................No. 443.... H. Alexander Glade, Master.......................... 331.20
H.F. Kollmeyer, Jr., Senior Warden
Carpl-~terla ...................... No. 444....DonaJd J. Groves, Master............................. ~.. 38.66
Fred G. Kline, Past MasteT
Harry C. Vind. Past Master
~

·· ·

425

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Wilshire ..........................No. 445....Willlam B. Cleves, Master............................
Wade H. Morman. Senior Warden
\~ill H. Fischer, Past Grand Master............
Frederic Edwin Clark, Past Master
& Inspector········-······································
Howard P . Stassforth, Past Master
Herbert R. Huebner, Past Master
Frank B. Belcher, Past Master......................
La Puente ........................ No. 446....Willard R. Adams, Master..............................
Torrance ..........................No. 447....Leonard D. Babcock, Senior Warden..........
Mount Dlablo ................No. 448....William R. Blackburn. Master......................
Granville Adams, Junior Warden
Royle E . King, Past Master
Park ................................No. 449....Frank Y. Kupper, Master
S. Victor Miller, Senior Warden
Sidney L. Solomon, Junior Warden

47.56
47.56
47.56
47.56
49.06

47.56
3.40

Na.me of .LW.p

No. of Lodae

Representatives

Milcaae Allowed

Arthur W . Brouillet, Past Grand Master
George W. Ritchie, Past Master
William D. Wickwire, Past Master
Robert K. Huppert, Past Master
Herman W. Luft, Past Master
Reginald Duden, Past Master
John Ferguson, Past Master
George H. Gisin, Past Master
Van Nuys ......................No. 450....Ralph W. Pettes, Master................................ 47.56
Emmett T. Ophus, Senior Warden
Harold S. Morrison, Past Master & lnsp'r.. 47.56
Carl B. Sartwell, Sr., Past Master
Ronald A. Poole, Past Master
Montebello ......................No. 451.... R. H. Crowder, Master.................................... 47.56
Wm. H. McCauley, Senior Warden
William Werle, Junior Warden
ames O'Bryan, Gr.and Marshal.................... 47.56
Samuel H. Harris, Past Master

.
J

San Pasqual .................... No. 452 ....Vernon G. Howell, Master............................ 48.60
Norman B. Hume, Senior Warden
EmmiH 0. Graham, Past Master
Fred E. Marler, Past Master
Lloyd D . Cain, Past Master
Frank G. Margadant, Past Master
Walter F. Kress, Past Master
Bethlehem .....................,..No. 453.... George M. Orchard, Master
Victor L. Arenth, Senior Warden
Stanley W. Kerley, Junior Warden
William B. Teall, Past Master
Vadie E. Bevers, Past Master
Vincent P. McMurdo, Past Master
Charles A. Davis, Past Master
John C. Painter, Past Master
Byron Coleman, Past Master
Walter B. Jones, Past Master
Crocker ............................ No. 454....Leonard Wester, Master
Ralph G. Riches, Senior Warden
Mattrup J. Jensen, Past Master
and Inspector
Oliver J. Nolte, Past Master
George C. Chamberlain, Past Master
William Caimie, Past Master
Edward E. Smith, Past Master
Andrew M. McKeown, Past Master
Walter C. Schenk, Past Master
Harold S. Johnson, Past Master
George Watson, Past Master
Golden West ..................No. 455....Tames H. Pierson, Master
Harold Russell May, Senior Warden
·
Adolph P . Milay, Past Master
Earle B. Brehaut, Past Master
Lyle Z. Anderson, Past Master

I.

Ramona ....- ......·...............No. 457....

Earl Mitchum, Senior Warden.................. 47.56
oseph C. Lortie, Junior Warden
ack E. Anderson, Past Master

426
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

Repreoentatives

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Milea,e Allowed

Henry S. Orme ..............No. 458....Milton H. Lang, Master................................- 47.56
Harvey E. Patten, Senior Warden
Hiram E. Reed, Junior Warden
William B. Mott, Past Master
Robert F. Shippee, Past Master
Fred C. Warner, Past Master
Merwyn N. Hollister, Past Master
Riverbank ........................No. 459....Harry L. Marrs, Senior Warden.................. 5.78
Chas. E. Marrs, Past Master
Mount Oso ............: .........No. 460....Robert Sipe, Senior Wardm.......................... 5.78
Argonaut ...,.................... No. 461....Jay H. Netherton, Master
Carl Walter, Junior Warden
Earl A. Caldwell, Past Master
and Inspector
Sigfried Pels, Past Master
Ferdinand A. Mosebach, Past Master
J. Denison McCue, Past Master
Walter R. Bowden, Past Master
Charles F. O'Malley, Past Master
Walter S. Flowers, Past Master
Homer P. Thyle, Past Master
Paul Revere ....................No. 462.... Melvin S. Springer, Master
Philip Deovlet, Senior Warden
John N . Nelson, Junior Warden
Arthur J. Kahn, Past Master and Inspector
John C. Oslin, Past Master
Jacob W. Warshaw, Past Master
Robert L. Duncan, Past Master
Harry A. Fouch, Past Master
Sylvan Springer, Past Master
Howard D. King, Past Master
Joel H. Springer, Sr., Past Master
Nathan Danziger, P.ast Master
William Bachman, Past Master
Frank M. West, Past Master
William A. Gerder, Past Master
Morgan Hill ....................No. 463.... Harold Holden, Master .................................. 5.52
Lee Buchheister, Senior Warden
Jack M. Fullington, Past Master
Alta Vista ........................No. 464....William E. Kidd, Master
Kenneth G. Blackman, Junior Warden
Dwight N. Deane, Past Master
William A. Foster, Past Master
Raymond A. Hurst, Past Master
Fred T. Williams, Past Master
Harry L. Wintersgill, Past Master
Francis J. Herz, Past Master
Harold Y. Heckman, Past Master
William C. Culver, Past Master
Center ····················-········No. 465....S. R. Barner, Master...................................... 23.76
Samuel E. Dollar, Past Master & Inspector 23.76
L. B. Anderson, Past Master
Libertas ............................No. 466....Ralph A. Blocher, Master................................ 32.48
Harold R. DeTuncq, Senior Warden
.
Morris R. Watson, Junior Warden
Raymond G. Taylor, Past Master................ 32.48

No. of Lodge

Representatives

427
Mileqe Allowed

Arthur Johnson, Past Master
Robert J. Myers, Past Master
Culver Ctty ······-············No. 467.... Foy S. Ferre, Sr., Master................................ 47.56
Jennings J. Merrlll, Junior Warden
Rockridge ·············-·········No. 468.... Raymond K. Massingill, Master
Milton F. Henchell, Senior Warden
Baptiste Barthe, Junior Warden
Roy R. Beggs, Past Master
Anthony C. Mecca
Yorba Linda ....................No. 469....C. A. Schalles, Muter............·-··················· 47.56
Lincoln ............................No. 470.... A. James F. Wlllwerth, Senior Warden
Francis F. Demarest, Junior Warden
Eldon B. Spofford, Past Master
Leslie E. Garren, Past Master
Shirley C. Forsey, Past Master
Don C. Commons, Past Master
Robert A. Peabody, Past Master
Delta ................................No. 471....Kenneth E. Ellis, Master.................................. 6.86
Frederick C. Broderick, Senior Warden
Mervyn E. Henshaw, Assi·s tant Grand
Lecturer ........................................................ 6.86
Maui ................................No. 472....Victor L. Schaefer, Jr., Senior Warden.... 349.63
Eugene P. Jijine, Past Master and Inspector 349.63
Blythe ................,•............No. 473....lnnis R. Harris, Master.................................... 60.60
Floy M. Christian, Junior Warden
Victory .........................:..No. 474....Richard Watts, Master
E. C. Mathisen, Senior Warden
H. T. Darr, Past Master
G. B. McElwain, Past Master
M. M. Alexander, Past Master
. W. C. Bird, Past Master
Ernest Schumacher, Past Master
Otto Von Raven, Past Master
I. H. Springer, Past Master
America ..........................No. 475....~~~m~~ ~~d~~; ~!~~~w·~·;d~~·············· 47.56
John T. Johnson, Junior Warden
Henry A. Save, Past Master
Cyro W. Slingerland, Past Master
Coachella .......·-··-·········No. 476....R. E. Carlton,.Smior Warden........................ 58.44
Wm. Wool, Junior Warden
Temblor .......,.........- ..-No. 477.... Howard D. Kinzel. Master ...........................~ 32.48
Philip W. Witte, Senior Warden
Herschel W. Graves, Past Master
Thousand Oaks ..............No. 478.... Stanley I. Roberts, Master
Harold F. Hexner, Senior Warden
Gerd H. Meyer, Junior Warden
Kenneth R. Evans, Past Master
R. Percy_Wisecraver, Past Master
Robert H. Stitt, Past Master
Paul Forrest, Past Master
Golden Rule ·············-·····No. 479....Albert E. Bluett, Master................................ 3.92
Frank G. Freeman, Senior Warden
Charles E. Bradley, Junior Warden
Joseph C. Boschken, Past Master

428
Name of l.odie

. PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileqe Allowed

Fellowship ......................No. 480.... William T. Page, Master
Howard C. Speulda, Senior Warden
Charles A. Davidian, Junior Warden
Jack V. Shahbazian, Past Master
Herman Zeller, Past Master
Alvin N. Lubold, Past Master
Mt Davidson .................. No. 481.. .. Edward H. Redford, Master
·
Daniel D. Rowlands, Junior Warden
Arthur M. Warren, Junior Grand Warden
Harold A. Meyer, Past Master
James M. Kemp, Past Master
Clarence F. Smith .......... No. 482.... Arthur V. Rice, Master ................................
George A. McCarthy, Senior Warden
Howard F. Hiltabidel, Junior Warden
Bell .................................. No. 483....James V. Gibson, Master..............................
George J. Wegerer, Senior Warden
Martin E. McCune, Past Master
Loyd R. Kesler, Past Master
Wm. H. Schmidt, Past Master
Frank W. Pearce, Past Master
Albert Pike ...................... No. 484 .... James R. Gray, Master..................................
.
George F. Corr, Senior Warden
Chowd1illa ...................... No. 485 ....Gordon T. Gregory, Master........................
Lonie E. Thompson, Senior Warden
Steven A. Upton, Past Master
Caledonia ........................ No. 486 .... Walter W. Dearing, Master..........................
H. Guy Walford, Senior Warden
James L. Knudson, Junior Warden
W. Waters Shugart, Past Master
Vallejo ............................ No. 487.... Frank A. Ward, Master..................................
William H. Rowe, Senior Warden
Thomas B. Pollard, Past Master
and Inspector ................................................
Sumner E. Patton, Past Master
Harry C. Siebert, Past Master
Harry M. Rowe, Past Master
Alvin N. Hulse, Past Master
Edward Neuman, Past Master

No. of Lodge

· Representatives

Mileaae Allowed

Garvanza ........................No. 492.... Fred C. Clements, Master.............................. 47.56
Clyde W. McKinley, Senior Warden
Elmer H. Johnson, Past Master
Van W. Bishop, Past Master
Earl Thaxter, Past Master
David C. Lee, Past Master
Atascadero ...................... No. 493 ....Cliff Hier~Johnson, Senior Warden............. . 26.18
Walter W. B. Clayton, Past Master
Fred C. Hess, Past Master
Cecil M. Prior, Past Master
47.56
47.56

47.56
20.82
32.48

2.70
2.70

Piitterson ........................ No. 488.... Not Represented
East Bay .......................... No. 489.... Arthur C, Green. Master
Milton G. Horgan, Senior Warden
Roy R. Clemens, Junior Warden
J. Harland Plummer, Past Master
Clifford B. Marker, Past Master
William S. Armstrong, Past Master
Corcoran .......................... No. 490.•.. 0wen Isenhower, Senior Warden................ 27.56
Woodstock ......................No. 491.. .. Marion A. Powers, Master
Frank E. Doherty, Senior Warden
Alvin A. Horwege, Grand Tiler
Robert E. O'Brien, Past Master
Charles J. Rundstrom, Past Master .
George A. Klingmann, Past Master
George A. Allen, Past Master
Ralph W. Merrick, Past Master

Name of Lodse

429

Acom ..........,................... No. 494.... Ralph M. Scott, Master
Theodore R. Arthur, Senior Warden
H. Stanley McDaniel, Junior Warden
George P. Silliman, Past Master
Stewart B. Andrews, Past Master
Samuel F. Worswlck, Past Ma·ster
Clarence M. Lake, Past Master
Ralph Adams, Past Master
E. Llo_yd Hanson, Past Master
John C. Wickland, Past Master
Lebanon .......................... No. 495.•..Theodore A. Schlosberg, Master
Herbert L. Schenk, Senior Warden
Milton Meyer, Past Master
Harold S. Stein, Past Ma1ter
Jack Urban, Past Master ·
Fremont ..........................No. 497....Clyde J. Kramer, Senior Warden
Cyrus L. Rossi, Past Master
George H. Dalmas, Past Master
Trofce M. Severe. Past Master
Car Olsen, Past Master
Stockton .......................... No. 498....James H. -Hardesty, Master_ ........................ . 6.86
Russell G. Crowe, Senior Warden
Lyle L. Foster, Junior Warden
Emmett Davis, Past Master
Capital Qty .................... No. 499.... Harvey P. Gay, Past Master
Roosevelt ........................No. 500.... Henry Crespi, Master
Jerry Pastore, Senior Warden
Raymond H. Hakes, Junior Warden
David Burgin, Past Master
Gerald Monhelm, Past Master
Joseph Scannell, Past Master
Otto C. Huth, Past Master
Marvin K. Cloyd, Past Master
Nils E. Johnsson, Past Master
Westwood ...................... No. SOL.Richard H. Glissman, Master........................ 32.28
Samuel R. Bauman, Past Master
Wayne Gleason, Past Master... ,.................... 32.28
Harbor ..........................,.No. 502.... Harold J. Larson. Master
H. Eugene Stevens, Junior Warden
Emory M. Milner, Past Master
George C. Rutan, Past Master
Earl A. McCloskey, Past Master
Alfred C. Wendorff, Past Master
Raynor C. Metz, Past Master

430
Name oE Lodae

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE.
No. of Lodse

Repttsentatives

Mileqe Allowed

Point ................................No. 503 .... Mark Blythe, Master
Cethll V. Plant, Senior Warden
Laverne L. L. Laux, Junior Warden
Joseph A. Souza, Past Master
Seaside ............................ No. 504.... James B. Taylor, Jr., Master.......................... 47.56
James W . Harris, Senior Warden
J. Everett Houser, Grand Orator.................. 47.56
Melvin R. Berbower, Past Master
and Inspector .............................................. 47.5"6
William T . Corbusier, Past Master
Clarence W . Wyatt, Past Master
Edwin W. Wade, Past Master
William J. Courtiour, Past Master
Silver Cord ·····-·········•···No. 505.... Herschel E. Griffin, Senior Warden............ 49.82
Mount Olive ..................No. 506.... Arthur F. Todd, Master................................ 47.56
Lester Nelson, Junior Warden
Russell Northrup, Past Master
and Inspector :........................................... 47.56
Ralph Heckler, Past Master.......................... 47.56
Alvin Wendt, Past Master
Zac. Rodriquez, Past Master
Karl V. Johnson, Past Master
Fred A. l<elsey, Past Master
George Callarman, Past Master
El Segundo ......................No. 507 ....Robert V. Fagan, Senior Warden................ 47.56
Joppa ................................No. 508 ....Edward C. Johnson, Past Master
and Representative ...................................... 23.76
Benjamin Franklin ........No. 509....J. Frank Moore, Master.............................. 47.56
Dr. Jay Montgomery, Senior Warden
Leland E. Ballard, Junior Warden
Walter B. Rorick, Past Master
Cupertino ........................ No. 510.... Euell B. Welch, Master................................ 3.64
Louis J. Paviso, Senior Warden
Harry S. Hawes, Junior Warden
William W. Sharp, Past Master
Sunnyvale ......- ................No. 511....Peter Almos, Master ...................................... 3.50
Russell A. Potts, Senior Warden
Wayne R. Price, Junior Warden
Hermann L. Horn, Secretary
Hiram N. Bishop, Past Master
Palms .............'······-- "····No. 512:... 0rin P. Johnson, Senior Warden.................. 47.56
Cahuenga ..............- ........ No. 513....Geo. E. Trezise, Master.................................. 47.56
Chas. R. Kelley, Senior Warden
Hal Anderson, Junior Warden
Oarence W. Murphy, ·P ast Mester
Roy C. Bryan, Past Master............................ 47.56
Chas. L. Webber, Past Master
Ray L. Whitney, Past Master
Argonne ..........................No. 514.... Henry G. Mathewson, Past Master
Frederick W . Wilhelm, Past Master
Clyde D. Lightbody, Past Master
Joseph J. Quigley, Past Master
Edwin A. Gumbinger, Past Master
David M. Taylor, Past Master
John H. Turner, Past Master

431

Name of Lodae
No. of Lodae
Representatives
Mileaae Allowed
Vermont Square .........c:.No. 515... Albert E. Linde, Master.................................. 47.56
C. F. Gerould, Senior Warden
Ford E. Jackson, Past Master
Earl C. Graham, Past Master
George E . Ruppers, Past Master................ 47.56
Taft ..................................No. 516.... !Jv~t~~sH~ire~~~· p~~if~~t~~---·················· 33.68

Mount Vernon ..............No. 517....Michael C . Kelly. Master
Raymond Guertin, Senior Warden
Chester J. Capps, Past Mas_ter
Richard F . Fletcher, Past Master
Harold W. Chaunce, Past Master
Charles[· Thompson, Past Master
Walter . Stobing, Past Master
Wendell T . Matlock, Past Master
La Jolla ............................ No. 518 .... Harry H. Alman, Past Master
and Representative ···························-···"···· 50.84
Euclid ....•.........................No. 519 ....Clyde 0. Hughes, Senior Warden.............. 47.56
Roy G. Mead, Past Master .
Ohmer H. Shaeffer, Past Master
Harold Bowman, Past Master
Ionic ................................No. 520.... Nathan Schwartz, Master ............................ 47.56
Leo Levine, Senior Warden
David Zeidenfeld, Junior Warden
Claude Lenz, Past Master
Bruce Avon, Past Master
Dewey K. Overton, Past Master
Edward King, Past Master
Piedmont ........................ No. 521....Walter F. Schag, Master
Verle D. Vincent, Senior Warden
Porter Evans, Junior Warden
Harold E . Hacker, Past Master
Verne R. Pentecost, Past Master
Kenneth A. Rice, Past Master
Sunrise ............................No. 522.... ~~b~~~

Lu~~~s~~;:e-w~;~j"~~·· ·· .................. 47.56

Bellflower ........................No. 523.... Paul E. Hutchinson, Master ........................ 47.56
Laurence E. Querbach, Senior Warden
William A. Frazier, Past Master
Lyall A. Pardee, Past Master
Catalina Island .............. No. 524.... John Francis Parkins, Master ..................... . 55.34
Harvey H. Cowell, Senior Warden
Lavern M. Thomas, Junior Warden
George Washington ...... No. 525 .... Robert Bulloch, Jr., Master
Chester M. Smith, Senior Warden
Carl Heier, Junior Warden
John F. Mills, Past Master
John Johnston, Past Master
Bay City ··········-············No. 526.... Joseph J. Langfelder, Master
Charles H. Israel, Senior Warden
Edward N. Jackson, Past Master
Harry Thor, Past Master
Covenant ........................No. 527....Ross R. Wright, Master............................. . 47.56
Robert H. Willison. Senior Warden
Herbert J. Shaffer, Past Master

432
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

433

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Milease Allowed

Elwood Bowles, Past Master
Henry M. Greminger, Past Master
James A. Mew, Past Master
Beverly Hille .................. No. 528.... Elbert C. Yuille, Master ............................ 47.56
Lloyd W. Burris, Senior Warden
Prank Harwell, Jr .. Assistant Grand
Lecturer ........................................................ 47.56
Joe Bookman, Past Master
Ernest N. Judson, Past Master
Frederick A. Pox, Past Master
C. Earle Crane, Past Master
Loyalty ·············--········-···No. 529.... David A. Matlin, Master .............................. 47.56
John J. Williams, Senior Warden
Arthur Llnsk, Junior Warden
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr., Past Master
and Inspector .............................................. 47.56
Hugo Blau, Past Master
Joseph A. Visger, Past Master
Joseph J. Strauss, Past Master
Jack Simmons, Past Master
Sun Garden ....................No. 530.... Prederlck E. Bock, Senior Warden.............. 23.76
Herbert R. Hargrave, Past Master
and Inspector
Everett L. Coyle, Past Master
Alexandria ...................... No. 531.. .. James M. Kinberger, Master
Ralph C. McArthur, Senior Warden
Dorsey E. Mears, Junior Warden
Harry A. Bolger, Past Master
Frank P. Goodman, Past Master
T eofil Svoboda, Past Master
Smyrna ............................ No. 532.... H. W. Aspinall, Senior Warden.................... 8.611
Azure .............................. No. 533.... Charles J. Drott, Senior Warden.................. 49.46
Virgil H. Van Winkle, Junior Warden
Forest Hill ......................No. 534 .... Robert A. Mast, Master
Dill H. Meese, Senior Warden
C. 0. Patten, Past Master
James N. Rae, Past Master
Alexander Hamilton ...... No. 535....Roland W. Snow, Master.............................. 47.56
Gordon N. McHenry, Senior Warden
George E. Seymour, Junior Warden
Elwood P. Fisher, Past Master
Edward J. Bllckfeldt, Past Master................ 47.56
Seal Rock ........................ No. 536.... Prank Gedgate, Master
Otto Stewart, Senior Warden
Leonard J. Larison, Junior Warden
Edwin W. Korte, Past Master
John L. Webber, Past Master
Edwin W. Bode, Past Master
Harty H. Jacobson, Past Master
Arthur C. Kuersten, Past Master
Russell H. Sievers, Past Master
Utopia .............................. No. 537.... Arthur Beard, Senior Warden...................... 47.56
Walter J. Elden, Junior Warden
.
George Leask, Past Master
P. T. Nagle, Past Master

· . Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileqe Allowed

Ascot ................................ No. 538·---k f : ~. i:-~i/t:~~~r·w;~d~~---······-···· 47.56
Martin 0. Veland, Past Master
and Inspector .............................................. 47.56
Henry E. Woolery, Past Master
Belvedere ........................ No. 539.... Paul H. Clark, Master.................................. 47.56
Romulus A. Anderson, Senior Warden
Melvin R. Maxey, Junior Warden
Queen Beach .................. No. 540.... Marvel Fairchild, Master .......................... 47.56
James W. Duncan, Senior Warden
Fred S. J. Hancock, Past Master
Charles E . Whittle, Past Master
Cecil 0. Northrop, Past Master
Henry Morse Stephens.. No. 541....Russell H. Archerd, Master
Paul R. Swanson, Senior Warden
Marvin D. Martin, Junior Warden
Robert H. Taylor, Past Master and Inspector
C. Melvin Davis, Past Master
Paul L. Higley, Past Master

Carlisle D. Nielsen, Past Master
William W. Myers, Past Master
Wilson E. Newlon, Past Master
Boyd B. Rakestraw, Past Master
Fred A. Flanders, Past Master
Lankershim ·········---···-····No. 542 ... .Vlctor W. Burt, Master .............................. 47.56
William C. Neuendorff, Senior Warden
Clarence A. Ross, Past Master
A. Terry Havens, Past Master
Reginald Bunce, Past Master
Jo~ph R. Perro, Past Master
Signal .............................. No. 543... .Toseph C. Cox. Senior Warden
Fred A. Adams, Junior Warden
Myron E. Roudebush, Past Master
and Inspector ................................................ 47.56
Jesse J. Hlll, Past Master
Glendale .....................,.... No. 544 .... ~~lt~~ f.'.Wo~t~e~::~~~d~~-------------····

47.56

Henry E. Deley, Past Master
Chas. H. Moss, Past Mast.r
Albert C. Lane, Past Master
Elvin W. Cameron, Past Master
Jonathan .......................... No. 545 ....Prank P. Furay. Master
James Scoflleld, Senior Warden
Roy G. Keyes, Junior Warden
Perry M. Spencer, Past Master & Inspector
Milton Knight, Past Master
Samuel Brown, Past Master
Paul Genzken, Past Master
Walter G. Furniss, Past Master
Charles M. Heidegger, Past Master
San Gabriel .................... No. 546 .... Paul J. Koetz, Senior Warden ...................... 48.38
Ivan B. Manzer, Junior Warden
Lawrence E. Berg, Past Master
Arcadia .......................... No. 547.... Arthur M. McDaniel, Master...................... 47.56
A. Melvin Poster, Senior Warden
Victor H. Gunderson, Past Master

.

434
Name of Lodae

No. of Lodge

Representatives

435

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Mileage .Allowed

Triangle ..........................No. 548.... George W. Ellis, Master ··············-·············· 47.56
Robert Vicars, Senior Warden
Stewart Burnett, Junior Warden
Justice .•............................No. 549....Emmet J. Pierce, Master
William R. Campbell, Senior Warden
Morgan M. Smith, Junior Warden
Rush Manbert, Past Master
and Iruipector
Earl Conner, Past Master
William W. Barry, Past Master
Frank R. Jackson, Past Master
Percy V. Maury, Past Master
Andrew H. Burke, Past Master
George D. Horn, Past Master
Seaport ............................No. 550....EdwardA. Barrett, Master
Walter . Huber, Senior Warden
David M. Boring, Junior Warden
Walter H. E. von Konsky, Grand Lecture.r
Anthony J. Spatafore, Past Master
Adolph C. von Konsky, Past Master
Albert R. Logasa, Past Master
John G. Wullschleger, Past Master
Felton D. Harris, Past Master
·Jakeshore ........................No. 551.... Paul S. Boren, Master
Donald J. Clark, Senior Warden
William E . Yocom, Jr., Junior Warden
Lloyd W. Hanson, Past Master
Charles C. Buckley, Past Master
George R. Doolan, Past Master
Thomas M. Lewis, Past Master
William E. Yocom, Past Master
Lee B. Ferguson, Past Master
Joseph A. Sullivan, Past Master
Carl E. JoseJ'h. Past Master
John R. McKalip, Past Master
Semper Virens ................No. 552.... Kelth Hammer, Senior Warden.................... 30.78
Clarence A. Trowbridge, Senior
Grand Steward .......................................... 30.78
Alexander Duncan, Past Master
and Inspector .............................................. 30.78
Educator ..........................No. 554.... John K. MacKenzie, Senior Warden
Fred R. Milam, Junior Warden
Donald B. Ryan, Past Master
W . G. Swanson, Past Master
Ralph M. Small, Past Master
Wm. M. Miiiigan, Past Master
Whtte Pine ....................No. 555....Chester I. Kimrey, Master.............................. 35.82
Fairfax ............................No. 556....Charles R. Banfield, Master
John F. Cartamo, Senior Warden
Lynn E . Barr, Junior Warden
Hermosa ..........................No. 557....John W. Gardner, Senior Warden.............. 47.56
Paul Thompson, Past Master & Inspec·tor.. 47.56
Point Firmin ....................No. 558....Wasson L. Doughty, Master ...................... 47.56
Percy H. King, Senior Warden
Leo Clifford Finn, Junior Warden

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Represcotarives

Mileage Allowed

Craftsmen ........................No. 559.... 0tto C. Bee, Senior Warden ...................... 47.56
John M. Shoquist, Junior Warden
R. E. McMullen, Past Master
R. A. Hickman, Past Master
K. W. Gray, Past Master
A. W. Phillips, Past Master
Albert T . Luck, Past Master
P. J. O'Connell, Past Master
Plymouth ............- ..........No. 560....Gerald E. Rhine, Master
George M. Bagley, Senior Warden
Erle F. Anderson, Junior Warden
Edward H. Siems, Past Grand Master
James Gaston Disher, Past Master
and Inspector
Herbert A. Adams, Past Master
Charles K. Baxley, Past Master
Jo.seph J. Lagler, Past Master
Herbert M. McCracken, Past Master
Leon C. Babbitt, Past Master
William G. Thumann, Past Master
East San Diego ..............No. 561 .... Raymond E. Fouts, Senior Warden............ 50.84
Harry K. Ford, Past Master
Robert G. Woll, Past Master
Pyramid ..........................No. 562....Wm. G. Snetsinger, Master
.
·
Lawrence F. Buck, Junior Warden
John H. Brooke, Past Master
Eugene H. T ipton, Past Master
Germain W. Miller, Past Master
South Park ......................No. 563.... Herbert Van Riper, Master........................ 47.56
Myron Ta_ylor, Senior Warden
Ross W. Gesler, Past Master
Foothlll ............................No. 564....Charles S. Doyle, Master
Elston S. Runyon, Senior Warden
Gamel T. Stoney, Junior Warden
Ray A. Farley, Past Master
Carl B. Munck, Past Master
Lionel C. Raymond, Past Master
Ben L. Miller, Past Master
West Adams ..................No. 565....Carl D. Johnson, Master................................ 47.56
Wesley F. Whitaker, Senior Warden
James A. Garfield ..........No. 566.... Paul F. Mattoon, Master.............................. 47.56
Gordon A. Boelter, Senior W ·arden
Milo C. Matticks, Junior Warden
Ralph W. Collins, Past Master.................... 47.56
Henry Honaker, Past Master
Searchlight ......................No. 567....Robert R. Shinn, Master.............................. 47.56
Kenneth L. Hemphill, Senior Warden
David Perkins, Past Master
James R. Martin, Past Master
Park Boulevard ·····-·······No. 568....Willis V . McBeth, Master
Francis A. Roberts, Senior Warden
William F. Willoughby.Junior Warden
Harry D. Hosac, Past Master
Wade A. Kouns, Past Master
Charles L. Ponsford, Past Master

436
Name of Lodge

No. of Lodse

llcpresenmtives

437

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Milease Allowed

_Name of Lodge

No. of Lodse

Representatives

Milraae Allowed

Warren G. Harding ...... No. 579.... Ray M. Smith, Master......................... _..... 7.2-+
Harry J. Hltke, Senior Warden
J. Nell Wilson, Junior Warden
lienry R. Brown, Past Master
Santa Marla .................... No. 580.... Arthur W. Tobiason, Master ...................... 50.84
Kay V. Smith, Past Master
Security .......................... No. 581 .... ~~rl~· J;~~!~~ !~ss::i ~·w;;;:<l~~·-··------··· 32.48

Chateau Thierry ............No. 569.... Ralph E. Prentice, Master
Neal W. Hayden, Senior Warden
John A. Morin, Junior Warden
Howard S. Kaulbach, Past Master
and Inspector
John E. Abbott, Past Master
Harry L. Roderick, Past Master
Markell C. Baer, Past Master
Military Service ............No. 570.... Chester 0. Dughi, Senior Warden
Fred 'L. Somers, Past Master
Chang Wah Lee, Past Master
Robert J. Martin, Past Master
Otto F. Hansen, Past Master

1 11

Francis K. Shattuck ......No. 571.. .. Herb Hobson, Master
George E. Smithbum, Senior Warden
Charles L. Briggs, Junior Warden
Elbert W. Davis, Assistant Grand Lecturer
John Tilbury, Jr., Pa11t Master
Bruce Bartholomew, Past Master
George Jelten, Past Master
James Madison ..•............. No. 572 .... lay D. Willard, Master.................................. 47.56
Floyd J. McClain, Senior Warden
Daily P. Childs, Past Master
Hillcrest .......................... No. 573 .... Merlin Drucquer, Master
Donald F. T. Parkin, Junior Warden
S. W. Hackett .............. No. 57.+....Willlam E. Davis, Master ........................... . 50.M
Chester E. Lees, Senior Warden
George E. Adams, Junior Warden
Joseph H. Wagner, Past Master
Fort Crook .................... No. 575.... K. G. Sublette, Master.................................. 33.88
J. P. McGhee, Junior Warden
Reginald Reynolds, Past Master & Inspector 33.88
Otho Stewart, Past Master
El Cajon Valley .......... :.No. 576.... Byron J. Conrad, Master...................... ·-····· 51.80
James B. Carson, Senior Warden
Hugh D. Good, Past Master and Inspector 52.8-+
Sunnyside ........................No. 577....J. L. Clark, Master ........................................ -+7.56
Jas. M. West, Senior Warden
Louis H. Mahler, Past Master

-+7.56

G:;d k5Pf~i°:: -P~t···M;;;t;;;·····--······--··········
F. Wesley Davies, Past Master................. . -+7.56
John A. Low, Past Master
Percy L. Bruner, Past Master
Progressive ....................No. 578....Walter Land, Master................................... . -+7.56
J. Howard Edwards, Junior Grand Steward -+7.56
Arthur V. Lundstrom, Past Master
Kenneth E. Casperson, Past Master
Claude DeWeese, Past Master
Perry R. Borden, Past Master
Roy O. Miller, Past Master
Eugene R. Chambers, Past Master
William H. Durham, Past Maater
McDonald H. Curtis, Past Master

0

Rialto .............................. No. 582.... Wayne W. Allgood, Senior Warden. ....... 52.24
Wasco ............................ No. 583.... Malcolm J. Little, Senior Warden.............. 26.58
Thomas S. Moss, Junior Warden
Fred C. Pritschke, Past Master
and Inspector .............................................. 26.58
Harding ..........................No. 584 ....Wm. R. Brown, Senior Warden.................. 47.56
Herbert 0. Williams, Junior Warden
Anson McArthur, Past Master
and Inspector .............................................. 47.56
Louis R. Bursk, Past Master
Louis Erwin Sage, Past Master
Manchester ....................No. 585.... Ralph Ferguson, Master .............................. 47.56
Gilbert J. Anderson, Senior Warden
Elmer Lotz, Past Master and Inspector.... 47.56
Thomas C. Lloyd, Past Master
Joseph Lynn, Past Master
Clark Humphrey, Past Master
Garden Grove ................ No. 586.... George B. Honold, Master .......................... 49.82
James C. Wallace, Senior Warden
·
Valley Forge ..................No. 587.... Frank T. Pond, Muter....... -........................... 47.S6
Bart J. Wood, Senior Warden
Ben D. Barrett, Junior Warden
Chas. S. Barrett, Past Master
Calvin A. White, Past Master
Walter R. Colvin, Past Master
Chas Hauser, Past Master
Jas M. Maddock, Past Master
Carl F. Menke, Past Master
0. K. Robinson, Past Master
Truman Van Dyke, Past Master
Chas. L. W. Vocke, Past Master
El Sereno ........................ No. 588.... Walter E. Dresser, Muter................................ 47.S6
Howard W. Harlan, Senior Warden
Hemaldo H. Avila, Past Master
Kauai ..............................No. 589.... Charles L. Shannon, Senior Warden................ ~49.6~
Compass .......................... No. 590.... R. Roy Bowman, Master................................
5038
Bruce C. Stephens, Senior Warden
Loyd E. Clark, Junior Warden
Escalon ............................No. 591. ... Roy E. Wood, Muter...................................... 8.24
Arch T. Roberson, Past Master & Inspector.... 8.24
Tu)unga ..........................No. 592 .... Samuel F. Goode, Senior '\Varden.................... 47.56
E. J. Rookhuizen, Past Master
John P. Jensen, Past Master
All States ........................ No. 593.... Homer M. Walker, Muter.............................. 47.56
· Charles F. Kimball, Senior Warden
William 0. Neptune, Junior Warden
Raymond A. Bean, Past Master
Clyde Dinnis, Past Master

438

Lodge
Homes Contribution
Contrib.
No.
Lodge
Service ............................No. 594.... Vincent S. Hoopes, Master.............................. 47.56
Charles J. Howe, Senior Warden
Benjamin H. Linville, Past Master
Ralph F. Rutherford, Past Master
Charles J. Wentz, Past Master
Alexander Graham Bell No. 595 .... Frank L. Robertson, Master............................ 47.56
Ellwood F. Herrin, Senior Warden
Charles F. Casteel, Junior Warden
Eugene Brockow, Past Master
Graham A. Backus, Past Master...................... 47.56
Guardian ........................No. 596 .... Dan B. Erwin, Master...................................... 47.56
Norman T. Bruder, Senior Warden
Howard Laurent, Past Master & Inspeaor...... 47 .56
Pearl Harbor ..................No. 598.... Louis E. Carrier, MaSter.................................. 331.30
Earl F. Sayre, Senior Warden
Charles F. Washburn, Past Master
Carmelita ........................No. 599 .... Jay D. Rinehart, Master.................................. 48.60
C. Cecil Davis, Senior Warden
Wesley C. Hertenstein, Junior Warden
]. Tyler Parker, Jr., Past Master & Insp'r........ 48.60
Edmund A. Lockett, Past Master
Lynwood ...........,............No. 600.... Edward M. Stitz, Master.................................. 47.56
Earl V. Yolton, Senior Warden
Edward T. Simbalenke, Junior Warden
HiJlyard H. Bristol, Past Master
Wayne M. Hague, Past Master
Paul E. Risher, Past Master
LeRoy Shadrach, Past Master
Grizzly ............................No. 601....Ralph F. Sarback, Master............................... . 29.50
Earl D. Fonda, Past Master & Inspeaor.......... 29.50
Melrose ............................ No. 602 .... Fred M. Dodge, Master................................. . 47.56
Noble E. Cates, Senior Warden
Dimond ............................No. 603 .... Laroy Kavert, Master
Alfred E. Wheeler, Senior Warden
Irving S. Ketels, Past Master
E. Leroy Paul, Past Master
Jubilee ..............................No. 604.... WiJliam S. Sack.man, Senior Warden.............. 49.82
John Kahler, Past Master
Glassell Park ..................No. 605 .... S. Roy Harrington, Master.............................. 47.56
Frank W. Johnson, Past Master & lnsp'r........ 47.56
Sojourner ........................ No. 607.... Dallas L. Blain, Senior Warden...................... 49.02
Granada ..........................No. 608 .... Donald S. Lemon, Master................... :............ 47.56
B. M. Rudd, Senior Warden
Donald G. Campbell, Past Master & Insp'r.... 48.60
Charles R. Nicker!, Past Master
Provident ........................ No. 609 .... Cecil E. Fisher, Junior Warden......................
7.24
Jas. A. L. Wells, Past Master
Elmhurst ..........................No. 610.... Harold A. Kaufman, Master
Sidney H. Brown, Senior Warden
Francis J. Coates, Junior Warden
Nathan Goldstone, Past Master
John H. Gilmour, Past Master
Carl E. Boorman, Past Master
Canoga ............................No. 611.... John: D. Barton, Master.................................. 47.56
·
Woodrow F. Wines, Senior Warden

439

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Name of Lodae

No. of Lodge

Representarives

Mileaae Allowed

Temple City .........•.......... No. 612 .... Frederick V. McCrory, Senior Warden............
William N. Pedder, Past Master & Insp'r......
LeRoy C. Baumgardner, Past Master
Three Pillars .................. No. 613 .... George E. Bobeck, Master..... -.........................
Howard V. Cameron, Senior Warden
Ray W. Phillips, Junior Warden
Wiles]. McClelland, Past Master & Inspector
Larchmont ...................... No. 614 .... Karl H. Bennett, Master..................................
William T. Almany, Jr.
George P. Salm, Past Master & . Inspector........
Roy Lineaweaver, Past Master
Newcomb Condee, Past Master
Hemet .............................. No. 615.... Brady Barker, Master......................................
Bedford Cansler, Senior Warden
Ray R. Bell. Past Master & Inspeaor..............
R. E. Dolley .................... No. 616.... Fred B. Gray, Senior Warden........................
Big Bear .......................... No. 617....Robert A. Rahman, Senior Warden................
Southland ........................ No. 618.... T. Howard Davis, Master................................
Otis G. Prussel, Senior Warden
John A. Crosbie, Past Master & Inspector......
Donald H. Wilkins, Past Master
A. Curtis Smith, Past Master
David Fletcher, Past Master
WiJliam F. Gallin, Past Master
Neptune .......................... No. 619.... John C. Davis, Master....................................
Allen P. Wells, Past Master
Point Loma .............•...... No. 620.... Walter V. Tisdale, Senior Warden................
William T. Toon, Junior Warden
Franklin A. Plank, Past Master
Leroy W. Lee, Past Master
Harold K. Rankin, Past Master
The Gardens .................. No. 621....Rudolph Mezori, Master................................
Harry Emmett Cella, Senior Warden
George V. Jameson, Past Master
Atwater .......................... No. 622.... S. Myrle Cloyed, Master..................................
Jesse M. Few, Senior Warden
Lewis Arbogast, Junior Warden
Frederick H. Chapman, Past Master
Geo. E. Stott, Past Master
E. Ray Brown, Past Matser
Menorah .......................... No. 623 .... Clarence Wapner, Senior Warden..................
Harry Warner, Junior Warden
Albert V. Youngs, Past Master & Inspector....
Fortitude ............... ,........ No. 624.... Jack Hotchkiss, Junior Warden
Ralph Mc. Webb, Past Master
Alfred L. Costa, Past Master
Tracy E. Clark, Past Master
Angeles Mesa ................ No. 625.... Frank A. Taylor, Master..................................
Hugh S. Levie, Senior Warden
Roy G. Crum, Past Master
John J. Humble, Past Master
Albert H. Klatt, Past Master
Walter R. Gentry, Past Master
Gordon S. Duncan, Past Master

47.56
47.56
7.24
7.24
47.56
4 7.56
·56.94
56.94
47.56
52.24
47.56
47.56

47.56
50.84

47.56
47.56

47.56
47.56

47.56

HO
Name of Lodie

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Ht

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Milea1e Allowed

Chula Vista ....................No. 626.... John H. Greife, Senior Warden...................... 50.84
Lud L. Handley, Junior Warden
.
Rolin 0. Downs, Past Master
Chas E..Smith, Past Master
Lamanda Park ..............No. 627.._Paul F. Barton, Master................................... . 48.60
Christian B. Arntz, Senior Warden
Ben 0 . Sword, Past Master
Elmer P. Worrell, Past Master
47.56
Truth ................... :............No. 628....?:!krJ.ECh~i~frn~~~· to~~~\v;;<l~~················
Clarence S. Gallup, Junior Warden
John E. Tanquary, Past Master
Fairview ..........................No. 629....John E. Comley, Master.................................. 47.56
Harold C. Mudgett, Senior Warden
Ben L. Irwin, Past Master
W. Al Richard, Past Master
Lester W. Burbank, Past Master
d
Ingleside .................".........No. 630....John W. Powell, Master
Paul F. Schmeltzer, Senior War en
Joseph F. Garriott, Junior Warden
Lloyd E. Wilson, Past Grand Master and
Grand Secretary
Adam H. Krage!, Past Master
• Henry C. Clausen, Past Master
Charles E. Moore, Past Master
John E. Perry, Past Master
Robert M. Gane, Past Master
Charles W. Coles, Past Master
Raymond W. Blosser, Past Master
Harry L. Wilson, Past Master
Harry S. Walker, Jr., Past Master
Benevolence ....................No. 631.... Roy H. Schwieger, Master................................
Normal Heights ............No. 632.... Leland E. Kellerhouse, Senior Warden............
James M. Lollar, Junior Warden
S. Harts, Sr., Master................................
Poinsettia ························N o ' 633....Guy
Carl E. Axelson, Senior Warden
Arthur P. Stewart, Junior Warden
Louis C. Drapeau, Senior Grand Warden....... .
Arthur T. Mead, Past Master
Victorville ......................No. 634....Russell F. Bragg, Senior Warden....................
M. Hayes Hickey, Jr., Junior Warden

47.56
50.84
39.98
47.56
47.66

Riverside ..........................No. 635....Ralph H . Munson, Master.....d························· 52.24
Roland Gautsche, Senior War en
NaDel E. Jensen, Past Master
Frank G. McConnell, Past Master
Gordon F. Black, Past Master
Henry W. Coil, Past Master
John Marshall ................No. 636.... Albert A. Buelow, Master.............................. .. 47.56
Glenn H. Harman, Senior Warden
Richard A. Peterson, Past Master
Clyde B. Austin, Past Master
Edward A. Underwood, Past Master
G. Elton Barnes, Past Master
Mervin J. Davidson, Past Master
Atwill Morgan, Past Master
Oscar L. Lundberg, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Palisades ..........................No. 637....Joseph T. Kuglin, Master................................ 47.56
Demorest S. Wemple, Senior Warden
Ira D. Wheeler, Past Master
Indian Rock .................... No. 638....Neil B. Harris, Master
Harold B. Ingold, SeniorWarden
Harry B. Watchers, Junior Warden
Edward L. Kearney, Past Master
Hollis G. Duckworth, Past Master
Frederick T. Herrick, Past Master Hubert F. Stanley, Past Master
Composite ........................ No. 639.... Al Davis, Senior Warden................................ 47.56
Ben Myers, Past Master
Philip H. Bloch, Past Master
Joseph Phillips, Past Master
Veritas ............................No. 640....0scar W. Norman, Master
Dale Jones, Senior Warden
Robert H. Turner, Junior Warden
Irving J. Kohnke, Past Master
William F. Poynter, Past Master
Edward J. Hudson, Past Master
Reginald A. Wiswell, Past Master
Washington I. Kohnke, Past Master
James A. Foshay .......... No. 641....LeDroit C. Prosser, Master.............................. 47.56
James C. Holesapple, Senior Warden
Charles R. Woolever, Past Master
La Cumbre ...................... No. 642....L. S. Pinkham, Senior Warden........................ 37.74
L. W . Pingree, Junior Warden
B. R. Bare, Past Master
William W. McKee, Past Master.................... 37.74
Arthur Boone, Past Master
.. _
Alta Loma ......................No. 643....Clyde B. Carter, Master.................................. 47.56
William H. White, Senior Warden
A. J. Volz, Past Master
Floyd 0. Mason, Past Master
Herbert W . Hedrick, Past Master
Daniel J. Code, Senior Wardne
Lomita .........•....................No. 644.... Alvin L. Crawford, Master.............................. 47.56
Aubrey Matthews, Junior Warden
J. Roy Winters, Past Master
A. F. E. Irwin ................ No. 645.... Edward L West, Master.................................. 47.56
Clyde W. Forester, Senior W arden
Robert F. Hopper, Junior Warden
Alfred C. Clark, Past Master
William A. Dahlquist, Past Master
Henry P. Haynes, Past Master
Harry A. Hansen, Past Master
Metropolitan .................. No. 646.... Bradford J. Flanagan, Master..........................
Arthur E. Neilsen, Senior Warden
Wm. I. Shotwell, Junior Warden
Wallace C. Montgomery, Past Master
W . Ray Murray, Past Master
Frank Everett, Past Master

47.56

Hawthorne ......................No. 647....Hebert R. Roberts, Senior Warden................ 47.56
John A. Owen, Past Master & Inspect0r.......... 47.56
Percy N. Hazel, Sr., Past Master

H2
Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

H3

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Mileage Allowed

Damascus ........................No. 648....0. Ervin Adamson, Master............. ~................ 52.24
John Bright, Past Master & Inspector............ 52.24
Lawrence L. Nichols, Past Master
William G. Chamberlain, Past Master
Joseph L Ousley, Past Master
Herbert W . Robbins, Past Master
Florence ..........................No. 649....Willard N. Hughes, Master............................ 47.56
Fred W. Waitman, Senior Warden
La Brea ............................No. 650.... Ben Perry, Master................. _......................... 47.56
Frank Burgan, Senior Warden
Emil 0 . Ostrom, Junior Warden
John W . Swank, Past Master
Charles F. Laverty, Past Master
Ray S. Smith, Past Master
Russell Lee, Past Master
George W . Burch, Jr., Past Master
W. Jas. Mann, Past Master
3.28
Menlo Park ....................No. 651....William E. Todd, Master................................
Max R. Boyens, Senior Warden
Kenneth M. Russell, Junior Warden
Herbert A. McKechnie, Past Master
Royal Hodge, Past Master
David Wright, Past Master
Crescenta Valley ............No. 652.... Marion E. Vore, Master.....-:.......................... 47.56
Francis E. Thompson, Senior Warden
Fontana ..........................No. 653....James A. Morris, Mallef.................................. 47.56
Charles Wilbur O'Neil, Senior Warden
No 654....Frank C. Smith Master.................................... -47j6
dan
Jor
..._......................... •
Herman L. Fee~stra, Senior Warden
Leonard Gross, Past Master
Monte Vista ....................No. 655....Edward E. Smith, Master................................ 47.56
John E. Filbert, Senior Warden
Citro! ................................No. 656....Carl E. Goll, Senior Warden.......................... 49.70
J. D. Spreckels ................No. 657....Clillord 0 . Whianars.h, Master........................ 50.94
John E. McNutt, Senior Warden
Wm. H. McNutt, Junior Warden
John T. Martin, Past Master
George W. Parker, Past Master
Livingston ................,.....No. 658.... Not Represented
La Habra .......................No. 659....Arthur C. Schroeder, Master..........................
·
Andy F. Jolley, Senior Warden
Baldwin Park ..................No. 660.... Fred L. Ferguson, Senior Warden..................
Malta ..............................No. 661....Thomas P. Robinson, Senior Warden............
Henry Knox ....................No. 662.... A.. Winfield Jones, Master..............................
Nelson R. Smith, Senior Warden
Samuel R. Howell, Junior Warden
Paul R. Nichols, Past Master
.
Jack Patterson, Past Master
Ojai .....- ...........................No. 663....Clifford L. Harris, Master................................
Glen Wear, Senior Warden
Bartin K. Eakin, Junior Warden
Carl M. Burgess, Past Master
Kaweah .............._............No. 665.... Richard H . Wright, Master............................
Fred Green, Junior Warden

49.42
47.56
47.56
47.56

35.12

27.38

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Milease Allowed

Reseda ......................- ...... No. 666....Y. Elmer Canuell, Master................................
Horace W . Leslie, Senior Warden
Cornelius Davis, Past Master
·LJoyd E. Parker, Past Master
Meridian ..........................No. 667....Clarence E. Glaze, Senior Warden..................
Otto A. Raddatz, Junior Warden
John R. Moore, Past Grand Master................
San Gorgonlo ..................No. 668.... Glen M. Russell, Senior Warden....................
Wm. E. R. Crawford, Junior Warden
George M. Fox, Past Master
John P. Jarman ................No. 669.... Ralph Laswell, Master ....................................
Jos. A. Pinkston, Junior Warden
Nels H. Johnson, Past Master & Inspeaor......
Minord Gonzales, Past Master
Hebert Pritchard, Past Master
Greenleaf ........................No. 670.... Wellman C. Walkley, Master..........................
Grover A. Ahmann, Senior Warden
L. L. Vestal, Past Master
San Clemente ..................No. 671....Larry D. Snow, Senior Warden......................
Laguna Beach ................No. 672.... Kelvin W. A. Bailey, Senior Warden..............
W. Ben Sorrells, Past Master & Inspector......
Far West ........................No. 673....Earl B. Myers, Master
George E. Crocker, Senior Warden
Caspar A. Bachtold, Junior Warden
Cecil TuH, Past Master
Al. S. Sandell, Past Master
Walter Lubchenko, Past Master
Herman E. Bickel, Past Masrer
Dean Wilson, Past Master
Los Cerritos ....................No. 674....Edward Cicourel, Master..................................
Morris Prell, Senior Warden
Arthur Sissons, Past Master
Modesto ..........................No. 675....Merle E. Frantz, Senior Warden......................
Willow Glen ..................No. 676....Quincy L. Davis, Master..................................
Frank N. Long, Junior Warden
Holger G. Hansen, Past Master
Almer W. Laederich, Past Master
Liberal Arts ....................No. 677.... Reynold F. Blight, Master..............................
William P. Warnack, Senior Warden
Robert W . Flesch, Junior Warden
Ellsworth Meyer, Grand Master......................
Delbert D. Colley, Grand Sword Bearer........
Elvin C. Drake, Past Master & Inspector..........
Howard M. Wilson, Past Master
Frank H. Reinsch, Past Master
Altadena ..........................No. 678....Claupe B. Moss, Masllef....................................
Horace S. Clay, Senior Warden
Alfred P. Davies, Past Master
Grant Pengilly, Past Master
Verner A. Jacobson, Past Master
Austin H. Hazard, Past Master
Canby Cross ..................No. 679.... V. G. Reinmiller, Senior Warden..................
Carmel ............................No. 680....James H. Ashley, Master..................................
Herbert C. Fairley, Past Master
Gordon C. Browne, Past Master
James Ralph Zuck, Past Master

47.56

47.56
47.56
54.66
3.92
3.92

48.78
52.32
50.64
50.64

47.56
8.32
3.92

47.56
47.56
47.56
47.56
47.56

43.22
10.08

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

lleprescntativC3

HS

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allowed

Dos Palos ........................No. 681....Marvin R. McHenry, Master............................
Rodney R. Roberts, Senior Warden
Kenneth H. Easter, Junior Warden
John H . Sorenson, Past Master
Leland L. Leonard, Past Master
Glenn C. Holmes, Past Master........................
Barstow ..........................No. 682....Ernest J. McMichael, Master..........................
· Dorse K . Fissell, Junior Grand Steward..........
Redwood Empire ............No. 683.... Not Represented
Trona ..............................No. 684.... Frank H. Wells, Senior Warden......................
Lynn A. Blackmun, Past Master
Harry 0. Diehl, Past Master
Charles E. Ousley, Past Master
San Marlno......................No. 685....Wilbur R. Teets, Master..................................
Earl E. Lyons, Senior Warden
Worrell F. Pruden, Junior Warden
William J. Williams, Past Master....................
Leo E. Sievert, Past Master
George R. Friederich, Past Master
Albany ............................No. 686....Frank S. Spires, Master
C. E. Boekenoogen, Senior Warden
A. D. Bertino, Junior Warden
Carl J. MacWilliams, Past Master
William R. Ross, Past Master
Ambrose R. Graham, Past Master
Vista ................................No. 687....Clyde A. Shower, Master................................
Alvin L. Lang, Senior Warden
Lewis H . Field, Junior Warden
O!ldale -...........................No. 688....Frank H . Martin, Master..................................
William F. Gamble, Senior Warden
Ralph Eikema, Junior Warden
Fred C. Epperson, Past Master
Clyde B. Zuver, Past Master
Pohona _..........................No. 689.... A.rthur J. Mercer, Senior Warden....................
San Carlos ......................No. 690.... John K. Hopkirk, Master
Leonard S. Parker, Senior Warden
M. Franklin Duxbury, Junior Warden
Fred Prince, Past Master
L. J. Douat, Past Master
Walter C. Simon, Past Master
Indian Wells Valley......No. 691....Joseph Heber Haycock, Master........................
Robert H. Dudley, Senior Warden
Orloff D . Kirby, Junior Warden
Art R. Hestand, Past Master
Travelers ........................No. 692....Harry L. Brainard, Senior Warden................
Harry L. Jaspar, Past Master
Palm Springs ..................No. 693.... Carl H. Sampson, Senior Warden..................
Frederick A. Morrison, Junior Warden
San Antonio ....................No. 694.... Richard C. Martin, Master..............................
Robert Collier, Senior Warden
Meudell ............................No. 695.... Kenneth R. Cresswell, Master..........................
Dewey A. Horton, Senior Warden
Crossroads ......................No. 696....Earle F. Sheffield, Master................................
Francis S. Firkins, Senior Warden

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodsc

llepresentatives

Mileage Allowed

11.54

St. Elmo ..........................No. 697....John W. Haugh, Master
Edmond 0. Burger, Senior Warden
John R. MacDonald, Junior Warden
George C. Ferenz, Past Master

25.26

William D . Stephens ....No. 698.... Arthur M. Loomis, Master..............................
Robert M. M~llum, Senior Warden
Irving E. Sage, Junior Warden
Ralph G. Ritchie, Past Master
Cunis Clement Legerton, Past Master

45.20
45.20
43.62

48.60
47.56

54.40

47.56

Bixby Knolls ..................No. 699.... Donald B. McKay, Master.............................. · 47.56
Herbert L. Chase, Senior Warden
Casimir Chrostowski, Junior Warden
Ponderosa ........

y ••••• •• •••••

No. 700....Roeliffe F. Eldridge, Master............................
Paul C. McCorkle, Senior Warden
Edgar T. Ford, Junior Warden

23.76

Santa Ynez Valley ........No. 701....Hal W. Hamm, Senior Warden......................

35.16

Rosemead ........................No. 702.... Herbert M. Langton, Senior Warden..............

47.56

Westchester ....................No. 703....James L. Miles, Master..........,.........................
David R. White, Senior Warden
L. Melvin Hall, Junior Warden

47.56

Orinda ............................No. 704....Sherer G. Culver, Master................................
·
Sigurd Gr~nnings, Senior Warden
Andrew Catherall, Junior Warden
Wilbur D. Crosby, Past Master......................

1.60
1.60

El Cerrito ........................No. 705....Gene C. Otwell, Master
32.48

30.84

40.62

7.24

50.46
47.56
32.48

50.48

Joseph E. Van Etten, Senior Warden
John L. Wixon, Junior Warden
Hunters Point Naval... ... No. 706....Cecil F. Gill, Master
Charles Bartley Moore, Senior Warden
Alvie A. Larkin, Junior Warden
Lake Tahoe .................... No. 707....H. R. Willard Bulkley, Master........................
R. E. Thompson, Senior Warden
L. F. Hillhouse, Junior Warden

25.56

Seafaring ........................No. 708....Edward I. Moore, Master................................
Henry D. Deister, Senior Warden
Sam Kinsfather, Junior Warden

49.64

Lorenzo ............................No. 709.... Edward C. Will, Master
William F. Dewey, Senior Warden
Anacapa .......................... No. 710....Bernard C. Mickle, Master..............................

40.78

Rim of the World ............ No. 711....Thos. E. Schrey, Mas~....................................
James M. Souter, Senior Warden
Erwin A. Patterson, Past Master

52.24

Total ···-·····•···········..•·•··•····..···-············-......25,06,.21
NOTE: ID accordance with the law, paymenu were made to Past Masters, where show11, i11
official and authorized capacities, and not to Past Masters as such.
See reporu of Committee on Credentials and Committee on Pay of Members.

H6

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued

UST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES
With Date of Charters, Fees, Duee, and Membership for the Muonic Year
Ending July 31, A. L. 5950
Lodge

No.

1 California ....................•• l
2 Western Star ................ l
3 Tehama •....................... 3
4 Benicia ···········-······-..···· 5
5 Tuolumne .............•...... 8
6 C.Orinthian .................... 9
7 San Jose ........................ 10
8 Yount-·························· 12
9 Nevada .......................... u ·
10 Temple·········-··············· 14
11 Eureka ················-······· 16
12 La Parfaite Union ........ 17
13 Mountain Shade .......... 18
14 San Joaquin .................. 19
15 Washington .................. 20
16 Hawaiian ·················-··· 21
17 Occidental .................... 22
18 Madison ·······-··············· 23
19 Mariposa ...................... 24
20 Georgetown .................. 2 5
21 El Dorado .................... 26
22 Trinity •......................... 27
23 Golden Gate ................ 30
24 Gold Hill ·········- ···-······ 32
25 Ophir ............................ 33
26 San Diego .................... 3S
27 Howard ........................ 37
28 Santa Crui .................... 38
29 Sacramento .................. 40
30 Martinei ........................ 41
31 Los Angeles .................. 42
32 Hiram ·······-··········- ····· 43
3 3 Mount Moriah .............. 44
34 Crescent ........................ 4f
35 Texas ...•.......................• 46
36 Forbestown .................. 50
37 Illinoistown .................. n
38 Suisun ···················-····· f 5
39 Volcano ........................ 56
40 Santa Rosa .................... 57
41 Union ························- 58
42 Gravel Range···········- ···· 59
43 Plumas ·············-··········· 60
44 Live Oak ·-··················· 61
45 Natoma ........... ~........ ... 64
46 Amador ........................ 6f
47 Forest ............................ 66
48 Morning Star ................ 68
49 Enterprise .................... 70
50 Bear Mountain .............. 76
51 Calaveras ·······-············· 78
S'2 Humboldt .................... 79
S'3 lone ........................•..... 80
54 Yolo ···················-········· 81
55 Vuper ·················-······· 84
,.6 Naval ·············---··········· 87

location

Charter
l11ued

San Francisco ........ 18 50
Shasta .................... 1850
Sacramento ............ 18 50
Benicia .................. 1850
Sonora ···········-······· 18 50
Marysville ............ .. 18 50
San Jose ................ 1850
Napa ...................... 1851
Nevada City .......... 1851
Sonoma .................. 1851
Auburn .................. 1851
San Francisco ........ 18"2
Downieville •........... 1852
Stockton ................ 18 S'2
Sacramento ............ 18S'2
Honolulu, T. H ..... 18f2
San Francisco ........ 18"2
Grass Valley .......... 18 53
Mariposa ................ 1853
Georgetown .......... 18 53
Placerville ............... 18 53
Weaverville
18 S'3
San Francisco ........ 1853
Lincoln ·-··········-··· 18 S'3
Murphy's ................ 1853
San Diego .............. 1853
Yreka .................... 185'4
Santa Crui .•............ 185'4
Sacramento .....'....... 18H
Martinei ................ 1854
Los Angdes .......... 18 54
El Dorado .............. 185'4
San Francisco ........ 1854
Crescent City
1854
San Juan ................ 1854
Forbestown ............ 1854
C.Olfai: ···················· 18"4
Suisun .................... 1855
Volcano ..............•... 18H
Santa Rosa ............ 18H
Sacramento
1855
Camptonville .......... 1855
Quincy ···········-····· l 8H
Oakland •............... 18H
Folsom .................... 1855
Jackson .................. I8H
Alleghany .............. 18U
Stockton ................ I85f
Yuba City .............. 1855
Angel's Camp ........ 1855
San Andreas .......... 18H
Eureka ···-··············· 1855
Ione ........................ 1856
Yolo ...................... 1856
Red Bluf ................ 1854
Vallejo •................. 1856

H7

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Aflll.

Fe..

FH1

100
50
75
75

20.00
6.00
10.00

7'f
50

2.00

75
60
50
S'O
50
100
50
80
75
125
100
78
50
50
75
50
60
50
50
80
50
80
7'f

75
70
75
100
50
50
50
50
50
50
75
75
50
125
75
50
50
50
80
50
50
50
50
50
50
100

,,.

mo
2.00
lS' .00

10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

10.00
1.00
4.00
1.00
1.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
6.00
1.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
S'.00
5.00
3.00
10.00

10.00

Du"

Lodge

Mem·
bert

12 542
12 146
12 732
12 212
12 247
12 394
12 530
12 486
l l 164
12 190
12 316
lS' 117
12
46
12 742
12 759
12 476
18 737
12 310
12 195
12
,.,
12 241
12 122
12 644
12 107
12
70
12 951
12 248
12 467
12 736
12 375
12 742
12
76
12 416
12 176
50
12
12 106
12
87
12 205
12
57
12 S'81
12 702
12
66
12 198
12 1053
12 195
12
81
12
30
12 612
12 302
12
73
12 lll
18 423
12
91
84
12
12 230
12 116f

No.

57 Rose's Bar .................... 89
58 North Star ...................• 91
59 St. Helena -··········-······· 9 3
60 Henry Clay .............•...• 9S'
61 Hornitoa ········-···-······· 98
62 Y oaemite ...................... 99
63 Clay ·-···························10.l
64 Oroville ......................•. 103
6S' Lexington •................... 104
66 Arcata ···············-·········106
67 Pajaro .......................... 110
68 Chico ·······-····............... 111
69 Summit •.....................-112
70 Eden ·-···············-··········113
71 Concord ·-··············..··-117
72 Fidelity _....................- .•120
73 Alamo -·--····-·-··········-122
74 Sotoyome ••............. ~ .....123
75 Table Mountain ...•..•.••124
76 La Fayette -·················-126
77 Hermann ·-················ ... 127
78 Visalia .......- ...............•. 128
79 Nicolaus ..••..................•. 129
80 Woodbridge ··-············131
81 Sincerity ~...................._. l 32
82 Vacaville ......................134
83 Valley ......................._.13f
84 Pacific ................·-·······-136
85 Crockett ........................139
86 Curtis .............- ............. 140
87 Grafton ·-····-····--··-......141
88 Franklin ·············-···---143
89 Oriental ···················-···144
90 Vitruviua ...................... l4f
91 Abell ............................146
92 Eel River .................- ... 147
93 Lassen ..........................149
94 Molino .......- ...•............. 150
9S' Woodland ..................•• 156
96 Keystone .................- ... 161
97 Harmony .............•........ 164
98 Excelsior .:.................... 166
99 Alameda ·-···-················167
100 Redwood City ·······-·····168
101 MiS1Jion ·-················-...... 169
102 Elk Grove ·-···..······---173
103 Drytown ........................174
104 Antioch ........................175
105 Phoenix -··-··········---178
106 Mendocino ·········-··-...... 179
107 Petaluma ...................... 180
108 Russian River ...............•181
109 Arbuckle ·-··········-·······182
110 Clear Lake .................... 183
111 Sierra Valley ...........•••.•184
ll2 Claiborne ..............•....... 18f
113 Evening Star ·-·············186
114 Keith ...........- ............... 187
11 f Oakland .........- .•, ..........188

location

Charter
l11ued

Feea

Smartville .............. 18 56
Fort Jones .............. 1856
St. Helena .............. 1856
Sutter Creek .......... 1856
Hornitos ................ 1856
Merced .................. 1856
Dutch Flat .............. 1856
Oroville .................. 1856
El Monte ................ 1856
Arcata .................... 1857
Watsonville ............ 1857
Chico ...................... 1857
Knight's Ferry ·-····· 1857
San Leandro •......... 1857
Sacramento
1857
San Francisco ........ 1858
Walnut Creek ........ 1858
Healdsburg ............ 1858
Paradise .................. 1858
Sebastopol .............. 18 58
San Francisco ........ 1858
Visalia .................... 1859
Wheatland ·······-··· 1859
Woodbridge .......... 1859
Greenville .............. 1859
Vacaville ................ 1859
Linden .................... 1860
San Francisco ........ 1860
San Francisco ........ 1860
Cloverdale .............. 1860
Knights Landing .... 1860
Courtland .............. 1861
San Francisco ........ 1861
Bloomfield .............. 1861
Ukiah ·······-··········· 1861
Fortuna .................. 1861
Susanville .............. 1862
Tehama .................. 1862
Woodland .............. 1863
Milton .................... 1863
Sierra City •............. 1864
San Francisco ........ 1864
Centerville .............. 186-4
Redwood City ....•... 1864
San Francisco ........ 1864
Elk Grove .............. 1865
Plymouth .......•...... 1865
Antioch .•......•.......•. 186 5
San Bernardin.o ...... 1866
Mendocino ............ 1866
Petaluma ................ 1866
Windsor ................ 1866
Arbuckle ................ 1867
Lower Lake ............ 1867
Sierra.ville ............•• 1867
Point Arena .......... 1867
Etna Milla .............. 1867
Gilroy .................... 1868
Oakland ....·-········· 1868

50
50
50

Aflll.

fHa

5.00
5.00

Dues

Mem·
bert

12
36
12
64
1.00 lS' 122
60
12
79
50 10.00 12
94
50
12 435
50
12
9l
50
5.00 12 324
100
1.00 · 12 506
50
12 257
75
15 361
75 10.00 12 441
50
5.00 12
47
75
12 393
75 10.00 12 350
100 15.00 15 559
75
12 374
75
5.00 15 18l
80
1.00 12 161
50
12 210
75 10.00 12 211
75
15 533
50
5.00 12 106
50
12 173
100
5.00 12
93
50
12 201
50 12.00 12
91
100 20.00 12 606
7 5 25 .00 lS' 591
50
5.00 12
72
50
5.00 12 101
75
5.00 18 131
100 25 .00 lS' 387
50
1.00 12 122
50
12 272
50
12 224
60
12 222
50
1.00 12 169
50
12 266
50
2. 50 12
26
50
5.00 12
19
75 20.00 12 519
50
f.00 12 162
100
1.00 18 54l
100 50.00 12 711
50 10.00 12 146
50
5.00 12
43
50
5.00 12 313
75
5.00 12 648
50
5.00 12 12f
80
12 336
75
5.00 12 114
50
1.00 12
82
50 10.00 12
62
fO
12
39
50
5.00 12
59
50
12
50
50
2.00 12 179
7f
1.00 12 947

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

418

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
Lodt,1•

No.

116 Northern Light ......•.•... 190
117 Marin ············-··············191
118 Santa Barbara ·····-·······192
119 Ferndale •.••••.•....••.•......••193
120 Mountain View •..•...•...• 194
121 Buckeye ...•........••...••....•19f
122 San Simeon ••........••.•.••• 196
123 Wilmington ·······-····-···198
124 Hartley ···············-·······199
12S' Truckee ••............•.......•. 200
126 Silveyville ··- ················201
127 Pentalpha ·················-·-202
128 Confidence .......••........... 203
129 Salinas ···········--···-·····204
130 Olivet •...........•••..•.•.......•20f
131 Stanislaus .....•...••.••.....•••206
132 Anaheim ·············-··-···207
133 Rio Vista ....•.................208
134 King David's ··-···········209
1H Friendship ·······-···········210
136 San Benito .......••...••...•.. 211
137 So. San Francisco •....•.. 212
138 San Buenaventuro ........214
139 Oak Grove •..•••............•.215
140 Doric ·············-·············216
141 Monterey ·······-·············217
142 Mosaic ···················-·····218
143 Speranza Italiana •.........219
144 Downey .•....•..•...•...•.....•220
14S' Inyo .....••••..••...•••.....••..•.221
146 Roseville ···········- ·········222
147 Bakersfield ••.......•••..•.•..•224
148 Brooklyn •.•..•...•....•...•.••22f
149 San Mateo .....•............•.226
150 Athens ••.......................•228
1 n Solano •....•...•....••••..•....• 229
1 "2 North Butte ·······-·········230
153 Covelo ..•..........•........•... 231
1f4 Janesville ·············-·······23 2
l f '1 Calistoga ··············-······23 3
l f6 Hope •..•.••...•....•...•••••••••234
1 S'7 Surprise Valley ••........•• 235
1S'8 Hill's Ferry ···············- ·236
1 S'9 Guadalupe ···············-···237
160 Colusa ·················- ·······240
161 Santa Ana •.••..•...•.....•.•. 241
162 Magnolia ······-··············242
163 Eucalyptus •..............•.••. 243
164 Alcatraz ·············-·········244
16S' Laurel .•............•.•.....•••••• 24f
166 Pomona ••........•••......•..••246
16'7 Fresno •.••.........•.....••..... 247
168 Alturas ...••...•....•..•.•....••.148
169 Adin ·············-···············250
170 Landmark ............•......... 2 "3
171 Reading ·····-·················2"4
172 Welcome •........•............2"5
173 Lodi •...•..•.......•••..•••.•.••••2f6
17 4 Penrhyn ·········-··-····--··2'8

Location

Charter
luued

Fffl

Allll.

Fff1

Mem·
Du• i....

89
Millville ...•.........•.... 1868
50
S' .00 12
San Rafael .............. 1868
100 10.00 1 S' H7
Santa Barbara ........ 1868
'7 5
1 S' 334
Ferndale ................ 1869
50
12 105
Mountain View .•.... 1869
'7 5
12 331
Winters •................. 1869
75
S' .00 12 138
50
12 110
Cambria .•................ 1869
Wilmington ............ 1869
80
12 HS'
Lak~port .........•...... 1869
50
3.00 12 236
Truckee ••...............• 1869
60
S'.00 12 102
Dixon ·············-····· 1869
60
S'.00 12 147 .
100 20.00 12 H4
Los Angeles .........• 1869
48
Castroville ...•....•..... 1869
7 '1
12
Salinas ......•............• 1869
75
12 503
Corning •.........•.•..... 1870
50
12 107
Modesto .........•...... 1870
75
12 590
Anaheim .......•........ 1870
50
1.00 12 409
Rio Vista ....•........... 1870
75
12 149
San Luis Obispo •... 1870
80
1.00 12 412
San Jose ·-············· 18'71
75
S'.00 12 705
50
1.00 12 153
Hollister ..........•.•... 1871
San Francisco ······- 1871
75 10.00 12 258
Ventura .................• 1871
75
12 390
Alameda ................ 1871
75
1.00 12 637
San Francisco ........ 1871
100 10.00 12 no
Monterey ................ 1871
75
15 254
Livermore .............. 1872
50 10.00 12 177
San Francisco ........ 1872
l 00
12 322
Downey .•...•...••....... 1872
100
12 509
50
S' .00 12 161
Independence ........ 1872
Roseville ..•...•.•......• 1912
50
2. 50 12 331
Bakersfield ·-··········· 1873
100
12 768
East Oakland ........ 1873
75
12 600
San Mateo .•..•......... 1873
100
18 450
50
12 1S'7
Davis ...................... 1873
Vallejo .................. 18'73
75 10.00 12 590
Gridley ••............•... 1873
50
12 18S'
68
50
12
Covelo ......•...•.....•. 1874
75
1.00 12 132
Janesville ···-··········· 18'74
Calistoga ......•.•....... 187 4
50
'1 .00 12 111
50 10.00 12 128
Beckwourth .,•..•.....• 18'74
74
Cedarville ..........•..• 1874
50
1.00 12
Newman ................ 18'74
50 10.00 12 153
Santa Maria ............ 1874
7S' 10.00 12 146
50 10.00 12 152
Colusa ••................•. 187"
Santa Ana .............. 1876
75
1.00 12 577
Santa Barbara ........ 1876
7f
l S' 393
Hayward ................ 1876
50
12 438
West Oakland ........ 1877
75 10.00 12 639
50
S' .00 12 224
Willows ...••............. 1877
Pomona ·- ··············· 1877
50
2.00 12 393
80
3.00 12 651
Fresno ........•........... 1878
50
1.00 12 175
Alturas •....•.•....••...• 1878
97
Adin ...•.......•....•..... 1878
50
2.00 l S'
Esparto .................. 1879
50
1.00 12 108
50
S'.00 12 198
Redding ....••.........• 1879
Lemoore .•..•..........• 1879
7S'
12 192
371
Lodi ···················-··· 1879
50
12
Penrhyn •..•.•••......•• 1880
50
3.00 12 154

419

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
Lod9e

No.

175 Evergreen ...............•...•2f9
176 King Solomon's .........••. 260
177 Tuscan •.......•.............•••• 261
178 Lompoc ·············-·········262
179 Hesperian •.....•......••...••264
180 Orland .......••..........- .•• 26f
181 North East .................... 266
182 Galt .•.•..•..................•.••.267
183 Durant ....................•...•. 268
184 Olive Branch ...........••••. 269
185 Snow Mountain ·-·········271
186 Pasadena .....•••..........•...272
187 Anchor .•.................•.....•273
188 Arroyo ....................•..•••274
189 Oakdale .................•••••.. 27"
190 Selma .••....................•...• 277
191 Southern California ...... 278
192 Hanford ·······-··············-279
193 Madera ....................••..•• 280
194 Mount Shasta .........•••..281
195 Callayomi .....................• 282
196 South West •................. 283
197 San Miguel ...........•..•... 285
198 Paso Robles .........•.•.•.... 286
199 Winnedumah ·········-·····287
200 Maxwell •.••.................... 288
201 Elsinore ........................289
202 East Gate ..............•....... 290
203 Santa Paula .................. 291
204 Los Gatos ........•............. 292
205 Orange Grove •......•.....• 293
206 Traver ·-··········-···········294
207 Mt. Jackson ..•.....••.•...,..295
208 Silver Gate •..................•296
209 Dunsmuir ...................... 297
210 Liberty .......•........•........• 299
211 Redlands •...••........•...•...300
212 Ontario ·················-·····301
213 Santa Lucia •.........••......302
214 Porterville .....•..•...•.....•. 303
21 5 Reedley .•..............••....•. 304
216 Azusa ·····················- ·····30f
217 Ashlar .•..•............•••...... 306
218 Santa Monica ···-···········307
219 Monrovia •...........•......... 308
220 Delano ••.••.•••...•.•.••..••..••309
221 Sisson •..:....•..••••••••.••._•.• 310
222 Los Banos ················-··312
223 Tehachapi ....•......•.•••....313
224 Temescal ·················-···314
225 Norwalk •.•...................•. 3H
226 Sanger •••.•••.••.•......••..•.•. 316
227 Fallbrook •..........•..••...... 317
228 Emmanuel ······-············318
229 Hollenbeck ·············-···319
230 South Gate ·-·················320
231 Alisal ..............•........•••••321
232 Alhambra .................••••• 322
233 Whittier .••..•...••......•..•••• 323

Location

Charter
l11ued

Riverside ................ 1880
San Francisco ........ 1880
Williams ................ 1880
Lompoc .................. 1881
Santa M aria ............ 1882
Orland .................. 1882
Fort Bidwell .......... 1882
Galt ..........•............. 1883
Berkeley ................ 1883
Tulare .................... 1883
Stony Ford
1884
Pasadena .•.............. 1884
Compton .............•.. 1884
Arroyo Grande ...... 1884
Oakdale .................. 1884
Selma ...................... 1885
Los A ngeles .......... 1885
Hanford ................ 188'1
Madera .................. 1885
Anderson .............. 1886
Middletown
1887
National City ........ 1887
San Miguel ..•.•.....•. 1887
Paso Robles ............ 1887
Bishop ·-················· 1887
Maxwell ................ 1888
Elsinore ...........•...... 1888
Los Angeles
1888
Santa Paula ............ 1888
Los Gatos .............. 1888
Orange .................. 1889
Kingsburg .............. 1889
Guerneville ............ 1889
San Diego ...........•.. 1R89
Dunsmuir .............. 1889
Santa Clara ............ 1890
Redlands •............... 1890
Ontario •................. 1890
Kings' City ............ 1890
Porterville .............. 1890
Reedley ...........•...... 1891
A zusa ..•................. 1891
Colton .................... 1891
Santa Monica ·-····· 1891
Monrovia .............• 1891
Delano .................. 1892
Mount Shasta .•...... 1892
Los Banos .............. 1892
Tehachapi ·-·~········· 1892
Corona .................. 1893
Norwalk ................ 1893
Sanger .................... 1893
Fallbrook ................ 1893
Los A ngeles .......... 1894
Alhambra .............. 1894
Whittier •............... 1895
Los Angeles .......... 1894
Pleasanton •••........... 1894
Bigg1 ·-··················· 1893

Feaa

7S'
7'1
50
50
7S'
50
50
50
80
75
75
75
125
50
75
80
75
50
50
S'O
50
75
50
75
50
75
75
75
50
50
75
50
50
80
50
75
75
S'O
75
S'O
75
75
H
80
75
100
50
75
75
50
75
75
H
50
75
75
50
75
75

Aflil.
FH1

1S'.00

1.00
2.00
S'.00
S'.00
S'.00
1.00
6 .00
1.00
12.00
3.00
S'.00
1.00
10.00
3.00

10.00

1.00

10.00

2.00
1.00
2.00

S'.00
S'.00
10.00
25.00

Duaa

Mem·
bers

12 620
12 494
12
86
12 177
12 342
12 160
12
H
12
71
12 H3
lS' 294
12
39
12 H7
12 S'32
12 134
12 176
12 213
12 S'14
12 214
12 2'13
12
73
12
63
12 388
12
S'3
12 233
lS' 181
70
12
12 161
12 84S'
lS' 326
12 279
12 2H
12 153
12 136
12 1144
12 297
12 300
12 43 7
12 353
lS' lS'l
12 459
12 1S'4
12 239
12 263
12 386
lS' 293
12 232
12 112
12 147
12 197
12 210
12 241
12 30S'
12 123
12
82
12 10'73
12 662
12 131
12 644
12 645

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
Aflll.
Lod9•

No.

Location

Charter
laued

451

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

450

F-

Feu

Mem·
Duu bart

12 470
100
Pasadena ................ 189J
234 Corona ••.................•..•.•.324
12 245
50
Escondido .............• 1895
235' Consuelo ·-·-················325'
1.00 12 357
75
Needles .................. 1896
236 Needles ·······-···············326
100 25 .00 12 580
Long Beach ............ 1896
237 Long Beach ................•. 327
12 467
100
Redondo
................
1897
238 Redondo ...•.•..•..........•.• 328
12.00 12 130
100
Loa
Angeles
1897
239 Vallee de France .......... 329
12 238
125
Hilo, T. H •............ 1897
240 Kilauea ·····················--·330
12 245
75
Pacific Grove
1897
241 Pacific Grove ..............•. 3 31
80 25 .00 12 505
San Pedro .............. 1897
242 San Pedro ·-·················332
mo 12 82
53
Bridgeport ·-··········· 1897
243 Alta ..............•..........•.-.333
12 302
50
Covina .................... 1898
244 Covina ·······················-·334
15 1022
125
Loa Angeles ••...•.... 1899
245 West Gate ················-··335 · Oakland ..........•..... 1899
125 25.00 12 899
246 Fruitvale -··················-··336
12 194
50
Crockett •............... 1899
247 Carquinez ··············---·337
12
98
50
San
Jacinto
···-·······
1899
248 San Jacinto .................• 33 8
12 390
50
Fullerton
•.•.•.•...........
1900
249 Fullerton .................••..• 339
1.00 15 380
Oxnard •................• 19o'l
75
250 Oxnard •.......•..........•.•.••• 341
12 494
75
San
Fernando
•.........
1902
2n San Fernando ...........•.. 343
100 10.00 15 H2
San Francisco
1902
252 Starr King ·-·················344
12 132
50
Brentwood .............. 1902
253 Brentwood ............,....... HJ
5.00 12 680
100
Palo Alto ...........•.• 1902
2H Palo Alto ·-·-·········-- ·346
12 476
75
Richmond .............. 1902
2 H McKinley ····-················34'1
75 10.00 12 702
San Bernardino .....• 1902
256 San Bernardino ............ 348
1.00 12 1065
75
Oakland ................ 1902
2 57 Sequoia ........•.............••349
100 10.00 12 602
Los Angeles .......... 1903
258 Palestine ........•............••.3Jl
15 401
75
Los Angeles .......•.. 1903
259 Sunset ·-················-·····3 J2 Pinole ·············-····· 1903
75 25 .00 12 182
260 Pinole ..•......................•.. 3"3
100 20 .00 12 540
San Francisco ........ 1903
261 Presidio •....................... 3H
100 10.00 12 1160
Hollywood
............
1903
262 Hollywood ..................•.3H
15 418
80
Mill
Valley
••...•........
1903
263 Mill Valley .................... 3"6
12 210
30
Buena
Park
............
1903
264 Buena Park .................. 3"7
12 854
75
Los
Angeles
..........
1904
265 Golden State ... :............ 358
12
97
50
Loyalton ................ 1904
266 Loyalton ·-·¥·-···············3 J9
12 316
100
San
Francisco
1904
267 San Francisco ..............•. 360
mo · 12 133
75
Fort Bragg .............. 1904
268 Port Bragg ·-·················361
12 146
50
Campbell
................
1904
269 Charity .........•.....•...•...-362
mo 12 660
75
Berkeley
................
1904
270 Berkeley .....................-.363
l.00 12 lH
50
Willits ·············-····· 1905
271 Willits ·······················-·36J
mo 12 9H
80
Fresno .............•..•... 1905
272 Las Palmas ·············-·····366
75 10.00 12 584
South Pasadena ...... 190J
273 South Pasadena •........... 367
12 597
100
Glendale ••.............. 1905
274 Unity ...........•...••...•....... 368
12 489
80
Ocean Park ............ 1905
275 Ocean Park .................. 369
100 25.00 15 473
San Francisco .......• 1905
276 Amity ·············-·············3'10
125 10.00 12 6H
Gardena .........•...... 1906
277 Le Progres de l'Oceanie 371
mo 12 303
80
San Francisco ........ 1906
278 Gardena ·······-·······-··-372
3.00 12 395
75
Honolulu,
T.
H
.•...
190f
279 West Los Angeles ......•. 373
100 10.00 12 183
Loa Angeles .......... 1906
280 Jewel ······--··-····- ·······374
100 25.00 12 H4
Francisco
1906
San
281 Richmond ...............•.... 37'
5.00 12 322
100
Francisco
..
1906
So.
San
282 Francis Drake ..............376
12 163
50
Artesia ...........•.....•.. 1906
283 Artesia ··············-··········377
100 25 .00 12 44f
Los
Angeles
......•...
1906
284 Mizpah •.....................•.•. 378
l.00 15 232
50
Fillmore .................. 1906
28 5 Fillmore ...................•.... 3 79
12 311
50
Huntington Beach .. 1906
286 Huntington Beach ......•. 380
5.00 12 317
75
Oceanside .............. 1906
287 Oceanside ·-·····-···-·····381
12 605
75
Loa Angeles .......... 1907
. 288 Highland Park ..........•..•382
15 135
50
Orosi ....•.•..............• 1907
289 Orosi -···-·····-··············383
12 384
75
El Centro .............. 1907
12 281
290 El Centrl) ·- ···················384
50
Dinuba
..................
1907
291 Dinuba .•.....................-.387
·12 362
100
Coalinga •.••7 ........- 1907
292 Coalinga ··············-········387

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
Lod9e

No.

293 Parnassus ·-···················388
294 Palos Verdes .............•.. 389
295 Imperial ........................ 390
296 East Belt ·············---·····391
297 West Lake .................... 392
298 Balder .......................... 393
299 University .................... 394
300 Turlock ·-·····················397
301 Apollo ···················-·····396
302 Rising Light .................. 397
303 Fraternity ·············-·······399
304 Burlingame .................. 400
305 Bay View .......- ...............401
306 Brawley ........................402
307 Y erba Buena ................403
308 Glendora ... _................. 404
309 Moneta ·············-·········40f
310 Burbank ........................ 406
311 La Mesa •......•............... .407
31 2 Sierra Madre ............... .408
313 Honolulu ..................... .409
314 Charter Rock ................ 410
315 Perris ............................ 411
316 Calexico ........................ 412
317 Arlington ...................... 41'4
318 Silver Trowel ................ 415
319 Lindsay ........................ 416
3 20 Clovis ............................ 417
321 Elysian ·············-···········418
322 Upland •..................,..-... 419
323 Kerman ........................420
324 Inglewood ...............•.... 421
325 Eagle Rock .................. 422
326 York ·····-·····················423
327 Exeter ·······- ·················424
328 Holtville ....... : ............. 425
329 Midway ........................ 426
330 Chino Valley ................ 427
3 31 San Dimas •................... 428
332 Pittsburg ...................... 429
3 3 3 McCloud ............•......... 430
3 34 Alpha ·-····················-···431
335 Hammonton ·······-·······433
336 Maricopa ......................434
337 Fairmount .................... 435
338 Claremone .................... 436
3 39 Lancaster •.......•.........•...437
340 Acacia ·-······················.438
341 Tyrian .......................... 439
342 Standard ......................440
343 Coronado ...................••. 44J
344 Blackmer ...................... 442
34f Schofield ...................... 443
346 Carpinteria ................. .444
347 Wilshire ·············-·········44f
348 La Puente .................•..446
349 Torrance .................•...• 44'7
3 50 ¥t· Diablo ·············-·····-«&

Locetlon

Charter
IHued

San Francisco ........ 1907
Long Beach ............ 1907
Imperial ................ 1908
Tuolumne ·-··········· 1908
Los Angeles .......... 1908
San Francisco ......•• 1908
Los Angeles ........ :. 1908
Turlock .................. 1908
Alameda .............•.. 1908
Huntington Park.. 1908
San Jose ................ 1908
Burlingame ............ 1908
Oakland ................ 1909
Brawley .................. 1909
Oakland ................ 1909
Glendora ................ 1909
Los Angeles .......... 1909
Burbank ................ 1909
La Mesa ·-··············· 1910
Sierra Madre .......... 1910
Honolulu, T. H ..... 1910
Berkeley ................ 1910
Perris .................... 1910
Calexico ................ 1910
Los Angeles ............ 191 O
Los Angeles ............ 1910
Lindsay .................. 1910
Clovis .................... 1910
Los Angeles .......... 1910
Upland .................. 1911
Kerman .................. 1911
Inglewood .............. 1911
Eagle Rock ............ 1911
Los Angeles ............ 1912
Exeter .................... 1912
Holtville ................ 1912
Taft ........................ 1912
Chino ·-················· 1912
San Dimas .............. 1912
Pittsburg ................ 1912
McCloud ................ 1912
Richmond .............. 1912
Hammonton .......... 1913
Maricopa ................ 1913
San Francisco ........ 1913
Claremont .............. 1913
Lancaster ................ 1913
Los Angeles .......... 1913
Manteca ................ 1913
Oakland ................ 1914
Coronado .............. 1914
San Diego .............. 1914
Schofield
Barracks, T. H ... 1914
Carpinteria ............ 1914
Los Angeles ·'-'······· 1914
~uente .................... 1914
orrance ................ 1914
Concord ................ 1914

Fffl

100
125
75
50
100
100
100
80
75
100
100
100
75
75
80
50
105
100
100
75
125
75
50
50
75
75
50
75
75
50
75
125
100
75
50
75
50
50
H
75
50
75
50
50
100
50
60
75
50
75
75
80
100
50
125
50
80
7f

Affil.
M•m·
F... Dues bara

10.00
10.00
5.00
50.00
20.00
10.00
l.00
5.00
5.00
25 .00
5.00
3.00
10.00
5.00
3.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
3.00
25.00
25.00

l.00

6.00
10.00

5.00
25 .00
l.00

12 725
12 718
12 122
12
89
12 952
12 492
12 619
15 352
12 457
12 986
12 449
18 623
12 598
15 206
15 839
12 142
12 736
12 621
12 475
12 141
12 367
12 368
12 148
12 165
12 369
12 395
18 217
12 390
12 466
12 194
12
97
12 668
12 481
12 329
12 206
12 137
12 480
12 127
12 164
12 267
12 108
12 498
12
59
12 179
12 489
12 112
12 244
58
12
12 159
15 353
12 360
12 1189
12
12
12
12
15
12

2H
111
544
151
368
285

452

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
lodc;ie

No.

351 Park ..............................449
352 Van Nuys ....................45'0
353 Montebello .......- .........451
354 San Pasqual ..................452
3H Bethlehem ....................453
356 Crocker ........................4H
357 Golden West ................45'5'
3)1\ Ramona ........................457
H9 Henry S. Or!I)e............458
360 Riverbank ........... _..•....4S'9
361 Mount Oso ..................460
362 Argonaut ......................461
363 Paul Revere .............- ...462
364 Morgan Hill ................463
365 Alta Vista ....................464
366 Center .....................- ...465
367 Libertas ........................466
368 Culver City ..................467
369 Rockridge ....................468
370 Yorba Linda ................469
371 Lincoln ..........................470
372 Delta ............................471
373 Maui ............................472
374 Blythe ...................- ....... 473
375 Victory ........................474
376 America .............- .........475
377 Coachella ......................476
378 Temblor ........................477
379 Thousand Oaks ............478
380 Golden Rule ................479
381 Fellowship ....................480
382 Mt. Davidson ..............481
383 Clarence F. Smith ........482
384 Bell ._.............................483
385 Albert Pike .................. 484
386 Chowchilla .............- .....48'.J
387 Caledonia ..................... .486
388 Vallejo ..........................487
389 Patterson ......................488
39.0 East Bay ........................489
391 Corcoran ......................490
392 Woodstock ....................491
393 Garvanza ......................492
394 Atascadero ....................493
39S' Acorn ............................494
396 Lebanon ·-·············----····49'.J
397 Fremont ........................497
398 Stockton ........................498
399 Capital City ..................499
400 Roosevelt ...................... S'OO
401 Westwood ....................501
402 Harbor .................,........ 502
403 Point ............................ 503
404 Seaside .........................504
405 Silver Cord .................. 'J05
406 Mount Olive ................ 506
.407 El Segundo .................. 507
408 Joppa ............................ ms
409 Benjamin Franklin .......509

location

Charter
IHued

San Francisco
1914
Van Nuys .............. 1914
Montebello ............ 1914
Pasadena ................ 1914
San Francisco ........ 191 5
Daly City ··--·-·--···· 19 lS'
San Francisco ........ 19 lS'
Monterey Park ...... 1915
Los Angeles .......... 1915
Riverbank
19 lS'
Tracy ...................... 1916
San Francisco ........ 1916
San Francisco
1916
Morgan Hill .......... 1916
San Francisco ........ 1916
Fresno .................... 1916
Bakersfield .............. 191 7
Culver City ............ 1917
Oakland ................ 1917
Yorba Linda .......... 1918
San Francisco ........ 1918
Stockton ................ 1918
Kahului, T. H ......... 1918
Blythe .................... 1919
San Francisco ........ 1919
1920
Los Angeles
Coachella ................ 1920
Fellows .................. 1920
Berkeley ................ 1920
San Jose .................. 1920
Oakland ................ 1920
San Francisco
1920
Los Angeles .......... 1920
Bell ........................ 1920
Los Angeles .......... 1920
Chowchilla
1920
Bakersfield .............. 1920
Vallejo .................. 1920
Patterson ................ 1920
South Berkeley ...... 1920
Corcoran ................ 1920
Alameda ................ 1920
Los Angeles .......... 1920
Atascadero ............ 1920
Oakland ................ 1920
San Francisco ........ 192 I
Oakland ................ 1921
Stockton ................ 1921
192I
Sacramento
San Francisco ·---·-- 1921
Westwood .............. 1921
Richmond .............. 1921
Richmond .............. I921
Long Beach ............ 192 I
Santa Ana .............. 1921
Los Angel~ ............ 1921
El Segundo ............ 1921
San Joaquin
192I
Los Angeles
1911

Fae1

75
80
100
75
IOO
75
75
7S'
7S'
50
80
80
100

10.00
I0.00
10.00

50

6.00
10.00
10.00
1.00

75
80
100
100
125

10.00

S'O

100
80
85
75
IOO
7S'
75

10.00

mo

25.00

50

75
75
75
100
7S'
75
75
100
IOO
75

rn

75
75

n

5.00
1.00
I0.00

S'.00
10.00
2.00
I0.00

i.oo

75
75
80
100
100
80
75
75

10.00
S'.00

75
75
100
75
I25

1.00
25.00

50

5.00

I0.00
10.00
10.00

rn lo.oo

rn

100

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued

Affil.
Mam·
Fa.. Due1 ber1

10.00

i53

12
12
12
I2
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
18
12
12

491
642
S'33
460
306
392
573
4S'8
672
139
291
427
576
141
15 . 278
12 491
12 560
lS' 321
12 468
12 144
If 343
I2 474
12 251
12 I 25
18 288
12 506
12 182
15 11'2
15 476
I 2 584
12 326
I8 395
15 37I
I 2 595
12 254
12 I43
12 466
12 388
I2 107
12 392
I2 116
I2 390
12 290
12 lOI
12 574
15 384
12 499
12 186
12 440
12 I97
I2 274
12 HI
12 250
12 497
I 2 469
I2 IOI9
12 306
78
I2
12 348

lodc;ie

No.

location

Charter
l11uad

F..1

Affll.

Fee1

DueJ

MemberJ

4IO Cupertino ...................... 510
Cupertino .............. I 92 I
75
I 2 160
411 Sunnyvale .................... 511
Sunnyvale .............. I92I
75
5.00 I2 313
412 Palms ............................ 512
Palms ...................... I 92 I
I 25
l 2 429
413 Cahuenga ...................... 513
LosAngeles ............ 192I . 100
5.00 12 535'
414 Argonne ........................ 714
San Francisco ........ I 922
I 00
5.00 I 2 384
415 Vermont Square .......... HS'
75
12 '515
Los Angeles .......... 1922
416 Taft .............................. 516
Taft ........................ I 922
rn
I 2 302
4I 7 Mount Vernon ............ 517
San Francisco ........ I 922
80 l 0.00 1 5 226
418 La Jolla .......................... 518
La Jolla .................. 1922
80
12 264
419 Euclid .......................... 519
Los Angeles .......... I922
75
I2 39I
420 Ionic .............................520
Los Angeles .......... I922
I2S'
1.00 15 740
421 Piedmont ...................... 521
Piedmont ................ I 92 2
80
5.00 I 2 290
422 Sunrise .......................... 522
Los Angeles .......... I922
IOO
I2 320
423 Bellflower ...................... 523
Bellflower .............. I 922
75
I 2 368
424 Catalina Island ............ 524
IOO
15 I46
Avalon .................. 1922
425 George Washington .... 52f
100 I0.00 12 47I
San Francisco ........ I922
426 Bay City ........................ 526
San Francisco ........ I922
100
I 5 355'
427 Covenant ...................... 527
Los Angeles .......... I922
100
I2 334
428 Beverly Hills ................ 528
Beverly Hills .......... I922
75
5.00 I2 463
429 Loyalty .......................... 529
Los Angeles .......... I 922
125
I 2 448
430 Sun Garden .................. 530
80
I 2 5'12
Fresno .................... I 922
431 Alexandria .................... BI
San Francisco ........ I 922
75
5.00 I 2 I62
432 Smyrna ........................ 532
70
I2 I03
Ceres ...................... I922
433 Azure ............................ 533
Fullerton ................ 192 2
rn
I 2 236
434 Forest Hill .................... 534
San Francisco ........ I 922
80 10.00 I 5 167
435 Alexander Hamilton .... S'3 5 Los Angeles .......... I922
75
1.00 I2 233
436 Seal Rock ...................... 536
San Francisco ........ I922
IOO 10.00 I2 190
437 Utopia .......................... 537
Los Angeles .......... 1922
IOO
I2 699
438 Ascot ............................ 538 Los Angeles .......... 1922
IOO
12 336
439 Belvedere ...................... 539 Monterey Park ...... I922
75
I2 223
440 Queen Beach ................ HO
Long Beach ............ 1923
80
12 181
441 Henry Morse Stephens 54I
75
5 .00 I 2 331
Berkeley ................ I 923
442 North Hollywood ........ 542
North Hollywood .. 1923
125
S'.00 I2 671
443 Signal ............................ 543
Long Beach ............ I 923
IOO
I 2 474
444 Glendale ........................ 544
IOO
I2 643
Glendale ................ I923
445 Jonathan ...................... f4f
San Francisco ........ I923
IOO
S'.00 I2 I92
446 San Gabriel .................. 546
San Gabriel ............ I923
7'J
I2 384
447 Arcadia ........................ 547
Arcadia .................. I923
7S'
I2 33I
448 Triangle ........................ f48
Venice .................... I 923
7S'
I 5 241
449 Justice .......................... '49
IOO I0.00 15 360
San Francisco ........ I 923
450 Seaport ·-················------·HO San Francisco ........ 1923
100 25'.00 I8 236
451 Lakeshore ...................... 5S'I
Oakland ................ 1923
IOO
S'.00 I2 270
452 Semper Virens .............. ff2
Eureka .................... I 923
'5Q
I 2 247
4S'3 Educator ...................... 5 S' 4
San Francisco ........ 1923
80
5 .00 12 366
4H White Pine .................. ff5
Weed .................... 1923
H
2.00 12 IOO
4H Fairfax .......................... H6
San Anselmo .......... I 923
100
I 2 322
456 Hermosa ...................... ff7
Hermosa Beach ...... I 923
7 S'
I 2 303
457 Point Firmin ·-······---.... f58
San Pedro .............. I923
80
I2 357
458 Craftsmen .................... H9 Los Angeles .......... I923
IOO
I2 426
459 Plymouth ...................... 560 Oakland ................ 1923
75
S' .00 12 366
460 East San Diego ............S'6I
7S'
I2 689
East San Diego ...... I923
46I Pyramid ........................ 562
San Francisco ........ I 923
90 10.00 I 2 282
462, South Park · .................. 563
IOO 25.00 I2 4I2
Los Angeles .......... I923
463 Foothill ........................ 564
Oakland ................ 1923
80
S'.00 12 656
464 West Adams ................ 565
Lo$ Angeles .......... I 923
l 00
IS' 30S'
465 James A. Garfield ........ 566
Los Angeles .......... 1923
100 30.00 lS' 224
466 Searchlight .................. 567
Long Beach ............ I 923
80
I 2 469
467 Park Boulevard ............ 568
7'J
12 399
Oakland ................ I923
468 Chateau Thierry .......... S'69
Oakland ................ I923
75
S'.00 I2 344

454

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
Lodv•

No.

469 Military Service ............ 570
470 Francis K. Shattuck ...... ,.71
471 James Madison ...........•..572
472 Hillcrest ........................ 'f73
473 S. W. Hackett .............. 5'74
474 Fort Crook ·······-········-·"7"
475 El Cajon Valley •.....•...-"76
476 Sunnyside .................... 'f77
477 Progressive ··-···--···--····578
478 Warren G. Harding...... 'f79
479 Santa Maria .................. 580
480 Security ........................ ,.81
481 Rialto ······-···········-·······5'82
482 Wasco -·······················"83
483 Harding .•...................... '$84
484 Manchester ..................,.8,.
485 Garden Grove .............. 786
486 Valley Forge ................ 'f87
487 El Sereno ·················-··· f88
488 Yauai ............................ ,.89
489 Compass ........................ ,.90
490 Escalon •.......................591
491 Tujunga .•...................... ,.92
492 All States ···············-·····"93
493 Service .......................... '$94
494 Alexander Graham Bell 'f9 f
49 'f Guardian ...................... '$96
496 Pearl Harbor ..............•. '$98
497 Carmelita ......................,.99
498 Lynwood ......................600
499 Griuly ·······-·················601
500 Melrose ,_.....................602
501 Dimond ........................603
502 Jubilee ..........................604
503 Glassell Park ..............-605'
504 Sojourner .............,........ ~07
505 Granada ···············-·······M8
506 Provident ......................609
507 Elmhurst ......................610
508 Canoga •••..................•..-611
509 Temple City ................-612
HO Three Pillars ................613
511 Larchmont ·······-··········-614
512 Hemet ..........................6H
513 R. E. Dolley ..................616
514 Big Bear ........................617
H 'f Southland •.....................618
516 Neptune ........................619
517 Point Loma ·······-······---620
518 The Gardens ................621
'f 19 Atwater ......................-622
520 Menorah ......................623
521 Fortitude ......................624
522 Angeles Mesa ................62"
523 Chula Vista ..................626
524 Lamanda Park ·-···········627
'f2 5 Truth ............................628
526 Fairview ................•...•...629
'J27 Ingleside ......................630

Location

Charter

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued

Fees Duea bera
Affll.
Mem-

l11ued

San Francisco ........ 1923
Berkeley ................ 1923
Los Angeles .......... 1923
Berkeley ................ 1923
San Diego .............. 1923
Fall River Mills...... 1923
El Cajon ................ 1923
Los Angeles
1923
Los · Angeles .......... 1923
North Sacramento.. 1924
Ramona .................. 1924
Bakersfield .............. 1924
Rialto .................... 1924
Wasco .................... 1924
Los Angeles .......... 1924
Los Angeles .......... 1924
Garden Grove ........ 1924
Los Angeles .......... 1924
Los Angeles .......... 1924
Lihue, T. H . .......... 1924
Pomona .................. 1924
Escalon .................. 1924
Tujunga ................ 1924
Long Beach ............ 1924
Long Beach ............ 1924
Los Angeles
1924
South Gate ............ 1924
Honolulu, T. H. .... 1924
Pasadena ................ 1924
Lynwood ................ 192 'f
Portola .................. 192 5
Los Angeles .......... 192 'f
Oakland ................ 192 5
Santa Ana .............. 192 'f
Los Angeles
192 5
Monrovia ................ 192 'f
Alhambra .............. 192'$
Sacramento ............ 192 'f
Oakland ................ 192 5
Canoga Park .......... 192 5
Temple .................. 192f
Sacramento ............ 192f
Los Angeles
192 'f
Hemet .................... 192'$
Seal Beach
l 9H
Big Bear Lake ........ 192 'f
Los Angeles .......... 192 'f
Long Beach ............ 192 'f
San Diego .............. 192'$
Los Angeles .......... 192 'f
Los Angeles .......... 1925
Los Angeles .......... 192 'f
Oakland ................ 192 'f
Los Angeles
1825
Chula Vista ............ 192 'f
Pasadena ................ 192'$
Los Angeles .......... 1924
Los Angeles .......... 1926
San Francisco ·-····· 1926

455

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

100
7'f
7'f
75
80
7'J
7'f
12'$
7'J
7'J
80
100
7'J
80
7'J
l 2'J
50
100
7'J
7'J
70
50
7'J
100
7'J
7'f
100
HO
7'J
12'J
50
7'f
100
7'J

10.00

12

'f.00

12

12
12
'J.00

20.00
l'J.00

5.00
5.00

20.00
2'J.OO
12.50
10.00
2.00

'f.00

l'J.00
10.00
10.00
'J .00

1.00

7'J

7'J
7'J
7'J
100
50
7'J
7'f
100
50
7'f
7'f
100
90
7'J
7'J

75
12'J
7'f
100
7'J
7'f
76
80
7'f

10.00
10.00
1.00
10.00
'J.00

'J.00

mo
5.00

12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12

12
12
12
12
12

12
12
12
12
12
12
12
l 'f

12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
18
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12

1.00
1.00
3.00

12
12
1'J
12

12

339
264
3H
70
'J39
1'Jl
232
465
482
46'J
111
376
135
276
245
353
188
366
404
126
236
125
237
'J33
692
269
7'J9
H3
308
H3
143
230
277
321
402
196
693
380
227
217
337
373
387
14'J
202
144
296
251
486
403
359
738
195
'J99
347
234
244
260
173 .

Lod;e

No.
Location

Charter
l11ued

Feea

Affll.
Feea

Daes

Mem·
bera

528 Benevolence ..................631
Los Angeles
1926
100
1'J 273
J29 Normal Heights ..........632
San Diego .............. 1926
12 '$64
80
no Poinsettia ·-··---··:···----633 San Buenaventura •. 1926 75
12 H9
'J 31 Victorville ·-····-·······--634
Victorville .............. 1926
12 183
H
532 Riverside ·······-·····--·····-63,.
Riverside ................ 1926
7'f
12 HO
'J33 John Marshall ..............636
Beverly Hills .......... 1926
5.00 12 269
7'J
'J34 Palisades •.....•••...••........637
Santa Monica ........ 1926
80
12 371
'J3'f Indian Rock .......- .........638
Berkeley ................ 1926
7'f
5.00 1'J 198
'J36 Composite -··········-·····639 Los Angeles .......... 1926
12'$ 10.00 12 3'f7
'f37 Veritas -·······················640
San Francisco ........ 1926
100 l 'J.00 l'J 118
'J38 James A. Foshay ..........641
Los Angeles
1926
100
12 232
'J39 La Cumbre ....................642
Santa Barbara ........ 1926
7'J
12 228
HO Alta Loma ......••....•....••.643
Signal Hill ............ 1926
7'J
12 34'$
'J 41 Lomita .......................... 644
Torrance ...-........... 1926
80
12 239
'f42 A. F. E. Irwin .......- .....64,.
San Pedro .............. 1926
80
5.00 12 262
543 Metropolitan ·······-·······646 Los Angeles .......... 1926
7'J
12 122
544 Hawthorne ..................647
Hawthorne ............ 1926
7'J
'f.00 12 336
'J4'f Damascus ·············-·······648
San Bernardino ...... 1926
'J .00 12 5'13
7'J
'J 46 Florence •.......................649
Los Angeles ·····-··· 1927
125 25.00 12 452
547 La Brea ·········-········-···6f0 Los Angeles ·····-··· 1927
100 10.00 1'J 251
548 Menlo Park ..................671 Palo Alto .............. 1827
7'J
12 211
549 Crescenta Valley ..........6'J2
Montrose ................ 1927
7'J
12 3H
HO Fontana ·-·--·---··---·-----6"3
Fontana .................. 1927
H 10.00 12 260
Hl Jordan ··········--···-····-···6"4 Los Angeles .......... 1927
7'J
12 339
H2 Monte Vista ..................
Long Beach ............ 1927
7'J
12 H2
H3 Citro! ······················-···6"6
Brea ........................ 1927
50
1.00 12 168
'JH John D. Spreckela ........6,.7
San Diego .............. 1927
80
12 '$93
'J'J'J Livingston ....................6,.8
Livingston ................ 1927
50
l'J lH
H6 La Habra .................- ...6,.9
La Habra ................ 1927
50
12 166
H7 .. Baldwin Park .......- .......660
Baldwin Park ........ 1927
50
12 141
5'J8 Malta .......- ......... - ........661
Los Angeles .......... 1928
75
12 221
H9 Henry Knox ................662
L~s. Angeles .......... 1928
12'J 2'J .OO 12 421
'J60 Ojai ..............................663
01ai ........................ 1928
'JO
1'J
96
'$61 Kaweah .........- .............66,. Woodlake
1928
50
12 107
'J62 Reseda ···················-·····666 Reseda .................... 1928
7'f
12 2'$2
'f63 Meridian ..•...................667
Glendale ...............• 1928
100
12 452
564 San Gorgonio ·-····-·····668
Banning ··--·········-··· 1928
'JO
1.00 12 211
'J6'f John P. Jarinan ............669
San Jose ................ 1928
7'f
'J .00 12 233
566 Greenleaf ......................670
Whittier ................ 1928
7'J
12 434
567 San Clemente ····-········671
San Clemente ........ 1928
7'f
12
67
'J68 Laguna Beach ..............672
Laguna Beach ........ 1929
7'f
1.00 12 l 7'f
'f69 Far West .............- .......673
San Francisco ........ 1929
75 10.00 12 306
570 Los Cerritos ..................674 Long Beach ............ 1929
12'f
l'f 291
571 Modesto ........................67f Modesto ................ 1929
7'f
12 403
'J72 Willow Glen ................676 Willow Glen .......... 1930
7'J
'J.00 12 266
'J73 Liberal Arts ..................677
Los Angeles .......... 1930
12'J
12 272
'J74 Altadena ......................678 Altadena •...........•... 1930
7'J
12 404
57'J Canby Cross .............- ... 679 Tulelake ................ 1935
50
1.00 12 122
'f76 Carmel ·-··········-·-·---680
Carmel .................... 193'$
75
3.00 12 146
577 Dos Palos ......................681
Dos Palos .............. 1939
50
12
99
'f78 Barstow ........................682
Barstow .................. 1940
H
10.00 12 241
579 Redwood Empire ........683
Garberville ............ 1940
50
1.00 12
76
'J80 Trona ............................684 Trona .................... 1941
7'J
12 129
'f81 San Marino ..................68'J
South Pasadena .... 1944
100 2'f.OO l'J 294
'$82 .Albany ..........................686 Albany .................. 194'$
7'f 10.00 12 162
'J83 Vista ..............................687 Vista ........................ 194'1
50
12 214
584 Oildale ..........................688
Bakersfield
1946
100
1'J 138
'f8'J Pohona ...................- ...689
Yosemite Valley .... 1946
50
12
'J9
'f86 San Carlos ....................690
Redwood City ........ 1946
100
18 184

6,.,.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

456

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
Lod9e

No.

rn7 Indian Wells Valley ....691
588 Travelers - ····················692
589 Palm Springs ................693
590 San Antonio -··············69-4
591 Meudell ........•.....•........•695
592 Crossroads ...•..............•.696
593 St. Elmo ···················-···697
594 Wm. D. Stephens ........698
595 Bixby Knolls ............., ..699
596 Ponderosa .................... 700
597 Santa Ynez Valley........701
598 Rosemead ......................702
599 Westchester ..................703
600 Orinda ···-·····················704
601 El Cerrito ....................70'1
602 Hunters Point Naval.... 706
603 Lake Tahoe .............•...•707
604 Seafaring ...................... 708
605 Lorenzo ........................ 709

Charter
Issued

Fees

Inyokern ................ · 1946
Sacramento ............. 1947
Palm Springs ........... 1947
Bell ................................ 1947
Bakersfield .............. 1948
San Diego .............. 1948
Oakland .................. 1948
Los Angeles............ 1948
Long Beach ............ 1949
Fresno ...................... 1949
Los Olivos .............. 1949
1949
R osemead
Los Angeles . ............. 1950
Orinda ...................... 1950
El Cerrito ........ ............. 1950
San Francisco ........ 1950
Bijou ...................... 1950
Costa Mesa ............ 1950
Hayward ···········-··· 1950

100
75
100
100
100
80
100
125
75
80
75
75
79
7'i
75
100
7'i
75
7'i

Location

Fee1

Affll.

mo

10.00
H .00

..........
10.00
10.00
1.00

EXTINCT LODGES

Dues

bera
Mem·

12
12

202
114
111
87
85
139

H

12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12

12
12
12
12

10.00
10.00
1.00

457

12
12
12
12

56
49
115
77
43
H

89
47
48
40
21
72

-45

Total membership, July 31 , 1950.................... 196,800

4
4
6
7
7
9
11
15

26
28
29
31
34
36
37
39
47
48
49
52
53
54
62
63
67
69
69
71
72
73
74
75
77

Berryman, Sacramento, 1850. Name changed to Jenninis.
Jennings, Sacramento. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
Sutter, Sacramento, 1850. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
Davy Crockett, San Francisco, 1850. Name changed to San i'rancisco
Aug. 18, 1852.
San Francisco, San Francisco, 1850. Charter revoked May 13, 1859.
Marysville, 1850. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 69 as Corinthian No.
9, Dec. 1874.
Willamette, Portland, Ore., 1850. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oreion,
Nov., 1851.
La Fayette, La Fayette, Ore., 1851. Tra.'lsferred to jurisdiction of Oregon,
Nov., 1851.
Nashville, Nashville. Dispensation granted Dec. 24, 1851. Charter never
issued.
Pacific, Valparaiso. Dispensation granted May 5, 1853. Charter never
issued.
Palmyra, Placerville, 1853. Name changed to El Dorado Oct. 10, 1929.
Columbia, Columbia, 1853. Consolidated w ith Tuolumne No. 8 and Mt.
Jefferson No. 107, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 15, 1891.
Diamond, Diamond Springs, 1853. Charter surrendered Oct. 18, 1873.
Mokelumne, Mokelumne Hill, 1853. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
Oct. 13, 1883.
Santa Clara, Santa Clara, 1853. Charter revoked Oct. 15, 1887.
Butte, Bidwell, 1854. Charter surrendered Sept. 3, 1864.
St. John's, Yreka, 1854. Consolidated with Howard No. 96, as Howard
No. 37, Dec. 8, 1924.
·
Yuba, Marysville, 1854. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 9, as Corinthian No. 9, June 16, 1916.
Michigan City, Michigan Bluff, 1854. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
Grass Valley, Grass Valley, 1854. Charter surrendered May 6, 1856.
Lebanon, San Francisco, 1854. Charter revoked June 29, 1857.
Rough and Ready, Rough and Ready, 1854. Charter surrendered Nov.
1864.
Franklin, Sacramento, 1854. Charter surrendered May 10, 1856.
Saint James, Jamestown, 1855. Charter surrendered Feb. 20, 1875.
George Washington, Chinese Camp, 1856. Consolidated with Tuolumn e
No. 8, Sept. 15, 1919.
Iowa Hill, Iowa Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Oct. 29, 1857.
Minnesota, Minnesota, 1855. Charter surrendered May 14, 1859.
Ind. Royal Arch, Marysville, 1855. Name changed to Corinthian No. 69,
May 2, 1855.
Corinthian, Marysville, 1855. Consolidated with Marysville No. 9, as
Corinthian No. 9, Dec., 1874.
Nebraska, Michigan Bar, 1855. Consolidated with lone No. 80, Oct. 15,
1887.
E. K . Kane, Nevada, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 1, 1858.
Tyro, Drytown, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 27, 1859.
Franklin, Meadow Valley. Dispensation granted 18157. Charter never
issued.
Wisconsin Hill, Wisconsin Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Aug. 29, 1857.
Mountain Forest, Eureka North, 1855. Charter surrendered May, 1870.
Petaluma, Petaluma, 1855. Consolidated with Arcturas No. 180, as Petaluma No. 180, Dec., 1898.
·

458

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued
82 Mountain, Don Pedro's Bar, 1856. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
83 Rising Star, Forest Hill, 1856. Consolidated with Eureka No: 16, Sept. 2,
1919.
85 Indian Diggings, Indian Diggings, 1856. Consolidated with St. Mark's ·
No. 115, as St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
85 St. Mark's Fiddletown, 1857. Charter revoked June 26, 1894.
86 Saint Louis, Howland's Flat, 1856. Consolidated with Gibsonville No.
158, Nov., 1882.
88 Unity, Orleans Flat, 1856. Name changed to Quitman, May 8, 1856.
88 Quitman, North Bloomfield, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, Oct.
13, 1910.
90 Polar Star, Poorman's Creek, 1856. Charter surrendered May 8, 1858.
92 Acacia, Coloma, 1856. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra
No. 26, March 29, 1916.
93 Caymus, Yountville, 1856. Removed and name changed to St. Helena,
Oct. 10, 1867.
94 Mount Hermon, Elizabethtown, 1856. Charter surrendered Dec. 24, 1859.
96 Howard. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, as Howard No. 37, Dec. 8,
1924.
97 Jefferson, La Porte, 1856. Consolidated with Forbestown No. 50, July 19,
1926.
98 Quartzburg, Quartzburg, 1856. Name changed to Hornitas.
99 La Grange, Merced, 1856. Name changed to Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16,
1913.
100 Campo Seco, Campo Seco, 1856. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
Oct., 1898.
102 Manzanita, North San Juan, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13,
Oct. 13, 1910.
105 Siskiyou, Henley, 1856. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, Oct. 11, 1876.
107 Mount Jefferson, Garrotte, 1857. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and
Columbia No. 28, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 11, 1876.
108 Owen, Scott's Bar, 1857. Consolidated with North Star No. 91, Oct. 15,
1908.
109 Dibble, Omega, 1857. Charter surrendered Sept. 27, 1879.
.
114 Mt. Zion, Grizzly Flat, 1857. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 11,
1911.
115 Saint Mark's, Fiddletown. Consolidated with Indian Diggings No. 85, as
St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
116 Windsor Windsor, 1857. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
.
Folsom, 'Folsom. Dispensation granted Feb. 14, 1857. Charter never issued.
118 Vallecito, Vallecito, 1858. Charter surrendered Jan. 5, 1859.
119 Clinton, Igo, 1858. Consolidated with Western Star Lodge No. 2, Oct. 15,
1936.
121 Ionic Iowa 1Iill 1858. Charter surrendered Oct. 8, 1905.
125 Prog~ess San Francisco, 1858. Charter revoked Oct. 14, 1870.
130 Unity, S~n Bernardino, 1859. Charte~ revokec;l May 13, 1863.
133 Yosemite, Coulterville, 1859. Consolidated with La Grange No. 99, now
known as Yosemite No: 99, O.ct. 16, 1913.
137 Oro Fino Oro Fino, 1860. Charter surrendered June, 1862.
138 Violet Spanish Flat, 1860. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
142 Colus~, Colusa, 1860. Consolidated with Equality No. 240, as Colusa No.
240, April 1, 1882.
148 San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo, 1861. Charter surrendered Dec. 2,
1865.

459

151
152
153
154
155
157
158
159
160
162
163
165
170

171
172

175
176
177
180
182
185
189
197
205
213
218
222
223
226
227
238
239
240

Doris, North Fork. Dispensation granted Jan. 11, 1861. Charter never
issued.
Palmyra, Placerville, 1862. Consolidated with El Dorado No. 26 as
Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 10, 1862.
Josephus, Brush Creek, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 11, 1864.
Rising Sun, Brandy City, 1862. Charter surrendered July 16, 1864.
Carson, Carson City, Nev. Ter., 1862. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Mount Carmel, Red Dog, 1863. Charter surrendered Aug. 16, 1872.
Washoe, Washoe City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Gibsonville, Gibsonville, 1863. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, Oct.
15, 1908.
Gilroy, Gilroy, 1863. Charter surrendered Sept. 28, 1864.
Pilot Hill, Pilot Hill, 1863. Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25, Dec.
1898.
Virginia City, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdict ion
of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Silver City, Silver City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Silver Star, Gold Hill, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Esmeralda, Aurora, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Escurial, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred t-0 jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Lander, Austin, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
Alpine, Markleeville. Dispensation granted May 25, 1864. Charter never
issued.
Claiborne, Antioch, 1865. Name changed to Antioch.
Merced, Snelling, 1865. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
Aztlan, Prescott, Ariz. Ter., 1866. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona,
March 25, 1882.
Arcturas, Petaluma, 1866. Consolidated with Petaluma No. 77, as Petaluma No. 180, Dec., 1898.
Meridian, Arbuckle, 1867. Name changed to Arbuckle, Oct. 16, 1919.
Arenas, Punta Arenas, 1867. Name changed to Claiborne.
Latrobe, Latrobe, 1868. Consolidated with Natoma No. 64, Dec. 1884.
Paradise, Haywards, 1869. Charter surrendered July 20, 1872. '
Rocklin, Rocklin. Dispensation granted July 30, 1870. Charter never
issued.
Newville, Newville, 1870. Consolidated with Olivet No. 364, as Olivet No.
205, Oct. 1, 1917.
Bodega, Bode~a, 1871. Charter revoked Oct. 12, 1889.
Pleasanton, Livermore; 1872. Name changed to Mosaic, Oct. 18, 1881.
Granite, Rocklin, 1872. Consolidated with Roseville No. 432 as Roseville
No. 222, May 29, 1919.
Maui, Wailuku, Hawaii, 1873. Charter surrendered Nov. 17, 1877.
Hayward, Half Moon Bay, 1873. Changed to San Mateo, San Mateo No.
226, Oct. 13, 1905.
Contra Costa, Samersville, 1873. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
Tyre, Gold Run, 1875. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1884.
Pescadero, Pescadero, 1875. Charter surrendered Sept. 26, 1890.
Equality, Colusa, 1875. Consolidated with Colusa No. 142, as Colusa No.
240, April 1, 1882.

460

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued

Elected Officers Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.

249 Greenville, Greenville, 1878. Consolidated with Sincerity No. 132, Oct.
16, 1896.
251 Brotherhood, Duncan's Mills, 1878. Charter surrendered April 19, 1888.
252 Bodie, Bodie, 1878. Consolidated with Winnedumah No. 287, Dec. 20,
1918.
257 Arizona, Phoenix, Ariz. Ter., 1879. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
Solomon, Tombstone, Ariz. Ter. Dispensation granted June 4, 1881.
Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
263 Tucson, Tucson, Ariz. Ter., 1881. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona,
March 25, 1882.
270 Fall River, Burgettville, 1883. Charter revoked Oct. 10, 1895.
276 Westport, Westport, 1884. Charter surrendered May 26, 1888.
284 Tyrian, Dunnigan, 1887. Consolidated with Woodland No. 156, Oct. 11,
1911.
298 Mokelumne Hill, Mokelumne Hill, 1890. Consolidated with Calaveras
No. 78, Dec. 25, 1919.
311 Hueneme, Hueneme, 1892. Consolidated with Oxnard No. 341, Oct. 16,
1902.
340 Santa Maria, Santa Maria, 1900. Consolidated with Hesperian No. 264,
Oct. 13, 1910.
342 Manila, Manila, P. I., 1901. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
350 Cavite, Cavite, P. I., 1903. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
364 Olivet, Corning, 1904. Consolidated with Newville No. 205, as Olivet No.
205, Oct. 1, 1917.
371 Oceanic, Honolulu, Oahu, T. H., 1905. Name changed to Le Progres de
l'Oceanie No. 371, Oct. 12, 1916.
.
372 - Veteran, Sawtell. Name changed 1939 to West Los Angeles Lodge.
386 Corregidor, Manila, P. I., 1907. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
398 Fowler, Fowler, 1908. Consolidated with Selma No. 277, Oct. 14, 1915.
413 Waucoba, Big Pine, 1910. Consolidated with Inyo No. 221, as Inyo No.
221, Jan. 10, 1945.
432 Roseville, Roseville, 1912. Consolidated with Granite No. 222 as Roseville
No. 222, May 29, 1919.
438 Germania, Los Angeles, 1913. Name changed to Acacia, Oct. 16, 1918.
456 Kenneth, Kenneth, 1915. Consolidated with Reading No. 254, Dec. 19,
1925.
496 Riverdale, Riverdale. Consolidated with Welcome No. 255, May 18, 1943.
542 Lankershim, North Hollywood, 1923. Name changed to North Hollywood No. 542, October 12, 1950.
553 Golden City, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Educator No. 554,
Feb. 16, 1940.
597 Truth, Los Angeles, 1924. Consolidated with Beacon of the West No. 628
as Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
611 Owensmouth, Canoga Park, 1925. Name changed to Canoga, Oct. 15,
1931.
612 Workman, Temple City, 1925. Name changed to Temple City, Oct. 10,
lm~

461

PROCEEDINGS OF THB

.

616 Seal Beach, Seal Beach, 1925. Name changed to R. E. Dolley No. 616,
Oct. 14, 1937.
628 Beacon of the West, Los Angeles, 1926. Consolidated with Truth No.
597 as Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
664 Oasis, El Centro, 1928. Consolidated with El Centro No. 384, Aug. 30,
1937.

1850

Since Us Organization, April 18, A. L. 5850
1856

Jonathan D. S+evenson..G. M.
Callfornla No. I
Born Jan. I, 1800
Died Feb. 14, 1894

John A. Tutt.............. D. G. M.
Caleb Fenner............S. G. W.
Sashel Woods............ J. G. W.
Levi StowelL...................G. T.
John H. Gihon ................G . S.

1851
John A. Tutt..................G. M.
Tehama No. J
Born Feb. 4, 1815
Died May 19, 1900

Benj. D. Hyam .......... D. G. M.
E. F. F. Ellis................S. G. W.
Benj. S. Olds..............J. G. W.
Townsend A. Thomas...... G. T.
Levi StowelL................... G. S.

1852
Benjamin D. Hyam ........G. M.
Benicia No. 5
Born March I, 1813
Died July 12, 1893

William H. Howard ......G. M.
John A. Raymond .... D. G. M.
Lemuel Lyon..............S. G. W.
Peter W. Randle ...... J. G. W.
Addison Martin .............. G. T.
Alex G. Abell ..................G. S.

1857
Nathaniel G. Curtia...... G. M.
Washln9ton No. 20
Born Feb. 8 1825
Died July 12, 1897

Charles Marsh ............ D. G. M.
Aaron D. Park............S. G. W.
John B. Pope..............J . G. W.
Addison Martin ..............G. T.
Alex G. Abell ................G. S.

1858
Nathaniel G. Curtis......G. M.
P. W. Shepheard ...... D. G. M.
Wm. McCormicL...S. G. W.
Jas. W. Bicknell........ J. G. W.
Addison Martin ..............G. T.
Alex G. Abell .................. G . S.

1859
Ch111. M. Redcliff...... D. G. M.
Addison Martin ................G.T. Nathaniel G. Curtis...... G. M.
J. R. McConnell........ J. G. W. P. W. Shepheard ...... D. G. M.
Addison Martin ................G. T. Ebenezer Lane..........S. G. W.
Levi Stow•ll......................G . S. . Thos. P. Hawley........J. G. W.
Addison Martin ..............G. T.
Alex G. Abell..................G. S.
1853
Charles M. RadclifL ... G. M.
1860
Tuolumne No. 8
Nathaniel G. Curtis......G. M.
Born Feb. 5, 1818
P. W. Shepheard ...... D. G. M.
Died Dae. 31 , 1889
T. A. Thomas.............. D. G. M. Wm. C. Belcher........S. G. W.
Jno. R. Crandall........S. G. W. Alvinza Hayward ...... J. G. W.
Richard F. Knott......~.J. G. W. Addison Martin ..............G. T.
Addison Martin ..............G. T. Alex G. Abell .................. G. S.
Levi Stowell......................G. S.
1861
James L. English ............G. M.
1854
William H. Howard ......G. M.
San Josa No. 10
Born Au9. 2'1, 1810
Died Sept. 18, 18'6

Nath. G. Curtis........ D. G. M.
Rector E. Cole..........S. G. W.
Robt. N. Wood ..........J. G. W.
Addison Mertin ..............G. T.
Levi Stowell...................... G. S.

1855
Wiiiiam H. Howard ......G. M.
T. A. Thomas.............. D. G. M.
Jno. A. Raymoncl......S. G. W.
Sam. A. Merritt........J. G. W.
Addison Martin ..............G.T.
Levi Stowell ....................&. S.

Sacramento No. 40
Born June S, 1813
Died May 2'1, 1889

Wm. C . Belcher........ b. G. M.
John W. Harville......S. G. W.
Caleb E. Wilcoxon ....J . G. W.
James Laidley................G. T.
Alex G. Abell .................. G. S.

1862
William C. Belcher........G. M.
Corinthian No. 69
Born Dec. 12, 1820
Died Sept. I, 1895

Gil. B. Claiborne...... D. G. M.
John W. Harville......S. G. W.
John B. Hewson ........J. G. W.
James Laidley..................G. T~
Alex G. Abell.. ................G. S.

1863

William C. Belcher........G. M.
Gil. B. Claiborne...... D. G. M.
Louis Cohn................S. G. W.
Wm. A. Davies..........J. G. W.
James Laidley..................G. T.
Alex G. Abell.................. G. S.

1864
William C. Belcher........G. M.
Gil. B. Claiborne...... D. G. M.
Wm. A. Davies..........S. G. W.
Isaac S. Titus..............J. G. W.
James Laidley.................. G. T.
Alex G. AbelL...............G. S.

1865
Gilbert B. Claiborne......G. M.
San Joaquin No. 19
Born 1828
Died Dec. I, 1908

Wm. A. Davles.......... D. G. M.
Isaac S. Titus..............S. G . W.
Henry H. Hartley......J . G. W.
James Laidley.................. G. T.
Alex G. Abell ..................G. S.

1866
Gilbert B. Claiborne ......G . M.
Henry H. Hartley...... D. G. M.
Wm. H. P•terson ......S. G. W.
Thomas BecL...........J. G. W.
James Laidley.................. G. T.
Alex G. Abell..................G. S.

1867
William A. Davies..........G. M.
Columbia No. 28
Born Feb. 5, 1827
Died June 20, 1916

Henry H. Hartley.... D. G. M.
Thomu BecL............ S. G. W.
Leonidas E. Pratt......J. G. W.
James A. Laidley............G. T.
Alex G. Abell..................G. S.

1868
Charles Marsh ................G. M.
Nevada No. IJ
Born Dec. 6, 1826
Diod April 28, 1876

Leonides E. Pratt...... D. G. M.
Theo. G. Cockrill......S. G. W.
Fredk. F. Barss..........J. G. W.
James Laidley..................G. T.
Alex G. Abell..................G. S.

1869

1876

1883

Leonides E. Pratt..........G. M.
Mountain Shade No. IB
Born Au;. 29, 1831
Died Oct. 25, 1186
Isaac S. Titus.............. O. G. M.
John S. Ward .....- .....S. G. W.
Richard Oel•-·-··········J. G. W.
James Laidley......-·-····-·6• T.
Alex G. Abell..................G. S.

John M. Browne............G. M.
Ches. L Wiggin ......0. G. M.
Wm. S. Wells............S. G. W.
Solon W. Creigue....J. G. W.
James Laidley..................6. T.
Alex G. Abell..................6. S.

Jonathan O. Hlnes........G. M.
San Buenaventura No. 214
Born Jen. I, 1825
Died Dec. 30, 1886
Wiley J. Tinnin ........O. G. M.
Edm. C. Atkinson ......S. G. W.
Hiram N. Rucker......J. G. W.
Moses Heller -···-····-··-·6 . T.
Alex G . Abell... .........- .... G. S.

1870
Leonides E. Prett............G. M.
Isaac S. Titus............D. G. M.
Ches. L W iggin .....- .S. G. W.
Benj. H. Freemen......J. G. W.
James Laldley............_....G. T.
Alex G. Abell..................G. S.

1871
Leonides E. Prett...•......G. M.
Ches. L. Wiggin ........ O. G. M.
Ben. H. Freemen ......S. G. W.
Geo. C. Perkins........J. G. W.
James Leidley... _.....•.......G. T.
Alex G. AbelL............... G. S.

1872
Leonidas E. Prett..........G. M.
Benj. H. Freeman......O. G. M.
Geo. C. Perkins........S. G. W.
John M. Browne........J. G. W.
James Laldley..................G. T.
Alex G. Abell.........- ....... G. S.

1873
Isaac S. Titus................G. M.
San Joaquin No. It
Born Oct. 14 IB27
Died Aprll 22, IB92
Geo. C. Perkins........ O. G. M.
Jno. M. Browne........S. G. W.
Ches. E. MitchelL...J . G. W.
James Laldley.................. G. T.
Alex G. Abell... ...............G. S.

1874
George C. Perkins........ G. M.
Orovlll• No. 103
lorn Au9. 23, IB39
Died Fel>. 26, 1923
John M. Browne........ O. G. M.
Wm. B. Parker..........S. G. W.
Wiley J . Tinnin..........J. G. W.
Jemes Laldley................ G. T.
Alex G. Abell..................G. S.

1875
John M. Browne............G. M.
Navel No. r7
Born May 10, 1831
Died Dec. 7, I894
Ches. L Wiggin ......O. G. M.
Wiley J . Tlnnin.......•..S. G. W.
Jacob H. NefL.......J . G. W.
James Laidley..................G. T.
Alex 0. AbelL..- ...........6. S.

1877
John M. Browne............6. M.
Ches. L Wiggin ...... 0. G. M.
Wm. W. Treylor........S. G. W.
Wm. H. Crane..........J . G. W.
Moses Heller ..................6. T.
Alex G. Abell..................G. S.

1878
John M. Browne............G. M.
Wm. W . Traylor.._.... O. G. M.
Wm. H. Crane..........S. G. W.
Robt. C. Broder........J. G. W.
Moses Heller··-···········-·(;• T.
Alex G. Abell..................6. S.

1879
William W. Traylor•.......G. M.
California No. I
Born March 17, 1822
Dled Jan. II, 1113
Samuel C . Denson....O. G . M.
Clay W. Teylor.- .....S. G. W .
John Q. Adems........J. G. W.
Moses Heller ..................6. T.
Alex G . Abell..................G. S.

1880
Samuel C. Oenson........G. M.
Union No. 58
Born Sept. 23, 1839
Dled July 26, 1917
Clay W. Taylor........ D. G. M.
John Q. Adams........S. G. W.
0. W. HollenbecL.J. G. W.
Moses Heller ..................G. T.
Alex G. Abell..................G . S.

1881
Clay W. Taylor.............. G. M.
Western Star No. 2
Born Sept. 10, 1844
Died May I, IB97
John Q. Adems........ D. G. M.
Jonathan D. Hlnes ....S. G. W.
Thos. J. Bowers..........J. G. W.
Moses Heller ................. ,G . T.
Alex G. Abell... ...............G . S.

1882
Clay W . Taylor.............. G. M.
Jonathan D. Hines....O. G . M.
Edm. C. Atkinson......S. G. W.
George Hinds............J G. W.
Moses Heller ····-········:...6. T.
Alex G. Abell..................G. S.

463

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

462

1884
Jonathan O. Hines........ G. M.
Wiley J . Tinnin ........O. G. M.
Edm. C. Atkinson......S. G. W.
Hiram N. Rucker......J. G. W.
Moses Heller ····-······-····6• T.
Alex G. Abell .........._......G. S.

1885
Wiley J. Tlnnin ..............G. M.
Trinity No. 27
Born Oct. 7 1829
Died Nov. l4, 1910
Edm. C. Atkinson ...... O. G. M.
Hiram N. Rucker......S. G. W.
Henry H. Knapp......J . G. W .
Nathan W Spaulding .... G . T.
Alex G. Abell..................G. S.

1889

1895

1901

Morris M. Estee............ G. M.
William Johnston ....0. G. M.
Chas. R. Gritman......S. G. W.
Henry S. Orme........J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....G. T.
Alex G. Abell..................G. S.

Edward M. Prerton........G. M.
Nevede No. 13
Born May 4 1141
Died Aprll ~4, 1903
Wm. T. Luc111............ 0. G . M.
Thomas Fllnt..............S. G. W.
F. M. Angellotti........J. G. W.
Edward Coleman............G. T.
George Johnson ............G. S.

Wiiiiam S. W•lls......•.....G. M.
Martinez No. 41
Born June 24, 1161
Died Jan. 23, !tit
0. S. Henderson...... O. G. M.
Ches. W. Nutting ....S. G. W.
Geo. W. Hunter ____J. 6. W.
Edward Colemen....... _...G. T.
George Johnson ·-·········6• S.
Wm. H. Edwerds............G. L

1890
Alvah R. Conklln............G. M.
Inyo No. 221
Born 183&
Dled Oct. 5, 1897
William Johnston ...... O. G. M.
Ches. R. Gritman ....S. G. W.
Henry S. Orme........J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....G. T.
George Johnson ·······-···6. S.

1891

1896

1902

William T. Lucas.-......... G. M.
Guadalupe No. 237
Born March II, 1850
Died March 21, 1931
Thomes Fllnt.............. O. G. M.
F. M. Angallotti........S. G. W.
Chas. L Patton........J. G. W.
Edward Coleman............G. T.
George Johnson ···-·······6 · S.

Orrin S. Henderson ...... G. M.
Morning Star No. 68
Born June 2, 1863
Died June 25, 1940
Chu. W. Nutting .... O. G. M.
Geo. W. Hunter......S. G. W.
Motley H. Flint........J. G. W.
Edward Colemen............ G. T.
George Johnson ···--····G • S.
Wm. H. Edwerds............6. L.

1897

William Johnston .......... 6. M.
Thomu Flint ·--·-··········6• M.
Franklin No. 143
Texas No. 46
Born June 2, IB25
Born Mey 19 1858
Died Nov. 14, 1905
Died Nov. IS, 1936
Ches R. Grltman ......O. G. M. F. M. Angellotti........O. G. M.
Henry S. Orme •.•.....S. G. W. Chas L. Patton..........S. G. W.
Jes. B. Stevens..........J. G. W. Jas. A. Foshay..........J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding _..6. T. Edward Coleman............6. T.
George Johnson ···-·······6• S. George Johnson ···-·······6• S.

1903
Charles W. Nutting ......G. M.
Evenln11 Star No. fl6
Born Oct•.3LJ852
Died Sept. ;iv, 1917
Geo. W. Hunter ......0. G . M.
Motely H. Flint........ S. G. W .
Edw. H. Hert..... _ ...J . G. W.
Edward Coleman- .......... G. T.
George Johnson .......•....6. S.
Wm. H. Edwards............G. L.

1892

1898

1904

Edmund C. Atkinton .... 6. M.
Sacramento No. 40
Born Nov. 17.i...1837
Died March m, 1911
Hiram N. Rucker......D. G . M.
Morris M. Estee........S. G. W.
Alveh R. Conklin......J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....G. T.
Alex G. Abell..................G. S.

Charles R. Gritman •...- 6. M.
Yount No. 12
Born Dec. 10, 1131
Dled Mey 14, 1194
Henry S. Orme........O. G. M.
Ju. B. Stevens..........S. G. W.
Edw. M. Preston........J . G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding _..6. T.
George Johnson •...........6 . S.

Frank M. AngellottL ...G. M.
Muln No. 191
Born Sept. 4, 1861
Died May ll, 1932
Chu. L. Patton ........0. G. M.
Jas. A. Foshay..........S. G. W.
Wm. S. Wells............J. G. W.
Edward Coleman............G. T.
George Johnson ...- .......G . S.

George W. Hunter......G . M.
Humboldt No. 7'
Born 1854
Died Oct. 14, 1925
Motley H. Flint........O. 6. M.
Edw. H. Hert............S. G. W.
Geo. M. Perine ___ .J. G. W.
Edward Colemen..._....... G. T.
George Johnson --·······6· S.
Wm. H. Edward1....•.......G. L.

1887

1893

Hiram N. Rucker ..........6 . M.
La Gran;• No. 99
Born Sept. 6, 1844
Died Dec. 13, 1905
Morris M. Estee........O. G. M.
Alvah R. Conklin......S. G. W
Wm. Johnston ..........J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....G . T.
Alex G . Abell ..................G. S.

Henry S. Orme..............G. M.
So. Callfornl• No. 271
Born March 25\ 1837
Dled Nov. 29, 912
J111. B. Stevens..........O. G . M.
Edw. M. Preston........S. G. W.
Wm. T. Luc111...•........J. G. W.
Edward Coleman............G. T.
George Johnson ··-········6, S.

1888

1894

1886

Morris M. Estee............G. M.
C..llfornla No. I
Born Nov. 23, 1834
Died Oct. 7, 1903
Alvah R. Conklin ......0. G. M.
William Johnston ......S. G . W.
Mere. 0. BorucL......J. G. W .
Nathan W Spaulding ....G. T.
Ale• G. Abell ..................6. S.

James B. Stevens ..........6. M.
Yount No. 12
Born March 27, 1841
Died Dec. 6, 1919
Edw. M. Preston ........O. G . M.
Wm. T. Lucas............ S. G. W.
Thomas Flint....._______J , G. W.
Edward Colemen............6. T.
George Johnson .•..•.......6. S.

1899

1905

Charles L Petton.......... G. M.
C..llfornla No. I
Born 1865
Died Aprll II, 1923
J111. A. Foshay.......... O. G. M.
Wm. S. Wells............S. G . W .
0. S. Henderson ......J. G. W.
Edward Coleman............G. T.
George Johnson ······-····6• S.

Motley H. Flint..............6 . M.
East Gate No. 290
Born Feb. It, 1861
Died July 14, 1930
Edward H. Hert........ O. G . M.
Geo. M. Perine........S. G. W.
Reuben H. Lloyd ......J. G. W .
Edward Coleman............6. T.
George Johnson ···-·······6• S.
Wm. H. Edwards............ G. L

1900
James A. Foshay............ G. M.
So. California No. 279
Born Nov. 23, 1156
Died Jan. 14, 1914
Wm. S. Wells............O. G. M.
0. S. Henderson ......S. G. W.
Ch111. W. Nutting ....J . G. W.
Edward Coleman............6. T.
George Johnson ···-···-··6 • S.
Wm. H. Edwards.......- ...G. L.

1906
Edward H. Hart ....•.......6. M.
Liv• Oak No. 61
Born 1858
Dled Sept. 26, 1917
Geo. M. Perlne........O. G. M.
Reuben H. Uoyd ......S. G. W.
Oscar Lawler ............J. G. W.
Edward Colemen............G. T.
George Johnson .....•••...•6. S.
Wm. H. Edw1rd1.·-···-···G· L

1907

1913

1919

George M. Perine........G. M.
Pacific No. 136
lorn 1152
Died Oct. 6, 1'33
Reuben H. Lloyd...... D. G. M.
Oscar Lawler............S. G. W.
W. Frank Pierce........J. G. W.
Edward Coleman............G. T.
George Johnson ............G. S.
Thomas J. &.ker..............G. L.

John D. Murf>hey.........."G. M.
Alta No. 333
Born July 7, 1163
Died Sept. IS, 1945
Benj. F. Bledsoe........ D. G. M.
Alb. G. Burnett........S. G. W.
F. V. Keesling ............J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher..................G. S.
Thomas J. Baker..............G. L.

Chas. Albert Adams......G. M.
Excelslor No. 166
Born Nov. 25, 1167
Geo. F. Rodden........ D. G. M.
Sam. E. Burke............S. G. W.
Wm. A. Shermen......J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher..................G. S.
Thomes J. Beker.............. G. L

1908

1914

George F. Rodden ........G. M.
Marin No. 191
lorn Dec.24, 1867
Died March 8, 1934
Sam. E. Burke............ D. G. M.
Wm. A. Shermen......S. G. W.
Arthur S. Crites........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher..................G. S.
Thomas J. Beker..............G. L.

Oscar Lawler
..
G. M. Benj. F. Bledsoe ............G. M.
San Bernardino No. 348
East Gate No. 2'0
· Born Feb. 8, IB74
lorn April 2, 1175
Died Oct. 30, 193B
W. Frank Pierce........D. G. M.
Dana R. Weller ........S. G. W. Alb. G. Burnett........D. G. M.
A. J. Monroe............J. G. W. F. V. Keesling ............S. G. W.
Edward Coleman............G. T. W. Rh. Hervey..........J. G. W.
John Whicher........- ........G. S. Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
Thomas J. Baker.-...........G. L. John Whicher..................G. S.
Thomas J. Baker..............G. L.

1909

W. Frank Pierce............G. M.
Oakland No. 118
lorn Jan. 16, 1855
Died Oct. 3, 1910
Dana R. Weller ........ D. G. M.
A. J. Monro•-····-·····S. G. W.
Wm. P. Filmer ..........J. G. W.
Edward Coleman.......- ...G. T.
John Whlcher...•..............G. S.
Thomas J. Bak.e r..............G. L.

1910
Dana R. Weller..........•...G. M.
So. C.llfomla No. 271
lorn March 24, 1874
Died Jan. 9, 1947
A. J. Monroe............ D. G. M.
Wm. f. Filmer..........S. G. W.
J. D. Murphey ..........J. G. W.
Edward Coleman............G. T.
John Whicher................-G. S.
Thomas J. Baker..............G. L.

1911
Alonzo J. Monroe..........G. M.
Humboldt No. 7'
lorn Oct. 19 1858
DI.cl June 14, 1922
Wm. P. Fllmer.......... D. G. M.
J. D. Murphey...- .....S. G. W.
Benj. F. Bledsoe........J. G. W.
Edward Coleman............G. T.
John Whicher..................G. S.
Thoines J. Baker..............G. L.

1912
Wm. P. Filmer................G. M.
Kin; Solomon No. 260
lorn March 2, 1866
Died Nov. 22, 1942
Jno. D. Murphey......D. G. M.
Benj. F. Bledsoe........S. G. W.
Alb. G. Burnett ........J. G. W.
Edward Coleman........_..G. T.
John Whlcher..................G. S.
Thomes J. Baker..............G. L

1915
Albert G. Burnett..........G. W.
Santa Rosa No. 57
Born Aprll 91 IBS6
Died Au;. I~.
1923
F. V. Keesling ............ D. G. M.
Wm. Rh. Hervey......S. G. W.
Bradford Webster....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher...•..............G. S.
Thomes J . Baker..............G. L.

. 1916
Francis V. Keesling........G. M.
C.llfornla No. I
Born Feb. 17, 1177
Wm. Rh. Hervey...... D. G. M.
Bradford Webster....S. G. W.
Chas. A. Adems........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..._.....G. T.
John Whicher.......- .........G. S.
Thomes J. Baker..............G. L.

1917
Wm. Rhodes Hervey....G. M.
Pentalpha No. 202
Born March 26, IB70
Bradford Webster.... D. G. M.
Ches. A. Adems........S. ~. W.
Geo. F. Rodden ........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Fllmer..........G. T.
John Whlcher.........._......G. S.
Thomas J. Baker..............G. L

1918
Bradford Webster ........G. M.
Live Oak No. 61
Born Dec. 14, 1869
Died June 4, 1941
Ches. A. Adems ........ D. G. M.
Geo. F. Rodden ........S. G. W.
Sam. E. Burk•-······-···J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher..................G. S.
Thomas J. Baker..............G. L.

465

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

464

1920

1925

1931

1937

Albert E. Boynton..........G. M.
Orovllle No.103
lorn Oct. 9, 1875
Died Feb. 22, 194'
Geo. L Jones............D. G. M.
Will H. Fischer..........S. G. W.
Gus. A. Huteff.....- ...J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher..................G. S.
Thomes J. Beker.............. G. L

Robt. B. Geylord..........G. M.
Oakland Ko. 188
Born Nov. 24, 1876
Frank W. Mixter...... D. G. M.
James B. Gist............S. G. W.
Wm. A. Sitton..........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whlcher..................G. S.
Thomes J. Baker..............G. L.

James T. Freser._......•....G. M.
Humboldt No. 79
Born Au;. 28, 186B
Leon 0. Whitsell...... D. G. M.
William H. Weste....S. G. W.
William B. Ogden....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher...- ...........~.G. S.
Leslie E. Wood................G. L

1932

1938

1926
George L Jones............G. M.
M.edlsOll No. 23
Born t.4ay II, Im
Wiii H. Fischer........ D. G. M.
Gus. A. Huteff..........S. G. W.
C, M. Wollenberg....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher...•......- .....G. S.
Thomes J. Beker..............G. L.

Frank W. Mixter............G. M. Leon 0. WhihelL....... G. M.
Exeter No. 424
Oran;• Grove No. 293
Born Dec. 30, Im
Born July 10, 1876
Di.cl May 22, 1947
William H. Weste.... D. G. M.
James B. Glst............ D. G. M. William B. Ogden....S. G. W.
Wm. A. Sitton..........S. G. W. · Lloyd E. Wil1on ........J . G. W.
R. V. Whlting............J. ~. W. Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T. John Whicher..................G. S.
John Whlcher..................G. S. Leslie E. Wood ................G. L
Thomes J. Baker..............G. L.

1921

1927

Samuel E. Burke............G. M.
Sunset No; 3&2
Born Feb. 13, 1170
Wm. A. Shermen......D. G. M.
Arthur S. Crites........S. G. W.
David J. Reese..........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher.... ~............. G. S.
Thomes J. Baker..............G. L.

Will H. Fischer..............G. M.
Wilshire No. 445
lorn Sept. II , 1175
Gus. A. Huteff..........D. G. M.
C. M. Wollenberg....S. G. W.
J. S. Ron....................J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher..·-··········-·G. S.
Thomes J. Baker..............G. L.

James B. Glst................G. M.
Pentalpha No. 202
Born A119. 8, 1868
R. V. Whiting............D. G. M.
Earl Werren..............S. G. W.
Rollie W. Miller........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher--······-·······G. S.
Thomes J. Beker..............G. L

1928

1934

1922
William A. Sherman......G. M.
Presidio No. 354
lorn Sept. 17, 1880
Died Feb. 19, 1940
Arthur S. Crites........ D. G. M.
David J. Reese ..........S. G. W.
Alb. E. Boynton........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher..................G. S.
Thomas J. Beker..............G. L.

1923
Arthur S. Crites ............G. M.
Bakersfleld No. 224
80111 Feb. 4, 1879
David J. Reese.......... D. G. M.
Alb. E. Boynton........S. G. W.
Geo. L Jones._.........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Thomes J. Beker.............. G. L.

1924
David J . Reese..............G. M.
Sen Buenaventura No. 214
Born Au;. 22, 1871
Died Nov. 9, 1934
Alb. E. Boynton ........ D. G. M.
Geo. L. Jones............S. G. W.
Will H. Fischer..........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher..................G. S.
Thomes J. Beker..............G. L

1933

Gu&tev A. Huteff..........G. M. Randolph V. Whitlng....G. M.
Dunsmuir No. 2'7
Kin; Solomon No. 260
Born Oct. 5, 1879
Born Nov. 30, 1870
Died Oct. 17, 1933
C. M. Wollenberg....D. G. M. Earl Werren .............. D. G. M.
J. S. Ross..................S. G. W. Rollie W. Miller........S. G. W.
Robt. B. Geylord......J. G. W. James T. Freser........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T. Wm. Parker Fllmer..........G. T.
John Whicher....._...........G. S. John Whlcher..-..............G. S.
Thomas J. Baker..............G. L. Leslie E. Wood ................G. L.

1929

1935

1939
William B. Ogden........G. M.
Hollywood No. 355
Born Au;. 26, 1876
Lloyd E. Wilson........ D. G. M.
Frank M. Smith........S. G. W.
Leslie E. Wood ........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher.............,....G. S.
Walter Leonard..............G. L.

1940
Lloyd E. Wilson..............G. M.
ln11l•slde No. 630
Born Au;. 16, 1895
Frank M. Smith.......... D. G. M.
Leslie E. Wood ........S. G. W.
Claude H.Morrison ..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whlcher..................G. S.
Welter Leonard..............G. L.

1941

M. Smith..............G. M.
C. M. Wollenberg........G. M. Earl Werren....................G. M. Frank
East 9ate No. 2'0
Sequoia No. 349
Starr Kin; No. 344
Born
April II , IB94
Born
March
19,
1891
lorn t.4erch 13, 1m
John S. Ross.............. D. G. M. Rollie W. Miller...... D. G. M. Leslie E. Wood..........D. G. M.
Robt. B. Geylord......S. G. W. James T. Fraser........S. G. W. Claude H. Morrison ..S. G. W.
Frank W. Mixter._.....J. G. W. Leon O. Whitsell......J. G. W. G. C. DeForest........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher..................G. S. John Whlcher..................G. S. Lloyd E. Wilson..............G. S.
Thomes J. Beker..............G. L. Leslie E. Wood ................G. L Chester H. Werlow........G. L.

1930
John Stewert Ross ........G. M.
El Centro No. 384
lorn May 21, 1879
Robt. B. Geylord......D. G. M.
Frank W. Mixter........ S. G. W.
James B. Glst............J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..______G, T.
John Whlcher...•..............G. S.
Thomes J. Baker._...........G. L.

1936

1942

Rollie W. Miller............G. M. Leslie E. Wood ..............G. M.
Provident No. 609
Sunset No. 352
Born April 2, 1897
Born Oct. 17, 18B3
James T. Fre1er........ D. G. M. Claude H. Morrlson.. D. G. M.
Leon 0. Whitsell......S. G. W. Gilbert C. DeForest..S. G. W.
William H. Weste....J. G. W. Lawrence C. Kelley ..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher.. _..............G. S. Lloyd E. Wilson..............G. S.
Leslie E. Wood...........•....G. L Chester H. Warlow........G. L.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

466
1943

1946

1949

Claude H. Morri1on ......G. M.

John R. Moore..............G. M.
Meridian No. &67

Ellsworth Mayer - ·'-·······&• M.

San Di990 No. JS
Born Jufy 10, 1887

Born Sept. 1893

Liberal Arts No. 677
Born Feb. 27, 1905

Gilbert C. DeFore1t.. D. G. M. Chester H. Werlow..D. G. M. Arthur Peulsen.......... D. G. M.
Lawrence C. Kelley..S. G. W. Edward H. Siems......S. G. W. Louis E. Drapeeu......S. G. W.
Arthur W. Brouillet..J. G. W. Ellsworth Meyer........J. G. W. Arthur M. Warren ....J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ........G. T. Francis V. Keesling ........G. T. Francis V. Keesling ........G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..............G. S. Lloyd E. Wil1on ..............G. S. Lloyd E. Wil1on ..............G. S.
Chester H. Warlow........G. L. Arthur M. Warren..........G. L. Walter H. E. von Konsky G. L.

1944

1947

1950

Gilbert C. DeForest......G. M.

Chester H. ·werlow......G. M.

Arthur Paulsen ............&. M.
Trinity No. 27
Born Mey 4, 1890
Louis C. Drapeeu...... D. G. M.
Arthur M. Warren ....S. G. W.
Frank Harwell, Jr•....J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ........G. T.
Lloyd E. Wllson .............. G. S.
Walter H. E. von Kon1ky G.L

Readln9 No. 254
Born Sept. IB, I889

Lawrence C. Kelley .. D. G. M.
Arthur W. Brouillet..S. G. W.
John R. Moore..........J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ........ G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..............G. S.
Chester H. Werlow........G. L.

1945
Lawrence C. Kelley ......G. M.
Pentalpha No. 202
Born July 23, 1889
Died Oc:t. 24, 1945

Arthur W. Brouillet...... G. M.
Park No. 440
Born Jan. 21, 1184

John R. Moore.....•..S. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ........G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..............G. S.
Chester H. Warlow........&. L.

FrHno No. 247
Born June 30, 1889

Edward H. Siems...... D. G. M.
Ellsworth Meyer........$. G. W.
Arthur Paulsen........J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ........G. T.
Lloyd E. Wil1on ..............G. S.
Arthur M. Warren ..........G. L.

1948
Edward H. Siems..........G. M.
Plymouth No. 560
Born December 7, 1903

Ellsworth Meyer........ D. G. M.
Arthur Paulsen..........S. G. W.
Louis C. Drapeeu......J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ........G. T.
Lloyd E. Wil1on ............G. S.
Arthur M. Warren..........G. L.

467

LIST OF INSPECTORS
ImpeclOf's

Dille of Commission

Di.rlrlCI

Clark H. Shaw......................................................July, 1911................................ 97
Karl L. Ratzer............................................January 1, 1921................................n7
John M. Icardo..............................................January, 1921................................115
Ralph M. Foote......................................September 5, 1922................................ 26
S. Leslie Hawken....................................January 27, 1925................................ 52
Joel S. Conklin:..............................................January, 1927................................ 11
Clarence L. Fraser................................... .December, 1927................................ 63
Wm. S. Thompson............................................March, 1928................................ 59
Rudolph Mohr, Jr.........................................January, 1929................................ 46
Geo. P. Salm....................................................June 14, 1930................................ 82
George A. Otis......................................................May, 1932................................112
Niles O. Millar......................................................July, 1932................................ 32
Thomas B. Pollard........................................January, 1933................................ 19
Harry S. Clark............................................October 1, 1933................................111
Herman· Thode ..................................................March, 1934................................ 8
H. R. Hargrave....................................September 15, 1934................................ 62
Chas. H. Knights..................................December 28, 1934................................108
Alexander D. Potts....................................January 1, 1935................................103
John Behrens..............................................January 2, 1935................................114
Chas. S. Hogan....................................................April, 1935............:................... 5
Carl C. Mikesell ............................................October, 1935................................135
Samuel Dollar ............................................December, 1935................................ 61
Willard G. Babcock................................January 10, 1936................................106
James W. Robinson......................................Janu8ry, 1936._..~ ........................... 16
Wm. L. Davis..................................................October, 1936................................ 60
William C. Gover..........................................October, 1936................................ 6
Carl F. Peters..........................................Novemoer 1, 1936...............................: 80
George S. Ward..........................................January 1, 1937................................ 4
Lucas Shaffer..............................................January 1, 1937................................ 14
Gustaf A. B. Quick..........................................June 5, 1937................................ 71
Fred Weed..................................................September, 1938................................110
George L. Stivers......................................November, 1938................................ 23
Guido de Ghetaldi.. ......................................October, 1938................................ 18
Roy S. Lenthall..............................................January, 1939................................ 36
Ralph C. Hine..................................................August, 1939................................ 70
Wm. H. Baxter..........................................December, 1939............,................... 65
J. Wesley Sibole........................................December, 1939................................ 25
Frederick A. Penn........................................................ 1940................................ 51
Ralph K. Pierson..............................................May 6, 1940................................ 95
J. Tyler Parker, Jr·-············:··········..........September, 1940................................ 90
Harold S. Morrison................................December 1, 1940................................ 89
Henry Kaiser....................................................April 1, 1941................................ 55
Rolla L. Eubanks................................................A.p ril, 1941................................ 30
Nels H. Johnson.....................................-.January 6. 1942................................ 53
Leighton D. Armstrong..........................February 1, 1942................................ 22
Miles J. McClelland..............~ .....................March 10, 1942................................ 21

468
lnspe&l<HS

PROCEEUINGS OF THE
Dase of Commission

Disl1'i&I

Earl D. Fonda........................................December 13, 1942................................ 10
Orville L. Coburn..........................................March 3, 1943................................ 66
Elmer M. Hopper........................................... .May 10, 1943................................ 3
Henry S. Savage, Jr.........................................July 4, 1943................................ 35
Melvin R. Berbower............................ November 10, 1943................................ 98
Frederic E. Clark....................................January 26, 1944................................ 78
Earl Stewart..............................................February 6, 1944................................ 31
Ray W. Mcintyre..........................................March 8, 1944................................ 54
John Simpson.....................................~ ..........March 8, 1944................................ 24
Leo E. Anderson............................................May 17, 1944................................ 77
John Ramsay..................................................... .July 5, 1944................................ 99
Dwight C. Freeman......................................March 2, 1945 ................................ 87
James B. Lawson..........................................March 6, 1945................................ 64
Arch Balchin................................................March 27, 1945................................ 56
Floyd H. Watson. ...................................... .March 30, 1945................................ 69
Charles C. Hale..................................................July 2, 1945 ................................ 28
Edward C. Lohmeyer........................September 27, 1945................................ 40
Alexander Duncan....................................October 9, 1945................................ 1
Robert W. Nicol... .....................................October 24, 1945 ................................ 105
W. Corell Smith....................................December 20, 1945................................ 20
Raymond V. Worthley..............................January 7, 1946................................ 13
M. J. Jensen, Jr.......................................January 22, 1946................................ 48
Louis L. Cunningham................................August 2, 1946................................ 81
Thomas Hillary....................................September 26, 1946................................ 67
Ralph Anderson.................................... November 4, 1946................................ 29
James G. Disher..................................November 12, 1946................................ 34
Frank W. Johnson.............................. November 21, 1946................................ 85
John A. Crosbie.................................... November 21, 1946................................ 79
Clare B. OampbelL ..................................January 1, 1947................................ 15
Arch T. Roberson ......................................January 1, 1947................................ 27
Ray R. :Bell........................................................April 7, 1947................................ 107
Stephen E. Skidmore......................................April 7, 1947................................ 93
Fred C. Pritschke............................................April 7, 1947 ................................125
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr...........................September 8, 1947................................ 83
Rene Canonica ......................................September 8, 1947................................113
Harry Burrows......................................December 15, 1947................................ 2
Russell Northrop ..................................December 20, 1947 ................................ 75
Rush Manbert........................................December 20, 1947 ................................ 44
Frank R. Killinger, Jr.........................December 29, 1947 ................................ 37
Howard S. Kaulbach..........................December 29, 1947................................ 38
Haiman L. Wayne................................December 29, 1947................................ 43
Martin Ortlieb ..........................................January 13, 1948................................ 109
Stanley Hurst Wentz ................................March 16, 1948................................ 49
Roy T. Kiele.........;..........................................April 22, 1948................................ 84
William T. Rodger........................................April 22, 1948................................ 101
Howard Laurent............................................June 19, 1948................................ 72
Robert N. Walker................................... - ...... .July 28, 1948................................ 124
Ebner Glen Van Tassell....................September 11, 1948................................ 9
Reginald Reynolds .............................. November 5, 1948.............................. ;. 7

lnspe&I01'J

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

469

Dale of Commission

Dislri&I

Donald G. Campbell................................January 1, 1949................................ 91
L. Everett Richardson ............................January 1, 1949................................ 50
Albert E. Carroll.. ......................................January 7, 1949................................ 92
John E. Chapin..........................................January 7, 1949................................ 96
Louis H. Mahler......................................January 31, 1949................................ 73
Orin Compton ........................................February 9, 1949................................ 68
Fred A. Zweifel. ............................................May 12, 1949................... _........... 45
John A. Owen................................................May 16, 1949 ................................ 88
Chas. A. Thomasset... ...................................June 28, 1949................................ 116
Eric Wm. Nelson............................................June 30, 1949................................ 12
William Nankervis, Jr.................................June 30, 1949................................ 39
Eugene P. Jijine.................................. September 16, 1949................................ 102
Wilson Ernest Lathrop ............................October 1, 1949................................ 58
Robert H. Taylor.................................. November 7, 1949................................ 33
Walter A. Henrichsen............................January 16, 1950... - ........................... 120
Herbert H. Schultz..................................January 16, 1950................................ 121
Maurice E. Coffey....................................January 16, 1950................................ 122
Perry M. Spencer....................................January 16, 1950................................ 47
Arthur J. Kahn ................................... - ...January 16, 1950................................ 123
Jack Mast ..................................................January 16, 1950................................ 118
Harvey Browning ................................January 16, 1950................................ 119
Earl Caldwell.. ..........................................January 16, 1950................................ 41
Delbert E. Luck............................................April 14, 1950........................... - ... 57
Elmer R. Lotz................................................ April 14, 1950................................ 74
Elvin C. Drake..............................................April 14, 1900................................ 76
John Bright........................................................May 8, 1950................................104
Anson Arthur ....................................................May 8, 1950................................ 126
Albert V. Youngs..............................................May 8, 1950................................ 127
Chas. W. Lunsford............................................May 8, 1950................................ 128
Martin 0. Veland ............................. ,................May 8, 1950................................ 129
Wm. E. Keogh ....................................................May 8, 1950................................ 130
Paul Thompson ................................................May 8, 1950................................ 131
Myron E. Roudebush ......................................May 8, 1950................................ 132
W. Ben Sorrells ................................................May 8, 1950................................133
Hugh D. Good ................................ - ..................May 8, 1950................................ 134
Ted R. Siems......................................................May 8, 1950................................ 136
William N. Pedder............................................May 8, 1950................................ 137
Leland E. Wallace................................ September 7, 1950................................ 17

470

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
Recognized and m Pr111ernal Relt11ion1 with the
&and Lodge of CalifONlid

Bolivia:
Isaac Saravia Noriega, Grand Secty.,
Casilla Correo No. 564,
La Paz, Bolivia.
Brazil:
The Grand Lodge of Amazon and Acre
Raymundo Coqueiro Mendes, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil
The Grand Lodie of Bahia
Satyro Brandoa, Grand Secty.,
Rua Carlos Gomes N. 21, Bahia, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of Minas Gerais
Sergio Alexandre Ivanenko, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal N. 5, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of the State of Ceara
Luiz Nepomucemo de Mattos, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal 76, Fortaleza, Estado do Ceara, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Parahyba
Orlando Rego Luna, Grand Secty.,
.
Caixa Postal No. 3, Joao Pessoa, Parahyba, Brazll.
The Grand Lodge of Para
.
Francisco da Silva Costa, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Cabm Postal 333, Belem, Para, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Rio de Janeiro
Jacy Gamier de Bacellar, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 2215, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, S. A.
The Grand Lodge of Sao Paulo
0. M. deFleury, Grand Secty., Rel Ext.,
Caixa Postal 2611, Sao Paulo, Brazil
The Grand Symbolic Lodge of Rio Grande Do Sul
J. M. Magalhaes, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 683, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil
Canada:
AlbertaGeorge Moore, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Calgary.
British ColumbiaW. R. Simpson, Grand Secty.,
692 Seymour St., Vancouver, B. C.
OntarioEwart G. Dixon, Grand Secty.,
P.O. Box 217, Hamilton, Ontario.
ManitobaDr. Peter T. Pilkey, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Winnipeg, Manitoba.
New BrunswickR. D. Magee, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, St. Johns, New Brunswick.
Nova ScotiaReginald V. Harris. Grand Secty.,
Freemasons' Hall, Halifax, Nova Scotia

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Prince Edward IslandL. A. McDougall, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 112, Charlottetown, P. E. I.
QuebecW. W. Williamson. Grand Secty.,
1559 St. Marks St., Montreal, Quebec
SaskatchewanRobt. A. Tate, Grand Secty.,
P . 0. Box 246, Regina, Saskatchewan.
Chile:
Dr. J. Eduardo Pastene, Grand Secty.,
Casilla 2867, Santiago, Chile, S. A.
Costa Bica:
Enrique Chaves Bolanos, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Y, San Jose, Costa Rica.
Cuba. Isle of:
Dr. Jose F. Castellanos, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 72, La Habana, Cuba.
"Cz&cho-Slovakla:
Grand Lodge Lessing at PragueNational Grand Lodge of Czecho-Slovakia at Prague.
Denmark:
National Grand LodgeK. J . Nilsson, Grand Secty.,
Blegdamsvej 23, Copenhagen, Denmark.
Ecuador:
Augusto Jijon T., Grand Secty.,
· Casilla No. 932, Guayaquil, Ecuador, S. A.
Egypt:

The National Grand Lodge of Egypt.
El Sayed Kami! El Sharkawy,
Beite Postale No. 1714, Cairo, Egypt.
England:
Sidney A. White, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, London, England.
Finland:
Eino Kyllonen, Grand Secty.,
Vyokatu 9 B-14, Helsinki, Finland.
"France:
Independent National Grand Lodge.
"Germany:
The Grand Lodge of Saxony.
Grand Lodge "Concord" at Darmstadt.
Grand Lodge "German Fraternal Chain" at Leipzig.
Grand National Mother Lodge of the Prussian States,
"The Three Globes" at Berlin.

471

i72

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Grand Lodge of Hamburg.
The Mother Grand Lodge of the Eclectic Union at Frankfort.
Grand Royal York Lodge of Friendship at Berlin.
The National Grand Lodge of all German Free Masons at Berlin.
The Grand Lodge "Zur Sonne" at Bayreuth.
Greece:
Dr. Antonios Rammos, Grand Secty.,
58 Ioulianou St., Athens, Greece.
Guatemala:
Oscar Paz Pinto, Grand Secty~
Apartado 312, Guatemala Ciiy, C. A.
Honduras:
Constantino S. Ramos, Grand Secty.,
Teguciagalpa, Honduras.
Ireland:
H. C. Shellard, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, Dublin, Ireland.
Mexico:
York Grand Lodge of Mexico
William Webber, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 1986, Mexico, D. F.
Grand Lodge of Baja California
Alfonso Gomez Pereyra, Grand Sec.,
Apartado 42, Tujuana, Baja California.
Independent Grand Lodge "Cosmos"
Rigoberto Trevino1 Grand Secty.,
Apartado 171, Chihuahua, Chih., Mexico.
Grand Lodge of the State of Nuevo Leon
Esteban Leal Villareal, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 390, Monterrey, Nuevo Leon, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of the Pacific
Alonzo Castanedo, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 20, Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of Tamaulipas
Jose I. Casarrubias, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 419, Tampico, Tamps., Mexico.
Grand Lodge Unida Mexicana
Angel Galindo Cruz, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 56, Veracruz, Ver., Mexico.
Grand Lodge "Valle de Mexico"
Alejandro Garcia Bustos, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal 10, Mexico, D. F.
Netherlands:
Grootoosten der Nederlanden,
Dr. A. A. Galestin, Grand Secty.,
22 Fluweelen Burgwal, The Hague.
New South Wales:
United Grand Lodge of New South Wales,
James S. Miller, Grand Secretary,
Masonic Hall, Sidney, N.S.W.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

New Zealand:
H. A. Lamb, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 1193, Wellington, New Zeland.
Nicaragua:
Agustin Vanegas P ., Grand Secty.
Apartado 102, Managua, Republic of Nicaragua.
Norway:
Odd I;-ie-Davidsen, Grand Secty.,
Frnnurerlogen, Nedre Vollgate 19, Oslo, Norway.
Panama:
W. Julio Icaza, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 84, Republic of Panama.
Peru:
Jorge Torres Ugarriza, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 587, Lima, Peru.
Philippine Islands:
Antonio Gonzales, Grand Secty.,
520 San Marcelino, Manila, P. I.
Puerto Rico:
Angel M. Torres, Grand Secty.,
P . 0. Box 747, San Juan, Puerto Rico.
Queensland:
E.G. Radford, Grand Secty.,
Box 675, K. G. P. 0., Brisbane, Australia.
Salvador (Cusc:atlan):
Carlos Alfonso Castellanos, Grand Secty.,
San Salvador, C. A.
Scotland:
Alexander F. Buchan, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons' Hall, 96 George St., Edinburgh, 2, Scotland.
South Australia:
F. J. Ellen. Grand Secty.,
Box 19, Rundle St. P. 0 ., Adelaide, So. Australia.
Sweden:
Eric Hallin, Grand Secty.,
Frimurareorden, Blasieholmsgatan 6, Stockholm, Sweden.
Switzerland:
Grand Lodge Swisse Alpina,
Alfred Siza, Grand Secty.,
25, Bd. du Pont - d 'Arve, 25, Geneva, Switzerland.
Tasmania:
H. A. Wilkinson, Grand Secty.,
1177 MacQuarie St., Hobart, Tasmania.
Venezuelar
Napoleon Camacho B., Gr·a nd Secty .,
Apartado de Correos 927, Caracas, Venezuela.

473

474

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Victoria:
United Grand Lodge,
W. Stewart, Grand Secty.,
25 Collins St., Melbourne, Australia.
*Vienna:
Western Australia:
F. W. M. Sanders, Grand Secty.,
G. P.O. Box D-177, Perth, Australia.
"YugoslaTia:
Grand Lodge of the Servs-Croats & Slovenes.
•Recognized by the Grand Lodge of California prior to ~eing rendered
inoperative before and during World War II, subsequent to which no resumption of fraternal relations has been effected.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

475

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
A
A. F. E. Irwin (645), San Pedro.
Abell (146), Ukiah.
Acacia (438), Los Angeles.
Acorn (494), Oakland.
Adin (250), Adin.
Alamo (122), Walnut Creek.
Alameda (167), Centerville.
Albany (686), Albany.
Albert Pike (484), Los Angeles.
Alcatraz (244), Oakland.
Alexandria (531), San Francisco.
Alexander Graham Bell (895),
Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilton (535),
Los Angeles.
Alhambra (322), Alhambra.
Alisal (321), Pleasanton.
All States (593), Long Beach.
Alpha (431), Richmond.
Alta (333), Bridgeport.
Altadena (678), Altadena.
Alto Loma (643), Signal Hill
Alta Vista (464), San Francisco.
Alturas (248), Alturas.

Amador (65), Jackson.
America (475), Los Angeles.
Amity (370), San Francisco.
Anacapa (710, Oxnard.
Anaheim (207), Anaheim.
Anchor (273), Compton.
Angeles Mesa (625) , Los Angeles
Antioch (175), Antioch.
Apollo (396), Alameda.
Arcadia (547), Arcadia.
Arbuckle (182), Arbuckle.
Arcata (106), Arcata.
Argonaut (461), San Francisco.
Argonne (514), San Francisco.
Arroyo (274), Arroyo Grande.
Arlington (414), Los Angeles.
Artesia (377), Artesia.
Ascot (538), Los Angeles.
Ashlar (306), Colton.
Atascadero (493), At ascadero.
Athens (228), Davis.
Atwater (622), Los Angeles.
Azure (533), Fullerton.
Azusa (305), Azusa.

B
Bakersfield (224), Bakersfield.
Balder (393), San Francisco.
Baldwin Park (660), Baldwin Park.
Barstow (682), Barstow.
Bay City (526), San Francisco.
Bay View (401), Oakland.
Bear Mountain (76), Angels Camp.
Bell (483), Bell.
Bellflower (523), Bellflower.
Belvedere (539), Monterey Park.
Benevolence (631), Los Angeles.
Benicia (5), Benicia.
Benj. Franklin (509), Los Angeles.
Berkeley (363), Berkeley.

Bethlehem (453), San Francisco.
Beverly Hills (528), Beverly Hills.
Big Bear (617), Big Bear Lake.
Bixby Knolls (699), Long Beach.
Blackmer (442), San Diego.
Blythe (473), Blythe.
Brawley (402), Brawley.
Brentwood (345), Brentwood.
Brooklyn (225), East Oakland.
Buckeye (195), Winters.
Buena Park (357), Buena Park.
Burbank (406), Burbank.
Burlingame (400), Burlingame.

c
Cahuenga (513), Los Angeles.
Calaveras (78), San Andreas.
Caledonia (486), Bakersfield.
Calexico (412), Calexico.
California (1), San Francisco.
Callayomi (282), Middletown.
Calistoga (233), Calistoga.
Canby Cross (679), Tulelake.
Canoga (611), Canoga Park.
Capital City (499), Sacramento.
Carmel (680), Carmel.
Carmelita (599), Pasadena.
Carpinteria (444), Carpinteria.
Carquinez (337), Crockett.

Catalina Island (524), Avalon.
Center (465), Fresno.
Charity (362), Campbell.
Charter Rock (510), Berkeley.
Chateau Thierry (569), Oakland.
Chico (111), Chico.
·
Chino Valley (427), Chino.
Chowchilla (485), Chowchilla.
Chula Vista (626), Chula Vista.
Citrol (656), Brea.
Claiborne (185), Point Arena.
Claremont (436), Claremont.
Clarence F. Smith (482), Los Angeles.
Clay (101), Dutch Flat.
Clear Lake (183), Lower Lake.

476

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

Clovis (417), Clovis.
Coachella (476), Coachella.
Coalinga (387), Coalinga.
Colusa (240), Colusa.
Compass (590), Pomona.
Composite (639), Los Angeles.
Concord (117), Sacramento.
Confidence (203), Castroville.
Consuelo (325), Escondido.
Corcoran (490), Corcoran.
Corinthian (9), Marysville.
Corona (324), Pasadena.
Coronado (441), Coronado.

Covelo (231), Covelo.
Covenant (527), Los Angeles.
Covina (334), Covina.
Craftsmen (559), Los Angeles.
Crescenta Valley (652), Montrose.
Crescent (45), Crescent City.
Crocker (454), Daly City.
Crockett (139), San Francisco.
Crossroads (696) San Diego
Culver City (467), Culver City.
Cupertino (510), Cupertino.
Curtis (140), Cloverdale.

D
Damascus (648), San Bernardino.
Delano (309), Delano.
Delta (471), Stockton.
Dimond (603), Oakland.
Dinuba (385), Dinuba.
Doric (216), San Francisco.

Dos Palos (681), Dos Palos.
Downey (220), Downey.
Drytown (174), Plymouth.
Dunsmuir (297), Dunsmuir.
Durant (268), Berkeley.

E
Elsinore (289), Elsinore.
Eagle Rock (422), Los Angeles.
East Bay (489), Berkeley.
El Segundo (507), El Segundo.
El Sereno (588), Los Angeles.
East Belt (391), Tuolumne.
Elysian (418), Los Angeles.
East Gate (290), Los Angeles.
East San Diego (561), East San Diego. Emmanuel (318), Biggs.
Enterprise (70), Yuba City.
Eden (113), San Leandro.
Educator (554), San Francisco.
Escalon (591), Escalon.
Eucalyptus (243), Haywards.
Eel River (147), Fortuna.
El Cajon Valley (576), El Cajon.
Euclid (519), Los Angeles.
Eureka {16), Auburn.
El Centro (384), El Centro.
Evening Star (186), Etna Mills.
El Cerrito (705), El Cerrito.
Evergreen (259), Riverside.
El Dorado (26), Placerville.
Elk Grove (173), Elk Grove.
Excelsior (166), San Francisco.
Exeter (424), Exeter.
Elmhurst (610), Oakland.

F
Fairfax (556), San Anselmo.
Fairmount (435), San Francisco.
Fairview (629) , Los Angeles.
Fallbrook (317), Fallbrook.
Far West (673), San Francisco
Fellowship (480), Oakland.
Ferndale (193), Ferndale.
Fidelity (120), San Francisco.
Fillmore (379), Fillmore.
Florence (649), Los Angeles.
Fontana (653), Fontana.
Foothill (564), Oakland.
Forbestown, (50), Forbestown.
Forest (66), Alleghany.

Forest Hill (534), San Francisco.
Fort Bragg (361), Fort Bragg.
Fort Crook (575), Fall River Mills.
Fortitude (624), Oakland.
Francis Drake (376), South San
Francisco.
Francis K. Shattuck (571), Berkeley.
Franklin (143), Courtland.
Fraternity (399), San Jose.
Fremont (497), Oakland.
Fresno (247), Fresno.
Friendship (210), San Jose.
Fruitvale (336), Oakland.
Fullerton (339), Fullerton.

G
Galt (267), Galt.
Garden Grove (586)~ Garden Grove.
Gardena (372), Garoena.
Garvanza (492), Los Angeles.

Georgetown .(25), Georgetown.
George Washington (525),
San Francisco.
Glassell Park (605), Los Angeles.

Glendale (544), Glendale.
Glendora (404), Glendora.
Golden Gate (30), San Francisco.
Golden Rule (479), San Jose.
Golden State (358), Los Angeles.
Golden West (455), San Francisco.
Gold Hill (32), Lincoln.

477

Grafton (141) 1 Knights Landing.
Granada (608J, Alhambra.
Gravel Range (59), Camptonville.
Greenleaf (670), Whittier.
Grizzly (601), Portola.
Guadalupe (237), Guadalupe.
Guardian (596), South Gate.

H
Hammonton (433), Hammonton.
Highland Park (382), Los Angeles.
Hanford (279\.Hanford.
Hillcrest (573), Berkeley.
Harbor (502), .1:tichmond.
Hill's Ferry (236), Newman.
Harding (584), Los Angeles.
Hiram (43), El Dorado.
Harmony (164), Sierra City.
Hollenbeck (319), Los Angeles.
Hartley (199), Lakeport.
Hollywood (355), Hollywood.
Hawaiian (21), Honolulu, T. H.
Holtville (425), Holtville.
Hawthorne (647), Hawthorne.
Honolulu (409), Honolulu, T. H.
Hemet (615), Hemet.
Hope (234), Beckwourth.
Henry Clay (95), Sutter Creek.
Hornitos (98), Hornitos.
Henry Knox (662), Los Angeles.
Howard (37), Yreka .
Henry Morse Stephens (541), Berkeley.Humboldt (79), Eureka.
Henry S. Orme (458), Los Angeles.
Hunters Point Naval (706),
Hermann (127), San Francisco.
San Francisco.
Hermosa (557), Hermosa Beach.
Huntington Beach (3ll0),
Hesperian (264), Santa Maria.
Huntington Beach.

I
Illinoistown (51), Colfax.
Imperial (390), Imperial.
Ingleside (630), San Francisco.
Inglewood (421), Inglewood.
Indian Rock (638), Berkeley.

Indian Wells Valley (691), Inyokern.
Ione (80), Ione.
Ionic (520), Los Angeles.
Inyo (221), Independence.

J

James A Foshay (641). Los Angeles. John P. Jarman (669), San Jose.
James A. Garfield (566), Los Angeles. Jonathan (545), San Francisco.
James Madison (572), Los Angeles.
Joppa (508), San Joaquin.
Janesville (232), Janesville.
Jordan (654), Los Angeles.
Jewel (374), San Francisco.
Jubilee (604), Santa Ana.
John D. Spreckels (657), San Diego. Justice (549), San Francisco.
John Marshall (636), Beverly Hills.

K
Kauai (598), Lihue, T. H.
Kaweah (6651 Woodlake.
Keith (187).lyilroy.
·
Kerma:n (4~). Kerman.

Keystone (161), Milton.
Kilauea (330), Hilo, T. H.
King David's (209), San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's (260), San Francisco.

L
La Brea (650), Los Angeles.
La Cumbre (642), Santa Barbara.
La Fayette (126), Sebastopol.
Laguna Beach (672), Laguna Beach.
La Habra (659), La Habra.
La Jolla (518), La Jolla.
Lakeshore (551), Oakland.
Lake Tahoe (707), Bijou.

Lamanda Park (627), Pasadena.
La Mesa (407), Le Mesa.
Lancaster (437), Lancaster.
Landmark (253), Esparto.
Lankershim (542), North Hollywood.
La Puenta (446), Puenta.
Larchmont (614), Los Angeles.
La Parfaite Union (17), San Francisco.

478

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

Livingston (658), Livingston.
Las Palmas (366), Fresno.
Lodi (256), Lodi.
Lassen (149), Susanville.
Lomita (644}, Torrance.
Laurel (245), Willows.
Lompoc (262), Lompoc.
Lebanon (495), San Francisco.
Long Beach (327), Long Beach.
le Progres de l'Oceanie (371),
Lorenzo (709), Hayward.
Honolulu, T. H.
Los Angeles (42), Los Angeles.
Lexington (104), El Monte.
Liberal Arts (677), West Los Angeles. Los Banos (312), Los Banos.
Los Cerritos (674), Long Beach.
Libertas (466), Bakersfield.
Los Gatos (292), Los Gatos.
Liberty (299), Santa Clara.
Loyalton (359), Loyalton.
Lincoln (470), San Francisco.
Loyalty (529), Los Angeles.
Lindsay (416), Lindsay.
Lynwood (600), Lynwood.
Live Oak (61), Oakland.

M
Madera (280), Madera.
Mission (169), San Francisco.
Madison (23), Grass Valley.
Mizpah (378), Los Angeles.
Magnolia (242), Santa Barbara.
Modesto (675), Modesto.
Malta (661), Los Angeles.
Molino (150), Tehama.
Manchester (585), Los Angeles.
Moneta (405), Los Angeles.
Maricopa (434), Maricopa.
Monrovia (308), Monrovia.
Marin (191), San Rafael.
Montebello (451), Montebello.
Mariposa (24), Mariposa.
Monterey (217), Monterey.
Martinez (41), Martinez.
Monte Vista (655), Long Beach.
Maui (472), Maui, Kahului, T. H.
Morgan Hill (463), Morgan Hill.
Maxwell (288), Maxwell.
Morning Star (68), Stockton.
McCloud (430), McCloud.
Mosaic (218), Livermore.
McKinley (347), Richmond.
Mountain Shade (18), Downieville.
Melrose (602), Los Angeles.
Mountain View (194),
Menlo Park (651), Palo Alto.
Mountain View.
.
Menorah (623), Los Angeles.
Mount Davidson (481), San Francisco.
Mendocino (179), Mendocino.
Mount Diablo (448), Concord.
Meridian (667), Glendale.
Mount Jackson (295), Guerneville.
Metropolitan (646), Los Angeles.
Mount Moriah (44), San Francisco.
Meudell (695) Bakersfield
Mount Olive (506), Los Angeles.
Midway (426), Taft.
Mount Oso (460), Tracy.
Military Service (570), San Francisco. Mount Shasta (281), Anderson.
Mount Vernon (517), San Francisco.
Mill Valley (356), Mill Valley.

N
Natoma (64), Folsom.
Naval (87), Vallejo.
Needles (326), Needles.
Neptune (619), Long Beach.
Nevada (13), Nevada City.
Nicolaus (129), Wheatland.

Normal Heights (632), San Diego.
North Butte (230), Gridley.
North East (266). Fort Bidwell.
Northern Light (190), Milville.
North Star (91), Fort Jones.
Norwalk (315), Norwalk.

0
Oakdale (275), Oakdale. ·
Oak Grove (215), Alameda.
Oakland (188), Oakland.
Occidental (22), San Francisco.
Ocean Park (369), Oceanpark.
Oceanside (381), Oceanside.
Oildale (688), Bakersfield.
Ojai (663), Ojai.
Olive Branch (269), Tulare.
Olivet (205), Corning.

Ontario (301), Ontario.
Ophir (33), Murphy's.
Orange Grove (293), Orange.
Oriental (144), San Francisco.
Orinda (704), Orinda.
Orland (265), Orland.
Orosi (383), Orosi.
Oroville (103), Oroville.
Oxnard (341), Oxnard.

479

p
Pacific (136), San Francisco.
Pacific Grove (331), Pacific Grove.
Pajaro (110), Watsonville.
Palestine (351), Los Angeles.
Palisades (637), Santa Monica.
Palm Springs (693), Palm Springs.
Palms (512), Palms.
Palo Alto (346), Palo Alto.
Palos Verdes (389), Long Beach.
Park (449), San Francisco.
Park Boulevard (568), Oakland.
p,a rnassus (388), San Francisco.
Pasadena (272), Pasadena.
Paso Robles (286), Paso Robles.
Patterson (488), Patterson.
Paul Revere (462), San Francisco.
Pearl Harbor (598), Honolulu, T. H .
Penrhyn (358), Penryn.
Pentalpha (202), Los Angeles.
Perris (411), Perris.
Queen Beach (540), Long Beach.
Ramona (457), Monterey Park.
Reading (254), Redding.
Redlands (300), Redlands.
R. E. Dolly (616), Seal Beach.
Redondo (328), Redondo Beach.
Redwood City (168), Redwood City.
Redwood Empire (683), Garberville.
Reedley (304), Reedley.
Reseda (666), Reseda.
Rialto (582), Rialto .
Richmond (375), San Francisco.
Rio Vista (208), Rio Vista.

Petaluma (180), Petaluma.
Phoenix (178), San Bernardino.
Piedmont (521), Piedmont.
Pinole (353), Hercules.
Pittsburg (429), Pittsburg.
Plumas (60), Quincy.
Plymouth (560), Oakland.
Pohona (689), Yosemite Valley.
Poinsettia (633), Ventura.
Point (503), Richmond.
Point Firmin (558), San Pedro.
Point Loma (620), San Diego.
Pomona (246), Pomona.
Ponderosa (700), Fresno.
Porterville (303), Porterville.
Presidio (354), San Francisco.
Progressive (578), Los Angeles.
Provident (609), Sacramento.
Pyramid (562), San Francisco.

Q
R
Rim of the World (711),
Lake Arrowhead.
Rising Light (397), Huntington Park.
Riverbank (459), Riverbank.
Riverside (635), Riverside.
Rockridge (468), Oakland.
Roosevelt (500), San Francisco.
Rosemead (702), Rosemead.
Rose's Bar (89), Smartsville.
Roseville (222), Roseville.
Russian River (181), Windsor.

s

Sacramento (40), Sacramento.
San Marino (685), South Pasadena.
Saint Elmo (697) Oakland
San Mateo (226), San Mateo.
Saint Helena (93), St. Helena.
San Miguel (285), San Miguel.
Salinas (204), Salinas.
San Pasqual (452), Pasadena.
San Ant?nio (694), So1;1th Gate.
San Pedro (332), San Pedro.
San Benito <?11), HollISter.
San Simeon (196), Cambria.
San Bernardmo (348), San Bernardino.Santa Ana (241), Santa Ana.
San Buenaventura (214), Ventura.
Santa Barbara (192), Santa Barbara.
San Carlos (690), San Carlos.
Santa Cruz (38), Santa Cruz.
San qemente (671), S!in Clemente.
Santa Lucia (302), King City.
San D~ego (35), San Die~o.
Santa Maria (580), Ramona.
San Dimas (428), San Dimas.
Santa Monica (307), Santa Monica.
San Fernando (343), San Fernando. Santa Paula (291) Santa Paula
San Francisco (360), San Francisco. Santa Rosa (57) Santa Rosa ·
San Gabriel (546), San Gabriel.
Santa Ynez Valley (701) Lo~ Olivos
San Gorgonio (668), Banning.
Schofield (443), Schofield Barracks,
Sanger (316), Sanger.
T. H.
San Jacint~ (338), San Jacinto.
Seafaring (708), Costa Mesa.
San Joaqum (19), Stockton.
Seal Rock (536), San Francisco.
San Jose (10), San Jose.
Seaport (550), San Francisco.

480

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
Searchlight (567), Long Beach.
Seaside (504), Long Beach.
Security (581), Bakersfield.
Selma (277), Selma.
Semper Virens (552), Eureka.
Sequoia (349), Oakland.
Service (594), Long Beach.
Sierra Madre (408), Sierra Madre.
Sierra Valley (184), Sierraville.
Signal (543), Long Beach.
Silver Cord (505), Santa Ana.
Silver Gate (296), San Diego.
Silver Trowel (415), Los Angeles.
Silveyville (201), Dixon.
Sincerity (132), Greenville.
Sisson (310), Mount Shasta.
Smyrna (532), Ceres.
Snow Mountain (271), Stony Ford.
Sojourner (507), Monrovia.
Solano (229), Vallejo.
Sotoyome (123), Healdsburg.
Southern California (278),
Los Angeles.

South Gate (320), Los Angeles.
Southland (618), Los Angeles.
South Park (563), Los Angeles.
South Pasadena (367),
South Pasadena.
South San Francisco (212),
San Francisco.
South West (283), National City.
Speranza Italiana (219),
San Francisco.
Standard (440), Oakland.
Stanislaus (206), Modesto.
Starr King (344), San Francisco.
Stockton (498), Stockton.
Suisun (55), Suisun.
Summit (112), Knights Ferry.
Sun Garden (530), Fresno.
Sunnyside (577), Los Angeles.
Sunnyvale (511), Sunnyvale.
Sunrise (522), Los Angeles.
Sunset (352), Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley (235), Cedarville.
S. W. Hackett (574), San Diego.

T
Table Mountain (124), Paradise.
Taft (516), Taft.
Tehachapi (313), Tehachapi.
Tehama (3), Sacramento.
Temescal (214), Corona.
Temblor (477), Fellows.
Temple (14), Sonoma.
Temple City (612), Temple City.
Texas (46), San Juan Bautista.
The Gardens (621), Los Angeles.
Thousand Oaks (478), Berkeley.
Three Pillars (613), Sacramento.
Torrance (447), Torrance.

Travelers (692), Sacramento.
Traver (294), Kingsburg.
Triangle (548), Venice.
Trinity (27), Weaverville.
Trona (684), Trona.
Truckee (200), Truckee.
Truth (628), Los Angeles.
Tujunga (592), Tujunga.
Tuolumne (8), Sonora.
Turlock (395), Turlock.
Tuscan (261), Williams.
Tyrian (439), Manteca.

u
Union (58), Sacramento.
Unity (368), Glendale.
University (394), Los Angeles.

Upland (419), Upland.
Utopia (537), Los Angeles.

v
Vacaville (134), Vacaville.
Valle de France (329), Los Angeles.
Vallejo (487), Vallejo.
Valley (135), Linden.
Valley Forge 587), Los Angeles.
Van Nuys (450), Van Nuys.
Veritas (640), San Francisco.
Vermont Square (515), Los Angeles.

Vesper (84), Red Bluff.
Victorville (634), Victorville.
Victory (474), San Francisco.
Visalia (128), Visalia.
Vista (687), Vista.
Vitruvius (145), Bloomfield.
Volcano (56), Volcano.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

481

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

w
Warren G. Harding (579),
White Pine (555), Weed.
North Sacramento.
Whittier (323), Whittier.
Wasco (583), Wasco.
William D. Stephens (698) Los Angeles
Washington (20), Sacramento.
Willits (365), Willits.
Welcome (255), Lemoore.
Willow Glen (676), San Jose.
West Adams (565), Los Angeles.
Wilmington (198), Wilmington.
Westchester (703), Los Angeles.
Wilshire (445), Los Angeles.
Western Star (2), Shasta.
Winnedumah (287), Bishop.
West Gate (335), Los Angeles.
Woodridge (131), Woodridge.
West Lake (392), Los Angeles.
Woodland (156), Woodland.
West Los Angeles (373), Los Angeles. Woodstock (491), Alameda.
Westwood (501), Westwood.

y
Yerba Buena (403), Oakland.
Yolo (81), Yolo.
Yorba Linda (469), Yorba Linda.

York (423), Los Angeles.
Yosemite (99), Merced.
Yount (12), Napa.

482

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Master and Members of Grand Lodge
of California:
FOREWORD
Once again your Committee on Correspondence has finished its
Cook's Tour of the Masonic Globe and has returned to the Temple to
make its annual report.
The several months spent in mental travel. first within our own
Golden Empire. disclosed that California in its Centennial year is Grand
Tiler of 606 Subaltern Lodges and some 197.000 Master Masons constituting their membership.
Your Committee realizes that a certain much is lacking in this report
-that Stalin and the Vatican. Tito and Franco still hold a tight yoke
on a great part of Europe and Asia.
Reports of a sort indicate that in Greece. France, and Israel the altar
with its Sacred Volume has been erected and maintained, while in the
Philippine Islands, Masonry again has been enabled to assume a
stronger hold. In Red China six Lodges manage to maintain their
identity, while in Japan two Lodges hold their authority for parentage
likewise from the Philippine Jurisdiction.
In South American Countries recognition generally is withheld either
because of the absence of the Holy Bible from the altar or because of
unfriendly church dominance. Masonry of a type is to be found but
it is of a clandestine sort.
And now after a long swing of years your California Committee on
Correspondence has altered its mode of report, changing from the
Topical to the Reportorial form of presentation by Jurisdictions. We
liked. in truth we rather preferred, the well established Topical style
of telling our story. California. as a jurisdiction, long has adhered to
this thesaurus of Masonic experiences and teachings. However. it
seemed best that with the growth and spread of Masonry some way
should be found whereby the burden might be carried more equitably
upon many shoulders instead of on one ·back. as the last steep editorial
grade hove in sight.
In searching the archives for a good and sufficient reason for the existence of a Committee on Correspondence. we came upon the following
answer to our query from the mind of Brother Jesse M . Whited, member
and Chairman of this Committee for over twenty years :
The functions of the Committee on Correspondence can be
traced back to Revolutionary days. In order to maintain contacts
between the various Colonies committees were appointed for this
purpose, and afterward this procedure among Grand Lodges was

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

483

adopted in order that the members might be informed of what was
transpiring in the different jurisdictions.
. The Chair~an'. or Correspondence Committee of any jurisdiction, aft~r ~eviewmg the Proceedings of the various Grand Lodges,
per~aps is in a better position to give to the Craft what has occurred
dur~ng the preceding year. Extracts from the forewords of the
chairmen o~ a n~mber of jurisdictions! are perhaps the best index
as to what is taking place in Masonry at ·the present time
The quotation is from the Foreword to Brother Whited'~ Report
of 1940.
B_efore takin.g this venturesome step we sought the good and wise
advice .?f ~ertam Masonic luminaries, and the most direct reply seemed
to be: Give _them something short-something that they will read."
As to brevity we fear again we have failed. As to its acceptabilitywe only can ask your kind indulgence, as we pause on the threshold of
a ·1ew Century.
JAMES K. FISK
OSCAR
OLSEN
FREDERICK 0. EATON
NEWCOMB CONDEE
HERBERT G. POLHILL
EDWIN R. BROOKS
CLYDE 0 . HUGHES

c.

484

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

185

INDEX OF SUBJECTS
Foreign Freemasonry
Domestic Freemasonry
Page
Arizona ·-······························-································-·····················································-···· 489
Arkansas ..........................................................:,•...........;..................................,.............,... 489
Colorado .................................................................................................... _............•..._....... 491
Connecticut .........................................:.............................................................'...........;:,,....• 491

Page
Australia .............................................................................................................................. 5i3

Western Australia ..................................................................................................... 5i3
South Wales ............................................................................................................... 546
Queensland ................................................................................................................. 548
South Australia .......................................................................................................... 5i9
Tasmania ................................................................................................................... 551

Delaware ·--···········································-··················································-····..··················· 493
District of Columbia ........................................................................,................................ 494
Georgia ........................,...................................................................................................... 495
Idaho ...............................................,........................................................-......................... 496
Illinois .................................................................................................................................. 497

Canada ....................................................,............................................................................. 552

Indiana ············-·················································-··-······-··-············'··············-.··················· 499
Iowa ...............................................................................................,....................................... 500

Alberta ....................................................................................................................... 552
British Columbia ......................................................................................................... 553
Ontario ....................................................................................................................... 55i

Kansas ································-·······································-·····················--·····················-'·········· 502

E:~~~~s~~:~~:::::::=: : : =: : : : : : : : : : =: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :=: : : : : : : : : : : : : ~~

Nova Scotia ..............-'·······-'--···--···-------······--···--·-...........................-......................... 555
Quebec: .......................................................................................................................... 555
Saskatchewan ............................................................................,................................ 557

Minnesota ........................................................................................................................... 505
Mississippi ............................................................................................................................. 506
Missouri ................................•..............;................................................................................ 507
Montana ......................,.............;........................................................................................ 507

Grand Lodge of England .........................................................;........................................... 558

Nebraska ···············································-········································'··································· 508
Nevada ......................................................................,..........................................- ........•.• 509
New Hampshire ................................................................................................................. 510
New Jersey •..........,............................................................................................................. 512
New York ............................................................................................................................ 513
North Carolina ..................................~.......,...................................,.....,....•......................... 516
North Dakota ··································-···········-·······-····-···············--............................,....• 516
Ohio .........................................l .................•~···············-············-·······························-······- 517
Oklahoma 76th Annual Communication ........................................................................ 519
Oklahoma 77th Annual Communication ........................................................................ 522

Ireland ........................................................................................................ ......................... 55g
Mexico ................................................................................................................................. 561
Philippine Islands ....................................................................................... ......................... 56i
Masons Desolved - ...........................,........................................................ ......................... 569

E::;;;~~--~: : : : : :=: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :=: : : : : : : : ~: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ~~i

Tennessee ................................................................:.......................................................... 528
Texas .....~............................................................................................................................. 529
Utah .....................................................................................................,.............................. 530

~§~~~~~~~~~~~:~:~~~:~;~~=~~~~~:~::~~~~~~~=~~~ ~~

Wyoming ····-···-··-··-···········-···················.·········-····-··--·········.......................,,...•.......• 540

_________

.......-.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1949-1950 STATISTICS
1. United States of America

4. Philippine Islands

48()

-

No. of MemberLodir••
•hip

G RAND LODGES

Alabama ·····--··--·········
Arizona ···········--······-·····
Arkansas ·····-··-·--·········
California ········-·--·····
Colorado ···············--·····
Connecticut -····-·-·-·-···
Delaware ·····-·····-············
District of Columbia ··Florida ·····-·····-···············
Georgia -·······-·········-···
Idaho -·--···-···--···-·····
Illinola ---············--·······
Indiana -·-··············-·····Iowa ·····-············-··--··-···
Kansas ····-·······--··---··
Kentucky ·······-··--·-····
~uisiana •.... -..--·-·····Maine ..........................,..Maryland ..........................
Massachusetts .....•.........
Michigan .•...••.................
Mlnneeota ........................
MiHis1ippl ·············-·······
Missouri ··-························
Montana -····-········ ..··•···
Nebraoka ..........................
Nevada ..............................
New Hampahlre ........-·-···

421
41
884
604
160
131
22
48
242
470
81
976
638
646
440

473
261
207
124
829
626
292

sos

601
136
276
27
81

60,302
8,483
49,664
192,152
39,272
48,894
6,706
24,674
46,851
67,691
12,622
287,967
160,951
87,668
89,479
78,197
89,986
48,260
40,001
114,260
168,261
60,717
41,168
112,668
28,268
40,621
4,293
16,176

No. of Memllerahip

Lod&'H

92,876
283
New Jeraey ................
10,621
69
New Mexico
is2,610
1,048
•New York ·········-··-···48,478
827
North Carolina. ·-·······
18,876
119
North Dakota. ............
248,906
632
Ohio ··--·······--·-····78,829
384
Oklahoma -··-·--·-·····
88,161
188
Oregon - ·····-··-·············
224,222
674
Pennsy]vania -··········
16,680
44
Rhode Ialand
41,681
286
South Carolina ..........
17,967
168
South Dakota ··--·-···
64,876
376
Tennessee ...................
191,918
908
Texao ·-·- ·-········--·······
6,807
28
Utah ·-···-····-····-·-·-···
18,862
103
Vermont ·-··········-··-66,767
882
Virginia ·-·······-······-···
59.488
271
Waahlngton .............. 40,88S
164
W~ot V~rginia ............
69,987
806
W1scane1n ..-·-··············
10,767
60
Wyoming ·······-····-·······
Total for United State• 16,869 8~
UPuerto Rico .•.•...........
61
6,187
~Ive of American Lodge of Reaearch, Sea and Field, No. 1 and el1rht
Lodgeo In Syria-Lebanon District.
UAs of December 81, 1947.

2. Dominion of Canada
Yeara
Or1ranised

GRAND LODGES

46
79
96
76
88

Alberts ............................................................................................................
British Columbia ............................................................................................
Canada-in Ontario -·----·-·····-··········-······-···············-···········--······-···
Manitoba .......................- ....................................................- ..........................
• ~~:a ~~~i~w·I·~-~..
Prince Edward Ialand ······-·····················-············-····-············-····-·-···
Quebec ............................................................................................................... .
Saskatchewan - - ·- -····-··-·-······-·------···- ···-···-······-·-·····-

::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::

"I

84

75
81

"

Total for Canada ···-·-·-··----·--·--········-·····-········-·--·-···
Total for United StateL.............................·-····--·-···················-···········
Total for North America.............................- -·-··-··-··-··-··-···-···········

14,886
17,600
112,781
18,600
7,646
12,471
1,240
16,613
lS,287

1,428
16,869

212,428
8,610,474

16,781

8,7Z2,897

3. Australasia
Year.
Or1ranlsed

New South Wale• - - · ··-··············-··-··········-··--·········--·············-······- ······
New Zealand.........................................................................................................
--··-··- ···- ············-··-·-·-····- ·······-·-·-····-······-·-·-·-·-.
Queensland
South Australia -·-·-·-·····- ··--··---···---···-··--···-·-··-·--···-···
Tasmania ---·-··············-·- ··-----····-····-··--··-·---·-··-·Victoria ··----··-····-·---·-··--·-····-·-·- - - - - - · - - · · ·
Western Australia -·-··-·-··-····--··-··-····-··-···········--··-·-··-----Total for Australia ···--·--···-···········-·--··········-···········-······---

62
60
29
68
60
81
60

98

No. of Meml>erLodaea ahip
747
850
886
172
60
650
240

107,244
86,124
21,444
20,886
6,890
81,882
17,082

2,628

300,001

6, 819

5. Great Britain, Scotland, Ireland~1948
GRAND LODGES

Year•
Or1ranlzed

En1rland, 1948 ...............................- ..- ...........................- ·····--······· ..···············
Scotland, 1948 -·-······-··--·-· ..················.................- .......,...........- .................
Ireland, 1948 ···········-······-·-··-·········---········ ..····················-·..·-··· ..·········-···

232
218

No. of MemberLodge1
ahip
6,097
900•
1,012

550,000
567,498
46,000

8,009

1,162,498

• 67 4 In Scotland ; 826 Overseas.

6. Latin America
GRAND LODGES
Bolivia ...................................
Chile ···········-···················..
Colombia, National Grand
.Lodge of (Barranquilla)
Cuba· ·······-··-·······-·······-····-..
Peru -·-·······--..---..········-·······
Rio de Janeiro (Federal
Diotrlct) ··················--····

··-

16
86

2,128
5,114

9
206
36

650
17,500
660

9

1,120

No. ot MemberLodgeo
•hip

GRAND LODGES

No. of Member1hlp
Lod&'e•

No. of . Memllerahlp
164
129
576
108
46
97
16
99
204

No. of MemberLodges
1hlp

Phlllpplnee

San Salvador (Cuacatlan)
Del Pacifico ························
Mexico, United Grand
Lodge OrientalPeninsular
York Grand
Mexico ··························-..

8
15

Total for Latin America

77
582

16

660

10

528

406

28,804

r,;;;i;;-.;f........

7. Continental Europe

Lod&'ea

• A1 of December 81, 1948.

GRAND LODGES

Years
Or1ranlzed

GRAND LODGES

GRAND LODGES

487

GRAND LODGES

Finland ................................
Norway ................................
Sweden ..................................

No. of MemberLodgeo
ahlp
5

20
49

GRAND LODGES

213
10,000
28,100

No. of MemberLodgea
ahip

Estimated Total for
Continental E u rope....

74

88,818

GRAND TOTAL (1949-1950)
Lod1reo
No. of

United States of America.·-·-······-··-············..
Puerto Rico ...............- ..............--.. - ..................
Dominion of Canada ....................·-·-·-············
Australasia ......................................................... .
Philippines ......................................................- ...
• China ··-···············-······-·············· ....- ...................
England, 1948 .....................................................
Scotland, 1948 ......................................................
Ireland, 1948 ........................................................

15,859
61
1,426
2,628
98

Total ..•••..- ............................................... - .. .

27,088

6

Lou

Memberahlp

Gain

112,502

•

S,510,474
5,187
212,428
800,001
6,819
778
550,000
587,498
45,000

136

5,666, 892

188,202

Gain
31

........T4
91

6,097
900

7,818
17,887

•Six lodgeB tranaferred from Grand Lodge of Philippines to form Grand Lodge of China,
194S-Contlnental Europe ............................
194S-Latln America ...- ...................................

7'
406

The Committee will welcome any addit ional information available.
spondence Chairman, care of Grand Secretary.

83,818
28,804
P lease 1end to Corre-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

488

ARIZONA

1950 ANNIVERSARIES OF UNITED STATES
GRAND LODGES
State

i89

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Years
Organized

State

Years
Organised

~~~iE:s - : : : : : : : :~: : : : : : : : : : : : : : :~i ~=e~~~~. : ::: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ~~
California .......................................:..100
Colorado ....•....................................... 89
Connecticut ........................................161
Delaware ............................................144
Dist.. of Columbia.............................. 11~
Florida ................................................12
Georgia ................................................162
Idaho .................................................... 8~
Illinois ················································1 2

1

~~ra:--:::::::::: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :i g:

Kentucky ............................................150
Louisiana ............................................139
Maine .......................................•..........131
Maryland ·····································-·····163
•Massachusetts ................................173
Michigan ............................................127
Minnesota .......................................... 97
Mississippi ..............................,...........132

~~~f~~! ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::1~g
• Since it.a Independence, March 8, 1777.

New Hampshire ................c. •••••••••••••162
New Jersey ......................................162
New Mexico ....................................... 73
New York ..........................................169
North Carolina ................................163
North Dakota .................................... 61
Ohio ....................................................14i
Oklahoma .......................................... ~
Oregon ............................................... . 9
Pennsylvania ........... :........................163
Rhode Island ......................................159
South Carolina ................................214
South Dakota .................................... 76
Tennessee ..........................................136
Texas ..................................................114

~~~~i.. ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::1~:

Virginia . ...............................................1~~
Washington ........................................
West Virginia .................................... 86
Wisconsin ..........................................106
Wyoming ····························-···········-· 76

Lee Garrett, Grand Master.
Joseph A. E. Ivey, Grand Secretary.
The Grand Lodge ( 67th) was opened with due ceremony April 27, .
1949, including the presentation of the Flag and the pledge of allegiance.
Following a trend now evident in other Grand Jurisdictions the
Grand Master recommended an adoption of a statement of principles to
which a foreign Grand Lodge must subscribe when it applies for recognition by the Grand Lodge of Arizona. The Grand Master also recommended that the Grand Lodge stop straddling the intoxicating liquor
issue and proposed a constitutional amendment clarifying the matter.
However, the committee to which it was referred, disagreed and as a
result no action was taken. We, in California, are in no position to
criticize.
We admire the spunk of the Board of Trustees in commenting on the
adoption by the Grand Lodge of a pet project of some of its members
which resulted in "spending a lot of money and getting a headache".
The Board also criticized the transfer of income of Masonic Homes
General Fund and Masonic Homes Endowment Fund to the Grand
Lodge General Fund to cover expenses. The adoption of a proposed
amendment to correct this situation would have increased the per-capita
tax from $1.50 to $3.32, consequently, the matter was deferred until the
next communication. The policy committee seemed to think that it was
entirely proper to tap the income of these funds.
The committee on Correspondence recommended that funds be made
available to permit publication of reviews of the proceedings of other
Grand Jurisdictions as part of the annual proceedings. Unfortunately,
the General Policy Committee recommended against the proposal and
· this Committee's recommendation was adopted by the Grand Lodge.
WILLIS R. PINKERTON, Grand Master
JOSEPH A. E. lVEY, Grand Secretary.
Next Communication, Flagstaff, April 24, 1950.
ARKANSAS
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of Arkansas met in the one hundred eighth Communication in the one
hundred eleventh year of its existence as a Grand Lodge, in the city of
Little Rock, on Tuesday, November 15, 1949.
The roll call showed a constitutional number of representatives of
subordinate Lodges were present, whereupon the Most Worshipful
Grand Master Brother C. Allon Clift, opened the Grand Lodge in ample
form, with a prayer by the Worshipful Grand Chaplain, Brother Arthur
Terry.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Brother W. A. Thomas, Past Grand Master, ·and Grand Secretary,
in his report shows that there are 379 chartered Lodges and 3 under dispensation in the Grand Jurisdiction with a total membership of 49,655,
a net gain over last year of 2,831.

COLORADO

490

Rising Sun Lodge No. 138 at Big Flat, Arkansas asked to have its
charter restored and the request was granted by the Grand Master. On
September 7, 1949 War Eagle Lodge No. 429 merged with Pea Ridge
Lodge No. 119 as provided by 'the laws. Hebron Lodge No. 299 being
inactive and having initiated only 3 .members in the last twelve years,
with membership decreasing until they now have only nine members,
and Falcon Lodge No. 67 holding only one meeting in 1949 and there
being no one raised since 1943, with a membership of 20 their charters
were suspended. North Star Lodge No. 729 being inactive, only two men
have finished the degrees in the past 14 years, with failure to hold meetings regularly, it was recommended that the charter be arrested.
The records of the Grand Lodge show that 4,000 men have petitioned for the degrees and been rejected by the Lodges, and also that on
October 1, 1949 there were 713 petitions for the degrees pending, 135
men who had been elected but not initiated, 982 who had been initiated
and not passed and 486 passed but not raised. During the year Fifty
Year Buttons were presented to 38 members.
The scholarship committee reviewed eleven applications, and finally
selected five of equal standing and agreed on two alternates.
There were eight emergent Communications for the purpose of Constituting new Lodges, laying corner stones and dedicating new buildings.
A report of the work done at the Masonic Building of the Arkansas
Tuberculosis Sanatorium covered the period from November 1, 1948
through October 31, 1949. At the beginning of the year, there were 81
children. During the year 144 children were admitted-76 girls and 68
boys. There remained on November 1, 1949, 107 children. In all 225
children have been hospitalized from 54 counties during this period.
Since the Masons gave the building to the Arkansas Sanitorium there
have been 3, 168 patients treated with 2,876 arrested results.

It is the opinion of the Home Committee that help for needy Free
Masons and benevolence to members of their families can be done with
greater satisfaction and contentment if extended to them in their own
homes and in their own communities where family and neighborhood ties
contribute to the happiness of those affected than to place them in a home.
Brother Charles Lester Hanna was elected ~-;;_d ~installecithe Most
Worshipful Grand Master of Masons in Arkansas, and after a few
timely remarks the Grand Lodge was closed in ample form to reconvene
again for their annual communication in November 1950.

491

S. Stuart Krebs, Grand Master.
Harry W. Bundy, Grand Secretary.
At the opening of the 89th Annual Commu!fication of Grand Lodge
September 13, 1949, the Flag of our Country was presented in solem~
ritual and placed in the East.
!he ?~and Master's address indicates that he broke precedent by
paying v1s1ts to appendant bodies. We are afraid this would have the
us,ual result of bringing to life the dormant question of "which is the dog
and which is the tail".
The rush o.f p~ysically i~paired for membership in the Lodges now
that the Constitutional reqmrements with respect thereto have been relaxed, caused the Grand Master to suggest the appointment of a Special
. .
Committee to study the matter anew.
T~e Grand Master observed that the majority of all difficulties in
constituent lodges stem from economic and financial sources. Some Colorado lodges have dues as low as $3.00 per annum and the average is
$6.10. The requirement of minimum dues by all lodges of the jurisdiction
made by Grand Lodge legislation, might be the answer. We feel that
the days. when Masonic Lodges can live on the reputation of Masonry
are nearing an end.
The "very poor" condition of the Grand Lodge financially is admitted
by the Grand Master. The per-capita dues were increased .25c. A reading of the biography of the incoming Grand Master leads one to surmise
that some~hing will b~ .done about the financial condition of Grand Lodge,
. .The list of securities held in the Benevolent Fund of Grand Lodge
ind~cate that the f~nd mana~ers are not restricted to securities, legal for
savings banks, as is the case m California. This fact is interesting in view
of the curre1:1t controversy in our California Grand Lodge.
The topical report of the Committee on Correspondence is a very
r~ad~~l~ account under s~c~ headings, as "Membership"; "Public Relations : Negro Masonry : Masonry and Communism", etc. The latter
.
topic is particularly interesting.
EDWIN J. WITTELSHAFER, Grand Master.
HARRY W. BUNDY, Grand Secretary.
Next Communication, Denver, September 19, 1950.
CONNECTICUT 1949

The One Hundred Sixty first Annual Communication of the Most
Worshipful Grand Lodge of Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of
Connec~icut, with a constitutional number of Lodges represented, was
opened m ample form by the Most Worshipful Louis Stevens Thomas~
Grand Master at 10 A. M. on Wednesday, April 6 A. L. 5949, in the
Masonic Temple, 201 Ann Street, Hartford. ·

492

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

The prayer was offered by the Grand Chaplain, Worshipful and
Reverend William H. Nicolas.
The National Colors and the State Flag were presented by the Senior
and Junior Stewards, and all joined in the Pledge of Allegiance followed
by singing one st.a nza of "America". The Flags were placed in the Grai:id
East, and all joined in singing three stanzas of "Faith of our Fathers",
as is their annual custom.
The Grand Master stated that in a few instances, some well meaning
but over zealous Brethren had been taking unwarranted liberties with
the candidates, in their eagerness to put on a good show for the sidelines
and attempt to create fun by introducing burlesque and other acts of outright clowning. These innovations together with unnecessary roughness,
destroy the impressiveness, the dignity and the true purpose and meaning
of the drama of the sublime degree of Master Mason. The Gral).d Master
said that there was a time and place for everything, even for fun, and he
hoped that there would be a prompt elimination of all improper acts. He
also stated that his principal objective was to spread brotherly love and
affection and thus bring about a closer bond of mutual understanding and
a greater spirit of sincere cooperation among the craft.
The Grand Master was especially interested in the DeMolay Boys
and Rainbow Girls, and other youth organizations, stating that these
boys and girls are doing a magnificent job to inculcate in the hearts and
minds of our youth, the love of the one true God, the love of Country
and the love of our American way of life.
He recommended that a survey committee be appointed to find out
why the Brethren do not attend Lodge more regularly; and what they
would like to have done to make the meetings more interesting. He also ·
urged that a committee on Public Relations to promote a better understanding of the principals of Masonry in the minds of the general public
be created. Whether Masonry wins favorable or unfavorable reaction
depends on the kind of information disseminated the Grand Master
added.
The Tw.enty five year button that is awarded by the Grand Lodge is
given a very prominent part, even if it serves no other purpose than to
bring our older Brethren back into our Lodge room to meet old acquaintances, as there are only a relatively few of our Masons who reach the
point where they are entitled to receive the Fifty Year Button. While
the intrinsic value of these buttons is not very great, yet, the Masonic
spirit which prompts such a presentation and the true Brotherly love arid
affection that go with them are certainly beyond the possibility of ap..
praisal in a monetary or material sense.
There are one hundred thirty lodges in the jurisdiction, and the net
gain last year was 1,338 members. Prior to January 1, 1900, 923 members
had been raised. Since January 1. 1900, 41,668 have been raised. The
membership now stands at 42,455.

The Committee on the Masonic Home Endowment Fund reported
one million one hundred fifty four thousand seven hundred and sixty
dollars as being the total amount on hand, and that the foundation is
now caring for 344 members, of whom 227 are women and girls and 11 7
men and boys.
· Most Worshipful Brother Earle K. Haling, Chairman of the Correspondence Committee, recommended the recognition of the Grand Lodge
of Netherlands, Holland, as fullfilling our requirements, and that the two
Lodges in Brazil and one in Italy be postponed until further information
could be had.

493

The election of officers resulted in the choice of Most Worshipful
Brother Phillip J. Jones as Grand Master. The 1950 Communication was
held in Hartford, April 5-6.
DELAWARE

There was no comment on California Grand Lodge or Correspondence Committee report. Grand Master James Carswell observed that
while it is regretable, it is nonetheless a well-known fact that it is becoming increasingly difficult, if not impossible, in many of our lodges to
accept the responsibility of performing the traditional burial service for
a deceased brother. Whether this is due to a lack of "brotherly love and
affection" or whether the complexities of the modern way of life do not
anticipate or provide for this eventuality, he did not wish to say, but
felt that some definite action be indicated to correct or relieve this situation.
Recommendation that the Committee on Work prepare an optional
condensed form of burial service ·b ased upon or consistent with the present service sanctioned by this Grand Lodge and report at the next Annual
Communication of the Grand Lodge. Adopted.
The Grand Master was also convinced there is a netd of proper preliminary instructions immediately preceding the reception of a candidate
into Masonry.
Recommendation that the Committee on Work be instructed to prepare a suitable charge to be delivered by the Secretary of the Lodge to
the candidate immediately preceding his reception into the Lodge. This
charge should embody briefly the history and traditions of Masonry, the
responsibilities of the candidate and what he may reasonably expect from
his membership in the Fraternity. Report to be prepared and submitted
by the Committee on Work at the next Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge. Adopted.
Flag Ceremony-Yes.
M. W.-J. Allen Frear, Jr.-Grand Master-elect.
R. W.-Chester R. Jones-Grand Secretary-elect.

495

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

GEORGIA

The 139th Annual Communication was held on December 21, 1949,
with Edwin S. Bettelheim. Grand Master and Aubrey H. Clayton, Grand
Secretary in their respective stations.

The l 63rd Annual Communication was held at Macon on October
25th and 26th, 1949.
-.
M:.W:. E. Russell Moulton, Grand Master; R:.W:. Daniel W.
Locklin, Grand Secretary.
The proceedings of this Grand Lodge show that the Grand Master
was exceedingly busy; there were eleven corner stone layings, five new
Lodges constituted and one dedication of a new Temple with the Grand
Master presiding at all but two of the ceremonies. There were also numerous appearances at subordinate Lodges in Georgia as well as other
public functions. M. W. Brother Moulton reported to his Brethren that
it had been his privilege and pleasure during his term as Grand Master
to have raised his only son to the sublime degree of Master Mason. In
his address to the Craft he asked this question "How Firm A Foundation?" and then proceeded to answer it as follows: "My Brethren it is
just as firm as we make it. Our founding fathers and Masonic predecessors, your ancestors and mine, wrought well. They established a
great country for us in which to live, love and enjoy. The fundamental
principles which they embodied in the creation of this great Nation were
firm and sound. The ideas of thrift. the right to work, free enterprise.
private property, separation of the Church and State, establishment of
the public school system for the education of all the children of all the
people, were part and parcel of the State and National Constitutions.
We as participants in the affairs of our Nation, must never allow it to
drift into planned economy-a welfare State. My heart goes out to the
people of the world who have had to live under this religious dictatorship
over the years, but against dictatorship either political. spiritual or both,
the Masons of Georgia must unquestionably stand. Support your
Churches and your public schools, by Brethren. Remember that children
are the mos~ important things on Earth. They are entitled to the rich
heritage which we enjoy. Guard it well for them as our forefathers guarded it for us. Hand it and our Fraternity down to them spotless and undefiled. Our Churches and our public schools are FIRM FOUNDATIONS."
.
The report of the Trustees of the M.asonic Home indicate that there
is a tremendous job being done by this Grand Lodge in caring for their
orphaned children. Grand Lodge approved presenting 25 year buttons to
those brethren who have been a member in good standing during their
25 years in Masonry.
All 50-year Masons were invited to the East while Grand Master
Moulton presented a 50-year button to another very worthy brother.
Reports of the Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer show there are
sufficient funds available in this Grand Jurisdiction to undertake anything that they may now desire. The Committee on Foreign Correspondence recommended that recognition be given to The Grand Lodge

494

The Grand Master reported the presentation of three Fidelity Medals
and thirty-five 50-year gold buttons and that the spirit and interest of
the Fraternity had never been higher. The matter of the use of electrical
amplifying devices, which has plagued other jurisdictions, came before
the Grand Master for decision and he refused to permit their use in
Lodge rooms for obvious reasons.
The limited geographical area of the Grand Jurisdiction permitted
the Grand Master to visit every one of his Lodges during his term of
office. The Grand Master inaugurated the establishment of a blood-bank
by th.e Fraternity and was pleased to report donations with a commercial
value of over $10,000 to the American Red Cross.
Many lodges are constantly troubled by candidates who fail to proceed with the work after taking one or two degrees and the Grand Lodge
adopted a simplified procedure to handle the matter by amending the
Constitution so as to require the re-election of a candidate after a delay
in excess of two years.
The President of the Masonic Temple and Eastern Star Home reported the addition of $44,000 to the endowment fund. bringing it to a
total of $642,000 with earnings of $20.000, thus making the Home Assessment unusually low.
The Grand Lodge Trustees requested that they be required to furnish'
a nominal bond of $10,000 but the Grand Lodge, showing flattering
confidence in its Trustees, but questionable business judgment, failed
to accede to this request.
The report of the Masonic Temple Association of the District of
Columbia appears to indicate that their building is without the advantage
of commercial rentals with the usual result. Excluding a donation of
$210,000 from the Grand Lodge, for alterations and the expenditure of
· $201,000 for this purpose. the operating account showed income of $34,000 and expense of $37,000. Examination of one year's report may be
misleading but this is the experience of too many Masonic Building
projects.
The review of Grand Lodge proceedings fails to include California
this year.
MARVIN E. FOWLER. Grand Master
AUBREY H. CLAYTON. Grand Secretary

497

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of Minas Gerais, Brazil and the Grand Lodge of Sao Paulo, Brazil. A11
others seeking recognition by this Grand Body were held over until
further information could be secured.
The Flag of the United States was formerly presented to the Craft
after which the Brethren assembled pledged allegiance.
There is no mention of the work being done by California Masons.
either by inference or in the report of the Correspondence Committee.
The next annual communication of this Grand Lodge will be held in
Macon, Georgia, beginning on October 24, 1950.
M.'.W.'. J. Everett Thrift. Grand Maste~.
R.'.W.'. Daniel W. Locklin, Grand Secretary.

Lodge. He disapproves the topical form of review-it is abandoned in
favor of the narrative form, this year. Each form has its advantages.
One studying the actions of the various Grand Lodges on a particular
topic, such as physical qualifications, liquor question, etc., found the topical form an advantage. The narrative form is more readable. To attain
the advantages of both. an extensive cross-reference system would be
required. Our Grand Master's recommendation of $12.00 minimum dues,
gives the Idaho reviewer pause. We hope the affliction of .50c or .60c dollars has not hit Idaho where annual dues of $4.00, $5.00 and $6.00 are
common.
Next communication at Boise, September 19. 1950.
J. A. Redfield, Grand Master
Clyde I. Rush, Grand Secretary

496

IDAHO
The 83rd Annual Communication of Grand Lodge was opened on
September 20, 1949 with the customary presentation of the Flag of the
United States. We were pleased to note that the procedure in Grand
Lodge of Idaho resembles that in California with respect to Lodge
financing. On the petition of a Lodge for authority to borrow money, or
build a Temple, the Grand Master appoints a special committee to make
an investigation. and bases his opinion upon the advice and counsel of
this committee.
The matter of the physical qualifications of candidates again came
before the Grand Lodge and a resolution providing that the matter be
left to a decision by the Lodge involved, when the matter of the physical
qualifications of an applicant who was maimed while serving in the armed
services of the United States. was voted down.
The Committee on Masonic Education reported the adoption of the
plan of presenting degree pamphlets as candidates advance in the work,
and that many older Masons are obtaining the pamphlets for study.
This seems to be the absolute minimum that a Lodge can do in informing
its new members. Our experience in California would seem to indicate
that proper distribution of the pamphlets should be a requirement, not
a suggestion.
This Committee is disturbed by the lack of understanding of Masonic
law by Masters. Wardens and Secretaries. The suggestion that these
officers be required to pass an examination by filling out questionnaires
is timely. Digging into the fundamental law to find the ans~ers t? 40 ~r
50 questions has proved an invaluable aid to Lodge officers m Cahforma.
The novel review of the informal events of the communications by
the Grand Secretary, under the title "Sidelights" was exceedingly interesting and worthwhile.
The scholarly etymologist (he also understands German and Norwegian) who is the foreign correspondent, devoted two ~nd one half pages
to an entirely adequate review of the 1948 proceedings of our Grand

ILLINOIS
M.'.W.'.Fred Irving Mills. Grand Master; R.'.W.'.Richard C.
Davenport, P.G.M., Grand Secretary.
Before the opening of the 110th Annual Communication of Grand
Lodge at Chicago, October 11th and 12th, 1949. Ralph H. Wheeler,
P.G.M. and dean of the Past Grand Masters of Illinois, told the assembled brethren of his first Grand Lodge meeting nearly 50 years ago,
after which he caused the Grand Marshal to present the Grand Master
and under the directions of Brother Wheeler the Brethren there assembled extended Grand Honors to their Grand Master.
T~e Grand Lodge was then opened in due and ample form after
which the Grand Chaplain led the devotion!lls in which he asked for Divine Guidance during this Annual Communication. There was a most impressive list of distinguished guests and visitors present at this communication; included in the list of those present were 14 Grand Masters as well
as high ranking officers of other Masonic Bodies. all of which were accorded Grand Honors after which the Grand Master welcomed the
visitors. M. W. James B. Bradford. Grand Master of Missouri responded for the distinguished guests; his remarks were very well received.
The Grand Master reported that Illinois has contributed $108,868.30
to the George Washington Masonic National Memorial. which is considerable more than their obligated portion of $89,782.00, he thanked
his brethren for being of so generous a disposition. He spoke very highly
of the youth work being done by De Molay and other similar youth
organizations. On the condition of the Craft he said, "Definitely every
Lodge should give more time and attention to the creating of an active
interest in Freemasonry in every candidate upon whom they confer the
degrees, and particularly so immediately after he has been raised to the
~mblime degree of Master Mason.
"At no time will he be more susceptible and more eager to study the

498

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
;

philosophy. the symbolism and the historic background of our institution.
Ways and means should be made available whereby his craving for more
light may be satisfied." In his concluding remarks he warned that Masonry must accept the challenge that now threatens our rights and privileges as free born American citizens. There were nine sessions of occasional Grand Lodge during the year for the laying of corner stones in
Public Buildings as well as Masonic Temples. There were also several
Masonic Temples that were formally dedicated by the Grand Master.
Detailed reports of the_Gran.cl Secretary, Grand Treasurer and the
Auditor indicate that this Grand Body is established on a wise and sound
financial status. Requests from the Grand Orient of Italy and the Grand
Lodge Sao Paulo of Brazil for an exchange of representatives is still
under consideration and investigation by the Committee on Foreign
Jurisdictions.
Brother Karl J. Mohr. P.G.M .• the Grand Orator delivered an inspiring address. using as his subject "Design Upon the Trestleboard". In
this oration he tells of the building of King Solomons Temple; that we
as a nation have not yet learned to live in peace for twice in our lifetime
we have belted on the sword and cuirass for the debacle of war. This
world is one of confusion, of mixed emotions, shaken ideals, of uncharted
aspirations. Truly. he says. There Are No Designs Upon The Trestleboard. In the closing remarks of his address he offered the following
prayer for usefulness, our hope for the present, our challenge for the
future; "To our care, · my brothers. this institution-founded in the
broadest liberality. yet conservative in the best sense of that word-is
committed in this generation. and it is our duty to see that it suffers no
detriment at our hands. The puny efforts of narrowminded men outside
the Fraternity, can avail nothing against it; and so long as Masons themselves are loyal to its landmarks, true to its teachings, and faithful to the
light they have received, it will continue to exist, an aid and solace to
manhood; to reprove selfishness; encourage charity; promote peace; and
vindicate its fitness to elevate and bless mankind."
There is no mention of a reception or formal recognition of the flag
of the United States of America in this Annual Report.
The report of the Masonic Homes of Illinois show that there is indeed
a great need for these homes to take care of our orphaned children and
our aged brethren.
There is considerable correspondence from American Jurisdictions
as well as Foreign and the report on California compares very favorably
with those of other jurisdictions.
The 111 th Annual Meeting will be held in Chicago on the second
Tuesday of October, 1950.
M. W. Benjamin E. Patton was elected Grand Master and R. W.
Richard C. Davenport, P.G.M. was re-elected Grand Secretary.

499

INDIANA
South Bend Lodge No. 294, of which Grand Master Carl L. Hibberd
is a member, opened Lodge in the Grand Lodge Hall at 9:50 o'clock A.
M .. Tuesday, May 17, 1949, with Victor H. Kupferer, Worshipful Master, presiding in the East. The Deputy Grand Master and Officers of the
~rand Lodge were escorted into the Grand Lodge Hall, where they were
mtroduced by the Deputy Grand Master and assumed their stations
after which the Senior Grand Deacon and Grand Marshal escorted
the Grand Master to the East, where he was received with Grand
Honors.
·
After prayer by Dr. Charles Tupper Baillie, Grand Chaplain, Grand
Master Hibberd declared South Bend Lodge No. 294 at ease and the
Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the
State of Indiana open in ample form.
There were sixteen Past Grand Masters and twenty-four distinguished guests present from different Grand Jurisdictions.
The Grand Master in his address stated that he had devoted about
75 per cent of his time to the duties of his office, and that he had traveled
over 20,000 miles in so doing. That Masonry was never meant to be a
static organization and while we feel that our foundations are secure we
must never be satisfied to rest upon our past achievements. That the condition of the Fraternity, was healthy both in numbers and finances, and
t~~! a possible eco~omic period of recession could be ~et, if the "mystic
tie had been sufficiently strengthened. that binds the brethren together.
The Grand Master added that too many Lodges had lost their candidates in the maze of ritual presentation and then had nothing more to
offer them. Every Lodge should have a program of work, and definite
time in the Lodge schedule should be assigned to each activity, all in
proper '~alanc~ to the whole scheme of things. such as a dignified but
mterestmg social program for the brethren, their ladies and their families.
. Each ye~r .a number of Lodges observe their centennial. This year
it was the pnvilege of the officers of Grand Lodge to assist in six of the
eight Lodges in their celebrations.
A few of the Grand Master's recommendati_o ns which were adopted
was to appropriate $5,000 in support of the George Washington National Masonic Memorial. appropriate $5.000 for welfare work of the
Masonic Service Association, and fix the minimum dues at $5.00. He
re~ommended a six months waiting period before allowing a newly
raised Master Mason to petition for other Degrees. The Jurisprudence
Committee believed that when such a brotht".r had learned the memory
lecture pertaining to the Third Degree he was the "peer" of any other
Mason and had a right to petition for other Degrees as soon as he desired. However, the final action was to adopt the recommendation of the
Grand Master.
_O ne of the most important acts of Grand Lodge was the revision of

501

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

section 75 and 77 thereby allowing the Lodge Hall to be used by certain
youth organizations. The DeMolay Boys if sponsored by the Lodge
granting such use and the Rainbow Girls and Job's Daughters if sponsored by a local Chapter of the Eastern Star, all of whom must certify
such action to the Grand Secretary and then approval must be obtained
from the Grand Master.
The Grand Lecturer, Ivory C. Tolle, in his report stated that he had
examined 371 out of the 538 Lodges of the State of Indiana of which
there is a total membership of -160,951 members. He stated, that a high
quality of work encourages attendance, and it behooves all of the officers
to render an account of their stewardship by the kind of work they do.
They should learn the work, speak loudly and slowly, enunciate clearly,
practice speaking out loud, hearing their own voice, remember the effect
on the candidate, use expression, se.e k opportunities. or rather don't
avoid them. Reward, increased attendance. (Italics ours.)
The report of the Indiana Masonic Home Foundation showed that
on April 30, 1949 the fund totaled $1.046,567.90. There are at the home
130 Master Masons, 157 women, 34 girls and 43 boys, a total of 364;
while on the waiting list-4 couples and 27 women. The school situation
continues to be very satisfactory, 3 girls and 1 boy left the Home on
May 27, 1949 by graduating from Franklin High School. August 8,
1948 will go down in the history of the Home as one of its greatest days,
the first Annual Masonic Home Visitation Day. Some 8,000 Masons
and their friends entered the grounds, inspected the buildings, visited
with the Home members and enjoyed themselves in various ways.
Brother John W. Thornburgh was elected and installed Grand Master of Masons of the State of Indiana. Grand Master Thornburgh then
called upon the officers of South Bend Lodge No. 294 to take their
stations and prepare to close their Lodge of Master Masons. After
prayer by Grand Chaplain Thompson, the Most Worshipful Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Indiana was declared closed in ample form to convene again in Annual Meeting in the
City of Indianapolis on the third Tuesday of May 1950.

munication. There was no mention of a formal reception of the Flag, as
is used by California, so it must be presumed that this was the only
recognition given the flag of our country.
The Grand Master in his report said that he was most happy to report to his brethren that this Grand Lodge during the year just past
had enjoyed one of its most prosperous, both from the standpoint of
members gained and from the amount of work accomplished by the
Grand Lodge officers and committees. Brother Swartslander also reported that he had convened Grand Lodge on eight different occasions and
had mode a total of 111 visitations. Communications were received by
the Grand Master relative to the formation or founding of a Masonic
Home in Iowa, this he told his brethren, he was not in sympathy with,
as he felt that the field system as used by Iowa was much more practical
at the present time. According to Iowa custom there were 149 brethren
who received 50 year certificates from this Grand Lodge.
It was recommended by M. W. Brother Swartslander that the actual
expenses of Grand Lodge officers incurred while in attendance at emergent communications on the request of the Grand Master be paid by the
Grand Lodge. This recommendation was adopted by Grand Lodge. The
detailed report of the Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer indicate
that there are sufficient funds at the disposal of this Grand Body to take
care of all of their wants and wishes for quite some time to come. A
report on the activities of the Grand Lodge Library proved to be very
interesting and instructive, for in their archives at Cedar Rapids are to be
found many volumes on Masonry that are in demand, on a loan basis,
from Foreign Grand Jurisdictions as well as Lodges and individuals in
the United States. The records show that some of these volumes have
been sent to Scotland, England, France, Holland, Brazil, New Zealand
and other similarly remote places. This Library is visited more than once
a week by the students and youth organizations of the surrounding territory, the museum section is particularly interesting to them. There are
books in this library dating back to the year 1470 ( 22 years before
Columbus crossed the Atlantic). The Grant Wood Masonic Painting is
one that should be viewed and stu.died by Masons as it is truly one of
the Masterpieces of the world. Lodges as well as individual Masons are
encouraged to place their relics, curios and mementos of historic interest
in the museum where they will be properly preserved and cared for.
Requests for recognitions by three foreign Grand Jurisdictions were
received and acted upon as follows: after several attempts for recognition the Grand Lodge of Rio Grande de Sul (Brazil) was recognized by
this Grand Jurisdiction. Action upon the request of the Grand Orient of
Amazonas and Acre ( Brazil) and the Grand Lodge Del Estado of the
State of Nuevo Leon (Mexico) was deferred until further communication could be had. Requests from the Grand Lodge of Campeche, Mexico; Grand Orient of Arabia and Syria; National Grand Lodge of Syria

500

IOWA
Grand Lodge was opened in due and ample form on June 14, 15, and
16, 1949, with a goodly number of distinguished guests and brethren
present, M.' .W: .J. Guy Swartslander, Grand Master presiding. Distinguished guests present were accorded Grand Honors, after which
there was presented to the Grand Lodge a large flag which was flown
over the capitol at Washington, D. C. The presentation of this flag was
made possible through the efforts of Brother B. B. Hickenlooper, United
States Senator from the State of Iowa. After a very impressive ceremony
of presentation and acceptance of this historic flag it was placed in a
special frame on the rostrum where it remained during the entire com-

502

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

and Lebanon and the National Grand Lodge of Palestine which were
received ·at the 104th communication were again deferred until further
communication could be established. There is contained within this an..:.
nual report a very glowing report on the activities of the Grand Lodge
of California.
· Next Annual Communication was held in Burlington on June 13, 11
and 15, 1950. M. W. Don Carpenter of Council Bluffs is Grand Master
1949-1950. R. W. Earl B. Delzell, Grand Secretary, is from Cedar
Rapids.
KANSAS-1950

The proceedings of 99th Annual Communications of the Grand
Lodge of California were reviewed.
Grand Master William H. Harrison in his address reviewed By-Law
1-111, "Manufacture or Sale of Liquor." The manufacture or sale of
intoxicating liquor by any Mason shall be deemed an offense against the
Body of Masonry. This new law was effective with the publication of
the 1949 Proceedings. During the year, 138 Worthy Brothers were
presented with the Fifty-Year Gold Emblems symbolizing Fifty years
of faithful membership in the Fraternity.
Ray S. Pierson, Gr~nd Orator, delivered an inspiring address
entitled "Speak Up For America".
Communication opened in Ample Form. No mention of Flag Ceremony.
The Ninety-fifth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge will
be held in Wichita, Kansas, February 14-15, 1951.
M:.W: .Lynn R. Broderick; Grand Master, elect.
M: .W: .Elmer F. Strain, Grand Secretary, elect.
KENTUCKY

Fred M. Gross, Grand Master
Alpheus E. Orton, Grand Secretary
At the Grand Lodge opening the Flag of our country was presented
by color bearers from the Lodge at Fort Knox, Kentucky. The address
of the Grand Master comprised over 70 pages of the report and contains
a complete chronological account of his year as Grand Master, including all correspondence on problems presented for his decision and his
opinions.
An interesting controversy over the activities of an auxiliary organization was reported. It appears that for many years this body had
conducted raffles, using Grand Lodge mailing lists; funds running into
thousands of dollars annually were thus raised for the Old Masons
Home, notwithstanding a section of the regulations prohibiting all forms

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

503

of gambling and specifying raffle~. The Grand Master refused to act

?ut. instead referred_ the matter to the Grand Lodge. The report of the

JUrisprudence committee, condemning.these activities, was finally adopted. Thus virtue prevails over lucre.
·
The Grand Secretary reported that 82 lodges collected dues of less
than $5.00 per member and paid the Grand Lodge $3.50 per member.
How do they do it?
The fear of legal, or at least moral liability, in the case of default
of a subordinate lodge in its financial obligation assumed in the construction of a Temple, if the Grand Lodge had approved and ratified the
Lodges' actions, caused the Grand Master to recommend, in effect, that
the assumption of obligations be left to the sound discretion of the
Lodges. In view of the disastrous experiences of many lodges throughout the country we wonder at the faith in the business judgment of all
Lodges.
NATT S. KING, Grand Master
ALPHEUS E. ORTON, Grand Secretary
The report of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence contains
an adequate review of the California Grand Lodge 99th Communication,
and a favorable comment on the Correspondence Committee's topical
report.
Next Communication, October 17, 1950.
MARYLAND
In the opening ceremonies the Flag of our country was presented,
one verse of the Star Spangled Banner was sung and the Masonic creed
was recited.
Although the completion of a new Infirmary at the Masonic Home
indicates that the operating expenses henceforth will show a deficit of
$80,000 per year, the Grand Lodge voted down a proposal to increase
the per-capita assessment on the lodges for the Masonic Home from
$2.00 to $1.00 per annum.
The Homes Endowment Fund was increased by $76,000 to $1 ,113,000. It is invested in a wide assortment of corporate securities, including co,mmon and deferred stock.
The Grand Master commented on the threat of bankruptcy of many
lodges arising from the issuance of life memberships and urged that the
lodges involved take steps to restrict the number of such memberships.
The Grand Master's message contained the best statement of current
Masonic problems we have seen.
The Maryland report differs from that of most other jurisdietions
in t~at it contains a verbatim account of much of the proceedings,
~oti~ns,_ arguments, etc. and quotes at length the remarks of visiting
dignitaries. The volume did not contain a review of the proceedings of

504

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

other jurisdictions. Grand Master Schroeder was re-elected for the
year 1949-50.
Claud Shaffer, Grand Secretary.
MASSACHUSETTS-1948
The Grand Lodge meets on St. John's Day in Boston, to install
officers. The business of the Lodge is attended to at quarterly Communications, which were held on March 10th. June 9th, September 8th
and December 8th.
·
M.·.w.·.Grand Master, Roger Keith.
R.'.W.'.Grand Secretary, Frank H. Hilton.
At each quarterly communication the following statement appears
in the proceedings: "The Grand Master called attention to the presence
in Grand Lodge of the distinguished heads of the collateral Grand
Bodies in Massachusetts. Each of these Brothers rose as he was presented, and was heartily greeted by the Brethren."
The following quotations are from the Grand Master's Meisages
at the Quarterly Communications:
"I want to call attention to the fact that kneeling. as used in the
Masonic sense, means kneeling on the knee or knees-going entirely
down and not just a genuflection. Also, no covering should be worn
on the head in the lodge room except by the Master or Grand Master,
both of whom, as you know, have the privilege of remaining covered if
they so desire. The District Deputy Grand Master, on occasion, is
also covered."
" As many of you know, tomorrow, with my Marshal and Sword
Bearer, I go to New York and sail on Friday on the Queen Elizabeth
for England. On the 23rd of March, a new Grand Master, His Grace
the Duke of Devonshire, K. G .• is to be installed in the United Grand
Lodge of England. This is to take place at the Royal Albert Hall in
London.
"I am fortunate in the fact that my brother, the Honorable Gerald
Keith, is Consular of Embassy in London, and we are going to be able
to stay with him and make his home our headquarters. This should be
a delightful and unusual experience.
"Two of my predecessors in office during comparatively recent
years have been fortunate enough to be at similar ceremonies-Most
Worshipful Joseph Earl Perry was in England in 1939 and Most Worshipful Claude L. Allen in 1936, attended the installation of the present
King of England as Grand Master Mason of Scotland at Edinburgh.
It was a very short time after his installation that the abdication of the
King required the Grand Master Mason to resign that position before
ascending the Throne as King of England.
"I look forward naturally to this pleasant occasion and shall be glad
to report to you at the June Communication of our Grand Lodge."

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

505

The Grand Master in his report also had this to say:
"The legend of the Third Degree and the work at the three gates has
often been the part that makes or breaks the solemnity and effectiveness
of this very important lesson. You have heard my predecessors in office
discuss this subject, and I want again to point out that this part of the
degree should be handled in such a manner that there is no semblance
of a smile at any time. This work was exemplified recently for the
entire Grand Lodge of New York by their Grand Lecturer. If done
with the proper feeling and tone of voice, it can be exceedingly impressive. There is no need or occasion for force or roughness of any kind.
The di~~ity of this part of the work is entirely in the hands of the
Master.
There is no comment in the proceedings concerning any flag ceremony.
The M.'.W.'.Grand Master and R.'.W.'.Grand Secretary were
re-elected to serve for another year. It is the custom of the Grand
Lodge of Massachusetts to elect its Grand Masters for three succeeding
years. and during each year of his administration the Grand Master
selects a Deputy Grand Master to serve for that particular year only.
MINNESOTA
M:.W:.Grand Master. John Tomhave.
At the opening session in St. Paul several distinguished visitors
were introduced, including several Grand Masters from sister jurisdictions, as well as the Grand High Priest, the Grand Master of the Grand
Council, the Grand Commander of the Grand Commandery, and the
Sovereign Grand Inspector General of the Scottish Rite, all of Minnesota.
In his address the Grand Master made the following observation:
"To fulfill adequately the office of Grand Master. one should be an
idealist, a practical business man, a globe traveler, an office worker,
an editorial writer and a public speaker."
He called attention to a matter frequently neglected: "During the
year many letters have come to the Grand Master which would indicate
that the membership as a whole is not familiar with the fact that it is
un-Masonic to declare or suggest after any petitioner has been rejected
how he or any one voted upon the ballot."
The proceedings include an excellent oration given by the Grand
Orator Al L. Dretchko who asked a challenging question, "True
Masonry, in America, has enjoyed a large and rapid growth, new members have been taken into our ranks in ever increasing numbers and
every Lodge is financially sound, but I ask you, Brethren, what are we
doing for those thousands of initiates who in recent years have knelt
at our altars? What have we done to arouse their interest in our Fra-

506

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ternity? What effort has been put forth to acquaint them in what
Masonry really means, its noble and glorious history, its ideals and
inspirations, the measurements of which are taken from the Holy Scrip·
tures which lie open on the Altar of every Masonic Lodge? What
attempt is being put forth to awaken to active participation those of our
Brethren who have more or less drifted away but still maintain their
membership?"
In reviewing the proceedings of the different Grand Lodges, it is
interesting to note the various attitudes concerning the Order of the
Eastern Star, ranging from close cooperation such as is evidenced in
Minnesota, on down through a policy of no recognition and no official
contacts such as in our own jurisdiction, to the position of the Grand
Lodge of Pennsylvania which forbids its members from any contact
whatever on penalty of suspension.
A resolution was introduced appropriating not to exceed $25.00 to
be expended by the Grand Master in sending flowers in the name of the
Grand Lodge to a member of Grand Lodge during a serious illness.
$10.00 was finally appropriated. It is refreshing to observe such careful
use of the Grand Lodge funds.
There is no mention in the proceedings of any flag ceremony.
The report of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence requires
112 printed pages. The California proceedings are not reviewed.
Brother Roy E . Cummins was elected and installed M.'. W .'.Grand
Master, and Brother John H. Anderson was re-elected R.' .W.'.Grand
Secretary. The next communication was scheduled for St. Paul on
March 22, 1950.
MISSISSIPPI

M.'.W.'.William D. Neal, Grand Master.
Correspondent reviewed 99th Annual Communication of California
Lodge with particular reference to address of Grand Master Che~ter H .
Warlow.
Grand Master William D. Neal reviewed the subject of "Prince
Hall Masonry" recalling "The subject has arisen time and time again
to plague many of the Grand Lodges of this country. Each time the
matter has been settled in such way that there should have remained no
doubt of the illegitimate and clandestine nature of the 'Prince Hall'
affiliation".
Tribute to the Flag was given.
The next Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge was held
in the City of Biloxi, February i i-15. 1950.
M. ·. W. ·.Don S. Downie, Grand Master elect.
V.' .W.' .Sid F. Curtis, Grand Secretary elect.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

507

MISSOURI

M.'.W.'.Harry Francis Sunderland, Grand Master.
Reference is made to the California Grand Lodge under topic dassiflcation of magazine; incorporation: Masonic history being prepared.
Grand Master's address included timely explanation of Speculative
Masonry for the improvement of the craft.
Portrait of President, Harry S. Truman, presented by the President
to his own Grand Lodge of Missouri, was unveiled by Deputy Grand
Master James M. Bradford, while the organ played " God Bless
America."
"Our Cause h Just" was the subject of an address by the Grand
Orator Rev. Herbert E. Duncan. Our cause is just, said the Grand
Orator, because it is founded upon a deep and reverent belief in God,
a power outside of ourselves in which to place trust and confidence.
It gives strength to rise above the restrictions of life ·and make the
individual become the master of his environment, not its complacent
victim.
Report of Committee to Survey Methods of Relief and Welfare in
Foreign Jurisdictions made several recommendations including the general plan of giving outside relief to needy Freemasons, their wives,
widows, and orphans, in their own homes, in their own communities,
and ultimately discontinue the plan of operating an institutional type
of Masonic Home, as they now have. Action on committee's report
referred to incoming Jurisprudence Committee and next Annual Communication.
No Flag· Ceremony mentioned.
Next Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge will be held in
St. Louis, beginning Tuesday, September 26, 1950.
M.'.W.'.James M. Bradford, Grand Master elect.
R.' .W.' .Harold L. Reader, Grand Secretary, elect.
MONTANA
M.'.W.'.Henry 0. Morgan, Grand Master.
Grand Master Morgan reported on observations of unauthorized
work inj~cted in degrees, the most flagrant being the so-called " Soliloquy" given in the Master Mason degree. Committee on Work re·
ported favorably on the use of the "Soliloquy" as optional work. Report
adopted by the Grand Lodge.
Committee of "Masons in the Liquor Business" amended to clarify
the standing resolution on Masons engaged in such business as guilty
of a Masonic offense.
Flags of United States and Canada presented and posted in the
Grand East.

509

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Next Annual Communication of Grand Lodge of Montana at Mis•
soula, August 15, 1950.
M:.W: .Herbert F. Hosfeld, Grand Master elect.
R:'. W.".Luther T. Hanberg, Grand Secretary elect.

most interesting, it showed a very wide and diversified placement of the
capital of this Grand Lodge. From this report it is evident that the
Grand Lodge is indeed fortunate to have someone with a good sound
knowledge of the investment field to advise them.
Several of the Grand Lodge officers visited the Masonic Home where
Brother Lute M. Savage, Grand C.u stodian Emeritus of the Grand Lodge
of Nebraska, and his good wife are guests and assisted them in celebrating their Golden Wedding anniversary, it was, according to all reports a very gala affair.
It was indeed gratifying to see that Grand Master Magee on behalf
of this Grand Jurisdiction is vitally interested in the youth of Masons by
their continued interest in the work of DeMolay and the Order of Rainbow for Girls.
Worshipful Carroll E. Schurmann gave a very fine report on the deceased members of Nebraska, among whom was the late General John
J. Pershing. Brother Schurmann reported that since George Washington
held the commission of General for the Continental Congress, Brother
Pershing was the first United States General who was a Master Mason.
The Committee on Foreign Correspondence recommended fraternal
recognition of the following: The Grand Orient of Italy; Grand Lodge
of Tampaulipas F. & A. M. Mexico; Grand Symbolic Lodge of Rio
Grande Do Sul, Brazil; Grand Loja Symbolica De Minds Gerais, Brazil;
Grand Loja Symbolica Ceara, Brazil; Grand Loja do Estado de Sao
Paulo Brazil their report was adopted.
The Grand Orator gave an inspirational message in which he talked
of the Mason's responsibility to man, the Nation, the Church and the
Public Schools, he said, "Surely the development of good citizens, with
all that the term implies, must always be the dominant goal of education
in a democracy. The inculcation of an understanding of, and a loyalty
to American ideals should be the task of our great system of Public
Schools."
California is not mentioned in this proceedings.
Next Annual Communication will be held in Omaha, Nebraska beginning June 6, 1950.
M.W. Ernest S. Schiefelbein, Grand Master.

508

NEBRASKA
M.".W.".Elmer E. Magee, Grand Master.
Immediately after the opening of Grand Lodge. distinguished guests
were received and were accorded Grand Honors. Eighteen Grand Masters were then introduced, escorted to the East and given Grand Honors.
Brother Benjamin F. Pittman, attending his 50th Annual Communication was received and given a very fitting ovation by the Grand Master
and brethren present. M:.W:. Brother Magee then presented a certificate of faithful service to Brother Pittman.
Old Glory was officially presented to the Grand Lodge by a special
corps of escorts consisting of members of the Fraternity who are serving
in the Armed Forces at that time.
Grand Master Magee then presented a 50-year button to Brother
Daniel S. Hinds.
In his report to the Grand Lodge Brother Magee touched on many
subjects, among which was a very inspiring and fitting tribute to those
brethren who had gone to their great reward on high. M.W. Brother
Magee was most enthusiastic about his report on the Masonic Homes of
Nebraska, reporting to his Brethren that they were in excellent condition and most capably managed. Nebraska, it was reported, had sent a
check to the George Washington Masonic Memorial Fund in the amount
of $21,918.90 which completed their full quota of $1.70 per member.
This Grand Master was very busy as his report on visitation shows,
Visited five other Grand Lodges, there were 30 other calls made on
other Masonic Bodies. He visited the Grand Conclave of the Order of
DeMolay and the Grand Assembly of Rainbow for girls. During the
year M. W. Brother Magee had the privilege, widl the assistance ~f
other Grand Lodge offi.cers, of conferring the Masters Degree upon his
son. In addition to the above mentioned visits this Grand Master also
made 70 visits to subordinate lodges in Nebraska. In his remarks on the
State of the Craft he reP<>rted that with very few exceptions the Lodges
of this jurisdiction were in a sound and healthy condition, ~e publicly
complimented the Worshipful Master of one Lodge for refusing to confer more than five degrees in one month, in spite of the fact that the
Lodge had received 42 applications in one month. Brother Mage~ then
thanked those who had so ably assisted him during the year saying to
his Brethren that the time had come for him to lay down his working
tools and return to the ranks, "Finally, my 'brethren, be ye all of one
mind; live in peace, and may the God of love and peace delight to dwell
with and bless you." The detailed report of the Grand Secretary was

R. W. Carl R. Greisen, re-elected Grand Sacretary.
NEVADA

M:.W:. Wilford T. Voss, Grand Master.
The 99th Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of California
was reviewed.
Reviews of California Correspondence committee regarded as full
of useful information.
The Grand Master reviewed the su'bject of "Physical Qualifications"

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

510

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

and as a guide formulated the following on phyisical qualification~ of
petitioners. "Must possess the physical ability to conform s?bstantially
to and receive and give instructions in the arts and mysteries of Free~
m~sonry; provided, the Grand Master may in his discre~ion ~ssue a dis~
pensation to a Lodge, without charge, to receive and consider m the usual
Masonic manner the petition of a person physically deficient but oth~r~
wise qualified; and further provided, the Master of a Lodge mu~t advise
all members present of the physical deficiency prior to balloting on a
petition received under such di~pensati?n."
Under this ruling three dispensations were issued to constituent
Lodges.
d
The Grand Master recommended life membership cards be presente •
together with 50~year buttons, to 50~year Masons and the Lodges report~
ing such 50 year Masons be exempt for per capita tax to Grand Lodge
on such members.
.
The address of Past Grand Master Chester Warlow of California
was well received.
Flag Ceremony-Yes, with due mention thereof.
The 86th Annual Communication was held in Ely, Nevada June 8,
1950.
M.W. Walton T. Baker, Grand Master.
V. W. E. C. Peterson, Grand Secretary.

NEW HAMPSHIRE
The Grand Lodge Annual Communication was held May 18, 1949,
in the City of Concord. Special Communications were. held Septem~r
12, 1948, at Manchester, on January 21. 1949, at P~ttsfleld: a semi~
annual Communication and the meeting of the Masonic Home Corpo~
ration on November 16, 1948, at Manchester.
The National Colors were presented at the altar by the Grand
Marshal and the Pledge of Allegiance was given.
The Grand Master, Harold 0. Cady, ~ordially welcomed the breth~
ren assembled.
·
The officers of Grand Lodge vacated their stations and Mt. Washington Lodge No. 87 organized a Lo~ge o.f Entered A.pprentices, and
the work of the degree was exemplified · m due form, the Lodge of
Entered Apprentices closed in due form. and the officers of the Grand
Lodge resumed their stations. Likewise the w~rk o.f ~he Fellow Craft
Degree was exemplified: corrections of the ritualistic work of bo~h
degrees were presented by the Grand Lecturer, R. W. Brother Edwm
H Mattison. The Master Mason Degree was exemplified 'by Rumford
Masonic Club in full form, with as near ritualistic perfection as is
humanly "Possible of attainment.
Annual meetings of the New Hampshire Masonic Home Corpora-

511

tion and the Board of Trustees and of the Investment Committee were
held, and in this connection Superintendent A. H. Parker and Matron
Eva S. Parker thanked Grand Lodge officers, the Board of Trustees and
all members and friends for the loyat support given during the year,
stating: "We have endeavored to create a home-like atmosphere where
the members of our family can enjoy the peace and comfort so necessary
to those who are entering the evening of life ... ".
Many distinguished guests were present, some of whom had never
witnessed the opening ceremony.
Harold 0 . Cady, Most Worshipful Grand Master, in his address
stated:
"It has been a great satisfaction to me to see the increasing interest
taken in the exchange of visits with Lodges in other Grand Jurisdictions. I am certain that the officers of every Lodge in New Hampshire
who have experienced such a pleasure, have a deep and lasting satisfaction in knowing that they have had a great part in strengthening the
fraternal ties and friendships so necessary in the world today."
Regarding Charity, the Most Worshipful Grand Master said:
"It has been very pleasing to me during my terms of office as Grand
Master to see the increasing number of constituent Lodges instituting
Charity Funds. There are still a few of our Lodges which have not
started a Relief Fund, but it is our hope that such Lodges will succeed
in doing so during the coming years"; and in speaking of the Masonic
Home: "The Board of Trustees and Officers of Grand Lodge are exceedingly grateful to the Masons of New Hampshire for their many
acts of kindness to the guests in our Masonic Home: the contributions
made for the entertainment of our guests by the Lodges; and the con~
tributions made by the Order of the Eastern Star and of the Rainbow
for Girls have contributed much toward making this a real Home."
Regarding Masonic Education, the M . W. Grand Master stated:
"The aim and purpose of Freemasonry is to receive none but good
men, keep them good and teach them to be better. Since its ·beginning
long ages ago Freemasonry has been an important element in the lives
of the peoples of the world. The principles of Masonry. understood
and practiced, prepared men to take an active part in the life around
them and served as a support in all their efforts directed toward the
betterment of society's organization."
Regarding Recommendations, the Grand Master stated:
"Article XV, Sec. VII, of the Grand Constitution, permits Lodges
in New Hampshire to grant a waiver of jurisdiction in favor of any
other Lodge within the state, or without. Indiscriminate waivers of
jurisdiction in some cases may cause harm and embarrassment, and
can be considered more or less as a recommendation of the candidate.
I therefore propose a recommendation that every Lodge which is requestE;d to waive jurisdiction first be required to investigate the applicant

512

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

for such waiver and, if found unworthy of becoming a Mason, to refuse
such waiver."; and
"As to Communism,'' he said, " One of the most disturbing matter~
in the world today is the spread of Communism. At the Grand Masters
Conference, in Washington, a year ago a resolution was adopted by
the Conference, and I recommend that this same resolution be adopted
at this session of our Grand Lodge, as follows: 'Masonry abhors Communism as being repugnant to its conception of the dignity of the
individual personality, destructive of the basic human rights which a~e
the Divine heritage of all men, and inimical to the fundamental Masonic
tenets of faith in God'."
It is gratifying to see the lively interest, as shown by the reports
submitted by every individual Lodge throughout the State.
The Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag was the only flag ceremony.
Brother Reginald Entwistle Goldsmith has been selected as Most
W orshlpful Grand Master for the year 1949.
NEW JERSEY
During the opening ceremonies the delegates of the 162nd Ann~al
Communication, April 20. 1949 pledged allegiance to the Flag and sang
the National Anthem.
The Grand Master E. Walter Parsons, Jr., reported the iestitution
of three new lodges and the denial of the petitfon for one new lodge.. He
also reported the agenda of the Grand Masters conference at W~shmg­
ton, D. C. We believe all Masons would have p~~flted by hearing the
round-table discussions on the following topics: Should There Be A
Waiting Period Between Degrees?" and "Should Lodges Be Limited
in Size of Membership?"
As we. in California, are considering the adoption of the "Prudent
Man" rule, governing the investment of Grand Lodge. ~unds, it is .interesting to note the holding of many Railroad and Utility bonds m the
New Jersey general fund. The Home and Charity Founqation funds
show the sale of Municipal, Government and poor-grade bonds and the
transfer of funds into AA and AAA bonds.
The committee on Education and Service, seems to be an active
one. It sends out Masonic Service Association films, also Masonic pl~ys
and quizz programs. It maintains a Speakers Bureau. The suggestion
that the Grand Lodge purchase a wire recorder for preserving and presenting Masonic talks by the Grand Master and other leaders, was not
adopted.
The committee on Foreign Cortespondence objected to its name
and it was changed to Fraternal Relations. It reported no review of the

513

California proceedings. The following are two interesting comments by
the Committee on Masonic Bureau :
"Fear of Government and its attitude toward industry is probably
still delaying the investment of 'risk capital' in some quarters, with a
resultant lowering of the normal number of plant expansions and new
ventures requiring additional labor.
"As previously reported, the older men are finding employment
conditions more and more difficult. In spite of the fact that these men are
often more capable and industrious than the younger workers, they are
considered more costly insurance hazards. Consequently the proportion
of unemployed men in the higher age brackets is unduly high."
It seems that the increase in costs of building has caught up with the
Building Fund of the Homes in New Jersey. The fund was increased
from $125,000 to $400,000.
As we, in California, are rebuilding and restoring Masonic Temples
of historic interest, we were pleased to note that the Grand Lodge of
New Jersey has restored the Old Mason Building in Trenton- the oldest
Masonic building North of the Mason-Dixon line. It is again open to
visitors.
WILLIAM P. HOUSE, Grand Master.
. ISAAC CHERRY, Grand Secretary.

NEW YORK-1949
I 68th Annual, New York City, May 3, 1949.
M.'.W.'.Grand Master, Frank M . Totton.
R:. W .'.Grand Secretary, George R. Irving.

.

The New York Grand Lodge follows the practice of ma~y other
jurisdictions in that it introduces as distinguished guests, not only the
Grand Masters from neighboring states, but also the heads of other MaSOJ?.ic bodies within the state, including the Grand Commander of the
Grand Commandery, the Grand Master of the Grand Council, the
Grand High Priest, and the Deputy of the Scottish Rite. The following
quotations are taken from the Grand Master's address :
"Reports coming in show that 13 Districts have one or more chapters
of DeMolay, that six new chapters have been formed and that six more
are being organized. The 1948 Masters of the Second Manhattan District formed a DeMolay chapter, raised $1.200 to pay for uniforms,
rent, etc., started with 32 chapter members and today have 86. Twelve
Distr~cts report they are working with Boy Scout troops, one District
has revived a troop, one District has formed a new troop and five Districts are in the process of organizing troops. All youth movements such
as these should be encouraged for they offer the hope for the future.

514

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

"Recently the Masonic War Veterans of New York have been incorporated under New York State laws and Grand Lodge auspices.
Every honorably discharged veteran of the Spanish-American War or
World War I or World War II, who is a Master Mason in good standing, is invited to join.
"One of the unique accomplishments of the year has been the successful launching of the corporate body known as the Masonic Foundation for Medical Research and Human Welfare. It has made initial
grants to certain institutions engaged in rheumatic fever research. It is
our earnest hope that out of this effort will come the answer to one of
mankind's most baffling ailments. Last year Grand Lodge voted that
the necessary Constitutional amendment be passed to make the formation of this corporation possible. I. therefore, recommend that this Grand
Lodge take the same action so that the necessary second vote to an
amendment to the Constitutions be secured."
As might be expected, New York Lodges have the largest membership in the country. The Grand Lodge there has a great many activities
under its charge. There is a committee on radio broadcasts. Two magazines are published: The Masonic Outlook, which has a subscription
price of $1.00 a year, and a total subscription list of 21,000, and a Masonic Family Magazine which goes to every member every two months,
and for which the Grand Lodge pays 25 cents per member per year.
Your reviewer has read these magazines during the past year and while
they are interesting, they do not seem to achieve the high standards of a
professional magazine which we would expect from a state like New
York. From various discussions appearing in the proceedings, it would
appear that the Grand Lodge of New York is not entirely satisfied with
its magazines and it will undoubtedly be ·possible to improve their quality.
Some of the activities of the Grand Lodge of New York have puzzled
Masons in other parts of the country. It employs a Director of Public
Relations and the following quotations from his report are offered without further comment:
"Our success in conducting the program has been on a ·professional
level but we have tried to keep the warmth and close contact in our
work that are particularly ours as a Fraternity. Our sincerest flattery
cam~ from the Grand Lodge of Missouri, which now wants to set up a
Public Relations Department of its own.
"The re-enactment of the First Inauguration of Washington, at the
Sub-Treasury Building, the site of old Federal Hall, was covered by
every newspaper in the metropolitan area. The Sun, the Times, and the
Herald-Tribune featured the story on the front page.
"The truth is that much of what is news today concerns Masons;
much that was news for the last two centuries in America has depended
upon Masons. It remains for Public Relations to tie up the news with the

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

515

Fraternity as a package to be presented to the-public and the need for
this service will increase each year to keep pace with an expanding and
ever-active Fraternity.
"In addition to the amount of written material on public relations,
the~e are the personal contacts and the work of the various Committees,
which are all a type of Public Relations. For example, our work with the
Masonic Veterans Service Committee has carried the story of what New
York State Masons have done for the veterans literally everywhere.
There are men in Australia, Korea, Canada, South Africa and most
other countries who were placed there by this Committee and who have
acted as our Public Relations helpers, simply by telling of the work that
is done here in New York.
"One of the ~trongest sections of a Public Relations department is
devoted to covermg speeches made in public. We are fortunate to have
men within the Fraternity who are brilliant, informed lecturers, and their
words, quoted in the press, or heard by a live audience, have furthered
·the cause of Puplic Relations because they were speaking, not for themselves alone, but for the Fraternity. When a speaking program is integrate~ as it has be~n this past year, it becomes a powerful foi;ce in
promotmg good pubhc relations within the Fraternity and with those
who are not Masons.
'.'St. Mark'~ Church In-The-Bouwerie, which is celebrating its 150th
anm:ersary_ this y~ar, .asked us to join the celebration on May 1st with a
special .service. T?is. historic New York landmark has the graves of many
Mas~mc leaders m its church yard, including that of Daniel Tompkins,
one-t1~.e governor of New York and vice-president of the United
States.
The report of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence and Relations shows the result of a great deal of work on the part of the Committee. It is prepared in topical form but generally does not quote directly from proceedings of other Grand jurisdictions but abstracts and correlates these proceedings one with another. Following is the committee's
comment on Masonry and Communism:
"~he Grand Lo~ges of the United States have widely discussed the
~uestton of commumsm as it relates to the Fraternity. There is no lessenmg of abho~rence of it~ materialistic atheism and the menace it presents
to all th~ ~h1~gs for which the Craft exists. Nowhere is there any tendency to mmim1ze the dangers following its infiltration into the social structure of ~he United Stat.es. Somewhere or other it intrudes in every Grand
Master s Address or m some report. There is universal condemnation
of it~ philosophy and warning signals flash out in every volume of proceedmgs.
"The Grand Master of Ohio says, 'After correspondence with
Europe the greatest enemy of Freemasonry is communism'."
In the Committee's section devoted to service to youth, the following

517

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

comment is made concerning the Grand Lodge of California:
"The California Grand Lodge for twenty-~ight years has ~ponsore~
'Public Schools' Week' throughout the state. It ~a~ proved. its worth ••
they declare, 'many times over in arousing ~ubhc interest m schools,
but the Grand Master says, 'it is not enough. The report of the, Grand
L dge Committee on the 29th annual observance of Public School Week
m~kes splendid reading. It tells of the 'extraordinary success of the
observance'."
There is no comment in the proceedings concerning any flag cere-

business handled which doubtless greatly facilicated the Annual Communication.
The Committee on Masonic Education has prepared and printed an
introduction to Free Masonry. called "On the Threshold" to be presented to each candidate on his election and they recommend that they
be authorized to prepare and print another booklet on the three degrees
to be presented after the candidate has received the Master Mason degree. This practice of using explanatory pamphlets seems to be spreading.
.
The matter of publication and distribution of a magazine or bulletin
to all members of the constituent lodges which is receiving attention by
a number of Grand jurisdictions was postponed one year for further
study.
The Grand Lodge adopted a policy of paying monthly allowances
for life of 50 per cent of their salary up to $100.00 to all retired employees who had served the Grand Lodge for 25 years.
The fraternal correspondent's review of our California proceedings
was adequate. He criticized the topical form of report which has now
been abandoned.
The 1950 Communication was held at Grand Forks on June 19th.
HAROLD S. POND, Grand Master.
WALTER L. STOCKWELL. Grand Secretary.

516

mony.
.
.
At the conclusion of the communication the M .. W .. Grand Master
d R · W · Grand Secretary were re-elected to serve for another year.
~;is th~ cu~~om of the Grand Lodge of New York to elect i~s Grandi
Masters for two succeeding years. The Deputy ~rand M.aster is usually
selected from some member who has been prominent on 1mport~nt co~­
mittees, and he is usually elected Grand Maste~ after two ye~rs service
as deputy. Otherwise there appears to be no lme of succession among
the Grand Lodge officers.
NORTH CAROLINA

There was no review of California Grand Lodge Proceedings.
The adoption of a new Code by this Grand Lodge was a forward step
in Masonic law and procedure. After the first year's operation.~nder the
new Code-Grand Master Maxwell E. Hoffman observes, Masonry
in our Grand Jurisdiction is today stronger, more wholesome and more
firmly entrenched than ever before. As a Fraternity, we stand at t~e door
of greater opportunity and prosperity. One course, one Fraternity, one
Flag. one Nation-indivisible".
Flag Ceremony-No mention.
.
.
Next Annual Communication was held in the City of Raleigh, April
18. 1950.
M. W. Wilkins P. Horton, Grand Master.
R. W. Wilbur L. Mclver, Grand Secretary.
NORTH DAKOTA

Th motto of the Grand Master William John Hunter, for the year
was .. ;e Available, Be Prepared, Be Aggressive" and he appears to have
lived up to this standard. Much time was devoted to the encouragem~nt
of the small lodges of his jurisdiction, and he suggested the formation
of new ones in cities where existing lodges seemed very large.
The recently instituted committee on Policy an? Gener~} Purposes
meets four times a year for the disposal of such business as 1s necessary
between,the Communications of the Grand Lodge. It reported a mass of

OHIO

M.".W.'.Grand Master L. T . McKinney.
At the opening sessions, 140th annual Communication at Dayton,
October 21, 1919, distinguished guests were introduced, including grand
masters from several neighboring jurisdictions, as well as the Scottish
Rite Deputy for Ohio, The Grand Commander of Knights Templar in
Ohio, Grand Master of the Grand Council, Royal and Select Masters
of Ohio, and the Grand High Priest, Royal Arch Masons of Ohio.
As a further indication of the cooperation of the Grand Lodge of
Ohio with these other Masonic bodies, it is noted that the back cover of
the official proceedings lists these various bodies and their principal
officers.
The Payroll Committee was instructed to pay mileage and a three
day per diem of $8.00 to Grand Lodge officers and committeemen and
mileage and a two day per diem of $8.00 to every other accredited
representative of the Lodge who was in attendance. The Grand Master
in his address said:
"Are we really taking advantage of our opportunities to practice real
Masonry, striving for more friendship, more brotherhood and more
service to mankind? Are our lives an influence for good on those who
know us? If so, then we are contributing to our generation to the utmost
and will reap a reward which cannot be bought by any material recom-

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

pense. We can then lay down the working tools of life when the time
comes. confident of having accomplished something worth while, and
with a peaceful mind, resulting from the satisfaction of having done our
duty, leaving behind a memory that will outlive and outrank any granite
monument.
"We have earned the greatest reward if it can be truthfully said of
us as the poet wrote:
'None knew thee but to love thee,
None named thee but to praise'."
In Ohio the Grand Master appoints twenty-five District Deputy
Grand Masters, each of whom has from fifteen to forty-three lodges
under his immediate jurisdiction. The Grand Master reported that each
deputy was requested to make all reasonable efforts to have all lectures
given by line officers and not to depend on past masters for such work.
The . Grand Master stated, "Some Lodges are not issuing Degree
Booklets to the candidates. This is part of our educational program for
the benefit of those receiving the degrees, and should be given in all
cases."
The Grand Master called attention to the Richly Memorial Hospital
in connection with the Ohio Masonic Home. It now can accommodate
307 patients and is filled to capacity. Over 50 per cent of the applications
for residence in the Ohio Masonic Home are now hospital cases. He
said, "It is my belief that we are better enabled to take care of these
hospital cases at far less expense than individual relatives in the home,
or Lodges can afford to do in rest homes or hospitals. and I further believe that with our personnel and with our highgrade equipment, we are
better enabled to bring comfort and happiness to these unfortunate residents who are in need of hospitalization.
The Grand Master reported that he was informed that Temple of the
Shrine in Akron, an organization basing its membership on Masonic
affiliation, was permitting the use of slot machines and other forms of
gambling in its Temple and was sponsoring bingo parties. After repeated warnings these practices were not stopped and the Grand Master
suspended from all the rights and privileges of Masonry the Potentate,
Chief Rabban, Assistant Rabban, and all members of committees involved. At the Annual Communication the Grievance Committee decided that the committeemen had been sufficiently disciplined but the
suspension of the three principal officers was continued until the Grand
Lodge Communication in October, 1950.
The Code was amended providing that in the absence of the Master
and both wardens by reason of their attendance on a session of Grand
Lodge. the Master may at a stated meeting just prior thereto, appoint
a past master to preside at either a stated or a special meeting.
There is no mention made in the proceedings. of any flag ceremony.
The report of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence gives a

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

519

brief review of most of the Jurisdictions in the United States ~nd also
of several foreign jurisdictions.
The California proceedings for 1948 are reviewed. The Committee
stated, "The Grand Master, M.".W.".Chester Harvey Warlow, apparently has been a busy and useful citizen of Fresno. There is something
appealing about the simple biography."
Commenting further, the Committee stated. "The report of the Correspondence Committee is contained in a separate volume of 306 pages,
which is at hand. A committee of seven men by correspondence covered a
vast amount of territory."
Bro. William R. Pringle was elected M.".W.".Grand Master and
Harry S. Johnson was re-elected R.".W.".Grand Secretary, and it was
determined that the next Annual Convocation be held in Cleveland on
October 20 and 21, 1950.

OKLAHOMA
The 76th Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Indian
Territory; Fifty-seventh Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of
Oklahoma Territory and the Forty-first Annual ommunication of the
Grand Lodge of the State of Oklahoma, convened on Tuesday, February 8, 1949, in Tulsa.
. The meeting was opened with Deputy Grand Master Babb presiding, who then presented the Most Worshipful Dr. John C. Hubbard,
Grand Master of the M. W. Grand Lodge.
The Lodge was opened with prayer, followed by an apostrophe to
the Flag and the pledge of allegiance, after which the Grand Lodge
sang "America."
Many representatives from Grand Jurisidictions throughout the
world were present; and various communications from the Grand Lodges
of other states and countries were read. Brother Arthur Isom of Lewis
Lodge, South Australia Constitution, and Brother Charles W. G. Gibbs,
University High School Lodge No. 517, Melbourne, Victoria, were
escorted to the Altar and introduced.
In his address, the Grand Master reported on long time objectives:
1. That a larger and better official publication has been built, increasing the paid subscription circulation to The Oklahoma Mason
500%, reaching more than 16,000 Ma!onic homes each month.
2. That the response of the Craft and the Order of the Eastern Star
in b~ilding u~ the Masonic Hospital Service fund so that a complete
service at Will Rogers Memorial Hospital at Oklahoma City has been
established, a highly successful accomplishment.
3. That a careful survey has been made regarding the public schools;
more particularly as follows:
(a) That funds have been set aside for continual active cooperation through representatives of the Grand Lodge and constituent lodges

520

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

with the local system of public education.
( b) That there has been found a sharp. definite disagreement
among educators and laymen.
·
( c) That there have been found many educators c?mmitted to the
promotion of the so-called federal aid for o~r public schools: thus
promoting the high centralizatio~ of education under Washington
domination which many Masons vigorously oppose.
( d) That there has been found a tendency to support measures
that would nullify a fundamental principle in Masonry, that of separation of church and state. through the use of tax funds for the ~urnishing
of text books free to private and parochial schools together with affording transportation service to students of parochial schools.
( e) That Masonry should be alerted to. its responsib~lity in the
sponsorship and maintenance of public education along the Imes clearly
. proved to be right and workable by Masonry's experience in the past.
( f) That there has been much success in interesting. ~ell informed
Masons throughout the Grand Jurisdiction, and .in orga?iz.m.g w~ys and
means through the official publication for combating the msidious mroads
of the false propaganda of our enemies iri our public schools.·
4 That a secret committee of well-informed Masons was appointed
in th~ interest of a more efficient plan of resistance to foreign ideologies
whose duty it is to report any evidence of efforts to b~ea~ .down the
traditions of the separation of church and state and the msid10u~ pr~p­
aganda that would result in the introduction and passage of legislation
that would be inimicable to established Masonic standards, and that
said committee has materially helped in forcing the discontinuance of a
sociological course which was frankly communistic in one of our great
universities.
5. That a broader and more comprehensive social activity in ~any
of the constituent lodges has been encouraged through the emphasis on
the American home as a first class Masonic institution.
6. That a sizable contribution has been secured to:"'ard the co~­
pletion and permanent maintenance of the George W ashmgton Masonic
National Memorial at Alexandria, Virginia.
"Nothing but praise and appreciation is in our n;i.inds for the able
management of the established system of our Masonic homes and. outside assistance for the needy: however it has been found that the higher
costs of food. clothing. heating. maintenance. repair, insurance, employed assistants as well as all other expenses, have increased the cost
to a very sizable degree: conditions which are beyond our cont~ol: and
problems that require an ever-increasing b~dget .to meet. the exige~~ies
of an ever-increasing inflationary economy m which we hve. A waiting
list has become necessary; the hospital department has been overcrowded; but the Children's Home has been reduced to only 35 guests.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

521

"The print shop has turned out a vast volume of work during the
past year.
"That Grand Lodge is heartily in accord with the movement to
further sponsor and activate De Molay Chapters, as well as Rainbow
assemblies, with every Blue Lodge in the State that can support one.
A great many area meetings were well attended during the year and
generally successful: with recommendation that the plan be expanded
in the future and made more attractive in order to bring the message
of Masonry to those who are proud of their membership but not generally active in the routine work of their lodges.
Some twenty-eight Fifty Year buttons were presented throughout
the State during the year.
Three dispensations were denied because of physical disqualifications, in order to comply with Landmark XVIII. The Worshipful
Master said, " It is a matter of real regret when a lodge is compelled
to refuse the petition of a fine man who would make a splendid Mason,
because he is physically disqualified: it would have given this Grand
Master much pleasure to grant them."
In speaking of preparation of the candidate for the degrees, the
following statements were made:
"The candidate should not be given mis-information by lightthinking brethren so that he approaches the degree with fear and
trembling. He does not receive the full benefit of the great lessons
contained in the symbolism and the lectures of the degrees. The vast
majority have little or no knowledge of the manner in which they should
approach the degree, nor are they informed of the solemnity and real
spiritual uplift that is contained therein. We have long needed a
general plan of preparation of the candidate for reception into a lodge
of Entered Apprentices. After initiation, he then should be taught not
only the lectures of the degree but he should learn how he can practically apply them in his every-day life. He should be informed of what
Masonry stands for and its relationship to human society. He should
then be prepared to receive the great lessons of the Fellowcraft degree
by divesting him of all prejudices and informing him briefly of its
history and calling his attention to the real human values that he will
receive by a careful study and application of the lessons of the Fellowcraft."
In his Necrology report, the Grand Master gave considerable space
to John J. Pershing. General of the Armies, by sympathizing with the
Nebraska Grand Lodge in the loss of its most distinguished Mason,
on July 15, 1948.
Brother Clay A. Babb was selected Grand Master for 1949.

522

523

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

OKLAHOMA

Brother Babb said that the home was in good and capable hands but
that the home is now in a very crowded condition and that death alone
could provide the space so badly needed at the present time. This Grand
Master showed a very definite interest in the Order of De Molay and
the Order of Rainbow for Girls and had the following to say in his report on their activities, "The best and wisest investment we can make
today is in American youth. We should encourage the boys and girls
of our respective communities to grow up in the traditional American
way of life. Especially should we be interested in supporting and encouraging such splendid organizations as the Rainbow for Girls and the
De Molay for boys. It is our duty today, as Masons, to train the American youth so that tomorrow they will know how to use the working tools
of Life.''
The Grand Orator gave a very fitting and timely oration using as his
topic. "Building a Better World by Building Better Character.'' He said
in part. "The ground plan of a better social order is faith in God. For
only such faith can impel men to labor and sacrifice to the attainment of
goals that out-run the individual's span of life. Only faith in God can
create character strong enough to build a world of happiness and peace.
"We are all blind until we see
That in the human plan
Nothing is worth making
If it does not make the Man.''

M:.W:.Clay A. Babb, Grand Master.
The 77th Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Indian
Territory: the.58th Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Oklahoma Territory; the i2nd Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge
of Oklahoma, McAlester, Oklahoma, February 1i, 15 and 16, 1950.
There were many Distinguished Guests and visitors present at the
opening of this Grand Lodge, all of whom were received and welcomed
by the Grand Master.
After the Grand Master, M. W. Clay A. Babb. had warned the
cities that might be extending invitations for the next session of Grand
Lodge to be sure and include with their bid an approximate cost of operations in their city, otherwise there may not be any way for an appropriation to be made 'by this body.
Grand Master Babb in his address to the Grand Lodge said in part,
that the Grand Jurisdiction was in good condition and that it had been
a real privilege and a pleasure for him to have served as Grand Master.
"In the principles of Freemasonry there is stored a vast power for good,
which is greater, by far, than the power of atomic energy.
"The Power of Freemasonry could, by a concentrated and united
effort on the part of Master Masons, be used to bring order and light to
a world whose present state of darkness and chaos is comparable only
to that which existed at the time when our beloved God said, "Let there
be Light".
"By using its great power for good, Freemasonry can help solve the
great problems of our troubled, torn world. By embracing the three
virtues of Faith, Hope and Charity, and by promoting the principles of
the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of man, each one of us,
as a Master Mason, can make a most valuable contribution to the general
and noble work of making this world of ours a 6.t and abiding place for
that 'house not made with hands, eternal in the Heavens' ...
There were several emergent communications of this Grand Lodge:
the constituting of Savana Lodge number 534, laying of corner stones
in various pu·bJic buildings and dedications of several Masonic Temples
being among the reasons for calling Grand Lodge together.
There were many worthy brethren who were presented with 50-year
buttons by the Grand Master or his duly appointed representative.
The detailed reports of the Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer
as approved by the Auditor for Grand Lodge, show that the financial
condition of this Grand Body is very sound, the reports are written in
a very clear and concise manner. In his remarks to the Craft Most Worshipful Brother Babb read one of the most beautiful tributes to the fraternal dead that it has been our privilege to read. A dispensation was
granted to form a new lodge at Ames, Oklahoma to be known as Hoyle
Lodge. In his report to the brethren on the Masonic Home M . W .

"Masonry's biggest job is making men-to make a better world."
Brother Doyle Moorhead was then introduced by Grand Master
Babb. Brother Moorhead is a former resident of the Masonic Home and
he told the Grand Lodge how he appreciated everything that was done
for him while he was a guest there; he also told of the very fine work
that is being done at the present time and asked that the brethren of
Oklahoma continue their interest in the Home. The Committee on Fraternal Correspondence recommended that recognition be given the
Grand Loja Simbolica do Rio Grande do Sul and the Grand Lodge of
Panama. The committee recommendations were approved. On a supplementary report of the correspondence committee Grand Lodge recognition of the Grand Orient of Italy was withdrawn and recognition given
to the Grand Lodge of Italy.
There is no mention in this proceedings of the activities of the Grand
Lodge of California and there is no mention or recognition of the Flag
of the United States of America.
The next annual communication will be held in Gutherie, Oklahoma,
beginning February l 3,_1951.
M:.W:.Harold P. Cook, Grand Master.
M:.W:.Claude A. Sturgeon, Grand Secretary.

524

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

OREGON

ficiaries of these scholarships each year.
· . The Masonic Service Bureau handled 53 relief cases and also furnished hospit.al.izat~on in the amount of $2,280.00 without cost to the
brethren receiving it or to their Lodges. The report shows that Brother
Northr~p visited 1.502 sick brethren in hospitals and in their homes, and
many times he was the only Masonic visitor. The Bureau also arranged
and conducted 64 funerals for sojourners with the average attendance
of 32 and arranged 25 funerals for Portland Lodges. This is indeed a
wonderful work and shows a great interest in Masonry.
Grand Lodge first met on August 16, 1851 with a later meeting on
September 13, 1851 and finally adopted the constitution on September
15, ~ 851. It would appear that the time of celebration of the 1OOth
Ann.1versar7 would begin after the Grand Lodge Session in June 1951,
but in makmg plans for this celebration which is to be held throughout
th.e year from Septe1:11ber 1951 to June 1952, with planned Lodge, District and Area meetings, full authority was given the Trustees of the
Grand Lodge to work out any plan decided u'p on, and to proceed with
arranging and carrying out the program.
A proposed amendment that the Annual Communication shall be
held on the flrst Wednesday in December of each year in the City of
Portland, unless otherwise ordered by a vote of the Grand Lodge was
adopted, although the Grand Master in dosing stated that the one hundredth Annual Communication would be in Portland, Wednesday,
June 14:, 1950. We are a little con fused over the time of the next
meeting.

The ninety-ninth annual communication of the Grand Lodge of
Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of Oregon was opened in ample
form in Commandery Room of the Masonic Temple, Portland, at 10:00
o'clock A. M. on Wednesday, June 15, 1949, by Most Worshipful
Brother Lloyd K. McRae, Grand Master
The invocation was given by the Right Reverend Grand Chaplain
Earl P. Cochran, after which a uniformed detail from the National ·
Sojourners posted the Flags of the United States and Canada with an
impressive ceremony, followed by the rendition of the National Anthem
and the Pledge of Allegiance by all present.
The registrar showed that all the Grand Officers were present, seventeen Past Grand Masters, twenty-one District Grand Deputy Masters,
sixty-nine committee members, forty-two representatives of foreign
jurisdictions and the representatives of 154 Lodges registered.
• The Grand Master stated that the condition of the Lodges was
satisfactory. All but a very few conferred degrees throughout the year.
Many of the financial problems had been solved, and great interest in
Masonic Education had been evidenced by entertainments with an
increase in attendance.
Pursuant to the established custom of Masons in Oregon, St. John's
Day services were held on Sunday evening, December 7, 1948 with
one of the largest attendances in its history. The sermon was delivered
by Right Reverend Earl P. Cochran, Grand Chaplain.
As of December 31, 1948, this jurisdiction had under charter 1BO
Lodges and 2 under dispensation, with a total membership of 36,715
showing a net gain of 1,641 for the calendar year. During the year two
hundred ninety-six life memberships were issued, bringing the total
since the program was instituted to 4,383.
Ninety-six requests for courtesy work had been received from other
jurisdictions, and in return courtesy work in sixty instances were requested.
The state is now divided into thirty-two districts, 19 of which have
less than 1,000 members, seven better than 1,000 members, four districts
more than 2,000 members and two districts with more than 3,000
members.
The records on flle show that the Educational Fund was created in
1852, and in 1854 the Masons in Oregon were requested to contribute
for the assistance of indigent children of Master Masons a sum not to
exceed $5.00; $352.50 was contributed to which the Grand Lodge added
$150.00. Its total assets as of May 1, 1949 are $437,011,00. Only the
interest from this fund is available for use, yet 47 children were assisted
through school in 1948. A special committee on Leadership Training
presented a plan to give scholarships to encourage young men in studying leadership, and it was hoped that seven young men could be bene-

525

PENNSYLVANIA
Quarterly business sessions were held March 1, June 2, September
7 and December 7. The Annual Communication, Philadelphia, December 27, 1949.
R.'.W.'.Grand Master, George H. Deike.
R.'.W.'.Grand Secretary, Matthew Galt, Jr.
Andrew J. Schrader, Instructor of Work, stated in his report:

."Alway~ in our contacts with our Brethren, we continue, as opportunity permits, to stress the importance of the officers acquiring something more than a mere knowledge of the words of our Ritual. I doubt
that any man has ever been made a Mason just by having a few thousand words spoken to him. Unless one knows the meaning of the word
he speaks, and. by meaning I mean their underlying thoughts and truth:
t~e words are intended to convey, the Candidate most likely will receive
little and take less away with him after the degree has been completed
It is we!I to re1:11ember that, even under the most favorable conditions:
a C~nd1date will not fully appreciate the beauty of it, or discover the
sublime truths contained in our Ritual. All too often the impression made

-526

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

is negligible. to say the least, and.too frequently all that has been accomplished in conferring degrees is another name added to the roll of the
Lodge. Then we wonder why so many lose interest and after being
raised. are soon numbered among those rarely seen at our meetings."
At the .quarterly session on June 1st a musical program was given.
It presented so extensive a selection of Masonic music that the program,
with its program notes, is worthy of reproduction:
·
1. (a) Masonic March ..................................................................Mozart
( b) "Within This Holy Dwelling".............................................Mozart
(By Brother Knodle, Organist)
Wolf gang Amadeus Mozart was associated with several Masonic Lodges in Vienna. One of them was the Lodge Zur
Wahren Eintracht (True Harmony Lodge). He composed for
Masonic use, instrumental pieces, songs and cantatas. His great
opera. the Magic Flute, has to do with ancient Egyptian mysteries, associated with the worship of Isis and Osiris. A competent critic observes that the brilliance given by the music to
the symbolism of the mysteries is founded upon Mozart's devotion to Masonic symbolism. ideals and philosophy.
2. "The Entered 'Prentices' Song"
(Also known as "The Freemason's Health")
(Chorus by Choir)
The words are credited to Matthew Birkhead. a stage singer.
The tune is an old melody and may be found in a book entitled
"Pills to Purge Melancholy" published in 1719. The words and
the tune are printed in the 1723 edition of Anderson's "Constitution of the Grand Lodge of England."
3. "The Warden's Song"
( Solo and Chorus)
The words by James Anderson, D.D.. and the music are printed
in the Anderson Constitutions of 1123. The words in metrical
form recite "another history of Masonry" in 13 stanzas of ten
lines each with a chorus repeated four times. It was directed
"to be played at the Quarterly Communication."
4. "Free Mason's March"
(Brother Knodle at the Organ)
This march was "composed by Mr. Dubois, arranged for the
Piano Forte by Mr. Meguin, and published by G. Willig, Market Street No. 185" in Philadelphia about 1798.
5. "The Master's Song"
( Solo and Chorus)
The words by James Anderson and the music of this Song are
printed in the 1723 Constitutions. There are 23 stanzas of eight
lines each with a chorus repeated four times. It is a metrical
"history of Masonry" and is directed "to be sung with a Chorus

when the Master shall give leave, either one part only or all
together as he pleases."
There are directions to stop the music ·~to drink the health"
following:
Part 1. "To the Present Grand Master."
Part 2. ::To the Mas!er and Wardens of this particular Lodge."
Part 3. To the glorious memory of Emperors. Kings, Princes,
Nobles, Gentry. Clergy. Learned Scholars. that ever
propagated the Art."
Part 4. "To the happy memory of all the Revivers of the ancient
Augustan Style."
Part 5. (There is no direction to stop the music at the end of
part five.)
6. "~e Prove;?Y Geometry, Our Rules Surpass the Arts They Teach
m Schools
SOLO
~he w.o rds of this song are found in the "Ahiman Rezon" published by the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania in 1783 and are to
be.sung to the tune of "What tho' they call me country lass."
It is based on an old English air, "Oil of Barley."
7. Masonic March ······························································Victor Pelissier
(Brother Knodle at the Organ)
This march was published in Philadelphia and sold at "G.
~illig's Musi_cal Magazine." It was dedicated to James Milnor,
Right Worshipful Grand Master of Pennsylvania. It was performed by the Independent Blues at the consecration of the New
Masonic Hall, June 24, 1811.
8. "When the Sun from the East First Salutes Mortal Eyes"
( Solo and Chorus)
This song appears in "Illustrations of Masonry" by William
Preston published in London, 1775. The tune to be used in
"Balance a s.tr~;-"" based on an ol~ English song. The song
also app.e~rs m The Pocket Mason s Companion" by Brother
John Ph1ll1ps (Past Master of Pennsylvania Lodge No. 2) published in Philadelphia in 1805.
9. "Let Masonry from Pole to Pole Her Sacred Laws Expand"
(Solo and Chorus )
The words of this song appear in the I 775 London edition of
"Illustrati~~ of Maso~" by William Preston, to be sung to
the tune, In Infancy. It is also published in the American
edition of Preston, Alexandria, Vo. 1804.
1.0. "Onward, Ye Brethren. Strive for the Light"........................ Sibelius
( Brother Knodle at the Organ )
This is a tribute to a great Freemason. Jean Sibelius, who, inspired by his love for the Craft, composed "Masonic Ritual

527

528

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Music" for the Grand Lodge of Finland. The score was forwarded to the Grand Lodge of New York with the request that
it be used for Masonic purposes only.
11. "The Spacious Firmament on High"
( By the Choir)
·
The music for this hymn by Joseph Addison, was composed by
Franz Joseph Haydn. He was a friend of Mozart. They were
members of the same Lodge in Vienna-Zur Wahren Eintracht
(True Harmony Lodge). Haydn did not compose Masonic
Music, but every Mason must be deeply moved with the words
("and there was light") in the opening chorus of his great oratorio, "The Creation."
There is no comment in the proceedings concerning any flag ceremony.
. The Committee on Foreign Correspondence does not review the
proceedings of other Grand Jurisdictions.
Brother William E. Yeager was elected and installed R.'. W .'.
Grand Master and the R.' .W.' .Grand Secretary was re-elected for
another term. In Pennsylvania the Grand Master is referred to as Right
Worshipful and not as Most Worshipful. The Grand Master is usually
re-elected for a second year.

sourn DAKOTA
M.' .W.' .Albro C. Ayers, Grand Master.
No review of the California Grand Lodge appears.
Seventy-five years of Masonry were briefly reviewed by Grand
Master Ayers. At the formation of the Grand Lodge of South Dakota
his father, Most .Worshipful George V. Ayres, was the first Grand
Master.
Twenty-three fifty-year medals and three sixty-year palms were
authorized.
There was a Flag Ceremony, with due mention thereof.
The 76th Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge was held at
Custer, June 13-14, 1950.
M.'.W.'.Harry H. Margolin, Grand Master.
R.' .W.' .Elvin F. Strain, Grand Secretary.
TENNESSEE 1950
The one hundred and thirty-sixth Annual Communication of the
Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Tennessee
was held in the Grand Lodge Building, Nashville, beginning at 10:00
A. M. January 25, 1950 and was opened in ample form, with the Most
Worshipful Grand Master Lucien Campbell Connell presiding.
The devotional service was given by the Right Worshipful Grand

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

529

Chaplain, the Reverend Ira Caldwell Cole, after which the Brethren all
joined in pledge of allegiance to the Flag of the United States.
· There were sixteen Past Grand Masters in attendance, and 374
·
Lodges represented out of a total of 376.
The Correspondence Review by Brother W. Phelan Douglas is unusually complete, covering the proceedings of 70 Grand Jurisdictions and
also those of the Grand Masters and Grand Secretaries Conferences,
and the George Washington Masonic National Memorial Association.
He also recommended the recognition of the regular Grand Lodge of
Italy, as having found it to conform to the fundamental requirements
of their Grand Lodge.
During the year the Grand Master issued 1, 126 certificates of proficiency on the recommendation of the two Lecturers, Brothers C. H.
Barber and W. B. Linton, who have rendered yeoman service this past
year. They have traveled more than fifty thousand miles, making five
hundred and three visitations, with an attendance at their meetings of
more than seven thousand Brethren. There is now a grand total of
2,978 certificates in force.
The Grand Master stated that in some instances Masonry is still
being made too cheap, and recommended that those Lodges which charge
less than fifty dollars for degrees and five dollars dues give serious consideration to increasing the fees and dues.
During the year forty-seven certicates and buttons were issued and
presented to Brethren who have been in the Fraternity for fifty years.
Brother Elbert Carlton Coleman was elected and installed Most
Worshipful Grand Master of the State of Tennessee and his appointments being approved the Grand Lodge was closed in ample form.
TEXAS

M.' .W.' .Hugh M. Craig, Grand Master.
· The one hundred and fourteenth Communication of the Grand Lodge
of Texas was the first Grand Annual Communication to meet in the new
Temple at Waco, Texas.
The 99th Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of California
was reviewed.
Motto selected by the Grand Master "Let There Be Light" was suggested by a review of world conditions. He reminded the Brethren that
we should "Let There Be Light" in our own lives as an example to others
with whom we come in contact.
Sixty-one fifty-year Masonic awards were made.
The ceremony for the dedication of the Grand Lodge Memorial Temple was an important part of the Communication.
Address of Brother Tom Connally exalted the Character and
Majesty of the Masons of Texas who erected the new Temple as a
symbol of their love and devotion to a noble cause.

530

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

A beautiful tribute to the Flag was given by R:.W:.Pat M. Neff.
P.G.M.
The 115th Annual Communication of The Grand Lodge of Texas
will be held in Waco, December 6, 1951.
M .'.W:. Albert J. DeLange, Grand Master. elect.
R:.w:.George H. Belew. Grand Secretary. elect.
UTAH
M.'.W.'.Ortis C. Skaife, Grand Master.
There were a number of distinguished visitors and Past Grand
Masters present at the opening of this Grand Lodge. they were all introduced and were accorded Grand Honors. after which the Flag of our
Country was formally presented to the brethren assembled and then
placed in its proper place in the East.
Grand Master Skaife in his report said that Masonry in the State of
Utah· was in a healthy and prosperous condition and that due to the
large influx in population, this Grand Jurisdiction could and probably
will experience a rapid growth in the next few years. On the fourth day
of his tenure as Grand Master, M:.W:.Brother Skaife, Constituted
Ashley Lodge No. 28. Utah presented a check to the George Washington Masonic Memorial which brought their total to $1.92 per capita
which is 22c above the national quota of $1.70 per member. M:. W. ·.
Brother Skaife recommended a change in the constitution which would
make Past Masters of Lodges in regular jurisdictions, who affiliated
with Lodges in Utah. eligible to become members of the Grand Lodge
of Utah and eligible to hold office therein. this was later adopted by the
Grand Lodge on the recommendation of the committee on jurisprudence
and will be voted on at the next session of this Grand Body. All actions
of this Grand Master with regard to dispensations granted and rulings
made, were up held, by 'the action of this Grand Lodge.
Detailed reports of the Grand Secretary and the Grand Treasurer
indicated that this Grand Lodge is in good. sound financial condition.
The Committee on Fraternal Relations recommended recognition of
the following:
Grand Loja Simbolica de Minas Gerais, Masoneria Del Uruguay Del
Rita Escoces Antigua Aceptada Gran Logia, (this is commonly known
as the Grand Lodge of Uruguay of Montevido), Gran Loja de Chile,
Gran Loa Simbolica de Rio Grande do Sul, Gran Loja Simbolica Escorces Para 0 Estado Do Ceara and the Grand Orient of the Netherlands. These were all approved by action of Grand Lodge. Grand
Orato.r Worshipful Brother Elliott W. Evans in his Grand Oration used
as his topic "Separation of School and Church." In talking on this
highly controversial subject Brother Evans told of the many efforts
that are ·being made to take advantage of our public school system
to foster religious teachings. Brother Evans also pointed out that in

531

some states children are released from public school to attend religious
training classes. most of these "released time" training classes are condemned because the program interferes with that of the public school. It
was also brought out that if "released time" is given to a student that
the public should not have to foot the bill and that no teacher should be
furnished by our public schools, no transportation should be furnished
and above all no public funds should be used.
Newly installed Grand Master Newall B. Dayton made a few remarks among which was one that is of extreme importance to all Grand
Jurisdictions. "The Masonic funeral service is beautiful and satisfying
to the family if properly conducted, but often fails because of lack of
interest or the inability of the officers in charge. Unless the Master and
other officers can appear in proper dress and conduct the service with
credit, a special team composed of Past Masters or others be developed
for this vital duty which affords the only opportunity for us to appear
formally outside of the lodge room." These remarks were indeed interesting to Californians who are required to pass a satisfactory examination..in funeral service before they are installed as Master of their Lodge.
The Correspondence Report under Chairmanship of M:.W:.
James K. Fisk is a real book in itself; 306 pages of readable interesting
matter. Prepared as a California's custom in Topical Form, it becomes a
publication that we shall hold as a necessity on our shelves in considering
the Masonic year it reviews. Not the least portion is that dealing with
Masonic statistics; the best compendium on Masonic membership figures
we have seen this year. The tables show a total Masonic membership
over the world of over 4,879,500."
·
78th Annual Communication was held January 23 and 24, 1950
at Salt Lake City, Utah.
M:.W:.Newall Beeman Dayton. G. M.
R:.W:.E. Roy Gibson, P.G.M.• G. S.
VIRGINIA
One Hundred Seventy-first Grand Annual Communication, held in
Richmond, February 8. 1949 and Emergent Communication, held in
South Boston, April 24, 1948.
Mt. Wor. Grand Master, Charles Edward Webber.
Wor. Deputy Grand Master, Pro Tern, William Randolph Henderson, No. 96.
Mt. War. Grand Secretary, James Noah Hillman, P.G.M.
After prayer by the Grand Chaplain, Dr. Walter C. Gum, the Most
Worshipful Grand Lodge was opened in ample form.
The Emergent Communication had been called for the purpose of
laying the corner stone of the Wesley Memorial Methodist Church, at
the request of South Boston Lodge No. 91, A. F. & A . M. and the
authorities of the church.

532

. PROCEEDINGS OP THE

The One Hundred and Seventy-first Grand Annual Communication
was held ·in Richmond, February 8, 1949, at 2:30 o'clock P. M.
The Most Worshipful Grand Masters were welcomed.
Reports were made; including that of the recent fire which occurred
in Grand Lodge Temple November 12, and action was later taken to
make necessary repairs to restore the Temple.
The Committee on Education reported the number of Masonic Home
Children who prove themselves to be "college timber" to be an "all-time"
high; that this year's outlay has amounted to $7,694.36, leaving a balance
on hand of $2,935.98 and the committee asked for an appropriation of
$6,000 for the higher education of Masonic Home children for 1949;
that the Grand Treasurer turned over to the Trustees, U. S. Series
''G" bonds bearing 2Yz% interest as follows: May 21. 1948 $25,000.00;
that the amount of $25,000.00 added to $340,000.00 per last report
makes a total of $365,000.00 U. S. Bonds now held by the Trustees.
The report of the Endowment Committee of the Virginia Masonic
Home for 1918 showed an increase of $90,769.67, bringing the total
fund to $359,925.81. In addition there are twenty year endowment life
insurance policies amounting to approximately $45,000.00 in favor of
the fund which are increasing in value yearly. In order not to conflict
with the efforts to secure cash contributions from lodges and individuals
on Founders' Day, the Committee confined its efforts to the solicitations
of legacies. Mail solicitation of several thousand persons has been
continued as in the past and it is believed that many of those persons
appealed to have left substantial sums to the Home in their wills, due
to constant advice from lawyers and banks of such actions.
A twenty by. forty foot addition to the Press Building at a cost of
$4,610.12 was paid out of accumulated surplus. The Press was operated at a profit of $1,261.03 for the year.
Regarding the Farm, continued progress has been made in the improvement of the dairy herd; there now being twenty-two registered
Guernseys: and a start has 'been made on the pure bred hog progr~m
with the purchase of five registered gilts and one boar of the Berkshire
breed. Excellent progress is being made on the construction. of the
Homes Conrad Turner Chapel; the re-decorating and improvement
made to the interior of the buildings is reflected in the attitude, behavior
and appreciation of the children; the health of the children during the
past year having been excellent; and gratitude was expressed for the
service of Brother Dr. Ramon D. Garcin, Sr., as Medical Director during
the past forty-five years, a service and labor of love without compensation.
The report by Right Worshipful G. R. Marshall, Grand Lecturer,
contained the following quotation from Stevenson, who said, "So long
as we love we serve." And he further stated, "I have served for my
love of Freemasonry, and especially for that phase of it in which I am

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

533

engaged; because through this small service my life has been richly
blessed in the thought that I may have helped some brother along the
uneven pathway of life, and, finally, because I have been enthusiastically received, delightfully entertained and courteously treated everywhere I have visited. My thanks and gratitude to everyone. We have
covered forty-seven of the fifty-two Masonic Districts, making individual visits to one hundred seventy-one lodges, and through this
medium have given instructions to more than two hundred fifty lodges.
We have devoted a large portion of our time to rural lodges and lodges
located in the smaller towns; because of the ritualistic condition observed during these visits we have found it necessary to make a return
visit to three of them four times, one three times and six twice in order
to bring them up to a higher standard of ritualistic perfection."
Charles E. Webber, Grand Master, in his message to the Craft,
stressed the need of:
1. A closer fellowship among ourselves to promote goodwill and
brotherly love.
2. A greater interest in and understanding of the workings of
Grand Lodge.
3. Loyal support of our churches and a higher appreciation of
spiritual values.
4. Devotion to home and family.
Regarding membership and attendance at meetings he added:
"There is no substitute for personal work in building up our attendance and good fellowship at stated and special communications. I urge
every Master and Warden to select at least ten names from the roster
of his membership with whom he is not personally acquainted, and to
make a personal visit to each of them, telling them of the work his
Lodge is doing, and urging their attendance. In the larger Lodges, this
work should be extended to the Deacons and other officers."
As to newly raised Master Masons, the Grand Master stated:
"I request every Worshipful Master to make it his especial duty to
provide instruction for the new raised brother, relative to the business
procedure of his Lodge, and to acquaint him with the work being done
by our Grand Lodge. I would like to see our new members encouraged
to visit other Lodges, and to have impressed upon them the importance
of maintaining their Masonic relationship wherever they may be."
In speaking of the Virginia Masonic Herald, the Grand Master said,
"A number of organizations send their official publications to each
~ember and the cost of producing is added to their yearly dues. In
time, I hope this will be possible in Virginia."
The report of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence showed
the Committee recommended that the Grand Lodge of Porte Alegra,
~he delegate to England reported on the formal dinner given by
Brazil and the Grand Lodge of Chile be recognized.

535

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

the Earl of Scarborough. the Deputy Grand Master, at the Dorchester.
a West End Hotel, which the small .group representing Massachusetss.
Michigan; Maryland and Virginia attended. The inst.a llation took place
in Albert Hall where 7,000 were seated. The installation was performed
by the King. The King then read a five.minute speech. Brother Roger
Keith, Most Worshipful Grand Master of Massachusetts, spoke. for
the American delegation. Grand Lodge was closed and the American
brethren had their reception by the King.
Reports of District Deputy Grand Masters for. 58 distr.icts were
given. showing that the subordinate lodges are becoming more mterest~d
in Grand Lodge proceedings and work; that much has been d~ne. m
the way of suppers. oyster feeds. shad bakes, watermelon feeds. p1cmcs.
educational tours. music by the Shrine band. inspiring addres~es •. and the
like to cement a fine spirit of good fell owship and hospitality; that
Founders' Day was observed by the lodges; that at~endance ~f ~he
Masonic School of Instruction has been good; that m some d1.stricts
the ritual is nearly letter perfect in every lodge; that the holding ~£
Masters' and Wardens' Association meetings has done much to kmt
and develop the fine spirit existing in the districts; that some n~w te.m•
pies have been erected; that the lodges show pride in the beautification
and cleanliness of their meeting places; that many members have been
restored who have been suspended for a number of years; that Masonry
is going forward, in that more care and consideration for ~he o~der
Masons is building interest among them and the spec.ial attention given
the new members is keeping up their attendance which means encour·
agement for the efficers.
'
A unanimous vote was cast for Grand Master, Right Worshipful
A. Douglas Smith, Jr., as Grand Master of Masons in Virginia for
the ensuing Masonic year, following which he was p~esented at the
altar by his father. Most Worshipful Albert W. Clafh~, Past Grand
Master of Rhode Island. presenting gavel to Most Worshipf~l A. Doug·
1as S mi•th , Jr.. Grand Master• (addressing Most Worshipful
l C. ·E.h
Webber who was presiding) : brought his presentation to a c ose wit
the following words:
"We live for those who love us
Whose hearts are kind and true,
For the Heaven that smiles above us,
And awaits our spirits, too.
For the human ties that bind us,
For the tasks by God assigned us,
For the bright hope left behind us,
and the good that we can do."

tained within its pages. Secondly, we cherish a hope that if read by
the newest, smallest Lodge in -the north.east corner of the District, that
insipration and devotion will find root and fruitfully multiply.)

53i

(Editor's Note: We have rePorted seemingly at lenfl.!h on.. these
Proceedings, primarily because there was so much good meat con·

WASHINGTON
The ninety.second Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful
Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of Washington convened
in the Masonic Temple, Seattle. on Tuesday. the 21st day of June, 1949
and was called to order by the Most Worshipful Delos A. Shiner at
10:00 o'clock A. M. There were 17 Past Grand Masters present.
The address of welcome was given by the Honorable William
Devin, Mayor of the City of Seattle, although not a Mason, he com·
plimented the Order for the things they stand for and the things they
have accomplished. He also quoted from the Vision of Sir Launfal.
" He who gives alms serves three, himself, his hungry neighbor and me."
The invocation was given by the acting Grand Chaplain the Rev·
erend Dr. Cyrus E. Albertson.
The Grand Master in his message stated that Free Masonry is
on the march, that our members fully appreciate the gifts which have
come down to them from the past and are determined to protect and
defend them, that the precepts of Free Masonry are recognized tools
to teach men to become better men. and to prepare them for useful service
in the community. in the church, in the administration of Government,
in the guidance of boys and girls. and in like endeavors.
One of the Grand Master's greatest interests has been in the youth
of America, especially devoted to the Boy Scouts of America. As a
tribute to his outstanding work in that organization the National Council
conferred upon him the highest Regional Honor in its power to bestow,
the Silver Antelope.
In the Grand Master's report on the Washington Memorial Temple
at Alexandria, Virginia, the reports show that the total expenditures to
February. 1949 for building construction, grounds construction, admin·
istrative and general expetises, purchase of land and maintenance total
$5.025,435.94 and it is thought that an additional $1.000.000 will com·
plete the undertaking.
During the year there were 57 fifty year certificates issued, some of
them being presented for the Grand Lodge of Washington in other
Grand jurisrictions. There were three new lodges constituted, two new
lodge halls dedicated, and one lodge issued a dispensation.
The Grand Secretary, John I. Preissner's report shows that there
are 268 Lodges under charter and one Lodge under dispensation in the
Grand Jurisdiction, with a total membership of 59,488 members, an all
time high in the annals of Grand Lodge. There were 173 requests for
courtesy work from foreign jurisdictions; Washington Lodges requested
113 degrees from other jurisdictions.

536

PROCEEDING~ OF THE

During the year there have been numerous bequests made to the
Endowment Fund, all of which were gratefully received and acknowledged. The largest was from the estate of Edna J. Quick for $50,000.
During the past several years the Masonic Homes Endowment
Committee has been pleased to report a very substantial increase over
preceding years. The net income from the fund this year was $21,898.~5.
This amount was paid over to the Home, which represented a substantial
contribution toward the support and maintenance. There were 34 new
members, with an average age·of 81 years, who have taken up residence
during the past year, making a total on May 31 of 159 in the Home,
and rooms are available and being held for seven more.
Most Worshipful Brother Loomis Baldrey P. G. M. and Chairman
of the Committee on Correspondence recommended six Grand Lodges
in the Republic of Brazil, one in East Colombia and one in Germany
be recognized as they are similar to the Grand Lodges in the United
States and having similar jurisdictions.
Brother Henry C. Heal was elected and installed Grand Master
of the Most Vvorshipful Grand Lodge of Washington. The 93rd
Annual Communication was held in Tacoma, Washington, June 20.-21.
1950.
WEST VIRGINIA
M:.w:.Nelson S. Orkney, Grand Master.
R: .W: .I. Wade Coffman, Grand Secretary.
Several Grand 'Masters as well as representatives of other Grand
Lodges were introduced and accommodated at the opening of this Grand
Lodge 185th, Bluefield, October 12 and 13, 1949.. A~ter wh~~h Grand
Master Orkney delivered his address in which he said m part, Masonry
is flourishing and marching forward in West Virginia. From the reports
of the District Deputy Grand Masters and my own observations I have
found the Lodges busy and in most cases, pNspering. So far as I know,
all are strictly complying with the rules and regulations of this Grand
Lodge." On the George Washington National ~emorial M:.W:.
Orkney said, "According to the report of the architect, the cost of the
building to date is $5,025,435.94. The total amount of contributions
presented at this meeting was $201,647.24. West Virginia:s c~ntribu­
tion was $736.84 which brought her total to $58,207.42, which is about
$1,000.00 short of her quota." There were 11ixteen special communications of Grand· Lodge among which were special sessions for the Funeral
Service for two Past Grand Masters, Boyd Wees and Wilson H. S.
White, the laying of corner stones in several public buildings. and. f~r
the constitution of Nitro Lodge No. 170. There were 29 special v1s1ts
to West Virginia Lodges. West Virginia's Masonic Home is in good
hands and they have about completed the new addition. The Grand

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

537

Master stated that this worthy project of the Grand Lodge deserved the
full . support of the Craft. M:. W: .Brother Orkney presented several
50 year Service Awards during the year and he wanted his brethren to
know that it was a distinct privilege and pleasure for him to have had
some part in honoring those who had served the Craft so well. The
Grand Lecturer's report showed that in most cases the Masters of the
Lodges of West Virginia were interested in perfecting the work and
ritual and to such brethren the Grand Lecturer gave high praise.
The reports of the Grand Secretary and the Grand Treasurer show
that West Virginia is in good sound financial condition and well able
to care for all wants and needs.
The Board of Governors of the West Virginia Masonic Home, in
their report, chided the Brethren for their apparent lack of knowledge
and interest in the Masonic Home and asked the representatives present
to carry back to their Lodges the story of the Home, its aims and its
purposes. In turn they agreed to send more information concerning
the Home and its activities to the Lodges. The financial report of the
Board shows that there are sufficient funds for their present needs.
By action of this Grand Lodge it was agreed to assess every member
throughout the subordinate Lodges the sum of $1.00, which is to be
paid to the Masonic Home Building Fund.
Grand Lodge was convened as a Lodge of Sorrow and very fitting
memorial services were held for Past Grand Masters Wilson H. S.
White and Boyd Wees.
Committee of Foreign Correspondence reported that there were
several requests for recognition from European and South American
Grand Lodges, but that these requests were being held up at the present
time until further information could be secured. They did however
approve recognition for the National Grand Lodge of Colombia and
the Grand Lodge Nuevo Leon, Mexico.
A proposed amendment to the General Laws and Regulations was
presented and will be voted on at the next session of the Grand Lodge.
"A person who has been elected to receive the degrees must be initiated
an Entered Apprentic within one year from the date of his election. An
Entered Apprentice must be passed to the degree of Fellow Craft
within one year from the date of his initiation. A Fellow Craft must
be raised to the sublime degree of Master Mason within one year from
the date he passed to the degree of Fellow Craft."
There was no reported reception of the Flag nor was there a tribute
paid to the Flag.
.
The Committee on Correspondence gave a particularly pleasing
report on California's activities.
The next annual communication of this Grand Lodge will be held in
Huntington, West Virginia, commencing October 11, 1950.
M. W. Daniel C. Bageant, Grand Master.

538

539

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

R. W. I. Wade Coffman, Grand Secretary, Brother Coffman was
elected but passed away December 24, 1949. The records show that Past
Grand Master Frank F. Flaig was installed as Grand Secretary.

Master was compelled in many instances to disapprove of by-laws or
resolutions which attempted to set up the personnel of committees, such
as a finance committee or a charity committee. Similarly, a by-law
which would compel the Master to appoint an officer, such as a chaplain or an organist, which is not a required officer, has been held to be
illegal. The Master has the right and power to appoint additional
officers such as a chaplain or an organist if he thinks wise, but it is not
in the power of the lodge to compel him to do so.
Eight cases of dereliction of duty, either by lodges, officers or members of the Craft were cited; that while this is an unhappy task, there
are literally hundreds of instances where the Grand Master has written
letters of commendation to officers and members who have done an
outstandingly good piece of work or who have given of themselves
beyond the requirements of duty.
Grarid Master Norman H. Smith wrote 66 decisions interpreting
Masonic law during the year.
The observance of Brotherhood Week having become a national
institution, during the current year the State of Wisconsin took special
recognition of Brotherhood Week. Special programs were held in over
200 lodges of the State. Reports have indicated that there has been
fine inspiration for the membership of the lodges in this observance.
Grand Master Smith heartily recommended the continuance of this
observance.
There has been a continued improvement in the quality of the
esoteric work being done by the lodges of Wisconsin.
The circulation of The Wisconsin Freemason now exceeds 12,000
copies per month. which is better than 1 out of 5 of the members of
the lodges who are receiving the magazine.
At the last Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge the Committee on Foreign Relations introduced and there was adopted a resolution authorizing and directing the Grand Master to extend formal
recognition to the Grand Orient of Italy. During the past year the
Mother Grand Lodge of England has refused to have a .representative
near the Grand Lodge of Newfoundland because said lodge recognizes
the Grand Orient of 'I taly. The Grand Master feels that in this action
the Mother Grand Lodge of England is clearly exceeding the hounds
of good Masonic relationship in endeavoring to put pressures on other
sovereign Grand Lodges as to whom they may or may not recognize.
However, it is the belief of the Grand Master that it would be undesirable to take any step toward recognition of the Grand Orient of
Italy, not only because of the question as to the legitimacy of that body,
which naturally arises from the action of the iUnited Grand Lodge of
England. but also because the Grand Master is definitely of the opinion
that cordial relations .with the Mother Grand Lodge are far more important than relations with the Grand Orient of Italy; and it is his hope

WISCONSIN
The one hundred and fifth Annual Communication of the Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of Wisconsin was opened in
ample form, in the Scottish Rite Cathedral, Milwaukee, Tuesday, June
14, 1949, by M.'.W:. Norman H. Smith, Grand Master.
The Flag of our Country was presented and ordered placed in its
station on the dais at the right of the Grand Master. With the guard
of honor and the assembly standing at attention, the pledge of allegiance was then given.
The Report of the Grand Master contained the following:
That there had been four quarterly conferences of all of the Grand
Lodge officers held throughout the State; that at all of these conferences
officers and members of the constituent lodges in the vicinity met with
the Grand Lodge officers and had a very frank and open discussion of
the problems of the Craft, which conferences were very helpful to the
Grand Lodge officers in enabling them to learn something of the problems and desires of the members of the Craft, which the Grand Master
believed the members of the lodges also found helpful and stimulating.
He heartily recommended the continuance of this practice of holding
regular and frequent meetings of the Grand Lodge officers in various
cities of the State.
That during the year the Grand Master made 46 visitations to
lodges; and that other Grand Lodge officers made similar visits, making
in all 219 visitations: that in the course of the last three years every
lodge in the state of Wisconsin has been visited by one or more of the
Grand Lodge officers.
The plans and specifications for building a few new temples and
for remodeJing others had been approved; that inasmuch as we might
be approaching a period of recession, and having in mind the unhappy
experiences of some of the lodges which acquired indebtedness in times
of prosperity, and inflation, and which was an unbearable burden in
normal or depression times, care has been taken to approve plans for
borrowing only within what is believed to be the definite ability of the
lodge to pay; and using as a rule of thumb a formula applied by the
predecessors of not authorizing indebtedness in excess of $50.00 per
member where the building has no income features and $100.00 per
member where the building does have income features; the rule was
applied in these instances.
As to by-laws of constituent lodges, insomuch as the Master is
responsible for the conduct of the lodge and he can be held responsible
only so long as he can control the committees and functions, the Grand

540

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

and belief "that the Mother Grand Lodge will see the error of her ways.
but at this time it would be most unwise to do anything which would
add fuel to the fire."
The Grand Master closed his report with the following i
"In my messages and in my visitations I have tried to emphasize the
spiritual content of Masonry. I have called attention to the great responsibility, as well as to the great privilege, of being a Mason. If during
this year there has come to any brother a finer and higher concept of
the great end and object of our Gentle Craft, a new realization of the
Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of Man, then it is just one
more proof of the goodness and kindness of a Heavenly Father Who
accomplishes His great purposes through humble and simple men."
WYOMING
The Seventy-fifth Annual Communication was opened at Laramie,
August, 1949 by M. W . Grand Master Carlyle D. Williamson.
Special Communications had been held throughout the State during
the preceding year.
At the quarterly communication in Torrington, on September 25,
1948, the brethren marched north from the Masonic Hall to the site of
the All Saints' Episcopal Church in the north part of the city, where
they laid the corner stone in accordance with ancient Masonic rites and
ceremonies.
At the quarterly communication held in Worland on March 19,
1949, the brethren marched east from the Masonic Hall to the site of
the new First Baptist Church where they laid the corner stone of the
said Church in accordance with ancient Masonic rites and ceremonies.
At the quarterly communication held at Thermopolis, Wyoming, on
May 19, 1949, the brethren rode in automobiles to the State Park in the
eastern part of the city to the site of the new Home and Hospital. The
Grand Master laid the cornerstone in accordance with ancient Masonic
rites and ceremonies.
The Seventy-fl£ th Annual Communication was opened at Laramie
on August 22, 1949.
In his Welcoming Address, Dr. G. D. Humphrey, President of the
University of Wyoming, stated this to be the 75th year of the Grand
Lodge of Wyoming, and therefore its diamond anniversary meeting,
adding:
"Our organization is the largest in the world, respected by the world
at large, and loved by all its members, not because of the badge we wear,
for the badge is merely a symbol, whether it be a plain pin or one set
with diamonds; not because of the lodge rooms in which we meet, for
whether it be a bare hall in a remote rural district or a magnificent city
temple, the word spoken and the work performed are no different: not

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

541

because of our hospitals and homes, for much of our charity is without
show or the knowledge of the world: but because the very name of Masonry breathes the spirit of fraternal love and gives to our symbol its
priceless value, making of our halls a sacred meeting place, bestowing
upon our institution that love and service not found in public life of like
character, and bringing to our side a brotherly helper wherever our
appeal for aid may be heard."
In response to the address of welcome, Glenn C. Templeman, Worshipful Master of Lovell Lodge No. 36 said:
"That early in the last decade it was decided the people of this country needed assistance ... The Government therefore undertook to correct conditions by deficit financing ... IS THIS WISE? ... have we
given sufficient consideration to the law of cause and effect? ... Like dope
or drugs, a little may work the first time, but under prolonged and continued use the desired results can only be attained by increased amounts
until eventually no effect is experienced . . . We as Masons should
understand these things for we are carefully instructed regarding them
in the second degree. Our Brothers who had a large part in the moulding
of this Nation used much of their Masonic knowledge in that founding.
I hold that we, their heirs, as well as their Brothers have a duty to perform in maintaining what they so well started ... Let us properly ponder
them in the light of our Masonic teachings," and Grand Master Williamson in his report asked:
"Are we correspondingly alert to the duties, privileges and opportunities for service to each other and our environment and do we possess
the foresight which they showed when they instituted this movement
devoted to the principles of brotherly love, relief. truth and social improvement? I hope that when this Grand Lodge meets seventy-five years
hence the judgment may be 'Yes'; but this will be only if we lay seriously to heart the great dangers we are in from the system of distorted
thinking, usurpation of excessive authority and disregard of individual
freedom which has been established in a considerable part of the world,
and which some of our people ... seem to see as the panacea for all that
is not to their liking ... We can prove ourselves worthy of this trust
only if we remove the scales from our mental eyes, discover clearly the
designs laid down on His trestle board by the Supreme Architect of the
Universe and perseveringly add our efforts-each in his own way-to
the upbuilding of the edifice planned by that Architect ..."
Brother Marshall S. Reynolds has been selected as Most Worshipful
Grand Master of Masons in Wyoming during the year 1949-50. Born
in 1881, he was graduated from the University of Pennsylvania School
of Law in 1905. He received his Master Mason degree in Tunkhannock,
Pennsylvania, in 1907. He served through World War I, being discharged -May 26, 1919, as Captain of Artillery. Having moved to Kemmerer, Wyoming, he was a charter member of American Legion Post

542

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No. 17; is a Past Commander of the Wyoming Department of the
American Legion and a Past Chef De Gare of the Forty and Eight. In
1921 he served as a representative of Lincoln County in the Wyoming
State Legislature. After his marriage, he transferred his Masonic mem~
bership to Cheyenne Lodge No. l, serving as Worshipful Master in
1934; being appointed Grand Orator O'f the Grand Lodge by Conrad
Johnson, Most Worshipful Grand Master in 1940, and has served sue~
cessively in Grand Lodge since that time. Brother Reynolds was elected
to receive the Honorary 33° -in 1929 and in 1932 he was appointed'
Deputy for the Supreme Council in Wyoming, which position he still
holds. He has also served as High Priest of Wyoming Chapter No. 1,
R.A.M .. and as Commander of Wyoming Commandery No. 1, Knights
Templar, both at Cheyenne.
The selection of Brother Reynolds as Most Worshipful Grand Master
of Masons in Wyoming is a climax of a lifetime of service, both public
and Masonic.
A Flag Ce:remony was not mentioned.

AUSTRALIA

543

Australia is divided into six Masonic areas embracing the six Do~
minion Grand Lodges. · They are: South Australia at Adelaide; New
South Wales at Sidney: Queensland, at Brisbane: Tasmania, at Hobart:
Western Australia, at Perth: Victo~ia, at Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Communication from the M.'.W.'.Grand Master
Excerpts
To all the brethren I have selected from the many scores of worthy
Craftsmen, the thanks of Grand Lodge are due for their work in Free~
masonry, and for the standing and stability they give to the Craft. May ·
they continue to wield their influence in Freemasonry for many years to
come.
With three exceptions, who have been selected for special reasons in
the interests of the Craft, the average age of the brethren upon whom
P.M's rank has been conferred is over 70 years.
I have told you Grand Lodge is growing, and the opportunity of
serving as Grand Lodge Officers are limited. I have adopted the practice
of conferring Past Grand Rank on brethren who richly deserve it but
who, for various reasons, have had no opportunity of becoming Grand
Lodge Officers. We have reached the stage where about 230 to. 240
Worshipful Masters go out of office each year. The number of officers in
Grand Lodge is less than 60, so you will see we have an ever~increasing
burden. It has been my policy to overcome that as far as we can.
Membership
The progress of the Craft is again shown by the annual Statistics.
By a coincidence, the nett gain is the same as last year, namely 1,117,
making a total membership of 16,522. Thirteen new lodges have been
consecrated since the last Annual Communication, and several more are
in the process of formation, all of which shows a healthy state of affairs.
Golden Jubilee
On Thursday, 7th April last, Lodge Thistle, No. 180, celebrated
its Fiftieth Anniversary. To mark the event, I conferred the rank of
Past Grand Direetor of Ceremonies on Wor. Bro. E . H. M. Owen,
whose Patent of Office was presented by R.W. Bro. W. W. Raad,
P.D.G.M., who represented me on that occasion.
Whither Are We Drifting?
For any organisation that is spread throughout the world, and con~
sequently has a world outlook, the present situation is full of perplexity
and the future is both doubtful and disturbing. During the last world
war, one of the questions inost frequently asked was: what are we fight~
ing for? The late Archbishop Temple said that it was not a dog~flght be~
tween national imperialism; it was a struggle between two incompatible

544

545

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ways of life. Surely it would be reasonable to suppose that those who
fought side by side in the allied cause were desirous of that kind of victory that would bring happiness back to the world? And yet today that
incompatibility is just as great between Western and Eastern ideologies
as it was during the war between the Allies and Germany. We fought
for victory, certainly, and obtained it. But surely victory meant more
than merely subduing the enemy. Surely we did not mean it to be barren
of any results. In a book published in 1941 by W. E. Sangster, the
author set out the opinions of various statesmen as to what they envisaged in the word victory. Mr. Churchill said we were fighting for security, and the present Prime Minister (Mr. Attlee) that we were fighting
for peace; Arthur Greenwood for a new order, and Lord Halifax for
progress; Stanley Bruce for justice, and Anthony Eden for freedom; Sir
Archibald Sinclair for decency, and McKenzie King for democracy.
When we look over the world and world affairs today can we honestly say that we have achieved any of these results? Are not the differences
and dissensions amongst nations still as great as they have ever been?
and is not that altruistic desire for a hightr and better civilization rapidly
giving way to the same selfish materialism that so largely helped to throw
the world into the cauldron of war for two generations? We are all perplexed and sometimes despairing. If victory in two world wars cannot
give us that security, peace, freedom and democracy that we fought for,
what can?
Is there any ground for hope? If not, what relief is there from despair?
I think the remedy lies in our own hands. If, as individuals, peoples and
nations we could turn our minds from the drab and selfish materialisms
of life, and look towards those things that are of God and from God, our
difficulties could be solved and the attainment of universal peace an1
brotherhood might be assured.
Two thousand years ago a still, small voice sought to change man's
attitude toward life from a state of harshness, selfishness and nationalism
to one of love, thoughtfulness and brotherhood. This new religion, beginning in the East, rapidly spread westward, and European political
structures were built upon it. Nowhere did those principles take root
more deeply than in Britain and, as the world grew, amongst Englishspeaking peoples. We have not always followed the teaching with that
sincerity that we should. Down through the centuries there have been
periods of forgetting God, but still all the time there has been an advance
on part of Western European peoples towards that higher civilization
envisaged in the Sermon on the Mount. In fact, until about sixty years
ago, the teachings of the Man of Galilee were perhaps vaguely the basis
of all civilised political structures. Then there arose an atheistic and
tyrannical movement that neither believed in God nor respected the
sanctity of human life. That movement, cradled in one Great Eastern
European Nation, has spread, principally through illiterate poople, be-

yond the confines of its own country. And so the world is faced ·today
with one of the most deadly human ideologies, which is infiltratiing its
theories into every phase of human activity. With that infiltration in other
countries we are perhaps only remotely concerned, but we are very
deeply concerned with its effect on our own Commonwealth. This evil
influence has already infiltrated itself into many activities and institutions
throughout the world and in our own Commonwealth. There are creeping
in subversive elements that would set up a tyrannical form of government, destroy the rights of citizens, and make of any country, in which
they get the upper hand, a country where life itself would be reduced
to a condition of slavery. We are liable, in Freemasonry, just as in any
other institution, to have to face such an infiltration. It, therefore, becomes of paramount importance to remember the tenets and principles of
Freemasonry and the obligations that we took when we entered the
Craft-to believe in God, to honour the King, to obey the laws, to allow
freedom within the law to our fellow men, and to be true to the ideals of
our native or adopted land.
We are reaching a stage in the history of the community as a whole
when this ideology which is destroying the Body Politic must be opposed
with all our heart and soul and strength~ I am not talking about politics;
I am talking about those things that are sapping the vitality of our Commonwealth, and that should be opposed, not only by every right-thinking
man in our own country, but by every right-thinking man in every country in the world.. As far as Freemasonry is concerned, the tenets and
principles to which we have pledged ourselves are those of Sincerity,
Charity, Tolerance, Humanity, Brotherhood and Peace. Are we going
to allow any subversive elements to come amongst us and by their actions
take away all these qualities and leave us, more or less, in a state of
slavery? Are we to be at the domination of any outside force or are we
to live as the Great Architect intended we should live as human beings,
serving God, doing justly to man and preserving peace?
I am speaking seriously, because I believe that the time has arrived
when it is necessary for everyone with a desire for the well-being of the
community to speak seriously if the canker in our midst is to be removed.
I believe, seriously, that this Commonwealth is in danger of the invasion of subversive elements. I believe that they have made their
presence felt in other institutions throughout this Commonwealth. They
may get into Freemasonry. Every one of us should be up and doing to
see that they do not. Freemasons should stand four square for all that
is true and honourable, and strive to do their best for their. fellow men,
and so endeavour to make the world better for the fact that they have
been privileged to live upon this earth. Its influence should be turned
against any movement wherehy the people, as a whole, would be called
upon to suffer because a few have the desire to secure all power and
authority. Think it over.

546

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The challenge comes to Freemasonry, as to every other respected
institution, to carry out its principles and take care that within its ranks
there shall be no subversive elements to upset the happiness of the com~
munity in which we all dwell. With the Church, our task is to keep things
on an even keel, so that by God's Grace and by the dissemination of.
high principles we can wipe out the evil influence that is trying to spread
its wings over the Commonwealth of Australia.

Grand Lodge throughout the world should prove that quality has been
sacrificed to quantity; no other feature of present trends in Freemasonry
presents more pressing need for careful attention by Lodges in all Jurisdictions. Second, is the note of warning that may be read into the statement which appears in the "Report of the Board of General Purposes"
to the United Grand Lodge of England, under date of 1st June, 1949.
We quote, p. 3: "During the past ten years, while the expenses of every
Institution have been growing, we have been fortunate in the fund of
General Purposes to have had increases in revenue which have taken
care of increases in expenditure. That is, until last year. In June of last
year it became apparent that this fortunate position was not continuing,
that expenses were continuing to grow, but that there was a diminution
in the recent great influx into Masonry and that we could not therefore
expect any further increase in expenditure to be covered by a revenue
which seemed to have reached its peak, and perhaps in s<:>me respects
to have started to decline." (End of quote.) In New South Wales,
though the influx into Masonry is still great, Lodges may well take
warning from the foregoing statement, that now is the time to consolidate their positions.
The numbers of Lodges and their members on the register of the
United Grand Lodge of England has reached an all~time high peak. In
the United States and in Canada, Grand Lodges continue to gain in
membership; and in every land in Europe, where democracy is practiced, Freemasonry is being re~established. Prior to three years ago,
Freemasonry in Continental Europe, was practiced only in Sweden and
Switzerland. In all other places in Europe organized Masonic life was
either destroyed or cancelled. By 1948, Lodges had been re-established
in Norway, Finland, Denmark, Holland, Belgium, France, Italy, Greece,
and in parts of Germany and Czechoslovakia. There is no organized
Masonry in Portugal, Spain or Russia.
Not the least important of matters claiming attention by Grand
Lodges in English-speaking countries is the problem arising out of
requests for recognition by organizations claiming to be Masonic; especially requests coming from both Europe and Latin America. The
Grand Lodge of England and the Grand Lodge of Canada have deferred consideration of such requests in order that the present general
confused conditions may he clarified.
Congratulations to Lodge Trinity, No. 666. At this Lodge's meeting
on the 8th March last, the passing of a "blood" brother and brother-inlaw was witnessed by eight other brethren and brothers-in-law.
Lodge Victoria, No. 73, on 21st March last, celebrated the 70th
anniversary of the formation of the Lodge which first met at Ashfield
on the 10th March, 1879. The Most Wor. Grand Master was in attendance, accompanied by the Grand Secretary and eight other present
and past Grand Lodge officers. The Grand Master gave the Final

Ladies' Nights
Since the last Quarterly Communication, the Grand Master has
had cause to give a ruling that ladies and other non~Masons must not
be admitted in our lodge rooms when ladies' nights are being held. All
lodges have been circularised accordingly. and I now place this edict on
the records.
I would add, further, that, when halls are used for other than Masonic functions, care should be taken to see that the lodge room is locked up.
his is most essential, as from information received there have been iso~
lated cases where entry to the lodge room has been made by non-Masons
through laxity in leaving the door open. -Board of General Purposes.
M. W. Bro. J. A. Kiein, M.A. Past Grand Master and his committee
on Foreign Correspondence are to be congratulated for a splendid review. The efforts of the committee indicate a very definate interest in the
proceedings of lodges in other Grand Jurisdictions.
. Re California Correspondence Report
The result of their efforts was a "Conspectus" making a volume of
300 pages summarizing the various questions interesting Masons. The
:ompilers and their Chairman, Wor. Bro. J. K. Fisk, are to be commended on the thoroughness of their labours.
THE UNITED GRAND LODGE OF
NEW SOUTH WALES

Report of Committee on Foreign Correspondence
June 30, 1949.
Perusal of the appended Reviews of the Proceedings of over-seas
Grand Lodges should have a great deal of interest and pleasure for
Masons in New South Wales. They supply evidence of almost unparalleled Masonic activity and expansion in every country where free
men govern themselves and worship God according to the dictates of
their own consciences. Also, they furnish evidence of the applicability
of Masonic teaching and philosophy to all democratic and God-fearing
peoples regardless of nationality and language.
The interest and pleasure to be derived from a study of the Reviews
and Extracts will, however, be modified by two conditions. First, the
anxiety revealed lest the large gains in membership by practically every

547

549

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Charge to the newly~initiated brother, and also gave an inspiring address
to the brethren before he retired from the Lodge. V. Wor. Bro. Cox
has be~n Secretary for 41 years. Notable among those present was
Wor. Bro. Alfred Gough, who occupied the chair of the Lodge 55
years ago.

M.W. Grand Master:
I appreciate very deeply. Brethren all, the fact that you have unami~
mously elected me. for the fourth term in succession as Grand Master of
the United Grand Lodge of Queensland. I should like you to know that
I did not accept this nomination until I had conferred with my Deputy
Grand Master and my Assistant Grand Master. They both assured me
of their continued loyalty and support, which I appreciate very much
indeed.
The duties appertaining to this Office are arduous. but the joys derived therefrom are very great. The G.A.O.T.U. has blessed our labours
in this Jurisdiction, and throughout the State of Queensland you will
find in all Lodges a delightful spirit of harmony and a sincere wish to
do everything possible to further the interests of this great Order, of
which we are so proud.

548

Correspandence
Your Committee recommends that the request of the Grand Orient
of Italy be granted; that it be accorded fraternal recognition by this
Grand Lodge, with exchange of representatives. (Adopted).
Your Committee is of the opinion that the requests of the two German
Grand Lodges are premature. Germany is still an enemy country, occu~
pied by troops of our own and other nations. Future conditions, geographically, politically, Masonically, are unknown and unpredictable.
No other American Grand Lodge has recognized either of these bodies,
nor is either on the list of the Grand Lodge of England. Your Com~
mfttee feels that hasty, initial recognition by this Grand Lodge, at the
seat of our Nation's Government, would be most inappropriate.
The request of the Grand Lodge of Berlin was forwarded by Major
Harvey N. Brown, a New York Mason who served as Acting Master
of the American "Berlin Lodge U.D." existing by dispensation of the
Grand Lodge of Rhode Island. Major Brown has close personal contact
with the officials of the Berlin Grand Lodge, having assisted consid~
erably in their re~establishment. and by letter and in personal conferences with the Chairman of your Committee he strongly urged the
recognition of this group to the exclusion of any other in Germany.
Your Committee does not at this time express any opinion as to the
merits of the two German bodies. It feels that the conditions above
set forth are controlling, and recommends that both requests be denied
solely upon those grounds. without prejudice to the renewal of the
applications when stable peace and government have been re~established
in Germany.
QUEENSLAND
The \United Grand Lodge of
Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of Queensland.
Grand Master: M.W. Bro. Eustace Alfred Jones.
QUARTERLY COMMUNICATION
Holden at Masonic Memorial Temple, Ann Street, Brisbane.
On Wednesday, 1st June, 1949.
Election of Grand Master
R.W. Bro. W. B. Darker, Deputy Grand Master: Brethren, I have
to declare M.W. Bro. Eustace Alfred Jones duly elected as Grand
Master of the United Grand Lodge of Queensland for the ensuing twelve
months.

Repart of Motion by The Board of General Purpases
"To Amend the First Schedule by inserting in the second paragraph
after the words 'British Empire' the following:
'On the recommendation of the Board of General Purposes, the
Grand Master may grant Dispensation in exceptional circumstances to
permit the admission of an unnaturalised applicant.' "
At the present time, an applicant who is not naturalised cannot sign
an application form for admission into a Lodge by reason of the fact
that he cannot take the Oath of Allegiance to the Sovereign of the
British Empire, which is incorporated in the second paragraph of the
First Schedule.
This amendment is for the purpose of giving authority to the Grand
Master to grant a dispensation in exceptional circumstances. Such
circumstances have come before the Board and a dispensation would be
recommended if the Constitution so provided. It is to enable that to be
done that this amendment is sought.
GRAND LODGE OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Held at Freemasons' Hall, North Terrace, Adelaide, on
Wednesday. April 20th. 1949.
Grand Master Re~elected
The Deputy Grand Master announced:" A nomination for the office of Grand Master has been received in
the name of M.W. Bro. the Hon. Mr. Justice George Coutts Ligertwood,
Grand Master, and as no other nomination has been received, I declare
him duly re-elected as Grand Master for the ensuing year."
The Grand Director of Ceremonies (V.W. Bro. H. Daniells) made
the proclamation in the E. This was followed by Grand Honours and

550

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

the rendering of the Ode, "Lord our Grand Master Bless."
Membership
The annual returns for the year ended June 30. 1948, disclose the
highest membership yet attained in this Jurisdiction, namely, 19,430,
as compared with 18,436 as a 30/6/'47-an increase of 994 members
as against 1,250 for the .previous twelve months and l, 136 for the preceding year. The figure of 1,250, however, included 125 members of
Port Darwin Lodge at the date of its resuscitation on 8/11/46.
The initiations number 1.164 (as compared with 1,245 for the preceding year and 1.185 for year ended 30/6/46) and the joinings and
affiliations 674 (including 210 foundation members of the six new Lodges
established during the year) as against 723 for the previous year, which
figure included 142 foundation members of new Lodges and the 125
members of Port Darwin Lodge.
( Board of General Purposes)
Committee of Inquiry
In view of the edict of Grand Lodge requiring the establishment in
each Lodge of a Committee of Inquiry for the purpose of ensuring the
most searching inquiry into the character and qualifications of candidates, the Board recommends that each Lodge shall take steps to incorporate in its by-laws a new clause under the heading, "Committee of
Inquiry," reading"There shall be a Committee of Inquiry consisting of the Master
for the time being and three Past Masters who shall be elected at the
annual election of officers. When so directed by the Executive Committee, the Committee of Inquiry shall be responsible for inquiries into
the character and qualifications of candidates for initiation, joining or
affiliation, and shall communicate the result of such inquiries to the
Master.
"For the purpose of any such inquiry, the Committee of Inquiry
shall have power to co-opt the services of any Brother of the Lodge
and to require the intended proposer and seconder or any other member
of the Lodge to attend before it."
( Board of General Purposes )
The President of the Board of General Purposes moved'That the report of the Board of General Purposes and financial
statements of the Grand Lodge be taken as read." Carried.
In moving "That the report be received and adopted," the president
said that he wished to draw attention to that portion of the Grand
Inspector's report which said that the standard of working by the Lodges
was generally high but that it was to be deplored that some Masters
allowed brethren, young in the Craft, to do work for which they were
not sufficiently qualified. It was desired that the more important work
should be entrusted to Past Masters. He hoped Lodges would observe

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

551

this. The Grand Inspector had also referred to the fact that few Masters
appeared to have adopted a recommendation by the Grand Master
regarding the admission of visitors. Much time was needlessly lost,
in some cases up to half an hour in admitting visiting Masters, when the
whole of the visitors could have been received without any loss of dignity
within a matter of minutes. He hoped Lodges would see that ·a quicker
system of receiving visitors was introduced. It could be done with dignity
and decorum without in any way detracting from the proceedings.
Carried.
ANCIENT, FREE, & ACCEPTED MASONS OF
TASMANIA

Board of General Purposes
On the 14th of June, Lodge Heather, No. 64, was consecrated by
. the Grand Master, assisted by Grand Officers. Lodge Heather is the
first "Suburban" Lodge to be formed in Launceston, and this move
should be of great interest to all.
We also wish to congratulate St. Andrew Lodge for sponsoring
Lodge Heather. St. Andrew, with its numerous "Offspring," has done
much towards building the Craft in Launceston into a strong, virile
organization.
Whilst on the subject of new Lodges, we have heard whispers of
at least two likely to he formed in the South in the near future. One
whisper comes from the Brethren of Lindisfarne, and the other may take
up its work at the Glenorchy Temple.
These are good signs of growth within our Order, as we feel that
more Lodges, with a smaller membership, will help to solve some of the
problems confronting Lodges so far as attendance at meetings is concerned.
On the Rolls at 31/6/49 .................................................... 6,290
Increase for six months ...................................................... 150
........ No. of Lodges ...................................................................... 64
Grand Master's Address (Extracts From)
We live in a progressive and enlightened age. Our fixed ideas
receive rude shocks. Men are disappointing-even our faith in the
Eternal is assailed. Press reports reveal that the Craft is used by contending parties in the political world to bring about distraction to the
advantage of their cause. Unfortunately we have Brethren in our Lodges
who have forgotten their solemn promise-Belief in God, Loyalty to
their Country and its Laws. This must be upheld. I strongly appeal
to you with all the earnestness and power at my command. I counsel
you to introduce members who are above suspicion and who definitely
subscribe to the genuine tenets and principles of our Order.
·

GRANO LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

552

553

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF BRITISH COLUMBIA
ALBERTA, CANADA
June 8, 1949
After Grand Lodge had been opened in due and ample form by
M." .W." .Dr. Wm. A. Henry, Grand Master, the distinguished guests
and visitors were properly introduced and accommodated. The Grand
Master then proceeded to report his activities for the year and it was
interesting to note that Alberta, like California, is well aware. of the
great number of visitors to her lodges and also that they contmue to
visit but make no effort to affiliate; they are also cognizant of the fact
that many of their own brethren move from the jurisdiction of their
mother Lodge but for some reason do not visit or attempt to affiliate
in their new communities, these Masons, the Grand Master reports
are soon lost to Masonry, for they are no longer personally interested
in its activities.
The reports of the various Deputy District Grand Masters show
that while this Grand Lodge may be small in numbers they are certainly
very active. which of course is the real measuring stick of any fraternal
order.
One new Lodge. Ancient Landmark No. 163, was Constituted and
Consecrated during the year. There were 19 courtesy degrees con£erred by the lodges of this Jurisdiction for their sister jurisdictions.
The reports of the Grand Secretary and the Grand Treasurer show
that there are sufficient funds available to this Grand Lodge. however
the Grand Master in his address found it necessary to admonish the
brethren of the constituent lodges and remind them that several of
them found it necessary to raise their dues and in some cases, the initiation fee was also raised in order to make ends meet. He sounded a
word of warning against continued spending, reminding the brethren
of the lean 30's when it was necessary for certain lodges to curtail
many of their activities because of the lack of finances. The Committee
on Foreign Relations and Correspondence had several requests for
recognition from European and South American Grand Lodges, but all
requests except those of the Grand East of the Netherlands and the
National Grand Lodge of Sweden, were tabled until further information could be obtained. Their treatment of the Grand Lodge of California's report was of a most generous nature and gave clearly the
entire picture of California's activities for 1948.
The 45th Annual Communication was held in Edmonton, Alberta,
beginning June 1i, 1950.
M.".W.".Howard B. Macdonald, Grand Master.
R.". W .".George Moore, P .G.M.. Grand Secretary.

78th Annual Communication
Victoria, July 16, 17, 1949
M." .W.".G. M. Ellis, Grand Master, in his address welcomed those
who might be attending for the first time and then proceeded to summarize his work for the year. It was a very busy and full year as is
evident by his report; some 42 official calls as well as special visits to
other jurisdictions among which were the State of Washington and the
Providence of Ontario. Seven new Lodges were Constituted and three
dispensations were issued to form new Lodges in this jurisdiction.
This Grand Master visited -every district in the Jurisdiction except
the Yukon District. He recommended that his successor in office make
such a visit, as it has been some time since they have had an official
call from Grand Lodge. After giving his general report he proceeded
to thank the brethren, saying in part, "Finally, my brethren, I wish to
thank you for the opportunity I have had to serve Freemasonry in this .
Grand Jurisdiction. It has been a short year, but the most outstanding
one in my life. I have tried to give my best to the Craft this year and I
hope that I have accomplished in some small way, what I set out to do,
which was wherever possible to help our membership to be better Freemasons.
"The memories which will remain, the friendships which. I have
made and the inspiration which I have received, will be all the thanks
I require, for whatever effort I may have expended during a very happy
year."
The detailed reports of the Grand Secretary and the Grand Treasurer indicate that there are funds of sufficient amounts on hand to take
care of the needs of this Grand Lodge for quite some time.
The reports of the District Deputy Grand Masters show that all
20 of the districts were extremely active and were in good, strong.
capable hands as is evident by the report of the committee and the
District Deputy Grand Master's address.
The Grand Historian gave a very complete and interesting report
on the history of Trapanier Lodge No. 83, which was written in a
style that holds the reader's interest.
The review of the Grand Lodge of California was a comprehensive
report of our activities and indicates that California is indeed highly
regarded by the Brethren of British Columbia.
The 79th annual communication was held at New Westminster,
B. C., commencing on the 22nd day of June, 1950.
M.".W.".Donald McGuyan, Grand Master.
M." .W.".W. R. Simpson, Grand Secretary.

554

555

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ONTARIO, CANADA

plishment-world peace."
The Committee on Correspondence was most ~enerous in its account
of the Grand Lodge of California. The report was most clear and concise and gave the brethren of Ontario a fine picture of the functions
of California Grand Lodge and the work of its Correspondence Committee.
The 95th Annual Communication will be held in Toronto, Ontario,
Canada beginning July 19. 1950.
M.".W.".J. P . Maher, Grand Master.
R.".W.".E. G. Dixon, Grand Secretary.

Grand Lodge convened on July 20, 1949, a~d after the Grand Lodge
officers and distinguished guests had been seated the Grand Master,
M:.W:.T. H. Simpson, invited all Master Masons to seats in the
balcony: There were numerous distinguished guests and visitors who
were presented to the Grand Master ana through him to the Grand
Lodge of Ontario.
In his address the Grand Master thanked the brethren for the honor
they had bestowed upon him by allowing him to serve them as their
Grand Master; he spoke of the Food Parcels that were being sent to
Britain, of the service and assistance that was being derived from these
worthy projects. In complimenting his Grand Chaplain for his again
appointing as District Deputy Grand Chaplains, members of the cloth,
he said, "That through efforts like this there will be a better understanding and a closer co-operation between the Churches and the Craft."
Grand Master Simpson strongly cautioned the brethren on their procedure of investigation of candidates and recommended that all Lodges
review their methods regarding this matter and make sure that all who
are admitted are good men and true. It was very apparent that Toronto
has taken a page from the proceedings of California, for only recently
they have instituted a blood cloning service and although this service
is less than six months old, already there are some four hundred brethren
who have signified their intentions of being regular d,onors. The Grand
Master in referring to this service remarked: "The gift of one's blood
is greater than the gift of one's money. And from the reception the
service is receiving it is very apparent that this is a program that is being
welcomed with open arms by the brethren of this great city of Toronto."
152 brethren received 50 year buttons and there were 17 who received Long Service Medals ( 50 years a Past Master).
The reports of the Grand Secretary and the Grand Treasurer give
ample proof that this Grand Lodge is in a prosperous and stable condition.
M.".W.".Brother Karl J. Mohr, Past Grand Master of Illinois, was
the principal speaker at the Grand Master's Banquet. In his talk
M. ·. W. ·.Brother Mohr spoke of the troubled world of today, the hatred
of individuals and countries for one another saying, "It is indeed gratifying that we could assemble as Masons with a complete understanding
of fellowship and fraternal love for our fellow man." Particular mention was made of the fact Canadians and Americans had fought side by
side, that our sons had mingled their blood in the defense of freedom
and because we had been friends and neighbors for lo these many years
he felt proud and honored to call them fellow Americans: in his closing
remarks Brother Mohr said, "I leave this challenge-the will to do!
If we have the indomitable courage required as Masons and Americans,
we may safely claim that we stand on the brink of our supreme accom-

NOVA SCOTIA .
There was no review of California Grand Lodge Proceedings.
The Grand Master, M:.W:.D. A. O'Neil. in his address points
the way to preserving peace: "We are all becoming more convinced
that if our way of life is to be improved and protected, the principles
of our order, the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of Man,
must be practiced in all our contacts with mankind.
"The importance of an active Christianity to support our democratic
system cannot be over-estimated and it is, therefore, our duty to take
our place in the Church of our choice so that our influence will help
the work of God, that God whom we are taught as Masons to reverence and obey.
"By observing our duty as Freemasons, we will assist our government in discharging its international duty in preserving peace and improving the lot of mankind."
The holding of district meetings under the direction of a District
Deputy Grand Master appears to be an excellent plan for stimulating
interest among the brethren and lodges.
Flag Ceremony-No mention.
Next Annual Communication at Annapolis Royal.
M.".W.".Rev. George Robert Thompson, Grand Master el.ect.
M:. W:. Reginald V. Harris, Grand Secretary elect.
QUEBEC

The Most Worshipful The Grand Lodge of Quebec, Ancient, Free
and Accepted Masons, held its 79th Annual Communication in the
City of Montreal. on the 12th and 13th days of October, A. D., 1949,
at the Masonic Temple.

Grand Master's Address
Funeral' Ritual
In all our Masonic life I doubt if there is any place where we come
under closer scrutiny than at funerals. Aside from the relatives and

556

557

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

friends of the deceased brother there are often present some who do
not look upon us witli favor and many who are non Masons.
We have a very beautiful service, dignified. reverent and full of
comfort to the bereaved. I have heard it beautifully rendered and I
have heard it literally massacred in dignity, pronounciation and reverence. Thank goodness our lodges are not often called upon for this
service, but we should be ready.
I strongly recommend that in every lodge a team should be chosen
from the very best available material for all the spoken parts, and also
for the office of Director of Ceremonies.
In the Funeral Ritual Masonry reaches out the hand of comfort
and hope to those left behind and I have known many young men whose
thoughts have been turned to the Fraternity by the beauty of this service.

in common with all other jurisdictions. In spite of that fact our lodges
are getting larger. some have too great a membership for their own
good. The personal element becomes lost; the attendance falls away
and interest lags. In the smaller lodges the personal contact is easier
and there is a stronger bond of fraternity.

Institution of Devonshire Lodge
January 18, 1949
An event unique in the history of our Jurisdiction and which could
only take place at present in two Provinces in Canada, was the institution of Devonshire Lodge, sponsored by St. George, No. 440 ( E.R.).
It is the first time that a lodge under another Jurisdiction has sponsored a lodge in our own. This was a splendid manifestation of good
will and true fraternal spirit. At the banquet the Worshipful Master
was presented with an autographed photograph of the Duke of Devonshire, Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of England. The Grand Secretary was also presented with a photograph of the Grand Secretary
of the Grand Lodge of England. Started under these happy auspices
this lodge should have a bright future.
Memorial Temple Campaign
To Right Worshipful Brother Roy Campbell and his committee we
offer our heartiest congratulations upon completing the Campaign and
reaching the objective of Sixty Thousand Dollars set by Grand Lodge.
Only those who have been associated with the Campaign can appreciate
the amount of thought and effort that went into it.
We also offer our sincere thanks to the many brethren who have
made possible the furtherance of this project.
When completed this will be the fulfillment of a dream of those
who were responsible for the building of the Temple; a room dedicated
to the loyalty and sacrifice of those who served in two wars. In every
public building, in every village, town and city. we have our memorials
and it is equally fitting that a room should be set aside in a Temple
that is called a Memorial.
Plans are now being prepared by the Physical Aspects Committee
which will be studied by each District and the majority vote will govern
the plan to be used.
The repor~ of our Grand Secretary shows a decrease in initiations

Report of Grand Secretary
All lodges but one had one or more initiations while 68 showed net
increases, 21 showed decreases and 10 remained stationary.
The size of our lodges in constantly increasing, as the following
table indicatesLodges under 100 membership................................................ 26
Lodges 100 to 200 membership.............................................. 44
Lodges 201 to 300 membership.............................................. 18
Lodges 301 to 500 membership.............................................. 9
Lodges 500 and over, membership........................................ 2
Total...................................................................... 99
No California review.
SASKATCHEWAN
After Grand Lodge was duly opened on June 15, 1949, all Master
Masons present were admitted as visitors, after which the distinguished
guests and visitors were introduced and properly accorded Grand
Honors. Grand Master Fred C. Wilson then proceeded with his address in which he praised the Masons of Saskatchewan for their vital
interest in the youth of the nation. De Molay is a recognized Masonic
Youth activity. "The interest that has been aroused in the Masonic
program of Freemasonry and youth has been expressed in the holding
of youth meetings in all of the districts of this Jurisdiction. This form
of activity is desirable in arousing the interest of lodge members who
desire a program of action in which all can participate. It may, therefore, be expected that this form of Masonic service will be continued
and expanded." To make sure that this will be done a resolution calling
for the transfer of some Grand Lodge funds to the youth activities program was introduced and passed.
The reports of the Grand Secretary and the Grand Treasurer are
presented in a very clear and concise manner, give evidence that this
Grand Lodge is indeed on a sound financial footing with sufficient funds
at its disposal.
There was a very impressive presentation of the Flag made at this
communication. Members of the Canadian Royal Mounted Police presented the Union Jack and the Stars and Stripes at the altar. In' presenting the Stars and Stripes the Flag Bearer said : "I now present the
Flag of the United States of America, the Stars and Stripes. As its
stripes represent the original thirteen states and its stars represent the

558

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

original thirteen and thirty-flve other states which have been added
successively to the great Republic, so may it continue to grow in respect
of other nations and its powerful support of freedom the wide world
over.
"I join with my brother Flag Bearer and borrow his words. Wherever the Union Jack and the Stars and Stripes float, may they, with one
voice, blazon forth a sure pledge of Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity
for all peoples everywhere. In unity of that pledge long may they wave."
Saskatchewan has been more than generous in her review of the
activities of the Grand Lodge of California and it is very evident that
our Canadian brothers are greatly interested in our affairs for the report
covers in great detail the activities of our Masonic Homes, Masonic
C1ub Houses, Boards of Relief and Employment and our discussion of
Negro Masonry.
The 44th annual communication was held in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, June 21. 1950.
M:.W:.W. H. Moor, Grand Master.
R.'.W.'.Robert A. Tate, Grand Secretary.

three hundred and flftieth anniversary, not of the founding of the Lodge,
but of the flrst recorded entry in the minute books. The meetings on
an occasion such as this are of the very greatest interest, and you can
imagine the number of historic relics that has been gathered together
over so many years. We were taken all over the Palace of Holyrood
House, including the private apartment of the Duke of Hamilton, the
hereditary Keeper of the Palace, and we were entertained by the Lord
Provost of Edinburgh.
At the meeting of ,the Lodge itself the Brethren conferred upon me
the very high distinction of honorary membership of the Lodge. While
I recognise that this honour is really a compliment to the Grand Lodge
of Ireland, I do feel proud of it, particularly as it was conferred also
on Lord Donoughmore many years ago. I need hardly say we were
shown boundless hospitality, and I am glad to have this opportunity
of once again recording our gratitude to .our Scottish Brethren.
We held long and very interesting discussions on the subject of the
various Grand Lodges recognised by the three home Grand Lodges, and
of the various new and resuscitated bodies to which we had all been
pressed to give recognition. We were in complete agreement not to
recognise these bodies. We found it extremely difficult at present to
straighten out between us the question of why one of us may be in
amity with a Grand Lodge with which the other two are not, and so on,
but we decided definitely that in future no one of us will grant recognition to a new ·b ody without consulting the other two. I think this represents a very important tightening of the already close fraternal relations
that have always existed between us.

UNITED GRAND LODGE OF ENGLAND

London, England, September 7, 1949
The M. W. Grand Master (His Grace the Duke of Devonshire) in
his remarks to the brethren assembled told them of his recent visit to the
350th anniversary meeting of the Lodge of Edingurgh No. 1, in Scotland,
and the many courtesies extended to him while there: he also reported
on his intended visit to the Grand Lodge of Norway.
It is evident from the discussion of the aims and relationship of the
·craft that it is necessary from time to time to remind the ·b rethren oil
some of the cardinal principles of Freemasonry as it is practiced in the
Grand jurisdiction of England which we might say, are very similar to
the aims and purposes of the Grand Lodge of California. Generally
speaking, the fundamentals covered in their discussions can be found in
the ancient landmarks of California.
The Grand jurisdiction holds quarterly meetings and as most of
their meetings are strictly business and of interest to them and them
alone it is extremely difficult to summarize and pick out anything that
might be of general interest except to compare the workings of this
Grand jurisdiction with that of California.
IRELAND
Grand Master's Address
I think the Deputy Grand Master will agree with me that he and I
have had some very interesting experiences during the past year. In
July we went to Edinburgh as the guests of the Lodge of St. Mary's
Chapel, Edinburgh, No. 1. The occasion was the celebration of the

559

Aims and Regulations of the Craft
Declaration
1. From tim~ to time the Grand Lodge of Ireland has deemed it
desirable to set forth in precise form the aims of Freemasonry as consistently practiced under its Jurisdiction since it came into being as an
organized body in 1725 and also to define the principles governing its
relations with those other Grand Lodges with which it is in fraternal
accord.
2. In view of representations which have been received, and of
statements recently issued which have distorted or obscured the true
objects of Freemasonry, it is once again considered necessary to emphasise certain fundamental principles of the Order.
3. The first condition of admission into, and membership of, the
Order is a belief in the Supreme Being. This is essential and admits
of no compromise.
4. The Bible, referred to by Freemasons as the Volume of the Sacred
Law, is always open in the Lodges. Every candidate is required to take
his Obligation on that Book or on the Volume which is held by his

560

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

particular creed to impart sancity to an oath or promise taken upon it.
5. Everyone who enters Freemasonry is at the outset strictly forbidden to countenance any act which may have a tendency to subvert
the peace and good order of the society; he must pay due obedience
to the law of any State in which he resides or which may afford him
protection, and he must never be remiss in the allegiance due to the
Sovereign of his native land.
6. While Irish Freemasonry thus inculcates in each of its members
the duties of loyalty and citizenship, it reserves to the individual the
right to hold his own opinion with regard to public affairs. But neither
in any Lodge, nor at any time in his capacity as a Freemason, is hd
permitted to discuss or to advance his views on theological or political
questions.
7. The Grand Lodge has always consistently refused to express
any opinion on questions of foreign or domestic state policy either
at home or abroad, and it will not allow its name to be associated with
any action, however humanitarian it may appear to be, which infringes
its unalterable policy of standing aloof from every question affecting
the relations between one government and another, or between political
parties. or questions as to rival theories of government.
8. The Grand Lodge is aware that there do exist Bodies, styling
themselves Freemasons. which do not adhere to these principles, and
while that attitude exists the Grand Lodge of Ireland refuses absolutely
to have any relations with such Bodies. or to regard them as Freemasons.
9. This Grand Lodge is a Sovereign and independent Body practising Freemasonry only within the three Degrees and only within
the limits defined in its Constitution as " pure Ancient Masonry." It
does not recognize or admit the existence of any superior Masonic
authority, however styled.
10. On more than one occasion the Grand Lodge has refused, and
will continue to refuse, to participate in Conferences with so-called
International Associations claiming to represent Freemasonry, which
admit to membership Bodies failing to conform strictly to the principles
upon which the Grand Lodge of Ireland is founded. The Grand Lodge
does not admit any such claim nor can its views be represented by any
such Association.
11 . There is no secret with regard to any of the basic principles
of Freemasonry. some of which have been stated above. The Grand
Lodge will always consider the recognition of those Grand Lodges
which profess, and practise. and can show that they have consistently
professed and practised those established and unaltered principles, but
in no circumstances will it enter into discussion with a view to any new
or varied interpretation of them. They must be accepted and practised
wholeheartedly and in their entirety by those who desire to be recognized as Freemasons by the Grand Lodge of Ireland.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

561

The first eleven paragraphs. so numbered, are an exact reprint of
the declaration that was passed at the meeting of Grand Lodge held
in Belfast on the 6th October, 1938, and which has been printed ever
since at the beginning of the book of the Laws and Constitutions. It
was decided to reprint this declaration with the three new paragraphs.
and to pu·blish the whole document, because as you will see in the first
new paragraph, the attitude of the Grand Lodge of England had been
called in question, particularly with reference to paragraph seven, which
refers to politics. The Grand Lodge of England having stated that it
stood by every word of the original declaration, suggested a conference
on the subject. After very full discussion, the Grand Master Mason
of Scotland and I assured our Brethren of the Grand Lodge of England
that we could promise the support of our respective Grand Lodges to
the new declaration which had been drafted at the conference, and
undertook to bring it forward at the next Grand Lodge meetings. the
Grand Master of the United Grand Lodge of England undertaking
to do the same.

YORK GRAND WOGE OF MEXICO

Grand Master's Address
Grand Master's Absences from Mexico
F-ebruary 15, 1949. In accordance with our Constitution. I on this
date in.formed R. W . Bro. R. E. MacMillan, Deputy Grand Master
that I would be in the U.S.A. for three weeks from March 2nd advised
him that the duties of the Grand Master's office would devolve upon
him during that period.
During this time I was in the cities of Los Angeles and San Francisco
in the jurisdiction of the M. W. Grand Lodge of California and it is
my great pleasure to place on record the many courtesies I received
from the Grand Lodge Officers and many of the Past Grand Masters
of that Grand Jurisdiction. On my arrival in Los Angeles I was visited
by P. G . M. Bro. Rhodes Hervey. the Chairman of the Grand Lodge
Policy Committee. accompanied by R. W . Bro. Ellsworth Meyer, the
Deputy Grand Master. who invited me to a luncheon at which I met
many of the Past Grand Masters resident in Los Angeles, as well as
R. W. Bro. Arthur Paulsen. Grand Senior Warden, and R. W. Bro.
Meyer was also so good as to invite Mrs. Campbell and myself to dinner
and then to accompany me on a visit to Mount Olive Lodge No. 506
F. & A. M. where I was officially received and invited to address the
Craft. When we reached San Francisco, I called upon M. W. Bro.

562

PROCEEDINGS' OP THE

Lloyd Wilson, the Grand Secretary, and my wife and I were entertained
by his good lady and himself and later by the M. W. Grand Master,
M. W. Bro. Edward P. Siems and Mrs. Siems at an entertainment in
his honor in his own Lodge, where I was also invited to address a large
gathering o.f California Masons and their ladies and invited guests.
M. W. Brother Siems also arranged for me to meet a number of the
Past Grand Masters at a luncheon in San Franeisco and it was an
honor to meet these distinguished brethren, some of whom had been in
Mexico and were acquainted. with our Lodges. It will be of interest
to our brethren to know that the Grand Jurisdiction of California is so
fortunate as to be able to count on no less than twenty-six Past Grand
Masters, most of whom are still active in the work of the Grand Lodge.
All I hope is that we shall be able to suitably reciprocate a portion of
this great hospitality when any of the brethren from California come
to Mexico. They were most interested in our progress and hopeful for
our future Masonic success, .truly men and Masons of exceptional caliber
and the Craft in California is fortunate in possessing such great personalities to guide the destinies of its Grand Lodge.
"Sect. 133. Reinstatement. A suspended or expelled Mason desiring
reinstatement must make application to the Lodge that inflicted the
sentence. Said application shall be presented at a regular stated Communication and shall lie over until the next regular Communication,
due notice being given to the members of the Lodge. At this Communication the Lodge shall conduct a secret ballot and if it be unanimously in favor of reinstatement, the Brother shall thereupon be restored
to good standing ... "
May 17, 1948. I instructed the Committee on Work and Ritual
to enforce the ruling of Grand Master Brother Barber, quoted on page
17 of our Proceedings for 1947 and approved at our 8 7th Annual Communication, to the effect that all ritualistic work in Lodges of this Jurisdiction must be given from memory and that books may therefore not
be used by Officers when performing any portion of Lodge ritual.
January 31, 1949. I issued the following Rulings:
"Whereas it has come to my knowledge that it is proposed to form
a Luncheon Club in the City of Mexico, restricted to members of our
Order, the principal purpose of which will be the discussion of. matters
Masonic and whereas, whilst membership in our Fraternity naturally
constitutes a friendly and social bond, it is improper for our brethren
to deal with such matters outside of the walls of their own tiled Lodges,
I hereby RULE that members of the York Grand Lodge of Mexico may
not become members of any organization whose purpose is the open
discussion of matters which should properly be dealt within their own
Lodge".
I felt that such a Ruling had become necessary because of our special
local circumstances and my own views were also in accord with Grand

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

563

Master Brother John Randle Moore's Address to the Grand Communication of the Grand Lodge of California in 1947, where he said:

Masonic Clubs
In the past several years Masonic clubs have been in numerous
instances irksome and a source of trouble to the Constituent Lodges
and to Grand Lodge. In my travels and visitations this year I have
heard and received much criticism of them, some of which is as follows:
1.-They draw the attention of Masons from their Lodges and
interfere with the attendance of Masons upon their Lodges or other
Lodges in the vicinity.
2.-ln their meetings a sense of freedom from Lodge-room decorum
sometimes prevails, and liberties are indulged which are not consonant
with the dignity of Masonry and which sometimes cast umbrage upon
the great institution of Masonry.
3.-Some charge and collect fees and dues and expend part thereof
for purposes not authorized by the laws or rules of this Grand Lodge.
4.-Some of these cltibs are beholden by charter and by-laws to a
national organization with headquarters outside this Jurisdiction, to
which a part of the funds of the club is sent: that the national or parent
organization, by its governing rules and regulations, by its bulletins
and its publications, is influencing or endeavoring to influence the members of the club masonically.
5.-Some of these clubs, by their solicitations and drives for membership, enlist numbers of what we call sojourning Masons: that these
brethren then consider that they belong to a Masonic organization and
probably partly for this reason do not concern themselves about dimitting to a regular Lodge: that this is a definite interference with the
processes of Masonry".
April 2, 1948. I instructed the Grand Secretary to communicate
to the Chairman of the Committee on Work and Ritual that it had come
to my attention that several of our Lodges did not display the three
movable Jewels when at work. As these Jewels are an essential part
of the furniture of a Lodge according to our ritual. they should always
be in evidence and I requested that the Committee so instruct where
necessary.
At the same time I expressed the wish (and specified that it was to
be regarded as a request and not as an order) that during my term of
Office and as a demonstration of respect and gratitude for the liberal
laws of Mexico which favor Masons and Masonry, that a Mexican flag
of the finest quality be displayed in every Lodge to the right of the
Worshipful Master's Chair when at work, the flag , if desired, to be the
gift of the D. D. G. M. in each District.
Unofficial Visits
I have visited Toltec Lodge No. 1 and Anahuac Lodge No. 3 in the

564

565

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

City of Mexico on many occasions. The work is up to the high standard
always set by these two Lodges and it is indeed a pity that the attendance still leaves much to be desired. Much effort is expended by the
Masters and Wardens in getting their members to attend: many of the
brethren are what we might call " Special Occasion" visitors usually
when refreshments are served-and others, who faithfully pay their
Dues, however, can hardly ever be expected. I have given a great deal of
thought as to how this situation can be remedied. I know it is common
to Lodges all over the world. but "Mason" means "Worker" and there
can be no excuse for wilful neglect of Masonic duties. I RECOMMEND
( 3) that fn all Lodges of this Jurisdiction a SUMMONS be issued once
a year over the seal of the Lodge to every resident member, requiring him
to attend the Stated Communication at which the Officers are annually
installed. This will enable all resident members of Lodges to know one
another and recall them to a sense of their Masonic duties.
The recommendations of the Committee on the Grand Masters Address were acted upon in open Grand Lodge as follows:
It was moved and seconded that that portion of the Grand Masters
Address recommending that in all Lodges in this Jurisdiction, a SUMMONS be issued once a year over the seal of the Lodge to every resident
member, requiring him to attend the Stated Communication at which
the Officers are Annually installed not be adopted. The motion was
carried.
Membership of constituent Lodges December 31st, as taken from

was opened in the Plaridel Masonic Temple, Manila. T uesday, the 24th
day of January. A.O. 1950, at 4 :00 o'clock P.M. by the Most Worshipful Esteban Munarriz, Grand Master.
Worshipful Brother Pedro Lombos, Grand Marshal, complying with
the order of the Most Worshipful Grand Master. entered the Grand
Lodge Hall accompanied by the Grand Standard Bearer who was holding the National Flag, the Grand Deacons and the Grand Stewards
acting as escorts, and the Grand Sword Bearer leading them. Then,
the Grand Marshal presented the Flag at the Altar with the following
address:
Most Worshipful Grand Master, Distinguished Brethren in the
Grand East, my Brethren:
The colors unfurled before you make the national banner of our
country-the Philippines. It stands for a people united, with every
element forming an integral whole: a geographical territory without
dismemberment: a republic, democratic, free and independent.
It is an emblem of national freedom, the encarnation of all that is
dear and noble in Filipino life. Wrought by the mighty hands of ages,
born of a liberty-loving people, and led by the guiding Spirit of the
destinies of nations, it has become an enduring landmark of our patrimony and a living symbol of our birthright. In its name, history records
the founding and building of a nation. Its soul shall live to the end of
time and its ideals shall cease only when the nations and the races are no
more.
The sun is the emblem of the eternal life of our State and the symbol
of perpetual light that guides the destiny of our race: its eight rays are
the eight first constituent provinces.
·
The three stars designate our three great regions, ours by gift of
nature and by design of the Almighty.
The white triangle tells of our peaceful and friendly purposes as
well as the sincerity and purity of our actions, the Masonic trinity of
Peace, Hope and Charity.
·
The blue field denotes our patriotism, the lofty principles and purposes.
And the wide red stripe proclaims the indomitable energy with which
we hold on to our tropic skies.
On the whole, the triangle, the Sun and the three Stars that make
our Flag are Masonic Symbols-the Brotherhood of men and the
Fatherhood of God. As our forefathers have dreamed of it, so may it
forever float over the land of a happy people.
The Grand Master's Message
Let Us Be Cautious
Freemasonry teaches the individual to be cautious. This is so because
when a person becomes a Mason, he has a great work to do, a definite

Annual Reports
1947

1948

102
10
105
·16
15
153
64
38
9
16

Toltec No. 1
. Washington-Hidalgo No. 2
Anahuac No. 3
George Washington No. 6
Albert Pike No. 7
Tampico No. 10
Monterrey No. 12
Hidalgo No. 17
Chichindaro No. 18
Laguna No. 20

109
10
110
17
15
152
62
34
9
17

528

TOTALS

535

GRAND LODGE OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS
The Thirty-fourth Annual Communication of the Most Worshipf~
Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the Philippine Islands

566

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

mission to accomplish and indiscretion on his part might prove fatal not
only to himself but costly to those who call him "Brother."
To war against all sorts of evils, fight for great principles, and elevate
the standard of the common man-these are difficult tasks which demand
?ur atte~tion and tax our energies. So long as dishonesty predominates
m our hves, we can ill afford to remain quiet, not doing anything: S'O
long as intolerance prevails in our communities, the unity towards which
we are looking for is likened unto a dream. Every act of the Mason
should be such as to leave no room for those around to doubt, much less
question his actuations.
·
Many organizations well known the world over have varied objectives. Others seek dominion, wealth, and power while our Fraternity is
founded upon brotherly love, relief, and truth. These latter purposes are
as lofty as they are sublime: they constitute the trinity of virtues which
all men should fruitfully express in their daily lives. And the Masons
charged with the duty of lightening the burdens of their neighbors
should lose no time in hastening the reign of harmony and goodwill
among men.
Let us as Masons be careful in maintaining good works for these
are not only profitable to men but they leave memories, pleasant and
lasting.

Constitution of the Grand Lodge of China
_In our last _Annual Communication, the petition of our Lodges in
Chma to constitute themselves into a Grand Lodge was unanimously
approved. It was also approved that a delegation headed by the Grand
Master-elect be sent to constitute the Grand Lodge of China.
The Consecration Ceremonies of the Grand Lodge of China took
place in the afternoon of March 18, 1949, at 5: 00 o'clock, at the Masonic
Temple of Shanghai. The spacious Hall of the Shanghai Masonic Temple was full to capacity and many brethren had to stay outside. Grand
. Representatives of all the different jurisdictions working in China were
present. I had the pleasure to preside over the Consecration Ceremonies
an~ was thrilled and deeply touched by the solemn silence which prevailed throu~hout the whol~ ceremony. Wor. Bro. Baradi gave a good
account of himself and received many ovations.
We have two Lodges under dispensation: The Tokyo Masonic
Lodge in Tokyo and the Square & Compass Lodge in Tachikawa, both in
Japan.
In Tokyo, we were received by our beloved and respected Brother
General MacArthur, who dedicated a lengthy portion of his valuable
time to us. He expounded on the necessity of spreading the Masonic
principles throughout Japan and thus reform the ideology of the Japanese people and expressed his pleasure of our visit to Japanese shores.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

567

Report of Grand Secretary: M. W. Bro. A. Gonzales. P.G.M.
Number of Masons
We have as of November 30, 1949, 6819 Master Masons.
We have established on September 23, 1947, our YOKOSUKA
NAVAL MASONIC LODGE No. 120 in Yoksuka, Japan. On October
16, 1948, )Ve organized another Lodge in Yokohama, our FAR EAST
LODGE No. 124. To visit the former and to constitute the later, our
Most Worshipful Grand Master made a trip to Japan on March 16,
1949. It was again my privilege, together with a group of Officers and
members of this Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, to accompany him on
said trip.
What a marvelous reunion! A scene pregnant with significance: the
WEST and the EAST in an everlasting Masonic embrace on JAPANESE soil!
Number of Subordinate Lodges
We have now in active operation 98 Lodges. Of these 96 are working with permanent charters, and 2 under dispensation. The number of
Lodges was reduced as a consequence of the transfer of allegiance of our
Lodges in China to the Grand Lodge of China.
Masonry In The Philippines
By Wor. Bro. Gregorio Velasco
I believe that the reason Masonry in our country does not progress,
as it should, is because of our failure or refusal to acknowledge the
loftiness of its aims. We undervalue our work: we belittle our responsibilities. On the whole, our conception of Masonic duty lacks the idealism
and high moral tone that characterize it. We seem to be satisfied just
to be called Masons for social reasons or business advantages. Hence,
the prevailing belief that our Masonic career ends with the attainment of
a master mason's degree. and that the work of the Lodge should be left
in the hands of only a few brethren. It is high time that we correct these
impressions. Everyone of us owes a tremendous duty: first, to ourselves
to make our life a worthy part of that "spiritual house not made with
hands;" and secondly, to go ou.t of the four walls of our Lodge and
endeavor to build temples of goodness and love in the hearts of others.
There is a common saying which admonishes us to hitch our wagon
to a star. In plain words, we must aim high so that even if we do not
succeed in reaching a high objective, failure will not bring us too low.
It is, I believe, a sensible policy to follow in life. Applying it to the Lodge,
if all of us brethren will so work with enthusiasm as if the honor and
prestige to the entire Masonic fraternity depended on us, it is logical to
presume that even if we may not win the acclaim of mankind by remarkable deeds, at least we will succeed in accomplishing many worthwhile
things.
Let us not be caught off-guard. The enemies of Masonry are fast

568

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

gaining ground. Miracles here and miracles there. The petals of Lipa:
the Virgin in Albay: the Crucifix in Bohol, and the image of Christ in
an Acacia tree in Pampanga-all these more or less are a signal for
Masons to be alerted. They are signs of a device of the long skirted
males of an attempt to conglomerate the minds of the Filipinos. the
young and the old, the intelligencia and the masses. We have already
heard of prominent Filipino Masons that have retracted Masonry according to our enemies: Rizal. Quezon, and others. They are even using
the Intellegencia as their instrument to win the masses, and we may
wake up, too late. to find they.have successfully violated the separation
of Church and State, the downfall of our Constitution and the people.
\Ve have already learned their attempt through the Congress of
the Philippines using our own Congressmen to introduce bills conducive
to the Church, they have succeeded already in having an optional
religious instruction in our public schools, and many more similar
concessions ahead of us.
Most Worshipful Grand Master. these are the very problems that
lay directly on the shoulders of every Mason in the Philippines and all
patriotic minded Filipinos. In my opinion, we as Masons, especially
the Grand Lodge of the Philippines, would be derelict in duty if we
fail to assist a handful of Mason-Congressmen fighting in Congress
against our aggressors in their new and scientific devices of worldly
miracles. Therefore, if democracy has to stay in the Philippines, Masons
must not cross their hands on their breasts, but assit, if not lead. those
. who are already in the battlefield championing the cause of spfritual
and intellectual freedom. Then, in this way alone can the influence
and benefits of Masonry gradually develop to spread and gain the
interest of the public, and thus serve humanity.
M. W. Bro. Clifford C. Bennett, Grand Master of Masons of the Most
Worshipful Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands Elected
for 1950-1951
The "Empire State of the South" comes to the fore page of present
day Masonic scripts in the Philippines. It is the State of Georgia of the
United States of America that has contributed one of her sons to occupy
the highest seat of authority of the Masonic world under the jurisdiction of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands
today.
Grand Master M. W. Bro. Clifford C. Bennett hails from Nichols,
Georgia. He was born on May 5, 1910.
True to his inborn trait for hard work, he immediately reorganized
his Mother Lodge soon after his release from the internment campthe Sto. Tomas University. He . assumed the responsibilities of the
Oriental Chair up to the end of 1946. M. W. Bro. Bennett is an honorary
member of several Sister Lodges. He is a 32° Mason of the Philippine
Bodies. A. & A. S. R.: and of the Rasario Villaruel Chapter No. 2,
Order of the Eastern Star.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

569

MASONS DISSOLVED
BUDAPEST, HUNGARY, June 13, 1950-(UP)-All 19 Masonic
lodges in Hungary have been dissolved on grounds that they were
"meeting places of the enemies of the peoples republic," the Communist
Ministry of Interior said today.
·

INDEX

FOR 1950
A

Page
A. & A. S. R., Donations to Decoto Christmas and Entertainment Fund.................. 366
Accomplishments ······¥·..··································································································-· 220
A Century of Masonry in Californla.........................................- .............................40, 265
Administrative, Budget 1950-1951 ..........................................................•................. ___ 300 .
Admissions to Covina Home ................................................................··-··········-··-······· 368
Admissions, Decoto Home 1950...................................................................,.. ........·-··- 355
Allen, August H. Appointed Assistant Grand Lecturer............................ ·-····--·-······ 257
Allocation of Funds ·to Endowment Fund............................................................·--····· 195
Allowance for Gift for Retiring Grand Master............................•..................•.:............ 237
Alphabetical List of Lodges.........................,.......•.....................- .. ···········-··················--· 475
Amendments to By-Laws............................. ,......................•..•..•..•....·-···-·····-······-··-···· 67
Anacapa Lodge .......................•.....................................................................................•.... 209
Anderson, Charles E. Appointed Grand Organist. .......................................·-···········- 257
Anniversaries of U. S. Grand Lodges......................................................................,..._ 488
Annual Returns .................................................................................................................. 382
Application Forms, Report of Special Committee.......................................................... 91
Appropriations ···································'·-···········-·············································-············-··· 238
Appropriations, Budget 1950-1951 ................... ~-·-···················-············-····------- 300
Aprons, New for Grand Lodge O.IBcers........L................,................................................ 233
Arizona ······························································~··············· ....·······-··········-·····················- 489
Arkansas ........................................................... ,.................................................................. 489
Assistant Grand Lecturers .............................;....................·-··-···········-··············--···-· 250
Audit of Accounts .............................................~···························-············--··············-···- 233
Audit of 1950 Returns, Financial Report Grand Lodge............................................_•••. 310
Auditor·s Report, Masonic Homes...............•..•....•.........................••.......•.•...•....•....•..•.•.•.• 318
Auditor· s Report, Financial Report Endowment Fund.....·-·····-··········-··············-······· 311
Australasia, Statistics ........................................................................................................ 486
Australia ·····················-·······················································-········································-···· 543

B
Balance Sheet, Masonic Homes.............................................................·----·-··-·-·· 321
Bible on Altar, Tehama Lodge No. 3.............................·-···········-···-··--·-·- ··-·-·- - 51
Biography-Ellsworth Meyer, Grand Master...................•.........,... ·-·····-··········-·--····.:. 1
Boys at Covina Home.....·-···········································································-······-···---· 367
Blight, Reynold L.-Presided in the East..........................................·-··············-···-··-- 118
Bright, John-Appointed Inspector.......·-···-························································-····- 17
British Columbia ............................................................................................................._. 553
Browning, Harvey R.-Appointed Inspector.......................................................... _...... 17
Budget, 1950-1951- (Continued)...................................................................................... 238
By-Laws, Report of Committee...............................................................•.........·--··-- 210

c
Caldwell, Wallace· E .-Address by................
1 I'""' 287
Cash Receipts and Disbursements, Masonic Homes ..........................................--.--... 322
Centennial Appendix ·········································································-·············-·--- 259
Centennial Arrangement, Report of Committee.....................................................,_...... 138
Centennial Celebration .............................•.............. ·············································--·- 260
Change of Ce remonie.s.. ................................. ........................ ........ .............. - .. . •.. . •. . 200
Change of Name ........... _. ....................................................................·-·-·-.. , 11 , "" '"'' 45
Chapter 0. E. S .. Donations to Decoto Christmas and Entertainment Pwid.............. 366
Chapters, R.A.M. Donations to Covina Christmas and Entertainment Pwid............ 377
Chapters, R. A. M. Donations to Decoto Christmas and Entertainment Fund.. ....... 365
y . .. . . . .. . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

•

·,

572

INDEX

Page
Charters, Report of Committee on.................................................................................... 206
Westchester Lodge .................................................................................................... 206
El Cerrito Lodge U. D .............................·-················-··············-····················-········ 207
Hunters Point Naval Lodge U. D ............................................................................. 207
Lake Tahoe Lodge U. D ........................................................................................... 208
Seafaring Lodge U. D ............................................................................................,.. 208
Lorengo, Anacapa and Rim of the World Lodges U. D ....................................:.. 209
Children at Covina Home...............................................................................................• 367
Christmas and Entertainment Fund, Covina Home........................:............................... 375
Coffey, Maurice E.-Appointed Inspector...................................................................... 17
Colorado ·····-········································'·························-··········-··.................................:... 491
Columbia Temple ··-·······················································-·················································: 235
Columbia Temple Meetings................................................'················-·······-····-····-····· 251
Columbia Temple Restoration, Report of Committee...................................................... 88
Commanderies, Donations to Decato Christmas and Entertainment Fund.............. 365
Committee on Centennial Arrangements......•................................................................... 236
Committee on Memorial Temple...................................................................................... 196
Committee Referral .................:...................................................'....................................... 203
Condition of Lodges.......................................................................................................... 76
Congratulations Received ................................................................................................ 50
Connecticut .......................................................................................................................... 491
Consolidated Statement of Assets and Liabilitles..................................................296-297
Consolidated Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements..............................298-299
Constitution Month Observance, Report of Committee.................................................. 230
Constitutional Boards ..................................:...............................................................- ..... 397
Constituent Lodge, List of............................!...................................::................................ 446
Continental Europe, Statistics.......................................................................................... 487
Contribution, Building Fund...............................................·............................................... 144
Contribution T·hrough Lodges...................l..................................................................... 221
Contributions, Decoto Home............................................................................................ 360
Contributions to Masonic Homes Endowment Fund...................................................... 336
Contributions Through Lodges........................................................................................ 347
Control Board, Report of.................................................................................................... 109
Cook, Harold }.-'-Appointed Junior Grand Deacon...................................................... 257
Copeland, Thomas-Appointed Senior Grand Deacon................................................ 257
,Coples of History to Foreign Jurisclictlons............................................................205-236
Correspondence, Report of Committee........................................................................229-482
Cost of Maintenance.......................................................................................................... 144
Councils, R. & S. M. Donations ·t o Decato Christmas and Entertainment Fund...... 366
Covina ···························································-····································································· 141
Covina, Christmas and Entertainment FuncL................................................................ 375
Covina Home, Admissions .................................·-·························································· 368
Covina Home, Chapters R. A. M. Donations to Christmas and Entertainment Fund 377
Covina Home, Children at.................................................,............................................... 367
Covina Home, Departed 1949-1950................................................................................ 368
Covina Home, Donations to ............................................................................................ 371
Covina Home, Report of Superintendent.. ...................................................................... 150
Covina Home, Visitations.................................................................................................. 369
Credentials, Report of Committee.................................................................................... 118

D
Davis, Elbert W.-Appolnted Assistant Grand Lecturer.............................................. 257
Deaths, Decoto Home........................................................................................................ 356
Decisions of Grand Master................................................................................................ 243
Decision No. 1.................................................................................................................... 255
Decision, 8 ...................:...............................................................:...............................,..•... 245

573

INDEX

Page
Decision, 11 .....
244
Decision, 12 ·······-·······....................................................................................................... 245
Decato .................................................................................................................................. 142
Decato, Christmas and Entertainment Fund.................................................................... 363
Decato Home-Admissions 1950...................................................................................... 355
Decoto Horne, Contributions ............................................................................................ 360
Decato Home, Deaths ................,....................................................................................... 356
Decato Home-Men Residents.......................................................................................... 350
Decato Home-Report of Superintendent........................................................................ 147
Decato Home-Visitations .............................................................................:................ 358
Decato Home-Withdrawals ................................................, ......................................... 357
Decato Home-Women Residents.................................................................................... 352
De Forest, Gilbert C.-Appolnted Assistant Grand Lecturer...................................... 257
De Lange, Albert }.-Address by.............................:...................................................... 279
Delaware .............................................................................................................................. 493
Delegation of Power.......................................................................................................... 250
De Malay-Report of Committee .................................................................................... 136
Details of Masonic Homes......................................................................,......................... 350
Devotional Services ..........................................................................................................
9
Dispensations Issued .........................................:...........................................................66, 243
Distinguished Guests ........................;................................................................................. 260
Distinguished Guests Received and Accorded Grand Honors...................,................ 48
District of Columbia ......................................, ........................................................_....... 494
District Olllices Association, Donations to Decato Christmas and Entertainment
Fund ··················-······························································-··-·······--··-····················--······ 366
Dominion of Canada-Statistics.............................................................;......................•... 486
Donations to Covina Home........:........................................................................•............ 371
Drake, Elvin C.-Appointed Inspector........................,................................................... 17
Drapeau, Louis C.-Elected Deputy Grand Master...................................................... 257
"Y'". .· · - · · · · · · - · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · - · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · - · · ·. . · · · · · · · · · - · ·

E
El Cerrito Lodge ................................................................................................................ 206
Elected Officers Grand Lodge Since Organization........................................................ 461
Election of Grand Lodge Officers...................................................................................... 257
Emergency Quorum .......................................................................................................... 249
Employment Bureaus-Budget 1950-1951 ........................................................................ 300
Endowment Fund ...................................................................................................·-·····-· 145
Endowment Fund-Auditors Fund.................................................................................. 311
Endowment Fund- Grand Treasurers Report............................................................;... 313
F.:ndowment Fund Masonic Homes-Contributions to.................................................. 336
E stimated Income and Expense........................................................................................ 240
Extinct Lodges ··················-··································:······································•··········..:.~......... 457

F
Fifty Year Buttons.........................................- ...................................:...................,......-... 70
Finance- Report of Committee..........................................................................- ...., ... _ 233
Finances ......................................................:..........................................................·-····-·· 143
Ferguson, John H.- Appolnted Grand Sword Bearer..................................- ................ 257

f~~~:~~:~~'.~.~:~~~:~: : =: : : : : : : :~: : : : : : : : : : : : :;: : : : : : : : : : : : ::=::::=::::::::::::= ~~
Fowler, Marvin- Address by..·-···········-···················-······-···················-·-·········-..,·-·-· 276
French, George A .-Appo!nted Grand Bible Bearer.........................'···········--··:......... 257
Friday Morning Session of Grand Lodge................................................................_ ..._ 230

574

575

INDEX

INDEX

Page
Friday Afternoon Session of Grand Lodge............·-··········-·······---·~········-···-··-·--r 250
Funeral Policy ·······························-······························:······················-···-·-··-········-:- 142
Funeral Service ··················-·······························-·························································-- 200

Page
Grand Treasurer's Report-Endowment Fund.............................·-······-·············--·- 313
Grand Treasurer-Report of ·-·············································-······························-······· 54
Great Britain-Statistics ····-····-··················-························-·························-··-··-··· 487
Grievances--Report of Committee...........................................................___________..... 176

G
General Administration Expelllle.....,...............- .....................•.....••..••........•..-·--·-·- 237
General Appendix ································································.-·················-·················--·-- 393
General Expenses~Budget 1950-1951..................... _.............-.:·······················--······- 300
General Expenses ·································································-········-·•·······-····-·-···-- 239
General Fiscal Operation............................................................- ..··············-·····-·•····-'· 143
George Washington Masonic Mem~rial-Report on...............................................•.._ 226
George Washington Masonic National Memorial Association.............................- ..... 234
Georgia .........................,............·-···········-·········································-····-··········---··-·- 495
Girls at Covina Home.................................•..•.............·-··················-··-··-··················-·- 367
Good, Hugh D.-Appointed Inspector....................................·-········-··························, · 17
Grand Honors Accorded Distinguished Guests................................·-···············-····--· 48
Grand Lecturer-Report of._·································•······-·······························-··-.L--- 75
Ritual Committee Meetings...........................·--·············-·-···············-··········-·-··· 75
Spring Schools of ~truction..•..............., ......................-··············-··-···-··-·-····-··· 75
Condition of Lodge&............·--························--·-·······-············-·--·····-·····-··--· 76
Officers Coaches ····································································································-·· 76
New lnspectorial Districts........................................._............--·····-········-····-······-· 76
Conc:lusion ··················································-···············-························-···-···-··--··· 77
Grand Lodge Audit-Financial Report Grand Lodge...................·-···························· 302
Grand Lodge Budget, 1950-1951.................................................................- ..········-·····- 300
Grand Lodge Ceremonies...-······-··························································-···-···············-- 201
Grand Lodges-Foreign ......................................:·-···························-························-··· 470
Grand Lodge Funds-Financial Report Grand Lodge...................••.............·-··············· 303
Grand Lodge of England..........•......·-·····························-·--·······--······-········-·········-· 558
Grand Lodge of Greece................·-·································--··········-·······················-····- 86
Grand Lodge of Italy....................................._............-······················-····-······-·········-··- 87
Grand Masters Message...................·-····················-···················--··-·'··························· 14
Constitution of New Lodges...................................·-·································-···········- 15
Dispensations to Form' New Lodges.........·-·······························,···················-······· 16
Appointments ............................:.........;.............................,......_.....:.......................-... 16
Dispensations and Approvals..................-·············································-················· 19
Visitations ·················-···········-·································································-···-········· 20
Personal Appearances ................................................................................................ 21
Discipline ····-······-····························-······················-·····················-·-····-··-············· 26
· Decisions ·················································································-····-···········-····-········· 28
Recommendations ···················································-························-······--······--··· 30
Proc:lamations ··-······································································-···············-··········-····· 38
A Century of Masonry in California.................................-···-····-·-······-··········· 40
Grand Secretary-Report of ····································································-··-·············-·· 62
Visltadons ·······································································-·························-····•···-····· 62
Lorenzo Lodge U. D •.............................·-····························-··········-···-·--·········- 62
Liability Insurance ·········································-····-·········-·············-·············-·--· 62
Membership ···································································································-·····-··· 63
New Lodges ·······························································································-·-····-··-·· 63
Life Memberships ·································································································-··· 65
Dispensations Issued ···············································-···········································-···· 66
Dispensations Denied ···················································································-·-····-· 66
Amendments to By-Laiws....................•........................................................•.•-··-···· 67
Resolutions ·················································································-····················-··-····· 67
Trial Records ····-······················································-·············-··········-·······-···-······· 68
Fihy Year Buttons ···················································································-·············· 70

H
Hanshaw, Mervyn E.-Appointed Assistant Grand Lecturer...................................... 257
Harts, Guy S. Sr.-Preslded in Ea.st............•........................................................_...•..... 199
Harwell. Frank, Jr.-Elected Junior Grand Warden............·-···································-- 257
Head, Ralph-Appointed Trustee Masonic Homes........................................................ 258
Henrichsen, Walter A.-Appointed Inspector................................................................ 17
Hesselmeyer, Frederick C.,-Address by.................·-···································-·······-····- 272
Hicks, Frank E.-Presided in East.·-··························································-········-········· 176
History ······································································-···················-················-····-··-··-··· 218
History Committee ·····-····································································································· 235
Home Burial Expenses.................................... ·······················-·································-······ 247
Homes Burial Policy ·························································································---······-··· 194
Homes Statistics ···-······················································································--····-·-···-··· 380
Honorable Mention ·······························································-··················-··-···-············· 222
Houser, J. Everett, Grand Orator-The Unfinished 'Temple..............•............._.......... 78
Houser, J. Everett-Presented a Lapel Button for Grand Orator................·-···-····· 258
Horwege, Alvin A.-Appolnted ,Grand Tyler·-········-·····-··---···-··--------·- 257
Hungary ·······················································-··················-··························-····-·············- 569
Hunters Point Naval Lodge ····························-·····························-·····-···············-······· 207

I
Idaho ·······················································-··········-·------······-··-'-··-···----·-······ 496
Illinois ·······························································-·············:·······································--··-·-· 497
Indiana ·······························································--················-··-··········-·- ···--····-··-·-··· 499
Individuals and Miscellaneous-Donations to Decoto Home......·-····························· 366
Inspectors-List of ·····························-···········.-·········-················-····-·········-·····-·-····-··· 467
Interjurisdictlonal Visits ·················································-··········-···················.················ 251
Investigation Proceedure-Report of Special Committee......,................-..................... 91
Investment of Funds.....·-·························-··-················~·-················-··--·--·-·-'·····--· 246
Investment of Funds-Report of Special Committee..........................•........-·-··---···· 105
Invocation ··········································-·········································-··········-·-·······-········· 155
Iowa ····································-·········································-······················-··-····-····-··-·-···· 500
Ireland ·······································································································-················---··· 558

J
Jackson, J. J.-Appointed Senior Grand Steward...................................·-··-··--··-- 257
Jurisprudence-Report of Committee on....•........................·-···········-·······-······---··- 243
Dispensations Issued ····················································································-·-·-·-· 243
Decisions of Grand Master........................•..............•··········-·········-·--··
243
Grand Masters Decision No. 7..............n ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••: ••••• ••· - · · · · · · · · · - - - · · 243
Decision 11 ··············-·······························-······················-··-·········-····-·-·····-····-- 244
Section 69 ·································································································-··-··---· 245
Decision 12 ·············································-················-··········-·····-·-··-----····- 245
Decision 8 ·························································································-·······-·-·-·····-- 245
Investment of Funds ·····················································································-···--- 246
Home Burial Expenses ······························-········································.,.···-······--··· 247
Revision of Section I00 ·······························-··································-······-·-·-·-- 248
Emergency Quorum ······································-·····················..···-·····--····---····-- 249
Delegation of Power ··························································-·······--··-·····-·-··········· 250
Assistant Grand Lecturers ·························································-··-··-···-···········-·- 250

576

INDEX

Jurisprudence- (Continued)

Page

Lodge Financing ·····························"·····································································-' 250
Columbia Temple Meetings ·············································································-······• 251
lnterjurisdictional Visits ····································································-····················- 251
Prerequisite Membership .......................................................................................... 251
Suspension of Master ····························································-·································· 251
Decision No. 1 ···························································--··········-································-· 255

K
Kahn, Arthur }.-Appointed Inspector..................................................................-........ 17
Kansas ································································································-·············-················· 502
Keesling, Francis V.-Re-elected Grand Treasurer...................................................... 257
Kentucky ·····································································································-······················· 502
Keogh, William E.-Appointed Inspector ...................................................................... 17
King, Thomas Starr ·································································-······································· 269
Koford, Edward T.-Appointed Grand Pursuivant...................................................... 257

L
Lake Tahoe Lodge ·······························································-··········································· 208
Lander, Erwin E. }.-Testimonial by ································································-············ 292
Latin America-Statistics ······························································································-·· 487
Liability Insurance ··················································-·······································-········-····· 62
Life Memberships ····················································-························································ 65
Limits of Investment ·····································································-··············-··················· 47
List of Constituent Lodges..:................................................................~·············--··········· 446
List of Inspectors ·································································································-··········· 467
Lodge Financing ···························································-················-································· 250
Lodge Financing-Report of Committee..............·-··········································-·········- 212
Lodges-List of .............................................................................•..,................................. 475
Lorenzo Lodge U. D. ·················································································-·····62, 209, 233
Lotz, Elmer R.-Appointed Inspector.............................................................................. 17
Luck, Delbert E.-Appointed Inspector .......................................................................: 17
Lunsford, Charles W.-Appointed Inspector ................................................................ 17

M
Marsh, D. Erving-Presided in the East at Opening of Grand Lodge...................... 7
Martin, Willsie, Grand Chaplain-Devotional Services ............................................ 9
Maryland ·······················································································- ·············-···················· 503
Masonic Club House, Berkeley-Report of Trustees...................................................• 120
Masonic Club House, Los Angeles-Report of Board of Directors.............................. 132
Masonic History Publication-Report of Committee.................................................... 139
Masonic History-Report of Committee.....................................................................- ... 139
Masonic Homes .................................................................................................................. 233
Masonic Homes-Auditor's Report ................................................................................ 318
Masonic Homes-Balance Sheet ·······················································-····························· 321
Masonic Homes.Cash Receipts and Disbursements.....................................................• 322
Masonic Home1> Endowment Board-Report of.............·-································-·········· 218
Masonic Homes Endowment Fund-Contributions to......................................•............. 336
Masonic Homes Executives Association ........................................................................ 142
Masonic Homes-Report of the Trustffs.....................................................................-. 141
Masonic Homes, Securities Owned ·········································································-····· 328
Masonic Homes-Statement of Revenue and Expenses..............................::.-............. 323
Masonic Information-Report of Committee................................................................:. 224
Masonic Temple Association-Report 0£................•.....•.........:.............................•......... 117
Masonry In California-A Century 0£..........•..............................................·-····-········- 40
Mast, Jack-Appointed Inspector •................................................................................... 17

INDEX

577
Page

Massachusetts ,.. ······~········································································································ 504
McArthur, Anson-Appointed Inspector ...................................................................... 17
McKinley, Gerald C.-Presides in East ..................................................................,....... 51
Meetings at Columbia Temple ........................................................................................ 203
Membership ·········--··········································································································· 63
Memorials ···················-················································-·············································221, 347
Memorial Service ..........................................................................................................._. 155
Memorial Temple-Report of Committee........................................................................ 104
Men-Residents Decoto Home ···················································································-··· 350
Message of the Grand Master .......................................................................................... 14
Meyer, Ellsworth, Grand Master-Biography.............................................................. . 1
Meyer, Ellsworth-Grand Master's Message..........................·-·············'····..········..····· 14
Minnesota ·································-·····················································-······························- 505
Mississippi ·····································································-····································-·····-·-··· 506
Missouri ·····························································································-····················-········· 507
Mize, Guy B.-Appointed Assistant Grand Lecturer.................................................... 257
Monday Morning Session of Grand Lodge...............................,.................................... 7
Monday Afternoon Session of Grand Lodge.................................................................. 44
Montana ···································································-························································· 507
Morgan, J. H.-Address by ··················································-·:···············-··········-··--····· 289
Morris, Gilbert R.-Appointed Junior Grand Steward.................................................. 257
Morrison, Claude H.-Acted as Master of Ceremonies................................................ 258

N
Name of Lodge Changed ·············································································-················· 197
Nebraska ·····································································-········--···-······--·-··-·····--············ 508
Necrology-Report of Committee ............................................................................•..... 156
Nevada ·-···································L·····--········-································-············-····----·····- 509
New Hampshire ·······························-··········-··············-·······-·······-···················-····-·-·· 510
New Inspectorial Districts ······················································································-·····-· 76
New Jersey ···································································································-·······--···-····· 512
New Lodges ···-·························································································-···-···- ····-······· 63
New South Wales ······················································-·······································-··········· 546
New York .........•............................................ ................................................................ 513
North Carolina ·································································-·······"··································-··• 516
North Dakota ............................................................................•....................................... 516
Nova Scotia ···································································································-··············-··· 555
Number of Assistant Grand Lecturers ............................................................................ 200

0
O'Brien, Robert E.-Presided in East ...........................................•................................ 250
Officers Coaches ···················································································-·················•········· 76
Ohio ··························································································································-·····-··· 517
Oklahoma ······-······················-···················································-····-····················-····519, 522
Oliphant, Henry D.-Appointed Assistant Grand Secretary........................................ 257
One-Hundred First Annual Communication.................................................................... 7
Ontario, Canada ................................................................................................................ 554
Oregon ........:.............,......................................................................................................... 524

p
Past Masters of Constituent Lodges--ln Memorlum...........................,.......................... 165
Paulsen, Arthur-Elected Grand Master......................................................................•. 257
Pay of Members-Report of Commlttee.......................................................- .................. 119
Pedder, William N .-Appolnted Inspector...................................................................... 17
Pennsylvania -···················-·-········································································,··················· 525

579

INDEX

INDEX

Page
Pflueger, Paul A.-Appointed Assistant Grand Treasurer.......................................... 257
Philippine Islands ·······················-··························- ·············-·········-·-·············-·······- 564
Philippine Islands-Statistics ···················································································-··- 487
Plural Membership ························································-·······················•··········-·-······--· 44
Policy and General Purposes-Report of Committee..........................................·-·····- 194
Powers of Grand OfBcers.................•......................c•••••• _ •••••---·························-···-- 196
Prerequisite Membership ·-··························-····-······················-··-···········•····-····198. 251
Prerequisite Period ··············-····················-·················································-·······-···-····· 46
Program ···················.·······-················································-·········-····························-···-· 219
Public Liability Insurance ·········-····················································-······························· 197
Publication of History ······-·············::............••..-····-·-······-··············-········-·-····.20t; 236
Public Schools Week-Report of Committee...............................-·-······························ 93

Report of Committee-( Continued)
Page
Necrology ·······-·---'·-···--································································-··················.,...·· 156
James Hamilton Lash ·············································································-·······- 156
John Scalmanini ·····-········-····'··································································-·····-· 158
George Edwin Delavan ·······························································-····················· 159
John L. McNab ··-·······-···························································-···-··········-··-·- 160
William Theodore Osterholt ··················································-···········-~-·-········ 162
Past Masters of Constituent Lodges ················································-·············· 163
Pay of Members ·························································································-·····-····-·· 119
Policy and General Purpose....................................................................·-·--·-·· 86
Grand Lodge of Greece ·················- ······················································-··:····- 86
Grand Lodge of Italy ...................................,................................................... 87

578

Q
Queensland ................:......................................•..............·-········-···--·······-·-················-· 548
Quebec ····························-···············-········-······--·····-·····-···-······-···············-·········-······ 555
Quorum of Grand Lodge ··········································································-·-················· 197

R
Redford, Edward H.-Preslded in East ········································································- 230
Registration and Mileage Payments ·································································-··········· 398
Report of Committee on:
By-Laws ·····················································································-················-············· 210
Centennial Arrangements ·····························································-··························· 138
Charters -·······················-'-···················-············-····-·····-·········-·····························-· 206
Columbia Temple Restoration ································································-·····--·-· 88
Constitution Month Observance ·······················································-····················· 230
Correspondence -··············-··-·····-···········-----·-·····--··-···-·····-·······--··.229, 482
Credentials ·················································-························-··················-··-····-··-- 118
De Molay ·················-···············································-··············································· 136
Finance ····················--·································-····--································-···············-· 233
Audit of Accounts ·····················································- ···········-··············-···-··· 233
New Aprons for Grand Lodge Oflkers..........................................•..-······-···- 233
Lorenzo Lodge U. D. ·····································································-················· 233
Masonic Homes ··················································"········································-····· 233
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123 .................................................................................. 234
George Washington Masonic National Memorial Association.................... 234
Columbia Temple ················································- ·········-································· 235
History Committee ···········································································- ··············· 235
Publication of History ······························-···················-············-··················· 236
Copies of History to Foreign Jurisdictions....- ...............·-···················~········ 236
Committee on Centennial Arrangements ············-·········································· 236
Allowence for Gift for Retiring Grand Master....................................:..--···· 237
General Administration Expenses ····························································-······ 237
Appropriations ·········································-········-·-···-·-··············-·····-············· 238
Budget 1950~1951 (Continued) ·································································-···· 238
Summary ·················································-······················-································-· i39
General Expenses ·······················································-····································· 239
Estimated Income and Expense ...................................................................... 240
Grievances ·······-··································-················-······································-·······-· 176
Jurisprudence ·················································'-························- ··················-············· 243
Lodge Financing ···········- ····························-······-··················-················-·······--··· 212
Memorial Temple ········································-·······························-···········-···-········· 104
Masonic History ··············································-············-········- ······················--···· 139
Masonic History Publication ····················-·············································-·-············ 139
Masonic Information ·············································································-········;·····-··· 224

Policy and General Purposes................·-············································-····--·-···- 194
Homes Burial Policy································································-·······-·-·······-··· 194
Allocation of Funds to Endowment Fund........................- ............•.;··-·····-·- 195
Powers of Grand Officers ···········································-··········-········-··············· 196
Committee on Memorial Temple ················································-····-·············· 196
Name of Lodge Changed ···························································- ····················· 197
Public Liability Insurance ...............................................................................• 197
Quorum of Grand Lodge ·······························································-······-········· 197
Prerequisite Membeuhlp ···········································-··························-········· 198
Fort Crook ·······················································-··············-··············--·~·--·· 199
Number of Assistant Grand Lecturers ...............~·-·················-······················· 200
Change of Ceremonies ··································································-·········--····· 200
Funeral Service ····················································-~····················--···...-·-·--· 200
Grand Lodge Ceremonies ·························································---··•-···~·····--· 201
To Permit Publication of Candidates ············································-·············· 202
Meetings at Columbia Temple ················- ······························-······--············· 203
Committee Referral ······-··················································---·---·······-····-···· 203
Foreign Rituals ·····-·-···························································-·-···-·····-·-···- 204
Publication of History ························-··········-····················-·······-···----· 204
Copies of History to Foreign Jurisdictions..............--········-··········-···-··-·-· 205
Use of Columbia Temple ···················································-··-·············-·-····· 205
Public Schools Week ················-························································-···-··-····---· 93
Proclamation ·····································································-········-···--- 93
Other Grand Lodge Jurisdictions ······················································-·····-····· 94
History Repeats ................................................................,.........:..........- .....-...... 95
Information Please ····················-····-················-····-··············-··············-····-- 96
So Be It···················-·································-········································-·--·--· 96
Successful Example of 1950 Proceedures.................................•..•- ..-· __.,., 97
Composite of Novel Ideas .......................................:..........·-·-······---·-- - - 98
Preliminary Guiding Activities ·············································•···-·----- 100
SigniJkant Quotes ............................................................. _......-...
· - 100
Acknowledgements ····································································---._..,,,. 101
Returns ........ -................. . . ................. ~..... . .......................... ··················-· 116
....................... .. ..............._............ .......... 51
Segregation ................. _..................
Report of Board of Control
........................................... . ........... ....·--·-··--- 109
Masonic Boards of Relief .......... .
... ... ..................... .......................... ···--·····.. 109
Masonic Employment Bureaus ...............................................·---·· , . , , 1 , 1 110
Reimbursements .. ..... ...... .. .
. ............... ............................. ·······-~·111
Appropriations . .............. ..• ........... ........
··············-··--.. ·············~·..·· •
111
Board of Control .........
..................................... ..... ........·-·--··
112
. ·········· ····-·············-····---·-.....
114
Conclusion ............... .. ................
Report of the Board of Directors, Masonic Club House, Los Angelea.......
, 132
Report of Grand Lecturer .. .. ........
. ............·~······-················· .
7'
Report of Grand Secretary ........ ......................... ········-·····62

580

INDEX

Page
Report of Grand Treasurer ···································································--····r·············-· 54
U. S. Savings Bonds ·················································································-··············· 56
U. S. Treasuries by Maturities ·······················································-····················· 57
Report of Masonic Homes Endowment Board................................................·-······-····· 218
History ······················-································-·················································-··········· 218
Program ···············-···································································.·········-······················· 219
Accomplishments ··-················•··········································-······················- ···········-·· 220
The Future ························.-············-.····························································-············· 220
Contribution Through Lodges ..................................,................................. ~ ............. 221
Testimentary Gifts .................................................................................................... 221
Memorials ·····································'························································-···················· 221
Honorable Mention ·······························································-··········-············-········· 222
Report of Masonic Temple Association .................................•........................................ 117
Report of Special Committee-Application Forms and Investigations........................ 91
Report of Special Committee on Investment of Funds.................................................. 105
Report of Special Committee on Taxation ......:............................................................. 228
Report of Superintendent-Covina Home ·····················-··············································· 150
Report of Superintendent-Decato Home ··············-······················································ 147
Report of Trustees of Masonic Club House, Berkeley................................................ 120
Report of Trustees of the Masonic Homes .................................................................. 141
· Covina ........................................................................................................................... 141
Decato ..........................................•...........................................................•......:............ 142
Masonic Homes Executives Association................................................................ 142
Funeral Policy ······································································-·····-················-··········· 142
Finances ...................................................................................................................... 143
General Fiscal Operation ·················································································-····· 143
Per Capita .................................................................................................................... 144
Contribution-Building Fund .................................................................................. 144
Cost of Maintenance .......................................................•.......................................... 144
Endowment Fund ································································-····················-·········-··· 145
Report on George Washington Masonic Memorial...................................................... 226
Resolutions ·······································································································-········-·-···· 44
Plural Membership ·······································-································- ························· 44
Change of Name ........................................................................................................ 45
Prerequisite Period .................................................................................................... 46
To Publish Names of Candidates ............................................................................ 46
Limits of Investment ................................................................................................ 47
Purchase Securities by Trustees of Masonic Home............................................ 241
Sale of Securities Masonic Homes ................................:......................................... 242
Resolutions ······················-··············································-~·················-···························67, 241
Returns-Annual ·························································································•·····-······--······· 382
Returns-Report of Committee ........................................................................................ 116
Revision of Section 100.......................- ............................................................................. 248
Rim of the World Lodge ·················································-····-········································· 209
Ritual Committee Meetings ···············································-············································· 75
Rowins, Edward H .-Appointed Grand Orator.............................................,..... _......... 257
Roudebush, Myron E.-Appolnted Inspector........•..........................-........................... 17

s

Saskatchewan ....................................... ~············································································· 557
Saxon, Earl }.-Appointed Grand Standard Bearer...................................................... 257
Schultz, Herbert H.-Appointed Inspector.................................................................... 17
Seafaring Lodge ................................................................................................................ 208
Section 69 ·····- ··-····-···································-···-························································..··-·- 245
Securities Owned, Masonic Homes ................................................................................ 328
Segregation Committee, Report of ···············································-·························-···· 51

581

INDEX

Page
Sessions of Grand Lodge:
Monday Morning, October 9-····························································-··-.-·--··~
7
Monday Afternoon, October 9-·········································-········----······"·-·-'···' 44
Tuesday Morning, October 10....:............................................................-··-·····'····· 51
Tuesday Ahernoon, October 10.........................................................................--. 88
Wednesday Morning, October 11.................•········································-············-- 118
Thursday Morning, October 12....- .......................................................................... 176
Thursday Afternoon, October 12.............................................................·-··-········ 199
Friday Morning, October 13·- ··-············································································· 230
Friday Afternoon, October 1.3...........................................................................,.....• 250
Services, Devotional ············-··················································································-····· 7
Siems, Ted R.-Appointed Inspector.............................................................................. 17
Sorrells, Ben-Appointed Inspector ................................................................................ 17
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123 ······················································································-···-··· 234
South Australia ·····················- ························-································································· 549
South Dakota ··-·····················-··························································································· 528
Special Appendix ...........................................................'.......·-·······························-···-··· 295
Special Committees ·····················································-···········································-········ 396
Spencer, Perry M.-Appointed Inspector .......................................................,.............. 17
Spring Schools of Instruction .......................................................................................... 75
Standing Commi·t tees .........................................................................................•.............., 394
Statement of Revenue and Expenses, Masonic Homes.....................:.........................'•. 323
Statistics ················································································································~······-··· 486
Summary ·-················································································································-.-·;~. 239
Suspension of Master ······································································································~ 251
Sylvester, C . B.-Appointed Grand Chaplain ·························································-··· 257

T
Tasmania ····--·····- ··········.-····················································································•-,......,...~ 551
Taxation, Report of Special Committee....................................................................:..... 228
Taylor, Raymond S.-Appointed Assistant Grand Lecturer........................................ 257
Taylor, Robert H.-Appointed Inspector ··-····-··························································· 17
Tennessee ······-·---·································-·····································································-··· 528
Testmentary Gifts -····-·-·······-············---··--·-·-····-················································~·- 221
Testimonial, by E . J. Lander, Grand Master of Maine.............................................•...• 292
Texas ......;.- ..........,.,,...............,............................................................................................... 529
The Future ··~--:...~.>++t··---········-···········································-·················;-··· 220
Thursday Morning Session of Grand Lodge .........................................
176
Thursday Afternoon Session of Grand Lodge ··························································- - 199
The Unfinished Temple_•.,,...........-·-····-·························································-·-···-· 78
Our Record
......................................................................................... 78
The Unfinished Temple -······-············································································-,;. 78
The United States ---·..·········-····································································--·:, 79
California --·· .
......... . .....
~
79
The Grand Lodge .. .
.. ... ....... ..... 80
The Last Ten Years ..
......... ... ... .. ..
81
Importance of the Fraternity ..
...... . . . .. . ..
. .. ........ . 81
The Gloomy Side •
....... . ....
82
Communism ...........
... . . . . . . .. .... .
82
100 Years Hence •.....
... ........ .. ··-82
The Key ................. ...
. . . . . ... ...
.. .............._ 82
War ·-················. ....
. .... . ... . ... .. . . . ·-· II ·
Faith _....................
... .... ... ·~ .•
8\
God's Economy •. .. .
. . . . • ... . ........... --.
84
The Lodge .......... . .
.. .. .. . ..........
8t
Life Today .......... .
.... . .. . ...
.......- - M
h

. . .. .. .. . . . . . .. .. .. . .

582

INDEX

The Un1lnished Temple-(Continued)
Page
Lighthouses of Masonry --·---···························-····························-··················-· 85
Conclusion ·-······-··-···-·-·····-············································································ 85
Thompson, Paul-Appointed Inspector.......................................................................... 17
Trial Records ·-····---····-··········-··········-···································································-·-- 68
Trial Records, Grievance Committtt--·············-························································177-119
Triggs, Arthur H.-Appointed Grand Marshal ·······················'·······················-········-· 257
Treasurer, Report of Grand ·-··-·-·-········-···'··························································· 5i
To Permit Publication of Candidates ·······--································································ 202
To Publish Names of Candidates··--···-······-······················-·································-······ i6
Tuesday Morning Session of Grand Lodge ···-····························-··-··························· 51
Tuesday Afternoon Session of Grand Lodge ...............................................................• 88

u
Use of Columbia Temple--··--·--·····-·-·····················································-··············· 205
Utah ······-···-·············-·······-······························-··········-·······················"'·····:····..···········•·· 530

v
Veland, Martin 0.-Appolnted Inspector································································-···· 17
Visitation ·······-···---··-·································································································· 62
Visitations, Covina Home ·····································- ························································· 369
Visitations, Decoto Home ...............................•................................................................ 358
Virginia ·-·······--·--··-·····----····-··-······-······--·--········-·········································· 531
Von Konsky, Walter H. E.-Re-elected Grand Lecturer............................................ 257

w
Warren, Arthur M.-Elected Senior Grand Warden .................................................. 257
Washington ·················-···········-····-······················-······················································· 535
Wednesday Morning Session of Grand Lodge -·························································· 118
Westchester Lodge ·--·--······--····························-·························································· 206
W estem Australia ·········-···--·-················-·-····················:.............................................. 5-43
West Virginia ·-·-·- ·····-·-···-··············-···········-···························································· 536
Wilson, Lloyd E .-Re-elected Grand Secretary ............................................................ 257
Wisconsin ··················-···----·····-·········-···- · -·········-··················································· 538
Withdrawals, Decoto Home -························-········-········-······························-·········· 357
Wollenberg, Charles M.-Reappointed Trustee Masonic Homes.............................. 258
Women-Residents Decoto Home ····-······-·····-···-······················································· 352
Wood, •Dwight E.-Preslded In East.·-···-··········-·····-·················································· 88
Wyoming ·-············-·-···········-······································································-··················· 5-40

y
York Grand Lodge of Mexico................·-··············-·············································-······ 561
Youngs, Albert V.-Appointed Inspector.................-................................................... 17

